New Trier Scobol Solo 2014
Championship Phase III

PORTA
NIGRA

41. A major military exercise supported by the United States in this country is Cobra Gold. This
country’s National Anti-Corruption Commission is investigating a former prime minister because of
two million tons of missing rice as part of a rice-pledging scheme. Its TRT Party dominated 2006
elections, but was then banned for five years after a military coup. The National Council for Peace and
Order that now runs this country is a military junta headed by Prayuth Chan-ocha. This country’s
recently ousted prime ministers are the brother and sister Thaksin and Yingluck Shinawatra. Name
this southeast Asian nation headed by King Bhumibol Adulyadej, Rama the Ninth from Bangkok.



Answer: (Kingdom of) Thailand [or Prathet Thai or Ratcha Anachak Thai]

42. This no-longer-existing kingdom originated the Order of Calatrava. Its first ruler founded a church to
commemorate his victory at Saint Quirce and deposed a neighboring kingdom’s Sancho the Fat. That
10th -century count was Fernán González. This was the first kingdom ruled by both Joanna the Mad
and the House of Trastámara, and Joanna the Mad was supported by this kingdom’s Revolt of the
Comuneros. The language of this country gained prominence under Alfonso X, whose father united
this country with León [lay-aw]. Name this kingdom whose Queen Isabella I married Ferdinand II of
Aragon, eventually leading to the formation of Spain.



Answer: Kingdom of Castile [kaas-TEEL] [or Castilla]

43. One character in this novel jokes that a French family could live on what an English cook throws away,
a few minutes after another character announces that she has lost her brooch. Another character
in this novel is described as belonging to the great clan for which future prospects cloud what is
actually at hand. That character, James, eventually takes an excursion with his father and his sister
Cam. That father in this novel is a philosopher respected by the atheist Charles Tansley. During this
novel, Lily Briscoe starts to paint a portrait of Mrs. Ramsay. Name this novel set in the Hebrides by
Virginia Woolf.



Answer: To the Lighthouse

1

44. One model of this process treats the medium as continuous instead of as individual molecules, and
is its implicit or continuum model. The generalized Born model describes this process, but fails
to account for interactions such as hydrogen bonds. This process requires the formation of an
entropically [en-TRAH-pik-lee] unfavorable cavity, but ends up leading to a decrease in entropy as
this process results in a more ordered system. Ionic species in this process tend to form a complex
known as its namesake “shell”. This process is sped up by stirring or shaking, and partial pressure
varies with how much this process occurs in Henry’s law. Name this process of solutes and solvents
associating, which often sees the dissociation of the solute.



Answer: solvation [accept dissolution or dissolving or word forms]

45. This leader made annual pilgrimages to the shrine of Khwaja at Ajmer, and he followed through on
his promise to visit it on foot if he survived the capture of the fortress of Chittor. Despite his illiteracy,
this person supported many intellectuals, including his biographer Abul Fazl. Despite his marriage
to Mariam-uz-Zamani, this person often fought with members of her clan, the Rajputs. This leader
increased the support from his subjects by creating the Din-e Ilahi religion to reconcile Islam with
Hinduism and by ending the jizya, a tax on non-Muslims. Name this successor of Humayun and
Babur who ruled as the third Mughal Emperor.



Answer: Akbar I [or Akbar the Great]

46. The Plessur torrent feeds this river near the ancient town of Chur. The anterior source of this river
begins near Tomasee. This river splits into branches, forming the IJssel [EE-sul] and Waal Rivers. A
narrow section of this river is the site of a large rock that — according to legend — houses maidens,
the Lorelei. The old city of Lindau is located on Lake Constance, which this river flows through. At
its delta, this river combines with the Meuse [“muse”] and Scheldt rivers, flowing into the North Sea.
Name this river that forms parts of the borders of France, Switzerland, Austria, and the country that
contains most of it, Germany.



Answer: Rhine River
47. This artist painted himself staring intently at the viewer as his hands clutch at his slightly long brown
hair in a self-portrait titled The Desperate Man. Another work by this painter shows two men at
work, one of whom is carrying a heavy object while the other is on one knee using a hammer. Several
men and women gather together in an ‘S’ shape to witness the priest oﬃciate at a funeral in another
painting by this artist. This painter portrayed himself painting an outdoor scene while in a room
surrounded by many of the people who had influenced his life in a work subtitled A Real Allegory.
Name this artist of The Stonebreakers, The Painter’s Studio, and A Burial at Ornans [or-nawn].



Answer: (Jean Désiré) Gustave Courbet [goo-stahv kor-bay]

New Trier Scobol Solo 2014

2

Championship Phase III

48. Mikhail Medvedev uses the process of quantum evaporation in the flavor-mixed multi-component
model of this substance he proposed in 2014. A more common model, using the cosmological constant
and particles that move far slower than the speed of light, is the lambda-CDM model. This substance
was hypothesized after observations of the Coma cluster found fewer stars than expected, and most of
this substance is classified as weakly interactive massive particles, or WIMPs. Name this substance
believed to include about 27% of the mass-energy in the universe, and that is often contrasted with
dark energy.



Answer: dark matter
49. One character in this novel complains both that his daughter was more like an armadillo than a
loving, gentle girl and that his wife would rather milk cows than keep him company in the sitting
room. An engagement party in this novel ends when the bride’s dog staggers in with a butcher’s knife
stuck in his back. That dog, Barrabás, was originally found in a cage by the sea on a Holy Thursday,
and on the same day the family learned of the death of Nivea’s brother Uncle Marcos. In this novel,
Clara del Valle [VYE-yay] has psychic powers and marries Esteban Trueba. Name this novel by the
Chilean author Isabel Allende.



Answer: The House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espíritus]

50. This composer wrote the score for an Aleksandr Faintsimmer movie based on a Yury
Tynyanov [TEEN-yah-nawﬀ] novel. He used music from his opera The Fiery Angel and his ballet
The Prodigal Son to write two of his symphonies, and he turned his ballet The Tale of the Stone
Flower into four suites. This composer assigned the nickname Classical to his first symphony. In
addition to writing the score for Lieutenant Kijé, this composer wrote “Dance of the Knights”, which
is also known as “Montagues and Capulets”. Name this Russian composer who wrote a ballet and
suites based on Romeo and Juliet, and who also wrote The Love for Three Oranges and Peter and
the Wolf.



Answer: Sergei (Sergeyevich) Prokofiev

New Trier Scobol Solo 2014

3

Championship Phase III

