2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 3
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. Arndt-Eistert Synthesis reacts activated carboxylic acids with the diazo- variety of this molecule. This
compound binds to a halogen radical in a common example of a free radical chain reaction. When its
analogous functional group bonds to benzene, the result is toluene, and chloroform results in three
chlorine atoms replacing three of its hydrogen atoms. For 10 points, name this prominent component
of natural gas, the simplest alkane with a chemical formula of CH4.
ANSWER: methane [accept CH4 before read]
2. Its extensions include the Springfield and Salem plateaus and the Cookson Hills. Lakes Taneycomo and
Table Rock were formed by damming up a waterway which begins in this range, the White River. The
Sac River and the Pomme de Terre, a tributary of the Osage River, both form in this range, and the Bell
and Taum Sauk peaks are among the highest in its Saint Francois subrange. With prominent peaks
including Turner Ward Knob and Mount Magazine, for 10 points, name this parent range of the Boston
Mountains, found in Missouri and Arkansas.
ANSWER: Ozark Mountains
3. This man’s reign saw the formation of the cohorts urbanae, which was a regular police force, and the
aerarium militare, the military treasury. This man entered public life by delivering a funeral oration for
his grandmother Julia, and he forced the widow of Agrippa to marry Tiberius. The chief beneficiary of
the victory at the Battle of Actium, his adopted father was Julius Caesar, and he formed the Second
Triumvirate with Marcus Lepidus and Mark Antony. For 10 points, name this first Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Caesar Augustus [or or Octavian; or Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus]
4. This show’s main figure worked at the French Laundry and plays in the indie instrumental band “so I
had to.” Events covered in this show include the Wet Your Whistle Benefit, Lebowski Fest VII, and the
Kung Fu Panda premiere. Its fourth episode saw the invention of rice-krispie cannoli, and people
featured in this show include Mary Alice Fallon Yeskey. Duff Goldman stars in, for 10 points, what
Baltimore-based program in which edible replicas of Radio City Music Hall, Wrigley Field, and the
Stanley Cup have been baked and covered with icing?
ANSWER: Ace of Cakes
5. Erwin hands a clay figurine to his anti-superstitious friend Friedrich in this man’s short story “Within
and Without.” Tu Fu and Louis attempt to help their friend, the title painter, in his novel Klingsor’s Last
Summer, and Pistorius becomes the mentor of Emil Sinclair, who searches for the title character in his
Demian. Joseph Knecht’s successor to the title of Magister Ludi narrates his Glass-Bead Game, and a
better known novel ends when Hermine is stabbed by the title character, Harry Haller. For 10 points,
name this German author of Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Herman Hesse

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Reduced expression of SEMA3F protein is identified with the formation of tumors in this organ.
Though it is not the kidney, the hilum is the spot where nerves and other vessels enter this organ. The
mediastinum separates the pleural cavities that house the left and right of these organs. The horizontal
fissure is present in the right one but not the left, so the right one contains a middle lobe in addition to
the superior and inferior lobes found in the left one. For 10 points, identify this organ containing sacs
called alveoli which allow for exchange of gases.
ANSWER: lungs
7. This thinker claimed that Africa had no movement or development, and therefore was not a
"historical part of the World" in his Lectures on the Philosophy of History. He divided the title concept
into “abstract right,” “morality, and “ethical life” in his Elements of the Philosophy of Right. He
developed a method later described with the terms "thesis," "antithesis," and "synthesis" that he used
to analyze the master/slave relationship. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who theorized
the dialectic and wrote The Phenomenology of Spirit.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
8. In one of his novels, the revolutionary Sandip attracts the attentions of Bimala, the wife of the noble
Nikhil, while he depicts the decline of the Chatterjees and rise of the Ghosals in Jogajog. Also the
author of the novel The Home and the World, he may be better known as the poet who wrote both the
Bangladeshi and Indian national anthems, as well as a collection of “song offerings” which was
introduced to the English-speaking audience by W.B. Yeats. For 10 points, identify this Bengali poet of
Gitanjali.
ANSWER: Rabindrath Tagore [or Gurudev]
9. Prior to this engagement, Richard Gridley created the design for a redoubt, and shortly after, admiral
Samuel Graves bombarded the enemy fortifications from the HMS Somerset. Resulting in the deaths of
James Abercrombie, John Pitcairn and Joseph Warren, this battle included an assault between Moulton
and Copp Hills by Robert Pigot. A loss for Israel Putnam and William Prescott, for 10 points, name this
Pyrrhic victory for William Howe in 1775, actually fought on Breed’s Hill on the Charleston Peninsula of
Boston.
ANSWER: Battle of Bunker Hill [accept Battle of Breed’s Hill before it is read]
10. A similar scene to the one in this painting is Puerto Rican Wedding by Roger Brown, and a spoof of it
featuring Marilyn Monroe, Humphrey Bogart, James Dean and Elvis Presley is known as Boulevard of
Broken Dreams by Gottfried Helnwein. No doors are visible in it, and one figure is seemingly trapped in
a triangular structure, while a couple in red and black are seated. It depicts Greenwich Village in the
aftermath of Pearl Harbor and includes an advertisement for Phillies cigars. For 10 points, name this
diner scene by Edward Hopper.
ANSWER: Nighthawks

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 3
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. He wrote about Harry Trellman, who loves Amy Wustrin, in The Actual, and another of his title
characters is scarred by Morris Abt’s abuse of a hypnotized Minna Servatius in a novel consisting of
Joseph’s diaries. In addition to Dangling Man, he wrote about a Connecticut native who, with the help
of Romilayu, becomes leader of the Arnewi tribe in Africa, and another of his title characters follows
Thea Fenchel to Mexico to nurture an eagle before marrying Stella Chesney. For 10 points, name this
author of Henderson the Rain King and The Adventures of Augie March.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]
BONUS. Name these Italian cities, for 10 points each.
[10] This city is home to the Trevi Fountain, and its pantheon was converted from a temple into a
church. This home to the Flavian Coliseum is the capital of Italy.
ANSWER: Rome [or Roma]
[10] The Pirelli building is one site in this wealthy northern city, which is the capital of Lombardia.
ANSWER: Milano
2. Rotating ones have limited ranges of velocity, which is a function of the distance from the vortex. It
was originally proposed that all condensates of bosonic particles at ground states are these. Lev Landau
proposed an important theory about the phenomenon associated with them, which is exemplified by
capillary action overcoming gravity to allow these materials to creep up the walls of a container. Below
the lambda point, helium is one of these objects. For 10 points, identify these substances that exhibit
zero viscosity.
ANSWER: superfluids [accept word forms such as superfluidity]
BONUS. One function that models this phenomenon is the Hicksian function. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this economic concept, often paired with supply.
ANSWER: demand
[10] Hicksian, or compensated demand, is often contrasted with the uncompensated function of
demand named after this economist, who also worked with Jevons on marginal utility.
ANSWER: Alfred Marshall [or Marshallian demand function]
3. This composer’s “Tuba Mirum” movement makes use of the four brass bands at different ends of the
stage for his Requiem, while he was commissioned by Paganini to write a viola solo for Harold in Italy.
His most famous work uses an idée fixe to represent a woman he saw at a ball, and that work ends with
depictions of an opium trip with a “March to the Scaffold” and “Witches Sabbath.” For 10 points, name
this composer of the Symphony Fantastique.
ANSWER: Louis-Hector Berlioz

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

BONUS. In eukaryotes, these bonds only form in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these bonds that stabilize the tertiary structure of proteins.
ANSWER: disulfide bonds
[10] Disulfide bonds are almost always found between two instances of this amino acid.
ANSWER: cysteine
4. This leader of the Dry faction came to power following the Winter of Discontent. This figure replaced
Edward Heath as party leader, and the IRA’s Brighton Bombing targeted this leader. Prior to entering
politics, she worked as a chemist on the team that invented soft-serve ice cream. Later known as the
“milk snatcher” for eliminating a free milk program for schoolchildren, she defeated James Callaghan
and was succeeded by John Major. For 10 points, name this prime minister who won the Falklands War
and was nicknamed the “Iron Lady” during her 1980s term.
ANSWER: Margaret Thatcher
BONUS. Name these works featuring Sherlock Holmes, for 10 points each.
[10] In this story, Mr. Stapleton is a rival heir to Sir Henry and hides the titular beast in the Grimpen
Mire.
ANSWER: “The Hound of the Baskervilles”
[10] In this story Holmes learns that Jefferson Hope murdered Enoch Drebber and Joseph Strangerson,
who had forced Lucy Ferrier into an unsuitable marriage when they were Mormons.
ANSWER: A Study in Scarlet
5. This organism includes a receptor tyrosine kinase known as Sevenless, and another protein named
Boss, or Bride of Sevenless. Both of those proteins are found in its ommatidia. When this organism’s
four chromosomes were sequenced in 2000, it became the first insect to have its genome sequenced.
Its white-eyed mutants were studied by Thomas Hunt Morgan. For 10 points, name this model
organism in genetics research, whose scientific name is Drosophila melanogaster.
ANSWER: fruit fly [accept Drosophila melanogaster before read]
BONUS. It is overwhelmingly common in mythology and folklore for powerful characters to have a
minor weakness. For 10 points each:
[10] This Greek hero finished sulking about Briseis just in time to kill Hector, desecrate his body, and get
shot by Paris and die.
ANSWER: Achilles
[10] Hiranyakashipu could not be killed inside or outside, at day or at night, by man or beast, so a halfman, half-lion avatar of this god killed Hiranyakashipu in a doorway at dusk.
ANSWER: Vishnu
6. Zebulon Brockway helped establish this field in America, and its leading early member was Cesare
Beccaria. Another member of this field, Cesare Lombroso, argued that certain people could be
identified through atavistic physical features. Robert Merton applied the sociologial theory of anomie
to this field, which is also the focus of a book which analyzes "carceral systems" and the Panopticon,
Discipline and Punish. For 10 points, name this field of social science which analyzes recidivism, prisons,
and punishing those who break the law.
ANSWER: criminology [or penology]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

BONUS. It is properly a set of three suites, and it eliminated the harpsichord from the traditional
Baroque orchestra for convenience. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this composition, popularly known for its “Air” passage and its bourrée, which was created
for King George I.
ANSWER: Water Music
[10] Name this composer of Water Music, also known for his incidental music to The Alchemist and his
Messiah oratorio.
ANSWER: Georg Frideric Handel
7. This figure climbed to the top of a mountain before challenging a monster to try and eat him, and
afterwards cut out that monster’s heart from the inside, thus freeing his friends. Using the monster’s
entrails he created men, while in another tradition, he kicked a ball of dirt or feces to accomplish the
same goal. He boasted that he would be given the names Grizzly Bear, Eagle, or Salmon, while the Hopi
usually associate him with Kokopelli. Also notable for freeing the buffalo, for 10 points, name this
doglike trickster figure in Native American mythology.
ANSWER: Coyote
BONUS. Immediately preceding the English Civil War, these conflicts between England and Scotland
were heavily influenced by religious differences. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the name for these two conflicts, the first of which was motivated by Scotland's decision to
become officially Presbyterian, which share their name with a church office.
ANSWER: the Bishops' Wars
[10] This king of England during the Bishops' Wars was later deposed and executed during the English
Civil War.
ANSWER: Charles I [prompt on Charles]
8. This man was not allowed to succeed to the Thembu throne because his mother was of the LeftHand House, and later in life he gave the “I am Prepared to Die Speech” during the Rivonia Trial in
response to allegations of terrorism after the Sharpeville Massacre. Sentenced to stay at Pollsmoor
Prison and Robben Island, this man wrote the autobiography Long Walk to Freedom and was a cofounder of the Umkhonto we Sizwe or Spear of the Nation. For 10 points, name this ANC politician and
successor to Frederick de Klerk as President of South Africa.
ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela
BONUS. Consider an object moving around in uniform circular motion. For 10 points each:
[10] This type of force points toward the center of the circle and is responsible for keeping the object
from flying off on a tangent.
ANSWER: centripetal force
[10] The magnitude of this quantity, whose time derivative is torque, is constant for an object
undergoing uniform circular motion.
ANSWER: angular momentum [do not accept or prompt on “momentum”]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

9. This poet claimed the title phenomena came from the depth of some divine despair in his “Tears, Idle
Tears” and noted that “after many a summer dies the swan” in his poem about a mythical Greek
condemned to eternal life, “Tithonus.” In another poem, the narrator hopes “to see my pilot face to
face” and in another a restless king decides “To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.” For 10 points,
name this author of “Crossing the Bar” and “Ulysses” who wrote of the “Noble Six Hundred” from the
Crimean War in “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
ANSWER: Alfred Lord Tennyson
BONUS. Amended by Richard Olney and Luis Drago, this foreign policy statement was announced four
years after the Adams-Onis Treaty. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this policy, opposed by George Canning, which proclaimed that European countries were
no longer allowed to colonize the Americas.
ANSWER: the Monroe Doctrine
[10] Announced in 1904, this amendment to the Monroe Doctrine stated that the U.S. had the right to
intervene in the economic affairs of Caribbean nations if they did not pay their debts.
ANSWER: the Roosevelt Corollary
10. Construction of the Pascua Lama gold mines has caused a trade dispute between this country and
its western neighbor. Its legislature approved the nationalization of the largest airline carrier in this
country, Aerolineas. In October 2008, this country’s president attempted to nationalize $26 billion
worth pension funds, and that bill is championed by Labor minister Carlos Tomada, and it recently
named a new coach to its national soccer team. For 10 points, identify this country currently led by
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, and is home to Diego Maradona.
ANSWER: Republica Argentina [accept Republic of Chile before “western neighbor” is read]
BONUS. In this story, the wealthy farmer Mynheer Van Tassel disapproves of his daughter’s relationship
with Ichabod Crane. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short work in which a headless horseman terrorizes the title town.
ANSWER: “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow”
[10] Ichabod Crane rivals Brom Bones for the affections of this beautiful daughter of Mynheer Van
Tassel.
ANSWER: Katerina Van Tassel

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 3
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

THE LETTER L
PARIS

THE LETTER L
Some answers in this round will begin with the letter L. Other parts will only have clues that use L
words.
[10] This priest to Apollo, who was apprehensive of the Trojan horse due to fearing “Greeks, even
bearing gifts,” was killed by two serpents sent by the gods.
ANSWER: Laocoön
[10] This procedure in calculus can be performed by Lebesgue and Riemann methods, and it is generally
defined as finding the area under a curve.
ANSWER: integration [accept integral]
[10] Soemtimes known as Nimue, this figure in Arthurian legend bestows Excalibur on the king.
ANSWER: the Lady of the Lake
[10] This English king participated in the Eighth Crusade, but is better known for conquering Wales,
dealing with the Scottish independence effort, and executing William Wallace.
ANSWER: Edward I [or Edward Longshanks]
[10] This state contains such rivers as the Vermillion and the Lafourche, but is better known for cities as
Lafayette, Shreveport, and New Orleans.
ANSWER: Louisiana
[10] The presence of Lewy bodies is a clear indication of this disease, caused by insufficient dopamine,
whose symptoms include tremors and posture disturbances. Michael J. Fox has it.
ANSWER: Parkinson’s Disease
[10] This opera focuses on the feud between the Ravenswood and Ashton families. It was adapted from
a novel by Sir Walter Scott and was composed by Gaetano Donizetti.
ANSWER: Lucia di Lammermoor
[10] The former military governor of Louisiana, Benjamin Butler, later became the leader of this
movement for cheap paper currency.
ANSWER: the Greenback movement/party
[10] Par Lagerkvist is an author from this country, whose other authors include one who wrote The
Dance of Death, A Dream Play, The Ghost Sonata, and Miss Julie, August Strindberg.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden
[10] This artist produced several posters and paintings of the can-can dancer La Goulue, however he is
much better known for works such as At the Moulin Rouge.
ANSWER: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

PARIS
This round concerns the history, culture, geography, and famous inhabitants of the city of Paris.
[10] One treaty signed at Paris ended this conflict, which saw the charges of both the Light and Heavy
brigades.
ANSWER: Crimean War
[10] Paris features a studio of this Romanian sculptor, who created such works there as “The Kiss”. His
famous series, “Bird in Space”, was taxed at the U.S. Customs, causing a court battle.
ANSWER: Constantin Brâncuşi
[10] This long-time head of the Faculty of Sciences at Paris University expounded his idea of waveparticle duality in his 1924 thesis “Research on Quantum Theory”.
ANSWER: Louis de Broglie
[10] While in Paris, the protagonist of this novel falls in love with Odette’s daughter Gilberte and later
feels attracted to Albertine. This long, multi-part novel is Marcel Proust’s best known.
ANSWER: In Search of Lost Time [or À la recherche du temps perdu; or Remembrance of Things Past]
[10] Antoine Lavoisier, a Paris scientist, put forth this law stating that the namesake property can
neither be created nor destroyed. Because of it, a type of defect in nuclear reactions is calculated.
ANSWER: law of the conservation of mass [or conservation of matter]
[10] This king, who said “Paris is well worth a mass,” won the War of the Three Henrys and converted
to Catholicism.
ANSWER: Henry IV of France [or Henry III of Navarre; prompt on Henry; prompt on Henry III]
[10] The source of the Seine, which runs through Paris, lies in this French and Swiss region with a
namesake canal on which its capital of Dijon lies. A type of red wine is named for this region.
ANSWER: Burgundy
[10] This Parisian philosopher wrote Being and Nothingness as well as Existentialism is a Humanism. He
influenced and was influenced by Camus, de Beauvoir, and Merleau-Ponty.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
[10] This man created Chad Newsome, an American expatriate living in Paris in The Ambassadors. His
other works include The Bostonians and Daisy Miller.
ANSWER: Henry James
[10] Although admitted to the École Polytechnique in Paris, this man is more famous for coining the
terms “sociology” and “altruism” and for expounding the theory of positivism.
ANSWER: Isidore Marie Auguste François Xavier Comte

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 3
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. In one story, he traveled to Egypt with his wife and claimed she was his sister, letting her join the
pharaoh’s harem. He paid tithe to the priest Melchizedek, and is buried in Machphelah underneath a
mosque. His wife was visited by angels whom she served unleavened bread, and his grandson wrestled
with an angel after stealing Esau’s birthright. This merchant from Ur helped rescue Lot from a raiding
party, and his wife’s handmaid Hagar bore him a child. For 10 points, name this husband of Sarah who
fathered Ishmael and almost sacrificed Isaac.
ANSWER: Abraham
2. A czardas titled “Sounds from home” plays In the second act of this opera. Adèle pretends she is an
actress, and earlier sings the aria “My sister writes to me” to excuse herself to attend a ball to which
another character is also invited through “Come with me to the souper.” That ball is actually revenge
for a character’s abandoning of Falke in the center of town, dressed as the title animal. Eisenstein
finally serves his prison sentence in the office of Governor Frank at its finale. For 10 points, name this
Johann Strauss opera about a bat.
ANSWER: Die Fledermaus [accept The Bat before it is read]
3. After serving onboard the USS Monterey during World War Two, this man wrote a biography of Lee
Harvey Oswald as a member of the Warren Commission. This man’s press secretary Jerald ter-Horst
resigned over his Proclamation 4311, and both Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney originally served in
his administration. The Mayaguez incident occurred during his Presidency, and both Sara Jane Moore
and Squeaky Fromme tried to assassinate him. For 10 points, name this man who was elevated to high
office by the resignation of Richard Nixon.
ANSWER: Gerald Rudolph Ford [accept Leslie Lynch King before it is read]
4. The title character of this novel is called “Daisy” by Steerforth, who deserts Emily after she leaves
Ham for him. A coachman asks the protagonist to propose to the family servant for him, saying “Barkis
is willin'.” Mr. Wickfield is blackmailed by his partner, the greedy Uriah Heep, whose scheme is
discovered by Wilkins Micawber. This work chronicles the title character's maturation, from working for
Mr. Murdstone to loving Dora Spenlow and finally marrying Agnes Wickfield. For 10 points, identify this
semi-autobiographical novel by Charles Dickens.
ANSWER: David Copperfield

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

5. Frobenius's Theorem states that a real division algebra has a maximum of this many dimensions, and
William Hamilton first described such a division algebra with this many total dimensions, which
contains imaginary numbers represented as i, j, and k. The Heawood conjecture was proven for
segmented planes to show that this many colors are sufficient to shade a map so that no same-colored
regions bound each other. For 10 points, name this smallest composite number, which is the square of
the only even prime.
ANSWER: four
6. The armed camp known as the Sich was their base, and their senior officers were known as
starshyna. One of their leaders, Bohdan Khmelnytsky, concluded the Pereyaslav Agreement, and their
supreme assembly was known as the rada. Their commander-in-chief was known as a hetman.
Originating in the steps of the Ukraine, for 10 points, identify these peasant-soldiers who received
privileges from the tsars in exchange for military service.
ANSWER: Cossacks [or Kazaki; or Kozaky]
7. This man painted a man pointing at a cup on a counter as his hat falls off in The Soldier Drinks. He
depicted a two headed man looking away from the Eiffel tower in one painting, and another work
shows a man flying over clouds as the title figure dressed in purple stands on two houses. In addition to
Paris Through the Window and The Green Violinist, he painted The White Crucifixion, while his best
known work features an upside down woman with a violin and a man feeding a flower to a goat. For 10
points, identify this artist of I and the Village.
ANSWER: Marc Chagall
8. The person who conducted this experiment explained its results through agentic state theory. During
this experiment, subjects read pairs of vocabulary words after being assigned the role of teacher. The
person who conducted this experiment responded to objections by saying "The experiment requires
you to go on." It was conducted at Yale after the trial of Adolf Eichmann, and sixty-eight percent of its
subjects delivered the maximum of 450 volts. For 10 points, identify this psychological experiment that
tested the power of authority figures.
ANSWER: Milgram obedience experiment [or obedience experiment]
9. Materials exhibiting the “anti” version of this can interact with materials exhibiting this property via
exchange bias. This property occurs in regions that are separated by Bloch and Neel walls, and when
this property waxes or wanes, those domains change sizes and cause popping noises known as the
Barkhausen effect. The lag in this property is known as hysteresis, and this property occurs below the
Curie temperature. For 10 points, name this phenomenon exhibited by nickel, cobalt, and its namesake
material, iron.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism [or ferromagnetic; prompt on magnetism]
10. He addresses one subject by saying, “thou watchest the last oozings hours by hours,” and in one of
his ballads, he writes of Lycius, who falls in love with a disguised serpent named Lamia. In an
incomplete epic by this author, the title character asks, “Saturn is fallen, am I too to fall?” This author
of To Autumn and Hyperion asked “what can ail thee” in another poem, and asks “do I wake or sleep?”
in “Ode to a Nightingale.” For 10 points, name this author of “The Eve of St. Agnes” and “La Belle Dame
san Merci.”
ANSWER: John Keats

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 3

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

