2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 7
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. The Hedgehog is one of these and reduces to the Dirac one sufficiently far from the origin, and they
are examples of topological solitons, and some Grand Unified Theories posit that dyons are merely
excited ones. Their existence leads naturally to a condition also named for Dirac, which explains why
charges are quantized; moreover, if they exist, then Maxwell's equations may be written symmetrically,
having introduced a new kind of point charge. For 10 points, identify these hypothetical objects that
lack distinct north and south ends.
ANSWER: magnetic monopoles
2. He wrote about Colonel John Hepburn, who introduces the title character to Gustavus Adolphus in
Memoirs of Cavalier, and in another work a feather bed thrown out of a burning house hits a
protagonist who was posing as Gabriel Spencer while cross dressing. That character marries her halfbrother Humphry, who forces her to move to Virginia before she is sent to Newgate Prison, while Xury
and Friday befriend the title character of his most famous novel, which is based on the life of Alexander
Selkirk. For 10 points, name this author of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe.
ANSWER: Daniel Defoe
3. At this battle, Confederate forces under Robert Toombs held at Rohrbach's Bridge, and Hood's attack
from the West Woods maintained a stalemate in the Cornfield. Lee probably would have been defeated
had McClellan acted earlier on the copy of Special Order 191 which two soldiers found wrapped around
a cigar. Immediately preceding the Emancipation Proclamation, for 10 points, identify this Maryland
battle, best known for Bloody Lane, which contributed to its twenty-three thousand casualties, the most
of any day of the Civil War.
ANSWER: Battle of Antietam [or Battle of Sharpsburg]
4. One polymer produced by this organ is found in higher concentrations in pre-eclampsia sufferers,
and contains phosphocholine which it can use to suppress immune responses. In addition to producing
Neurokinin B, it increases the amount of lipids and glucose present by producing somatomammotropin.
The syncytiotrophoblast, a part of this organ, digests the walls of blood vessels in the endometrium,
and is part of the chorion. It is short-lived in marsupials, leading to short gestation periods. For 10
points, name this organ, which in mammals nourishes the fetus.
ANSWER: placenta
5. Cimon received a command to retrieve this man’s bones from Scyros, where he fled during an
uprising led by Menestheus. A man who met him trying to steal his cattle, Pirithous, aided him in
stealing Helen, and they were both imprisoned in Hades for trying to capture Persephone. He killed a
man who tore people apart by tying them to pine trees and a man who cut or stretched people to fit his
bed. He also received twine from Ariadne so he would not get lost in the labyrinth. For 10 points, name
this Athenian king who killed Sinis, Procrustes, and the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. The Rybinsk reservoir is made up of water from this river, and is found north of the Uglich Highlands.
It runs past Saratov, and its tributaries include the Oka and Vyatka. It has hydroelectric power stations
at Ivankovo, and this river rises in the Valdai hills and has a Baltic canal. Its major tributary is the Kama,
and this river flows past Nizhy Novgorod and Samara. It has a reservoir at Volgograd and flows out of
Astrakhan into the Caspian after its canal with the nearby Don. For 10 points, name this longest Russian
river.
ANSWER: Volga River [or Ra; or Etil]
7. The website for this game describes a "mama's boy" named Gooplet and a witch doctor whose only
magic trick is "The Never-Ending Hat of Feathers." Inspired by the Drake Equation, this game allows
players to use didgeridoos and flaming torches in its third stage. In its final stage, players control a
spaceship that can terraform planets or explore the galaxy. Designed by Will Wright, for 10 points,
name this game where players evolve from a multicellular organism to an animal to a tribe to a
civilization, which allows players to design their own creatures.
ANSWER: Spore
8. His protégé is Amyas le Poulet, and La Cote Male Taile is one of his soap missionaries, who uses the
slogan “Patronized by the Elect.” After the blacksmith Dowley complains about wages, this man explains
the concept of real wages to a perplexed audience, and the common people call him The Boss. Early in
the novel in which he appears, he is saved by a solar eclipse, and after getting hit in the head with a
crowbar, he is transported to Camelot. For 10 points identify this character, the protagonist of a Mark
Twain novel who is transported to King Arthur’s court.
ANSWER: Hank Morgan [either or both names; accept A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court]
9. This man appears in Percy Shelley’s “The Masque of Anarchy” for his defense of Lord Sidmouth. This
man had to resign his post after the failure of the Walcheren Expedition and had earlier resigned to
avoid the Ministry of All Talents. Leader of the House of Commons after Spencer Perceval’s
assassination, this man shot George Canning in a duel and later killed himself with a letter-opener.
British Foreign Secretary from 1812 to 1822, for 10 points, name this man who represented Great
Britain at the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: Viscount Castlereagh [or Robert Stewart, Second Marquis of Londonderry]
10. In the foreground of this painting, Maria Sotomayor can be seen offering a red cup on a golden tray
while Nicolas Pertusato and Maria Barbola play with a mastiff. Its background shows a copy of a Jacob
Jordaens work by Juan del Marzo and some paintings by Rubens. The subject of over fifty Picasso
paintings, this work depicts the artist in the foreground with a red cross on his chest. For 10 points,
name this painting depicting the Infanta Margarita, the daughter of Philip IV of Spain, and her maids of
honor sitting for a portrait by Diego Velazquez.
ANSWER: Las Meninas [accept The Maids of Honor before it is read]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 7
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. Castelnuovo-Tedescu wrote for this instrument to accompany a narrator in Platero y Yo, and it was
modernized by Antonio Torres. Its variants include the Andean charango and jarana. Heitor Villa-Lobos
wrote twelve etudes for it, and one person who plays it performed the Three O’Clock Blues. The main
promoter of its classical use in the twentieth century was Isaac Albeniz, and it is frequently used in
Flamenco music. For 10 points, name this instrument related to the lute and mandolin, which has six
strings and is played by B.B. King.
ANSWER: guitar
BONUS. A dihybrid cross produces a four-by-four version of this diagram. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this diagram that shows all of the possible offspring of two parents for a certain number of
alleles.
ANSWER: Punnett square
[10] The phenotypic ratios expected from a Punnett square do not occur in this situation governing
retriever fur color, when one gene interferes with the expression of another gene.
ANSWER: epistasis
2. Preceded by the marriage of Lampade to Mununza, an account of this engagement was thought to
be given by Isidorus Pacensis of Beja but has since been proven false. It occurred near the meeting of
the Clain and Vienne rivers. According to the Chronicle of Fredegar, this battle was fought to protect
the Abbey of Saint Martin at the request of Eudes of Aquitaine. Also called the Battle of the Court of
Martyrs, for 10 points, name this defeat for Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi and the Umayyads, which halted
the Muslim invasion of Europe, a victory for Charles Martel in 732.
ANSWER: Battle of Tours [or Battle of Poitiers; accept Battle of the Court of Martyrs before it is read]
BONUS. This island, which contains the Zapata Swamp and Milk Lagoon, has its highest point at Pico
Turquino in the Sierra Maestra. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Caribbean island nation, which owns the Isle of Youth and contains the Escambray
Mountains.
ANSWER: Republic of Cuba
[10] Another Caribbean island of the Greater Antilles is this nation, containing the Blue Mountains, with
capital at Kingston.
ANSWER: Jamaica

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. He wrote of a phenomenon that “performs its secret ministry, unhelped by any wind,” and he left
unfinished a long poem about a girl who discovers Geraldine, who claims to have been abducted. In
one of his poems a “damsel with a dulcimer” plays by the sacred Alph river, where the title figure
constructed a “stately pleasure dome,” and in another poem by this man a wedding guest is accosted
by a man who shot an albatross with a crossbow. For 10 points, name this poet of “Frost at Midnight,”
Christabel, “Kubla Kahn,” and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
BONUS. Name these battles of ancient Greece, for 10 points each.
[10] In this 371 BCE battle, the Theban general Epaminondas led the Sacred Band to victory over the
Spartans, thus ending the myth of Spartan invincibility.
ANSWER: Leuctra
[10] Leonidas and his three hundred Spartan troops died to a man in this 480 BCE battle against Xerxes,
named for the pass of “hot gates” in which it took place.
ANSWER: Themopylae
4. Andrew Sullivan speculated that some of these people were named after witches on Buffy and
Charmed, and one of them is named after a Norse word for “strength.” One is named after a sport, one
is named after a bay, and the oldest enlisted in the U.S. Army on September 11, 2007. The youngest has
Down’s syndrome, and another’s pregnancy has prompted questions about the efficacy of abstinenceonly sex education. For 10 points, Track, Bristol, Willow, Piper, and Trig comprise what group, who all
share a mother who ran for Vice-President of the United States?
ANSWER: Sarah Palin’s children [accept obvious equivalents]
BONUS. Name some female poets, for 10 points each.
[10] Her poems were collected in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung up in America, and this author of
“Upon the Burning of Our House” was the first female poet published in colonial America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet [or Anne Dudley]
[10] This former U.S. Poet Laureate wrote Annie Allen and a poem about some people who “jazz june,”
“We Real Cool”.
ANSWER: Gwendolyn Brooks
5. The Chikyu Hakken mission is attempting to explore this region. This region contains such
polymorphs of rocks as wadsleyite and ringwoodite, as well as the perovskite-structured pyroxene
enstatite. The D’’ [D double prime] region is found in its homogeneous lower portion, while a Low
Velocity Zone extends several kilometers in this layer. A sudden increase in velocity occurs at the top of
this region, known as the Moho discontinuity. For 10 points, name this layer of the Earth above the
outer core and below the crust.
ANSWER: mantle
BONUS. This philosopher first talked about his educational philosophy in “My Pedagogic Creed.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this pragmatist who wrote Democracy and Education.
ANSWER: John Dewey
[10] Another educational philosopher was Paolo Freire, whose The Pedagogy of the Oppressed updated
the ideas of this man, who wrote a Critique of the Gotha Program and Das Kapital.
ANSWER: Karl Heinrich Marx
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This author's "Mind and Earth" and "A Psychological Approach to the Trinity" introduced one of his
landmark concepts, which he dubbed a structural element of the psyche. In his Psychological Types, he
divided people into introverts and extroverts, and he also developed the concepts of the animus and
anima. Breaking with Freud after the publication of his Psychology of the Unconscious, for 10 points,
name this psychologist who theorized archetypes and the collective unconscious.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung
BONUS. It ended as the governor sent in the National Guard, which proceeded to kill the hostages,
blame the inmates, and torture them for hours. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this New York prison that saw a revolt in which prisoners took guards hostage and
demanded political representation and more sanitary conditions
ANSWER: Attica prison revolt
[10] This governor in question ordered the assault because he wanted to appear especially tough on
crime for the sake of his presidential ambitions. Gerald Ford appointed him Vice-President.
ANSWER: Nelson Rockefeller
7. In 1956, this country reacted against its earlier populism by electing Juscelino Kubitschek as
president. His succession resulted in a 1964 military coup, ten years after the suicide of the man who
was dictator between 1930 and 1954, Getulio Vargas. Earlier, the Golden Law had ended slavery here
during the rule of Emperor Pedro II. For 10 points name this former Portuguese colony, the largest
country in South America.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [Republica Federativa do Brasil]
BONUS. Its second movement is a dance in 5/4 time, possibly a limping waltz, and common
orchestrations replace a bassoon with a bass clarinet for one solo. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this symphony, famous for a romantic theme in its first movement which fades to a
dynamic marked with six “p”s.
ANSWER: Tchaikovsky's Sixth symphony [or Symphony Pathétique]
[10] Tchaikovsky is also known for an overture to this Shakespeare play about the two titular lovers,
which was inspired by the failure of Fatum.
ANSWER: Romeo and Juliet
8. A 2 second lag in the stellar-occultation light curve characteristic of this body shows asymmetrical
mass distribution possibly caused by winds. It was described to possess a “cantaloupe” terrain by its
discoverer William Lassell, and its high density and retrograde motion suggest that it is a captured
Kuiper Belt object. It is notable for exhibiting cryovolcanism, and it is the coldest object in the solar
system. For 10 points, identify this largest moon of Neptune.
ANSWER: Triton
BONUS. The narrator of this work is introduced to a curious traveller by Peter Giles in Antwerp. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this work. whose narrator discusses life on the title island with Raphael Hythloday.
ANSWER: Utopia
[10] Utopia was written by this man, himself the subject of Robert Bolt's A Man for All Seasons. He was
executed for not supporting Henry VIII's marriage to Anne Boleyn.
ANSWER: Sir Thomas More

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

9. In one of this man’s novels, the successful writer Toshio Oki meets his old flame and inspiration
Otoko Ueno. Another of his novels is narrated by Uragami and features a five-month contest between
Shusai and Otake. The aging Shingo worries about Kikuku’s abortion in one novel, and he wrote of the
middle aged Shimamura’s visits to the title hot springs locale to have an affair with a geisha. For 10
points name this Japanese author of Beauty and Sadness, The Master of Go, The Sound of the Mountain
and Snow Country.
ANSWER: Yasunari Kawabata [accept in reverse order]
BONUS. He avenged his father's death by defeating Goll MacMorna, and he led the Fianna. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this hero of the Fenian cycle, the father of Ossian who supposedly built Giant's Causeway.
ANSWER: Finn MacCumhaill [or Finn MacCool]
[10] Finn MacCumhail became very smart after he burned his finger and licked it while cooking this fish,
which itself ate the hazelnuts of wisdom.
ANSWER: Salmon of Knowledge [or Salmon of Wisdom; or bradán feasa]
10. He went to Lydda and healed Aeneas after encountering the magician Simon Magnus. He worked
with the sons of Zebedee in Capernaum, and while imprisoned by Herod, the angel of the lord removed
his chains. In Galatians, he was entrusted with the conversion of the circumcised, and he denied
knowing Jesus three times. Constantine built his basilica on Vatican Hill after he was crucified on an
inverted cross by Nero. For 10 points, name this fisherman apostle of Jesus whose name means “the
rock” and who was the first pope.
ANSWER: Saint Peter [accept Simon Peter; prompt on Simon; prompt on Cephus]
BONUS. Name these parts of a phase diagram, for 10 points each.
[10] Above this temperature, liquid and gas phases are indistinguishable, and the compound is referred
to as a superheated liquid.
ANSWER: critical temperature [or critical point]
[10] At this point, three phases of the compound can coexist in equilibrium.
ANSWER: triple point

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 7
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

AFRICA
POLAND

AFRICA
This round will relate to Africa.
[10] African myths and music inspired Darius Milhaud, a member of The Six, a group of composers also
including Arthur Honneger, that was based in this European country.
ANSWER: France
[10] A coffee plantation outside of Nairobi is the setting for this work which describes the experiences
of Isak Dinesen.
ANSWER: Out of Africa
[10] The Victoria Falls lie along this body of water which borders Namibia, Zimbabwe, and empties into
the Mozambique Channel.
ANSWER: Zambezi River
[10] Olurun is an example of an Orisha, which are the gods of this religion that is mostly found in
Nigeria.
ANSWER: Yoruba
[10] Africa is a work dedicated to Scipio Africanus written by this man, whose Canzoniere contains
sonnets dedicated to his love Laura.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
[10] The Jameson raid occurred during this conflicts provoked by President Kruger’s policies, which was
ended by the treaty of Vereeniging.
ANSWER: Second Boer War
[10] This empire was founded by Sundiata Keita and shares its name with a present-day West African
country.
ANSWER: Malinke empire
[10] Donald Johanson discovered the remains of Lucy, who was a member of this genus with species
like afarensis and africanus.
ANSWER: Australopithecus [or Australopithecines]
[10] Eratosthenes of Cyrene used some data from Egypt to calculate this value to be approximately
40,000 kilometers.
ANSWER: circumference of the earth [accept obvious equivalents]
[10] This Frenchman painted The Women of Algiers in addition to depicting a horrific event in the Greek
independence struggle in Massacre at Chios.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Victor Eugene Delacroix

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

POLAND
This round will pertain to Poland and Polish people.
[10] This astronomer posited a heliocentric theory of the universe in his On the Revolutions of the
Heavenly Spheres.
ANSWER: Nicolaus Copernicus [or Mikolaj Kopernick]
[10] Vasily Shuisky of this neighboring country was deposed by Polish king Sigismund III Vasa at the turn
of the seventeenth century.
ANSWER: Russia
[10] This landmark graphic novel, which depicts Poles as pigs and Jews as the titular type of mammal,
was written by Art Spiegelman and takes place largely in Poland.
ANSWER: Maus
[10] Marcus Vicinius falls in love with Lygia and Petronius commits suicide in this work by Henryk
Sienkiewicz, which has a Latin title.
ANSWER: Quo Vadis
[10] Originating in the Beskid mountains, this river flows through Warsaw and Krakow before emptying
into the Baltic Sea.
ANSWER: Vistula [or Wisla]
[10] Casimir Funk was a Pole who established a link between a deficiency of this vitamin and Beriberi.
ANSWER: Vitamin B1 [or thiamine]
[10] Jerzy Kurylowicz and Henry Hiz were Polish academics studying this. Other people who worked in
this field included Benjamin Whorf and Michael Ventris, who decoded Linear B.
ANSWER: linguistics
[10] This Nazi death camp, paired with Birkenau, was located in Poland.
ANSWER: Auschwitz
[10] During his highest post, this former pope apologized for the Catholic Church’s wrongs against
Galileo and the Crusades.
ANSWER: Pope John Paul II [or Karol Joseph Wojtyla]
[10] Though he’s not exactly Polish, this man wrote a trilogy named for the Polish city of Danzig,
containing Dog Years, Cat Walk, and a novel about Oskar Mazerath, The Tin Drum.
ANSWER: Gunter Grass

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 7
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. The Ac, Ds, and P elements are all made up of this material. In fluorescent in situ hybridization, the
target section of it shows up as yellow while the rest of it is red. “Backward slippage” is thought to be
the origin of the “microsatellite” variety, and sticky ends may be produced when it is cleaved by
restriction enzymes. It is duplicated in the polymerase chain reaction. For 10 points, name this nucleic
acid, which typically forms a double helix structure and contains the genetic code for all higher
lifeforms.
ANSWER: DNA [or deoxyribonucleic acid]
2. Nicole D’Oresime used this idea to spurn Aristotelian cognitive species, and along with Dourand de
Sainte-Pourcain, applied this law to defend hypotheses of the heavens, a stance Galileo borrowed. This
statement is also called the principle of parsimony, and it was first stated as “Entia non sunt
multiplicanda praeter necessitatem” or “Plurality should not be posited without necessity.” For 10
points, name this idea of a Franciscan philosopher, who argued that, all else being equal, the simplest
solution should be considered the truest.
ANSWER: Occam’s Razor
3. In one of his works of incidental music, he took the overture from Alfonso und Estrella and the
ent’racte from his song Der Leidende. In addition to the music for Rosamunde, he wrote a string quartet
of variations on his song Death and the Maiden. He also composed a song that begins with two Gs
being played in triplets and describes an evil elf who kills a boy, as well as a symphony that he
abandoned after finishing two movements. For 10 points, name this composer of Gretchen at the
Spinning Wheel, Der Erlkoenig, and the Unfinished Symphony.
ANSWER: Franz Schubert
4. Five people in a doorway look over the artist’s shoulder in one painting by this man; another is a
depiction of the George Washington cherry tree legend. In addition to painting Return from Bohemia
and Parson Weems’ Fable, this man co-founded the Stone City Art Colony during the Great Depression.
His other paintings include Daughters of Revolution, The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere and The
Birthplace of Herbert Hoover. The painter of a work depicting Nan and dentist Byron McKeeby, for 10
points, name this Iowa native and artist of American Gothic.
ANSWER: Grant DeVolson Wood

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

5. In one work, he says that a certain murderer, "clad in beggar's weeds for purple robes," shall soon
"grope his way” “to a strange land." In that first work, he has "foresuffered all / enacted on this same
divan or bed." He was said to unite all the characters of "The Waste Land" since he had been a woman
for seven weeks. He betrayed Hera by admitting that women derive more pleasure from sex, leading
her to strike him blind; later, he attempts to aid Creon. For 10 points, name this transsexual prophet of
literary works set in Thebes, who also tries and fails to advise Oedipus.
ANSWER: Tiresias
6. A form of magnesium named for Rieke is used to produce Grignard reagents containing this element.
A sodium aluminum salt used to dissolve alumina contains six atoms of this element, and uranium
oxide is converted into a salt of this element before it can be used to enrich uranium. The first
compound involving xenon contains also contains six atoms of this. Four atoms of this element replace
ethylene in the monomer of Teflon. It is the most electronegative of all elements. For 10 points,
identify this element with atomic number 9 and symbol F.
ANSWER: fluorine [accept F before read]
7. The first English colony in this modern-day state was at Popham in 1607, and the War of 1812 saw the
British attempt to form New Ireland here. After the Civil War, it became legendary for its support of the
Republican Party, and in 1936, it and Vermont were the only states to vote for Alf Landon. Formerly part
of Massachusetts, this state was admitted to the union in the Compromise of 1820, and its land disputes
with British Canada led to the Aroostook War. For 10 points, name this northernmost state in the
contiguous United States.
ANSWER: Maine
8. This author's studies in the Oaxaca (wah-HAWK-ah) Valley of Mexico led to a book that called culture
an "instrumental apparatus." In addition to A Scientific Theory of Culture, he wrote the forward of his
student Jomo Kenyatta's Facing Mount Kenya, and he examined the methods of tilling the soil in his
work about agricultural rites, Coral Gardens and Their Magic. In another work, he discussed the Kula
exchange among the Trobriand Islanders. For 10 points, name this Polish anthropologist, who penned
Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Kasper Malinowski
9. As a boy, the protagonist of this novel delivers messages with his Great Uncle Charles and is bullied
by Nasty Roche. Other people its protagonist meets at the Clongowes Wood School include a teacher
who punishes him for breaking his glasses, Father Dolan, and the religious Father Arnall, whose sermon
inspires a phase of religious fervor. This work’s protagonist meets Cranly, Lynch, and Davin at the
University College and writes love letters to E. C. For 10 points name this bildungsroman about a
character who later appeared in Ulysses, Stephen Dedalus, by James Joyce.
ANSWER: A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
10. His grandfather ordered the man whom he would later defeat at the Battle of Hyrba, Harpagus, to
kill him as an infant, but this man was not defeated until fighting Tomyris of the Massagetae. After
removing the capital from Pasargadae, this man went on campaigns which led to the battles of Opis,
Pteria and Thymbra, in which he defeated Belshazzar and later Croesus. This member of the
Achaemenid dynasty was the victor against the Lydians and Medes. For 10 points, name the grandson
of Astyages and son of Cambyses, who founded the Persian Empire.
ANSWER: Cyrus the Great [or Cyrus II; or Cyrus the Elder; prompt on Cyrus]
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 7

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

