Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 15
Tossups

1. One character in this novel reveals that his roommate planted a one hundred ruble note in a
prostitute's jacket in an attempt to frame her for theft. The protagonist's sister Dunya breaks her
engagement to Luzhin and later marries Razumikhin. Near the end of this novel, Svidrigailov commits
suicide, and the protagonist confesses to Sonya and the police detective Porfiry Petrovich. Focusing on a
student in St. Petersburg who kills an old pawnbroker with an axe, for 10 points, name this novel about
Raskolnikov by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.
ANSWER: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye]
2. In a sequel to this painting, several dozen bricks form an orderly three-dimensional pattern. It was
also recreated as the sculpture Profile of Time, in addition to that followup painting, which showed its
“disintegration.” This painting originally was inspired by a piece of Camembert cheese left in the sun. A
self-representation of the artist emerges from the ground in the middle of the painting, while ants
swarm over an object on the left. In the background are quite normal cliffs, in contrast to the three
melting watches in, for 10 points, what work of Salvador Dalí?
ANSWER: The Persistence of Memory [or La persistencia de la memoria]
3. One predecessor to it produced “resinous solids” that were noted by William MacNevin as being “too
complex for analysis.” The lack of precipitation of uranium in it is commonly cited by opponents of it,
and the electricity it produced is often thought to be an overestimation. Joan Oró developed a similar
experiment to this one, which tested Oparin and Haldane’s hypothesis. Apparently, nitrites destroy the
fruits of this experiment at the same speed as those compounds form. For 10 points, name this
experiment modeling the early Earth’s atmosphere.
ANSWER: Miller-Urey experiment
4. Consonants in this language are referred to using a word meaning “child sounds, ” and most of its
formal speech includes use of the copula verb. Noted for an extensive use of frozen registers, honorifics
such as “o” are often added to nouns in this language, which feature no difference between singular and
plural. It is written using a pair of syllabaries known as “kana;” the "kata" syllabary is mostly used to
write borrowed foreign words. For 10 points, what is this probably Altaic language, written in hiragana
and katakana scripts and widely spoken on Shikoku and Honshu?
ANSWER: Japanese
5. A potassium-mercury reagent used to detect this compound in solution is named for Nessler. The
presence of aldehydes in an organic mixture is indicated by a reagent containing a silver atom
complexed to this molecule’s derivatives. It is converted to an oxidized product via the Ostwald process.
Iron oxide is currently used as a catalyst in the industrial synthesis of this compound, in a modification
proposed by Bosch. This weak base is produced by the Haber process. For 10 points, identify this
compound with formula NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia [accept NH3 until mentioned]
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. The mythological tradition of this country contains many stories of immrama, which are tales of
voyages, such as the one of Ui Chorra. One story in this mythology deals with Briccriu’s beheading
challenge. According to this country’s mythos, it was once ruled by the Fir Bolg, who were conquered by
the Tuatha de Danann. The two main texts of this country’s mythology are the Fenian and Ulster Cycles.
For 10 points, name this mythological tradition that contains such figures as Finn MacCool and Deirdre.
ANSWER: Ireland [or Irish; or Celtic; do not accept “Welsh” or “Wales”]
7. One specific type of this process is dependent on spherical particles. In addition to that type named
for Mie, another type of this process occurs when there are time-dependent density variations in a
material, and is named for Brillouin. If x-rays undergo this process and speed up, this process is named
after Sunyaev and Zeldovich, and if the x-rays slow, it is named after Compton. When this happens to a
photon inelastically, it is named after Raman. For 10 points, name this process, the Rayleigh type of
which explains why the sky is blue.
ANSWER: scattering [do not accept any specific form of scattering]
8. One of them develops the homologs Pif1p and Rrm3p and was developed as an experimental model
by Murdoch Mitchison. In addition to that one with a Swahili species name, pombe, another is used to
counteract acute diarrhea symptoms in children and is known as Boulardii. Their presence is tested with
methylene blue, and several of the Candida genus cause namesake vaginal infections. Cycloheximide
inhibits growth of the Saccharomyces genus, of which cerevisiae ferments beers. For 10 points, name
this class of fungi which are used to make bread.
ANSWER: yeasts
9. During a revolt in the Netherlands that became a part of the Thirty Years War, this family lost their
Dutch lands. The Dutch did support them in the War of the Spanish Succession, where Louis the
Fourteenth worked to put Philip of Anjou, a Bourbon, on the throne in their place. This family produced
Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, and a woman who was the focus of the Pragmatic Sanction and lost
Silesia in the Seven Years War, Maria Theresa. For 10 points, name this family that ruled Austria until the
end of World War I.
ANSWER: Hapsburg [prompt on House of Austria]
10. This is the first name of a Latin singer who hit it big with the songs "Tu Sonrisa" and "Suavamente."
Another singer of this first name played the first few seconds of "Less than Zero" during a Saturday
Night Live appearance before abruptly switching to his protest song about the homogoneity of
broadcast music, "Radio Radio." In addition to that leader of The Attractions, a man with this first name
sang "I don't want no other love/Baby it's just you I'm thinking of" in his song "Don't Be Cruel." For 10
points, give this first name of performers Crespo, Costello, and Presley.
ANSWER: Elvis
11. In one of this author's novels, Gail Hightower has a vision of an enormous wheel, and Percy Grimm
shoots a man who killed Joanna Burden. Rosa Coldfield narrates another of this author's novels, which
focuses on the father of Charles Bon, Thomas Sutpen. In one of his novels, Cash loses his leg and Darl is
taken to an insane asylum during a journey to Jefferson to bury Addie Bundren. For 10 points, name this
American author, who set many of his novels in Yoknapatawpha County, including Light in August, As I
Lay Dying, and The Sound and the Fury.
ANSWER: William Faulkner

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. One author from this country wrote Marco Bruto, and had a lifelong rivalry with Gongora. A
playwright from this country wrote The Stupid Lady, The Dog in the Manger, and The Sheep Well, while a
literary movement in this country included Ramon Valle-Inclan, Pio Baroja, and Antonio Machado, the
Generation of '98. For 10 points, name this European country, home to the authors Calderon de la Barca
and Lope de Vega.
ANSWER: Spain
13. This man wrote a short story in which a short man desires to hack out the narrator’s eyes to make a
bouquet of blue eyeballs for his girlfriend. In addition to that story, “Blue Bouquet,” found in his Eagle or
Sun?, he also wrote the collection The Bow and the Lyre. One of his poems is divided like an Aztec
calendar, and he wrote about his country’s traditions of “siesta” and “machismo” in a critical essay. For
10 points, name this author who wrote “Sun Stone” and The Labyrinth of Solitude, a Mexican poet.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz
14. McClellan fought a battle called Philippi Races in this state to defend the B and O railroad, and the
Battle of Rich Mountain here led to McClellan’s promotion. The senior Senator from this state chairs the
Appropriations Committee and was part of the Gang of Fourteen in 2005, opposing the “nuclear
option.” For 10 points, identify this state whose senior Senator is Robert Byrd, and which joined the
Union on the last day of 1862 by seceding from its Eastern neighbor.
ANSWER: West Virginia
15. Individuals who lack the Duffy antigens are immune to the vivax form of this disease. This disease is
sometimes diagnosed through Wolbach’s tissue stain, though the Giemsa stain is more commonly used.
A canonical example of the heterozygote advantage occurs because sickle-cell heterozygotes are
resistant to this disease. For 10 points, name this disease, treatable by quinine, which is caused by the
plasmodium parasite and transmitted by the Anopheles mosquito.
ANSWER: malaria
16. Paul Zukofsky considered this man's Freeman Etudes unplayable. Merce Cunningham choreographed
his ballet The Seasons, and he collaborated with his teacher Henry Cowell on Marriage at the Eiffel
Tower. Several works by this man feature pieces of metal and glass positioned between the strings of a
“prepared” piano. This composer's Imaginary Landscape series is an example of aleatoric music, and
another work involves a pianist sitting quietly for the titular amount of time. For 10 points, name this
composer of 4'33” (four minutes and thirty-three seconds).
ANSWER: John Cage
17. This state's Niobrara County sees the origin of the Niobrara River, and the Flaming Gorge dam lies
along the Green River, which originates in its Wind River mountains. Boysen Reservoir is formed by a
dam on this state's Wind River. The Ganette peak is the highest point in this state, closely followed by
the Grand Teton peak, and another of its cities is home to Vice-President Dick Cheney, Jackson Hole.
Also home to Yellowstone National Park, for 10 points, identify this state with capital Cheyenne.
ANSWER: Wyoming

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. Berlinite is a phosphate mineral which has a structure similar to this mineral, and crystals of this
mineral which are green are known as prasiolite or vermarine. A variant of it, which usually forms in
large, concentric layers, is known as agate. Amethyst and citrine are variants of this mineral, which is the
bottom-most mineral on the Bowen’s reaction series. It also has a value of seven on the Mohs hardness
scale. For 10 points, identify this mineral which is less common than feldspar, and is made of crystallized
silica.
ANSWER: quartz [prompt on silica or silicon dioxide]
19. In the 1960s, this man wrote church parables whose performances were intended for the Orford
Church. Those works include Curlew River and The Burning Fiery Furnace. Many of this man's operas
contained a part for the tenor Peter Pears, including Owen Wingrave, The Turn of the Screw, and Albert
Herring. His first major opera was based on George Crabbe's poem "The Borough," and centers on a
fisherman who commits suicide after the accidental death of two of his apprentices. For 10 points, name
this English composer of Peter Grimes.
ANSWER: Benjamin Britten
20. Philip Wharton's song "Lili Burlero" was a ballad that played a part in this event, and the Nonjurors
refused to take an oath of allegiance to the victors in this event. It resulted in the Edict of Toleration and
the Bill of Rights, and it was instigated in part by Charles Talbot's invitation to a certain royal couple.
Resulting in the ouster of James II, for 10 points, name this 1688 to 1689 event in which William and
Mary came to the throne of England.
ANSWER: the Glorious Revolution
21. The Papal Bull Omne Datum Optimum exempted this group from taxation, and they were executed
en masse after the Battle of Hattin. They were condemned at the Council of Vienne by Clement V, and
Phillip IV persecuted them and had Jacques de Molay, their last grandmaster, burned at the stake. They
were established with the help of Bernard of Clairvaux with the purpose of guarding pilgrims to the Holy
Land. For 10 points, name this military order named for their base, which was above the ruins of the
Temple of Solomon.
ANSWER: Knights Templar [or Poor Knights of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon; or Knights of the
Temple]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 15
Bonuses

1. Deryck Cooke may be best known for "completing" a performable version of this man's tenth
symphony. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Austrian composer of symphonies nicknamed "Tragic" and "Titan," whose socialite wife
went on to marry Walter Gropius and Franz Werfel after this man's death.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
[10] This Mahler symphony, partly based on Goethe's Faust, earned its popular nickname from its use of
a 171-member orchestra and 850-member chorus.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 8 [or Symphony of a Thousand; or Eighth symphony]
[10] "Youth" and "The Drunkard in Spring" are two of the four songs based on Li Po poems in this sixsong Mahler song cycle.
ANSWER: Das Lied von der Erde [or The Song of the Earth]
2. His work led to the concept of “scaffolding.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Soviet psychologist who named the difference between a child’s ability to do a task
without help and its need to do a task with help “zones of proximal development.”
ANSWER: Lev Vygotsky
[10] This other developmental psychologist believed in “genetic epistemology” and proposed four stages
of development, including sensorimotor, preoperational, and concrete operational.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
[10] “Oral” and “genital” stages are among the five-part model developed by this author of Civilization
and its Discontents.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
3. Lee, Osheroff, and Richardson won the 1996 Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering it in a certain
isotope. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property exhibited by fluids that experience frictionless flow.
ANSWER: superfluidity
[10] Superfluidity is exhibited at temperatures of less than 2.17 Kelvin in one isotope of this element,
whose atomic mass is approximately 4 amu (A-M-U).
ANSWER: helium
[10] The critical temperature of 2.7 Kelvin is also known as this point. This letter of the Greek alphabet is
also the namesake of a phage that infects E. coli.
ANSWER: lambda

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. The Empire of Japan committed numerous atrocities during World War II. For 10 points each:
[10] General Matsui Iwane ordered hundreds of thousands of rapes and killings in this city, which
included the infamous contest between two officers to kill one hundred people with their swords.
ANSWER: Nanking
[10] About ten thousand American and Filipino soldiers died in this infamous ordeal in which Allied
POWs were forced to march from Mariveles to Camp O'Donnell.
ANSWER: Bataan Death March
[10] This prime minister of Japan during most of World War II was executed for war crimes.
ANSWER: Hideki Tojo
5. Identify the following from Mendelian genetics, for 10 points each.
[10] This law implies that an offspring inherits two alleles for a gene, one from each parent.
ANSWER: Law of Segregation
[10] This other law implies that when several different traits are considered, the passing of one trait
from a parent to offspring does not influence which other traits are passed on.
ANSWER: law of independent assortment
[10] Named for an Englishman, these entities are used to represent the possible genotypes for each
offspring given the genotype of each parent.
ANSWER: Punnett squares
6. If this star becomes a supernova, it’ll be far brighter than the Moon in our night sky. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this variable star, the second-brightest star in its constellation but considered the alpha,
which has a chromosphere extending seven times its actual diameter.
ANSWER: Betelgeuse
[10] This brightest star in Orion is the sixth brightest in the sky, as well as the most luminous in the Orion
arm until Deneb.
ANSWER: Rigel
[10] Polaris is a member of this class of variable stars, which the Hubble space telescope identified in the
Virgo cluster. Its namesake was discovered in 1784 by John Goodricke.
ANSWER: Cepheid variable stars
7. He wrote that “the world is too much with us late and soon; late and soon,” and exclaimed “Milton!
thou should'st be living at this hour” in “London 1802.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Lake Poet and author of “Tintern Abbey.”
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
[10] This friend of Wordsworth wrote about Xanadu in “Kubla Kahn” and the shooting of an albatross in
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
[10] This collaboration between Wordsworth and Coleridge included both “Tintern Abbey” and The Rime
of the Ancient Mariner.
ANSWER: Lyrical Ballads

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. It called for Germany to focus most of its troops on the Western Front to knock out France, allowing
Germany to shift its troops against the Russians. For 10 points each:
[10] Named for the chief of the German general staff, identify this military plan which was used by
Germany in the early years of World War II.
ANSWER: Schlieffen Plan
[10] In this 1914 battle, French infantrymen were transported to the front by taxis, and as a result of this
battle, the German army was unable to take Paris, thwarting the Schlieffen Plan.
ANSWER: Battle of the Marne
[10] This man served as commander in chief of French forces on the Western Front from 1914 to 1916
and became known as the “Victor of the Marne.”
ANSWER: Joseph Joffre
9. Name these novels by Thomas Hardy, for 10 points each.
[10] Clym Yeobright’s marriage to Eustacia Vye ends tragically when she drowns herself.
ANSWER: The Return of the Native
[10] The title politician, Michael Henchard, is ruined when it is revealed that he sold his wife and child to
the highest bidder while drunk.
ANSWER: The Mayor of Casterbridge
[10] The protagonist only spends a few days with Angel Clare before being hanged for stabbing Alec.
ANSWER: Tess of the D’Urbervilles
10. In it Socrates argues that using an immoral act to respond to injustice is wrong. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dialogue in which the namesake figure offers to bribe Socrates’ way out of jail.
ANSWER: Crito
[10] Along with Euthyphro and Protagoras, Crito is one of the many dialogues containing Socrates
written by this student of Socrates.
ANSWER: Plato
[10] This other Platonic dialogue contains the argument that a man cannot harm one of his betters, one
of the arguments presented by Socrates in his defense at his trial.
ANSWER: Apology [or Apologia]
11. An advertisement for Phillies cigars can be seen above the window in this painting, through which a
man in a suit and a woman in a red dress can be seen sitting at a counter. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting which depicts a sparsely populated diner at the title time of day.
ANSWER: Nighthawks
[10] Nighthawks was painted by this member of the Ashcan School, who also depicted some storefronts
in Early Sunday Morning.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
[10] This other member of the Ashcan School contributed artwork to The Masses, and he’s known for
boxing scenes like Dempsey and Firpo and Stag at Sharkey’s.
ANSWER: George Wesley Bellows

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. The silver salt of this element’s anion is sometimes used to seed clouds. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this element with chemical symbol I.
ANSWER: Iodine
[10] Iodine belongs to this class of elements whose other members include Bromine and chlorine. Their
name literally means salt-forming.
ANSWER: halogens
[10] A reaction named after some German and Russian chemists sees the alpha halogenation of these
compounds which feature a terminal COOH group.
ANSWER: carboxylic acids
13. He dissolved Parliament in October 2008 and called for an election in hopes of gaining a majority.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this leader of the Conservative party and current prime minister of Canada.
ANSWER: Stephen Harper
[10] Jack Layton currently leads this party with a progressive agenda, and which received eighteen
percent of the popular vote in 2008, which gave it thirty-seven seats in the parliament.
ANSWER: NDP [or NPD; or New Democratic Party; or Nouveau Parti Democratique]
[10] This third largest party won forty-nine seats in the elections. It is currently led by Giles Duceppe,
and calls for the recognition of its namesake province as a “separate nation” within Canada.
ANSWER: Bloc Québécois
14. For 10 points each, name these mythological trickster gods.
[10] This devious Norse god convinced Hodr to kill Balder and is tied up with a snake dripping venom
over him as punishment.
ANSWER: Loki
[10] This spider from Ashanti lore catches a jaguar and some hornets and has a memorable encounter
with a tar baby.
ANSWER: Anansi
[10] This Native American trickster is sometimes said to have created humanity out of mud. The Wasco
believe he killed the evil Thunderbird.
ANSWER: Coyote
15. He names a twisted tower he designed in Hanover, and his DZ Bank Building in Berlin is located
immediately in front of the Brandenburg Gate. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American architect of Seattle’s Experience Music Project, whose buildings often features
distinctive sculpted titanium or stainless steel exteriors.
ANSWER: Frank Owen Gehry [or Ephraim Owen Goldberg]
[10] Gehry’s best known work is one of these museums located in Bilbao, Spain. Frank Lloyd Wright
designed another one located in New York.
ANSWER: Guggenheim Museum
[10] This concert hall located in Los Angeles is another Gehry design, along with acoustics expertise from
Yasuhisa Toyota.
ANSWER: Walt Disney Concert Hall

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. In the final act of this play, Don Parritt commits suicide by jumping off a fire escape. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this play about traveling salesman Hickey, who tries to convince the denizens of Harry Hope's
bar to give up their “pipe dreams.”
ANSWER: The Iceman Cometh
[10] This American playwright of The Emperor Jones and Long Day's Journey Into Night wrote The
Iceman Cometh.
ANSWER: Eugene O'Neill
[10] Inspired by the Oresteia, this trilogy by O'Neill includes Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted,
and centers on the Oedipal desires of Orin and Lavinia Mannon.
ANSWER: Mourning Becomes Electra
17. Adam Mickiewicz wrote this country's national epic, Pan Tadeusz. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this European country, also the birthplace of the author of Quo Vadis?, Henryk Sienkewicz.
ANSWER: Poland
[10] This other European country's national epics include Parsifal, written by Wolfram von Eschenbach,
and the Nibelungenlied, which inspired Richard Wagner's Ring Cycle.
ANSWER: Germany
[10] Elias Lonnrot compiled this country's national epic, the Kalevala, which features the exploits of
Ilmarinen, Lemminkainen, and Vainamoinen.
ANSWER: Finland
18. All the rivers in this country, including the The, Ou, and Kading, are tributaries to the Mekong. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this country with capital at Vientiane.
ANSWER: Laos [or Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxôn Lao; or Lao People’s Democratic Republic]
[10] On the Xiangkhoang plateau in Laos, a plain named for these prehistoric objects is drained by the
Ngum River. It is home to a number of airfields that were used against the Pathet Lao.
ANSWER: jars [or Plain of Jars; or Plain des Jarres; or Thong Haihin]
[10] The Mekong River reaches the Pacific in this nation. The Gulf of Tonkin is found in its Red River
delta, while its capital is Hanoi.
ANSWER: Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet Nam]
19. This architect designed the North Christian Church in Columbus, Indiana, as well as the Kresge
Auditorium at MIT. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Finnish architect who also designed Dulles International Airport.
ANSWER: Eero Saarinen
[10] Saarinen is best known for this stainless steel monument, part of the Jefferson National Expansion
Memorial in St. Louis, Missouri.
ANSWER: Gateway Arch [prompt on St. Louis Arch]
[10] In addition to Dulles, Saarinen has designed the TWA Flight Center at this airport, known for its
shell-like design.
ANSWER: JFK International Airport [or John F. Kennedy International Airport; or Idlewild Airport]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. He was jailed for what were interpreted as threats of anti-English violence in his newspaper United
Ireland. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Irish politician who signed the Kilmainham Treaty and worked for Irish Home Rule until
being defamed in the Kitty O’Shea affair.
ANSWER: Charles Stuart Parnell
[10] The other signatory of the Kilmainham Treaty was this four time British prime minister, the leader
of the Liberal Party and rival of Benjamin Disraeli.
ANSWER: William Ewart Gladstone
[10] Gladstone was publicly blamed for the death of this British General in the fall of Khartoum to the
forces of the Mahdi.
ANSWER: Charles George Gordon
21. During the action of this play, the title character's offspring Eilif, Swiss Cheese, and Kattrin all die. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this play about Anna Fierling, who earns a living by pulling a canteen during the Thirty Years'
War.
ANSWER: Mother Courage and Her Children
[10] This German proponent of “epic theater” wrote Mother Courage and Her Children, as well as The
Good Woman of Szechwan and The Caucausian Chalk Circle.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht
[10] Brecht wrote about the rule of this dictator in both his allegory The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui and
The Private Life of the Master Race.
ANSWER: Adolf Hitler

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

