2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 14
Tossups

1. A robber who forced passersby to wash his feet and then kicked them off a cliff was slain by this
man, who also killed a giant pig, the Crommyonian sow. This best friend of Pirithous killed the bandit
(*) Procrustes by fitting him into his own bed, which he accomplished after moving a rock to receive his
sword and sandals. This figure also forgot to change a black sail, causing his father Aegeus to throw
himself into his namesake sea. For 10 points, name this husband of Phaedra and Hippolyta, a hero who
abandoned Ariadne after enlisting her help in slaying the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus [accept Sciron before “this man” is read]
2. A section of rock at Fortune Head, Newfoundland marks the beginning of this period, which
featured animals such as the armored slug Wiwaxia. The beginning of this period is marked by the
appearance of Trichophycus pedum and Tommotian fauna. The (*) Burgess Shale contains fossils from
this period in which brachiopods, echinoderms, and numerous other phyla first appeared. For 10 points,
name this first period of the Paleozoic era that preceded the Ordovician, known for an increase in
biodiversity known as its “explosion.”
ANSWER: Cambrian period
3. One character in this work is kidnapped and taken to a thieves’ den, where miscreants threaten to
hang him if no woman there will marry him. The title character of this work is decked in robes after a
crowd at the Palace of Justice forgets a morality play and crowns him Prince of (*) Fools. A poet
named Gringoire features in this work, which sees Captain Phoebus stabbed during a rendezvous with
the gypsy Esmeralda. For 10 points, name this novel in which Claude Frollo is thrown off of the title
structure by the misshapen Quasimodo, a work of Victor Hugo.
ANSWER: The Hunchback of Notre Dame [accept Notre-Dame de Paris]
4. Characters created by this author include Dr. William Bradshaw, who worships the “goddesses” of
Proportion and Conversion, and Sally Seton, a former radical who becomes Lady Rosseter. In a novel
by this author, the title character invites her old friend Peter Walsh to a party at which she hears
about the suicide of (*) Septimus Smith. Another novel by this author begins with a section named “The
Window,” which tells of James Ramsay’s desire to visit the title structure. For 10 points, name this
British author of Mrs. Dalloway, Orlando, and To the Lighthouse.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf
5. One person of this name was a longtime ally of Valerius Flaccus. He led the anti-Greek faction
within Roman cultural circles at the time when the Scipios were promoting Greek culture. Another
person of this name was a leader of the Optimates who lamented the end of the Roman Republic by
(*) killing himself at Utica. That one was known as “The Younger,” while the “Elder” one, also called “the
censor,” frequently advocated that “Carthage must be destroyed.” For 10 points, give the common
name of these related Roman politicians.
ANSWER: Marcius Portius Cato [or Marcius Portius Cato the elder; or Marcius Portius Cato the Younger]
2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. One person from this country wrote a novel about Dostoyevsky called The Master of Petersburg, as
well as a reimagining of the Robinson Crusoe story. Another author from this country wrote about the
fair-skinned Morris and his brother Zachariah and another play about (*) Hally verbally abusing Sam
and Willy after he learns his father is returning from the hospital. Those two plays are The Blood Knot
and Master Harold…and the Boys. For 10 points, name this country home to J.M. Coetzee and Athol
Fugard whose writers sometimes write in Afrikaans.
ANSWER: South Africa
7. This country’s conversion to Lutheranism was secured after the internal Count’s Feud of the 1530s.
Earlier, its king Valdemar IV fought the Hanseatic League. Its king Christian X agreed to plans by this
country’s government to resist the entrenchment of (*) Nazi rule during its occupation. For several
centuries, this country had intermittent wars with Germany over control of Schleswig-Holstein. For 10
points, name this country where, in 2005, the Jyllands-Posten newspaper published several
inflammatory cartoons of Mohammed.
ANSWER: Denmark
8. This artist painted two sleeping babies being crawled over by a putto in a work that also features a
woman with two recorders looking at her lover and an old man in the background holding a skull. In
addition to The Three Ages of Man, he painted an infant reaching into a tub flanked by a mostly nude
woman and a woman in white, a work titled (*) Sacred and Profane Love. Some servants rummage
around in a marriage chest behind the title figure another of his works. For 10 points, name this painter
of a reclining nude on a bed with a sleeping spaniel, Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vicelli; accept either name]
9. Robert Barro named this man’s equivalence theorem, which states government deficits are
anticipated by individuals who increase their saving. Piero Sraffa is one member of the school named
for this man, who illustrated one of his theories using (*) Portuguese wine and English cloth. He argued
for the repeal of the Corn Laws, and his works include The High Price of Bullion and Principles of Political
Economy and Taxation. For 10 points, name this British economist who proposed the iron law of wages
and developed the theory of comparative advantage.
ANSWER: David Ricardo
10. People who once held this status had to pay a series of forty-nine “redemption payments” after it
ended. A plan to end this status was announced in the Imperial Rescript and formulated by the Secret
Committee. Former members of this group were given voting rights in the (*) zemstvos after they were
emancipated in 1861 by Alexander II. For 10 points, name these people who were bound to the noble
land on which they worked in Russia, as they were in feudal systems of medieval Western Europe.
ANSWER: serfs
11. An aryl variety of one of these compounds participates in the Fries rearrangement. Their reaction
with alcohols in basic conditions under heat is referred to as saponification, while they may be
generated from an alcohol and carboxylic acid in a reaction named for Fischer. They provide the (*)
linkages between the glycerol head and the fatty acid tails of a lipid. Like carboxylic acids, they contain a
carbon double-bonded to one oxygen and single-bonded to another oxygen. For 10 points, name this
class of organic compounds, known for their attractive scents.
ANSWER: esters

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. In one of its outtakes, the protagonist claims that “98 percent of us will die at some point in our
lives.” Another of this film’s characters explains how a tuxedo T-shirt says “I wanna be formal, but I’m
here to party, too” as part of a dinner conversation in which the lead opts for an “8-pound, 6-ounce,
newborn (*) infant Jesus.” More central to its plot are the protagonist’s “shake and bake” tag-team
with Cal Naughton, Jr. and his rivalry with the gay French racer Jean Girard, played by Sacha Baron
Cohen. For 10 points, name this comedy starring Will Ferrell as Ricky Bobby.
ANSWER: Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby
13. In one section of this work, the prophet Ether recounts the story of Jared from the valley of
Nimrod. This work’s two main sections are bridged by the “words” of its namesake, who discusses the
appearance of false prophets during the reign of King Benjamin. It opens with an account of (*) Lehi
and Sariah, whose sons marry daughters of Ishmael, and introduces the origins of the Lamanites and
Nephites. For 10 points, name this religious work revealed by Moroni and transcribed from golden
plates by Joseph Smith, the foremost Latter Day Saints scripture.
ANSWER: Book of Mormon
14. Clofazimine, rifampin, and dapsone are common medicines used in a multi-drug treatment against
this disease, and other medicines used include prednisone and thalidomide. 95% of humans are
naturally immune to this disease caused by a (*) mycobacterium whose only other known carrier in the
animal kingdom is the armadillo. For 10 points, name this disease, also known as Hansen’s disease,
characterized by skin lesions and whose sufferers have historically been sent to namesake “colonies.”
ANSWER: leprosy [accept Hansen’s disease before mention]
15. The ratification of this treaty was delayed by blizzards caused by the eruption of the Laki volcano.
This treaty followed an informal agreement negotiated by Richard Oswald and was signed by David
Hartley. Its eighth article guaranteed both sides free navigation of the (*) Mississippi River, and its fifth
article provided for the return of seized property to Loyalists. For 10 points, name this treaty signed by
John Jay, Benjamin Franklin, and John Adams that secured the independence of the United States,
named for the capital of France.
ANSWER: 1783 Treaty of Paris
16. The Jambelí and Morro Channels flank this country’s Puná Island, home to the aboriginal Tumbez
Indians, and this country’s Santa Elena peninsula contains primitive settlements from the Las Vegas
culture. The Sierra Negra of Isabela Island and Indefatigable Island’s (*) Charles Darwin Research
Station are located within this country’s province of the Galapagos Islands. For 10 points, name this
South American country containing the port cities of Manta and Guayaquil and bordered by Columbia
and Perú, with capital at Quito.
ANSWER: Ecuador
17. In one of this man’s works, the Italian American widow Louisa reacts badly to the death of her
husband, and in another, the disgraced Reverend Shannon works as a tour guide at a seedy Mexican
resort. In another play by this author, (*) Brick and Maggie attempt to get some of Big Daddy’s fortune,
and he also wrote about Laura Wingfield’s gentleman caller. For 10 points, name this American
playwright of The Rose Tattoo, Night of the Iguana, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and The Glass Menagerie.
ANSWER: Tennessee Williams

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. A generalization of this law to quantum mechanical operators is known as the Ehrenfest Theorem,
while in non-inertial reference frames it holds only for effective force unless one adds terms to the
right side for centrifugal, coriolis, and (*) azimuthal forces. When mass is not constant, this law is often
given as “impulse equals the integral of force with respect to time,” or that F equals dp dt. For 10
points, identify this law of classical mechanics which states that force equals mass times acceleration.
ANSWER: Newton’s Second Law [prompt on Newton’s Law]
19. This interval, which occurs between the lower two notes of the Tristan chord, is defined as any
two notes that have a frequency ratio of forty-five to thirty-two. A diminished seventh chord contains
two overlapping ones, and its sharp dissonance led it to be called the “devil’s (*) tone” in medieval
music. For 10 points, name this interval equivalent to an augmented fourth or diminished fifth, which
consists of a note and the note three whole steps above or below it.
ANSWER: tritone [or devil’s tone before mention; prompt on augmented fourth before mention;
prompt on diminished fifth before mention]
20. One character in this opera tells the audience that the show is about real humans while dressed as
Taddio in its short prologue. The aria “Stridono lassu” represents a birdsong that comforts one
character, who later collects money while dressed as (*) Colombina. After stabbing Silvio, one
character exclaims “La Commedia è finite,” and that character earlier expresses his zero-tolerance policy
for other men hitting on Nedda and sings the aria “Vesti la Giubba” while putting on a costume. For 10
points, name this Leoncavallo opera about Canio, a clown.
ANSWER: Pagliacci [or Players; or I Pagliacci]
21. A “strong” version of it was discussed in The Seven Mysteries of Life by Guy Marchie, while its
most famous formulation was introduced in the article “Is Mars a Spaceship, Too?” This theory has
been modeled by Andrew Watson using his Daisyworld simulation. Its development is largely
attributed to (*) Lynn Margulis and James Lovelock, who postulated the existence of feedback loops
similar to homeostasis. For 10 points, identify this theory stating that all life on earth functions as a selfregulating “super-organism,” named after the Greek earth goddess.
ANSWER: Gaia hypothesis
22. This author was inspired by the Shanamah to write of a young Tartar who is unknowingly killed by
his father in Sohrab and Rustum. In one of his poems, a student leaves Oxford to commune with
nature and learn the secrets of the title people, and he used a character from Virgil’s seventh Eclogue
in an elegy on the death of his friend (*) Arthur Hugh Clough. He may be best remembered for a poem
set on a “darkling plain…where ignorant armies clash by night.” For 10 points, name this British poet of
“Thyrsis,” “The Scholar Gypsy,” and “Dover Beach.”
ASWER: Matthew Arnold
23. This man was succeeded as governor by Enos Throop upon accepting the position of secretary of
state, and he was the focus of the Gold Spoon Speech given by Charles Ogle. A member of the
Bucktails faction that opposed DeWitt Clinton, this man served as a leader of the (*) Albany Regency.
During his administration, the Caroline Affair and Aroostook War occurred. He was the Free Soil Party
candidate for president in 1848. For 10 points, name this man who served as the second vice president
under Andrew Jackson before succeeding him as president.
ANSWER: Martin Van Buren

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 14
Bonuses

1. Answer the following about twentieth-century Americans and their operas for 10 points each.
[10] At one point in this opera, the main characters see The Red Detachment of Women, a piece written
by Madame Mao. This John Adams opera contains a foxtrot set of “Chairman Dances.”
ANSWER: Nixon in China
[10] Along with Satyagraha and Akhenaten, this opera is one of Phillip Glass’s portrait operas.
Containing five “knee plays,” it also features “I Feel the Earth Move.”
ANSWER: Einstein on the Beach
[10] Local people try to sell the title character of one of his operas a “bag of luck.” This composer of
Treemonisha also composed the “Maple Leaf Rag” and “The Entertainer.”
ANSWER: Scott Joplin
2. In plant cells, these structures can occupy up to four fifths of the total cell volume. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these organelles responsible for storing water and nutrients.
ANSWER: vacuoles
[10] In plant cells, storage of water by vacuoles contributes to the maintenance of this hydrostatic
pressure.
ANSWER: turgor pressure [prompt on osmotic pressure]
[10] Water moves into the vacuole through this process, the movement of water across a
semipermeable membrane.
ANSWER: osmosis [prompt on diffusion]
3. This novel features a dramatic rowboat flight to Switzerland. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Frederic Henry’s love Catherine Barkley dies in childbirth.
ANSWER: A Farewell to Arms
[10] This American author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea also wrote A Farewell to
Arms.
ANSWER: Ernest Miller Hemingway
[10] This Hemingway novel features Harry Morgan, who owns a fishing venture but loses his boat after
getting busted for smuggling whiskey from Cuba.
ANSWER: To Have and Have Not

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. For 10 points each, name these notations found on the staff, not above or below, in a musical score.
[10] Commonly either a “sharp,” a “flat,” or a “natural,” these notations are found just before a note
and indicate that the note is to be played higher or lower than in the key signature.
ANSWER: accidentals
[10] This note is depicted as a small eighth note with a slash through it, and often indicates either an
appoggiatura (ah-pah-jee-ah-TOO-rah) or an acciaccatura (ah-chee-ah-ka-TOO-rah).
ANSWER: grace note
[10] Sometimes distinguished from portamento in that it usually hits every tone instead of being a
continuous slide, this articulation is usually written as a squiggly line between two notes.
ANSWER: glissando
5. The Thousand Islands are located in this waterway, and ships can travel up it to Lake Erie through the
Welland Canal. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this river that drains Lake Ontario, connecting the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean.
ANSWER: Saint Lawrence River [or St. Lawrence Seaway]
[10] The Thousand Islands are an extension of this New York mountain range whose highest point is at
Algonquin Peak.
ANSWER: Adirondack Mountains
[10] The Richelieu River drains this lake into the St. Lawrence. Located on the New York-Vermont
border, it contains Valcour Island and Grand Isle.
ANSWER: Lake Champlain
6. The Western United States was the scene of numerous massacres in the nineteenth century. For 10
points each:
[10] In this 1857 massacre, a group of Paiute Indians and Mormon settlers attacked and killed an
unarmed group of emigrants from Arkansas who were traveling to California.
ANSWER: Mountain Meadows Massacre
[10] Federal troops killed over two hundred Sioux in this 1890 massacre in South Dakota that marked
the end of the conquest of the American Indians.
ANSWER: Wounded Knee Massacre
[10] Colonel John Chivington led this 1864 attack on a group of Cheyenne led by Black Kettle, who raised
a U.S. flag and a white flag.
ANSWER: Sand Creek Massacre
7. In a Bunsen prism monochromator, a collimating type of this device produces parallel beams of
radiation, while another one of these devices focuses and reforms an image. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these devices with curved surfaces that are composed of transparent substances, and form
real and virtual images by focusing rays of light given off by an object.
ANSWER: lens
[10] The curvature of the lens surface produces refraction of incident light causing parallel rays to either
converge on or diverge from this single point.
ANSWER: focal point [or principle focus]
[10] This phenomenon occurs due to the relationship between the refractive index and wavelength and
results in a change in image distance with varying wavelength.
ANSWER: chromatic aberration [or lateral color; prompt on aberration]

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. For 10 points each, answer the following about the man who became known as Doctor Invincibilis, or
the Invincible Doctor.
[10] This fourteenth-century English philosopher is best known for his namesake “razor,” a principle of
parsimony stating that things should not be multiplied beyond necessity.
ANSWER: William of Ockham [or Hockham; or Occam]
[10] Ockham was one of the last great exponents of this, the collective name for the theologically-based
philosophy of medieval Europe. It is usually dated back to Saint Anselm.
ANSWER: Scholasticism
[10] Ockham’s most famous student was this Frenchman. His “ass” is a thought experiment in which a
donkey starves to death because it can’t choose between two equally sized stacks of hay.
ANSWER: Jean Buridan
9. The protagonist of this movie orders the murder of Johnny Ola after partnering with Hyman Roth. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this sequel, which includes flashbacks showing the murder of Don Fanucci by a character
played by Robert De Niro.
ANSWER: The Godfather, Part Two [do not accept “The Godfather”]
[10] In The Godfather trilogy, Michael Corleone is played by this actor who played Frank Slade in Scent of
a Woman and the title role in Serpico.
ANSWER: Al Pacino
[10] Pacino has also played Ricky Roma, a stud real estate salesman who is a closer and thus can drink
coffee in the screen adaptation of this David Mamet play.
ANSWER: Glengarry, Glen Ross
10. Nevil Sidgwick proposed that the “inert” variety of them was responsible for the stability of certain
oxidation states. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the name of this group of valence electrons that don’t partake in bonding with other atoms
and that participate in dative or coordinate covalent bonding.
ANSWER: lone pair
[10] Lone pairs influence the coordination of these substances that bond to central metal atoms.
Chelation forms some of them.
ANSWER: ligands
[10] The number of lone pairs and formed bonds is used to determine formal charge, which is indicated
in these diagrams that describe bonding in any covalently bonded compound.
ANSWER: Lewis dot structures [or electron dot structures]
11. As foreign secretary, this man blockaded Greece during the Don Pacifico Affair. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who, as prime minister, maintained British neutrality during the American Civil War
and oversaw the suppression of the Sepoy Mutiny.
ANSWER: Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston [accept either]
[10] Palmerston served as prime minister during this conflict of 1853-1856, in which Britain, France, and
the Ottoman Empire fought Russia. It included the Charge of the Light Brigade.
ANSWER: Crimean War
[10] The Crimean War included the bloody seige of this port city, the home of the Russian Black Sea
Fleet.
ANSWER: Sevastopol

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Common in the islands of the South Pacific, it is discussed in the Mary Douglas work Purity and
Danger, and the word mana refers to the power that it possesses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this word that refers to the ritual prohibition of an object or activity, such as incest.
ANSWER: taboo [or tabu]
[10] Taboos are often placed on this object, a clan’s ancestral guardian. The symbol of it is often carved
on namesake poles among Native Americans in the Pacific Northwest.
ANSWER: totem
[10] Works by this Scottish anthropologist include Taboo and the Perils of the Soul and Totemism and
Exogamy. His best-known work is subtitled “A Study in Magic and Religion.”
ANSWER: James Frazer
13. A series of art named for these structures includes the painting “with rays” and shows blue and
yellow shades of this shape. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this shape that Joseph Albers painted an Homage to.
ANSWER: squares
[10] This artist painted lots of squares in his painting that shows a street plan-like design, Broadway
Boogie Woogie. He worked in De Stijl and Neoplasticism.
ANSWER: Piet Mondrian
[10] While not known for painting squares, this abstract expressionist painter created Lavendar Mist,
which is an example of “action painting,” in which he dripped paint on a canvas.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollack
14. She ordered Gian Rinaldo Monaldeschi’s execution after he allegedly told the pope about her plan to
become Queen of Naples. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this daughter of Gustavus Adolphus who abdicated her throne.
ANSWER: Queen Christina
[10] Christina was ruler of this nation, which later fought with Russia in the Great Northern War and was
neutral in World War II, unlike its neighbor Norway.
ANSWER: Sweden
[10] Queen Christina abdicated in order to perform this action, also performed by Henry IV when he
decided that “Paris is well worth a mass.”
ANSWER: converting to Roman Catholicism [accept obvious equivalents]
15. He wrote of Omar Khayyam Shakil being falsely accused of killing General Hyder in his novel Shame.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Indian author of The Moor’s Last Sigh and The Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie
[10] This Rushdie novel follows a group of people, including Saleem Sinai, who were born on August 15,
1947 with special abilities.
ANSWER: Midnight’s Children
[10] The title character of this 2005 Rushdie novel set in Kashmir is a tightrope walker who falls in love
with Boonyi.
ANSWER: Shalimar the Clown

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. This man paid for the production of Aeschylus’ Persian Trilogy. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Athenian statesman whose reign saw the construction of the Acropolis and the beginning
of the Peloponnesian War.
ANSWER: Pericles
[10] Under Pericles, this league of Greek city-states reached the height of its power. Pericles oversaw
the destruction of Euboea after that state revolted against this league.
ANSWER: Delian League
[10] Like Pericles, this man was a member of the Alcamaenid family. The leader of Athens around 500
BCE, he reformed the constitution and began the democratization of Athens.
ANSWER: Cleisthenes
17. This work inspired many satires, including Joseph Andrews. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this epistolary novel in which Mr. B marries the title character, ostensibly about “Virtue
Rewarded.”
ANSWER: Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded
[10] This author of the long novel Clarissa wrote Pamela.
ANSWER: Samuel Richardson
[10] This author re-imagined Pamela as Shamela, a woman trying to entrap Squire Booby in marriage. He
also wrote Tom Jones and Joseph Andrews.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding
18. The title object belongs to Madame Forestier. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work in which Mathilde Loisel and her husband work for years to pay for the loss of the
titular piece of jewelry, which turned out to be a worthless facsimile.
ANSWER: “The Necklace” [accept “The Diamond Necklace”; accept “La Parure”
[10] This French author of “A Piece of String” and “Mademoiselle Fifi” wrote “The Necklace.”
ANSWER: Guy de Maupassant
[10] The Maupassant short story centers on the titular portly prostitute, who sleeps with a Prussian
officer so that her travel party can continue their flight from Rouen.
ANSWER: “Boule de Suif” [accept “Ball of Fat” or other close English equivalents]
19. This sequence represents the number of handshakes that must take place if n plus one people shake
hands with each other once. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of number, equal to the sum of the n counting numbers from one to n.
ANSWER: triangular number
[10] These numbers are equal to the sums of their proper divisors, and each one is also a triangular
number. Six, twenty-eight, and four hundred ninety-six are the first three.
ANSWER: perfect number
[10] These prime numbers, which have the form two to the n power minus one, were first studied due
to their correspondence to even perfect numbers.
ANSWER: Mersenne primes

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. This object is crafted in Svartálfheim and is as thin as a silken ribbon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this strong chain consisting of the breath of a fish, the beard of a woman, the sound of a cat’s
footfall, and the roots of a mountain, among other things, which will break at Ragnarok.
ANSWER: Gleipnir
[10] Gleipnir was forged to contain this creature, which will be slain by Vídarr. A son of Angrboda and
Loki, it drools out the river Ván and fathers two other wolves, Hati and Sköll.
ANSWER: Fenrir [or Fenrisúlfr; or Hródvitnir]
[10] Fenrir bites off the arm of this god, the god of one-on-one combat. A war god, he is the namesake
of Tuesday and kills and is killed by Hel’s guard dog Garm at Ragnarok.
ANSWER: Týr
21. Harteck and Bonhoeffer first synthesized pure parahydrogen, thus confirming the spin version of this
phenomenon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon, separated into structural and spatial varieties, in which compounds with
the same molecular formula have different orientations of atoms.
ANSWER: isomerism [accept word forms]
[10] In this form of stereoisomerism, two central atoms connected by a double bond have differing
functional groups. A noted example of it occurs between maleic and fumaric acid.
ANSWER: cis-trans isomerism [or geometric; or configuration]
[10] Enantiomers are characterized by having this property, which is defined by an object that cannot be
superimposed on its mirror image, as is the case with human hands.
ANSWER: chirality [accept word forms]
22. This poem asks “What immortal hand or eye / Could frame thy fearful symmetry.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this poem about a creature that is “burning bright / in the forest of the night.”
ANSWER: “The Tyger”
[10] “The Tyger” was written by this mystical British poet and artist who included it in his Songs of
Experience.
ANSWER: William Blake
[10] This poem in Songs of Innocence that is often paired with “The Tyger” asks the title creature, “Dost
thou know who made thee?”
ANSWER: “The Lamb”
23. To ensure that he would succeed his father, this man allied with Philip Augustus to attack his father’s
lands in Anjou. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this son of Henry II whose brother John Lackland seized power while he was away on
crusade.
ANSWER: Richard I or Richard the Lionhearted [prompt on Richard]
[10] Richard conquered this island in the Mediterranean during his time fighting in the Holy Land. This
was the home of the Knights Templar before Rhodes and Malta.
ANSWER: Cyprus
[10] During his return to England, Richard was captured and held for ransom by this Duke of Austria.
During the Third Crusade, he feuded with Richard over control of Acre.
ANSWER: Leopold V of Austria

2008-2009

ACF-Format Set #3

Round 14

Page 10 of 10 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

