Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 6
Tossups

1. The Celtic gods of this type are Goibhniu and Gofannon, while Wayland is a god of this type in the
Northern European mythos. In the Kalevala, the creator of the Sampo is this type of god named
Ilmarinen. The Greek god of this type was thrown from Mount Olympus, and had his workshop under
Mount Etna where he made Athena's Aegis breastplate. For 10 points, name this type of god
exemplified by Vulcan and Hephaestus, who typically make metal items for the other gods.
ANSWER: forge gods [or blacksmith gods; accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
2. The protagonist of this play decides to die on Mount Cithaeron, and accuses Tiresias of plotting
against him. Before the action of this play, the title character had killed a man in a chariot who offended
him. The title character believes himself to be the son of Polybus and Merope, and he deforms himself
with a pair of golden brooches. The title character's wife hangs herself by her own hair after learning the
cause of a pestilence afflicting Thebes. For 10 points, identify this play about a man who kills his father
and has sex with his mother, Jocasta, a play by Sophocles.
ANSWER: Oedipus Tyrannos [or Oedipus Rex]
3. Tufa and coquina are two types of this rock. A streak of HFeO2 is present in the Fencepost variety of
this rock, while a more common impurity in this rock is aragonite. It can be identified through an
effervescent reaction, in which it reacts with dilute acid to release carbon dioxide. At lower pressures,
this turns into dolomite, while higher pressures turn this into marble. For 10 points, name this
sedimentary rock mostly composed of calcite, often used in cement.
ANSWER: limestone
4. This position was held by Harry Daugherty during the Harding Administration, and Daugherty
subsequently went to trial on charges of fraud and graft, and one man who held this post was famous
for riding on horseback to the Continental Congress to cast Delaware’s vote for independence. That
man, Caesar Rodney, served from 1808 to 1809, and John Mitchell went to jail for his actions while
serving as this under Nixon. For 10 points, Edmund Randolph was the first man to serve in what position,
the chief law officer of the United States?
ANSWER: Attorney General
5. The noble family that sponsored this work is depicted in sculpture in two decorative balconies on
either side of it. The altar area on which this piece resides has four black marble columns, and gilded
light rays stream in from above this sculpture. This work located in the Santa Maria della Vittoria's
Cornaro Chapel depicts an angel piercing the title figure with an arrow. For 10 points, name this Gian
Lorenzo Bernini statue that shows a venerated woman from Avila in rapture.
ANSWER: The Ecstasy of Saint Teresa [or St. Theresa in Ecstasy; or The Transverberation of St. Theresa]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This poet wrote about “The awful shadow of some unseen Power” in “Hymn to Intellectual Beauty.”
The title figure leads Fraud and Hypocrisy in his poem inspired by the Peterloo Massacre, “The Masque
of Anarchy.” He wrote a poem comparing the title entity to a “Wild Spirit, which art moving
everywhere” and “the breath of Autumn’s being,” as well as a sonnet about a figure who warns “Look
on my works, ye Mighty and despair.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Ode to the West Wind” and
“Ozymandias.”
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
7. The last monarch of this line was known as the Sailor King, and another king of this line became
unpopular after thousands of people lost vast fortunes in the South Sea Bubble. One fought in the Battle
of Dettingen, becoming the last British monarch to lead men into battle, and another issued the
Proclamation of 1763 and ruled alongside people like George Grenville and William Pitt the Younger. For
10 points, name this royal British house with monarchs like William IV and George III that originated
with a namesake German electorate.
ANSWER: House of Hanover [or Hanoverians]
8. A molecular interpretation of Michaelis-Menten kinetics assumes that a fast one occurs between
enzyme and substrate, and the van't Hoff equation predicts how the properties of this state change with
respect to temperature. The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation assumes that the acid does not dissociate
and the conjugate base does not hydrolyze in this condition, and in special cases the law of mass action
gives the masses of reactants and products present. For 10 points, identify this condition, during which
the forward and reverse reaction rates are the same.
ANSWER: chemical equilibrium
9. One of its basic principles is anekantevada, which asserts the legitimacy of multiple points of view,
and it holds that time passes in repeated utsarpinis and avsarpinis. Those who gain particular insight
into the nature of dharma are called tirthankara. Its two sects are known as Svetambara and
Digambara, meaning white clad and sky-clad. For 10 points, identify this Indian religion whose followers
embrace nonviolence.
ANSWER: Jainism [or Jain Dharma, or Shraman Dharma]
10. An advertisement for Citroen sees a giant levitating one of these made out of cars, and a large mural
made of these objects is made to spell out “Hybrid” in a Honda Advertisement. In another
advertisement, one of these is made to twist so fast as to burst and splatter its colors on a wall while a
PS3 is visible in the background. Invented by an interior designer from Hungary, it has more difficult
variants called the “Revenge” and “Professor.” For 10 points, identify these objects, all of whose sides
are made of the same color when it is solved.
ANSWER: Rubik’s cubes
11. Stanford professor Joseph Greenberg created a controversial classification for languages from this
place which removed the Hamitic family. One language spoken on this continent is Malagasay, which
belongs to the Austronesian family, and this continent is also home to the Khoisan languages, which use
clicks. Major languages spoken on this continent include Hausa, Xhosa, and Amharic. For 10 points,
name this linguistically diverse continent that is home to Swahili and Afrikaans.
ANSWER: Africa

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. One of these occurred when Russian patriarch Nikon began to enforce reforms resisted by the Old
Believers. Another of these was ended when the Council of Constance removed both Gregory XII and
Benedict XIII and elected Martin V. Another of these in 1054 was started by the patriarch of
Constantinople and led to the creation of the Orthodox Church. For 10 points, name these events in
which fundamental differences cause a church to split into two different factions.
ANSWER: Great Schisms [prompt on schisms]
13. The XML-defined SVG file format notably does not encode one of these objects, and tweening and
similar operations are easy in Flash because Flash does not use them. The Windows GDI provides a
function that reflects the old slang for "blitting" these objects, and the Lempel-Ziv-Welch algorithm
provides lossless compression for these objects and is used in the gif file format. For 10 points, identify
this common way to store an image, which, when uncompressed, associates a color value with each
pixel and is sometimes abbreviated bmp.
ANSWER: bitmap
14. One author from this country described a boy nicknamed Mudito in The Obscene Bird of Night.
Another writer from here lamented the suicide of a rail employee in the “Sonnets of Death” from her
collection Desolación. In addition to Jose Donoso and Gabrila Mistral, this country was home to a man
who wrote a poetic history of South America in Canto General as well as Twenty Love Poems and a Song
of Despair, Pablo Neruda. For 10 points, name this country, also described in The Infinite Plan, Eva Luna,
and The House of the Spirits by Isabel Allende.
ANSWER: Chile
15. At the battle of Sellasia, this city’s army was defeated by a joint force of the Achaean League and
Macedonia after reforms by Cleomenes III. This city’s envoy Antalcidas concluded a treaty with
Artaxerxes II in 386 B.C., and it was ruled by two lines of kings, the Eurypontids and the Agiads, who
were overseen by five ephors. This city was legendarily reformed by Lycurgus, and it was also ruled by
Lysander. For 10 points, name this ancient Greek city state famed for its militaristic nature.
ANSWER: Sparta
16. One work in this genre depicts angels and shepherds praying around a vision of the infant Christ.
Another example of this genre depicts the Ingelbrechts on the left, as well as an annunciation given to
Mary, who is wearing red and reading the Old Testament. In addition to those ones by Hugo van der
Goes and Robert Campin named Portinari and Merode, other examples include the Isenheim, painted by
Matthias Grunewald. For 10 points, name these religious paintings designed to be placed in churches on
their namesake structures.
ANSWER: altarpieces [accept triptychs until Isenheim]
17. The Eotvos rule relates this quantity to surface tension, and the Einstein relation states that the
diffusion coefficient is proportional to this quantity. One of these named for Boyle is the value for which
the second coefficient of the virial equation is zero. This quantity is raised to the fourth power in the
Stefan-Boltzmann law for blackbody radiation, and this quantity will eventually approach equilibrium for
objects in contact according to the zeroth law of thermodynamics. For 10 points, identify this quantity
usually measured in degrees or Kelvins.
ANSWER: temperature

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. In one story by this author, a nine-year old recovering alcoholic named Hogan is part of a group of
children led by Grover Snodd, which protests the racism of their parents. In addition to “The Secret
Integration,” he wrote about the Whole Sick Crew in his debut novel, which is named for a mysterious
woman sought by Herbert Stencil. In another of his novels, Roger Mexico attempts to save a man who
can predict when German rockets will land, Tyrone Slothrop. For 10 points, name this American author
of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity’s Rainbow.
ANSWER: Thomas Pynchon
19. While exploring this body of water, Jacques-Yves Cousteau discovered a species of frog that
apparently never comes up for air. It contains floating reed islands collectively named after the Uro
tribe, which include Toranipata and Santa Maria, and on its banks is the city of Puno. The Island of the
Sun and Island of the Moon are on the Bolivian side of this lake in the Andes Mountains. For 10 points,
name this highest navigable lake in the world, split between Peru and Bolivia, the largest freshwater lake
in South America.
Answer: Lake Titicaca
20. He wrote a three movement work in which a soprano singing psalm 23 is interspersed with men
singing psalm 2 in Hebrew for its namesake festival, entitled Chichester Psalms. Another of his religious
works includes a rock band and a ballet company and is a setting of the Roman Catholic Mass. He
commemorated the death of President Kennedy in his third symphony, named for the Jewish prayer for
the dead, and composed the song “Maria.” For 10 points name, this composer of Fancy Free, the
Jeremiah and Kaddish symphonies, and West Side Story.
ANSWER: Leonard Bernstein
21. Tadasu drinks breast milk from his stepmother in a Jun’ichiro Tanizaki work named for one “of
Dreams.” An ear is nailed to this structure in an Ivo Andric novel named for one “on the Drina,” while a
play by Arthur Miller about Eddie Carbone is titled “A View from” this structure. Another novel with this
word in the title sees Brother Juniper burn at the stake for blasphemy after investigating five deaths
after one collapses. For 10 points, name this structure which spans such literary locales as San Luis Rey.
ANSWER: bridges
22. Polycistronic varieties of this molecule appear in archaea, and such proteins as PAP and CstF
enhance it in a process known as polyadenylation. A 5 prime cap is added to it to prevent its degradation
by endonucleases, while another process uses spliceosomes to patch it up after the removal of introns.
Its most well-known intermolecular interaction begins after the activity of a namesake polymerase, and
ends when it reads the terminator region of that molecule. For 10 points, name this RNA molecule
involved in DNA transcription.
ANSWER: messenger RNA [prompt on RNA]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 6
Bonuses

1. Identify some objects and locales in our Solar System, for 10 points each.
[10] Trojan asteroids occupy type 4 and type 5 of these regions, named for a Frenchman, where the
gravitational forces of two large bodies counteract each other.
ANSWER: Lagrange points
[10] The Cassini division is the largest separation between type A and type B of these regions.
Discovered by Gallileo, they are found around the planet that has moons Titan and Iapetus.
ANSWER: Saturn’s rings
[10] Theorized to be the source of the Centaur asteroids and most short-period comets, this area is a lot
closer to the sun than the Oort cloud is.
ANSWER: Edgeworth-Kuiper belt (rhymes with "wiper")
2. Dedicated to a pupil of the composer, this C-sharp minor piece borrows a motif from a death scene in
Don Giovanni. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this piano piece, part of whose title is “quasi una fantasia” because it departs from the
traditional form.
ANSWER: Moonlight Sonata [or Beethoven's Piano Sonata No. 14 in C-sharp minor “quasi una fantasia”
or Beethoven's opus 29]
[10] The Moonlight Sonata is one of the many compositions of this German composer, whose other
sonatas include the Waldstein and the Pathetique.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
[10] This other Beethoven sonata, in four movements instead of the regular three, is often considered
his most difficult. Its fourth movement contains a fugue.
ANSWER: Hammerklavier Sonata [or Piano Sonata no. 20 in B-flat major or opus 106]
3. Identify the following about the Mongols, for 10 points each.
[10] These Turkic nomads became part of Genghis Khan’s army. They formed the Kazan khanate, and
Joseph Stalin deported thousands of them to Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan in 1945.
ANSWER: Tatars [or Tartars]
[10] This conqueror was known for his limp and claimed descent from Genghis Khan. He built a pyramid
of skulls, and established his capital at Samarkand.
ANSWER: Timur the lame [or Tamerlane]
[10] This grandson of Genghis Khan founded the Yuan dynasty of China. His invasion force of Japan was
destroyed by the kamikaze, and he hosted Marco Polo.
ANSWER: Kublai Khan

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. She is followed to Pamplona by Robert Cohn despite the fact she is engaged to Michael Campbell. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this character, who has a brief affair with the toreador Pedro Romero.
ANSWER: Lady Brett Ashley
[10] Lady Brett Ashley appears in this novel about the “Lost Generation,” in which Jake Barnes comes to
vacation in Pamplona, written by Ernest Hemingway.
ANSWER: The Sun Also Rises [or Fiesta]
[10] In this other Hemingway novel, Robert Jordan attempts to blow up a bridge during the Spanish Civil
War. Its title refers to a line from John Donne's Meditation XVII (seventeen).
ANSWER: For Whom the Bell Tolls
5. Identify the following about gas laws, for 10 points each.
[10] This law states that the amount of gas dissolved in a liquid is directly proportional to the partial
pressure of the gas.
ANSWER: Henry’s Law
[10] This law states that the vapor pressure of a solution is equal to the sum of the products of partial
pressure of each substance and the mole fraction.
ANSWER: Raoult’s Law
[10] Raoult’s law suggests that the change in the vapor pressure of a solution upon addition of solute is
one of these properties, which only depends on the quantity of particles present.
ANSWER: colligative properties
6. Identify the following about the recent conflict between Russia and another country, for 10 points
each.
[10] Russia invaded this nation in August and took control of Tskhinvali, the capital of a breakaway
province in this country.
ANSWER: Georgia
[10] The invasion of Georgia was sparked by Georgian attempts to fight separatists in this territory,
whose independence was subsequently recognized by Russia.
ANSWER: South Ossetia [do not accept or prompt on “Ossetia” or any other answers]
[10] This current president of Russia received international condemnation for his recognition of the
independence of South Ossetia.
ANSWER: Dmitry Medvedev
7. He is born out of Gargamelle’s left ear and goes on to help Friar John of the Funnels defeat King
Picrochole. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this enormous father of Pantagruel in a 1567 satire.
ANSWER: Gargantua
[10] Gargantua and Pantagruel was published under the pseudonym Alcofribias Naser, an anagram of
this true author’s name.
ANSWER: François Rabelais
[10] While studying in Paris, Gargantua urinates off this structure and steals its bells for his horse.
ANSWER: Cathedral of Notre Dame of Paris

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Answer the following about a stage of reproduction in plants, for 10 points each.
[10] These are the seed leaves in developing plant embryos. The two major angiosperm divisions are
based on how many of these form in the embryos.
ANSWER: cotyledons
[10] This process involves combining a stock and a scion, to provide the best qualities of two plants. It is
exemplified by combining French and American vines to produce better wine.
ANSWER: grafting
[10] Seeds are often enclosed into these much larger structures, one conveyance of dispersion. They are
classified as simple, aggregate, and multiple and include durians, litchis, and mangos.
ANSWER: fruit
9. They include projection and repression. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these concepts proposed by Sigmund Freud, in which a person attempts to protect their
ego by not confronting emotional conflict or stress directly.
ANSWER: defense mechanisms
[10] In this defense mechanism, a person refuses to accept the reality of a situation because of its
associated trauma. Unlike repression, it is not associated with leftover emotion.
ANSWER: denial
[10] In this defense mechanism, a patient will translate negative or contradictory instincts into positive
emotions or actions. Its extreme form is reaction formation.
ANSWER: sublimation
10. This artist was the teacher of Henry Ossawa Tanner. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American painter of The Swimming Hole and The Gross Clinic.
ANSWER: Thomas Eakins
[10] Eakins' realism influenced this school of American painters which included Everett Shinn and John
Sloan. They focused on painting urban poverty and squalor.
ANSWER: Ashcan School
[10] This painter is sometimes considered to be a member of the Ashcan School, even though he denied
any involvement. His works include Early Sunday Morning and Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
11. Name the following about a British political party, for 10 points each.
[10] Founded in 1900, this party was preceded by the Fabian Society, and its prime ministers have
included Clement Atlee and James Callaghan.
ANSWER: Labour Party
[10] This man advocated a pacifist policy at the beginning of World War I, and in 1924 he became the
first Labour Party prime minister.
ANSWER: Ramsay Macdonald
[10] This man succeeded John Smith as Labour Party leader following Smith’s 1994 death. He led Labour
to an overwhelming victory in the 1997 parliamentary elections under his New Labour platform.
ANSWER: Tony Blair

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. This man led the “peripatetic school” at the Lyceum. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this student of Plato, who compiled his own expansive philosophy in such works as the
Nicomachean Ethics and Physics.
ANSWER: Aristotle [or Aristoteles]
[10] Based on a now-lost compendium of 158 constitutions, this work of Aristotle compares monarchy,
oligarchy, and democracy after noting that man is the namesake kind of animal.
ANSWER: the Politics [or Politika]
[10] The dramatic unities of place and time and the theory of pathos are set forth in this work of literary
criticism, which contains Aristotle’s views on what makes a good play.
ANSWER: the Poetics [or Peri poietikes]
13. The protagonist of this novel uses a flamethrower to kill his boss Beatty before being pursued by a
Mechanical Hound. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Guy Montag, who becomes disturbed by his profession of burning books.
ANSWER: Fahrenheit 451
[10] This author of The Martian Chronicles wrote Fahrenheit 451.
ANSWER: Ray Bradbury
[10] This Bradbury novel named for a line from Macbeth follows Will Holloway and Jim Nightshade's
battle with a sinister carnival run by Cooger and Dark.
ANSWER: Something Wicked This Way Comes
14. Only those who were destined to see this object could survive sitting in the Siege Perilous; that
number included Percival and Galahad. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this relic of Christ, which was guarded by the Fisher King and was the object of many
expeditions of Arthurian legend.
ANSWER: the Holy Grail [or Sangreal]
[10] The special task of Pellinore, on the other hand, was to pursue this animal with deer hooves, lion’s
legs, a leopard’s body, and a snake’s head, which is described as sounding like thirty dogs.
ANSWER: the Questing Beast
[10] Meanwhile, Lancelot contented himself with pursuing this wife of Arthur, who was also variously
kidnapped by Melwas, Meleagant, and Mordred.
ANSWER: Guinevere
15. Identify the following about Reconstruction, for 10 points each.
[10] Reconstruction came to an end as a result of a compromise for the election of this man as president
in 1876 instead of his opponent, Samuel Tilden.
ANSWER: Rutherford B. Hayes
[10] This Pennsylvanian was the leader of the Radical Reconstructionists in the House of Representatives
and proposed the 14th Amendment to the Constitution.
ANSWER: Thaddeus Stevens
[10] Another leader of the Radical Reconstruction was this Massachusetts Senator, who, after delivering
the "Crime Against Kansas" speech, was beaten with a cane in the Senate chamber by Preston Brooks in
1856.
ANSWER: Charles Sumner

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. It can be obtained by integrating radius squared with respect to mass. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this quantity, which is the rotational analog of mass.
ANSWER: moment of inertia
[10] This quantity is equal to the moment of inertia times the angular acceleration. The rotational analog
of force, it can also be calculated by crossing force with radius.
ANSWER: torque
[10] This theorem allows the calculation of the moment of inertia if the rotation axis does not pass
through the center of mass but rather has a namesake orientation to the original axis.
ANSWER: Steiner’s theorem or parallel axis theorem
17. The subject of this poem “did not wear his scarlet coat, for blood and wine are red.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this poem in which the protagonist is hanged because “each man kills the thing he loves.”
ANSWER: “The Ballad of Reading Gaol”
[10] “The Ballad of Reading Gaol” was written by this author of De Profundis and plays like The
Importance of Being Ernest and Lady Windermere’s Fan.
ANSWER: Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde
[10] In this Wilde novel, Basil Hallward paints the title object, which enables its subject to stay eternally
young until it is destroyed.
ANSWER: The Picture of Dorian Gray
[do not accept or prompt on The Portrait of Dorian Gray
18. The protagonist of this film is returning from the Crusades with his squire Jons. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this movie in which the knight Antonius Block, played by Max von Sydow, challenges Death to
a chess game.
ANSWER: The Seventh Seal
[10] This Swedish director of Wild Strawberries and Through a Glass Darkly directed The Seventh Seal.
He shares his last name with, but is not related to, Oscar-winning actress Ingrid.
ANSWER: Ernst Ingmar Bergman
[10] In The Seventh Seal, Jons asks Block whether he sees god or vacancy in the eyes of a woman being
punished for this crime, which is central to The Crucible.
ANSWER: witchcraft [accept equivalents like sorcery]
19. There are plenty of rebellious ethnic groups around the world. Name some, for 10 points each:
[10] This ethnic group is spread throughout Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Turkey. A terrorist namesake “Worker’s
Party” has pushed for an independent state, and they were gassed by Saddam Hussein.
ANSWER: Kurds
[10] This ethnic group primarily resides in the Chinese region of Xinjiang, although this predominantly
Muslim people prefer the name East Turkestan.
ANSWER: Uyghurs (WEE-gurs)
[10] This militant organization seeks to create a separate, socialist state in the north and east of Sri
Lanka. They use child soldiers and were responsible for the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi.
ANSWER: Tamil Tigers [or LTTE; or Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. The daughter of Queen Isabella, she was later locked up in the Castle Tordesillas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this queen whose passion for her husband Philip the Handsome caused her to become
insane.
ANSWER: Juana the Mad [or Juana I of Castile; or Juana la Loca; or Joanna the Mad]
[10] This oldest son of Juana the Mad prompted the formation of the Schmalkaldic League when he
threatened to stamp out Protestantism during his tenure as Holy Roman Emperor. He abdicated as
emperor in 1558.
ANSWER: Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire [or Charles I of Spain]
[10] Charles and Joanna served as join rulers of this Spanish kingdom following the death of Ferdinand II
in 1516.
ANSWER: Castile
21. In the dispersive hypothesis of it, parent strands are broken up into smaller segments. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this process in which DNA makes copies of itself.
ANSWER: replication
[10] This type of replication is associated with DNA. In it, the two parent strands of DNA separate, and
each acts as a template in the formation of a new strand of DNA.
ANSWER: semiconservative replication
[10] DNA was shown to replicate semiconservatively by this 1958 experiment, in which its two
namesakes utilized E. coli, two different isotopes of nitrogen, and a centrifuge.
ANSWER: Meselson-Stahl experiment

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 6

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

