2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 12
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. This author wrote about Louis Gerard Moore's courtship of the owner of Fieldhead, Mrs. Keeldar, in
her novel Shirley. In another novel by her, we learn that the brat John grows up to be an alcoholic and
dies early, while Helen Burns succumbs to an epidemic of fever. Jean Rhys wrote a prequel to this
author’s major work, which sees the title character sent to live with the harsh Mrs. Reed before arriving
at Thornfield. In that work, a fire reveals that Bertha Mason still lives upstairs. For 10 points, name this
writer who created Mr. Rochester in Jane Eyre.
ANSWER: Charlotte Bronte [prompt on Bronte]
Bonus: After this opening line, the poem continues "the stillness round my form/Was like the stillness in
the air." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem which ends, "and then the windows failed, and then/I could not see to see."
ANSWER: “I heard a fly buzz when I died”
[10] This author of such poems in iambic pentameter as “I Taste a Liquor Never Brewed” and “I Like to
See It Lap the Miles” wrote “I heard a fly buzz when I died.”
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson
2. His student Configliachi submitted this man’s memoirs to a competition to defame Aldini. Pancaldi
focused on his invention that stored static electricity to charge Leyden jars, the perpetual
electrophorous, and Wollaston demonstrated oxidation of the electrode in this man’s namesake device
consisting of layered copper and dampened cloth on zinc. That “pile” followed a competitor’s theory of
“animal electricity.” For 10 points, name this Italian inventor of the first battery, a friend of Luigi Galvani
and namesake of a unit for electric potential.
ANSWER: Alesandro Volta
Bonus: This man’s Dialogue Concerning Two Chief World Systems was on the list of books banned by the
Vatican until 1835. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scientist, who dropped objects off of the Leaning Tower of Pisa to arrive at his conclusion
that the rate of fall of two objects is independent of their mass.
ANSWER: Galileo Galilei
[10] This student of Galileo invented the barometer; a unit of pressure equal to one millimeter of
mercury is named after him.
ANSWER: Evangelista Torricelli [prompt on torr]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 1 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. In some stories this figure is descended from Lynceus and Hypermnestra, one of the Danaids. While
at an athletic contest in Larissa, he threw a discus into the crowd, fulfilling a prophecy by killing Acrisius.
Raised by the fisherman Dictys, he received a silver wallet from the Hyperboreans after taking the one
eye shared by the three Graeae. While in Ethiopia he rescued Andromeda, and his mother was put to
sea in a chest after being impregnated by a shower of gold. For 10 points, name this son of Danae who
used Hermes’ winged sandals to kill Medusa.
ANSWER: Perseus
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these triads from Greek mythology.
[10] These goddesses included Clotho, the spinner; Lachesis, the measurer; and Atropos, who cut the
thread of life when it was time for one to die.
ANSWER: The Fates [accept Moirae]
[10] Brontes, Steropes, and Arges were the three members of the first generation of these creatures
that had only one eye.
ANSWER: Cyclopes
4. This victor at the Battle of Otumba was elected alcalde of Santiago under Cuban governor Diego
Velázquez, who sent him to aid the expedition of Juan de Grijalba. He allied with the Tlaxcala and began
a relationship with “La Malinche,” though his expedition was nearly stopped in the “Night of Sorrows.”
He was accused of poisoning Ponce de León after deposing Cuauhtemoc and occupying Tenochtitlan.
For 10 points, name this conquistador who ended the Aztec Empire and established the Spanish
presence in Mexico.
ANSWER: Hernan Cortes
Bonus: Name these besieged cities, for 10 points each.
[10] In both 1529 and 1683, this city was attacked by the Ottomans during war with the Hapsburgs.
ANSWER: Vienna
[10] The Nazis coveted the oil reserves of the Caucasus, but this city on the Volga withstood siege for
five months in 1942 before turning back the invading Germans.
ANSWER: Stalingrad [prompt on Volgograd]
5. The high-temperature breakdown of these molecules is known as cracking, and a “cyclo” one can
alternate between “chair” and “boat” conformations. Markovnikov’s rule states that the more
substituted type of these molecules will form, and they are often used as fuels due to their high
combustibility. These compounds have formula CnH2n+2, so the simplest one has formula CH4. For 10
points, name this class of hydrocarbons whose carbons are all singly bonded to each other, which
includes methane.
ANSWER: alkanes
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer the following about other organic classes.
[10] In these compounds, an oxygen atom is singly bonded to two carbon atoms. The “diethyl” member
of this class was once used as an anesthetic.
ANSWER: ethers
[10] Thiols and thioethers contain this element, which has similar properties to oxygen, where the
oxygen would be in hydroxides and ethers. It is also found in methionine and cysteine.
ANSWER: sulfur

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 2 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This artist painted several canvases of his wife and daughter carrying green parasols in a field. This
painter scraped the blunt edge of his brush through paint to create the effect of rippling wind in Autumn
Effect at Argenteuil. In London, he created many paintings of the Houses of Parliament at different times
of the day. His interest in Eastern art led him to build a Japanese footbridge in Giverny, and his painting
Impression: Sunrise inspired the name of his artistic movement, Impressionism. For 10 points, name this
French artist who painted many haystacks and water lilies.
ANSWER: Claude Monet
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these other Impressionists.
[10] Fellow painter Gustave Caillebotte appears as one of the title group in this artist’s Luncheon of the
Boating Party. He also painted Moulin de la Galette.
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste Renoir
[10] This sister-in-law of Édouard Manet painted both landscapes, such as The Harbor at Cherbourg, and
portraits, such as Woman at Her Toilette.
ANSWER: Berthe Morisot
7. This event was set in motion by George Rappalyea, who conceived of it as a publicity stunt and
attempted to involve H. G. Wells. Arthur Garfield Hays also became involved in this event when John W.
Davis and Charles Evans Hughes each declined to participate. It was prompted by a violation of the
Butler Act in Dayton, Tennessee, and pitted Clarence Darrow and his defense team against William
Jennings Bryan and the prosecution team. For 10 points, name this 1925 trial in which a substitute
biology teacher was charged with teaching evolution.
ANSWER: Tennessee v. Scopes [accept Scopes monkey trial]
Bonus: Issues dealing with human reproduction have been a mainstay at the U.S. Supreme Court. For 10
points each:
[10] Potter Stewart noted that the law in question was "uncommonly silly," but voted to uphold it
anyway in this case concerning a state law banning the use of contraceptives.
ANSWER: Griswold v. Connecticut [or Connecticut v. Griswold]
[10] Its companion case was Doe. v. Bolton, and its central holding was upheld in the 1992 decision
Planned Parenthood v. Casey. Harry Blackmun spent time at the Mayo Clinic while writing its decision.
ANSWER: Roe v. Wade
8. The von Restorff effect governs this concept if a stimulus is distinctive; it is an exception to the serial
position curve discovered by Herman Ebbinghaus. One type of it is used to create a “cognitive map.”
George Miller theorized that one type of this concept uses seven plus or minus two bits. A particular
emotional experience can trigger the “flashbulb” type of this concept, and it is impaired in amnesia. For
10 points, name this concept which comes in short-term and long-term varieties, the capacity to
remember things.
ANSWER: memory
Bonus: One of his ideas was responded to in Carol Gilligan's In a Different Voice. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this psychologist, who formulated preconventional, conventional, and postconventional
stages of a kind of development after asking children about the Heinz dilemma.
ANSWER: Lawrence Kohlberg
[10] Kohlberg developed the six-stage model of this kind of development. In it, people determine what is
right and what is wrong.
ANSWER: morality
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 3 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 12
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 4 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 12
Category Quiz Tossups

9. German politician Ludwig Quidde used this man's name for a metaphorical pamphlet attacking
Wilhelm II. He came to power with the backing of Praetorian prefect Macro, and he later engineered the
first deification of a woman in Roman history after the death of his sister Drusilla. A rumor reported by
Suetonius and taken as fact by Cassius Dio says that this man intended to make his horse Incitatus a
consul. For 10 points, identify this successor of Tiberius, whose nickname meant “little boot,” a
notoriously megalomaniacal Roman emperor.
ANSWER: Caligula [or Gaius Caesar Germanicus]
10. Though he suffers from avascular necrosis, this man passed a physical and was traded for running
back Tony Smith. This player was the victim of Michael Strahan’s single-season record-setting sack in
2001. This man claimed to have the “itch” in a 2008 interview with Greta Van Susteren. Eric Mangini
offered this man an instructor position at Browns’ training camp, and he is noted for claiming to be
comfortable in Wrangler Jeans. For 10 points, name this former Packers quarterback who will likely stay
retired in 2009.
ANSWER: Brett Favre
11. The aminoacylated form of this molecule complexes with EF1α-GTP, and it includes both the D loop
and the TΨCG loop. Another loop in this molecule contains inosine, which is largely responsible for the
“wobble” that allows this molecule to base-pair with several different codons. This molecule binds to
the A site of a ribosome, where its attached amino acid is incorporated into a nascent protein. For 10
points, name this type of RNA that base-pairs with mRNA.
ANSWER: tRNA [accept transfer RNA]
12. Located near the meeting of the Xishan and Yanshan mountain ranges, it is almost entirely
surrounded by Hebei province. It is located 150 kilometers from the Bohai Sea, and the “old walled city”
is divided into four urban districts. Streets are given distinctions of “nei” and “wai,” regarding which
side of that wall they are on. Dongcheng contains its Forbidden City. For 10 points, name this capital and
second-largest city in China, the site of the 2008 Summer Olympics.
ANSWER: Beijing [accept Peking]
13. Count Moranzone incites Guido Ferranti to kill the husband of the title character in his play The
Duchess of Padua. This playwright of A Woman of No Importance wrote about Cecil Graham in Lady
Windemere's Fan and about Lady Bracknell's daughter Gwendolyn, who loves Jack Worthing's assumed
name, in another work. Sibyl Vane and Lord Fermor appear in his only novel, in which the titular object
is created by artist Basil Hallward. For 10 points, name this author of The Importance of Being Earnest
and The Picture of Dorian Gray.
ANSWER: Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 5 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. This piece opens with piccolo and flute playing over the violins before the clarinets state an abridged
version of the main theme. The bassoon plays the clown in this piece, which is based on the
“Zauberlehrling” by Goethe. In the Disney movie Fantasia, a series of water-carrying brooms are
directed by the title character of this piece, played by Mickey Mouse. For 10 points, name this
symphonic poem about a young boy who messes with his master’s magic, a work by Paul Dukas.
ANSWER: The Sorcerer’s Apprentice [or L’apprenti sorcier]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 6 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 12
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: This sculptor was immortalized in a Berlioz opera, and depicted reclining Ceres and Neptune in his
Salt Cellar. For 15 points, name this Italian sculptor of Perseus with the Head of Medusa.
ANSWER: Benvenuto Cellini
Current Events: In March 2008, he argued before the California Supreme Court as lead counsel in
support of the constitutionality of Proposition 8. For 15 points, name this lawyer whose 1990s role as
independent counsel investigating the Clinton administration led to Clinton’s impeachment.
ANSWER: Kenneth Starr
Geography: It fought a war with a now partially recognized as independent Abkhazia, and the Likhi
range divides it from east to west. For 15 points, name this country in the Caucasus region fighting with
Russia over the region of South Ossetia.
ANSWER: Georgia
History: Founded by Shah Ismail, this empire suffered a great defeat by Selim the Grim at Chaldiran. For
15 points, name this Shi’ite Persian dynasty of sixteenth through eighteenth centuries.
ANSWER: Safavid dynasty
Literature: This play is divided into the sections Millenium Approaches and Perestroika, and includes
characters like Harper Lies and Roy Cohn, who discovers that he has AIDS. For 15 points, name this play
about the gay lovers Louis Ironson and Prior Walter, written by Tony Kushner.
ANSWER: Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
Math Calculation: A piece that moves one space in any forward, backward, sideways, or diagonal
direction is placed randomly on a 5 by 5 board. For 15 points, calculate the expected number of possible
moves for that piece to the nearest tenth.
ANSWER: 6.6 [on 4 spaces the piece has 3 possible moves, on 12 spaces the piece has 6 possible moves,
and on 9 spaces it has 9 possible moves for a total of 165 possible moves; divided by 25 squares = 6.6
possible moves]
Philosophy: In this work, Eryxmachus declares love is a medical panacea, and Alcibiades relates his
adventures. For 15 points, Agathon and Socrates appear in what Platonic dialogue over a wine
gathering?
ANSWER: Symposium

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 7 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Social Science: This two-word phrase was first used in a 1996 speech that asked how we know when it
has “unduly escalated asset values.” In the days after that speech, stock markets crashed worldwide.
For 15 points, name this phrase used to denote speculative market excess, coined by Alan Greenspan.
ANSWER: irrational exuberance

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 8 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 12
Stretch Phase

15. Kolmogorov developed a model explaining how an influx of energy triggers this type of
phenomenon. It can be characterized by the appearance of von Kármán vortex streets and significant
non-linearities in the Navier-Stokes equation. It occurs when the ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces
exceeds a critical value. Large values of the Reynolds number characterize this type of flow. For 10
points, name this chaotic type of fluid flow, contrasted with laminar flow, which can result in irregular
air motion in the atmosphere capable of affecting aircraft flight.
ANSWER: turbulent flow [or turbulence; accept chaotic flow before mentioned]
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer these questions about less popular religions and ideologies.
[10] Juche, the state ideology of one country in the world, reveres this man, its founder, as “Great
Leader.”
ANSWER: Kim Il-Sung (prompt on Kim)
[10] Cao Dai worships a hodgepodge of saints, including Pericles, Sun Yat-Sen, and this creator of
characters such as Ruy Blas and Quasimodo.
ANSWER: Victor Hugo
[10] This often-lampooned belief system believes that Xenu massacred the inhabitants of Teegeeack,
who became thetans. It was founded by L. Ron Hubbard.
ANSWER: Church of Scientology
16. One character in this work asks "Tick, tick, tick, what little iambics, / While Homer and Whitman
roared in the pines?" Another character asserts "Degenerate sons and daughters / Life is too strong for
you— / It takes life to love Life." In addition to Petit, the Poet, and Lucinda Matlock, this book's
characters include the prostitute Daisy Frasier and Thomas Rhodes, who owns the bank of the title
location. It consists of dramatic monologues narrated by the dead inhabitants of the title Illinois town.
For 10 points, name this poetry collection by Edgar Lee Masters.
ANSWER: Spoon River Anthology
Bonus: Short-period ones are alleged to come from the Kuiper Belt. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects in the solar system that some dub “dirty snowballs.”
ANSWER: comets
[10] Long-period comets are theorized to come from this “cloud” around the solar system, named for a
Dutch scientist.
ANSWER: the Opik-Oort cloud
[10] Other large non-planetary bodies in the solar system are these asteroids, which occupy the
Lagrangian points in Jupiter’s orbit.
ANSWER: the Jupiter Trojan asteroids

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 9 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. This ruler’s building projects including a limestone paving for the Processional Way. His
ambassador Nabonidus mediated a clash between the Lydians and the Medes, and this man was
eventually succeeded by his son Awil-Marduk. While his invasion of Egypt was unsuccessful, this man did
capture King Jehoiachin while reconquering Judah. As a general, he also won the battles of Hamath and
Carchemish. For 10 points, name this Chaldean dynasty king, who succeeded his father Nabopolassar as
ruler of Babylon and built the hanging gardens.
ANSWER: Nebuchadnezzar II [or Nebuchadrezzar II]
Bonus: Its protagonist is relieved when his mistress Miss Wilkinson leaves for Berlin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Mildred Rogers twice rejects the protagonist and destroys his possessions.
That protagonist, Philip Carey, is clubfooted and is raised by his uncle in Blackstable, East Anglia.
ANSWER: Of Human Bondage
[10] Of Human Bondage was written by this British novelist, whose other works include "Rain", The
Magician, The Razor's Edge, and one about the painter Charles Strickland, The Moon and Sixpence.
ANSWER: William Somerset Maugham
[10] Maugham's travel novel The Gentlemen in the Parlour drew comparisons to the body of this man's
work, which includes Vile Bodies, Decline and Fall, and his best known work, Brideshead Revisited.
ANSWER: Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh
18. The title character is selected as May King in this man's comic opera Albert Herring. The second act
of one of his operas ends with von Aschenbach's confession of love to Tadzio, and he wrote the choral
piece Hymn to St. Cecilia. Besides making operas from Death in Venice and Billy Budd, he adapted a
George Crabbe poem into an opera about the fisherman Peter Grimes. This composer of the War
Requiem wrote some “variations on a theme of Purcell” for some children. For 10 points, name this
British composer of The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten
Bonus: Fourteen years after victory at Bannockburn, this country’s independence was formalized in the
Treaty of Northampton. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, then ruled by Robert the Bruce, which later that century became the seat of the
Stuart dynasty.
ANSWER: Scotland
[10] Though he was defeated at the Battle of Falkirk, this Scottish patriot managed to hold off Edward I
in the 1290s until John Comyn and Robert the Bruce arose.
ANSWER: William Wallace
[10] Wallace’s greatest victory was this September 1297 battle at which the Scots methodically killed the
Earl of Surrey’s forces.
ANSWER: Battle of Stirling Bridge
19. Some proteins associated with this structure’s matrix, such as thiolase, contain an N-terminal
sequence known as PTS2. Zellweger syndrome occurs when transport of molecules into this structure is
impaired. This structure contains the enzyme catalase, which breaks down its namesake molecule into
water and oxygen. For 10 points, name these organelles that oxidize waste products to hydrogen
peroxide.
ANSWER: peroxisomes

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 10 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: This style was used to paint The Circus and Bathers at Asnieres. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artistic style also used in a portrait of Felix Feneon painted by Paul Signac.
ANSWER: pointillism
[10] This French artist pioneered the technique of pointillism, and used it to paint A Sunday Afternoon
on the Island of La Grande Jatte.
ANSWER: Georges Seurat
[10] This artist used moderate pointillist techniques in several of his self-portraits. He also painted The
Bedroom at Arles and The Night Cafe.
ANSWER: Vincent Van Gogh
20. This group believes that Kishkumen created a society of robbers that assassinated figures like
Ceezoram, who had succeeded a son of Helaman as chief judge. This group believes that Mosiah passed
on rule of Zarahemla to a series of chief judges, and in their holy book, a battle in Cumorah is fought
between the Lamanites and Nephites, resulting in the destruction of the latter. Moroni and his father
survive and they work on plates, eventually discovered by Joseph Smith. For 10 points, name this
offshoot of Christianity, most famously led by Brigham Young.
ANSWER: Mormonism [or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints]
Bonus: It lists Don Juan, actors, and conquerors as examples of “absurd men.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1942 essay on suicide, which concludes by saying that a man condemned to push a rock
up a hill forever is an “absurd hero.”
ANSWER: “The Myth of Sisyphus” [or “Le Mythe de Sisyphe”]
[10] This author of The Fall and The Stranger wrote “The Myth of Sisyphus” as a response to the German
occupation of France.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] This Camus novel is set in Oran, where the doctor Bernard Rieux tries to save the townspeople from
death.
ANSWER: The Plague [or La Peste]
21. In one short story by this man, a military officer and a doctor buy lozenges that they don’t need as a
pretext to flirt with the title figure, “The Chemist’s Wife.” One of his plays is about a man who is accused
of marrying Sasha for her money after his convert wife Anna dies. In addition to Ivanov, he wrote of
Andrey Prozorov's attempts to marry off Masha, Olga, and Irina. In another of his plays, the son of serfs
Lopakhin purchases the Ranevsky estate and chops down the title trees. For 10 points, name this writer
of Three Sisters, The Cherry Orchard, and The Seagull.
ANSWER: Anton Chekhov
Bonus: He invaded Paeonia, where he defeated the Illyrians, and Demosthenes delivered a series of
speeches denouncing this king. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this winner at the battle of Chaeronea, who conquered Greece from the north. He created
the League of Corinth.
ANSWER: Philip II of Macedon [or Philip of Macedon; prompt on Philip]
[10] Philip II's son was this king, who expanded Greek influence through victories over the Persians like
the one at Issus. The Diadochi split up his conquests upon his death.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III; prompt on Alexander]
[10] Philip II's victory at Chaeronea was a crushing defeat for this city, whose Sacred Band was led by
Epaminondas.
ANSWER: Thebes [or Thivai]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 11 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

22. This city became the capital of the first kingdom of Burgundy in the 5th century, and a 1076 synod
here declared Gregory VII deposed. A concordat reached in this city in 1122 settled the investiture
controversy, and in one event in this city, the question of the Reichsregiment was decided and a
religious reformer was asked to retract his teachings. For 10 points, name this city on the Rhine, the site
of a noted diet at which Martin Luther supposedly stated, "Here I stand. I cannot do otherwise."
ANSWER: Worms
Bonus: The “facilitated” kind of this process usually requires a transmembrane protein, because a
molecule cannot pass through the cell membrane on its own. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this net movement of molecules down a concentration gradient.
ANSWER: diffusion
[10] This man names two laws that mathematically describe diffusion. Both of them relate the flux to
the spatial derivative of the concentration gradient.
ANSWER: Adolf Eugen Fick
[10] This man’s law of diffusion states that the diffusion of a gas is proportional to one over its molar
mass.
ANSWER: Thomas Graham

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 12 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 12
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. One of this composer’s students was nicknamed “Mademoiselle Opus 46” after the dedication of this
composer’s Allegro de Concert. His second piano sonata in B-flat minor contains a famous funeral march.
Among this composer’s many etudes are ones nicknamed “Aeolian Harp” and “Revolutionary.” A D
major piece nicknamed “Raindrop” is included in his 24 preludes for piano, one in each key. For 10
points, name this composer of the Minute Waltz and lots of dances like mazurkas and polonaises from
his homeland, Poland.
ANSWER: Fryderyk Chopin
2. Under this man’s rule, the Virgin Lands Program attempted to open up new farmland. He solidified his
rule after out-maneuvering Malenkov, Molotov, and other members of what he dubbed the “Anti-Party
Group.” His government exchanged Rudolf Abel for Gary Powers after Powers’ U-2 was shot down. He
later clarified remarks made in front of the United Nations by explaining he meant, “Your own working
class will bury you” as he banged his shoe on a lectern. For 10 points, name this Soviet leader who ruled
between Stalin and Brezhnev.
ANSWER: Nikita Khrushchev
3. The locations of these objects can be plotted using a butterfly diagram. Periods during which the
numbers of these objects have been abnormally low have been named after Wolf, Oort, and Spörer; the
most famous of those periods may have caused the Little Ice Age and is named after Maunder. The
cycle associated with these objects actually occurs over twenty-two years, eleven years for each
direction of magnetic polarity. For 10 points, name these regions of the Sun that contain large magnetic
fields, and thus appear darker than the rest of the Sun.
ANSWER: sunspots
Extra 20-point Bonus:
In this novel, children are created by the Bokanovsky process, and heavy soma use keeps the populace
content. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Bernard brings John from the Savage Reservation to London, with tragic
results.
ANSWER: Brave New World
[10] This character, John’s mother, did not execute her Malthusian drill properly and so became
pregnant. She was the former lover of Thomas, the Director of Hatchery and Conditioning.
ANSWER: Linda

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 13 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point Bonus:
This organ contains specialized cells called Kupffer cells, and receives deoxygenated blood from the
portal vein. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this lobed organ that contains hepatocytes, secretes bile, stores fat soluble vitamins,
synthesizes clotting factors, and detoxifies the body.
ANSWER: liver
[10] This disease can arise from defective absorption of bilirubin by hepatocytes or blockages in the bile
duct system, and is characterized by a yellow coloration of the skin and eyes.
ANSWER: jaundice
[10] This other disorder arises when fibrous connective tissue replaces normal liver tissue. Wilson’s
disease, hepatitis, and alcoholism can all lead to this disorder.
ANSWER: cirrhosis

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 12

Page 14 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

