2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 4
Tossups

1. For species that behave like this system, all atomic orbitals with the same principle quantum
number are degenerate. It is the only atomic system for which the Schrödinger equation can be solved
exactly, and the Rydberg equation can be used to obtain its (*) Balmer spectral series. When an
electron is removed from this atom it can protonate water to yield an acidic species, and this is the only
atom for which the Bohr model holds. For 10 points, name this atom consisting of a proton and an
electron, the first element on the periodic table.
ANSWER: hydrogen atom
2. This author wrote “The Cross of Snow” to commemorate his wife’s death in a fire. One of his poems
tells of the title character’s search for Gabriel Lajeunesse, and begins “This is the forest primeval.”
One of his poems tells of how the title character’s “brawny (*) arms” cause sparks to fly under the
“spreading chestnut-tree,” and another of his poems tells of how Alden steals the love of Priscilla
Mullins. For 10 points, name this author of Evangeline, “The Village Blacksmith,” and “The Courtship of
Miles Standish,” who wrote about Minnehaha in The Song of Hiawatha.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
3. “Elegaic” works in this form were written by Charlotte Smith, reviving them in England. One of
these begins "With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies." Milton wrote six ones in Italian,
as well as English ones like "When I (*) consider how my light is spent." This form makes up Edmund
Spenser's Amoretti and Philip Sidney's Astrophil and Stella, as well as a poem asking "How do I love
thee? Let me count the ways." For 10 points, name this poetic form deriving "from the Portuguese" in a
work by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, which has fourteen lines.
ANSWER: sonnets
4. Involvement with Nicolas Cop led to this man’s flight from France following the Affair of the
Placards. This author of a commentary on Seneca’s De Clementia defended his faith in a letter to
Jacopo Sadoleto. This man’s followers tried and executed Michael Servetus, and he preached for a
time with Martin Bucer in (*) Strasbourg. He also worked with Guillaume Farel and wrote Institutes of
the Christian Religion. For 10 points, name this protestant leader who preached that God would save
only the predestined Elect during his time in Geneva.
ANSWER: John Calvin [or Jean Cauvin]
5. This man used The Ice Maiden as the basis for his ballet The Fairy’s Kiss, which was commissioned
on behalf of Ida Rubenstein after she could not obtain performing rights to his earlier ballet Apollo.
Late in life, his major works were mostly serialist elegies, such as In Memoriam Dylan Thomas. His
most well-known work contains a series of irregularly-accented chords during the “Dances of the (*)
Youths and Maidens,” which is preceded by a bassoon solo. For 10 points, name this composer of the
Firebird suite and The Rite of Spring.
ANSWER: Igor Stravinsky
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 1 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This region includes Tenaya Valley, and an old tradition here consisted of pushing a bonfire off a
cliff in a namesake “firefall” on Glacier Point. This park is near a cliff of polygonal basalt columns,
Devils Postpile National Monument, and it includes Bridalveil Fall. Its namesake (*) falls drop into the
Merced River, and, like Sequoia National Park, its creation was instigated by John Muir. Its notable
features include El Capitan and Half Dome. For 10 points, name this national park located in the Sierra
Nevadas of eastern California.
ANSWER: Yosemite National Park
7. His older sister Tricia swam in the 1988 Olympics, and as a youth this athlete was a competitive
swimmer who turned to another sport when his pool was destroyed by Hurricane Hugo. He beefed up
for the 2008 season with a workout of throwing large tires, and referee Joey Crawford was suspended
after a (*) confrontation with this player. An injury to David Robinson allowed his team to draft him first
overall from Wake Forest in 1997. For 10 points, name this three-time NBA Finals MVP, a power forward
for the San Antonio Spurs.
ANSWER: Timothy “Tim” Duncan
8. The first stage of this operation was a false flag raid on the Gleiwitz radio station. It ended after
four weeks, leading to Hans Frank becoming governor, and it provoked the seven-month “phony
war.” Beginning eleven days after the signing of the (*) Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, this operation
included a tank battalion fighting against horse-mounted cavalry. Two weeks after it started, the Soviets
launched a similar operation from the east. For 10 points, name this September 1939 aggression by
Germany which began the European theater of World War II.
ANSWER: the Nazi invasion of Poland [accept anything reasonable that refers to the invasion of Poland
in 1939 by either Nazis or Germany; or Fall Weiss; or Case White; or Polenfeldzug; do not accept
answers referring to the Soviet invasion of Poland, as no clues in the question describe that]
9. They typically produce a single polycistronic mRNA, and one of these sequences known as araBAD
controls arabinose metabolism. The Z, Y, and A genes in one of these sequences code for permease,
transacetylase, and beta-galactosidease. Tetrameric protein repressors can prevent RNA polymerase
from binding to these (*) gene sequences, and they can produce enzymes that synthesize tryptophan
and metabolize lactose. For 10 points, name these regulatory systems in bacteria and viruses, series of
structural genes that are controlled by a promoter, like the lac one.
ANSWER: operon
10. This opera sees an on-stage orchestra quote from Vincente Martin y Soler’s Una Cosa Rara as well
as an aria from an earlier opera by its composer, “Non più andrai.” In the aria “Vedrai, carino,” Zerlina
consoles her lover Masetto after the title character gives him a good thrashing. Leporello sings this
opera’s (*) “Catalogue Aria,” in which he details the title character’s conquests, and, in the end, a statue
of Don Pedro shows up to dinner and drags the title character to hell. For 10 points, name this “dramma
giocoso” about the title libertine, by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
ANSWER: Don Giovanni [accept The Rake Punished; or K.527]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 2 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

11. This molecule is the namesake of a system discovered by Fire and Mello in C. elegans that makes
use of an induced silencing complex and the enzyme Dicer. One type of this molecule possesses a
cloverleaf structure that contains a D-loop and acceptor stem. Primase is an enzyme that produces
this molecule, and all (*) primers are segments of this molecule. Unlike a similar molecule, it contains
the base uracil. For 10 points, name this usually single-stranded molecule that is complementary to the
DNA strand from which it is transcribed.
ANSWER: RNA [or ribonucleic acid]
12. One novel set in this country sees the title character fall “like a pile of stones” when Abundio
Martinez kills him in Comala, a town full of ghosts. One poet from this country wrote “I travel your
length like a river” in a poem based on the Aztec calendar, Sunstone. An industrialist from this country
recounts his schemes on his deathbed in The Death of (*) Artemio Cruz, a novel by an author from this
country, home to such authors as Juan Rulfo, Carlos Fuentes, and Octavio Paz. For 10 points, name this
country, locale of The Old Gringo, a novel featuring Pancho Villa.
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
13. This man served as a naval captain for Rio Grande do Sul in its rebellion against Brazil, and also
fought in the Uruguayan civil war. He defeated a French army that intended to restore the government
of Pope Pius IX in an 1849 battle fought on the Janiculum Hill. His best-known military campaign saw
victories at (*) Calatafimi, Milazzo, and Palermo, and was dubbed the Expedition of the Thousand. For 10
points, name this Italian general who led volunteer forces known as the Red Shirts in the capture of Sicily
and Naples.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
14. The creators of this work aimed to stratify the types seen in Frege's Begriffsschrift. Kurt Gödel
combined the formal systems in this work with the Zermelo-Fraenkel axiom system. Based on Peano
Arithmetic, it states that it is impossible to speak of the “set of all sets,” an idea expanded into one of
its creator’s namesake (*) paradoxes. Gödel's two incompleteness theorems were necessitated by its
shortcomings, and it contains a proof of the statement “1+1 = 2”. For 10 points, name this foundational
work in mathematics by Russell and Whitehead.
ANSWER: Principia Mathematica
15. One work by this author sees Boris Lvovich impregnate Leni Pfeiffer, who constantly draws
genitalia. One of his works centers on the breakup of Marie Derkum and Hans Schnier, and another
sees Werner Totges ask for a “bang.” Innocent “lambs” are contrasted with fascist “buffalo” in his
work about the reconstruction of St. Anthony’s Abbey. This author of Group Portrait with Lady, The
Lost Honor of Katarina Blum, and The Clown also wrote a novel about the (*) Faehmel family. For 10
points, name this German author of Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
ANSWER: Heinrich Theodor Böll
16. One work by this artist depicts a woman wearing a red sash who is pointing with one finger to the
ground. In addition to that portrait of the Duchess of Alba, this artist painted works like a dog
drowning and two men fighting with sticks on the walls of the Quinta del Sordo, which comprise his
(*) Black Paintings that include Saturn Devouring His Son. Another work by this court painter to Charles
IV is a companion to The Charge of the Mamelukes, which includes a phalanx of French soldiers firing at
Spanish captives. For 10 points, name this painter of The Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco Goya

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 3 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. One member of this set has a namesake “anomaly” because it is so readily absorbed in plagioclase
that it is either very enriched or depleted. Another of them forms, with iron and boron, the strongest
known magnets. All of them are trivalent, and this class of (*) elements displays a namesake
contraction. Examples include lutetium, europium, samarium and neodymium. For 10 points, identify
this set of elements, defined by their filling of the 4f subshell, one row above the actinides.
ANSWER: lanthanides [or lanthanoids]
18. A part of this creature was buried under a rock near the road to Elaeus. A giant crab that was an
ally of this creature was made into the constellation Cancer by Hera. The charioteer who helped fight
this creature was the son of Iphicles and combated it using a (*) burning brand. Pholus, Chiron, and
Paris were all killed with arrows that had been dipped in the venom of this creature. Iolaus helped
cauterize wounds of this resident of Lerna as Heracles methodically removed its body parts. For 10
points, name this mythical multi-headed snake.
ANSWER: the hydra
19. When a client of this man described a dream involving a scarab beetle as a similar beetle flew into
the room, he postulated an “acausal connecting principle” between events that he called
synchronicity. His work Psychology of the Unconscious marked his split with (*) Freud, and other
concepts he advanced include animus and anima as well as introversion and extroversion. He also
postulated the existence of an indirect knowledge that everyone possesses. For 10 points, name this
Swiss psychologist famous for his idea of the collective unconscious.
ANSWER: Carl Jung
20. This man oversaw the hanging of Arnold of Brescia and forced Eugenius III to sign the Treaty of
Constance. He convened the Diet of Roncaglia, and, according to legend, is sleeping in Kyffhauser
Castle. This nephew of Conrad III was opposed by Henry the Lion and was defeated at Legnano by the
(*) Lombard League. This man was crowned by Pope Adrian IV in 1155, and drowned while trying to
cross the Saleph River during the Third Crusade. For 10 points, name this Swabian Holy Roman Emperor
who had a red beard.
ANSWER: Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I Hohenstaufen; or Frederick III of Swabia; prompt on
Frederick; prompt on Frederick III]
21. This man was court martialed in 1907 for grounding the USS Decatur, and in 1949 he was named
Plebiscite Administrator for Kashmir by the United Nations. This man raised funds to restore the
battleship Mikasa, which was Togo's flagship at the Battle of Tsushima. Following the attack on Pearl
Harbor, he (*) replaced Husband Kimmel. In 1944, he received the newly created rank of fleet admiral.
For 10 points, name this Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet in World War II who served as U.S.
signatory to the Japanese surrender aboard the USS Missouri.
ANSWER: William Chester Nimitz [accept William or Chester as his first name]
22. Near the end of this novel, the title character kills the murderous criminal Jim Hall. In this novel's
chapter "The Reign of Hate," the protagonist is severely injured by Cherokee. The title character is
terrorized by Lip-lip while living with Gray Beaver before being (*) sold to Beauty Smith, who trains him
to become a vicious fighter. Eventually, the title character is adopted by Weedon Scott, who takes him
to California. For 10 points, name this Jack London novel about a wolf that becomes a peaceful dog.
ANSWER: White Fang

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 4 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

23. Composing multiplication by this number with the exponential function gives a function that is
equal to the negative of its second derivative. Multiples of this number plus one-half give all nontrivial zeros of the zeta function via the Riemann hypothesis. It forms a basis for the (*) quaternions
alongside one and two similar numbers with which it anti-commutes. The first non-trivial fourth root of
unity, this number has magnitude 1 and polar angle 90 degrees in the complex plane. For 10 points,
identify this complex number, the square root of negative one.
ANSWER: i [or the imaginary number; prompt on square-root of negative one]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 5 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 4
Bonuses

1. It took place between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries during the transition from Middle
English to Modern English. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this linguistic event which saw a change in the pronunciation of long sounds.
ANSWER: Great Vowel Shift
[10] This Danish linguist coined the term “Great Vowel Shift.”
ANSWER: Otto Jespersen
[10] The Great Vowel Shift explains why words like “wine” and “Latin” rhyme in this Geoffrey Chaucer
collection of stories told by people making a pilgrimage to the title location.
ANSWER: The Canterbury Tales
2. He depicted “Jacob Wrestling with the Angel” in Vision after the Sermon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Frenchman who spent two months with Vincent van Gogh in 1888, and painted Where
do we come from? What are we? Where are we going?.
ANSWER: Paul Gauguin
[10] From 1895 to 1901, Paul Gauguin lived on this island in the South Pacific, which was the setting of
the painting The Spirit of the Dead Keep Watch.
ANSWER: Tahiti
[10] Located in the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, this Gauguin work depicts the crucifixion of the
colorful title individual near three praying women.
ANSWER: The Yellow Christ
3. A major example of this event ended the Age of Bronze, and was caused by Lycaon (ly-KAY-ohn)
sacrificing a child to Zeus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of natural disaster, a nine-day event from Greek mythology, which also occurred to
the town where Baucis and Philemon lived.
ANSWER: flood [or deluge]
[10] This son of Prometheus hid in a chest with his wife Pyrrha, surviving the flood.
ANSWER: Deucalion
[10] Themis told Deucalion to repopulate the Earth by throwing the bones of his mother, which
Deucalion correctly interpreted to mean these objects.
ANSWER: rocks [accept obvious equivalents like stones]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 6 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. In one part of this work, the title character wears a barber’s bowl as the “golden helmet of
Mambrino.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this long novel in which the title character travels aboard a donkey accompanied by Sancho
Panza.
ANSWER: Don Quixote [accept El ingenioso hidalgo don Quixote de la Mancha, part 1]
[10] Don Quixote is a novel by this Golden Age Spanish author, who also wrote the Novelas Ejemplares
and La Galatea.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes
[10] Another Golden Age author is this playwright, who penned Life is a Dream and The Mayor of
Zalamea.
ANSWER: Pedro Calderon de la Barca
5. It is prohibited during the ‘Eid Days, and it is recommended on a voluntary basis during the months of
Rajab and Sha’ban on Mondays and Tuesdays. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this activity of the Arkan al-Islam, which is also known as sawm and does not occur during Idal-Fitr.
ANSWER: fasting
[10] Fasting is primarily conducted during this ninth and holy month of the Muslim year during which
abstinence is required from dawn till dusk.
ANSWER: Ramadan
[10] During the evening of the twenty-seventh day of Ramadan, Muslims take part in this celebration
that commemorates the revelation of the Qur’an to Muhammad.
ANSWER: Laylat al-Qadr [or Shab-e-Qadr; or Night of Decree; or Night of Power; or Night of Measures]
6. He assumed the throne after his father Charles Albert resigned in the face of Austrian pressure. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this first king of a united Italy.
ANSWER: Victor Emmanuel II [prompt on Victor; prompt on Victor Emmanuel]
[10] Charles Albert and Victor Emmanuel II belonged to this royal house, which also included the
seventeenth-century Austrian military leader Eugene.
ANSWER: Savoy
[10] Before Italy was united, Victor Emmanuel II was ruler of this kingdom, named after the two areas he
controlled: a mainland region containing Turin and an island north of Corsica.
ANSWER: Piedmont-Sardinia [prompt on Piedmont; prompt on Sardinia]
7. Name these South American novelists, for 10 points each.
[10] This female author wrote Eva Luna and a novel about the Trueba family, House of the Spirits.
ANSWER: Isabel Allende Llona
[10] This Argentine author wrote Betrayed by Rita Hayworth and Heartbreak Tango in addition to a
novel about Valentin and Molina’s time in prison, The Kiss of the Spider Woman.
ANSWER: Manuel Puig [accept Juan Manuel Puig Delledonne]
[10] This novelist wrote about the Screwery’s kidnapping of “the Vip” in A Manual for Manuel in
addition to a novel about Horacio Oliveira with “expendable chapters,” Hopscotch.
ANSWER: Julio Cortázar [accept Jules Florencio Cortázar]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 7 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. While at rest, neurons possess an ion gradient across their membranes that results in different
intracellular and extracellular ion concentrations. For 10 points each:
[10] This gradient is primarily maintained by what integral membrane protein that transports two atoms
of a certain cation into the neuron and three atoms of another cation out of the neuron.
ANSWER: sodium-potassium ATPase [or sodium-potassium pump; or Na+, K+ ATPase]
[10] Activation of voltage-gated ion channels for sodium and potassium triggers this transient
depolarization of the neuron membrane that results in the propagation of an electrical signal.
ANSWER: action potential [or nerve impulse]
[10] Sodium-potassium pumps are important to this kind of cell transport, contrasted with processes
that require no input energy.
ANSWER: active transport
9. Name some twentieth-century architects, for 10 points each.
[10] This Canadian-American has used his trademark flowing titanium exteriors in works like the
Experience Music Project, the Walt Disney Concert Hall, and the Guggenheim in Bilbao.
ANSWER: Frank Gehry
[10] This German, a prominent Bauhaus figure known for the saying “less is more,” worked with Philip
Johnson on the Seagram Building and created the Farnsworth House.
ANSWER: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe
[10] This Italian designed the Kansai Airport Terminal in Osaka and collaborated with Richard Rogers on
a structure whose façade features a series of tubes, the Pompidou Centre.
ANSWER: Renzo Piano
10. Velocity is one, but speed is not. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this term used to indicate a quantity that has both magnitude and direction, as opposed to a
scalar.
ANSWER: vector
[10] This operation on vectors is a multiplication of corresponding components of the vectors and
returns a scalar.
ANSWER: dot product [or inner product; prompt on scalar product]
[10] This inequality, a special case of Holder’s inequality, states that the dot product of two vectors is
less than or equal to the product of the magnitudes of the two vectors.
ANSWER: Cauchy-Schwarz-Bunyakovsky inequality [accept names in any order]
11. Its namesake and founder was the third of the “great unifiers,” succeeding Oda Nobunaga and
Toyotomi Hideyoshi during the Warring States Period. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese shogunate, which lasted from 1600 until the reassertion of Imperial rule during
the Meiji Restoration of 1868.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate [or Edo Period]
[10] During the Tokugawa, the only Japanese port at which foreign traders were permitted was this
southwestern city, which later became the target of the Fat Man atomic bomb.
ANSWER: Nagasaki
[10] The Tokugawa Shogunate made Christianity illegal following the Shimabara Rebellion, a revolt of
people whose community was converted in 1551 by this Jesuit missionary.
ANSWER: Francis Xavier

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 8 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. For 10 points each, name these possibly infernal things.
[10] This novel by Fyodor Dostoevsky was inspired by an 1869 assassination and features the madman
Kirilov. A similarly named long poem was written by Lermontov.
ANSWER: The Demons [accept The Demon; or The Devils; or The Possessed; or Besy]
[10] This impish creature operates a trapdoor that lets faster-than-average molecules through but not
slower-than-average molecules, thus violating the second law of thermodynamics.
ANSWER: Maxwell’s Demon
[10] This first-ever U.S. National Monument lies near the Belle Fourche River in Wyoming.
ANSWER: Devil’s Tower
13. This man wrote A Lincoln Portrait, which was barred from being played at Eisenhower’s inauguration
due to this composer’s communist sentiments. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer, who also wrote El Salon Mexico and a ballet for Martha Graham, Appalachian
Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] This work by Aaron Copland is scored for brass and timpani. It was commissioned by Eugene
Goosens, and was incorporated into Copland’s Third Symphony.
ANSWER: Fanfare for the Common Man
[10] This Shaker song was written by Elder Joseph Brackett. Aaron Copland wrote a series of five
variations on it in Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: “Simple Gifts” [or “The Gift To Be Simple”]
14. Just to its west is the cave of Qumran, where a set of famous 2000-year-old scrolls was discovered in
1947. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this salty body of water whose shores have the lowest elevation of any dry land on earth.
ANSWER: Dead Sea [or Yam Ha-Melah; or al-Bahr I-Mayyit]
[10] The Dead Sea is fed primarily by this river. Appropriately, Israel’s West Bank lies directly to its west.
ANSWER: Jordan River [or Nehar Hayarden; or Nahr al-Urdun]
[10] Located south of the Dead Sea is this desert, which covers over half of the nation of Israel. Its name
is Hebrew for “dry.”
ANSWER: Negev Desert [or Negeb Desert; or al-Naqab Desert]
15. Cleitus the Black once saved this man's life by cutting off the sword-wielding arm of Spithridates. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this man who thus survived to win the Battle of the Granicus, and also won at Gaugamela
during his fourth-century BCE conquest of most of southern Asia.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon(ia); prompt on Alexander of Macedon(ia)]
[10] Alexander the Great took over the Persian empire from this last Achaemenid emperor, the third of
his name, who was killed in Bactria after fleeing from his final loss in battle.
ANSWER: Darius III
[10] This 333 BCE battle on the Pinarus River saw the final defeat of Darius and the Persians at a cost of
only four hundred fifty Macedonians, and was the battle from which Darius was fleeing when killed.
ANSWER: Battle of Issus

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 9 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. In the 1950s, authors from this country like Alain Robbe-Grillet pioneered the "new novel." For 10
points each:
[10] Name this country, home to Georges Perec and Raymond Queneau, the founders of the literary
movement Oulipo.
ANSWER: France
[10] This French author presented his existentialist philosophy in plays such as The Flies and No Exit.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
[10] In this novel by Sartre, Antoine Roquentin perceives objects divorced from their external
characteristics, resulting in the title condition.
ANSWER: Nausea [or Le Nausee]
17. At ground level, it forms via the reaction of hydocarbons and nitrous oxides with sunlight, thus
becoming a major component of photochemical smog. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the common name for tri-atomic oxygen, beloved by all for its ability to absorb deadly
ultraviolet radiation.
ANSWER: ozone [prompt on O-3]
[10] Ozone is found primarily in this layer of the atmosphere, which lies above the troposphere and
below the mesosphere.
ANSWER: stratosphere
[10] The stratosphere’s stockpile of ozone is continually regenerated via this cycle, in which UV radiation
splits an ordinary O-2 molecule into free atoms that then recombine as O-3.
ANSWER: Chapman cycle [prompt on ozone-oxygen cycle]
18. This author wrote "They know not well the subtle ways / I keep, and pass, and turn again" in his
poem about a Hindu god, "Brahma." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this essayist of "The Over-Soul" and "The American Scholar."
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
[10] In this essay, Emerson asserts that "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds," and
argues "Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." It emphasizes that individuals should follow
their personal convictions.
ANSWER: "Self-Reliance"
[10] This author satirized Emerson as Mark Winsome in The Confidence-Man. He criticized the practice
of flogging in a novel set aboard the Neversink, White-Jacket.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
19. The first is a junction rule implying charge conservation, and the second is a loop rule stating that the
sum of potential differences around a closed circuit must be zero. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the collective name for these two fundamental laws of circuits, named for a nineteenth
century German physicist.
ANSWER: Kirchoff’s circuit rules [or Kirchoff’s circuit laws]
[10] This other circuit law states that the change in potential difference along a piece of circuit is equal
to the current times the resistance, or V equals I times R.
ANSWER: Ohm’s law
[10] The aforementioned change in potential is often associated with this so-called “force,” the energy
gained per unit charge that is given by an energy source such as a battery.
ANSWER: electromotive force [or emf]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 10 of 11 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. The Jurassic period is sometimes referred to as the “age of” them, though they are now facing
extinction. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group of plants characterized by a stout trunk and a crown of compound leaves.
ANSWER: cycads
[10] Cycads fall under this group of plants whose seeds are not covered by fruit tissue. Accordingly, their
name means “naked seed,” and they are contrasted with angiosperms.
ANSWER: gymnosperms
[10] This genus of gymnosperms has only one surviving species, Biloba, whose extracts are commonly
used as memory enhancers.
ANSWER: Ginkgo
21. His namesake brief in the Supreme Court case Muller v. Oregon contained social-scientific data. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this man who later became the first Jewish Supreme Court justice, the namesake of a
Massachusetts university.
ANSWER: Louis Brandeis
[10] The Muller case was decided three years after this decision in this case, in which the court held that
New York mandating a maximum ten-hour workday violated the Constitution.
ANSWER: Lochner v. New York
[10] The ability of the government to regulate private industry was upheld in this 1877 case from Illinois
in which a law supported by the Granger movement was upheld.
ANSWER: Munn v. Illinois
22. He wrote about Alexei, who works with the Germans against the Bolsheviks in the play Days of the
Turbans. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of a novel in which the Devil and a talking cat named Behemoth travel to Moscow
and get involved in the lives of the title lovers, The Master and Margarita.
ANSWER: Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov
[10] This other Soviet author created the revolutionary machine gunner Ilia Bunchuk as well as Gregor
Melekhov, who becomes an officer in the red army, in And Quiet Flows the Don.
ANSWER: Mikhail Alexandrovich Sholokov
[10] This other Soviet author wrote about Tonia Gromeko, who is loyal to her husband after the
Revolution drives them apart, as well as Lara, who loves the title character, in Doctor Zhivago.
ANSWER: Boris Leonidovich Pasternak

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 4

Page 11 of 11 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

