Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 1
Tossups

1. It extended as far as Montmedy, and Wilhelm von Leeb’s Army Group C faced it to prevent diversion
of forces from it. Its namesake served as minister of war from 1929 to 1931, and it was known for its air
conditioned chambers. Also containing an underground rail network, it was rendered useless when it
was bypassed by an attack through the Ardennes forest by way of the Netherlands and Belgium. For 10
points, name this heavily fortified French defensive position that failed to prevent German invasion in
World War II.
ANSWER: the Maginot Line
2. To pay a debt at an inn, this character rolls up a companion in a blanket and gives him away. This
character thinks his brains are melting because of curds in his helmet, and he returns to his home after
his defeat at the hands of the Knight of the White Moon. After reading many chivalric romances,
including Amadis of Gaul, this character renames a barmaid Dulcinea, and tilts at windmills that he
believes are dragons. He is accompanied on his quest by Sancho Panza. For 10 points, identify this
protagonist of a novel by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: Don Quixote (kee-HO-tay) [or El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha; or Alonzo; or
Quixano; or Alonzo Quixano]
3. In the presence of tetrahydrofuran, a compound of this element reduces alkenes in an antiMarkovnikov fashion. This element forms a compound with rhenium that can surpass the hardness of
diamond, and its oxide is added to silica to produce a durable form of glass used in labware. It is the
lightest element used in p-type doping, and its hydride is a Lewis acid. For 10 points, identify this
element with atomic number 5 and symbol B.
ANSWER: boron
4. A tree called Laerad spreads over this locale, and its leaves are eaten by a goat and a hart atop its
roof. This place with 540 massive doors and a roof of golden shields is home to a cook who uses the
same cauldron to cook the cosmic boar Saehrimnir every day. The rooster Gullenkambi awakens the
residents of this locale, who spar with each other all day and are known as the Einherjar. For 10 points,
name this "Hall of the Slain" where Valkyries escort fallen warriors in Norse myth.
ANSWER: Valhalla
5. Two of his former allies suspected him of being the “Holliday” figure. He sought the aid of those allies
in tracking “The Roman”, whom he later shot in the head. He once tried to seduce a lesbian whom he
was attracted to, Renee Montoya, until she fought back and was rescued by Batman. Poison Ivy
attempted to kill him for running over a rare flower at the construction site of Stonegate Penitentiary,
and Billy Dee Williams played him as DA Harvey Dent in one film. For 10 points, name this dualistic villain
played by Aaron Eckhart in “The Dark Knight”.
ANSWER: Two-Face [prompt on Harvey Dent before it is read]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. In a poem by this man, the speaker regards autumn as a “blind giant” and a “faceless man” while
sitting in a café with two friends. In addition to “Clear Night,” he wrote of a traveler who sees a holy
man covered in ash in his poem “Vrindaban.” His literary criticism includes The Traps of Faith and The
Bow and the Lyre, and he described the conjunctions of the planet Venus and the sun in an ancient
Aztec calendar in his poem “Sun Stone.” Formerly his country's ambassador to India, for 10 points, name
this Mexican poet of The Labyrinth of Solitude.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz Lozano
7. The sixth character dance in it depicts Polcinelle, the clown, and its pas de deux is an Intrada followed
by a work whose melody is played by a celesta. It represents substances like chocolate, coffee, and tea
with Spanish, Arabian, and Chinese dances. Named for a gift from Herr Drosselmeyer, this ballet includes
the Waltz of the Snowflakes and the Dance of the Sugarplum Fairy. For 10 points, name this ballet about
Clara, which begins on Christmas eve, a composition by Tchaikovsky about a toy which turns into a
prince.
ANSWER: The Nutcracker [or Shchelkunchik]
8. This man defeated Frank Lowden to win his party's presidential nomination. As president, he signed
the Norris-LaGuardia Act and created the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. The Secretary of
Commerce for Warren Harding, he headed the American Food Administration in World War I, and this
president chose to sign the Hawley-Smoot Tariff in response to the calamity that doomed his
presidency. For 10 points, name this president who lost the 1932 election to Franklin Roosevelt during
the Great Depression.
ANSWER: Herbert Hoover
9. Structures found within it include ones discovered by Cajal, which are thought to be involved in the
modification of snRNPs. Alpha-solenoid and beta-propeller folds can be found in the pores located on
the double membrane envelope of this structure, which is continuous with the rough endoplasmic
reticulum. Red blood cells lack this structure, which contains protein-DNA complexes called euchromatin
and heterochromatin. For 10 points, identify this organelle, which houses the cell's genetic information.
ANSWER: nucleus
10. The ones who resorted to public assassinations were known as Sicarii, or dagger men, and, unlike
the Herodians, they refused to pay taxes. One group of them fought the Tenth Fretensis legion led by
Flavius Silva, and their revolt began when Agrippa II was expelled from Jerusalem. The historian
Josephus fought for them, and scores of them commited suicide at the Masada rather than surrender.
For 10 points, identify this Jewish sect that was known for its firm opposition to Roman polytheism,
whose name is now synonymous with fanatic.
ANSWER: Zealots
11. One character in this novel infuriates the narrator when he calls during a funeral to request his
tennis shoes. In addition to Ewing Klipspringer, this novel's character's include the coffee shop owner
Michaelis, who reports that he saw his neighbor run out into the Valley of Ashes. The title character, the
former protégé of Dan Cody, is murdered in his pool after Myrtle Wilson is run over by the drunken
Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this novel in which Nick Carraway describes the downfall of Jay
Gatz, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: The Great Gatsby

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. The lowest point in this body of water is the Fram Basin, which is interrupted by the Nansen
Cordeilla. It includes the Lomonosov Ridge, which may contain oil and gas reserves and is the subject of
competing land claims due to dubious continental shelf extensions. Touching Cape Morris Jesup, this
body of water has the highest percentage of continental shelf of any other ocean and includes ports at
Barrow, Prudhoe Bay and Murmansk. For 10 points, identify this ocean which in 2007 lost nearly 10
million kilometers of sea-ice during the summer thaw.
ANSWER: Arctic Ocean
13. Before the Mincha prayer associated with this holiday, observers give Machatzit Hashekel or 3 halves
of a shekel as charity. This holiday has a “Shushan” version, which is celebrated on its following day in
walled cities, and it always occurs one month before Passover. Celebrated on the Fouteenth of Adar,
some of its practitioners get so drunk as to be unable to differentiate between “Cursed be Haman!” and
“Blessed be Mordechai!” For 10 points, identify this Jewish holiday, which celebrates Esther’s victory
over Haman’s evil plans.
ANSWER: Purim
14. In an experiment by Bruce Alexander, these subjects chose to drink untainted water despite being
addicted to morphine. Edward Tolman's experiments with these subjects led him to develop the theory
of cognitive maps. In the "kerplunk" experiment, these subjects were conditioned to run into a barrier.
John Watson used loud noises to condition Little Albert to fear white ones. Often placed in mazes by
researchers, For 10 points, name these rodents frequently used in psychological experiments.
ANSWER: rats [do not accept “mice”]
15. This king’s success at the Battle of Spurs during the War of the League of Cambrai led his brother in
law James IV of Scotland to invade, only to be defeated at Flodden Field. This man met with Francis I at
the Field of the Cloth of Gold, which accomplished nothing as his minister Cardinal Wolsey declared war
on France soon after. He removed Wolsey from power after failing to receive an annulment with his
wife, Catherine of Aragon. For 10 points, name this Tudor Monarch from 1509 to 1547 who had six
wives.
ANSWER: Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]
16. The effect in which a suddenly magnetized iron bar rotates in the opposite direction of an applied
current is named after de Haas and this man. This man introduced the idea of stimulated emission while
proving Planck’s radiation equation. He also developed the equivalence principle and postulated that
the speed of light is the same in all reference frames, and his paper “On the Electrodynamics of Moving
Bodies” introduced special relativity. For 10 points, name this man who won the 1921 Nobel Prize in
Physics for his explanation of the photoelectric effect.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
17. This artist depicted a woman in a black dress and a red belt pointing one finger downward in his
portrait of the Duchess of Alba. He depicted a desperate looking long haired, bug-eyed god getting ready
to eat a child's arm from its socket in Saturn Devouring His Son, one of this artist's Black Paintings.
Following controversy in his native country, he painted a clothed version of La Maja Desnuda. Another
of his paintings depicts a line of French soldiers on the right shooting prisoners on a certain date. For 10
points, identify this Spanish painter of Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. One poem by this man includes the phrase “Knowledge overwhelming makes a God of me!” and
refers to the title sun titan’s ascent to godhood. In addition to “Hyperion”, this poet wrote a poem
which describes the courtship of Porphyro for Madeleine on the title night. Besides “The Eve of St.
Agnes,” this poet asked “Ah, what can woe thee, wretched wight” in a poem about a woman who “takes
[the speaker] to her elvin grot.” For 10 points, name this poet of “La Belle Dame Sans Merci” who wrote
“beauty is truth; truth beauty” in “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
ANSWER: John Keats
19. The Kleene-Rosser paradox in lambda calculus is resolved by invoking it, and operations utilizing its
mu form may be computed by Turing machines. The Hofstadter Q-sequence uses this process, whose
tail form can easily use less stack space by being transformed into iteration. A process for computing the
greatest common divisor may be implemented using this, essential to the Ackermann function. For 10
points, identify this programming technique which reduces problems to base cases, commonly used for
computing the terms of the Fibonacci sequence.
ANSWER: recursion [accept word forms]
20. His Missa sunt bona mixta malis only has the Kyrie and part of the Gloria extant, while a later mass
of his became named for Lord Nelson. One of his cantatas includes parts for Adam and Eve, while one of
his string quartets includes the theme of Deutschland Uber Alles and is nicknamed “The Emperor.” One
of his symphonies was written so the performers gradually leave the stage and snuff their candles, while
another includes a timpani beat in the andante. For 10 points, name this composer of The Creation and
the “Farewell” and “Surprise” symphonies.
ANSWER: Franz Joseph Haydn
21. August Wilson's play The Piano Lesson mentions ghosts of a dog of this type. An old pair of this type
considers dinner “a casual affair” in Gwendolyn Brooks' “The Bean Eaters.” This color describes a house
owned by Henry Wimbush in an Aldous Huxley novel, while it also describes a town which Jack Potter
brings his “bride” to in a Stephen Crane story. For 10 points, name this color, which also appears on
wallpaper that drives a woman insane in a short story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
ANSWER: yellow
22. One feature of this type is carved from existing bedrock by a glacier, has a smooth upper portion and
a craggy bottom portion, and is known as a sheepback. Another feature of this type is often found in
conjunction with kettle lakes and occurs when a melting glacier retreats; those are termed kames. Tearshaped ones are formed when a glacier deposits a large rock and sediment builds up behind it, and are
called drumlins. For 10 points, name these geologic features, raised areas of land that are smaller than
mountains.
ANSWER: hills [or sheepback; or roche moutonne before "sheepback"]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 1
Bonuses

1. Answer the following about mirrors in art, for 10 points each.
[10] A mirror reflects a woman, some bottles of wine, and a bowl of oranges in this artist's painting A
Bar at the Folies-Bergere. This impressionist also painted Olympia.
ANSWER: Eduard Manet
[10] This Mannerist portrayed himself wearing a ruffled sleeve in Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror. He
painted a disturbingly disproportional Virgin Mary in Madonna of the Long Neck.
ANSWER: Parmigianino [or Francesco Mazzola]
[10] A mirror reflects the King and Queen of Spain in this artist's painting Las Meninas.
ANSWER: Diego Velazquez
2. Their existence was hypothesized by Fritz Zwicky and Walter Baade. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these dense objects, which can be formed from a supernova event when a star exceeds the
Chandrashekhar limit.
ANSWER: neutron star
[10] Neutron stars whose rotation axis is off the magnetic axis, are known by this name as they emit
intense bursts of radiation on a periodic basis.
ANSWER: pulsars
[10] The upper limit to the mass of a neutron star is named after Tolman, Volkoff, and this man, who,
lends his name to an approximation along with Max Born.
ANSWER: J. Robert Oppenheimer
3. The title character lives with her aunt, Mrs. Reed, after being orphaned. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1847 novel, which ends with the protagonist’s marriage to Edward Rochester following
the mad Bertha Mason’s death in a fire.
ANSWER: Jane Eyre
[10] This author of Vilette, who created the character of Lucy Snowe in Shirley, wrote Jane Eyre.
ANSWER: Charlotte Brontë [prompt on Brontë; or Currier Bell; prompt on Bell]
[10] This author of the poem “The Narrow Way” was a sister of Charlotte Bronte. Her two novels are
Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall.
ANSWER: Anne Brontë [prompt on Brontë; or Acton Bell; prompt on Bell]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. He broke out of the gladiator school of Capua in 73 BC and fled to Mt. Vesuvius. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who led a massive slave revolt before being crucified.
ANSWER: Spartacus
[10] 6,000 of Spartacus’ followers were crucified along what Roman road that connected Rome with
Capua?
ANSWER: Appian Way
[10] After returning to Italy following his defeat of Sertorius, this Roman general and member of the
First Triumvirate put down the Spartacus revolt. He later lost the Battle of Pharsalus to Caesar.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]
5. Name these things in the nation of Belize, for 10 points each.
[10] Belize City used to be Belize’s capital before its destruction by Hurricane Hattie, after which the
capital was transferred fifty miles inland to this location.
ANSWER: Belmopan
[10] Belize contains several Mayan ruins at Caracol; however the greatest concentration of such ruins is
on this peninsula, which separates the Caribbean Sea from the Gulf of Mexico.
ANSWER: Yucatán Peninsula
[10] When threatened by Guatemala, this country, which had formerly colonized Belize, sent troops to
reinforce the border. It also colonized Zanzibar, Guyana and Jamaica.
ANSWER: Great Britain [or The United Kingdom; prompt on England]
6. He wrote about his friend Jack Chase in White-Jacket. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Billy Budd and Moby-Dick.
ANSWER: Hermann Melville
[10] In this short story, the title co-worker of Ginger Nut, Turkey, and Nippers repeats “I would prefer
not to” when the narrator asks him to work.
ANSWER: "Bartleby the Scrivener"
[10] The title character of this Melville novel pretends to be the president of the Black Rapids Coal
Company while deceiving people aboard the Fidele steamboat on April Fools’ Day.
ANSWER: The Confidence-Man: His Masquerade
7. The Quran is said to have been passed on to Mohammed on the Night of Power during this month.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this ninth month of the Islamic calendar.
ANSWER: Ramadan
[10] In this pillar of Islam, Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset during the month of Ramadan. The meal
before the fast is called suhoor and the evening meal is called iftar.
ANSWER: Sawm
[10] Ramadan ends with this three day festival, which begins when a new moon is sighted. It marks the
beginning of the tenth month, Shawwal.
ANSWER: Eid ul Fitr [prompt on partial answer]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Answer the following about torque, for 10 points each.
[10] Torque is equivalent to the product of moment of inertia and this other quantity, symbolized with
the Greek letter alpha.
Answer: angular acceleration
[10] The torque vector can also be found by performing this vector operation on the radius and force
vectors.
Answer: cross product [prompt on vector product]
[10] When performing the cross product of the radius and force vectors, the direction of the resulting
torque vector can be found by using this rule of thumb.
Answer: right hand rule
9. This event took place during a pivotal battle of the Crimean War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this disastrous cavalry action that inspired a Tennyson poem about the six hundred who rode
into the "valley of death."
ANSWER: The Charge of the Light Brigade
[10] This Lieutenant General led the Charge of the Light Brigade and has a type of sweater named after
him.
ANSWER: Lord Cardigan [or James Brudenell, Seventh Earl of Cardigan]
[10] This was the battle during which the Charge took place. It was the first Russian attempt to squash
the Siege of Sevastapol.
ANSWER: Battle of Balaclava
10. During a siege of this city, Tancred mistakenly kills his love Clorinda. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city in the Holy Land, which Gabriel tells Godfrey of Bouillon to try wrest from the
Muslims in a poem where it is “Delivered.”
ANSWER: Jerusalem [or Gerusalemme]
[10] This Italian poet went insane late in life, but not before writing Jerusalem Delivered.
ANSWER: Torquato Tasso
[10] Jerusalem Delivered is set in the first of these wars over the Holy Land. In Ivanhoe, Richard the
Lionheart returns from battling Saladin in the third of these.
ANSWER: crusades
11. This kingdom is divided into phyla such as ascomycetes and basidiomycetes. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this kingdom, whose best known examples include mushrooms.
ANSWER: fungi
[10] This is the name given to a symbiotic interaction where fungi associate with the roots of complex
plants, which enables plants to acquire more nutrients.
ANSWER: mycorrhizae
[10] These are the tubular, filamentous structures, which are collectively called the mycelium. Individual
cells in them are divided by septae.
ANSWER: hyphae

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Examples of this art form include Ordinary in the Plaza of the Seagram Building. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of kinetic sculpture.
ANSWER: mobiles
[10] This American sculptor created the aforementioned Ordinary and invented the mobile.
ANSWER: Alexander "Sandy" Calder
[10] One of Calder's mobiles combines a "Fish tail" with a trap for this type of animal. Salvador Dali
created a telephone whose handset was the body of one of these crustaceans.
ANSWER: lobsters [or Lobster Trap and Fish Tail]
13. Hippolytus was punished for worshipping only this goddess, and she is credited with saving Iphigenia
from sacrifice. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this perpetually virgin Greek goddess of hunting and wild areas, one of the twin children of
Zeus and Leto.
ANSWER: Artemis
[10] When this hunter accidentally saw Artemis bathing in a stream, Artemis turned him into a deer,
causing his own dogs to maul him.
ANSWER: Actaeon
[10] Artemis’s twin brother is this god, the patron of the Delphic Oracle and luster after Daphne.
Sometimes known as Phoebus, he is also a symbol of reason, opposing the emotional Dionysus.
ANSWER: Apollo
14. Identify these Republican might-have-beens, for ten points each.
[10] This man, whose father was Governor of Michigan, is a former governor of Massachusetts and was
the second-to-last candidate before Mike Huckabee to leave the race.
ANSWER: Mitt Romney
[10] This Texan, who wrote The Revolution: A Manifesto, was a perennial favorite on internet polling and
finally suspended his campaign run on July 12.
ANSWER: Ron Paul
[10] This Colorado representative has advocated retaliatory bombing of mosques in the event of further
terrorist attacks, in addition to the immediate deportation of all illegal immigrants.
ANSWER: Tom Tancredo
15. He wrote about his childhood in Up From Slavery. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader who believed that blacks should pursue technical educations, a position opposed
by W.E.B. DuBois.
ANSWER: Booker Taliaferro Washington
[10] In 1881, Washington became the first president of this Alabama college which taught practical skills.
Its professors included George Washington Carver.
ANSWER: Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute [or Tuskegee University]
[10] In 1905, Washington gave a speech asserting that blacks should focus on finding jobs instead of
working towards social equality, which is known as the compromise of this city.
ANSWER: Atlanta

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. Identify some German chemists, for 10 points each.
[10] This man is the namesake of several organic reactions, and also for a type of diagram used to
represent sugars.
ANSWER: Hermann Emil Fischer
[10] This man is the namesake of a process used to produce nitric acid from the oxidation of ammonia
and the dissolving of the gas in water.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Ostwald
[10] The process used to produce ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen and hydrogen is named after this
man and Bosch.
ANSWER: Fritz Haber
17. Answer the following questions about poetry, for 10 points each.
[10] This Walt Whitman elegy for Abraham Lincoln includes lots of references to Venus, and imagines
laying one of the title flowers on Lincoln's coffin.
ANSWER: "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d"
[10] This poetry collection by Charles Baudelaire includes sections like "Wine," "Revolt," and "Spleen and
Ideal," and accuses the "hypocrite reader" of being the author's double.
ANSWER: Les Fleurs du mal [or The Flowers of Evil]
[10] This poet of "Tam O'Shanter," “To a Louse,” and “Auld Lang Syne,” is a pretty important Scottish
poet.
ANSWER: Robert Burns
18. He decried the effects of the Treaty of Versailles in his book The Economic Consequences of the
Peace. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British economist, who explained the theory of government intervention to create full
employment in The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
[10] In Keynesian economics, this curve is upward-sloping in the short run. It plots the total amount of
goods and services produced by an economy at various price levels.
ANSWER: aggregate supply
[10] This macroeconomic value has components such as investment, consumption, and government
spending. Unlike a similar value, it is based on geographic regions, not ownership.
ANSWER: GDP [or Gross Domestic Product]
19. This work opens with a clarinet trill followed by an ascending glissando before playing the main
theme. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work for jazz band and piano orchestrated by Ferde Grofe, which was commissioned by
Paul Whiteman.
ANSWER: Rhapsody in Blue
[10] This composer didn’t quite finish Rhapsody in Blue, so he improvised many of the piano solos at the
premiere. He also wrote “I Got Rhythm.”
ANSWER: George Gershwin [or Jacob Gershvin]
[10] This Gershwin work, scored for a regular orchestra plus celesta, saxophone, and some car horns to
spice things up, represents the composer traveling through a European capital.
ANSWER: An American in Paris

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. Identify the following conferences of World War II, for 10 points each.
[10] President Truman and Clement Atlee attended this July-August 1945 conference in the Berlin
suburbs, which created occupation zones for postwar Germany.
ANSWER: Potsdam
[10] Also known as the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference, this 1944 meeting in New
Hampshire created the International Monetary Fund.
ANSWER: Bretton Woods
[10] At this conference of February 1945, the Soviet Union secretly agreed to go to war with Japan
within three months of Germany’s surrender.
ANSWER: Yalta
21. Identify the following about matrices and linear equations, for 10 points each.
[10] For a 2 by 2 matrix, this quantity is given as ad minus bc. The Wronskian is a generalized method of
computing it.
ANSWER: determinant
[10] This rule, formulated by a Swiss mathematician, makes use of determinants to solve systems of
linear equations.
ANSWER: Cramer’s rule
[10] This German mathematician lends his name to another procedure useful for solving systems of
equations. He is better known for a law concerning electric flux from a closed surface that encloses a
charge.
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich Gauss
22. The protagonist is sentenced to death for his murder of an Arab, even though the central issue in the
trial seems to be his inability to feel remorse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Meursault, who alienates himself from pretty much everyone by never
showing false emotions.
ANSWER: The Stranger
[10] This author of The Myth of Sisyphus, The Plague, and The Fall wrote The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] This neighbor of Meursault is injured in a fight with the two Arabs. He caused that fight by beating
his Arab ex-mistress.
ANSWER: Raymond Sintès [accept either or both names]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 1

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

