2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #1
Round 7
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. This man faced the rebellion of Waltheof, Roger de Breteuil and Ralph de Guader after he defeated
his cousin Gui of Brionne at the Battle of Val-es-Dunes. He gathered a war council at Lillbonne before
amassing his army at Saint-Valery-sur-Somme, eventually resulting in a landing at Pevensey. The son of
Herlette of Falaise and Robert the Magnificent, this man had the Tower of London constructed and
commissioned the Domesday Book. For 10 points, name this man who became king of England upon his
defeat of Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Hastings.
ANSWER: William the Conqueror [or William I of England]
This man's split with Stalin led to the Informbiro period. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who held the first official Non-Aligned Movement Summit in Belgrade.
ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito [or Marshal Tito; or Josip Broz]
[10] Josip Tito served as the president of this former country from 1953 to 1980.
ANSWER: Yugoslavia
2. His works for the general public included What Life Should Mean to You, and his colleague Rudolf
Dreikurs founded institutes named for this man in Tel Aviv and Chicago. He downplayed the idea that
sexual conflicts in childhood cause mental illness, and his system of individual psychology was outlined
in Understanding Human Nature. Breaking with Freud with his publication of 1907’s Study of Organ
Inferiority and Its Psychological Compensation, for 10 points, name this psychiatrist who wrote The
Neurotic Constitution and formulated the concept of the inferiority complex.
ANSWER: Alfred Adler
This type of sleep is characterized by high brain activity, giving it the nickname "paradoxical sleep." For
10 points each:
[10] Name this stage of sleep associated with vivid dreams.
ANSWER: Rapid Eye Movement sleep [or REM]
[10] These large, slow brain waves are smaller than four Hertz on an EEG. They only appear in stage
three sleep.
ANSWER: delta waves [or delta rhythms]
3. This character pledges never to be a slave at the end of The Phoenician Women. In another play, she
arrives at an olive grove that is sacred to the Furies, and Theseus is asked to protect her, as she ends her
years of guiding her blind father. Jean Anouilh updated the work in which this character plays her most
prominent part; in that play, this woman is betrothed to Haemon and is killed by being sealed in a cave,
leading to Creon’s suicide. For 10 points, name this sister of Ismene and daughter of Oedipus, a female
who buries her brother Polynices in a Sophocles play.
ANSWER: Antigone

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 1 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

For 10 points each, name these Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer.
[10] This tale sees the titular man relate the story of Palamon and Arcite’s feud over Emily.
ANSWER: “The Knight’s Tale”
[10] In this second tale, Nicholas convinces the carpenter John to hang from the ceiling in a bathtub
while he cuckolds his wife Alison.
ANSWER: “The Miller’s Tale”
4. He is identified in Second Kings chapter 14 verse 25 as prophesizing during the reign of Jeroboam II,
and he was the son of Amittai. He predicted the extension of Israel’s borders from the Dead Sea to the
entrance of Hamath, and as he awaited the destruction of a city, this man was distressed by the
destruction of a tree by a great worm. He boarded a ship in Joppa and attempted to flee from God’s call
to prophesy against Nineveh. For 10 points name this Old Testament prophet who was eaten by a giant
fish and later vomited out.
ANSWER: Jonah
After claiming that there was nothing in the Bible to suggest angels exist or that the soul is immortal,
this man was excommunicated by the Jewish community of Amsterdam in 1656. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Dutch philosopher who wrote the Tractatus Theologico-Politicus, along with Ethics,
which contains a section entitled "Of Human Bondage or the Strength of the Emotions."
ANSWER: Benedict Spinoza [or Baruch Spinoza]
[10] Spinoza disagreed with aspects of the philosophy of this other philosopher, whose wrote
Meditations on First Philosophy and believed “Cogito, Ergo Sum.”
ANSWER: Rene Descartes
5. Larmor proved that Fitzgerald-Lorentz contraction is a result of Lorentz transformations in a paper
titled “[this] and Matter.” Stokes’ “Silly Putty” Model describes it as a rigid solid for high frequency
oscillations and a fluid for low frequency oscillations. Maxwell attempted to measure its effect on the
Earth’s motion, but its existence was disproved by an experiment that involved an interferometer, and
was conducted by Michelson and Morley. For 10 points, name this hypothetical substance necessary for
the transmission of light waves.
ANSWER: luminiferous ether [or luminiferous aether]
It transports fats by forming an emulsion referred to as chyle. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this system which roughly follows the circulatory system and whose best-known function is
in aiding in the immune response.
ANSWER: lymphatic system
[10] These components of the lymph system are sometimes removed in young children. Found at the
back of the throat, they come in lingual and pharyngeal types, the latter type of which are also known as
adenoids.
ANSWER: palatine tonsils
6. He lived on land provided by the philanthropist Gerrit Smith, who was one of this man’s chief financial
backers, as was the preacher Thomas Higginson. His agent in New England, Franklin Benjamin Sanborn,
urged this man not to undertake his most famous action, and in Chatham, Ontario, this man proposed a
new constitution for the United States. After the burning of Lawrence, this man led a retaliatory raid at
Pottawatomie Creek. For 10 points name this man who was hanged in 1859 for leading the abolitionist
raid on Harpers Ferry.
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 2 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

ANSWER: John Brown
Also known as the Transcontinental Treaty, it established definite western boundaries for the Louisiana
Purchase. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1819 treaty in which the Spanish ceded East Florida to the United States.
ANSWER: Adams-Onís Treaty
[10] In the Adams-Onis treaty, the United States also secured Spanish claims to this polity. Joseph Lane
was a Senator from this state, where the Champoeg Meetings occurred in the 1840s.
ANSWER: Oregon
7. One important step during this phase sees CKI-p16 inhibit CDK4/6; when this is overcome, cyclin E
interacts with CDK2 to being the next step of this phase. Another step in this phase sees MPF activate
CDK to begin the phase after this one. Those two steps are the G1 and G2 checkpoints. Another stage
that occurs during this period sees the formation of two sister chromatids and is known as S phase. For
10 points, name this phase that occupies the majority of the cell’s life cycle, the stage in which there is
no cell division through mitosis.
ANSWER: interphase
The addition of an entrainer allows them to be separated by distillation, but until that point, their
components evaporate in the same proportion. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this system of two solvents, such as 96% ethanol, which cannot be separated given their
vapor pressure.
ANSWER: azeotrope
[10] Azeotropes are non-ideal and hence deviate from this law that states the vapor pressure of a
solution is directly proportional to the mole fraction of the solvent.
ANSWER: Raoult's law
8. He painted a dog next to a patriarch being told by five of his sons about one’s death in Joseph’s Bloody
Coat, and he painted the British signing a treaty with the Dutch in The Surrender at Breda. Francis Bacon
modeled his Head Surrounded by Slabs of Beef on this man’s portraits of Innocent X, and he painted the
royal couple in a mirror and himself painting a scene that includes some dwarves and servants attending
to the Infanta Margerita. The court painter of Philip IV, for 10 points, name this Spanish painter of Las
Meninas.
ANSWER: Diego Velázquez
Giogrio de Chirico is sometimes considered a precursor to this movement, and a Belgian associated with
it painted The Son of Man and Time Transfixed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artistic movement that was inspired by the writings of Sigmund Freud, and whose
members included Dorothea Tanning, René Magritte, and its founder, Andre Breton.
ANSWER: Surrealism
[10] This painter of Harlequin's Carnival was a Surrealist from Catalonia who included a tall ladder in his
painting Dog Barking at the Moon.
ANSWER: Joan Miró

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 3 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #1
Round 7
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 4 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #1
Round 7
Category Quiz Tossups

9. The Nettilling and Amadjuak are its largest lakes, while its two highest peaks, mounts Asgard and
Odin, are located in the Auyittuq National park. This island is bordered by the Gulf of Boothia and
Lancaster Sound, while the Cumberland Peninsula is in its eastern portion. Separated from Labrador by
the Hudson Strait, the capital of Nunavut lies on its Frobisher Bay. The Hudson Strait separates it from
Labrador, and this home of Iqaluit is located between Greenland and mainland Canada. For 10 points,
identify this fifth largest island in the world.
ANSWER: Baffin Island [or Qikiqtaaluk]
10. The runtime of algorithms that employ this paradigm can be found with the Akkra-Bazzi method or
the Master theorem, and it can be less efficient than other methods due to the need to store the call
stack. It is utilized by divide and conquer algorithms such as binary search, and it can be used to solve
the Towers of Hanoi problem or implement the factorial function, which can be defined as “n time n-1
factorial.” For 10 points, name this programming model, the opposite of iteration, in which a function’s
definition includes a call to itself.
ANSWER: recursion [accept divide and conquer until it is read]
11. Francisco Gabarro, Ken Essex, Tony Gilbert, and Sidney Sax are four of the musicians credited on this
song, which starts with an unusual seven-bar phrase. Originally released on the B side of “Act Naturally,”
its working title was “Scrambled Eggs.” This song notes that “There’s a shadow hanging over me,” and
the singer doesn’t know “Why she had to go” because “she wouldn’t say.” For 10 points, name this song
in which Paul McCartney laments that, at the title time, “all my troubles seemed so far away.”
ANSWER: “Yesterday”
12. Shortly after the end of this conflict, the New Plant Decrees were issued, and early battles in it
include Chiari and Carpi. One battle in this conflict, fought between the Dyle and Mehaigne rivers, saw a
victory for Count Overkirk over the Duke of Villeroi, while another took place near Oberglau and
resulted in defeat for Maximilian II Emmanuel and the Duke of Tallard. The battles of Ramillies and
Blenheim, which were won by Eugene of Savoy and the Duke of Marlborough, were part of, for 10
points, what conflict ended by the Treaty of Utrecht.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
13. This author wrote about Reverend Colley and Edmund Talbot in Rites of Passage, and he wrote
about the discovery of a corpse that still has on its sea boots, revealing that the titular naval lieutenant’s
struggles to survive on a barren rock were hallucinations. In addition to Pincher Martin, this man wrote a
novel in which Simon discovers the body of an airman that had been mistaken for “the beast,” and Ralph
attempts to keep order with a conch shell. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about boys
stranded on an island in Lord of the Flies.
ANSWER: William Golding
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 5 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. He directed a film where a mob leaves the innocent Joe Wilson in a burning building before he
becomes a vigilante, and in another detective Lohmann tracks down the title character. Along with Fury
and The Testament of Dr. Mabuse, one of his films was recut by Giorgio Moroder, who added a rock
soundtrack, and in another Peter Lorre plays a child killer who whistles “In the Hall of the Mountain
King.” Most famous for a film that used smash-zoom during Freder’s search for the worker Maria, for 10
points, name this German director of M and Metropolis.
ANSWER: Fritz Lang

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 6 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #1
Round 7
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts
Her underwater photography is collected in Wonder under Water, and her most famous work chronicles
the 1934 Nazi Party Congress in Nuremberg. For 15 points, name this female German film director of
Triumph of the Will.
ANSWER: Leni Riefenstahl
Current Events
In April 2008, this country's national space program launched a record ten satellites at once. For 15
points, name this country, which became the sixth space program to plant a flag on the moon in
November 2008.
ANSWER: India
Geography
This country's largest city is home to a monument dedicated to Joaquin Olmedo, and its capital is
located on the lower slopes of the Pichincha volcano. For 15 points, name this South American country
that owns the Galápagos Islands.
ANSWER: Ecuador
History
He signed the Heligoland-Zanzibar treaty with Britain. For 15 points, name this man who succeeded
Bismarck as chancellor, and is the namesake of a Namibian strip of land.
ANSWER: Georg Leo von Caprivi [or Georg Leo Graf von Caprivi de Caprera de Montecuccoli; or Count
George Leo of Caprivi, Caprera, and Montecuccoli]
Literature
An unfinished epic about the members of this town was written by Jonathan Swift Somers, and its
inhabitants include Daisy Frazier, Lucinda Matlock, and Thomas Rhodes. For 15 points, name this
fictional Illinois town which appears in the title of an “anthology” Edgar Lee Masters.
ANSWER: Spoon River
Math Calculation
For 15 points, how many distinct permutations of the word VELVET exist?
ANSWER: 180 [6!/(2!)(2!)]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 7 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Mythology
He fell into the river Eridanus, which put out his fire, and the Heliades turned into poplar trees on his
grave. For 15 points, name this son of Helios and Clymene, who unwisely asked his father to be able to
drive his chariot for a day.
ANSWER: Phaëthon
Social Science
Near Kanapoi, the remains of this genus’ anamensis species were found. For 15 points, identify this
genus which also contains members such as afarensis and africanus.
ANSWER: Australopithecus

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 8 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #1
Round 7
Stretch Phase

15. In fluvial systems, this material is governed by a statement of the conservation of mass that relates
the transported and stationary type of this, the Exner equation. One type of this material is created by
gravitational collapse and is known as talus. Another type of this material stems from Aeolian forces and
is known as loess. Glaciers can create a type of this material called till, while the type dissolved in water
is known as runoff. For 10 points, name this matter made up of small particles that stems from erosion
and eventually settles in a solid layer.
ANSWER: sediment
This poem is addressed to the poet’s sister, Dorothy. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem that was written “on revisiting the banks of the Wye” in 1798, that begins “Five
years have past.”
ANSWER: “Lines Composed a few miles above Tintern Abbey, on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during
a Tour, July 13, 1798”
[10] This poet, who collaborated with Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads, wrote “Tintern Abbey.”
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
[10] In the Wordsworth poem “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud,” the speaker comes upon a host of these
“golden” flowers.
ANSWER: daffodils
16. This person was paired with “love” in the title of a work by Hannah Arendt. Near the end of his life,
he looked back on his writing in the book Reconsiderations. An opponent of both the Donatists and
Pelagians, this writer responded to Alaric’s sack of Rome by writing a book that contrasted Rome with
the titular metaphorical Jerusalem, The City of God. He described his upbringing by Monica and
conversion by Ambrose of Milan in another work. For 10 points, name this North African theologian who
died in 430 CE after writing his Confessions.
ANSWER: St. Augustine of Hippo [or Aurelius Augustinus]
Answer some questions related to properties of light, for 10 points each.
[10] It may be circular or elliptical, but many interesting optical phenomena are associated with the
plane type. This term denotes the manipulation of light waves to create oscillations in a cohesive
pattern.
ANSWER: polarization
[10] De Broglie supposed that all particles with momentum have one of these; for light, it is equal to the
speed of light over the frequency.
ANSWER: wavelength
[10] Dividing the product of this number, symbolized “h,” with the speed of light, by the wavelength,
gives the energy of light.
ANSWER: Planck's constant
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 9 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. This engagement was preceded by trickery of the slave Sicinnus, and it began after a war council at
Phaleron. One commander viewed this from Mount Egaleo, and the main fighting occurred between
Saint George Island and the Kynosoura Peninsula. Psyttaleia was captured by Aristides during this, and
the force stationed at Piraeus under Ariamenes and Artemesia lost to that of Eurybiades. For 10 points,
name this victory for the fleets of Themistocles over those of Xerxes, a 480 BCE naval battle of the
Persian Wars.
ANSWER: Battle of Salamis
He composed the early orchestral piece Fireworks, and his serial works include the song for soprano and
piano “The Owl and the Pussycat.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of Apollon Musagete and the ballet Petrushka, who is remembered for ballets
commissioned by Sergey Diaghilev.
ANSWER: Igor Feodorovich Stravinsky
[10] This other ballet by Stravinsky is divided into The Adoration of the Earth and The Sacrifice. It opens
with an ad libitum bassoon solo and uses polytonality.
ANSWER: The Rite of Spring (or Vesna svyashchennaya; or Le Sacre du Printemps]
[10] This work’s second movement has a fugal wind opening, and it is scored without violins or violas. It
is a three movement work with chorus setting the titular biblical texts.
ANSWER: The Symphony of Psalms
18. One character in this novel carries on an affair with a Polynesian man named Avihenna. A brother
and sister named Peter and Hazel become engaged to two of the central characters, though both
engagements are broken. One character’s brother, Dave, ran off with an Indian girl named Marie
Brantome. That union produced Adam Brant, who has an affair with Christine, who kills Ezra. For 10
points, name this play in which Orin commits suicide at the behest of Lavinia, a work about the Mannons
that is a retelling of the Orestia by Eugene O’Neill.
ANSWER: Mourning Becomes Electra
This man successfully negotiated for the life of Chiang Kai-Shek during the Xian Incident, and he later
attempted to restrain the Cultural Revolution. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Chinese Communist Party leader, who controlled Chinese foreign relations as the
premier of China from 1949 until his 1976 death.
ANSWER: Zhou Enlai
[10] Near the end of his life, Zhou successfully arranged the 1972 summit between Mao Zedong and this
U.S. President.
ANSWER: Richard Milhous Nixon
[10] Mao’s wife Jiang Qing was among this numeric group, who opposed Zhou’s associates Liu Shaoqi
and Deng Xiaoping during the Cultural Revolution.
ANSWER: the Gang of Four [or Sirenbang; or Ssujenpang]
19. He submitted a fugue that contained parallel fifths and ended on a chord with a major seventh,
which led to him being eliminated from contention for the Prix de Rome. One work by this composer
describes fin de siècle decadence, and is entitled La Valse. Another of his works, Piano Concerto for Land
Hand, was written for Paul Wittgenstein. This composer of a Pavane for a Dead Princess composed a
work that has a snare drum ostinato and features numerous instruments playing the same theme
repeatedly. For 10 points, name this composer of Bolero.
ANSWER: Joseph Maurice Ravel
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 10 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

They are necessary for converting substrates into products. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these biological catalysts, which include amylase and pepsin.
ANSWER: enzymes
[10] According to transition state theory, the intermediate in which the substrate is bound to the
enzyme typically occurs at the highest energy state of the reaction and is known by this two-word term.
ANSWER: activated complex
[10] This doubly-eponymous model of enzyme kinetics assumes that the rate of production of the
activated complex is constant.
ANSWER: Michaelis-Menten
20. Hans Giebenrath befriends Hermann Heilner and drowns after sinking into mental illness in one of
this author’s works, and another of his works tells of the title character’s prodding of Emil Sinclair to
spiritual realization; those works are Beneath the Wheel and Demian. Mozart judges one of this author’s
characters after he meets Pablo and stabs Hermine in the Magic Theater. This author wrote about
Joseph Knecht, who succeeds Thomas van der Trave as Magister Ludi. For 10 points, name this author
of The Glass Bead Game, Der Steppenwolf, and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
Name these people important in the revolt of the Spanish Netherlands, for 10 points each.
[10] The revolt was against the rule of this Catholic King of Spain. The son of Charles V, he married Mary
I of England and built the Escorial.
ANSWER: Philip II [prompt on "Philip"]
[10] The revolt was led by this stadtholder until his 1584 assassination by Balthasar Gerard.
ANSWER: William I, Prince of Orange [or William the Silent; prompt on "William"]
[10] The revolt arose in response to the harsh policies of this “iron duke” who ruled as Governor of the
Spanish Netherlands from 1567-1573 and established the Council of Blood.
ANSWER: Duke of Alba [accept Don Fernando Alvarez de Toledo y Pimentel]
21. This state’s governor during the Civil War was Zebulon Vance, and it was the site of a 1979 massacre
of members of the Communist Workers Party by the Ku Klux Klan and Nazis. Governor William Tryon
won the Battle of Alamance in this state, and during the Revolutionary War, it was the site of the Battle
of Guilford Courthouse. For 10 points, name this state that saw the Regulator Movement in the 1760s,
the Greensboro sit-ins in 1960, and is home to a place nicknamed the "Hornet's Nest" by Cornwallis, the
city of Charlotte.
ANSWER: North Carolina
Antanas drowns in the street, and Ona becomes a prostitute in this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this story of Jurgis Rudkus, which attracted the most attention for its graphic description of a
Chicago meat-packing plant.
ANSWER: The Jungle
[10] This author of Dragon's Teeth wrote The Jungle to advance his socialist views.
ANSWER: Upton Sinclair
[10] This Upton Sinclair novel, which The Believer magazine notably counted as using 1,539 exclamation
points, excluding the one in the title, was the basis for the film There Will be Blood.
ANSWER: Oil!
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 11 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

22. McBurney’s point becomes tender when this organ is inflamed. Creationists use the “absence” of
this organ in various non-mammals to argue for a flaw in evolution. It has been theorized to act as a
holding cell for new digestive bacteria, as inflammation of this organ is far more common in countries
with good health care. For 10 points, name this worm-shaped organ, long thought to be vestigial, whose
inflammation affects over half a million Americans each year.
ANSWER: (vermiform or cecal) appendix
This man told the river-god Asopus that he had seen Zeus carrying the god’s daughter Aegina away. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this king of Corinth who was sentenced to forever attempt to roll a rock up a hill in Hades.
ANSWER: Sisyphus
[10] This son of Sisyphus who also ruled Corinth fed his horses on human flesh until he was thrown from
his chariot and eaten by them.
ANSWER: Glaucus
[10] Glaucus died during the funeral games of this king of Iolcus, the uncle of Jason who sent him after
the golden fleece.
ANSWER: Pelias

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #1

Round 7

Page 12 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

