2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 10
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. In one of this artist's paintings, a naked two-headed woman stands on a rocky outcropping next to an
old man and his two sons, who are being attacked by snakes. That painting, Laocoon, shares a similar
dark sky with his painting St. Martin and the Beggar. In another of his paintings, a line of faces divides a
funeral procession from heaven, where angels assist the title character's soul as it ascends to Jesus. He
depicted the white buildings of his native city in his View of Toledo. For 10 points, name this painter of
The Burial of Count Orgaz, a Spanish Mannerist born on Crete.
ANSWER: El Greco [or Domenicos Theotokopolous]
Bonus: El Greco was not the only artist to paint a “View” of a city. For 10 points each:
[10] This artist of View of Delft produced transparency through applying paint in granular layers, and
created Girl with a Pearl Earring.
ANSWER: Jan Vermeer [or Johannes Vermeer]
[10] His View of Fort Putnam is not nearly as famous as his series The Course of Empire, or his study of
part of the Connecticut River, The Oxbow.
ANSWER: Thomas Cole
2. In special relativity this quantity’s four-vector includes an “energy over the speed of light” term, and
the time derivative of its expectation appears in the common form of Ehrenfest’s theorem. The fact that
this quantity does not commute with position gives rise to Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle. Newton’s
Second Law gives force as equal to the time derivative of this quantity, and it is conserved in both
inelastic and elastic collisions. For 10 points, name this quantity whose change is equal to impulse and
which is equal to mass times velocity.
ANSWER: linear momentum
Bonus: First modeled by Coulomb, it comes in static and kinetic varieties. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this force that resists the lateral movement of two objects.
ANSWER: friction
[10] The magnitude of friction is given in Coulomb’s model as equal to the coefficient of friction times
the magnitude of this force, the perpendicular force exerted by a surface.
ANSWER: normal force
3. One author from this country wrote about a Calcutec who discovers that a scientist in a laboratory
beneath a sewer installed a separate consciousness in his brain. Another author from this country wrote
a novel about a stuttering acolyte who burns down a religious building. The authors of Hard-Boiled
Wonderland and the End of the World and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion are from this country, the
setting of "In a Grove" and "Rashomon." For 10 points, name this island nation home to Murakami
Haruki, Mishima Yukio, and Akutagawa Ryunosuke.
ANSWER: Japan

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: This work imagines a "sea of faith" that is ebbing. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem that ends with the image of ignorant armies clashing by night on a darkling plain,
written by Matthew Arnold.
ANSWER: "Dover Beach"
[10] The post-apocalyptic novel On the Beach was written by Nevil Schute, an author from this country
whose other novelists include the author of Voss, Patrick White.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
4. Arnold of Brescia was a 12th-century monk who helped establish a commune that ruled this city for a
time and allied with the Ghibellines, and it was once ruled by a man named Lando who led the
“Pornocracy.” This city won the Samnite Wars and defeated Jugurtha in North Africa, and it fought
against its own allies during the Social War. It was defeated at the Battles of Lake Trasimine and Cannae
by its greatest rival, against whom it fought three wars. For 10 points, name this home town of Claudius
and Julius Caesar, the center of a namesake empire.
ANSWER: Rome [or Roma]
Bonus: This nation was the site of the miracle of the Marne in World War I, which led to much of the
war's "Western Front" being located here. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country whose "fifth republic" was first led by Charles de Gaulle, and which was home to
the Vichy Republic in World War II.
ANSWER: France
[10] This first Jewish and Socialist French premier spearheaded the creation of the anti-Fascist Popular
Front.
ANSWER: Leon Blum
5. This man stated that the vestiges of sentiments can be observed in residues in his theory of
nonrational motivation, and he stated that upper classes in society hold non-rational authority over the
lower classes by using rationalizing derivations. The formulator of the theory of the circulation of the
elites, this author of Mind and Society introduced the use of indifference curves. For 10 points, name
this Italian social scientist whose namesake optimality occurs when the welfare of one individual cannot
be improved without reducing the welfare of another.
ANSWER: Vilfredo Pareto
Bonus: For 10 points each, name the following psychological experiments that examined the human
potential for harming others.
[10] In this 1963 experiment at Yale, the namesake psychologist tested whether people would be willing
to obey commands to shock another person with electricity. He discovered that they were.
ANSWER: Stanley Milgram Experiment
[10] In this experiment, kids watched an adult beat up the namesake toy. Then, kids were put into a
room with a similar toy, to see if they would copy the adults and beat it up too. They did.
ANSWER: Bobo Doll Experiment [prompt on Albert Bandura’s experiment]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This protein consists of two identical heavy chains, two regulatory light chains, and two essential light
chains. Each heavy chain contains an alpha helix in the neck region, which associates with the light
chains, as well as a tail domain and a globular head domain. This molecule forms the A band of the
sarcomere. When ATP is hydrolyzed, this protein’s head changes shape and dissociates from an actin
filament. For 10 points, name this protein that, along with actin, is responsible for the sliding-filament
model of muscle contraction.
ANSWER: myosin
Bonus: In addition to the A band, the sarcomere contains the I band, which stretches on each side of this
line to the ends of the myosin filaments. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this desmin-containing “disk,” which makes the sarcomeres line up correctly.
ANSWER: Z disk [accept Z line]
[10] Muscle fibers also contain this structure, which associates with T-tubules and stores calcium ions.
ANSWER: sarcoplasmic reticulum
7. This country was home to a cult known as the Skoptzy, whose members castrated themselves. After
the reforms of Bishop Nikon, Christians in this country were split over how many fingers should be used
to make the Sign of the Cross, with two fingers used by the “Old Believers.” Jews in this country were
once required to live in the “Pale of Settlement.” Famous churches here include St. Basil’s Cathedral,
known for its many Onion Domes. For 10 points, name this country, whose own Orthodox Church is
based in Moscow.
ANSWER: Russia
Bonus: Name the following concepts from Buddhism, for 10 points each.
[10] The goal of Buddhism is to reach this state, in which one breaks free of the cycle of birth and
rebirth.
ANSWER: Nirvana
[10] Sometimes, Buddhists will hold off on achieving Nirvana and let themselves be reborn, so as to help
others achieve enlightenment. Mahayana Buddhism uses this term for such figures.
ANSWER: bodhisattvas
8. This country’s war for independence was sparked by such affronts as the Tenth Penny tax and the
Council of Blood. That war saw its Sea Beggars come to the aid of a leader later assassinated by
Balthasar Gerard, William the Silent. For centuries, its namesake East India Company ruled from a city
called Batavia over Indonesia. This country also colonized Bonaire, Curacao, Suriname, and Aruba, and
its settlers became the Boers of South Africa. For 10 points, name this country, the homeland of Anne
Frank, whose inhabitants like to build dikes.
ANSWER: the Netherlands
Bonus: This nation was the site of the Carlist Wars. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, in which the 1700 death of Charles II, its last Hapsburg king, sparked a war over
[its] succession.
ANSWER: Spain [or Espana]
[10] This series of treaties ended the War of Spanish Succession. It gave Britain the asiento policy to use
Spanish colonies for slave traders, and made Philip V the successor.
ANSWER: Treaties of Utrecht
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 10
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 10
Category Quiz Tossups

9. To the north of this region is at-Tinah Gulf, and ancient cities in this region included Pelusium. The
Giddi and Mitla passes of this region have been of military importance, and oil was first discovered in
this region at Mount Tanakah. The Wadi al-Arish dominates the northeastern part of this region, whose
Ras Mohammed National Park is a popular tourist destination. Home to Taha, Dahab, Sharm ash-Sheikh,
and St. Catherine's Monastery, for 10 points, name this Egyptian peninsula known for a namesake
Biblical mountain.
ANSWER: Sinai Peninsula [or Shibh Jazirat Sina']
10. This effect causes Kirchoff’s loop rule to fail, as it is merely a special case of another rule governing
this effect. Motors based on this effect are based on the concept of eddy currents. The result of this
effect must be in the opposite direction of its cause by Lenz’s Law. The most common law governing
this effect states that the emf is equal to the time derivative of magnetic flux and is known as Faraday’s
Law. For 10 points, name this effect in which a magnetic field acting on a conductor causes current to
flow.
ANSWER: electromagnetic induction
11. This man first brought Zhao Ziyang to prominence, then had him purged, and he served as
commissar to Liu Bocheng. He formed a political alliance with Liu Shaoqi, and he later won a power
struggle with Hua Guofeng, who had rehabilitated this man after he was purged after Zhou Enlai’s
death. A supporter of pragmatic economic policies, he introduced “socialism with Chinese
characteristics,” though late in his career he put down the Tiananmen Square protests. For 10 points,
name this man who became the de facto leader of China following the death of Mao.
ANSWER: Deng Xiaoping
12. This play is the basis for W.H. Auden's The Sea and the Mirror. One speech in this play begins "our
revels now are ended" before claiming "we are such stuff as dreams are made on." One character
remains unseen while repeating "thou liest" to the drunken Trinculo and Stefano, who scheme with the
son of the witch Sycorax. In this play, Alonso, the King of Naples, searches for his son Ferdinand, who
falls in love with Miranda. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play featuring Caliban and Prospero, set
on an island after a shipwreck.
ANSWER: The Tempest

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

13. Twenty-two members of this profession were fired in 1999 during a miscalculated labor action led by
Richie Phillips. Notable ones included Ron Luciano, who wrote five books about this career, and Cy
Rigler, who invented their system of hand signals. One of them, John Hirschbeck, was spat upon by
Roberto Alomar, and Tom Connolly and Bill Klem were the first to enter the Hall of Fame. Six of them are
used for the World Series, but, for 10 points, during the regular-season, four of what officials make safe
and out calls in Major League Baseball games?
ANSWER: MLB umpires
14. This work’s composer once compared it unfavorably to Sylvia, and it includes a movement in which
one protagonist carouses with his teacher Wolfgang and friend Benno. The first act includes the “Dance
with Goblets” at a court, but more famous are a pas de deux and the nationalistic dances representing
women courting Prince Siegfried. Siegfried dies after accidentally pledging himself to the daughter of the
evil von Rothbart, who had put a curse on the woman he fell in love with, Odette. For 10 points, name
this Tchaikovsky ballet in which a beautiful girl is turned into the titular bird.
ANSWER: Swan Lake

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 10
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: His Color Numeral series complements a more important print series, The Seasons. He may be
better known for a Map of the United States visible under a lot of red, yellow, and blue paint. For 15
points, name this artist who also painted the American flag in many contexts.
ANSWER: Jasper Johns
Current Events: This person was stalked by a man who jumped over a fence at a Dancing with the Stars
shoot. For 15 points, name this gymnast who won gold on the balance beam and silver to American
teammate Nastia Liukin at the 2008 Olympics.
ANSWER: Shawn Machel Johnson
Geography: Cities on this peninsula include Humptulips, Port Townsend and Port Angeles, and it is
separated from Kitsap County by the Hood Canal. For 15 points, name this Northwestern peninsula.
ANSWER: Olympic Peninsula
History: This organization used the symbol of a black Aztec eagle. For 15 points, name this union that
organized migrant workers in many strikes against grape and vegetable growers, which was led by Cesar
Chavez.
ANSWER: United Farm Workers
Literature: Its last three words are all “shantih,” and in “The Burial of the Dead,” we learn that Madame
Sorostris had a bad cold. For 15 points, name this T.S. Eliot poem beginning “April is the cruellest
month.”
ANSWER: The Waste Land
Math Calculation: For 15 points, given an unknown function star, if 6 star 3 is 33, 10 star 7 is 93, and 8
star 13 is 51, then what is the value of 9 star 5?
ANSWER: 76 [a star b equals a squared minus b]
Mythology: It tells of the evil demon Zipacna, and ends with the defeat of the lord of Xibalba by the
Hero Twins. For 15 points, name this most famous religious text of the Mayans.
ANSWER: Popol Vuh
Social Science: Giffen goods are classified as a type of this kind of good, as their demand decreases as
consumer income increases, giving it a negative elasticity of demand. For 15 points, name this type of
economic good, often contrasted with normal goods.
ANSWER: inferior good

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 10
Stretch Phase

15. This compound used to be manufactured with the use of a nitrogen dioxide catalyst, though a
vanadium oxide catalyst is now more common. It can be used as a desiccant, as its reaction with water
is highly exothermic and may release enough energy to boil the water. The lead-chamber process has
been replaced by the contact process as the most common method for producing this compound, the
most synthesized industrial chemical in the United States. For 10 points, name this acid produced by
adding water to sulfur trioxide.
ANSWER: sulfuric acid [or H2SO4]
Bonus: She collaborated with Langston Hughes on Mule Bone and described life in an all-black Florida
town in "How It Feels to Be Colored Me." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Harlem Renaissance author of Mules and Men and a book in which Tea Cake gets rabies
during the Okeechobee Hurricane of 1928.
ANSWER: Zora Neale Hurston
[10] Name that novel in which Janie shoots Tea Cake and returns to Eatonville, having married and
gotten rid of Logan Killicks and Joe Starks along the way.
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God
[10] In this Hurston novel, John Pearson's career as a preacher is ruined by his promiscuous sexual
relationships.
ANSWER: Jonah's Gourd Vine
16. This god was the father of the Argonaut Nauplios by the Danaid Amymone, and his seduction of
Iphimedeia produced two giants that imprisoned Ares in a bronze jar before being outwitted by Artemis
and killing each other, Otus and Ephialtes. Zeus allowed this man to sleep with Eurynome; that union
produced a hero that would slay the Chimera, Bellerophon. In some myths he is the father of Theseus.
For 10 points, name this Greek god whose wife Amphitrite presumably minded his dalliances with
mortal women less than Hera did, the Greek god of the sea.
ANSWER: Poseidon
Bonus: Gregory of Tours chronicled the life of this man, who converted to Christianity on the advice of
his wife Clothild. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this founder of the Merovingian Dynasty.
ANSWER: Clovis I [or Chlodovocar]
[10] Clovis was a king of this Germanic people, and extended their possessions south of the Loire River.
They lend their name to a modern-day country.
ANSWER: Franks
[10] Another king of the Franks was this son of Pepin the Short, who founded the Carolingian Dynasty
and is considered the first Holy Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles Magnus]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. The death of the fourth ruler of this name led to a power struggle between Mihnea the Evildoer and
Radu the Great. The third ruler of this name was a hostage at the court of sultan Murad II. The second
ruler of this name joined Holy Roman Emperor Sigismund’s chivalric society, the Order of the Dragon. All
of those figures served as voivode of Walachia, including the third, known as “Tepes” for his brutal
methods of execution. For 10 points, “Dracula” and “The Impaler” were also nicknames given to kings of
what name, who ruled in present-day Romania?
ANSWER: Vlad
Bonus: Members of this school, which included Melissus of Samos, rejected sense data. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this philosophical school founded by a man who believed in a single eternal “being,”
Parmenides.
ANSWER: Eleatic school [or Eleaticism]
[10] The Eleatic school also included this philosopher, known for paradoxes such as “Achilles and the
tortoise” and one that claimed a flying arrow was motionless.
ANSWER: Zeno of Elea [do not accept “Zeno of Citium”]
[10] An unrelated Zeno of Citium founded this moral philosophy, which extolled virtue above all else,
and whose later followers included Epictetus and Marcus Aurelius.
ANSWER: stoicism
18. This artist composed variations on Gluck's "Unser dummer Pöbel meint" and "Salve tu, Domine."
This composer imitated the song of a starling in a sextet whose score is rife with incorrect notes, A
Musical Joke, and dedicated six string quartets to Joseph Haydn, the last of which is nicknamed
"Dissonance." He abandoned his unfinished opera Zaide to compose Idomeneo, and his works are
catalogued by Kochel numbers. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Prague, Haffner, and
Jupiter symphonies, as well as Eine Kleine Nachtmusik and The Magic Flute.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Bonus: This type of data structure comes in a “binary search” variety. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of data structure consisting of a set of linked nodes. Graphs that contain multiple
ones are sometimes dubbed “forests.”
ANSWER: trees
[10] One way to “traverse” a tree implements this type of “first in, first out” data structure, often used
to model people waiting in line.
ANSWER: queues
[10] One type of self-balancing binary search tree was named by Guibas and Sedgewick for the fact that
every node has the property of being either this color or black.
ANSWER: red [accept red-black binary search tree]
19. This poet described the title instruments scattering congregations and accompanying bugles in his
"Beat! Beat! Drums!" In one of this author's poems, the speaker becomes "tired and sick" and looks "up
in the perfect silence of the stars" after hearing "the learned astronomer." This author of "A Noiseless
Patient Spider" celebrated the human body in "I Sing the Body Electric," and described a ship that "has
weather'd every rack" in a tribute poem about Lincoln's death. For 10 points, name this poet of "O
Captain, My Captain!" and Leaves of Grass.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: It came to power after winning the 1185 naval battle of Dan-no-ura, concluding the Genpei War.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese shogunate, dominated by the Morimoto family, which ruled until the Kemmu
Restoration brought the Ashikaga to power.
ANSWER: Kamakura Shogunate
[10] A hundred years into the rule of the Kamakura Shogunate, these “divine winds” scuttled a Mongol
invasion fleet. This name was later used for suicide pilots during World War II.
ANSWER: kamikaze
[10] The Mongols launched their Japanese invasion fleets from China, which they ruled after Kublai Khan
established this dynasty.
ANSWER: Yuan Dynasty
20. In 1977, this object was discovered to have a faint ring system when scientists on Earth observed it
occulting a star. An irregularity in this object’s orbit was noticed by the French astronomer Urbain Le
Verrier, who used that fact to predict the existence of one of this object’s neighbors. Some scientists
believe that this planet was struck by an Earth-sized object early in its history, which could explain why it
is tilted 97 degrees and thus is almost completely on its side. For 10 points, name this planet discovered
by William Herschel, which is between Saturn and Neptune.
ANSWER: Uranus
Bonus: This piece begins with twelve chords representing a clock tolling midnight. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composition, which uses a xylophone to represent the sound of skeletons moving to a
waltz played by Death.
ANSWER: Danse Macabre
[10] Danse Macabre was composed by this French composer, who also created Carnival of the Animals.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saens
[10] Saint-Saens also composed this opera. It includes the aria Mon coeur s’ouvre à ta voix and a
bacchanale, and one title character betrays the other at the end of the Act II by cutting his hair.
ANSWER: Samson et Delilah [or Samson and Delilah]
21. This author wrote about two will-o-the-wisps that pay a ferryman with gold for crossing a river in his
fairy tale "The Green Snake and the Beautiful Lily." This author's play Gotz von Berlichingen was an early
work of the Sturm und Drang movement, and Thomas Carlyle translated many of this author's works
into English, including Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship. This author wrote an epistolary novel whose
title character shoots himself because Charlotte is betrothed to Albert. For 10 points, name this German
author of The Sorrows of Young Werther and Faust.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Lucky kicks one character in the shin, and that character’s feet hurt because his boots do not fit.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which Vladimir and Estragon chat and play games to pass the time as they
undertake the title activity.
ANSWER: Waiting for Godot
[10] This playwright of Waiting for Godot also wrote a work that occurs on the title character’s sixtyninth birthday, Krapp’s Last Tape.
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett
[10] In this Beckett work, the legless Nagg and Nell argue constantly, and Clov must serve the blind and
bedridden Hamm.
ANSWER: Endgame
22. He lobbied for a bill to avenge the mistreatment of Irish-American prisoners after he was captured at
Queenston Heights, and he was victorious at Chippewa and Lundy’s Lane. He led American forces at
Cerro Gordo and Mexico City, and initiated the amphibious landing at Veracruz. He also developed the
Anaconda Plan for the North during the Civil War, and lost to Franklin Pierce in the 1852 presidential
election. For 10 points, name this American general known as “Old Fuss and Feathers.”
ANSWER: Winfield Scott
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer some questions related to a thermodynamic law.
[10] This law states that the heat given off or absorbed in a reaction is independent of the path of the
reaction or the number of steps it involves and is useful in calculating heats of formation.
ANSWER: Hess’s law
[10] The Law of Dulong and Petit states that this quantity is a constant for an element. It gives the ratio
of the heat absorbed by a material to its change in temperature.
ANSWER: heat capacity
[10] This other, similar quantity equals the ratio of the heat necessarily to a raise a material’s
temperature one degree to the heat needed to raise an equal mass of water by one degree.
ANSWER: specific heat capacity

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 10
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. In this work, the peat digger Haie Westhus aspires to be a village policeman, and the locksmith and
bedwetter Tjaden is the first to get revenge on the tyrannical Himmelstoss. The main character's mother
undergoes cancer treatment at Luisa Hospital. “Kat” Katczinsky serves as a father figure to the younger
troops in this novel, whose main character is traumatized after stabbing a French soldier in a foxhole.
For 10 points, name this novel about Paul Baumer's experiences during World War I, by Erich Maria
Remarque.
ANSWER: All Quiet on the Western Front [or Im Westen nichts Neues]
2. He wrote a letter on the death of Valentine Walton and put down a Scottish revolt with victories at
Dunbar and Worcester. His massacres at Drogheda and Wexford created a lifelong enmity with the Irish
people, and he dissolved the Rump Parliament and established the Barebones Parliament upon his
return to England. He gained the nickname “Old Ironsides” with victories at Marsten Moor and Naseby
as leader of the New Model Army. For 10 points, name this Lord Protector who ruled England from 1653
to 1658.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell
3. Structures involved in processing this sense include the lateral geniculate nucleus and the superior
colliculus. The main organ of this sense contains amacrine cells, which synapse with bipolar and
ganglion cells. This sense is carried via cranial nerve II, and receptors for this sense contain opsins like
iodopsin and rhodopsin. Lasix surgery corrects one problem with this sense, as can contact lenses or
glasses. For 10 points, name this sense whose receptors are rods and cones.
ANSWER: sight [or clear knowledge equivalents like vision or seeing]
Extra 20-point bonus:
For 10 points each, name these operas with hellish endings.
[10] The title character murders the Commendatore and fails to seduce Anna, Zerlina, and Elvira in this
opera that ends with the Commendatore’s statue dragging him to hell.
ANSWER: Don Giovanni
[10] This Gounod opera sees Marguerite imprisoned for killing her child after the title character
abandons her for a life of devilish debauchery.
ANSWER: Faust

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
Particles in them are arranged in an orderly pattern, types of which include “face-centered cubic” and
“body-centered cubic.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these solid structures.
ANSWER: crystals
[10] This is the amount of energy needed to remove an atom from a crystal, or to separate it entirely
into gaseous ions.
ANSWER: lattice energy
[10] In addition to face-centered cubic, this other crystal structure has the maximum packing efficiency
of around seventy-four percent. It is exhibited by metals such as zinc and cobalt.
ANSWER: hexagonal close packed [or hcp]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 10

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

