2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 5
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. In one of this author's plays, the audience receives a handbill upon entering the theater that states
the number of acts cannot be specified because of potential incidents that may arise during its
performance. In addition to Each in His Own Way, he wrote a play about a man who claims to be a Holy
Roman Emperor after falling off his horse on the way to a ball, Henry IV. In one of his plays, a rehearsal
of Mixing it Up is interrupted by the Father, the Mother, the Stepdaughter, the Son, and the Boy. For 10
points, name this Italian playwright of Six Characters in Search of an Author.
ANSWER: Luigi Pirandello
Bonus: The Fire Chief mentions the title character in passing. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this absurdist play about the Martins and the Smiths, one of whom notes that the title
character "always wears her hair in the same style."
ANSWER: The Bald Soprano [or The Bald Prima Donna; or La Cantatrice Chauve]
[10] This Romanian-French playwright wrote The Bald Soprano as well as The Killer, which features his
recurring character Bérenger, the protagonist of his play Rhinoceros.
ANSWER: Eugène Ionesco
2. One disease affecting this organ results from increased permeability in one of its basement
membranes and is called minimal change disease. One major hormone secreted from this organ
participates in a regulation system with angiotensin and aldosterone. One structure in this organ allows
small ions to pass through but filters out platelets and protein, and this organ’s loop of Henle helps
concentrate urine. For 10 points, name this organ, whose basic functional unit is the nephron.
ANSWER: kidneys
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these osmoregulatory structures of other organisms.
[10] Insects use these “tubules” named after a seventeenth-century Italian biologist.
ANSWER: Malpighian tubules
[10] Some protists have this specialized type of vacuole that allows them to pump out excess water.
ANSWER: contractile vacuole
3. The Macedonian Heresy was condemned at the Council of Constantinople because of views on this
figure. The filioque clause controversy between the Orthodox and Catholic churches is a dispute over
where this figure comes from. In the Bible, this figure is depicted as giving the power to speak in tongues
after causing fire to appear over the heads of the Apostles at the first Pentecost. Its role is to help
people lead a Christian life on Earth. For 10 points, name this third person of the Trinity that is not the
Father or the Son.
ANSWER: the Holy Spirit [or Holy Ghost; or Spiritus Sanctus]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: She replaces Vashti as the wife of Ahasuerus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this namesake of an Old Testament book, whose bravery in saving the Jews is celebrated at
Purim.
ANSWER: Esther
[10] This advisor to Ahasuerus, who has his name overshadowed by Graggers on Purim, ends up hanging
on his own gallows after his plot to massacre the Jews fails.
ANSWER: Haman
4. Apollodorus of Damascus designed a new forum during this emperor's rule, and this emperor sent
Pliny the Younger to Bithynia to review corruption there. He ended the independence of the kingdom of
Nabatea, and conquered the city of Sarmizegatusa after a war with Decebalus, which earned this
emperor the title of Dacicus. Dying while returning from a campaign in Parthia, he was the adopted son
of Nerva. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor, the namesake of a column in Rome.
ANSWER: Trajan [or Marcus Ulpius Traianus]
Bonus: It was represented by Karl von Hardenburg at the Congress of Vienna. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this European state that defeated Austria in the Seven Weeks' War.
ANSWER: Prussia [or Preusen]
[10] The Peace of Oliva saw this king, who reigned from 1640-1688, known as the "Great Elector,"
become the first Prussian duke to rule without the suzerainty of Poland.
ANSWER: Frederick William [or Friedrich Wilhelm]
5. This artist recorded the albums Sorcerer and Nefertiti with his second quintet, which included Ron
Hancock, Tony Williams, Wayne Shorter, and Herbie Hancock. He collaborated with Gil Evans on an
album based on Rodrigo's Concerto De Aranjuez for Guitar and Orchestra, Sketches of Spain. This
musician fused jazz and rock on Bitches Brew, and recorded the songs "Freddie Freeloader" and "So
What" for an album that pioneered modal jazz. For 10 points, name this jazz trumpeter who recorded
Kind of Blue.
ANSWER: Miles Davis
Bonus: For 10 points each, name this Ingmar Bergman films.
[10] In this film, Max von Sydow plays a knight returned from the Crusades, who stakes his life on a
chess game against Death.
ANSWER: The Seventh Seal
[10] Isak Borg undergoes a journey of self-discovery while on the way to Lund University in this film.
ANSWER: Wild Strawberries
6. Immanuel Kant noted that because Eskimos are dependent upon the ocean to provide them with
wood, this phenomenon is widespread in their society. In International Relations Theory, realists reject a
theory which states that the spread of democracy and trade leads to this, and instead argue that it is
caused by deterrence. The Mongol and Roman Empires are sometimes credited with creating namesake
periods of this because of their overwhelming power. For 10 points, name this phenomenon marked by
the absence of war.
ANSWER: peace
Bonus: This process is the subject of both Condorcet’s paradox and Arrow’s Impossibility Theorem, and
it can come in Single Transferable or List varieties. For 10 points each:
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

[10] Name this basic activity of democracy, which was guaranteed to former slaves by the 15th
amendment.
ANSWER: voting
[10] In this process, named for the Revolutionary War-era governor of Massachusetts, Congressional
districts are drawn to blatantly favor one party, which can dilute voting power.
ANSWER: gerrymandering
7. The first building in this city was the Peter and Paul Fortress, and it was once governed by Sergei
Kirov. Historical ships moored in this city include the cruiser Aurora. This city’s Church of the Savior on
Spilled Blood was built after an assassination in this city, which survived a nine-hundred-day Nazi siege
during World War II. This home of the Winter Palace was renamed “Petrograd” in 1904, but another
name change followed after it was the site of the October Revolution. For 10 points, name this second
largest city of Russia, formerly known as Leningrad.
ANSWER: Saint Petersburg [or Sankt Petersburg; or Leningrad or Petrograd until mentioned]
Bonus: He was defeated at the 48 BC Battle of Pharsalus, while his son was dealt his final defeat at 45
BC’s Battle of Munda. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this member of the First Triumvirate, the archrival of Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]
[10] Before entering into a civil war with Julius Caesar, Pompey obliterated this defiant king of Pontus.
He had earlier fought against the forces of Sulla.
ANSWER: Mithridates the Great [or Mithridates VI; prompt on Mithridates]
8. A filter has this property if no additional frequencies are added to a signal passing through it. A
system has this property if, for any inputs x1 and x2, T of c times x1 equals c times T of x1 and T of x1 plus
x2 equals T of x1 plus T of x2. A basis is formed from a set of vectors that are independent in this way,
and all functions of first degree have this property. For 10 points, name this property that is exhibited
by functions of the form y = mx+b.
ANSWER: linearity
Bonus: Solutions to systems of linear equations can be found by computing the determinant of square
types of them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these representations which consist of M rows and N columns.
ANSWER: matrix [or matrices]
[10] Instead of solving an entire system of equations at once, one can use this useful rule to solve for
individual variables by finding the determinants.
ANSWER: Cramer's rule

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 5
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 5
Category Quiz Tossups

9. 1908 saw the assassination of this nation’s King Charles I; in 1385, John I founded this nation’s Aviz
dynasty. This nation’s final monarch, Manuel II, was overthrown in 1910, and for much of the next
century its Estado Novo was led by the dictator António Salazar. Centuries earlier, this nation
experienced a golden age in which Pedro Cabral and Vasco de Gama helped realize the maritime empire
envisioned by Prince Henry the Navigator. For 10 points, name this European country that shares the
Iberian Peninsula with Spain.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic, or República Portuguesa]
10. In addition to causing the retrieval of v-SNARE proteins, the coat protein COP I targets proteins for
this organelle, while COP II targets proteins exiting this organelle. The common sequence KDEL marks
proteins for retention in this organelle, and most proteins synthesized in one type of this organelle
undergo glycosylation. Ribosomes are present on the surface of one type of this organelle. For 10
points, name this organelle that comes in rough and smooth forms and provides a transport network
throughout the cell.
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [accept ER]
11. One author who wrote in this language told of a man named after John Chrysostom in his novels The
Filibustering and Noli Me Tangere. Another author who wrote in this language told of a man who
beheads a horse and locks his father in a close to die of rabies in The Family of Pascal Duarte. In addition
to Rizal and Cela, another author in this language wrote "Tonight I can write the saddest lines," and
began "this is the hour of departure" at the beginning of his "Song of Despair." For 10 points, name this
language, the native tongue of Pablo Neruda.
ANSWER: Spanish [accept español]
12. One piece in this work represents pale light radiated from skulls by adapting this suite's opening
theme to a minor key. Another ends with four measures played "velocissimo" and "con tutta forza" to
represent the cry of a dwarf walking on deformed legs. In addition to "Con Mortuis in Lingua Mortua"
and "The Gnome," this suite includes a piece which represents the flight of Baba Yaga, "The Hut on
Fowl's Legs." It includes "Promenades" representing the composer walking to view the paintings of
Victor Hartmann. For 10 points, name this suite by Modest Mussorgsky.
ANSWER: Pictures of an Exhibition [or Pictures at an Exhibition; or Pictures from an Exhibition]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

13. In this movie, a man offers cold bottles of Coca Cola to the main character and his brother, and that
brother claims, "babies pay double" when he is employed to pick up orphans off the street. Later, the
main character is told to look on Cherry Street after giving a blind singer $100, and when there, his
brother kills Maman. The main character works as a chai wallah, and makes a random guess that Aramis
was the third musketeer after calling Latikah. For 10 points, name this Danny Boyle movie in which
Jamal Malik wins 20 million rupees on an Indian gameshow, starring Dev Patel.
ANSWER: Slumdog Millionaire
14. The Sieg joins this river at Niederkassel, and the Neckar joins it after flowing past Heidelburg and
Mannheim, where it turns west. The Battle of Teutoburg Forest established it as the Roman northern
frontier, and its namesake crisis occurred when Adolphe Thiers discussed making it a border. Its delta
begins to form shortly before Arnheim. The Treaty of Versailles declared the area around it a
demilitarized zone, and it flows past Bonn and Cologne on its way to the North Sea. For 10 points, name
this river of West Germany.
ANSWER: Rhine River

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 5
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: This composer's piece Vexations inspired John Cage's 4'33". For 15 points, name this French
composer who mentored Les Six and used no bar lines in his Gnossiennes and Gymnopedies.
ANSWER: Erik Satie
Current Events: This man beat such Republican opponents as Mark Augusti and Tom Hanson to win his
Fifth District seat in Illinois. For 15 points, name this man who currently serves as Barack Obama’s
White House Chief of Staff.
ANSWER: Rahm Israel Emmanuel
Geography: Features of this island include the Barisan Mountains, and large cities include Medan and
Palembang. For 15 points, name this island of Indonesia separated from the Malay Peninsula by the
Strait of Malacca.
ANSWER: Sumatra
History: This author of the Tamworth Manifesto of the Conservative Party lent his name to a group of
moderate Tories that united in opposition to the Corn Laws. For 15 points, name this two-time British
prime minister, who lent his first name to the “Bobbies” of the London Metropolitan Police.
ANSWER: Sir Robert Peel
Literature: He drew on his time at Leoncio Prado Military Academy to write The Time of the Hero. For 15
points, name this Peruvian writer who interspersed an autobiographical relationship with the mental
deterioration of Pedro Camacho in Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
ANSWER: Mario Vargas Llosa
Math Calculation: A square is formed by increasing a rectangle’s length by 40 percent and decreasing its
width by 40 percent. For 15 points, find the minimum positive integer value of the original width.
ANSWER: 7
Mythology: This god was worshiped by the Hyksos, who banned hippopotamus hunting because the
hippo was sacred to him. For 15 points, name this Egyptian god of chaos, who killed Osiris.
ANSWER: Seth [accept Sutekh; accept Setech]
Social Science: According to this book, the "call to adventure" and "road of trials" are the first two
stages of the primitive monomyth, from which all legends and myths can be traced. For15 points, name
this work of comparative mythology by Joseph Campbell.
ANSWER: The Hero with a Thousand Faces

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 5
Stretch Phase

15. The Rakhine people of this modern day country were conquered by Bowdapaya of the Konbaung
dynasty. The third of their namesake wars with Britain saw the defeat of King Thibaw Min. One person
from this country founded the Tatmadaw and fought against the Japanese during World War II, but was
assassinated in 1947. That man was the father of Aung San Suu Kyi, who is currently imprisoned by its
military junta. For 10 points, name this Asian country with capital at Rangoon.
ANSWER: Burma [or Union of Myanmar]
Bonus: Name the following Shakespearean characters who share a common means of death, for 10
points each.
[10] This supposedly mad prince of Denmark is stabbed after Claudius gets Laertes to take vengeance for
Polonius' death.
ANSWER: Hamlet
[10] After killing Mercutio, this Capulet is killed by an enraged Romeo, leading to Romeo’s exile and
eventual death.
ANSWER: Tybalt
[10] This king is assured that no man born of woman will hurt him, though apparently the assurance did
not apply to men born via Caesaerean section.
ANSWER: Macbeth
16. In one of this man's novels, the narrator is forced to shoot a dachshund "immobilized by dropsical
fat" that belongs to Resi. Many of his short stories were collected in Bagombo Snuff Box, and he wrote a
novel in which a race of furry, seal-like beings replaces humans after an apocalypse, Galapagos. This
author also wrote a novel about Malachi Constant's journey to a moon of Saturn, and a novel about a
man "unstuck in time," Billy Pilgrim. For 10 points, name this author of The Sirens of Titan and
Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut
Bonus: The Hirsch and Büchner varieties of this device can be used in vacuum filtration applications. For
10 points each:
[10] Name these devices consisting of a pipe with narrow stem and wide mouth, which prevent spillage
of liquids and powders when they are poured.
ANSWER: funnel
[10] Unlike the Florence flask, this other piece of laboratory glassware possesses a flat, circular base and
a cylindrical neck.
ANSWER: Erlenmeyer flask
[10] In this chemical technique, a mixture consisting of a compound and an impurity is separated by
dissolving the mixture in a solvent and slowly cooling the solution to retrieve the compound.
ANSWER: recrystallization
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. Apart from being the god of war, Hadur is the god of this in Hungarian paganism. The Norse god of
this is Wayland, and the goose-riding Visvakarma is the Hindu god of it. The Finnish god of this created
the sampo, or mill of plenty, and is named Ilmarinen. The Greek god of this created Pandora out of dirt,
and once spent nine days and nights falling from Mount Olympus. That god was married to Aphrodite
despite being lame, and created the shield of Aeneas. For 10 points, name this role played by
Hephaestus, which involves making things from heated metals.
ANSWER: smithery [accept clear equivalents like divine smiths; accept copper smithery before “Norse”;
accept early metalworking or equivalents]
Bonus: This candidate ran on the slogan "Shall the People Rule?" in the 1908 presidential election. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this candidate, who lost that election to William Howard Taft.
ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan
[10] In this election, Bryan won the Democratic nomination by giving the Cross of Gold speech, but lost
to William McKinley.
ANSWER: Election of 1896
[10] Bryan gave the popular lectures "The Value of an Ideal" and "The Prince of Peace" for this adult
education movement that began in New York in the late 19th century.
ANSWER: Chautaqua
18. This man’s paper “On the Influence of Carbonic Acid in the Air Upon the Temperature on the
Ground” is considered an early formulation of the greenhouse effect. He used the example of cane
sugar in a paper deriving his namesake equation from the van’t Hoff equation. This man defined an acid
as a substance that increases the hydrogen ion concentration of a solution. For 10 points, name this
Swedish chemist, whose namesake equation includes a pre-exponential factor and gives the reaction
rate constant as a function of temperature and activation energy.
ANSWER: Svante Arrhenius
Bonus: In the lower left, a woman shields her face from this painting's central event. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting housed at Jefferson Medical College, which depicts the title doctor performing
an operation while rows of students watch.
ANSWER: The Gross Clinic
[10] The Gross Clinic was painted by this American artist, who painted a portrait of his friend Walt
Whitman, and depicted many naked boys in The Swimming Hole.
ANSWER: Thomas Eakins
[10] This earlier artist also depicted a medical procedure in his Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp. His other
secular paintings include The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt van Rijn
19. This work sees the protagonist visit a doctor who claims, "I am not such a fool as I look" before
measuring the size of the protagonist's cranium. One character in this work paints a small work showing
a blindfolded woman carrying a candle. Another character in this work writes "Exterminate all the
brutes!" on a pamphlet; that character's demise is related by an "insolent black head" claiming, "he
dead." For 10 points, name this work in which Marlow boats up the Congo to retrieve the ivory trader
Kurtz, by Joseph Conrad.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: This experiment was allegedly conceived based on the analogy of two swimmers, one going
across a river and back while the other headed upstream, then back downstream. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this experiment that used an interferometer to show that the speed of light was the same in
all directions.
ANSWER: Michelson-Morley experiment
[10] The Michelson-Morley experiment poked huge holes in the theory of this substance, which was
supposed to be the medium through which light moved.
ANSWER: luminiferous aether
[10] This Dutch scientist argued that the result was caused by length contraction due to the ether,
though his equation was rewritten by Einstein to incorporate the idea of space-time contraction.
ANSWER: Hendrik Antoon Lorentz
20. In March 2009, the D0 group announced the discovery of the production of a single one of one of
these objects through the weak force. That one has a mass comparable to a gold atom nucleus, and was
the sixth and last to be discovered. In addition to the “top” one, the “up” and “down” ones make up
protons and neutrons. Their name was coined by Murray Gell-Mann after a passage from Finnegan’s
Wake. For 10 points, name these subatomic particles, believed to be fundamental constituents of
matter.
ANSWER: quarks [accept early top quark]
Bonus: This story appears in the collection Nine Stories. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story, whose protagonist relates the story of the title creature to Sybil on the beach
and then puts a bullet through his right temple, all while on a honeymoon with his wife Muriel.
ANSWER: "A Perfect Day for Bananafish"
[10] "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" was written by this author of Franny and Zooey, who wrote about
Holden Caulfield and his sister Phoebe in The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: Jerome David "J. D." Salinger
[10] "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" is one of many Salinger works to feature this family, whose members
include Bessie, Seymour, Walt, Waker, and the aforementioned Franny and Zooey.
ANSWER: Glass family
21. Richard Olney claimed that this event brought the nation to "the ragged edge of anarchy", and a
meeting at Briggs House led by Samuel Gompers cautioned against sympathy action in this event. John
Peter Altgeld refused to dispatch state militia to quell this event, and federal action was taken to quell it
due to interference with the mail service. Clarence Darrow defended its leaders on contempt charges
arising from this event, and it was broken in part due to Grover Cleveland's ordering of 2,500 federal
troops to Chicago. For 10 points, name this 1894 strike of railroad workers led by Eugene V. Debs.
ANSWER: Pullman Strike

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Name these figures important in the origins of analytic philosophy, for 10 points each.
[10] This British author of The Problems of Philosophy and “On Denoting” worked with Alfred North
Whitehead to write Principia Mathematica.
ANSWER: Bertrand Russell
[10] Much early work in analytic philosophy was built out of a rejection of the idealism of this German
philosopher of The Phenomenology of Spirit. He also developed the dialectic.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
[10] This early analytic philosopher preceded Russell and Whitehead in attempting a system of formal
logic in his Concept Script as well as writing “On Sense and Reference.”
ANSWER: (Friedrich Ludwig) Gottlob Frege
22. Gerald Malanga was a longtime assistant of this artist, who pictured images of devastating accidents
in his series Death and Disaster. This artist created a sculpture of helium-filled balloons, Silver Clouds, as
well as wallpaper depicting cows. He was shot by the founder of the Society for Cutting up Men, Valerie
Solanas, in his studio, The Factory. This artist used silkscreens for his paintings of Mao Zedong and
Marilyn Monroe. For 10 points, name this American pop artist who painted numerous Campbell's soup
cans.
ANSWER: Andy Warhol [or Andy Warhola]
Bonus: This country joined with Syria to form the United Arab Republic. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Middle Eastern nation led by Anwar Sadat and Hosni Mubarak.
ANSWER: Egypt
[10] Along with Muhammed Naguib, this man led the revolt against King Farouk before leading Egypt
from 1956 to 1970.
ANSWER: Gamal Abdel Nasser
[10] Despite not being an approved party, this radical religious political party formed in 1928 won
eighty-eight seats running as independents in the 2005 elections.
ANSWER: Muslim Brotherhood

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 5
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. This man was falsely convicted of corruption in 1712, for which he spent time in the Tower of London.
He reluctantly declared the War of Jenkins’ Ear, and opposition from Whigs such as John Gay and Henry
Fielding prompted him to pass the Licensing Act of 1736. He first came to prominence with his handling
the aftermath of the South Sea Bubble, and George II gave this man the gift of 10 Downing Street. For 10
points, name this first prime minister of Great Britain.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole
2. This author wrote a collection of American fairy tales, including "Poker Face the Baboon and Hot Dog
the Tiger," narrated by Potato Face Blind Man. His collection Other Days includes his poems "Letter to
Dead Imagists" and "I am the People-the Mob." This author of Rootabaga Stories wrote a poem
comparing the onset of fog to the movement of "little cat feet," and a poem describing the title entity as
"fierce as a dog with tongue lapping for action" and "Hog Butcher of the World." For 10 points, name
this American poet of The People, Yes and "Chicago."
ANSWER: Carl Sandburg
3. This man names a method for solving linear systems of equations with Seidel, as well as a theorem
that relates curvature to Euler characteristic with Bonnet. Replacing the electric field with the gradient
of the potential in a namesake law gives Poisson’s Equation, and magnetic monopoles are disallowed by
another namesake law. The Divergence Theorem is named for this man, and he names a law that gives
the electric flux through a surface as proportional to the enclosed charge. For 10 points, name this
German mathematician who names two of Maxwell’s equations.
ANSWER: (Johann) Carl Friedrich Gauss
Extra 20-point bonus:
One of these rules states that electrons in singly occupied orbitals must have identical spins. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these rules, which also state that all orbitals in a subshell must be singly occupied with
electrons before any orbital can be doubly occupied.
ANSWER: Hund’s rules
[10] Hund’s rules are applied in this other principle, which comes from the German for building up, and
states that electrons will fill up the lowest energy state available before higher states.
ANSWER: Aufbau principle

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
This artist never completed his massive painting The Battle of Anghiari. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this student of Verrocchio, who arranged the figures of his painting The Virgin and Child with
St. Anne in a pyramid.
ANSWER: Leonardo da Vinci
[10] This da Vinci painting portrays a woman with a notoriously enigmatic smile.
ANSWER: Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda]
[10] da Vinci created a sketch of a man inscribed inside a circle and a square, inspired by this Roman
architect who described such ideal proportions in De Architectura.
ANSWER: Vitruvius

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

