Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 11
Tossups

1. One American author of this last name wrote The Barracks Thief and This Boy’s Life. Another author
of this name wrote about a student who reunites with Joel Pierce and Robert Weaver at Harvard,
Eugene Gant, in Of Time and the River and You Can’t Go Home Again. A third author with this last
name described the Merry Pranksters in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, and wrote about a racial crisis
sparked by Sherman McCoy in The Bonfire of the Vanities. For 10 points, give this last name of authors
Tobias, Thomas, and Tom.
ANSWER: Wolfe [spelled Wolff, in Tobias Wolff’s case]
2. This man downplayed differences between Protestant and Catholic concepts of God in his Letter to
Voetius. The four rules he used in all of his investigative work included dividing problems into simple
parts and accepting only the self-evident as true; he codified his approach in Rules for the Direction of
the Mind and Discourse on Method. He used that approach to write a religious text, the Meditations
on First Philosophy. For 10 points, name this skeptical philosopher who started his investigations by
declaring “Je pense, donc je suis” or “I think, therefore I am.”
ANSWER: René Descartes
3. With the encouragement of Senator Arthur Vandenberg, this man defeated Bartel Jonkman to win a
House seat. He was a leader of the House’s “Young Turks”, and he served as a member of the Warren
Commission. Elected minority leader in 1965, he was panned for his performance in a presidential
debate in which he stated that, “There is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe”, and his presidency
was noted for its Whip Inflation Now program. For 10 points, name this only President not to be
elected to any national office, who pardoned his predecessor, Richard Nixon.
ANSWER: Gerald Ford [or Leslie King]
4. The Peclet number is equal to the ratio of this quantity for convection to that for diffusion. A Pitot
Tube is used to measure this quantity in gases, while its value in liquids can be determined using a
Venturi Meter. Both of these devices make use of the idea that, like volume, as pressure increases,
this decreases, a principle known as Bernoulli’s Equation. When this is constant, acceleration is zero.
For 10 points, name this kinematic quantity, the derivative of position, whose magnitude is equal to
speed.
ANSWER: velocity [prompt on speed before it is read]
5. This artist's version of the Last Judgment portrays the Archangel Michael standing on a skeletal bat
covering the roof of Hell. St. Donatian and St. George present the title character to the Virgin Mary,
who wears a red robe, in his painting The Madonna With Canon George van der Paele. This artist
painted a self-portrait with a red turban, and collaborated with his brother Hubert on the Ghent
Altarpiece. He also painted a mirror reflecting a couple holding hands during the title ceremony. For
10 points, name this 15th century Flemish painter of The Arnolfini Wedding.
ANSWER: Jan van Eyck
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. They extend south from the Kuma and Manych river basins, and between their two ranges lie the
Shirak Steppe. They include the Dykshu, Bezingi, and Karaugom glaciers, and the largest lake in this
mountain system is Sevan. Mount Aragats is located to the west of Lake Sevan, and the Talish
Mountains are located in this system. Divided into the Greater and Lesser ranges, for 10 points name
this mountain system located between the Caspian and Black seas with their highest peak at Mount
Elbrus.
ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains
7. One film from this country features a man who steals away on a horse with his future wife Dora at
her wedding, and ends up getting shot after convincing his son Joshua to play a game that requires
one to earn 1,000 points to win a tank. Another film from this country sees a flyer-poster seek out the
man who stole his means of transportation. The country of origin for Eight and a Half, The Bicycle
Thief, and Life is Beautiful, for 10 points, name this country whose notable filmmakers include
Federico Fellini and Roberto Benigni.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italia]
8. One of her poems accuses a character of being "pithy and historical as the Roman Forum," and
another ends “I eat men like air.” In addition to “The Colossus” and “Lady Lazarus,” she wrote about
"the substanceless blue" in "Ariel" and about how "every woman adores a fascist” in “Daddy.” Her
only novel was published under the pseudonym Victoria Lucas and describes the mental breakdown of
magazine intern Esther Greenwood. For 10 points, name this author of The Bell Jar, which was
published in the same year that she killed herself with a gas oven.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
9. One man with this last name was the maestro di capella of Novara Cathedral who composed L’uomo
contento and Christus. The more famous man with this name composed 14 variations for violin with a
repeated guitar accompaniment entitled Carmagnola, as well as a collaboration with Panny on
variations entitled La Tempesta. One of his works inspired a series of variations that incorporate the
Dies Irae melody, a rhapsody by Rachmaninoff. For 10 points, name this composer of 24 caprices, the
most renowned Italian violin virtuoso of the 1800s.
ANSWER: Noccolo Paganini
10. This man made a cameo appearance in the 1988 film Never On Tuesday as a man in a red sports
car, and he played Johnny Collins in the 1991 thriller Zandalee. He was the first pick to star as The
Green Goblin in Spider-Man, but a more recent role had him play John McLoughlin, a policeman pulled
out from under the rubble in World Trade Center. Starring as Fu Manchu in the fake trailers to
Grindhouse, and the title role in Ghost Rider, for 10 points, name this actor who played Ben Gates in
two National Treasure films.
ANSWER: Nicholas Cage [prompt on Nicholas Kim Coppola]
11. Cheney's algorithm concerns an operation often performed on it. One kind of it has both NOR and
NAND types, and wear-leveling preserves its lifespan, and the Von Neumann bottleneck concerns the
limit on computer speed imposed by the ability for a CPU to perform computations faster than it can
retrieve data from this. Garbage collection is a common form of automated management of, for 10
points, what form of data storage which comes in varieties like "random-access" and "flash?"
ANSWER: memory

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. In this novel, one character refuses to sell Lady Bareacres horses to escape from an invading army
because the Lady had been rude to her in Brussels. Joseph mysteriously dies after getting an expensive
life insurance policy, while Captain Dobbin marries the wife of George Osborne, who died at Waterloo.
At the ball of the Duchess of Richmond, the protagonist’s coquetry, despite the presence of her
husband Rawdon Crawley, ruins her friendship with Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, name this novel
about Becky Sharp, by William Makepeace Thackeray.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair
13. The Union of Krevo and the Union of Lublin formed a commonwealth between it and Lithuania,
though that state was ended by a series of divisions, splitting it between Austria, Prussia, and Russia.
Occasionally referred to as its “Fourth Partition” was its division by Molotov and Ribbentrop in 1939,
and a shipyard strike here in 1980 was led by Lech Walesa and resulted in the Solidarity movement..
For 10 points, identify this nation, which, while occupied by the Nazis, saw a substantial uprising in
1944 in the capital, Warsaw.
ANSWER: Poland [prompt on Lithuania before it is read]
14. Simon Newcomb helped to develop the "quantity theory" of this. Ludwig von Mises wrote a book
about the theory of this and credit, and according to the Fisher Equation, the amount of it can be
determined by dividing PT by V, which stands for its velocity. In the United States, its supply is divided
into M1, M2, and M3 by the Federal Reserve. Inflation causes its purchasing power to decrease. For 10
points, name this keystone of the economy, whose examples include coins and dollar bills.
ANSWER: money [accept currency or clear-knowledge equivalents]
15. The Frye-Edidin experiments can be rationalized by it as being the result of free diffusion, but one
problem with it was discovered by Kusumi and concerned a "skeleton fence." First developed in 1972
by Singer and Nicolson, it states, among other things, that lipids and proteins can rotate. In addition, it
describes a certain structure as a functionally asymmetric lipid bilayer studded with embedded
proteins that aid in transport. For 10 points, name this model used to conceptualize cell membranes.
ANSWER: fluid mosaic model
16. Alfred Graf von Waldersee led punitive expeditions after the main fighting of this event, and it was
quelled by the Eight Nation Alliance. Its spread was checked by the actions of Liu-K’un-i, and it led to
the occupation of T’ang-shan by Russian troops. It was sparked in part by a severe drought in the
Shangdong province, and it originated in the work of the Eight Trigrams Society and was championed
by the Dowager Empress Cixi. For 10 points, name this anti-Western Chinese uprising of 1900 led by
the Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists.
ANSWER: Boxer Rebellion [accept equivalents, such as Boxer Revolt]
17. Before meeting the scorpion men at Mount Mashu, he tells Ninsun about his prophetic dreams.
His subjects protest to Anu at the demanding labor that this king requires in order to build a wall.
Aruru attempts to distract him by sending a figure who later joins this hero in a battle in the cedar
forest against Khumbaba and in slaying the Bull of Heaven. Bearing the genetically implausible lineage
of two-thirds god and one-third man, this king of Uruk and friend to Enkidu learns about eternal life
from Utnapishtim. For 10 points, name this hero of a Sumerian epic.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. This event was chronicled by Guibert of Nogent and Fulcher of Chartres. During this conflict's
Battle of Dorylaeum, one side captured the treasury of Kilij Arslan, who had earlier defeated the forces
of Walter the Penniless. Its leaders included Raymond of Toulouse and Peter the Hermit, and it was
sparked by a speech at the Council of Clermont given by Pope Urban II. For 10 points, name this late
eleventh century conflict which saw Godfrey de Boullion capture Jerusalem, which was followed by
eight subsequent wars between Christians and Muslims.
ANSWER: First Crusade [prompt on The Crusades]
19. Stars in this constellation form lines that can be used to locate Procyon, Sirius, and Aldebaran, and
its iota star is a quadruple system known as Hatsya. It features a nebula that is the nearest area of
massive star formation and is Messier Object 42. Its gamma star is Bellatrix, while the most notable
feature of this constellation is made up of Alnitak, Alnilam, and Mintaka. Containing the stars Rigel and
Betelgeuse, for 10 points, name this constellation known as "The Hunter" that has a namesake "belt."
ANSWER: Orion
20. This author suggested that Jack the Ripper belongs in a class by himself in the essay “Decline of the
English Murder.” He argued that cliches and ready-made phrases erode the capability for intelligent
thought in “Politics and the English Language.” In one of his novels, Julia works for the Anti-Sex
League, and Emmanuel Goldstein is the target of the Two Minutes Hate, mandatory for all citizens of
Oceania. He also wrote about a donkey named Benjamin and pigs named Napoleon and Snowball. For
10 points, name this author of 1984 and Animal Farm.
ANSWER: George Orwell [or Eric Blair]
21. In one of his plays, the audience leaves for intermission to find the actors in the lobby having
conversations. That play is dominated by the director Doctor Hinkfuss. In another of his plays, Doctor
Dionysius attempts to scare the title character back into sanity after he fell off a horse and began to
think he was a Holy Roman Emperor. In addition to Tonight We Improvise and Henry IV, another of his
plays ends when the Child drowns in a fountain despite the instructions of the Manager. For 10 points,
name this Italian playwright of Six Characters in Search of an Author.
ANSWER: Luigi Pirandello
22. The Franck-Hertz experiment used a tube filled with this element in a gaseous state, and various
isotopes of this element were used to change in the critical temperature of superconductors due to
the isotope effect. Found together with chlorine in calomel and sulfur in vermilion, it can be obtained
from cinnabar, and forms alloys with other metals called amalgams. For 10 points, name this only
element this is liquid at room temperatures, whose symbol is Hg.
ANSWER: mercury [accept Hg before it is read]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 11
Bonuses

1. His servant is Wagner, while the spirit Homunculus relays what he is thinking to Mephistopheles. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this main character of a two part play by the creator of Wilhelm Meister. This lover of
Gretchen foolishly sells his soul to the devil to gain knowledge.
ANSWER: Faust
[10] Name this author of Faust, who also wrote The Elective Affinities and Egmont.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[10] This is the name of Edward’s wife in The Elective Affinities. Young Werther kills himself after Albert
marries this woman, who titles a Thomas Mann novel where she is “in Weimar.”
ANSWER: Charlotte [or Lotte]
2. This author of “The American Scholar” wrote “both shadow and sunlight are the same” in his poem
“Brahma.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this onetime Unitarian pastor and author of “Self-Reliance,” a leading figure in the
transcendentalist movement.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
[10] Advanced in a namesake essay of 1841, this concept from Emerson’s theology is a universal spirit to
which all beings return.
ANSWER: the oversoul
[10] Emerson’s “Nature” describes the possibility of becoming an agent through which the Universal
Being acts, using the analogy of a “transparent” variety of this body part.
ANSWER: eyeball
3. Its five numbered declensional paradigms each can exist in up to seven cases, though the vocative and
locative cases are less commonly seen than the other five. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this language, whose purification was a goal of the early Humanists.
ANSWER: Latin
[10] Noun declension and verb conjugation in Latin are forms of this general linguistic phenomenon, in
which a word has many possible forms, each encoding specific meanings.
ANSWER: inflection
[10] This Latin case can be used in partitive, material, or charge kinds, but most commonly expresses
possession.
ANSWER: genitive case

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. For 10 points each, name these poems by Allen Ginsberg.
[10] This poem for Carl Solomon begins, “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.”
ANSWER: “Howl”
[10] This elegy for his mother Naomi notes, “No more suffering for you. I know where you’ve gone, it’s
good.” It takes its name from a Jewish prayer for the dead.
ANSWER: “Kaddish”
[10] This poem puts “Wives in the avocados, babies in the tomatoes!” and asks “Garcia Lorca, what were
you doing down by the watermelons?”
ANSWER: “A Supermarket in California”
5. The title character’s daughter Abigail falls in love with Matthias, who dies along with Lodowick in a
duel arranged by the title character's servant Ithamore. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which Barabbas falls into his own trap of boiling liquid.
ANSWER: The Jew of Malta
[10] This author of Doctor Faustus and Tamburlaine the Great wrote The Jew of Malta.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
[10] In this Marlow poem, the title character asks his girlfriend to “come live with me and be my love”
and offers her “silver dishes,” and “a gown made of the finest wool,” among other things.
ANSWER: "The Passionate Shepard to His Love"
6. His time in Brittany inspired his painting The Vision After the Sermon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French artist who painted The Yellow Christ and Where Do We Come From? What Are
We? Where Are We Going? after moving to Tahiti.
ANSWER: Paul Gaugain
[10] Gaugain's contemporaries Paul Signac and Georges Seurat developed this style of painting, which
used tiny dots of color instead of large brushstrokes. Paintings in this style include Sunday Afternoon on
the Island of La Grande Jatte.
ANSWER: pointillism
[10] Around the same time, Paul Cezanne painted a series of canvases of this French mountain located
in Aix-en-Provence.
ANSWER: Mont Sainte-Victoire
7. Name these French rivers, for 10 points each.
[10] The Allier flows into this river, which moves north, then west through central France near such
cities as Orleans, Tours, and Nantes before flowing into the Bay of Biscay.
ANSWER: Loire River
[10] Moving northwest into the English Channel, this river passes through both Troyes and Paris.
ANSWER: Seine River
[10] Flowing through Switzerland and crossing the border near Lake Leman, this southeastern river
receives the Saone at Lyon and then continues through Avignon to the Mediterranean.
ANSWER: Rhone River

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. He was introduced in the plays of Pierre de Beaumarchais. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this central figure of two major operas—his “marriage” is depicted by Mozart, and another
composer used him as the title character of The Barber of Seville.
ANSWER: Figaro
[10] This composer of such operas as Semiramide and Cinderella created the music for The Barber of
Seville.
ANSWER: Gioachino Rossini
[10] In this other Rossini opera, a Swiss patriot resists the cruel bailiff Gessler by performing an amazing
feat of archery. This six-hour-long opera is less well-known than its rousing overture.
ANSWER: William Tell [or Guillaume Tell]
9. They may be easily identified by their four fused rings, and they all derive from squalene cyclization.
For 10 points each:
[10] Give the name for this class of biological molecule, including glucocorticoids and estrogen.
ANSWER: steroids
[10] This class of steroids is that most commonly abused by athletes, increasing the rate of protein
synthesis by affecting androgen receptors.
ANSWER: anabolic steroids
[10] This mineralocorticoid hormone is produced by the adrenal cortex and results in water retention,
which raises blood pressure. Addison's disease results in a decrease in its activity.
ANSWER: aldosterone
10. Name these glacial features, for 10 points each.
[10] Kettles, paternosters, and tarns are this type of landform. A gigantic one named after Louis Agassiz
covered much of central North America during the last glacial period.
ANSWER: glacial lakes
[10] Lateral, ground, and terminal are three varieties of this landform, which are ridges of debris that
pile up along the borders of a glacier.
ANSWER: moraines
[10] Also known as a "braided stream," these winding ridges of sand and sediment form from flowing
water runoff underneath a glacier.
ANSWER: eskers
11. Answer the following about 2008 primary-hopping, for 10 points each.
[10] It all started when this Midwestern state moved both primaries up to January 15; some major
candidates refused to campaign here because its delegates were only given half a vote.
ANSWER: Michigan
[10] Michigan’s primary-hopping caused this state to move its primaries up to January 8 due to a state
law requiring it to host its primary at least a week before any other primary.
ANSWER: New Hampshire
[10] Florida’s primary-hopping spurred this other Southern state to move its primaries up to stay ahead
of Florida; the Republican one took place on January 19, the Democratic on January 26.
ANSWER: South Carolina

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. John Maynard Keynes railed against its harshness and its reparations left Germany with hyper
inflation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this treaty that ended World War I.
ANSWER: Treaty of Versailles
[10] This than president of France led the French delegation where he negotiated for heavy reparations
and clashed with the more moderate Woodrow Wilson.
ANSWER: Georges Benjamin Clemenceau
[10] Despite his inability to speak English, this Italian attended the conference where his clashes with
fellow diplomat Sidney Sonnino led to problems.
ANSWER: Vittorio Emanuele Orlando
13. The Miller-Urey experiment used water, ammonia, hydrogen, and this compound. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this simplest alkane, with formula CH4.
ANSWER: methane
[10] In VSEPR theory, trigonal pyramidal and bent are two variations on this type of basic geometry,
which is possessed by methane, in addition to phosphate and sulfate.
ANSWER: tetrahedral
[10] Methane can exist in these hydrated crystals whose lattices usually contain other trapped atoms or
molecules.
ANSWER: clathrates
14. Los Angeles has a long history of riots. For 10 points each:
[10] Comedian Dick Gregory was shot while trying to keep the peace during the 1965 riots in this
predominantly African-American neighborhood. These riots resulted in 34 deaths.
ANSWER: Watts
[10] Watts and Compton were again the scene of a massive riot in 1992 following the acquittal of L.A.
police officers by an all-white jury in the videotaped beating of what black motorist?
ANSWER: Rodney King
[10] Occurring after the Sleepy Lagoon murder case, these 1943 race riots involved servicemen who
cruised through Mexiacan neighborhoods and attacked youths wearing stylish clothing.
ANSWER: Zoot Suit Riots
15. Its total population is almost 500 million, and Romania and Bulgaria joined it in 2007. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this organization.
ANSWER: the European Union
[10] One early treaty in the formation of the EU was the 1957 treaty signed here that created the
European Community. This city also saw a 1922 “march” which secured fascist control.
ANSWER: Rome
[10] This 1992 treaty, signed in a namesake Dutch city, established the European Union.
ANSWER: Maastricht Treaty

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. He was originally a Basque soldier, but his most famous work is divided into four “weeks” for the
reader and was compiled at Manresa. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this author of Spiritual Exercises.
ANSWER: Ignatius of Loyola [or Íñigo Oñaz López de Loyola]
[10] Francisco Xavier and Nicolas Bobadilla were among the first adherents of this order. It was
established during the rule of Pope Paul III Ignatius of Loyola.
ANSWER: Jesuits [or Society of Jesus]
[10] Paul III called for this ecumenical council in 1545 which sought to elucidate Protestant Heresies and
begin a reformation in the Catholic Church.
ANSWER: Council of Trent
17. At the end of this opera, the title character heals Amfortas with a spear, then attracts a white dove
by exhibiting the Holy Grail. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1882 opera about an Arthurian knight.
ANSWER: Parsifal
[10] This eccentric German composer of The Flying Dutchman, Tristan and Isolde, and Tannhäuser wrote
Parsifal.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[10] The Valkyrie and The Rheingold are two of the four operas in the cycle by Wagner named for this
object, manufactured by dwarves known as Nibelung.
ANSWER: ring
18. Identify some terms from chemistry, for 10 points each.
[10] A red type featuring six atoms and blue ozone featuring three atoms are examples of this term for
oxygen, which is defined as existing forms of an element.
ANSWER: allotropes
[10] NMR spectroscopy and radiometric dating are some of the uses of ones for carbon. They are
defined as forms of the same element that differ only in the number of neutrons in their nuclei.
ANSWER: isotopes
[10] This is the name given to stereoisomers that form non-superimposable mirror images. A mixture
containing equal parts of these is called racemic.
ANSWER: enantiomers
19. He once abdicated in favor of the Tatar Simeon Bekbulatovitch, and he killed his son and only
legitimate heir over the issue of his son’s wife’s dress. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this paranoiac who irrationally ruled Russia until his 1584 death, when he was succeeded by
his retarded son Fyodor.
ANSWER: Ivan IV Vasilyevich [or Ivan the Terrible; or Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]
[10] From a young age, Ivan was distrustful of this upper class of Russian nobility, which was finally
abolished by Peter the Great.
ANSWER: boyars
[10] Ivan IV’s first wife, Anastasia, was from this family of boyars. Starting with Mikhail in 1613, this
family ruled Russia for over 300 years.
ANSWER: Romanov

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. Common legend holds that the Aztecs mistook Hernan Cortez for this god. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Aztec feathered serpent god.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl
[10] Quetzalcoatl’s rival, Tezcatlipoca, has a name meaning a "smoky" type of this object. Another one of
these was used to trick Amaterasu to come out of her cave in Shinto myth.
ANSWER: a mirror
[10] The demanding Aztec god Tlaloc really likes child-sacrifices and is the god of this natural
phenomenon. Chac was the Mayan god of this phenomenon.
ANSWER: rain [or precipitation, etc; do not accept or prompt on “weather” or other more general
answers, as Tlaloc was not the god of weather in general]
21. Answer the following about novelists from a certain country, for 10 points each.
[10] This novelist wrote about Maureen Smales in July's People. Her other novels include Burgher's
Daughter and The Conservationist.
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer
[10] This author fictionalized the life of Dostoyevsky in The Master of Petersburg. He also wrote Waiting
for the Barbarians.
ANSWER: J. M. Coetzee
[10] Nadine Gordimer and J. M. Coetzee both hail from this African country. Gordimer's novels The Lying
Days and July's People are set in its city of Johannesburg.
ANSWER: South Africa
22. Identify the following from thermodynamics, for 10 points each.
[10] The “bomb” type of these devices are volume invariant. They are used to measure the heat
liberated by a reaction.
ANSWER: calorimeters
[10] The most efficient heat cycle consists of two isothermal steps and two adiabatic steps, and is named
for this Frenchman.
ANSWER: Nicolas Leonard Sadi Carnot
[10] In any reversible adiabatic process, such as the Carnot cycle, the change in this quantity must be
zero.
ANSWER: entropy [or isentropic]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 11

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

