2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 13
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. This man introduced the first sinking fund in his country to help recover from the South Sea Bubble,
and he initially gained notoriety by exposing the plot of Francis Atterbury, the Bishop of Rochester.
After his resignation over a rigged election in Chippenham, this man was replaced in his most famous
post by Spencer Compton, the Earl of Wilmington. This leader of the nascent Whigs was the father of
the man who wrote the first Gothic novel, The Castle of Otranto. For 10 points, name this eighteenthcentury politician, the first Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole [or First Earl of Orford; prompt on Walpole]
2. Lucien LaCoste used this law as the theoretical basis for developing a seismograph that uses certain
objects with "zero length." Conservative materials eliminate 15 of the 36 possible values in the C-matrix
of Cauchy's generalization of this law to three-dimensional bodies. It involves two quantities related by
the first Lame (lahm) constant, also known as the shear modulus. For 10 points, name this law stating
that the restoring force F equals negative k x, that relates stress and strain in materials like springs.
ANSWER: Hooke's Law
3. This holiday is known as Tihar among the Newa people, and in the place where this holiday
originated, it culminates on the night of the new moon. Fairs called melas occur during this holiday,
which partly commemorates the end of the twenty-one days of austerity for Shakti. Guru Harobind Ji's
release from prison occurred during this festival, marking its importance for Sikhs. Also celebrating the
attainment of nirvana of Mahavira for Jainists, for 10 points, name this holiday that commemorates the
return of Rama, the Hindu "festival of light."
ANSWER: Diwali [or Deepavali; or Swanti]
4. One character in this novel is Annie Littlefield, who chairs the Ladies’ Committee of Sanitary Unit
Number Four. Floyd Knowles is accused of being a “red” after he antagonizes a police deputy and Jim
Casy is a preacher who meets the protagonist after he goes to jail for killing a man in self defense. The
protagonist’s family includes Noah, Al, Winfield, Rose of Sharon and a Grandpa who dies of a stroke
after leaving Oklahoma. For 10 points, name this novel in which Tom Joad and his family migrate to
California during the dust bowl, a work of John Steinbeck.
ANSWER: The Grapes of Wrath

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

5. As an attorney, this man argued the cases Groves v. Slaughter and Osborn v. U.S. He was earlier been
shot in a duel over his support for the Embargo Act, by Humphrey Marshall. The owner of the estate
Ashland, this man was one of the founders of the American Colonization Society and was also a
negotiator of the Treaty of Ghent. Although he ran for President five times, this man only succeeded in
becoming Secretary of State through the Corrupt Bargain. For 10 points, name this Kentucky statesman
and Whig Party leader, known as the Great Compromiser.
ANSWER: Henry Clay
6. This substance acts as an electron donor for enzymes that synthesize carnitine, and also in the
hydroxylation of proline and lysine to produce collagen. Most animals can synthesize this compound
using glycogen from the liver or in a kidney-based synthesis, but humans and other simians have a
defective gene for L-gulonolactone oxidase and thus must consume this vitamin. For 10 points, name
this common antioxidant, a vitamin that Linus Pauling prescribes in megadoses, prevents scurvy, and
comes from citrus fruits.
ANSWER: vitamin C [or ascorbic acid]
7. The video for this song opens with the singer flipping a quarter across an entire nightclub and into a
jukebox. After one person mentioned in it "ran underneath the table," the title figure "left the
bloodstains on the carpet" after striking the other figure down in "the bedroom," which the singer notes
"was her doom." For 10 points, identify this seventh single from Bad, featured in the movie
Moonwalker, in which Michael Jackson asks "Annie are you OK?" and notes that "you've been hit by"
and "struck by" the titular suave hitman.
ANSWER: "Smooth Criminal"
8. The title character of this work goes to an inn called The Rainbow to because he suspects Jem
Rodney of stealing his money, though it is actually stolen by Dunstan, who injures the prized horse
Wildfire. One character is the illegitimate child of Godfrey and Molly, and towards the end of this work,
that girl, who is adopted by the title character, marries Aaron Winthrop. The title character cares for
Eppie in, for 10 points, which novel about the titular weaver of Raveloe, a work by George Eliot?
ANSWER: Silas Marner
9. The battle of this name occurred in 340 BCE during the Latin War and resulted in the death of Publius
Decius Mus, while an “Outbreak” here is the most notable work of Norwegian artist Johan Dahl.
Originally named Somma, this structure is located near the towns of Stabiae, Misenum and Ottaviano,
while with Epomeo and Campi Flegrei, this forms the Campanian arc. The Avellino eruption occurred
here, and one of its calderas was used as a hideout by Spartacus. For 10 points, name this volcano
whose 79 CE eruption destroyed Herculaneum and Pompeii.
ANSWER: Mount Vesuvius [or Monte Vesuvio]
10. This artist depicted the silhouette of a tree and a mansion with a bright blue sky and puffy clouds in
his The Empire of Lights. He also depicted a bleeding woman on a bed as a man looks at a phonograph
in his Menaced Assassin. Crescent moons can be seen over the bowler-hat wearing subjects of his The
Mysteries of the Horizon, and another work shows a pipe with the phrase "Ceci n'est pas une pipe." For
10 points, identify this artist of The Treachery of Images and Son of Man, who depicted a locomotive
coming out of a fireplace in Time Transfixed.
ANSWER: René François Ghislain Magritte
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 13
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. Built to replace a building with a similar function which now belongs to McGill University, the Martlet
House, this structure was the idea of Phyllis Lambert. Paintings by Ronnie Landfield and James
Rosenquist took the places intended for a series by Mark Rothko that was to adorn its The Four Seasons
restaurant. Lying across Park Avenue from the Lever House, for 10 points, identify this Manhattan
skyscraper, designed by Philip Johnson and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe as the headquarters for a liquor
concern.
ANSWER: Seagram Building
BONUS. Amborella trichopoda is often referred to as the “sister species” of all members of this division.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this division, sometimes called magnoliophyta, whose members possess a tissue which
protects ovules, and also undergo double fertilization.
ANSWER: angiosperms
[10] Angiosperms are characterized by the presence of these objects, usually brightly colored, which
tend to attract insects to help pollinate.
ANSWER: flowers
2. A participant in the Battle of Medina alongside Augustus Magee, this man was later a signatory of
the Treaty of Velasco with David Burnet. With Guadalupe Victoria he created the Plan of Casa Mata to
overthrow Iturbide, and he later lost his leg fighting in the Pastry War. The head of a government with
Valentin Gomez Farias as vice president, this man’s fight against Isidro Barradas earned him the epitaph
“Hero of Tampico.” Serving eleven non-consecutive terms, for 10 points, name this rival of Benito
Juarez and Mexican leader at the Alamo.
ANSWER: Antonio de Padua Maria Severino Lopez de Santa Anna y Perez de Lebron
BONUS. Name these George Bernard Shaw plays, for 10 points each.
[10] Colonel Pickering makes a bet with Henry Higgins that he cannot teach Eliza Doolittle proper
manners in this play, which serves as the basis for the musical My Fair Lady.
ANSWER: Pygmalion
[10] In this Shaw play, Frank Gardner and George Crofts both vie for the attention of Vivie, who is
shocked to discover that her mother runs a brothel.
ANSWER: Mrs. Warren’s Profession

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. In 2002, he called derivative commodities "financial weapons of mass destruction." In mid-2008 he
purchased Constellation Energy Group and applied for a permit for a new nuclear generator in
Maryland. His donation in 2006 of ten million shares of stock doubled the size of the Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation. Paul Volcker and this man headline Barack Obama's investment banking bailout
consulting team. For 10 points, name this CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, a very rich Omaha-based
investor.
ANSWER: Warren Edward Buffett
BONUS. It includes Juan Carlos of Spain, though its direct rule of France ended with Charles IV, the last
of the three sons of Philip IV. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this ruling house of France, whose downfall brought on the Hundred Years War that ended
with the rise of the Valois.
ANSWER: the Capetian dynasty [or the House of Capet]
[10] This canonized Capetian king lead the Seventh and Eighth Crusades, which he financed by expelling
French Jews and confiscating their property.
ANSWER: Louis IX [prompt on St. Louis]
4. In one work by this man, the composer D’s meetings with the title character drive him to commit
suicide. In another of his works, the dog Leo digs up some corpses which brings disease to children
staying in an isolated town, and is titled Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids. Another of his work describes the
return of Mitsuhiro and Takashi to Okubo. Better known for works that parallel his relationship with his
developmentally disabled son Hakuri, for 10 points, identify this Japanese author of The Silent Cry and
A Personal Matter.
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe
BONUS. Two of its main volcanoes include Shira and Mawensi. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this volcanic mountain located near the Kenya border.
ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro
[10] Mount Kilimanjaro is located in this nation, formed by a union with Zanzibar in 1964.
ANSWER: Tanzania
5. Along with pure iodine, this chemical is the input of the first step in a cycle that could produce
hydrogen for fuel cells. This compound is produced in a three-step process, the second step of which
uses a vanadium oxide catalyst to create a trioxide product. That process replaced the lead chamber
process for making this compound, and is called the contact process. For 10 points, name this mostsynthesized industrial chemical in the United States, an acid once known as oil of vitriol, which has
chemical formula H2SO4.
ANSWER: sulfuric acid [accept sulfuric acid after “acid”; accept H2SO4 before read; prompt on oil of
vitriol]
BONUS. The title character is represented by a recurring theme, since she is telling the tales of
movements like “The Sea and Sinbad's Ship” and “The Kalendar Prince.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this suite, based on One Thousand and One Nights.
ANSWER: Scheherazade
[10] This Russian composer of Scheherazade also wrote the Antar suite and a Fantasy on Two Russian
Themes, as well as “Flight of the Bumblebee.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. He argued that belief in miracles is logically impossible in his “On Miracles,” and he claimed that a
certain act “may be free of imputation of guilt and blame” in On Suicide. His characters Philo and
Cleanthes discuss arguments from design in a work where Demea claims there are a priori arguments
for God. He wrote of “Liberty and Necessity” and “Reason of Animals” in a reworking of his Treatise of
Human Nature. For 10 points, name this author of Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion and An
Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: David Hume
BONUS. It was originally written as a screenplay, and it is said to be largely autobiographical, since the
author had a sickly sister named Rose. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play about the Wingfield family, in which the protagonist's sister Laura is nicknamed
Blue Roses.
ANSWER: The Glass Menagerie
[10] The Glass Menagerie was written by this American author of The Night of the Iguana.
ANSWER: Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
7. In one of his novels, an impoverished government clerk named Makar spends what money he has on
gifts for a girl who lives across the street. In another work, Yakov Petrovich freaks out when he thinks a
man with the exact same physical appearance is trying to take his job. In addition to Poor Folk and The
Double, he wrote about Prince Myshkin breaking down and being sent to a Swiss sanatorium in The
Idiot. For 10 points name this author of The Brothers Karamazov and a novel about Raskolnikov
committing murder, Crime and Punishment.
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky
BONUS. As a child he killed a couple of snakes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this demigod, who killed his wife Megara and completed twelve labors.
ANSWER: Heracles [or Hercules]
[10] Heracles’ first labor was killing this beast, whose impervious skin he would go on to wear.
ANSWER: the Nemean lion [prompt on partial answer]
8. Plasma and a magnetic field make for the Bohm kind of this process, while its anomalous type has
non-linear time dependence. Its collective variety makes its namesake coefficient concentrationdependent, in contrast to its single-particle variety, Brownian motion. There is a rotational analog of
this process, and a special case of this process concerning water is called osmosis. For 10 points,
identify this behavior where particles tend to spread from areas of high concentration into areas of low
concentration.
ANSWER: diffusion
BONUS. Roman Jakobson (YAH-cub-son) was convinced that these units could be broken down into
features. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these small linguistic units of sound, which can be combined to yield units of meaning called
morphemes.
ANSWER: phonemes
[10] This Swiss linguist, whose notes were compiled as the Course in General Linguistics, helped create
the phonological theory of language.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Mongin de Saussure

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

9. This man defended himself against a supposed attack from Satan by throwing an inkwell. This creator
of the popular September Testament burned a copy of the papal bull Exurge Domine, and he was taken
to the Wartburg under the protection of Frederick the Wise of Saxony. He wrote the hymn "A Mighty
Fortress is Our God," and defended himself by saying “here I stand; I can do no other” at the Diet of
Worms. For 10 points, name this theologian who attacked indulgences sold by Johann Tetzel in his
ninety-five theses, sparking the Protestant Reformation.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
BONUS. Precipitated by a Doeg raid on Thomas Mathews’ plantation, this event was led by a native of
Curls Wharf along the James River. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this uprising of indentured servants and small landowners, which targeted Governor William
Berkeley in 1676.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Bacon’s Rebellion
[10] Bacon’s Rebellion, in addition to the slave uprisings of George Boxley, Gabriel Prosser, and Nat
Turner, occurred in this onetime colony and later state.
ANSWER: Virginia
10. John Dewey claimed that there were two views of history centered on the Occident and Orient in a
work about "Philosophy" and this concept. Lewis Mumford claimed that the world progressed through
three stages in writing about "Technics" and this. Marcuse claimed that modernity represses sex in
writing about "Eros" and this, while Foucault analyzed the "great confinement" in a work about
"Madness" and this. Freud postulated that humankind creates laws against primitive behavior in, for
10 points, a book titled for what concept "and “its Discontents"?
ANSWER: civilization
BONUS. Answer the following about a set of chemical properties, for 10 points each:
[10] What name is given to properties which do not depend on the mass of particles, but rather on the
number of them in any given solvent?
ANSWER: colligative properties
[10] One colligative property is the elevation of this temperature due adding a solvent. This
temperature is reached when the vapor pressure of a substance equals outside vapor pressure.
ANSWER: boiling point

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 13
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

LAW
ORDER

LAW
This round deals with things related to all sorts of laws.
[10] Passed by the legislatures of their namesake states, these measures were written by James
Madison and Thomas Jefferson and protested the Alien and Sedition Acts.
ANSWER: Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions
[10] A jail sentence for having a relationship with Alfred Douglas inspired this author to write "The
Ballad of Reading Gaol."
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde
[10] Proposed by an English chemist, this law states that the total pressure of a mixture of gasses is
equal to the sum of the partial pressures of the individual component gasses.
ANSWER: Dalton’s Law
[10] Known as the “father of international law,” this Dutch diplomat wrote Mare Liberum and On the
Law of War and Peace.
ANSWER: Hugo Grotius
[10] This Norse god of law and order had his hand bitten off by Fenrir.
ANSWER: Tyr
[10] A lawyer by training, this American poet published the collection Harmonium, and wrote poems
like "The Snow Man", "Sunday Morning", and "The Emperor of Ice Cream."
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens
[10] These 1935 laws deprived Jews of their rights in Nazi Germany. One of them deprived Jews of
German citizenship and the other forbade relations between Jews and non-Jews.
ANSWER: Nuremberg Laws
[10] Passed over President Truman’s veto, this 1947 law amended the Wagner Act to outlaw the closed
shop and required union officers to deny Communist affiliations.
ANSWER: Taft-Hartley Act
[10] This man planned the campuses of the universities of Minnesota and UT-Austin, and designed the
Woolworth Building. He also designed the U.S. Supreme Court building.
ANSWER: Cass Gilbert
[10] The placement of parentheses within a sequence of numbers to be added does not change the
sum, according to this principle of algebra.
ANSWER: law/property of association [accept associative law/property or other word forms]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

ORDER
This round is about various kinds of orders.
[10] The skippers, butterflies, and moths comprise this biological order.
ANSWER: lepidoterans
[10] Renata joins the Order of Brusadelli in Across the River and Into the Trees, a novel by this author of
The Sun Also Rises and “The Snows of Kilimanjaro.”
ANSWER: Ernest Hemingway
[10] Order is a property of this sort of solid, which can be arranged in a “face-centered” or “bodycentered” fashion.
ANSWER: crystal lattices [or crystals]
[10] The Orange Order is a Protestant political organization in this volatile region of the United
Kingdom, where power-sharing with the IRA takes place in Belfast.
ANSWER: Northern Ireland
[10] The highest decoration in the Soviet Union was the “order of” this man, who led the October
Revolution and was the head of the USSR until his 1924 death.
ANSWER: Vladimir Ilich Lenin [or Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov]
[10] Formal parliamentary procedure is codified in this man’s “rules of order.”
ANSWER: Henry M. Robert [accept Robert’s Rules of Order]
[10] The critical study Order out of Chaos discusses the autobiographical works of this author of “On the
Pulse of Morning,” such as I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
ANSWER: Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Johnson]
[10] The British “orders in council” were an attempt to oppose the Continental System of this French
military ruler, who launched some namesake wars in the early nineteenth century.
ANSWER: Napoléon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I; prompt on Napoleon]
[10] The Tuscan, Composite, Doric, Corinthian, and Ionic orders describe styles of these architectural
elements.
ANSWER: columns
[10] A knightly society in medieval Burgundy was named for this mythical object, which was obtained
from a ram before Jason and the Argonauts retrieved it from Colchis.
ANSWER: the golden fleece

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 13
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. One work often put in this group was probably actually written by Carl Friedrich Abel, and another
lacks repeat signs at the end of the exposition of its allegro con spirito. The Poco adagio of one of these
works was originally an Andante in 6/8 time. In addition to the “Haffner” and “Linz” works in this group,
another one opens with a “Mannheim rocket” and is known as the “Paris” one, and the forty-first and
final one is known as the “Jupiter.” For 10 points, what are these works by an Austrian composer of the
eighteenth century?
ANSWER: symphonies by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
2. One of these named Kur may have carried off the goddess Ereshkigal. In China, they are called lung
and represent yang, and Pliny the Elder claimed that Indian elephants were at war with these. One
named Fafnir was slewn by Sigurd, and Cadmus slew one and then sowed its teeth to sprout an army.
The one protecting the apples of the Hesperides is named Ladon, while the patron saint of England
slew one, as did Bel. For 10 points, name these mythological reptiles killed by George that sometimes
breathe fire and protect hordes of gold.
ANSWER: dragons
3. Early in life, this leader edited the Socialist newspapers The Class Struggle. He ruled the short-lived
Republic of Salo, and rose to power with the support of squadrismo. This leader instituted a tax on
bachelors to encourage population growth, and appointed Cesare Mori prefect of Tripani in order to
control the power of the Mafia. In 1935, he ordered an invasion of Ethiopia, and he took power after
the March on Rome. For 10 points, name this dictator nicknamed Il Duce, who was deposed in World
War II by the Allies after leading the Fascist Party in Italy.
ANSWER: Benito Mussolini [prompt on Il Duce until mentioned]
4. Its thirteenth section, on the “Transference of Ills,” discusses an Aborigine toothache cure, and its
sixteenth section discusses an Aztec tradition in which a man was dressed as a god, worshipped for a
year, and then eaten. Its thesis is that a marriage between a sun god and earth goddess formed the
basis for ancient resurrection-based fertility cults. This book takes its name from an object used to
enter the underworld in the Aeneid. For 10 points, identify this anthropological study of mythology and
religion by James Frazer.
ANSWER: The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion
5. Rab9 is hyperactive in NPC1-deficient cells to ensure transport of this molecule. Enzymes in the
endoplasmic reticulum’s membrane convert squalene to this molecule, whose derivatives include bile
acids and Vitamin D. Crystals of this molecule form during atherosclerosis, and this molecule can be
carried by both high-density and low-density lipoproteins. For 10 points, name this lipid and precursor
to steroid hormones.
ANSWER: cholesterol
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Its protagonist warns some peasants that real life is serious in the aria "Un tal gioco, credete mi,"
then leaves with Beppe to prepare for a show. During the show, Nedda is confronted by the
protagonist about her affair with Silvio, leading him to stab them both, after which Tonio speaks the
final line, "La commedia e finita." Often paired with Mascagni's Cavalleria Rusticana, for 10 points,
identify this verismo opera whose first act ends with the aria "Vesta la Giubba" and whose protagonist
Canio is a sad clown, a work of Ruggerio Leoncavallo.
ANSWER: I Pagliacci [accept The Clowns or The Players]
7. In this work, the young Wally dies of a burst appendix on a Boy Scout trip and the milkman Howie
Newsome appears each morning in each act. The drunken Simon Stimson is the subject of much gossip
and eventually hangs himself in his attic, becoming a member of the group of dead souls in the local
cemetery. The group is joined by Emily Webb, who dies in childbirth after marrying George Gibbs. For 10
points, name this play in which the Stage Manager describes the town of Grover’s Corners to the
audience, a work of Thornton Wilder.
ANSWER: Our Town
8. Friedrich Bessel discovered a wobble in this star, whose source was identified by Alvan Clark’s
discovery of its B star. Edmund Halley’s studies of this star led to his theory of proper motion. Along
with Betelgeuse and Procyon, this star forms the winter triangle, and it approximately lies along the
line formed by Orion’s belt. With an apparent magnitude of minus 1.46, it is the brightest star in the
night sky. Located about 8.6 light years away, for 10 points, name this star found in Canis Major that is
sometimes called the Dog Star.
ANSWER: Sirius
9. Men on the ticket in this election include the Governor of California, the co-recipient of the Nobel
Peace Prize with Jane Addams, Milwaukee mayor Hiram Johnson, Nicholas Butler and Emil Seidel. Less
than a week before this election, incumbent vice president James Sherman passed away. The first
forty-eight state election, and the last to see an incumbent President finish third, for 10 points, name
the year of this election lost by William Howard Taft of the Republicans and Theodore Roosevelt of the
Bull Moose Party, which was won by Woodrow Wilson.
ANSWER: United States presidential election of 1912
10. The speaker of this poem cannot make his “will quite clear” but asserts that he “choose[s] never to
stoop.” “Some officious fool” brings a “bough of cherries” and merits the title character’s “approving
speech.” “Courtesy was cause enough” to produce a “spot of joy” in the title figure, who has a “heart
too soon made glad.” Towards its end, the speaker entreats the listener to visit a statue of Neptune
carved by Claus of Innsbruck. For 10 points, identify this poem about a painting by Fra Pandolf of a
woman murdered by the narrator, written by Robert Browning.
ANSWER: “My Last Duchess”

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 13

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

