2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 11
Tossups

1. One of this man’s operas features Patachon and Giraffier fighting over the best location to
beg for money, and he depicted an inept conspiracy in China in the opera Ba-ta-clan. In another
work, Jupiter buzzes like a fly during the duet Bel insecte a l’aile dorée sung with Eurydice, and
that opera also includes music for the can-can. Another of this man’s operas features the
prostitute Giulietta and the mechanical doll Olympia, both lovers of the titular poet. For 10
points, name this French composer of Orpheus in the Underworld and The Tales of Hoffman.
ANSWER: Jacques Offenbach
2. This war included a loss for Steven van Rensselaer at Queenston Heights, and in this war
Moraviantown was destroyed after Tecumseh died at the battle of the Thames. Winfield Scott
was wounded at the battle of Lundy’s Lane near the Niagara River in this war, which also saw
Oliver Hazzard Perry’s victory at Put-in Bay and the bombardment of Fort McHenry. It ended
with the treaty of Ghent and Andrew Jackson’s victory at New Orleans and saw the burning of
the White House. For 10 points, name this war over impressment between America and Britain.
ANSWER: War of 1812
3. The Greenwood map concerns this structure. Diseases of this organ include Meniere’s
disease, and its scala media is separated from its scala vestibuli by Reissner’s membrane. Cells
containing stereocilia are arranged in four rows in this structure; three of those rows are
responsible for producing its namesake “microphonic,” and the fourth row is responsible for
converting vibrations into electrical signals. For 10 points, name this snail-shaped organ that
contains both the outer and inner hair cells and is located in the inner ear.
ANSWER: cochlea [prompt on inner ear; prompt on organ of Corti before “scala media”]
4. This author wrote about a midget named Tom Thumb in his play Tragedy of Tragedies and
one of his novels concerns a title criminal and gang leader who dies on the gallows after trying
to frame his friend Mr. Heartfree. In addition to writing Jonathan Wild, this author parodied
Samuel Richardson in novels like Joseph Andrews and Shamela. In another of his novels, the
title foundling marries Sofia Western after being raised by Squire Allworthy. For 10 points,
name this British author of Tom Jones.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 1 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In addition to two long suspension bridges, this city features a railway connecting the Pera
Plateau and the area around Galata Bridge. Within this municipality are the districts of Uskudar
and Kadikoy as well as the “old city” of Stamboul, which is to the south of the “new” Beyoglu.
This city is located on a peninsula bordered by three seas: the Marmara, the Golden Horn, and
the Bosporus. For 10 points, name this former Turkish capital on the site of ancient Byzantium,
previously planned by and named for Constantine.
ANSWER: Istanbul
6. This work was partly inspired by a Robert Adam relief of Epaminondas. Robert Monckton
holds his hand to his heart in this work, which was controversial for showing figures in
contemporary dress. In this work, a tricorne hat, a bayonet, and a rifle are shown on the
ground, and a Native American sits on the left. Two men hold a massive flag behind the title
figure of this work, which includes smoke in the background that mostly obscures Quebec. For
10 points, name this Benjamin West depiction of the last moments of a British officer.
ANSWER: The Death of General Wolfe
7. One woman of this name bore a daughter with Lamprus named Leucippus, who Leto
changed into a son. Another figure of this name was a sea nymph who transformed the blood
of her suitor Acis into a river after Polyphemus killed him. The best-known figure of this name
birthed Metharme and Paphos and was created after the Propoetides prostituted themselves.
That figure was transformed by Aphrodite after she was loved by a figure who thought she
looked realistic. For 10 points, name this lover of Pygmalion.
ANSWER: Galatea
8. Reinhard Heydrich came up with evidence that a central figure in this event had been paid
twelve million marks by France. In the buildup to this event, a speech at the University of
Marburg foretold a “second revolution” if this event did not happen and was given by Fritz von
Papen. Also known as Operation Hummingbird, this event occurred after Hindenburg
threatened martial law and occurred under the pretext that the targets were secretly
homosexuals. For 10 points, name this 1934 secret elimination of the SA after the falling out of
favor of Ernst Rohm.
ANSWER: Night of the Long Knives [or Nacht der langen Messer]
9. One class of these compounds may be transformed into aldehydes via a reaction named for
Swern, and they can be produced without risk of rearrangement through a mercurationdemercuration reaction. Their deprotonation results in the formation of alkoxide ions, and
reducing agents such as LAH form them from aldehydes and ketones. One of these is a benzene
derivative called phenol. For 10 points, name these compounds that possess one or more
hydroxyl groups and include methanol and ethanol.
ANSWER: alcohols

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 2 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. This poet wrote “It so happens that I am sick of being a man” in his poem “Walking
Around.” One of this author’s poems claims “in you everything sank!” and ends “It is the hour
of departure. Oh, abandoned one!” This man wrote of blue stars that shiver in a poem
beginning “Tonight I can write the saddest lines,” and he urged “Arise to birth with me” at the
beginning of his poem “The Heights of Macchu Picchu,” found in his Canto General. For 10
points, name this author of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, a Chilean poet.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda [or Neftali Recardo Reyes Basoalto]
11. During the Baroque period, the de chiesa type of this composition was intended for church
performances. One composition of this type by Giovanni Gabrieli was written for two choirs of
four instruments, and was named for the contrasting dynamics, “pian’e forte.” This term also
names several forms with an exposition, development, and recapitulation. For 10 points, name
this type of composition, whose examples for the piano by Beethoven include the “Tempest,”
“Hammerklavier,” and “Moonlight.”
ANSWER: sonata
12. One saint with this name wrote eighteen letters to figures like Flavian and Eusebius and is
referred to by the epithet “of Nyssa.” One pope of this name delivered lectures on Job, which
were collected in the Magna Moralia, and another convoked the Second Council of Lyons. The
seventh pope of this name advocated rebellion against evil bishops and sparked the investiture
controversy. For 10 points, give this shared name of numerous popes, including the one who
deposed Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV, who he forced to submit to him at Canossa.
ANSWER: Gregory
13. A nineteenth-century succession conflict in this country involved the declaration of Michael
as King and is known alternately as the War of the Two Brothers or Liberal War. Saint Elizabeth
the Holy Queen was the wife of this country’s early ruler Denis. Later that century, Nuno
Alvares Pereira aided John I of this country in establishing the Aviz dynasty. The succeeding
dynasty would end with Manuel II’s short reign and a later dictatorship would culminate in
1974’s Revolution of the Carnations. For 10 points, name this Iberian nation once led by the
Braganzas.
ANSWER: Portugal
14. This man argued that one plus the product of the first n primes must itself be prime, thus
giving a proof for infinitely many primes. This man’s namesake algorithm can be used to find
the greatest common divisor of any two integers, while his namesake constructions are those
that can be made with a compass and an unmarked straightedge. Better known is this thinker’s
introduction of the parallel postulate alongside four other axioms. For 10 points, name this
Greek mathematician, the author of the Elements and the “father of geometry.”
ANSWER: Euclid of Alexandria

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 3 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. This man allegedly smuggled a yeti artifact known as the Pangboche Hand out of Nepal, and
he made Johnny Carson cry on the Tonight Show by reading his poem about his dog, “Beau.” In
one film, this man played Chip Hardesty, who got into a shootout with Baby Face Nelson, and
he starred in a biopic about the composer of “Moonlight Serenade.” In addition to FBI Story and
The Glenn Miller Story, this man starred as a P. I. who followed Madeleine Elster. For 10 points,
name this star of Vertigo who also played the title character in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.
ANSWER: James “Jimmy” Stewart
16. With the assistance of the BBC, this experiment was reproduced in 2003 by Haslam and
Reicher, and its participants were given mirrored sunglasses beforehand. One participant tried
to mimic the actor Strother Martin, and another volunteered to give up his blanket following
another’s hunger strike. The cruelest individual was named “John Wayne,” and Christina
Maslach was responsible for its early termination. For 10 points, name this experiment
conducted by Philip Zimbardo at a certain institution.
ANSWER: Stanford prison experiment [prompt on partial answer]
17. This man’s historical plays include a work that imagines Joan of Arc breaking free of her
chains before being burned at the stake and instead dying in battle. One of his poems addresses
the title entity as “thou beauteous godly lighting.” Scooter and Schweitzer are two of the title
characters of another of his plays that contrasts Karl and Franz Moor. This author also wrote of
Gessler, who makes a Swiss hero shoot an apple off of his son’s head. For 10 points, name this
German author of The Robbers, William Tell, and the poem “Ode to Joy.”
ANSWER: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller
18. A law proposed by Aulus Gabinius commissioned this man to fight Mediterranean pirates,
and he brutally wrested Africa and Sicily from Marian control on Sulla’s orders. Gaius Marcellus
placed a sword in this man’s hands to defend the Republic in 50 B.C.E., and after seeking
Ptolemy’s assistance, this man was assassinated in Egypt following his defeat at Pharsalus. For
10 points, name this Roman statesman who, with Crassus and Julius Caesar, formed the First
Triumvirate.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Cnaeus Pompeius Magnus]
19. This phenomenon can be used to detect heavy metal impurities in a type named for
Rutherford, and accelerating particles emit radiation in a form named for Thomson. The Tyndall
effect involves particles in a colloid causing this phenomenon, and an inelastic form of this is
named for Raman. An energy drop in photons interacting with matter is the Compton type,
while another form occurs with particles of radii much smaller than the wavelength of light. For
10 points, name this phenomenon, the Rayleigh type of which explains why the sky is blue.
ANSWER: scattering

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 4 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. The Gould Belt is a partial ring of objects within this entity, and its center is visible through
“Baade’s window.” This object interferes with astronomical observation in the so-called zone of
avoidance. This object in the Virgo Supercluster is predicted to collide with Andromeda in three
billion years. The center of this object is the home of Sagittarius A-Star, a large radio source that
may be a supermassive black hole. For 10 points, name this barred spiral galaxy in the local
group that contains the solar system.
ANSWER: the Milky Way galaxy
21. This author wrote a novel in which the title figure takes part in the failed campaign of
Harold Transome and falls in love with Esther Lyon. In another, Tom and Maggie Tulliver drown
in a flood of the titular river. Besides Felix Holt, the Radical and The Mill On the Floss, in another
novel Nancy Lammeter marries Godfrey Cass after his brother steals the gold of the titular
miserly weaver of Raveloe, and she also wrote of the unhappy marriage of Edward Casaubon
and Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this author of Silas Marner and Middlemarch.
ANSWER: George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans]
22. At one point in this novel, the protagonist throws a pine cone at a squirrel he encounters in
a clearing. That protagonist carries on an unwilling conversation with a man known only as “The
Tattered Man,” and the loud Wilson shakily gives the protagonist a packet of letters in this
novel. The protagonist is thrilled to be called a “wild cat” after he picks up the flag following the
death of the veteran Jim Conklin. For 10 points, name this novel in which Henry Flemming
receives the title mark after being whacked on the head with a rifle, a Civil War novel by
Stephen Crane.
ANSWER: The Red Badge of Courage
23. The beginning of this nation’s colonial period is counted from the date when its last
Ottoman provincial ruler Husayn struck a foreign dignitary with a fly swatter, and Emir
Abdelkader led its resistance to foreign domination in the nineteenth century. This nation’s
president Muhammad Boudiaf was assassinated in 1992, and Ahmed Ben Bella and the FLN led
the independence movement of this country in the twentieth century. For 10 points, name this
North African nation that won its independence from France in 1962.
ANSWER: Algeria

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 5 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 11
Bonuses

1. Its final ruler was Queen Anne. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British dynasty that started in Scotland and included rulers like James I.
ANSWER: House of Stuart
[10] This successor of Charles II was the last Stuart ruler of England before the Glorious
Revolution.
ANSWER: James II [or James VII of Scotland]
[10] The Glorious Revolution saw the accession of Mary II and this husband and Prince of
Orange.
ANSWER: William III
2. For 10 points each, name these plays by Henrik Ibsen.
[10] Nora leaves Torvald after illegally taking out a loan on his behalf.
ANSWER: A Doll’s House [or Et dukkehjem]
[10] In this play, Halvard Solness falls to his death after climbing a new house at the insistence
of Hilda Wangel.
ANSWER: The Master Builder [or Bygmester Solness]
[10] In this play, Osvald Alving develops syphilis and unknowingly falls in love with his half-sister
Regina.
ANSWER: Ghosts [or Gengangere]
3. It can be used to predict the behavior of dynamic systems through the analytic determination
of probabilities and employs the Hamiltonian. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this equation of quantum mechanics. It is named for the Austrian physicist who
developed a thought experiment in which a cat is caught in a superposition of life and death.
ANSWER: Schrödinger equation
[10] In the Schrödinger equation, the eigenfunction of the Hamiltonian represents this value for
a system. For an electromagnetic wave, it is given by Plank’s constant times frequency.
ANSWER: total energy
[10] In Schrödinger’s thought experiment, this entity is said to collapse when the box is opened.
In the Schrödinger equation it represents the probability amplitude of the system.
ANSWER: wavefunction

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 6 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Its namesake trees include the General Sherman. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this national park, the site of Crystal Cave and the famous Tunnel Log through
which cars can drive.
ANSWER: Sequoia National Park
[10] This mountain, part of Sequoia National Park, is the highest point in the contiguous United
States.
ANSWER: Mount Whitney
[10] Hale Tharp, a European settler who built his home out of a hollowed fallen sequoia log,
often hosted this naturalist after whom a major trail leading up Mount Whitney is named.
ANSWER: John Muir
5. This laissez faire economist argued against the Corn Laws and wrote The High Price of Bullion.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this economist who formulated the theory of comparative advantage.
ANSWER: David Ricardo
[10] Ricardo formulated this law of economics, which argues that the price of labor will always
be driven down toward the subsistence level.
ANSWER: iron law of wages
[10] This other economist argued that poverty was the natural condition of humanity because
food production would always be outstripped by population growth.
ANSWER: Thomas Malthus
6. It was perpetrated when Black Kettle was trying to negotiate with Fort Lyon, and it was led by
Colonel John Chivington. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1864 attack on an Indian camp that had raised a white flag.
ANSWER: Sand Creek Massacre
[10] This man went to battle at the Little Bighorn because he was impatient for help from
General Terry. All of his men were killed in what is called his “last stand.”
ANSWER: George Armstrong Custer
[10] Fought in 1890, this battle saw over two hundred Teton Sioux practitioners of the Ghost
Dance massacred in South Dakota.
ANSWER: The Battle of Wounded Knee

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 7 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This tale’s narrator remains unnamed until near the end, as she has tied herself to her room,
ripping the title decoration. For 10 points each:
[10] Name that short story, which closes with the freeing of a struggling woman after a time
spent under the supervision of her sister-in-law, Jennie.
ANSWER: The Yellow Wallpaper
[10] Possibly in an autobiographical sense, this author of the verse collection In This Our World
wrote The Yellow Wallpaper during trouble with her own husband and child.
ANSWER: Charlotte Anna Perkins Stetson Gilman
[10] Gilman’s women’s rights work was partly inspired by the activism of her great aunt, this
author, who described the Shelby family and Simon Legree in her most famous work.
ANSWER: Harriet Beecher Stowe
8. This man coined the popular catchphrase “Neo-Catholicism is Popular Hegelry.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this German author of On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason and
Parerga and Paralipomena.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
[10] Schopenhauer also wrote this1819 work, which summed up his philosophy. He claimed
that instead of seeking material things, people should lose themselves in beautiful art.
ANSWER: World as Will and Representation [or World as Will and Idea; or Die Welt als Wille
und Vorstellung]
[10] Schopenhauer’s arguments were influenced by this earlier German philosopher, who is
known for such things as the categorical imperative and the book Critique of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Emmanuel Kant
9. For 10 points, name these model organisms used in scientific research.
[10] Transposons were first discovered by Barbara McClintock in this crop, indigenous to
Mexico and Central America.
ANSWER: maize [or corn; or Zea mays]
[10] Mutations occurring in this organism include Antennapedia, which causes legs to grow
where antennae do, and others mutations include vestigial wings and sepia eyes.
ANSWER: Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit fly]
[10] This plant may be the most economically important crop to undergo Crassulacean Acid
Metabolism, or CAM, photosynthesis.
ANSWER: pineapple [or Ananas comosus]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 8 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. Knee plays are incorporated into this man’s five-hour-long opera Einstein on the Beach. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this modernist composer who also worked on such film scores as The Truman Show.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] Tolstoy, Tagore, and King are the subjects of the three acts in this Glass opera titled after
Gandhi’s philosophy of nonviolence.
ANSWER: Satyagraha
[10] “America: Before the War” is the first movement of Different Trains, a work by this
composer of City Life, Music for 18 Musicians, and Clapping Music.
ANSWER: Steve Reich
11. He lived out his life as a gardener after being granted amnesty. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this last emperor of China who was captured by Soviet troops in 1945.
ANSWER: Henry Pu-yi [or Aisin Gioro; or Hsuan T’ung; or K’ang Te]
[10] Henry Pu-yi became emperor of this Japanese puppet state in 1934, which was only
recognized by Germany, Italy, and, of course, Japan.
ANSWER: Manchukuo
[10] Henry Pu-yi was overthrown by the Chinese Revolution of 1911, which was led by this
medical doctor who developed the Three Principles of the People.
ANSWER: Sun Yat-sen [or Sun Wen]
12. Ariel warns the protagonist of her impending fate and guards her dog Shock. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this mock epic in which Lord Petre commits the titular action by cutting Belinda’s
hair.
ANSWER: The Rape of the Lock
[10] The Rape of the Lock was written by this author of Eloisa to Abelard and The Dunciad.
ANSWER: Alexander Pope
[10] This Pope poem in heroic couplets contains pithy sayings like “to err is human; to forgive,
divine” and “a little learning is a dangerous thing.” It contrasts the titular pursuit with writing.
ANSWER: An Essay on Criticism
13. This civilization worshiped the deity Itzli, the god of knives and sacrifice. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this civilization that also worshiped Huitzilopochtli and Quetzalcoatl.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] The Aztecs liked to sacrifice infants to this god, who was pictured wearing foam sandals
and a crown of heron feathers. He was the god of fertility and rain.
ANSWER: Tlaloc
[10] The Aztecs believed that Mictlan was this type of place. In Mayan mythology, Xibalba is this
sort of place, which is analogous to Sheol in Hebrew mythology.
ANSWER: underworlds
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 9 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

14. For 10 points each, identify the following concerning acids and bases.
[10] This theory defines acids and bases in terms of donating or accepting protons and defines
the water molecule as either the conjugate base of the hydronium ion or the conjugate acid of
the hydroxide ion.
ANSWER: Brønsted-Lowry acid-base theory
[10] Water in the above example displays this phenomenon, as do hydroxides of chromium and
tin, in which one substance may act as either an acid or a base depending on the reactants.
ANSWER: amphoterism [accept word forms]
[10] When water is removed from a substance, either an acid or a basic one of these remains,
generally oxides of nonmetals and metals, respectively.
ANSWER: anhydride
15. An oboe theme in the ending reminds the audience that one character is still alive. For 10
points each:
[10] The titular characters are represented by the strings and French horn respectively in this
children’s piece written after its composer’s return to the Soviet Union.
ANSWER: Peter and the Wolf
[10] This Russian creator of the Lieutenant Kije Suite and a ballet version of Romeo and Juliet is
best known for composing Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev
[10] This Prokofiev opera sees Fata Morgana curse a prince to go in search of the titular
princess-containing objects.
ANSWER: The Love for Three Oranges
16. Name these crusades for 10 points each:
[10] This crusade, which was launched by Pope Urban II at the Council of Clermont in 1095, was
the most successful of the crusades, as it actually succeeded in capturing Jerusalem and setting
up crusader states.
ANSWER: First Crusade
[10] This crusade of 1202 to 1204 completed the Great Schism by disgracefully sacking
Constantinople.
ANSWER: Fourth Crusade
[10] This predominantly French Crusade spent twenty years trying to rid the province of
Languedoc of the Cathar heresy.
ANSWER: Albigensian Crusade

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 10 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. This former chair of the Senate Commerce Committee claimed that the internet was a
"series of tubes," and mistakenly called an e-mail a staffer sent him "an internet." For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Alaskan who was convicted in 2008 on corruption charges.
ANSWER: Theodore “Ted” Stevens
[10] Senator Ted Stevens’ corruption charge was vacated in 2009 after this U.S. attorney
general dropped the charges.
ANSWER: Eric Holder
[10] This senator from Hawaii, a World War II veteran, was one of Ted Stevens’ few defenders
during his corruption investigation.
ANSWER: Daniel Inouye
18. For 10 points each, name these Jewish-American writers.
[10] This man wrote about a Lindberg regime in The Plot Against America, as well as novels like
Goodbye, Columbus and Portnoy’s Complaint.
ANSWER: Philip Milton Roth
[10] This author of The Fixer and The Assistant wrote about Roy Hobbes and his magical bat in
The Natural.
ANSWER: Bernard Malamud
[10] This author of Herzog and Ravelstein wrote The Adventures of Auggie March.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
19. Diseases affecting this organ include hepatitis and cirrhosis. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this four-lobed organ with metabolic and excretory functions.
ANSWER: liver
[10] This substance is produced in the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It facilitates the
digestion of lipids.
ANSWER: bile
[10] In the liver, ammonia from amino acids is converted to the namesake substance in this
cycle.
ANSWER: urea cycle [or Krebs-Henseleit cycle]
20. Two of the title figures, who wear a red cap and a blue cap, bend over to pull wheat from
the ground, while another stands partially upright. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1857 painting showing the three titular French peasant women.
ANSWER: The Gleaners [or Des glaneuses]
[10] The Gleaners was a creation of this Frenchman, who often painted scenes of peasant life,
including The Angelus.
ANSWER: Jean-Francois Millet
[10] Jean-Francois Millet was a founder of this school of art, whose members included
Théodore Rousseau and Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot.
ANSWER: Barbizon
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 11 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. It is sometimes referred to as the “mother of presidents.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Great Lakes state, the home of William Henry Harrison, Warren Harding, and six
other American presidents.
ANSWER: Ohio
[10] Another president from Ohio was this man, who defeated William Jennings Bryan in the
Election of 1896, but was assassinated shortly after winning a second term in 1900.
ANSWER: William McKinley
[10] Masterminding McKinley’s “front porch campaign” for the election of 1896 was this
campaign manager, a fellow Ohioan who pioneered the usage of political pamphleteering.
ANSWER: Marcus Alonzo Hanna
22. He is notable for his use of sprung rhythm in poems like one declaring “Brute beauty and
valour and act, oh, air, pride, plume, here/ Buckle!” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet of “The Windhover,” as well as “The Wreck of the Deutschland.”
ANSWER: Gerard Manley Hopkins
[10] Hopkins used sprung rhythm in this curtal sonnet that opens with the line “Glory be to God
for dappled things” and ends with an invocation to “Praise him.”
ANSWER: “Pied Beauty”
[10] Hopkins also wrote a poem about a “caged” one of this kind of bird. Percy Bysshe Shelley
wrote a poem to one of these that begins “Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!”
ANSWER: skylark
23. Examples of these features include roche moutonées, or sheepbacks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these areas of raised land, examples of which include tors and buttes.
ANSWER: hills
[10] This type of glacial hill is a long, tear-shaped formation. Their steep side points away from
the direction of glacial flow.
ANSWER: drumlins
[10] This type of glacial hill is a long ridge formed by till being scraped by the edge of a glacier.
Examples include lateral and terminal.
ANSWER: moraines

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 11

Page 12 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

