2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 9
Related Tossups &
Bonuses
1. Larvae of creatures in this phylum can be lecithotrophic or planktotrophic. Some species in this
phylum possess pedicellariae, and one organism in this phylum has contributed extensively to coral reef
destruction by eating coral polyps. One class in this phylum can eject its internal organs to deter
predators, and these organisms possess water vascular systems. Along with Chordata, members of this
phylum are deuterostomes, and all members have radial symmetry. For 10 points, name this phylum that
includes animals like sea cucumbers and starfish.
ANSWER: echinodermata
Bonus: Although these organisms are prokaryotic, they differ from bacteria due to the lack of murein in
their cell walls. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this domain of organisms that differs from the Eukaryota and Eubacteria domains.
ANSWER: Archaea [or Archaebacteria]
[10] Archaea can be divided into methanogens, haloarchaea, and this group of thermophiles, which use
the oxidation and reduction of a namesake group 16 element to generate energy.
ANSWER: sulfur-dependent thermophiles
2. Howard Becker argued that this concept was the product of interactions between people whose lines
of work involved committing crimes or catching criminals. In one work, David Matza and Gresham Sykes
argued that the values behind this type of behavior were excitement and thrill and classified them as
subterranean values, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan claimed that “defining [this concept] down” resulted
in an increase in crime and other unacceptable behavior. For 10 points, give this term that refers to
behaviors that violate the norms of society.
ANSWER: deviancy [or word forms like deviance; prompt on delinquency]
Bonus: He argued that businessmen deliberately sabotage production to drive up prices in The Theory of
Business Enterprise. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Norwegian-American economist who wrote about wasteful conspicuous consumption in
The Theory of the Leisure Class.
ANSWER: Thorstein Veblen
[10] In The Theory of the Leisure Class, Veblen argues that the origin of ownership was the ownership of
this group. Simone de Beauvoir argued that “one is not born, one becomes” a member of this group in
The Second Sex.
ANSWER: women [or equivalents]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. This man engaged in a bitter dispute with his longtime lawyer Ismael Ayob, and as president he
lobbied to have the trial for the Lockerbie bombing in his country. After becoming leader of Spear of the
Nation, he led a sabotage campaign that would eventually result in the Rivonia Trial and his
imprisonment on Robben Island until his release in 1990, three years before he and Willem de Klerk
jointly won the Nobel Peace Prize. For 10 points, name this man who was succeeded by Thabo Mbeki as
head of the ANC, a South African who resisted apartheid.
ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela
Bonus: This war was fought over sections of the mineral-rich Atacama Desert and led to a victory for
Chilean forces under Manuel Baquedano. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this conflict also known as the Saltpeter War.
ANSWER: War of the Pacific
[10] This country was a big loser during the War of the Pacific, in part because the loss of its Litoral
Department left it landlocked.
ANSWER: Bolivia
4. One fresco in this location depicts two triumphal arches and a classical temple in the background, The
Delivery of the Keys. Daniele de Volterra covered the genitalia of many of the figures in a work located
here that includes a depiction of the artist as the flayed skin of Bartholomew, The Last Judgment. This
place’s most famous décor depicts several sybils and the expulsion from Eden, as well as God giving life
to Adam. For 10 points, name this building whose ceiling was decorated by Michelangelo.
ANSWER: Sistine Chapel
Bonus: The title courtesan falls for Alfredo, but the romance predictably ends in tragedy. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this opera by Verdi in which Violetta dies of tuberculosis.
ANSWER: La traviata
[10] In this Puccini opera, the heroine Mimi also dies of tuberculosis, despite the best efforts of Rodolfo.
ANSWER: La bohème
5. An obscure story about this man states that he once accidentally dropped some toys into the
underworld and sent his friend to get them back, only to have his friend imprisoned there. A woman
bakes seven loaves of bread in seven days to show that this man had slept for a week. After taking advice
from Utanapishtim, this man is foiled when a snake eats an herb that he found at the bottom of a lake.
Said to be two-thirds man and one-third immortal, he slays Humbaba and the Bull of Heaven. For 10
points, name this King of Uruk and friend of Enkidu, the namesake of a Sumerian epic.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh
Bonus: After being rejected by Gilgamesh, this goddess convinced Anu to send the Bull of Heaven to kill
him. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Babylonian goddess of love, sex, and war.
ANSWER: Ishtar
[10] Ishtar had to remove seven articles of clothing to visit this sister of hers and goddess of the
underworld, who refused to let her go until Dumuzi took her place.
ANSWER: Ereshkigal

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. One king of this line had a son who dishonorably escaped as his replacement hostage after the Treaty
of Bretigny, and another was known as “the Mad.” In addition to John II and Charles VI, the political
machinations of one king of this branch led him to be known as the “Spider King”, and another monarch
of this house met longtime rival Henry VIII of England at the Field of the Cloth of Gold; those were Louis
XI and Francis I. For 10 points, name this French house in power from 1328 to 1589.
ANSWER: Valois
Bonus: She sponsored Christopher Columbus’ voyages to the New World. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this queen of Castile and Leon who unified Spain via her marriage to Ferdinand of Aragon.
ANSWER: Isabella I
[10] This daughter of Isabella married Philip the Handsome and was confined in Tordesillas after
supposedly going insane.
ANSWER: Juana the Mad [or Juana la Loca; or Joan the Mad; prompt on Juana; prompt on Joan or
Joanna]
7. The results of this experiment were challenged by Felix Ehrenhaft. Preliminary results of the
experiment were published in a paper correcting Stokes’ Law. Louis Begeman, J. Y. Lee, and Harvey
Fletcher all contributed to this experiment, whose results were published in the article “On the
Elementary Electric Charge and the Avogadro Number.” For 10 points, name this experiment performed
by Robert Millikan, who measured the rate of fall of the namesake substance, the first experiment to
conclusively measure the charge on the electron.
ANSWER: oil drop experiment [or Millikan experiment before mention]
Bonus: This experiment shot a beam of alpha particles at the namesake substance, and the
experimenters were surprised to see some alpha particles come right back at them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this experiment that confirmed the existence of the nucleus.
ANSWER: gold foil experiment [or Rutherford experiment; or Geiger-Marsden experiment, but do not
reveal]
[10] Although produced in the Rutherford lab, the experiment was mostly carried out by Ernest Marsden
and this man, who also invented a “counter” that detects ionizing radiation.
ANSWER: Hans Geiger
8. Gordon Comstock’s failure to complete the poetry collection “London Pleasures” is central to one of
this author’s novels, and in another of his novels, this author describes a man who longs for the days of
ordering fifteen lashings, the Deputy District Commander Mr. McGregor. This author of Keep the
Aspidistra Flying wrote a novel in which the protagonist receives a briefcase containing “The Theory and
Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism.” He wrote about Winston Smith’s love for Julia in a book about a
society ruled by Big Brother. For 10 points, name this author of 1984.
ANSWER: George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
Bonus: In this play, the sinister Goldberg and McCann kidnap the protagonist and take him to “Monty.”
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play, which is set at the boarding house of Meg and Petey Boles. Its title shindig is thrown
for Stanley Webber.
ANSWER: The Birthday Party
[10] The Birthday Party was written by this British Nobel laureate who also wrote The Dumbwaiter and
The Caretaker.
ANSWER: Harold Pinter
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 9
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Religion
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Religion
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 9
Category Quiz Tossups
9. Year and event required. Game 3 winner Bob Ojeda had been acquired by the winning team the year
before from the losing team. Calvin Schiraldi lost each of the last two games, joining Dwight Gooden as
two-game losers in the series. Dave Henderson homered to give the losers a lead in the tenth inning of
Game 6, before the Mets scored the game-tying run on a wild pitch and the game-winning run on an
error. For 10 points, name this series in which Mookie Wilson’s ground ball went through Bill Buckner’s
legs.
ANSWER: 1986 World Series
10. In the Peace of Knared, this ruler lost his only access to the North Sea, and he sent an expedition to
Dunamunde in Livonia, signing the Peace of Stolbovo that year. His general Johan Baner led this ruler’s
army to victory at Wittstock, and allied with John George of Saxony in his most famous campaign. Freed
by the Truce of Altmark to follow Christian IV’s attempts, he crushed Tilly at Breitenfeld before winning
at Lutzen, during which this ruler lost his life. For 10 points, name this king of Sweden who fought in the
Thirty Years’ War.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Vasa]
11. The left side of this painting depicts acts of violence such as a bird eating a frog, a cat eating a bird,
and a lion eating a deer. A balanced egg appears in the center of this painting, which includes a circle of
men on horseback surrounding bathing women. Shrimp, clams, owls, and strawberries symbolize
sexuality in its middle panel, and its rightmost panel features people crucified on musical instruments
and surrounded by grotesque monsters in hell. For 10 points, name this triptych by Hieronymous Bosch.
ANSWER: The Garden of Earthly Delights
12. In one novel, this character scorns simple plans to free a slave by insisting on using a rope-ladder and
digging with case-knives instead of pickaxes. In another novel, this character reveals that he was engaged
to Amy Lawrence, making a girl jealous. In a book named for him, this character sews his collar with
black thread instead of white to fool his aunt and becomes trapped in a cave with his love interest, Becky
Thatcher. For 10 points, give this character whose lighthearted “adventures” are described in a novel by
Mark Twain.
ANSWER: Tom Sawyer [both or either name acceptable]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

13. The rate at which this process occurs determines the width of grabens and horsts. Evidence of a
geomagnetic reversal that is symmetric across a certain mountain range supports the theory of this
action. The areas at which this action takes place are the active margins of a triple junction. This theory
opposes Alfred Wegener’s idea that continents “plow” through the sea, and it was theorized by Harry
Hess. For 10 points, name this theory that continents move because they are pushed apart at mid-ocean
ridges.
ANSWER: sea floor spreading
14. The port of Livingston in this country is a center of the Garifuna culture, and the largest port is Puerto
Barrios. Towns in this country’s highlands include Chichicastenango and Quetzaltenango, and this
country’s most famous lake is the volcano-ringed Atitlan. The cities of Santa Elena and Flores in the Peten
region are located in the north of this country near the ruins of Tikal. For 10 points, name this Central
American country that borders Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, and Mexico.
ANSWER: Guatemala

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 9
Category Quiz Bonuses
Arts: One painting in this movement was influenced by stop-motion photographs of an animal being
walked, Giacomo Balla’s Dynamism of a Dog on a Leash. For 15 points, name this Italian artistic
movement that emphasized speed and violence.
ANSWER: Futurism [or word forms]
Current Events: In 2007, it was ranked as the most developed nation in the world by the United Nations
Human Development Index. However, the banking system collapse has led to riots and ultimately, for 15
points, the failure of what European country’s government?
ANSWER: Iceland
Geography: Islands in this body of water include Qeshm and Hengam, and the Iranian port city of
Bandar-e-Abbas and the Musandam Peninsula lie on it. For 15 points, name this strait that connects the
Gulf of Oman and Persian Gulf.
ANSWER: Strait of Hormuz
History: An 1847 meeting at Heppenheim recommended that this entity be turned into a political body,
but it remained an economic body only. For 15 points, name this customs union of German states,
founded in 1834.
ANSWER: zollverein
Literature: This playwright wrote of Eddie Carbone and several Italian longshoremen in A View from the
Bridge. For 15 points, name this playwright of After the Fall and All My Sons.
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
Math Calculation: A striker can kick the ball into an empty net from 30 feet away 80% of the time, and a
goalie can stop that shot 95% of the time. For 15 points, find the chance that the striker scores from 30
feet.
ANSWER: 4% [or 1/25; or 0.04] [the striker scores if the ball would go into the net and the goalie does not
stop it]
Religion: It is celebrated on the first of Shawwal and sees the breaking of the fast after the end of the
month of Ramadan. For 15 points, name this Muslim holiday.
ANSWER: Eid ul-Fitr [prompt on Eid]
Social Science: This branch of psychology is based in part on the observation of the phi phenomenon.
For 15 points, Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Kohler, and Kurt Koffka were all members of what twentiethcentury school of psychology, which stressed that the whole of a thing is greater than its parts?
ANSWER: Gestalt
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 9
Stretch Phase
15. He was inspired by Four Saints in Three Acts to write El Salon Mexico, and his clarinet concerto
unusually contains only two movements linked by a cadenza. He wrote a ballet including movements like
“Mexican Dance” and “The Open Prairie,” as well as one depicting the death in a gunfight of the title
character. One of his most famous pieces uses neither woodwinds nor strings and was dedicated to the
World War II efforts of the titular “common man,” while another included variations on “Simple Gifts.”
For 10 points, name this American composer of Rodeo and Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
Bonus: Answer the following about some European monarchs for 10 points each:
[10] This French king, also known as the Sun King, became king at the age of four, but did not rule until
the death of his prime minister, Cardinal Mazarin.
ANSWER: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]
[10] This Dutch ruler and Protestant fought against Louis XIV during the Anglo-Dutch War. He also
reigned as king of England following the Glorious Revolution.
ANSWER: William III [or William of Orange; prompt on William]
[10] William replaced this Stuart ruler as king of England. His daughter, Mary II, ruled alongside William.
ANSWER: James II [prompt on James]
16. This man oversaw the implementation of the Virgin and Idle Lands program in northern Kazakhstan
in 1953, and he consolidated his power at the expense of that of Nikolay Podgorny and Aleksey Kosygin.
This man helped plan Polish General Wojciech Jaruzelski’s crackdown on Solidarity, and he agreed to the
SALT II treaty with Jimmy Carter. For 10 points, name this Soviet leader from 1964 to 1982 whose
namesake doctrine asserted the Soviet Union’s right to intervene in the affairs of other nations in the
communist bloc.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these forces one might encounter while spinning.
[10] This force always points toward the center of the circle and has magnitude of mass times velocity
squared divided by radius.
ANSWER: centripetal force [do not accept “centrifugal force”]
[10] In contrast, this pseudoforce is caused by a body’s inertia and results in the appearance that the
body is actually being pushed away from the center of the circle.
ANSWER: centrifugal force
[10] This other pseudoforce results in an apparent deflection of the path of an object if the surface on
which it lies is rotating. It is responsible for the rotation of hurricanes.
ANSWER: Coriolis force

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. These entities account for the attractive term in the Lennard-Jones potential, and one type of them is
named for Keesom. The structure of geckos’ feet enables the lizards to use these to adhere to walls, and
they also include Debye forces. Their namesake also formulated a correction to the ideal gas law, and
they include one type that results from the interaction of temporary dipoles, London dispersion forces.
For 10 points, name these weak attractive forces between gas molecules, named for a Dutch scientist.
ANSWER: van der Waals forces [prompt on early London dispersion forces]
Bonus: He aids Lilliput against Blefuscu. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who visits those lands, as well as Laputa and Glubbdubdrib in his namesake
travels.
ANSWER: Lemuel Gulliver
[10] Gulliver’s Travels was written by this Irish author, who satirically suggested eating babies in “A
Modest Proposal.”
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
[10] In this land, Gulliver encounters men of enormous size.
ANSWER: Brobdingnag
18. This author wrote a work about Kuhn’s sordid relationship with Gertrud Imthor and a novel about
Hans Giebenrath’s miserable time in a seminary, Beneath the Wheel. This author of Klingsor’s Last
Summer also wrote novels about Pistorius’ mentorship of Emil Sinclair and Joseph Knecht’s aspiration to
become Magister Ludi by playing the title game. Besides Demian and The Glass Bead Game, he wrote a
novel about the interactions of Pablo and Hermine with Harry Haller. For 10 points, name this German
author of Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
Bonus: This man made a notable formulation of the problem of evil in his Dialogues Concerning Natural
Religion, and in another work he examined the theory of cause. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scottish philosopher who distinguished between “relations of ideas” and “matters of
fact” in An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] Like John Locke, Hume was a proponent of this epistemological position, which argues that there are
no innate ideas and that they must instead arise from experience.
ANSWER: empiricism
[10] This third of the major British empiricists supported an idealist form, arguing “to be is to be
perceived” in works like Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous.
ANSWER: George Berkeley
19. One work by this author of a Commentary on the Sentences of Peter Lombard divides truths into
those that can be understood by the human mind and those that are too much for the intellect to
understand. Another of his works includes five arguments for the existence of god and attempts a
reconciliation of Aristotelian principles with a life of faith. This patron saint of schools is also known as
Doctor Angelicus. For 10 points, name this theologian author of Contra errores graecorum, Summa
contra Gentiles, and Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Saint Thomas Aquinas [accept early Doctor Angelicus]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Not every Southerner thought secession was a good idea. For 10 points each:
[10] The first president of the Republic of Texas, this man was removed from the governorship of Texas
after he refused to join the Confederacy.
ANSWER: Sam Houston
[10] This Kentuckian published the abolitionist paper True American and served as minister to Russia
throughout the war.
ANSWER: Cassius Clay
[10] This other Kentuckian proposed his namesake compromise as a last-ditch effort to preserve the
Union. His compromise would have preserved slavery in Washington, D.C., extended the Missouri
Compromise line to California, and strengthened the Fugitive Slave Law.
ANSWER: John Crittenden
20. In one speech, this politician argued that “if God wills” that “every drop of blood drawn with the lash
shall be paid by another drawn with the sword,” it must be said ‘the judgments of the Lord are true and
righteous altogether.” This politician insisted “We are not enemies, but friends” in a speech ending by
appealing to “the better angels of our nature.” He urged listeners to act ‘with malice towards none, with
charity for all” and “bind up the nation’s wounds” in his second inaugural address. For 10 points, name
this president who declared “A house divided cannot stand” and gave the Gettysburg Address.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
Bonus: Several angels look on from the left as a woman cradles Jesus on her lap in his Madonna with the
Long Neck. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painter of a Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
ANSWER: Parmagianino [or Girolamo Francesco Maria Mazzola]
[10] Name the movement Parmigianino exemplifies, which in some incarnations, especially in Italy, was
characterized by elongated features.
ANSWER: Mannerism
[10] This other Italian Mannerist painted Andrea Doria as Neptune as well as Venus, Cupid, Folly, and
Time.
ANSWER: Bronzino [or Agnolo di Cosimo; or Agnolo Bronzino]
21. This substance is secreted through a duct that crosses the buccinators muscle and also through a
duct that opens near the frenulum. Mumps inflames one set of glands that produce this substance, the
parotid glands; the other glands that produce this substance are the submandibular and sublingual
glands. It contains a namesake amylase that breaks down polysaccharides. For 10 points, name this fluid
that keeps the mouth moist.
ANSWER: saliva [prompt on similar, colloquial terms like spit]
Bonus: He wrote a comic opera called The Nose from Gogol’s short story, and he memorialized victims of
a Nazi massacre in his thirteenth symphony, subtitled “Babi Yar.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of the “Leningrad” and “First of May” symphonies.
ANSWER: Dmitri Shostakovich
[10] Shostakovich composed an opera about a character from this Shakespearean play “from the
Mtsensk District.”
ANSWER: Macbeth [accept Lady Macbeth from the Mtsensk District]
[10] Shostakovich also wrote two concerti in A minor and C sharp minor for this instrument. Paganini
wrote his caprices for this instrument.
ANSWER: violin
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

22. In one of this author’s works, the protagonist gives a fieldbook of birds to his father Jakob, who only
reads the Bible. That work ends with the downfall of the protagonist, Pieter, for violating the Immorality
Act. Another of this author’s works contains the real-life Bishop Trevor Huddleston. This author of Too
Late the Phalarope and Ah, But Your Land Is Beautiful wrote about a man who meets up with Gertrude
and Msimangu in order to uncover who murdered Mr. Jarvis. For 10 points, name this author who wrote
of Stephen Kumalo in Cry, the Beloved Country.
ANSWER: Alan Paton
Bonus: “Tin disease” occurs due to this property, and it is often depicted on a phase diagram. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this property by which, at different temperatures and pressures, elements may exist in two or
more distinct forms.
ANSWER: allotropy
[10] This element exhibits allotropy, as it can exist as hexagonal rings in graphite or have a threedimensional bond structure in diamond.
ANSWER: carbon [or C]
[10] This other element has red, yellow, black, and white allotropes; the white form contains four atoms
of this element, while the black form is a two-dimensional sheet.
ANSWER: phosphorus [or P]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 9
Tiebreakers + Extras
1. This law exhibits deviations that can be modeled by the Joule-Thomson effect above a point at which
expansion causes heating, the inversion temperature. Other deviations in it occur at high-pressure, lowtemperature situations and can be described using the compressibility factor. This law, also named for
Mariotte, has a namesake constant of proportionality that is the product of temperature, particle
number, and the ideal gas constant. For 10 points, name this gas law that states that at constant
temperature, pressure and volume of a gas are inversely proportional.
ANSWER: Boyle’s law [or Boyle-Mariotte law before Mariotte is mentioned]
2. He dismissed Suetonius the same year his army built a structure to demarcate the border between the
Roman Empire and Caledonia. His travels to Greece saw the completion of the Temple of the Olympian
Zeus. He was known for his villa at Tivoli, and the Roman Empire reached its greatest extent under his
reign. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor and successor to Trajan, the third of the Five Good
Emperors, who has a namesake wall.
ANSWER: Publius Aelius Hadrianus
3. The art dealer Ambroise Vollard commissioned this man to create etchings for a special edition of
Gogol’s Dead Souls. He created a stained glass memorial to Dag Hammarskjold for the United Nations
lobby, and a common theme in his paintings can be seen in his Bouquet with Flying Lovers. He depicted
Christ in a Jewish prayer shawl amidst Nazi persecution in his painting White Crucifiction, and also
painted an upside-down peasant woman next to the large head of a sheep. For 10 points, name this
Russian-born French painter of I and the Village.
ANSWER: Marc Chagall
Extra 20-point bonus:
This mathematician was driven insane by his enemy Leopold Kronecker. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mathematician who proved that the set of real numbers is larger than the set of natural
numbers and founded set theory.
ANSWER: Georg Cantor
[10] Cantor also devised the continuum hypothesis, which this mathematician chose as the first of his list
of twenty-three important unsolved mathematical problems in 1900.
ANSWER: David Hilbert

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
In this novel, a pickle dish is broken by Mattie Silver. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel set in Starkfield, Massachusetts whose title character tragically fails to kill himself
by sledding into a large tree.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
[10] This author of Ethan Frome wrote about Newland Archer’s struggles with social expectations in The
Age of Innocence.
ANSWER Edith Wharton
[10] At the end of Ethan Frome, this previously sick and gloomy wife of Ethan is seen caring for him and
Mattie.
ANSWER: Zenobia

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 9

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

