2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 15
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. Ports on this body include Wawa, Aura and Illgen City, while on its shore lies the Sleeping Giant
formation, Pukaskwa National Park, and Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore. Fed by the Brule,
Kaministiquia and Nipigon Rivers, this body has portions named Agawa and Whitefish Bays while the
Keeweenaw Peninsula juts into it. Called Gichigami or “big water” by the Ojibwe, this lake contains the
Apostle Islands, including Madeleine Island, and Isle Royale, while the St Marys River connects it to Lake
Huron. For 10 points, name this largest of the Great Lakes.
ANSWER: Lake Superior
2. Unlike the Einstein model, the Debye model properly models how this quantity changes for a
substance as temperature decreases, though for higher temperatures it may be derived from a crystal's
lattice vibrations through the Law of Dulong and Petit. For a monatomic ideal gas, it is three halves
times the ideal gas constant, while that factor is seven-halves for a diatomic ideal gas. For 10 points,
identify this quantity, the amount of energy necessary to increase the temperature of a unit quantity of
a substance by a unit amount.
ANSWER: specific heat capacity
3. The title character of this novel has a wife named Jewel and a servant named Tamb’Itam. The title
character meets his downfall when he makes a deal with Gentleman Brown, leading to the death of Dain
Warris and the wrath of Doramin, the leader of a group of Patusan natives. The protagonist is on
Patusan attempting to gain redemption for his earlier cowardice in abandoning a group of Muslim
pilgrims on the Patna. For 10 points name this work by Joseph Conrad.
ANSWER: Lord Jim
4. This man’s Tractatus de primo principio discussed what reason can prove about God, and he claimed
that universal concepts are based on a common nature among individuals. This man formulated the
defense of the doctrine of Immaculate Conception, and he wrote A Treatise on God as First Principle.
This man wrote several commentaries on the Sentences of Peter Lombard known as the Ordinatio, and
he was nicknamed the Subtle Doctor. For 10 points name this philosopher of the Middle Ages, whose
name was later used to describe dim-witted students.
ANSWER: John Duns Scotus
5. Early in his reign, this man’s advisor Attiantus persuaded him to execute Lusius Quietus, and he later
created a parliament known as the Panhellenion. The builder of a villa at Tibur, this man had the
architect Apollodorus of Damascus put to death for describing his blueprints as “pumpkins.” This man
married Vibia Sabina at the behest of Pompeia Plotina, and he later faced the rebellion of Simon bar
Kokhba in Judaea. For 10 points, name this predecessor of Antoninus Pius and successor to Trajan, a
Roman Emperor for whom a namesake British wall was built.
ANSWER: Publius Aelius Hadrianus

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Near the end of this movie, a confiscated sea mine explodes, and the main antagonist is impaled on a
model church spire after a car chase. Its two protagonists spend time chasing an escaped swan across
Sandford before learning of a series of murders orchestrated by the Neighborhood Watch Alliance, led
by the Timothy Dalton-portrayed Simon Skinner. The second movie in the "Blood and Ice Cream
Trilogy" after Shaun of the Dead, for 10 points, identify this 2004 film starring Nick Frost as Danny
Butterman and Simon Pegg as British policeman Nicholas Angel.
ANSWER: Hot Fuzz
7. BRCA1 was incorrectly believed to have post-transcriptionally modified a gene responsible for
Fanconi anemia, a risk factor for the acute myelogenous form of this class of diseases. The spleen
enlarges in one neoplasm of it, a namesake “hairy cell” version, and patients with most forms of it can
experience petechiae, or pinprick bleeds. One type of it predominately affects myeloid tissue, or bone
marrow, and the acute form of it must be given immediate treatment. For 10 points, name this cancer
characterized by the abnormal proliferation of white blood cells.
ANSWER: leukemia
8. In one of his plays, Miss Helen faces alienation from her church after turning all her cement statues in
the direction of a Muslim holy city. In another play, the title character switches passports with the dead
Robert, and this author based another play on the tension between the light-skinned Morris and the
dark-skinned Zachariah. This author also wrote about Hally forcing Sam to call him the title honorific. For
10 points name this South African author of The Road to Mecca, Sizwe Banzi is Dead, The Blood Knot,
and Master Harold… and the Boys.
ANSWER: Athol Fugard
9. A small boating party sets off to the titular mountain in his painting The Red Rigi, of which this artist
painted a Blue and a Dark version. This man created a utopian dream city setting in his Regulus, a
theme which he earlier visited in his painting Dido Building Carthage. Another work’s full title indicates
the title individuals “overthrowing the dead and dying”, and his work Snowstorm supposedly depicts
Hannibal Crossing the Alps. Depicting a dilapidated warship in The Fighting Temeraire, for 10 points,
name this English Romantic painter of Rain, Steam, and Speed.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
10. During World War I, he served as chief of operations of the 1st Division, which was the first division
to go to France, and following the war he served as assistant commandant of instruction at the Infantry
School at Fort Benning. Following World War II, he led unsuccessful negotiations to end the Chinese
Civil War, and he also served as secretary of defense during the Korean War. Earlier, he was U.S. Army
chief of staff in World War II. For 10 points name this man whose eponymous plan provided economic
aid for the rebuilding of Europe following World War II.
ANSWER: George Calett Marshall

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 15
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. Carl Maria von Weber wrote a Grand Duo Concertante for piano and this instrument, along with two
concertos. Its ancestor, the chalumeau, names a register in it, and Brahms and Mozart both wrote
quintets for it. Messaien’s Quartet for the End of Time uses it with a violin, cello, and piano. This
instrument, which is most often tuned in B flat, performs a trill after a glissando in one of its most
noted appearances. Given a solo in the introduction to Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue, for 10 points,
name this ebony, single-reed woodwind instrument.
ANSWER: clarinet
BONUS. For 10 points each, name these characters from Moby Dick.
[10] This is the monomaniacal captain of the Pequod.
ANSWER: Captain Ahab
[10] This Quaker first mate considers inciting mutiny when he realizes the full madness of Captain Ahab.
ANSWER: Starbuck
2. Many of this leader's decisions were carried out by his disciple Saint-Just. This leader called his
government the Republic of Virtue, and instituted a religion called The Cult of the Supreme Being. After
he engineered the downfalls of Hébert and Danton, he was overthrown and executed during the
Thermidorian Reaction. The leader of the Committee of Public Safety, for 10 points, name this man
who guillotined many people during the Reign of Terror in the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Maximilien Robespierre
BONUS. After escaping from a boat, he kills Gessler with a crossbow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Swiss hero of a namesake German play, who is made to shoot an apple off his son’s
head.
ANSWER: William Tell [or Wilhelm Tell]
[10] This German playwright of Wallenstein, Don Carlos, and The Robbers wrote William Tell.
ANSWER: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller
3. In this novel, the servant Justine has the alibi of sleeping in a deserted hut in her defense against the
accusation she killed the main character’s brother William. The title character travels to the Orkneys
and dies on ship stuck in ice. The main character in this novel is nursed from a brain fever by Henry
Clerval, and that character narrates the death of his wife Elizabeth at the hands of one of his animated
creations. For 10 points, identify this novel in which the title character creates a monster, a work by
Mary Shelley.
ANSWER: Frankenstein

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

BONUS. This man led the assault on Fort Magruder during the Battle of Williamsburg as part of the
Peninsular Campaign in 1862. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of the first assault at Antietam, who replaced Ambrose Burnside as commander
of the Army of the Potomac.
ANSWER: Joseph Hooker
[10] Joseph Hooker is best remembered for leading the Union at this 1863 victory for Robert E. Lee
near the Rappahannock River, where Stonewall Jackson was killed.
ANSWER: Battle of Chancellorsville
4. A suitor is tasked with making a garden flower in the winter in this author’s novel The Filocolo, and he
wrote a variation on the Troilus and Cressida story in Il Filostrato. He included 106 biographies of both
good and wicked examples of females in his On Famous Women, but he is best known for a work in
which seven women and three men flee from plague-ridden Florence for ten days. For 10 points, name
this Italian author who included a hundred stories in his Decameron.
ANSWER: Giovanni Boccaccio
BONUS. Lying between the Aktobe and Kyzylorda provinces, this body of water contains a bioweapons
facility on its Vozrozhdeniya or Rebirth Island. For 10 points each:
[10] The port of Moynaq once lied on what shrinking body of water, whose tributaries include the Amu
Darya and Syr Darya rivers?
ANSWER: Aral Sea [or Lake Khwarazm]
[10] The Aral Sea lies between Uzbekistan and this country, which owns the Charyn Canyon and whose
largest cities include Almaty and Astana.
ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan
5. Gneiss can be differentiated from schist by the amount of this mineral present. Along with quartz
and foid, two major types of this mineral make up the QAPF diagram for classifying granites. One type
of this mineral is the last one on the continuous arm of Bowen's Reaction Series, and varieties of this
mineral include labrodorite and anorthosite. For 10 points, name this most abundant class of minerals
in the earth's crust, consisting of orthoclase and plagioclase varieties.
ANSWER: feldspars
BONUS. It is also known as the Gillespie-Nyholm model. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this model of chemistry, which determines the electron and molecular geometry of
compounds based on the number of shared and unshared electrons.
ANSWER: VSEPR (sounds like “Vesper”) theory [or valence shell electron pair repulsion theory]
[10] If six atoms are bonded to a central atom with no lone pairs and in violation of the octet rule,
VSEPR indicates that the molecule is of this shape. Sulfur hexafluoride, SF6, is a good example.
ANSWER: octahedral

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. His death in 1912 marked the beginning of the Taisho period, and although he was born with the
name Mutshuhito, he is usually given a name meaning “enlightened rule.” Following the Boshin War
and the promulgation of the Five Pointed Charter Oath, his accession led to a namesake era in his
country that followed the abolition of the Tokugawa Shogunate. For 10 points name this modernizing
emperor of Japan who lends his name to a certain “restoration.”
ANSWER: Meiji Emperor [or Meiji the Great; accept Mutsuhito before it is read]
BONUS. He is well known for his depictions of Martha's Vineyard, where he spent his summers. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Missouri-born painter who painted the Indiana Murals, controversial for its depiction of
the Ku Klux Klan, as well as Lincoln and A Social History of Missouri.
ANSWER: Thomas Hart Benton
[10] Benton was a major mover in this American art movement, which shunned cities in favor of
depictions of rural life, and shares its name with a literary trend focused on “local color.”
ANSWER: regionalism
7. The leadership of Horatio Tuitt was singled out for praise by Gordon Wetherell after this event. The
largest loss of life stemming from this event occurred in the town of Cabaret, where it caused seventyfour deaths. Despite that devastation in Haiti, it did not structurally damage Minute Maid Park, though
it did cause flooding in Galveston. Preceded by Hanna and Gustav, for 10 points, name this 2008
Category 4 hurricane that made landfall in Texas.
ANSWER: Hurricane Ike
BONUS. He killed the brother of his mother Althaea, and Artemis sent a boar to ravage the country
when his father, King Oeneus, failed to make a sacrifice. For 10 points each:
[10] Name Greek hero who led the Calydonian board hunt.
ANSWER: Meleager
[10] After slaying the Calydonian boar, Meleager awarded the bull's head and hide to this huntress,
who lost a famous race with Hippomenes.
ANSWER: Atalanta
8. Donald Bersoff noted that this body invokes social science when convenient, while Patrick Driessen
lays out twelve "indictments" against social science in this body. This body supported the idea of a
"Liberty of Contract" in 1905, though one of its members noted that this merely legalized the opinions
of Herbert Spencer. Social scientific data became accepted in this body after the "Brandeis Brief." For
10 points, name this body that requires four of its members to agree to grant a writ of certiorari before
it can hear cases like Brown v. Board of Education.
ANSWER: the Supreme Court of the United States of America
BONUS. This phenomenon typically occurs when light passes from one medium to another, with a
different namesake index. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this phenomenon, commonly employed to create telescopes.
ANSWER: refraction
[10] This law states that the ratio of the refraction indices is equal to the ratio of the sines of the angles
the light makes with the interface plane.
ANSWER: Snell's law [or Snellius’s Law; or Descartes’ law; prompt on law of refraction]
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

9. The Gnostic sect of the Cainites believes he was an instrument of the Sophia, or Divine Wisdom,
while this man was transformed to look like his greatest friend in the Gospel of Barnabas. According to
Acts 1:18, this man “bought a field; there he fell headlong, his body burst open and all his intestines
spilled out.” His namesake kiss enabled soldiers of the High Priest Caiaphas to take a certain man into
custody, and in exchange, he received thirty pieces of silver. Hanging himself from a tree in remorse,
for 10 points, name this apostle who betrayed Jesus.
ANSWER: Judas Iscariot [either or both names]
BONUS. The son of Segimer, a Cherusci chieftain, this man attempted to ally with King Marbod of the
Marcomanni by sending the head of an enemy general as tribute. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this husband of Thusnelda who defeated a Roman legion at the 9 CE Battle of Teutoberg
Forest.
ANSWER: Arminius [or Herman the German]
[10] Both the Marcomanni and Cherusci tribes were members of the general group of trans-frontier
peoples known to the Romans by this name. Tacitus wrote an ethnography of them.
ANSWER: Germans [or Germani]
10. The threshold temperatures of these materials are related to the critical strength of their external
magnetic fields by Tuyn's law. The London moment is the magnetic field created when one of these is
spinning. When certain materials transition to this type of material, they expel their magnetic field in an
effect named after Meissner. In BCS theory, these are formed when electrons condense into Cooper
pairs. Coming in Type I and Type II varieties, for 10 points, name this type of material that has zero
electrical resistance.
ANSWER: superconductors [or word forms like superconductivity]
BONUS. It is characterized by no barriers to entry, homogenous goods, and a large number of buyers
and sellers. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this type of market which sees both productive and allocative efficiencies.
ANSWER: perfect competition [prompt on partial]
[10] The Herfindal index and four firm concentrations are relevant to these markets described by the
Bertrand and Stackelberg models.
ANSWER: oligopoly

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 15
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

JOAN
ARC

JOAN
People named Joan appear in each question of this round.
[10] Joan of Arc was known as the “maid of” this French city, whose “new” version was devastated by
Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
ANSWER: Orleans
[10] Joan is the wife of the title character in “John Napper Sailing Through the Universe,” a story by
John Gardner, who also wrote a novel about this murderous monster from Beowulf.
ANSWER: Grendel
[10] Joan is the middle name of this only woman on the current Supreme Court, a Clinton appointee
who is considered part of the Court’s liberal wing.
ANSWER: Ruth Bader Ginsburg
[10] NASA scientist Joan Horvath worked on the Magellan spacecraft, a probe of this planet whose orbit
lies between those of Mercury and the Earth.
ANSWER: Venus
[10] Joan Webber is an angry woman who dislikes Bernie Litko in Sexual Perversity in Chicago, a play by
this author of American Buffalo and Glengarry Glen Ross.
ANSWER: David Mamet
[10] A medieval legend says that a certain Joan obtained this rank, but was exposed when she gave
birth during a procession. Actual holders have included Julius II and Paul VI.
ANSWER: Pope
[10] Opera singer Joan Sutherland was known for performing in The Daughter of the Regiment, an
opera by this composer of Anna Bolena and The Elixir of Love.
ANSWER: Gaetano Donizetti
[10] Biologist Joan Slonczewki of Kenyon College studies bacteria that can survive extremes of this
scale, which measures acidity through the concentration of hydrogen ions.
ANSWER: pH
[10] Before becoming a surrealist, Joan Miro flirted with this movement, whose practitioners Tristan
Tzara and Hugo Ball used absurdity and “anti-art” to respond to World War I.
ANSWER: Dada
[10] Two Joans were powerful queens of this city, near Capri and Vesuvius in Southern Italy on the
Tyrrhenian Sea. It was once the capital of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.
ANSWER: Naples [or Napoli]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

ARC
This round covers various kinds of “arcs.”
[10] Noah’s Ark is described in this book of the Bible, which also discusses such figures as Adam, Abel,
and Abraham.
ANSWER: Book of Genesis
[10] This structure on the Champ Elysees commemorates French soldiers.
ANSWER: the Arc de Triomphe
[10] A better distance and more powerful arcing shot were possible when this weapon was introduced
to English armies shortly before the Hundred Years War.
ANSWER: longbow
[10] The ISO code ARC refers to this Semitic language, the common tongue of people in Palestine
during the time of the New Testament.
ANSWER: Aramaic
[10] Governor Orval Faubus attempted to block the 1957 integration of Central High School in this
Arkansas city.
ANSWER: Little Rock
[10] The ARC format, like the later ZIP format, uses this process for reducing the size of a file on a
computer. Some types are “lossless.”
ANSWER: compression
[10] An arc is the name for the neural pathway that governs this sort of biological response to a
stimulus.
ANSWER: a reflex
[10] This author of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead and The Real Inspector Hound created the
scientifically minded Bernard Nightingale in his 1993 play Arcadia.
ANSWER: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
[10] This author of Astrophil and Stella and The Lady of the May also wrote a work called Arcadia, but
his is a 1598 novel about Prince Pyrocles.
ANSWER: Philip Sidney
[10] The Return of the Dove to the Ark is a painting by this Pre-Raphaelite, who showed a drowned
woman from Hamlet in his most noted work, Ophelia.
ANSWER: John Everett Millais

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 15
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. Anonimo Gaddiano claimed that this artist created a painting of John the Baptist with curly hair
pointing next to a cross. This man painted an angel on the left-hand side of a version of The Baptism of
Christ. In addition to assisting in that work by Verrocchio, he used chalk and charcoal to create Virgin
and Child with St. Anne and St. John the Baptist. He most likely painted Lady with an Ermine, and the
Louvre contains his Madonna of the Rocks. For 10 points, name this man who sketched The Vitruvian
Man and painted The Last Supper and the Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]
2. His magnum opus was a “plan of scientific studies necessary for the reorganization of society,” and
he claimed that religions start with fetishism, progress to polytheism, and graduate to monotheism
before abandoning religion altogether. He argued that humans progressed through a “theological,”
“metaphysical,” and “scientific” stage in his “law of three stages.” He claimed that humans should “live
for others” and coined the word “altruism,” and called his philosophy “positivism.” For 10 points, name
this Frenchman, the father of sociology.
ANSWER: Auguste Comte
3. The giant Thiazzi persuaded him to take Idunna’s apples that preserve youth. While visiting
Jotunheim with Thor, he encounters his “Utgard” namesake. He created Angrboda, who gave birth to
his half-dead, half-alive daughter and to the wolf who bit off Tyr’s hand and will swallow Odin. He
tricked Hoder into killing his brother with a plant that Frigga had forgotten to ask not to harm her son,
mistletoe. For 10 points, name this giant and trickster, who fights Heimdall and fathered Hel and Fenrir,
in addition to facilitating the death of Balder.
ANSWER: Loki
4. PAME is a syndrome caused by one of these organisms, which is known as Naegleria fowleri. In
addition to a “brain eating” species, another species can cause keratitis and encephalitis, while the
species Histolytica causes a namesake dysentery. Its largest species, Pelomyxa palustris, inhabits
oxygen-poor mud at the bottom of ponds. These members of phylum Rhizopoda contain actin
extensions known as pseudopodia. For 10 points, name this protozoan known for its lack of definite
shape.
ANSWER: amoebae

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

5. He created the regent Friedrich of Sicily in an opera based on Measure For Measure entitled The Ban
on Love. In another of his operas, Walthur von Stolzing’s music is recognized by Hans Sachs, while in
another of his operas the Liebestod occurs between the title characters, Tristan and Isolde. This
developer of the idea of a leitmotif created the dwarves Mime and Alberich in a series of operas where
Brunhilde the Valkyrie loves Siegfried. For 10 points, name this composer of The Mastersingers of
Nuremburg and a four-opera cycle, The Ring of the Nibelung.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
6. One member of this party oversaw the Erie Canal project, and another member of this party
supposedly stated “No! No! Not a sixpence!” during the XYZ Affair. In addition to DeWitt Clinton and
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, another member of this party introduced the resolution to prohibit
slavery in the Northwest Territory. That man, Rufus King, was this party’s final presidential candidate,
and they never again held power after the Revolution of 1800. For 10 points identify this American
political party led by Alexander Hamilton and John Adams.
ANSWER: Federalist Party
7. The murder of a slave by the nephews of Thomas Jefferson is the subject of his long poem Brothers
to Dragons, one of his novels describes Jeremiah Beaumont’s trial in the Kentucky Tragedy case.
Another of his novels deals with the football hero Jerry Calhoun. In addition to World Enough and Time
and At Heaven’s Gate, this author wrote the poem “Blackberry Winter” and a novel which opens with
the collapse of a school and is narrated by Jack Burden. For 10 points name this man who described the
demagogue Willy Stark in All the King’s Men.
ANSWER: Robert Penn Warren
8. Marangoni convection results from the gradient of this quantity, and its thermal effect is named
after Gibbs and Thomson. The Laplace equation states that the product of pressure and the radius of a
film is proportional to this quantity. Molecules like DPPC and SDS are used to reduce this quantity,
which is symbolized by a lowercase gamma and represents the ratio of force to the length over which it
applies. For 10 points, name this result of cohesive forces, which allows small insects to walk on water.
ANSWER: surface tension
9. This country's first king adopted the name Othon, and subscribed to the nationalistic "Megali Idea."
Lord Palmerston ordered a blockade of its capital after Don Pacifico was attacked by anti-Semites in
this country. During this country's National Schism, its king Constantine I forced the resignation of
Prime Minister Venizelos. Its independence was recognized by the 1832 Treaty of Constantinople, and
it was later the site of the Colonels’ Revolt. For 10 points, name this country which still seeks the return
of the Elgin Marbles to the Parthenon in Athens.
ANSWER: Kingdom or Republic of Greece
10. Lines from his poetry include, “A lovely apparition, sent/ To be a moment’s ornament.” In addition
to “To Sleep” and “A Phantom of Delight,” this man wrote a magnum opus subtitled “Growth of a
Poet’s Mind.” He also wrote the Lucy poems and “The World Is Too Much With Us,” and with Samuel
Taylor Coleridge he launched the English Romantic movement with Lyrical Ballads. For 10 points name
this English poet who wrote the autobiographical long poem The Prelude as well as “Lines Composed a
Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey."
ANSWER: William Wordsworth

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 15

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

