2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 6
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. George Dumezil compared this figure to the Ossetic demon Syrdon. This god once impaled an eagle
after the eagle ate too much of an ox he was eating; that adventure ended with him transforming Idun
into a nut to rescue her from the giant Thiazi. After this god tricked Hodr, Hel offered to let a dead god
return if every living thing would mourn, but Thokk, possibly this god in disguise, refused. For 10 points,
name this god who until Ragnarok is chained to a rock with a snake dripping venom on him, the trickster
of the Norse pantheon.
ANSWER: Loki
Bonus: He hung from Yggdrasil as an offering to himself. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this one-eyed chief god of the Aesir.
ANSWER: Odin
[10] Odin hung from Yggdrasil pierced by Gungnir, one of these objects. Gungnir was said to always hit
its target when Odin threw it.
ANSWER: spears
2. In one meeting held in this city, participants agreed to meet in Geneva to attempt resolutions to
conflicts in Korea and Indochina. Another meeting in this city ended in Samoan independence, and a
third was called to amend the Treaty of San Stefano. A fourth meeting in this city was called by Otto von
Bismarck to set rules on the colonization of Africa. For 10 points, name this German city that after World
War II was separated into West and East sections.
ANSWER: Berlin
Bonus: He met with Attila in 452 and persuaded him not to invade Rome. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this pope, the namesake of a prose style, who also interceded on behalf of the Romans when
Geiseric sacked the city in 455.
ANSWER: Leo I [or St. Leo; or Leo the Great]
[10] Leo I's namesake Tome declared that Jesus had a divine and human nature, and that the natures
existed in one person. That Tome was adopted by this 451 ecumenical council.
ANSWER: Council of Chalcedon
3. Edward Hoffman's biography of this man was entitled The Right to be Human. He believed in the
concept of "peak experiences," and rejected determinism in his book Motivation and Human
Personality. He examined biographies of Jane Addams, Abraham Lincoln, and Eleanor Roosevelt in
formulating a concept that placed self-actualization at the top of a construct, below which were
belongingness, food, and shelter. For 10 points, name this author of Toward a Psychology of Being, who
formulated a namesake hierarchy of needs.
ANSWER: Abraham Maslow

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: To test his theories, he traveled over four thousand miles by raft to the Tuamotu Islands. For 10
points each:
[10] This Norwegian ethnographer sailed across the Pacific unaided, proving that trade and cultural
exchange between Polynesia and South America was possible.
ANSWER: Thor Heyerdahl
[10] The raft used by Heyerdahl for the voyage was named for this Incan sun god, who was supposed to
have left ruins around Lake Titicaca.
ANSWER: Kon-Tiki
4. One equation named after Hammett can calculate an alternative to this quantity if the HendersonHasselbalch equation does not apply, and changes in this quantity resulting from temperature can be
modeled using the Nernst equation. Ion-selective electrodes are used to measure it. Ketosis can lead to
rapid drops of this quantity in the blood, in which this has a value of about 7.2. This quantity can be
obtained by taking the negative base-ten logarithm of hydronium ion concentration. For 10 points,
identify this chemical quantity that measures how acidic or basic a solution is and is equal to 7 for water.
ANSWER: pH
Bonus: This concept was first introduced by Rudolf Clausius, and it increases for an isolated system
according to the Second Law of Thermodynamics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity, equal to the amount of thermal energy that is unavailable for useful work, a
measure of the disorder or randomness of a system.
ANSWER: entropy
[10] In this thought experiment, the namesake creature is capable of differentiating fast and slow
moving particles, and thus, could hypothetically defy the Second law of Thermodynamics.
ANSWER: Maxwell’s demon
5. After serving as prime minister of this nation, Gro Harlem Brundtland became the director-general of
the WHO, and liberal Prime Minister Johan Sverdrup attempted to place more power in the Storting in
this country in the nineteenth century. The government of this nation oversaw secret negotiations
between Israel and the PLO in 1993, and its Nasjonal Samling party was led by Vidkun Quisling. For 10
points, name this Scandinavian country whose capital's name was changed from Christiana to Oslo.
ANSWER: Norway
Bonus: One of them put forth the Lex Sempronia Agraria, a land redistribution measure, and another
attempted to unite the plebs of equites. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the surname of these Roman politicians known for their attempts at social reform.
ANSWER: Gracchi [or Gracchus]
[10] This leader of a 71 BC slave revolt was killed in a battle with Crassus, after which 6,000 of his
followers were crucified on the Capua to Rome highway.
ANSWER: Spartacus
6. John Grisby compared this character to a demonized version of the Norse goddess Freya. A novel
written from the perspective of this character was written by the author of On Moral Fiction, John
Gardner. This character is awoken by singing and merriment, and his rampage devastates Heorot. This
character's destruction is finally ended by the arrival of a Geat who rips his arm off and decapitates him.
For 10 points, name this demon, who terrorizes King Hrothgar before being defeated by Beowulf.
ANSWER: Grendel
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: In one of his novels, the titular character joins Dutch Schultz's gang. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Billy Bathgate, who wrote about the trial and execution of the Rosenbergs in
The Book of Daniel.
ANSWER: E. L. Doctorow
[10] This novel by Doctorow is named for a style of music composed by Scott Joplin. It features the piano
player Coalhouse Walker and the murder of architect Stanford White.
ANSWER: Ragtime
7. De Bruijn defined a subset of these entities as “universally bad.” These objects can be represented
using twos complement notation. Any real number can be converted to a number of this type using a
function symbolized by square brackets, and the set of these numbers is denoted Z. A Diophantine
equation restricts the solution space to these numbers, and rational numbers can be expressed as a
ratio of two of these numbers. For 10 points, name this set of numbers that includes zero, all natural
numbers, and their negatives.
ANSWER: integers
Bonus: According to the Goldbach Conjecture, all even numbers are the sum of two of these numbers.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these numbers, which can be found using the Sieve of Eratosthenes.
ANSWER: prime numbers [or primes]
[10] The distribution of the prime numbers is related to the zeros on the critical line of this German
mathematician's namesake zeta function.
ANSWER: Bernhard Riemann
8. Lucan and Zosine are tutored by the pastor Pennhallow in a novel this author claimed to have
translated from a French work written by Pierre Andrézel. In addition to Angelic Avengers, this author
discussed how women were classified into guardian angels, prostitutes, and housewives in her essay
Daguerreotypes. “The Supper at Elsinore” and “The Old Chevalier” are among her Seven Gothic Tales.
For 10 points, name this author, whose time with Denys Finch Hatton on a Kenyan farm formed the
basis of her major non-fiction work Out of Africa.
ANSWER: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen; or Karen Christence Dinesen; or Baroness Blixen-Finecke]
Bonus: The title characters in this play constantly chant Brecece·cecs? cò·acs? cò·acs? For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this play about Dionysus's attempts to bring Euripides from the underworld, which features a
contest between Euripides and Aeschylus over the title of "Best Tragic Poet."
ANSWER: The Frogs [or Bátrachoi]
[10] The Frogs was written by this Greek comic playwright of The Acharnians, The Knights, and The
Wasps, who also wrote about some women boycotting sex in Lysistrata.
ANSWER: Aristophanes

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 6
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 6
Category Quiz Tossups

9. In one of his music videos, children play soccer in front of army tanks and a cross burning, and that
song begs "make it a better place/for you and me /and the whole human race." In addition to "Heal the
World," this artist released a single that commands "keep on with the force" and was produced by
Quincy Jones. That song, "Don't Stop 'Till You Get Enough," was released on Off The Wall. Another of his
songs is about a girl who thinks he is the one, but the kid is not his son, and in another music video, he
turns into a werewolf. For 10 points, name the singer of "Billie Jean" and "Thriller."
ANSWER: Michael Joseph Jackson
10. The Bay of Antongil is located on this country's east coast, and the island of Nosy-Be in this country
was a stop on the Russian Baltic Fleet's journey to Japan. Prominent ethnic groups in this country
include the Invincible and Inseparable Multitudes and the Elevated People, or Merina, and the main
traditional deity of this country is Zanahary. Its large cities include Toliara, Antsirabe, Toamasina, and
Fianarantsoa. For 10 points, name this island nation with capital at Antananarivo.
ANSWER: Madagascar [or Malagasy Republic]
11. One of this author's novels opens with a meeting at the Maypole Inn and includes the raven Grip. An
unfinished mystery by this author ends abruptly after Datchery meets with an older woman and adds a
chalk mark behind a door. This author of The Mystery of Edwin Drood wrote a novel about Kit's love for
Nell Trent, The Old Curiosity Shop. In another of his novels, Fagin and Bill Sikes train a poor orphan to
steal after that orphan is thrown onto the street for asking for extra porridge. For 10 points, name this
British author of Oliver Twist, who wrote about Ebenezer Scrooge in A Christmas Carol.
ANSWER: Charles Dickens
12. When cobalt is added to this device, it can be described as “salted.” Stanislaw Ulam developed a
hypothetical method to propel spaceships using this kind of device, one type of which he helped
develop along with Hungarian scientist Edward Teller. By removing the tamper, this device can be
modified to emit large amounts of neutrons, which can harm nearby lifeforms but leave buildings
standing, and famous devices of this type include Trinity, Little Boy, and Fat Man. For 10 points, name
this device built by the Manhattan Project.
ANSWER: nuclear bomb [accept nuclear weapon; accept nuke; accept atomic bomb; accept a-bomb]
13. He wrote that “….society can prevent those who are manifestly unfit from continuing their kind” in
his support for Virginia’s forced sterilization policy in Buck v. Bell. He also wrote that, “The Fourteenth
Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer’s Social Statics,” in his dissent in Lochner v. New York.
For 10 points, name this Supreme Court justice who in his opinion in Schenck v. United States
formulated the “clear and present danger” doctrine, the son of a poet of the same name.
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. [prompt on "Holmes"]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. In one of this composer's oratorios, the title warrior sings "How vain is man who boasts in fight"
before a chorus celebrates his victory with "See, the Conqu'ring hero comes." He adapted poems by
John Dryden into the choral works Alexander's Feast and Ode for St. Cecilia's Day, and composed
variations such as The Harmonious Blacksmith. This composer of Israel in Egypt and Judas Maccabeus
created Zadok the Priest for the coronation of George II. For 10 points, name this 18th century composer
of Music for the Royal Fireworks, Water Music, and The Messiah.
ANSWER: Georg Handel

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 6
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: This artist painted a man in blue rowing for a lady in a floral bonnet holding a toddler in pink in her
The Boating Party. For 15 points, name this female American painter who moved to France to join the
Impressionist movement.
ANSWER: Mary Stevenson Cassatt
Current Events: There has been speculation that she will run for an open Senate seat when Sam
Brownback retires in 2010. For 15 points, name this governor of Kansas who is President Obama's pick
to serve as the next secretary of Health and Human Services.
ANSWER: Kathleen Sebelius [or Kathleen Gilligan]
Geography: After the 1970 census, it was split it into 11 census areas, and 8 areas within it are
recognized as meeting standards for incorporation. For 15 points, name this area of Alaska without an
organized regional government.
ANSWER: Unorganized Borough
History: It was supposed to incite a revolt of uitlanders working under the Transvaal Republic, but the
British failed miserably and surrendered to Piet Cronje. For 15 points, name this raid, one of the indirect
factors in the start of the Boer War.
ANSWER: Jameson Raid
Literature: Young Reverend Clark comes from Westbury to pray for this story's dying title character. For
15 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story, whose title character one day places a piece of
cloth over his face to symbolize secret sin.
ANSWER: "The Minister's Black Veil"
Math Calculation: The mean of three positive numbers is twice the median. For 15 points, if two of the
numbers are 1 and 7, then what is the third number?
ANSWER: 34
Philosophy: He explained Epicurean philosophy in the poem On the Nature of Things, or De Rarum
Natura. For 15 points, name this Roman philosopher-poet.
ANSWER: Titus Lucretius Carus
Social Science: It states that the sum of all excess supplies must be equal to the sum of all excess
demands, or that supply creates its own demand. For 15 points, name this law of markets named for a
French economist.
ANSWER: Say's Law
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 6
Stretch Phase

15. In the Mexican-American War, the fall of this city directly preceded the attack on Chapultepec, and
the Mexicans began a twenty eight day siege of this city as Mexico City fell. In another battle here,
Ignacio Zaragoza led veterans of the Reform War in a successful effort that still failed to prevent the fall
of Benito Juarez and the arrival of Emperor Maximilian. For 10 points, name this site of an 1862 battle
against the French, perhaps most famous for occurring on Cinco de Mayo.
ANSWER: (Battle of) Puebla
Bonus: Its three central characters each pray to different deities after two are ordered to fight for the
hand of the third. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this story about Palomon and Arcite, who duel for the hand of Emily. Arcite prays only for
victory, and dies after winning, but before he can claim his prize.
ANSWER: The Knight's Tale
[10] This British author of The Parlement of Foules and Troilus and Cressida used the Knight's Tale to
open his Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
[10] This other Chaucer poem was written to commemorate the death of the wife of John of Gaunt. In it,
a wandering poet finds a sorrowful knight who has lost his "good, fair White."
ANSWER: The Book of the Duchess
16. The point where this force intersects the midplane is known as the metacenter, which must lie
above the center of gravity for an object in a fluid to be in static equilibrium. It arises because fluid
pressure increases with depth due to the increasing gravitational weight acting on the fluid. The
magnitude of this force can be calculated from the product of gravity, fluid density, and the volume of
the submerged object using Archimedes’ principle. For 10 points, name this force that is equal to the
weight of the fluid an object displaces and allows objects to float on water.
ANSWER: buoyant force [accept buoyancy]
Bonus: Many Muslims perform wudu before touching it, and it was revealed to Muhammad by Gabriel.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this holiest book of Islam.
ANSWER: Koran
[10] The Koran is divided into these sections. The first is “The Opening” and the longest is “The Cow.”
ANSWER: Suras
[10] These writings are not included in the Koran but are oral sayings about the Prophet and his
teachings. They are verified with chains of authority called isnads.
ANSWER: Hadiths

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. One of this author's novels is set in Grand Republic, where the title character discovers that he is
one-thirty-second black. In addition to Kingsblood Royal, this author wrote about a student of Max
Gottlieb in a novel about a doctor who discovers the X Principle, Arrowsmith. His title characters include
a womanizing Methodist preacher and a realtor who realizes that he has sacrificed his dreams for
mindless conformity and boosterism in Zenith. For 10 points, name this American author of Babbitt and
Main Street.
ANSWER: Sinclair Lewis
Bonus: It comes in Becker’s and Duchenne’s varieties, and common symptoms include wasting of the
limbs and difficulty breathing. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this disorder characterized by atrophy of the skeletal muscle.
ANSWER: muscular dystrophy
[10] Deficiencies or mutations in this large protein, which is thought to protect against mechanical
stress, cause different types of muscular dystrophy.
ANSWER: dystrophin
[10] This disorder can be a symptom of muscular dystrophy, but also occurs independently. This
abnormal curvature of the spine can be corrected surgically or using a brace.
ANSWER: scoliosis
18. One artist from this country created Collage with Squares Arranged According to the Laws of Chance,
and another depicted a giant sign floating in the air against a violent sky and above a horde of soldiers in
The Battle of Issus. Another showed a man in a red cloak speaking the title phrase to Mary Magdalene,
Noli me tangere, and painted a portrait of Henry VIII. This nation's school of Expressionism featured a
movement that included Paul Klee called The Bridge. For 10 points, name this home country of Jean Arp,
Albrecht Altdorfer, Hans Holbein the Younger, and Albrecht Durer.
ANSWER: Germany
Bonus: The national hero of this country is Skanderbeg. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, ruled from World War II until 1985 by the Maoist Enver Hoxha.
ANSWER: Albania
[10] Hoxha removed Albania from this defense alliance, the Eastern Bloc's answer to NATO. It was
officially dissolved in 1991.
ANSWER: Warsaw Pact
[10] Proclaimed King of Albania in 1928, this man introduced a modern legal system to his country but
was forced to flee Albania after the 1939 Italian invasion.
ANSWER: Zog [or Ahmad Zogu]
19. One book revered by adherents of this religion is the Kebra Nagast, and the oneness with the
spiritual is expressed with the doctrine of “I and I.” Dietary restrictions observed by some followers of
this religion include a ban on cigarettes and coffee, and are known as Ital. Other important tenets of this
religion include a rejection of “Babylon” and connection to Jah. For 10 points, name this religion whose
adherents often wear dreadlocks and smoke ganja, which celebrates Grounation Day as the day Haile
Selassie traveled to Jamaica.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism [prompt on Rasta]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: This composer included Russian liturgical music in his Russian Easter Festival Overture. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this composer of Capriccio Espagnol, whose operas include Mozart and Salieri and The
Golden Cockerel.
ANSWER: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
[10] The third act of Rimsky-Korsakov's Tale of Tsar Saltan includes this piece, which uses frantic runs of
chromatic sixteenth notes to represent the buzzing of an insect.
ANSWER: "Flight of the Bumblebee"
[10] Rimsky-Korsakov collaborated on the opera Mlada with this Russian composer of the Polovtsian
Dances and the tone poem In the Steppes of Central Asia.
ANSWER: Alexander Borodin
20. The Pax Nicepohori put this polity under Byzantine control and the remains of this place’s Patron
Saint were stolen from Alexandria. This city exchanged the sack of Zara for transportation during the
Fourth Crusade, and its main governing body was the Council of Ten. It was divided between France and
Austria by the Treaty of Campo Formio. For 10 points, name this Italian city-state, led until the
eighteenth century by a Doge, which contains a lot of canals.
ANSWER: Republic of Venice [or Venetia]
Bonus: They are typically composed of two parallel conducting plates separated by a dielectric. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these circuit devices that are capable of storing electrical charge.
ANSWER: capacitor
[10] The amount of electricity needed to generate a change in the potential between the two plates of a
capacitor is known as the capacitance, which is measured in this unit.
ANSWER: farad
[10] This constant of proportionality gives the tendency for electric polarization to occur in a dielectric in
the presence of an electric field.
ANSWER: permittivity
21. This poem describes Ruth when "she stood in tears amid the alien corn," and references "the
viewless wings of Poesy." The speaker feels he "Lethe-wards had sunk" and "my sense, as though of
hemlock I had drunk" before wishing for a drink of Hippocrene to allow him to "leave the world unseen."
It begins, "my heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains." The poet later wonders "was it a vision, or a
waking dream?" and proclaims "thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird!" For 10 points, name this
John Keats ode about a songbird.
ANSWER: "Ode to a Nightingale"

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: It saw action at Little Round Top and Missionary Ridge. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1863 Pennsylvania battle which featured Pickett’s Charge.
ANSWER: Battle of Gettysburg
[10] The Union forces at Gettysburg were led by this lighthouse builder, who retained control of the
Army of the Potomac, but was placed under Grant, after failing to pursue Lee after the battle.
ANSWER: George Gordon Meade
[10] This leader of the 20th Maine, who would go on to run Bowdoin College, led a bayonet charge
down Little Round Top at Gettysburg.
ANSWER: Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain
22. This class of animals most likely evolved from the Rhipidistians, and other ancestors of this class
include Acanthostega and Tiktaalik, which was recently discovered in the Arctic. This class, which
possesses a unique three-chambered heart, includes the caecilians, who are worm-like, and they were
the first tetrapods to evolve. Since they lack an amniotic egg, they must lay their eggs in water and
undergo metamorphosis. For 10 points, name this animal class that can live on land and in water, which
includes frogs.
ANSWER: Amphibians
Bonus: In one poem, this poet wrote that "when judgment day comes/ God will find six crumbs" in "little
Effie's head." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American poet who used unusual syntax in poems like "Buffalo Bill's/ defunct" and
"anyone lived in a pretty how town."
ANSWER: Edward Estlin Cummings
[10] Cummings wrote a bizarre play based on this novel, whose subplots include Ophelia's education of
Topsy and the death of Augustine St. Clare.
ANSWER: Uncle Tom's Cabin
[10] This other American author of Black Boy and Native Son wrote a series of novellas entitled Uncle
Tom’s Children.
ANSWER: Richard Wright

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 6
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. A muscular arm grabs a breast in his Soft Construction with Boiled Beans. This artist's Temptation of
St. Anthony features a procession of elephants with long, spindly legs, and he painted a tiger leaping out
of the mouth of a giant fish in midair, springing towards a reclining nude woman with a rifle to her neck.
His controversial Crucifixion features Christ on a multidimensional cross, and he worked on films like
L'age d'or and Un chien andalou with Luis Bunuel. For 10 points, name this artist who depicted some
melting clocks in his The Persistence of Memory.
ANSWER: Salvador Dali
2. This disease has been linked to systematic defects in complex I of the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Physiological signs of this disease include the accumulation of the protein alpha synuclein in deposits
called Lewy bodies within the substantia nigra. It is characterized by the presence of bradykinesia.
Treatment for this disease includes a combination of carbidopa and L-dopa, which address decreases in
the neurotransmitter dopamine. For 10 points, name this disease that results from neural degeneration
in regions of the brain that control movement.
ANSWER: Parkinson’s disease [or primary parkinsonism; or paralysis agitans]
3. Frau Rosalie's budding relationship with Ken Keaton is cut short by cancer in a Thomas Mann work
titled after a black one of these creatures. The speaker of another poem says, "now my heart is sore"
after looking at these creatures and hearing the "bell-beat" of their wings. In addition to that poem
about nine and fifty of these creatures at Coole, a sonnet by Yeats describes Zeus' rape of Leda in the
form of this creature. For 10 points, name this bird, the actual identity of the ugly duckling in a story by
Hans Christian Anderson.
ANSWER: swans
Extra 20-point bonus:
His namesake “line” was a string of fortifications designed to protect German retreat on the Western
Front during World War One. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German general, who also served as president of the Weimar Republic from 1925 to
1934.
ANSWER: Paul von Hindenburg
[10] Hindenburg’s greatest military victory was this 1914 battle in which he decimated the Russian
Second Army. A similarly-named 1410 battle saw the defeat of the Teutonic Knights.
ANSWER: Second Battle of Tannenberg

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
It equals the internal energy plus the product of pressure and volume of a system. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity that represents the thermodynamic potential of a system.
ANSWER: enthalpy
[10] A process with positive change in enthalpy, such as ice melting, is known by this term.
ANSWER: endothermic
[10] This quantity is defined as enthalpy minus the product of entropy and temperature in Kelvin. It
describes the amount of energy available to do work.
ANSWER: Gibbs free energy

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

