Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 13
Tossups

1. This author collaborated on the play Sponono with Krishna Shah. Prem Bodasingh refuses to give up
her seat on a bus in this author’s novel Ah, But Your Land Is Beautiful. Another novel by this author deals
with Kappie, who talks Peter out of suicide brought on by the fact that he loves black women and is
white, Too Late the Phalarope. This man’s best known work deals with the muder of Arthur Jarvis, and
the subsequent trial of Absalom, who is Steven Kumalo’s son. For 10 points, identify this South African
author of Cry, the Beloved Country.
ANSWER: Alan Paton
2. He arranged Thou Tun’st this World as part of Orpheus Brittanicus, a reworking of Purcell’s songs, and
he wrote a duet for violin and flute with piano accompaniment entitled the Gemini Variations. He
included “Wolcum Yole!” and “This Little Babe” in a work capped by a Procession and Recession, “A
Ceremony of Carols,” and he used poems by Wilfred Owen as the basis for his War Requiem. For 10
points, name this British composer of “The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra” and an opera about
a sailor who kills his apprentices, Peter Grimes.
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin Britten
3. In this war, Spanish forces arrived too late to participate in the Battle of Casteldelfino, where French
forces under the Prince of Conti defeated the state of Sardinia. It began when the Pragmatic Sanction's
terms were rejected by King Frederick II of Prussia. The conflict between Britain and Spain in this war
was called the War of Jenkins's Ear, while its North American phase was King George's War. Ended by
the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748, for 10 points, name this war begun when Prussia rejected Maria
Theresa's claim to the throne in Vienna.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession
4. Their dysfunction may cause Hurler syndrome, which arises from an iduronidase deficiency in these
organelles. A severe form of mucolipidosis, also called i-cell disease, occurs due to improper
phosphorylation of a mannose sugar tag applied to objects destined for them. Better known for failures
that cause Tay-Sachs disease, they contain several acid hydrolases which work within their acidic
environments. For 10 points, identify these organelles, named for their function of breaking down
macromolecules acquired from phagocytosis.
ANSWER: lysosomes
5. The majority of consonants in this language are "paired," meaning that they can occur in either plain
or palatalized forms. The literary form of this language combines the consonant system of its Northern
dialect and the vowel system of its Southern dialect, and it uses such letters as “yah” and “shah.” The
most widely spoken of the eastern Slavic languages, it is written in the Cyrillic alphabet. For 10 points,
name this language, which is closely related to Ukrainian and is the most common native tongue in
Volgograd, St. Petersburg, and Moscow.
ANSWER: Russian [or Russki Yazyk]
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This man destroyed Eshnunna by damming nearby waters, and this man’s father was Sin-muballit. In
1764 BCE, this man resisted a coalition of Ashur, Eshnunna, and Elam. He turned on his ally Zimrilim of
Mari in 1761 BCE, and this Amorite’s chief rival was Rim-Sin of Larsa. He may have been responsible for
building the tower of Etemenanki, and his most well known achievement was carved on a column in
Susa, and was known for its retributive features. For 10 points identify this Babylonian ruler, known for
his namesake code of laws.
ANSWER: Hammurabi
7. In one song from this album, a “catcher hits for .318;” that Belle and Sebastian song from this album is
titled “Piazza, New York Catcher.” Another song describing a fish’s “secret wish” to “be a cactus” is
called “Tree Hugger,” while a song wherein “Joey never met a bike that he didn’t wanna ride,” titled
“Tire Swing,” is performed by Kimya Dawson. Two versions of the Moldy Peaches’ “Anyone Else But
You” appear among the final tracks. For 10 points, identify this album, whose songs appeared in a 2007
movie starring Ellen Page as a pregnant teenager.
ANSWER: the Juno soundtrack
8. The pilot Todd crashes onto a farm in Alabama in this author’s short story “Flying Home.” He
explained his role as a black novelist in Shadow and Act, and John Callahan finished his second novel, the
story of the preacher Alonzo Hickman raising a child who grows up to be the racist Senator Adam
Sunraider. In addition to Juneteenth, he wrote about Brother Jack’s eye falling out and Ras the Destroyer
forming the Brotherhood, after the main character is expelled for showing a white man the true nature
of his college. For 10 points, name this author of Invisible Man.
ANSWER: Ralph Ellison
9. Its surface is characterized by regions of highly fractured crust called tesserae. The presence of
circular structures called coronae developed as a heat releasing mechanism on this body which lacks
tectonic activity, and the largest mountain on it is the Maxwell Montes. Its northern and southern
hemispheres are divided into Ishtar terra and Aphrodite terra respectively, and its atmosphere has high
concentrations of carbon dioxide and sulfuric acid. For 10 points, identify this sister planet of the Earth.
ANSWER: Venus
10. In "The Doctrine of Types," this man explained that he had discovered that the set of sets which are
not members of themselves must both belong to and not belong to itself, his namesake "paradox." Two
years after co-writing a manifesto with Albert Einstein against nuclear testing, this man organized the
first Pugwash Conference. He had earlier collaborated with Alfred North Whitehead on Principia
Mathematica. For 10 points, name this mathematician, philosopher, and pacifist activist, who wrote the
one-volume History of Western Philosophy.
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell of Kingston Russell, Viscount Amberley of
Amberley and of Ardsalla
11. One figure involved in this event has no weapons when it starts because Skirnir won his sword.
Following this event, two people who hid in Hodmimir's Forest wake up. Setting the stage for the
peopling of the Earth by Lif and Lifthrasir, it is preceded by three consecutive winters. It begins after the
last sounding of Gjallarhorn, and it includes Surt setting Yggdrassil on fire, and the deaths of Tyr, the
Midgard Serpent, Fenrir, Odin, and Thor. For 10 points, name this event, the apocalyptic battle of all the
gods at the end of Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Ragnarok
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. In an essay titled after this play, the atmosphere of a great leader’s funeral procession is compared
to the isolation caused by the knocking at the gate in this play. That knocking is eventually answered by
a jovial porter who admits Lennox, as well as the nobleman who eventually makes Birnam Wood move
and was born by Caesarian section, defying the prophecy made by three witches at the beginning of this
play. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Macduff kills the title Scottish nobleman.
ANSWER: Macbeth
13. One king of this country won the Battle of Aljubarrota, and this country's prime minister Marcelo
Caetano was overthrown by the Carnation Revolution after succeeding longtime dictator Antonio
Salazar. This country's House of Braganza succeeded its Aviz dynasty, which patronized explorers like
Pedro Cabral, Bartholomew Diaz, and Vaso da Gama. Once ruled by a family including Prince Henry the
Navigator, for 10 points, name this country on the Iberian Peninsula, the colonizer of Brazil and site of a
1755 earthquake in Lisbon.
ANSWER: Portugal
14. He played with Fletcher Henderson after quitting the band that he recorded “Chimes Blues” with,
led by King Oliver. With his own bands he recorded “Struttin’ with Some Barbecue.” In addition to
leading his Hot 5 and Hot 7, he created his All-Stars, a Dixieland band. His song "Heebie Jeebies"
popularized scat singing. He scored a number one hit with his version of "Hello Dolly," and sang about
seeing “trees of green, red roses too” in another song. For 10 points, name this jazz trumpeter,
nicknamed Satchmo, who sang “What a Wonderful World."
ANSWER: Louis Armstrong
15. Oil was discovered at this geographic area in Manantiales, and its native peoples include the Ona
and Alacaluf. The town of Porvenir is the capital of its namesake province, and its peaks include Monte
Sarmiento. Its Isla Desolacion receives one hundred and eighty inches of rainfall a year. Its islands of
Lennox, Picton, and Nueva are disputed between two countries, and its base lies on the Beagle Channel.
For 10 points, name this archipelago that is separated from the mainland of South American by the
Strait of Magellan and whose name means “Land of Fire.”
ANSWER: Tierra del Fuego
16. The Ives-Stilwell experiment explored the possibilities of its transverse variety, which requires the
introduction of the Lorentz factor. Its cosmological variety results from the predictions of Hubble's Law,
and its relativistic variety comes with a coefficient of the square root of the quantity one minus beta
over one plus beta, but at non-relativistic speeds its effects are proportional to radial velocity. For 10
points, give this term referring to the distortion of the observed frequency of waves, particularly but not
necessarily light, due to velocity.
ANSWER: Doppler effect [prompt on redshift]
17. This author wrote about the drowning of Hans Giebenrath in Beneath the Wheel, and about a
friendship between the title monk and artist, Narcissus and Goldmund. Another novel by this author
focuses on a Castalian academic who is friends with Fritz Tegularius, Joseph Knecht, and is titled The
Glass Bead Game. A further novel by this author focuses on Harry Haller, who succumbs to his
animalistic side, and yet another is named for a friend of Govinda who finds inner peace. For 10 points,
identify this German author of Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. This artist never completed his painting The Battle of Cascina. In another of his paintings, a bearded
saint sits on a cloud holding his flayed skin, a self-portrait. Besides that depiction of Saint Bartholomew
in The Last Judgment, this artist sculpted the tomb of Pope Julius II. Another of his works depicts the
Libyan and Cumaean Sibyls, includes panels about the drunkenness of Noah and the temptation of Eve,
and portrays a man with his arm outstretched, about to touch God's finger. For 10 points, name this
Renaissaince painter of the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Buonarroti
19. This battle included the participation of the First and Fifth West India Regiments, that included about
a thousand black soldiers. Vice-Admiral Alexander Cochrane was in charge of the Royal Navy in the
surrounding waters, and Thomas ap Catesby Jones delayed the British prior to it. It included
participation from Baratarian pirates under Jean Laffite, and General Edward Pakenham died in this
battle. For 10 points, name this 1815 battle that occurred after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent and
made Andrew Jackson a national hero.
ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans
20. In computer science, a type of flip-flop named for this letter is often contrasted with the T type. In
earth science, this letter followed by double prime refers to the layer located above the core-mantle
boundary. In astronomy, the innermost of the rings of Saturn is named after this letter. In chemistry,
transition metals often have their valence electrons located in these orbitals. For 10 points, identify this
letter that also names a vitamin that is essential for calcium metabolism, a deficiency of which can lead
to rickets.
ANSWER: D
21. The narrator of this poem yells “Stay where you are until our backs are turned!” after discussing a
“spell to make them balance.” After commenting “Spring is the mischief in me,” the narrator
contemplates asking if elves necessitate the title action because “there are no cows.” The poem
juxtaposes an area of “all pine" with an “apple orchard,” and the narrator meets once a year to perform
the title action in order to maintain the divide between the farms. For 10 points, name this poem which
includes the line “Good fences make good neighbors,” written by Robert Frost.
ANSWER: "Mending Wall"
22. This functional group is produced in a condensation reaction which sees the addition of an alcohol in
the presence of a catalytic amount of a strong acid which is sometimes named for Speier. This type of
compound is broken down by water in a reaction catalyzed by bases, the saponification reaction, and
three of them are found on a glycerol backbone in fats. Consisting of a two R groups bonded to a carbon
double bonded to an oxygen and single bonded to another oxygen, for 10 points, name this class of
fruity smelling organic compounds.
ANSWER: esters

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 13
Bonuses

1. This woman had affairs with Pontiatowski and Orlov. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Empress of Russia, an enlightened despot of the mid 1700s.
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II Romanov; or Yekaterina II Velikaya; or Sophia Augusta
Frederica von Abhelt-Zerbst; prompt on Catherine]
[10] This feckless Tsar and husband to Catherine lasted for six months before he was assassinated,
putting Catherine on the throne.
ANSWER: Peter III Romanov [or Pyotr III Fyodorovich Romanov; prompt on Peter; prompt on Pyotr]
[10] Catherine also had an affair with this advisor, who oversaw the annexation of the Crimea. Legend
has it that he created his namesake sham villages for Catherine’s tour of Crimea.
ANSWER: Grigori Potemkin
2. It first appeared in 1906, under the milder title The Cynic’s Word Book. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this satirical lexicon, known for such entries as the one for “marriage” which gives the
meaning “a master, a mistress and two slaves, making in all, two.”
ANSWER: The Devil’s Dictionary
[10] The Devil’s Dictionary was a humorous publication by this author of Tales of Soldiers and Civilians,
whose disappearance in Mexico was fictionalized in Carlos Fuentes’s The Old Gringo.
ANSWER: Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce
[10] In this Ambrose Bierce short story, Peyton Farquhar seems to escape his hanging for sabotaging the
Union Army, but it turns out that he actually imagined the whole tale while dying.
ANSWER: “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge”
3. Prior to the Olympics, he urged that politics stay out of the games and claimed that his favorite sports
are table tennis and swimming. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this president of the People’s Republic of China.
ANSWER: Hu Jintao
[10] In an attempt to keep politics and the Olympics from mixing, this gold medal speed skater was
denied entry into China during the games, allegedly for involvement with Team Darfur.
ANSWER: Joey Cheek
[10] Because of the unstable political situation in this country, the IOC decided not to let this country
compete. The IOC relented, but too late for most of its athletes to register to compete.
ANSWER: Iraq

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. Recently sued for his design of MIT's Stata Center, his earlier works include the Pritzker Pavilion in
Chicago's Millenium Park. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American architect who designed the Prague Dancing House, the Weisman Art Museum
in Minneapolis, and the Walt Disney Concert Hall.
ANSWER: Frank Gehry [or Ephraim Owen Goldburg]
[10] Gehry designed the Experience Music Project, a building in this city that also contains the Space
Needle.
ANSWER: Seattle
[10] Critics claim that Gehry's work is mostly derivative of this museum he designed for a certain Spanish
city.
ANSWER: the Guggenheim Bilbao [accept variants and inserted prepositions as long as both
Guggenheim and Bilbao are in the answer somewhere]
5. Identify the following about some American chemists, for 10 points each.
[10] This man is known for his text The Nature of the Chemical Bond and for a scale to describe a
property that is also measured by the Mulliken scale.
ANSWER: Linus Carl Pauling
[10] This German-born American developed a process to remove sulfur from petroleum and to obtain
sulfur from underground mines by pumping steam into the earth.
ANSWER: Herman Frasch
[10] Willard Libby is best known for his work with this technique, which studies the decay of a certain
isotope to reveal the approximate age of organic objects.
ANSWER: radiocarbon dating [or carbon-14 dating; prompt on carbon dating]
6. Identify the following about the geography of Great Britain, for 10 points each.
[10] This tallest mountain in Great Britain is located in the Highland council area at the western end of
the Grampian Mountains.
ANSWER: Mount Ben Nevis
[10] Flowing from central Wales into the Irish Sea, this river joins the Lugg River in Hereford and passes
the ruins of Tintern Abbey before flowing into the tidal estuary at Chepstow.
ANSWER: Wye
[10] Like the River Wye, this river also rises in Wales. This river supplies Liverpool with drinking water
and is the longest river in Great Britain.
ANSWER: Severn
7. It usually occurs in materials which have unpaired electrons. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this property, exhibited by materials with positive magnetic susceptibility. The
magnetization doesn’t hold after the external field is removed.
ANSWER: paramagnetism
[10] This other form of magnetism, exhibited by the namesake element, is usually not reversed when
the external magnetic field is removed.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism
[10] Ferromagnets function below a temperature that is named for this scientist. With his wife, Marie,
he isolated radium and polonium.
ANSWER: Pierre Curie

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Its central panel depicts a whole bunch of naked people cavorting with giant strawberries and owls.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this triptych whose rightmost panel features sinners being tortured in hell by nightmarish
creatures.
ANSWER: The Garden of Earthly Delights
[10] The Garden of Earthly Delights was painted by this Flemish artist.
ANSWER: Hieronymous Bosch
[10] Hieronymous Bosch painted a triptych portraying demons tempting this man, the founder of
monasticism.
ANSWER: Saint Anthony of Egypt [or Saint Anthony the Great; or Saint Anthony of the Desert]
9. Answer the following about China in the 20th century, for 10 points each.
[10] This military strongman led China before being forced to flee to Taiwan following the Communist
victory in 1949.
ANSWER: Chiang Kai-shek [or Chiang Chung-cheng]
[10] Chiang Kai-shek led this political party, formerly led by Sun Yat-sen at its founding in 1912. Also
known as the National People's Party, it remains important in Taiwanese politics.
ANSWER: Kuomintang [or KMT; or GMT]
[10] Lasting from 1957 to 1960, this disastrous economic plan initiated by Mao attempted to force
massive industrialization in China. It incorporated backyard steel furnaces.
ANSWER: Great Leap Forward
10. His literary career included such novels as Confessions of a Mask and The Sailor Who Fell From Grace
With the Sea. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese novelist, whose Sea of Fertility tetralogy includes Spring Snow.
ANSWER: Mishima Yukio [accept Kimitake Hiraoka]
[10] At the end of Mishima’s Temple of the Golden Pavilion, Mizoguchi destroys the title structure, a holy
place of this religion. The exchange of koans is an integral part of it.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhism
[10] In Mishima’s short story “Patriotism,” Takeyama commits suicide in this manner. It was commonly
performed by samurai wishing to escape disgrace.
ANSWER: seppuku [or hara-kiri; prompt on disembowelment or similar descriptive English answers]
11. Answer the following about a rock, for 10 points each.
[10] Mainly composed of quartz, muscovite, and illite, this rock features prominently in American roof
shingles, laboratory surfaces, Japanese Go equipment, and Chinese mines.
ANSWER: slate
[10] Slate is an example of this type of rock, because it forms from the intense heat and pressure
subjected to shale. Other examples of this type of rock include marble, gneiss, and breccia.
ANSWER: metamorphic rock
[10] A minor constituent of slate is this mineral, an iron sulfide which is a polymorph of marcasite. It’s
also known as fool’s gold.
ANSWER: pyrite

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. It was put forth in Towards a Psychology of Being. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this five-stage psychological model of motivation which includes sections about safety,
belonging, and esteem, and places self-actualization at the top.
ANSWER: Maslow's hierarchy of needs
[10] This humanistic psychologist developed the hierarchy of needs.
ANSWER: Abraham Maslow
[10] This other humanistic psychologist developed client-centered therapy in such works like Freedom to
Learn and On Becoming a Person.
ANSWER: Carl Rogers
13. Identify these Roman authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This lyric poet wrote Carmen Saeculare, as well as four books of odes and Ars Poetica.
ANSWER: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
[10] This author wrote about the adventures of Encolpius and Giton, including their trip to Trimalchio’s
party, in his Satyricon.
ANSWER: Gaius Petronius, Arbiter of Elegance
[10] This author wrote about a man who was turned into a donkey instead of an owl, and who
eventually is restored to his human form by Isis, in The Golden Ass.
ANSWER: Lucius Apuleius
14. Identify the following incidents involving American ships in the 20th century, for 10 points each.
[10] In 1968, North Korea captured this American intelligence boat commanded by Lloyd Bucher. North
Korea released the captives after the crew signed a confession to spying.
ANSWER: USS Pueblo
[10] In 1967 the USS Liberty was attacked by torpedo boats and jet fighters from this country, killing 34
of its crew. This nation claimed that it was a case of mistaken identity.
ANSWER: Israel
[10] After delivering bomb parts, this American cruiser was sunk in July 1945 by Japanese torpedoes. Its
surviving crew were attacked by sharks for the next five days; most did not surive.
ANSWER: U.S.S. Indianapolis
15. Name these mythological figures of the British Isles, for 10 points each.
[10] This wizard serves as King Arthur's adviser until imprisoned by the Lady of the Lake.
ANSWER: Merlin
[10] This tricky king had Merlin turn him into a doppelganger of his rival Gorlois so he could father his
son Arthur with Lady Igraine.
ANSWER: Uther Pendragon [either or both names; or Wythr Bendragon]
[10] This Celtic warrior-hero had seven pupils in each eye and seven fingers on each hand. He kills Cu Roi
and takes Emer as his wife, and he earns his name after killing Culann's dog.
ANSWER: Cuchulainn [or Setanta]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. Industrially, it is accomplished through the Haber-Bosch process, though microorganisms that
perform it are called diazotrophs. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this process, in which the most prevalent gas in the atmosphere is transformed into a
biologically usable form.
ANSWER: nitrogen fixation [prompt on nitrogen]
[10] That biologically usable form is this gas, with a characteristic odor, though typically it is protonated
at physiological pH.
ANSWER: ammonia
[10] Amino acids’ secondary structures are alpha helices and these structures. If the strands are
antiparallel, a “hairpin” like turn is seen in these.
ANSWER: beta pleated sheets
17. The Anglican Thirty-Nine Articles of Religion declare this to be "repugnant to the plain words of
Scripture" and say that it "overthroweth the nature of a Sacrament." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this doctrine accepted by the Roman Catholic Church, among others, which believes that
the communion bread and wine actually becomes the blood and body of Christ.
ANSWER: transubstantiation
[10] This author of an “Address to the Christian Nobility of the German Nation” propounded an
alternative view, saying that Christ is “in, with, and under” the bread.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
[10] Some Protestants sects see transubstantiation as breeding actual worship of the Eucharist, and thus
an instance of this sin, another example of which was the construction of a golden calf.
ANSWER: idolatry [or idol worship; or other clear equivalents]
18. Identify the following about eccentric Roman emperors, for 10 points each.
[10] The successor to Claudius, this man put his mother Agrippina to death and was emperor during the
great fire of 64. His death ended the Julio-Claudian line.
ANSWER: Nero
[10] With a name meaning "little boot", this successor to Tiberius was known for his cruelty and insanity.
He attempted to have a statue of himself installed in the Temple of Jerusalem.
ANSWER: Caligula
[10] This mad emperor renamed Rome after himself, claimed that he was Hercules, and fought as a
gladiator. This successor to Marcus Aurelius was strangled by the wrestler Narcissus.
ANSWER: Commodus
19. It provided the basis for the ninety-fifth and ninety-eighth symphonies of Haydn, and acquired its
nickname from Johann Peter Salomon in honor of its grandeur. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this C major symphony, the forty-first and last of its composer, which was composed under
trying times in Vienna in 1788.
ANSWER: Jupiter Symphony
[10] The Jupiter Symphony was a work by this composer of The Abduction From the Seraglio, who began
composing from age five and also created the Haffner Symphony and The Magic Flute.
ANSWER: Johann Chrysostom Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
[10] After composing A Musical Joke, Mozart wrote this G major serenade for strings, his 13th, which
contains a romanze, a minuet and trio, and a rondo.
ANSWER: Eine Kleine Nachtmusik [or A Little Night Music]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. He besieges a castle with Robin Hood and encounters Richard the Lionhearted disguised as the Black
Knight. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this disinherited protagonist of a nineteenth-century novel.
ANSWER: Ivanhoe
[10] Ivanhoe was written by this British author of Waverly, Rob Roy, and The Heart of Midlothian.
ANSWER: Sir Walter Scott
[10] Ivanhoe’s father Cedric disinherits Ivanhoe after he falls in love with this Saxon woman, whom he
ends up marrying.
ANSWER: Rowena
21. Name some terms from probability, for 10 points each.
[10] For an event A, this is the set of all outcomes in the sample space not in A.
ANSWER: complement
[10] If event A and event B have no outcomes in common, then they are said to be this, and the
probability of A or B is equal to the probability of A plus the probability of B.
ANSWER: mutually exclusive [accept word forms]
[10] The probability of A and B is equal to the probability of A times the probability of B if A and B have
this other property.
ANSWER : independence [accept word forms]
22. This writer of “The Theme of the Traitor and the Hero” wrote stories with twist endings, such as “The
Garden of Forking Paths.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this blind Argentinian, who collaborated with Adolfo Bioy Casares on the Isidro Parodi
detective stories and wrote “The Library of Babel” in the collection Ficcionies.
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges
[10] Amasa Delano finds out, at the end of this Herman Melville short story, that the slaves have
revolted against the namesake Spanish captain.
ANSWER: “Benito Cereno”
[10] This American used twist endings in such stories as “The Cop and the Anthem” and the tale of Della
and Jim trying to buy each other Christmas presents, “The Gift of the Magi.”
ANSWER: O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 13

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

