2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 2
Tossups

1. This state’s Anaconda Range is home to Big Hole National Monument, and the Bitterroot Range runs
along this state’s western border. This state’s Fort Peck Lake is the first major reservoir on the Missouri
River, which flows by this state’s city of Great Falls. Home to Glacier National Park and the Little Bighorn
Battlefield National Monument, this state is the only one to border the province of Alberta. Home to the
cities of Missoula, Butte, and Billings, for 10 points, name this fourth-largest state in size with capital at
Helena.
ANSWER: Montana
2. A work by Peter Kramer concerning one drug used to treat this condition led to several copycat works
in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Sometimes associated with low activity in the left prefrontal cortex,
this condition has a milder form known as dysthymia. Though it was originally treated using monoamine
oxidase inhibitors, doctors currently prescribe selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as Zoloft,
Paxil, and Prozac. For 10 points, name this most common affective disorder, which commonly causes
suffers to feel sad.
ANSWER: clinical depression [accept major depression; accept major depressive disorder]
3. This artist depicted a girl in a blue dress holding the bars of a fence in The Railroad. One work by this
artist shows several guns pointing at the titular puppet emperor, and another includes a bowl of oranges
that sits next to bottles of alcohol on a bar near a woman who stands in front of a mirror. In addition to
The Execution of Maximilian and Bar at the Folies-Bergère, this artist created a work that depicts a picnic
of two clothed men and one nude woman. For 10 points, name the French Impressionist painter of
Luncheon on the Grass and Olympia.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet
4. The final two parts of this document were withdrawn following the siege of La Rochelle. The grandson
of the king who declared this law revoked it eighty-seven years later in the Edict of Fontainebleau,
leading refugees to seek a tax-exempt status offered by the Duke of Prussia. Opening the path for
secularism and a principle of dividing church and state, Pope Clement VIII claimed that this law
“crucifies” him. For 10 points, name this law passed by Henry IV that gave rights to the Huguenots of
France.
ANSWER: Edict of Nantes

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 1 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This phenomenon is employed in the treatment of sleeping sickness using DFMO, an ornithine
analogue. When feedback from another binding event causes this, allosteric effects explain the
sigmoidal shape of the Michaelis-Menten plot. This phenomenon exists in competitive, noncompetitive,
and irreversible varieties, and it often involves the occupation of an active site, which prevents
substrates from binding. For 10 points, name this phenomenon that prevents reactions from being
accelerated by protein catalysts.
ANSWER: enzyme inhibition
6. The title of this work is said by Douglas in its preface and is followed by the line “what do you say to
two children.” This work was dramatized by William Archibald as The Innocents and served as the basis
of the Joyce Carol Oates work “The Accursed Inhabitants of the House of Bly.” The housekeeper Mrs.
Grose takes one character to London, and another dies of fright. In this work, apparitions of the former
servants Miss Jesel and Peter Quint are seen by the children Miles and Flora. For 10 points, name this
ghost story by Henry James.
ANSWER: The Turn of the Screw
7. He lured the giant Ultimo to a volcano before imprisoning him, and Kang the Conqueror was thought
to have taken control of this man, although the culprit was later revealed to be Immortus. He assumes
his alter ego after being captured by Wong Chu, who is punished for allowing this man to leave by The
Mandarin. Depicted in a 2008 film as being captured by an Afghan warlord, he is challenged by his
business partner Obadiah Stane and saves Pepper Potts. For 10 points, name this alter ego of Tony
Stark, who was played by Robert Downey Jr. in a 2008 film.
ANSWER: Iron Man [or Anthony Stark before mention; or Tony Stark before mention]
8. Janacek named his second one of this type of composition “Intimate Letters,” and Smetana’s first one
of these is subtitled “From My Life.” Dvorak wrote an “American” one of these, and Schubert’s
fourteenth one is called Death and the Maiden. Barber’s Adagio for Strings is taken from this type of
composition, and Mozart originally scored Eine Kleine Nachtmusik for this ensemble, which sometimes
adds a double bass. Haydn composed the “Emperor” one and is known as the “father of,” for 10 points,
what type of work for two violins, viola and cello?
ANSWER: string quartet
9. One work by this man compares Almagro to Bonaparte and cited Baron von Humboldt in a note “to a
gentleman of this island.” In his twenties, this man gained Francisco de Miranda as a supporter to his
cause. He struggled to challenge the “llaneros” cavalry under Jose Tomas Boves after penning the
Cartagena Manifesto. After an exile during which he wrote his Letter from Jamaica, this general
followed the Battle of Carabobo with a meeting to form a constitution for Gran Colombia. For ten
points, name this “Liberator” of South America.
ANSWER: Simon Bolivar

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 2 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. The principle narrator of this work is introduced to the author by Peter Giles and enters into his
narration after the author suggests he become a royal counselor. Raphael Hythloday visits the titular
location during his New World odyssey and recounts how men incubate eggs and become surrogate
mothers to chicks. Gems are the playthings of children and education is free and universal in the titular
location. For 10 points, name this literary work in which Sir Thomas More described an ideal country
where private property and money are abolished.
ANSWER: Utopia
11. The plant that Medea uses to prevent Jason from harm grew from the blood of this father of Aidos.
He opened Zeus’ head when he gave birth to Athena, and it was based on this figure’s advice that Zeus
ended his relationship with Thetis. He tricked Zeus into accepting the worse part of an animal as
sacrifice; later, a dying Chiron took the place of this son of Iapetus on Mount Caucasus. Given a name
meaning “forethought,” his brother married Pandora, and his liver was eaten by an eagle daily as
punishment. For 10 points, name this Titan who gave fire to man.
ANSWER: Prometheus
12. This man learned the multiphonics technique from Thelonius Monk, and his first recorded solo is on
Dizzy Gillespie’s record We Love to Boogie. This man claimed that he would “start in the middle of a
sentence and move both directions at once” in describing his “sheets of sound” improvisation method.
His works include Ascension and Meditations, while Jimmy Garrison, McCoy Tyner, and Elvin Jones were
members of his namesake quartet. For 10 points name this jazz tenor saxophonist, the composer of My
Favorite Things and A Love Supreme.
ANSWER: John Coltrane
13. A large number of these devices are used along with spark gap switches in Marx generators, while an
early example of this device is the Leyden jar. The time constant of one kind of circuit gives the time
needed to charge one of these to about sixty-three percent. Generally composed of two conducting
plates separated by a dielectric, these devices’ namesake quantity sums directly in parallel, and they are
one of the two components of an RC circuit. For 10 points, identify these circuit elements across which
charge, and therefore a potential difference, builds up over time.
ANSWER: capacitors
14. This writer claimed that Walt Whitman possessed all the characteristics of an ideal poet in his
nonfiction work The Bow and the Lyre. Another of his works containing sections entitled “The Sons of La
Malinche” and “The Dialectic of Solitude” discusses the alienation of the pachucos in the Southwest.
This author also created a lyric poem consisting of 584 lines representing the days of the Aztec calendar,
Sunstone. For 10 points, name this winner of the 1990 Nobel Prize in Literature, the Mexican author of
the essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 3 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. This case was decided on the same day as the related Doe v. Bolton. Portions of this decision were
later challenged by Stenberg v. Carhart and Gonzales v. Carhart, and the court relied heavily upon the
precedent of Griswold v. Connecticut in deciding it. This case’s majority decision was written by Justice
Harry Blackmun, who argued that a Texas law violated the right to privacy of an unmarried rape victim.
Modified by 1992’s Planned Parenthood v. Casey, for 10 points, name this 1973 Supreme Court case that
legalized first- and second-trimester abortions.
ANSWER: Roe v. Wade
16. An early cult in this city centered on the moon god Hubal, while members of its dominant Quraysh
tribe were defeated in the Battle of the Trench. This city is home to the hills of Safa and Marwah, as well
as the Well of Zamzam, which God is said to have created for the exiled Hagar and Ishmael. Located in
the Hejaz, it is frequently accessed via the port of Jiddah on the Red Sea. This city is also home to the
Masjid al-Haram, within which people make seven circles around the kaaba as part of the hajj. For 10
points, name this holiest city of Islam.
ANSWER: Mecca [or Makkah]
17. A member of this phylum was at the center of Robert Paine’s 1966 paper that introduced the
concept of the keystone species. This phylum’s members A. punctulata and S. purpuratus are widely
used as model organisms in developmental biology. A characteristic feature of this phylum is centered
on the hydrocoel and contains extensions known as ambulacra. That feature of this phylum culminates
in tube feet and is called the water vascular system. For 10 points, name this phylum whose members
include sea cucumbers, sea urchins, and starfish.
ANSWER: echinodermata
18. This author inspired the name of the son of Ashoke Ganguli, who dates a white American girl named
Maxine before marrying a fellow Bengali in Jhumpa Lahiri’s novel The Namesake. One novel by this man
concerns a Cossack who kills his traitorous son Andri, and another sees Manilov sell the titular peasants
to Chichikov. In addition to Taras Bulba and Dead Souls, this author wrote a short story in which Akaky,
who loves copying documents, is robbed of the titular garment. For 10 points, name this author of “The
Overcoat” and “The Nose.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Vassilievich Gogol
19. Some prisoners of it were brought before Boetius Clancy and hung on the orders of Sir William
Fitzwilliam. Mobilized three years after the Treaty of Nonsuch, it was scheduled to rendezvous with the
army of Alexander Farnese, Duke of Parma, but the Battle of Gravelines derailed the plan. After
surviving a storm, its humiliation by Norris and Drake ended with many of its ships washing up on the
Irish coast, with the rest seeking refuge in Scotland. For 10 points, name this supposedly undefeatable
fleet deployed by Phillip II to lead an invasion of England.
ANSWER: Spanish Armada [or Grande y Felicísima Armada; or Great and Most Fortunate Navy; or
Armada Invencible; or Invincible Armada; or Invincible Navy]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 4 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. This process is modeled well for large spherical particles by the Stokes-Einstein relation. One variety
of this process is used in Lars Onsager’s method of thermal separation. Unlike that Soret variety,
another type results in an even distribution of molecules and is governed by a pair of equations relating
molar concentrations and named for Fick, while the rate of a similar process is inversely proportional to
the root of the molar mass of a gas by Graham’s law. For 10 points, name this process wherein particles
move down a concentration gradient.
ANSWER: diffusion
21. In one of this author’s stories Bibi and his father are trapped in a store because of the title event,
and in another Mrs. Mallard dies after realizing her husband is actually alive. In addition to “The Storm”
and “Story of an Hour,” she wrote about Armand discovering his mother is actually black in “Desiree’s
Baby.” In a novel by this author, the protagonist falls in love with Robert LeBrun and drowns herself by
swimming into the ocean. For 10 points name this Louisianan author who wrote about Edna Pontellier in
The Awakening.
ANSWER: Kate Chopin
22. A war of succession in this country was mostly ended by the Treaty of Vienna in 1735. Its most well
known dynasty came about after a neighboring Grand Duke married into the throne of this country, and
one king helped eliminate the Teutonic Knights at the Battle of Grunwald. This home to the Jagiellon
Dynasty underwent several namesake partitions during the eighteenth century, including one
orchestrated by Catherine the Great. For 10 points, name this European country home to the Gdansk
Shipyard, where Solidarity was founded in 1980 by Lech Walesa.
ANSWER: Poland
23. Between any two successive examples of these numbers there exists a prime by Legendre’s
conjecture, and every positive integer is the sum of four of these according to a theorem by Lagrange.
The larger number in Catalan’s conjecture is one of these, and the sum of the first n odd numbers is one
of these. The sum of the first n of them is “n times n+1 times 2n+1 over 6.” The sum of consecutive
triangular numbers is one, while “a+b times a-b” is equivalent to a difference between this function of a
and this function of b. For 10 points, name these numbers found by multiplying an integer by itself.
ANSWER: square numbers

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 5 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 2
Bonuses

1. He brought Russia through its most stringent reforms since the reign of Peter the Great, which is
often attributed to his tutoring by Vasily Zhukovsky. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tsar who freed the serfs and reduced restrictions on civil liberties yet still got blown up
by the People’s Will in 1881.
ANSWER: Alexander II
[10] Alexander II was a noted member of this Russian royal family founded by Michael. The last tsar of
Russia, Nicholas II, was also a member of this family.
ANSWER: Romanov
[10] This uprising, named for the time of year when it occurred, protested the result of Constantine
Romanov removing himself from succession to the throne.
ANSWER: Decembrist Revolt
2. His letters to Esther Johnson are collected in his Journal to Stella, and he recounted a conflict between
the Ancients and the Moderns in his The Battle of the Books. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Irish satirist who allegorically represented the fracture of the Christian church through
this portrayal of the brothers Peter, Martin, and Jack in his Tale of a Tub.
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
[10] This other Swift work details the adventures of the titular physician who encounters rational horses,
Yahoos, and the giants of Brobdingnag.
ANSWER: Gulliver’s Travels
[10] In this satirical work, Swift introduces a plan to alleviate the plight of the poor in Ireland based on
his observation that a healthy one-year-old child is a delicious and nourishing food.
ANSWER: A Modest Proposal: For Preventing the Children of Poor People in Ireland from Being a Burden
to Their Parents or Country, and for Making Them Beneficial to the Public

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 6 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

3. It secretes renin when low blood volume is detected, and functional units of it contain the glomerulus
and Bowman’s capsule. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organ responsible for filtering the blood for waste materials like urea.
ANSWER: kidney
[10] This is the basic functional and structural unit of the kidney. It consists of two large segments, a
renal corpuscle and renal tubule.
ANSWER: nephrons
[10] This U-shaped part of the nephron has a thick ascending limb and thinner descending limb and
concentrates urine.
ANSWER: loop of Henle
4. Its border with Russia is partially formed by the Samur River, and it owns the exclave Naxcivan. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this easternmost of the three Caucasian republics, with capital at Baku.
ANSWER: Azerbaijan
[10] Baku sits on the Abseron Peninsula, which juts into this low-lying and very salty inland sea. This
body also borders Iran and Kazakhstan.
ANSWER: Caspian Sea
[10] For over a decade, Azerbaijan has engaged in hostilities with Armenia over this Armenian enclave in
western Azerbaijan, with unofficial capital at Xankandi.
ANSWER: Nagorno-Karabakh
5. Unlike normal goods, their demand will decrease as consumer income rises. For 10 points each,
[10] Goods of this type have a negative elasticity of demand, meaning that when the costumer has a
choice, he will pick a different good.
ANSWER: inferior goods
[10] This type of good, including cars, wine, and other luxury items, sees demand rise with price, as
these goods can serve as status symbols.
ANSWER: Veblen goods
[10] This type of inferior good sees an increase in demand once staple goods become too expensive for
consumers.
ANSWER: Giffen goods
6. In recognition of her efforts to “purify the faith,” she and her husband received the title “the
Catholic.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman who married Ferdinand of Aragon and was a key figure in the Reconquista.
ANSWER: Isabella I
[10] Isabella was queen of this northern region of Spain, home of the School of Toledo.
ANSWER: Castile
[10] This third child of Ferdinand and Isabella married Philip the Handsome. Her nickname might refer to
the fact that she may have suffered from schizophrenia.
ANSWER: Joanna I [or Juana I; or Joanna the Mad; or Juana la Loca]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 7 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This philosopher asserted that everything happens because of the principle of sufficient reason in
Theodicy. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German philosopher who argued that God necessarily creates the best of all possible
worlds. He also co-invented calculus with Newton.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Liebniz
[10] Liebniz argued that all matter was composed of these windowless entities and that each individual
one mirrored the entire universe.
ANSWER: monads
[10] Liebniz’s New Essays on Human Understanding attempted to rebut the Essay Concerning
Understanding by this author of the Two Treatises on Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
8. Plays written in this country include Juno and the Paycock and Exiles. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this home of Sean O’Casey and James Joyce, whose epic literature includes stories about Finn
MacCool.
ANSWER: Ireland
[10] This Irish playwright used mythology in Deirdre of the Sorrows and wrote about Christy Mahon
almost killing his father in Playboy of the Western World.
ANSWER: Edmund John Millington Synge
[10] In this Synge play, Maurya has lost five family members to the ocean, and Nora and Cathleen
discover the dead body of their brother Michael on the shore.
ANSWER: Riders to the Sea
9. This disease is caused by the varicella virus, while calamine lotion can be used to relieve irritation
caused by the eruption of blisters associated with it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this viral disease that is most common in early childhood.
ANSWER: chicken pox
[10] The varicella virus also causes this disease, which occurs when the virus remains dormant in nerve
ganglia and reactivates later in life during periods when the immune system is weak.
ANSWER: shingles [or herpes zoster]
[10] The use of aspirin and other salicylates during viral infections such as chickenpox can result in this
neurological disease, which is thought to act on cerebral mitochondria.
ANSWER: Reye’s syndrome
10. Colline sings farewell to his overcoat in this opera’s aria “Vecchia Zimarra.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera about the impoverished Parisian artists Rudolpho and the consumptive Mimi.
ANSWER: La Bohème [or The Bohemians]
[10] This Italian composer of operas like Turandot and Tosca wrote La Bohème.
ANSWER: Giacomo Puccini
[10] In this Puccini opera, one character celebrates that his name will never be discovered in “Nessun
dorma.”
ANSWER: Turandot
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 8 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. After coming under investigation for improperly handing out deals for transportation contracts, he
withdrew his nomination to serve in President Obama’s cabinet. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this person who served as the chairman of the 2004 Democratic National Convention and
who succeeded Madeline Albright as U.S. Ambassador to the U.N.
ANSWER: William Blain Richardson
[10] Bill Richardson succeeded Gary Johnson as governor of this state, whose legislature is located in
capital Santa Fe.
ANSWER: New Mexico
[10] Richardson was nominated for this position under President Obama’s cabinet. People holding this
position oversee the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
ANSWER: Secretary of Commerce
12. This ruler’s seizure of the throne was supported by Henry Stafford, Duke of Buckingham, and he may
have killed the Princes in the Tower. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this last Plantagenet king of England who was killed at Bosworth Field.
ANSWER: Richard III
[10] Richard was a member of this house, which fought against the House of Lancaster in the Wars of
the Roses.
ANSWER: House of York
[10] Edward IV became the first Yorkist with the assistance of this man known as the Kingmaker, though
he would later die fighting for the Lancastrian cause.
ANSWER: Richard Neville [or Earl of Warwick]
13. Part of his reason for writing was to surpass his brother Heinrich, the author of In a Family. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this German author of Doctor Faustus who wrote about the author Gustav von Aschenbach in
his Death in Venice.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
[10] This first Thomas Mann novel depicts the decline and fall of a Lübeck merchant family over four
generations. The dynasty is doomed by the failure of Hanno.
ANSWER: Buddenbrooks
[10] This Thomas Mann novel details Hans Castorp’s supposed three-month sabbatical. It actually
becomes a seven-year stay in a Swiss sanatorium.
ANSWER: The Magic Mountain

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 9 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

14. For 10 points each, name some industrial processes.
[10] Named for the men who first popularized it in America and France, this electrolytic process sees
carbon react with alumina to produce aluminum and release carbon dioxide.
ANSWER: Hall-Héroult Process [accept either name]
[10] The Mond process produces this metal from its ores. It is found in the Raney catalyst and can be
used in battery applications with cadmium.
ANSWER: Nickel
[10] This expensive process uses magnesium as a reducing agent to produce titanium; it replaced the
Hunter process and has been modified to extract zirconium.
ANSWER: Kroll Process
15. Answer the following about sun gods from mythology for 10 points each.
[10] Later identified as Apollo, this son of Theia drove the chariot of the sun in Greek mythology. His
children include Aeëtes, Circe, and Phaëthon.
ANSWER: Helios
[10] Homer identified Helios with this Titan, whose children include Eos and Selene.
ANSWER: Hyperion
[10] Although this man converted to Christianity and proclaimed the Edict of Milan, he continued to
have coins struck honoring the son god Sol Invictus.
ANSWER: Constantine I the Great [or Flavius Valerius Aurelius Constantinus]
16. They included Cesar Cui and Mily Balakirev. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this numerically named group of nineteenth century Russian composers.
ANSWER: The Five [or The Mighty Handful]
[10] This Russian composer of the Capriccio Espagnol and Scheherazade is also remembered for his
frenetic “Flight of the Bumblebee.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov
[10] “The Flight of Bumblebee” is an orchestral interlude from this opera in which the titular ruler sends
his young wife and son away in a barrel.
ANSWER: The Tale of Tsar Saltan [or Skazka o Tsare Saltane]
17. The first independent nation in the Caribbean, its earliest leaders included self-proclaimed emperors
such as Jean-Jacques Dessalines and Henri Christophe. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this French-speaking nation that has also been led by Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
ANSWER: Haiti
[10] Haitian independence was first obtained under this freed slave, who conquered Santo Domingo in
1801 and ruled until he was treacherously handed over to the French in 1805.
ANSWER: François Dominique Toussaint Louverture
[10] This voodoo enthusiast was elected President of Haiti in 1957. He established a militia force known
as the Tontons Macoutes, and was succeeded by his son, Baby Doc.
ANSWER: Francois “Papa Doc” Duvalier [prompt on Papa Doc]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 10 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. This poet memorialized a fire in “Verses Upon the Burning of Our House,” and John Berryman wrote
an “Homage” to this colonial American poet. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this female whose poems were published by her brother-in-law in 1650 in the collection The
Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet [or Anne Dudley]
[10] “The Bee Meeting” and “Tulips” are works from this poet’s collection Ariel. She was married to Ted
Hughes, and her only novel was entitled The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
[10] This author of the novel Maud Martha described pool players who “lurk late” and “strike straight”
in “We Real Cool,” which appears in her collection The Bean Eaters.
ANSWER: Gwendolyn Brooks
19. Name some optical phenomena, for 10 points each.
[10] This phenomenon occurs due to the wave nature of light and causes the periodic dim and bright
regions in the Airy disc. It comes in constructive and destructive forms.
ANSWER: interference
[10] The Abbe number relates this phenomenon to the refractive index; it also causes rainbows.
ANSWER: dispersion
[10] This optical phenomenon happens when light rays hit a surface like a mirror.
ANSWER: reflection
20. During this artist’s Rose Period, he created several depictions of harlequins and painted works such
as Boy with a Dog. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Cubist whose other works include Three Musicians and Guernica.
ANSWER: Pablo Picasso
[10] A bunch of grapes are found at the bottom of this Pablo Picasso work, in which two of the titular
prostitutes wear masks inspired by African art.
ANSWER: Les Demoiselles d’Avignon [or The Young Ladies of Avignon]
[10] Picasso founded Cubism with this Frenchman, whose own works include Harbor in Normandy and
Violin and Pitcher.
ANSWER: Georges Braque

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 11 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. Sometimes also named for Edgeworth, it contains dwarf planets like Haumea, Makemake, and Pluto.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this region that extends from beyond the orbit of Neptune out another twenty-five
astronomical units.
ANSWER: Kuiper belt
[10] These objects in the so-called “classical” Kuiper belt, between forty-two and forty-eight AU, are
mostly unaffected by Neptune’s field. They are named after the first modern example, 1992 QB1.
ANSWER: cubewanos [or QB one-ohs]
[10] This dwarf planet is larger than Pluto; its orbit is so eccentric that it’s often classified as a “scattered
disc object” instead of a KBO, even though its perihelion is under forty AU. Its discovery motivated the
IAU’s definition of the word “planet.”
ANSWER: 136199 Eris
22. It led to the Saarland being placed under protection of the League of Nations, and its War Guilt
clause led to the Dawes plan to ease reparations. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this document signed in a French palace by figures like David Lloyd George and Vittorio
Orlando after the armistice of 1918.
ANSWER: Treaty of Versailles
[10] The Treaty of Versailles was also negotiated by this American president, who put forward the
Fourteen Points and promoted the idea of the League of Nations to prevent future wars.
ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson
[10] This senator used his position as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee to block Woodrow
Wilson’s efforts to get the United States to join the League of Nations.
ANSWER: Henry Cabot Lodge
23. He wrote about native life in Typee and Omoo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Moby Dick.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
[10] In this novella Captain Vere hangs the title sailor after he kills Claggart with one punch.
ANSWER: Billy Budd, Foretopman [or Billy Budd, Sailor]
[10] Billy Budd was included in this Melville collection, which also included “Benito Cereno” and
“Bartleby the Scrivener.”
ANSWER: The Piazza Tales

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 2

Page 12 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

