2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 4
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. The western Kakamega Forest is the last remnant of a rainforest in this country. Containing the
Ewaso Ng’iro and Athi-Galana-Sabaki Rivers, this nation’s economy is based in a city with landmarks
such as Fort Jesus, Tudor Creek and Kilindi Harbour while the capital’s name translates as “Place of Cool
Waters” in Maasai. Halford Mackinder was the first person to climb its namesake seventeen-thousandfoot peak. For 10 points, name this East African country whose cities include Mombasa and the capital,
Nairobi.
ANSWER: Republic of Kenya
2. One type of these which is able to store information even when current does not pass through it was
a breakthrough application developed by HP labs, and they can be found in parallel with the signals as
opposed to capacitors in high pass filters. Their namesake property decreases with increasing area of
cross section; that property is directly proportional to length, and increases with increasing
temperatures. For 10 points, identify these circuit components, whose namesake property is equal to
voltage divided by current according to Ohm’s law.
ANSWER: resistors
3. A very short poem by this author notes that "you fit into me / like a hook into an eye." In addition to
"Occasional Poem," this author wrote such novels as one where Marian gets an eating disorder and
bakes a female-shaped cake. This writer of The Edible Woman wrote about sci-fi author Alex Thomas
and Iris Chase in The Blind Assassin. In another work, the protagonist enjoys Scrabble and befriends
Moira. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about "Offred" in her dystopian feminist novel The
Handmaid's Tale.
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor Atwood
4. The colonizers of this nation instituted a welfare program called the Ethical Policy, and the Padri War
was fought in what is now this country. Budi Utomo was this country’s first independence movement,
and the non-aligned movement was formed here at the 1955 Bandbung Conference. The Christopher
Koch novel The Year of Living Dangerously follows the overthrow of this nation’s President Sukarno in
1965, after which it was led by Suharto. For 10 points, name this archipelagic nation, home to the
world’s largest Muslim population.
ANSWER: Indonesia
5. One of these named after Beilstein is used to detect organo-halogen compounds. Adding a saturated
ammonium bromide solution improves the results of the one involving calcium. Often performed using
a wire inoculation loop, it distinguishes between barium and boron in that the former yields alkaline
residues while the latter does not, and between strontium and lithium the same way. For 10 points,
name this test for detecting metals, in which strontium solutions turn red and sodium solutions turn
yellow when subjected to the namesake source of heat.
ANSWER: flame test
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. He had a vision of a boiling pot from the north causing destruction, and he was a supporter of
Josiah’s reforms and an opponent of Jehoiakim. He stated, “I do not know how to speak, for I am only a
youth,” when he was called to prophesy by Yahweh, and he was saved from prison by the Ethiopian
eunuch Ebed-melech. Some traditions have him being stoned to death by his fellow exiles in Egypt, and
his scribe was Baruch. For 10 points name this prophet, who placed a yoke around his neck in his call to
submit to the yoke of Babylonia.
ANSWER: Jeremiah [or Yirmeyahu; or Jeremias]
7. This school won the 1945 and 1946 NCAA basketball championships under Coach Henry Iba, and with
players such as Pete Incaviglia and Robin Ventura, it made seven straight College World Series
appearances. This school’s annual football game against its chief rival is known as Bedlam, and its
basketball court is named for Eddie Sutton. T. Boone Pickens has provided this school with record
financial gifts for athletics, and notable alums include Thurman Thomas and Barry Sanders. For 10
points name this Stillwater-based university, a rival of the Sooners.
ANSWER: Oklahoma State University [or OSU]
8. Eviction and Strong Man, Clown, and Dancer are two works by a member of this group. In addition to
Everett Shinn and William Glackens, it included a man who painted Sixth Avenue Elevated at Third
Street. Its leader painted Snow in New York and wrote The Art Spirit, and another man in this group
painted Both Members of this Club along with other boxing scenes such as Stag at Sharkey’s. For 10
points, George Bellows and Robert Henri were members of what realistic American painting school that
evolved from The Eight?
ANSWER: Ashcan School [accept The Eight before it is read; accept Everett Shinn before “this group” is
first read]
9. In this play, the doctor Yevgeny Dorn offers advice on how to write to the main character, as does
Pyotr Sorin, who suggested that main character write a story called "The Man Who Wished." This play
was based on a real-life incident involving the author’s friend Ilya Levitan. The actress Irina Arkadina is
the object of Trigorin’s affection, and the main character kills himself after failing to gain the affection
of Nina Zaretchyn. For 10 points name this play in which Konstantin Treplev kills the titular bird, a work
of Anton Chekhov.
ANSWER: The Seagull
10. The first shot of this engagement was fired by the soil chemist Edmund Ruffin, and the defenders
here were later awarded the Gillmore Medal. Comer Woodward won the 1982 Pulitzer for editing an
account of this incident which was recounted in the diary of Mary Boykin Chestnut who viewed it from
The Battery. With commanders including the legendary founder of baseball, Abner Doubleday, Robert
Anderson and PGT Beauregard, for 10 points, name this April 1861 engagement in South Carolina which
saw the first shots of the Civil War.
ANSWER: Battle of Fort Sumter

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 4
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. A poet from this country penned the "Elegy for Alto" and died fighting against its government in
1967. Another author from here wrote a novel in "Rotten English" titled Sozaboy; those works were
penned by Christopher Okigbo and Ken Saro-Wiwa. The spirit-child Azaro is the protagonist of The
Famished Road, a work by an author from this country named Ben Okri. Another of its writers penned
Death and the King’s Horseman and The Lion and the Jewel. For 10 points, name this home country of
Wole Soyinka, whose literature often addresses the Biafran War.
ANSWER: Nigeria
BONUS. This man decided to murder his son with a flagpole in 1581, leading to severe consequences
for Russia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this notoriously severe tsar, who also led Russia into the disastrous Livonian War and
established a secret police force known as the oprichnina.
ANSWER: Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV; or Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]
[10] Instead of the competent son of Ivan, this mentally retarded tsar had to take over on the death of
Ivan IV, leading to the end of the Rurik dynasty.
ANSWER: Fyodor I Ivanovich [or Fyodor the Bellringer; prompt on Fyodor]
2. An August 2008 white paper recommended that fifty thousand positions be cut from this
organization. Jean Mucyo recently alleged that its Operation Turquoise contributed to the Rwandan
genocide. Although it rescued two people from Somali pirates in September, it has lately come under
fire for losing ten of its members in an ambush, an incident which stifled public support for Nicholas
Sarkozy’s attempts to send seven hundred of its members to Afghanistan. For 10 points, name this
historically-mocked group of soldiers serving a certain European country.
ANSWER: the French army [accept equivalents]
BONUS. He studied under John Paul Russell, but soon tired of Impressionism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painter of Woman with a Hat and La Danse.
ANSWER: Henri Matisse
[10] Matisse's work was typical of this movement, which favored unnatural color over representational
accuracy and is named from a French term for “wild beasts.”
ANSWER: Fauvism [or Les Fauves; accept word forms]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. Nicolaus Copernicus may have originated this idea in a work presented to the Prussian Diet at
Graudenz. A contemporary of its namesake, John Hales, may have been the first Englishman to describe
it. Named by Henry Dunning Macleod, this phenomenon was postulated by its namesake after he
reversed the failures of William Dauntsey and William Dansell, known as the Great Debasements. For
10 points, name this law about currency named for a founder of the Royal Exchange, which states that
“bad money drives out good.”
ANSWER: Gresham’s Law
BONUS. They were united by Mangas Coloradas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Native American tribe of the Southwest, whose divisions include the Chiricahua and
Mimbreno.
ANSWER: Apache
[10] This Apache leader surrendered to Nelson Miles in 1887. He had previously waged a war against
white settlers and he later dictated his autobiography to S.S. Barrett.
ANSWER: Geronimo
4. It includes the waltz-tempoed “Tout le monde danse,” and its original choreography by Julius
Reisinger has been lost. In the beginning, the tutor Wolfgang welcomes his student, who is told to
choose a bride at a ball the next day. The hero goes hunting with Benno and encounters a woman
under the curse of a man who turns into an owl. This ballet also features the double Odile, who is
accompanied to the ball by Rothbart. For 10 points, name this ballet about prince Siegfried’s love for
Odette, who turns into the title bird each day, a work by Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: Swan Lake
BONUS. The Strait of Bonafacio separates it from its northern neighbor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Island bordered by the Tyrrhenian Sea on the east, which contain cities like Sassari and
Cagliari.
ANSWER: Sardinia
[10] This other island nation, which is also located in the Mediterranean Sea, includes Gozo Island and
Kemmuna Island. Its capital is Valetta.
ANSWER: Republic of Malta
5. This man served as a cabin boy on the ship Dorothea, which wrecked off the coast of the Netherlands
en-route to Venezuela, and he was later assisted by Wilhelm Dorpfeld in his work at Tiryns. A business
partner of Frank Calvert, this man consulted Emile Burnouf about his discovery of swastikas, while
other findings of his included the Treasury of Minyas at Orchomenus, the so-called mask of
Agamemnon, and the excavation of a site at Hisarlik. For 10 points, name this German archeologist who
excavated Mycenae and Troy.
ANSWER: Heinrich Schliemann
BONUS. Answer the following about traveling really fast, for 10 points each.
[10] This number, named after an Austrian physicist, is the ratio of an object’s speed to the speed of
sound in the medium.
ANSWER: Mach number
[10] This sudden change in pressure occurs when shock waves produced by an object traveling at
supersonic speed finally catch up to the observer.
ANSWER: sonic boom
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This structure contains several members of the ABC protein family, and another major component of
these objects is a derivative of sphingosine. Singer and Nicholson developed the fluid mosaic model of
this structure. Clathrin-coated pits in it are involved in endocytosis, and specialized areas of this
structure include tight junctions and gap junctions. In plants this structure is surrounded by the cell
wall. Often described as a phospholipid bilayer, for 10 points, name this barrier between the cell and its
outside environment.
ANSWER: cell membrane [or plasma membrane]
BONUS. This author wrote about Mersault killing an Arab in The Stranger. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of The Plague and The Fall.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] Camus concluded that the title mythological figure must be “imagined happy” and fulfilled by the
struggle in this philosophical essay.
ANSWER: The Myth of Sisyphus [or Le Mythe de Sisyphe]
7. He published a series of character sketches called Bracebridge Hall under a pen name, and he used
that pen name for Tales of a Traveler, which contains a short story in which a man agrees to become a
loan shark working for the devil. In addition to “The Devil and Tom Walker,” he credited Geoffrey
Crayon as the author of his Tales of the Alhambra, but he is better known for a tale wherein a man who
plays ninepins with some strange people in the Catskills. For 10 points, identify this author who wrote
about a man who sleeps for twenty years, Rip van Winkle.
ANSWER: Washington Irving [accept Geoffrey Crayon before it is read]
BONUS. Identify these bones, for 10 points each.
[10] This bone extends from the shoulder to the elbow. The ulnar groove passes through a cavity in this
bone, and it is often incorrectly described as the “funny bone.”
ANSWER: humerus
[10] This bone is found below the sacrum and consists of three to five vertebrae fused together. It is
mostly non-functional in humans and is commonly called the “tail bone.”
ANSWER: coccyx
8. This kingdom established its capital at Zaragoza under Alfonso I’s rule. This kingdom fought a war
with the French Angevin dynasty that was sparked by the Sicilian Vespers. Alfonso V’s wars in Italy
helped add Naples to its territories. Its most famous king issued the Alhambra decree with his wife,
with whom he oversaw the completion of the reconquista. For 10 points, identify this Spanish region,
whose king Ferdinand unified Spain by marrying Isabella of Castile.
ANSWER: Aragon
BONUS. This work claims that chicken blood can be used to skirt the Taupau system. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this anthropological work that was controversial for its idea that looser sexual restrictions
were beneficial for youth on a Pacific island.
ANSWER: Coming of Age in Samoa
[10] This female anthropologist wrote Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies as well as
Coming of Age in Samoa.
ANSWER: Margaret Mead

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

9. Martin Heidegger claimed that it referred to philosophy itself in an essay published in Holzwege. The
“madman” gleefully suggests that the subject of this phrase “took an ocean voyage” or “lost his way
like a little child” in the work it appears in, which later states of it that “there has never been a greater
deed.” The speaker of another work says of it that “this old saint in the forest has not yet heard
anything of this.” Originating in The Gay Science, for 10 points, name this phrase used by Friedrich
Nietzsche to suggest that a certain deity is no longer useful as a moral source.
ANSWER: “God is dead” [or “Gott ist tot”]
BONUS. She wrote about the Ramsay family in To the Lighthouse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this member of the Bloomsbury group and author of Orlando and The Waves.
ANSWER: Adeline Virginia Woolf
[10] The title character of this Virginia Woolf novel is named Clarissa, who plans and hosts a party. This
work also sees Septimus Hardy commit suicide.
ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway
10. Luminosity is approximately equal to the seven-halves power of this quantity for main-sequence
stars, and negative h bar squared is divided by two times this quantity in the Hamiltonian operator. The
“reduced” form of this quantity is frequently employed in two body problems. The “flow rate”
associated with this quantity in incompressible fluids must be constant according to the continuity
equation, and a form of energy is equal to this quantity multiplied by the square of the speed of light.
For 10 points, identify this quantity commonly measured in grams.
ANSWER: mass
BONUS. Alexander the Great spread her worship around the Hellenic world despite the fact that she
was an Egyptian goddess and Caligula even permitted a festival to her. For 10 points each:
[10]Nepthys once assumed the likeness of this goddess to seduce Set. She is particularly known for her
powerful magic.
ANSWER: Isis
[10] Isis's magical powers stem from a story in which she managed to acquire this sun god's true name
by poisoning him and forcing him to invoke it in order to save himself.
ANSWER: Ra [or Re]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 4
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

NEW YORK CITY
THE LETTER K

NEW YORK CITY
This round deals with New York City.
[10] This poet of the elegy “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed” wrote “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry”
about the Fulton Street ferry. Those are both found in Leaves of Grass.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
[10] This author created Karl Rossman, who visits his uncle Edward Jacob, a senator from New York in
the novel Amerika. He also created Gregor Samsa.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10] This mayor, who had worked as an interpreter at Ellis Island, co-sponsored an act to restrict bans
on boycotts and unseated Tammany Hall on a “fusion” ticket in 1933.
ANSWER: Fiorello Henry La Guardia
[10] This man was inaugurated in New York City, after winning the battles of Trenton and Princeton.
ANSWER: George Washington
[10] This nuclear physicist born in New York names an approximation with Max Born which states that
nuclear and electronic motion can be separated.
ANSWER: Julius Robert Oppenheimer
[10] This Czech composer once directed the National Conservatory in New York.
ANSWER: Antonin Leopold Dvorak
[10] This cantilevered structure was initiated by John A. Roebling, who died early into the project to
make his son Washington direct the construction. It crosses the East River.
ANSWER: Brooklyn Bridge
[10] This teacher at The New School for Social Research in New York discussed the banality of evil in
Eichmann in Jerusalem.
ANSWER: Hannah Arendt
[10] This Mexican muralist’s The Allegory of Science, Labor and Art can be found in New York, and he
painted The Coming of Quetzalcoatl.
ANSWER: Jose Clemente Orozco
[10] Gilbert Stork from Columbia University were first able to run a fully stereochemically controlled
synthesis of this substance derived from the Cinchona tree.
ANSWER: quinine

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

THE LETTER K
This round deals with things that may begin with the letter K or involve things that prominently use K.
[10] This very tall man served as King Arthur’s seneschal and was the son of sir Ector, which meant he
grew up with Arthur as his foster brother.
ANSWER: Sir Kay
[10] This author reworked Robinson Crusoe in his Foe, and wrote about David Lurie in Disgrace. He
wrote The Life and Times of Michael K.
ANSWER: John Maxwell Coetzee
[10] Dag Hammarskjold was killed while on a peace-keeping mission involving this breakaway state in
the Republic of the Congo, led by Moshe Tshombe.
ANSWER: Katanga
[10] He analyzed the data of Tycho Brahe to develop laws like “All planets move in elliptical motion,
with the sun as one of the foci,” his laws of planetary motion.
ANSWER: Johannes Kepler
[10] This protein’s stability comes from disulfide bonds formed by the presence of cysteine, and it is
insoluble in water. This protein provides structure of hair and nails.
ANSWER: keratin
[10] This flute playing figure found in Anansazi artwork takes his name from Hopi for “wooden back”
and is believed to be a fertility symbol.
ANSWER: Kokopelli
[10] This man’s music was catalogued by Ludwig von Kochel. His operas include Cosi Fan Tutte and The
Abduction from the Seraglio.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
[10] He wrote the Critique of the Gotha Program, and co-wrote a work that claimed “a spectre is
haunting Europe” with Friedrich Engels, the Communist Manifesto.
ANSWER: Karl Marx
[10] Mount Khan-Tengri is the highest point in this former Soviet Republic, which owns the top half of
the Aral Sea. This nation’s capital is Astana.
ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan or Qazaqstan Respūblīkasy
[10] The ruling dynasties of this nation have included the Jeosun and Chosun.
ANSWER: Korea

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 4
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. The gene ART4 codes a protein for one of these, while genes on chromosome 6 code for the Ii
system, a rare version. In addition to the Dombrock and Knops types of them, the Xk version is
encountered in chickens, and proteins for the Diego system are notably found in East Asian peoples. A
test for the best known system for them also detects the Rhesus factor; that system uses IA and IB as
alleles. For 10 points, name these systems, the most common of which yields A, B, AB, and O varieties.
ANSWER: blood type systems [or blood groups]
2. Felix Blumenfeld created a virtuosic piano arrangement of the first “Concert” one of these by
Alexander Glazunov. In Mahler’s ninth symphony, one of these alternates with two landler, which was
the peasant dance it originated from. One was written by Franz Lehar for The Merry Widow, and some
of the most performed include “Wine, Women, and Song” and one beginning with a D-D-F sharp-A-A
melody that depicts a river’s course through Vienna. For 10 points, name this dance in three-four time
that was the domain of its “king,” Johann Strauss.
ANSWER: waltz
3. This poet wrote defenses of piety in “An Address to the Atheist” and “An Address to the Deist.” She
wrote that “A monarch’s smile can set his people free” in “To the King's Most Excellent Majesty” which
celebrated the repeal of the Stamp Act and gained prominence with an elegy on the death of George
Whitefield. Most of her poems were published in the book Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and
Moral, and she described her own situation in “On being brought from Africa to America.” For 10 points,
name this early African-American poet.
ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley
4. The ruling in this case was upheld in the later cases of Colorado v. Connelly, Missouri v. Seibert, and
Dickerson v. US, while it consolidated the cases of Westover v. US, Vignera v. New York, and California
v. Stewart. The defendant in this case was mortally wounded in a knife fight at the La Amapola Bar ten
years after the ruling, and separate dissents were provided by Justices Clark and Harlan. Concerning a
man convicted of kidnapping and raping a woman, for 10 points, name this Warren Court decision of
1966 regarding the reading of certain rights to suspects.
ANSWER: Miranda v. Arizona [or Arizona v. Miranda]
5. One work by this man depicts Saint Thomas with a girdle and the coronation of Mary, while his first
commission was painted with Evangelista di Meleto. The artist of The Fire in the Borgo and The Mass at
Bolsena, in addition to the Oddi Altar and Baronci Altarpiece, this artist was a pupil of Pietro Perugino.
One work by this man depicts two figures surrounded by Saints Barbara and Sixtus, while another
shows Plato, Socrates and other philosophers gathering on some steps. For 10 points, name this
Renaissance artist of the Sistine Madonna and The School of Athens.
ANSWER: Raphael Sanzio
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. In one of his roles, he is known as diemporos and as empolaios, and in that role he presided over the
first game of dice. He sometimes served as a psychopomp, and in a more famous role, he stated that
two cow hides were a sacrifice to the twelve Olympian gods, surprising Zeus and Apollo, who only knew
of eleven. He fathered a man who joined together with Salmacis, and he went with Zeus to the house
of Baucis and Philemon. He also slayed the watchman Argos and gave Perseus his slippers. For 10
points, name this Greek messenger god.
ANSWER: Hermes [accept Mercury before “Zeus” is read; do not accept or prompt afterwards]
7. Internal gravity waves cause luminosity shifts in the "pulsating" type of this star. These stars are the
"primaries" in a cataclysmic variable system and are supported by electron degeneracy pressure. Most
main sequence stars become these at the end of their life-cycle, and their upper mass limit of around
1.44 solar masses is given by the Chandrasekhar Limit. For 10 points, name this type of star found in the
lower left of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram that are small and emit light made up of all colors.
ANSWER: white dwarfs [prompt on dwarfs]
8. This person collaborated with Furtmuller and Wexberg on the essay collection To Heal and to
Educate. He wrote about “The Jealousy Mania” and “A Lupus Phobia” in his “interpretation of a life
story,” titled The Case of Miss R. He discussed how physical disability could make a person feel
substandard in one work, and in another, he argued for the “drive to mastery” as the force behind the
psyche. For 10 points, name this author of Study of Organ Inferiority and The Neurotic Constitution, a
psychologist who introduced the “inferiority complex.”
ANSWER: Alfred Adler
9. This battle was preceded by action at Quatre Bras and Ligny and followed by Wavre. Corps leaders
here included Bulow and Thielmann, and William the Silent was wounded at this battle. Victory was
assured here by Gebhard von Blucher’s Prussian forces, whose timely arrival marked the end of the
Hundred Days. For 10 points name this 1815 battle, at which coalition forces under the Duke of
Wellington defeated Napoleon Bonaparte for the final time.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo
10. One American in this novel introduces the protagonist to Life of Jesus, which precedes his reading of
The Bohemians of the Latin Quarter after his first sexual encounter. The protagonist almost signs on as
a ship’s doctor after news of his Uncle William’s death, but a holiday trip with the Athelneys changes
his mind. Mildred earlier wrecks the protagonist’s apartment; while living at Blackstable during this
novel’s opening, the main character is ridiculed for a club foot. For 10 points, name this work about
Philip Carey, by Somerset Maugham.
ANSWER: Of Human Bondage

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 4

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

