2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 6
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. The D’Entrecasteaux Channel separates this state from Bruny Island while the Mercury Passage lies
between it and Maria Island. Named after its first Chief Justice and created by damming up the
Serpentine River, its largest body of water is Lake Pedder while its longest rivers include the Huon,
Tamar and Derwent. Large cities include Burnie, Devonport and Launceston while its highest point is at
Mount Ossa. Originally named Van Diemen’s Land, for 10 points, name this Australian state with capital
at Hobart, an island known for its namesake “devil.”
ANSWER: Tasmania
2. One of this band’s songs begins and ends with the lines "If the sun refused to shine, I would still be
loving you./When mountains crumble to the sea, there will still be you and me." In addition to the
songs "No Quarter" and "Thank You," this band recorded the albums In Through the Out Door, Physical
Graffiti, and Houses of the Holy. They consisted of John Bonham on drums, John Paul Jones on bass
guitar, Robert Plant on vocals, and Jimmy Page on guitar. For 10 points, name this rock group of the
songs “Kashmir” and "Stairway to Heaven."
ANSWER: Led Zeppelin
3. Planck’s constant times the frequency of a photon is equal to the value of this quantity for electrons
plus the work function, according to the photoelectric effect. For ideal gases, it is equal to three halves
times Boltzmann’s constant times temperature. This quantity is not conserved in inelastic collisions,
and can be written as momentum squared over 2 times mass. For 10 points, identify this quantity equal
to one half times mass times velocity squared, which is possessed by an object by virtue of its motion.
ANSWER: kinetic energy [prompt on energy]
4. This polity was unified when the Tara Confederation won the Battle of Clontarf. In the seventeenth
century, it was the site of the Battle of Drogheda (DROH-duh) and the Battle of the Boyne. Its later
leaders included Daniel O'Connell and Charles Parnell, and it finally gained self-government after the
passage of the Home Rule Act. The site of the Ulster Rebellion, this country is home to the political
parties Fianna Fail and Sinn Fein. For 10 points, name this country which suffered a terrible potato
famine.
ANSWER: Ireland
5. This man argued that creation was a special type of participating in society in “On the Origins of the
Work of Art,” found in Poetry, Language, and Thought. Like Max Weber, he gave a noted address at
Freiburg, though his was called “What is Metaphysics?” The most famous work of this teacher of
Hannah Arendt argued that the three fundamental human features are factuality, existentiality, and
fallenness. The author who articulated his idea of sein and dasein, for 10 points, name this Nazisympathizing philosopher who wrote Being and Time.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This novel's protagonist marries Valeria, only for her to leave him for a Russian cab driver. Later, he
marries his landlady, after whose death her daughter enrolls at Beardsley and gets a role in a play along
with her friend Mona called The Enchanted Hunters, a name shared by an inn visited earlier in the
book. The play was written by Clare Quilty, a doppelganger to the protagonist, who still remembers
fondly his boyhood love Annabel Leigh. For 10 points, name the travel narrative about Dolores Haze
and Humbert Humbert, written by Vladimir Nabokov.
ANSWER: Lolita
7. Functional groups equivalent to small cyclic ones may be formed from alkenes in a reaction named
for Sharpless. Typical examples are excellent solvents, commonly used for Grignard reagents because
they are aprotic. One cyclic type of these is commonly used to dissolve cations in nonpolar solvent, the
crown type, and the most common synthesis of them is named for Williamson. For 10 points, identify
this class of organic compounds whose diethyl example was a common anesthetic.
ANSWER: ethers
8. The first fighting in this battle broke out when men in Henry Heth’s division encountered William
Gamble’s brigade along Chambersburg Pike. Gamble was in Buford’s division of dismounted cavalry
who secured high ground at Seminary Ridge. The second day of this battle saw the bayonet charge of
Chamberlain’s Twentieth Maine at Little Round Top, and the third day saw the disastrous Pickett’s
charge. For 10 points name this Pennsylvania Civil War battle, often considered the turning point in the
war.
ANSWER: Battle of Gettysburg
9. The protagonist's brother John, originally a carpenter, became a businessman and politician, while
his sister has become a prostitute and alcohol dealer. Beginning when the protagonist receives a
telegram from Theophilus Msimangu imploring him to help his sister Gertrude, the protagonist also
meets an activist for racial justice, the father of the man the protagonist's son murdered, named Arthur
Jarvis. For 10 points, identify this novel chronicling Stephen Kumalo's search for his son Absalom in
Johannesburg, South Africa, written by Alan Paton.
ANSWER: Cry, the Beloved Country
10. A viola pizzicato part is commonly added in performances of this piece, and a variation of it was
used when the “three boys” escort Tamino and Papageno in The Magic Flute. This work is actually a
passacaglia, and it draws from several contemporary variations on La Folia. Its composer also wrote the
“Hexachordum Apollinis” and originally paired this work with a gigue. Each part that is not the continuo
enters playing a D major scale from F sharp down to A and up to D. For 10 points, name this piece of
music by Johann Pachelbel.
ANSWER: Pachelbel’s Canon [or Canon in D; or Canon and Gigue in D major for three Violins and Basso
Continuo]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 6
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. Giorgio Vasari noted that “the Marforio at Rome” is not “equal to it in any respect”, and earlier
recalled that its artist pretended to change the nose, heeding a request by Piero Soderini. A wooden
framework and rope suspension for it were created by Giuliano da san Gallo and his brother, and it was
transported to the Piazza della Signoria. Rossellino was briefly contracted to take it up where Duccio
had left, and it drew on the contrapposto of Greek art. For 10 points, name this marble sculpture in
Florence by Michelangelo of a figure about to kill Goliath.
ANSWER: Michelangelo’s David
BONUS. The average form of this quantity intersects the marginal cost curve at its minimum. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this quantity, the difference between fixed costs and total costs
ANSWER: variable costs
[10] In economics, this term refers to a situation of zero profit. It also describes goods whose demand
increases when income increase, as opposed to inferior goods.
ANSWER: normal profit [or normal goods]
2. He lived in exile in New Orleans from 1853 to 1855, and in 1857 he was selected to preside over the
Supreme Court by Ignocio Comonfort. His namesake law abolished special courts for the clergy and
military, and he was a chief author of the Plan of Ayutla. He died while suppressing a revolt of Porfirio
Diaz, and he is the namesake of El Paso’s sister city across the Rio Grande. For 10 points, name this
Indian president of Mexico, who fought the occupation of Emperor Maximilian.
ANSWER: Benito Juarez
BONUS. He is 87 going on 88 in The Prairie, but his age is somewhat indeterminate in any of the other
books in which he appears. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this best friend of Chingachgook and hero of five Leatherstocking Tales.
ANSWER: Natty Bumppo [accept either or both names]
[10] Name the creator of Natty Bumppo and the author of the Leatherstocking Tales, which includes
The Last of the Mohicans.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
3. The protagonist stays with her aunt and uncle, the Gardiners, in London after rejecting a proposal
from the pompous William Collins, who ends up marrying her best friend Charlotte Lucas. The soldier
George Wickham is revealed as a liar when he elopes with the protagonist’s sister Lydia, and another of
the protagonist’s sisters, Jane, marries Mr. Bingley. For 10 points name this novel in which Elizabeth
Bennet marries Fitzwilliam Darcy, a work of Jane Austen.
ANSWER: Pride and Prejudice

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

BONUS. For 10 points each, name these Soviet leaders.
[10] This dictator during World War II executed millions in his purges and sent millions more to the
labor camp system known as the gulag.
ANSWER: Joseph Stalin [accept Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
[10] This successor to Stalin began de-Stalinization during the “Secret Speech,” presided over the thaw,
initiated the Cuban missile crisis, and supposedly banged his shoe during a debate.
ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev
4. Although six genes encode this protein in humans, some plants have over sixty genes for it. This
protein exhibits a phenomenon known as treadmilling, in which G monomers attach to the plus end
and detach from the minus end of its F filament. The most abundant intracellular protein in eukaryotic
cells, this protein is absent in the H zone of the sarcomere. For 10 points, name this protein that slides
along myosin to produce muscle contraction.
ANSWER: actin
BONUS. It contains Harney Peak, the highest point east of the Rockies in the U.S. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this range, whose other landmarks include the Crazy Horse Memorial and Mount Rushmore.
ANSWER: the Black Hills [or Paha Sapa]
[10] The Black Hills are primarily located in this state, which shares lakes Oahe and Lewis and Clark with
its northern and southern neighbors, respectively.
ANSWER: South Dakota
5. This man introduced the Reducing Americans’ Vulnerability to Ecstasy Act as chairman of the
International Narcotics Control Caucus. He was twice chair of the Foreign Relations Committee after
being disgraced in 1988 for plagiarizing a British politician’s speeches. This man accused Rudy Giuliani
of mentioning “a noun, a verb, and 9/11” in every sentence, and he originally dropped out of the 2008
Presidential race after placing fifth in the Iowa caucus. For 10 points, identify this senior senator of
Delaware, the current Vice President of the United States.
ANSWER: Joseph Robinette “Joe” Biden, Jr.
BONUS. His works were catalogued by Anthony van Hoboken, and he wrote the “Theresienmesse,” a
mass named for Maria Theresa. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this composer of the “Gypsy” trio, not to mention symphonies like Farewell and
Philosopher.
ANSWER: Joseph Haydn
[10] In German, this Haydn symphony is referred to as “with the kettledrum stroke,” which is the loud
chord that gives it its nickname, coming suddenly in the middle of the second movement.
ANSWER: “Surprise” symphony [or Symphony no. 94 in G major; or Hoboken 1/94]
6. One period in this country’s history saw the formation of the Bar Confederation and the later War in
the Defense of the Constitution to restore home rule. During the same time period, the Four Year Sejm
(SAME) was opposed by the Targowica Confederation. Later in this nation’s history, the Sanacja party
was founded to fight corruption, and a trade union was founded in its Lenin Shipyards, called Solidarity.
For 10 points, name this oft-partitioned European country whose leaders have included Jozef Pilsudski,
Lech Walesa and Casimir Pulaski.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland [Rzeczpospolita Polska]
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

BONUS. Name these search algorithms, for 10 points each.
[10] This simple search technique locates an element in a sorted list by comparing the target element
to the middle element of the list, and recursing on half of the list until the element is found.
ANSWER: binary search
[10] This pathfinding algorithm, named for the author of "GO TO Statement Considered Harmful", finds
the shortest path between two nodes in a graph without negative edge costs.
ANSWER: Dijkstra's algorithm
7. A Van Deemter plot is used to determine the minimum theoretical plate height necessary to perform
this procedure. One type of this procedure often uses agarose as an “affinity matrix”, while proteins are
separated by charge in the “ion exchange” variety of it. Forensic analysis of gel pens is one application
of the “high-performance-liquid” type of this procedure, which also comes in thin-layer, gas, and paper
varieties. For 10 points, name this lab technique in which a mobile phase passes through a stationary
phase, from the Greek for “color writing.”
ANSWER: chromatography [accept column chromatography before “affinity”]
BONUS. He was sent to King Iobates to be slain, but Iobates let him marry his daughter instead. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Greek hero slew the Chimera.
ANSWER: Bellerophon
[10] This flying horse and Chrysaor were the offspring of Poseidon and Medusa. In most versions,
Bellerophon rode him when he fought the Chimera.
ANSWER: Pegasus
8. In this novel, the tenor Ralph Simmons is infuriated by an anecdote about an audience throwing six
benches. The protagonist is assured that love “is a religious feeling” while playing billiards with the
ninety-four-year-old Count Greffi, and earlier is injured by a mortar shell while handing out macaroni.
The protagonist is introduced to his lover by Rinaldi and eventually abandons the army during the
battle of Caporetto before fleeing to Switzerland, where Catherine Barkley dies in childbirth. For 10
points, name this novel about Frederic Henry written by Ernest Hemingway.
ANSWER: A Farewell to Arms
BONUS. The membrane of these objects contains photosystems, and stacks of them are called grana.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these membranes in which the light reactions take place.
ANSWER: thylakoids
[10] In plants, thylakoids are found in this chlorophyll-containing organelle. Like with the mitochondria,
the endosymbiotic theory explains the evolution of these organelles.
ANSWER: chloroplasts
9. Friedrich Engels's The Origin of the Family is based on Karl Marx's notes to this man's magnum opus.
He documented a rodent in his The American Beaver and His Works, and his attempts to collaborate
with his peers around the world resulted in Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity. In another work, he
claimed that humans progress through savagery and barbarism to get to civilization. For 10 points,
name this author of Ancient Society, a pioneering American anthropologist who worked with the
Iroquois.
ANSWER: Lewis Henry Morgan
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

BONUS. The title character secures a large amount of silver for himself, after the boat it was being
carried on is reported sunk. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, which centers on the fictional republic of Costaguana.
ANSWER: Nostromo
[10] Nostromo was written by this Polish-born British novelist of Youth and Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Jósef Teodor Konrad Nalecz Korzeniowski]
10. Uttaradhyana provides an account of the explanation of this to Kesi, a disciple of Parava. The
samparyahka posture facilitates its occurrence in an account by Kalpasutra. Nirodha, subha, and satya
are three of its eight attributes, while it is described as “expedient means” in the Lotus Sutra. It is often
likened to Satori, which, like Kensho is temporary, but this concept implies freedom from samsara, the
cycle of rebirth, and from suffering. For 10 points, name this state of perfect peace attained by the
Gautama Buddha.
ANSWER: Nirvana [prompt on enlightenment]
BONUS. His Secretary of State wrote the autobiography As I Saw It. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this President, who worked with Dean Rusk to approve the Bay of Pigs invasion and was
assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald in 1963.
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald Kennedy [or JFK]
[10] A former president of Ford Motor Company, this Secretary of Defense under JFK later served as
President of the World Bank and apologized for his role in the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Robert Strange McNamara

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 6
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

BRAVE NEW WORLD
1984

BRAVE NEW WORLD
This round boldly goes where no round has gone before!
[10] This Dutchman discovered a new world with his microscope, as his letter to Robert Hooke is
believed to be the first documented evidence of seeing bacteria.
ANSWER: Anton/Antony von Leeuwenhoek
[10] Characters created by this author spent Five Weeks in a Balloon, went 20,000 Leagues Under the
Sea, discovered The Mysterious Island, and took a Journey to the Center of the Earth.
ANSWER: Jules Verne
[10] Along with William James, this German author of Principles of Physiological Psychology is credited
with the development of some newfangled social science called psychology in 1875.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Maximilian Wundt
[10] During his quest to obtain these objects from the Hesperides, Heracles apparently fell off the edge
of the Earth to converse with Atlas, who ended up getting them for him.
ANSWER: golden apples
[10] This German’s fifteenth-century invention of the printing press suddenly made books a lot cheaper
than they used to be, and revolutionized the distribution of the written word forever.
ANSWER: Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg
[10] Explorer Francisco Pizarro’s murder of Atahualpa signalled Spanish control over this empire, the
last native rulers of Peru.
ANSWER: the Incans
[10] This painter of Boy with a Squirrel and Watson and the Shark was one of the first American artists
to gain the respect of Europe.
ANSWER: John Singleton Copley
[10] It was once thought that no ship would ever pass Cape Bojador, which is now part of this disputed
territory claimed by its northern neighbor, Morocco.
ANSWER: Western Sahara
[10] We may never get there, but this object, designated M31 in the Messier catalog, is the closest
galaxy to our own.
ANSWER: Andromeda Galaxy
[10] Name the hallucinogen consumed ubiquitously throughout Aldous Huxley’s novel, Brave New
World.
ANSWER: soma

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

1984
Big Brother is watching as you answer these questions about events of the year 1984.
[10] The 1984 Nobel Prize in Physics went to Carlo Rubbia and Simon van der Meer for their discovery
of the W and Z particles, which mediate this fundamental force that causes beta decay.
ANSWER: weak nuclear force/interaction
[10] In 1984, Brunei became independent from the United Kingdom. Name the island it shares with the
Indonesian province of Kalimantan and the Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak.
ANSWER: Borneo
[10] After the complete failure of Operation Blue Star, this Indian Prime Minister was assassinated by
her Sikh bodyguards in 1984.
ANSWER: Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi [prompt on Gandhi]
[10] In 1984, Richard Meier became the sixth Laureate of this prize sponsored by the Hyatt Foundation.
It is the most prestigious prize awarded in architecture.
ANSWER: Pritzker Architecture Prize
[10] A 1984 disaster in Bhopal, India occurred at a plant producing methyl isocyanate. One product of
its violent reaction with water is this triatomic gas, also a product of combustion.
ANSWER: carbon dioxide [or CO2]
[10] At the 1984 Republican National Convention, Gregory Johnson protested by doing this, which was
found to be protected by the First Amendment in the Texas v. Johnson case.
ANSWER: burning the American flag [accept obvious equivalents]
[10] In 1984, this Czech writer of The Joke published his best-known work, which follows Tomas, Tereza,
Sabina, and Franz and is entitled The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
[10] This French philosopher, who wrote Madness and Civilization and The History of Sexuality, died in
1984.
ANSWER: Michel Foucault
[10] Akhnaten, an opera by this minimalist composer also responsible for Einstein on the Beach,
Satyagraha, and several film scores, premeired in 1984.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] Name the rat-fearing protagonist of George Orwell’s 1984, who finally accepts that he loves Big
Brother.
ANSWER: Winston Smith [either or both names]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 6
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. One character in this work dies at Aix-la-Chapelle, and leaves behind a lot of insurance money for the
protagonist. The protagonist is offered a hand in marriage by Sir Pitt before she reveals that she is
secretly married to Rawdon. Captain Dobbin is supportive of a character who has an unhappy marriage
with George Osborne, and this work traces the lives of two girls from Miss Pinkerton’s Academy. Taking
its name from Pilgrim’s Progress, for 10 points, identify this novel about Amelia Sedley and the
scheming Becky Sharp, a work by William Makepeace Thackeray.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair
2. One part of this initiative was the creation of the Department of Transportation and this also led to
the creation of the Center for Public Broadcasting and National Public Radio. The Elementary and
Secondary Transportation Act set the precedent of national funding for public schools and this program
created the Head Start preschool system. Other reforms under this sweeping moniker include Food
Stamps, Medicare, and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For 10 points name this set of domestic reforms
initiated by Lyndon B. Johnson.
ANSWER: Great Society
3. In architecture, this movement is exemplified by the exterior of Bavaria’s Wies Cathedral, designed
by Dominikus Zimmerman, and Bartolomeo Rastrelli designed a St Petersburg landmark in this style. In
addition to A Young Girl Reading, The Captured Kiss and Shop-Sign of Gersaint, works of this movement
include The Toilet of Venus, Pilgrimage to Cythera, and a painting with a big pink dress in it, The Swing.
For 10 points, name this eighteenth-century French art movement that included Francois Boucher, Jean
Fragonard and Antoine Watteau.
ANSWER: Rococo
4. The foliage of one tree located in this place is a kenning for gold. In addition to Glasir, it contains the
tree Laeraor, which provides foliage for the hart Eikpyrnir and the goat Heidrun. Its benches are strewn
with coats of mail, and an eagle notably flies over this location. In the courtyard of this place are
numerous men battling each other, which the einherjar partake in after eating and drinking mead out
of horns. Balder died during a throwing contest in this place, which valkyries direct guests to. For 10
points, name this hall of slain warriors in Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Valhalla [or Valhöll, prompt on Asgard before “courtyard”]
5. Max Perutz showed that this molecule is formed of four polypeptide chains that rearrange during its
most important function. The recessive disease Thalassemia results in a defective version of the alpha
or beta version of this molecule. The Bohr effect deals with the results of CO-2 levels on this protein,
and a point mutation from glutamate to valine on this protein's beta chain causes sickle cell anemia.
For 10 points, name this oxygen-carrying protein in red blood cells.
ANSWER: hemoglobin
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. One of the major consequences of this war was the transfer of the asiento slave-trading privilege.
The treaties of Baden and Rastatt were signed in addition to the major treaty that ended it, and a major
battle in it saw Tallard’s forces defeated by Eugene of Savoy and Marlborough at Blenheim. The
American phase of this war was called Queen Anne’s War, and it ended with the Treaty of Utrecht in
1713. For 10 points, name this conflict which was sparked by Louis XIV’s attempts to gain power from
the heir to Carlos II in a neighboring country.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
7. His letters about the abandonment he felt when his father died were published in The Fourteenth
Chronicle, and Stan Emery’s suicide by setting his apartment on fire disheartens Ellen Thatcher, who is
married to Jimmy Herf in his novel Manhattan Transfer. Don Fuselli, Chrisfield and Andrews are the
title characters of his novel Three Soldiers, while his most famous work is noted for the “Camera Eye”
writing technique. For 10 points, name this author of The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The Big Money, which
make up his U.S.A. Trilogy.
ANSWER: John Dos Passos
8. Both types of this wane during a process that includes "response topography," extinction, which can
be preceded by an extinction burst. Kamin's Blocking Effect is one reason that doing this twice in a row
might not work. One method for doing this is governed by Thorndike's Law of Effect and can be
accomplished using B.F. Skinner's namesake box. Another method for doing this caused dogs to drool
when Pavlov rang a bell. For 10 points, name this type of learning that is divided into “classical” and
“operant” types.
ANSWER: conditioning [accept operant conditioning before "Kamin" is read]
9. Wenzel’s law states that the absolute value of this function for a contact angle with a rough surface
is always greater than that for a contact angle with a smooth surface. The weight is multiplied by this
function of the contact angle to yield the normal force exerted by an inclined surface, and the
magnitude of work is found by multiplying force, distance, and this function of the angle between
exerted force and direction of movement. For 10 points, name this function that appears in the dot
product and is represented as adjacent leg over hypotenuse.
ANSWER: cosine
10. In one of his operas, the title character is called to Buoso Donati’s deathbed and Lauretta sings “O
mio babbino caro.” In addition to La Rondine and Gianni Schicchi, this man composed an opera where
the bandit Dick Johnson sings “Ch’ella mi creda” and loves the title bar-owner Minnie. This composer of
The Girl of the Golden West wrote about Baron Scarpia and composed another opera where Rodolfo’s
lover Mimi dies of consumption. For 10 points, name this composer of Tosca, La Boheme, and an opera
about Cio-Cio San, Madama Butterfly.
ANSWER: Giacomo Puccini

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 6

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

