2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 8
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. In a disorder involving this structure, the loss of a namesake mental retardation protein prevents
synapse maturation between neurons. Genetic imprinting plays a role in the deactivation of those that
are paternally derived, which results in the condensation of this structure into a dark-staining Barr body.
Turner’s syndrome arises from an abnormal number of this molecular structure, and disorders such as
red-green color blindness and hemophilia arise from recessive alleles on this structure. For 10 points,
name this sex chromosome that pairs with the Y chromosome in males.
ANSWER: X chromosome
Bonus: In this type of congenital defect, an individual has three copies of a chromosome instead of two.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of defect, which is exhibited in Down Syndrome.
ANSWER: trisomy
[10] Trisomies occur due to this event, the failure of two members of a chromosome pair to separate
during meiosis.
ANSWER: nondisjunction
2. This man’s disciples included Theodore Beza, and during the Synod of Dordtrecht this man’s views
were attacked by the Dutch theologian Arminius. This man’s theology was based on the “Five Points,”
which were outlined in Institutes of the Christian Religion. This man’s views were carried to Scotland by
John Knox, the founder of the Presbyterian Church. For 10 points, name this Swiss theologian from
Geneva who believed in predestination and names a branch of Protestantism.
ANSWER: John Calvin
Bonus: England has its own church. For 10 points each:
[10] This is the highest religious office in the Anglican Church. It is currently held by Rowan Williams.
ANSWER: Archbishop of Canterbury [prompt on Archbishop]
[10] This American offshoot of Anglicanism began when its first bishop, Samuel Seabury, refused to
swear an oath of allegiance to the king and merged it with a similar Scottish sect.
ANSWER: Episcopalianism
3. This polity faced the Jelali revolts, and it was victorious at the Battle of Chaldiran. After a defeat by Jan
Sobieski, this polity was forced to sign the Treaty of Karlowitz. One of its rulers won at Nicopolis before
being captured by Tamerlane. In addition to Bayezid the Thunderbolt, other rulers of this empire were
known as “the Grim” and “the Magnificent.” Under Mehmet II, this empire conquered Constantinople
from the Byzantines. For 10 points, name this empire that ruled from Turkey until its dissolution after
World War I.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 1 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: In its current form, it was mainly built by the Ming following their defeat at the Battle of Tumu.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this giant stone and brick structure intended to keep northerners out of a certain Asian
country.
ANSWER: Great Wall of China [or Wanli Changcheng]
[10] This other Chinese technological marvel runs from Beijing to Hangzhou and was largely completed
during the Sui dynasty.
ANSWER: Grand Canal
4. The first solution to this problem was published in the journal Commentarii Academiae Scientiarum
Imperialis Petropolitanae, and that article’s title indicated that its author was aware that its solution was
independent of distance. Two of the namesake objects of this mathematical problem no longer exist,
though it is still impossible for an Eulerian circuit to be traversed. For 10 points, name this problem that
asks if it is possible for a traveler to cross each of the seven namesake objects exactly once and return to
his starting point, answered by Leonhard Euler in the negative.
ANSWER: Bridges of Königsburg problem
Bonus: The point-set type of this branch of mathematics studies manifolds and metric spaces. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this general branch of mathematics, which studies the properties and deformations of
algebraic and geometric shapes.
ANSWER: topology
[10] This non-orientable shape has only one side and can be formed by twisting a piece of paper and
fastening the ends together.
ANSWER: Möbius strip [accept Möbius band]
5. Early in its history, this language group may have formed a sprachbund with the Iranian group, as they
have similar words for god. This group’s proto-language had ultra-short vowels, and languages in this
branch of the Indo-European family frequently have palatalized consonants. Tribes who spoke languages
from this group include the Wends. The Glagolitic alphabet was used to write the “Old Church” form of
this language group, and the Bible was translated into this language group by St. Methodius using the
alphabet named for St. Cyril. For 10 points, name this language group that includes Bulgarian, Polish, and
Russian.
ANSWER: Slavic Languages [or Slavonic; prompt on “Balto-Slavic” or “Indo-European” until mentioned]
Bonus: Adam Smith divided this concept into effective and ineffective types, and it also has elastic and
inelastic varieties. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this concept from economics, which represents how many people want a given good, and
which helps determine prices.
ANSWER: demand
[10] When a seller has a monopoly, he will set a higher price than if he had competitors, meaning that
some people who would demand a good at the competitive price would no longer be willing to pay for
it. That phenomenon is given this name.
ANSWER: deadweight loss

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 2 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This man was suspected of murdering his nephew Arthur after a raid on Mirebeau, and allied against
Frederick II in support of Otto IV as Holy Roman Emperor. Otto lost the Battle of Bouvines, effectively
ending this king’s war against his rival Philip II Augustus and confirming his loss of most of England’s
French possessions. That disaster also prompted English barons to force him to sign a document limiting
his power. For 10 points, name this brother of Richard the Lionheart, who signed the Magna Carta in
1215.
ANSWER: John I of England [or John Lackland]
Bonus: It was prompted by the death of the childless Capetian king Charles IV, with England’s Edward III
disputing the succession of France’s Philip VI of Valois. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this fourteenth- and fifteenth-century conflict between England and France that witnessed
the Battles of Poitiers and Agincourt.
ANSWER: Hundred Years’ War
[10] Another major battle of the Hundred Years’ War was this 1346 confrontation in which Edward the
Black Prince used Welsh longbowmen to decimate the forces of Philip VI.
ANSWER: Battle of Crecy
7. At one point in this work, the narrator claims that his conception of a better world is a universe with
no bells. In another scene, the narrator encounters Juliek, who gives a moving performance of
Beethoven’s violin concerto. The narrator grows up in the Transylvanian village of Sighet, where he
develops a relationship with Moshe the Beadle. In this book, Akiba Drumer’s request that the Kaddish be
recited at his death is ignored, a sign that many, like Eliezer, have lost their faith in God. For 10 points,
name this novel by Elie Wiesel about his experiences in Nazi concentration camps.
ANSWER: Night
Bonus: This German playwright wrote the words for The Threepenny Opera. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this playwright who told of Anna Fierling's offspring, including Eilif and Swiss Cheese, in
Mother Courage and Her Children.
ANSWER: Bertholt Brecht
[10] Brecht collaborated on The Threepenny Opera with this musician, who collaborated with Maxwell
Anderson on Lost in the Stars.
ANSWER: Kurt Julian Weill
8. Clarice and Ecclitico are united in this composer’s opera The World in the Moon, and he composed an
opera after Orlando Furioso called The Paladin Orlando. His final piano sonata in E-flat major is often
considered his greatest. His works are organized in the Hoboken catalogue, and he composed an oratorio
after the book of Genesis called The Creation. A repetitive chord pattern appears in his hundred and first
symphony, “Clock,” and a shocking sforzando gives a nickname to his “Surprise” symphony. For 10 points,
name this prolific Austrian composer known as the “father of the symphony.”
ANSWER: Franz Joseph Haydn

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 3 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Songs from it include Pangloss’ “Ringaroundarosy” and the finale “Make Our Garden Grow.” For
10 points each:
[10] Name this operetta that also includes Cunegonde’s aria “Glitter and Be Gay.”
ANSWER: Candide
[10] This Jewish American composer wrote Candide, along with Trouble in Tahiti and a “Kaddish”
symphony.
ANSWER: Leonard Bernstein

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 4 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 8
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 5 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 8
Category Quiz Tossups
9. Rh antigens regulate the movement of both carbon dioxide and this substance in and out of red blood
cells. Production of this compound in some bacteria requires the proteins molybdoferredoxin and
azoferredoxin. The anhydrous form of this substance is often stolen, as it is a critical ingredient for the
production of methamphetamines, and it is often used in fertilizers. This input to the Ostwald process is
industrially produced by the Haber-Bosch process. For 10 points, name this compound with formula NH3
that reacts violently with bleach.
ANSWER: ammonia [accept early NH3]
10. This author wrote about the son of Albert Allmers, who is killed by the mysterious Rat Wife, in Little
Eyolf. Irene and the sculptor Arnold Rubek are killed by an avalanche in this author’s final play, When We
Dead Awaken. He wrote a play in which Dr. Stockmann is ostracized after discovering that some baths
are contaminated, An Enemy of the People, as well as a play about the wife of Abel Tesman, Hedda
Gabler. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote about Nora Helmer in A Doll’s House.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen
11. The traditions of this culture say that the first member of this race, Kortar, was condemned to ferry
dishonored warriors on the Barge of the Dead. Serpent worms called gagh are a mainstay of this culture’s
cuisine, and the House of Duras is a traitorous family of these peoples. Their homeworld is known as
Kronos, and the destruction of the moon Praxis led to an uneasy peace between these peoples and the
United Federation of Planets. For 10 points, Worf was a member of what militant race of the Star Trek
universe, known for their ridged foreheads?
ANSWER: Klingons
12. Uncharacteristic of the techniques this artist adopted later in his career was his The She-Wolf, as was
the predominantly yellow, orange, and blue Moby-Dick. He painted a work whose turquoise undertones
are covered by a web of black interspersed with white and orange stripes, Full Fathom Five. His works
have been found to display elements of self-similarity common to fractals and include Lavender Mist. For
10 points, name this artist, nicknamed Jack the Dripper for his innovative style of drip painting.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollock
13. The Dragoon and Mule Mountains are located in this state’s southeast, and the Lukachukai and
Carrizo Mountains are in this state’s largest reservation. Cities on this state’s western boundary include
Ehrenberg and Parker, and forests in this state include the Tonto and Kaibab National Forests. Canyon de
Chelly, Tuba City, and Kayenta are all located in this state’s largest Indian reservation, which is also the
nation’s largest. For 10 points, name this state, home to Yuma and Tucson, with capital at Phoenix.
ANSWER: Arizona
14. This man’s wife helped rescue Madame Lafayette from prison, and this man published A View of the
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 6 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Conduct of the Executive, In the Foreign Affairs of the United States, which defended this man’s
opposition to Jay’s Treaty while he served as minister to France. Along with Robert Livingston, this man
signed the documents of the Louisiana Purchase, and his Secretary of State John Quincy Adams helped
formulate a foreign policy named for this man. For 10 points, name this president who put forth a policy
of non-interference of European powers in the affairs of the Americas, his namesake doctrine.
ANSWER: James Monroe

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 7 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 8
Category Quiz Bonuses
Arts: The Stravinsky fountain is near this building, whose mechanical ducts are exposed as colorful pipes
on the external walls. For 15 points, name this Renzo Piano-designed building in the fourth
arrondissement of Paris.
ANSWER: the Pompidou Center [or Centre Georges Pompidou]
Current Events: She helped engineer Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza strip in 2005 as one of Ariel
Sharon’s advisors, shortly before joining the Kadima Party, and has served as Foreign Minister since 2006.
For 15 points, name this rival of Benjamin Netanyahu, a woman who served as acting prime minister of
Israel in 2008.
ANSWER: Tziporah Malka “Tzipi” Livni
Geography: It is known in certain parts as the Kwarra or Joliba River, and the Benue is its largest
tributary. For 15 points, name this West African river on whose banks lie the city of Onitsha and two
West African capitals.
ANSWER: Niger River
History: During the 1930s, this country was ruled by Augustinas Voldemaras and his semi-fascist Iron
Wolf Party. Earlier, this country signed the Union of Krewo and Union of Lublin. For 15 points, name this
Baltic country that once formed a confederation with Poland.
ANSWER: Lithuania [or Lietuvos; or Litwa]
Literature: William's marriage eventually crumbles due to Isabel's vanity in this author's Marriage à la
Mode. For 15 points, name this author of the story stories “Bliss” and “The Garden Party.”
ANSWER: Katharine Mansfield
Math Calculation: For 15 points, calculate the greatest common factor of the smallest three-digit square
number and the smallest three-digit triangular number.
ANSWER: 5 [greatest common factor of 100 and 105]
Philosophy: This work asks how synthetic a priori judgments are possible. For 15 points, name this work
that outlines the distinction between noumena and phenomena, the first critique of Immanuel Kant.
ANSWER: Critique of Pure Reason [or Kritik der Reinen Vernunft]
Social Science: In 2003, Colin Renfrew proposed a Indo-Hittite revision to it, and it has generally been
rejected in favor of the Kurgan hypothesis. For 15 points, name this theory that the speakers of the Proto
Indo-European language spread out of modern-day Turkey during the Neolithic era.
ANSWER: Anatolian Hearth Hypothesis

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 8 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 8
Stretch Phase
15. The Delbrück school argued that this policy was destined to fail, and it was first articulated in the
Denkschrift. It sought to bypass the fortresses of Liège and Namur in the Meuse valley, and Alfred von
Waldersee proposed an alternative to this strategy. It was modified and employed by the younger
Helmuth von Moltke, and the “race to the sea” was triggered by its failure after the First Battle of the
Marne. For 10 points, name this plan in which a large force would move through Belgium and deliver a
decisive blow to France’s flank at the onset of World War I.
ANSWER: Schlieffen Plan
Bonus: Name these important concepts from thermodynamics for 10 points each.
[10] This states that the change in the internal energy of a system is the amount of heat added minus the
work done by the system.
ANSWER: first law of thermodynamics [accept word equivalents]
[10] Give the name for thermodynamic processes in which the first quantity is zero; that is, no heat is
transferred in or out of the system.
ANSWER: adiabatic [or isocaloric]
[10] This principle states that for adiabatic processes, the pressure of a gas is directly proportional to its
temperature, assuming other quantities are fixed.
ANSWER: Gay-Lussac’s law
16. In one of this author’s plays, Zoo argues for the death of short-livers after the brothers Barnabas
devise a way to live three hundred years, and in another, Larry Doyle and Tom Broadbent go to Ireland.
In addition to Back to Methuselah and John Bull’s Other Island, he wrote about Vivie’s estrangement
from her mother on learning she owns several brothels in Mrs. Warren’s Profession. In another of his
plays, Colonel Pickering wagers that a Cockney flower girl can’t be taught to speak like a lady by Henry
Higgins. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Pygmalion.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
Bonus: Name these figures from mythology associated with killing their children, for 10 points each.
[10] After Jason cast her aside for Glauce, this woman killed her children with him as revenge. This
sorceress had betrayed her father Aeetes to help Jason claim the Golden Fleece.
ANSWER: Medea
[10] Knowing that a son was prophesied to overthrow him, this Titan swallowed his children upon birth,
though his wife Rhea saved Zeus by replacing him with a rock.
ANSWER: Cronus [or Saturn]
[10] In Welsh myth, after the handmaidens watching this woman’s son Pryderi fell asleep and lost track
of him, they convinced this wife of Pwyll that she had eaten the child.
ANSWER: Rhiannon

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 9 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. One of these concepts may be modeled as being equal to the universal gas constant multiplied by
temperature and concentration, and was extensively studied by Harmon Morse. Solute effects on them
are measured by the van ‘t Hoff factor, and Raoult’s Law describes how one of them is affected by mole
fractions of different solutes. For 10 points, name these properties that depend only on the number of
solute particles in a solution and not the mass of those particles, examples of which include osmotic
pressure and boiling point elevation.
ANSWER: colligative properties
Bonus: This writer imagined an object that grants wishes with the stipulation that it has to be sold for
less than it was purchased for in “The Bottle Imp.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of the poetry collection A Child’s Garden of Verses.
ANSWER: Robert Louis Stevenson
[10] This Stevenson novel follows Jim Hawkins in telling the story of a peg-legged cook named Long John
Silver and his quest to find Captain Flint’s gold.
ANSWER: Treasure Island [prompt on The Sea Cook]
[10] Stevenson wrote Catriona as a sequel to this novel about David Balfour’s capture at sea.
ANSWER: Kidnapped
18. This man’s victory over Iole in an archery contest was short-lived, and he was forced to wear
women’s clothing while in the service of Omphale. After Laomedon reneged on a promise of horses, this
figure slaughtered all his sons save Priam, and he killed a giant who got strength from touching ground
by strangling him in midair, Antaeus. This husband of Megara and Deianira married Hebe on Mount
Olympus. For 10 points, name this Greek strongman who counted cleaning the Augean Stables and
retrieving the girdle of Hippolyta among his twelve labors.
ANSWER: Heracles [or Hercules]
Bonus: This organization’s first leader was Uriah Stephens. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organization, whose Grand Master Workman Terence Powderly led strikes against the
Wabash and Union Pacific Railroads in the late nineteenth century.
ANSWER: Knights of Labor [or The Noble and Holy Order of the Knights of Labor]
[10] This other nineteenth-century labor group was founded by Oliver Hudson Kelly. It supported the
rights of farmers against grain warehouses, and was supplanted by the later Farmers’ Alliances.
ANSWER: The Grange [accept Grangers]
[10] The Grange scored a key victory in this 1876 Supreme Court case, which ruled that states could
regulate private businesses within their borders. It concerned a warehouse firm that had illegally fixed
rates for grain elevators.
ANSWER: Munn v. Illinois
19. One character in this story describes a sound that arises “from the bottom of the soul when
overcharged with awe.” That character’s thumb slips from the lantern on the eighth night in this story. Its
central action was not motivated by passion or object, and its speaker’s senses are sharpened by
“disease.” Due to his intolerance of an old man’s vulture eye, its narrator smothers another character
with his bed and hides his body under the floorboards, only to be tormented by the beating of the title
object. For 10 points, name this short story by Edgar Allen Poe.
ANSWER: “The Tell-Tale Heart”

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 10 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: These objects, which come in electron, muon, and tau varieties, were demonstrated to have
mass, contrary to the predictions of the standard model. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these chargeless leptons.
ANSWER: neutrinos
[10] The existence of neutrinos was first postulated by this scientist, who showed that no two fermions
could occupy identical quantum states in his namesake exclusion principle.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Pauli
[10] Many discoveries concerning neutrinos were found at this facility designed for the purpose in
Japan. A massive, underground, stainless steel tank, it contains fifty thousand tons of water.
ANSWER: Super-Kamiokande [accept Super-K]
20. An operatic adaptation of this play contains the “Walk to the Paradise Garden” and ends with the
deaths of Sali and Vrenchen. A ballet named for this play includes the frequently excerpted “Dance of the
Knights” and was composed by Sergei Prokofiev. The English horns begin the “love theme” of a fantasyoverture named for this play by Tchaikovsky. A Berlioz symphony inspired by this play includes the Queen
Mab scherzo and ends with a recitative by Friar Lawrence after the death of the two title characters. For
10 points, name this Shakespeare play about star-crossed lovers.
ANSWER: Romeo and Juliet
Bonus: It dropped the word “Socialist” from its official name after its 1992 breakup, though that state
broke up after a 2006 referendum. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the common name of these former countries that at one time included such present-day
countries as Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, and Montenegro.
ANSWER: Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
[10] The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was led for almost thirty years by this dictator and cofounder of the Non-Aligned Movement.
ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito
[10] The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was led until 2000 by this man, who was found dead in his cell in
2006 during his trial on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity.
ANSWER: Slobodan Milosevic
21. The last name’s the same. One man with this surname, a senator from Minnesota, prompted Lyndon
Johnson to decline to seek a second term due to his strong performance in the 1968 New Hampshire
primary. Another man with this last name claimed that Secretary of the Army Robert Stevens attempted
to cover up evidence of espionage. That man’s downfall was caused in part by Joseph Welch’s
questioning of this man before a congressional hearing, as well as Edward Murrow’s exposé on this man
on the television show See it Now. For 10 points, give the last name of the senator from Wisconsin who
led an anti-communist crusade in the early 1950s before being censured by the Senate.
ANSWER: McCarthy

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 11 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: She was hired by the Farm Security Administration, and the subject of her most famous work was
a woman named Florence Thompson. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American photographer of Great Depression subjects, including Migrant Mother.
ANSWER: Dorothea Lange
[10] This other American photographer and journalist captured the poverty of the tenements in articles
like “Flashes from the Slums” and his book How the Other Half Lives.
ANSWER: Jacob Riis
[10] This husband of Georgia O’Keeffe established the journal Camera Work and founded the PhotoSecession movement.
ANSWER: Alfred Stieglitz
22. One theorem by this name states that the virtual work done by a force acting on a rigid body is zero
when a small virtual displacement occurs. Another theorem with this name implies a relationship
between cross-sectional area and pressure that results in the Venturi Effect. It explains the Magnus Effect
and states that the sum of the kinetic energy, gravitational potential energy, and pressure of a fluid is
constant. For 10 points, name this theorem that states that the mechanical energy of laminar fluid flow
is conserved, the namesake of a Swiss mathematician.
ANSWER: Bernoulli Principle [accept Bernoulli’s Theorem]
Bonus: Knighted by George III, this portrait painter delivered the lectures Discourses on Art. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this painter, to whom Boswell dedicated the Life of Samuel Johnson. He also depicted Mrs.
Siddons as the Tragic Muse, in addition to Heads of Angels and Age of Innocence.
ANSWER: Joshua Reynolds
[10] This Reynolds rival is best remembered for a portrait of Jonathan Buttall entitled Blue Boy. He also
painted The Painter's Daughters Chasing a Butterfly.
ANSWER: Thomas Gainsborough
[10] This earlier painter created several series of paintings, some of which only exist today as engravings,
including A Harlot’s Progress, Marriage à la Mode, and The Rake’s Progress.
ANSWER: William Hogarth

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 12 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 13 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 8
Tiebreakers + Extras
1. The first name is the same. Under the influence of Juliana Krudener, one man of this name created the
Holy Alliance, and another man of this name introduced the zemstvo system. That man was assassinated
by Ignatei Grinevitski, a member of People’s Will, and another man of this name checked the expansion
of the Livonian Knights at the Battle of Lake Peipus. For 10 points, three tsars of Russia and a certain
Nevsky all shared what common first name?
ANSWER: Alexander [or Alexander Nevsky; or Alexander I; or Alexander II; or Alexander III]
2. Members of this phylum have two-layered body walls with an inner filling called the mesoglia. A
model organism for the study of bilateral symmetry, the hydra, is a member of this phylum, as is coral.
Most species in this phylum have a life-cycle consisting of an asexual polyp and a sexual medusa stage.
Formerly called coelenterata, for 10 points, identify this phylum named for a type of stinging cell, which
contains such creatures as anemones and jellyfish.
ANSWER: cnidarians [accept coelenterata before read]
3. One group heavily influenced by this artistic movement included Fitz Hugh Lane and John Frederick
Kensett and was known as Luminists. The Savage State, The Pastoral State, and Destruction were part of
a series of paintings by one member of this school, and another painting by a member of this group
shows William Cullen Bryant and another man in the Catskill Mountains. The creators of works such as
The Course of Empire and Kindred Spirits, for 10 points, belong to what artistic movement that included
Asher Durand and Thomas Cole, named for a river in New York?
ANSWER: Hudson River School
Extra 20-point bonus:
Materials that possess this property display hysteresis when a field is applied and subsequently removed.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property that disappears at the Curie point and is naturally present in materials such as
lodestone and iron.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism [prompt on magnetism]
[10] When the Curie point is exceeded, only this type of magnetism remains. Element and compounds
that posses this type of magnetism typically have unpaired electrons.
ANSWER: paramagnetism

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 14 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
At the end of this poem, the title object becomes a new constellation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Alexander Pope mock epic that sees Belinda lose the titular object to a young baron, who
removes it with some scissors.
ANSWER: The Rape of the Lock
[10] In The Rape of the Lock, Belinda is guarded by this chief of the sylphs, who shares his name with a
poetry collection by Sylvia Plath.
ANSWER: Ariel
[10] The third canto of The Rape of the Lock includes an account of this card game between the Baron
and Belinda, opening with the play of Spadillo, the best card in the game.
ANSWER: Ombre

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 8

Page 15 of 15

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

