2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. This author wrote of a “narrow fellow in the grass” and said she was an “inebriate of air” and
“Debauchee of Dew” in a poem that begins “I taste a liquor never brewed.” This poet wrote “hope
is a thing with feathers” and “I heard a (*) fly buzz when I died,” and described a carriage that “held
but just ourselves and Immortality.” The “Belle of Amherst” was, for 10 points, this reclusive American
poet who wrote “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Answer: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
2. In the aftermath of this event, Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon was predicted to lead the
SNP after the resignation of First Minister Alex Salmond. Talking points in the leadup to this event
included student tuition concerns, revenue from oil in the (*) North Sea, and whether to use the euro,
the pound, or a new currency. For 10 points, name this September 18, 2014 event in which 55% of voters
in a British country voted against independence.
Answer: 2014 referendum on Scottish independence (accept anything relating to a vote on whether
Scotland should become independent from the United Kingdom (or (Great) Britain); prompt on partial
answers)
3. This war was triggered by the closing of the Straits of Tiran. The USS Liberty was hit by
friendly fire during this war, which opened with Operation Focus, a surprise, pre-emptive airstrike
against the Egyptian (*) Air Force. The winner of this war claimed control of Gaza from Egypt, which
had mobilized troops in the Sinai Peninsula. For 10 points, name this war in which Israel attacked its
neighbors over the course of a week in June, 1967.
Answer: Six Day War (or the Third Arab-Israeli War)
4. When the kinetic energy equals the potential energy in a system, the Lagrangian takes this
value. The magnetic force on an electron moving parallel to a magnetic field is equal to this value.
This is the amount of spin on the Higgs boson, as well as the amount of (*) mass in a photon and the
amount of pressure in a perfect vacuum. For 10 points, name this quantity, equal to the velocity of a
stationary mass.
Answer: zero (accept equivalents like nothing)

Round 4
Page 2 of 11
5. At its premier, this work's final movement ended with a girls' choir from St. Paul's School
fading out in a nearby room. This suite's composer adapted part of it into music for the hymn "I
Vow to Thee, My Country" in 1921. In 2000, Colin Matthews wrote an (*) eighth movement for this
work, titled Pluto, the Renewer. For 10 points, name this orchestral suite by Gustav Holst, whose seven
movements include Mars, the Bringer of War, and Neptune, the Mystic.
Answer: The Planets, Op. 32
6. This state's western region was a neutral "No Man's Land" which was abandoned by its
neighbor to comply with the Missouri Compromise. Unassigned Lands in this state were illegally
settled by "boomers" and "sooners," who ignored the official start of the (*) Homestead Act. In the
1830s, the Choctaw people were relocated to territory in this modern state via the Trail of Tears. For 10
points, name this former Indian Territory, a U.S. state north of Texas.
Answer: Oklahoma
7. The theory governing these objects was developed by Zermelo and Fraenkel in the early 20th
century to avoid a paradox discovered by Bertrand Russell. The size of one of these objects is called
its cardinality, and the (*) intersection of two of these objects yields anything that is found in both of
them. These objects are unordered and do not include any repeated elements. For 10 points, give this
mathematical term for a collection of objects.
Answer: set
8. This property’s constant, Ksp [K-S-P], is the product of the concentrations of ions, though the
common ion effect tends to decrease this property for precipitates. This property typically increases
as temperature increases for (*) solids in liquids, and while silver chloride doesn’t have this property in
water, a system of rules explain why most other chlorides do. For 10 points, name this property, the
ability of one compound to dissolve in another.
Answer: solubility (accept word forms like soluble; prompt on “miscibility” or word forms)
9. One of these figures was represented by white foxes, turned into a giant spider to frighten a
miserly old man, and was called Inari. Another one of these, Susanowo, threw a flayed horse into
Amaterasu's [ah-mah-the-rah-soo's] loom. Foxes with multiple tails, called (*) kitsune [kee-tsoonay], are this kind of spirit or god in Shinto religion. For 10 points, name these animistic gods of Japan.
Answer: kami (accept fertility gods or fertility goddesses or other equivalents before “flayed horse” is
read; prompt on "Shinto deities" or "Japanese deities" before "Shinto" is read)
10. One character in this work jokingly dates her love to the day she saw Pemberley estate, and
Charlotte Lucas marries Mr. Collins after her friend rejects him. This novel begins when
Netherfield is rented by a “single man in (*) possession of a good fortune,” and in it, Lydia marries Mr.
Wickham and Jane weds Mr. Bingley. Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy overcome poor first impressions
in, for 10 points, what novel by Jane Austen?
Answer: Pride and Prejudice

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 3 of 11
11. According to legend, one advisor to this ruler built some fake villages along the Dnieper River
before a visit to the newly-acquired Crimea region. The Partitions of Poland and the colonization of
Alaska took place during the reign of this friend of (*) Grigory Potemkin, who came to power after the
death of her husband, Peter III. For 10 points, name this 18th century "enlightened despot," an Empress of
Russia.
Answer: Catherine the Great or Catherine II
12. In this work, the protagonist’s path is blocked by a leopard, a lion, and a she-wolf. That
protagonist sees Count Ugolino eating Archbishop Ruggieri, and witnesses the punishment of Paolo
and Francesca da Rimini. The narrator passes through a gate inscribed with the words (*)
“Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.” For 10 points, identify this first part of The Divine Comedy, in
which Virgil guides Dante on a tour through hell.
Answer: The Inferno (prompt on The Divine Comedy or La Divina commedia before mention)
13. The Darien Scheme was a failed attempt to create this structure. Ferdinand de Lesseps was
arrested for bribery related to a plan for this structure, which failed due to landslides and yellow
fever. The Hay-Bunau-Varilla Treaty allowed the (*) U.S. to build this structure after its country
declared independence from Colombia. For 10 points, name this 48-mile long structure, whose three locks
allow ships to cut across Central America.
Answer: Panama Canal
14. The T2 type of these were labeled with radioactive sulfur and phosphorus in the Hershey-Chase
experiment. Latency results when these entities enter a lysogenic cycle. The first discovered one of
these causes tobacco mosaic disease, and AZT is a (*) treatment for a widespread retro- one. A protein
capsid surrounds these entities, which are unable to reproduce outside a host cell. For 10 points, name
these non-living pathogens, such as influenza and HIV.
Answer: viruses (accept bacteriophage and phage before “tobacco” is mentioned)
15. A "tl;dr" [T-L-D-R] Wikipedia entry asserts that this restaurant's head chef is a microwave. In
a 300-slide presentation, the hedge fund Starboard slammed this restaurant for getting longer
warranties on their pots by not salting their (*) pasta water. In September 2014, it sold $100 passes for
seven weeks of all-you-can-eat food. For 10 points, name this Italian chain restaurant which offers
unlimited salad and breadsticks with its "Never-Ending Pasta Bowl."
Answer: Olive Garden
16. One character in this novel hears his companions called “mule drivers” and “mud diggers.” The
protagonist abandons a “tattered soldier” after a battle and allows an injury from being hit with a
rifle to be mistaken for a bullet wound, the title (*) mark he longs for. Jim Conklin dies refusing help
in, for 10 points, this novel about Union soldier Henry Fleming, a work by Stephen Crane.
Answer: The Red Badge of Courage

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 4 of 11
17. After insulting the gods, this figure fled to Franang’s Falls disguised as a salmon. This god’s
daughter rules a namesake underworld, and earthquakes are the result of this god writhing in pain
as he is punished for tricking Hodr into killing Baldr. He is the lover of the giantess (*) Angrboda,
and is often depicted as a part-giant shapeshifter. For 10 points, name this Norse trickster god.
Answer: Loki
18. This quantity is measured by a hygrometer and is found by relating the partial pressure of
water vapor to the vapor pressure of liquid water. This quantity is maximized when the air
temperature is equal to the dew point, when condensation will occur. It is often given as a (*)
percentage in weather reports, where it is combined with temperature to calculate the heat index. For 10
points, give this measure of the level of water vapor in the air.
Answer: relative humidity
19. This event, a violation of the Boland Amendment, resulted in three felony convictions for Oliver
North. It was investigated by the Tower Commission, which criticized the President for his
inattentiveness. Its goal was to suppress the (*) communist Sandinistas. For 10 points, name this
scandal of the Reagan administration in which arms sales to the Middle East funded a Nicaraguan rebel
group.
Answer: Iran-Contra affair (accept equivalents for "affair," like "incident" or "scandal;" prompt on
partial answer)
20. This work stands opposite a fresco of the Crucifixion in the Santa Maria delle Grazie. One
figure in this work spills a shaker of salt with his right arm while clutching a bag. Thomas raises his
index finger on one side of the central man, who (*) stretches his arms over the table next to a very
feminine Apostle John. For 10 points, name this mural by Leonardo da Vinci depicting the twelve
disciples with Jesus at his final meal.
Answer: The Last Supper (accept Il Cenacolo or L’Ultima Cena)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 5 of 11
Bonuses
1. It may not pay as much as a private sector job, but working in Washington does have its benefits. For
10 points each,
[10] This is the annual salary of the President, not counting benefits or expense accounts. Thanks to a pay
raise in 1999, this number is currently double the amount that President Clinton earned.
Answer: $400,000 (four hundred thousand dollars)
[10] Congressional salaries are determined by Congress itself, and until 1992, Congress could simply vote
itself a pay raise. This most recently ratified amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires Congressional
pay raises to take effect during the next term.
Answer: 27th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution
[10] In addition, members of Congress have a limited form of this privilege, the free use of the postal
service for official business.
Answer: franking

2. A small dog stands at the feet of this painting’s central couple, and a convex mirror in the background
reflects the painter. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this painting, which shows the marital union of a man with a large hat and a woman in a green
dress, a work by Jan Van Eyck [yahn van ike]
Answer: The Arnolfini Wedding (accept The Arnolfini (Double) Portrait; accept Giovanni Arnolfini
and His Bride; accept any other answer including “Arnolfini” and the suggestion of a wedding or
marriage)
[10] A mirror reflects a crowd of diners in the background of the painting A Bar at the Folies-Bergère
[foh-LEE-bayr-JAYR], a work by this French realist, who also painted Olympia.
Answer: Édouard Manet (do not accept Monet)
[10] This popular American artist depicted himself looking in a mirror and sketching a much younger
version of his face in a painting that appeared in the Saturday Evening Post.
Answer: Norman Perceval Rockwell

3. Milady de Winter is the subject of D’Artagnan’s affections in this novel. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify the novel in which Athos, Porthos, and Aramis first appear. Cardinal Richelieu is the
antagonist of this novel.
Answer: The Three Musketeers (accept Les Trois Mousquetairs)
[10] The Three Musketeers was written by this French author, who also wrote The Count of Monte Cristo
and The Vicomte of Bragelonne: Ten Years Later.
Answer: Alexandre Dumas pere
[10] This mysterious character titles the third section of The Vicomte of Bragelonne, and is the twin
brother of Louis the XIV [fourteenth] of France.
Answer: The Man in the Iron Mask (accept; L’Homme au Masque de Fer or Philippe.. prompt;
Eustache Dauger)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 6 of 11
4. This capital city, which lies on the Gulf of Gonave, was renamed in 1793 by Jean-Jacques Dessalines.
For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Caribbean city, which lay only 16 miles from the epicenter of a devastating January 2010
earthquake.
Answer: Port-au-Prince
[10] Port-au-Prince is the capital of this Caribbean nation, which borders the Dominican Republic.
Answer: Haiti
[10] Haiti and the Dominican Republic share this island, where Christopher Columbus' Santa Maria sank
on his first voyage to the Americas.
Answer: Hispaniola

5. Answer some questions about motherly goddesses, for 10 points each.
[10] This Greek equivalent of Vesta is actually a virgin, but was the goddess of family as well as the
home and hearth.
Answer: Hestia
[10] This Egyptian goddess is sometimes known as the mother of Ra. She is symbolized by a cow and
represents motherhood.
Answer: Hathor
[10] The female member of the Egyptian creator pair, Nut [noot], represents this region. She is often
painted blue, and arches over her husband, Geb, who represents the Earth.
Answer: sky (accept the stars, the heavens, or other equivalents)

6. Most carbon dioxide generated by the body is a product of this cellular respiration pathway. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this metabolic cycle that follows glycolysis and transfers the energy in acetyl-CoA [koh-ay] to
electron-carriers like NADH and FADH2.
Answer: citric acid cycle (accept "Krebs cycle;" accept "tricarboxylic acid cycle" or "TCA cycle")
[10] The reactions of the citric acid cycle occur in the matrix of this eukaryotic organelle. This
“powerhouse” of the cell is where most ATP energy is produced.
Answer: mitochondria (accept mitochondrion)
[10] Unlike fermentation, the citric acid cycle is considered this type of process because it only occurs
when free oxygen is available. Microbes of this type only grow in the presence of oxygen.
Answer: aerobic (do not accept “anaerobic”)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 7 of 11
7. When Nazi Germany invaded and conquered a country, they supported pro-German governments to
rule the new territory. For 10 points each,
[10] Philippe Pétain [pay-TAAN], a former war hero at the Battle of Verdun, was appointed leader of this
puppet government in southern France, which signed a peace treaty with the Germans in 1940.
Answer: Vichy France
[10] This country allied with the Germans under Miklos Horthy until 1944, when the Soviet army invaded
and Hitler replaced Horthy with Ferenc Szalasi. Shortly thereafter, the Soviets began a siege of this
country's capital, Budapest.
Answer: Kingdom of Hungary
[10] As the Germans invaded Norway in 1940, this man led a Nazi-supported coup; he later led Norway
as a collaborationist state. After the war, he was convicted of high treason and executed, and his name
remains a Norwegian synonym for "traitor."
Answer: Vidkun Quisling

8. A minor character in this work is Clarisse McClellan, a freethinking teenager who is hit by a car. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this book with protagonist Guy Montag, named for what the author believed to be the
temperature at which paper ignites.
Answer: Fahrenheit 451
[10] Fahrenheit 451 was written by this science fiction author, who also wrote Something Wicked This
Way Comes.
Answer: Ray Douglas Bradbury
[10] Bradbury also wrote this collection of short stories, which begins with a rocket turning an Ohio
winter warm. The story “There Will Come Soft Rains,” an entry in this collection, depicts an automatic
house after a nuclear holocaust.
Answer: The Martian Chronicles

9. Newton originally wrote his second law as force equals the derivative of this quantity. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this quantity that is given by mass times velocity. It is conserved in all collisions.
Answer: linear momentum (do not accept “angular momentum”)
[10] A change in momentum is referred to as this, which is also equal to force multiplied by time. In
rockets, the “specific” form of it times gravity gives exhaust velocity.
Answer: impulse
[10] While momentum is conserved in these collisions, kinetic energy is not. A bouncing ball undergoes
these collisions because energy is continually lost until the ball comes to rest.
Answer: inelastic collisions

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 8 of 11
10. At a staff party at this network, newscaster and amateur magician Carl Kasell performed the "sawing
legal affairs correspondent Nina Totenberg in half" illusion. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this radio network, which produces the news programs Morning Edition and All Things
Considered and distributes Fresh Air and Car Talk.
Answer: National Public Radio
[10] In 2014, Carl Kasell retired as Scorekeeper for this NPR news quiz show, hosted by Peter Sagal.
Even in retirement, though, Kasell continues to record voicemail messages as prizes for listeners of this
show.
Answer: Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!
[10] Wait Wait...Don’t Tell Me! welcomes panelists like writer and voice actor Tom Bodett, famous as the
voice of this American hotel chain’s slogan, “We’ll leave the light on for you.”
Answer: Motel 6

11. This man achieved his goals using satyagraha, or the force of truth. For ten points each:
[10] Name this leader who advocated nonviolence to help India achieve independence. In 1948, he was
assassinated by Nathuram Godse.
Answer: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (or Mahatma Gandhi)
[10] In the early 1930s, Mahatma Gandhi fasted to gain civil rights for this lowest caste of Indian society,
whom Gandhi called Harijan, or children of Vishnu.
Answer: untouchables (accept Dalit)
[10] Gandhi began his political activism fighting for the civil rights of Indians in this country. Until 1994,
this country was the home of the system of racial segregation called apartheid.
Answer: South Africa

12. The subject of this Franz Schubert lieder is addressed as "Maiden mild;" unusually, this song is not a
setting of the prayer of the same name. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this song, whose Latin name translates to "Hail Mary."
Answer: Ave Maria
[10] Charles Gounod set the Ave Maria to music from this German composer's Well Tempered Clavier.
This Baroque composer's other religiously inspired works include a Mass in B Minor.
Answer: Johann Sebastian Bach (prompt on "Bach")
[10] The Renaissance composer Josquin des Prez also wrote an Ave Maria in this song genre, which
includes multiple voices singing in counterpoint on a sacred Latin text. Today, these pieces are often
performed with the more secular, non-Latin madrigals.
Answer: motets

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 9 of 11
13. Nucleic acids and proteins are biological examples of these molecules. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these long-chained molecules composed of many monomers. Examples include nylon and
polystyrene.
Answer: polymers
[10] This polymer has an ethylene monomer with a substituted chlorine. It has recycling code 3 and is
widely used in plastic piping.
Answer: PVC (accept polyvinylchloride; prompt on “polychloroethylene”)
[10] This synthetic polymer, discovered in 1907 by Leo Baekeland, was the world’s first widely used
plastic. It is formed by reacting phenol with formaldehyde.
Answer: Bakelite
14. The Stanford-Binet test measures this quantity, which follows a Normal distribution with mean of 100
and a standard deviation of 15. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this quantity, which, surprisingly, only has a moderate correlation with performance on
standardized achievement tests.
Answer: Intelligence Quotient (prompt on "intelligence" alone)
[10] In statistics, this letter symbolizes the standard score, which gives the number of standard deviations
a data point is away from the mean of a Normal distribution.
Answer: z-score
[10] A raw score of 130, corresponding to a z-score of 2.00, on the Stanford-Binet test is just shy of the
required number to qualify for membership in this largest society for high-IQ individuals, founded in
England in 1946.
Answer: Mensa International
15. James Weldon Johnson wrote one of these works “of an Ex-Colored Man.” For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of literary work in which the author tells a story of his or her own life.
Answer: autobiography (prompt on “biography;” prompt on “memoirs” or similar)
[10] Marjane Satrapi wrote this autobiographical graphic novel about her life in Iran at the time of the
Islamic Revolution. It takes its name from the ancient capital of the Persian empire.
Answer: Persepolis
[10] This former Maryland slave wrote three autobiographies, including a “Narrative” of his life.
Answer: Frederick Douglass
16. This star is the alpha star in the constellation Canis Major, and it forms the Winter Triangle with
Procyon and Betelgeuse. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this “dog star,” the brightest star in the night sky.
Answer: Sirius A
[10] Sirius is an example of this system, as it has a primary star and a companion star; Algol is another
example. These systems exhibit gravitational influence within Roche lobes.
Answer: binary star system
[10] Sirius A can be found in this primary diagonal region of a certain diagram that relates absolute
magnitude to temperature.
Answer: the main sequence of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram (prompt on "Hertzsprung-Russel
diagram" or "H-R diagram" alone)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 10 of 11

17. In one work by this author, Polynices [pah-lee-nye-sees] raises an army against his brother Eteocles
[eh-tay-oh-clees]. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this ancient author of Seven Against Thebes whose Oresteia [oh-res-tye-ah] is the only fullyextant Greek trilogy.
Answer: Aeschylus [es-kill-us]
[10] The first part of the Oresteia is named for this man, the father of Orestes and Electra, who returned
home only to be murdered by his wife Clytemnestra.
Answer: Agamemnon
[10] Agamemnon fought for 10 years at a war in this city. He sacrificed his daughter Iphigenia [ih-fih-jenah-ya] so his ships could sail to this city, though its walls only fell with the creation of a namesake
wooden horse.
Answer: Troy (accept Trojan)

18. Six different flags have "flown over" Texas; that is, six different countries have existed on Texan
land. For 10 points each,
[10] These two European rivals controlled Texan land; one ruled it for three centuries until the
independence of Mexico, while the other briefly held a small portion of it as part of the Louisiana
Territory. Name both European countries.
Answer: Spain and France (prompt on one answer alone)
[10] Texas gained its independence from Mexico in 1836, forming the independent Republic of Texas,
which lasted until this U.S. President officially completed the annexation of Texas in December 1845.
Answer: James K(nox) Polk
[10] The sixth flag over Texas belonged to this nation, which Texas joined on March 2, 1861.
Answer: Confederate States of America (accept Confederacy and other word forms)

19. Answer the following about women in the Old Testament, for 10 points each.
[10] This niece of Mordecai became a Persian queen, and intervened with King Xerxes to save the Jewish
people.
Answer: Esther (accept Hadassah)
[10] Deborah was the only woman known to hold this title as the leader of the Tribes of Israel. Other
people to hold this position included Gideon.
Answer: Judges of Israel (accept shofet or shoftim; do not accept “King” or similar answers)
[10] This Judge harvested honey from the corpse of a lion and defeated many Philistines, but lost his
incredible strength when his hair was cut by Delilah.
Answer: Samson

SCOP Novice 5

Round 4
Page 11 of 11
20. Spotify has used one of these processes named for Fisher and Yates to shuffle playlists, but Spotify
users were unhappy with perceived lack of randomness in the shuffled lists. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for a finite list of step-by-step instructions to be carried out, usually by a computer
program.
Answer: algorithm
[10] The Fisher-Yates algorithm randomly generates these rearrangements of the elements of a finite set.
Answer: permutations (accept "n P r"; accept self-bijections; do not accept or prompt on "combination")
[10] The number of permutations of a set of n elements is equal to this function of n, written as "n
exclamation point." This function of 5 is equal to 5 times 4 times 3 times 2 times 1.
Answer: factorial

SCOP Novice 5

