2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. This phenomenon is described by the code GR in the METAR system. The magnitude of this
phenomenon can be predicted with Vertical Integrated Liquid Density, which measures both the
moisture content of a cloud and the strength of its updrafts. This phenomenon is caused when (*)
water droplets are blown upward, where cold air freezes them, before falling to the ground. For 10 points,
name this type of precipitation consisting of balls of ice.
Answer: hail
2. This was the site of the mural "My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love," a picture of
Leonid Brezhnev and Erich Honecker kissing. Peter Fechter died in a "death-strip" at this
structure, which included Checkpoint (*) Charlie. It was shut down on November 9th and gradually
torn down over the rest of 1989. For 10 points, name this barrier between West and East halves of a
German city, whose fall symbolized the end of European Communism.
Answer: Berlin Wall
3. The Epitaphios [eh-pih-tah-fee-ohs] is used during the week leading up to this holiday, and the
Harrowing of Hell is celebrated on the day before this holiday. The Orthodox Church precedes this
holiday with forty days of fasting. The week leading up to this (*) moveable feast celebrates the
washing of feet on Maundy Thursday, which occurs near the end of Lent. For 10 points, name this
springtime Christian holiday that celebrates the resurrection of Jesus.
Answer: Easter Sunday (accept Pasch or Pascha)
4. This artist painted his sister Sophie surrounded by grieving family members in Death in the
Sickroom, one of his Frieze of Life paintings. The eruption of Krakatoa may have inspired the red
sky in this artist’s most famous work, which overlooks a (*) harbor and focuses on a bald, twisted
figure that holds its hands to its face and performs the title action. For 10 points, name this Norwegian
artist who painted The Scream.
Answer: Edvard Munch [moonk]

Round 9
Page 2 of 10
5. Competing populations of species in this phylum are used to measure climate change in
Antarctica’s dry valleys. The fungus Arthrobotrys [ar-throw-BAH-tris] grows nets to catch soildwelling members of this phylum, which also includes the model organism C. elegans and the
parasite that causes (*) heartworm infection in pets. For 10 points, name this phylum, whose members
have external cuticles and cylindrical bodies and which is commonly known as roundworms.
Answer: Nematoda (accept nematodes, accept roundworms before mentioned)
6. When one of these literary devices is ruined, the Manager cries "I've lost a whole day over these
people!" The Rude Mechanicals create one of these called Pyramus and Thisbe for Theseus and
Hippolyta's wedding in A (*) Midsummer Night's Dream. Another of these, "The Murder of Gonzago,"
is "the thing" that exposes the murderer of King Hamlet. For 10 points, name this theatrical device in
which a work is performed as part of the action of another drama.
Answer: play within a play (accept any description of characters in a play putting on a play; prompt on
play; prompt on frame story)
7. This group’s size in Indiana shrank after the rape and murder trial of its leader D.C.
Stephenson. Catholics were admitted into this group in the 1970s under the leadership of David
Duke. Members of this group committed the Greensboro massacre against the Communist
Workers’ Party and (*) bombed the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham. For 10 points, name this
American hate group known for burning crosses and wearing white robes.
Answer: Ku Klux Klan
8. This function gives the y-coordinate of a point rotated from standard position along the unit
circle. This odd function, which passes through the origin and has a period of two pi, is the
reciprocal of (*) cosecant. For an acute angle in a right triangle, it is the ratio of the opposite side to the
hypotenuse. For 10 points, name this trigonometric function, which gives the tangent function when
divided by cosine.
Answer: sine
9. This nation's official language is Amharic, though Oromo is spoken by more of its people. The
ancient capital of the Kingdom of Axum is in this modern-day country, which became the most
populous landlocked country in the world in 1993 when (*) Eritrea declared independence from it.
Djibouti lies between this country and the Gulf of Aden on the Arabian Sea. For 10 points, name this
country on the Horn of Africa with capital at Addis Ababa.
Answer: Ethiopia
10. A schoolhouse in this work was designed so a thief could easily get in, but not out, though this
proves ineffective against Abraham Van Brunt. Katrina Van Tassel marries Brom Bones after a
schoolteacher disappears in this story, which was collected in The (*) Sketch Book of Geoffrey
Crayon. Ichabod Crane flees the Headless Horseman in, for 10 points, what story by Washington Irving?
Answer: The Legend of Sleepy Hollow

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 3 of 10
11. Pliny the Elder wrote 120 historical remarks on this substance, noting how it names a reward
bestowed upon winning soldiers, giving us our modern word "salary." A 1930 march to Dandi that
protested a British (*) tax on this substance was led by Mahatma Gandhi, who produced this substance
illegally by boiling off seawater. For 10 points, name this commonly iodized food preservative, found
with pepper on Western table settings.
Answer: (table, rock, or sea) salt (accept sodium chloride before mentioned)
12. Aldehydes can be reduced to primary types of these compounds. This organic group can be
created using hydroboration and oxidation. These compounds have a carbon bonded to a hydroxyl
group; that is, to an (*) oxygen bonded to a hydrogen. Yeast can ferment sugar into molecules of this
type like ethanol and methanol. For 10 points, name this compound found in “wood” and “rubbing”
varieties.
Answer: alcohol
13. This agreement is made, explicitly or implicitly, to escape the state of nature, according to John
Locke. Locke argued that, if this concept is broken, people have the right to form a new
government. This two-word term describes the (*) agreement between individuals and their rulers to
give up some freedom in exchange for the community's protection of all other rights. For 10 points, give
this term which titles a work by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
Answer: social contract
14. In one work by this author, Herbert Pocket teaches the protagonist to be a gentleman, while in
another work, Salem House-educated James Steerforth runs off with Little Em’ly. After Dora
Spenlow dies in one of his novels, her widower marries (*) Agnes Wickfield, and this author wrote
about Estella and the jilted Miss Havisham. The creator of Uriah Heep and Pip is, for 10 points, what
author of David Copperfield and Great Expectations?
Answer: Charles John Huffam Dickens
15. In this movie, communism was “just a red herring,” and Tim Curry counts "one plus two plus
two plus one" to conclude that a loaded gun is empty. The six primary characters are being
blackmailed, and so all have motive to use the weapons provided by "Mr. Boddy," including a rope
and a (*) candlestick. For 10 points, name this movie, based on and named for a board game, which ends
with Mr. Green killing the real Mr. Boddy in the hall with the revolver.
Answer: Clue (do not accept Cluedo)
16. Rhoecus and Hylaeus were two of these creatures killed by Atalanta, and another, Eurytion,
demanded to marry Dexamenus’s daughter. This race was descended from Ixion and Nephele, and
they warred with the Lapiths. One of these was killed by Heracles and was named (*) Nessus, and
another was a renowned teacher named Chiron. For 10 points, identify this race of half-man half-horse
creatures from Greek myth.
Answer: centaur

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 4 of 10
17. This author wrote about the Abraham Lincoln and her crew members Conseil, Ned Land, and
Pierre Arronax. In one work by this man, Phileas Fogg and (*) Passepartout [pass-par-too] win a bet
by completing the title action. Another of his novels centers on the submarine Nautilus and Captain
Nemo. For 10 points, identify this author of Around the World in 80 Days and 20,000 Leagues Under the
Sea.
Answer: Jules Gabriel Verne
18. Victorious soldiers in this war, worried about unfunded pensions, tried to organize the
Newburgh Conspiracy. The Conway Cabal was a short-lived attempt to replace the winning leader.
During this war, John André was hanged for his role in an attempted (*) betrayal of the fort at West
Point, a plan organized by Benedict Arnold. For 10 points, name this war, which ended when Lord
Cornwallis surrendered at Yorktown to George Washington.
Answer: American Revolutionary War (or Revolutionary War)
19. One performer on this instrument used three measures of 2, 2, 2, 3, then a measure of 3, 3, 3, to
open his "Blue Rondo a la Turk." This instrument, played by the composer of "Take Five," Dave
Brubeck, was also played by the composer of "Mood Indigo," (*) Duke Ellington. For 10 points,
name this musical instrument that combines with bass, guitar, and drums to form the jazz rhythm section
and whose keyboard has 88 keys.
Answer: (jazz) piano
20. When this quantity is known about the center of mass, the parallel axis theorem gives this
quantity for different axes. This quantity for a solid sphere has a coefficient of two-fifths. It is equal
to torque over angular acceleration, and for a point mass, it is equal to mass times the square of the
(*) distance from the axis of rotation. For 10 points, name this rotational analogue of mass that indicates
an object’s resistance to rotational acceleration.
Answer: moment of inertia (prompt on “I;” do not prompt or accept "inertia")

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 5 of 10
Bonuses
1. For 10 points each, give the following about Cold War-era military unions.
[10] This anti-Soviet military alliance, named for an ocean, formed in 1949 and included the United
States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and other European countries.
Answer: North Atlantic Treaty Organization (or NATO)
[10] After multiple rejections from NATO, and in protest of West Germany's 1955 acceptance into
NATO, the USSR organized this other military alliance, named for a Polish city. It included East
Germany and other Soviet-controlled republics.
Answer: Warsaw Pact(accept Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance)
[10]This organization formed via the Manila Pact in 1954. It originally included states like France, the
UK, and the US; the only two founding countries in its namesake region were the Philippines and
Thailand.
Answer: South East Asia Treaty Organization (or SEATO)
2. Identify the following important locations in Norse myth, for 10 points each,
[10] This “middle land,” the realm of men, was formed by Ymir’s [ee-meer’s] eyebrow. It is encircled by
a namesake “Serpent,” and during Ragnarök, it will sink into the sea.
Answer: Midgard
[10] Midgard is connected to Asgard by this rainbow bridge, which is guarded by Heimdall.
Answer: Bïfrost
[10] This realm, separated from Asgard by the river Ifing, contains frost giants that pester both gods and
men in Norse mythology.
Answer: Jotunheim [yoh-tund-hime]
3. Electroplating uses this process to coat an electrode with another metal. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this process in which an atom or ion gains electrons. Its opposite is oxidation.
Answer: reduction
[10] In a voltaic [vol-TAY-ic] cell, reduction takes place at this positively-charged electrode.
Answer: cathode
[10] In this equation, the log of the reaction quotient is multiplied by a factor which includes the number
of moles and Faraday's constant. This equation gives the cell potential at nonstandard conditions.
Answer: Nernst equation
4. Animals play some strange roles in literature. For 10 points each,
[10] In Steinbeck’s Of Mice and Men, Lennie dreams of owning these soft animals, which are also the
main characters in the Richard Adams novel Watership Down.
Answer: rabbits (accept bunnies, I guess; accept leporidae or leporids; do not accept “hares”)
[10] After a storm, Janie is pulled to safety by a cow while Tea Cake is bitten by a rabid dog in this novel
by Zora Neale Hurston.
Answer: Their Eyes Were Watching God
[10] Lithuanian immigrant Jurgis [YUR-gus] Rudkus participates in the unsafe butchering of cows in a
Chicago slaughterhouse in this muckraking novel by Upton Sinclair.
Answer: The Jungle

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 6 of 10

5. This two-day event was organized by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and a group of Quaker reformers in
upstate New York. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 1848 women's rights convention, which drafted the Declaration of Sentiments.
Answer: Seneca Falls Convention
[10] This Quaker orator's visit to Seneca Falls was the impetus for the Convention. Her husband chaired
the second day of the Convention, during which she opposed a resolution demanding women's suffrage,
noting it made the other resolutions less reasonable to opponents of women's rights.
Answer: Lucretia Mott
[10] This women's rights advocate was not at Seneca Falls in 1848, though her parents and sister were
there and signed the Declaration of Sentiments. In 1873, she was convicted and fined $100 -- a fine she
refused to pay -- for voting while female.
Answer: Susan B. Anthony

6. For 10 points each, answer some questions about quantum physics.
[10] This is the only atom for which an exact quantum mechanical solution exists. It is comprised of one
proton and one electron.
Answer: hydrogen atom (accept H)
[10] The quantum hydrogen atom is based on a solution to this equation of quantum mechanics that
describes how a wavefunction changes over time. Its namesake also had a famous thought experiment
regarding a cat.
Answer: Schrodinger equation (accept Schrodinger’s cat)
[10] This constant, symbolized lowercase h, appears in many quantum phenomena such as the Heisenberg
uncertainty principle. It is the ratio of the energy and frequency of a photon of light.
Answer: Planck’s constant

7. For 10 points each, answer the following about subtraction in pop culture.
[10] Dan Walsh created a webcomic subtracting this orange, lasagna-loving cat from his regular Jim
Davis comic. The result is, usually, a lonely, depressed Jon Arbuckle, talking to no one.
Answer: Garfield (accept Garfield Minus Garfield)
[10] A similar concept, filled with just as much existential angst, is the video series “Full House Without
Michelle.” It takes the classic 1990s sitcom and removes a toddler whose role was shared by these twin
girls, who are now involved in the fashion world.
Answer: Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen (or the Olsens, Olsen twins, Olsen sisters, etc.; prompt on
partial answers)
[10] In this 1946 Christmastime film by Frank Capra, George Bailey wishes he had never lived; the angel
Clarence shows him that, had he not lived, Mr. Potter would have ruined the town of Bedford Falls.
Answer: It's a Wonderful Life

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 7 of 10

8. On August 9th, 2014, police officer Darren Wilson shot and killed 18-year-old Michael Brown in this
city. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this suburb of St. Louis, Missouri, where anti-police protests were met with force in summer
2014.
Answer: Ferguson, Missouri
[10] Journalists covering the protests have been arrested, including Wesley Lowery, a Pulitzer Prizewinning reporter for this Washington, D.C. newspaper who didn't leave a McDonald's restaurant under
police evacuation quickly enough.
Answer: The Washington Post
[10] Reporters for the American branch of this Qatar-based news network were tear-gassed and had their
camera and lighting system taken down by police.
Answer: Al Jazeera America
9. This novel is framed by Nelly Dean explaining the recent history of the title location to Mr.
Lockwood, a resident of Thrushcross Grange. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this novel, in which the deaths of Hindley, Edgar, Isabella, and Linton give Heathcliff control
of Thrushcross Grange and the title house.
Answer: Wuthering Heights
[10] In Wuthering Heights, Heathcliff is driven by his frustrated love for this woman, his adopted sister
and the eventual wife of Edgar Linton.
Answer: Catherine Earnshaw Linton (accept either surname; do not accept “Cathy,” who is a distinct
character in the book)
[10] Wuthering Heights is by this author, the sister of Charlotte and Anne, who published the book under
the pen name Ellis Bell.
Answer: Emily (Jane) Brontë (full first name required; prompt on partial answer)

10. This work's most famous selection notes that "he shall reign for ever and ever." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this three-part oratorio, written in 1741, whose Hallelujah Chorus ends its second part.
Answer: Messiah
[10] This composer of Water Music and Music for the Royal Fireworks composed the oratorios Israel in
Egypt, Samson, and the aforementioned Messiah.
Answer: George Frederic Handel
[10] The Hallelujah Chorus is written in this triumphant major key, also used for the final movement of
Mahler's Titan symphony. This major key has two sharps in its signature.
Answer: D Major

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 8 of 10

11. The Bailey-Borwein-Plouffe formula can compute the nth digit of pi without first calculating the n
minus 1 digits that come before, but the formula requires the use of this number base. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this number base. A single digit in this base is equivalent to a four-digit number in binary, and
like binary, it's often used in computing.
Answer: hexadecimal or base-16
[10] The largest possible digit in binary is 1, and the largest possible digit in decimal is 9. This is the
largest possible hexadecimal digit, corresponding to the base-ten number 15.
Answer: F
[10] In HTML, a six-hexadecimal-digit number is used to express colors; for example, six zeroes indicate
black. What color does FF0000 [F-F-zero-zero-zero-zero] indicate?
Answer: red

12. In one story about this character, he summons the spirit of Helen of Troy. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this scholar who made a deal with the devil. Mephistopheles later collects this character's soul.
Answer: Doctor Heinrich Faustus (accept Faust)
[10] This author adapted the Faust legend into a two part play, Faust. In this author's novel The Sorrows
of Young Werther, Werther is in love with Lotte, despite Lotte being engaged to Albert.
Answer: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[10] In Goethe's version of the Faust legend, this character’s mother is given a sleeping potion. This
character has a child with Faust, and is arrested for killing that child.
Answer: Gretchen (accept Margaret)

13. Pablo Picasso painted many works of his native Spain. For 10 points each,
[10] A tired-looking man plays the title instrument on the streets of Barcelona in this Picasso work.
Answer: The Old Guitarist
[10] The Old Guitarist was painted during this sad, colorfully-named period of PIcasso’s work.
Answer: Blue Period
[10] This painting depicts the aftermath of a bombing on a Spanish city, and shows a dead man holding a
broken sword and a woman cradling her dead child.
Answer: Guernica [gayr-NEE-kah]

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 9 of 10
14. Shirley Hufstelder was appointed by Jimmy Carter to be the first holder of this position; the most
recent holder of this position recorded 20 points, 11 rebounds, and 6 assists in the 2014 NBA All-Star
Celebrity Game. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Cabinet position, currently held by Arne Duncan. Its department was one of three planned
to be eliminated by Rick Perry’s Presidential platform.
Answer: U.S. Secretary (or Department) of Education
[10] As Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan ranks 15th in this list, which is topped by the Vice
President, the Speaker of the House, and the President pro tempore of the Senate.
Answer: (Line of) Presidential succession (accept equivalents that describe the order in which a
presidential vacancy is filled; prompt on partial response)
[10] This other Cabinet position has been filled by Janet Napolitano and Jeh [JAY] Johnson in the Obama
administration. It is last in line of Presidential succession, as its department was created most recently, in
2001.
Answer: U.S. Secretary (or Department) of Homeland Security

15. This process requires the enzyme RNA polymerase and pairs adenine with uracil. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this process in which DNA is used as template for synthesizing a complementary strand of
messenger RNA.
Answer: transcription
[10] Transcription in bacteria is organized around these blocks of genes with a single switch that can be
turned off by a repressor protein. The lac [LACK] and trp [TRIP] ones are found in E. coli.
Answer: operons
[10] Operons and eukaryotic genes are always preceded by this type of DNA sequence where the RNA
polymerase attaches. The TATA box is commonly found within this region of DNA.
Answer: promoter

16. This concept is symbolized by a solid line and a broken line; the ba gua are the eight possible trigrams
formed from a set of three of those lines, and represent concepts like fire and water. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this Chinese philosophical term that describes complementary, yet opposing, forces. It is also
symbolized by a circle with swirling black and white regions.
Answer: Yin and Yang
[10] This text, dating to before 1000 BCE, lists and describes hexagrams, the 64 possible pairs of ba gua.
Its title is sometimes translated as "Book of Changes," and it can be used for divination.
Answer: I Ching (or Zhouyi)
[10] The ba gua for wind and water give their name to this practice of creating harmony within one's
surroundings. It strives to properly control qi [chee], or life energy, by carefully placing of buildings
within an area or items within a room.
Answer: feng shui

SCOP Novice 5

Round 9
Page 10 of 10
17. In this event, Father Gapon organized a peaceful march in St. Petersburg that was met by the Tsar's
troops; hundreds of people were killed. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this event, which started the 1905 Russian Revolution. The name of this event applies to
numerous other massacres, including one of Irish protesters by the British army in 1972.
Answer: Bloody Sunday
[10] The Russian Bloody Sunday took place at this building, the official residence of the Romanov
family, though they hadn't actually lived in this home since a bombing attempt on Alexander II in 1880.
Answer: Winter Palace
[10] This final Romanov Tsar refused to meet the protestors on Bloody Sunday. His family was arrested
and executed in the Bolshevik Revolution.
Answer: Nicholas II
18. This third-largest island of its chain is also its most populous; it’s also home to the Punahou School,
whose graduates include Barack Obama. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this island, whose tourist attractions include the royal 'Iolani Palace and the probably-dormant
volcano Diamond Head.
Answer: O'ahu
[10] O'ahu's largest city, Honolulu, is the capital of this U.S. state.
Answer: Hawai'i
[10] This neighborhood of Honolulu is dominated by hotels and tourist facilities, as it is home to the most
visited beach in Hawai'i.
Answer: Waikiki (Beach)
19. In May 2014, NASA announced that this entity has shrunk to half its former size. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this large anticyclonic storm in its planet’s South Tropical Zone. It is around twice the size of
Earth and its notable color is thought to be produced from phosphorous or sulfur compounds.
Answer: Great Red Spot
[10] The Great Red Spot is found on this largest planet of the Solar System.
Answer: Jupiter
[10] The Great Red Spot was first described in 1665 by this scientist. This astronomer also discovered
four moons of Saturn, and the largest gap in Saturn’s rings is named for him.
Answer: Giovanni Domenico Cassini
20. Answer some questions about English poetry across time, for 10 points each:
[10] The unknown “Pearl Poet” is generally considered to be the author of “Sir Gawain of the Green
Knight.” Sir Gawain is one of the many Knights of this specific furniture item.
Answer: the Round Table
[10] John Keats’ poem “Ode on a Grecian Urn” ends by comparing two abstract concepts. Name either.
Answer: beauty OR truth
[10] This later English poet wrote “You’ll be a man, my son.” in his poem “If-.” His other poems include
the incredibly racist “The White Man’s Burden.”
Answer: Rudyard Kipling

SCOP Novice 5

