2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. The descamisados gathered outside this country’s Casa Rosada to support one of its leaders.
Thousands of people were “disappeared” in this country’s Dirty War, which ended after its
military was ousted from power following their invasion of the Malvinas and ensuing loss to (*)
Great Britain in the Falkland War. For 10 points, name this South American country, whose president
Juan Peron and wife Eva, known as Evita, ruled from its capital of Buenos Aires.
Answer: Republica Argentina (accept Argentina Republic)
2. One aria in this opera declares "dream away, yes, dream in combat / that a dark eye is
watching you, / and that love awaits you!" This opera's title character enters with an aria noting
that "love is a rebellious bird.” In this work, (*) Don Jose kills the title cigarette factory worker when
she chooses the love of Escamillo [ess-kah-MEE-yoh], a Toreador. For 10 points, name this opera about
the title gypsy girl, composed by Georges Bizet [bee-ZAY].
Answer: Carmen
3. The Kirkwood gaps are predictably empty sub-regions of this region of space, to which the
Dawn spacecraft traveled to study Vesta in 2011. The largest body in this area was classified as a
dwarf planet in 2006; that body, (*) Ceres, is roughly 3 astronomical units from the Sun and is the
nearest dwarf planet to Earth. The inner and outer solar systems are separated by, for 10 points, what
region of small rocky bodies found between Mars and Jupiter?
Answer: asteroid belt (be lenient and prompt on solar system, Milky Way, universe, or similar regions of
space that encompass the asteroid belt before “Dawn spacecraft” is mentioned)
4. Two of this scientist’s research subjects were the polio-stricken Mr. McGregor and David
Graybeard. Important discoveries by this anthropologist was that her subjects ate meat, even
hunting colobus monkeys, and used tools, such as using straws to pick up (*) termites to eat. Goliath
was the alpha male in her community at Gombe Stream National Park. For ten points, name this woman
who spent over four decades in Tanzania studying chimpanzees.
Answer: Jane Morris Goodall

Round 8
Page 2 of 10
5. A large force of soldiers using this weapon devastated Charles d'Albret's cavalry in a battle on
St. Crispin's Day. This weapon, most commonly made of yew, does not recurve and reaches from
the ground to the height of its user. It was most successfully used by (*) English archers against the
French at the Battles of Crecy and Agincourt during the Hundred Years' War. For 10 points, name this
specific type of arrow-firing weapon.
Answer: longbow (prompt on “bow;” accept additional mention of "arrows," but do not prompt or accept
"arrows" alone)
6. In this work, Heck Tate orders the shooting of Tim Johnson, and the protagonist discusses
entailment to calm down Walter Cunningham’s father. This novel’s narrator frightens Calpurnia
by sitting in a balcony with (*) Dill to watch her father defend Tom Robinson against the Ewells.
Atticus Finch appears in, for 10 points, what novel about Jem and Scout, written by Harper Lee?
Answer: To Kill a Mockingbird
7. This force can decrease with increasing velocity in an effect named for Stribeck, and it is
described by Amonton’s laws. Magnetic levitation avoids the “rolling” type of this force typically
experienced by cars. The (*) coefficient for this force, symbolized μ [mew], relates the magnitude of this
force to the normal force. For 10 points, name this force, whose static and kinetic types arise from
resistance to motion.
Answer: friction
8. In one work by this author, the title character and his father Rashid travel to the Valley of K
and encounter a water genie named Iff. This man called Indira Gandhi “the Widow” in a work that
features characters such as the Brass Monkey, Shiva, and a boy with an enormous nose, (*) Saleem
Sinai. He received a fatwa for his novel The Satanic Verses. For 10 points, name this Indian-English
author of Midnight’s Children.
Answer: Sir (Ahmed) Salman Rushdie
9. This god’s mother was often depicted as either a hawk or a woman with falcon’s wings. This son
of Nephthys is assisted by the crocodile-headed Ammit in his most famous task. This “Guardian of
the Scales” weighs humans’ (*) hearts against the feather of Ma’at to determine passage to the afterlife.
He is often depicted with the head of a jackal. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god of the afterlife and
mummification.
Answer: Anubis
10. This state's MLS team plays in the former Multnomah Stadium. Its flagship state university is
home to the legendary track-and-field venue Hayward Field and is supported by Phil Knight, the
co-founder of Nike. This state's NBA team was led by Bill Walton to a 1977 title and is currently led
by (*) Damian Lillard and LaMarcus Aldridge. College football’s Ducks play in, for 10 points, what
Pacific Northwest state home to the Timbers and Trail Blazers, based in Portland?
Answer: Oregon (accept University of Oregon)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 3 of 10
11. The Allee effect explains why endangered species may never reach this quantity, which can be
estimated for the Earth using ecological footprints. This quantity forms a positive horizontal
asymptote on logistic (*) growth graphs; Anton van Leeuwenhoek [LAY-von-hook] estimated it to be
13.4 billion for humans. For 10 points, give the term for the maximum population size an environment
can support, often symbolized K.
Answer: carrying capacity (accept K before mention; prompt on "capacity;" prompt on answers
describing "maximum population size")
12. This man designed a curving building known as the Dancing House, and he was sued by MIT
after flaws were discovered in his Ray and Maria Stata Center. He designed Chicago’s Pritzker
Pavilion, and this architect used wildly (*) curved metal sheets in the designs for the Guggenheim
Bilbao and the Walt Disney Concert Hall. For 10 points, name this Canadian architect.
Answer: Frank Owen Gehry [“gary”]
13. South Padre Island lies just north of the mouth of this river near the city of Matamoros. This
river meanders through, and inspires the name of, Big Bend National Park. Cities on it include
Brownsville, Laredo, and (*) El Paso, the last of which lies across this river from Ciudad Juarez. For 10
points, name this river, also known as the Rio Bravo, that forms the border between Texas and Mexico
and whose name is Spanish for "Big River."
Answer: Rio Grande (accept Rio Bravo before mentioned)
14. The Farey type of these objects include only proper, reduced fractions. These objects are often
described as functions with domains restricted to the natural numbers. When their terms are
combined by addition, they are called (*) series, and they are called “convergent” if their terms
approach a limiting value. One of these that begins 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13 is named for Fibonacci. For 10
points, give this mathematical term for an ordered list of numbers.
Answer: sequences (prompt on “series” before it is read)
15. In one scene of this work, the narrator recounts a grand battle between red and black ants. This
work describes the sharpening of an axe in the chapter “Economy,” and near the end it discusses
those who hear “a different drummer” in the pursuit of simplicity and (*) self-sufficiency. The
narrator spends two years on Ralph Waldo Emerson’s land after going into the woods to “live
deliberately” in, for 10 points, what Henry David Thoreau work set at a title pond?
Answer: Walden; or, Life in the Woods
16. Temporary or limited versions of these buildings are known as musalla. Their qibla wall is
indicated by a semi-circular mihrab. These buildings do not have icons or statues, though blue tiles
decorate a famous one of these in Istanbul, which has six tall (*) minarets. The Kaaba [kah-ah-bah] is
found in the world's largest and oldest one of these places, the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca. For 10 points,
name these places of Islamic worship.
Answer: mosque (accept masjid before it is read; accept Blue Mosque or Sultan Ahmed Mosque)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 4 of 10
17. After the Johnstown Flood, this man rebuilt the city's library. He advocated large scale
philanthropy to fight wealth inequality in "The Gospel of Wealth;" this industrialist made his
fortune from a company purchased in 1901 by (*) J.P. Morgan. For 10 points, name this ScottishAmerican founder of U.S. Steel, whose charity work included building numerous museums and libraries,
as well as a namesake concert venue in New York City.
Answer; Andrew Carnegie
18. Allred and Rochow related effective nuclear charge and this quantity. This quantity equals the
mean of the electron affinity and first ionization energy by Mulliken’s definition. When molecules
have atoms with differences in this quantity, they are deemed (*) polar. Fluorine has the highest value
for this quantity on the Pauling scale. For 10 points, name this quantity which measures an atom’s
likeliness to attract electrons.
Answer: electronegativity
19. This author wrote about Peter, Martin, and Jack each inheriting a coat in Tale of a Tub, and he
satirically suggested that starving Irish children should be sold as food. This man described a
conflict over whether eggs should be (*) broken on the big or little end in another work, in which the
title doctor is tiny in the land of Brobdingnag and a giant in Lilliput. For 10 points, identify this author of
A Modest Proposal and Gulliver’s Travels.
Answer: Jonathan Swift
20. This man fought an indecisive duel with John Randolph and advocated for the War of 1812 as a
War Hawk. His economic policies, which focused on high tariffs and the advancement of
infrastructure, was known as the (*) “American System”. As Speaker of the House, he used his
influence to get John Quincy Adams elected as President in the Corrupt Bargain. For 10 points, name this
“Great Compromiser.”
Answer: Henry Clay

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 5 of 10
Bonuses
1. This term is most often associated with Vishnu, who has had ten of them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Hindu term for a deity's descent to Earth, as well as the form they take for that descent.
Answer: avatar
[10] The first avatar of Vishnu is Matsya, a giant one of these animals. In this form, he saves Manu, the
first man, from the great flood.
Answer: fish
[10] Vishnu’s eighth avatar is this blue-skinned hero of the Bhagavad Gita, the charioteer of Arjuna who
is venerated by a certain “Hare” [hah-ray] movement in the US.
Answer: Krishna

2. The title event of this poem happens because “Someone had blundered.” For ten points each:
[10] Name this poem commemorating the Battle of Balaclava, in which six hundred soldiers rode “Half a
league, half a league/ Half a league onward” “Charging an army/ While all the world wondered.”
Answer: The Charge of the Light Brigade
[10] This British poet wrote The Charge of the Light Brigade. He wrote "'Tis better to have loved and lost
/ Than never to have loved at all” in his poem In Memoriam.
Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
[10] This author condemned poor treatment of British veterans in his poem The Last of the Light Brigade.
He won a Nobel Prize in Literature for works like The Jungle Book and the novel Kim.
Answer: Rudyard Kipling

3. In a classic episode of Monsterpiece Theatre, the play "Waiting for Elmo" is performed, in which
Grover and Telly Monster represent these two characters standing near a tree. Elmo doesn't arrive, so the
tree complains that the play doesn't make any sense and walks away. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these two main characters from Samuel Beckett's play Waiting for Godot.
Answer: Vladimir and Estragon (accept in either order; accept Didi and Gogo in either order)
[10] This children's TV show has featured Muppets in pop culture parodies like Upside Downton Abbey,
Preschool Musical, and the aforementioned Monsterpiece Theatre, which is introduced by Cookie
Monster.
Answer: Sesame Street
[10] On a different TV show, Vladimir and Estragon are fish owned by Mr. Ratburn, the 3rd grade
teacher of Francine, Buster, and this title aardvark.
Answer: Arthur Read (prompt on “Read”)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 6 of 10
4. This nation's economy is dominated by agriculture, as the Meghna, Brahmaputra, and Padma Rivers
form the Ganges Delta, which makes up roughly half of this country's area. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this country on the Bay of Bengal, whose capital is Dhaka.
Answer: Bangladesh
[10] Bangladesh was known as the "East" region of this country after a 1947 partition; Bangladesh gained
its independence from this country in 1971.
Answer: Pakistan
[10] Bangladesh is bordered on the east and west by this country, which, with Pakistan, was formed from
the partition of the British Raj in 1947.
Answer: India
5. For 10 points each, give the following about important uses of the number 1 in mathematics.
[10] Because multiplying a real number by 1 does not change the value of the real number, 1 has this
property for multiplication. This property is also held by 0 for addition.
Answer: identity property (or identity element, or phrasings like "1 is the multiplicative identity")
[10] A polynomial is called "monic" if the term of highest degree has a value of 1 for this quantity, the
constant multiplier on a variable term.
Answer: coefficient
[10] According to Euler's Identity, 1 plus this exponential expression is equal to zero.
Answer: e to the i times pi power (or e to the pi times i power)
6. Leon Battista Alberti wrote a Renaissance treatise on this technique. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this visual art technique involving making works appear as if they were seen by the naked eye.
An example is foreshortening.
Answer: perspective
[10] Michelangelo enlarged Mary to take advantage of his viewers’ perspective in this sculpture that
shows a young Mary holding the crucified body of Christ. It is his only signed work.
Answer: Pietà
[10] This artist used perspective to create paintings of crowded scenes like The Supper at Emmaus and
The Calling of St. Matthew.
Answer: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio
7. Mata Hari was executed by the French for this action in 1917, as were Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in
1953. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for illegal secretive intelligence gathering, as often done in wartime.
Answer: espionage or spying (or word forms)
[10] In 1776, this colonial soldier and spy volunteered to scout British troop movements, but was caught
and hanged. At his hanging, he legendarily said "I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my
country."
Answer: Nathan Hale
[10] In 1948, a series of classified documents found in one of these plants implicated Alger Hiss in spying
for the Soviet Union.
Answer: pumpkin (accept Pumpkin Papers)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 7 of 10
8. The Alvarez hypothesis states that this event was caused by an asteroid impact roughly 66 million
years ago. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this catastrophic biologic event that marks the end of the Mesozoic Era.
Answer: Cretaceous-Tertiary (or Cretaceous-Paleogene) mass extinction event (accept K-T (or K-Pg)
mass extinction event; accept extinction of the dinosaurs, and prompt on related answers that don’t use
the term “extinction”; prompt on “extinction event” alone)
[10] The main evidence in favor of the Alvarez hypothesis is the abundance of this metal element in
layers of clay and rock formed at boundary of the Cretaceous and Paleogene periods. This metal is very
uncommon in Earth's crust, but commonly found in asteroids and meteorites.
Answer: iridium (accept Ir)
[10] The estimate that the asteroid collision occurred 66 million years ago was made by analyzing the
levels of the 40 and 39 isotopes of this noble gas with atomic symbol Ar.
Answer: Argon (accept Argon-Argon radiometric dating)

9. Answer the following about Edgar Allan Poe’s short stories, for 10 points each.
[10] The Narrator and his friend Dupin attempt to solve a homicide on the title street in this story, only to
discover that the murderer isn’t human.
Answer: The Murders in the Rue Morgue
[10] A prince’s lavish party is invaded while he attempts to take refuge from a dangerous plague in this
allegorical tale.
Answer: The Masque of the Red Death
[10] Name the prince who, at the end of “The Masque of the Red Death,” corners a mysterious robed
figure. He shares his name with the rightful Duke of Milan in Shakespeare's The Tempest.
Answer: Prince Prospero

10. To complete this siege, attacking forces built a wall around a hilltop fort, then built a wall around
themselves to protect from a reinforcing army. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 52 BCE siege of a hilltop fort commanded by Vercingetorix, whose surrender essentially
guaranteed the fall of Gaul.
Answer: Battle of Alesia
[10] This civilization won the battle of Alesia to conquer Gaul. A set of Commentaries detailing the
victory was written by a future dictator of this republic, Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Rome (accept Roman Republic)
[10] After the Battle of Alesia, Caesar was denied a triumph in Rome by Pompey, who had formed this
political alliance with Caesar and Crassus. A similar, later alliance would form between Marc Antony,
Lepidus, and Octavian.
Answer: First Triumvirate (prompt on Triumvirate; do not accept Second Triumvirate)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 8 of 10

11. This quantity is the second time derivative of position. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this quantity, measured in meters per second squared, equal to the rate of change of velocity.
Answer: acceleration
[10] By Newton’s second law, force equals this quantity times acceleration. For an object in free fall in a
vacuum, gravitational acceleration is not dependent on this quantity.
Answer: mass
[10] Displacement equals one-half times acceleration times time squared, plus this quantity times time.
Displacement also equals the average of this quantity and final velocity, times time.
Answer: initial velocity (accept equivalents, like beginning velocity; prompt on velocity)

12. One re-telling of this novel, The House on Eccles Street, was "written" by the fictional author
Elizabeth Costello. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this James Joyce novel, which follows Leopold Bloom on June 16, 1904, as his life parallels
the events of Homer's Odyssey.
Answer: Ulysses
[10] Elizabeth Costello is the title character of a novel by this South African author of Disgrace and Life
& Times of Michael K. This man, who lives in Australia, has won two Booker Prizes and the 2003 Nobel
in Literature.
Answer: J(ohn) M(axwell) Coetzee
[10] Another retelling of the Odyssey, this time from Penelope's view, was written by Margaret Atwood,
an author from this nation. Atwood's novel The Blind Assassin is set in Port Ticonderoga, a fictional city
in Ontario.
Answer: Canada

13. In 1901, a U.S. President invited an African American scholar to dinner, and was so loudly criticized
that no President invited a black man to dinner for more than three decades. For 10 points each,
[10] This African-American leader of the Tuskegee Institute, orator of the "Atlanta Compromise," and
author of Up From Slavery was the honored guest.
Answer: Booker T. Washington
[10] Washington was invited by this President, who took office after the death of William McKinley. In
his military career, this man fought with the "Buffalo Soldiers" as leader of the Rough Riders.
Answer: Theodore Roosevelt
[10] Prior to becoming President, Teddy Roosevelt served as this state's Governor; during his two year
term, he ended segregation of this state's public schools.
Answer: New York

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 9 of 10

14. This is the type of bonding that occurs in carbon dioxide. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of bonding in which electrons are shared between atoms.
Answer: covalent bonding
[10] This rule states that bonds tend to give the atoms of a compound eight valence electrons. In the case
of hydrogen and helium, it is replaced with a simpler “duet” rule.
Answer: octet rule
[10] This diatomic compound violates the octet rule, as its two atoms only combine to have seven valence
electrons. In a famous accident, Sir Humphrey Davy inhaled this reactive gas, which combined with the
common air to form nitric acid in his mouth.
Answer: Nitric oxide or NO or Nitrogen monoxide (do not accept nitrous oxide or laughing gas)

15. The “Bring Back Our Girls” hashtag was created in response to one of this group’s actions. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this Nigerian terrorist organization that gained international attention for abducting over 200
teenage girls from a secondary school in Chibok in April 2014. Their name is often translated as “Western
education is forbidden.”
Answer: Boko Haram (or People Committed to the Prophet's Teachings for Propagation and Jihad
or Jama'atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda'Awati Wal-Jihad)
[10] On the same day as the Chibok abduction, Boko Haram bombed a bus station in this Nigerian
capital, causing nearly 300 casualties.
Answer: Abuja
[10] Boko Haram is funded and supported by a North African arm of this terrorist organization, currently
led by Ayman al-Zawahiri, which orchestrated the attacks on September 11th, 2001.
Answer: al-Qaida (or al-Qaeda)

16. The protagonist of this work wakes up to find himself transformed into a monstrous “vermin.” For 10
points each,
[10] Identify this novella about Gregor Samsa.
Answer: The Metamorphosis (accept Die Verwandlung)
[10] The Metamorphosis was written by this author. In another of this author's works, Uncle Karl tells the
protagonist to hire Huld, the Lawyer.
Answer: Franz Kafka
[10] Uncle Karl and Huld appear in this novel by Franz Kafka. In it, Titorelli sells the protagonist
identical copies of the same landscape and the bank clerk Joseph K. dies "Like a dog!"
Answer: The Trial (accept Der Process)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 8
Page 10 of 10
17. For 10 points each, name the following popular American composers.
[10] This longtime conductor of the U.S. Marine Band earned the title "The March King" for works like
"The Liberty Bell" and "The Stars and Stripes Forever." He also invented a marching tuba that is now
named for him.
Answer: John Philip Sousa (accept Sousaphone)
[10] This composer's "Hoe-down" from his ballet Rodeo was used in commercials for beef; he also wrote
the Fanfare for the Common Man and the music for the ballet Appalachian Spring.
Answer: Aaron Copland
[10] This king of Ragtime music wrote classic piano rags like The Entertainer and the Maple Leaf Rag.
Answer: Scott Joplin
18. Ragnar Lodbrok was a legendary ruler of these people, who defeated Charles the Bald's army on the
Seine River in 845 AD. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this group of exploring Norse seafarers, often depicted in modern culture as rampaging
berzerkers who sacked European cities like Paris.
Answer: Vikings
[10] Viking expansion beyond Scandinavia included the founding of a permanent colony on Greenland by
this father of Leif Erikson.
Answer: Erik the Red (or Erik Torvaldsson; prompt on Erik)
[10] Leif Erikson's exploration included the founding of Vinland, which included a settlement at L'anse
aux Meadows [lahnz oh meadows] in this modern Canadian island province.
Answer: Newfoundland and Labrador
19. Aphrodite helped start the Trojan War when she offered Helen of Troy to the judge of a divine beauty
contest. For 10 points each,
[10] The beauty contest was lost by Hera and this Greek goddess of wisdom.
Answer: Athena (accept Athene; do not accept or prompt on "Minerva")
[10] Helen's husband started the Trojan War in an attempt to save Helen from this Trojan prince, who
judged the goddesses' beauty contest.
Answer: Paris
[10] Angry about the death of his son the cyclops Polyphemus [pah-lih-feh-muss], this god made
Odysseus's sail home from the Trojan War much more difficult.
Answer: Poseidon (do not accept "Neptune")
20. Peptidoglycan in the cell wall of these organisms can be observed by Gram staining. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this domain of microorganisms. Humans have beneficial types living in the gut and on skin.
Answer: bacteria
[10] Some harmless strains of this bacteria are found in the lower intestines, where they help produce
vitamin K. Unfortunately, other strains can cause food poisoning.
Answer: Escherichia coli
[10] E. coli is classified as a bacillus, which has this shape. This shape is in contrast to the spherical shape
of cocci [COX-i].
Answer: rod-shaped

SCOP Novice 5

