2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. This artist depicted a skyscraper at night in Radiator Building, but her later work focuses on
natural images, including a series of jack-in-the-pulpits. After the death of her husband, Alfred (*)
Stieglitz, this artist moved to New Mexico, where she painted Cow’s Skull: Red, White, and Blue. For 10
points, name this American artist known for depicting close-ups of flowers and bones.
Answer: Georgia (Totto) O’Keeffe
2. A piece of this material that "has no earthly business in a Maine hayfield" hides a letter from
Andy to Red in The Shawshank Redemption. After his foot was eaten, Tezcatlipoca replaced it with
a mirror made of this material. This material, formed when flowing (*) water meets a lava source
block, can be used to construct a Nether Portal in Minecraft. For 10 points, name this rock, which forms
from rapidly cooling lava into a black, shiny volcanic glass.
Answer: obsidian (prompt on “volcanic glass” before mentioned)
3. Franklin Sanborn was one of the "Secret Six" who funded this man's actions. He reacted to the
sacking of Lawrence by committing the Pottawatomie Massacre, a pivotal moment during the
"Bleeding Kansas" conflict. In October 1859, Marines led by (*) Robert E. Lee stopped him from
inciting a slave revolt by capturing him in an armory. For 10 points, name this violent abolitionist whose
raid on the armory at Harpers Ferry presaged the Civil War.
Answer: John Brown
4. Calculations in this theory can be simplified in a manifold named for Minkowski. This theory
includes the “pole in the barn” and “twin” paradoxes, and it predicts length contraction and time
dilation. This theory assumes the (*) speed of light to be constant in all reference frames; that fact can
be used to derive E = mc2. For 10 points, name this theory, proposed by Einstein before its “general”
counterpart.
Answer: special relativity (prompt on “relativity,” do not accept “general relativity”)

Round 11
Page 2 of 11
5. The title event of one of this author’s works occurs after the protagonist eats overripe
strawberries. He wrote about the hypnotist Cipolla in Mario and the Magician and included
Settembri and Leo Naphtha in another work. This author described a visit to (*) Joachim Ziemssen
and the seven-year sanatorium stay of Hans Castorp. For 10 points, identify this author of Death in Venice
and The Magic Mountain.
Answer: (Paul) Thomas Mann
6. The city is home to a federal university on Fundão Island and Tijuca Forest National Park. A
98-foot tall statue tops this city's Corcovado Mountain, found just northwest of the Ipanema and
Copacabana beaches and just west of Sugarloaf Mountain. The (*) Rio Maracanã flows through this
city, which is home to Christ the Redeemer. For 10 points, name this host of the 2016 Summer Olympics
that, behind Sao Paulo, is Brazil’s second largest city.
Answer: Rio de Janeiro
7. The Eyring-Polyani equation modifies an equation named for this man that contains a preexponential factor and relates rate constant to activation energy and temperature. This scientist
developed a theory involving increases in (*) hydrogen and hydroxide ion concentrations that was later
replaced by the Bronsted-Lowry and Lewis theories. For 10 points, name this Swedish chemist who won
a Nobel Prize for his work on acids and bases.
Answer: Svante Arrhenius
8. One ruler from this place was the wife of France’s Louis XIII, Anne. Another Archduke of this
place issued the Patent of Toleration. That ruler’s mother came to power after the issuing of the
Pragmatic Sanction, was the mother of Marie Antoinette, and ruled during a war (*) of succession
named after this country; those rulers were Joseph II and Maria Theresa. For 10 points, name this country
where the Habsburgs ruled from Vienna.
Answer: Austria (or Österreich)
9. Zeus wanted to wed this figure's mother until a prophecy foretold that this figure would become
greater than his father. After his death, Ajax and Odysseus fought over his armor. (*) Paris killed
this friend of Patroclus with a carefully aimed arrow, even though his mother had protected him as a child
by dipping him in the river Styx. For 10 points, name this Greek mythical hero whose only vulnerability
was his heel.
Answer: Achilles
10. A parrot in this novel shrieks “Allez Vous-en!” [ah-LAY voo ZON] at passing cottage guests,
and this novel’s protagonist cries upon hearing Mademoiselle Reisz’s [rize's] piano playing. The
protagonist compares herself to the motherly Adele Ratignolle [rah-tih-nyoll] in her marriage to
Léonce. She has an affair with Alcée Arobin [ah-roh-BAN] and falls in love with (*) Robert Lebrun,
which ultimately leads to her suicide in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, identify this novel about Edna
Pontellier [pon-tell-ee-ay], a work by Kate Chopin [shoh-PAN].
Answer: The Awakening

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 3 of 11
11. This disorder results in discoloration of the iris known as Brushfield spots. Sleep apnea is
common in this disorder due to an enlarged tongue. This disorder is more common in those born to
mothers older than 35 years old, and it is caused by a trisomy, or the existence of (*) three
chromosomal copies, of chromosome 21. A flattened nose and face, as well as slanted eyes, are observed
in, for 10 points, which genetic disorder that causes severe mental disability?
Answer: Down’s syndrome (accept trisomy 21 before “chromosome”)
12. The "Treaty of Peace and Amity" opened this country to trade with the United States. This
country's Charter Oath sought to unify factions of the Boshin War, but nine years later, the
Satsuma Rebellion failed at overthrowing the (*) Emperor. In the 1945 Jewel Voice Broadcast, this
country's emperor renounced his divinity and surrendered to the Allies. For 10 points, name this country,
whose Emperors Meiji and Hirohito ruled from Tokyo.
Answer: Japan
13. In one work by this author, Mr. Guest recognizes two characters’ similar handwriting and
Danvers Carew is murdered. In another work, Squire Trelawney hires Captain Smollett to lead a
crew that includes young (*) Jim Hawkins and the pirate Long John Silver in a journey to the title
location. For 10 points, identify this author of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and Treasure Island.
Answer: Robert Louis (Balfour) Stevenson
14. This designer of a planned community at Arthurdale resigned from the D.A.R. and arranged a
concert at the Lincoln Memorial for Marian Anderson. This first chair of the UN Commission on
Human Rights helped develop the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which included the (*)
“Four Freedoms” proposed by her husband. For 10 points, name this First Lady, the wife of Franklin D.
Roosevelt.
Answer: Eleanor Roosevelt (accept Eleanor alone after “Roosevelt” is read)
15. Leos Janacek dedicated his Sinfonietta to the army of this country, his homeland. Bedrich
Smetana's Ma Vlast depicts this country, including its Vltava River. Another composer from this
modern country traveled to America, where he composed the American string quartet and the (*)
From the New World symphony. Antonin Dvorak championed the folk music of, for 10 points, what
European country, whose Vltava River flows through the capital of Prague?
Answer: Czech Republic or Czechoslovakia
16. Amounts of this substance are measured by the GOMOS instrument. This substance is created
in the coronal discharge method, although ultraviolet generation methods are used for sanitation of
swimming pools. The Montreal Protocol protects this substance by limiting production of (*) CFCs.
This substance in the stratosphere absorbs most solar UV radiation. For ten points, name this triatomic
oxygen molecule found in a protective atmospheric layer.
Answer: ozone (accept O3 before “triatomic” is read)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 4 of 11
17. In this work,Sergei Koznyshev joins a movement for the Slavs, and another character is upset
that his horse Frou-Frou must be put down after a race. Levin impregnates Kitty in this novel,
which sees Stiva cheat on his wife, Dolly. After a fight with (*) Count Vronsky, this novel’s title
character commits suicide by jumping in front of a train. For 10 points, name this novel about a title
woman, written by Leo Tolstoy.
Answer: Anna Karenina
18. The clergy in this religion include Seventies and the Order of the Twelve, and are divided into
Melchizedek [mehl-KIH-zah-deck] and Aaronic [ay-ron-ick] Priesthoods. Urim [oo-rim] and
Thummim [thoo-mihm] were used in the translation of holy texts in this religion. The angel (*)
Moroni revealed this religion’s holy book, written on golden plates, to this denomination’s founder,
Joseph Smith. For 10 points, name this Christian denomination headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Answer: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (accept Mormonism; prompt on LDS)
19. The truncated icosahedron features 20 faces of this shape and 12 pentagonal faces. The area of
this regular polygon is three-halves times root 3 times the side length squared. This is the polygon
with the most sides that can regularly tile the (*) plane. If its angles are bisected by its diagonals,
equilateral triangles are formed because each of its angles measures 120 degrees. For 10 points, name this
regular polygon with six sides.
Answer: regular hexagon
20. In one work, this anti-mercantilist philosopher noted that it wasn't benevolence, but selfinterest, that made "the butcher, the brewer, or the baker" offer their services. That work by this
author notes the power of division of labor and explained how (*) markets regulate themselves with
the "Invisible Hand" metaphor. For 10 points, name this Scottish economist, the author of The Theory of
Moral Sentiments and The Wealth of Nations.
Answer: Adam Smith

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 5 of 11
Bonuses
1. Temples take on different forms all around the world. For 10 points each, answer the following about
places of worship.
[10] Zoroastrian temples are named for this very hot purifying element which, with water, is a cleansing
substance in Zoroastrianism.
Answer: holy fires (accept flame or similar; accept Atar or Atari)
[10] These step pyramids, similar to Mastaba, were often built in Mesopotamian cities like Ur.
Answer: ziggurat
[10] These free-standing Japanese doorways mark the entrances to Shinto shrines, and are named for the
birds that often sit on them.
Answer: torii [toh-ree]

2. This rebel group, which formed in the mid-20th century in the aftermath of La Violencia, has recently
proclaimed an end to ransom kidnappings. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this South American group of guerilla fighters. It has engaged in recent peace talks with
President Juan Manuel Santos, who hopes to put an end to this group's violence and illegal drug
trafficking.
Answer: FARC (accept, but do not otherwise reveal, Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia)
[10] Days after Juan Manuel Santos took office as this nation's President, a car bomb believed to have
been planted by FARC exploded in this nation's capital of Bogota.
Answer: Colombia
[10] Much of FARC's funding comes from trade in this illegal drug, a stimulant synthesized from
namesake leaves.
Answer: cocaine

3. He wrote “All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others” in one work. For 10 points
each,
[10] Identify this author of Animal Farm who wrote about Winston Smith, O’Brien, and Big Brother in
1984.
Answer: George Orwell or Eric Arthur Blair
[10] Orwell wrote about shooting this animal in Burma. Kipling created Hathi, one of these animals, in
The Jungle Book. In Just So Stories, one of these animals elongates its nose to escape a crocodile.
Answer: elephant
[10] Orwell called this author’s A Passage to India “the best [novel about India] we are likely to get.”
This author also wrote A Room with a View and Howard’s End.
Answer: E(dward) M(organ) Forster

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 6 of 11
4. Socrates was convicted of corrupting the youth of Athens and of holding a form of this philosophy.
For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for the disbelief of the existence of supernatural deities. It is often compared with
agnosticism, the idea that one cannot know whether deities exist or not.
Answer: atheism (accept word forms)
[10] This Ancient Greek school of philosophy argued that the gods did not interfere with mortal affairs.
This school argues that freedom from fear and pain is the highest form of pleasure and the goal of life.
Answer: Epicureanism (accept word forms)
[10] Epicureanism's belief in non-interfering deities influenced this modern belief that flourished during
the Enlightenment under thinkers like Voltaire. This "natural religion" disputes miracles and other
supernatural events, and takes its name from the Latin for “god.”
Answer: deism (accept word forms)

5. For 10 points each, give the following about inflection points.
[10] Inflection points will be found where this property of a function changes its sign. In geometry, this
property is the opposite of convexity.
Answer: concavity (accept word forms; prompt on curvature)
[10] This type of polynomial has constant, non-zero concavity, and therefore will never have a point of
inflection. As a result, these polynomial functions are either always concave up or always concave down.
Answer: quadratic polynomials (or polynomials of degree 2; accept parabolas)
[10] This curve, commonly used in statistics, has two inflection points, each lying exactly one standard
deviation away from the mean.
Answer: normal distribution or curve (accept bell distribution or curve; accept Gaussian distribution or
curve)

6. This symphony was premiered at the same concert as the next numbered symphony by its composer,
which is subtitled "Pastoral." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this symphony, whose opening "short-short-short-long" motif is often described as "Fate
knocking at the door."
Answer: Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 5 in C minor, Opus 67 (prompt on partial answer)
[10] The first movement of Beethoven's fifth symphony, like many works in sonata-allegro form, begins
with the exposition of the theme. It then develops the theme, then it gives a straight-forward repeat of the
exposition; that last section is described by this term. This section is usually followed by a coda.
Answer: recapitulation
[10] Beethoven's fifth and sixth symphonies were completed as his deafness progressively worsened; he
completed this many symphonies in his career before dying at age 56. His final symphony famously
incorporated vocalists.
Answer: 9

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 7 of 11
7. The title objects of this story are combs and a fob. For ten points each:
[10] Name this story story in which Della sells her hair and Jim sells his watch in order to buy each other
Christmas presents.
Answer: The Gift of the Magi
[10] "The Gift of the Magi” is a story by this author, who included it with “The Cop and the Anthem” in
his collection The Four Million.
Answer: O. Henry (accept William Sidney Porter)
[10] O. Henry also wrote this short story, in which the title child terrorizes his would-be kidnappers until
they pay for him to go home.
Answer: The Ransom of Red Chief

8. In 2014, shortly after being diagnosed with Marfan syndrome, Isaiah Austin ceremonially took part in
this event. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this annual event. From 2011 to 2014, the Cleveland Cavaliers started this event three times,
selecting Kyrie Irving and two Canadians, Anthony Bennett and Andrew Wiggins.
Answer: National Basketball Association Draft (prompt on "the Draft")
[10] This ACC school had two first round draft picks in the 2014 Draft: Rodney Hood and the #2 overall
selection, Jabari Parker. This school has been coached since 1980 by Mike Krzyzewski [shuh-SHEF-ski].
Answer: Duke University
[10] Near the end of the 2014 Draft's first round, the Miami Heat traded up to acquire this Connecticut
Huskie. LeBron James tweeted was his "favorite player in the draft,” but drafting this player apparently
wasn’t enough to keep LeBron in Miami.
Answer: Shabazz Napier

9. This program, introduced in 2009 and adopted by 46 states before Indiana withdrew, does not address
science or social studies. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this national program, which prescribes a series of standard topics and ideas in English and
mathematics that students should know, organized by grade level.
Answer: Common Core State Standards Initiative (accept any combination of extra information)
[10] The Common Core is not the first national educational initiative; this 2001 law required states to
develop their own sets of standards and labels schools as "in need of improvement" if they failed to meet
Adequate Yearly Progress on standardized tests.
Answer: No Child Left Behind (Law, Bill, or Act; accept NCLB)
[10] The No Child Left Behind Bill was proposed on January 23rd, 2001, within the first week of this
President's first term.
Answer: George Walker Bush (prompt on Bush; prompt on George Bush; accept anything that clearly
indicates him instead of his father; do not accept George H.W. Bush)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 8 of 11
10. For 10 points each, answer these questions about ailments of the digestive system.
[10] The bacteria H. pylori, rather than stress, causes most of these lesions that wear away the lining of
the stomach. These can cause chronic pain and bleeding in the stomach.
Answer: gastric/peptic ulcers
[10] Cholesterol crystallizes to form stones within this small, green organ that stores bile produced in the
liver before releasing it to the intestine.
Answer: gallbladder
[10] The growth of bacterial plaque that traps acid is the main cause of cavities in these structures. The
addition of fluoride to drinking water helps these structures retain calcium.
Answer: teeth
11. This state includes the easternmost point of its country, Isla Mujeres, and its tourist destinations
include Playa del Carmen, Cozumel, and Cancun. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this state, east of the state of Campeche and north of Belize.
Answer: Quintana Roo
[10] Quintana Roo and Campeche are among the states of this largest country in Central America.
Answer: Mexico
[10] Quintana Roo lies on this peninsula, named for the state directly to its northwest. This peninsula juts
into the Gulf of Mexico.
Answer: Yucatan Peninsula
12. A charged particle in one of these entities will undergo uniform circular motion. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these fields that arise from moving charges. They are described by the Biot-Savart [bee-OH
sah-VAR] law and measured in Teslas, unlike their electric counterparts.
Answer: magnetic fields
[10] This rule determines the direction of the force on a particle given the magnetic field and velocity. A
similarly named rule gives the direction of the magnetic field around a current-carrying wire.
Answer: right-hand rule
[10] This law, one of Maxwell’s equations, relates the line integral of the magnetic field to enclosed
current. It can be used to write magnetic field as a function of current for solenoids.
Answer: Ampere’s law
13. Answer the following about mythological storytellers, for 10 points each.
[10] In West African myth, the trickster Anansi, who bought all the stories of the world from Nyame, had
the form of this creature. Arachne was turned into this animal when she wove a tapestry showing gods
abusing mortals.
Answer: spider (prompt on “arachnid(s)”)
[10] These children of Zeus and Mnemosyne were responsible for literary inspiration and oral knowledge.
These nine goddesses, representing various arts, included Clio and Calliope.
Answer: Muses
[10] This legendary Persian queen avoided her execution by telling her sister, Dunyazad, and husband,
Shahryar, stories, such as those about Sinbad the Sailor and Ali Baba.
Answer: Scheherazade

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 9 of 11

14. One character in this novel, Fanny Robin, goes to the wrong church on what should have been her
wedding day. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this Thomas Hardy novel in which William Boldwood kills Sergeant Troy, and Bathsheba
Everdene marries Gabriel Oak.
Answer: Far from the Madding Crowd
[10] “Far from the Madding Crowd”’ is a line from this English author’s poem “Elegy Written in a
Country Churchyard.”
Answer: Thomas Gray
[10] This author italicized five lines of Gray as the only part of a sonnet “of any value” in the preface to
Lyrical Ballads, which included this author’s “Tintern Abbey” and Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s “The Rime
of the Ancient Mariner.”
Answer: William Wordsworth

15. This type of matter is thought to make up more than 25% of all matter in the Universe. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this unobservable type of matter that can only be detected through gravitational interactions. It
was discovered by Fritz Zwicky and has cold, warm, and hot subtypes.
Answer: dark matter
[10] Vera Rubin obtained strong evidence for the existence of dark matter by studying the rotation curves
of these groups of billions of stars. The Milky Way is an example of one.
Answer: galaxy
[10] These particles are prime candidates for dark matter. They’re not MACHOs, but these
supersymmetric particles are being searched for by scintillation detectors far underground.
Answer: WIMPs (accept Weakly Interacting Massive Particle, accept neutralinos)

16. This man survived a 1962 assassination attempt by the OAS, a group of French dissidents who
wanted to stop the negotiation of the Évian Accords. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this French President, the founder of the Fifth Republic, who had earlier led the Free French
forces during World War II.
Answer: Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle
[10] The Évian Accords granted independence to this French colony in northern Africa. The
independence movement here was led by Ahmed Ben Bella's National Liberation Front, or the FLN.
Answer: Algeria
[10] The FLN's use of terrorism to oppose French rule, and the French paramilitary response, were
dramatized in the 1966 film The Battle of this Algerian capital city.
Answer: The Battle of Algiers

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 10 of 11
17. In one of this author’s works, the Tiger leads an army north to overthrow the army of the warlord the
Leopard. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this author of Sons who wrote about Wang Lung and his family in The Good Earth.
Answer: Pearl S(ydenstricker) Buck (accept John Sedges; accept Sai Zhenzhu)
[10] Buck’s parents had this profession, which took them to China in an attempt to convert the local
people to Christianity.
Answer: missionary
[10] In The Good Earth, Wang Lung has to pull one of these vehicles around to support his family. In a
Kipling short story, Jack sees Mrs. Wessington’s ghost riding in one of these vehicles.
Answer: rickshaw

18. He created a 76-foot-long structure that hangs in the atrium of a building of the National Gallery of
Art, which also houses his works Triple Gong and Cascading Flowers. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this American artist known for creating mobiles.
Answer: Alexander Calder
[10] Calder also created stationary sculptures called "stabiles." Many of his stabiles, including his
Flamingo stabile in Chicago and Eagle stabile in Seattle, are painted in his signature shade of this bold
primary color.
Answer: (Calder) red
[10] One of Calder's mobiles is named for this animal's "trap" "and Fish Tail." Salvador Dalí attached a
plastic version of this animal to a telephone in one of his works.
Answer: lobster

19. In 1861, a Confederate officer, John Merryman, was illegally arrested for treason by a Union military
officer, then was illegally held when this writ was ignored. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this legal action, in which a prisoner complains to a judge that his or her imprisonment is
illegal. Its two-word name comes from the Latin for "you may have the body."
Answer: writ of Habeas Corpus
[10] This U.S. President suspended the writ of habeus corpus in Maryland in 1861 to protect a supply
line, resulting in the illegal arrest of John Merryman. He expanded the suspension of habeus corpus to the
entire country later in the Civil War.
Answer: Abraham Lincoln
[10] This Chief Justice ruled in Ex parte Merryman that only Congress, not the President, has the
authority to suspend the writ of habeus corpus. He was also Chief Justice for the Dred Scott decision.
Answer: Roger B. Taney

SCOP Novice 5

Round 11
Page 11 of 11
20. For 10 points each, give the following about calcium.
[10] The atomic number of calcium is 20, which means an atom of calcium has 20 of these positively
charged particles in its nucleus.
Answer: protons
[10] Calcium has this many valence electrons. It also forms a cation with this charge, which can form
compounds like CaCl2 [C-A-C-L-2].
Answer: two (accept plus two, do not accept “minus two”)
[10] This quantity is the amount of energy required to remove an electron from an atom. After calcium
has two electrons removed, this quantity becomes very high due to a full valence shell.
Answer: first ionization energy

SCOP Novice 5

