2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 1
Tossups
1. Drops of this figure’s blood became the giant Chrysaor [KREE-”sour”], and this figure’s
siblings were named Stheno [s-THEH-no] and Euryale [yoo-ree-AH-lee]. Athena cursed this
woman for lying with Poseidon in her temple, and used this figure’s face to decorate her (*)
Ægis [EE-jis]. Perseus used his shield to see this woman as he killed her, since her glance could
turn mortals to stone. For 10 points, name this only mortal Gorgon, a woman with snakes for hair.
Answer: Medusa
2. The Dungan Revolt was fought by members of this religion called Hui, and Zheng He was a
member of this religion. Medieval Europeans falsely believed this religion to worship
Termagant, and members of this religion called (*) Moriscos were expelled from Spain. Richard
the Lionheart fought members of this religion led by Saladin. For 10 points, name this religion with
historical adherents such as Suleimān the Magnificent and Muhammad.
Answer: Religion of Islam (accept Muslim religion; accept equivalent terms such as Muslim or
Islamic faith, creed, etc; accept al-ʾislām; accept Sunni Islam or ʾAhlu-s-Sunna[h]ti wa-l-Jamāʿah;
accept Hui before “members of this religion” is read)
3. This mathematician proved the law of quadratic reciprocity and showed that a straightedgeand-compass construction of a 17-gon is possible. As a child, he supposedly found a way to
quickly add the integers from 1 to 100, and he names a (*) row-reduction method for solving
systems of linear equations via matrices, called his namesake “elimination.”. For 10 points, identify
this mathematician who gives his name to the normal distribution, or bell curve.
Answer: Carl Friedrich Gauss
4. One novel by this author tells the story of the temptation of the composer Adrian Leverkuhn.
This author wrote another novel about Hans Castorp, who gets stuck at the title Swiss (*)
sanitorium after coming down with tuberculosis. Gustav van Aschenbach dies of cholera in another
work by this author. For 10 points, name this German author of Doctor Faustus, The Magic
Mountain, and Death in Venice.
Answer: Thomas Mann
5. The liver converts this vitamin into calcidiol, which is then converted to calcitriol in the
kidneys. Forms of this vitamin act as a hormone that regulates phosphate and calcium
concentration in the body and this vitamin is produced with (*) UV light exposure. Shortage of
this vitamin causes osteomalacia in adults and rickets in children. For 10 points, name this fatsoluble vitamin obtained from sunbathing or drinking milk.
Answer: Vitamin D
6. This man and his family were arrested at Varennes while trying to flee to Montmédy. The
“Report to the King,” written by this ruler’s finance minister Jacques Necker, convinced
lenders to continue financing the American Revolution. The National Assembly signed the (*)
Tennis Court Oath in defiance of this ruler. The Bastille fell during the reign of, for 10 points, what
husband of Marie Antoinette, a French king who was executed during the French Revolution?
Answer: King Louis XVI [Sixteenth] Bourbon of France (prompt on Louis)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 2
7. This work includes the vow "death won't part us now," while another song from this work
notes that "Miss America can just resign;" those Stephen Sondheim-written lyrics, from
"One Hand, One Heart" and (*) "I Feel Pretty," are sung by the friend of Anita and sister of
Bernardo, Maria. Leonard Bernstein wrote the music for, for 10 points, what musical adaptation of
Romeo and Juliet set in the midst of a gang war between the Jets and Sharks?
Answer: West Side Story (accept "One Hand, One Heart" before mentioned)
8. This language borrowed its current third-person plural pronouns from contact with the
Danelaw. One of this language’s parent languages experienced Grimm’s Law, and this
language itself underwent the (*) Great Vowel Shift. Though it is Germanic, this language borrows
heavily from French due to the Norman conquest of this language’s native country. For 10 points,
name this modern language that is spoken widely in Canada and other British colonies.
Answer: Modern English (accept Old English before “Great Vowel Shift” is read; accept Middle
English until “modern” is read)
9. In a work by this author, a woman watches twenty-eight young men carelessly bathe
together. This man asks “If the body were not the Soul, what is the Soul?” in one work and
describes a community going to war in (*) “Drum-Taps.” This author memorialized Abraham
Lincoln with “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” and wrote, “I celebrate myself and sing
myself.” For 10 points, name this American poet of Leaves of Grass.
Answer: Walt(er) Whitman
10. The Sea Venture sank in Bermuda en route to this colony. William Berkeley's governorship
of this colony enraged Nathaniel Bacon, who took a military commission by force from
members of this colony's House of (*) Burgesses. It is home to The College of William and Mary
and, after becoming a state, its state university was founded by Thomas Jefferson. For 10 points,
name this American colony whose capitals were Williamsburg and Jamestown.
Answer: Virginia Colony (accept Commonwealth of Virginia)

Half Time
11. Leon Black purchased one of the four versions of this work for almost $120 million in a May
2012 auction. This work, part of the Frieze of Life series, depicts a popular suicide spot. Two
figures on the left are walking next to a short (*) railing while a bay in this work's background
reflects the red-orange sky. For 10 points, name this Edvard Munch painting, whose black-clad
central figure holds his hands to the sides of his hairless head.
Answer: The Scream (accept Skrik)
12. Near the end of this conflict, the 1st Infantry Division used bulldozers to bury alive enemy
forces in trenches. This war saw the first use of Patriot Missiles and ended with the bombing
of the "Highway of Death." After losing the ground campaign to the Norman (*) Schwarzkopfled UN coalition, retreating forces set fire to over 700 oil wells. Iraq's invasion of Kuwait triggered,
for 10 points, what war codenamed Operation Desert Storm?
Answer: (First) Persian Gulf War (prompt on Operation Desert Storm before mentioned; prompt on
“Iraq-Kuwait War” before mentioned; do not accept or prompt “Iraq War”)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 3
13. The van der Waals equation corrects this quantity using the parameter “b.” Isochoric
processes perform no work because it remains constant. Kinetic theory assumes that this
quantity is zero for single molecules. Boyle’s law states it has an inverse relation with (*)
pressure, which is multiplied by this quantity in the ideal gas law. For 10 points, name this quantity
that is constant for solids and liquids but variable for gases and is often measured in liters.
Answer: volume
14. An essay from this movement says that farmers cannot buy the most valuable part of land,
beauty. In addition to Nature, an essay from this movement prefers intuition to authority, The
Over-Soul. Works from this movement describe an author’s refusal to pay (*) taxes in an act
of Civil Disobedience, and two years spent by Walden Pond. For 10 points, name this American
literary movement that included Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau.
Answer: Transcendentalism (accept word forms, such as the Transcendentalists)
15. This man’s last match was a loss to Lukas Rosol in the second round of 2012 Wimbledon
before being sidelined by a torn knee tendon. This 2008 Olympic Gold Medalist and winner
of 11 Grand Slam titles beat Novak Djokovic [“joke”-oh-vich] in 2012 on Roland Garros's (*)
clay for his seventh French Open title; four of those titles came against Roger Federer. For 10
points, name this Spanish tennis player known as "Rafa." [RAH-fah]
Answer: Rafael Nadal [na-DAHL] (prompt on "Rafa" before mentioned)
16. A bullet’s speed can be determined using the “ballistic” type of this object. Two of them can
be coupled to exhibit chaotic motion, and Foucault used one to show the Earth rotates. A
simple formula, requiring the small-angle approximation, states that one’s (*) period depends
only on its length and on gravity, not on the mass or amplitude of oscillation. For 10 points, name
this object, a weight suspended by a string often found in clocks.
Answer: pendulums
17. Halla-san is a volcano in this nation's southernmost province, the island of Jeju. This
country plans to move government facilities to a new "special autonomous city," Sejong.
This country's largest port, north of Tsushima Island, is the southern city of (*) Busan, while
the northern city of Incheon is near a de-militarized zone crossing the 38th Parallel. For 10 points,
name this peninsular Asian nation with capital Seoul.
Answer: South Korea (accept Republic of Korea; accept Han'guk or Taehan-min'guk; prompt on
Korea before "nation;" do not accept Democratic People's Republic of Korea)
18. In this play a daughter trades her father's ring for a pet monkey. In this play, the Prince of
Morocco declares "Never so rich a gem / Was set in worse than gold" while choosing from
among three caskets. Nerissa and her mistress dress as men during a trial, and (*) Bassanio
asks Antonio for money so that he can court Portia in this play. For 10 points name this
Shakespeare play in which the Jew Shylock tries to take a pound of flesh from the title character.
Answer: The Merchant of Venice
19. The ninety-sixth section of this work invokes the reader to “recite” in the name of the lord
“who created man from a mere clot of blood.” Mukham [moo-khahm] and mutashabeh [mootah-shah-beh] are classifications of (*) ayat that appear in this work, which includes basmalah in
all but its ninth chapter. Those chapters are called sura, and were first delivered on Mount Hira by
Jibreel. For 10 points, name this Islamic religious text that was revealed to the Prophet Muhammad.
Answer: al-Quran

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 4
20. The fragments of one of these celestial objects named for Kreutz have orbits that "graze" the
Sun. One of these objects named for Encke has a period of only 3.3 years, and fragments
from another of these objects become (*) Perseid meteors. Solar radiation creates a dusty coma
around these bodies; the solar wind then acts on that dust, forming a tail. For 10 points, name these
small bodies of ice and rock, one of which is named for Edmund Halley.
Answer: comet (prompt on (Kreutz) sungrazer(s) before mentioned)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 5
Bonuses
1. Batholiths are large intrusions of this type of rock. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of rock that forms from the cooling of magma or lava. Granite and pumice are
examples of this type of rock.
Answer: igneous rocks
[10] Name this igneous rock that is a form of volcanic glass. It forms from rapidly cooling rhyolitic
lava and generally has a black color.
Answer: obsidian
[10] This term refers to any fragments discharged by a volcanic eruption. It can be classified as ash,
lapilli, or bombs based on its size.
Answer: tephra (prompt on ejecta)
2. Name some important locations in the life of Jesus, for 10 points each.
[10] Jesus spent his early life in this small town in Galilee, the hometown of Joseph and Mary.
Answer: Nazareth (accept an-Nasira)
[10] Though Joseph and Mary lived in Nazareth, a census brought them to this city, where Jesus
was born in a stable.
Answer: Bethlehem
[10] Jesus was betrayed by Judas after praying fervently near the Mount of Olives, in this garden in
Jerusalem.
Answer: Gethsemane [geth-SEH-mah-nee]
3. Artists often employ unusual methods to create art. For 10 points each,
[10] This French pioneer of pointillism used small dabs of color to create the enormous Sunday
Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.
Answer: Georges Pierre Seurat
[10] This pop artist used silk screen techniques to create portraits of Marilyn Monroe, Mao Zedong,
and Campbell’s Soup Cans.
Answer: Andrew “Andy” Warhol (accept Andrew “Andy” Warhola)
[10] Unusually, this work by Leonardo da Vinci was painted on a dry wall, leading to its extreme
degradation. In this painting, Christ extends his hands over a table as his disciples look on.
Answer: The Last Supper
4. South Korean players and Hardcore-mode characters do not have access to this feature, which
includes a 15% fee for gold trading and went live a month after its game was released. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this feature of a 2012 PC game, which allows items such as Natalya's Gaze to be sold
for up to $250.
Answer: (Battle.net) Real-Money Auction House (accept equivalents for "Real-Money" that
describe real world cash rather than virtual in-game gold; prompt on partial answer; prompt on
RMAH)
[10] The Real-Money Auction House was introduced in the third installment of this RPG series
created by Blizzard Entertainment. This series features the mage Deckard Cain and is set in the
world of Sanctuary.
Answer: Diablo (accept Diablo 3)
[10] While players can use money earned on the Real-Money Auction House to buy other Blizzard
products, Blizzard has been criticized for taking an extra 15% cut if money is "cashed out" via this
eBay-owned web service, the only withdrawal option offered.
Answer: PayPal, Inc. (accept PayPal.com)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 6
5. A Swiss physicist proposed it in his 1728 work Hydrodynamica. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this statement that as a fluid’s velocity increases its pressure decreases.
Answer: Bernoulli’s principle (accept Bernoulli effect)
[10] In the mathematical statement of Bernoulli’s principle, pressure is divided by this quantity.
Often symbolized rho, it equals mass divided by volume.
Answer: (mass) density
[10] Fluids exert this force on objects, equal to the weight of the fluid displaced. If an object is less
dense than the fluid, this force will equal the object’s weight and cause it to float.
Answer: buoyant force (accept buoyancy)
6. Name some American women writers, for 10 points each.
[10] This woman wrote about the sisters Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy in her novel Little Women.
Answer: Louisa May Alcott
[10] This woman wrote about a slave who is sold by Arthur Shelby to pay off a debt and who is
eventually whipped to death by Simon Legree in a novel subtitled Life Among the Lowly.
Answer: Harriet Beecher Stowe
[10] This early poet wrote "If ever two were one, then surely we," in her "To My Dear and Loving
Husband." She authored the collection The Tenth Muse, Lately Sprung Up in America.
Answer: Anne Dudley Bradstreet
7. This mineral is formed by stacking sheets of graphene. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this mineral which is able to conduct electricity. It is used to lubricate machinery and
found in pencils.
Answer: Graphite
[10] Graphite is an allotrope of this element with atomic number 6. Other allotropes include
Lonsdaleite and diamond.
Answer: Carbon
[10] This 60-carbon structure resembles geodesic domes and occurs naturally in soot.
Answer: buckminsterfullerene (accept buckyballs; prompt on fullerene)
8. In Schechter Poultry Corporation v. United States, known as the "sick chicken case," the Supreme
Court unanimously decided that this law was unconstitutional. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this piece of legislation, signed in 1933, that established the National Recovery
Administration, known for its Blue Eagle emblem, and the Public Works Administration, which
survived the Supreme Court's ruling in Schechter.
Answer: National Industrial Recovery Act (accept NIRA)
[10] The NIRA promoted cooperation between businesses and, correspondingly, relaxed laws
against these cooperative business arrangements. Earlier laws designed to combat these
arrangements were named for Henry Clayton and John Sherman.
Answer: trusts (accept antitrust legislation and equivalents; accept (Clayton or Sherman)
Antitrust Law(s); accept (Clayton or Sherman) Antitrust Act(s))
[10] The NIRA was among many pieces of New Deal legislation signed in the first Hundred Days of
this U.S. President's first term.
Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt (accept FDR)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 7
9. This poem says "be not coy, but use your time," and it argues "That age is best which is the first /
When youth and blood are warmer." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 17th century poem that beseeches young people to "gather ye rosebuds while ye
may."
Answer: To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time
[10] "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time" was written by this English poet.
Answer: Robert Herrick
[10] Herrick's poetry emphasizes this philosophy, from the Latin for "seize the day."
Answer: carpe diem
10. Claims that this document is a forgery are often accompanied by claims that an "authentic" version
would come from Kenya, rather than Honolulu, Hawaii. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this document, the long-form version of which was released by the White House in 2011.
Answer: Barack Obama's birth certificate (prompt on "birth certificate")
[10] In 2012, this Sheriff of Maricopa County, including the city of Phoenix, organized a "posse" of
volunteers to travel to Hawaii to investigate the authenticity of President Obama's long-form birth
certificate.
Answer: Joseph "Joe" Arpaio
[10] Arpaio serves in this U.S. state, in which 2010's Senate Bill 1070 created the strictest antiillegal immigration law in the country. Among other things, the law requires non-citizens in this state
to carry their registration papers on them at all times.
Answer: Arizona
11. Opposite edges of a tetrahedron have this property. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for lines in space that do not intersect and are not parallel.
Answer: skew lines
[10] Skew lines do not both lie in the same one of these two dimensional surfaces. Any three noncollinear points define one of them.
Answer: planes
[10] In this non-Euclidean geometry, any two lines must intersect each other. In this geometry the
interior angles of a triangle add up to more than 180 degrees.
Answer: spherical geometry (accept elliptic geometry)
12. One theory states that liberal democracies will always mutually exist in this state, partially because
citizens will not vote to leave this state. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this concept, the absence of military conflict. President Kennedy founded an American
volunteer “corps” that promotes this concept.
Answer: peace (accept elaborations, such as "world peace;" accept democratic peace theory;
accept Peace Corps)
[10] This German philosopher, the author of Critique of Pure Reason, outlined a nine-point plan for
perpetual peace arguing for republican government and an end to standing armies.
Answer: Immanuel Kant
[10] With Albert Einstein, this British philosopher wrote a manifesto condemning nuclear weapons.
In 1940, this author of Why I Am Not A Christian was deemed "morally unfit" to teach at City
College of New York.
Answer: Bertrand Russell

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 8
13. Major Robert Anderson led the Union troops during the battle at this location. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this fort that was bombarded and captured by Confederate forces to begin the Civil War.
Answer: Fort Sumter
[10] Fort Sumter is located in this state. Fort Wagner served as a Confederate defense for the
harbor of this state’s capital city, Columbia.
Answer: South Carolina
[10] The Confederate capture of Charleston, South Carolina, presented a problem for this Union
strategy, proposed by Winfield Scott, of blockading the Confederacy into a slow war of attrition.
Answer: Anaconda Plan
14. For 10 points each, give the following about famously terse replies in history.
[10] After subduing Theban and Athenian forces, this Macedonian king and father of Alexander the
Great sent an envoy to Sparta, saying "Surrender now, because if we invade, we will kill you and
tear down your city." Sparta's one-word reply, "If.", convinced this man to leave Sparta alone.
Answer: Philip II of Macedon (prompt on partial answer)
[10] After quickly defeating Pharnaces II of Pontus, this Roman leader sent the news of the victory
back to Rome via a three word message: "Veni, vidi, vici," or "I came, I saw, I conquered." This man
was similarly brief with his dying words: "Et tu, Brute?"
Answer: Gaius Julius Caesar
[10] Pierre Trudeau held this political position during Quebec’s October Crisis, when he restricted
civil liberties in the name of security. When a reporter asked how restrictive he would get, Trudeau
replied, "Just watch me."
Answer: Prime Minister of Canada (prompt on partial answers like “prime minister” or "leader of
Canada")
15. This work includes the aria "Sempre libera," sung by Violetta Valery as she contemplates dumping
Baron Douphol for Alfredo. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this opera.
Answer: La traviata
[10] La traviata was composed by this Italian creator of Il trovatore and Aida.
Answer: Giuseppe Verdi
[10] At the end of La traviata, Violetta dies of this respiratory disease, which also claims the life of
Mimi in Puccini's La boheme.
Answer: tuberculosis (prompt on consumption or TB)
16. One story in this collection depicts a day in the “life” of an automated house after nuclear war has
devastated the surrounding neighborhood. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 1950 science-fiction collection of short stories depicting atomic war on Earth and the
human attempt to colonize another planet.
Answer: The Martian Chronicles
[10] This author of The Martian Chronicles set other science-fiction stories, such as “Dark They
Were, and Golden-Eyed” on Mars. He passed away in 2012.
Answer: Ray Bradbury
[10] This dystopian Bradbury novel sees “fireman” Guy Montag employed as a book-burner. Its title
refers to the temperature at which bookpaper burns.
Answer: Fahrenheit 451

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 9: Page 9
17. Two carrier parents can have children that express this type of trait. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of genetic trait that requires two identical copies of a gene for its corresponding
phenotype to be expressed.
Answer: Recessive trait
[10] This term refers to chromosomes that do not determine sex. Humans have 22 pairs of these
chromosomes, whose two copies of each gene make the expression of recessive traits a 25%
probability.
Answer: Autosomal chromosomes (accept autosomes)
[10] This autosomal recessive disease, in which the lysosome is affected by a mutation in the HEXA
gene, leads to paralysis and death in young children, especially among Ashkenazi Jews.
Answer: Tay-Sachs disease
18. The Mariel boatlift was a sharp increase in immigration from this country to the United States, which
has utilized the "wet feet, dry feet" policy since 1995. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Caribbean nation, to which Elian Gonzalez was repatriated in 2000.
Answer: Republic of Cuba
[10] After the 1959 overthrowing of Fulgencio Batista, Cuba was led by this man. Power was
handed over to his brother Raul when this man experienced health issues in 2008.
Answer: Fidel Castro
[10] Cuba currently holds a 99.8% rate in this educational statistic, among the best in the world,
thanks in part to a 1961 campaign educating peasants to improve this statistic.
Answer: literacy (accept anything involving the amount of citizens who are able to read)
19. In this novel, Pedro Comacho is hired to write novelas for a Peruvian radio station. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this 1977 novel in which Mario falls in love with an older relative.
Answer: Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter (accept La tía Julia y el escribidor)
[10] Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter was written by this South American winner of the 2010 Nobel
Prize in Literature.
Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa [VAR-gas YOH-sah] (prompt on partial last name)
[10] A 1993 Vargas Llosa novel is titled Death in this mountain range, in which Peru's Shining Path
militant group once operated.
Answer: Andes Mountains (accept Death in the Andes or Lituma en los Andes)
20. A particular kind of five-toed creature was used as a sigil of royalty in China. For 10 points each,
answer the following about sacred animals.
[10] Revered in Chinese mythology as spirits of the water, these scaled reptiles were feared as firebreathing monsters in Medieval Europe.
Answer: dragons (accept lóng)
[10] Ancient Egyptians venerated these domestic creatures as protectors. As a defender of Egypt,
the goddess Bast was depicted with this animal’s head.
Answer: cats (accept felis (silvestris) catus; prompt on feline(s))
[10] Like Raven, this Native American deity is both a trickster god and a creator. This brother of
Wolf made man by rolling balls of mud.
Answer: (Old Man) Coyote

