Tournament 10
Round 9
Tossups
1. This man's country was attacked by Ahmed III in the Pruth campaign. This leader avenged an
earlier loss at Narva by crushing the forces of Charles (*) XII at the battle of Poltava, thus winning the
Great Northern War against Sweden. This ruler wrestled boyars to the ground to cut off their beards and
boasted about his ability in dentistry, shoe-making and boat building. For 10 points, name this westernizing
tsar who built a namesake city to replace Moscow as the Russian capital.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I; prompt on Peter]
063-09-11-09102

2. One novel by this author includes an aging holy man who seeks "The River of the Arrow." This
author wrote a novel about the spoiled railway heir Harvey Cheyne who takes a job with the fishing
boat We’re Here after falling overboard. This author wrote a poem in which the narrator admits
“You're a better man than I am” to a native (*) water carrier. This author of Captain’s Courageous and
“Gunga Din” wrote about an orphan’s participation in the Great Game in Kim. For 10 points, name this
author of The Jungle Book.
ANSWER: Rudyard Kipling
015-09-11-09103

3. Mt. Egmont is a stratovolcano on the west coast of this nation. This nation's largest city lies on the
Hauraki Gulf, and this nation's city of Rotorua lies near the Bay of Plenty and is home to the Lady
Knox and Pohotu Geysers. The Southern Alps of this nation stretch into the Fiordlands of its west
coast. Lake Taupo lies near this nation's (*) Tongariro volcano and the Cook Strait separates two halves
of this nation. For 10 points, name this nation in the Pacific that is home to Auckland and Wellington and is
split into North and South islands.
ANSWER: New Zealand
036-09-11-09104

4. One specialized type of these structures contains lenticels, which allow air to enter at pneumathodes
(NOO-muh-thodez). Monocots typically have adventitious ones. The tips of these structures contain
the (*) apical meristem, and the cortex of mature ones contains a Casparian Strip. The main one of these
structures is known as the “tap.” Nodules in these structures are the site of nitrogen fixation. For 10 points,
name these structures that are primarily responsible for absorbing water and nutrients from the soil and
anchoring a plant to the ground.
ANSWER: roots
003-09-11-09105

5. This war paused after the death of Brasidas for the Peace of Nicias. Its losing side was put under the
rule of the Thirty Tyrants after Lysander won the Battle of Aegospotami (ey-go-SPAH-toh-mee). The
(*) Sicilian Expedition proved disastrous for one side of this war, during which Cleon rose to power after a
plague killed Pericles. It arose over the imperial influence of the Delian League and was chronicled in a
namesake “history” by Thucydides (thoo-SID-uh-deez). For 10 points, name this war, in which an alliance
led by Athens lost to one led by Sparta.
ANSWER: the Peloponnesian War
019-09-11-09106

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. In one of his stories, Walter casts away his wife and claims to kill her two children, then forces her
to plan his wedding to a new woman, only to reveal that he was testing her faith. This author created
the characters of Pampinea and Dioneo, who told (*) stories about the Tedaldo Brothers and Patient
Griselda. He created a group of seven women and three men who flee the plague in Florence to a country
villa, where they pass the time by telling ten stories. For 10 points, name this Italian who wrote the
Decameron.
ANSWER: Giovanni Boccaccio
026-09-11-09107

7. A fire-breathing one was tamed by Jason in his pursuit for the Golden Fleece. Phaethusa and
Lampetia watched over these animals on the island of Thrinacia for their father Helios. Several of
them were guarded by Eurytion and the two-headed Orthrus, who were defeated by Heracles. (*)
Geryon owned several of these animals, more of which were stolen by Hermes the very night he was born.
Poseidon sent one of these animals to mate with Pasiphaë in a union that produced the Minotaur. For 10
points, what are these bovine animals tended to in Greek myth by Apollo?
ANSWER: cattle [or bulls; or cows]
020-09-11-09108

8. One painting in this style depicts distorted vehicles traveling across the Charing Cross Bridge.
Camille Mauclair claimed of this style, "A pot of paint has been flung in the face of the public." One
of its leaders was Andre Derain, and this group's works surrounded a sculpture by Albert Marque at
the 1905 Salon d'Automne, prompting Louis (*) Vauxcelles to claim that the sculpture appeared like
"Donatello among wild beasts." For 10 points, name this early twentieth-century art movement that
emphasized bright, vivid color and was led by Henri Matisse.
ANSWER: Fauvism [or Les Fauves]
003-09-11-09109

9. The magnitude of one form of this vector is equal to h-bar times the square root of the product of
the orbital quantum number and that quantum number plus one. The time derivative of this quantity
is (*) torque. It equals the moment of inertia times the angular velocity. It can be found by taking the
cross-product of the radius and the linear momentum. For 10 points, name this quantity from mechanics
denoted L, which is the rotational analog of linear momentum.
ANSWER: angular momentum [prompt on L before it is read; do not accept or prompt on "momentum"]
003-09-11-09110

10. This artist frequently used his lover Camille Claudel as a model. He depicted three fused figures
looking at the ground in The Three Shades. This man was accused of casting models from life for the
extreme accuracy of his (*) Age of Bronze. This artist also sculpted a group of dejected politicians handing
over a key to British forces, and the passionate embrace of Paolo and Francesca. For 10 points, name this
French sculptor of The Burghers of Calais and The Kiss, who also sculpted a thoughtful man in The Thinker.
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
015-09-11-09111

11. A thesis exploring the effect of this institution on society was based on Max Weber's theory of
rationalization and described society as a system of "iron cages." That thesis about this institution, by
George Ritzer, consisted of four axes: efficiency, calculability, predictability, and control. Benjamin
Barber contrasted a type of globalization named for this business with (*) jihad, and another social critic
filmed himself eating here three times a day for a month. For 10 points, name this restaurant, the subject of
Morgan Spurlock's Super Size Me.
ANSWER: McDonald's
003-09-11-09112
Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. In plants, stacks of these structures are sometimes referred to as a dictyosome. Lysosomes are
created in this structure, and they are named after the man who developed the "black reaction" to
stain nervous tissue. They contain flattened disks known as (*) cisternae and they have two ends known
as the cis and trans faces; the cis face typically receive protein vesicles sent from the rough endoplasmic
reticulum. For 10 points, name this cell organelle whose main function is to process and package
macromolecules.
ANSWER: Golgi apparatus [or Golgi body; or Golgi complex, etc]
064-09-11-09113

13. In this book, God describes the Behemoth, a hippopotamus; and the Leviathan, a crocodile. The
title character asserts that a Vindicator will prove he is not a blasphemer. Eliphaz, Bildad, and
Zophar are friends of the title character. An angel referred to as (*) Satan in this book is given carte
blanche to make the title character’s sons die, his land be taken away, and his health deteriorate. For 10
points, name this book of the bible about an Edomite who is so pious that he refuses to curse God no matter
what hardships he goes through.
ANSWER: The Book of Job
027-09-11-09114

14. He’s not Jann Wenner, but he founded a magazine called The Rolling Stone in Austin, Texas. One
of his title objects is negative two hundred fifty dollars, and he refers to the population of New York in
his title The Four Million. His stories include the tale of a (*) kidnapped young boy and his return, and a
young couple who sold their most prized possessions to buy each other’s Christmas presents. For 10 points,
name this American short-story author of The Ransom of Red Chief and The Gift of the Magi.
ANSWER: O. Henry [or: William Sydney Porter]
062-09-11-09115

15. This battle stemmed from the blockades of Amherstburg and Presque Isle. Its victorious
commander had the Lawrence as his flagship. The losing commander at this battle was Robert Heriot
Barclay. It is also known as the Battle of (*) Put-In Bay. After this battle, the victorious commander sent
William Henry Harrison the message "We have met the enemy, and they are ours." For 10 points, name this
naval victory for Oliver Hazard Perry in the War of 1812, fought in Ohio in a namesake Great Lake.
ANSWER: Battle of Lake Erie [accept Battle of Put-In Bay before it is read]
026-09-11-09116

16. The first movement of this work begins with the flute playing the melody B-G sharp-F sharp-E-F
sharp-G sharp. Another section of this work, though marked as a mazurka, is said to represent the
dance of a young Bedouin woman. A motif beginning with six staccato eighth notes and a staccato
quarter note repeats at (*) increasing tempos in the best-known section of this work; that section
represents a troll party and is entitled "In the Hall of the Mountain King." For 10 points, name this suite by
Edvard Grieg, used as incidental music for a Henrik Ibsen play.
ANSWER: Peer Gynt Suite No. 1
003-09-11-09117

17. Casey's Theorems deals with the tangents of five of these. Feuerbach's theorem involves the
nine-point one. A great one is a straight line in (*) gnomonic projection. This shape results from the
intersection of a cone and a plane perpendicular to the symmetry of the cone. A more common equation for
it is x squared plus y squared equals r squared, where r is the radius. For 10 points, name this shape
consisting of points that are equidistant from the center, whose circumference is given by 2 pi r.
ANSWER: circle
001-09-11-09118

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. This politician negotiated the Reinsurance Treaty to bolster the Three Emperors League and
carefully edited a communique sent by Count Benedetti. He claimed that the great questions of his age
would not be resolved by "speeches and majority decisions," but by (*) "iron and blood." This man
expelled the Jesuits, and this practitioner of Realpolitik doctored the Ems Dispatch to prompt the
Franco-Prussian War. For 10 points, name this instigator of the Kulturkampf who presided over the
unification of Germany as the "Iron Chancellor" of Prussia.
ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck [accept Otto Eduard Leopold von Bimarck; prompt on Iron Chancellor
before said]
026-09-11-09119

19. One author from this country wrote a play in which Zachariah becomes jealous of Morris, who
can pass for white. In another book written by an author from this country, the Smales family is
forced to hide in their servant's home village; that work, (*) July's People, was written by Nadine
Gordimer. A work in which Sam becomes disenchanted with his young master during preparations for a
dance also takes place here. For 10 points, Master Harold and the Boys is one of many works by Athol
Fugard that attack what country's racial disparities?
ANSWER: South Africa
032-09-11-09120

20. This man led the failed Autumn Harvest Uprising, and he discussed cooperation with the
Nationalists in his tract On the New Stage. His designated successor was Hua Guofeng, and he married
a future member of the (*) Gang of Four, the actress Jiang Qing. This man proclaimed the Hundred
Flowers campaign and the Great Leap Forward, and returned to power in the Cultural Revolution. For 10
points, name this first chairman of the People's Republic of China.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-Tung]
030-09-11-09121

21. One process by which these entities move is called "basal drag." The theory that they float in a
gravitational equilibrium is central to the Pratt and and Airy models of isostasy. Cratons are most
often found near the centers of these objects. The three main types of borders between these entities
are (*) "divergent," "convergent," and "transform." They come in "continental" and "oceanic" types, which
are made of granite and basalt, respectively. For 10 points, name these large sections of rock that float atop a
sea of magma and make up the earth's crust.
ANSWER: tectonic plates [accept plate tectonics; prompt on partial answer]
026-09-11-09122

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament 10
Round 9
Bonuses
1. This boat is being pulled by a steam tugboat in front of the setting sun. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this "fighting" ship depicted in a painting "tugged to her last berth to be broken up."
ANSWER: the HMS Temeraire [or The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up]
[10] This British artist of The Slave Ship painted the Fighting Temeraire and allegedly lashed himself to a
mast to depict a storm at sea.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
[10] Turner's Rain, Steam, and Speed depicts an onrushing one of these vehicles, one of which emerges from
a fireplace in Magritte's Time Transfixed.
ANSWER: trains [or locomotives or other reasonable equivalents]
026-09-11-09201

2. A complex of these entities is touted as an anti-stress pill, though it typically only works to restore
nutritional balance to alcoholics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these vitamins that include pantothenic acid, niacin, and thiamin, and are all denoted by a certain
letter and a number.
ANSWER: B vitamins
[10] Along with a coenzyme dependent on Vitamin B12, a coenzyme dependent on this vitamin, B9, is
required for the synthesis of methionine to homocysteine. Supplements of this vitamin are often prescribed
to pregnant women.
ANSWER: folic acid [or folacin; or folate]
[10] Those supplements are taken in order to prevent this congenital defect, whose most severe form is
known as myelomeningocele (MY-el-oh-men-IN-jo-SEE-lee). It results from the failure of the neural tube to
fully close.
ANSWER: spina bifida
003-09-11-09202

3. In 1969, this group’s leader, Bill Ayers, announced the “Days of Rage;” it went on to attempt bombings
of the Capitol, Pentagon, and State Department, in protest of the Vietnam War. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this more radical offshoot of the Students for a Democratic Society, which took its name from a
Bob Dylan lyric.
ANSWER: the Weathermen [or the Weather Underground Organization]
[10] One of the most polarizing incidents of the Vietnam era was the fatal shooting of four student protestors
by National Guardsmen at this Ohio college in 1970.
ANSWER: Kent State University
[10] In 1970, the Weathermen broke this LSD advocate out of prison. He used the slogan “turn on, tune in,
drop out” and was dubbed “the most dangerous man in America” by Nixon.
ANSWER: Timothy Francis Leary
019-09-11-09203

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. It appears to Moses while he is in exile among the Midianites after killing an Egyptian slavedriver. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this Biblical phenomenon, which Moses observes is not consumed, and speaks about freeing
the Israelites from Egypt.
ANSWER: the burning bush
[10] In order to prove his identity to Moses at the burning bush, God turns Moses’s staff into a snake and
temporarily afflicts his hand with this Biblical disease that made its sufferers into outcasts.
ANSWER: leprosy [or tzaraat; or tzaraas]
[10] At the time, Moses is working as a shepherd for this Kenite priest. In the Bible, Moses marries his
daughter Zipporah; in the Druze religion, this figure’s tomb is the most holy site.
ANSWER: Jethro [or Shoaib; or Reuel; or Hobab]
019-09-11-09204

5. This poem attempts to "justify the ways of God to man." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this epic poem in which Satan loses a war in heaven against God and resolves to tempt the first
humans.
ANSWER: Paradise Lost
[10] This British poet wrote Paradise Lost. He also wrote "Lycidas," a poem written upon the drowning
death of Edward King that contains the line "look homeward, angel."
ANSWER: John Milton
[10] Milton wrote a play about this figure, who sits "eyeless in Gaza" before pulling down a temple.
ANSWER: Samson
004-09-11-09205

6. For 10 points each, answer the following about a computer game franchise.
[10] The expansion pack to the third game in this series is World Adventures. These games allow the user to
create individual people and guide them through a host of social and personal scenarios.
ANSWER: The Sims
[10] The Sims and Sim City were developed by this Will Wright-founded company, which controversially
applied DRM technology to the CDs of a recent game.
ANSWER: Maxis
[10] That controversy involved this 2008 game, in which the entire evolutionary history of an organism,
from unicellular life to interstellar exploration, is mapped and shaped by the user.
ANSWER: Spore
063-09-11-09206

7. Albert Kropp was jealous of this literary character because this character did not lose any limbs, and this
man’s schoolteacher encouraged this character and his classmates to enlist. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this soldier who was tormented after stabbing the French soldier Gerard Duval to death during
World War I
ANSWER: Paul Baumer [accept either name]
[10] Paul Baumer is the protagonist of what anti-war novel whose other characters include Kat, a reservist
who serves as a father figure to younger soldiers, and the amputee Franz Kemmerich.
ANSWER: All Quiet On the Western Front [or Im Westen Nichts Neues]
[10] This author of The Road Back had his books banned by the Nazis due to their anti-war themes. He was
the author of All Quiet On the Western Front.
ANSWER: Erich Maria Remarque
030-09-11-09207

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This plan led to the creation of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation and was first
announced in a speech at Harvard in 1947. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this plan intended to help all of Europe recover economically from the devastation of World War
II.
ANSWER: Marshall Plan [or European Recovery Program; or ERP]
[10] The Soviet bloc rejected the Marshall Plan, and opted instead for the creation of this economic group.
ANSWER: Comecon [or Council for Mutual Economic Assistance; or CMEA]
[10] Often considered the military counterpart to Comecon (CAH-mih-cahn), this mutual defense group
countered the creation of NATO for Western Europe.
ANSWER: Warsaw Pact [or Warsaw Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance]
023-09-11-09208

9. The Hall-Rabushka proposal would eliminate this, and it is not used in countries such as Russia and
Iceland. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this type of income tax in which the rate paid increases as one’s income goes up, in contrast to
a flat tax.
ANSWER: progressive income tax [or graduated income tax]
[10] Another kind of tax is the Pigouvian tax, which attempts to create financial disincentives for the
“negative” kind of these; they are factors in a transaction that affect an uninvolved party.
ANSWER: externalities
[10] The “negative income tax,” which pays out a lump sum to those below a certain income level as a
replacement for most welfare programs, was advocated by this monetarist and author of Capitalism and
Freedom.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman
019-09-11-09209

10. These fact that more atoms in these are excited than at low levels is called population inversion. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these devices that create narrow beams of monochromatic light that are used for many things like
communication and cutting.
ANSWER: laser
[10] This property of laser light which has spatial and temporal forms means that that light waves align,
yielding constructive interference.
ANSWER: phase coherence
[10] Lasers can be used in this imaging technique created by Gabor for recording the amplitudes and phases
of light.
ANSWER: holography [or hologram]
001-09-11-09210

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. One god of this people is thrown overboard, and when she tries to cling to the boat, her father takes an
axe and severs her fingers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this people whose gods include Sila, a gpod of wind, Nanook, the master of polar bears, and the
aforementioned Sedna.
ANSWER: Inuit [grudgingly prompt on "Eskimo"]
[10] In another myth, Sedna had sexual relations with one of these animals who had transformed into a
human. In Celtic myth, Cu Chulainn gained his name after killing one of these animals.
ANSWER: dogs
[10] According to that story, Sedna gave birth to two humans and two dog-like children. The puppies
became the ancestors of these creatures. The Aztecs mistook one named Hernan Cortes as their chief god
Quetzalcoatl.
ANSWER: Europeans [or white people; or equivalents]
003-09-11-09211

12. This group was defeated by a combined Polish-Lithuanian force at Tannenberg, marking the end of its
campaign in the Baltic and hastening its decline. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German offshoot of the Knights Hospitallers.
ANSWER: Order of the Teutonic Knights of St. Mary's Hospital in Jerusalem [or Teutonic Order; or
Orden der Bruder vom Deutschen Haus St. Mariens in Jerusalem; or Ordo domus Sanctae Mariae
Theutonicorum Hierosolymitanorum]
[10] The Teutonic Knights had been previously stopped at Lake Peipus by this Prince of Novgorod, who was
canonized by the Russian Orthodox Church. That battle was also fictionalized in a Sergei Eisenstein film
about this figure.
ANSWER: Saint Alexander Nevsky [prompt on Alexander]
[10] Albert of this house was the Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights when he seized part of their land and
turned it into the Duchy of Prussia. His descendants in this house included all Emperors of Germany.
ANSWER: Hohenzollern [prompt on Brandenburg]
003-09-11-09212

13. Enzymes are targeted to this organelle by the addition of mannose-six-phosphate. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organelle that contains acid hydrolases, which serves to digest food particles and worn-out
organelles.
ANSWER: lysosomes
[10] Another vesicle organelle is this one, which contain enzymes that break down compounds containing an
oxygen-oxygen single bond.
ANSWER: peroxisomes
[10] All plants and fungi contain this water-filled vesicle organelle. Contractile ones in animals regulate
osmotic pressure.
ANSWER: vacuoles
026-09-11-09213

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

14. Identify the following locations from around the world based on their appearances in literature, for 10
points each.
[10] In Swift's Gulliver's Travels, Lemuel Gulliver visits this country after meeting the Struldbrugs of
Luggnagg. In real life, its native authors include Lady Murasaki, who wrote The Tale of Genji.
ANSWER: Japan [accept Nihon or Nippon]
[10] The title character of Patrick White's Voss explores the deserts of this country, which is home to White
and Thomas Keneally, the author of Schindler's Ark.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
[10] Keneally also wrote the novel A Victim of the Aurora, which describes an expedition to this cold
location. Ruins of an ancient civilization are discovered here in H.P. Lovecraft's At the Mountains of
Madness.
ANSWER: Antarctica [or the South Pole]
029-09-11-09214

15. This man found that alpha particles coming from a polonium source deflected at angles greater than
ninety degrees, now known as his type of scattering. For 10 points each:
[10] That scattering named for this man was discovered in an experiment this man directed that directed the
alpha particles at a gold foil.
ANSWER: Ernest Rutherford
[10] The gold foil experiment disproved this model of the atom, in which most of the atom was a positive
charge surrounding randomly distributed electrons.
ANSWER: plum pudding model of the atom [or raisin pudding model; or chocolate chip cookie model;
or blueberry muffin model]
[10] This man came up with the plum pudding model, and he also discovered the electron and the existence
of isotopes.
ANSWER: Joseph John Thompson
023-09-11-09215

16. It is also called the Kaufmann house, and its nickname derives from the fact that it is built over a stream.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Pennsylvania residence designed by the originator of the Prairie School of architecture.
ANSWER: Fallingwater
[10] This architect of Fallingwater also designed the Robie House and the Guggenheim in New York.
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd Wright
[10] Wright wintered and summered at two homes of this name in Scottsdale, Arizona and Spring Green,
Washington, respectively. The latter burned down when a disgruntled worker set fire to it and murdered
seven people with an axe.
ANSWER: Taliesin West
032-09-11-09216

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Name these ruling dynasties of India, for 10 points each.
[10] This state expanded out of Pataliputra in the chaos after Alexander the Great's invasion of India and
included the Buddhist reign of Ashoka (uh-SHOW-kuh).
ANSWER: Mauryan Dynasty [or Mauryan Empire, etc]
[10] Established by Babur in 1526 following the defeat of the Lodis at the First Battle of Panipat
(PAH-nih-pot), this Muslim empire expanded under the reigns of Akbar and Shah Jahan.
ANSWER: Mughal Dynasty [or Mughal Empire, etc; prompt on Mongol]
[10] The descendants of first Indian prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, including later premiers Indira and
Rajiv, took this new surname from Indira’s husband.
ANSWER: Gandhi
019-09-11-09217

18. In this book, Miles Bjornstam is Gopher Prairie's only Democrat. For 10 points each:
[10] Carol Kennicott joins the Jolly Seventeen and the Thanatopsis club in this novel.
ANSWER: Main Street
[10] In this author's novel Elmer Gantry, the title preacher worries that the millionaire T.J. Riggs might catch
him at his game. This writer authored Kingsblood Royal and of course Main Street.
ANSWER: Sinclair Lewis
[10] In this Sinclair Lewis novel, President Buzz Windrip and his advisor Lee Sarason bring Nazi-style
fascism to America.
ANSWER: It Can't Happen Here
063-09-11-09218

19. Samuel Barber was brought in to complete the music to this work, and it was inspired by the composer
seeing The Adoration of the Magi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera developed specifically for broadcast on NBC by Gian Carlo Menotti, wherein a boy
and his mother are visited by the three kings seeking the baby Jesus, stunning his mother who refuses to
believe his claims of seeing an enormous star.
ANSWER: Amahl and the Night Visitors
[10] Treemonisha and A Guest of Honor are by this other American composer, better known for works such
as The Entertainer and Maple Leaf Rag that earned his the title of "King of Rag Time Writers."
ANSWER: Scott Joplin
[10] This American composer recorded the life of Susan B Anthony in his The Mother of Us All and Saint
Ignatius of Loyola is a primary character in his Four Saints in Three Acts. Both operas feature librettos by
Gertrude Stein.
ANSWER: Virgil Thomson
002-09-11-09219

20. Identify the following about geography and Japan, for 10 points each.
[10] At the base of this mountain is the creepy Aokigahara forest, notorious for its popularity as a suicide
location. This snowcapped mountain lies just west of Tokyo, from where it can be seen.
ANSWER: Mount Fujiyama
[10] Sapporo and Hakodate are large cities on this northernmost of Japan’s four main islands, which is
separated from Honshu by the Tsugaru Strait and is the home of the Ainu people.
ANSWER: Hokkaido [prompt on “Ezo”]
[10] The largest island belonging to Russia is this oil-rich one, which was disputed between Japan and
Russia until the former ceded it to the latter in 1951.
ANSWER: Sakhalin [or Karafuto; or Saharin]
020-09-11-09220
Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author wrote a story about a boy at summer camp who molds an odd clay figure. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this author of “The Contest for Aaron Gold,” who is far better known for his comedic works
about the Jewish experience in America, such as Goodbye, Columbus and American Pastoral.
ANSWER: Philip Roth
[10] Roth wrote this novel which describes its protagonist's visit to his psychoanalyst. The protagonist’s
titular dilemma is an inability to enjoy the sexual acts he is compelled to engage in.
ANSWER: Portnoy’s Complaint
[10] In Roth's The Plot Against America, this aviator who piloted the Spirit of St. Louis becomes president,
leading to widespread anti-Semitism.
ANSWER: Charles Augustus Lindbergh
052-09-11-09221

Tournament 10 Round 9 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

