Tournament-9
Round 1
Tossups
1. In this religion, manbo and oungan are the priestesses and priests in cities. Ounsi and ountogi
perform music in the ceremonies of this religion, which celebrates Danbala on St. Patrick’s Day.
People in this religion believe they possess a “gros-bon-ange” and a “ti-bon ange.” This religion
worships the god Bondye, and reveres the spirits (*) Legba and baron Samedi, two of its "loas." For 10
points, name this religion, derived from African traditions and common in Haiti, that has namesake dolls.
ANSWER: voodoo [or vodun; or vodou; or Vaudou]
027-09-6-01102

2. Peter Rubens's painting Battle of the Standard is a copy of this artist's lost depiction of the Battle of
Anghiari. This artist painted the angel Uriel pointing a finger at the infant John the Baptist, who
prays to the infant Jesus, in a canvas named for the (*) jagged natural features in its background. One of
this artist's portraits is known in Italian as "La Gioconda," and depicts a woman with a notoriously enigmatic
smile. For 10 points, name this Italian Renaissance painter of the Madonna of the Rocks and the Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: Leonardo da Vinci [prompt on da Vinci]
004-09-6-01103

3. One band from this country reached number one on the United States singles chart with 1989's
"The Look." In addition to Roxette, this country is the home of the band that sang "Carrie" and a
song that begins "We're leaving together, but still it's farewell," "The Final Countdown." This home
country of Europe, The (*) Hives, and Ace of Base also was the origin of the group that achieved massive
success with "Waterloo," "Mamma Mia" and "Dancing Queen." For 10 points, name this country, the home
of ABBA.
ANSWER: Sweden
025-09-6-01104

4. The second wave involved in this event was led by Stephen of Cloyes, but its members were sent
home by Philip II after reaching Saint-Denis. The translation of the Latin word "pueri" has led to
some confusion as to the identity of the participants in this event. The first group involved in this
crusade was led by a shepherd from Germany, and its dismal (*) failure may have included the sale of
some of its members into slavery. For 10 points, name this Crusade which attempted to peacefully take
Jerusalem in 1212, which failed entirely after recruiting youthful members.
ANSWER: the Children's Crusade
053-09-6-01105

5. The aggressive deforestation of this country's native birch trees in the Middle Ages, combined with
its lack of sufficient agricultural reproduction, led Jared Diamond to examine it in Collapse. It has
more land covered by (*) glaciers than the rest of Europe combined. This country's Pingvellir Natural Park
includes an amphitheatre that hosted its first parliament, the Althing. Sitting atop the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, it
gained the newly formed volcanic island of Surtsey in 1963. For 10 points, name this nation with capital at
Reykjavik.
ANSWER: Iceland
053-09-6-01106

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One ruler of this country caused an invasion of his nation by ordering the St. Brice's Day Massacre.
An earlier ruler of this kingdom sought refuge in a peasant woman’s house and let the griddle-cakes
burn, in an oft-told anecdote. A later winner of the Battle of Edington, who achieved peace with the
Treaty of Wedmore, was the only king of this country to earn the epithet "the (*) Great." For 10 points,
name this country which was invaded several times by Denmark during its rule by the House of Wessex,
before falling to conquering Normans in 1066.
ANSWER: England [do not accept "Britain" or "United Kingdom"]
034-09-6-01107

7. Those classified as plagioclase are triclinic and include andesine and anorthite, while barium ones
are monoclinic and include celsian and hyalophane. Another classification, alkali, applies to those such
as orthoclase and microcline that fall between the (*) potassium variety and albite. These rocks have a
name from the German for field rock or rock without ore, and their crystals can sometimes be found in
granite. For 10 points, the orthoclase type of what group of minerals, the most abundant group found in the
earth's crust, has a Mohs hardness of six?
ANSWER: feldspars
040-09-6-01108

8. In one of this author's works, the Marquis de Montauran leads the title peasants of Brittany in a
movement against the French Revolution. In addition to writing The Chouans (SHOE-awnz), this
author created a novel in which neither Delphine nor Anastasie come to help their father after he
suffers a stroke. "Private Life," "Country Life," and (*) "Parisian Life" are some of the parts of his
nintey-five part series that inludes Pere Goriot. For 10 points, name this French author who set out to depict
all aspects of nineteenth-century society in his Human Comedy.
ANSWER: Honoré de Balzac
034-09-6-01109

9. The meiotic counterpart to this phase sees the collection of transverse filaments to create a
synaptonemal complex and the packing of homologs to form bivalents. In plants, during this phase,
actin fibers line up; they will later guide the formation of cell plates during cytokinesis. During this
phase, microtubules connect to (*) kinetochores, the mitotic spindle forms, the nuclear envelope
disappears, and chromatin is condensed to form chromosomes. For 10 points, name this phase preceded by
metaphase, the first phase of mitosis.
ANSWER: prophase
033-09-6-01110

10. This man appointed Eduard Shevardnadze (SHEV-ard-NOD-zay) to succeed Andrey Gromyko as
foreign minister. This man's rise to power was aided by the patronage of party idealist Mikhail Suslov.
Films such as Repentance and Agoniya were distributed (*) freely during his rule. The hardline State
Emergency Committee led a coup against this man in August of 1991. For 10 points, name this man who
succeeded Konstantin Chernenko, and whose policies of glasnost and perestroika liberalized the Soviet
Union.
ANSWER: Mikhail Gorbachev
030-09-6-01111

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This student of Zelig Harris put forth the "Minimalist Program" for current research into a
concept he originated. That concept deals with transitions between deep and surface structures. He
wrote about that concept in a work which contains the meaningless yet grammatically correct
sentence, (*) "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously." That work, Syntactic Structures, introduced his
concept of transformational-generative grammar. For 10 points, name this MIT linguist and left-wing
political writer.
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky
025-09-6-01112

12. One section of this piece is a B major cappricioso that uses series of sixteenth notes to depict
children quarreling in the namesake garden, the Tuileries. A solo tuba represents oxen hauling a
wagon in the "Bydlo" movement of this piece, and an alto saxophone solo appears in the "Old Castle"
movement of the version (*) orchestrated by Ravel. This suite, that contains several "Promenade" sections,
ends with a musical depiction of a sketch of some city gates, "The Great Gate of Kiev." For 10 points, name
this suite inspired by a show of Victor Hartmann's artwork, composed by Modest Mussorgsky.
ANSWER: Pictures at an Exhibition
032-09-6-01113

13. This text presents a story about a man who became the king of Lydia through murder, seduction,
and a magical piece of jewelry, the Ring of Gyges. It identifies the four excellences of a city, and
attributes courage to auxiliaries and wisdom to guardians. The main character of this work also notes
that kings should be (*) philosophers. Another story presented in this work involves prisoners who are able
to see shadows but not the fire that creates them. For 10 points, the Allegory of the Cave is introduced in
what Platonic dialogue, concerning the nature of justice in the title utopian society?
ANSWER: The Republic [or Politeía]
034-09-6-01114

14. Nikolai Chernyshevsky (CHAIR-nuh-CHEF-skee) wrote What Is to Be Done? as a response to one
of this man's novels. This author used that controversial novel to a depict a man who tramps through
swamps looking for frogs to dissect. The affairs of nobility drive the plot of his story "First Love" and
his play A Month in the Country. This writer, who created a term for a person with no place in society
in his Diary of a Superfluous Man, also wrote a novel in which Pavel challenges a (*) medical student to
a duel over the hand of Fenichka. For 10 points, name the author who wrote about Arkady Kirsanov
(ARK-uh-dee kur-SAH-nawf) and his nihilist friend Bazarov in Fathers and Sons.
ANSWER: Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev
034-09-6-01115

15. One motif found in this structure is a line of rearing cavalry, which is accompanied in one part by
the Peplos scene. The first version of this structure replaced the hekatompedon
(HECK-uk-TOMP-eh-don_, and a sculpture housed in its naos is now lost. A (*) cannonball destroyed
some sculptures in the south metope (MEH-toe-pay) of this structure, which contained scenes from the
Centauromachy (sen-TOR-oh-mock-ee). This structure is part of a complex that also includes the
Erechtheum. It was sculpted by Iktinos and Kallikrates (cal-ICK-ruh-teez). For 10 points, name this temple
that once included the Elgin marbles and was dedicated to Athena on the Acropolis.
ANSWER: the Parthenon
020-09-6-01116

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. The Pound-Rebka experiment confirmed the existence of a red shift associated with this force. The
potential energy associated with this force is equal to the kinetic energy at an object's escape velocity.
It is proportional to the product of the (*) masses of two objects over the square of the distance between
them by Newton's Law of Universal [this]. For 10 points, name this weakest of the four fundamental forces,
a theory of which was supposedly devised by Isaac Newton after an apple fell on his head.
ANSWER: gravity [or gravitational force; or gravitational red shift until "red"]
003-09-6-01117

17. The narrator of one of this author’s poems states, “Do not Weep. War is Kind.” This author’s
Active Service was based on the Greco-Turkish War, and he also went to Cuba to cover the
Spanish-American War. In one of his stories, after accusing Johnnie of cheating in a card game and
beating him in a fist fight, the Swede is stabbed and killed in “The (*) Blue Hotel.” The protagonist of
another work by this author, who is ashamed of his lack of wounds, abandons “the tattered soldier” to die.
For 10 points, Jim Conklin inspires Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage by what American writer?
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
034-09-6-01118

18. While he accompanied his wife Jane Apreece to Europe to receive an award from Napoleon, he
was asked to investigate a mysterious substance isolated by Bernard Coutrois that he later identified
as the element iodine. Although Carl Scheele first isolated chlorine, this chemist argued for its
classification as a separate element and named it. He refused to patent an invention that used iron
gauze to prevent (*) methane from leaking from a torch into the surrounding mine, a development known
as his namesake lamp. For 10 points, name this scientist whose work was built upon by Michael Faraday.
ANSWER: Humphry Davy
040-09-6-01119

19. This man's talks with Nehru led to the formulation of "The Five Principles of Peaceful
Coexistence." This politician survived an assassination attempt on his way to Bandung Conference.
He played a crucial role in creating the United Front of Kuomintang (gwoh-min-DONG) and
Communists against Japan by peacefully settling the (*) Xian (SHEE-ahn) Incident. In 1972 he
normalized Sino-Japanese relations and worked with Henry Kissinger to strengthen China's ties with the
U.S. For 10 points, who was this first Premier of the People's Republic of China?
ANSWER: Zhou Enlai
034-09-6-01120

20. One poem by this author describes his childhood as "In the great city, pent 'mid cloisters dim, And
saw nought lovely but the sky and stars," while insisting that his sleeping child's life will be better.
Another poem by this man tells of a "damsel with a dulcimer" who sings of Mount Abora near the
"stately (*) pleasure dome," which is built by the title figure on the river Alph. This poet also told of an old
man whose story of misfortune begins when he uses a crossbow to shoot an albatross. For 10 points, name
this poet of "Kubla Khan" and "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
002-09-6-01121

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. The first phase of this battle saw an attack late in the day by the forces of Baron Riedesel, but,
fortunately for the Americans, three brigades under Ebenezer Learned had earlier been transferred
to support their left flank. The second phase of this battle included the death of the British
commanders Major Acland and Simon Fraser, as well as the capture of over half of the British field
artillery. Those conflicts at (*) Freeman's Farm and Bemis Heights comprise, for 10 points, which
Revolutionary War battle, in which the forces of John Burgoyne were stopped in New York by the
Americans under Horatio Gates and Benedict Arnold?
ANSWER: Battle of Saratoga
040-09-6-01122

22. This author wrote a novel in which the title character aborts her child, whom she would have
named Pride, entitled Ann Vickers. Another novel by him sees America become a fascist state under
President Buzz Windrip. In addition to (*) It Can't Happen Here, he wrote a novel about Carol Kennicott
and other denizens of Gopher Prairie, Minnesota, Main Street. This author's title characters include a
womanizing evangelist, Elmer Gantry, and a real-estate worker from Zenith. For 10 points, name this author
of Babbitt.
ANSWER: Sinclair Lewis
024-09-6-01123

23. In insects, this process begins with apolysis, after which a namesake fluid is secreted into the
exuvial space, and insects are known as teneral after undergoing it. It is also called ecdysis in insects.
In birds, this process often begins at the head, and an analogous process in mammals involves the (*)
replacement of fur. This process also occurs when snakes shed their skin. For 10 points, name this process
by which an animal sheds and replaces its outer covering.
ANSWER: molting [or ecdysis before mentioned; prompt on shedding before mentioned]
003-09-6-01124

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 1
Bonuses
1. This opera is based on a short story by Giovanni Verga, in which Alfio and Turiddu duel over relations
with Lola and Santuzza. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1890 one-act opera, one of the exemplars of the Italian verismo style.
ANSWER: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]
[10] This composer scored modest successes with the operas Iris and L'Amico Fritz, but is certainly more
well-known for Cavalleria Rusticana.
ANSWER: Pietro Mascagni
[10] Cavalleria Rusticana often performed as a double bill with Ruggiero Leoncavallo's I Pagliacci, an
opera about romantic betrayal by members of this profession. Stephen Sondheim's A Little Night of Music
features a song entitled "send in" these people.
ANSWER: clowns
026-09-6-01201

2. Its unfinished fragments are called the Mutability Cantos. For 10 points each:
[10] What epic poem in six books examines Christian virtues, exemplified by such characters as the
Redcrosse Knight and Britomart?
ANSWER: The Faerie Queene
[10] The author of The Faerie Queene, Edmund Spenser, lends his name to a type of this poetic form that
consists of fourteen lines. Spenser's Amoretti includes several examples of it.
ANSWER: sonnet
[10] Spenser dedicated The Shepherd's Calendar to this contemporary poet, whose love for Penelope
Devereux inspired several sonnets collected in this man's Astrophel and Stella.
ANSWER: Sir Philip Sidney
034-09-6-01202

3. This problem involves finding a Hamiltonian tour. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this problem that involves a member of the namesake profession visiting each of a set of cities
exactly once.
ANSWER: Traveling Salesman Problem [or TSP]
[10] Since all problems that can be verified in polynomial time can be reduced to the decision traveling
salesman problem in polynomial time, the problem is a member of this complexity class.
ANSWER: NP-complete [prompt on NP]
[10] Finding near optimal solutions to the traveling salesman problem can be done by these “rule of thumb”
type algorithms that do not necessarilt produce provably optimal solutions.
ANSWER: heuristic
001-09-6-01203

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. The third of this series of events occurred in the wake of an uprising by Tadeusz Kosciuszko and led to
the creation of the provinces of New East Prussia and New Silesia. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these territorial apportionments, which occurred three times in eighteenth-century Europe.
ANSWER: Partitions of Poland
[10] In the Third Partition of Poland, the cities of Lublin and Krakow were added to this empire's territory.
The inheritance of this empire was the subject of Charles VI's Pragmatic Sanction.
ANSWER: Austrian Empire [or Hapsburg Empire; do not accept "Austria-Hungary"]
[10] For the Russians, the partitions were overseen by this monarch, who also dispatched an unsuccessful
trade mission headed by Adam Laxman to Japan.
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]
040-09-6-01204

5. It is composed of a batholiths formed during the subduction of the Farallon plate beneath the North
American plate. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this mountain range, which runs through Yosemite National Park and includes the highest
mountain peak in the lower forty-eight states, Mount Whitney.
ANSWER: Sierra Nevada mountain range [or Sierra Nevadas]
[10] This large stratovolcano has the highest prominence of any mountain in California, but is located in
another mountain range of California, the Southern Cascades.
ANSWER: Mount Shasta
[10] Santa Catalina and Santa Rosa are two islands in this group off the coast of Southern California that are
continuations of the Santa Monica Mountains. Guernsey and Jersey comprise a different group known by
this name.
ANSWER: the Channel Islands
057-09-6-01205

6. This entity determines whether bacteria are Gram-positive or Gram-negative. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this object that in fungi is composed of chitin, and can also be found in plants.
ANSWER: cell wall
[10] Gram-positive bacteria have a much thicker layer of this primary component of bacterial cell walls. It
partly consists of an acetylated muramic acid.
ANSWER: peptidoglycan
[10] Bacteria feature these pieces of DNA that can replicate on its own and be transferred to other bacteria.
Ones that contain the genes for resistance to penicillin are frequently transferred.
ANSWER: plasmids
033-09-6-01206

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This man, who traveled around reciting poetry for food, wrote "The Congo" and "Abraham Lincoln Walks
at Midnight." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American poet of "General William Booth Enters into Heaven," who killed himself by
drinking a bottle of Lysol.
ANSWER: Vachel Lindsay
[10] This other suicidal American poet jumped into the Gulf of Mexico from a ship. Although his poem
“The Broken Tower” is in the epigraph of A Street Car Named Desire, he is likely better known for the
collection The Bridge.
ANSWER: Hart Crane
[10] Another suicide in American literature is Simon Stimson, an alcoholic who hangs himself in Act III of
this Thornton Wilder play that shows a Stage Manager guiding a look at the life of the Webbs in Grover's
Corners.
ANSWER: Our Town
034-09-6-01207

8. King Philip IV and Queen Mariana can be seen in a mirror in this painting. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting, whose other figures include the Infanta Margarita.
ANSWER: Las Meninas [or The Maids of Honor]
[10] Las Meninas was created by this painter of the Rokeby Venus and Los Borrachos.
ANSWER: Diego Velázquez
[10] This artist made a series of paintings based on Velázquez's portrait of Pope Innocent X, including
Figure with Meat, in which the screaming Pope sits between two halves of a cow.
ANSWER: Francis Bacon
024-09-6-01208

9. Name these elements of basic logic, for 10 points each.
[10] There are 256 examples of these arguments in categorical logic. It consists of a major premise, minor
premise, and a conclusion.
ANSWER: syllogism
[10] In prepositional logic, the conditional statement “if p then q” is false if and only if p and q have what
truth values, respectively?
ANSWER: p is true and q is false [order must be correct; do not prompt on partial answer]
[10] Operators such as "xor" and "nand" drive a system of algebraic logic which is named for this
nineteenth-century mathematician and provides an accurate representation of low-level computer operation.
ANSWER: George Boole
034-09-6-01209

10. The Diels-Alder reaction occurs because of the overlap of this type of orbital, which has three electron
probability functions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of orbital, which has one more node than s orbitals and one fewer than d orbitals.
ANSWER: p orbitals
[10] P orbitals, s orbitals and d orbitals can combine to form molecular orbitals, such as sp3 or sp3d, through
a process known by this name.
ANSWER: hybridization [accept word forms]
[10] Hybridized orbitals form this kind of bond when they overlap.
ANSWER: sigma
033-09-6-01210

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. Name these programs shown on the USA Network, for 10 points each.
[10] USA often shows reruns of this medical drama, in which the title character spars with hospital
administrator Lisa Cuddy.
ANSWER: House, M.D.
[10] USA's original programming includes this comedic drama, in which Michael Westen attempts to regain
his job as a spy by figuring out who issued the title document.
ANSWER: Burn Notice
[10] USA's upcoming season will feature this new show, starring Matt Bomer as a con artist who is sprung
from jail to help the FBI solve cases. It is presumably not based on a sociological work about the
mechanization of middle-class employment by C. Wright Mills.
ANSWER: White Collar
026-09-6-01211

12. This composer's opus 10 includes works titled after the "Waterfall" and "Sunshine." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this piano composer, who wrote twenty-one pieces for his nocturnes, was the foremost Polish
composer of his day, and had an affair with novelist George Sand.
ANSWER: Fredric Chopin
[10] The title of this Chopin etude was an homage to Poland's November Uprising.
ANSWER: Revolutionary Etude
[10] Another nationalistic type of composition used Chopin is this one, which is a dance in 3/4 time. One
piece in this style by Chopin is called "Military," while another is "Heroic."
ANSWER: polonaise
033-09-6-01212

13. He was the second king of the Chaldean dynasty. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king, who built "Hanging Gardens" for his wife and conquered Judea.
ANSWER: Nebuchadnezzar II [or Nebuchadrezzar II]
[10] Nebuchadnezzar II ruled over the second great period of this empire, whose much earlier rulers
included Hammurabi.
ANSWER: Neo-Babylonian Empire [prompt on Chaldean Empire]
[10] Another ancient Near Eastern king was this final significant Neo-Assyrian monarch, whose namesake
library at Nineveh is a major source for ancient texts.
ANSWER: Ashurbanipal
027-09-6-01213

14. General Cummings directs the amphibian invasion of a fictional South Pacific island during World War
II in this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, which focuses on Cummings’s Harvard-educated aide, Lieutenant Robert Hearn, as
the platoon struggles through the jungles of Anopopei.
ANSWER: The Naked and the Dead
[10] The Naked and the Dead was the debut novel of this American author, who ran for mayor of New York
City on a secessionist platform and wrote The Executioner’s Song .
ANSWER: Norman Mailer
[10] This other American World War II novel features various comical characters and Yossarian’s title bind,
that prevents him from claiming insanity in order to avoid flying missions.
ANSWER: Catch-22
034-09-6-01214

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. This work urges that believers who are sexually immoral should be expelled immediately. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this epistle of Paul that discusses spiritual gifts and argues that eating food sacrificed to idols is
acceptable.
ANSWER: First Epistle to the Corinthians [prompt on Epistle to the Corinthians)
[10] First Corinthians is best known for its thirteenth chapter, in which Paul describes this concept as patient,
kind, and not proud. That chapter is frequently read at weddings.
ANSWER: love
[10] Paul also wrote two letters to this student, who served the church at Ephesus. Letters to this man include
the verse, "the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil."
ANSWER: Timothy
052-09-6-01215

16. He was crowned by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day of the year 800. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Frankish leader who patronized the Carolingian Renaissance.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Charles I; or Charles the Great; or Charles le Grand; or Carolus Magnus;
or Karl der Grosse; prompt on Charles]
[10] Charlemagne's grandsons signed this treaty, after Louis the German and Charles the Bald ganged up on
Lothair I. It shares its name with a World War I battle known for Philippe Petain's heroics.
ANSWER: Treaty of Verdun
[10] This father of Charlemagne had Pope Zachary's blessing as he rose from Mayor of the Palace to
officially take power from King Childeric.
ANSWER: Pepin the Short [or Pepin the Younger; or Pepin III; prompt on Pepin]
015-09-6-01216

17. This Swedish economist advocated for foreign aid in his book Rich Lands and Poor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who examined racial problems in the United States in his landmark work An American
Dilemma.
ANSWER: Gunnar Myrdal
[10] One of the founders of the NAACP, this man's book The Philadelphia Negro: A Social Study was the
first systematic study of an urban African-American community. He also helped found the Niagara
Movement and opposed Booker T. Washington's Atlanta Compromise.
ANSWER: William Edward Burghardt Du Bois
[10] This man is the W.E.B. Du Bois Professor of Humanities at Harvard. He developed the theory that
African-American literature uses "signifyin'" to represent ideas indirectly, and was involved in a racial
profiling incident July 2009.
ANSWER: Henry Louis Gates, Jr.
030-09-6-01217

18. Robert E. Lee participated in the Battle of Chapultepec during this war. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war, which also saw the battles of Cerro Gordo and Monterrey.
ANSWER: Mexican-American War
[10] This general led the invasion through Northern Mexico. After winning at Palo Alto and Monterrey, he
became known as "Rough and Ready."
ANSWER: Zachary Taylor
[10] Despite being outnumbered three to one, Zachary Taylor crushed Santa Anna at this 1847 battle.
ANSWER: Buena Vista
015-09-6-01218

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. Answer some questions about angles of incidence, for 10 points each.
[10] Give the term denoting the angle of incidence above which total internal reflection occurs.
ANSWER: critical angle
[10] Dichroism is when materials absorb light with different values of this property different amounts.
ANSWER: polarization [or word forms]
[10] When light of a certain polarization approaches a surface at this angle of incidence, no reflection at all
occurs.
ANSWER: Brewster's angle [prompt on polarization angle]
022-09-6-01219

20. In this play, Monsieur Loyal tries to evict Orgon out of his own estate, before the king comes and fixes
everything. For 10 points each:
[10] The title character of what play pretends to be a devout, honest man in a scheme to fool Orgon and his
mother Madame Pernelle?
ANSWER: Tartuffe
[10] Tartuffe is a work of this seventeenth-century Frenchman, who described how Cléante and Marianne
rob Harpagon of his money in The Miser.
ANSWER: Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
[10] Another important French playwright, who lived in the age of Louis XIV, was this man, who was
invited to the "Society of the Five Authors" by Richelieu. His masterpiece was Le Cid (sid).
ANSWER: Pierre Corneille
034-09-6-01220

21. Name these leaders of the Protestant Reformation, for 10 points each.
[10] This man reacted to Johann Tetzel's selling of indulgences by posting his Ninety-Five Theses on the
door of the Wittenberg church.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
[10] This Swiss reformer worked out of Zürich. He met with Martin Luther during the Marburg Colloquy
and died fighting in the Second Kappel War.
ANSWER: Ulrich Zwingli [or Huldrych Zwingli]
[10] Another reformer in Switzerland was this man, who led the Reformation in Geneva and wrote Institutes
of the Christian Religion.
ANSWER: John Calvin
023-09-6-01221

22. In one work by this author, Trygaeus (trig-AY-uss) marries Harvest after using a dung beetle to enter
heaven. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the Greek playwright of comedies such as Peace and The Frogs.
ANSWER: Aristophanes (air-uh-STAH-fuh-neez)
[10] In the Aristophanes play The Knights represents this demagogue as "The Paphlagonian."
(PAFF-luh-GO-nee-un). By the end of the play, "the sausage-seller" overthrows this man, who was a
frequent target of Aristophanes's political jabs.
ANSWER: Cleon
[10] In this Aristophanes comedy, the Athenian women unite and refuse to have sex with their spouses until
the end the Peloponnesian War.
ANSWER: Lysistrata
034-09-6-01222

Tournament-9 Round 1 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

