Tournament-9
Round 5
Tossups
1. This author wrote of a successful lawyer who loses his sense of meaning in life, Omar, in The Beggar
. A bureaucrat accused of taking bribes, Isa, appears in his Autumn Quail. A more controversial work
by him analyzed the three Abrahamic religions and was called The Children of Gebelawi. Such
religious controversies led to the near-fatal 1994 stabbing of this author, whose magnum opus features
Yasin witnessing Ahmad with his mistress. This author's major (*) trilogy includes Sugar Street and
Palace Walk. For 10 points, name this author of The Cairo Trilogy who became the first Egyptian winner of
the Nobel Prize in Literature.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
034-09-6-05102

2. One of the primary driving forces behind this phenomenon is the high number of coordination
numbers an element can have. This process can be seen when two elements are above and below the
transition temperature, which feature two different crystal systems. One example of this property is
exhibited by (*) iron becoming austenite at higher temperatures, but ferrite at lower. For 10 points, name
this phenomenon exemplified by coal, graphite, and diamond, in which an element comes in multiple forms.
ANSWER: allotropy [accept word forms]
033-09-6-05103

3. One myth attached to this man says he was loved by a princess named Scylla, who ended up
drowning and being turned into a seabird. This man died at Sicily, where a special invention dumped
boiling water into his bath, scalding him to death. After his athletic son Androgeos was killed, this
man demanded a cruel burden from Athens, which was eventually stopped by (*) Theseus. He was
ultimately killed by Daedalus, who built the Labyrinth for him. For 10 points, name this legendary king of
Crete, whose name inspired that of the monster produced by his wife's mating with a bull, the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Minos
052-09-6-05104

4. Late in his career, this artist painted many scenes of nude women bent over a circular metallic tub.
This artist differed from other major Impressionists by not painting "en plein air." This artist created
wax sculptures such as (*) Little Dancer of Fourteen Years, and depicted a melancholy woman wearing a
light peach-colored dress sitting in front of a glass of alcohol in The Absinthe Drinker. For 10 points, name
this French painter who drew bodies in motion in his many paintings of ballet dancers and racehorses.
ANSWER: Edgar Degas
004-09-6-05105

5. This man made a pact in 1950 with Liaquat Ali Khan that allowed certain return rights to refugees
and pledged not to recognize forced conversions. This man oversaw the annexation of Goa in 1961. He
gave the "Tryst With Destiny" speech on the eve of his country's independence in (*) 1947. In 1929,
this man presided over the Lahhore session of the Indian National Congress. For 10 points, name this father
of Indira Gandhi and first prime minister of independent India.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru
030-09-6-05106

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One collection of six works for this ensemble are named "Sun" for the design on their first
published edition. A work of this kind, written in Spillville, Iowa, is nicknamed "American" and is by
Anton Dvorak (duh-VOR-jack). One of these works makes use of the melody of "Deutschland, Uber
Alles" and is not for piano, but is nicknamed "The Emperor." Joseph (*) Haydn is not only called the
"Father of the Symphony," but also the "Father of" these works. For 10 points, name this ensemble, which
consists of two violins, a viola, and a cello.
ANSWER: string quartet
027-09-6-05107

7. Four contradictory spinoff stories were produced to explain a single line in this movie about an
unpleasant encounter on Ord Mantell. One character in this movie protests that a certain action has
only a 3,720 to 1 chance of success, and another character responds to an inquiry from someone
looking for a "great warrior" by proclaiming (*) "wars not make one great." A group in this Irvin
Kershner-directed movie escapes a giant slug disguised as a cave, shortly after the main character's life is
saved using Tauntaun (TAHN-tahn) entrails on Hoth. Boba (BOH-buh) Fett tracks the Millenium Falcon to
Cloud City in, for 10 points, what 1980 movie, featuring the first on-screen lightsaber duel between Luke
Skywalker and Darth Vader?
ANSWER: Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back [or Star Wars: Episode Five - The Empire Strikes Back;
prompt on Episode Five; do not accept or prompt on "Star Wars"]
020-09-6-05108

8. In one novel by this man, Stephen Wonham collapses on the railroad crossing after breaking his
promise not to drink. In addition to The Longest Journey, this author also wrote a novel in which
Charles beats Leonard Bast to death with a German sword. In that novel by this man, the romantic
Schlegels eventually reconcile with the materialistic Wilcox family and live together at the title (*)
estate. For 10 points, name this author of Howards End, who also wrote of Dr. Aziz’s frustration with the
British in A Passage to India.
ANSWER: Edward Morgan Forster
034-09-6-05109

9. The theory responsible for the existence of this location was formulated following the study of the
Kulpa Valley earthquake of 1909, and P-waves increase in velocity when they reach this location.
Located about 75 km beneath the (*) Tibetan plateau, it is closer to the surface beneath the ocean, where it
is only about 7 km deep. Project Mohole attempted to drill to this location, which is is named for the
Croatian seismologist that discovered it. For 10 points, identify this boundary between the mantle and the
Earth's crust.
ANSWER: Mohorovicic Discontinuity
051-09-6-05110

10. One of these events occurred, for reasons that are still unknown, on October 19, 1987, leading to
the implementation of “circuit breaker” rules. J.P. Morgan’s purchase of TC&I ended one of these
events in 1907, but only after Theodore Roosevelt agreed to waive the Sherman Antitrust Act. The
most momentous one of these occurred on (*) “Black Tuesday,” when it became clear that the
Smoot-Hawley Tariff would not be vetoed, and it ultimately sapped eighty-nine percent of the Dow’s value.
For 10 points, identify these events, in which stock prices drop precipitously.
ANSWER: stock market crashes [or crashes of the New York Stock Exchange or obvious equivalents;
prompt on panics]
019-09-6-05111

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. A dimensionless number named after this man indicates whether or not convection will occur. A
scattering named after this man does not change the wavelength of light. The quantity 1.22 times the
wavelength over the aperture diameter, a (*) "criterion" for the resolution of two images, is named after
this man. Along with Jeans, this man names an equation for blackbody radiation that applies only at long
wavelengths. For 10 points, name this English physicist who won the 1904 Nobel Prize in Physics for his
discovery of argon.
ANSWER: Lord Rayleigh [or John William Strutt, Third Baron Rayleigh]
003-09-6-05112

12. Perelandra is the second book in this author's Space Trilogy, which centers on Elwin Ransom. A
character known as the Patient is the subject of the correspondence between Wormwood and the title
demon in his The (*) Screwtape Letters, and he also wrote a work of apologetics entitled Mere Christianity.
His most famous series contains works like The Magician's Nephew and follows the Pevensie children. For
10 points, name this author of The Chronicles of Narnia, which opens with The Lion, the Witch, and the
Wardrobe.
ANSWER: Clive Staples Lewis
024-09-6-05113

13. In an oligopoly situation, the curve measuring this quantity has a unique kinked shape. Increase in
price of complementary goods lowers this quantity. For Veblen goods, an increase in price (*)
increases this quantity. The Slutsky Equation relates compensated and uncompensated varieties of this
quantity, named after Hicks and Marshall, respectively. Keynes did extensive work on its "aggregate" form.
For 10 points, identify this economic concept, which describes a willingness and ability to pay for a product,
and is often contrasted with supply.
ANSWER: demand
054-09-6-05114

14. This man wrote about a figure that “launches forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself” in “A
Noiseless Patient Spider.” That work, as well as one that ends with the speaker going outside to look at
the sky, “When I (*) Heard the Learn’d Astronomer,” is collected in the deathbed edition of this author’s
major book. Another of his poems, in which the narrator sounds his “barbaric yawp over the roofs of the
world” features the line “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.” For 10 points, name the poet
of “Song of Myself,” who also eulogized Lincoln in “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” and “O
Captain! My Captain!”
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
034-09-6-05115

15. This artist created a bronze sculpture of a headless, armless figure. In another work, he showed six
men about to sacrifice themselves. The Falling Man, The Prodigal Son, and Ugolino are works
included in a sculpture group by this man. This sculptor of Monument to Balzac was accused of using
a (*) live model for his The Age of Bronze, and he also created The Burghers of Calais. Paolo and Francesca
da Rimini kiss and a man holds his chin in sculptures from this man's The Gates of Hell. For 10 points, name
this French sculptor of The Thinker.
ANSWER: Francois-Auguste-Rene Rodin
036-09-6-05116

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. While Archimedes only identified three of them, Heron of Alexandria, as well as many of the
scientists of the Renaissance, listed their number as five. In his work On Mechanics, Galileo became
the first to realize that they do not actually create energy, they can only transform it. One of them can
be constructed with a sheave and a rope, and several utilize the ability to (*) convert torque into a linear
force. Screws, wedges, wheel and axles, pulleys, levers, and inclined planes are all examples of, for 10
points, which non-complex devices that provide a mechanical advantage?
ANSWER: simple machines
040-09-6-05117

17. Cave-in-Rock, a large cave on the banks of this river, was a hideout for river bandits. The
Shawnee Lookout site on the banks of this river is an important archeological site, and the city of
Paducah was a strategic locations on this river at the start of the Civil War. Tributaries of this river
include the Licking and Kanawha, as well as the Big and Little (*) Miami Rivers. Major cities located on
this river include Louisville. For 10 points, identify this river formed by the confluence of the Monongahela
and Allegheny Rivers at Pittsburgh.
ANSWER: Ohio River
057-09-6-05118

18. This woman was one of three female rulers attacked, along with her British cousin and French
mother, in John Knox's First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstrous Regiment of Women. One of
this woman's husbands was strangled after growing jealous of her closeness to David Rizzio. This wife
of Lord Darnley and daughter of Mary of (*) Guise (geez) was implicated in the Ridolfi Plot. Later,
Francis Walsingham found evidence tying her to Anthony Babington's attempt to assassinate Elizabeth I. For
10 points, name this mother of James I who was beheaded by Elizabeth I after a lengthy imprisonment and
who is commonly known by a national byname.
ANSWER: Mary, Queen of Scots [or Mary I of Scotland; or Mary Stuart; prompt on Queen Mary;
prompt on Mary I]
015-09-6-05119

19. This man established the convent at Prouille consisting of women converted from heresy. He held a
meeting with sixteen colleagues known as the capitulum fundationis that adopted a set of regulations
for his organization. His namesake organization received recognition from Pope Honorius III in 1216
and was informally known, thanks to a Latin pun, as the (*) "dogs of God." For 10 points, identify this
founder of an eponymous Catholic order of preachers that was honored in the names of two Caribbean
countries.
ANSWER: Saint Dominic [or Santo Domingo de Guzman]
030-09-6-05120

20. One military action led by this man is known as the Greater Wrath. This leader's forces won the
battle of Lesnaya and lost decisively at Narva before signing the Treaty of Nystad. This leader
abolished antiquated age-based orders of precedence by introducing the Table of Ranks. This man
ordered the (*) boyars to shave their beards and traveled abroad in disguise to gather ideas about
modernizing his country. For 10 points, name this Romanov winner of the Great Northern War who
established the Russian Empire as an international force.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I; prompt on Peter]
015-09-6-05121

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. One disease that affects this entity comes in a primary biliary form, which results in xanthoma.
This entity includes cavities such as the Space of Mall and the Space of Disse. Kuppfer cells in this
organ degrade red blood cells. Scar tissue replaces functional tissue in (*) cirrhosis, a disease of this
organ that can be caused by excessive alcohol use. For 10 points, hepatic veins drain blood from what organ,
useful for detoxifying the blood?
ANSWER: liver
033-09-6-05122

22. This country's independence movement began after a performance of an opera about a revolution
in Naples, The Mute Girl of Portici. Swedish U.N. leader Dag Hammarskjold (HAM-err-skyold) was
attempting to reach a settlement between this European country and one of its colonies during the
1961 plane crash which claimed Hammarskjold's life. This country was responsible for the (*) "rubber
atrocities" and supplied the United States with uranium during its time governing the Congo. For 10 points,
name this country, led by three kings named Leopold, which continues to suffer linguistic struggles between
French and Flemish speakers.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Belgium
052-09-6-05123

23. One part of this work closes with a man on opium being put in a chest that is stolen by two userers.
This work closes with the Marquis of Saluzzo being tricked by his wife. This book begins with
Ciapelletto lying about being a priest. Some of the most noted stories from this work describe a
woman who loyalty is tested by her husband, (*) Griselda, and a man who kills a prized falcon in order to
serve a meal to his guest. For 10 points, name this collection of tales told by refugees fleeing Florence
during the Black Death, written by Giovanni Boccaccio.
ANSWER: the Decameron
033-09-6-05124

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 5
Bonuses
1. This novel includes parts titled "The Seventh Day" and "The Prayer of the Saints." For 10 points each:
[10] John Grimes’s fourteenth birthday is the focus of what novel, the first and most widely read by the
African-American author of Giovanni’s Room and Tell Me How Long the Train’s Been Gone ?
ANSWER: Go Tell it on the Mountain
[10] This expatriate in Paris is the author of the play A Deed From the King of Spain. He wrote the
aforementioned novels, including Go Tell it on the Mountain.
ANSWER: James Baldwin
[10] In this collection of two essays, Baldwin describes his meeting with Malcolm X and expresses his views
on the civil rights movement. This landmark of American nonfiction writing takes its title from a line in the
spiritual "Mary Don't You Weep."
ANSWER: The Fire Next Time
034-09-6-05201

2. This man advanced the use of tenebrism in works such as The Calling of St. Matthew. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painter of The Cardsharps and The Supper at Emmaus.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio
[10] Caravaggio depicted this figure holding his hands to his eyes, as an angel holds up another person, in
his painting about "The Conversion of" this figure.
ANSWER: Saint Paul
[10] In one painting, Caravaggio depicted an almost bored-looking Judith beheading this Babylonian
general.
ANSWER: Holofernes
015-09-6-05202

3. It was officially defined in a bull issued by Pius IX, and its feast day is December 8. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Catholic belief that the Virgin Mary was born without original sin.
ANSWER: Immaculate Conception
[10] Catholics also believe that this event happened at the end of Mary's earthly life. This also happened to
Enoch and Elijah, and Jude, Verse 9, claims it also happened to Moses.
ANSWER: Assumption [or "being assumed into heaven" or other word forms]
[10] This 431 ecumenical council decreed that Mary is the Theotokos, or Mother of God. It also condemned
the Pelagian heresy, but was most chiefly concerned with condemning Nestorianism.
ANSWER: First Council of Ephesus
003-09-6-05203

4. Their chieftains included Ivar the Boneless and Ragnar Hairy-Pants. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these seafaring people originally from Norway, who wore horned helmets and terrorized
medieval Europe.
ANSWER: Vikings
[10] According to legend, some Vikings were these especially frenzied warriors who may have been named
for wearing shirts made from bears.
ANSWER: berserkers
[10] In the early eleventh century, this Viking sailed to the coast of Canada and established the colony of
Vinland.
ANSWER: Leif Erikson [or Leif Erikson]
004-09-6-05204

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. It is defined as being perpendicular to the tangent of the mirror surface at its center. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this axis of a mirror, along which the reflected ray is exactly the opposite direction of the incident
ray, which passes through the center of curvature.
ANSWER: principal axis
[10] For small mirrors, rays parallel to the principal axis reflect and meet at this point.
ANSWER: focus [or focal point]
[10] If a mirror has a radius of curvature of two meters, then this is the focal length of the mirror.
ANSWER: one meter (the focal length is half the radius of curvature)
003-09-6-05205

6. This ruler blamed the stormy seas that nearly caused his demise upon witches, and ordered a witch hunt as
a result. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tobacco-hating king of England, who was targeted by the Ruthven Raid and the Bye Plot.
ANSWER: James I of England [or James VI of Scotland; prompt on James; prompt on James VI]
[10] James was also the target of the Gunpowder Plot, which was to be carried out by this man, whose
holiday is now celebrated by wearing grotesque masks.
ANSWER: Guy Fawkes [prompt on John Johnson]
[10] James was also notable for debating the Puritans at the Hampton Court Conference, which led to the
royal convening of a group for performing this task.
ANSWER: translating the Bible into English [or creating the King James Bible; accept equivalents to
either]
026-09-6-05206

7. In June 2009, this band embarked on their 360 degree Tour. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Irish rock group that has produced songs such as "Sunday Bloody Sunday" and is led by
Bono (BAHN-oh).
ANSWER: U2
[10] Watermark and A Day Without Rain are albums by this other Irish artist, who may be best-known for
the new age song "Orinoco Flow."
ANSWER: Enya Brennan [or Eithne Patricia Ni Bhraonain]
[10] This Irish folk artist's singles include "9 Crimes" and "The Blower's Daughter," which were released on
his albums 9 and O.
ANSWER: Damien Rice
036-09-6-05207

8. Molecular orbital theory states that these are formed by the hybridization of orbitals. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of chemical bonds, which require the sharing of electrons, in stark contrast to ionic
bonds.
ANSWER: covalent bonds
[10] In this kind of covalent bonding situation, four electrons are shared. These kinds of covalent bonds
alternate with single bonds in benzene.
ANSWER: double bonds
[10] When more than one Lewis dot structure can accurately represent all covalent bonds between atoms in a
molecule, the molecule is said to experience this stabilizing effect.
ANSWER: resonance
020-09-6-05208

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This man successfully helped the Argonauts overcome the Sirens. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ultra-talented Greek musician, who unsuccessfully descended into the underworld to rescue
his wife Eurydice (yur-ID-uh-see).
ANSWER: Orpheus
[10] Orpheus's sad music moved both Hades and this queen of the underworld. This daughter of Demeter
performs a cyclic descent and return from Hades, which explains the seasons.
ANSWER: Persephone [or Kora]
[10] This muse was Orpheus's mother. She was credited with inspiring Homer to write the Iliad and the
Odyssey as the muse of epic and heroic poetry, and she shares her name with a steam-powered musical
instrument.
ANSWER: Calliope
052-09-6-05209

10. Felix Mendelssohn led a revival of this man’s music with a performance of the St. Matthew’s Passion in
1829. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer, who wrote concerto grossos for differing ensembles in the Brandenburg
Concertos.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
[10] J.S. Bach wrote many works in this contrapuntal style, which opens with one voice playing the theme,
then others repeating it in different keys. Bach paired them often with toccatas and preludes.
ANSWER: fugue
[10] This work by Bach is a collection of two volumes of preludes and fugues for the keyboard. The link
between all of the works is that both volumes have one prelude and fugue in each key.
ANSWER: The Well Tempered Clavier [or Das Wohltemperierte Klavier]
027-09-6-05210

11. The originator of this concept outlined five main classes of it, including self, shadow and persona. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these innate, universal elements of the psyche, examples of which include the hero and the
trickster.
ANSWER: archetypes
[10] Archetypes were developed by this Swiss psychiatrist, who also theorized the collective unconscious.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung
[10] Jung is also associated with this concept, which he described as an "acausal connecting principle." It
deals with causally unrelated events occurring together meaningfully.
ANSWER: synchronicity
024-09-6-05211

12. He attempts to forget all history after 1602 and fight Turks and Moors in order to live out a dream
sparked by a fragment of Novalis. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fictional author, who plans to rewrite Don Quixote word-for-word in a short story that dubs
him the "author of the Quixote."
ANSWER: Pierre Menard [or Pierre Menard]
[10] Like another work about a fictitious writer, "An Examination of the Work of Herbert Quain," "Pierre
Menard, Author of the Quixote" appears in this collection of short stories that also features "The Garden of
Forking Paths" and "The Lottery in Babylon."
ANSWER: Ficciones [or Fictions]
[10] This blind Argentinian author of Ficciones also wrote "Shakespeare's Memory" and "The Aleph."
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges
022-09-6-05212
Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. They develop from oocytes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this female gamete.
ANSWER: egg [or ovum]
[10] The meiotic division of an oocyte yields one egg and three of these short-lived cells, which contain the
genetic material but little to no cytoplasm.
ANSWER: polar bodies [or polar body]
[10] The zona pellucida of an egg interacts with this organelle of the sperm, which has digestive enzymes to
allow for the cells to merge.
ANSWER: acrosome
001-09-6-05213

14. A christian army won the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa in this country, leading to the final defeat of its
Moors. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country whose kingdoms of Castile and Aragon were united by the marriage of its rulers
Ferdinand and Isabella.
ANSWER: Spain [or Espana]
[10] The territories located in this modern-day country revolted against Spain in the Eighty Years War under
the leadership of the House of Orange.
ANSWER: the Netherlands [or Holland]
[10] This Spanish general brutally repressed Protestants in the Spanish Netherlands during the second half of
the sixteenth century. He led the so-called "Council of Blood," and was known as the Iron Duke.
ANSWER: the third Duke of Alba [or Fernando Alvarez de Toledo]
004-09-6-05214

15. This sculptor created the lost Theseus and the Minotaur group. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Ancient Greek sculptor best known for a creation in which a nude youth with his left hand on
his knee is about to hurl a discus.
ANSWER: Myron
[10] Another Greek sculptor, Phidias, sculpted a seated statue of this deity at Olympia. That statue of this
deity is one of the seven ancient wonders of the world.
ANSWER: Zeus
[10] Agesander, Athenodoros, and Polydoros sculpted a group of this priest and his sons, who are all about
to be devoured by serpents sent by Poseidon as punishment.
ANSWER: Laocoon
020-09-6-05215

16. Female characters in this novel include the motherly Norah Nesbitt and the cold Mildred Pierce. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this novelm centering on the education and experiences of Philip Carey.
ANSWER: Of Human Bondage
[10] Of Human Bondage was written by this British author, who told of Larry Durrell's unusual quest for
happiness in The Razor's Edge.
ANSWER: William Somerset Maugham
[10] In the novel, Philip suffers from this lower-extremity affliction that also pains Kashiwagi in Yukio
Mishima's The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
ANSWER: he has a clubfoot [accept obvious equivalents]
040-09-6-05216

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Name these European mountains, for 10 points each:.
[10] The highest peak in this European mountain range, which is traditionally a home of werewolves, is
Mount Gerlach. Its southern branch is known as the Transylvanian Alps, and it links the Alps with the
Balkans.
ANSWER: Carpathian Mountains
[10] This mountainous plateau covers about a sixth of France. Puy de Sancy is its highest point, and the
Loire River flows out of this region.
ANSWER: Massif Central
[10] This highest peak in the British Isles is located in the Scottish Highlands. Its summit includes the
remains of an observatory.
ANSWER: Mount Ben-Nevis
030-09-6-05217

18. In his poem "The Children's Hour," he wrote of his daughters Alice, Edith, and Anne Allegra. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this author whose poems about finding a marriage include "Hyperion" and "The Courtship of
Miles Standish."
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
[10] Henry Rowe Schoolcraft is recognized by Longfellow as the source of much of the material in this epic
poem, based upon the legends of the Ojibway Indians.
ANSWER: The Song of Hiawatha
[10] This other Longfellow epic tells of the beloved of Gabriel Lajeunesse, who is separated from him
during the Great Upheaval of the Acadians.
ANSWER: Evangeline, A Tale of Acadie
040-09-6-05218

19. One candidate for Vice-President during this election was Nicholas Butler, who filled in for James
Sherman. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the year of this election, in which former President Theodore Roosevelt lost while running with
Hiram Johnson, but did become the last candidate to finish in second place while running for a party that
was not the Democrats or Republicans.
ANSWER: election of 1912
[10] Theodore Roosevelt ran under the banner of this political party. A different party with this same name
was a factor in the election of 1924 after it nominated Robert La Follette.
ANSWER: Progressive Party [do not accept "Bull Moose Party," as La Follette's party was not known by
that name]
[10] Progressive VP candidate Hiram Johnson held this position at one point in his career. Future Supreme
Court Chief Justice Earl Warren was elected to this office three times, once on a joint
Democratic-Republican nomination.
ANSWER: governor of California [accept obvious equivalents]
033-09-6-05219

20. An example of this type of wave is a sound wave. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of wave where the oscillation is parallel to the direction of propagation.
ANSWER: longitudinal wave [or compression wave]
[10] This other type of wave has the oscillations perpendicular to the direction of propagation.
ANSWER: transverse wave
[10] For both transverse and longitudinal waves, this quantity is equal to two pi divided by the wavelength.
ANSWER: wavenumber
001-09-6-05220
Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. His first play was a dramatization of the life of the Roman conspirator Catiline. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this playwright, whose other plays include The Master Builder and A Doll's House.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen
[10] The manipulative, and ultimately suicidal, title character of this Ibsen play is married to Jurgen Tesman,
a scholar who has a rivalry with Eilert Lovborg.
ANSWER: Hedda Gabler
[10] The title character of this Ibsen play is Thomas Stockmann, who has a dispute with the mayor over the
healthiness of the town's public baths.
ANSWER: An Enemy of the People [or En folkefiende]
024-09-6-05221

22. One mechanism of this hormone involves adding aquaporin-2s into some apical membranes. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this peptide hormone that regulates the body's water retention and allows for the reabsorption of
urea in the collecting duct.
ANSWER: arginine vasopressin [or AVP; or argipressin; or antidiuretic hormone; or ADH]
[10] ADH comes into contact with several portions of these excretory system organs, which sit below the
adrenal glands and contain ascending and descending loops of Henle.
ANSWER: kidneys
[10] These functional units of the kidney each contain a glomerulus and Bowman's capsule. A kidney
comprises 800,000 of these units, which excrete waste as urine.
ANSWER: nephron
020-09-6-05222

Tournament-9 Round 5 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

