Tournament-8
Round 6
Tossups
1. This island was the site of the Bronze Age Torreen Culture, and it contains the Scandola Nature
Reserve. This island's longest river, the Golo, begins near Monte Cinto, its highest point. In the
eighteenth century, Pasquale (*) Paoli founded the world's first democracy on this island, although it was
short lived. This island lies north of the Strait of Bonifacio and south of the Liguria Sea. With capital at
Ajaccio, for 10 points, name this island north of Sardinia controlled by France, the birthplace of Napoleon.
ANSWER: Corsica [or La Corse]
035-09-4-06102

2. In one of this author's works, the unveiling of a skeleton next to the words "Follow your leader"
reveals a rebellion aboard the San Dominick to Amasa Delano. This author collected short stories like
"The Lightning-Rod Man" in his Piazza Tales. In a novella by this author, the title character is taken
aboard the Bellipotent, where he is accused of mutiny by John (*) Claggart. This author of "Benito
Cereno" and Billy Budd wrote a novel whose narrator joins Queequeg and Ahab on a hunt for a white whale.
For 10 points, name this American author of Moby-Dick.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
038-09-4-06103

3. During the new moon, this figure was considered to be blind and was known as Mekhenty-er-irty.
The Greeks adapted him into the god of silence Harpocrates. His severed hands were recovered by
Sobek, who also once saved this god's four sons, who guarded the canopic jars. He once tricked his
most famous rival into using a stone boat in a race and into eating this god's (*) semen, which he had
hidden in lettuce. This sky god came to power by avenging the death of his father and defeating his uncle
Set. For 10 points, name this falcon-headed Egyptian god, the son of Isis and Osiris.
ANSWER: Horus
029-09-4-06104

4. This politician described the legislature serving during his term as the "do-nothing Congress." This
man owed much of his success to the political machine of Tom Pendergast. This president
desegregated the military, recognized Israel, and served during the passage of the Taft-Hartley act.
One election won by this man featured an (*) erroneous headline that declared his defeat by Thomas
Dewey. For 10 points, name this Democratic president, who won the election of 1948, ordered the bombing
of Hiroshima, and instituted the Marshall Plan.
ANSWER: Harry Truman
038-09-4-06105

5. Extremely blocky, steep-sided types of these landforms occur when they form under glaciers, and
are known as tuyas. Their activities can form cryptodomes, which, when moved from their original
location, are known as coulees. Their actions are sometimes described as phreatic or (*) plinian
depending on whether they create large amounts of steam. They can create flows of pahoehoe or aa, and they
come in composite, shield, and cinder cone varieties. For 10 points, name these openings in the earth's crust
that allow magma to come to the surface, exemplified by Krakatoa and St. Helens.
ANSWER: volcanos
026-09-4-06106

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One of this author's major poems includes a four hundred line speech by Pythagoras which
criticizes eating the meat of animals. This author lamented being punished for "carmen et error" in
his poem Tristia, and described the progress of his affair with Corinna in his (*) Amores. This poet's
satirical guide for the best ways to commit adultery may have caused Augustus to exile him from Rome.
Another of this author's poems describes Daphne turning into a laurel tree, among numerous other
transformations. For 10 points, name this Roman poet of The Art of Love and Metamorphoses.
ANSWER: Publius Ovidius Naso [or Publius Ovidius Naso]
051-09-4-06107

7. This actor spoke the line "Look at this. Look at what they make you give." while his character was
dying in The Bourne Identity, a movie where he played rival assassin The Professor. He appeared as
Walter Raleigh in Elizabeth: The Golden Age and protected Monica Belluci from (*)Paul Giamatti's
Hertz as Smith in Shoot 'Em Up. For 10 points, name this British actor who portrayed Dalton Russell in
Inside Man and Dwight McCarthy in Sin City before starring in Alfonso Cuarón's Children of Men.
ANSWER: Clive Owen
019-09-4-06108

8. One of this element's allotropes has a three hundred twenty atom unit cell, and each major
allotrope feature in some capacity twelve-atom icosahedra. Stock and Pohland isolated a compound of
this element and nitrogen that is isoelectronic and isostructural to benzene. Compounds of this
element with hydrogen feature three center two electron bonds and are described by Wade's rules as
hypho, arachno, nido, and closo. This element is isolated from (*) ulexite and borax. For 10 points, name
this element with atomic number five and symbol B.
ANSWER: boron
022-09-4-06109

9. This opera's aria "Hell's vengeance boils in my heart" reaches a high F6, and is sung by a character
who, along with Monostatos, tries to destroy a temple in the final scene. Another character is a
birdcatcher who is reunited with his similarly-named lover at the end of this opera. During this opera,
Sarastro sings a prayer to Isis and Osiris in order to protect (*) Tamino, who must undergo an ordeal to
win Pamina. For 10 points, name this Mozart opera about the Queen of the Night, Papagena, and Papageno,
who is given the title instrument.
ANSWER: The Magic Flute [or Die Zauberflöte]
024-09-4-06110

10. Pyotr Grinyov is the main character in this author’s romanticized view of Pugachev’s Rebellion,
The Captain’s Daughter. He adapted the story of Don Juan in The Stone Guest, which, like his play
Mozart and Salieri, was collected in his collection Little Tragedies. After a storm floods the Neva,
Evgeny curses a statue of the Peter the Great, causing it to come to life, in this author's poem The (*)
Bronze Horseman. This author died after dueling his wife’s lover, but not before writing a verse novel about
the poet Vladimir Lensky’s death in a duel. For 10 points, name this Russian author of Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Aleksandr Pushkin
034-09-4-06111

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This ruler came to power with the backing of the Naryshkin family. He faced an early revolt by the
musketeer division of his bodyguard, called the streltsy. After capturing Azov, he led the Grand
Embassy westward to learn of other countries. To achieve that goal, he became a (*) carpenter in a
Dutch East India Company shipyard. After returning home, he ordered the boyars, or nobles, to cut their
beards. He also defeated Charles XII of Sweden in the Great Northern War. For 10 points, name this
modernizing tsar of Russia.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Pyotr Veliky; or Peter I; or Pyotr Alekseyevich; prompt on Peter]
019-09-4-06112

12. Among the first animals to possess this structure were the fish Haikouicthys. Consisting of a core
of glycoproteins enveloped by two helices of collagen fibers, it secretes the protein sonic hedgehog
homolog, which is important in the development of neurons. It forms during (*) gastrulation by the
epiblasts that comprise the floor of the amnion cavity, and it leads to the formation of the neural plate.
Extending to the sphenoid bone, for 10 points, name this structure found in the embryos of all chordates, the
precursor of the vertebral column.
ANSWER: notochord
040-09-4-06113

13. Norman Dello Joio provided the score for a work by this choreographer about the life of Joan of
Arc, Seraphic Dialogue. The sculptor Izamu Noguchi designed a minimalist set for a solo piece by this
choreographer intended to depict a pioneer woman. Along with (*) Frontier, this graduate of the
Denishawn School of Dance choreographed dances for a composition that includes a set of variations on the
Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts." For 10 points, name this American dancer and choreographer who
choreographed Aaron Copland's piece Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Martha Graham
032-09-4-06114

14. One king of this name joined Conrad III to fight the Second Crusade. The eleventh king of this
name annexed Burgundy after the death of Charles the Bold, and was opposed by the League of the
Public Weal. A third king of this name declared the Duke of Anjou the king of Spain, sparking the
War of the (*) Spanish Succession. The sixth king of this name was known as "the Fat," and the eleventh
was known as "the Spider." Another king of this name ordered the construction of Versailles. For 10 points,
give this name shared by eighteen kings of France, including one known as the "Sun King."
ANSWER: Louis
004-09-4-06115

15. This psychologist classified reactions as primary, secondary, and tertiary circular, and described
mental structures that he called "schemas." He studied how children understand that things that can
no longer be seen (*) still exist, a theory he called object permanence. His best-known theory classifies
child maturation into four periods known as sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational and formal
operational. For 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist known for his theory of cognitive development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
025-09-4-06116

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. According to one account, he captured the pirate Thomas of Longoville while journeying to France
to ask Phillip IV for aid. That story comes from the "Actes and deidis" of this man composed by Blind
Harry. Despite using the "schiltron" formation, he was crushed at the battle of (*) Falkirk. Earlier, he
teamed with Andrew Moray to defeat the forces of John de Warenne at Stirling Bridge. He ceded his
position to Robert the Bruce and was captured and drawn and quartered by Edward II. For 10 points, name
this hero of Scottish independence.
ANSWER: William Wallace
015-09-4-06117

17. This phenomenon happens as a result of sound waves inducing density fluctuations in water in the
Debye-Sears effect, while when involving x-rays and a crystal lattice this phenomenon is named for
Bragg, and through a circular aperture it leads to a pattern named for Airy. Its far-field type is named
for (*) Fraunhofer, while its near-field type involves integrals named for Fresnel. This phenomenon may be
explained by the principle that every point on a wavefront is its own source, which is named for Huygens.
For 10 points, name this optical phenomenon where a wave encounters an obstacle and bends around it.
ANSWER: diffraction
022-09-4-06118

18. In the first section of To the Lighthouse, Mrs. Ramsay suddenly recalls this poem's line "Someone
had blundered." This poem's sixth and final stanza asks "When can their glory fade?" Its fourth
stanza states that "Cossack and Russian / Reel'd from the sabre stroke / Shatter'd and sunder'd."
This poem asserts (*) "Theirs not to reason why / Theirs but to do and die, and begins "Half a league, half a
league /Half a league onward /All in the valley of Death / Rode the six hundred." For 10 points, name this
poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson about an event during the Crimean War's Battle of Balaclava.
ANSWER: "The Charge of the Light Brigade"
025-09-4-06119

19. Early in his reign, this ruler defeated and incorporated the Keriat, Merkit and Naiman peoples
into his empire. This leader who created the Yassa law code died while campaigning against the
Tanguts, although his last major campaign was against the Khwarezmian dynasty in Iran and Central
Asia. This ruler employed generals such as Jebe and (*) Subotai, who used tactics developed by this man
including psychological warfare and mass use of cavalry. He was the father of Ogedei and the grandfather of
Batu, Hulegu, and Kublai. For 10 points, name this founder of the Mongol Empire
ANSWER: Genghis Khan [or Temujin]
035-09-4-06120

20. With two of his students, this man proposed a hidden-variables critique of quantum mechanics
which involved a paradox named for him, Podolsky, and Rosen. He co-names a condensate of atoms
cooled to near absolute zero that become a coalesced quantum mechanical entity with (*) Bose, and he
argued for the existence of atoms by analyzing Brownian motion. His more famous theories include one that
postulates the speed of light to be a constant and which was later expanded to include gravity. For 10 points,
identify this scientist who formulated the equation e equals m c squared.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
027-09-4-06121

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author retold the Odyssey in her novella The Penelopiad and wrote a novel about Simon
Jordan, who researches the murder of Thomas Kinnear. Another of her novels ends with the
protagonist being taken by Nick away from the home of Serena Joy. This author of (*) Alias Grace,
The Robber Bride, and The Blind Assassin wrote a dystopian novel set in the Republic of Gilead which
centers on Offred ("of Fred"). For 10 points, name this Canadian author of The Handmaid's Tale.
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor Atwood
029-09-4-06122

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 6
Bonuses
1. Qanniq and aput are words in this language for snow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this subgroup of the Eskimo-Aleut languages, spoken in Nunavut.
ANSWER: Inuit
[10] This language is the only derivative of Inuit that does not use Inuktitut syllabics, instead using Latin
letters. It is spoken in Qaanaaq and Nuuk.
ANSWER: Greenlandic
[10] This Southwest American language of the Dine was heavily utilized by code talkers during World War
II.
ANSWER: Navajo
036-09-4-06201

2. This branch of chemistry often requires the use of dimensional analysis. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this area of chemistry that deals with how much of a particular substance is needed for a reaction,
or produced by that reaction, if the quantities of other reactants are known.
ANSWER: stoichiometry
[10] This is the name for the reactant that directly affects how much product can be made, as opposed to
excess reactants, which are left over when this reactant is all used up.
ANSWER: limiting reactant [or limited reactant; or limiting reagent; or limited reagent]
[10] Stoichiometry is also used to find this quantity, which is roughly computed by dividing the amount of
product made by the amount of product that should have been made.
ANSWER: percent yield
003-09-4-06202

3. Name things in philosophy related to ethics, for 10 points each:
[10] This Dutch philosopher wrote Tractatus Theologico-Politicus and slammed Descartes dualism and
stated that virtue is the human's "nature of essence" in Ethica.
ANSWER: Baruch Spinoza [or Benedict(us) de Spinoza]
[10] Aristotle wrote this philosophical work named for his son that introduces the Doctrine of the Mean,
advocating for moderation in all things except arete, or virtue.
ANSWER: Nicomachean Ethics
[10] This author of On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason claimed that Kant's
"thing-in-itself" was multi-faceted and praised asceticism in The World as Will and Idea.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
034-09-4-06203

4. Parts of this country include the Balearic Islands and Asturias. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this European country which also includes Castille and Aragon.
ANSWER: Spain or España
[10] Spain is also home to this independence-seeking region, whose capital is Barcelona, and which has a
namesake dialect of Spanish.
ANSWER: Catalonia
[10] This region of western Spain is located near Portugal, and is famous for producing a disproportionate
number of conquistadores. Both Cortes and Pizarro were from here.
ANSWER: Extremadura
021-09-4-06204

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. He pioneered the ballade as a musical form, and wrote 21 nocturnes and a "Minute Waltz." For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Polish composer of "Fantasie-Impromptu."
ANSWER: Frederic Chopin
[10] Chopin's Opus 10 and Opus 25 contain these types of pieces, and include pieces nicknamed "Black
Key," "Winter Wind," and "Revolutionary."
ANSWER: etudes or studies
[10] This Russian composer composed mazurkas and etudes in the style of Chopin early in his career before
moving on to writing synesthetic works like the "Black Mass" and "White Mass" sonatas.
ANSWER: Alexander Nikolayevich Scriabin
036-09-4-06205

6. He wrote about farm hands George and Lenny in Of Mice and Men and the Joad Family in Grapes of
Wrath. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American author.
ANSWER: John Steinbeck
[10] In this retelling of the Cain and Abel story by Steinbeck, Cathy gives birth to Cal and Aron before
leaving Adam to run a brothel.
ANSWER: East of Eden
[10] This is the surname of Adam, Caleb, and Aron in East of Eden, which follows this development of this
family along with the Hamiltons.
ANSWER: Trask
015-09-4-06206

7. When he visits the court of Utgard Loki, this god loses a race to Thialfi, who is actually Thought in
disguise. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this son of Odin and Jord and wife of Sif, the Norse thunder god.
ANSWER: Thor.
[10] Thor wears the belt Megingjord in order to wield this short-handled hammer that returns to its owner
after being used.
ANSWER: Mjollnir
[10] Thor's chariot is pulled by Tanngrisnir and Tanngnjostr, a pair of these animals which can also grow
back if eaten. Zeus's foster mother Amalthea is often depicted as one of these.
ANSWER: goats
015-09-4-06207

8. The latter part of this line is referred to as a "bass cadenza," and it is sounded "from marsh and mere" by a
certain "humid race." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this onomatopoeic refrain that Charon and Dionysus are forced to endure while crossing the
river Styx, sung by a chorus of the title characters of the play The Frogs.
ANSWER: "brekekekex ko-ax ko-ax" [be lenient about the number of "ke" syllables in the first word]
[10] The Frogs was written by this Greek playwright, the author of such comedies as The Knights and The
Wasps.
ANSWER: Aristophanes
[10] Aristophanes's play The Clouds satirizes this philosopher as a Sophist who runs the ridiculous Thinkery.
ANSWER: Socrates
029-09-4-06208

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. Answer some questions about a composer, for 10 points each.
[10] This composer's early operas include Rienzi and The Fairies, but his more famous operas include The
Mastersingers of Nuremberg.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[10] This operatic cycle by Wagner consists of The Rhinegold, The Valkyrie, Siegfried, and Twilight of the
Gods.
ANSWER: Ring Cycle [or The Ring of the Nibelung; or Der Ring des Nibelungen]
[10] In this last Wagner opera, the title character recovers the spear used during Jesus' crucifixion, which had
been stolen by Klingsor.
ANSWER: Parsifal
024-09-4-06209

10. In one of this man's novels, Lucy Ashton is secretly betrothed to the Master of Ravenswood and goes
insane on the day of her wedding to Frank Hayston. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the author of The Bride of Lammermoor, as well as The Lay of the Last Minstrel and The Heart of
Midlothian.
ANSWER: Sir Walter Scott
[10] In this novel by Sir Walter Scott, the title character defends the Jewish daughter of Isaac of York
against charges of witchcraft, and ultimately marries Lady Rowena.
ANSWER: Ivanhoe
[10] Also known as MacGregor Campbell, this Scottish outlaw is the title character of another Scott novel,
in which this character exposes the embezzlement of Rashleigh Osbaldistone.
ANSWER: Rob Roy
030-09-4-06210

11. Such exciting objects as plutinos and cubewanos can be found in this region. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this region beyond Neptune's orbit that was once thought to be the source of short-period comets,
sometimes also named for Edgeworth.
ANSWER: Edgeworth-Kuiper Belt
[10] Smaller than Pluto and Eris, this dwarf planet, which is named for a Polynesian god, is the third-largest
object in the Kuiper Belt.
ANSWER: Makemake
[10] Members of this group of small planets lying mostly between Neptune and Jupiter have unstable orbits
that degenerate within several million years. These planets, including objects like Pholus, might have
originated in the Kuiper Belt.
ANSWER: Centaurs
032-09-4-06211

12. A massive revolution in this country against the Soviet government occurred on October 23, 1956. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this Eastern European country whose Communist leaders include Matyas Rakosi and Imre Nagy,
and which saw a forced relocation of 26,000 from its capital Budapest.
ANSWER: Republic of Hungary [or Magyar Koztarsasag]
[10] The canonized first king of Hungary had this name, which is shared with an Orthodox Christian martyr
who was stoned to death and with the current Prime Minister of Canada.
ANSWER: Stephen
[10] An earlier Hungarian revolt was led by Lajos Kossuth, who timed it to coincide with a Parisian revolt
bringing Louis Napoleon to power in this popular year for European revolutions.
ANSWER: 1848
020-09-4-06212
Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. For 10 points each, name some things about an experimental technique:
[10] The Taq type of this process's namesake enzyme functions at unusually high temperatures. During this
process, thermal cycles enable primers to anneal to DNA templates and be extended to useful length.
ANSWER: polymerase chain reaction [or PCR]
[10] Once you have enough DNA thanks to PCR, you can use transformation to force foreign DNA into
these circular DNA structures of bacteria.
ANSWER: plasmids
[10] This is the term for transfer of DNA material between plasmids by direct bacterial contact.
ANSWER: conjugation
032-09-4-06213

14. One resident of this city, Mrs. Sinico, commits suicide after Mr. Duffy doesn't like her, while another
resident, Jimmy Doyle, appears in the story "After the Race." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Irish city whose residents title a short story collection by James Joyce.
ANSWER: Dublin
[10] In this final story from Dubliners, Gabriel Conroy realized that his wife Gretta still loves Michael
Furey.
ANSWER: The Dead
[10] Joyce's novel Ulysses follows a day in the life of this man, whose wife Molly has an affair with Blazes
Boylan.
ANSWER: Leopold Bloom [or Leopold Bloom]
033-09-4-06214

15. This country's name, coined in the pamphlet Now or Never, is a neologism meaning "pure and clean"
that is also an acronym for its constituent ethnic groups. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this predominantly Islamic country that, since its 1947 creation during the partition of India, has
been intermittently ruled by the Bhutto family .
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or Jamhuryat Islami Pakistan]
[10] This leader of the Muslim League and advocate of Hindu-Muslim cooperation was known as the “Great
Father” of Pakistan for shepherding the state’s creation.
ANSWER: Mohammed Ali Jinnah
[10] In a 1971 war, Mujibur Rahman's Awami League proclaimed the independence of this province of
Pakistan under the new name of Bangladesh.
ANSWER: East Pakistan [or Mashriqi Pakistan]
019-09-4-06215

16. This principle of least time directly implies Snell's law. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this principle that light travels the fastest available path, thereby defining the angles it will take
between two media with different properties.
ANSWER: Fermat's principle
[10] This other optical principle states that every point on a wavefront is the origin of a wave.
ANSWER: Fresnel-Huygens principle
[10] Both Fermat's principle and the Huygens principle help explain this optical phenomenon, the bending of
light rays.
ANSWER: refraction
022-09-4-06216

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. An infant John the Baptist prays towards the infant Jesus, who is sitting near the angel Uriel, in this
painting. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting with both Louvre and National Gallery versions, that depicts Mary, sitting on the
namesake natural features with the other three figures, during the flight into Egypt.
ANSWER: Madonna of the Rocks [or Virgin of the Rocks]
[10] This painter of the Madonna of the Rocks also created a mural for the Santa Maria delle Grazie
monastery called The Last Supper.
ANSWER: Leonardo da Vinci
[10] This Leonardo drawing demonstrates that architectural principles can be applied to the human form,
which, in ideal proportion, is enclosable in a square and a circle.
ANSWER: Vitruvian Man
019-09-4-06217

18. The army instituted the “don’t ask, don’t tell policy” during his administration and he was investigated
by Kenneth Starr for his dealings with the Whitewater developers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this president who was impeached for perjury when he lied about his relationship with Monica
Lewinsky. He made his wife Hillary head a committee to develop universal health insurance.
ANSWER: William Jefferson Clinton
[10] This man served as House Minority whip until 1994, when his help in drafting the anti-Clinton
“Contract with America” led to a Republican majority in the House. He then served as its speaker.
ANSWER: Newt Gingrich
[10] This man nicknames a bill that created a five day waiting period to buy handguns that was passed
during Clinton’s administration. He was shot during the attempted assassination of Reagan.
ANSWER: James Brady
027-09-4-06218

19. He defeated Andre Agassi in the final of the 2002 US Open to win his fourteenth grand slam. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this American tennis player who won the Wimbledon's Men's Singles title seven times.
ANSWER: Pete Sampras
[10] This tennis player defeated Andy Roddick to win Wimbledon in 2009 and top Sampras's grand slam
record.
ANSWER: Roger Federer
[10] This Swede won Wimbledon five consecutive times, the last by beating John McEnroe in 1980.
ANSWER: Bjorn Borg
036-09-4-06219

20. This event in animal cells is tied to the formation of a contractile ring, which creates a cleavage furrow.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this partitioning of a cell's cytoplasm into two daughter cells.
ANSWER: cytokinesis
[10] Since plant cells have a cell wall, instead of a contractile ring, this structure forms during cytokinesis. It
begins as a fusion tube network and ends as a fenestrated sheet.
ANSWER: cell plate
[10] Cytokinesis generally occurs during this final stage of mitosis.
ANSWER: telophase
022-09-4-06220

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. The title figure of this poem stands "at our sea-washed, sunset gates" and cries "with silent lips" "keep,
ancient lamps, your storied pomp!" For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this sonnet that ends with the line "I lift my lamp beside the golden door!" Its title figure asks
for "your tired, your poor/your huddled masses yearning to breathe free."
ANSWER: "The New Colossus"
[10] "The New Colossus" was written by this American poet, who also wrote "In the Jewish Synagogue at
Newport."
ANSWER: Emma Lazarus
[10] This poet described a seagull flying "over the chained bay waters Liberty" in his magnum opus, The
Bridge.
ANSWER: Hart Crane
029-09-4-06221

Tournament-8 Round 6 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

