Tournament-8
Round 9
Tossups
1. This thinker invented a simple teaching machine, which rewards correct answers to a set of
questions. This thinker stated that "people are bodies" and argued against free will in one work, and
postulated the "mand" in his (*) Verbal Behavior. This author of Beyond Freedom and Dignity created the
school of radical behaviorism and authored Walden Two, and tracked the reponses of rats and pigeons to the
environment in operant conditioning chambers. For 10 points, name this 20th century American
psychologist.
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic Skinner
020-09-4-09102

2. Late in the play he appears in, this character claims that "[his] own tears / Do scald like molten
lead." He calls himself "a man / more sinned against than sinning" in a scene which sees him yell
"Blow winds, and crack your cheeks!" and encounter a man disguised as Tom o'Bedlam. He is led to
shelter by (*) Gloucester after rushing into a storm, accompanied only by the disguised Earl of Kent and his
Fool. At the beginning of the play named for him, he divides his kingdom between Albany and Cornwall.
For 10 points, name this monarch who titles a Shakespeare play about his daughters Goneril, Regan, and
Cordelia.
ANSWER: King Lear
029-09-4-09103

3. This president authorized Operation Urgent Fury after the execution of Maurice Bishop. This
president signed the Goldwater-Nichols Act to reform the Department of Defense. He justified the
Kemp-Roth Tax Cut with the Laffer Curve, and during a strike he fired eleven thousand (*) air traffic
controllers. The Tower Commission investigated his administrations for the actions of Caspar Weinberger
and Oliver North. For 10 points, name this president during the Iran-Contra affair who asked Gorbachev to
tear down the Berlin Wall.
ANSWER: Ronald Reagan
036-09-4-09104

4. The DOTS method was originally developed to ensure treatment of this disease, and first-line drugs
to treat this illness include isoniazid and rifampicin. This disease can be diagnosed with the Mantoux
test, also known as a PPD test, in which a bacterial extract is injected just under the (*) skin. Common
symptoms of this disease, which is caused by mycobacterium infection, include high fever, weight loss, and
a bloody cough. For 10 points, give this disease that usually afflicts the lungs but also commonly advances
into the spine when untreated, and was once called consumption.
ANSWER: tuberculosis [or TB; prompt on consumption before mentioned]
032-09-4-09105

5. This composer used the line “in his arms the child lay dead” to conclude an adaptation of a Goethe
(GER-tuh) poem, Erlkönig (ERL-kur-nig). Later, he composed another song adapted from Goethe,
using the playwright’s Faust as the source for “Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel.” Such songs marked
this composer’s elevation of a new genre, the (*) lieder (leader). A symphony in B minor that he began in
1822 was less successful. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Great and Unfinished
symphonies.
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert [accept Der Erlkönig or The Elf-king before “this composer” is read]
019-09-4-09106

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 1 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One probable cause of event was a dispute over a debt between Edward Gerrish and John
Goldfinch. In the trial that followed it, Robert Treat Paine led the prosecution. Thomas Preston was
the commanding officer present at this event and (*) Crispus Attucks was the first to die. The Townshend
Acts had earlier prompted the buildup of the troops who took part in this event. An engraving of this conflict
by Paul Revere stirred up anti-British sentiment. For 10 points, name this 1770 event in which British
soldiers fired on American colonists in Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Boston Massacre
035-09-4-09107

7. Edvard Munch created a version of this painting including a bowl of fruit and a nude woman facing
directly towards the viewer, in which the title figure is laid out on a bed. The top half of this painting
is depicts nothing but a black wall, while the bottom half contains a wooden box with the artist's
signature on it and an inkwell on top. The title figure holds a (*) note in his left hand and a quill in his
right after being murdered in his bathtub by Charlotte Corday. For 10 points, name this painting depicting an
assassination which took place in 1793, by Jacques-Louis David.
ANSWER: The Death of Marat
024-09-4-09108

8. This author wrote a story about a wizard who creates a fireproof man by dreaming of him in the
title location. In addition to "The Circular Ruins," this author wrote about a Frenchman who decides
to recreate rather than translate the title novel in his short story (*) "Pierre Menard, Author of the
Quixote." In another of this author's stories, an endless series of hexagonal rooms contain an endless series
of four hundred and ten page books. For 10 points, name this Argentine author of The Library of Babel who
republished his story The Garden of Forking Paths as part of his collection Ficciones.
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges
015-09-4-09109

9. This thinker rejected to Erasmus' formulation of free will in his work and claimed that humans
without God were ruled by Satan in On the Bondage of the Will. This man was ordered to recant his
heretical beliefs in the papal bull "Exurge Domine", which was written by Leo X in response to a a set
(*) of statements against abuses of the Church, including the sale of indulgences, that this man posted on the
cathedral in Wittenberg. For 10 points, name this German theologian who delivered the Augsburg
Confession at the Diet of Worms and sparked the Protestant Reformation with his 95 Theses.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
005-09-4-09110

10. This ruler provided aid to Yermak after Yermak conquered the khanate of Sibir, and this man
convened the first Zemsky Sobor. This ruler was defeated by Stephen Bathory in the Livonian War,
and he founded a secret police force called the (*) oprichina. This Rurik dynasty ruler killed his namesake
son in a rage in 1581, and he was succeeded by his advisor Boris Godunov. For 10 points, name this first
Russian ruler to have the title of Tsar, a man infamous for his ruthlessness.
ANSWER: Ivan IV [or Ivan the Terrible]
030-09-4-09111

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 2 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. The Stribeck curve gives this quantity as a function of steady-state velocity. Laws involving this
quantity were first discovered by Leonardo da Vinci, but mathematically written two centuries later
by Charles Coulomb. For a body on an incline, the coefficient associated with it is equal to the tangent
of the incline angle. The (*) "static" version of this quantity is proportional to the normal force and
independent of the area of contact. For 10 points, name this force that retards the motion of an object sliding
along a solid surface.
ANSWER: friction
003-09-4-09112

12. This organization included a branch called the Political Consultative Committee. One man
responsible for the creation of this organization was Nikolai Bulganin. In 1968, Albania withdrew
from this organization, and, in 1985, it was renewed for another twenty years. This organization was
responsible for the invasion of (*) Czechoslovakia during the Prague Spring. The main reason for the
creation of this organization was as a response to the creation of NATO. For 10 points, name this defensive
alliance led by the Soviet Union and declared in Poland.
ANSWER: Warsaw Pact [or Warsaw Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance; or
Warsaw Treaty Organization]
023-09-4-09113

13. This place is home to Kirkpatrick basalt, found on Mt. Kirkpatrick, and one mountain chain here
are the Pensacolas. The Onyx river flows into lake Vanda near the McMurdo sound on this landmass,
and it is divided into east and west by mountains named for it. An island near it is named (*)
Deception island, and one settlement here is called Vostok. It is split into places like Wilkes land, Queen
Maude Land, and Ellsworth Land, and the Amundsen sea is adjacent to it. Home to Mount Erebus and the
Ross Ice Shelf, for 10 points, name this continent where people can visit the South Pole.
ANSWER: Antarctica
027-09-4-09114

14. One character in this novel corrects the shepherd Peter as he describes how Chrysostom died out
of love for Marcela, and later discovers the helmet of Mambrino in the possession of a barber. This
novel begins with the title character reading books like Amadis of Gaul, which inspire him to rename
his horse (*) Rocinante. The title character attempts to save Dulcinea by charging at giants, despite his
squire insisting that he is only attacking windmills. For 10 points, name this novel about the title character's
adventures with Sancho Panza, written by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: Don Quixote de la Mancha
032-09-4-09115

15. This thinker rejected the objective form of the title concept for the subjective in The Science of
Logic. This thinker argued that men like Caesar and Napoleon advanced the title concept and asserted
that German society was the peak of human development in two of his works. In his most famous
work, this author of Lectures on the Philosophy of (*) History and The Philosophy of Right described the
evolution of consciousness towards "Absolute Knowledge" and the synthesis of the thesis and antithesis to
form the "dialectic". For 10 points, name this German philosopher, author of The Phenomenology of Spirit.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
005-09-4-09116

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 3 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. An alternative to this equation contains a factor of Boltzmann's constant times temperature over
Planck's constant and is known as the Eyring equation. The Eyring equation uses free energy as an
independent variable, whereas this equation divides (*) activation energy by the product of temperature
and the ideal gas constant; in addition, this equation's pre-exponential factor is not temperature-dependent.
For 10 points, name this equation that is used to find the rate of a reaction and is named after a Swedish
chemist.
ANSWER: Arrhenius equation
003-09-4-09117

17. This dynasty was politically dominated by Liu Jin and Wei Zhongxian. This dynasty was founded
by the Hongwu emperor, and the reign of its Yongle emperor included the construction of the
Forbidden City. The voyages of Zheng He took place during the reign of this dynasty, which was
overthrown by the (*) Manchus, and ruled in between the Yuan and Qing dynasties. For 10 points, name
this dynasty that ruled China from 1368 to 1644, which lends its name to a type of vase.
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty
004-09-4-09118

18. Several short stories by this author are narrated by Mr Mulliner, while a character known as the
Oldest Member narrates most of his stories about golf. The pig-obsessed Lord Emsworth is featured
in many of his stories set at Blandings Castle, and many of his characters are members of the (*)
Drones Club, including Bingo Little and a man with aunts named Agatha and Dahlia, Bertie Wooster. For 10
points, name this British comic author who created Wooster and his resourceful butler, Jeeves.
ANSWER: Pelham Grenville Wodehouse
024-09-4-09119

19. This position was played by the player who scored the winning run off of Francisco Cabrera's
single to win the 1992 NLCS for the Braves, Sid Bream. A man nicknamed Double X, the second
player to hit 500 career home runs, (*)Jimmie Foxx, also played this position, and as did the first player to
achieve over 3,000 career hits, Cap Anson. For 10 points, name this position played by Lou Gehrig and
currently played by Prince Fielder, Jason Giambi, and Albert Pujols.
ANSWER: First Base
030-09-4-09120

20. Francisco-Miguel Marqués has hypothesized a stable cluster of four of these particles, which
consist of two down quarks and one up quark. When these particles are in free space they rapidly
undergo beta decay and have an average lifespan of about fifteen minutes. Discovered in 1932 by
James (*) Chadwick, the number of these particles determines the isotope of an element, and their number is
included in atomic mass but not atomic number. For 10 points, name this subatomic particle with no net
electric charge, slightly heavier than a proton.
ANSWER: neutron
025-09-4-09121

21. This author wrote about a gambler being attacked in Fort Romber, Nebraska, in a story about a
Swede who picks a fight in a building owned by Pat Scully. This author wrote a story about four men,
including a cook and an oiler, who attempt to row to Mosquito Light Inlet after being stranded at sea.
In a novel by this author, the protagonist meets the “tattered man” after (*) deserting Wilson and Jim
Conklin during battle. This author of The Blue Hotel and The Open Boat wrote a novel about Henry
Fleming, who discovers the true nature of the Civil War. For 10 points, name this author of The Red Badge
of Courage.
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
027-09-4-09122
Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 4 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 9
Bonuses
1. One of these claims that Alsace-Lorraine should be handed back to France. Another argues for open
passage in the Dardanelles. For ten points each:
[10] Name this set of ideals delivered in a speech to the joint Congress in 1918 that justified U.S.
involvement in World War I and planned a postwar Europe.
ANSWER: Fourteen Points
[10] This American President delivered the Fourteen Points speech. He set up the War Industries Board and
failed to get Congress to ratify the Treaty of Versailles.
ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson
[10] This act passed by Woodrow Wilson in 1913 following the passage of the Sixteenth Amendment. It is
sometimes named for an Alabama Senator.
ANSWER: Revenue Act [or Underwood Tariff]
033-09-4-09201

2. These compounds have chemical formulas of the form CnH2n-2. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these hydrocarbons which possess a carbon-carbon triple bond.
ANSWER: alkynes
[10] This simplest alkyne is used in welding and has formula C2H2.
ANSWER: acetylene [or ethyne]
[10] Acetylene can be produced by electrolysis of this compound, as discovered by Friedrich Wohler. This
compound is also used in a namesake type of lamp once commonly used by miners.
ANSWER: calcium carbide [or CaC2, prompt on carbide]
025-09-4-09202

3. It was halted after six days at the insistence of Christina Malasch, and the generalizability of its results
was criticized by Erich Fromm. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this social psychology experiment that saw a participant known as #416 attempt to go on a
hunger strike, conducted in a California university basement by Philip Zimbardo.
ANSWER: Stanford prison experiment [accept equivalents for "experiment"]
[10] The results of the Stanford prison experiment are similar to those found by this man, who directed
participants in his namesake experiments to apply electric shocks to supposed "learners".
ANSWER: Stanley Milgram
[10] Like Milgram, this other American psychologist carried out a number of conformity experiments. His
subjects were convinced to deliberately lie about various line lengths.
ANSWER: Solomon Eliot Asch
029-09-4-09203

4. The operations of this organ are controlled by the sinoatrial node, which relays impulses to the Purkinje
fibers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this muscular organ that, in humans, has four chambers.
ANSWER: heart [or cardiac muscle]
[10] The heart is encased in this sac. The effusion of this sac occurs when there is excessive fluid in it,
putting pressure on the heart.
ANSWER: pericardium [or pericardial sac]
[10] Deoxygenated blood flows from the right atrium to the right ventricle via this valve, which has three
leaflets and three papillary muscles.
ANSWER: tricuspid valve [prompt on right atrioventricular valve]
026-09-4-09204
Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 5 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In this work, the reappearance of the oboe assures us that the duck isn't really dead. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this piece of music whose title characters are represented by the strings and the French horns,
respectively.
ANSWER: Peter and the Wolf
[10] Name the composer of Peter and the Wolf. He also wrote the Lieutenant Kije suite and the Scythian
Suite.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev
[10] Prokofiev also wrote this opera based on a great Russian novel. The main soprano role of the opera is
Natasha, and Prince Andrei is sung by a baritone.
ANSWER: War and Peace
032-09-4-09205

6. In 1996, the Supreme Court refused to grant certiorari to Hopwood v. Texas, leading Texas public schools
to drop programs enforcing this concept. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this two-word phrase denoting attempts to increase minority representation in a specific sector of
education or the workforce.
ANSWER: affirmative action
[10] In this 1978 decision, the Supreme Court disallowed the use of quota-based affirmative action systems,
but allowed the use of race as a factor in determining admission.
ANSWER: Regents of the University of California v. Bakke [or Bakke v. Regents of the University of
California]
[10] Affirmative action and reverse discrimination cases often concern Title VII of this act, which prohibits
"discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, or natural origin."
ANSWER: Civil Rights Act of 1964 [prompt on Civil Rights Act]
003-09-4-09206

7. Kaikhosru Sorabji transposed the score of this work for solo piano, while its libretto was based on Hedwig
Lachmann's translation of a play of the same name. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this opera, the title character of which performs the "Dance of the Seven Veils" before
demanding Herod provide her the head of Jochanaan.
ANSWER: Salome
[10] A chord representing the title character of this man's opera Elektra is a combination of an E-major and a
C-sharp major. This composer of Salome also penned Der Rosenkavalier.
ANSWER: Richard Georg Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
[10] This Strauss opera, with libretto by Hugo von Hofmannsthal, sees Zerbinetta sing the aria
"Grossmächtige Prinzessin!" to the title character, who sings a duet with Bacchus at its end.
ANSWER: Ariadne auf Naxos [or Ariadne on Naxos]
029-09-4-09207

8. In air at twenty degrees Celsius, it is approximately 343 meters per second. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this speed, also known as Mach one.
ANSWER: speed of sound [or velocity of sound]
[10] In fluids, the speed of sound equals the square root of this quantity over density. It is equal to the
change in pressure over the fractional change in volume, and its inverse is compressibility.
ANSWER: bulk modulus
[10] For gases, the bulk modulus equals the density times the specific heat ratio, which is denoted by this
Greek letter that also denotes the Lorenz factor and a non-ionizing radiation.
ANSWER: lowercase gamma
003-09-4-09208

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 6 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. The Frederician form of this style developed in Prussia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 18th-century artistic style, known for its ornateness and its use of shell-shaped curves.
ANSWER: Rococo
[10] Rococo originated in the court of this European country, where it was exemplified by the paintings of
Francois Boucher and Jean-Honore Fragonard.
ANSWER: France
[10] This painter of Embarkation from Cythera and other fêtes galantes is perhaps the most famous Rococo
artist.
ANSWER: Jean-Antoine Watteau
024-09-4-09209

10. Fritigern led the winning forces at this battle, and the losing Roman commander did not wait for his
co-emperor Gratian’s reinforcements. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 378 CE battle, where Germanic tribes killed emperor Valens in modern day Turkey.
ANSWER: Adrianople [or Hadrianopolis]
[10] The Germanic winners of the battle of Adrianople mostly comprised members of this tribe. Both the
Ostro- and Visi- branches of this tribe were present.
ANSWER: Goths
[10] This emperor rose to power by fighting in Roman Civil wars against Maxentius, where he was joined,
then betrayed by Maximian. This first Christian emperor then defeated Maximian at Milvian Bridge.
ANSWER: Constantine I [or Constantine the Great; or Flavius Valerius Constantinus I]
027-09-4-09210

11. This phenomenon has a namesake "chill factor" that makes it feel colder than it really is. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this phenomenon generated by moving air, types of which include foehn, sirocco, and chinook.
ANSWER: wind
[10] This scale goes from 0 to 12 and was developed by a British admiral to unscientifically measure wind
speed.
ANSWER: Beaufort scale
[10] This device is used to scientifically measure wind speed by calculating how many times a cup revolves
around a pivot.
ANSWER: anemometer
003-09-4-09211

12. The title character of this work loves the poetry of Ossian. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this epistolary novel, whose title character's love for Charlotte causes him to take his own life.
ANSWER: The Sorrows of Young Werther or [Die Leiden des jungen Werther]
[10] This German author wrote The Sorrows of Young Werther, as well as a play about Faust and two works
about Wilhelm Meister.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[10] The Sorrows of Young Werther is considered a seminal work in this literary movement emphasizing the
power of emotion. It is named for a play by Friedrich Klinger.
ANSWER: Sturm und Drang [or Storm and Stress]
023-09-4-09212

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 7 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. He came to power after the anti-bureaucratic revolution and ordered the killing of Ivan Stambolic. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this president of Serbia, who died in 2006 while on trial for war crimes he committed during the
Bosnian war.
ANSWER: Slobodan Milosevic
[10] Milosevic came to power after the breakup of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, which was led by
this founder of the Non-Aligned Movement.
ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito
[10] This first prime minister of Ghana was also instrumental in the Non-Aligned Movement. He fell from
power after over taxing cocoa farmers.
ANSWER: Kwame Nkrumah
038-09-4-09213

14. By the end of this story, we never learn what Reverend Burgess did to lose his job, and the central town
changes its motto to "lead us into temptation." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1899 short story, in which Howard Stephenson uses a fake bag of gold to expose the
hypocrisy of the nineteen leading families in a Midwestern town.
ANSWER: "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg" [do not accept "The Man Who Corrupted
Hadleyburg"]
[10] This author of the novels A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court and The Prince and the Pauper
wrote "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg."
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
[10] In another Twain story, Jim Smiley loses forty dollars because an opponent fills Daniel Webster's
mouth with buckshot before an athletic contest between two of this kind of animal.
ANSWER: jumping frogs
019-09-4-09214

15. His twin brother was the psychopomo Xolotl [za-LOT-tl]. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this enemy of Tezcatlipoca, a god who was commonly depicted as a plumed serpent.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl [quet-zal-co-AH-tl]
[10] This pre-Columbian civilization with capital at Tenochtitlan [Te-NOK-tit-lahn] revered Quetzalcoatl,
and believed that the invasion of Mexico by Hernan Cortes may have signified his return.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] This Aztec god’s mother Coatlicue [co-AT-li-kwe] conceived him after keeping a ball of hummingbird
feathers near her bosom. He was the god of the sun and war.
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli [wheat-zi-lo-poch-tli]
027-09-4-09215

16. This novel ends with the title character deciding to "light out for the territory." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about a boy who encounters con men called the Duke and the Dauphin while
journeying to help Jim escape slavery.
ANSWER: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
[10] This American author of The Innocents Abroad wrote The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
[10] Before meeting the Duke and the Dauphin, Huck Finn stays with this family, whose male members are
killed because of a murderous feud with the Shephersons.
ANSWER: the Grangerfords
004-09-4-09216

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 8 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. People celebrate this holiday by eating latkes and gambling for gelt using a dreidel. For 10 points each
[10] Name this holiday which begins on the twenty-fifth day of Kislev, and commemorates the victory of the
Jews over the Seleucid king Antiochus IV.
ANSWER: Hanukkah [or Chanukah]
[10] During the eight days of Hanukkah, Jews light candles on this eight-branched object, which celebrates a
small amount of oil miraculously burning for eight days in the Temple in Jerusalem.
ANSWER: menorah
[10] This group, whose name means "hammer," successfully revolted against Antiochus. They were led by
Judah and other sons of Mattathias.
ANSWER: Maccabees
004-09-4-09217

18. This play's title character poisons a nunnery after his daughter Abigail takes refuge there. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this play about Barabas, a wealthy merchant who enables the Turks to gain control of the title
location, only to betray them and die by being boiled alive in a cauldron.
ANSWER: The Jew of Malta
[10] This Elizabethan author of "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" wrote The Jew of Malta, and was
murdered in Deptford in 1593.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
[10] The title character of this other Marlowe play is given tremendous powers for twenty-four years by
Mephistopheles, but is finally forcibly dragged to hell
ANSWER: Doctor Faustus
033-09-4-09218

19. Gaps in these objects are named after Huygens and Encke, among others. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects, which are denoted with letters A through G and surround a certain large planet.
ANSWER: Saturn's rings [prompt on rings]
[10] The largest gap, between the A and B rings, was discovered and named after this Italian astronomer,
who also discovered four of Saturn's moons.
ANSWER: Giovanni Domenico Cassini
[10] Voyager 1 discovered an eccentric ringlet in a gap named after this British scientist, who showed that
the rings could only be stable if they were made up of a large number of small particles.
ANSWER: James Clerk Maxwell
003-09-4-09219

20. Identify these leaders of the Late Roman Republic, for 10 points each.
[10] This man won the Battle of Alesia against Vercingetorix, which you can read about in his The Gallic
Wars. He also won the Battle of Pharsalus against his rival Pompey the Great.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar
[10] This man, known for his rivalry with Lucius Cornelius Sulla, reformed the Roman Army and served as
consul for an unprecedented seven terms while fighting the Cimbri.
ANSWER: Gaius Marius
[10] This man served as part of the Second Triumvirate with Octavian and Mark Antony. He held the title of
"Pontifex Maximus" and was technically in charge of religion, but spent most of his reign exiled in Sicily.
ANSWER: Marcus Aemilius Lepidus
021-09-4-09220

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 9 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This character comes to believe that two plus two equals five after being tortured by O'Brien in Room
101. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Ministry of Truth employee, the protagonist of 1984.
ANSWER: Winston Smith [or Winston Smith]
[10] 1984 was written by this author of Animal Farm.
ANSWER: George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
[10] This possibly mythical 1984 character is the target of the Two Minutes Hate due to his leadership of
The Brotherhood and authorship of The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism.
ANSWER: Emmanuel Goldstein[or Emmanuel Goldstein]
015-09-4-09221

Tournament-8 Round 9 Page 10 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

