Tournament-9
Round 6
Tossups
1. In one opera by this composer, the aria "spin, spin, fair maiden" is sung at Daland's house. Henry
the Fowler and Elsa of Brabant are characters in his opera that includes a famed bridal chorus. This
composer wrote about a cursed ship in his opera The (*) Flying Dutchman. His operas based on
Arthurian legend include Parzival and Lohengrin. This composer also wrote parts for three Norns, gathered
by Brunnhilde's rock, to end an opera cycle whosparts include Das Rhiengold. For 10 points, name this
composer of the Ring Cycle.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Richard Wagner
020-09-6-06102

2. This politician defeated Coke Stevenson by eighty-seven votes in an election for the U.S. Senate and
suffered a popularity drop when a video was released showing him picking up a dog by the ears. This
President won an election over an opponent who claimed he might drop an atomic bomb if elected,
Barry (*) Goldwater. This man's time in office saw the creation of Medicare and Medicaid and the start of
the War on Poverty. This president also signed a new Civil Rights Act as part of his Great Society. For 10
points, name this man who became President after an assassination in his home state of Texas, the successor
to John F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ; prompt on Johnson]
023-09-6-06103

3. This group did battle with the Gorgons on the island of Atlantis under the leadership of Myrine
(my-REE-nay), but were unable to finish them off. Another leader of this group, Penthesilea
(PEN-theh-sih-LAY-uh), was killed by Achilles during the Trojan War. Another of their leaders was
kidnapped by (*) Theseus, leading to a war between this group and Athens. A different leader of this group
willingly gave her girdle to Heracles. For 10 points, name this group of warrior women whose name came
from their tradition of burning off their right breast.
ANSWER: Amazons
003-09-6-06104

4. This man wrote about Mrs. Miller's drifting into schizophrenia in his story "Miriam." CBS
president Bill Paley led a group of New York socialites in ostracizing this author over unflattering
depictions in his unfinished novel Answered Prayers. The character of Idabel Thompkins in this
author's (*) Other Voices, Other Rooms was based on this author's childhood friend Harper Lee. Murderers
Perry Smith and Dick Hickock appear in another of his works. For 10 points, name this author of In Cold
Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany's.
ANSWER: Truman Capote [or Truman Persons]
030-09-6-06105

5. The hymns Veni Creator Spiritus and Veni Sancte Spiritus were composed for this occasion. In The
First Prayer Book of Edward VI, this event was referred to as Whitsunday. It commemorates a Biblical
incident in which Jesus gave the Apostles the power to speak to people in all language. Most Christian
groups consider it an extension of a (*) Jewish holiday that commemorates the giving of the law to Moses
on Mount Sinai. For 10 points, name this seventh Sunday after Easter in Christianity, the equivalent to the
Jewish holiday Shavout (shuh-VOO-it).
ANSWER: Pentecost
030-09-6-06106

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 1 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This painting was defaced in 2003 when someone glued a picture of the September 11 terrorist
attacks to it. Three women stand in front of this painting in Grant Wood's Daughters of Revolution.
The title figure stands with his left leg forward, while behind him James (*) Monroe carries a flag and
several figures attempt to navigate through ice floes. For 10 points, name this painting which depicts a
famous event of December 25, 1776, by Emanuel Leutze.
ANSWER: Washington Crossing the Delaware
024-09-6-06107

7. Its original name was Latin for "pine cone," but its current name is Karachy-Balkar for "Thousand
Mountain." Glaciers on this feature feed the Baksan, Kuban, and Malka rivers. It was once climbed
simultaneously by 400 mountaineers to celebrate the surrounding province's anniversary. This
inactive volcano located in the (*) Caucasus straddles the Russian-Georgian border. For 10 points, name
this mountain, the tallest in Europe.
ANSWER: Mount Elbrus
053-09-6-06108

8. This man wrote the lost oratorio Juditha Triumphans and the violin concerto collection La
stravaganza. The sixth, eighth, and tenth of this man's L'estro armonico concertos are frequently
performed, as are the first four works from his The Contest Between (*) Harmony and Invention. In
those four works, this composer provided such instructions as "the drunkards have fallen asleep" and "the
barking dog." For 10 points, name this composer of "L'inverno" and "La Primavera," two of his Four
Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio Lucio Vivaldi
020-09-6-06109

9. He was elevated to a starting position after the departures of Paul Thompson and Rhett Bomar. In
his first game, he broke Josh Heupel's school record for passing yards in a half, with 363 against
North Texas. His father, an insurance agent, advised him to get an (*) insurance policy for injury before
the 2009 season, a move that would turn prophetic during a game against BYU. For 10 points, name this
quarterback, who suffered a sprained shoulder one play after becoming Oklahoma's all-time passing leader.
ANSWER: Sam Bradford
053-09-6-06110

10. This man worked with Arctic explorer Fridtjof (FRIT-joff) Nansen as a relief worker in Russia
after World War I. One of this man's chief political adversaries was Jens Christian Hauge. This man
served as minister-president under Reich commissioner Josef Terboven. This founder of the (*)
Nasjonal Samling fascist party was executed in 1945. For 10 points, name this Norwegian politician, whose
collaboration with the Nazis made his name a synonym for "traitor."
ANSWER: Vidkun Quisling
030-09-6-06111

11. Ikaite is an extremely unstable hydrated form of this mineral. Vaterite and aragonite are slightly
more stable polymorphs of this mineral, a transparent variety of which is known as Iceland spar. This
mineral is naturally birefringent, and magnesium added to this mineral's formula results in (*)
dolomite. The primary component of limestone, marble, and marine shells is, for 10 points, what carbonate
mineral with a value of three on the Mohs hardness scale and formula CaCO3?
ANSWER: calcite [or calcium carbonate before "carbonate"]
025-09-6-06112

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 2 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. In this poem, Blancandrin suggests a false treaty negotiation and offer of baptism as a feint to King
Marsilion, the ruler of Saragossa. A traitor punished by drawing and quartering in this work is the
protagonist’s stepfather Ganelon. Archbishop Turpin blesses the Twelve Peers and ultimately
convinces the title character of this epic to (*) blow the horn Oliphant, which causes his death.
Two-hundred-year-old King Charlemagne mourns the death of the title Paladin at Roncevaux
(RON-seh-voh) Pass in, for 10 points, what medieval French epic about a battle with Moors?
ANSWER: The Song of Roland [or Chanson de Roland]
019-09-6-06113

13. A "universal constant" associated with this curve is equal to radical two plus the natural log of the
quantity one plus radical two. That constant is the ratio of the arc length between the two points
where this curve intersects the latus rectum to the semilatus rectum. This curve is the set of points
equidistant from a point called the (*) focus and a line called the directrix. This is the only conic section
with a single vertex. For 10 points, name this curve traced out by any quadratic equation ax2 + bx + c.
ANSWER: parabola
003-09-6-06114

14. This man was convicted of corruption in 1712 and spent time in the Tower of London. This
founding member of the Kit-Cat Club was forced to resign from Parliament following British military
defeats in the War of Jenkins' Ear. He earlier gained prominence after his successful handling of the
(*) South Sea Bubble. For 10 points, name this Whig politician, who is considered to be Great Britain's first
prime minister.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole
030-09-6-06115

15. One of this man's poems describes the title entity as a "vulture, whose wings are dull realities" and
a "true daughter of Old Time." Poems by this author of "Sonnet To Science" and "Ulalume"
(OO-la-LOO-may) include one describing mimes eaten by the "crawling shape" of "The (*) Conqueror
Worm" and one set in a "kingdom by the sea." This poet of "Annabel Lee" describes the "tintinnabulation"
of "The Bells" and opens another poem with "Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and
weary," describing a creature fond of saying "nevermore." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Raven."
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe
015-09-6-06116

16. Animals in this order are the only member of their class to have interclavicles, and the adults do
not have teeth. They do not have genetic imprinting, and the largest family in this order is
Tachyglossidae (TACK-ee-GLOSS-id-ay). One member of this order has ten sex chromosomes and a
sense of (*) electroreception. Long-beaked and short-beaked are the names given to the types of echidna in
this order, which are found exclusively in New Guinea and Australia. For 10 points, name this order of
mammals whose members, including the platypus, lay eggs.
ANSWER: monotremes [or monotremata]
001-09-6-06117

17. This anthropologist asserted that culture exists to fulfill our basic human needs in The Scientific
Theory of Culture. Two of his works deal with "crime and custom" and "sex and repression" in savage
society. He also wrote the introduction to a study by his student (*) Jomo Kenyatta, Facing Mount
Kenya. His most famous work discusses the Kula exchange. For 10 points, name this anthropologist, whose
works on the Trobriand Islanders include Coral Gardens and their Magic and Argonauts of the Western
Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
024-09-6-06118
Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 3 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. The narrator of one of his works tells the story "Apropos of the Wet Snow" and obsesses with the
thought of revenge against an officer who shoved him, before attending a farewell party of Zverkov.
That title character created by this author talks about his liver problems in (*) Notes from the
Underground. This member of Petrashevsky Circle, who was once nearly executed, also wrote about
Zamyotov, a young detective who visits a St. Petersburg student concerning the murder of two sisters. For
10 points each, what Russian author wrote of Raskolnikov’s suffering in Crime and Punishment?
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoevsky
034-09-6-06119

19. Prior to one battle, this man's forces were cut off from the main army due to a surprise attack at
Brandy Station. This man amused his contemporaries by routinely wearing a cape and a
peacock-feather hat in emulation of the Cavalier style from two centuries earlier. This man arrived
too late to Gettysburg to provide useful (*) information to the Confederates, and he was killed at the
Battle of Yellow Tavern. For 10 points, name this Confederate cavalry officer, whom Robert E. Lee called
the "eyes of the army."
ANSWER: James Ewell Brown "Jeb" Stuart
030-09-6-06120

20. Smart rubber uses them to reform itself when it is torn because they can reform instantaneously in
that substance. In DNA, three of them occur between (*) complementary base pair purines, and two
between pyrimidines. They also account for the relatively high boiling point of water and the low density of
ice. For 10 points, which type of bond is found between an electronegative atom such as oxygen or nitrogen
and its namesake element?
ANSWER: hydrogen bonds
040-09-6-06121

21. One of the people put on trial for complicity in this event was the future dictator of Bulgaria,
Georgi Dimitrov. The day after this took place, the decree “for the protection of the people and the
state” was passed. Some historians say this event was accomplished by Karl Ernst’s use of a tunnel
from Hermann (*) Göring’s house, while others believe that Marinus van der Lubbe, a Dutch Communist,
actually was responsible. For 10 points, what was this February 1933 act of arson, after which the Nazis
blamed internal saboteurs for destroying Germany’s Parliament building?
ANSWER: the Reichstag fire [or burning of the Reichstag or other clear equivalents]
019-09-6-06122

22. This poem imagines something that "watered heaven with tears" and asks "what art could twist
the sinews of thy heart?" This poem is often considered the counterpart of another poem that state
"God …gave thee such a tender voice" and repeats "God Bless Thee!" Asking "What the hammer?
What the chain?" and "Did he who make the (*) lamb make thee," this poem concludes by inquiring
"What immortal hand or eye could frame they fearful symmetry?" For 10 points, name this poem about a
creature "burning bright, in the forests of the night," written by William Blake.
ANSWER: "The Tyger"
033-09-6-06123

23. One type of these devices includes perovskites. An alloy of lead and bismuth was not recognized as
one of these until the discovery of the Meissner Effect. Cooper pairs are involved the BCS Theory that
describes how another type of these devices work. Those (*) Type I devices exhibit perfect
diamagnetism, and can only work below a low critical temperature. For 10 points, name these devices that
lack electrical resistance.
ANSWER: superconductors [prompt on superconductivity]
001-09-6-06124
Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 4 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 6
Bonuses
1. This branch of Buddhism has a name that means "great vehicle." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this school of Buddhism that reveres moral examples called "bodhisattvas."
ANSWER: Mahayana
[10] Also known as Hinayana, or the "lesser vehicle," this branch of Buddhism believes in the view of the
perfected saint, the "arhat." It is prominent in Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Cambodia.
ANSWER: Therevada
[10] The legendary founder of this branch of Buddhism in China was Bodhidharma. Prominent in Japan, this
sect uses nonsensical riddles called "koans" to bring on sudden enlightenment.
ANSWER: Zen
030-09-6-06201

2. For 10 points each, name these writers from Central Europe.
[10] This native of Prague wrote about characters trapped in absurd, nightmarish situations in his novels The
Castle and The Trial, and his short story about Gregor Samsa, "The Metamorphosis."
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10] Robots from Harry Domin's factory take over the world in this Czech author's play R.U.R.
ANSWER: Karel Capek
[10] This playwright of The Memorandum and The Garden Party served as the first President of the Czech
Republic, from 1993 to 2003.
ANSWER: Vaclav Havel
004-09-6-06202

3. Epithets of this god include "He Who Sits Upon the Mountain" and "He Who is in the Place of
Embalming," which refers to his role as the guardian of tombs. For 10 points each:
[10]Name this jackal-headed Egyptian god, shown in the Book of the Dead weighing the hearts of the
deceased.
ANSWER: Anubis [or Inpu]
[10] The deceased's heart is weighed by Anubis against a single feather provided by this goddess and
personification of Order.
ANSWER: Ma'at [or Mayet]
[10]This Ibis-headed god of magic and writing also played a role in the judging of the dead, by reporting
when the scales were balanced.
ANSWER: Thoth
002-09-6-06203

4. A face from the Peruzzi chapel might belong to this man. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fourteenth-century Italian painter of frescoes in the Scrovegni or Arena Chapel, the student
of Cimabue (cheh-MAH-byoo-ay).
ANSWER: Giotto di Bondone
[10] Giotto is celebrated by Vasari for breaking with this art tradition, first established by an empire whose
art was dominated by Christian "icons."
ANSWER: Byzantine style
[10] Another early Italian Renaissance painter was this Dominican, whose religious scenes dominated the
Santa Trinita church and included the Fiesole altarpiece.
ANSWER: Fra Angelico [or Guido di Pietro]
020-09-6-06204

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 5 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. Unlike Cantonese, this language is stress-timed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this popular Chinese language, with Northeastern and Beijing dialects.
ANSWER: Mandarin Chinese [or Guanhua]
[10] Yin Ping, Yang Ping, Shang and Qu are names given to the four of these things in Mandarin. They
effect the inflection of a syllable, which can change meaning.
ANSWER: tones
[10] Until the development of Pinyin, this system of Chinese Romanization, named for two Englishmen, was
widely used by the west.
ANSWER: Wade-Giles system
015-09-6-06205

6. Wharton's Jelly is found in this structure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this structure that allows nutrients to travel from the placenta to the fetus.
ANSWER: umbilical cord
[10] The umbilical cord is an excellent source of these totipotent cells. As such, the umbilical cord is
sometimes promoted as a morally acceptable alternative to the "embryonic" kind.
ANSWER: stem cells
[10] The umbilicus is the scientific name for this structure, the tip of the umbilical cord that remains when it
is cut after birth.
ANSWER: belly button [or navel]
003-09-6-06206

7. Carlo Maderno designed this building's high stone facade. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this building, designed from Donato Bramante's plan of a Greek cross, which was commissioned
by Pope Julius II. Gianlorenzo Bernini created its massive bronze baldacchino (BALL-duh-CHEE-no).
ANSWER: New Saint Peter's Basilica
[10] This artist oversaw much of the construction of St. Peter's Basilica, and redesigned its dome. He also
sculpted a large marble David.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Buonarotti [or Buonarotti]
[10] The stone ribs and two brick shells used to build the dome of St. Peter's imitate Fillipo Brunelleschi's
design for the dome of this city's cathedral.
ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze]
004-09-6-06207

8. This poem compares a "restless" queen to "Pale Marian, with her braided hair." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem, in which the speaker longs to see "the painted chief, and pointed spear" at the title
gravesite.
ANSWER: "The Indian Burying Ground" [do not accept "The Indian Burial Ground"]
[10] This "poet of the American Revolution" wrote "The Indian Burying Ground" in addition to such
classics as "The Wild Honey-Suckle" and "The British Prison Ship."
ANSWER: Philip Morin Freneau
[10] Freneau also addressed a poem to one of these insects, which are raised by Sherlock Holmes after the
detective retires.
ANSWER: honeybees
026-09-6-06208

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 6 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. Dynamic ones use past results to find new results, and brute force ones try all possibilities. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this term, a finite set of instructions for solving a problem in computer science.
ANSWER: algorithm
[10] The measure of effectiveness of an algorithm is given in this notation, which identifies either the
average or worst-case running time of an algorithm, given a problem of size n.
ANSWER: big o notation [or Landau notation; or Bachman-Landau notation; or asymptotic_ notation]
[10] This Dutchman created a greedy algorithm that finds the shortest path between two vertices with
nonnegative edge costs.
ANSWER: Edsger Dijkstra
051-09-6-06209

10. This ruler removed the Sabine shrines from the Forum. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this last king of Rome, whose reign ended after his son raped Lucretia, the wife of a Roman
official.
ANSWER: Tarquin the Proud [or Lucius Tarquinius Superbus; prompt on Tarquinius]
[10] After abolishing the office of king, the Romans began electing two citizens each year to serve in this
executive office. Lucius Junius Brutus was one of the first men to hold this office.
ANSWER: consul
[10] After being deposed, Tarquin allied with this Etruscan king of Clusium in an attempt to reclaim the
throne. Such legendary Roman heroes as Mucius Scaevola and Horatius Cocles fought him off.
ANSWER: Lars Porsena
053-09-6-06210

11. For 10 points each, name these hallmarks of Spanish literature.
[10] This author wrote about a man obsessed with reading chivalric romances in his novel Don Quixote.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes
[10] A medieval Spanish epic poem focuses on this national hero, who marries Dona Jimena
(hih-MAY-nuh) and helps Alfonso VI fight the Moors.
ANSWER: El Cid (sid) [or The Cid; or My Cid; or Mio Cid; or El Campeador; or The Champion; or
Rodrigo Díaz de Vivar; or Ruy Díaz de Vivar]
[10] The Spanish novel Lazarillo de Tormes (LAA-zuh-REE-yo day TORE-maze) helped create this genre,
which centers on the adventures of a cynical lower-class rogue who lives by his wits in a hypocritical
society.
ANSWER: picaresque novel
004-09-6-06211

12. It corresponds to the energy stored in a system. For ten points each:
[10]Name this thermodynamic quantity symbolized U, the change in which is equal to the sum of work and
heat flow.
ANSWER: internal energy
[10]This other thermodynamic quantity is the sum of the internal energy and the product of pressure and
volume.
ANSWER: enthalpy
[10]This other quantity is the internal energy minus the product of temperature and entropy.
ANSWER: Helmholtz free energy
001-09-6-06212

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 7 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. A TV show based on this product began when Professor Goopengrime used his "Magic Maker" during
the "Magical Millennial Moment" to create insect mutants. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this toy, which one may use to create plastic bugs from molded goop.
ANSWER: Creepy Crawlers [or Thingmaker]
[10] Creepy Crawlers were made by this toy company, which also produces Barbie and Hot Wheels.
ANSWER: Mattel
[10] Creepy Crawlers are suspiciously similar to this Hasbro toy, with which eager children can create
delicacies using the heat of a lightbulb.
ANSWER: Easy-Bake Oven
026-09-6-06213

14. For 10 points each, name these protests that took place during the civil rights movement.
[10] Rosa Parks's refusal to give up her seat in this city inspired a boycott of its segregated buses.
ANSWER: Montgomery
[10] In 1960, four black students from a local college engaged in the first incident of this type of protest, at a
lunch counter in a Woolworth's in Greensboro, North Carolina.
ANSWER: sit-ins
[10] During the 1965 protest march from Selma to Montgomery, marchers attempting to cross this bridge
were brutally attacked by police. Media coverage of the attack significantly increased white support for the
civil rights movement.
ANSWER: Edmund Pettus Bridge
004-09-6-06214

15. Translocons located here allow for the importing of elongating polypeptides. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this large organelle that helps fold and process proteins, which is divided into types based on
whether or not it has bound ribosomes.
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [or ER]
[10] This term refers to the type of endoplasmic reticulum that has bound ribosomes.
ANSWER: rough
[10] Heat shock proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum can act as this type of molecule, which helps proteins
fold and stabilize.
ANSWER: chaperone
001-09-6-06215

16. In this 1827 naval battle, a European fleet led by Edward Codrington destroyed the forces of Ibrahim
Pasha. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this battle, the last one fought with wooden ships, which ended Muhammad Ali's military
campaign in Europe.
ANSWER: Navarino
[10] The Battle of Navarino was a major victory for the nationalist forces of this country in their war for
independence against the Ottoman Empire. The battles of Aegospotami and Marathon also took place in
what is now this country.
ANSWER: Greece
[10] During World War II, Greek forces repelled an Italian invasion and entered this country, whose
twentieth-century leaders included King Zog and the radical Communist Enver Hoxha (en-VAIR HOH-juh).
ANSWER: Albania
030-09-6-06216

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 8 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. This country shares the Al Buraymi Oasis with Oman. For 10 points each:
[10]Identify this state, made up of semi-autonomous regions such as Sharjah and Ras al-Khaimah.
ANSWER: the UAE[or United Arab Emirates; or Dawlat al-Imarat al-Arabiyah al-Muttahidah_]
[10] The largest city in the United Arab Emirates is located in this fabulously wealthy emirate. In 2006, a
company owned by this emirate attempted to purchase a number of American ports.
ANSWER: Dubai
[10]The capital of the UAE is located in this emirate, which is also home to a branch of the Guggenheim
Museum.
ANSWER: Abu Dhabi
038-09-6-06217

18. At one point in this story, the protagonist debates whether or not to quote Robert Browning at a dinner
party. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story, in which Gabriel Conroy comes to terms with his wife's former love for Michael
Furey.
ANSWER: "The Dead"
[10] "The Dead" is the final story in this collection by James Joyce, which also includes "A Little Cloud"
and "Araby" among its tales of a certain city.
ANSWER: Dubliners
[10] In this story from Dubliners, employees of a political campaign take a break from canvassing for voters
to reminisce about the late Charles Parnell.
ANSWER: "Ivy Day in the Committee Room"
024-09-6-06218

19. This 1864 bill, put forth by the two namesake Radical Republicans, would have excluded Confederate
officials from voting or holding office. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this bill that proposed requiring citizens of the former Confederate states to swear that they never
gave aid to the Confederacy as a requirement for franchise.
ANSWER: Wade-Davis Bill [or Davis-Wade Bill]
[10] Among the supporters of the Wade-Davis Bill was Senator Thaddeus Stevens, a leading Republican
from this state. Its more recent Senators include party-switching Arlen Specter and the controversial Rick
Santorum.
ANSWER: Pennsylvania
[10] This Massachusetts Senator, another leading Radical Republican, delivered the "Crime Against Kansas"
speech, causing a South Carolina Congressman to beat him with a cane.
ANSWER: Charles Sumner
030-09-6-06219

20. This composition includes the movement "Nimrod." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work by a British composer, named because it is based upon a mysterious theme.
ANSWER: the Enigma Variations [prompt on Variations on an Original Theme for Orchestra]
[10] The Enigma Variations were composed by this British composer, who also composed The Dream of
Gerontius and a set of marches containing "Land of Hope and Glory."
ANSWER: Sir Edward William Elgar
[10] "Land of Hope and Glory" is a march from this Elgar piece, that is played at the last night of the BBC
Proms and at high school graduations everywhere.
ANSWER: Pomp and Circumstance Military Marches
026-09-6-06220

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 9 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. The Fireside Poets arose in the nineteenth century as America's first widely read authors of verse. For 10
points each.
[10] The narrator of this work by Fireside member Oliver Wendell Holmes praises the title creature as a
“ship of pearl” from whom “a clearer note is born than ever Triton blew.”
ANSWER: “The Chambered Nautilus”
[10] A judge and a firm girl fall in love with each other but are unable to marry, concluding that “It might
have been” are sad words, in "Maud Muller," a poem by this Fireside author of "Snow-Bound" and
"Ichabod."
ANSWER: John Greenleaf Whittier
[10] Though this British author could not be a Fireside Poet, he did write "By the Fire-Side." This husband
of fellow poet Elizabeth Barrett also composed "My Last Duchess" and "Porphyria's Lover."
ANSWER: Robert Browning
034-09-6-06221

22. Although originally from Florence, she was the mother of three French kings: Francis II, Charles IX, and
Henry III. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this queen of France, often accused of being the mastermind behind the St. Bartholomew's Day
Massacre.
ANSWER: Catherine de Medici [or Catherine de Medicis; prompt on de Medicis]
[10] Catherine de Medici had little court influence while this husband of hers was alive. He died during a
jousting tournament held to celebrate his signing of the Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis.
ANSWER: Henry II
[10] The Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis ended one phase of this lengthy series of fifteenth- and
sixteenth-century conflicts, which are named either for the peninsula where they took place or for the two
royal houses that engaged in them.
ANSWER: the Italian Wars [or the Hapsburg-Valois Wars]
003-09-6-06222

Tournament-9 Round 6 Page 10 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

