Tournament-8
Round 7
Tossups
1. The laws of this belief system are compiled in a book about “Rejecting the Daevas,” and this
religion contrasts the concepts of asha and druj. One variant on this religion believes that a time god
fathered the central spirits of this religion, and that the first man was (*) Gayomart. Some believers in
this religion follow Zurvan, and many are laid on Towers of Silence after they die. Holy texts of this religion
include the Gathas and the Vendidad. For 10 points, name this religion that contrasts the evil Angra Mainyu
with Ahura Mazda, follows the Avestas, and was founded in Persia.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism [or Parsiism]
027-09-4-07102

2. One of this author's poems is set "down by the dank tarn of Auber/ In the ghoul-haunted woodland
of Weir," and ends with the speaker encountering his dead lover's grave. In another of his poems,
angels perform "the tragedy, Man," and affirm that its hero is "The Conqueror Worm." This author
of (*) "Ulalume" wrote a poem about a woman who "loved with a love that was more than love" in "a
kingdom by the sea" before being killed by jealous angels, and a poem whose speaker mourns Lenore before
hearing a "tapping" at his "chamber door." For 10 points, name this poet of "Annabel Lee" who wrote about
a bird that repeats "Nevermore" in "The Raven."
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe
022-09-4-07103

3. Reginald Reynolds delivered a letter announcing to Lord Irwin the intent to stage this event. This
event's instigator spent over eight months in Yerwada Jail for it. Although this event began on March
12 with seventy-eight volunteers, by its end on April 6, the procession had grown to over (*) two miles
in length. This event ended at Dandi when its leader boiled a lump of mud. For 10 points, name this 1930
march to the sea, which ended when Mahatma Gandhi illegally produced a certain spice.
ANSWER: Salt March [or Salt Satyagraha]
003-09-4-07104

4. The splitting of spectral lines by one of these is known as the Stark effect. This quantity may be
crossed with its duality transform to give the Poynting vector. The cross of susceptibility and this
quantity times the permittivity of free space is the (*) polarization. Its flux through a closed surface is
proportional to the amount of enclosed charge by Gauss's law. For 10 points, give this quantity, the gradient
of the electric potential, equal to charge over radius squared.
ANSWER: electric field
022-09-4-07105

5. In one aria in this opera, the title character compares love to a rebellious bird, and states that she
will only love a man who does not love her. Minor characters in this opera include Mercedes and
Frasquita, companions of the title character, and the innkeeper Lillas Pastia. In Act I, Micaëla
delivers a message to a character who later stabs the title character because she leaves him for (*)
Escamillo, a bullfighter. For 10 points, name this opera based on a novella by Prosper Mérimée, the most
famous work of Georges Bizet.
ANSWER: Carmen
024-09-4-07106

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 1 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This play's first scene sees Abram get into a fight with Sampson and Gregory, resulting in a
judgment from Prince Escalus. Later in this play's first act, one character describes the fairy Queen
Mab on the way to a party, where the protagonist forgets his infatuation with Rosaline. One of this
play's title characters drinks a potion that simulates (*) death for twenty four hours after visiting Friar
Lawrence. During this play, the deaths of Tybalt and Mercutio cause to tensions rise between the Capulets
and the Montagues in Verona. For 10 points name this Shakespeare tragedy about two "star-cross'd lovers."
ANSWER: Romeo and Juliet
015-09-4-07107

7. All four of Landau's "unattackable" problems concerned these entities. One of those problems,
Legendre's conjecture, claims that for all positive integers n, one of them is found between n squared
and quantity n plus one squared; another states that any even integer greater than two can be written
as a sum of two of them and is known as the (*) Goldbach conjecture. Many encryption methods rely on
multiplying two of them, and they can be found using the sieve of Eratosthenes. For 10 points, name these
numbers whose only factors are one and themselves.
ANSWER: prime numbers [or primes]
003-09-4-07108

8. In one novel by this author, Shadrack organizes a National Suicide Day. In that novel by this
author, Chicken Little drowns in a river after being thrown in by Nel Wright and the title character
watches as her mother burns in the front yard. In another novel by this author, the fear of
Schoolteacher causes a slave to kill her (*) baby and escape with her daughter Denver to 124 Bluestone
Road, where the title character's ghost haunts Sethe. For 10 points, name this African-American author of
Sula and Beloved.
ANSWER: Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
023-09-4-07109

9. This artist created a cycle of paintings called The Months, which included such paintings as The
Harvesters and The Return of the Herd. He also depicted a ploughman who is oblivious to a boy falling
from the sky in Landscape with the (*) Fall of Icarus. He painted two servants carrying a tray of porridge
during the titular celebration in Peasant Wedding, and created a work illustrating literal representations of
Flemish proverbs. For 10 points, name this sixteenth century Dutch painter of Hunters in the Snow.
ANSWER: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
024-09-4-07110

10. One recent work from this country, written to "counter fundamentalism," alludes to George
Orwell and is titled 1Q84 (one-Q-eight-four). Another work from this country begins with the
assertion "I am a Cat," while an author from this country included the novels The Decay of the Angel
and Spring Snow in his tetralogy The (*) Sea of Fertility. Novels set in this country include The Sound of
the Mountain, The Woman in the Dunes, and Snow Country. For 10 points, name the country in which
Basho wrote haikus.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon]
034-09-4-07111

11. This man fought the Quadi, and divided society into the honestiores and humiliores. Lucius Verus
served as his co-emperor, and he fought the Marcomanni. This man's son was overthrown by
Pertinax, and this emperor's rule followed that of Antonius Pius. The father of (*) Commodus, this
emperor followed a movement founded by Zeno of Citium. For 10 points, name this last of the Five Good
Emperors, who wrote about his Stoic philosophy in the Meditations.
ANSWER: Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus [or Marcus Annius Verus]
038-09-4-07112
Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 2 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. $500 million per year in agricultural damage is done by a member of this phylum that causes cysts
in soybean plants. Members of this phylum reproduce using chitinous spicules, and the amoeba-like
sperm cells of this phylum are the only eukaryotic cells that lack G-actin. One member of this phylum
was the first animal to have its full genome sequenced. This phylum of Pseudocoelomates includes the
common model organism (*) C. Elegans, and members of this phylum that infect humans include the
hookworm. For 10 points, name this phylum that includes all roundworms.
ANSWER: Nematoda [or nematodes; prompt on "roundworms" until mentioned]
021-09-4-07113

13. In November 2008, the Democratic Caucus stripped a Congressman from this state of the chair of
the Energy and Commerce committee. This state is represented by both of the two longest-serving
current incumbents in the House, John Dingell and John (*) Conyers. Its former three-term Republican
governor, John Engler, was unseated in 2002 by Canadian-born Jennifer Granholm. For 10 points, name this
state, represented by Senator Carl Levin, which has been hit particularly hard by the troubles of Big Three
auto makers.
ANSWER: Michigan
019-09-4-07114

14. This document predated the Fourteenth Amendment in its call for all non-vagabonds to enjoy the
"privileges and immunities" of free citizens. It provided that colonels and all ranks below be
appointed by legislatures, and this document ends with an invocation of the "Great Governor of the
World." It preapproves allowing its provisions to extend to (*) Canada, but its stance on militias was
ambiguous and it did not allow Congress to directly assess taxes. For 10 points, name this document that
established a "league of friendship" between the newly independent colonies of America.
ANSWER: The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union
026-09-4-07115

15. This man's namesake goods differ from Giffen goods because their definition considers preference
rather than demand. He discussed universities run by businessmen in The Higher Learning in America
, and argued that businessmen may benefit from work that harms the community in The Theory of (*)
Business Enterprise. His most famous work introduced the term "conspicuous consumption." For 10 points,
name this economist who wrote The Theory of the Leisure Class.
ANSWER: Thorstein Veblen
024-09-4-07116

16. This nation was the site of the Cossack led Khmelnytsky Uprising, and from 1655 to 1660 it was
controlled by Sweden in a period known as "The Deluge." This country was united by Ladislaus I in
the early fourteenth century under its Piast dynasty. During the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, this
country and its northeast neighbor were both ruled by the Jagiellon dynasty. The Molotov-Ribbentrop
pact allowed the (*) September 1, 1939 two-pronged invasion of this country during World War II. For 10
points, name this European country which was the heart of the Duchy of Warsaw during the Napoleonic
Wars.
ANSWER: Poland [or Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth until "Lublin" is read]
035-09-4-07117

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 3 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. This figure's son by the giantess Rindr was born with the sole purpose of killing another of his
sons. His hall Valaskjalf contains his throne Hlidskjalf, and he receives half of the einherjar. With his
brothers Vili and Ve, this god created Ask and Embla, and he later hung upside down impaled with
his own (*) spear to learn the secrets of the runes. He is served by the ravens Hugin and Munin and his
possessions include the spear Gungnir and the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. With his wife Frigg, he fathered
Hodr and Baldur. For 10 points, name this chief god of the Norse pantheon.
ANSWER: Odin [or Oden; or Wotanaz; or Wodin; or Woden]
015-09-4-07118

18. In this war, Marshal Achille-Francois Bazaine lost the battles of Mars-la-Tour and Gravelotte and
was surrounded at the fortress of Metz. This conflict was provoked in part by reaction to a telegram
describing a meeting between Count Benedetti and King William. In one of this war's battles, the
forces of Patrice (*) Mac-Mahon were routed by Helmuth von Moltke at Sedan, a battle in which Napoleon
III was captured. For 10 points, identify this 1870 to 1871 war between two namesake countries which
resulted in the unification of Germany.
ANSWER: Franco-Prussian War [or Franco-German War]
030-09-4-07119

19. One of this man's works has a solo trombone open its “Tuba Mirum” movement. A C-D-F-E motif
is used in a double fugue that concludes his last symphony. The only two symphonies he wrote in a
minor key were both in G minor, and those were his 25th and 40th. He wrote twelve variations on the
melody of (*) “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” for piano, and Franz Sussmayr completed his mass for the
dead. He composed a serenade for strings entitled Eine Kleine Nachtmusik. For 10 points, name this child
prodigy composer of an unfinished Requiem and the Jupiter Symphony.
ANSWER: Johann Chrysostom Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus
Theophilus Mozart]
027-09-4-07120

20. One type of this process used with temparature-sensitive organic substances uses steam to lower
the temperature to which the substances much be heated. Another type of this process uses a
Kugelrohr apparatus and is a short-path version of the "vacuum" type of this process. This process
does not work for substances that deviate from (*) Raoult's law, azeotropes, and the "fractional" type of
this process distinguishes compounds with similar boiling points. For 10 points, name this experimental
technique that separates the components of mixtures based on boiling points.
ANSWER: distillation
032-09-4-07121

21. One character in this work, Bergotte, dies while staring at Vermeer's View of Delft. The narrator
of this work becomes obsessed with jealousy over his lover Albertine, and describes the rise of the
Verdurins. Set largely at Combray, its sections include The (*) Guermantes Way and Time Regained.
Its first section, Swann's Way, includes a scene in which the narrator's memories are sparked by the taste of a
madeleine cake. For 10 points, name this magnum opus of Marcel Proust.
ANSWER: In Search of Lost Time [or Remembrance of Things Past; or A la recherche du temps perdu
]
024-09-4-07122

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 4 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 7
Bonuses
1. It is not exactly a language but a set of languages, each designed for a specific processor. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this low-level computer language in which each command has a one-to-one relationship with a
machine language command.
ANSWER: assembly language
[10] While assembly language programs need only an assembler to execute, this kind of program is needed
by higher-level languages like C and C++ to generate assembly.
ANSWER: compiler
[10] Useful in both assembly and higher-level languages is one of these programs, which tests another
program and identifies places where that program stops working.
ANSWER: debugger
003-09-4-07201

2. The speaker of this poem notes that after "two years, ten years" the "passengers ask the conductor: What
place is this? Where are we now?" For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this poem, whose title speaker asks for the bodies to be piled high "at Austerlitz and Waterloo",
after which it says "Shovel them under and let me work."
ANSWER: "Grass"
[10] "Grass" was written by this author of a two-volume biography of Abraham Lincoln and a poem about
the "Stormy, husky, brawling / City of the Big Shoulders," "Chicago".
ANSWER: Carl Sandburg
[10] The meteorological title subject of this Sandburg poem "comes in on little cat feet," after which it "sits
looking / over harbor and city / on silent haunches" before moving on.
ANSWER: "Fog"
029-09-4-07202

3. One of this philosophy's beliefs was of pneuma, the life-giving breath. For ten points each:
[10] Name this school of philosophy, which emphasized virtue and controlling one's emotions, and included
Marcus Aurelius among its adherents.
ANSWER: Stoicism (accept word forms)
[10] Stoicism was founded by this philosopher, whose works include On Passions.
ANSWER: Zeno of Citium
[10] Stoicism was opposed by this school of philosophy, which emphasized a life of avoiding pain.
ANSWER: Epicureanism
050-09-4-07203

4. This enzyme breaks down hydrogen peroxide into water and hydrogen oxygen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this enzyme useful in detoxifying the body from alcohols and fatty acids.
ANSWER: catalase
[10] Catalase is an enzyme found frequently in this organelle. These organelles also contains oxidases, and
sufferers of Zellweger's syndrome lack them in key regions.
ANSWER: peroxisomes
[10] Peroxisomes consist of bilayers of these molecules, which are generally defined as those resembling fat.
Biological substances that fall under this classification include steroids and waxes.
ANSWER: lipids
033-09-4-07204

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 5 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In August 2009, this player announced that he would hold out until he received a bigger contract than that
offered to cross-bay counterpart Darrius Heyward-Bey. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this wide receiver, who was drafted at number ten by the 49ers and was still off the field for the
first two weeks of the season.
ANSWER: Michael Crabtree
[10] Michael Crabtree is a 2009 alum of this Mike Leach-coached Big 12 school.
ANSWER: Texas Tech University
[10] Darrius Heyward-Bey was selected ahead of Crabtree by this AFC team, which is owned by Al Davis
and coached by the assistant-punching Tom Cable.
ANSWER: Oakland Raiders [or Oakland Raiders]
019-09-4-07205

6. This Holy Roman Emperor’s son Liudolf led a rebellion against him, and after he defeated them, the
Magyars never invaded Germany again. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first actual Holy Roman Emperor who won the battle of Lechfeld and deposed pope John the
Twelfth for his negotiations with Berengar of Ivrea.
ANSWER: Otto I [or Otto the Great; or Otto der Grosse]
[10] Otto the Great was the son of this founder of the Saxon dynasty. He was made heir of his enemy Conrad
I on Conrad’s deathbed.
ANSWER: Henry the Fowler [or Henry I; or Heinrich der Vogler]
[10] Otto the Great was a ruler during the first one of these periods of unification in German history. Kaiser
Wilhelm the First ruled during the second one, and the third ended in 1945.
ANSWER: reich
027-09-4-07206

7. These fermions have charges of one third and negative two thirds. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these elementary particles that are divided into three generations and come in six flavors.
ANSWER: quarks
[10] Hyperons are baryons that contain one of these quarks. This counterpart to the charm quark, which is
the lightest quark after up and down quarks.
ANSWER: strange quarks
[10] Classification of hadrons based on quarks was elucidated by George Zweig and this physicist, whose
namesake matrices model the strong force.
ANSWER: Murray Gell-Mann
033-09-4-07207

8. This poem ends by asking "what rough beast, its hour come round at last / Slouches towards Bethlehem to
be born?" For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem which pessimistically declares "things fall apart; the centre cannot hold."
ANSWER: "The Second Coming"
[10] This Irish poet of "Easter 1916," "Sailing to Byzantium," and "Lapis Lazuli" wrote "The Second
Coming."
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] Yeats wrote "There midnight's all a glimmer, and noon a purple glow" in a poem about one of these
named Innisfree. In Gulliver's Travels, Laputa is a flying one of these.
ANSWER: islands [or clear-knowledge equivalents]
015-09-4-07208

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 6 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. Name these beings killed by Hercules, for 10 points each.
[10] This beast of Lerna grew at least one new head every time one was severed. Iolaus helped Heracles
defeat it by cauterizing the wound every time Heracles cut off a head.
ANSWER: Lernean Hydra
[10] This centaur attempted to abduct Heracles' wife Deianira, so Heracles shot him with an arrow poisoned
with the Hydra's blood.
ANSWER: Nessus
[10] Heracles was sent to Mount Cithaeron after striking this music teacher with his own lyre, inadvertently
killing him.
ANSWER: Linus
003-09-4-07209

10. This element is present is thiols and thioethers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this element that comes in rhombic and monoclinic forms and sits above selenium on the periodic
table.
ANSWER: sulfur [or S]
[10] Elemental sulfur is produced via this process, in which superheated water and compressed air forced
down two different tubes causes sulfur to rise through a third tube.
ANSWER: Frasch process
[10] This process uses a vanadium oxide catalyst to produce sulfuric acid from sulfur dioxide.
ANSWER: contact process
003-09-4-07210

11. His wife Joan added a ninth stage to deal with advanced old age to his major theory. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of the psychohistory Young Man Luther, a psychoanalyst who proposed the eight
stages of psychosocial development.
ANSWER: Erik Homburger Erikson
[10] Erik Erikson wrote a psychohistory of this man, named for his “Truth: On the Origins of Militant
Nonviolence.” It looks at this man’s development of the nonviolence he used to protest British colonization
in India.
ANSWER: Mohandas Karamchad Gandhi [or Mahatma Gandhi]
[10] Erikson discussed his stages of psychosocial development in a work named for “Childhood” and this.
Karl Popper wrote a work about the enemies of an open one of these.
ANSWER: Society
027-09-4-07211

12. This author depicted Mary Hare and her house Xanadu in his novel Riders in the Chariot. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this author who described the title character's attempted transcontinental journey in Voss, the first
writer from his continent to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
ANSWER: Patrick White
[10] Patrick White was a native of this country. Other authors from this country include Doris Garimara,
who described an escape from the Moore River Aboriginal settlement in Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence.
ANSWER: Australia
[10] This other Australian novelist described a German manufacturer who saves Jews during the Holocaust
in his novel Shindler's Ark.
ANSWER: Thomas Keneally
038-09-4-07212

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 7 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. Robert Catesby was behind this conspiracy which Sir Francis Tresham probably betrayed by writing to
Lord Monteagle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1605 attempt to blow up the Houses of Parliament.
ANSWER: Gunpowder Plot
[10] This triggerman of the Gunpowder Plot ended up taking most of the fall. He is still burnt in effigy on
November 5.
ANSWER: Guy Fawkes
[10] This earlier plot against Elizabeth I was busted up by Francis Walsingham. It involved Mary Queen of
Scot's correspondence with John Ballard. Its namesake was to assassinate Queen Elizabeth and raise
rebellion.
ANSWER: Babington Plot
015-09-4-07213

14. It states that matter can exhibit both a wave-like nature and a particle-like nature, and this statement is
integral to the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum physics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this principle developed by a Danish physicist.
ANSWER: complementarity principle
[10] That Danish physicist is this man, who proposed a namesake model of the atom, in which electrons
orbit discrete energy levels of the atom.
ANSWER: Niels Bohr
[10] The Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics also calls for a collapse of these entities, which
are probabilities that a given particle can be found at a certain location at a given time.
ANSWER: wavefunction
033-09-4-07214

15. Name these features of the largest state in the United States, Alaska, for 10 points each.
[10] Its tallest mountain, this peak in Denali National Park is also the tallest in the United States.
ANSWER: Mount McKinley
[10] This calving ground for porcupine caribou is a potential target for oil exploration.
ANSWER: ANWR (an-war) [or Arctic National Wildlife Refuge]
[10] This island off the south coast of Alaska features adorable namesake bears, as well as the king crab.
ANSWER: Kodiak Island
022-09-4-07215

16. During this man’s leadership, the Sino-Soviet Split occurred, and he gave a “secret speech” criticizing
Stalin to the 20th Party Congress. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Soviet dictator who oversaw the period of “de-Stalinization.”
ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich Krushchev
[10] This politician engaged Krushchev in the “Kitchen Debate.” He also gave the “Checkers” speech.
ANSWER: Richard Milhaus Nixon
[10] After the Cuban Missile Crisis, man succeeded Khrushchev as leader of the USSR. He ruled until 1983
and saw the Soviet Union enter a period of high military spending and stagnation.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev
027-09-4-07216

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 8 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. His sculptures include Mae West Lips Sofa and Lobster Telephone. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this surrealist who used the "paranoiac-critical method" to paint The Dream Places a Hand on a
Man's Shoulder and Swans Reflecting Elephants.
ANSWER: Salvador Dalí
[10] This Dalí painting includes ants crawling on a closed orange watch, as well as three melting clocks.
ANSWER: The Persistence of Memory
[10] In another painting, Dalí portrayed the metamorphosis of this Greek mythological figure, who was
transformed by the gods into a flower, breaking the heart of the nymph Echo.
ANSWER: Narcissus
024-09-4-07217

18. This mountain contains seven terraces named after the seven deadly sins. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mountain, whose inhabitants include Trajan and Cain. After scaling it, the narrator of the
poem it appears in reaches the Garden of Eden.
ANSWER: Purgatory [or Purgatorio]
[10] Purgatory, along with Paradise and the Inferno, appears in this Italian author's epic poem The Divine
Comedy.
ANSWER: Dante Aligheri [or Dante Alighieri]
[10] Dante spends much of La Vita Nuova discussing this woman, who guides Dante through Paradise.
ANSWER: Beatrice Portinari [or Beatrice Portinari]
033-09-4-07218

19. Name the following Russian composers, for 10 points each.
[10] This man wrote the 1812 Overture to commemorate the Russian victory over Napoleon in that year, and
he also wrote the music for the ballet The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
[10] This composer's symphonies include one named Babi Yar and Leningrad, and he composed such operas
as Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District and The Nose.
ANSWER: Dmitry Demitriyevich Shostakovich
[10] This man wrote the symphonic poem The Isle of the Dead, as well as works based on themes by Corelli
and Paganini.
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilievich Rachmaninoff
023-09-4-07219

20. This action was preceded by a diversionary siege of Khe Sanh. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this coordinated military strategy that began on January 31, 1968, when over a hundred major
cities and military bases in South Vietnam were attacked by Communist forces.
ANSWER: the Tet Offensive
[10] Response to the Tet Offensive included this President beginning a wind-down of the war and
announcing that he would not seek re-election in 1968.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ]
[10] Six weeks after the start of the Tet Offensive, a platoon under Lieutenant William Calley killed five
hundred civilians at this Vietnamese village.
ANSWER: My Lai
019-09-4-07220

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 9 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. Wole Soyinka's adaptation of this play adds a chorus of African slaves. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play which ends with Cadmus and Harmonia being turned into snakes, and the title
characters tearing Pentheus apart at the behest of Dionysus.
ANSWER: The Bacchae [or The Bacchantes]
[10] The Bacchae, along with Electra, The Phoenician Women, and two plays about Iphigenia, was written
by this Greek tragedian.
ANSWER: Euripides
[10] In Euripides's play Medea, the title character jealously kills Jason's new wife Glauce by giving her one
of these items coated in poison.
ANSWER: a poisoned robe [accept robes or a dress or other equivalents]
029-09-4-07221

Tournament-8 Round 7 Page 10 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

