Tournament-9
Round 12
Tossups
1. This psychologist argued that "moving toward others," "moving against others," and "moving
away from others" were the three unhealthy trends. She organized the Association for the
Advancement of Psychoanalysis after being expelled from the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. She
argued against the concept of the death instinct and libido in works such as Feminine Psychology and
The Neurotic Personality of Our Time. (*) For 10 points, name this psychologist, who introduced the
concept of womb envy.
ANSWER: Karen Horney
030-09-6-12102

2. The magnitudes of constructs of this type are related to J-coupling constants in proton NMR
spectroscopy, according to the Karplus equations. One construct of this type is also known as the
"dihedral" type, and applies when four or more atoms are bonded in a straight chain. For a central
molecule with two sigma bonds, the magnitude of a construct of this type (*) decreases by one-third
when a lone pair is present, which is the major difference between a linear and a bent molecule. For 10
points, name these figures important in molecular geometry, which come in "bond" and "torsional" varieties,
and are typically measured in degrees.
ANSWER: angles [or torsional angles; or bond angles; or dihedral angles]
026-09-6-12103

3. This deity trips a figure named Lit and kicks him into a pyre. This deity, assisted by some items
given by Grid, defeats Geirrod, but fails to wrestle Eli, who is really Old Age. This deity cannot pick
up the cat of (*) Utgard-Loki, but does make Thialfi into his apprentice. This figure bears the sons Magni
and Modi, kills Hrungnir (RUNG-neer) over his wife Sif, and goes fishing with Hymir (IM-eer), who cuts
his line before he can rope in the Midgard Serpent. He is killed by that serpent at Ragnarok despite being
able to wield Mjollnir (MYOLL-neer). For 10 points, name this Norse god of thunder and son of Odin.
ANSWER: Thor
020-09-6-12104

4. Franz Schubert's sixth and ninth symphonies are known as the "Little" and "Great" symphonies in
this key. A series of eighth notes "traditionally played by a beautiful girl" is referred to as "The
Pulse" in the Terry (*) Riley work called "In" this key. The "Jupiter" Symphony was also written in this
key, to which instruments such as the flute are tuned. The relative minor of this key is A minor. For 10
points, name this key that has no sharps or flats.
ANSWER: C major
003-09-6-12105

5. In 2007, he stated that Thomas Eagleton was the source of a quote that this journalist used in a 1972
column stating that George McGovern was in favor of "amnesty, abortion, and acid." The co-founder
of the column Inside Report, he was the host of a CNN show with (*) Roland Evans, In 2003, after Joseph
Wilson claimed that George W. Bush distorted intelligence in order to justify invading Iraq, this man outed
Wilson's wife Valerie Plame as a CIA operative. For 10 points, name this long-tenured conservative
commentator, a former mainstay on Crossfire, who died in August 2009.
ANSWER: Robert Novak
030-09-6-12106

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This author wrote a novel about a man who sneaks on board the steamship Fidele, where he
interacts with the passengers during April Fool's Day masquerades. Another of his works features a
scene where a man is shaved by Babo, ostensibly his faithful servant but actually his captor. Besides
The Confidence Man and (*) "Benito Cereno," this man wrote a novella that ends with the handsome-faced
title character saying "God bless Captain Vere!" before being hanged. For 10 points, name this American
author of Billy Budd and a novel about Starbuck, Queequeg, and Ahab's pursuit of a great white whale,
Moby-Dick.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
052-09-6-12107

7. During this holiday, one person announces that they lean on a pillow to remind themselves they can
relax. Another person on this holiday is supposed to ask “Why is this night different from all other
nights?” The other questions that are supposed to be asked at dinner during this holiday discuss
eating only (*) bitter herbs which are dipped twice, and why Matzah is eaten during this holiday. This
holiday commemorates the night when the angel of death skipped the houses of Jews when he killed
Egyptians. For 10 points, name this Jewish holiday that features the seder.
ANSWER: Passover [or Pesach]
027-09-6-12108

8. The results of this experiment were disputed by Felix Ehrenhaft, who claimed to have gotten values
that were a fraction of the minimum possible value. Since the scale of this experiment was on a very
small level, Stokes' Law was invalid, which meant that the pressure had to be adjusted in order to find
he effect of the viscosity of air. However, an error resulted in the final value to be off by about one
percent. It used two (*) charged parallel metal plates, creating a potential difference, which was then
adjusted such that the electric force perfectly counteracted the force of gravity on the titular substance. For
10 points, name this experiment that resulted in the discovery of the charge of the electron.
ANSWER: Millikan Oil Drop Experiment [or Millikan Experiment]
055-09-6-12109

9. This man incorporated characters created by other authors, including Fitzgerald's T.J. Eckleburg,
Heller's Yossarian, and Roth's Nathan Zuckerman, into his novel about Ormus Cama and Vina
Apsara's rock band VTO, The (*) Ground Beneath Her Feet. The large-eared Aadam (ah-dahm) and
"Parvati the witch" are among the title group of another novel by this author, which partially takes place at
Mary Pereira’s pickle factory and features Saleem Sinai trying to lead all the people born as India achieved
independence. For 10 points, name this author of Midnight’s Children and The Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: Salman Rushdie
019-09-6-12110

10. One ruler of this nation was killed during an attempted invasion at the Battle of the Three Kings.
This nation received a new constitution during the long dictatorship of economist António (*) Salazar.
One dynasty in this country was started by John IV, who ended Spanish rule of this nation and created the
Braganza dynasty. Alexander VI gave this country rights to lands east of a line of demarcation in the Treaty
of Tordesillas (TOR-day-SEE-yass). For 10 points, name this Iberian nation, whose explorers included
Bartolomeu Dias and Vasco de Gama.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]
023-09-6-12111

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This operation can be performed nowhere on the Weierstrass function, and L'Hopital's rule uses
this function to evaluate limits of indeterminate forms. If this operation can be performed, the
function must be continuous, though the converse does not hold. The (*) chain rule is useful for
performing this operation on composite functions, and Leibniz' notation for it is written as d y over d x. For
10 points, name this measure of the instantaneous rate of change of a function, often represented by the slope
of a tangent line.
ANSWER: derivative [or differentiation]
025-09-6-12112

12. This author of the idealistic tract Anti-Machiavel oversaw the construction of his Sans Souci
residence near Potsdam. This man's father forced him to watch the execution of this man's friend
Hermann von Katte after attempting to escape the royal court. This king's forces overran (*) Silesia
after his victory at Mollwitz during the War of the Austrian Succession. For 10 points, name this
"enlightened despot" who was king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786.
ANSWER: Frederick II [or Frederick the Great; prompt on Frederick]
030-09-6-12113

13. This body of water it is fed by the Olifants River, below which this river is navigable. Its mouth is
located at Xai-Xai (shy-shy), which it reaches after draining the Waterburg Biosphere. One of its
tributaries, the Shoshe, forms part of the Botswana-Zimbabwe border before joining this river. Called
the (*) Krokodil near its source, it flows through Mozambique and was described by Kipling as "great,
green, greasy/" For 10 points, name this second-longest of the rivers that flow to the Indian Ocean from
Africa.
ANSWER: Limpopo River
053-09-6-12114

14. This character notes how "on horror's head horrors accumulate." His mother received a piece of
cloth engraved with strawberries by an Egyptian sorceress. This man uses his clown to send away
some pesky musicians, and he is married to Brabanzio's daughter. This character is warned about (*)
"jealousy, a green eyed monster" before he smothers his wife with a pillow. For 10 points, name this
commander of Cassio and husband of Desdemona who suffers at the behest of Iago and is the title Moor of a
Shakespeare play.
ANSWER: Othello
033-09-6-12115

15. A Russian mission to this moon, "Grunt," had its launch delayed from October 2009 to 2011. The
Kaidun meteorite is thought to be a remnant of this moon. The largest crater on this moon is the
Stickney crater. Iosif Shklovksy claimed that this moon was of (*) artificial origin while attempting to
explain why it is slowly spiraling into the planet it orbits. For 10 points, name this moon that is both closer
to Mars and larger than its neighbor, Deimos.
ANSWER: Phobos
003-09-6-12116

16. During a 1076 synod held in this city, Henry IV demanded the abdication of Pope Gregory VII. An
1122 agreement named for this city ended the investiture controversy and is known as this city's
"concordat." At a later meeting in this city, a defendant proclaimed (*) "Here I stand; I can do no other"
after being summoned by Charles V to defend himself against charges of heresy. For 10 points, name this
German city where Martin Luther appeared at a 1521 Diet (DEE-et).
ANSWER: Worms
004-09-6-12117

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava designed a namesake "Spire" for this city. This city is also
the site of the Robie House, an exemplar of the Prairie Style. William Le Baron Jenney designed the
Home Insurance building in this city, and a series of temporary buildings designed here by Daniel
Burnham was known as the (*) White City. Frank Gehry designed this city's recently completed
Millennium Park. For 10 points, name this city whose suburb of Oak Park was home to much of Frank
Lloyd Wright's work, and which contains the building formerly known as the Sears Tower.
ANSWER: Chicago, Illinois
015-09-6-12118

18. This author wrote about a dim boy who gains the title nickname after breaking a vessel of milk in
"Aloysha the Pot." In another of this author's works, the title noble is inspired by the servant Gerasim
after falling off a ladder while hanging a curtain. He also wrote a novel in which (*) Pierre Bezukhov
believes he is destined to assassinate Napoleon, and a novel whose title character falls in love with Vronsky
and throws herself in front of a train. For 10 points, name this Russian author of Anna Karenina and War
and Peace.
ANSWER: Leo Nikolayevich Tolstoy
015-09-6-12119

19. This man and his wife started the New Life Movement, a nationalist, Confucian-based response to
Communism. This man agreed to fight against the Japanese after being held captive for two weeks in
the (*) Xian (SHEE-ahn) Incident. This man's country was twice shelled from across the Formosa Strait by
the party that had defeated this man's forces in a civil war. While fighting Mao Zedong, this man moved his
government to the island of Taiwan. For 10 points, name this one-time leader of the Kuomintang
(GWO-min-DONG) and president of the Republic of China, who succeeded Sun Yat-Sen.
ANSWER: Chiang Kai-shek [or Chiang Chieh-shih; or Chiang Chung-cheng; or Jiang Jieshi]
023-09-6-12120

20. This painter depicted three umpires in a work variously known as Game Called Because of Rain or
Bottom of the Sixth. The center of another of his paintings features an old man and old woman serving
a turkey; that painting, (*) Freedom from Want, is part of this man's Four Freedoms series. This man's
depiction of Rosie the Riveter appeared on the May 29, 1943 cover of a magazine. For 10 points, name this
illustrator who, from 1916 to 1963, produced covers for the Saturday Evening Post.
ANSWER: Norman Percevel Rockwell
003-09-6-12121

21. This politician's campaign manager, William Dudley, bribed groups of voters dubbed the "blocks
of five." As president, he oversaw the coup that ousted the ruling dynasty of Hawaii. This man's
Presidency occurred alongside the "Billion Dollar Congress," which passed the (*) Sherman Antitrust
Act, Sherman Silver Purchase Act, and McKinley Tariff for him to sign. This Indiana native chose Whitelaw
Reid to replace Levi Morton as his Vice Presidential candidate when he lost to the incumbent he had
defeated four years earlier. For 10 points, name this President who served between the two terms of Grover
Cleveland and was the grandson of former president William Henry.
ANSWER: Benjamin Harrison
026-09-6-12122

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

22. Thing bound for this organelle are enclosed in COPI (COPE-one) or COPII (COPE-two).
Proteoglycans are formed here via glycosylation. It is divided into cis, medial, and trans
compartments, and in this organelle, mannose-6-phosphate is (*) added to proteins destined for the
lysosome. It receives proteins transported from the endoplasmic reticulum and modifies them before their
final destination. For 10 points, name this organelle that sorts and ships proteins, name for its Italian
discoverer.
ANSWER: Golgi apparatus [or Golgi bodies]
001-09-6-12123

23. One of this author's characters is a Corsican that assaults a person for making advances to a
young boy at a library, and is identified as "The Self-Taught Man." Another of this author's
characters is a mother who throws her child off a balcony and talks to a postal clerk before another
character strokes a bronze mantelpiece. This author wrote a novel about (*) Antoine Rosquentin and a
play in which Inez and Estelle's bickering leads Garcin to state "Hell is other people." For 10 points, name
this write of Nausea and No Exit.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
033-09-6-12124

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 12
Bonuses
1. One opera based on this story focuses on Sali and Vreli, and was written by Frederick Delius. For 10
points:
[10] Name this Shakespeare play that inspired a ballet by Sergei Prokofiev and a symphonic work by Pyotr
Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: Romeo and Juliet
[10] Another version of Romeo and Juliet was composed by this Frenchman, who wrote an Ave Maria and
Le Tribut de Zamora.
ANSWER: Charles Gounod
[10] Gounod composed the "Jewel Song" for an opera based on this play. This play also inspired two waltzes
by Franz Liszt, who based them around its character Mephistopheles.
ANSWER: Goethe's Faust
020-09-6-12201

2. This monarch went through the Bedchamber Crisis when Lord Melbourne resigned as prime minister. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this English monarch, who ruled for most of the nineteenth century, with much of that rule as a
widow after the death of her husband, Prince Albert.
ANSWER: Alexandrina Victoria
[10] These laws were repealed during the rule of Victoria in response to the Irish potato famine. A frequent
bone of contention between free-traders and protectionists, these laws severely restricted the importation of
grain.
ANSWER: Corn Laws
[10] This Tory prime minister, who replaced Lord Melbourne, repealed the Corn Laws. He also created the
London police force, with the Metropolitan Police Act.
ANSWER: Robert Peel
023-09-6-12202

3. Name these features of Japanese geography, for 10 points each.
[10] This tallest peak in Japan is a major tourist site for those who wish to commit suicide. Its name is of
Ainu origin and means "everlasting life."
ANSWER: Mount Fuji
[10] Mount Fuji is located on this Japanese island, which also contains the Kanto Plain. Such cities as Osaka
and Kyoto are also found on this island.
ANSWER: Honshu
[10] This city, also on Honshu, was Japan's busiest port city until it was decimated by a 1995 earthquake,
which killed over four thousand people and wiped out much of its business.
ANSWER: Kobe
052-09-6-12203

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Name these documents of the French Revolution, for 10 points each.
[10] After being locked out of Versailles, the Third Estate representatives signed this June 1789 document at
a sporting venue, pledging not to leave until the National Assembly reconvened.
ANSWER: Tennis Court Oath [or Oath of the Tennis Court or other clear equivalents; or Serment du
Jeu de Paume]
[10] Bishoprics were consolidated and reorganized, and the Catholic Church was placed under legislative
control, by the terms of this July 1790 law, which set the Pope against the Revolution.
ANSWER: Civil Constitution of the Clergy [or Constitution Civile Du Clergé]
[10] This 1789 charter of civil liberties became the preamble to the 1791 constitution and inspired Olympia
de Gouges to write a similarly titled pamphlet for women.
ANSWER: Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen [or Declaration des Droits de l’Homme
et du Citoyen]
019-09-6-12204

5. Each entry in this diagram is the sum of the two numbers directly above it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this construct named after a French mathematician.
ANSWER: Pascal's Triangle
[10] The rows of Pascal's Triangle form the coefficients associated with this distribution, which represents
the chance of getting k successes in n trials.
ANSWER: binomial distribution
[10] The binomial coefficient for any given n and k can be found by performing this function on n and k. It is
contrasted with permutation in that it is unordered.
ANSWER: combination [or nCk; or n choose k]
003-09-6-12205

6. Name these French authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This syphilitic author wrote "The Necklace," as well as stories about the abuses of French women by
Prussian officers, such as "Mademoiselle Fifi" and "Ball of Fat."
ANSWER: Henri Rene Albert Guy de Maupassant
[10] This novelist created a cycle about the Rougon-Macquarts, which includes his novel Germinal. He
vindicated Alfred Dreyfus in his open letter J'Accuse!
ANSWER: Emile Francois Zola
[10] This Algerian colonist expressed existential themes in the essay "The Myth of Sisyphus" and the novel
The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
020-09-6-12206

7. One ruler of this area promulgated the Hangul alphabet. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Asian peninsula whose isolationist policies earned it the nickname "the Hermit Kingdom,"
and which ultimately split into two present-day countries founded by Syngman Rhee and Kim Il Sung.
ANSWER: Korean Peninsula
[10] The Korean War started as a result of a breaching of this established line of demarcation separating
North and South Korea, originally proposed in 1902 as the split between Russian and Japanese interests.
ANSWER: 38th parallel of north latitude
[10] The tide of the Korean War quickly changed after the forces sent under MacArthur suddenly had to deal
with masses of Chinese soldiers crossing this river to aid the struggling North Koreans.
ANSWER: Yalu River
002-09-6-12207

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. The title character of this novel is said to suffer "a lameness checking each step like the jerk of a chain."
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which a sled crash fails to kill the protagonist or Mattie, who is the beautiful cousin
of the sickly Zeena.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
[10] Ethan Frome was written by this woman, who also wrote The Custom of the Country. Lily Bart
overdoses on a sedative liquid in her novel The House of Mirth.
ANSWER: Edith Wharton
[10] Edith Wharton also wrote this novel about May Welland, who marries Newland Archer despite
knowing that Newland really loves May's cousin Ellen Olenska.
ANSWER: The Age of Innocence
020-09-6-12208

9. This man's subsequent hits as a director included Mrs. Doubtfire. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this director, whose artistic career peaked when he directed the first two Home Alone movies.
ANSWER: Chris Columbus
[10] After directing Bicentennial Man, Columbus was tapped to direct the first two films in this series,
starring Emma Watson, Daniel Radcliffe, and Rupert Grint.
ANSWER: Harry Potter
[10] Columbus produced this 2009 sequel, which cast Ben Stiller as a night security guard and Hank Azaria
as an evil Pharoah.
ANSWER: Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian
053-09-6-12209

10. Its stages include initiation, elongation, and termination. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process by which a complementary RNA strand is made from DNA.
ANSWER: transcription
[10] This is the enzyme that transcribes DNA into RNA.
ANSWER: RNA polymerase [or RNA polymerase I; or RNA polymerase II; or RNA polymerase III; or
RNA polymerase IV; or RNA polymerase V]
[10] The rho-independent form of this process results from GC-rich inverted repeats causing a hairpin loop
to form. UAA, UAG, and UGA are codons that effect this process in translation.
ANSWER: termination [prompt on close equivalents like stopping]
001-09-6-12210

11. Proteus attempted to have this man killed by Iobates through the use of a secret letter. For 10 points
each.
[10] Name this hero of Greek myth, who performed his most notable task while riding Pegasus, which threw
him off as he tried to ascent Mount Olympus.
ANSWER: Bellerophon
[10] Bellerophon slew this creature, with the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon.
ANSWER: Chimera
[10] Pegasus threw off Bellerophon because this god sent a gadfly to sting the flying horse.
ANSWER: Zeus [or Jupiter; or Jove]
025-09-6-12211

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This author wrote about a woman who kills the reporter Werner Toetges, and falls in love with the
fugitive Ludwig Goetten. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of The Lost Honor of Katherina Blum and Billiards at Half Past Nine.
ANSWER: Heinrich Theodor Boll
[10] Heinrich Boll is a modern author from this country. This country's namesake language was also used to
write the epic Nibelungenlied and All Quiet on the Western Front.
ANSWER: Germany
[10] This German literary movement, an offshoot of Romanticism, took its name from a Friedrich Klinger
play and focused on the "storm and stress" of characters' internal lives.
ANSWER: "sturm und drang"
027-09-6-12212

13. This man wrote "Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren," in which he predicted that everyone's
standard of living would significantly increase by the year 2030. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theorist, whose namesake form of economics promotes the active manipulation of tax and
spending rates in order to control inflation and unemployment, and comprises the mainstream of economic
theory.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
[10] This seminal work of Keynesian economics was published during the Great Depression. In it, Keynes
argues that downturns cannot be fixed by the market alone.
ANSWER: The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money
[10] This Keynes work was written in response to his time at the Versailles Peace Conference. In it, Keynes
argues against the reparation payments being forced on Germany.
ANSWER: The Economic Consequences of the Peace
023-09-6-12213

14. This musical piece is scored for any arrangement of instruments. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this piece, in which performers are silent for the titular duration.
ANSWER: 4'33" (Four Minutes (and) Thirty Three Seconds) [or Four Thirty Three]
[10] 4'33" is a composition by this avant-garde American composer, who also composed many Imaginary
Landscapes.
ANSWER: John Milton Cage Jr.
[10] Cage also composed a piece titled after this instrument squared, and subtitled "as slow as possible." A
performance of that piece featuring this instrument in Halberstadt, Germany is slated to take 639 years.
ANSWER: organ
026-09-6-12214

15. This author created Thea Kronberg in The Song of the Lark and Claude Wheeler in One of Ours. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this author, whose novels about Nebraska include My Antonia.
ANSWER: Willa Sibert Cather
[10] This other Cather novel tells of Alexandra Bergson, who inherits her family farm and marries Carl
Linstrum.
ANSWER: O Pioneers!
[10] Sapphira and the Slave Girl was the only novel that Cather set in this state, where Cather was born
before relocating to Nebraska.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Virginia
025-09-6-12215

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This law can be descried by the H-theorem. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this law, which states that the entropy of a closed system will increase.
ANSWER: Second Law of Thermodynamics
[10] This hypothetical creature, named after a Scottish physicist, would be able to control a gate, only letting
high-energy particles through one way and low-energy particles through the other way, thus violating the
Second Law of Thermodynamics.
ANSWER: Maxwell's Demon
[10] This scientist developed a ratchet that would disobey the Second Law of Thermodynamics, but is better
known for a series of lectures on physics given while at Caltech.
ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman
055-09-6-12216

17. This thinker answered the title question of his essay "What is Enlightenment?" as "man's emergence
from his self-imposed immaturity." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German philosopher, the author of The Critique of Pure Reason and Groundwork of the
Metaphysics of Morals.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
[10] A central tenet of Kant's moral philosophy is this principle, which he stated as "act only according to
that maxim whereby you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law."
ANSWER: categorical imperative
[10] An extensive criticism of Kantian philosophy was appended to this pessimistic philosopher's The World
as Will and Idea.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
015-09-6-12217

18. This painting depicts an incident that occurred in Havana Harbor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting in which several hands extend towards the title figure, whose head is perilously
close to a vicious fish's mouth.
ANSWER: Watson and the Shark
[10] This American artist of the late eighteenth century painted Watson and the Shark in addition to Boy with
a Squirrel.
ANSWER: John Singleton Copley
[10] This contemporary of John Singleton Copley in early American painting was known as the "Artist of
the Revolution" and created the depiction of the signing of the Declaration of Independence that is used on
the reverse of the two-dollar bill.
ANSWER: John Trumbull
026-09-6-12218

19. The Portland variety of this rock has been used in such buildings as Buckingham Palace and St. Paul's
Cathedral. For 10 points each:
[10] This sedimentary rock is highly reactive to acidic solutions, and metamorphises into marble.
ANSWER: limestone
[10] Biotite and muscovite are members of this group of minerals known for their basal cleavage.
ANSWER: dolomite
[10] Erosion of limestone by acidic groundwater will create this type of landscape, characterized primarily
by sinkholes and caverns.
ANSWER: Karst topography
051-09-6-12219

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. It ended after its progenitor was unsuspectingly murdered by Ralph de Standish. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this uprising that saw the taking of the Tower of London by the namesake group, who put Simon
Sudbury to death before this movement's leader, Wat Tyler, was killed at Mile End.
ANSWER: the Peasants' Revolt [do not accept "Peasants' War"]
[10] The Peasants' Revolt occurred during the reign of this English king. The son of Edward the Black
Prince was later deposed in favor of Henry Bolingbroke, who became Henry IV.
ANSWER: Richard II [prompt on Richard]
[10] The Peasants' Revolt caused trouble for this nascent religious movement, which sought to reform the
Catholic Church under the leadership of John Wycliffe, and was implicated in the revolt
ANSWER: Lollards [or Lollardy]
053-09-6-12220

21. They include freezing point depression and boiling point elevation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these properties of a solution that depend on the concentration of solute.
ANSWER: colligative properties
[10] This value which is the effective number of moles of particles released in solution to the number of
moles of solute that were dissolved.
ANSWER: van't Hoff factor
[10] Calculating freezing point depression uses this measure of concentration instead of molarity so as to be
temperature independent.
ANSWER: molality
001-09-6-12221

22. Daniel Webster was reviled by abolitionists for agreeing to this deal, because it included the Fugitive
Slave Act. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group of five bills that preserved the Union by admitting California as a free state, organizing
the territories of Utah and New Mexico, and banning the slave trade in the District of Columbia.
ANSWER: Compromise of 1850 [prompt on Omnibus Bill]
[10] This Kentucky Senator proposed many key parts of the Compromise of 1850, thirty years after he
successfully brokered the passage of the Missouri Compromise. For those efforts, he became known as "the
Great Compromiser."
ANSWER: Henry Clay
[10] Right before the Civil War, this other Kentucky senator proposed restoring the Missouri Compromise's
line between free states and slave states and extending it to California in his namesake compromise, which
was rejected by Congressional Republicans.
ANSWER: John Crittenden
004-09-6-12222

Tournament-9 Round 12 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

