Tournament-9
Round 7
Tossups
1. This thinker responded to the "hand" argument of G.E. Moore in his essay "On Certainty." In
another philosophical work, he analyzes a shopping list of "five red apples" and considers the "beetle
in a box" as an analogy for pain. His explanation that there can be no private language and that
humans use "language games" appears in (*) Philosophical Investigations. Another of his works ends
with the proposition, "What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence." For 10 points, name the
logical positivist author, who threatened Karl Popper with a fireplace poker several years after writing
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Ludwig Wittgenstein
034-09-6-07102

2. One painting by this artist contains a brown sea with dark clouds overhead next to a sunset and
depicts the "throwing overboard" of the "dead and dying" due to a "Typhoon coming on." A dark
black wave rises over a general's army in this artist's (*) Snow Storm: Hannibal Crossing the Alps. This
artist painted a ship "tugged to her last berth to be broken up" as well as a painting set on the bridge of
Maidenhead, a Brunel-designed construction that is part of the Great Western Railway. For 10 points, name
this British artist of Rain, Steam, and Speed.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
020-09-6-07103

3. One of the men involved in planning the crucial event at this location had previously devised
Operation Intercept while working under Eugene Rossides. Bernard Barker was one of the five men
arrested at this place. Rose Mary Woods claimed to have erased (*) eighteen and a half minutes of a
conversation about the events that happened here, and Mark Felt was the source for much of what the public
knew about the crime that took place at this hotel. For 10 points, a 1972 burglary of the Democratic Party's
headquarters at what hotel caused a scandal that ultimately led to the resignation of President Nixon?
ANSWER: Watergate Hotel
003-09-6-07104

4. This novel opens with the protagonist dreaming about a man reading a book, then screaming,
“What shall I do?” At one point in this work, Pliable and Obstinate join the title character, and Mr.
Wiseman guides that character to a village where only honest men live. Later in this novel, the
protagonist battles a hideous monster called Apollyon and enters (*) Vanity Fair, which is controlled by
Beelzebub. The subtitle "from This World to That Which is to Come" describes Christian’s journey from the
City of Destruction to the Celestial City in, for 10 points, what religious allegory by John Bunyan?
ANSWER: The Pilgrim’s Progress From This World to That Which Is to Come
034-09-6-07105

5. The largest known one of these structures is named after the town of Vredefort, South Africa. One
known as "Shiva" may be linked to the Deccan traps. One of these in Ontario is home to the Sudbury
mining basin, and several of these are located along the 38th parallel in the middle of the United
States. These sites often contain (*) shocked quartz. They include the Chicxulub one located north of the
Yucatan Peninsula. For 10 points, identify these structures formed from meteorites colliding with the Earth.
ANSWER: meteor impact craters
057-09-6-07106

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This composer produced a score for a movie based on a Yuri Tynyanov book about a fictional
military officer. In another work by him, the son of the King of Clubs attempts to rescue princesses
who are encased in the titular (*) citrus fruit. In addition to writing the Lieutenant Kije Suite and The Love
for Three Oranges, this composer used a clarinet to represent a cat and a bassoon to represent the
grandfather in a child-oriented work. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev
025-09-6-07107

7. In December 1988, Russell Kirk gave a speech calling supporters of this philosophy "An
Endangered Species" and claiming that some of them "mistook Tel Aviv for the capital of the United
States." This philosophy was developed by such figures as Irving Kristol and Leo (*) Strauss. A leading
think tank for this philosphy is the Project for a New American Century; like other proponents of this idea,
PNAC believes that the United States should use economic and military power to promote democracy in
foreign countries. For 10 points, name this political philosophy that came to prominence under George W.
Bush Administration figures such as Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney.
ANSWER: neoconservatism [accept word forms; do not accept or prompt on "conservatism"]
003-09-6-07108

8. This author was so disgusted upon seeing Pope Julius II commanding an army that he wrote a
satirical dialogue about that Pope being kept outside the gates of heaven after death, Julius Exclusus.
In his day, he achieved popularity for his collection of proverbs, Adagia, and for his instruction on
simplifying Catholicism, The (*) Handbook of the Christian Knight. The personified daughter of Wealth
and Youth narrates another of his satires, which advocates for Christian humanism. For 10 points, name this
Dutch author of The Praise of Folly.
ANSWER: Desiderius Erasmus
019-09-6-07109

9. An energy level that lies inside the band gap of superconductors it named after this scientist, as well
as a temperature below which degeneracy occurs, creating his namesake gas. He described a paradox
which questioned the commonality of extraterrestrial life, since there has been no evidence of alien
technology. This man named the neutrino, and along with Paul (*) Dirac, discovered a namesake
statistics that apply to particles named after him. For 10 points, name this winner of the 1938 Nobel Prize for
developing the first sustained nuclear chain reaction.
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi
055-09-6-07110

10. Walter the Penniless was defeated during this conflict by Kilij Arslan. In one part of this conflict,
Shahanshah lost fifty thousand Fatimid troops at Ascalon. Among the stated justifications for this
event were assisting Alexius Comnenus. Peter the Hermit led a popular section of this campaign,
which caused the establishment of the Kingdom of (*) Jerusalem. The phrase "God Wills it!" was uttered
by the crowd at a meeting that called for this armed event to begin. For 10 points, name this military
campaign called by Pope Urban II at the Council of Clermont, the first of a series of expeditions to retake
holy lands in the name of God.
ANSWER: First Crusade
033-09-6-07111

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This figure turned Lamia into a monster and killed Lamia's children. Tiresias became a priest of
this deity after turning into a woman. A cloud in the shape of this figure gave birth to the centaurs
after being impregnated by Ixion. This goddess sent two serpents to kill the infant (*) Heracles, and she
later forced Heracles to carry out the twelve labors for Eurystheus (yur-ISS-thee-us). This firmly anti-Trojan
goddess repeatedly tried to block Aeneas's mission. For 10 points, name this goddess who also antagonized
Io and Semele when they dallied with Zeus, her husband.
ANSWER: Hera [or Juno]
015-09-6-07112

12. The genus Baylisascarius (BAY-liss-ass-CARE-ee-us) contains a parasitic member of this phylum.
Another member of this phylum was studied as a model organism by Sydney Brenner. Members of
this phylum possess sensory structures called phasmids and, like rotifers, have internal body cavities
called pseudocoels. One member of this phylum was the first organism to have its (*) genetic code
completely sequenced, and another member is named due to where it resides in its host animals, notably
dogs. For 10 points, name this phylum which includes C. elegans, pinworms, heartworms and other
roundworms.
ANSWER: Nematoda [or nematodes; prompt on roundworms before mentioned]
025-09-6-07113

13. This country's museum, known colloquially as The Sofia, makes up one vertex of its "Triangle of
Art." One architect from this country was sponsored by the Guell family to design a series of Art
Nouveau park benches and build the Temple of the (*) Holy Family. One museum in this country was
designed using computer technology to resemble a ship. For 10 points, name this European country that is
the location of a Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim Museum and the Prado.
ANSWER: Spain
015-09-6-07114

14. In one of his poems, he tells of a soldier who, upon encountering his childhood home, contrasts the
progress of civilization with the "Summer isles of Eden" in the Orient land of his birth. Another one
of his poems features a group of mariners who take comfort in their unity as they leave their worldly
cares behind for an "enchanted stem/ Laden with flower and fruit." In addition to "Locksley Hall"
and "The (*) Lotos-Eaters," he published a collection of poems after the death of his friend Arthur Hallam.
For 10 points, name this British poet of In Memoriam, who immortalized the Battle of Balaclava in his work
"The Charge of the Light Brigade."
ANSWER: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
040-09-6-07115

15. Important transcription factors in this organ's development include neurogenin 3 and Pdx-1.
Tumors in this organ can cause Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Fluids from this organ empty into the
Duct of Wirsung. Hormomes produced here include ghrelin, and its delta cells secrete somatostatin.
(*) Alpha cells in its Islets of Langerhans produce glucagon, but it is better known for a product produced in
its beta cells. For 10 points, name this organ that secretes insulin.
ANSWER: pancreas
001-09-6-07116

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. After hearing of how enamored with the sound of bullets this man was, George II noted that only
an inexperienced man could hold such an opinion. Along with Lighthorse Harry Lee, this man was
one of the commanders of the Watermelon Army. This man was the target of the (*) Conway Cabal,
which attempted to replace him with Horatio Gates. He was the last man to lead troops into battle while
serving as President of the United States, doing so against the Whiskey Rebellion. For 10 points, name this
Mount Vernon resident, whose troops spent a winter in Valley Forge during the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: George Washington
002-09-6-07117

17. One work titled after this place exclaims "Again brutish necessity wipes its hands upon the napkin
of a dirty cause" and asks "how can I turn from" this place "and live?" That work is Derek Walcott's
poem entitled "A Far Cry From" this place. Another work titled after this place is a memoir depicting
the characters of Farah Aden and Denys Finch Hatton, who work with the author on a (*) coffee
plantation. For 10 points, name this continent that titles Isak Dinesen's memoir, "Out of" here.
ANSWER: Africa
022-09-6-07118

18. One of these entities causes the polarization plane to be moved in the Faraday Effect, and the Voigt
Effect involves birefringence caused by one of these entities. When a strong one of these disrupts
orbital and spin angular momentum, it is the Paschen-Back Effect, which is an amplified form of the
spectral line splitting caused by one of these entities called the (*) Zeeman Effect. One of these fields is
formed whenever an electric field's strength changes; that phenomenon was proven by Maxwell when he
modified Ampere's law. For 10 points, name this type of field that is responsible for the properties of nickel
and iron's attraction to each other.
ANSWER: magnetic field
033-09-6-07119

19. Gaetano Mosca stated that all governments were facades for this type of government. A case study
of Germany's labor-oriented Social Democratic party was used by Robert Michaels to show that, due
to organizational needs, this type of government will always arise, in a theory called the "iron law" of
this. This term is often used to describe the (*) Russian speculators who bought former state enterprises
during the 1990s privatization. For 10 points, give this term which describes government by a small,
non-aristocratic class.
ANSWER: oligarchy [accept word forms]
030-09-6-07120

20. This man abandoned a plan to ride an elephant because the animal couldn't fit through an arch;
he was trying to ride the elephant during a triumph for his victories in Africa, which was granted to
him by Sulla. After a series of defeats including Dyrrachium and Ilerda, this leader of the Populares
fled to Egypt, where he was (*) beheaded by Pothinus. Earlier, this man angered Crassus by trying to take
credit for defeating Spartacus. For 10 points name this loser of the Battle of Pharsalus, a member of the First
Triumverate who fought Julius Caesar in a civil war.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]
015-09-6-07121

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. One work by this author was interpreted as mocking Chinese immigrants by the Irish middle class
readers it was actually mocking. A short story by this author sees Thomas drown when a mine camp is
hit by a flash flood. This editor of The Overland Monthly also wrote a work telling of a gambler who is
found dead along with the rest of a group of (*) exiles. For 10 points, name this author of "The Heathen
Chinee," "The Luck of Roaring Camp," and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat."
ANSWER: Francis Bret Harte
002-09-6-07122

22. This ruler listened to the advice of Charles-Alexandre de Calonne when calling the Assembly of
Notables. This leader dismissed and later recalled the financial minister Jacques Necker. This
monarch was forced to convene a body that had not met in 175 years, the (*) Estates-General. The
National Convention voted in favor of the execution of this king. For 10 points, name this man who was
overthrown along with his queen, Marie Antoinette, at the beginning of the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Louis XVI prompt on Louis]
023-09-6-07123

23. Henry's law equates a version of this quantity to the product of solute concentration and a
compound-dependent constant. It is directly proportional to (*) temperature according to Gay-Lussac's
Law, and partial ones proportional to the mole fraction are covered by Dalton's Law. For 10 points, name
this quantity measured in pascals and equal to force divided by unit area.
ANSWER: pressure
025-09-6-07124

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 7
Bonuses
1. For 10 points each, name these Canadian geographical features.
[10] Also known as the Laurentian Plateau, this geological formation is the largest mass of exposed
Precambrian rock on Earth. Centered on Hudson Bay, it contains numerous rocky hills and irregular basins.
ANSWER: Canadian Shield
[10] This largest lake located entirely in Canada, found in the Northwest Territories, is over twelve thousand
square miles in surface area and is noted for a large speckled trout population.
ANSWER: Great Bear Lake
[10] The Great Bear Lake empties into this river, which begins at the Great Slave Lake. This river was once
known as the River of Disappointment before it took the name of the explorer who found it in 1789.
ANSWER: Mackenzie River
052-09-6-07201

2. This character's followers fulfill a prophecy that they will "eat their tables." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Trojan native, whose wife Creusa produced his son Ascanius. This ally of Evander avenges
Pallas by killing Turnus.
ANSWER: Aeneas
[10] This author wrote about Aeneas during the Augustan Age of Roman literature. His other works include
a poem about a gnat and some treatises on farming, the Bucolics.
ANSWER: Publius Vergilius Maro
[10] This addressee of a Phyllis Wheatley poem served as the patron to Virgil and so many other Augustan
poets that his name is equated with patronage of the arts.
ANSWER: Gaius Cilnius Maecenas
033-09-6-07202

3. It includes the supraoptic nucleus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this region of the diencephalon, which is connected to the pituitary gland and regulates many
autonomic functions, such as internal body temperature.
ANSWER: hypothalamus
[10] The hypothalamus helps regulate this "biological clock." A free-running one runs slightly longer than
the entrained twenty-four hour cycle.
ANSWER: circadian rhythm
[10] In humans, this part of the hypothalamus regulates the circadian rhythm. It is located just above the
point where the optic nerves cross each other.
ANSWER: suprachiasmatic nucleus [or SCN]
001-09-6-07203

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. When he died in 1953, this ruler was preparing to launch an anti-Jewish campaign in response to the
fictitious "Doctors' Plot." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this longtime Soviet dictator, who outmaneuvered Leon Trotsky to win the race to succeed Lenin,
and led the USSR through World War II.
ANSWER: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Ioseb Dzhugashvili]
[10] In 1928, Stalin reversed the New Economic Policy and implemented the first of these economic
centralization roadmaps, which called for drastic farm collectivization policies.
ANSWER: Five-Year Plans [or Pyatiletka]
[10] One of the harsh effects of the First Five-Year Plan was the "liquidation as a class" of this group,
nebulously defined as the more wealthy among the agricultural peasants.
ANSWER: kulaks
019-09-6-07204

5. It begins with the Yellow Turban Rebellion, and includes a scene in which a general eats his own eyeball
after being struck by an arrow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this literary work, whose climax occurs at the Battle of Red Cliffs.
ANSWER: The Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or San Guo Yan Yi]
[10] Although Liu Bei is the protagonist of the Romance, the hero is arguably this leader of Wei, who came
to control the Emperor of Han Dynasty after defeating Dong Zhuo.
ANSWER: Cao Cao Mèngdé [or Tsao Tsao]
[10] In another classic of Chinese literature, Wu Cheng’en's Journey to the West, a Buddhist monk travels to
India with the aid of Sun Wukong, the king of these creatures.
ANSWER: monkeys
034-09-6-07205

6. The form of this constant that is most often used is the negative base-ten log of Ka (K-sub-A). For 10
points each:
[10] Name this constant, a type of equilibrium constant that is a measure of the strength of an acid, and
which is usually symbolized Ka (K-sub-A).
ANSWER: acid dissociation constant [accept acid-ionization constant; prompt on acidity constant]
[10] This equation relates the dissociation constant to the pH of a solution and the base-ten log of the molar
concentration of the conjugate base divided by the molar concentration of the acid.
ANSWER: Henderson-Hasselbalch equation [prompt on HH equation]
[10] The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation is useful for estimating the pH of one of these solutions, which
are combinations of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or a weak base and its conjugate acid, and which
keep pH relatively stable.
ANSWER: buffer solutions
026-09-6-07206

7. He visited Rhea Silvia in a dream. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman war god who thus became the father of Romulus and Remus.
ANSWER: Mars [do not accept "Ares"]
[10] Rhea Silvia was one of these holy women, whose primary task was to maintain the sacred fire of the
goddess of the hearth. True to their name, they could not marry.
ANSWER: Vestal Virgins
[10] The Lupercalia festival, celebrated by the Romans on February 15, paid homage to this animal, which
suckled Romulus and Remus.
ANSWER: a she-wolf
052-09-6-07207

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This man received financial aid from a group known as the Secret Six. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who attempted to take a federal arsenal in Harpers Ferry in hopes of starting a rebellion
throughout the South.
ANSWER: John Brown
[10] Brown had earlier led this massacre targeting Dutch Henry, which resulted in the death of five
pro-slavery settlers in Kansas.
ANSWER: Pottawatomie Creek Massacre
[10] This man led the marine forces used to end John Brown's insurrection at Harpers Ferry. He later
replaced Joseph Johnston in another role.
ANSWER: Robert Edward Lee
023-09-6-07208

9. He leads the Forza Italia party, and he regained power in 2008 as leader of the People of Freedom
Coalition. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scandal-ridden Italian prime minister, who is currently under fire for an alleged affair with
the eighteen-year-old Noemi Letizia.
ANSWER: Silvio Berlusconi
[10] Berlusconi's perpetual opponent in Italian politics is this former European Commission leader, who
served as Prime Minister from 2006 to 2008.
ANSWER: Romano Prodi
[10] In 2008, Berlusconi allegedly played "hide and seek" with this German chancellor by hiding behind a
column. She leads the Christian Democratic Union.
ANSWER: Angela Merkel
015-09-6-07209

10. This novel includes the Italian surgeon Rinaldi and depicts the aftermath of the Battle of Caporetto. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, in which the ambulance driver Frederic Henry falls in love with the English nurse
Catherine Barkley.
ANSWER: A Farewell to Arms
[10] This American author of The Old Man and the Sea and For Whom the Bell Tolls wrote A Farewell to
Arms.
ANSWER: Ernest Miller Hemingway
[10] In this Hemingway short story set at a train station, an American uses roundabout language to pressure
Jig into getting an abortion.
ANSWER: "Hills Like White Elephants"
015-09-6-07210

11. He was known as "Old Hickory." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this President who introduced a namesake expansion of democracy and despised the Second
Bank of the United States.
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
[10] As a general, Jackson defeated this Florida Indian tribe, later led by Osceola, in the first of a series of
wars.
ANSWER: Seminoles
[10] Jackson responded to increased speculation by ordering Treasury Secretary Levi Woodbury to enforce
this executive order, which only accepted gold, silver, and Virginia scrip for the purchase of public lands.
ANSWER: the Specie Circular
015-09-6-07211

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. Pieces in this collection include "Watchman's Song," "Halling," and "To Spring." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this collection of piano pieces in ten opuses that includes "Wedding Day at Troldhaugen."
ANSWER: "Lyric Pieces"
[10] This musical suite includes movements such as "Aase's Death" and "Morning Mood," as well as a dark
movement depicting trolls, "In the Hall of the Mountain King."
ANSWER: "Peer Gynt Suite"
[10] The "Lyric Pieces" and the "Peer Gynt Suite" are works by this Norwegian composer, who also
composed the Holberg Suite and a piano concerto in A minor.
ANSWER: Edvard Hagerup Grieg
036-09-6-07212

13. One member of this family discovered the Laetoli footprints in 1976. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this family of British archaeologists whose members include Louis, Mary, and Richard.
ANSWER: Leakey
[10] Mary and Louis Leakey did much of their work at this gorge in Tanzania, where Mary Leakey
discovered a noted australopithecine in 1959.
ANSWER: Olduvai Gorge [or Oldupai Gorge]
[10] Louis Leakey was born in this country, home to the Kikuyu tribe, which he studied extensively.
ANSWER: Kenya
024-09-6-07213

14. The CNO cycle and the proton-proton chain are two types of this. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process that takes place in the center of stars and provide most of their energy output.
ANSWER: Nuclear Fusion
[10] Since conditions necessary to produce the proton-proton chain are very difficult to produce, instead
most man-made fusion reactions make use of this isotope that contains one extra neutron.
ANSWER: Deuterium [or Hydrogen-2, prompt on Hydrogen]
[10] Massive stars can fuse heavier elements, but they are unable to fuse iron or nickel because this value,
the energy needed to break an atom down to its constituent nucleons.
ANSWER: Bonding energy
055-09-6-07214

15. This religion has seventeen hymns known as the Gathas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Persian religion, which is often considered dualistic and an ancestor of present-day
Abrahamic beliefs.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism
[10] This is the chief god of Zoroastrianism. He created the opposing spirits of Spenta Mainyu and Angra
Mainyu.
ANSWER: Ahura Mazda
[10] This sacred text of Zoroastrianism contains the Gathas, as well as the Yasna and the Vendidad.
ANSWER: Zend Avesta
023-09-6-07215

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. Paul Signac was one of the major figures of this artistic movement. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this branch of French postimpressionism, whose paintings included Bathers at Asnieres, The
Circus, and The Models.
ANSWER: Pointillism
[10] Those three paintings were created by this leading member of the Pointillist school.
ANSWER: Georges-Pierre Seurat
[10] This other Seurat painting, often considered his masterpiece, depicts a busy midday scene complete
with animals and parasols.
ANSWER: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte
040-09-6-07216

17. They are generated by Hawaiian-type eruptions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of volcano with low slope, which contrasts with stratovolcanoes.
ANSWER: shield volcano
[10] This term refers to the fluid-like mass of rock and gases that occurs in volcanic eruptions.
ANSWER: pyroclastic flow
[10] These volcanic vents release volcanic gases into the atmosphere.
ANSWER: fumaroles
001-09-6-07217

18. This husband of Eva Braun advocated the policy of "lebensraum." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who unsuccesfully tried to come to power during the Beer Hall Putsch.
ANSWER: Adolf Hitler
[10] This other Nazi was the designer of the Cathedral of Light and supervised architecture and armaments.
This author of Inside the Third Reich was the highest-ranking Nazi to take responsibility for the regime's
crimes, when he stated "I am sorry" at the Nuremberg trial.
ANSWER: Albert Speer
[10] This former World War I ace was the commander of the Luftwaffe and was made field marshal by
Hitler.
ANSWER: Hermann Goring
033-09-6-07218

19. After the Doomsday device is activated, the title character of this movie gets up from his wheelchair and
screams "Mein Fuhrer, I can walk!" For 10 points each:
[10] Name this black comedy, in which Peter Sellers played a British military officer, the U.S. president and
the title former Nazi scientist.
ANSWER: Dr. Strangelove, or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb
[10] This actor portrayed General Buck Turgidson in Dr. Strangelove. He might be better known for playing
the title role in Patton.
ANSWER: George C. Scott
[10] Dr. Strangelove was directed by this man, who also directed 2001: A Space Odyssey and Spartacus.
ANSWER: Stanley Kubrick
053-09-6-07219

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. This author's "Lycidas" was an elegy for Edward King, and he touched on his blindness in "When I
Consider How My Light Is Spent." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British poet, who wrote the line "they also serve who only stand and wait."
ANSWER: John Milton
[10] Milton argued against the Licensing Order of 1643 in this anti-censorship pamphlet, which notes that
"books are not absolutely dead things."
ANSWER: Areopagitica
[10] Two centuries after Milton wrote "Lycidas," Percy Bysshe Shelley composed another great elegy of
British literature, "Adonais," in honor of this poet of "Ode to a Nightingale" who died at age 26.
ANSWER: John Keats
015-09-6-07220

21. This man's son Richard collaborated with Philip Augustus to invade this king's home country, England.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king, who married Eleanor of Aquitane and was the first ruler from the House of Plantagenet.
ANSWER: Henry II
[10] Henry II sent Reginald Fitzhurse and three others to murder this "meddlesome priest," the Archbishop
of Canterbury.
ANSWER: Thomas a Beckett
[10] Henry II's predecessor, Stephen, fought a lengthy civil war with Matilda, which define this unstable
period of British history.
ANSWER: The Anarchy
033-09-6-07221

22. An example is the coloration on poison dart frogs. For 10 points each:
[10]Name this form of coloration and patterning by which a poisonous animal indicates that it should not be
eaten.
ANSWER: aposematic coloration
[10] Two poisonous animals have convergent aposematic coloration in the Müllerian type of this behavior,
in which one animal attempts to look like another animal.
ANSWER: mimicry
[10] In this type of mimicry, a non-dangerous animal looks like an existing dangerous organism to avoid
predators.
ANSWER: Batesian mimicry
001-09-6-07222

Tournament-9 Round 7 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

