Tournament-8
Round 1
Tossups
1. This artistically minded king was the grandfather of the historian Nithard, raised his own court
historian Einhard in his palace school, and patronized the Anglo-Saxon scholar Alcuin of York.
Alcuin returned the favor by creating this ruler’s namesake “miniscule” script as part of this king’s
eponymous (*) “Renaissance.” This man was promoted during a Christmas Day mass, when Pope Leo III
spontaneously crowned him emperor. He ruled from Aachen and was succeeded by Louis the Pious. For 10
points, name this Frankish king who created a late eighth century empire.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Charles I; or Charles the Great; or Charles le Grand; or Carolus Magnus;
or Karl der Grosse; prompt on Charles]
019-09-4-01102

2. This writer wrote a sonnet comparing himself to "bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet birds
sang." Another of his poems argues that "love is not love / which alters when it alteration finds." This
poet mocked clichéd expressions of lovers in a sonnet admitting that the eyes of his mistress are (*)
"nothing like the sun." His sonnets include "Let me not to the marriage of true minds / admit impediments"
and "Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day." For 10 points, name this Elizabethan author of Cymbeline
and Hamlet.
ANSWER: William Shakespeare
034-09-4-01103

3. The only woman named in this text also titles this work's 19th chapter, and another chapter
contains a letter to Solomon from the Queen of Sheba. In addition to "Miryam", another section of
text contains the throne verse and is called "The (*) Cow". The chapters of this text are arranged in
length from shortest to longest and are called suras. This text is supplemented by oral records of its
transmitter's deeds, the hadith, and was first given on the Night of Power by Gabriel to Muhammad. For 10
points, name this primary religious text of Islam.
ANSWER: The Qur'an [or al-Qur'an]
005-09-4-01104

4. Asymmetrical production of this hormone inhibits elongation of cells on one side of the apical hook.
Synthesis of this hormone is stopped after the seedling is exposed to light, and its triple response
consists of loss of gravitropism, inhibition of elongation, and lateral swelling in stems. Production of
this hormone is increased after (*) wounding, and silver salts delay senescence by inhibiting it. For 10
points, name this plant hormone that stimulates fruit ripening and has chemical formula C2H4.
ANSWER: ethylene [or ethene]
003-09-4-01105

5. This state's last Democratic senator won in 1974, Frank Church, and this state's ski resort of Sun
Valley featured the world's first chairlift. This state features the Silver Valley, out of which flows the
Coeur d'Alene River, which, after it passes through its namesake lake, becomes the (*) Spokane, which
mostly flows through another state. Governed by Butch Otter, this state features Nez Perce County, whose
county seat, Lewiston, is the furthest inland seaport in the Western United States and sits at the confluence
of the Clearwater and Snake. For 10 points, name this forty-third state, a potato producer with capital Boise.
ANSWER: Idaho
022-09-4-01106

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The protagonist of this story moves onto a painting of a woman fur after all of his furniture is
removed from his room. The protagonist frightens three boarders with large beards by coming
forward to listen to his sister playing the violin. The protagonist's sister (*) Greta feeds him with rotten
vegetables, although he is seriously injured when his father throws apples at him. At the beginning of this
story, the protagonist awakens from "uneasy dreams" to discover that he is no longer human. For 10 points,
name this story about the transformation of Gregor Samsa into an insect, written by Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: The Metamorphosis [or Die Verwandlung]
038-09-4-01107

7. This thinker stated that humans are inclined towards sympathy and influenced Hume by positing a
"sixth sense" to move ethics beyond the fickleness of motives in The Theory of Moral Sentiments. This
economist used the example of a (*)pin factory to support the division of labor, and he claimed that acting
in self-interest promotes the good of society and that the free market is not chaotic but self-regulated in his
most famous work. For 10 points, name this English economist who wrote The Wealth of Nations and
formulated the invisible hand.
ANSWER: Adam Smith
005-09-4-01108

8. One character created by this author is advised by Dr. Livesey to stop drinking after a stroke.
Another character created by this author beats Sir Danvers Carew to death, much to the horror of
Mr. Utterson. In a novel by this author, Abraham Grey defects to join another character hired by
Trelawney, and a young boy is given a map by (*) Billy Bones. A novel by this author describes a mutiny
against Alexander Smollett, who sails aboard the Hispaniola with Jim Hawkins. For 10 points, name this
author of Treasure Island and The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
ANSWER: Robert Louis Stevenson
022-09-4-01109

9. During this man's rule, the Haseki Complex was completed under the supervision of this man's
great architect, Sinan. This ruler exiled his one time favorite, Gulbehar, at the behest of his future
wife, Roxelana. One battle won by this man resulted in the death of Louis II of Hungary, the battle of
(*) Mohacs. This leader revised the kanun of his country, resulting in his receiving the nickname "the
Lawgiver." For 10 points, name this ruler who scared Europe with his siege of Vienna in 1529 and whose
ruling period proved to be the height of power of the Ottoman Empire.
ANSWER: Suleiman I [or Suleiman the Magnificent; or Suleiman the Just; prompt on Suleiman]
023-09-4-01110

10. A thermistor forming one arm of a Wheatstone bridge is used in one variation of this technique. A
Karl Fischer one is intended to detect small volumes of water. Murexide may be used for
complexometric ones, often carried out with EDTA, and this technique is over at an inflection point,
many of which are possessed by polyprotic acids, called the (*) "equivalence point," at which point an
indicator ideally will change color. For 10 points, name this analytic technique in which a buret filled with
an acid or base of known concentration is added to a known volume of unknown concentration.
ANSWER: titration
022-09-4-01111

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This structure's Serello contains the Hall of the Boat and and a room whose wooden dome
symbolizes the heavens, the Hall of the Ambassadors. This structure's garden of the Generalife was
built to emulate paradise. Its (*) harem contains the Court of the Lions, and it was constructed by the
Nasrid dynasty during the fourteenth century before being taken over by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492. For
10 points, name this Muslim palace complex in Grenada, Spain.
ANSWER: the Alhambra
004-09-4-01112

12. One leader of this country made the "History Will Absolve Me Speech" after a disastrous attack
on the Moncada Barracks. Another leader of this country came to power in the Sergeant's Revolt.
Pierre Soule's ploy to purchase this nation was outlined in the (*) Ostend Manifesto. The United States
supported this nation's dictator Fulgencio Batista, and had earlier warred with this nation's colonizer after the
Maine exploded in its capital's harbor. For 10 points, name this Caribean subject of a long standing US
embargo, ruled until recently by Fidel Castro.
ANSWER: Republic of Cuba
020-09-4-01113

13. The top of this painting shows a flying fish with a rod dangling a red sphere over it. At the bottom
of this work, a human carries a clam containing another human inside. The middle panel of this work
depicts nudes dancing in a sphere, and depicts many (*) strawberries and owls. Its right panel contains a
knife protruding from two human ears as well as people being crucified on musical instruments in hell. For
10 points, name this triptych portraying people hedonistically enjoying sensual pleasure in the title location,
painted by Hieronymus Bosch.
ANSWER: The Garden of Earthly Delights
033-09-4-01114

14. After his downfall, he was imprisoned in the island of Ponza, although he was more famously
transferred to the location where Opeartion Eiche took place, Gran Sasso. He ruled the Salo Republic
after being rescued by Otto Skorzeny. He was able to gain power through the Acerbo Law, which
allowed for any party to seize power with only 25% of the votes. He took credit for making the (*)
trains run on time after Luigi Facta was prevented by Victor Emmanuel III from stopping the March on
Rome. For 10 points, name this fascist leader of Italy.
ANSWER: Benito Mussolini
034-09-4-01115

15. Stars within this constellation include Saiph and the Trapezium Cluster. Barnard's Loop is a
nebula within this constellation, whose other nebulae include the (*) Horsehead Nebula and Messier
Object 42, with which this constellation shares its name. Its most prominent feature consists of the stars
Alnitak, Alnilam, and Mintaka, and other stars in this constellation include Bellatrix, Rigel and Betelgeuse.
For 10 points, name this constellation often referred to as "the hunter" and known for its belt.
ANSWER: Orion
025-09-4-01116

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One character created by this author is ruined when his lover Maria Ruskin runs over Henry
Lamb with his car. This author collected his essay about NASCAR driver Junior Johnson, "The Last
American Hero," in his collection The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby. This author
wrote a novel about a bond trader who calls himself "Master of the Universe," (*) Sherman McCoy,
and attacked the debauchery of college students in his novel in I Am Charlotte Simmons. This proponent of
New Journalism portrayed Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. For 10
points, name this author of The Bonfire of the Vanities.
ANSWER: Tom Kennerly Wolfe [prompt on Wolfe; do not accept Thomas Wolfe]
034-09-4-01117

17. In 2008, the major opposition party in this country suffered a factional split, with members who
seek more representation for rural interests forming the "Hunter" group of that party. This country's
current prime minister took office in 2007 and soon thereafter issued a formal apology for the (*)
"stolen generations." Following the eleven-year prime ministry of Liberal Party leader John Howard, this
country changed governments to the Labour Party of current premier Kevin Rudd. For 10 points, name this
country where strife continues over policy towards aborigines.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
019-09-4-01118

18. The coefficient associated with this phenomenon is typically no greater than 0.47, and the power
required to overcome it is proportional to the product of that coefficient, cross-sectional area, density,
and the cube of velocity. For laminar flow, this force is proportional to velocity by (*) Stokes's law, and
this force is responsible for an object's terminal velocity. In aerodynamics, this force opposes thrust. For 10
points, name this force that opposes the velocity of an object moving through a fluid.
ANSWER: drag force [prompt on fluid resistance; prompt on air resistance]
003-09-4-01119

19. This actor's breakout role came as the alcoholic ACLU lawyer George Hanson. Another of his
characters demanded that a waitress "hold it between her knees" after ordering a chicken salad
sandwich without the chicken salad. Besides appearing in Easy Rider and Five Easy Pieces, this actor
played the neighbor of Greg (*) Kinnear's Simon and reluctant benefactor to Helen Hunt's Carol, Melvin
Udall, in As Good As It Gets. This actor, who played the Joker in Batman, also played an Irish mob boss
named Frank Costello. For 10 points, name this actor who played Randle McMurphy in One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest and starred in The Departed and The Shining.
ANSWER: Jack Nicholson
022-09-4-01120

20. This ruler won the Battle of Solebay during the "disaster year," when his kingdom was invaded by
Munster and Cologne. This ruler did nothing to stop the lynching of Johan de Witt, and his rule was
bookended by the two statholderless periods. This ruler was challenged by the previous ruler of his
domain at the (*) Battle of the Boyne, which occurred along with the dismantling of the Dominion of New
England in the bloodless Glorious Revolution. For 10 points, name this co-ruler of England with Mary, a
Dutch king from the house of Orange.
ANSWER: William III of England
020-09-4-01121

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. One of this author's short stories tells of a girl who has an imaginary friend named Jimmy
Jimoreeno. In another of his short stories, a boys' club leader named "The Chief" tells stories of
Chinese bandit who was deformed when his head was placed in a vice grip. This author of "Uncle
Wiggily in Connecticut" and "The (*) Laughing Man" also wrote about a family of child prodigies
including Seymour, who shoots himself after telling Sybil about bananafish. Another of his characters leaves
Pencey Prep to visit his sister Phoebe, and loathes "phonies." For 10 points, name this author who created
Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye
ANSWER: Jerome David Salinger
026-09-4-01122

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 1
Bonuses
1. They were the daughters of Ceto and Phorcys. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group of the sisters, Deino, Enyo, and Pemphredo. They represented dread, horror, and
alarm, and collectively shared one eye and one tooth.
ANSWER: The Graeae [accept anything that implies Grey females or sisters or old women]
[10] The Graeae unwillingly told this son of Zeus and Danae where to locate the object of his quest, Medusa,
after he stole their eye. This hero later used Medusa's head to kill his stepfather Polydectes.
ANSWER: Perseus
[10] After killing Medusa, Perseus journeyed to Jaffa, rescued this daughter of Cepheus and Cassiopeia from
the monster Cetus, and married her.
ANSWER: Andromeda
005-09-4-01201

2. Charles Lee's forces were routed at this battle, leading to his court-martial. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this New Jersey battle that featured the legendary heroics of Molly Pitcher.
ANSWER: Battle of Monmouth
[10] This officer under Washington advised an aggressive attack on the strung-out British line at Monmouth.
He is better known for taking Stony Point and later fighting the Battle of Fallen Timbers as the commander
of the Legion of the United States.
ANSWER: "Mad" Anthony Wayne
[10] This French marquis claimed he would have received command of the American force at Monmouth
had Lee not insisted.
ANSWER: Marquis de Lafayette [or Marie-Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de La
Fayette]
022-09-4-01202

3. Answer some questions about reality television, for 10 points each.
[10] The first season of this reality series was set in Borneo and was won by Richard Hatch.
ANSWER: Survivor
[10] On various international versions of this show, viewers vote to evict participants; the American version
sees them vote for each other's eviction.
ANSWER: Big Brother
[10] This horrifying MTV product featured on teenage wealthy Orange County high school students and
their petty drama.
ANSWER: Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County
022-09-4-01203

4. Name these Irish writers, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of John Bull's Other Island wrote about Henry Higgins's attempt to reform the manners of
Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] This author of The Shadow of the Glen described Maurya, whose sons have all but one drowned, in
Riders to the Sea.
ANSWER: John Millington Synge
[10] This author wrote of Joxer Daly, the drinking buddy of Captain Boyle, in Juno and the Paycock.
ANSWER: Sean O'Casey
022-09-4-01204

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. For 10 points each, name these methods of solving systems of two linear equations.
[10] In this method, one variable is solved for in terms of another variable; then that variable is plugged back
into the other equation to get a single equation in a single variable.
ANSWER: substitution method
[10] In this method, two equations are multiplied by constants, then added such that one variable drops out,
leaving a single equation in a single variable.
ANSWER: elimination method [prompt on addition method; prompt on subtraction method]
[10] This kind of elimination involves putting the coefficient matrix in row-echelon form. Putting that matrix
in reduced row-echelon form is a method named for its namesake and Jordan.
ANSWER: Gaussian elimination
003-09-4-01205

6. This man's novel Palace Walk is the first instalment in his Cairo Trilogy. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Nobel-winning author of Children of Gebelawi and Midaq Alley.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
[10] Naguib Mahfouz hails from this country, the most famous literary work of which is perhaps The Book
of the Dead.
ANSWER: Arab Republic of Egypt
[10] The second book in the Cairo Trilogy is titled after a "palace of" this emotion, which is found "under
the elms" in the title of a Eugene O'Neill play about the Cabot family.
ANSWER: desire
024-09-4-01206

7. This residence southeast of Pittsburgh near a constantly audible stream features a bridge from the main
house to the guest and servant rooms. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this house, whose cantilevered terraces were intended to blend in with the nearby rock formations
into which it was integrated.
ANSWER: Fallingwater [or the Edgar J. Kaufmann Sr. Residence]
[10] This Prairie School architect of Fallingwater also created the Robie House.
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd Wright [or Frank Lincoln Wright]
[10] Wright designed this summer home in Wisconsin, named after a Welsh bard.
ANSWER: Taliesin
022-09-4-01207

8. This type of reaction reacts oxygen with a "fuel." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this heat-generating type of reaction.
ANSWER: combustion
[10] For 5 points per answer, name the two products, other than heat, of the combustion reaction between
any hydrocarbon and oxygen.
ANSWER: carbon dioxide [or CO2] and water [or H2O]
[10] This kind of reaction decomposes carbon-based materials in the presence of little oxygen. When
hydrocarbons are involved, it is known as cracking.
ANSWER: pyrolysis
003-09-4-01208

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This man's 2010 election opponent, Rob Miller, raised over a half million dollars in the day following his
September 9 outburst. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this congressman who shouted "You lie!" at Barack Obama during his address to Congress.
ANSWER: Joe Wilson [accept Addison Graves Wilson, Sr.]
[10] Wilson represents this state in the House of Representatives. It is currently represented in the Senate by
Lindsay Graham, and its past senators include Strom Thurmond.
ANSWER: South Carolina
[10] This man serves alongside Lindsay Graham as South Carolina's junior senator. He was elected in 2004
to replace the retiring Fritz Hollings.
ANSWER: Jim DeMint [accept James Warren DeMint]
025-09-4-01209

10. In this novel, Gilbert Osmond's daughter Pansy wishes to marry Ned Rosier instead of Warburton. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Isabel Archer.
ANSWER: Portrait of a Lady
[10] This author of Portrait of a Lady wrote about Lewis Strether's time in Europe in The Ambassadors and
as well as a ghost story entitled The Turn of the Screw.
ANSWER: Henry James
[10] The title character of this James novella is courted by Winterbourne in Switzerland, but is scorned by
American society because of her unconventional ways. She later dies of Roman fever in Italy.
ANSWER: Daisy Miller
022-09-4-01210

11. The Vajrayana variety of this is primarily practiced in Tibet and the Pure Land and Zen forms are
prominent in Japan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this religious system founded by Siddartha Gautama, that outlines the way to nirvana through the
Eightfold Path.
ANSWER: Buddhism
[10] The first of these principles of Buddhism claims that all life is dukkha. These also state that suffering is
caused by desire, and that one should attempt to cease suffering and desire through Eightfold Path.
ANSWER: The Four Noble Truths [or the Four Truths of the Noble Ones or catv?ri ?ryasaty?ni or
catt?ri ariyasacc?ni]
[10] In Mahayana Buddhism, these figures have reached enlightenment but have chosen to bypass samsara
and instead remain on earth to guide others towards nirvana.
ANSWER: bodhisattvas
005-09-4-01211

12. Debye relaxation occurs in these entities in the presence of an alternating electric field, as a population of
noninteracting dipoles will lag a change in electric field direction. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these materials.
ANSWER: dielectrics
[10] Dielectrics are an essential component of this device, whose characteristic property is the ratio between
charge separated and voltage.
ANSWER: capacitor
[10] As shown in the classic example of a capacitor half-filled with dielectric, the capacitances of two
capacitors sum directly, rather than as reciprocals, if they are connected in this manner.
ANSWER: parallel
022-09-4-01212

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. An archaic member of this group of languages is used in the liturgy of the Eastern Orthodox church. For
10 points each:
[10] Serbo-Croatian, Ukrainian, Polish, and Czech are all members of what language group within the
Indo-European family, that has east, west, and south branches?
ANSWER: Slavic languages
[10] The most widely spoken Slavic language is this one, the native tongue of Alexander Pushkin and
Vladimir Lenin.
ANSWER: Russian [or Russki Yazyk]
[10] Many Slavic languages use a namesake alphabet developed by this man, who was canonized after
evangelizing Eastern Europe with his brother.
ANSWER: Cyril [or Constantine]
019-09-4-01213

14. This condition first affects a man waiting at a stoplight, but does not affect the Doctor's wife. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this title condition of a novel written by the author of The Stone Raft. It also affects Oedipus at
the end of Oedipus Rex.
ANSWER: Blindness [or Ensaio sobre a cegueira; or clear-knowledge equivalents like being blind]
[10] Blindness and The Stone Raft were written by this modern Portuguese author.
ANSWER: José de Sousa Saramago
[10] The protagonists of Blindess are comforted by one of these animals, which licks their tears. Sherlock
Holmes solves the mystery of "The Silver Blaze" because of "the curious incident" of one of these animals
"in the night-time."
ANSWER: a dog [or clear-knowledge equivalents like a canine]
034-09-4-01214

15. It was founded by Samuel Gompers and merged with the CIO in 1934. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this labor union.
ANSWER: American Federation of Labor [or AFL
[10] This earlier union was led for a time by Grand Master Workman Uriah Stephens, but started losing
members when its reputation was damaged by Haymarket Square.
ANSWER: Knights of Labor
[10] The mayor of Scranton replaced Uriah Stevens as head of the Knights of Labor and led the group until
1893.
ANSWER: Terence Vincent Powderly
015-09-4-01215

16. For 10 points each, name these components of the immune system.
[10] The name of these cytokines is derived from their primary function, the mediation of interactions
between different leukocytes.
ANSWER: interleukins
[10] These cells are responsible for producing antibodies upon binding to an antigen. Their "memory" type is
specific to one antigen.
ANSWER: B cells
[10] These cells activate B cells and cytotoxic T cells. Because they carry the CD4 antigen, they are infected
and destroyed by HIV.
ANSWER: helper T cells [or T helper cells; prompt on T cells]
032-09-4-01216

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Answer the following about Greek sculpture, for 10 points each.
[10] This sculptor's statue of Zeus at Olympia was one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. This
advisor to Pericles oversaw the construction of the Parthenon.
ANSWER: Phidias [or Pheidias]
[10] This sculpture by Myron of Eleutherae shows an athlete primed to toss the object in his hand.
ANSWER: Discobolus [or The Discus Thrower]
[10] A statue discovered at Samothrace depicts a winged version of this Greek god, although the statue's
arms and head are missing.
ANSWER: Nike [accept Nike of Samothrace; prompt on "Victoria" or "Victory" or "Winged Victory of
Samothrace"]
023-09-4-01217

18. Todor Zhivkov, who ruled this nation during the Cold War era, was a blind follower of the Soviet Union.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this nation, whose participation in World War I was officially ended by the Treaty of
Neuilly-sur-Seine.
ANSWER: Republic of Bulgaria
[10] Bulgaria gained autonomy from this Turkish empire in the Treaty of San Stefano. However, Bulgaria’s
gains were scaled down in the Congress of Berlin.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire
[10] Although Bulgaria was on the winning side in the first of these conflicts, it entered and lost the second
of these conflicts, losing much territory in the Treaty of Bucharest.
ANSWER: Balkan Wars
034-09-4-01218

19. Answer some questions about European rivers, for 10 points each.
[10] This longest river in Europe flows into the Caspian Sea; the city at its delta there, Astrakhan, is the
center of the caviar industry.
ANSWER: Volga River
[10] This second-longest river in Europe flows from the Black Forest into the Caspian Sea; it flows through
Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest, and Belgrade.
ANSWER: Danube River [or Donau; or Dunav; or Dunaj; or Dunare]
[10] This pair of similarly named rivers are the two major waterways of the Ukraine.
ANSWER: Dnieper and Dniester
022-09-4-01219

20. Pugachev's rebellion occurred during her reign. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this empress of Russia who took power after a coup deposed her husband Peter III.
ANSWER: Catherine II [or Catherine the Great]
[10] This minister and possible lover of Catherine's attempted to colonize the lands gained in the treaty of
Kuchuk-Kainarji, which ended the Russo-Turkish war.
ANSWER: Grigory Potemkin [or Grigori Alexandrovich Potyomkin-Tavricheski]
[10] Catherine's Nakaz, a book of legal principles, was largely based on the work of Cesare Beccaria and of
this man, the author of The Spirit of the Laws.
ANSWER: Charles-Louis Montesquieu [or Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron de la Brede et de
Montesquieu]
022-09-4-01220

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author observed "Then leaf subsides to leaf / So Eden sank to grief" in his poem "Nothing Gold Can
Stay." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American poet of "Home Burial" and "The Death of the Hired Man."
ANSWER: Robert Frost
[10] The speaker of this Frost poem wonders why the title action is necessary because "something there is
that doesn't love" the title objects, causing his neighbor to repeat "Good fences make good neighbors."
ANSWER: "Mending Wall"
[10] The title of Frost's poem "Out, Out" alludes to this Shakespeare play's line "out, out, damned spot." Its
title character kills Duncan and Banquo to become the king of Scotland.
ANSWER: Macbeth
034-09-4-01221

Tournament-8 Round 1 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

