Tournament-8
Round 3
Tossups
1. This thinker wrote about a professor who irritates his department with the Index of Irrational
Expectations, Montgomery Marvin. In a non-fiction work, he attributed the dependence effect to
advertising, and noted that demand rises with production. That work, originally titled “Why the Poor
are Poor,” criticizes the paramount position of production and the consequent emphasis of GDP and
GNP. This ambassador to (*) India under the Kennedy administration introduced and attacked the concept
of conventional wisdom. For 10 points, name this economist and author of The New Industrial State and The
Affluent Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith
034-09-4-03102

2. An alpha-halo sulfone is converted to one of these molecules in the Ramberg-Backlund reaction.
Markovnikov's rule describe the reaction of a protic acid with one of these molecules. The E-isomer of
one of these molecules can be produced by applying the Schlosser Modification to a reaction of a
carbonyl compound and a ylide. Produced in the (*) Wittig Reaction, for 10 points, name these
hydrocarbons with carbon-carbon double bonds, also known as olefins.
ANSWER: alkenes [or olefins before mentioned]
036-09-4-03103

3. The fifth movement of this piece uses staccato notes to represent the dancing of unhatched birds. In
the second to last movement of this suite, a series of rapidly rising octaves represents the flight of a
witch. This suite's movements are interspersed with (*) Promenades representing the composer walking
to view Victor Hartmann's paintings, such as The Great Gate of Kiev, which inspired the name of this work.
For 10 points, name this suite by Modest Mussorgsky which represents its movements as pieces in the title
art gallery.
ANSWER: Pictures of an Exhibition [or Pictures at an Exhibition; or Pictures from an Exhibition; or
Kartinki s vystavki]
004-09-4-03104

4. One president of this country sent troops to help the Pope recapture Rome as part of a scheme to
marginalize the Party of Order. Eighteen years prior, this country's Legitimist faction was defeated
during the Three Glorious Days of the (*) July Revolution, which overthrew Charles X of this country.
During an earlier revolution in this country, Committee of Public Safety leader George Danton opposed the
Reign of Terror. For 10 points, name this country where the Jacobins executed Louis XVI, shortly before the
rise of Napoleon.
ANSWER: France
019-09-4-03105

5. This is the largest city along the Sudhurland highway. Since 1801, its population has grown from
307 total inhabitants to over sixty percent of its country's residents. A central heating system
completed in 1943 utilizes nearby hot springs. Its geographic center is (*) Laekjartorg Square, which is
near a statue commemorating its legendary first resident, Ingolfur Arnarson. This city is home to the
Althing, the world's oldest parliament. For 10 points, name this capital of Iceland.
ANSWER: Reykjavik
003-09-4-03106

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This poet asked "What is the metre of the dictionary?/ The size of genesis?" in the last of a sequence
of four sonnets entitled "Altarwise by Owl-Light." This author wrote a radio play about Organ
Morgan, Captain Cat, and the other residents of Llareggub, entitled (*) Under Milk Wood. One of his
poems observes characters "crying how bright/ Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay" and is
addressed to "you, my father, there on the sad height." For 10 points, name this poet who urged his father to
"rage, rage against the dying of the light" in his villanelle "Do not go gentle into that good night."
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas
022-09-4-03107

7. One song by this artist claims its addressee is "like an Indian Summer in the middle of winter" and
ends by declaring "in your eyes I'd like to stay." One music video by this singer shows Penn and
Teller getting kicked out of a hotel room before the singer's fortune changes. This singer also wrote
songs with the lyrics "You change your mind(*) like a girl changes clothes" and one mentioning "The
taste of her cherry chapstick." For 10 points, name this recording artist of the songs Thinking of You, Waking
Up in Vegas, Hot N Cold, and I Kissed a Girl.
ANSWER: Katy Perry or Katheryn Elizabeth Hudson
023-09-4-03108

8. One character in book work notes that eighty five is a lucky number, and this book ends with a
waiter translating the word "Tiburon." This book concludes with the title character dreaming about
lions, and the title character allays fears of "Tigers of Detroit and the Indians of Cleveland" by
thinking of "the great (*) DiMaggio." The boy Manolin helps the title character after he is unable to keep
the sharks from eating the largest marlin ever caught off of Havana harbor. For 10 points, name this novella
about the Cuban fisherman Santiago, written by Ernest Hemingway.
ANSWER: The Old Man and the Sea
015-09-4-03109

9. During this event, the house of Arthur Allen was taken over and became known as its leaders
"Castle." The namesake of this event issued a "Declaration of the People" that called for the
surrender of many members of the gentry. One cause of this event was disagreement over how to
handle nearby Indians. Its members were largely (*) indentured servants, and this rebellion ended when
its namesake died of dysentery after burning Jamestown. For 10 points, name this 1676 rebellion against
governor William Berkeley in colonial Virginia.
ANSWER: Bacon's Rebellion
023-09-4-03110

10. Applying this theory to the Schrodinger equation gives the Klein-Gordon equation, and this theory
is set in a manifold called Minkowski space. The Rossi-Hall and Kennedy-Thorndike experiments
verified this result. In this theory, early evidence for which was the (*) Michelson-Morley experiment,
rigid bodies cannot exist, leading clocks lag, velocities always add to a quantity less than the speed of light,
and problems may be solved by considering the effects of time dilation or a length contraction named for
Lorentz. For 10 points, name this theory originated by Albert Einstein.
ANSWER: special relativity [prompt on relativity]
022-09-4-03111

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. An architect from this country designed Turning Torso, and that man collaborated to produce
L'Hemisferic , part of The City of Arts and Sciences. One building in this country features a floral dog
designed by Jeff Koons. Home to Santiago Calatrava,(*) this country is also home to an unfinished
church designed by the architect of the Casa Mila, Antonio Gaudi. For ten points, name this country home to
a Frank Gehry designed branch of the Bilbao, as well as a pavilion designed by Mies van der Rohe, whose
other works of architecture include the Escorial, and the Prado.
ANSWER: Spain
033-09-4-03112

12. In one of this man’s plays, an old couple commits suicide by jumping into the sea upon the arrival
of a mute orator, who fails to deliver a message to invisible guests such as the Colonel, the Belle, and
the Emperor. In another of this author's plays, the exit of the Fire Chief causes two couples to speak in
nonsense words and syllables. A third play by this author ends with (*) Berenger refusing to turn into
one of the title animals. For 10 points, name this French absurdist playwright of The Chairs, Rhinoceros, and
The Bald Soprano.
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco
034-09-4-03113

13. One aspect of this belief system forbids the ingestion of pork, salt, or large fish in order to increase
livity. Texts studied in this religion include The Promise Key, a modification of the Bible containing
four books of Athlyi, the Holy Piby. In addition to practicing i-tal, adherents of this faith believe in
"everliving life" and reject (*) Babylon, or western culture, in favor of Zion, or Africa. For 10 points,
identify this religion founded by Marcus Garvey that regards Haile Selassie as the incarnation of Jha, or
God, prominent in Jamaica.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
005-09-4-03114

14. This author wrote about a man flung onstage who struggles to retrieve a carafe marked WATER
in his play Act Without Words. One of his title characters continually eats bananas, and listens to
recordings of his past life. At the end of another of this author's plays, a wheelchair-bound man learns
that he has no more painkiller and sends away his servant (*) Clov in order to await his death. In
addition to Krapp’s Last Tape and Endgame, he wrote a play in which Lucky and Pozzo encounter Vladimir
and Estragon. For 10 points, name this author of Waiting for Godot.
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett
034-09-4-03115

15. The Giotto probe studied one body of this type, and confirmed that they typically have albedos
below 4%. An early model for the composition of these bodies is the "Gravel Bank" model, and their
composition was studied by the (*) "Deep Impact" probe. The cloud of gas around them is known as a
coma, and their tails point in the direction of the solar wind. Many of these objects originate in the Oort
Cloud. For 10 points, name these astronomical bodies, which are commonly called "dirty snowballs."
ANSWER: comets
026-09-4-03116

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. Early in this battle, the forces of Solomon Meredith captured hundreds of men under James
Archer during fighting in McPherson's Woods. Edward Johnson's forces were destroyed in the
attempt to take Culp's Hill during this engagement, which also saw fighting at (*) Cemetary Hill. The
first day of this battle saw intense fighting over the wheat field and the peach orchard. John Hood was
wounded at this battle during the failed Confederate attempt to take Little Round Top. For 10 points, name
this three-day battle in July of 1863 that included Pickett's charge and culminated in George Meade's defeat
of Robert E. Lee in Pennsylvania.
ANSWER: Battle of Gettysburg
032-09-4-03117

17. In the Letter to the Galatians, Paul uses this figure as a metaphor for the Jewish tradition that is
now rejected for Christianity. Pilgrims on the hajj recall this figure's mother's search for water by
running between two hills and drinking from the well of Zam Zam. In Islamic tradition, this figure's
father attempted to kill him on (*) Mount Moria, while in Jewish tradition it is his brother who God
demands to be sacrificed. For 10 points, name this eldest son of Abraham and Hagar who was sent into the
desert by his stepmother Sarah, the brother of Isaac.
ANSWER: Ishmael
005-09-4-03118

18. One phase of this war saw the Duke of Ormonde routed at the Battle of Rathmines. One side in
this conflict had forces commanded by Prince Rupert of the Rhine. The Eastern Association was one
large army that was replaced when the Self-Denying Ordinance allowed one side to create the efficient
(*) New Model Army. After victories at Langport, Naseby, and Preston Pans, one side of this conflict
conducted Pride's Purge and executed King Charles I. For 10 points, name this war in which Oliver
Cromwell and the parliamentarians defeated English royalists.
ANSWER: English Civil War
015-09-4-03119

19. Claude Monet poked fun at this painting in a work set in the Fontainebleu forest that includes a
woman in a large yellow dress and a man reclining on the ground. One figure in this painting rests her
head on her fingers and looks directly at the viewer. A yellow hat(*) with a blue ribbon and a basket of
fruit are among the items discarded at its lower left, and a woman reaches into the water in the background.
This work caused a scandal for its depiction of a nude women in the company of two clothed men, one of
whom wears a fur hat and holds a cane. For 10 points, name this painting whose figures are engaged in the
title repast, by Edouard Manet.
ANSWER: Luncheon on the Grass [or Dejeuner sur l'herbe]
032-09-4-03120

20. One phylum in this clade consists of a single extant species with X and Y sex chromosomes
determining its microsporangiate and megasporangiate forms. Another phylum in this clade produces
male gametophytes in pollen strobili, and its ovules form on modified branches that form a seed (*)
cone. Those two phyla contain Gingko biloba and conifers, respectively. This clade takes its name from the
Greek for "naked seed." For 10 points, name this taxonomic group of seed-bearing plants that, unlike
angiosperms, do not produce flowers.
ANSWER: gymnosperms
003-09-4-03121

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. In this novel, an Italian sleepwalker is killed off when an artillery bombards her at Normandy, and
the protagonist is sent to jail for murder because of Vittlar's testimony. Jan Blonski has an affair with
the protagonist's mother Agnes, whose husband Alfred commits suicide by swallowing a badge. The
protagonist of this work decides to stop (*) growing at the age of three, when he chooses to start beating
the title object. This novel is followed up by Cat and Mouse and Dog Years in its author's Danzig Trilogy.
For 10 points name this novel about Oscar Matzerath, written by Gunter Grass.
ANSWER: The Tin Drum [or Die Blechtrommel]
033-09-4-03122

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 3
Bonuses
1. Identify these philosophers who wrote about the social contract, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of Emile argued against Hobbes' brutish state of nature. He stated that men could remain
free only through creating a social contract that submits to the general will of the people in The Social
Contract.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] This Scottish philosopher criticized social contracts as a convenient crutch for those who desire to
oppose autocratic rule in his essay "On Civil Liberty". He also wrote An Enquiry Concerning Human
Understanding and Essays, Moral, Political, and Literary.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] This other philosopher introduced the thought experiment of the original position to replace the social
contract. In it, people place themselves behind a "veil of ignorance" in order to eliminate political, economic,
and social differences in A Theory Of Justice.
ANSWER: John Rawls
005-09-4-03201

2. The namesake of this 1924 program served as Vice President under Calvin Coolidge. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this unsuccessful attempt by the Allies to collect reparation payments from Germany following
World War One.
ANSWER: Dawes Plan
[10] This 1929 plan partially brokered by J.P. Morgan recognized that Germany was unable to pay the
enormous debt required by the Dawes Plan.
ANSWER: Young Plan
[10] In 1931, this US President and shantytown namesake proposed a moratorium on reparations payments.
This plan was unsuccessful and he lost the 1932 election to FDR in a landslide.
ANSWER: Herbert Clark Hoover
035-09-4-03202

3. It begins with a duet between Jacquino and Marcellina. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera in which Pizarro is the governer of the prison where Florestan is being held.
ANSWER: Fidelio
[10] Fidelio is the only opera of this composer, who is more famous for symphonies such as Eroica, his
third.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
[10] This wife of Florestan disguises herself as a prison guard in Fidelio.
ANSWER: Leonore
024-09-4-03203

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. It is high for substances with low boiling points, since there is a large quantity of gas pushing down on the
liquid phase. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity.
ANSWER: vapor pressure
[10] This law states that the vapor pressure of a solution is the weighted average of the vapor pressure of the
components.
ANSWER: Raoult's law
[10] By this doubly-eponymous equation, the natural log of the ratio of the vapor pressures at two
temperatures is proportional to the difference in the reciprocal of those temperatures.
ANSWER: Clausius-Clapeyron
022-09-4-03204

5. This term may have been coined by Indiana Senator Albert Beveridge to describe the Progressive Party in
1912. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this word, used in American politics to refer to political organizations created from the
"bottom-up" rather than by organized political activists.
ANSWER: grassroots
[10] This grassroots organization was founded by Candace Lightner, who campaigned for lower allowable
BACs after the death of her daughter in 1980.
ANSWER: MADD [or Mothers Against Drunk Driving]
[10] This derogatory term is used by activists to refer to organizations which give the appearance of being
"grassroots" but are actually organized using external resources.
ANSWER: astroturf
019-09-4-03205

6. This man took over Athens not very long after it had been destroyed by the Persians and decided to use
money from the Delian League to build the Parthenon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Golden Age leader who relied on his Navy to fight the Spartans at the onset of the
Peloponnesian war.
ANSWER: Pericles
[10] Pericles was the leader of this city-state of Ancient Greece. Other leaders here included Solon and
Draco, and this city was where Socrates was executed.
ANSWER: Athens [or Athenai]
[10] This son of Megacles was an Alcmaeonid who served as Archon of Athens from 525-524 B.C. His rule
is believed to have been the beginning of democracy.
ANSWER: Cleisthenes
027-09-4-03206

7. Identify the following abstract data structures, for 10 points each.
[10] The read and write operations for these structures, often indicated in C and Java by square brackets, run
in constant time. "Ragged" ones have rows of different lengths.
ANSWER: arrays [prompt on tables]
[10] A sentinel node or a null value indicates the end of one of these structures. They consist of nodes that
themselves each contain a data element and a pointer to the next node.
ANSWER: linked lists [prompt on lists]
[10] Chaining is one of the methods used to avoid the so-called "collisions" that occur when the namesake
function assigns two keys to the same index in one of these structures.
ANSWER: hash tables
029-09-4-03207

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. The second of these prompted a revolt led by Revolutionary War hero Tadeusz Kosciuszko. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these three agreements that divided up an eastern European country among stronger powers.
They were generally made by Prussia, Austria, and Russia.
ANSWER: partitions of Poland [accept equivalents; accept partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian
Commonwealth]
[10] The big winner of the First Partition of Poland was this great Prussian king who invaded Silesia.
ANSWER: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II of Prussia; prompt on Frederick]
[10] The third partition of Poland ended the pact between Poland and this country, which had formed a
commonwealth with Poland through the Union of Lublin.
ANSWER: Republic of Lithuania or Lietuvos Respublika
023-09-4-03208

9. This man claimed that society developed in three stages, the first two of which are the theological and the
metaphysical. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French social scientist who coined the term "altruism", the father of sociology.
ANSWER: Isidore Cullen Marie Tyler Auguste Christine Renee François Xavier Olivia Griffin Comte
[10] Comte also developed this philosophy that held that only scientific knowledge was true knowledge and
wrote a work entitled The Course of [This type of] Philosophy.
ANSWER: positivism
[10] This other early sociologist wrote Elementary Forms of Religious Life, coined the termanomie, and
outlined four forms of the titular action in Suicide.
ANSWER: David Emile Durkheim
005-09-4-03209

10. This character has sex with Montana Wildhack on the planet of Tralfamadore. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this optometrist who becomes "unstuck in time" and experiences the World War II firebombing
of Dresden.
ANSWER: Billy Pilgrim [or Billy Pilgrim]
[10] Billy Pilgrim is the protagonist of this novel subtitled The Children’s Crusade. At its beginning, its
author promises Mary O’Hare not to glorify war.
ANSWER: Slaughterhouse-Five
[10] Slaughterhouse-Five was written by this author, who included the recurring character Kilgore Trout in
his novels Breakfast of Champions and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
034-09-4-03210

11. This god and the nymph Camasene were the parents of Tiberinus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this god of comings and goings and ceremonial gates, such as one named “Germinus” near the
Forum. He has two faces on either side of his head.
ANSWER: Janus
[10] Janus was a god from this people’s pantheon. Most of their other gods, including Jove, Jupiter, and
Venus, were taken out of Greek myths.
ANSWER: Rome
[10] This Roman god of the forge fathered the monster Cacus. His epithets include “Mulciber” and
“Quietus,” and he lived in Mt. Etna.
ANSWER: Vulcan
027-09-4-03211

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This statement multiplies current by the cross product of a length element with a unit in the direction of
displacement, then divides by r squared and integrates. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this law giving the magnetic field generated by steady current.
ANSWER: Biot-Savart law
[10] Biot-Savart is consistent with the statement that the divergence of B is zero, which requires that these
entities, analogous to electric charge, do not exist.
ANSWER: magnetic monopoles
[10] The integral form of the aforementioned statement is that this quantity through a closed surface is zero.
The negative time derivative of this quantity through an open surface, by Faraday's law, is equal to the
induced emf.
ANSWER: magnetic flux
022-09-4-03212

13. One cause of this war was Commissioner Lin Zexu's confiscation of twenty thousand chests of its
namesake drug. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war which resulted in British possession of Hong Kong.
ANSWER: First Opium War
[10] The First Opium War was ended by this Unequal Treaty, which opened five ports and forced China to
pay millions of dollars in silver for reparations.
ANSWER: Treaty of Nanking [or Treaty of Nanjing]
[10] The Second Opium War is sometimes named for this ship, after the British objected to the seizure of
twelve members of its crew in 1856.
ANSWER: Arrow
015-09-4-03213

14. This character uses a golden bough to meet his father Anchises in the underworld. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who causes Dido to immolate herself on a funeral pyre after he leaves Carthage,
and later defeats Turnus in single combat.
ANSWER: Aeneas
[10] This Roman poet of the Georgics described Aeneas's adventures in The Aeneid.
ANSWER: Virgil [or Publius Virgilius Maro]
[10] The Aeneid was written in this poetic meter, which was traditionally used to write most Greek and
Latin epic poems, including The Iliad and The Odyssey.
ANSWER: dactylic hexameter
004-09-4-03214

15. A light bulb in this work is an allusion to bombs, and one dead soldier exhibits a stigma. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this painting featuring a bull goring a horse, created in the aftermath of the bombing of a Basque
city.
ANSWER: Guernica
[10] This painter of Guernica also depicted five nude prostitutes in Les Demoiselles d'Avignon.
ANSWER: Pablo Picasso y Ruiz [or Pablo Diego José Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno María de los
Remedios Cipriano de la Santísima Trinidad Ruiz y Picasso]
[10] This circus-oriented period of Garçon à la Pipe featured many harlequins and clowns. In contrast to
Picasso's earlier, cool Blue Period, it featured orange and the namesake color.
ANSWER: Rose Period
022-09-4-03215

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One character in this work is defended by Mr. Carmichael while on trial, which results in only one guilty
verdict while men like Johannes Pafuri go free. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Absalom is executed for his murdering another character, although his cousin
John goes free because of a lack of evidence.
ANSWER: Cry, the Beloved Country
[10] This protagonist of Cry, the Beloved Country originally heads to Johannesburg to search for his sister
Gertrude, but eventually learns of the trouble his son Absalom is in.
ANSWER: Stephen Kumalo [or Stephen Kumalo]
[10] This South African author critizied apartheid in his novels Too Late the Phalarope and Cry, the Beloved
Country.
ANSWER: Alan Stewart Paton
023-09-4-03216

17. An Ig Nobel Prize-winning study found that this structure is enlarged in London taxicab drivers. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this part of the brain responsible for converting short-term memory into long-term memory.
ANSWER: hippocampus
[10] This other part of the limbic system is involved in forming memories based on emotions; as such, it is
often credited with governing fear.
ANSWER: amygdala
[10] Often grouped with the hippocampus and amygdala in the limbic system is this part of the brain, which
controls the pituitary gland and is involved in a wide array of regulatory activities.
ANSWER: hypothalamus
003-09-4-03217

18. Her blue eyes become "wet with victory" when she announces to her husband that she is pregnant. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this granddaughter of Manson Mingott, who outmaneuvers her cousin to protect her marriage.
ANSWER: May Welland [or May Welland]
[10] May Welland prevents Newland Archer from pursuing his love affair with Ellen Ollenska in this novel
by Edith Wharton.
ANSWER: The Age of Innocence
[10] In this short novel by Wharton set in Starkfield, Massachusetts, the title character is resigned to a life of
misery after crashing his sled into a tree along with Mattie Silver.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
034-09-4-03218

19. He designed the Glass House in New Canaan, Connecticut for himself. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American architect who worked with John Burgee on the AT&T Building in Manhattan.
ANSWER: Philip Cortelyou Johnson
[10] Johnson's most famous work is this collaboration with Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, a modernist
skyscraper in New York City.
ANSWER: Seagram Building
[10] In 1979, Johnson became the first winner of this prize, considered the highest honor in architecture. Its
2009 winner was Peter Zumthor.
ANSWER: Pritzker Prize
024-09-4-03219

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. Cancer of this organ is often fatal, but can sometimes be treated using the Whipple procedure. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this organ that produces insulin, as well as digestive enzymes that are secreted into the small
intestines.
ANSWER: pancreas
[10] In addition to insulin, the pancreas produces this hormone that raises blood glucose levels, and thus
counteracts insulin.
ANSWER: glucagon
[10] Glucagon and insulin are produced in the alpha and beta cells, respectively, of this part of the pancreas.
ANSWER: islets of Langerhans
021-09-4-03220

21. As an adult, this character enters a partnership with Herbert Pocket. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this brother of the blacksmith Joe who is nearly killed by Orlick.
ANSWER: Pip [or Philip Pirrip]
[10] Pip falls in love with Estella, and Abel Magwitch, not Miss Havisham, turns out to be his benefactor in
this novel.
ANSWER: Great Expectations
[10] Before writing Great Expectations, Dickens gained fame for this novel's character Sam Weller, who is
encountered by the four members of the title character's namesake club.
ANSWER: The Pickwick Papers
034-09-4-03221

Tournament-8 Round 3 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

