Tournament-9
Round 2
Tossups
1. A complex variety of this quantity includes an imaginary term proportional to the electrical
conductivity over the angular frequency. Cauchy's Formula gives this quantity as a function of one
over the wavelength squared. The Maxwell Relation approximates it as the square root of the
dielectric constant, and the ratio of this quantity for two materials is equal to the ratio of the (*) sines
of the incident angles by Snell's Law. For 10 points, name this quantity that gives the ratio of the speed of
light in a vacuum to the speed of light in a material.
ANSWER: index of refraction [or refractive index; prompt on n]
003-09-6-02102

2. The American Anti-Imperialist League formed to oppose this war, which was encouraged by
reports about the cruelty of "Butcher" Weyler. The USS Oregon sailed over fourteen thousand miles
to participate in this war. During this war, one commander issued the directive "you may (*) fire when
ready, Gridley," and the U.S. won the battles of Las Guasimas and El Caney. The U.S. emerged as a naval
power by winning the battles of Santiago and Manila Bay during this war. For 10 points, name this war,
sparked by the explosion of the USS Maine in Havana, which resulted in the United States taking control of
the Phillippines and Cuba.
ANSWER: Spanish-American War
004-09-6-02103

3. As a signaling molecule, this molecule can activate P2 membrane receptors. Paul Boyer showed that
the purpose of a certain proton gradient is to remove it from its namesake synthase. During muscle
contraction, the heads of the myosin molecule hydrolyze this molecule. In plants, this molecule is
synthesized in the (*) thylakoid membrane of the chloroplasts. Two molecules of it are synthesized as the
end product of glycolysis. For 10 points, name this compound that is sometimes referred to as the "energy
currency" of the cell.
ANSWER: ATP [or adenosine-5-triphosphate]
040-09-6-02104

4. An autobiographical work by this author begins by describing days, months, and years as travelers
of eternity. He abandoned his early "shriveled chestnuts" style. One of his later poems focuses on the
sound of water as a frog jumps in to a pond. This author of The (*) Narrow Road to Deep North lived in
the Genroku era. He used kigo, or "season words," richly in his works. For 10 points, what poet, who
traveled around Japan under the Tokugawa Shogunate, was a master of the seventeen-syllable haiku?
ANSWER: Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Munefusa]
034-09-6-02105

5. In 1996 the "Defence Line" surrounding this city became a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Just east
of this city is the neighborhood of IJburg (A-burg), which is built on artificial islands. This city is on
the southwestern shore of the IJsselmeer (A-sell-mere), a freshwater remnant of the (*) Zuider Zee
(ZI-der ZAY). It is sometimes known as the "Venice of the North" for its many canals. This city is served by
Schiphol airport, which, like most of this city, is located below sea level. For 10 points, name this largest
city in, and capital of, the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Amsterdam
003-09-6-02106

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This composer reused a triplet motif from his Romance for Piano for Six Hands in the second
movement of a work by him, which begins with piano chords and low Fs that resemble the tolling of
(*) bells. Another work by this composer is based on a painting by Arnold Bocklin and uses the Dies Irae
theme. This composer wrote variations on a violin caprice in his Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini. For 10
points, name this Russian Romantic composer of The Isle of the Dead.
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilievich Rachmaninoff
036-09-6-02107

7. His scientific innovations, including the extraction of zinc from tailings in the "froth flotation"
process, were published in his book Principles of Mining. During World War I, he was the head of the
U.S. Food Administration, a position that vaulted him into the Supreme Economic Council after the
war, and enabled him to set up a Quaker relief group to help with the logistics of distributing food in
Europe. His support of Warren Harding led to his appointment as Secretary of (*) Commerce, a post
which he left to run against the first Catholic candidate, Al Smith, for President. For 10 points, name this
President under whose single term the Great Depression began.
ANSWER: Herbert Hoover
040-09-6-02108

8. The title character of one work of literature from this nation is enraged when a hare-lipped girl that
he loved is stoned to death. This country was the home to the author of that work, Barabbas, who also
wrote about Piccoline in The Dwarf. Another author from here wrote chamber plays, such as the one
in which Jacob Hummel takes revenge on Arkenholz, The Ghost Sonata. Another work from this
nation sees the (*) valet Jean have an affair with an idealistic woman who commits suicide with a razor. For
10 points, name the home of Par Lagerkvist and the author of Miss Julie, August Strindberg.
ANSWER: Sweden
034-09-6-02109

9. Since this model's formulation, it has been modified by the natural-rate hypothesis into an
expectations-augmented version. Robert Lucas supported the "policy ineffectiveness proposition" by
stating that this construct is temporary and that this theory depends on workers being "fooled." Belief
in this model was eroded by the (*) stagflation of the 1970s. For 10 points, name this economic graph
which purports to show that inflation rises when unemployment drops and vice-versa.
ANSWER: Phillips Curve
030-09-6-02110

10. One member of this literary family wrote a parody of a Tennyson poem about a sea monster,
entitled “MacCracken.” In a poem by another person of this surname, “fruits which unknown
orchards bore” are presented to Laura and Lizzie. The brother of this family collected his sonnets in
The House of Life and responded to Poe with “The (*) Blessed Damozel,” while the sister of this name
wrote “Goblin Market.” For 10 points, give this common surname of the sister-and-brother poets in the
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, Christina and Dante Gabriel.
ANSWER: Rosetti
019-09-6-02111

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This people believed in a celestial realm called the Hanan Paca and a lower realm called the Ukhu
Paca, while humans resided in the middle realm, Cay Paca. Sacred sites known as Huacas (WAH-kuz)
were used in rituals by this culture. They believed that their civilization was founded by Mama Ocllo
and Manco Capac, a descendent, through Inti, of their creator deity, (*) Viracocha. A great flood
around the shores of Lake Titicata also features in the myths of, for 10 points, what South American
civilization whose language, Quechua, was spoken in their capital of Cuzco?
ANSWER: Incans [or Incas]
040-09-6-02112

12. This city's lower classes were known as the "popolo minuto" and led by the wool carders in the
1378 Revolt of the Ciompi (chee-AHM-pee). One of this city's political factions broke into "white" and
(*) "black" groups after defeating the Ghibellines. This home of the Guelphs saw a period of intense
religious zeal during the Bonfire of the Vanities under Savonarola. For 10 points, name this city, that
supported countless Renaissance artists under Lorenzo the Magnificent and other members of the Medici
family.
ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze]
015-09-6-02113

13. Only fragments survive of this man's comedic play The Tracking Satyrs. He wrote a play in which
Deianeira (DIE-uh-NARR-uh) accidentally kills Heracles with the shirt of Nessus, The Women of
Trachis. One of his plays is the middle part of a trilogy and is set "at (*) Colonus." His two plays about
the outwitter of the Sphinx make up a trilogy, along with a play about a niece of Creon, who insists on
burying Polyneices (PALL-ee-NEESE-eez) despite Creon's decree. For 10 points, name this playwright
whose "Theban Plays" include Antigone (an-TIG-uh-nee) and Oedipus Rex.
ANSWER: Sophocles
024-09-6-02114

14. This man painted Jesus wrapped in a red loincloth and flanked by two angels, one in red and one
in green, in his depiction of the Crucifixion. The Hall of Constantine, Room of Heliodorus, and Room
of the Fire in the Borgio were among the (*) stanzae painted for the Pope's residence by this artist. This
painter of the Sistine Madonna painted a man in blue reclining on a series of steps near Averroes
(AV-err-OH-ess) and Pythagoras. For 10 points, name this artist who painted The School of Athens.
ANSWER: Raphael [or Raphael Sanzio]
033-09-6-02115

15. A character in this movie proclaims that tigers love pepper but hate cinnamon. In another scene in
this film, a police officer notes that large persons sometimes take two shocks with a taser to put down.
One of this movie's key plot points involves the transfer of a (*) "Holocaust ring" from a dentist to a
stripper. Ken Jeong plays the villainous Mr. Chow in, for 10 points, what 2009 movie starring Bradley
Cooper and Zach Galifinakis, about a night in Vegas gone awry?
ANSWER: The Hangover
053-09-6-02116

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This organization's political wing lost its coalition partner, the Freedom Union, which rendered it
politically defunct. Its leaders often wore black Madonna buttons, and its early programs were tied to
the Catholic Social Teaching policies. This organization went underground when it was outlawed by
the Sejm (SAME), and it teamed with the PUWP to elect (*) Tadeusz Mazowiecki (TAD-oysh
maz-uh-WISH-kee) as its nation's first non-Communist premier in forty years. This organization began
during a strike in the Gdansk shipyards. For 10 points, name this trade union, founded by Lech Walesa, that
broke Soviet power in Poland.
ANSWER: Solidarity [or Solidarnosc; or Independent Self-Governing Trade Union]
026-09-6-02117

17. This artist depicted seventeenth-century Britain in Cromwell Dissolving the Long Parliament. He
also created Biblical scenes such as Saul and the Witch of Endor and Saul Before Samuel and the
Prophets. Although this man is not Albert Pinkham Ryder, he created a work called Death on a Pale
Horse. This man depicted a political agreement in Penn's Treaty With the Indians, but he is best known
for a work that depicts a prominent (*) Canadian battle from the French and Indian War. For 10 points,
name this American painter who depicted the demise of the title character at the Plains of Abraham in The
Death of General Wolfe.
ANSWER: Benjamin West
056-09-6-02118

18. High pressures are usually needed to synthesize this element's black allotrope, while its violet
allotrope is sometimes named after Johann Hittorf, who was the first to recrystallize it from molten
lead. In its red allotrope, one of its usual tetrahedral bonds is broken, allowing bonding with
neighboring tetrahedrons and a more stable structure. Its (*) white allotrope has alpha and beta forms
depending on the temperature and is the most volatile and reactive allotrope; hence its use as an additive in
napalm. For 10 points, name this chemical element, number 15, which was used in early matches.
ANSWER: phosphorus [or P]
040-09-6-02119

19. This man was killed with a lance tipped with the venom of a stingray. After his death, his son by an
extramarital affair, Telegonus, married his wife, and his son by his wife married the mother of
Telegonus. His affair that produced Telegonus occurred on Aeaea, where Hermes gave him moly to
allow him to resist (*) Circe's magic. Along with his son Telemachus, he slew over one hundred suitors for
his wife Penelope. For 10 points, name this king of Ithaca whose journey back from the Trojan War was told
by Homer.
ANSWER: Odysseus [or Ulysses]
003-09-6-02120

20. The second and third editions of this text contained the essay General Scholium, in which its
author dealt proclaimed that he frames no hypotheses, as well as a set of Rules of Reasoning in
Philosophy, which was followed by a list of Phenomena. Its second book fought against the
astronomical hypothesis of vortices, while the third book, On the System of the World, contained
derivations of (*) Kepler's Laws and explanations for the movements of Jupiter's Moons and comets. For 10
points, name this scientific text that also outlined theories On the Motion of Bodies, the principal work of
Isaac Newton.
ANSWER: Principia Mathematica [or Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy]
040-09-6-02121

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This man wrote a novel in which Peter and his schoolteacher father, George Caldwell, long to
escape Alton; that is this author's The Centaur. This creator of black Vietnam veteran Skeeter wrote a
story about a trio of bare-shouldered girls and Sammy, who resigns from a job at an (*) A&P. A
character created by this author inherits a Toyota dealership, marries Janice, and is Remembered in a 2001
novella, which follows books where that character is at Rest and Rich. For 10 points, name this author who
created Harry Angstrom in Rabbit, Run.
ANSWER: John Hoyer Updike
020-09-6-02122

22. This deist attempted to oppose the new Cult of Reason by founding the Cult of the Supreme Being.
Along with his colleague Louis de Saint-Just, this man was the target of the Thermidorian Reaction.
One observer exclaimed "The blood of (*) Danton chokes him!" during the guillotining of this man. For
10 points, name this leader of the Committee of Public Safety, who oversaw the "Reign of Terror" during the
French Revolution.
ANSWER: Maximilien François Marie Isidore de Robespierre
002-09-6-02123

23. The first form of this biological material to develop is lanugo, which typically gives way to vellus
after birth. The arrector pili, smooth muscles cells associated with it, contract in response to cold or
fright. It consists of three concentric layers known as the medulla, cortex, and cuticle, the latter two of
which are made of hard (*) keratin. This material is found on the skin of all mammals. For 10 points, give
this material that is found in such places as armpits, beards, and eyelashes.
ANSWER: hair
003-09-6-02124

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 2
Bonuses
1. This text examines four alternative scenarios of Abraham’s sacrifice of Isaac in the section "Exordium."
For 10 points each:
[10] What is this Christian existentialist work, that introduces the distinction between slaves, knights of
infinite resignation, and knights of faith?
ANSWER: Fear and Trembling [or Frygt og Bæven]
[10] This Danish philosopher of many pseudonyms, whose broken engagement with Regine Olsen
influenced his philosophy greatly, wrote Fear and Trembling, in addition to The Sickness Unto Death.
ANSWER: Søren Aabye Kierkegaard [or Johannes de Silentio; or Victor Eremita; or William Afham; or
Frater Taciturnus; or Constantin Constantius; or Vigilius Haufniensis; or Nicolaus Notabene; or A.B.C.D
E.F. Godthaab; or A.B.C.D.E.F. Rosenblad; or Inter et Inter; or Procul; or Captain Scipio; or Judge
William; or A.F.; or Hilarius Bookbinder; or Johannes Climacus; or H.H.; or Anti-Climacus; prompt on
A; prompt on B]
[10] The title choice of this Kierkegaard work, written with the pseudonym Victor Eremita, is between the
aesthetic life and the ethical life. The former is exemplified by Mozart’s Don Giovanni.
ANSWER: Either/Or
034-09-6-02201

2. Name these bones of arm and shoulder, for 10 points each.
[10] This s-shaped bone attached the trapezius and deltoid muscles is also known as the collarbone.
ANSWER: clavicle
[10] Monteggia fractures occur in the proximal third of this bone, that with the radius makes up the forearm.
ANSWER: ulna
[10] This bone articulates with the clavicle and humerus and is colloquially known as the shoulder blade.
ANSWER: scapula
033-09-6-02202

3. It ends with the title character shooting Gesler through the heart. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera, in which Arnold falls in love with the Hapsburg princess Mathilde, and the title
character shoots an apple off of his son's head.
ANSWER: William Tell [or Guillaume Tell]
[10] This Italian composer of the operas The Turk in Italy and The Thieving Magpie wrote William Tell.
ANSWER: Gioachino Antonio Rossini
[10] This Rossini opera contains the aria, "Largo Al Factotum" which introduces the title character as
"Figaro, Figaro, Figaro." In this opera, the title character helps Almaviva woo Rosina.
ANSWER: The Barber of Seville
015-09-6-02203

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Clifford, who returns paralyzed and impotent from war, is reliant on the housekeeper Mrs. Bolton in this
novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scandalous work, in which the title character, the gardener Mellors, begins an affair with
Connie.
ANSWER: Lady Chatterly’s Lover
[10] This author, who placed himself under a savage pilgrimage, wrote novels such as Sons and Lovers and
The Plumed Serpent in addition to Lady Chatterly’s Lover .
ANSWER: David Herbert Lawrence
[10] In this sequel to The Rainbow, Lawrence depicts the romantic lives of the Brangwen sisters, and the
suicide of Gerald Crich.
ANSWER: Women in Love
034-09-6-02204

5. This man theorized that physical inabilities lead to "organ inferiority." For 10 points each:
[10] Name the psychologist who argued that human interactions are based on power relationships after
breaking with Freud.
ANSWER: Alfred Adler
[10] Adler also introduce this concept, which is the feeling of inadequacy that leads to compensation through
behaviors such as aggression or withdrawal.
ANSWER: inferiority complex
[10] Adler's magnum opus is about people who have a "constitution" defines by these behaviors, which are
psychological flaws of a less serious degree than psychoses.
ANSWER: neuroses [or neurotic or other word forms]
034-09-6-02205

6. When it was exhibited, the subject's name was withheld. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting of Virginie Gautreau, that shows a woman in a black dress looking over her left
shoulder while leaning on a table to her right.
ANSWER: Madame X
[10] This American artist painted a work featuring soldiers with bandages over their eyes, Gassed, in
addition to Madame X.
ANSWER: John Singer Sargent
[10] This other Sargent work features two girls in white dresses, standing among a field of flowers and
lighting Chinese lanterns.
ANSWER: Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose
051-09-6-02206

7. This player is married to supermodel Gisele Bundchen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this football player, who was named the MVP of Super Bowls 36 and 38 as the starting
quarterback for the New England Patriots.
ANSWER: Tom Brady
[10] In the 2001 AFC playoffs, Charles Woodson sacked Brady and forced a fumble that was called back
because of this rule, enabling Adam Vinatieri to kick the game-tying field goal.
ANSWER: tuck rule
[10] This quarterback, drafted out of USC, was the Patriots' backup quarterback from 2006 until the 2008
season, when an injury to Brady made him the starter. In 2009, he was traded to the Kansas City Chiefs.
ANSWER: Matt Cassell
004-09-6-02207

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This man wanted to react to an attack by Susquehannock Indians, and did so with help from the Tutelo,
Saponi, and Occaneechi before turning on thos allies. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who started a rebellion against the colonial government of Virginia before dying of
dysentery in 1676.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Bacon
[10] This man was the governor who got into a disagreement with Nathaniel Bacon. Charles II questioned
this man's reaction to the rebellion.
ANSWER: William Berkeley
[10] Berkeley was forced to flee this capital town during Bacon's Rebellion. This settlement, established by
men such as John Rolfe and John Smith, was burned down by Bacon's forces a month before Bacon's death.
ANSWER: Jamestown
023-09-6-02208

9. This New Testament Gospel opens with the line "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God." For 10 points each:
[10] What non-synoptic gospel's third chapter, verse sixteen, states "For God so loved the world, that he
gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life?"
ANSWER: the Gospel of John [accept any reasonable alternative titles that include the name John, such as
The Gospel According to John, The Book of John, or titles which refer to John as Saint John]
[10] John is the only canonical gospel to include the story of Jesus attending a wedding at this location and
turning water into wine.
ANSWER: Cana
[10] In chapter eighteen, verse thirty-eight of the Gospel of John, this Roman asks Jesus "What is truth?" He
symbolically washes his hands after freeing Barrabas.
ANSWER: Pontius Pilate
004-09-6-02209

10. It is responsible for the Marangoni Effect. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon also utilized by water striders, which results from cohesive forces between
liquid molecules.
ANSWER: surface tension
[10] Detergents, laxatives, and paint are examples of products that contain these substances that lower
surface tension.
ANSWER: surfactants
[10] Surface tension also plays a role in the appearance of these mixtures of immiscible liquids.
ANSWER: emulsions [prompt on colloids]
040-09-6-02210

11. His poetry attacking Elena Osorio and her family got him expelled from Madrid, an experience that
inspired his play La Dorotea. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Spanish playwright, who is believed to have written as many as 1800 plays between 1596
and 1635.
ANSWER: Lope de Vega Carpio
[10] In addition to writing The Mayor of Zalamea and The Surgeon of His Honor, this Spanish contemporary
of Lope de Vega depicted King Segismundo in Life is a Dream.
ANSWER: Pedro Calderon de la Barca
[10] Before being killed by a firing squad during the Spanish Civil War, this Spanish playwright wrote about
death leading the Bridegroom to his Bride and her lover Leonardo in Blood Wedding.
ANSWER: Federico Garcia Lorca
030-09-6-02211
Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. His son David II married Joan of the Tower to meet the terms of the Treaty of Northampton. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this winner of the Battle of Bannockburn, who ruled Scotland after the Wars of Scottish
Independence.
ANSWER: Robert the Bruce [or Robert I; prompt on Robert]
[10] This other leader of the Scottish Wars of Independence won at Stirling Bridge but lost at Falkirk. His
deeds were recorded by Blind Harry.
ANSWER: William Wallace
[10] Robert the Bruce and William Wallace fought against the first English king of this name. He was
nicknamed "Longshanks" because of his height.
ANSWER: Edward
015-09-6-02212

13. Name these things related to object-oriented programming, for 10 points each.
[10] This fundamental unit of an object-oriented program can come in an "abstract" variety and is made up
of methods. Multiple instances of these may be created.
ANSWER: classes
[10] This concept of object-oriented programming allows for the creation of subclasses that include methods
identical to those of their superclasses.
ANSWER: inheritance
[10] This corollary to inheritance allows subclasses to substitute for a generic superclass in a program,
assuming that the subclass inherits from the superclass.
ANSWER: polymorphism
038-09-6-02213

14. One side's forces in this event were led by Christian de Bonchamps, while the other side possessed
gunboats under the command of Horatio Kitchener. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this diplomatic controversy, stemming from the need to construct a transcontinental railroad
across Africa.
ANSWER: Fashoda Incident
[10] Name either of the two European powers involved in the Fashoda Incident.
ANSWER: Great Britain [or United Kingdom] or France
[10] The town of Fashoda is located in this present-day African country, where Kitchener had earlier
defeated an uprising led by the Mahdi at Omdurman.
ANSWER: Sudan
040-09-6-02214

15. Identify these Russian rivers, for 10 points each.
[10] This river rises southeast of Tula and flows into the Sea of Azov. Its valley was populated by a
namesake tribe of Cossacks, as described in a Mikhail Sholokhov novel.
ANSWER: Don River
[10] Some canals connect the Don to this bigger river, the largest in Europe in terms of length. Ten large
Russian cities are located along this river's banks.
ANSWER: Volga River
[10] This river flows into Lake Ladoga and through the city of St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Neva River
020-09-6-02215

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. His first major work focused on the Roman general Scipio Africanus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Italian poet of Africa and the collection Il Canzoniere (CAHN-see-oh-NAY-ray), who has a
namesake sonnet form.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
[10] Petrarch wrote many sonnets to this woman, whom the poet spotted in an Avignon church.
ANSWER: Laura
[10] Petrarch discovered a collection of this Roman author's letters entitled ad Atticum. This author modeled
a series of speeches against Marc Antony after the Philippics of Demosthenes (deh-MOSS-thuh-neez).
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero [or Tully]
022-09-6-02216

17. Ahuizotl (AH-wee-ZOT-ul) was one ruler over this people’s empire when it was at its largest size. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this people who inhabited Tenochtitlan in Mexico. They were conquered by Hernan Cortes,
whom they thought was their god.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] This Aztec ruler was taken prisoner by Hernan Cortes. The Aztecs believed the Spaniards killed him,
while Spanish accounts claim that he was killed by angry subjects stoning him.
ANSWER: Montezuma II [or Moctezuma II; or Motecuhzoma Xocoyotl]
[10] This final emperor of the Aztecs was Montezuma II’s nephew. He was hanged by Hernan Cortes during
a trip to Honduras.
ANSWER: Cuauhtemoc
027-09-6-02217

18. Although Raina initially looks down upon Bluntschli for deserting the Serbian army, she eventually sees
the hollowness of war and gives up her fiancée for the deserter, in this writer's Arms and the Man. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this playwright of Saint Joan and Major Barbara.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] In this Shawn play, Professor Higgins is able to train the Cockney-speaking flower girl Eliza Doolittle
so that she can pass as a duchess at a high-society party.
ANSWER: Pygmalion
[10] When the title character is confronted by her husband Reverend Morell and the young poet Eugene
Marchbanks, she chooses the “weaker of the two” in this Shaw play, whose title was inspired by a Voltaire
novel.
ANSWER: Candida
034-09-6-02218

19. Name these constants from mathematics, for 10 points each.
[10] This constant is equal to the limit as n goes to infinity of the difference between the harmonic series and
the natural logarithm, and is approximately equal to .57721.
ANSWER: Euler-Mascheroni Constant [or gamma]
[10] The ratio of the terms of the Fibonacci sequence as those terms increase approaches this aesthetically
pleasing constant, which equals one plus the square root of five, all divided by two.
ANSWER: golden ratio [or divine ratio; or golden mean; or other equivalents including the word golden or
divine; prompt on phi]
[10] The sum as n goes from one to infinity of one over n squared equals the square of this constant divided
by six. In trigonometry, one hundred and eighty degrees is equal to this many radians.
ANSWER: pi
033-09-6-02219
Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. Identify these works of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, for 10 points each.
[10] Mozart began writing this work in anticipation of his own death but died before it was finished; Franz
Sussmayr completed it.
ANSWER: Requiem in D Minor
[10] The Queen of the Night gives the title enchanted instrument to Tamino and Papageno in this Mozart
opera.
ANSWER: The Magic Flute [or Die Zauberflote]
[10] This penultimate Mozart symphony is one of two Mozart symphonies, along with the "Little"
symphony, that are written in a minor key.
ANSWER: the "Great" Symphony [or Mozart's 40th Symphony]
025-09-6-02220

21. Although born in Sri Lanka, Michael Ondaatje lives and works in this country. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the country, the home to the novelist Alice Munro and the poet of "In Flanders Fields," John
McCrae.
ANSWER: Canada
[10] This Canadian author of Alias Grace and The Blind Assassin wrote about genetically-engineered
animals in her novel Oryx and Crake.
ANSWER: Margaret Atwood
[10] This dystopian Atwood novel is set in the Republic of Gilead, and centers on Offred, whose job is to
bear children for a theocratic state.
ANSWER: The Handmaid’s Tale
034-09-6-02221

22. Chemical systems and reactions will alter themselves toward equilibrium if a change onto the system
occurs. For 10 points each:
[10] That principle is most often named after this French scientist.
ANSWER: Henry Louis Le Chatelier [or Le Chatelier's Principle]
[10] This effect is a direct result of Le Chatelier's Principle, suppressing the dissociation of two acids or
bases if any of the charged particles they split into are shared.
ANSWER: common ion effect
[10] This law related to Le Chatelier's Principle states that the rate of a reaction is proportional to the product
of the reactant and product concentrations.
ANSWER: law of mass action
033-09-6-02222

Tournament-9 Round 2 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

