VHSL Districts
Round 8
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. An instance of this usually unintentional rhetorical device is in Shakespeare's Much Ado About Nothing,
when Dogberry says the watch has "comprehended two auspicious persons.” The play from which this term
originates includes such examples as, "He is the very pineapple of politeness!" This term is taken from a
character's name in Richard Sheridan's The Rivals. For 10 points, what is this term that refers to the
substitution of a word for another word with a similar sound, resulting in a nonsensical statement?
ANSWER: malapropism [do not accept or prompt on "puns"]
045-09-3-08101

2. The prime candidate to harness this process as an energy source is a torus-shaped machine, the tokamak
(TOE-kuh-mak), which will hopefully allow deuterium (doo-TARE-ee-um) and tritium to overcome the
Coulomb barrier. This process requires the particles involved to overcome electric repulsion, which demands
extremely high temperatures. The proton-proton variety of this process occurs in stars, and the "cold" type is
largely seen as spurious. For 10 points, name this process in which atoms combine to form a heavier
element.
ANSWER: nuclear fusion
063-09-3-08102

3. One mythical creature said to inhabit this desert spews forth sulfuric acid and is known as the "death
worm." Dinosaur eggs and assorted fossils can be found in the Nemegt (neh-MECHT) Basin in the
northwest part of this desert, which is widest between Lop Nor and Lake Bosten. Found between the Pamirs
and the Greater Khingan, with a western arm extending to the Tarim basin in Xingjian (SHIN-jee-ahn)
Province, this desert is north of the Tibetan plateau. For 10 points, name this desert located in Mongolia and
China.
ANSWER: Gobi Desert
020-09-3-08103

4. This compound is oxidized in the presence of a platinum catalyst during the first step of the Ostwald
process for nitric acid synthesis. This compound is the canonical example of a trigonal pyramidal molecular
geometry in VSEPR (VES-per) theory, since it contains three bonds and one lone pair. An iron oxide
catalyst is used to synthesize this compound from hydrogen and nitrogen gas in a reaction known as the
Haber-Bosch (HAW-bur BOSH) process. For 10 points, name this base that is often used as a cleaner and
has formula NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia [or NH3 before it is read]
058-09-3-08104

5. One character on this show reveals that she has been faking a speech impediment while on a date with the
wheelchair bound Artie. Another character on this show convinces her boyfriend Finn that she became
pregnant when they shared a hot tub. Matthew Morrison plays Mr. Schuster, who returns to the title
organization after founding the Acafellas. The cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester antagonizes the central
group of this show set at McKinley High School. For 10 points, name this FOX show about a high school
singing club.
ANSWER: Glee
045-09-3-08105

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This author distinguished "perfect" from "imperfect" critics in essays from his book The Sacred Wood.
This man wrote of "shape without form, shade without colour" in a poem that declares, "This is the way the
world ends, not with a bang, but a whimper," titled "The Hollow Men." Another poem by this man uses the
line "Shantih shantih shantih" to end the section "What the Thunder Said." For 10 points, name this poet
who wrote the line "April is the cruellest month" to open that poem, "The Waste Land."
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot
019-09-3-08106

7. The amplitude of these phenomena is zero at the amphidromic (AM-fi-DRO-mik) point. These
phenomena are analogous to the forces that dictate the Roche limit, the closest distance at which natural
satellites can orbit a body without disintegrating. They are strongest during syzygy (SIZZ-uh-jee), when the
"spring" ones occur. The weakest ones are called "neap" ones. Displacement due to these forces varies the
most in Canada's Bay of Fundy. For 10 points, name these changes in the sea level caused by gravitational
forces exerted by the sun and moon.
ANSWER: tides [accept tidal forces]
001-09-3-08107

8. One character in this work leads thirty-two unsuccessful revolts against the Conservative government.
Another character in this novel is nicknamed Remedios the Beauty and floats into the sky while folding
laundry. This work ends after one character sees his son carried off by ants. That follows the prediction of a
parchment written by Melquíades (mel-KYE-uh-dees). This work depicts Jose Arcadio and other members
of the Buendía family in Macondo. For 10 points, name this work of magical realism written by Gabriel
García Márquez.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years of Solitude [or A Hundred Years of Solitude; or Cien años de Soledad]
023-09-3-08108

9. During this war, the seizure of Lighthouse Point secured artilery for the siege of Louisbourg. Fort
Necessity was established by one side during this conflict, as a launching pad for a disastrous attack on Fort
Duquesne (doo-CANE) that caused the death of General Braddock. The Proclamation of 1763 was issued
after the conclusion of this war, in which one side was rallied by the "Join or Die" cartoon. For 10 points,
name this American portion of the Seven Years War, which also saw the fall of Quebec during the Battle of
the Plains of Abraham.
ANSWER: French and Indian War [accept Seven Years War before it is read]
015-09-3-08109

10. A deficiency of the hormones produced by this structure manifests as cretinism in infants. Graves'
disease can cause overactivity of this structure. Two hormones produced by this structure are formed from
reactions with tyrosine and iodine. Proper regulation of those two hormones, T3 and T4, ensures that goiter,
or enlargement of this structure, does not occur. For 10 points, name this large endocrine gland in the neck
area that should not be confused with the thymus.
ANSWER: thyroid gland [do not accept or prompt on "thymus"]
020-09-3-08110

11. One of these items was discovered in the body of Orochi by Susanoo (soo-sa-NO-wo) in Japanese
mythology. In addition to Kusanagi (KOO-suh-NAH-gee), another of these was forged by Weyland
(VIE-lond) and used by Sigurd to defeat Fafnir. In addition to Gram, another of these bears the inscriptions
"take me up" and "cast me away" and has its accessory discarded by Morgan le Fay. That object is confused
with another of these that was pulled from a stone by the son of Uther Pendragon. The Lady of the Lake
gave Arthur, for 10 points, what kind of weapon exemplified by Excalibur?
ANSWER: swords
020-09-3-08111
VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. One character in this story follows a route that takes him past Wiley's Swamp and Andre's Tree on his
horse Gunpowder. Abraham Van Brunt is referred to in this story by the nickname "Brom Bones." Brom
competes with a schoolteacher in this story for the affection of Katrina Van Tassel. The schoolteacher often
tells ghost stories, including one about the figure who seems to chase the teacher out of town. For 10 points,
name this short story in which Ichabod Crane believes he is chased by the Headless Horseman, written by
Washington Irving.
ANSWER: "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
023-09-3-08112

13. This man isolated government money from banks by signing the Independent Treasury Act. This
President sent Winfield Scott to the border of Maine and Canada in an attempt to settle the Aroostook War.
Years after leaving office, he became the first Presidential candidate for the Free Soil Party. The start of this
man's Presidency was ruined by the Panic of 1837, brought about by his predecessor's Specie Circular. For
10 points, name this President of Dutch descent who served as a Vice-President under, and succeeded,
Andrew Jackson.
ANSWER: Martin Van Buren [do not accept or prompt on "Buren"]
023-09-3-08113

14. In a story by this author, a girl saves the Aubain (ow-BAN) family from a charging bull and is eventually
consoled by a parrot named Loulou. This author of "A Simple Heart" also wrote a novel in which Monsieur
Rouault's (roo-ALTS) farm girl captivates the husband of Heloise. In that work by this man, Heloise dies
penniless, which opens the door for the title character to marry a country doctor named Charles. This author
created a woman who has affairs with Leon and Rodolphe. For 10 points, name this man who wrote
Madame Bovary.
ANSWER: Gustave Flaubert
026-09-3-08114

15. This term comes from an Irish word meaning "outlaw" and was applied to Royalists who opposed Oliver
Cromwell's Irish campaign in 1649 and 1650. It was also used to describe those who supported James II's
right to succeed Charles II to the English throne, and those who supported the British monarchy during the
American Revolution. It later became a nickname for those who opposed the Whigs, then the Liberals, and
then Labour. For 10 points, give this common name for the British Conservative Party.
ANSWER: Tory [or Tories]
045-09-3-08115

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 8
Directed Round
1A. Samuel Taylor Coleridge, John Keats, and Theodore Gericualt (ger-uh-COE) were among the
participants in what early nineteenth century artistic movement, which rejected classical ideals and science
in favor of great bursts of feeling and appreciation of nature?
ANSWER: Romanticism [or Romantic movement or other word forms]
1B. What physical field, formed by the dynamo effect from electric currents circulating in the core, is tilted
by eleven degrees from the Earth's axis and has a north pole in the vicinity of Ellesmere Island, Canada?
ANSWER: the Earth's magnetic field [or obvious equivalents]
2A. This artist's painting The Problem We All Live With shows Ruby Bridges being escorted by law
enforcement into a newly desegregated New Orleans elementary school. Name this creator of Four
Freedoms, whose paintings reached Americans on the cover of the Saturday Evening Post.
ANSWER: Norman Rockwell
2B. The fatalistic, anomic, egotistic, and altruistic types are the four motivations for what action, according
to a namesake study by pioneering sociologist Emile Durkheim?
ANSWER: suicide
3A. The President of France and the bishop of the Spanish county of Urgell are, by law, the "co-princes"
who govern what small European country, found in the Pyrenees Mountains between France and Spain?
ANSWER: Principality of Andorra [or Principat d'Andorra]
3B. A quotation from Thomas Browne's "Urn Burial" serves this function for Derek Walcott's poem "Ruins
of a Great House." Give this term for a quote from another work, which an author chooses to display at the
start of his own writing.
ANSWER: epigraph
4A.This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve for z: 4z+12=8z-2.
ANSWER: 3.5
4B.This is a 10-second calculation question. What is fourteen twenty-fourths minus one third?
ANSWER: 1/4
5A. Icelandic and Ancient Greek demonstrate the "middle" one of these, which does not exist in widely used
contemporary language. Identify this grammatical feature of verbs, which, in French, Latin, Spanish, and
English, comes in either "active" or "passive" forms.
ANSWER: voice
5B. Led by Yukio Hatoyama, this political party defeated the long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party in 2009
elections. Name this party that now controls the legislature of Japan.
ANSWER: Democratic Party of Japan [or DPJ; or Minshuto]
VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A.This is a 20-second calculation question. If a line has x intercept -5 and slope 1.5, what is the y intercept?
ANSWER: 7.5
6B.This is a 20-second calculation question. What are the roots of the equation x2 + 3X - 6?
ANSWER: (-3+squareroot(33))/2, (-3-squareroot(33))/2[or 1.3722,-4.37]
7A. Chamillionaire, Lil Flip, Mike Jones, and Paul Wall are among the numerous rap artists whose careers
began in what American city?
ANSWER: Houston, Texas
7B. Identify the Russian chemist who was inspired by Stanislao Cannizzaro's (stan-ees-LAO
cah-nee-ZAH-roez) work on atomic weight to create the first accurate periodic table.
ANSWER: Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleyev
8A. This scientist's namesake "tower" is used to produce sulfuric acid. Identify this chemist whose
namesake law states that the pressure of an ideal gas varies directly with temperature.
ANSWER: Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac (gay loo-SOCK)
8B. Ignatius J. Reilly bumbles from job to job in New Orleans in what novel, which made a name for its
author, John Kennedy Toole, despite being published eleven years after Toole's death?
ANSWER: A Confederacy of Dunces
9A.This is a 30-second calculation question. If a triangle has side lengths 9,9, and 2, what is the area of the
triangle in simplest radical form?
ANSWER: 4*sqrt(5) (4 square root 5)
9B.This is a 30-second calculation question. What the product of the complex numbers 3+2i and 5+4i ?
ANSWER: 7+22i
10A. What biological process involves a leukocyte (LOO-coe-site) engulfing and consuming another cell?
ANSWER: phagocytosis
10B. One can order "smothered," "chunked," or "covered" hashbrowns at this emblematically Southern
eatery. Identify this restaurant chain whose locations are each denoted with a logo of yellow squares and are
open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
ANSWER: Waffle House

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 8
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. The arrangement of this painting’s central group was inspired by Raimondi’s (rye-MON-deez) engraving
of Raphael’s Judgment of Paris. In the background of this painting, a woman looks downward and dips her
bucket into a stream. A man in a flat tasseled hat gestures to his left in this work, which depicts a woman
modeled on Victorine Meurent (mo-RAHNT) who reclines and looks toward the viewer. It depicts a nude
woman among two clothed men who are enjoying the title meal. For 10 points, name this painting of a
picnic, by Edouard Manet.
ANSWER: Luncheon on the Grass [or Le dejeuner sur l’herbe ]
060-09-3-08117

2. This poet wrote a work commemorating the "glory of a next Augustan age" and "a golden age of poetry
and power." He recited his poem that claimed "the land was ours before we were the land's" at the
inauguration of John F. Kennedy. This man wrote a poem in which the narrator has "miles to go before" he
sleeps. The speaker of another of this man's poems "took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the
difference." For 10 points, name this author of "The Gift Outright," "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy
Evening," and "The Road Not Taken."
ANSWER: Robert Lee Frost
003-09-3-08118

3. This composer inserted a "war interruption" into the "Agnus Dei" (OG-nus DAY-ee) section of his Missa
Solemnis. Archduke Rudolf of Austria became the namesake of this composer's "Emperor" piano concerto.
Napoleon' name was replaced with "the memory of a great man" atop this composer's third symphony, the
Eroica (eh-ROW-eh-kuh). This composer used the poem "Ode to Joy" in his Ninth Symphony. "Fate
knocking at the door" describes a four-note motif in his Fifth Symphony. For 10 points, name this German
composer, who went totally deaf.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
019-09-3-08119

4. Guy Steele is a noted creator of these and their grammar is often described in Backus-Naur form. Alan
Kay created one called Smalltalk and they can be classified by their typing and by such paradigms as
imperative, functional, and procedural. They can be object oriented and require an interpreter or compiler.
For 10 points, name these constructs allowing one to tell a computer what to do, examples of which include
C++ and Java.
ANSWER: programming languages [prompt on languages]
001-09-3-08120

5. This party won eight electoral votes by carrying Maryland in its best showing in a Presidential election. It
grew out of a secret society called the Order of the Star-Spangled Banner and advocated a twenty-one-year
residency period before citizenship. Former President Millard Fillmore was its nominee in 1856, and
campaigned on its usual platform of excluding Irish Catholic immigrants. For 10 points, name this political
party, which gained its nickname from its members' habit of denying any awareness of the group.
ANSWER: Know-Nothing Party [or the Know-Nothings; or the American Party]
045-09-3-08121

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. At the same time that this creature was born, another figure, who is variously depicted as a giant or a
flying boar, also came into being. That companion was named Chrysaor (CHRIS-ay-ore). When this creature
appeared, it had blood on its mane and could only be harnessed with a golden bridle. It came forth from the
neck of the beheaded Medusa. Later, this creature resisted an attempt to invade the home of the gods by
throwing off Bellerophon (bell-AIR-uh-fahn). For 10 points, name this winged horse of Greek myth.
ANSWER: Pegasus
019-09-3-08122

7. These cells are deformed in drepanocytosis (druh-PAN-oh-SIGH-toe-sis), a condition for which there
exists a heterozygote (HET-uh-row-ZY-goat) advantage against malaria; that disease of these cells is better
known as sickle-cell disease. If these cells are too old to function, they are destroyed by the spleen. In
vertebrates, mature examples of these cells have no nucleus, while immature versions are called
erythroblasts (uh-RITH-row-blasts). For 10 points, identify these cells which carry oxygen in the blood.
ANSWER: red blood cells [or erythrocytes; or RBCs]
022-09-3-08123

8. In a 2002 election against Matt Salmon, this politician publicly rebutted rumors of being a lesbian. This
Democratic politician was succeeded by Republican Jan Brewer when she resigned to take a Cabinet
position in 2009. This former governor of Arizona was criticized, following the December 2009 attempt by
Umar Abdulmutallab (ahb-DOOL-muh-TAH-lahb) to destroy a Northwest Airlines flight, when she said
"the system worked." For 10 points, identify this current Secretary of Homeland Security.
ANSWER: Janet Napolitano
019-09-3-08124

9. This nation's ports were blockaded by France during the Pastry War. This nation achieved its
independence after Father Hidalgo issued the Cry of Dolores. In the twentieth century, this country's
government was dominated by the PRI, which finally lost the presidency in 2000 to Vicente Fox. In the
nineteenth century, this country's leaders included Benito Juarez (HWAH-rez) and Santa Anna. For 10
points, name this country that was invaded by the United States during the presidency of James Polk.
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
004-09-3-08125

10. One method of calculating values in this set involves using Binet's (BIN-ay's) Formula. The values in
this set can also be found by summing up the numbers in the shallow diagonals of Pascal's Triangle.
Dividing a term in this set with the previous term will give an approximate value for the golden mean. Each
term in this sequence is equal to the addition of the two previous terms. For 10 points, what is this series of
numbers, named for an Italian mathematician, that starts out "one, one, two, three, five?"
ANSWER: Fibonacci sequence [or Fibonacci numbers]
023-09-3-08126

11. This man hired Baron Haussmann to overhaul the national capital. Karl Marx's claim that history repeats
itself "first as tragedy, then as farce" refers to this man's reign, which Marx chided in a text about this man's
"Eighteenth Brumaire." This man turned the Second Republic into the Second Empire before his capture at
the Battle of Sedan. For 10 points, name this last emperor of France, who initiated the Franco-Prussian War
and was named for his conquering grandfather.
ANSWER: Napoleon III [or Charles-Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte; prompt on Napoleon]
026-09-3-08127

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. In this novel, the protagonist's group is described as "mule drivers" and "mud diggers." The protagonist
abandons a "tattered man" and his colleague Jim Conklin. Wilson takes care of the protagonist of this work,
believing him wounded, when in fact he was hit in the head with a rifle. At the end of this novel, the 304th
Regiment is victorious. For 10 points, name this novel featuring Henry Fleming's adventures and maturation
in the Civil War, a work by Stephen Crane.
ANSWER: The Red Badge of Courage
062-09-3-08128

13. Court intrigue within this empire pitted Dara Shikoh (DAH-ruh SHEE-coe) against Aurangzeb
(ore-ANG-zeb). The last ruler of this empire, Bahadur (BAH-huh-door) Shah II, was exiled for suspected
involvement in the Sepoy Rebellion. This empire's greatest ruler created a new religion that combined Islam
with Hinduism, Jainism, and Christianity. For 10 points, name this empire that was ruled by Akbar
(OCK-bar) and Babur (bah-BOO-er) and lasted from the sixteenth to nineteenth centuries in India.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire [or Moghul Empire]
003-09-3-08129

14. This composer wrote a symphony that uses two Dresden Amens and quotes from "A Mighty Fortress is
Our God" to commemorate the anniversary of the Augsburg Confession. This composer of the Reformation
symphony wrote eight books of six piano pieces each in his Songs Without Words. He wrote the oratorios St.
Paul and Elijah. He commemorated a trip to Scotland with his sister Fanny in the Hebrides (HEH-brid-eez)
Overture. For 10 points, name this Romantic composer of a wedding march for A Midsummer Night's
Dream.
ANSWER: Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy [or Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy;
or Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy]
020-09-3-08130

15. This man gained populist clout by repealing the Cumberland Road Bill. As President, he oversaw the
First Seminole War; previously, he led the militia that suppressed Gabriel Prosser's slave revolt, as Governor
of Virginia. This man's Presidency also saw the Missouri Compromise and the collapse of the Federalist
Party, which led to the "Era of Good Feelings" and his nearly unanimous re-election. For 10 points, identify
this President who proclaimed that European nations could not interfere in the Western Hemisphere in his
namesake "doctrine."
ANSWER: James Monroe
020-09-3-08131

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 8
Tiebreaker Questions
1. One character in this novel abandons Helene and becomes a Freemason after shooting Dolohov in a duel.
A different character falls in love with the caddish brother of Helene, named Anatole, after meeting him at
the opera. Another character in this novel believes Napoleon Bonaparte is the Antichrist and sets out to
assassinate him. Prince Andrey dies in battle in this novel, leaving Natasha Rostova to marry Pierre
Bezhukhov. For 10 points, name this long Leo Tolstoy novel.
ANSWER: War and Peace [or Voyna i mir]
015-09-3-08132

2. The negative ion of this element is sometimes complexed with lithium and aluminum. The standard
electrode containing this element is defined as zero volts at all temperatures. The "bi" in sodium bicarbonate
(bye-CAR-bo-NATE) refers to this element. When bonded to oxygen, nitrogen or fluorine, this element
forms its namesake powerful intermolecular bond. If this element has one or two neutrons, it is known as
deuterium (doo-TARE-ee-um) or tritium, respectively. For 10 points, name this lightest chemical element
with symbol H.
ANSWER: hydrogen [or H before mentioned]
064-09-3-08133

3. The "indifference" type of these constructs show points at which different bundles of goods provide equal
utility to a consumer. Another one of these entities is used to derive the Gini coefficient and is named for
Lorenz. One of these entities illustrates the correlation between tax rate and tax revenue and is named for
Laffer. Another of these entities shows the inverse relationship between unemployment and inflation and is
named for Phillips. For 10 points, name these economic entities whose types also include the supply and the
demand.
ANSWER: economic curves
024-09-3-08134

4. The transverse asymmetry of this structure can be altered by flippases (FLIP-ay-says), floppases
(FLOP-ay-says), and scramblases (SCRAM-blay-says). This structure contains peripheral, integral, and
lipid-anchored proteins. Some of those proteins function as pumps and channels to transport substances that
cannot diffuse across this structure. This structure is often modeled as a "fluid mosaic" or a "phospholipid
bilayer" (FOSS-fo-lip-id BYE-lay-ur). For 10 points, identify this structure that surrounds a cell.
ANSWER: cell membrane [or plasma membrane]
001-09-3-08135

5. One member of this philosophical school wrote about its "Maxim," which helps define terms with clarity,
in "How to Make Our Ideas Clear." This school inspired the ideas found in Democracy and Education.
Another of its proponents wrote The Principles of Psychology and gave a series of lectures that dubbed this
school "A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking." This school informed Charles Sanders Peirce and
John Dewey. For 10 points, William James was one proponent of what philosophical school, which focused
on practicality?
ANSWER: pragmatism [accept word forms]
024-09-3-08136

VHSL Districts Round 8 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

