VHSL Regular Season
Round 7
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One of this author's plays is named for an intellectual who resolves to oppose the politician Wally O'Hara.
In another play by this author of Les Blancs and The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window, Willie Harris runs
off with money invested in a liquor store, causing Walter Lee Younger to defend his family's purchase of a
home in an all-white suburb of Chicago. For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of A Raisin
in the Sun.
ANSWER: Lorraine Hansberry
004-09-1-07101

2. One type of this molecule is shaped like a cloverleaf and carries anticodons. Another type of this molecule
is processed by adding a five prime cap and a poly-A tail. That type also contains introns that are removed
by spliceosomes (SPLICE-o-soams). Ribosomes are responsible for the translation of the M type of this
molecule, which is created during transcription. This molecule pairs adenine with uracil (YOUR-a-sill),
unlike a similar molecule whose backbone sugar contains one fewer oxygen. For 10 points, name this
nucleic acid that has transfer and messenger types.
ANSWER: RNA [or ribonucleic acid; accept transfer RNA or tRNA before "cap" is read]
036-09-1-07102

3. The first of these conflicts was preceded by the Napier Affair. Sengge Rinchen's inability to defend the
Taku forts in the second of these conflicts led to the burning of the Summer Palaces. The first of them ended
with a treaty for the transfer of control of Hong Kong. First sparked by Lin Zexu's [LIN zay-SHOOZ]
campaigns, these wars were fought between Great Britain and the Qing [CHING] Dynasty. Ended by the
treaties of Nanking and Tianjin, for 10 points, name these wars that were triggered by the importation of an
illicit substance.
ANSWER: Opium Wars
036-09-1-07103

4. This type of molecule is involved in a kind of "signaling" which is exemplified by platelet activating
factor, which is this type of molecule. Vitamins A, D, E, and K are isoprene-based forms of this kind of
molecule, and are said to be "soluble" in another molecule of this type. One form of these compounds
oxidizes to produce nine kilocalories per gram, over twice as much as a gram of a carbohydrate. One
molecule of this type is formed from the esterification of three glycerides. Another form of these molecules
are derived from cholesterol, and include steroids. For 10 points, name this group of molecules, examples of
which include waxes and fats.
ANSWER: lipids [prompt on fats before read]
026-09-1-07104

5. This author wrote a foundational document of humanism, in which he climbs a mountain just to see the
view, entitled “The Ascent of Mount Ventoux (ven-TOO).” Some of this author’s works were in Latin,
including his epic about the Punic Wars, Africa. An octave and a sestet combine to create a poetic form
named for this man, also known as the Italian sonnet. For 10 points, name this fourteenth-century Italian
author of the Canzoniere (CAHN-zow-nee-AIR-ee), a book of poems dedicated to his beloved Laura.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
019-09-1-07105

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This man threatened to not vote for the sitting president if he recognized Israel and failed to broker a
provisional government between Chinese Communists and Nationalists. This man's greatest achievement
was preceded by the punitive Morgenthau policy and initially benefited Greece and Turkey. The OEEC was
founded in France to administer that policy of this man, which ended in 1953 after the disbursement of $13
billion. For 10 points, name this Secretary of State whose European Recovery Plan was administered by the
United States after World War II.
ANSWER: George Catlett Marshall
030-09-1-07106

7. This author wrote about Shem the Penman and Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker in a novel that begins
"riverrun, past Eve and Adam's." This author wrote a short story about a boy's attempts to buy a gift for
Mangan's sister at the title bazaar, which closes as he arrives. This author of "Araby" created a character who
is shaken by Father Arnall's sermon and told a story about a "moocow" in one work. In another work by this
author, that character befriends Leopold and Molly Bloom. For 10 points, name this Irish creator of
Finnegan's Wake and Stephen Dedalus, who appears in his A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and
Ulysses.
ANSWER: James Augustine Aloysius Joyce
032-09-1-07107

8. The Jarzynski equality defines the upper bounds of the bounds that this statement mandates. One
challenge to this formulation claimed that it was at odds with time-symmetric dynamics, and is known as
Loschmidt's paradox. That paradox stemmed from one statement of this rule known as Boltzmann's H
Theorem. Clausius's inequality is one statement of this rule, and Kelvin stated it as the impossibility of
converting all heat to work in a cyclic process. A hypothetical being known as Maxwell's demon was
theorized in violation of this rule. For 10 points, name this law that states that the entropy of the universe is
always increasing.
ANSWER: the Second Law of Thermodynamics [prompt on partial answers]
026-09-1-07108

9. This man's short stories include one in which a narrator befriends but is rejected by Nastenka, "White
Nights," and he wrote a novel about Kirilov and Stavrogin. This man wrote a story wherein a man goes to
Zverkov's dinner party and meets the prostitute Liza, and a novel by this author of Notes from the
Underground contains the parable of the Grand Inquisitor, and focuses on Fyodor and his sons Dmitri, Ivan,
and Alyosha. A pawnbroker and her sister are murdered by Raskolnikov in a novel by, for 10 points, what
author of Crime and Punishment?
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoyevsky
020-09-1-07109

10. This event was accomplished by allowing the South Wind to predominate. It ended the Bronze Age and
was sparked when Lycaon sacrificed a child to Zeus. Two of the survivors of this event ended up on Mount
Parnassus and sought the oracle of Themis. Those two figures, who sealed themselves in a chest to survive
this event, were Pyrrha and Deucalion. A prophecy instructed Deucalion to throw the bones of his mother
behind him in order to repopulate the earth after, for 10 points, what event in Greek mythology, which
washed away the corrupt prior civilization?
ANSWER: the flood [accept synonyms for “flood” such as “ deluge”]
019-09-1-07110

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. As a member of Congress, this politician introduced the "Spot Resolutions" to oppose the Mexican War.
This politician gave a speech at Cooper Union which helped secure his nomination for president. This man
was opposed by the Copperheads, or "Peace Democrats." This president warned "a house divided against
itself cannot stand" during an election for the Senate, which this man lost. For 10 points, name this president
elected when the Democratic party split its votes three ways, and whose election sparked the Civil War.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
004-09-1-07111

12. In this country, Durban and Pietermaritzburg (PEE-ter-MARE-its-burg) are in the same territory as the
city Ladysmith. The Molopo, Limpopo, and Orange rivers run on the northern border of this country. This
country's territories include Kwazulu, or Natal, and the Traansvaal and Cape territories. This country's three
capitals are Bloemfoentein (BLOOM-fawn-tain), Pretoria, and Cape Town, the last of which is on the Cape
of Good Hope. This country completely surrounds Lesotho, and once governed its northern neighbor,
Namibia. For 10 points, name this country whose largest city is Johannesburg, and which is the
southernmost country in Africa.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa
027-09-1-07112

13. This author experimented with characters speaking their inner thoughts aloud in a play about Nina
Leeds, Strange Interlude. In another of his plays, Theodore Hickman attempts to convince people in Harry
Hope's bar to give up their "pipe dreams." This author wrote about his morphine-addicted mother and
depicted himself as Edmund in his play about the Tyrone family. For 10 points, name this American
playwright of The Iceman Cometh and Long Day's Journey Into Night.
ANSWER: Eugene Gladstone O'Neill
004-09-1-07113

14. This civilization's expansion was stopped at the Maule River by the Mapuche. This civilization's public
works were powered by the mita labor system. The records of this civilization were kept through a base-ten
system of cotton cords called quipu. A civil war between Huascar and his brother led to this civilization's
downfall. At the Battle of Cajarmarca, Pizarro killed this civilization’s ruler, Atahualpa. For 10 points, name
this Quecha-speaking civilization based in Cuzco, which lived in the Andes and built Machu Picchu.
ANSWER: Inca Civilization
036-09-1-07114

15. Compilers of this language translate programs into bytecode, rather than machine language, which is
then run by a namesake Virtual Machine. Unlike C and C++, this language does not support pointer
arithmetic, though like those languages, it has primitive data types that are not objects. Widget toolkits like
the Abstract Window Toolkit and Swing are commonly used to implement applets in this language. Initially
called Oak, for 10 points, name this language, which is not actually related to a similarly named "Script."
ANSWER: Java
022-09-1-07115

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 7
Directed Round
1A. Which author of the long running play The Mousetrap created the detectives Hercule Poirot and Miss
Jane Marple?
ANSWER: Agatha Christie
1B. Name the type of verse consisting of a stressed syllable followed by an unstressed syllable that is used in
Longfellow's The Song of Hiawatha and in the Witches' dialogue in Shakespeare's Macbeth.
ANSWER: Trochee (or Trochaic)
2A. Name the type of volcanic glass that is formed when felsic lava cools without crystal growth.
ANSWER: Obsidian
2B. Whose namesake cage is a device that uses the property of static electricity that the charge resides only
on the exterior of a charged conductor?
ANSWER: Michael Faraday
3A. Which man, once the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has suffered falling approval ratings as the leader of
the Labour Party and the Prime Minister of Great Britain?
ANSWER: Gordon Brown
3B. Name the American art movement whose painters such as Grant Wood, Thomas Hart Benton, and John
Steuart Curry, painted scenes from their respective localities.
ANSWER: Regionalism
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the perimeter of a regular decagon with a side length of
12 inches.
ANSWER: 120 inches
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Multiply: (2x-3)(x+1).
ANSWER:

2x2 - x - 3

5A. Which U.S. state contains Hoh Rain Forest as well as the peaks of Mount Adams, Mount Rainier, and
Mount St. Helens?
ANSWER: Washington
5B. Name the psychologist who wrote the books Civilization and its Discontents, Moses and Monotheism,
and The Interpretation of Dreams.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. If ten students have heights in inches of 73.5, 72.2, 71.2, 63.7,
70.6, 72.4, 70.4, 61.7, 70.4, and 65.1, find the mean height.
ANSWER: 70.5 inches
VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate the expression (5a-3b)/(2a+2b) when a = -2 and b = 3.
ANSWER: -19/2 [or -9 1/2 or -9.5]
7A. Which language, a standardized version of Hindustani developed in Uttar Pradesh in India, is, along
with English, one of the official languages of Pakistan?
ANSWER: Urdu
7B. Name the U.S. state in which the Democrats recently received their sixtieth Senate seat, when Al
Franken was declared the winner over Norm Coleman in a recount.
ANSWER: Minnesota
8A. In the 2008-09 offseason, which baseball team acquired pitchers Francisco Rodriguez and J.J. Putz, who
will play in the newly constructed Citi Field?
ANSWER: New York Mets (prompt on just New York)
8B. Name the song, originally performed by Rockwell and Michael Jackson, whose remake by Mysto and
Pizzi has been featured in a series of Geico commercials.
ANSWER: Somebody's Watching Me
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. How many 12-packs of soda can be made from 252 cans of
soda?
ANSWER: 21
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A sack of oranges weighs 25 pounds, and a sack of apples
weighs 16 pounds. Find the total weight of three sacks of oranges and seven sacks of apples.
ANSWER: 187 pounds
10A. Three generations known as electronic, tauonic, and muonic comprise which set of subatomic particles
that, unlike their fellow fermions the quarks, do not participate in the strong interaction?
ANSWER: Leptons
10B. Which type of tooth, of which humans have eight, grow continuously in rodents?
ANSWER: Incisors

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 7
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This man was taught by a musical theorist named Damon, and he prosecuted Cimon failing to conquer
Macedonia, and he subdued Samos following its 440 BCE revolt. The son of Xanthippus, this man paid
Aeschylus to write the Persian trilogy and ostracized his rival, the statesman Thucydides, and this man's
mistress was Aspasia. For 10 points name this Athenian statesman who oversaw the construction of the
Acropolis.
ANSWER: Pericles
030-09-1-07117

2. Minerals associated with them are aluminium phyllosilicates and the four divisions of them are Illite,
Kaolinite, smectite, and Chlorite. A common type is Bentonite and most have a plastic state when in contact
with water. The neoformation of them occurs through the chemical weathering of rocks and soil. On the
Wentworth scale, they have a grain size less than 4 micrometers, which makes them smaller than silt and all
others on the chart. For ten points identify this type of material which can be turned to ceramics in a kiln.
ANSWER: Clay
001-09-1-07118

3. Thomas Percy and Thomas Winter were among the men responsible for planning this event. This event
was foiled when a letter from Francis Tresham warning his brother-in-law to stay away fell into the hands of
Robert Cecil. In this event, a group led by Robert Catesby attempted to win freedoms for Catholics by
assassinating King James I. This event is commemorated with fireworks and effigies in England on
November 5. For 10 points, name this 1605 event in which Guy Fawkes was convicted of attempting to blow
up Parliament with the namesake substance.
ANSWER: Gunpowder Plot
025-09-1-07119

4. The author of this book attempts to "brag as lustily as chanticleer in the morning" in order to wake his
neighbors up. This book asserts that "the mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation" in its first section,
"Economy." The narrator of this book claims that he "went to the woods" to "live deliberately" before
describing the peaceful months spent at the title pond. For 10 points, name this description of "Life in the
Woods" by Henry David Thoreau.
ANSWER: Walden, or Life in the Woods
004-09-1-07120

5. The Charge of the Mamelukes is a prequel to a work by this artist. This artist painted two men dueling
with cudgels and the The Disasters of War cycle. This artist painted Nude and Clothed versions of Maja. He
depicted a bug-eyed god engaging in cannibalism in Saturn Devouring His Children, one of his Black
Paintings. In this artist's best known work, a figure wearing a white shirt extends his arms out in surrender as
Napoleon's men prepare to fire at the crowd on the title day. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist of The
Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes [or The Third of May, 1808 before "this artist"]
024-09-1-07121

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Locations set up for this action included the Tanforan and Manzanar centers. One case about this action
said it did not apply to "a loyal and law-abiding citizen." In another case about this action, Hugo Black
argued it was necessary when "our shores are threatened by hostile forces." This action focused on in the
cases Ex Parte Endo and Korematsu v. U.S. was allowed by Executive Order 9066. For 10 points, name this
action targeted at the Nisei, which sought to isolate certain Asian immigrants from the rest of the population
during World War II.
ANSWER: Japanese internment [accept internment of Japanese-Americans or other equivalents; prompt
on internment]
023-09-1-07122

7. In one story by this author, George and Hazel forget about their son's demise after he hovers in the air
with a ballerina before being shot by Diana Moon Glampers. This author created the prophet Bokonon, and
he wrote a novel in which Midland City auto dealer named Dwayne Hoover believes that Kilgore Trout's
fiction is real. This author of "Harrison Bergeron" and Breakfast of Champions also wrote a novel in which
the central character experiences the firebombing of Dresden after becoming "unstuck in time." For 10
points, name this author of Cat's Cradle who wrote about Billy Pilgrim in Slaughtehouse Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut Jr.
026-09-1-07123

8. A three dimensional analog of this law is De Gua's Theorem. The solutions to the equation associated with
this law always features two odd numbers, and those numbers are called primitive if their greatest common
factor is 1. Euclid proved this relation by using a line that divides a square into two rectangles. It is a specific
case of the law of cosines in which one of the angles is ninety degrees. For 10 points, name this theorem,
which states that the square of a hypotenuse is equivalent to the sums of the squares of the legs of a right
triangle.
ANSWER: Pythagorean Theorem
033-09-1-07124

9. WRITE MORE QUESTIONS, Particularly a Social Science-Anthropology Tossup
00--20-07125

10. This book argues that because all men must sleep, the weak can frequently defeat the strong by catching
them at vulnerable moments. It also argues that because miracles have ceased to occur, only the Bible can be
trusted. Its sections on religion include the chapter "On the Kingdom of Darkness." This book's title figure is
depicted as being composed of every resident of the Commonwealth. It describes a "war of all against all"
that makes life "nasty, brutish, and short." For 10 points, name this book favoring absolute monarchy, a
work of Thomas Hobbes.
ANSWER: Leviathan, or the Matter, Forme, and Power of a Common-Wealth Ecclesiastical and Civil
021-09-1-07126

11. One work by this author describes a theory of poetry based on Surrealism, and one poem by this author
features 584 lines, one for each day of the Aztec calendar. In addition to The Bow and the Lyre and Sunstone
, this author wrote an essay including sections such as "The Conquest and Colonialism", which discusses the
need for awareness of the pre-Columbian "invisible history" of his home country. For 10 points, name this
author of The Labyrinth of Solitude, a Nobel laureate from Mexico.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz
038-09-1-07127

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. The force experienced by a particle in a magnetic field is equal to this quantity times the cross product of
its velocity and the magnetic field. The force experienced in an electric field is this quantity times the
electric field. The electric flux out of a closed surface is equal to this value over the permittivity of free
space by Gauss's Law. The time derivative of this quantity is current. For 10 points, give this property
measured in coulombs.
ANSWER: electric charge
003-09-1-07128

13. During this ruler's early reign, he shared power with his feeble-minded brother Ivan V. This ruler’s
experiences with rebellion led him to disband the streltsy. This man captured Azov in one attempt to control
a port. This ruler also gained land on the Baltic Sea after winning the Battle of Poltava and defeating Charles
XII in the Great Northern War. Known for westernizing Russia, for 10 points, name this czar who built a
new capital as a "Window to the West" in St. Petersburg, and who was known as the Great.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I; or Pyotr I; or Pyotr Veliky; prompt on Peter]
028-09-1-07129

14. This man believed that naming and defining relationships must precede social order in a doctrine known
as the "Rectification of Names." This man argued that Ruler to Subject, Father to Son, and Husband to Wife
were among the five relationships subject to filial piety. This man's views were adapted by Mo and Mencius.
This man is traditionally credited with authorship of The Spring and Autumn Annals, and his sayings are
collected in his Analects. For 10 points each, name this fifth century BCE Chinese philosopher.
ANSWER: Confucius
015-09-1-07130

15. This man composed a song cycle that depicts the title figures unfrightened in a tempestuous storm in its
concluding "In this weather!" movement. This composer set a Klopstock ode in his second symphony, the
Resurrection. He also composed the cycle Songs on the Death of Children. This man's first symphony
contains a dirge-like setting of Frere Jacques. His eighth symphony is nicknamed for requiring eight
soloists, a double choir, and orchestra. For 10 points, name this German composer who set the poetry of Li
Po in The Song of the Earth, also the composer of the Titan symphony and the Symphony of a Thousand.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
026-09-1-07131

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 7
Tiebreaker Questions
1. One character in this play is convinced to state that the sun is the moon, and this play is framed by a prank
played on Christopher Sly. A character in this play is pursued by Grumio and Hortensio, but Baptista Minola
sets up the titular action by declaring that character, Bianca, may not marry until the titular action is
accomplished. One character in this play attempts to accomplish the titular action by withholding food and
sleep from another. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy in which Petruchio attempts to control
Katherine.
ANSWER: The Taming of the Shrew
038-09-1-07132

2. One character in this opera sings "La fleur que tu m'avais jetée" (la flurr kuh too muh-VAY zhe-TAY) to
declare his love. The main character compares love to a rebellious bird in the aria "L'amour est un oiseau
rebelle," (la-MOAR ay oon WAH-sow re-BELL) and later escapes from imprisonment by singing a
seguidilla. In the final act of this play, Escamillo (es-ca-MEE-yo) wins a bullfight. A reprise of the
“Toreador” song plays after the title character is stabbed to death by Don Jose. This opera quotes Yradier’s
(ee-RAD-ee-air) music in an “Habanera.” (ah-ba-NAIR-uh) For 10 points, name this opera about a Spanish
gypsy girl by Georges Bizet (bi-ZAY).
ANSWER: Carmen
004-09-1-07133

3. This compound is a side-product of the first step of the Leblanc process. Its non-hydrated form is a
corrosive gas, and it reacts with calcium carbonate to give off carbon dioxide. It is also known as muriatic
acid. Along with nitric acid, it is part of aqua regia. This acid is a primary component of gastric acid, found
in the stomach. For 10 points, name this strong acid with formula HCl.
ANSWER: hydrochloric acid [or hydrogen chloride; or HCl before read; or muriatic acid before read;
prompt on HCl after read; prompt on muriatic acid after read]
001-09-1-07134

4. The last twenty-seven chapters of this book describe a "suffering servant" and are sometimes called the
"Book of Comfort." This book's twenty-third chapter compares Tyre to a prostitute. Its namesake describes
removing his sandals and sackcloth to portend doom for Egypt and Cush. It prophesies the end of the
Babylonian captivity as well as the birth of someone in the House of David who will be called "Everlasting
Father" and "Prince of Peace." For 10 points, name this book, that Christians believe foresees the birth of
Christ, and was written by the first of the Major Prophets.
ANSWER: the Book of Isaiah
026-09-1-07135

5. Some melanin-containing types of these organisms can produce energy from gamma radiation. Clamp
connections and croziers allow cells in some organisms of this kingdom to have two nuclei. One dikaryon
form of these organisms reproduces through asci and is known as the "sac" type. These organisms consist of
hyphae, which make a mat called a mycelium. For 10 points, name this kingdom of heterotrophic organisms
that includes decomposers like molds, yeasts, and mushrooms.
ANSWER: fungi [or funguses]
036-09-1-07136

VHSL Regular Season Round 7 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

