VHSL States
Round 3
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In this play, one character states "Jack shall have Jill. Nought shall go ill." In this play, Egeus's daughter
runs into the woods. "Rude mechanicals" perform Pyramus and Thisby at Theseus's wedding in this play.
One character declares "Lord, what fools these mortals be!" That character gives a love potion that causes
Demetrius and Lysander to vie for Helena instead of Hermia. That love potion also makes Titania fall in
love with Bottom, who has his head turned into a donkey's. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play
featuring the fairies Puck and Oberon.
ANSWER: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
027-09-9-03101

2. This country was politically dominated by the rabiblancos (rahb-EE-blahn-KOHS), or 'white-tails,' before
the overthrow of Arnulfo Arias ("ARE"-ee-AHS). From 1968 to 1981, this country was dominated by
General Omar Torrijos ("tore"-REE-os). One ruler of this country was targeted by Operation Just Cause,
which blasted annoyingly loud rock music to force him out of this country's Vatican Embassy. During the
1980s, this country was ruled by Manuel Noriega. For 10 points, name this Central American country that in
1999 regained full control of its canal connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
ANSWER: Republic of Panama [or Republica de Panama]
004-09-9-03102

3. Tales from this people include a symbolic marriage with the earth and their creation story orders animals,
clay, and wood as coming before mankind. Their death deities include Hunhau (wan-WAH). Their
underworld, called Xibalba (shee-BALL-bah), was visited by two twins important to their mythology. Those
twins had earlier slain the deity Seven Macaw. That tale of Hunaphu (WAN-ah-pwa) and Xbalanque
(SHEE-BA-lan-KAY) appears, among other sources, in the Popol Vuh. Centered around Copan and Tikal,
for 10 points, name this Mesoamerican culture that was responsible for the construction of Chichen Itza.
ANSWER: the Mayans
040-09-9-03103

4. Nickel is purified in the Mond process by reacting it with this compound. This compound can react with
chlorine gas to form phosgene (FOSS-jeen), which was once used as a chemical weapon. A mixture of it
with hydrogen gas is called syngas. It is referred to as carbonyl (CAR-bo-neel) when it functions as a ligand.
In the body, hemoglobin (HEE-mo-glo-bin) is about two hundred times more likely to bond to this
compound than oxygen. It is formed in incomplete but not complete combustion reactions. For 10 points,
name this odorless, colorless gas that is often called "the silent killer," which has the formula CO.
ANSWER: carbon monoxide [or CO before mentioned]
064-09-9-03104

5. This composer wrote six scenes of incidental music for his brother-in-law Arvid Jarnefelt's play Kuolema
(kwo-LEM-uh), the most famous of which is this man's Valse Triste (VAHLS TREEST). He used two
english horns to musically depict a bird mournfully swimming around an island in his piece The Swan of
Tuonela (twoh-NELL-uh), which was based on the mythology of his homeland. For 10 points, name this
composer who used the Kalevala as the source for his Lemminkainen (Lem-in-KY-nen) Suite and who
composed Finlandia.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius
026-09-9-03105

VHSL States Round 3 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Just before his death, this writer wrote about dreams running around withered fields after falling sick on a
journey. He also envisioned the broken dreams of soldiers while watching summer grasses. This man was
accompanied by Sora on a journey that produced his Narrow Road to the Deep North. One of his works
involves a frog's jump into an old pond. This writer's works are rich in "season words." For 10 points, what
Edo-period writer is considered the master of the seventeen-syllable haiku?
ANSWER: Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Kinsaku]
034-09-9-03106

7. The year before this event, a demonstration over poor dormitory conditions had been violently suppressed
and a writer's union expressed displeasure over censorship of their weekly magazine. The Two Thousand
Words manifesto was delivered during this event, which attempted to institute "socialism with a human
face." An article claiming that a certain country's "self-determination...would have been detrimental to the
other socialist states" was used to justify the Soviet intervention that ended this experiment. For 10 points,
name this period of 1968 during which reforms were attempted in Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague Spring [or Prazské Jaro; or Prazská Jar]
003-09-9-03107

8. Data serialization and restoring serialized data requires these objects to be "swizzled" and "unswizzled."
Nonstatic methods implement one of these called "this." Each node of a doubly linked list includes two of
these, often called "next" and "previous;" the head and tail nodes have one each of these set to NULL. These
objects are "dereferenced" to obtain the value at the address they indicate. For 10 points, name these
variables present in many programming languages, notably C and C++, that store a memory address.
ANSWER: pointers
022-09-9-03108

9. One early scene in this film sees a character knowing the name of the Lone Ranger’s nephew’s horse.
The protagonist attends Warren G. Harding Elementary School and is a fan of the Little Orphan Annie radio
show, although he is angry that his decoder ring only produces an Ovaltine commercial. Near the end of this
film, a meal is ruined thanks to the Bumpus hounds, forcing the Parker family to go to a Chinese restaurant
to eat holiday dinner. For 10 points, name this yuletide movie about Ralphie and his dream of an official Red
Ryder B.B. gun.
ANSWER: A Christmas Story
052-09-9-03109

10. One of the mediators of this agreement was Fabio Chigi, who later became Pope Alexander VII. Under
it, Sweden received Western Pomerania. This agreement revoked the Edict of Restitution and renewed the
terms of the Peace of Augsburg. It consisted of two treaties signed at Münster and Osnabrück. It accorded
equal rights to Protestants and Catholics in the Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points, name this 1648
agreement which ended the Thirty Years' War.
ANSWER: Peace of Westphalia
024-09-9-03110

11. This work was revised several times in the years following its publication at the urging of Wilhelm
Stekel; the revisions included very stringent symbolisms such as one about climbing ladders. Case studies
are interrupted with Irma's Injection, an experience of the author. The author argues that the titular entities
are examples of wish-fulfillment or the expression of the unconscious uncensored by the preconscious. Also
containing a formulation of the Oedipus Complex that was expanded upon in the author's Beyond the
Pleasure Principle, this is, for 10 points, what psychological text by Sigmund Freud?
ANSWER: The Interpretation of Dreams [or Die Traumdeutung]
040-09-9-03111

VHSL States Round 3 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. The sanctified first pope of this name took over for the martyred St. Callixtus I. Fulcher of Chartes and
Robert the Monk gave conflicting accounts of whether a pope of this name gave a famous speech including
the lines "God wills it!" The journeys of Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless prompted the second
pope of this name to call the Council of Clermont, which sparked a military conflict in which the Christian
armies of Godfrey of Boulloin prevailed and set up the Kingdom of Jerusalem. For 10 points, name this
papal name, the second of whom called the First Crusade.
ANSWER: Urban
026-09-9-03112

13. Some models of this process have a LS factor, and the most common model for it is the revised USLE.
This process comes in sheet, rill, and gully forms. It opposes orogeny and loosens the ped structure. The
products of this process can undergo deposition. Fluvial, aeolian, and glacial processes cause this process,
which can be increased by a lack of vegetation. It is similar to, but not the same as, the related concept of
weathering. For 10 points, name this process by which materials such as soil are moved, such as when a
stream wears down its banks.
ANSWER: erosion
001-09-9-03113

14. One of this writer's poems begins by stating "Thy trivial harp will never please or fill my craving ear."
Another of this man's poems includes the line "I am the doubter and the doubt." In addition to "Merlin" and
"Brahma," this thinker wrote, "Unmeasure still my Shakespeare sits lone as the blessed Jew." This writer
stated "beauty is its own excuse for Being" in his poem "The Rhodora." For 10 points, name this author of
the essay The Over Soul who was an American transcendentalist.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
030-09-9-03114

15. This man proved the theorem of quadratic reciprocity. He used his formulation of least squares to
accurately predict the orbit of Ceres. This mathematician discovered a compass and ruler construction for the
heptadecagon. This man devised an improved proof of the fundamental theorem of arithmetic. According to
a popular legend, while still in school he devised a simple formula for the sum of one through n. His name is
also attached to a statistical distribution about a mean, also called the normal distribution or bell curve. For
10 points, name this German mathematician.
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich Gauss
001-09-9-03115

VHSL States Round 3 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 3
Directed Round
1A. What is the term for the feat in which a basketball player records ten or more of three different
individual categories, such as points, rebounds, and assists, in a single game?
ANSWER: triple-double
1B. Interstates 35 and 80 briefly become the same highway near what Midwestern capital?
ANSWER: Des Moines
2A. What part of the brain facilitates information transfer between the left and right hemispheres and is
severed in split-brain patients?
ANSWER: corpus callosum
2B. Jacques-Étienne and Joseph-Michel were the two brothers of what surname, who made the first hot-air
balloon flight in 1782?
ANSWER: Montgolfier
3A. In January 2010, news outlets reported that money laundering by Somali pirates was thought to be the
cause of a massive increase in property prices in what nation?
ANSWER: Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya]
3B. What video game console system includes controllers called the "Remote" and "Nunchuk"?
ANSWER: Nintendo Wii
4A.This is a 10-second calculation question. Evaluate 3x2 - 7x + 9 when x = -3.
ANSWER: 57
4B.This is a 10-second calculation question. A banner is placed on a 12-foot wall. If the banner covers 35%
of the length of the wall, what is the length of the banner in feet and inches?
ANSWER: 4 feet, 2.4 inches
5A. What form of experimental literature consists of a series of nodes connected by links, thus allowing each
reader to proceed through multiple narratives in a highly nonlinear fashion?
ANSWER: hyperfiction [or hypertext fiction]
5B. What sociologist coined the terms "ethnocentrism," "folkways," and "mores" (MOR-ayz)?
ANSWER: William Graham Sumner
6A.This is a 20-second calculation question. Three of the corners of a rectangle are at the points (10, 10),
(5,0), and (2, 4). Find the location of the fourth corner.
ANSWER: (13, 6)

VHSL States Round 3 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B.This is a 20-second calculation question. Divide 9.4624 by 7.09.
ANSWER: 1.36
7A. What Chinese-American architect designed both the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the glass pyramid
at the Louvre?
ANSWER: Ieoh Ming Pei
7B. Thomas de Quincey's essay about the knocking at the gate in this play analyzes an event that occurs just
after a murder in what Shakespeare tragedy?
ANSWER: Macbeth
8A. By analyzing the pattern of deflections of P-waves, Inge Lehmann was able to propose the existence of
what innermost layer of the Earth?
ANSWER: inner core [prompt on core]
8B. What is the term for the form of alliteration in which stressed vowel sounds are repeated?
ANSWER: assonance
9A.This is a 30-second calculation question. According to a recent census, a certain town has 590
households with no children, 1826 households with one child, 1574 households with two children, 153
households with three children, and 26 households with four children. In this town, to the nearest tenth, what
is the average number of children per household?
ANSWER: 1.3
9B.This is a 30-second calculation question. Solve the system of equations -8x+2y-4z = -40; 3y-8z = -12;
-8x+9y-4z=-68.
ANSWER: (4, -4, 0)
10A. The surnames "Herrera" in Spanish, "Kowalski" in Polish, and "Favre" (FARV) in French all roughly
translate to what English surname?
ANSWER: Smith
10B. What law states that any current generated by induction will act to oppose the magnetic field that
originally produced it?
ANSWER: Lenz's Law

VHSL States Round 3 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 3
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This author’s World War I ambulance driving led to the novels One Man’s Initiation 1917 and Three
Soldiers. This author created Ellen Thatcher and Jimmy Herf. Those characters appear in a work by this
writer featuring impressionistic views of New York City called Manhattan Transfer. This man’s longest
work includes “Newsreel” and “Camera Eye” segments and consists of The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The
Big Money. For 10 points, name this American author of the U.S.A. Trilogy.
ANSWER: John Roderigo Dos Passos
062-09-9-03117

2. One occurrence of this type of event spurred the Rogers Commission. Another instance of this type of
event was the subject of Appendix F, in which Richard Feynman blasted engineers for misunderstanding the
"safety factor" prior to it happening in 1986. This type of event occurred in 2003 when falling debris
stripped an area of reinforced carbon-carbon panels. Cold conditions contributed to the first occurrence of
this type of event, in which frayed O-Rings led to the death of Christa McAuliffe and six others. For 10
points, name this disaster which befell the Columbia and Challenger crafts.
ANSWER: Space Shuttle explosions [or equivalents including "Space Shuttle;" prompt on general answers
like spacecraft explosions]
026-09-9-03118

3. In the Old Testament, this figure's birth was foretold by an angel to Manoah's wife, who had been barren
for many years. On this man's way to his own wedding, he discovers bees nesting in the carcass of a lion and
eats honey from that carcass. He once killed a thousand warriors with the jawbone of an ass. He was raised
as a Nazarite, which meant he took certain vows. He later brought down the temple of Dagon on the heads of
the Philistines after his betrayal. For 10 points, name this symbol of strength from the book of Judges whose
hair was cut by the treacherous Delilah.
ANSWER: Samson [or Shimshon; or Shamshoon]
045-09-9-03119

4. One section of this organ contains a mass of lymphoid (LIM-foid) tissue called Peyer’s (PAY-erz)
Patches. Another section of this organ receives a material from the pylorus known as chyme. Like the
esophagus, this organ uses a contractile motion known as peristalsis (PAIR-ee-STALL-sis). This organ
receives the enzymes trypsin (TRIP-sin), lipase (LYE-"pace"), and amylase (AMM-ill-ase), which break
down proteins, lipids, and starches, respectively. For 10 points, name this organ divided into the jejunum,
ileum, and duodenum, whose main function is to digest food before it passes into the large intestine.
ANSWER: small intestine [accept ileum before "chyme" is read]
064-09-9-03120

5. A character in one of this author's works proclaims "the alehouse and the stable are the only schools he'll
ever go to." Constance Neville schemes to keep some jewels in the family and Hardcastle denounces Tony
Lumpkin in that work, subtitled The Mistakes of a Night. In a novel by this man, a church official fakes the
death of his daughter Olivia. In that book, Burchell fools the Primoses when he disguises himself as
Thorndike. For 10 points, name this Irish writer of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield.
ANSWER: Oliver Goldsmith
063-09-9-03121

VHSL States Round 3 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This politician led a program which served school meals to occupied Germans after World War II. He led
a namesake commission in 1947 which recommended administrative changes within the federal government.
This politician broke party lines to appoint the Democrat Benjamin Cardozo to the Supreme Court. This man
signed into law the Norris-La Guardia Act and set up the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. Veterans
formed the Bonus Army to protest this man’s policies. For 10 points, name this U.S. president during the
1929 stock market crash.
ANSWER: Herbert Clark Hoover
052-09-9-03122

7. Spirochetes (SPY-ro-KEATS) have modified versions of these structures known as axial filaments. In
bacteria, the hook, or base of this organelle, is covered. This organelle is attached to a basal body. In
eukaryotes, they are the longer of two types of structures that are composed of a "nine plus two"
arrangement of microtubules. Unlike that other structure, cilia, these structures work by rotating in a
clockwise or counterclockwise manner. For 10 points, name these whiplike projections that are the main
method of cell motility in Euglena and sperm cells.
ANSWER: flagella [or flagellum]
027-09-9-03123

8. The largest lake in this nation, located in its east about two hundred miles south of Kars, is Lake Van. The
Pontic Mountains rise along the northern coast of this country and run eastward into Georgia. The Taurus
Mountains follow the southern coast. The Euphrates and Tigris Rivers rise in this country before flowing
south into Syria and Iraq. The European portion of this nation is separated by the Bosporus. For 10 points,
name this nation located between the Black and Mediterranean Seas that contains the Anatolian Plateau.
ANSWER: Republic of Turkey [or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti]
051-09-9-03124

9. One of this author's plays centers on the victim of a scheme of Don Sallusto who falls in love with the
queen. Another focuses on a bandit who loves Dona Sol and caused a notable demonstration upon its
premiere. In addition to Ruy Blas and Hernani, he wrote a novel that features the characters of Bishop
Myriel, Fantine, and Cosette. For 10 points, name this French author who wrote about a transparent
antagonism between Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean in Les Miserables.
ANSWER: Victor Marie Hugo
040-09-9-03125

10. Directly above an altar, this man painted the prophet Jonah looking towards God in front of the whale.
He also painted Charon in one work that also contains a self-portrait of himself in the skin of St.
Bartholomew. He included horns on his statue of Moses. He painted a beardless Jesus in heaven above the
damned in hell in one fresco. This sculptor of a Moses for the tomb of Pope Julius II painted Adam
stretching out his hand to receive life from God in one fresco. For 10 points, name this painter of The Last
Judgement and the Sistine Chapel ceiling.
ANSWER: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarotti Simoni [or Michelangelo Buonarotti]
027-09-9-03126

11. Methods of measuring the magnitude of this effect often include the use of a platinum probe, such as a
DuNouy ring or Wilhelmy plate. This phenomenon is no longer changed once the critical micelle
concentration is reached. Those micelles are formed by substances that lower the strength of this effect,
which are called surfactants. This effect limits the height in a container of a meniscus caused by capillary
action. Bubbles form spheres according to this effect. For 10 points, name this cohesive attraction that
causes a film to be created at the top of liquids, which allows some insects to walk on water.
ANSWER: surface tension
023-09-9-03127
VHSL States Round 3 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This plan encouraged the use of "houses of happiness," in which the elderly were placed out of the care
of their families. During the time this plan was in effect, farmers were encouraged to use deep plowing and
close planting, both of which hurt crop production. This plan that "put politics in command" saw the
promotion of Liu Shaoqi (LEE-oo shao-CHEE) and the creation of over six hundred thousand backyard steel
furnaces. For 10 points, name this economic policy started as a five year plan in 1958, by which Mao
planned for China to modernize into an industrial state in a short period of time.
ANSWER: Great Leap Forward [or Dayuejin; or Second Chinese Five Year Plan; prompt on Five Year
Plan]
023-09-9-03128

13. Two characters in this play are only thought of as grotesque, "no-necked monsters." This play ends with
the bitter reply of one character, "Wouldn't it be funny if that was true?" A character has possible romantic
feelings for Skipper in this play. The couple Mae and Gooper scheme to secure another character's estate. In
this play, Doctor Baugh prescribes heroin for one protagonist, who has the "lech" for a character who dodges
a crutch, Maggie. Brick Pollitt is the son of Big Daddy in, for 10 points, what play by Tennessee Williams?
ANSWER: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
004-09-9-03129

14. In 2009, the CIA announced that half of the twenty most wanted Al Qaeda suspects in Pakistan had been
killed using these devices, though Pakistani groups named hundreds of civilian casualties resulting from
their use. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Defense announced that these vehicles's monitoring systems were
being hacked by Iraqi insurgents using the program SkyGrabber, which is sold to the public for thirty
dollars. For 10 points, an increasing number of aerial bombings by the U.S. military are being conducted
using what remotely controlled, pilot-less aircraft?
ANSWER: Predators [or Predator RQ-1 planes; or Predator MQ-1 planes; or Predator MQ-9 planes; or
Reapers; or drone planes; or UAVs; or Unmanned Arial Vehicles]
019-09-9-03130

15. During this event, a "Declaration of the People" accused twenty-one people of having raised "great
unjust taxes" and appointing "scandalous and ignorant favorites" as judges. One of those targets of this event
had called the "Long Assembly," which passed trade restrictions several traders considered unfair. The
problems that led to this event began with a dispute at the plantation of Thomas Mathews and a subsequent
retaliatory attack on the Susquehanna tribe. William Berkeley hanged twenty-three men for their
participation in this rebellion, during which Jamestown was burned. For 10 points, name this 1676 rebellion
in Virginia.
ANSWER: Bacon's Rebellion
003-09-9-03131

VHSL States Round 3 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 3
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This country is found in the name of an album of “Sketches” by Miles Davis. One composer from this
country wrote The Three Cornered Hat and Love the Magician. Mikhail Glinka was inspired by this country
to write Jota Argonesa (HO-ta ar-go-NAY-sa). Isaac Albeniz wrote a series of tone poems inspired by this
country named Iberia. This nation is the home of Joaquin (hwa-KEEN) Rodrigo and Manuel de Falla
(FYE-ya). For 10 points, name this country that inspired the musical work Summer Night in Madrid.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de Espana]
027-09-9-03132

2. This man wrote a glowing letter to his friend Dionigi after he climbed Mount Ventoux. This man wrote of
meeting a woman on Good Friday and alleged that she also died on Good Friday. One of his collections is
also called Rime Sparse (ree-MAY spar-SAY), or "scattered rhymes." He wrote the poetry collection Il
Canzoniere, or "song book," which was dedicated to his beloved Laura. For 10 points, name this
Renaissance humanist and early poet who names a type of Italian sonnet.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
026-09-9-03133

3. Along with sodium carbonate, this substance's chloride is a byproduct of the Solvay Process. This element
can be made through the reaction of its oxide with aluminum. This element's oxide is known as quicklime.
Lime is a heated form of this element's carbonate. Marble is a crystalline form of this element's carbonate
that is also known as limestone. This element has an electron configuration of [Ar]4s2 ("Argon Four S
Two"). For 10 points, name this alkaline earth metal with symbol Ca.
ANSWER: calcium [or Ca before it is read]
059-09-9-03134

4. This monarch's sister Hesione saved him from slavery as a child. His first wife Arisbe married Hyrtacus.
This man's children with his second wife Hecuba included Troilus and Polites. Iris recommended this figure
make a risky trip without any guards into enemy territory. Hermes helped guide him to Achilles' tent so this
man could negotiate a ransom of his son's body. As this man's city is being overrun, Neoptolemus
(nee-OP-tall-UH-mus) slays Polites and then this son of Laomedon (lay-AW-meh-don) in brutal fashion. For
10 points, identify this father of Hector and king of Troy in the Iliad.
ANSWER: Priam
063-09-9-03135

5. One species of these creatures, Mycocepurus smithii (MY-coh-seh-"PURE"-us "SMITH"-"e"), is
cultivated by the Attini and is entirely female. The presence of a metapleural (MET-uh-PLOOR-uhl) gland,
which secretes phenylacetic acid (FEN-il-uh-SEE-tic), differentiates most species of these creatures from
other members of order Hymenoptera (hi-men-OP-ter-uh). These organisms of family Formicidae
(for-MISS-uh-dee) often herd aphids for food and include "driver," "carpenter," and "army" varieties. For 10
points, name these insects which form underground hives occupied by soldiers, workers, and the queen.
ANSWER: ants [or Formicidae until it is read]
059-09-9-03136

VHSL States Round 3 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

