VHSL Regular Season
Round 14
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. The speaker of this poem recalls opposing "free hearts, free foreheads" and laments that it is dull "to rust
unburnish'd, not to shine in use!" Prior to that, the speaker declares his intention to "drink life to the lees"
and "mete and dole, unequal laws onto a savage race." The title king of a "rugged people" wishes to "follow
knowledge like a sinking star" and "touch the Happy Isles, and see the great Achilles, whom we once knew."
Closing with the lines "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield," for 10 points, name this Tennyson poem
about a restless Greek hero.
ANSWER: "Ulysses"
020-09-1-14101

2. This territory was admitted to the United States after the passage of the Wyandotte Constitution, two years
after the controversial Lecompton Constitution. The Pottawatomie Massacre occurred during a violent
period in this territory caused by the influx of Border Ruffians to it. Stephen Douglas instituted popular
sovereignty in this territory by writing an act named for it and Nebraska. For 10 points, name this
Midwestern state where violence between proslavery and antislavery settlers caused it to be known as
"Bleeding."
ANSWER: Kansas
004-09-1-14102

3. Its lower reaches experiences quasi-biennial oscillation and it is the upper home of the Brewer-Dobson
circulation. Quasi-horizontal mixing is the main method of air exchange in this layer. Dobson units are used
to measure a triatomic molecule abundant in this region. It features a thermal inversion, due to ultraviolet
absorption by the ozone layer. For 10 points, name this layer of the atmosphere, sandwiched between the
mesosphere and the troposphere.
ANSWER: stratosphere
001-09-1-14103

4. This law was ruled to not apply to sugar refining in the E.C. Knight case. This act was extended by an act
that was modified by the Robinson-Patman act and protected against price discrimination. This act was
successfully used against the Northern Securities Company by Theodore Roosevelt, though this act was
more infamously used against unions in order to end the Pullman Strike. This act was eventually successful
in breaking up Standard Oil, before being replaced by the Clayton Antitrust Act. For 10 points, name this
1890 act targeted at monopolies.
ANSWER: Sherman Antitrust Act [prompt on partial answer]
028-09-1-14104

5. The Athenian painter Exekias depicted a scene in which pirates who had kidnapped this god were turned
into dolphins. Pentheus was punished for refusing to acknowledge this god by being torn apart by a group of
maenads ["ME-nads"], wild female followers of this god. Hestia gave up a throne on Mount Olympus to this
god. This god married a Cretan princess abandoned on Naxos, Ariadne. For 10 points, name this son of Zeus
and Semele (SEH-meh-lee), the Greek god of wine.
ANSWER: Dionysus [prompt on Bacchus]
003-09-1-14105

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This entity always has a kurtosis of zero, and the area under this curve between any two points is
proportional to the difference in the error function at those points. As the number of samples increases, the
binomial distribution approaches this curve, whose standard form has mean zero and variance one. By the
Central Limit Theorem, the distribution of the means of a set of random variables will converge to this
distribution. For 10 points, give this common distribution sometimes called the "bell curve."
ANSWER: normal distribution curve [or Gaussian distribution curve; or bell curve before read]
003-09-1-14106

7. WRITE MORE QUESTIONS, Particularly a Social Science-Linguistics Tossup
00--20-14107

8. This is the surname of a character who rebukes her boyfriend Lane for talking about his paper on Flaubert
and discovers that she loves the "Jesus Prayer." Another character with this surname dubs his wife "Miss
Spiritual Tramp of 1948" before shooting himself in a hotel room. In addition to naming characters like
Franny, Zooey, and Seymour, this word is in the title of a play in which Jim is the "Gentleman Caller" who
disappoints Laura Wingfield. For 10 points, name this substance that names a family invented by J.D.
Salinger, a word that also titles a "Menagerie" in a Tennessee Williams play.
ANSWER: Glass
026-09-1-14108

9. ?According to this myth system, the first being emerged from the mingling of ice and fire in a void called
Ginnungagap (ginn-UN-guh-gap) and drank milk from the primordial cow Audhumla (odd-OOM-bluh).
This belief holds that the bones of that giant, Ymir (IH-meer), were used to build the universe. In this myth
system, there are nine realms in the universe, including the home of frost giants, Jotunheim
(YOE-tun-highm), and the home of human beings, Midgard. For 10 points, identify this myth system that
believes the universe is built around the tree Yggdrasil (IGG-druh-sill) and will be destroyed at Ragnarok.
ANSWER: Norse mythology [or Scandinavian mythology; or North Germanic mythology]
019-09-1-14109

10. Before becoming President, this man was the leader of the Albany Regency. This man was chosen as the
Free Soil Party's candidate for the 1848 election. During this man’s administration, the Aroostook War and
the Panic of 1837 occurred. This man resigned his post as Secretary of State due to the Peggy Eaton, or
Petticoat, Affair, although he returned to Andrew Jackson's administration as Vice President. For 10 points,
name this successor of Jackson and eighth President of the United States, who was of Dutch descent.
ANSWER: Martin Van Buren
035-09-1-14110

11. These components stop working at the "breakdown voltage." They have the ability to pass AC and block
DC current. When these circuit components are in parallel, they have the same applied voltage, and their
characteristic value adds up. When connected in series, their equivalent characteristic value is found by
summing the reciprocals of each individual value. The simplest type of this device is the "parallel plate"
type, in which two metal plates are separated by a dialectric material. The first device of this type was
known as a Leyden Jar. For 10 points, name this circuit component, also called a condenser, which stores
electric charge.
ANSWER: capacitors [accept condensors before it is read]
026-09-1-14111

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. France, the Holy Roman Empire, and Spain fought against this city during the War of the League of
Cambrai. This city, Spain, and the Vatican formed the Holy League in 1570. This city sent Sebastiano
Venier to assist in the victory over the Ottomans at the Battle of Lepanto. This city's ruler Enrico Dandolo,
one of its doges, ordered an attack on Zara and then on Constantinople to pay for the transportation of the
Fourth Crusade. For 10 points, name this Mediterranean maritime power, a city in Italy along the Adriatic
which had a rivalry with Genoa.
ANSWER: Venice [or Venezia]
035-09-1-14112

13. The stability of this type of mixture is explained by DLVO theory. They can be described as lyophobic
(LIE-oh-FOE-bik) or lyophilic (LIE-oh-FILL-ik). They undergo flocculation, which is similar to
precipitation, in solutions. Micelles (MEE-sells) are structures that can exist in these mixtures. They consist
of a continuous and dispersed phase, and the Tyndall effect can be observed in them. Examples of this class
of mixtures include aerosols and emulsions. For 10 points, name these mixtures of one substance dispersed
in another, an example of which is milk.
ANSWER: colloids
001-09-1-14113

14. Some missionaries in this novel warn against abandoning twins in the Evil Forest and see their church
torn down by a mob. The central figure of this novel worships a “chi” and owns two barns of yams. During
the Week of Peace, the protagonist of this novel is fined for beating one of his three wives. Obereika chides
that central character for participating in the murder of Ikemefuna (ICK-ay-muh-FOO-nuh). This novel ends
with the suicide of the Ibo tribesman Okonkwo. No Longer at Ease was the sequel to, for 10 points, what
novel about colonial Nigeria by Chinua Achebe?
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
019-09-1-14114

15. One composer from this nation wrote the piano piece "To a Wild Rose" in his collection "Woodland
Sketches." Another composer of this nation wrote a string quartet that includes tapes of Holocaust survivors
known as Different Trains. Another composer of this nation worked with Gian-Carlo Menotti on the opera
Vanessa and also wrote a B-flat minor work in arch form, Adagio for Strings. For 10 points, name this home
country to Edward MacDowell, Steve Reich, and Samuel Barber, in which Leonard Bernstein set West Side
Story.
ANSWER: United States of America [or USA; or United States]
036-09-1-14115

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 14
Directed Round
1A. The Fairfax Stone is the origin of the North Branch of this river. Name this waterway that flows into
Chesapeake Bay, and whose watershed covers Maryland, Northern Virginia, and Washington, D.C.
ANSWER: Potomac River
1B. In early June, Kim Jong-Il chose his youngest son to succeed him as ruler of what country, whose
"eternal president" is Kim Il-Sung?
ANSWER: North Korea [or DPRK; or Democratic People's Republic of Korea; or CMIK; or Choson
Minjujuui Inmin Konghwaguk; do not accept or prompt on "Korea" or "South Korea"]
2A. Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech opens with the words "Five score years ago," evoking
Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. That is an example of what literary device, involving a reference to a work of
art or a historical event?
ANSWER: allusion
2B. Tuftsin and Opsonin are produced in this organ, which consists of red and white pulp. Name this lymph
node-like organ, which is found in the upper left abdomen and is a crucial part of the lymphatic system.
ANSWER: spleen
3A. Nobuo Uematsu is most acclaimed for his work on the soundtracks for the games in this series. Name
this SquareEnix series, whose seventh game features Cloud and Tifa.
ANSWER: Final Fantasy
3B. This mathematician names an error function and a gun. Name this scientist whose "law," in physics,
relates the electric field to the charge distribution of an object, and whose statistical distribution is also called
the normal distribution.
ANSWER: Johann Carl Friedrich Gauss
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. If three fair coins are flipped, find the probability of getting
twice as many heads as tails.
ANSWER: 3/8 [or 0.375]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Factor x2 - x - 90.
ANSWER: (x - 10)(x + 9)
5A. The Rossi-Forel and Mercalli scales measure what phenomenon, the intensity of which is also measured
by the Richter scale up to ten and which commonly occur near faultlines?
ANSWER: earthquakes
5B. Between 1942 and 1944, and during the Civil War, this writ was suspended. Name this writ, which
protects the accused from arbitrary legal action, and literally means "you shall have the body."
ANSWER: writ of habeas corpus
VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate 3.85 times 2.4.
ANSWER: 9.24
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate 1.72.
ANSWER: 2.89
7A. The namesake of this law wrote The Sceptical Chymist (chemist). Name this law which states that the
pressure and volume of a gas in a closed system are inversely related.
ANSWER: Boyle's law [or Boyle-Mariotte law]
7B. Mr. Blue, Mr. Brown, and Mr. White are all shot dead by cops in this director's debut film Reservoir
Dogs. Name this director of the recent Inglorious Basterds and the previous Pulp Fiction and Kill Bill.
ANSWER: Quentin Jerome Tarantino
8A. The letters in this language, like those in Arabic, are written from right to left. Name this language,
revived as a spoken tongue in the 1880s, that has seven million speakers in Israel.
ANSWER: Hebrew
8B. Identify the Italian author who discussed the "Odysseys within The Odyssey" in his critical text Why
Read the Classics?, but is far better known for his novel If On a Winter's Night a Traveler.
ANSWER: Italo Calvino
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If the largest side angle in a triangle is twice as big as the
next-largest angle, which itself is three times as large as the smallest angle, what are the measures of the
angles of the triangle?
ANSWER: 18, 54, and 108 degrees [all required, in any order]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. If x varies directly with y and x equals 11 when y equals 18,
find x when y equals 45.
ANSWER: 27.5
10A. Name the Massachusetts senior senator who passed away in August 2009 and was the brother of the
assassinated Robert and John Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: Edward Moore "Ted" Kennedy [or E. Kennedy; prompt on Kennedy]
10B. This artist's scenes painted at Arles include The Yellow House and The Night Cafe. Name this Dutch
artist, who also painted The Potato Eaters.
ANSWER: Vincent Willem van Gogh

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 14
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This ruler both called for and disbanded the Barebones Parliament. This man put down a mutiny by
members of the Levellers. John Lambert's "Instrument of Government" gave this ruler his most famous title.
This leader dismissed a group created by Pride's Purge known as the Rump Parliament. This man's cavalry
was successful at the battle of Marston Moor, and this man led a cavalry regiment in an army he helped
create, the New Model Army. For 10 points, name this first Lord Protector of England, whose rule was part
of the Interregnum between Charles I and II.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell
023-09-1-14117

2. In the Advaita (AHD-vai-EE-tuh) sect, practitioners are readied for this concept by chanting Neti Neti
(NEH-tee NEH-tee), which literally means "not this, not that." This state can be realised through the Bhakti
(BOK-tee), Jnana (juh-NAH-nuh), Raja, and Karma types of yogas, which strive to achieve it through
atma-jnana (AHT-muh juh-NAH-nuh), or self-realization. This concept is defined as the liberation of the
atman, or soul, from samsara. For 10 points, name this Hindu concept of release from the cycle of death and
rebirth.
ANSWER: Moksha [or Moksa; or Mukti]
026-09-1-14118

3. Mark Twain lambasted this author's sloppy writing in an essay about his "Literary Offenses." This author
wrote about a Revolutionary War naval captain in his novel The Pilot, and in another, Hurry Harry and Tom
Hutter take scalps, earning the protagonist's enmity. In his best known work, the villainous and drunken
Magua seeks to make Cora Munro his wife, and Chingachgook, father of Uncas and protagonist of this
author's The Pioneers, travels with Natty Bumppo. For 10 points, name this early American author of The
Last of the Mohicans.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
020-09-1-14119

4. This ruler sponsored Tokhtamysh's invasion of Moscow, but later destroyed Sarai and Astrakhan when he
turned against this ruler. In addition to smashing the Golden Horde, this ruler won the Battle of Ankara and
supposedly used the defeated Bayezid the Thunderbolt as a footstool. This ruler died en route to launching
an invasion of Ming China, but not before creating a Tower of Heads in a square in Damascus and razing
Delhi to the ground. A pyramid of skulls was built by, for 10 points, what Central Asian ruler who ruled
from Samarkand in the fourteenth century?
ANSWER: Timur the Lame [or Tamerlane; or Tamerlame]
040-09-1-14120

5. These structures make up the set resulting from the Kleene Star of a set, and in a regular language all ones
of sufficient length can be pumped. Searches in them can be accomplished by the the Boyer-Moore or the
Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm. C-style ones are arrays terminated by a null and encoding methods include
EBDIC, Unicode, and ASCII. They can be concatenated, reversed, or made all uppercase or lowercase. For
10 points, name these computer science constructs which are made from a series of characters and contain
text.
ANSWER: strings
001-09-1-14121

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One character in one novel by this author idolizes his friend's mother Frau Eva and takes spiritual lessons
from Pistorius. This author set one of his novels in Castalia, where Joseph Knecht earns the title Magister
Ludi due to his excellence at the title activity. This author wrote about Emil Sinclair in Demian and ended
another novel in the Magic Theater, where the protagonist is taken by Pablo and where he murders Hermine.
Kamala instructs the title character of one of this author's novels in the ways of love, but that character
becomes a ferryman instead, reaching enlightenment. For 10 points, name this German author of
Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
020-09-1-14122

7. William E. Todd of Virginia is the current U.S. Ambassador to this country, part of whose name means
"The Abode of Peace." It regained its independence from the United Kingdom on January 1, 1984. Its
coastline borders the South China Sea. It is surrounded by the Malaysian state of Sarawak, and it also shares
an island with Indonesia. Bandar Seri Begawan is the capital of, for 10 points, what sultanate, located on the
northern coast of the island of Borneo?
ANSWER: Brunei Darussalam
045-09-1-14123

8. This author wrote a book in which Dakin is one of a group of fruit pickers caught up in a strike led by Jim
Nolan, called In Dubious Battle. In another of this author's works, treasure is sought on Saint Andrew's eve
by Joe Portagee and Pilon, who, along with Danny, inhabit Tortilla Flat. Mack and his gang trying to throw
a party for Doc in this author's Cannery Row. This author wrote a novel in which Ivy and Sairy Wilson
accompany the central family, "Rose of Sharon" breastfeeds a starving man, and the Joad family flees
Oklahoma for California. For 10 points, name this author of The Grapes of Wrath.
ANSWER: John Ernst Steinbeck Jr.
032-09-1-14124

9. One disorder for this organ occurs because of gliadin, and some parts of it contain Peyer's Patches. This
organ is affected by celiac disease, and it protects itself from chyme with its Brunner's Glands. It begins near
the Sphincter of Oddi, and its surface area is increased by hairlike structures called villi. It is divided into a
duodenum, jenjunum, and ileum. For 10 points, name this part of the digestive system that is actually longer
than its large counterpart.
ANSWER: small intestine
033-09-1-14125

10. Edward Hargraves' discovery of gold in this country led to a rush that included the Eureka Stockade
rebellion. One man from this country was captured during a shootout at the Glenrowan Inn, during which
that man wore a makeshift suit of armor. That man, Ned Kelly, was a bushranger in this country, which
came under British control after its Botany Bay was reached by the HMS Endeavour and James Cook. For
10 points, name this country once used as a penal colony, an island nation inhabited by the Aborigines.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
023-09-1-14126

11. In one work by this author, Lucynell is left asleep at a diner after Shiftlet calls her a hitchhiker. This
author of The Life You Save May Be Your Own wrote of Julian's mother refusing to take a desegregated
bus. This author wrote a novel in which Enoch steals a mummy and Mrs. Flood falls in love with Hazel. In
another story by this author of Everything That Rises Must Converge, Bailey takes his family on a driving
trip to Florida before he and the Grandmother run into the Misfit. For 10 points, name this author of Wise
Blood and A Good Man is Hard to Find, a Southern Gothic writer.
ANSWER: Mary Flannery O'Connor
036-09-1-14127
VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. In some individuals, the duct of Santorini connects this organ to the duodenum, as does this organ's main
duct, which is alternatively named for Wirsung. This organ's delta and epsilon cells produce somatostatin
and ghrelin, respectively. Glucagon is produced by this organ's alpha cells, which are found within the islets
of Langerhans. Malfunction of this organ's beta cells can cause diabetes mellitus. For 10 points, name this
organ that secretes insulin.
ANSWER: pancreas
025-09-1-14128

13. One character in this work concedes that her rival's "teeth are tolerable." The protagonist of this work is
upset after she is twice forced to dance with a clergyman. The protagonist's sister Lydia eventually elopes
with Mr. Wickham, and earlier refuses the proposal of Lady Catherine de Bourgh's clergyman, Mr. Collins.
This novel, which begins with the statement "that a single man in possession of good fortune, must be in
want of a wife," concludes with Jane's marriage to Bingley and Elizabeth Bennett's marriage to Fitzwilliam
Darcy. For 10 points, name this novel by Jane Austen.
ANSWER: Pride and Prejudice
032-09-1-14129

14. The son of Napoleon Bonaparte was named king of this country's capital upon his birth, and Napoleon
created a republic in this country's northern lands called the Cisalpine Republic. This country's unification
came about from the work of Camillo di Cavour, which saw Victor Emmanuel II take the throne. During
World War II, this country was allied by the Pact of Steel to Germany. For 10 points, name this country that
was ruled by Benito Mussolini, where he once organized a March on Rome.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana; accept Rome before "country's" is read]
023-09-1-14130

15. Charles Stevenson espoused an emotivist form of this, and G.E. Moore advocated an intuitionist form of
it. The "virtue" form of it is distinct from consequentialism, which is par tof Jeremy Bentham's
utilitarianism, and deontology, which is the form of it used in Immanuel Kant's categorical imperative. It
shares its name with the most famous work of Baruch Spinoza, as well as a "Nicomachean" treatise by
Aristotle. For 10 points, name this branch of philosophy that deals with right and wrong.
ANSWER: ethics [accept word forms; do not accept "morality"]
024-09-1-14131

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 14
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This artist painted three old ladies posing in front of Leutze's Washington Crossing the Delaware in his
satiric Daughters of Revolution. This artist used his sister Nan as a model for a painting with a small red
barn on the right of a bigger building with a pointer arch window. That painting contains a figure who wears
an apron, the sister of a bespectacled dentist who prominently wields a pitchfork. For 10 points, name this
artist who depicted Iowa farmers in his American Gothic.
ANSWER: Grant DeVolson Wood
024-09-1-14132

2. This denomination allows married men to become priests, but it does not ordain men whose wives were
previously widowed or divorced. Member churches are considered “autocephalous”
(OUGHT-oh-SEFF-uh-luss) in this denomination. It engages in religious governance through
“metropolitans” and celebrates Christmas on January 7th. This church considers the Patriarch of
Constantinople its primary cleric. For 10 points, identify this Christian group, which split from Roman
Catholicism in the Great Schism of 1054 and predominates in Russia, Greece, and much of Eastern Europe.
ANSWER: Eastern Orthodoxy [or Orthodox Christianity; or Greek Orthodoxy; or Orthodox Catholic
Church; do not accept or prompt on “Catholic Church” by itself; prompt on Eastern Christianity]
019-09-1-14133

3. Reacting aluminum carbide with water produces this substance, as does heating a mixture of sodium
acetate with sodium hydroxide. Under repeated free radical halogenation, this compound can be turned into
chloroform. This molecule is found inside clathrate hydrates. This gas is made by a certain type of Archaea
(arr-KAY-uh) bacteria. Rains of its liquid form occur on Titan. Since it has no odor, odorants must be added
to it as a safety precaution when it us used for fuel. For 10 points, name this compound that is the simplest
alkane, has the formula CH4, and is found in natural gas.
ANSWER: methane [accept CH4 before it is read]
001-09-1-14134

4. This author continually revised his horror novella about invisible vampires from Brazil as he gradually
went insane from syphilis, producing three distinct versions of Le Horla. He wrote a story in which Rachel
slashes to death an abusive German officer, “Mademoiselle Fifi.” In another story by this author, the
prostitute Elizabeth Rousset must negotiate for a coach’s passage during the Franco-Prussian War. For 10
points, name this author of “Ball of Fat” who also wrote of Mathilde Loisel’s labors to replace some fake
jewelry in “The Necklace.”
ANSWER: Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant
019-09-1-14135

5. Petechiae can occur due to decreased function of these cells, which are derived from megakaryocytes.
They have four namesake factors, one of which is proaccelerin, and surface receptors on these cells bind to
fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor. Aspirin decreases the activation of these cells, which release
thromboxanes during the formation of their namesake "plug." For 10 points, name these blood cells that
accumulate to seal small tears in the blood vessel wall and are important in clotting.
ANSWER: platelets [prompt on thromboxanes]
003-09-1-14136

VHSL Regular Season Round 14 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

