VHSL Districts
Round 5
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One political organization of this ideology was led by Oswald Mosely, and was called the "British Union
of" this position. This term is derived from the Latin word for the bundle of sticks carried in front of
important Roman figures. This ideology calls for a "corporatist state" and came to power under the Falange
(fuh-LANJ) in Spain. This ideology was advocated by the Blackshirts during the March on Rome. For 10
points, identify this political movement which gained power between the World Wars, particularly in Italy
under Benito Mussolini.
ANSWER: fascism [or fascist or other word forms]
019-09-3-05101

2. This poet remembers when "I was young and easy under apple boughs" and concludes "I sang in my
chains like the sea" in his "Fern Hill." He wrote another poem that describes "wild men who caught and sang
the sun in flight" and how "blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay." In that poem, he claims that "old
age should burn and rave" and urges "rage, rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this
Welsh-born poet of "Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night."
ANSWER: Dylan Marlais Thomas
026-09-3-05102

3. They had a rivalry with the Phillies known as the City Series until they moved from Philadelphia in 1955.
This organization's use of statistical analysis in personnel decisions was the focus of Michael Lewis's book
Moneyball. Current players on its roster include catcher Kurt Suzuki and American League Rookie of the
Year Andrew Baily. For 10 points, name this American League West team that competes in the Bay Bridge
series with the nearby San Francisco Giants.
ANSWER: Oakland Athletics [or Oakland Athletics]
002-09-3-05103

4. The Thornton Wilder adaptation of this play cuts the scene in which a husband asks his wife if she has
been to the confectioner's shop. That husband has his wife stuff two macaroons in her mouth before offering
some to Dr. Rank and Kristine Linde. This play contains the "first serious conversation" between that
husband in wife in eight years of marriage. This play ends with the wife slamming the door on her way out.
Nora Helmer leaves her husband Torvald in, for 10 points, what play by Henrik Ibsen?
ANSWER: A Doll's House [or A Doll House; or Et Dukkehjem]
003-09-3-05104

5. One algorithm that accomplishes this purpose is the Bees algorithm, which mimics the behavior of a
swarm of bees. The A-star algorithm accomplishes this purpose in a best-first manner. Algorithms that
accomplish this purpose on a tree do so in a depth-first or breadth-first manner. An exhaustive method of
accomplishing this task is called the brute-force type, which is contrasted with the "informed" or "heuristic"
type. For 10 points, name this task that takes an input and returns a solution, exemplified by the Google
algorithm.
ANSWER: search algorithms [accept word forms of "search"]
026-09-3-05105

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One poem by this author declares "East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet." This
man wrote a story in which the title character, "the oldest Old Thing in England" meets the children Dan and
Una. One novel by this author of "Puck of Pook’s Hill" focuses on a character who grows up on the streets
of Lahore and becomes a spy for the British. In another of his works, Akela sings a death song to Mowgli.
For 10 points, name this British author of Kim and The Jungle Book.
ANSWER: Joseph Rudyard Kipling
030-09-3-05106

7. In 1972, a major earthquake struck this country's capital; relief money was misappropriated by the corrupt
administration of dictator Anastasio Somoza Debayle (ah-nuh-STAH-see-oh so-MOH-zah deh-BUY-lay).
This country was the first in North America to elect a female president, Violeta Chamorro, and is currently
led by Daniel Ortega. During the 1980's, the United States funded a right-wing group in this nation. For 10
points, name this Central American country which was divided by a civil war between the Sandinistas and
the Contras.
ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua [or Republica de Nicaragua]
052-09-3-05107

8. These particles have a half life of over ten to the thirty two years. Along with an anti-neutrino and an
electron, these particles are a product of minus beta decay. They are the main particle accelerated in
experiments at the Large Hadron Collider. The fusion of two of these in the sun is its namesake chain
reaction. They consist of two up quarks and one down quark, giving it a positive charge. For 10 points, name
these subatomic particles that along with neutrons reside in the nucleus.
ANSWER: protons
001-09-3-05108

9. On the left of this painting is a distorted, wailing mother who holds her dead child. Its top depicts a
woman's arm holding a lantern, above which a light bulb shines. In the center of this painting, a horse is
being stabbed with a spear. In 2003, a reproduction of this painting was covered leading up to the war in
Iraq. This black-and-white work was a response to the actions of the Condor Legion of the Luftwaffe
(LOOFT-voff-uh). For 10 points, name this work painted by Pablo Picasso in response to the bombing of a
Basque town.
ANSWER: Guernica (GWARE-nee-kah)
003-09-3-05109

10. While campaigning for Barry Goldwater, this man gave the nationally televised "A Time for Choosing"
speech. This man's press secretary James Brady was disabled by the assassination attempt of John Hinckley,
Jr., against this President. His administration saw the sale of arms to the Middle East in the Iran-Contra
Affair. In one speech, this politician asked Mikhail Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall. For 10 points,
name this "Great Communicator" and Republican president of the 1980s.
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan
023-09-3-05110

11. The Crystal one of these features in Utah is an example of one powered by carbon dioxide. The "Great
Basin" of them is home to the extremophile T. aquaticus, whose DNA polymerase operates at unusually
high temperatures and allows PCR to function. These features form along fault lines near volcanic activity.
Their mechanism typically requires stored water to be heated and released, often on a regular timetable. For
10 points, name these geological formations that periodically discharge water, exemplified by Yellowstone's
Old Faithful.
ANSWER: geysers
001-09-3-05111

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. One character in this novel, Senka, is a deaf survivor of the Buchenwald concentration camp. In one of
its scenes, Cesar gives a cigarette butt to the main character instead of Fetyukov. Most of the characters in
this novel are "zeks." The title character of this work is also known as Shukov and was imprisoned after
escaping a German prisoner of war camp during World War II. For 10 points, name this work, about
twenty-four hours of the title character's experiences in a gulag, by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
(sohl-zhuh-NEET-sin).
ANSWER: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich [or A Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich; or Odin Den
Iz Zhizni Ivana Denisovicha]
030-09-3-05112

13. This country is the site of the world-renowned surfing location G-Land. This country's state philosophy
is the Pancasila, and its music is traditionally played on the gamelan. This country contains prominent
temples at Prambanan (prahm-BAH-nahn) and Borobudur (BOR-oh-buh-door), as well as the extinct
volcano Krakatoa. It has more Muslim residents than any other country in the world. For 10 points, name
this Southeast Asian country that is made up of islands such as Bali, Sumatra, and Java.
ANSWER: Republic of Indonesia [or Republik Indonesia]
004-09-3-05113

14. This politician engineered the Three Emperors League to ally his country with Russia and Austria. This
proponent of "blood and iron" instititued the Kulturkampf (CULL-toor-kamf) against his country's Catholic
Church. He published the Ems Dispatch, the immediate cause of the Franco-Prussian War. In 1871, he
orchestrated the unification of Germany. For 10 points, name this Prussian prime minister who was known
as the Iron Chancellor.
ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck
004-09-3-05114

15. This composer used a theme written by Frederick the Great to construct his collection The Musical
Offering. His works are categorized with BWV numbers. Felix Mendelssohn revived this composer’s St
Matthew Passion. This composer of a Mass in B Minor and The Goldberg Variations dedicated a series of
six concertos to the Margrave of a German state. For 10 points, name this great baroque German organist
and composer of The Brandenburg Concertos.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
015-09-3-05115

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 5
Directed Round
1A. This Latin grammatical case is most often used to denote a noun being used as an instrument, a manner,
or an accompaniment. Identify this case, which is also found in a participial construction known as its
"absolute."
ANSWER: ablative case
1B. Name the Communist politician whose forty-seven-year term as Minister of Defense in Cuba ended in
2006 when he was promoted to succeed his brother in the position of President, which he still holds.
ANSWER: Raúl Modesto Castro Ruz [prompt on Castro]
2A. "Happy Working Song," "True Love's Kiss," and "That's How You Know" are among the musical
numbers in what 2007 film starring Amy Adams as Princess Giselle of Andalasia?
ANSWER: Enchanted
2B. A Jewish army sergeant becomes enraged at his co-religionists abusing his generosity in "Defender of
the Faith," a short story by what author of The Great American Novel and Portnoy's Complaint?
ANSWER: Philip Roth
3A. The national park of this name is the only remaining location of large animal migrations in Africa.
Identify this grassy area, which takes up much of northern Tanzania and borders Lake Victoria.
ANSWER: the Serengeti
3B. This man sent 160 packages to random residents of Omaha, Nebraska to test his "six degrees of
separation" theory. Name this psychologist, who also used fake electric shocks as part of his "obedience to
authority" experiment.
ANSWER: Stanley Milgram
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. If two pizzas feed five people, how many pizzas will be needed
to feed one hundred and ten people?
ANSWER: 44 pizzas
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is five-eighths minus four-fifths?
ANSWER: -7/40
5A. Identify the character who builds the decadent Abbey of Theleme (theh-LEEM) for Friar John, after
shouting for drink at his birth and fathering Pantagruel (PANT-uh-grool), in a long satiric novel by François
Rabelais (fran-SWAH rab-el-EY).
ANSWER: Gargantua
5B. Aposematic (APE-oh-seh-MAT-ick) coloration is a form of what general biological behavior, which
also comes in Mullerian and Batesian (BAIT-see-uhn) types, and refers to one animal taking on the
appearance of another animal to gain some survival advantage?
ANSWER: mimicry
VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find (x2y7z3)6 (quantity x squared times y to the seventh times
z cubed, close quantity, to the sixth).
ANSWER: x12y42z18
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If y varies directly with x, and y is 9 when x is 5, what is x
when y is 72?
ANSWER: x = 40
7A. "Transistor," "Chunnel," and "gerrymander" are examples of what type of word, which is formed from
mixing two previously existing words?
ANSWER: portmanteau
7B. Name the Mexican muralist and husband of Frida Kahlo, whose Man at the Crossroads was removed
from Rockefeller Center in 1934 due to its depiction of Vladimir Lenin.
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
8A. Name the atmospheric region which extends from the ground to as high as eleven miles above the
surface of the Earth and is the zone where clouds and weather patterns are found.
ANSWER: troposphere
8B. Name the American scientist who developed a rule relating the degrees of freedom to the number of
phases in a chemical system, and names a quantity denoting useful work known as his "free energy."
ANSWER: Josiah Willard Gibbs
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. You need to choose your class schedule for next year. You
have four options for each of the first three periods, one choice for fourth period, and five choices for fifth
and sixth periods. How many different schedules can you make?
ANSWER: 1600
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Suppose triangle ABC is a right triangle with right angle at
vertex C. If the side AC measures 12 units, and the cosine of angle CAB is three-fifths, then what is the area
of triangle ABC?
ANSWER: 96
10A. Willard Libby invented the fossil dating method that relies on the 5730-year half-life of what isotope,
used to date specimens between five hundred and fifty thousand years in age?
ANSWER: carbon-14 [or C14; prompt on carbon; prompt on C]
10B. Daggerfall, Morrowind, and Knights of the Nine are among the sequels in what action RPG series,
whose fourth flagship title, Oblivion, was one of the top XBox 360 titles of 2006?
ANSWER: The Elder Scrolls

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 5
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. When heated and measured at 260 nanometers, this molecule undergoes a hyperchromic shift. The H and
Quadruplex forms use Hoogsteen pairing and other forms include Z, A, and B. This polymer can be
artificially made through chain termination, and it differs from its counterpart by the lack of a 2 prime
hydroxyl. Its sequence is usually presented five prime to three prime, and it uses the bases adenine, cytosine,
guanine, and thymine. For ten points, name this molecule that stores the genetic information of a cell.
ANSWER: DNA [or deoxyribonucleic acid]
001-09-3-05117

2. One modern custom in this sect is for men to donate blood during the holiday of Ashura, which
commemmorates the death of Hussein at the Battle of Karbala. This sect is divided into "Fivers,"
"Seveners," and "Twelvers" depending on the number of Imams an offshoot recognizes. This sect considers
the city of Najaf holy because it contains the tomb of Ali, whom this sect supported in a power struggle after
Muhammad's death. Popular in Iran and Iraq, for 10 points, name this second-largest sect of Islam that has
fewer followers than Sunni Islam.
ANSWER: Shi'a Islam [or Shi'ite Islam; do not accept or prompt on "Islam" or "Sunni Islam;" non-Shia
Muslims do not observe any of the practices described in the question]
003-09-3-05118

3. One of this poet's works asserts that "the soul selects her own society then shuts the door." This poet of "I
taste a liquor never brewed" and "I'm nobody! Who are you?" extensively used dashes in her poems and was
known as The Belle of Amherst. One poem by this author describes a slow ride "toward eternity" in a
carriage with Immortality and another figure. For 10 points, name this nineteenth century American poet of
"I heard a fly buzz when I died" and "Because I could not stop for Death."
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
004-09-3-05119

4. This President's Agriculture Secretary was the future president of the Mormon church, Ezra Taft Benson.
His policy towards the Soviets, known as "brinksmanship," was guided by his Secretary of State, John Foster
Dulles. This President created the Interstate Highway System and deployed Army troops to protect the Little
Rock Nine. For 10 points, name this man who was twice elected, on a ticket with Vice-President Richard
Nixon, as a Republican President during the 1950s, after serving as Supreme Allied Commander during
World War II.
ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower
064-09-3-05120

5. A fourteenth-century novel from this country begins with three characters swearing an oath in a peach
garden. A later novel from this country focuses on a character who learns seventy-two ways to transform
himself. That work from this country describes the Monkey King's trek to retrieve Buddhist scriptures. For
10 points, name this country whose novels Journey to the West and Romance of the Three Kingdoms were
written during its Ming Dynasty.
ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo; or Zhongguo]
004-09-3-05121

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This man names a function that gives the number of positive integers that are less than or equal to n and
relatively prime to n. His namesake "characteristic" defines a polyhedron based on its number of vertices
minus its number of edges plus its number of faces. This man formulated his namesake "circuit" when he
proved that there was no way for a person to traverse each of the Seven Bridges of Königsberg once and
only once. For 10 points, name this Swiss mathematician whose namesake number is the base of the natural
logarithm.
ANSWER: Leonhard Euler (OY-ler) [or Euler's totient function, Euler characteristic, etc. at any time]
058-09-3-05122

7. One early kingdom from this place, which successfully defended itself against China's Sui (swee) dynasty,
was the Silla. Another kingdom here was founded by General Yi Seong-gye (YEE song YAY); that
kingdom was ruled by Taejo (TIE-joe) and was called the Joseon (JOE-sahn). This region was split at the
thirty-eighth parallel by a demilitarized zone following a Cold War conflict. For 10 points, name this entity,
currently home to countries founded by Syngman Rhee and Kim Il Sung.
ANSWER: Korean peninsula
022-09-3-05123

8. Subunits of this structure are designated by their rates of sedimentation when centrifuged. This structure
binds to a sequence upstream from a prokaryotic (PRO-"care"-ee-OTT-ick) AUG (A-U-G) codon known as
the Shine-Dalgarno sequence. This structure contains A, P, and E sites. This structure's namesake type of
RNA is found in the nucleolus (nu-clee-OLE-us). This organelle is attached to the endoplasmic reticulum
(EN-doe-PLAZ-mick ruh-TICK-yu-lum) when its product is intended for secretion. For 10 points, name this
site of protein synthesis.
ANSWER: ribosome
058-09-3-05124

9. Kenneth and Mamie Clark were expert witnesses in Briggs v. Elliot, one of the four other cases rolled into
this one. The "massive resistance" movement and the Southern Manifesto were efforts led by Harry Byrd
and Strom Thurmond in opposition to this decision, which a later case ordered to be carried out "with all
deliberate speed." For 10 points, identify this 1954 Supreme Court case that overturned the "separate but
equal" doctrine of Plessy v. Ferguson.
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas [or Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas v.
Brown; accept Briggs v. Elliot or Elliot v. Briggs before it is read]
029-09-3-05125

10. This author cautioned against "an American society gone awry, training individuals for roles they could
not assume," in a work categorizing the Plains Indians as Dionysian and the Zuni as Apollonian. By using
war propaganda and the diaries of captured soldiers, this woman categorized Japanese national character
without ever having visited the country. For 10 points, name this anthropologist who wrote Patterns of
Culture and who described guilt versus shame cultures in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
ANSWER: Ruth Fulton Benedict
003-09-3-05126

11. This number is multiplied by Boltzmann's constant to give the ideal gas constant. The namesake of this
number proposed a law stating that the molar volume of a gas is a constant under a given temperature and
pressure. This value is equal to the number of atoms found in exactly twelve grams of carbon-12, and thus is
considered the number of particles in a mole. For 10, points name this number approximated as 6.022 times
ten to the twenty-third.
ANSWER: Avogadro's number [or Avogadro's constant; do not accept or prompt on "mole"]
063-09-3-05127

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This man set poems by King David in his Symphony of Psalms. His Dumbarton Oaks concerto was
written during his neo-classical phase. "The Adoration of the Earth" is a section of a ballet he wrote using
polytonality. In one ballet by this composer, maidens are held captive by the ogre Katschei (CAT-shay) play
with golden apples until Prince Ivan frees them with help from the title creature's feather. For 10 points,
name this Russian composer of Petrushka, The Firebird and The Rite of Spring.
ANSWER: Igor Stravinsky
063-09-3-05128

13. As a child, this ruler survived both the Parliament's Fronde and the Princes' Fronde. This king issued the
Edict of Fountainbleu (FON-ten-blow), which revoked the Edict of Nantes (NONZ). This ruler fought the
War of Spanish Succession to put his grandson Philip V on Spain's throne. This king legendarily declared "I
am the State" and built a massive palace at Versailles (ver-SAI). For 10 points, name this absolutist French
monarch, who ruled for seventy-two years and was known as the Sun King.
ANSWER: Louis XIV
015-09-3-05129

14. This figure's brothers are Sarpedon and Rhadamanthus (RAA-duh-MAN-thuss), who, like this figure,
judges the dead in the underworld. After his son Androgeus was murdered by rival athletic competitors, this
ruler concluded a deal with Athens to send him seven men and seven women to feed a certain figure. This
figure's wife Pasiphaë (PAH-suh-fay) slept with a bull to produce this king's namesake creature, who was
slain by Theseus with the help of Ariadne. For 10 points, name this Cretan king who had the labyrinth built
to house the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Minos
045-09-3-05130

15. The narrator of this work asks "Is there, is there balm in Gilead?" after calling the title character a
"prophet" and a "thing of evil." This poem ends with the title character sitting atop a "pallid bust of Pallas"
over a door. The narrator of this poem thinks he hears a tapping and "rapping at [his] chamber door." The
title character only says the word "Nevermore." For 10 points, name this Edgar Allen Poe poem which opens
"Once upon a midnight dreary" and concerns a black bird visiting the narrator after the death of Lenore.
ANSWER: "The Raven"
015-09-3-05131

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 5
Tiebreaker Questions
1. These substances fill their lowest unoccupied molecular orbital in one theory about them that calls them
electron pair acceptors. They donate protons according to Brønsted-Lowry (BRAWN-sted LAU-ree) theory.
These compounds produce a hydronium ("high"-DRO-nee-um) ion according to another definition, by
Arrhenius (are-REN-ee-us). These substances can also be defined as having a pH of less than seven. For 10
points, name these chemicals that can be neutralized with bases.
ANSWER: acids [or Lewis acids; or Brønsted-Lowry acids; or Arrhenius acids]
023-09-3-05132

2. This man argued that an "impartial spectator" is the driving force of moral judgments in his book The
Theory of Moral Sentiments. A later work by this thinker argues against relying on "the benevolence of the
butcher," and uses the example of a pin factory to explain the division of labor. This philosopher advanced
the idea that economies are organized by the sum of individual self-interests, which he called the "invisible
hand." For 10 points, name this Scottish thinker who advanced his free-market ideas in The Wealth of
Nations.
ANSWER: Adam Smith
019-09-3-05133

3. One character in this opera possesses a 999 year lease from Goro. In this opera, the "Humming Chorus"
takes place as the main character awaits the USS Abraham Lincoln in the harbor. That character meets her
husband's new wife Kate after singing "Un Bel Di." The musical Miss Saigon is a modern adaptation of this
opera. For 10 points, name this opera by Giacomo Puccini (pu-CHEE-nee) centering on the relationship
between the American Lieutenant Pinkerton and the title character, the Japanese Cio-Cio [cho-cho] San.
ANSWER: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]
030-09-3-05134

4. The narrator of this novel listens to Father Mapple's passionate sermon on Job after staying in the Spouter
Inn in New Bedford. In it, the young Pip becomes demented after being abandoned by Stubb in the middle
of the night. One character's death by rope is prophesied by the turbaned Parsee Fedallah in this novel.
Sympathetic characters in this work include the harpooner Queequeg and the first mate Starbuck. For 10
points, name this Herman Melville novel narrated by Ishmael in which Captain Ahab pursues the title white
whale.
ANSWER: Moby Dick, or, The Whale
015-09-3-05135

5. One disease affecting this organ arises from alpha 1-antitrypsin (ONE AN-tie-TRIP-sin) deficiency. This
organ is served by divisions of the trachea (TRAY-key-uh) called bronchi (BRAWN-kye), which divide into
bronchioles (BRAWN-key-oles). Alveoli (al-vee-OH-lye) are where blood provided to this organ by the
pulmonary artery exchanges oxygen for carbon dioxide. The left of these organs, which is degraded in
emphysema (EM-fuh-ZEE-muh), has one fewer lobe than the right. For 10 points, name these organs used in
breathing.
ANSWER: lungs
022-09-3-05136

VHSL Districts Round 5 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

