VHSL Regionals
Round 1
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This man called the Luca Conference to prevent civil war in the territory he governed. He defeated
Vercingetorix (VER-sin-GET-uh-ricks) at Alesia in that territory. Besides being the governor of Gaul, this
man defeated Ptolemy XIII at the Battle of the Nile. He was a member of the First Triumverate along with
Pompey and Crassus, and was succeeded by his adopted son Augustus. For 10 points, name this Roman
leader, who was killed on the Ides of March by Cassius and Brutus.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar [prompt on Caesar]
005-09-7-01101

2. In this film, an eyeless dealer sells a drug called "Clarity." Colin Farrell plays a mustachioed,
gum-chewing investigator who is gunned down by this movie's antagonist. The protagonist seeks out Leo
Crow, who was hired to pretend that he kidnapped and killed the protagonist's son Sean. Agatha is one of the
"precogs," who foresees murders before they happen in, for 10 points, what Steven Spielberg-directed film
starring Tom Cruise as a Precrime detective?
ANSWER: Minority Report
026-09-7-01102

3. This structure is described by the Schläfli Symbol 4,3. Prince Rupert's problem deals with two of these
and it is a equilateral zonohedron. It has thirteen axes of symmetry and eleven different nets. An analogue in
one higher dimension is the tesseract, and it is the dual of the octahedron. Its surface area is twenty four
times its radius squared and its volume is eight times its radius cubed. They have twelve edges, six faces,
and eight vertices. For 10 points, name this three dimensional construct with six square faces.
ANSWER: cube
001-09-7-01103

4. This thinker attacked Thomas Munzer (MOONT-zer) in the pamphlet Against the Murderous and
Thieving Hordes of Peasants. This leader worked closely wth Philip Melanchthon (meh-LANK-thun), who
explained this man's beliefs in the Augsburg Confession. His most famous writing was addressed to
Archbishop Albert of Mainz (MINEZ) and led to his excommunication by Pope Leo X. That writing was
nailed to the doors of the Castle Church at Wittenberg (VIT-en-burg). For 10 points, what German monk
protested the sales of indulgences in his 95 Theses, thereby starting the Protestant Reformation?
ANSWER: Martin Luther
034-09-7-01104

5. This chemist's namesake cell consists of a zinc anode in sulfuric acid and a carbon cathode in nitric or
chromic acid. With Henry Roscoe, he studied the formation of hydrogen chloride and the use of electrolysis
to isolate pure metals. With Gustav Kirchhoff, he analyzed the emission spectra of heated elements, leading
to the discovery of cesium and rubidium. For those projects, he worked with his assistant Peter Desaga
(deh-SAH-guh) to develop a laboratory device for heating samples. For 10 points, name this German
chemist, who lends his name to a gas burner.
ANSWER: Robert Bunsen
040-09-7-01105

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. At one point, these two characters climb into barrels aboard a ship bound for England. Later, one of these
two characters stabs the Player with what turns out to be a fake knife. That stabbing leads to the Tragedians
acting out various types of stage death, while these two characters contemplate their impending execution.
As one work in which they appear begins, a coin comes up heads 89 times in a row. For 10 points, name
these two minor characters in Hamlet, who are both declared dead in the title of a Tom Stoppard play.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern [or Guildenstern and Rosencrantz; do not accept or prompt on
partial answer]
062-09-7-01106

7. This man was nearly assassinated with a hand grenade in the Sakuradamon (sack-oor-ah-DAH-moan)
Incident. As a marine biologist, this person discovered several species of hydrozoa. This leader was advised
by a council known as the Big Six against giving the Jewel Voice Broadcast, during which he declared his
intentioned to accept the Potsdam declaration. This leader’s reign followed the Taisho period and was
known as the Showa Period. For 10 points, name this father of Akihito who served as Emperor of Japan
during World War II.
ANSWER: Hirohito [accept Showa before it is read]
015-09-7-01107

8. One story from this country is about a group of one hundred and eight bandits and is sometimes known as
Outlaws in the Marsh. A novel from this country follows the quest of Pigsy, Sandy, Tripitaka, and the
Monkey King to collect Buddhist scriptures from India and is titled Journey to the West. Soul Mountain by
Gao Xinjian (GAO sheen-JEE-en) features a trip through this country's Sichuan [SHEE-choo-AHN]
province. For 10 points, name this country, whose emigrants are the subject of The Joy Luck Club by Amy
Tan.
ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo; or Zhongguo]
059-09-7-01108

9. This philosopher alleged that man could conceive of a shade of blue he had never seen, and he also
claimed that no miracle had ever been proven. His distinction between matters of fact and relations among
ideas is known as his "fork." This thinker explored rational belief in a discussion between Cleanthes
(clee-AN-theez), Philo, and Demea (DEH-mee-uh) in his Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion. This
man's publication awoke Immanuel Kant from a "dogmatic slumber." For 10 points, name this Scottish
thinker who wrote An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: David Hume
063-09-7-01109

10. A short story by this author involves a woman who buys arsenic marked "For Rats" that is presumably
used to kill her fiancé, Homer Barron. This author of "A Rose for Emily" wrote a novel in which a family
travels to Jefferson to bury Addie Bundren. Another work by this author, which also prominently features
his usual setting, the fictional Yoknapatawpha (yuk-nah-pah-TAW-fah) County, is narrated by various
members of the Compson family. For 10 points, name this American author of As I Lay Dying and The
Sound and the Fury.
ANSWER: William Faulkner
032-09-7-01110

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This composer wrote about Don Magnifico trying to arrange a marriage to Ramiro for Clorinda or Tisbe,
the stepsisters of the title character, Cinderella. This composer created an opera in which the title character
repeats his own name in "Largo al Factotum" and Doctor Bartolo's ward marries Count Almaviva. He wrote
about a revolt against Gesler by a Swiss patriot in an opera that involves an apple on Jemmy's head that must
be shot off. For 10 points, name this composer of The Barber of Seville and William Tell.
ANSWER: Gioachino Antonio Rossini
019-09-7-01111

12. Physical evidence of this phenomenon is searched for by TAMA300, Geo600, VIRGO, and LIGO.
Einstein rings are created by lensing, or bending of the light, by it. Propagating at the speed of light, it is
considered the curvature in space-time in general relativity. This phenomenon was studied by Galileo at the
Leaning Tower of Pisa and becomes exponentially high near black holes. For 10 points, name this attractive
fundamental force, which on Earth causes objects to accelerate at 9.8 meters per second squared.
ANSWER: gravity [or gravitational force; or gravitational waves]
034-09-7-01112

13. This composer wrote about Hercules's service to a Lydian queen in "Omphale's (OM-fah-layz) Spinning
Wheel." He wrote one work with the violin tuning their E-string down to E-flat. He references "Twinkle
Twinkle Little Star" and his own work "Danse Macabre" (muh-COB) in "Fossils." "Fossils" is one of the
movements of a work that includes "Tortoises" and "Pianists" by this composer. For 10 points, name the
composer of the Organ Symphony, who depicted creatures such as the Lion and the Swan in The Carnival of
the Animals.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saens
034-09-7-01113

14. This event was exposed when James McCord sent a letter about Operation Gemstone to Judge John
Sirica. It was planned by E. Howard Hunt. Decades later, Vanity Fair identified Mark Felt as the man who
provided the information used by Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein to uncover
this incident. For 10 points, the Committee to Re-Elect the President was involved in a break-in of the
Democratic National Committee that triggered what scandal, which led to the resignation of Richard Nixon?
ANSWER: Watergate burglary [or Watergate scandal, or anything reasonable containing the word
Watergate]
034-09-7-01114

15. He was killed in Sicily when the daughters of Cocalus (coh-CAH-lus) placed him in a boiling bath. This
mythical figure is one of the judges of the underworld along with his brother Rhadamanthys
(RAD-uh-MAN-this), and Aeacus (eye-EE-kus). His wife placed herself in a hollow wooden cow devised by
Daedalus to fulfill her Poseidon-inflicted lust for the bull. For 10 points, what king of Crete demanded seven
Athenian youths and maidens to feed the Minotaur?
ANSWER: Minos
034-09-7-01115

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 1
Directed Round
1A. They are characterized by the presence of a carbonyl group in which the carbon atom is covalently
bonded to an oxygen atom. Name this class of organic compounds.
ANSWER: ketones
1B. Harpo Marx, Robert Sherwood, and Dorothy Parker were among the literary figures who met at the
namesake "round table" of what New York hotel, named for a Native American tribe?
ANSWER: Algonquin Hotel
2A. What Latin literary term, based on a literal event in Greek drama, refers to a person or thing that is
suddenly introduced to a plot to provides an artificial solution to a seemingly impossible problem?
ANSWER: deus ex machina
2B. Identify the market structure which occurs when there is only one buyer for a commodity, as in a factory
town with only one buyer for labor.
ANSWER: monopsony [do not accept "monopoly"]
3A. Identify the saint who, with his brother Methodius, developed the alphabet used for such Slavic
languages as Russian, Bulgarian, and Serbian.
ANSWER: Saint Cyril
3B. Name the German engineer and partial namesake of a present-day automaker who, in 1885, built the
first practical automobile that was powered by an internal-combustion engine.
ANSWER: Karl Friedrich Benz
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Factor x2 + x - 12.
ANSWER: (x+4)(x-3) [the order of the factors does not matter]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Add: 159.4 + 69.96 + 3.711.
ANSWER: 233.071
5A. These figurative phrases replace common nouns throughout Beowulf. What is this literary device,
examples of which include calling the Sun "God's beacon" or the sea a "whale road?"
ANSWER: kennings
5B. An hour of this man's film The Magnificent Ambersons was lost forever in editing. Name this director
and star of Citizen Kane.
ANSWER: Orson Welles
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. If you draw three cards at random from a standard deck of 52,
what is the probability that at least one of them is a spade?
ANSWER: 37/64
VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Three times a number, plus five more than the number, equals
twenty-five. What is the number?
ANSWER: 5
7A. It is named for the Missouri town that it shook, with the largest earthquakes in American history, in the
winter of 1811 to 1812. Name this faultline that runs from Arkansas to Kentucky.
ANSWER: New Madrid Fault
7B. What former governor of Kansas was appointed as the current Secretary of Health and Human Services
after Tom Daschle withdrew due to tax-related issues?
ANSWER: Kathleen Sibelius
8A. Named for a University of North Carolina professor who fell to his death from it, this mountain is
located in the Blue Ridge. Name this highest peak in the United States east of the Mississippi River.
ANSWER: Mount Mitchell
8B. "Polly," "Lithium," and "Smells Like Teen Spirit" are among the tracks on what influential 1991
Nirvana album?
ANSWER: Nevermind
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If a triangle has side lengths of 8, 11, and 15, what is the area
of the triangle? You may leave your answer in unsimplified radical form.
ANSWER: square root of 1836 [or 6 times the square root of 51]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Solve the system: 3x + 5z = 24; x - 3y + 2z = 3; 6y - 4z = 0.
ANSWER: (3, 2, 3) [or x=3; y=2; z=3]
10A. What current broadcaster for Fox Sports was a quarterback who led the Dallas Cowboys to victories in
Super Bowls 27, 28, and 30?
ANSWER: Troy Aikman
10B. This disease has "dry" and "wet" varieties. Name this disorder that is caused by a deficiency of vitamin
B1, or thiamin.
ANSWER: beriberi

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 1
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This present-day U.S. state was besieged during the War of Jenkins' Ear. The northern boundary of this
state was established in Pinckney's Treaty. The Treaty of Payne's Landing forced one Native American tribe
to relinquish holdings in this state. This state was ultimately acquired by the U.S. in the 1819
"Transcontinental Treaty" between John Quincy Adams and Luis de Onís. For 10 points, name this former
Spanish colony, which was the location of three Seminole Wars and the center of an Electoral College
dispute in the 2000 Presidential election.
ANSWER: Florida
032-09-7-01117

2. This thinker viewed society as a "superorganism" evolving towards a perfect equilibrium. This thinker's
ideas were applied to American society by William Graham Sumner. In books such as Social Statics, this
thinker argued that regulations to help the poor interfered with natural selection. For 10 points, name this
British social Darwinist who coined the phrase "survival of the fittest."
ANSWER: Herbert Spencer
004-09-7-01118

3. One form of this phenomenon is caused by the methylation of CpG dinucleotide; the deletion of the same
gene on chromosome 15 can lead to either Prader-Willi syndrome or Angelman syndrome because of that
"genomic" form of this effect. Westermarck effect is a reverse form of this effect, and its most famous form
was studied in greylag geese by Konrad Lorenz. For 10 points, what phenomenon is the time-sensitive rapid
learning by young individuals, often associated with learning who the parent is?
ANSWER: genomic imprinting
034-09-7-01119

4. This artist of the Gypsy Madonna painted an infant sticking his right arm into a sarcophagus, surrounded
by a vain woman draped in white and a naked woman covered in red, in his allegory Sacred and Profane
Love. This student of Giorgione (jor-JO-nee) depicted two maids rummaging through a chest in a painting
that inspired Manet's (mah-NAYZ) Olympia. In that painting by this artist, a dog slumbers at the feet of a
reclining woman who only wears a bracelet. For 10 points, name the Venetian painter of Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio]
034-09-7-01120

5. This man's dispute with Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar (SWAY-ar) led him to hastily construct the city of
Veracruz and name himself governor, so that he could not be recalled to Cuba. This man employed a
translator known as "La Malinche" (ma-LEEN-chay). His rearguard was massacred on a causeway across
Lake Texcoco during the "Noche Triste." He was the first European to see Tenochtitlán (ten-oak-teet-LON),
and he conquered an empire led by Montezuma II. For 10 points, name this conquistador who founded
Mexico City and conquered the Aztecs.
ANSWER: Hernán Cortés de Monroy y Pizarro [or Hernando Cortés; or Fernando Cortés; do not accept or
prompt on "Pizarro"]
026-09-7-01121

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The deadly species chironex fleckeri (kye-ROW-nex fleh-CARE-ee) can be found in this phylum within
the class Cubazoa. Its class Hydrazoa contains Obelia and air ferns. Sea anemones are included the mostly
sessile class Anthozoa, while Scyphozoa, though they are mobile, lack a velum as a method of propulsion.
Members of this phylum have two forms, the medusa and the polyp, and they are characterized by their
namesake specialized cells for capturing prey, some of which are the stinging nematocysts
(neh-MAH-toe-sists). For 10 points, name this phylum of marine animals that includes corals and jellyfish.
ANSWER: Cnidaria (nih-DARE-ee-uh)
040-09-7-01122

7. One poem by this author describes the icy death of a skipper by "the reef of Norman's woe." This author
of "The Wreck of the Hesperus" opened a dactylic hexameter work with "this is the forest primeval." That
poem describes Gabriel Lajeunesse's separation from the title woman during the Acadian Upheaval. Another
poem by this author of Evangeline opens "listen my children and you shall hear of the midnight ride" of the
title character. For 10 points, name this American poet of "Paul Revere's Ride" and The Song of Hiawatha.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
020-09-7-01123

8. One member of this organization gave the "Ballot or the Bullet" speech and was suspended for using the
phrase "chickens coming home to roost" to describe the Kennedy assassination. This organization planned
the Day of Absence in parallel with the Million Man March. Moving towards radicalism under its current
leader Louis Farrakhan, it was earlier expanded by a man who was born as Elijah Poole. For 10 points, name
this black-superiority group, founded by the mysterious Wallace Fard, whose spokesman in the 1960s was
Malcolm X.
ANSWER: the Nation of Islam
034-09-7-01124

9. This author suggested a practice that would "greatly lessen the number of Papists" in his country in an
ironic indictment of English policy in his homeland. Another work by this man includes talking horses
called Houyhnmns (WIN-ems), the 60-foot tall Brobdingnagians (BROB-dig-NAG-ee-ans), and the
Blefuscuans (bleh-FUSS-cue-ans), hated rivals of the tiny Lilliputians (lih-leh-PUE-shuns). For 10 points,
name this Irish satirist who wrote A Modest Proposal and Gulliver's Travels.
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
063-09-7-01125

10. In this work, which begins when one character leaves a gate open, a character played by the flute mocks
another for being unable to fly. The return of the oboe at the end of this composition signifies that one
character has been swallowed alive and is quacking from the stomach of a character represented by the
French horns. A clarinet represents the cat, and a bassoon represents the grandfather of one title character.
For 10 points, name this work in which a boy outsmarts a canine, composed by Sergei Prokofiev.
ANSWER: Peter and the Wolf
020-09-7-01126

11. Prince William of Orange successfully defended the crossroads of Quatre-Bras (KWAT-ruh-brah) in this
battle. The farm of La Haye Sante (luh EYE sant) was surrounded by Marshal Ney in this engagement,
which was won when Blucher's (BLOO-kurz) Prussians entered the fray. This battle ended the Hundred
Days after the losing commander returned from Elba. For 10 points, name this 1815 battle in Belgium, at
which the Duke of Wellington crushed Napoleon Bonaparte's last army.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo
063-09-7-01127

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. A quantum cascade laser was developed here, as was WaveLan, the first wireless local area network.
The Fractional Quantum Hall Effect was discovered at this institution, where the Inferno operating system,
using the Limbo programming language, was developed here by Dennis Ritchie. Ritchie's earlier work here
included the development of C, and Bjorne Stroustrup (BYORN STROO-strup) developed C++
("see-plus-plus") here as well. For 10 points, the transistor was discovered at which scientific research
facility directed by a telephone company?
ANSWER: Bell Labs
040-09-7-01128

13. This author wrote a work that sees Tony, Charis, and Roz each encounter their long dead classmate
Zenia. This author of The Robber Bride wrote a novel in which the protagonist, formerly married to Luke,
lives in a residence run by Serena Joy and her husband the Commander. That novel by this writer takes place
in the Republic of Gilead and is narrated by Offred. For 10 points, name this Canadian author who wrote
Oryx and Crake and The Handmaid’s Tale .
ANSWER: Margaret Atwood
064-09-7-01129

14. The Fermi satellite discovered that this phenomenon produces positrons. Sprites, elves, and blue jets are
harder-to-observe variants of this phenomenon, and the positive type of it is more energetic. The initial stage
of it is preliminary breakdown followed by the formation of a stepped ladder. Before this phenomenon
occurs, the ground sends up a positive "streamer." It is precipitated by charge separation between the ground
and a cloud. For 10 points, name this atmospheric phenomenon of electric discharge often seen in
thunderstorms.
ANSWER: lightning [accept lightning strikes or equivalents]
001-09-7-01130

15. In one play, this character reveals that the gods will bless the land he is buried in. In that play, this
character rewards Theseus's friendship by choosing to be buried near Athens. This character refuses to return
home to aid his son Polynices (PALL-ee-NICE-ees) in that play, which begins with this character being led
to Colonus by his daughter Antigone (an-TIG-oh-nee). For 10 points, name this subject of two plays by
Sophocles, a king of Thebes who learns that he killed his father Laius (LIE-us) and married his mother
Jocasta (joe-CAST-uh).
ANSWER: Oedipus
004-09-7-01131

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 1
Tiebreaker Questions
1. The function of these units was hypothesized by Ramon Cajal (cah-HALL), whose rival Golgi divided
them into two types based on length. The analog of the tight junction in these units is the hillock, which
becomes depolarized to initiate a positive feedback loop. Astrocytes can transform from glial cells to this
type of cell, which undergo saltation when action potentials propagate across successive Nodes of Ranvier.
The soma is the cell body of this type of cells, which contain the short dendrites and gaps known as
synapses. Occuring in a motor variety, for 10 points, name this basic unit of the nervous system.
ANSWER: neurons [prompt on "nerve cells"]
020-09-7-01132

2. This nation's northern end is Jaffna Peninsula. This nation is nearly connected to its northwestern neighbor
by a chain of limestone shoals called Adam's Bridge, but is in fact separated by the Palk Strait and the Gulf
of Mannar. Although the Sinhalese people are the majority in this country, a minority ethnic group sponsors
the militant Tamil Tigers. For 10 points, name this island nation that was once called Ceylon and is located
to the southeast of India.
ANSWER: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka [or Shri Lamka Prajatantrika Samajaya di
Janarajaya; or Ilankai Jananayaka Choshalichak Kutiyarachu]
034-09-7-01133

3. This figure tricked Alviss out of marrying his daughter by questioning him until he turned into stone. This
son of the giantess Jord and husband of Sif rides in a chariot drawn by a pair of goats, whom he eats and
resurrects when he's hungry. This god is fated to die after taking nine steps while battling the serpent
Jörmungandr (YOUR-mun-gand-er) at Ragnarok. This god wields the hammer Mjöllnir (muh-YOHL-neer),
which shoots lightning bolts. For 10 points, name this red haired son of Odin, the Norse god of thunder and
namesake of Thursday.
ANSWER: Thor [or Donner or Donar; or Thunaraz]
059-09-7-01134

4. One book by this author details an abbey whose motto is "Do What Thou Wilt." This man who wrote of
the Abbey of Theleme described a search for the Oracle of the Divine Bottle. This author created a character
who was born after his mother played tag on the green, which resulted in the birth out of her left ear of a
child who required 17,913 cows to provide his milk. This writer used the pseudonym Alcofribas Nasier to
create a giant born of Grangosier and Gargamelle. For 10 points, name this French author who created
Gargantua and Pantagruel.
ANSWER: François Rabelais
026-09-7-01135

5. The EPR paradox requires that either this principle or locality must be broken. One of the consequences of
this principle is the existence of the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit of neutron starsm because it
provides for the degeneracy pressure that supports them. Although bosons do not obey it, this law applies for
all particles governed by Fermi-Dirac statistics. For 10 points, what principle, which states that no two
fermions can share all four quantum numbers, forces electrons in the same subshell to have different spin?
ANSWER: Pauli Exclusion Principle
034-09-7-01136

VHSL Regionals Round 1 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

