VHSL Regular Season
Round 4
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. At one meeting this man was interrogated by Cardinal Cajetan. This man notably debated with Johann
Eck. This man wrote about "murderous and thieving hordes" in condemning the Peasants' War. This man
was an opponent of a policy exemplified by the actions of Johann Tetzel. Frederick III of Saxony had to hide
this man in Wartburg Castle after he was condemned at the Diet of Worms. Earlier, this man responded to
the sale of indulgences by posting the Ninety-Five Theses. For 10 points, name this leader of the Protestant
Reformation.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
028-09-1-04101

2. If these structures are joined in one whorl, they are called connate. If they are fused from more than one
whorl, they are called adnate. The attachment of this structure's components can be either basifixed or
versatile depending on whether the dehiscence is poricidal or longitudinal. They are comprised of the
filament, the anther, and microsporangia, or pollen sacs. Most flowers have six of them located inside the
perianth. For 10 points, name this male flower organ, complemented by the female carpel or pistil.
ANSWER: stamens
040-09-1-04102

3. The names and reign years of some of these rulers can be found on the Turin King List, and the
authoritative historian on them is Manetho. One of these rulers moved the capital to Amarna; a later one
fought with the Hittites at the Battle of Kadesh. These individuals wore a double crown of red and white,
signifying the Upper and Lower regions of the land they ruled. An unnamed one tangled with Moses in
Exodus, and many of the Old Kingdom were buried in pyramids. For 10 points, name these ancient rulers of
Egypt.
ANSWER: pharaohs
003-09-1-04103

4. One son of Tros was transported to this location by a god disguised as an eagle, where that son,
Ganymede (GAH-nuh-meed), became a cupbearer. Zeus sent a gadfly to interrupt one figure's attempt to
come to this place after that figure killed the Chimera. That figure, Bellerophon (bell-AIR-uh-fawn), used
Pegasus in his attempt to reach this site, and both he and Hephaestus were lamed by falls from this location.
This site had a throne for each of its twelve inhabitants. For 10 points, name this location in Greek
mythology, from which the gods watched over man.
ANSWER: Mount Olympus [or Ólympos]
023-09-1-04104

5. This man was a leader of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen. This man joined with Morris Hillquit
and Victor Berger to expel Bill Haywood from his organization. Clarence Darrow quit his job as a corporate
lawyer to represent this man. This man led the American Railway Union during the Pullman Strike. Jailed
for violating the Espionage Act in 1918, this man had earlier helped found the IWW. For 10 points, name
this politician who ran in five presidential elections, including one on the Socialist Party ticket in 1920 while
in prison.
ANSWER: Eugene Victor Debs
028-09-1-04105

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. As part of this man's disagreement with Siger of Brabant, this thinker wrote "On the Unicity of Intellect",
a tract criticizing Averroes (AV-err-OH-ess). Despite not being Jewish, he wrote a critique of Christian
heresies titled Contra Gentiles (jen-TEEL-ace), or Against the Gentiles (this time, pronounced as in
English). The Second Vatican Council called this man the "Perpetual Philosopher." This student of Albertus
Magnus divided his major work into sections on Ethics, Christ, and Theology. For 10 points, name this
Scholastic medieval theologian, the author of Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Thomas Aquinas
021-09-1-04106

7. This poet wrote about a lady whose "soul aspire above the vulgar flight of low desire" in "Elegy to the
Memory of an Unfortunate Lady." In another work by this author, death of Elkanah Settle allows Dulness to
crown Tibbald. This author wrote a satire in which the gnome Umbriel has to visit the Cave of Spleen and
collect items after the sylphs are thrown into disarray by the title action, in which the Baron cuts off a lock of
Belinda's hair. The Dunciad and An Essay on Man was written by, for 10 points, what author of The Rape of
the Lock?
ANSWER: Alexander Pope
034-09-1-04107

8. A version of these phenomena between two parallel uncharged conducting plates is called the Casimir
effect. A namesake broadening of spectral lines occurs when they act on an energy-emitting particle. The
relation between strength and distance of these is modeled by the Lennard-Jones potential. They include
Keesom and Debye forces, as well as induced dipole-dipole forces called London dispersion forces, and
forces that result from interactions between permanent dipoles. For 10 points, name these intermolecular
forces named for a Dutch scientist.
ANSWER: van der Waals forces [prompt on London dispersion forces until mention]
032-09-1-04108

9. Mr. Mafolo helps the protagonist of this novel when a young man walks away with the money he paid to
buy a ticket. The novel begins when the protagonist receives a letter from Msimangu asking him to help his
sick sister Gertrude, whom he finds working as a prostitute. The protagonist's son impregnates and marries
"The Girl" before being sentenced to death for killing Arthur Jarvis, whose father James befriends the
preacher Stephen Kumalo. For 10 points, name this novel about racial injustice in South Africa, the best
known work of Alan Paton.
ANSWER: Cry, the Beloved Country
034-09-1-04109

10. This case involved a collection of five distinct cases such as Briggs v. Elliott, and this case furthered the
decision made earlier in Sweatt v. Painter. This case used in its argument an experiment showing a
preference in doll selection by children as run by Mamie and Kenneth Clark. A follow-up case strengthened
the decision in this case by declaring action be taken "with all deliberate speed." For 10 points, name this
case won by Thurgood Marshall, which made unlawful the practice of segregation in schools.
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka
023-09-1-04110

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. In one story about this man, he is mistaken for a god because he survives being bitten by a venomous
snake. Afterwards, this man cures the father of Governor Publius. This man's servant, Barnabas, was his
companion on his journeys, which included being shipwrecked on Malta. This man was healed by Ananias
(AAH-nuh-NYE-us) after his eyes were covered in scales on the road to Damascus, causing this man to
convert. For 10 points, name this early Christian leader, famous for his many letters, such as the one to the
Corinthians.
ANSWER: St. Paul of Tarsus [or Saul of Tarsus]
021-09-1-04111

12. This man removed Clause IV from his party's constitution, which was part of this leader's idea of the
"Third Way." This man unexpectedly assumed his party's leadership after the death of John Smith.
Devolution in Northern Ireland was helped along by this man's work on the Good Friday Agreement. This
leader added the word "New" to his party's name to describe his agenda before winning an election against
John Major. For 10 points, name this Labour prime minister of Great Britain, who was succeeded by his
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown.
ANSWER: Tony Blair [or Anthony Charles Lynton Blair]
023-09-1-04112

13. In one novel by this author, Gloria crashes into a fire hydrant, and Adam disinherits his grandson
Anthony Patch. He wrote about the failed courtship of Isabella Borge and Rosalind Connage by Amory
Blaine in This Side of Paradise. This author wrote a novel in which the "valley of ashes" is presided over by
the eyes of Dr. T. J. Eckleberg and the world series is fixed by Meyer Wolfsheim. In that novel, George
Wilson shoots the title character after his wife Myrtle is run over by Daisy, the object of affection of the
West Egg neighbor of Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name the author of The Great Gatsby.
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
015-09-1-04113

14. Jerome Lejeune first discovered the cause of this disease. Common characteristics associated with
sufferers of this disease include epicanthic eye folds; a broad, flat face; and a wrinkled tongue; in addition to
mental impairment. This disease, which was formerly known as mongolism, is significantly more common
in children born to mothers over the age of 40. For 10 points, name this genetic disorder in which individuals
possess an extra copy of chromosome 21.
ANSWER: Down syndrome [accept trisomy 21 before "21" is read]
025-09-1-04114

15. This group lost the Battle of Vouille to Clovis of the Franks. These peoples converted from Arianism to
Catholicism under the reign of Reccared I. This group was ruled by the Balti Dynasty during their
occupation of Iberia, which ended with the arrival of the Umayyads. This group established a kingdom based
from Toulouse. Under Alaric I, this group became the first Germanic tribe to sack Rome. For 10 points,
name these Germanic peoples who migrated out of Dacia with the Ostrogoths.
ANSWER: Visigoths [prompt on Goths; prompt on Vesi; prompt on Tervingi]
036-09-1-04115

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 4
Directed Round
1A. This law of physics states that acceleration is determined by the net force acting on an object and that
object's mass. Name this law, which is often stated "F equals m times a."
ANSWER: Newton's second law of motion [or obvious equivalents]
1B. During their first meeting, this man gave President Obama a copy of The Open Veins of Latin America.
Name this president of Venezuala.
ANSWER: Hugo Chavez Frias
2A. Name the TV show which began when Oceanic Flight 815 crashed on an island, and which focuses on
surgeon Jack Shepard, the enigmatic John Locke, and onetime fugitive Kate Austen.
ANSWER: Lost
2B. This person studied the Zuni and Dobu in Patterns of Culture. Name this American anthropologist who
studied Japan's "shame culture" in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
ANSWER: Ruth Benedict
3A. One master of this form was Matsuo Basho. Name this style of three line poetry which uses five
syllables for the first and last lines and seven syllables in the middle line.
ANSWER: haikus
3B. Name the term for using an associated object or person to describe a subject, such as when the word
"crown" is used for "king" or "queen."
ANSWER: metonymy
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the value of x that makes the equation 3x + 17 = 24 true.
ANSWER: 7/3 [or 2 1/3]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the total cost of a $140 hotel room after 19% taxes are
applied.
ANSWER: $166.60
5A. When this language is in the genitive case, it uses the articles "des" and "der." Name this language
whose nominative case uses the articles "der," "die," and "das."
ANSWER: German
5B. This man created his greatest invention while on the farm owned by General Nathanael Greene's widow.
Name this inventor of the cotton gin.
ANSWER: Eli Whitney
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the mean of the test scores 77, 85, 82, and 91.
ANSWER: 83.75
VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Determine the slope of the line through the points (2, 4) and (8,
-2).
ANSWER: -1
7A. It is spanned by the Vasco de Gama Bridge near its outlet into the Atlantic Ocean. Name this river that
begins in Spain before passing through Portugal to Lisbon.
ANSWER: Tagus River
7B. This team's past stars included Bill Walton and Clyde Drexler. Name this NBA franchise that plays in
the Rose Garden and is led by Brandon Roy.
ANSWER: Portland Trailblazers [or Portland Trailblazers]
8A. This man announced in June, 2009, that he will not be running for a third term in 2010, likely indicating
his plan to run for president in 2012. Name this Republican governor of Minnesota.
ANSWER: Timothy Pawlenty
8B. These can come in a motile form for movement or a non-motile form for sensing. Name these
projections found only on eukaryotic cells.
ANSWER: cilia [or cilium]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If a trapezoid with area 11.5 square meters is expanded so that
each side is three times longer than it was before, what is the area of the new trapezoid?
ANSWER: 103.5 square meters
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. If a shopper buys five packages of hot dogs at two for three
dollars and four packages of hot dog buns at 99 cents each, how much will he need to pay (without tax)?
ANSWER: $11.46
10A. Name the objects that can come in cirque, alpine, and continental varieties, and which have recently
been melting in the Antarctic due to climate change.
ANSWER: glaciers
10B. It was made in sixteen versions in marble or bronze, and its creator said he "sought the essence of
flight." Name this Constantin Brancusi sculpture showing avian movment.
ANSWER: Bird in Space

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 4
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. An equation for the loading of beams in physics is named for Daniel Bernoulli and this man. This man’s
contributions to graph theory included determining an equation to relate the number of edges, faces and
vertices of a convex polyhedron, and he determined that no solution existed for the Seven Bridges of
Königsberg problem. For 10 points, name this Swiss mathematician, who lent his name to the base of the
natural logarithm, e.
ANSWER: Leonhard Euler
051-09-1-04117

2. This god killed King Kartavirya (CAR-tuh-VEER-yuh) and reclaimed the Kerala region from the sea
during a phase in which he wielded an axe. In the Rig Veda, this god is described crossing the entire
universe in just three steps. To support Mound Mandara during the Churning of the Ocean, this god turned
into a turtle. He warned Manu of a massive flood by turning into a fish. This god rides Garuda, a bird-man,
and his consort is Lakshmi. His forms include Rama and Krishna, known as avatars. For 10 points, name this
preserver god from Hinduism, who is part of a triad with Shiva and Brahma.
ANSWER: Vishnu
021-09-1-04118

3. One of this author's works includes quotations from such invented figures as Father Gassalasca Jape,
while one of his short stories sees a deaf-mute boy encounter wounded soldiers returning from the title
battle, after which he finds his house aflame. This author of "Chickamauga" wrote about Peyton Farquahar,
who imagines escaping through the woods to his family only to realize he's been hanged by Union troops in
"An Occurence at Owl Creek Bridge." For 10 points, name this author of a work once called The Cynic's
Word Book, The Devil's Dictionary.
ANSWER: Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce
029-09-1-04119

4. This composer included an “Air” marked “andante religioso” as well as a "Sarabande" and "Gavotte" in
his suite celebrating the playwright Ludvig Holberg. A timpani roll leads to an A minor chord to start the
only piano concerto of this composer of Lyric Pieces. This composer wrote a movement depicting trolls in a
suite that also includes "Anitra's Dance" and "Morning Mood" For 10 points, name this composer who
included "In the Hall of the Mountain King" in his Peer Gynt Suite, a Norwegian.
ANSWER: Edvard Hagerup Grieg
036-09-1-04120

5. The grains of this kind of rock are classified based on whether they are phaneritic (fan-er-it-ick) or
aphaneritic (eh-fan-er-it-ick) based on crystal size and visibility. These rocks are classified based on their
silicon content as felsic or mafic. Formations with large amounts of exposed rock of this type are called
batholiths, and usually form when sedimentary rocks have eroded from around instrusive formations. Often
expelled via pyroclastic flow, the most notable rocks of this kind are granite and basalt. For 10 points, name
this type of rock made from cooled magma.
ANSWER: igneous rock
021-09-1-04121

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The Krahn people were the dominant ethnic group in this nation until the arrival of settlers under Joseph
Jenkins Robert. This nation's presidents have included William Tubman and William Tolbert. Samuel Doe
was president of this nation until he was killed in a war against Charles Taylor. This nation has faced a civil
war as recently as 2003, which spilled over into neighboring Sierra Leone, but it has been relatively stable
since. Colonized by freed slaves, for 10 points, name this West African nation whose capital is Monrovia.
ANSWER: Republic of Liberia
035-09-1-04122

7. This author described a "creature, naked, bestial" that eats its own heart in his The Black Riders. In one of
his works, Bill is accused of being a "board-whacker" by the Swede, and another work by this author of
"The Blue Hotel" involves Marshall Jack bringing his new bride to the title Texan town. This author of "The
Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" wrote about a captain, cook, oiler, and correspondent in one work and wrote
about the Civil War experiences of Henry Fleming in another. For 10 points, name this author of The Open
Boat and The Red Badge of Courage.
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
029-09-1-04123

8. F5 steganography (eff-five steg-uh-NAH-gruh-fee) encodes messages in files generated using this
algorithm. The third stage involves quantization of the coefficients generated by a two-dimensional discrete
cosine transform. That stage makes this a lossy compression algorithm. In its first stage, color and lightness
data are encoded separately. For 10 points, name this standard for image compression developed by and
named after the Joint Photographic Experts Group.
ANSWER: JPEG [or JPG; or JPE; or Joint Photographic Experts Group until it is read]
003-09-1-04124

9. In one early scene of this novel, Sam and Andy excite the horses to delay a pursuit for their friend.
Another character in this novel distributes locks of her hair as she dies, inspiring compassion in Ophelia. The
protagonist becomes separated with his wife Aunt Chloe, but his fate turns when he saves Eva from
drowning, impressing her father Augustine St. Clare. Eventually, that title character is beaten to death by
Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this best selling anti-slavery novel of the 19th century, written by Harriet
Beecher Stowe.
ANSWER: Uncle Tom’s Cabin
034-09-1-04125

10. This word denotes a region, named after an Arabic phrase meaning "land of the black peoples," that
includes the Sahel and comprises the belt of savanna plains south of the Sahara Desert and north of the
central African rainforests. This word also refers to a country within that region, which is home to the
cattle-dependent Nuer (NEW-err) people. Conflict between the Arab and black population, as well as
between Muslims and Christians, has led to the rise of the Janjaweed (JOHN-juh-weed) militias in, for 10
points, what country, thus causing a refugee crisis in its Darfur region?
ANSWER: the Sudan
019-09-1-04126

11. In one novel by this author, Elicio and Erastro travel to a wedding with Florisa and La Galatea. One of
this author's characters washes his head in a basin lacking water so that he eats dinner with suds on his head
in the presence of the Duke and the Duchess, and another is promised governorship of an island and rides a
small donkey. This author wrote about Master Peter's puppet show and a talking ape in a book where the
knight of the white moon convinces a man to stop attacking windmills. That character rides Rocinante, loves
Dulcinea, and is served by Sancho Panza. For 10 points, name this Spanish author of Don Quixote.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
033-09-1-04127
VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This document specified that Canada could choose at any time to join the United States. Under this
charter, the government passed the Land Ordinance and the Northwest Ordinance, but had no power to tax.
The Annapolis Convention was intended to revise this document. Instead, a subsequent meeting led to this
document’s replacement with a new charter that gave more powers to a central government. For 10 points,
identify this framework of the United States government from 1781 until 1789, when it was replaced by the
U.S. Constitution.
ANSWER: Articles of Confederation
019-09-1-04128

13. A Wheatstone bridge can be used to determine an unknown value for this quantity, which equals the real
part of the impedance. This quantity is multiplied by the square of current to find power. It is multiplied by
capacitance to find the time constant for one kind of DC circuit. If circuit elements generating this quantity
are connected in series, an equivalent value of it is the sum of individual values. For 10 points, name this
quantity that, by Ohm's Law, equals voltage divided by current.
ANSWER: resistance
003-09-1-04129

14. This writer noted that the “holy glimmers” in the eyes of altar boys and the “pallor of girls’ brows”
convey more than candles and pall do in a funeral for “those who die as cattle.” In a poem with a similar
theme, the narrator sees his friend drowning “under a green sea” after hearing the yell “Gas! GAS! Quick,
boys!” He adds that the soldiers marched “bent double, like old beggars under sacks,” and condemns
Horace’s “old lie” that it is sweet and becoming to die for one’s own country . For 10 points, name this
World War I poet of “Anthem for Doomed Youth” and “Dulce et Decorum Est.”
ANSWER: Wilfred Edward Salter Owen
034-09-1-04130

15. This artist created a panel divided into "The Bride's Domain" and "The Bachelor's Domain" in his The
Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even. His "Prelude to a Broken Arm" was simply a snow shovel, and
this artist added a mustache to the Mona Lisa under the title LHOOQ. This artist's other "Readymades"
include a urinal inscribed with the name "R. Mutt" and displayed under the title Fountain. This artist riled up
controversy at the Armory Show with his cubist inspired Nude Descending a Staircase. For 10 points, name
this French proponent of Dada.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp
015-09-1-04131

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 4
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Documents important to this religion include the Kebra Nagast and the Holy Piby. This religion's dietary
restriction is known as I-tal. This religion labels undesirable products of western civilization as Babylon.
This religion regards Marcus Garvey as a prophet and refers to God as Jah. Other key precepts of this
religion include the smoking of Ganja and the belief that founder Haile Selassie will establish a perfect state
called Zion. For 10 points, name this religion most commonly followed by dreadlock wearing Jamaicans.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
015-09-1-04132

2. In a novel by this author, Dmitri Nekhludoff is wracked with guilt after serving on a jury that condemns
his former lover Katusha Maslova. In addition to writing Resurrection, this author wrote about the master of
Gerasim, who hits his side against a wall while putting up new curtains and develops hate for his son and
wife. This author of The Death of Ivan Ilyich wrote a novel that includes the death of Andrey Bolskonoy and
the narrator Pierre Bezhukov, who figure in a long narrative about Napoelon's invasion of Russia. For 10
points, name this author of War and Piece.
ANSWER: Leo Nikolayevich Tolstoy
019-09-1-04133

3. This element's hydrides come in forms like closo-, nido-, and arachno-, and were useful in formulating
Wade's rules. Three nitrogens and three of this element form the central ring of the so-called "inorganic
benzene." This element complexed to hydrogen is dissolved in THF in an anti-Markovnikov oxidation
reaction partly named for it. The triatomic allotrope of this element is a 9.3 on the Mohs scale, and it often
forms Lewis acids because of its three valence electrons. For 10 points, name this metalloid element, number
five on the period table, with chemical symbol B.
ANSWER: boron [accept B before it is read]
026-09-1-04134

4. WRITE MORE QUESTIONS, Particularly a Social Science-Social Criticism Tossup
00--20-04135

5. Most of the original specimens of these creatures were shot by Syms Covington and examined by John
Gould. They were studied in depth by David Lack and Peter and Rosemary Grant, and they possess an
unexplained yellow and pink coloration of their beaks just after birth. They are closely related to the
American Emberizidae. There are fourteen species of them, one of which lives on Cocos Island and the rest
of which reside in the Galapagos. For 10 points, name this set of Passerine birds studied by the English
scientist who formulated the theory the natural selection.
ANSWER: Darwin's finches [prompt on finches]
040-09-1-04136

VHSL Regular Season Round 4 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

