VHSL States 2014
Round 3
First Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. One of this author's characters is infuriated to lose a literary competition to the incompetent poet Carlos
Daneri. In another story, this author imagined a building containing every permutation of twenty-two
characters arranged into 3,200 characters per page, with 410 pages per book. Yu Tsun narrates a story by
this author that philosophizes about a labyrinth where each path represents the potential outcomes from a
decision. For 10 points, name this Argentinian author who wrote "The Library of Babel" and "The Garden
of Forking Paths."
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges
190-13-97-03101

2. This philosopher discussed the painting "A Pair of Shoes" by van Gogh in his article The Origin of the
Work of Art. He examined another German philosopher in Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics. In
another book, he introduces the idea of a "hermeneutic circle" and discusses the relationship that human
perception creates with the world, composed of the words for "to be" and "there." For 10 points, name this
German philosopher who explained "dasein" (DAH-sine) in Being and Time and attracted controversy for
his Nazi sympathies.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
127-13-97-03102

3. This poet asserted, "death is the mother of beauty," in a poem that describes the "green freedom of the
cockatoo upon a rug." That poem by this man describes a "casual flock of pigeons" and the "complacencies
of the peignoir." In another poem, he wrote of a woman who sings "beyond the genius of the sea." This
author of "Sunday Morning" and "The Idea of Order at Key West" wrote the collection Harmonium. For 10
points, name this modernist American poet of "The Emperor of Ice-Cream."
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens
079-13-97-03103

4. Allan Maxam and Walter Gilbert developed a method for performing this process in 1977. Frederick
Sanger won his second Nobel Prize for devising the "chain-termination method" for performing this action,
which uses ddNTPs (d-d-N-T-Ps). Craig Venter's Celera used the "shotgun" method of performing this
action to accomplish it much faster than the Human Genome Project could. For 10 points, name this
procedure that determines the order of nucleotides in the molecule that encodes genetic data.
ANSWER: DNA sequencing
080-13-97-03104

5. A character in this novel tries to make a patchwork violin from a ukelele. That character in this novel,
Mick, gets a job at Woolworth's and vows to save up for a piano. In this novel, Mick's little brother,
Bubber, shoots Baby Wilson with a BB gun and is found trying to run away to Atlanta. The deaf-mute John
Singer's suicide following the death of his friend Antonapoulos shocks the townspeople depicted in this
novel. For 10 points, name this novel by Carson McCullers.
ANSWER: The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter
194-13-97-03105

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 1 of 10

6. This statement will be tested in late 2014 by the French project MICROSCOPE, which intends to set
even lower limits on the Eotvos (ET-vish) parameter. One version of this statement includes local Lorentz
invariance and local positional invariance. A less rigorous version of it holds that the ratio of mass to
weight is locally constant, and includes the universality of free fall. For 10 points, name this principle
stating that uniform acceleration and the effects of a gravitational field are indistinguishable.
ANSWER: equivalence principle [or weak equivalence principle; or strong equivalence principle; or
Galilean-Newtonian equivalence principle; or Einstein equivalence principle; or universality of free fall
until it is read]
003-13-97-03106

7. The "picker-up of learning's crumbs" narrates a poem by this man that describes a meeting with Lazarus.
This author of "Karshish, the Arab Physician" wrote another poem in the voice of a man who blows a
slug-horn after reaching a building he learned about from a "hoary cripple." In another of his dramatic
monologues, the speaker speculates what Fra Pandolf might have said to the title person, who had a heart
"too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this author of "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came" and
"My Last Duchess."
ANSWER: Robert Browning [or "Karshish, the Arab Physician" until it is read]
121-13-97-03107

8. A director in this country was assassinated in 2004 for his film Submission, criticizing Muslim society.
The VVD party currently leads this country, despite conflict with Geert Wilders's PVV party in 2012. This
country's Princess Margriet was born in Canada during World War II. Operation Market Garden took place
in Germany and this country, where the International Court of Justice and International Criminal Court are
headquartered. Two days after World War II ended, Indonesia declared independence from this country.
For 10 points, name this country where Queen Beatrix abdicated in 2013.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Holland; or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden]
190-13-97-03108

9. A 1957 concert by this man and his band at Harlem's Apollo Theater is dramatized in a biopic starring
Gary Busey as this singer. One of his songs states that, "Love like yours will surely come my way, A hey, a
hey hey," and is "Everyday." This man makes use of the Bo Diddley Beat in "Not Fade Away." He played
in a band called The Crickets, and his hits included "That'll Be the Day" and "Peggy Sue." For 10 points,
name this rock and roll pioneer who died in a 1959 plane crash with the Big Bopper and Richie Valens.
ANSWER: Charles "Buddy" Holly
030-13-97-03109

10. This city was the original site of the company that makes CaramelCrisp popcorn, Garrett Popcorn
Shops. This city is home to the three-million-gallon Abbott Oceanarium, inside its Shedd Aquarium. The
Lurie Garden and Crown Fountain are both located in a park in this city, where Anish Kapoor's sculpture
Cloud Gate sits. The Smith Museum of Stained Glass Windows and a Ferris wheel can be found on this
city's Navy Pier. For 10 points, name this Midwestern city where Millennium Park is home to a
stainless-steel, bean-shaped sculpture.
ANSWER: Chicago
023-13-97-03110

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 2 of 10

11. A theorem regarding these objects deals with the presence of singularities in tangent vector fields
defined on their surfaces. The volume of an n-dimensional version of these objects is inversely proportional
to the gamma function of one-half. Triangles in a form of geometry named for these objects can have three
right angles. The coordinate system named for these objects uses the coordinates r, theta, and phi. These
objects have a surface area to volume ratio of three r. For 10 points, identify these objects that are the set of
points equidistant from a given point in three dimensions.
ANSWER: spheres [or 2-sphere; or n-sphere; or ball; or circles]
234-13-97-03111

12. This event inspired Leo Ryan to spend a week as a substitute teacher. Former CIA director John
McCone chaired a namesake commission after this event. This event, which occurred after the passage of
Proposition 14, was instigated by Lee Minikus pulling over a car containing Donald and Marquette Frye.
Police Chief William Parker compared its participants to "monkeys in the zoo" and called in the National
Guard. The city where this event took place was later hit by the similar Rodney King Riots. For 10 points,
name this 1965 riot in Los Angeles.
ANSWER: Watts riot [do not accept or prompt on "Los Angeles riots"]
048-13-97-03112

13. One of this author's characters is mentored by a church organist named Pistorius and frequently
obsesses about his friend's mother, Frau Eva. In another of this author's novels, the protagonist spends his
days listening to a river, eventually becoming a ferryman, after his lover Kamala dies from a snakebite.
This author wrote a novel set in Castalia about Joseph Knecht, who strives to become a Magister Ludi, or
master of The Glass Bead Game. For 10 points, name this German author of Demian and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
190-13-97-03113

14. Hannah Hoch painted the "Cut of a Kitchen Knife" from this art movement through a "Beer Belly
Cultural Epoch." Jean Arp, also known as Hans Arp, was a member of this movement. Tristan Tzara's
manifestos laid its groundwork. Another artist in this movement wrote "R. Mutt" on a urinal and titled it
Fountain, an example of one of his readymades. According to one theory, this artistic movement got its
name randomly from the French word for "hobbyhorse." For 10 points, name this anti-art movement
embraced by Marcel Duchamp.
ANSWER: Dadaism
190-13-97-03114

15. A theory that attempts to explain this phenomenon argues the substantial gelatinosa in the dorsal horn
of the spinal cord contains a "gate" that controls it. Although it is not fever, drugs that suppress this
phenomenon include ketobemidone (KEY-toh-bem-EH-doan) and paracetamol (PAIR-uh-CEET-uh-mall).
It is caused by contact between the medial epicondyle (EH-puh-CON-dial) of the humerus and the ulnar
nerve. This sense is removed by the chemicals lidocaine and novocaine, which are both anesthetics. For 10
points, identify this feeling which may accompany burns or broken bones.
ANSWER: pain [or nociception; prompt on touch; prompt on suffering]
239-13-97-03115

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 3 of 10

VHSL States 2014
Round 3
Directed Round

1A. What instrument was played by Mstislav (MIS-tee-slav) Rostropovich and is still played by Yo-Yo
Ma?
ANSWER: cello
1B. What animal phylum is comprised of flatworms?
ANSWER: Platyhelminthes
2A. What term is used to describe the relative liquidity and mobility of the constituents of the lipid bilayer
of the plasma membrane?
ANSWER: fluid mosaic
2B. What NBA team made the 2013 Eastern Conference Finals through strong performances from Paul
George and Roy Hibbert?
ANSWER: Indiana Pacers [or Indiana Pacers]
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Give all the values of x between zero and pi, inclusive, where
the tangent of quantity x over pi radians is undefined.
ANSWER: 1/2, 3/2, and 5/2 [do not accept or prompt on fewer or more answers]
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If the cosine of A is 2/7, what is the cosine of 2A?
ANSWER: -41/49
4A. What Italian demonstrated his mastery of tenebrism (TEN-uh-briz-um) with the paintings The Calling
of St. Matthew and The Conversion of St. Paul?
ANSWER: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi o Amerighi da Caravaggio]
4B. What 2013 Disney film concerns the princess Elsa, who uses her powers to animate a snowman and
create an eternal winter?
ANSWER: Frozen
5A. What kind of bond formed between metals and nonmetals involves the complete transfer of one or
more electrons from one atom to another?
ANSWER: ionic
5B. What highest mountain in Canada is located in the Yukon Territory's St. Elias Range?
ANSWER: Mount Logan
6A. What frequent Supreme Court swing voter wrote the opinion that invalidated the Defense of Marriage
Act in U.S. v. Windsor?
ANSWER: Anthony Kennedy
6B. What Arab nationalist ideology names the party that controlled Iraq under Saddam Hussein and Syria
since the rise of the Assad family?
ANSWER: Ba'athism [or Ba'ath Party]
7A. What first-in-first-out data structure comes in a "priority" variety?
ANSWER: queue
7B. What process that takes place at convergent tectonic plate boundaries occurs when one plate slides
under another?
ANSWER: subduction
VHSL States 2014

3

Page 4 of 10

8A. What Greek letter denotes electrostatic potential in physics and the golden ratio in mathematics?
ANSWER: phi [do not accept "pi"]
8B. The sun is part of what populous branch of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram that stretches from the
bottom-right to the top-left?
ANSWER: main sequence
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If test scores are normally distributed with mean 50 and
standard deviation 10, then, to the nearest percent, what percentage of students scored 40 or better?
ANSWER: 84 percent
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Triangle ACF is an isosceles right triangle with leg length 8
units. What is the distance between the circumcenter and the orthocenter of ACF? Express your answer in
simplest radical form.
ANSWER: 4 square root of 2 units
10A. What type of sonnet is divided into an octave and a sestet by a volta, or turn?
ANSWER: Petrarchan sonnet [or Italian sonnet]
10B. What Roman emperor created the tetrarchy (TETCH-rahr-kee) by appointing Maximian, Galerius,
and Constantius co-emperors?
ANSWER: Diocletian

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 5 of 10

VHSL States 2014
Round 3
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. Periodic diffraction gratings were found to alter this phenomenon by Smith and Purcell, whose research
led to the development of free electron lasers. The IceTop array at the IceCube Observatory uses this
phenomenon to detect neutrinos. Analogous to a sonic boom, it causes the emission of a characteristic blue
glow, which is often seen in nuclear reactors. It results when a charged particle travels through a medium
faster than the speed of light in the medium. For 10 points, identify this phenomenon named for a Russian
physicist.
ANSWER: Vavilov-Cherenkov radiation [or Vavilov-Cherenkov effect]
079-13-97-03117

2. In this novel, Arina, a member of the aristocracy, devotedly believes in superstitions, while the feminist
Kukshina plays host to Sitnikov and his two friends. The former lover of Princess X, Paul, questions the
upcoming liberation of the serfs, and his brother Nikolai marries Fenechka (fuh-NESH-kuh) at this novel's
end. This novel's protagonists are a young student from St. Petersburg and his friend, the first literary
nihilist. For 10 points, name this novel about Arkady Kirsanov and Bazarov, written by Ivan Turgenev
(tur-GAIN-ev).
ANSWER: Fathers and Sons [or Otcy i Deti]
192-13-97-03118

3. The skin of organisms in this phylum is embedded with small calcareous (CAL-suh-riss) ossicles. The
mouth of a group of organisms in this phylum was described by Aristotle and is known as his namesake
"lantern". A madreporite (MAD-rep-ore-ite) allows fluid into a structure characteristic to this phylum,
which then runs through the stone canal. Connected tube feet make up this phylum's water vascular system,
enabling members to move across the ocean floor. For 10 points, identify this phylum of "spiny-skinned"
marine animals such as starfish and sea urchins.
ANSWER: echinodermata [or echinoderms]
233-13-97-03119

4. One of this author's novels was adapted into a wildly successful Broadway play by Jack Kirkland. This
man collaborated with photographer Margaret Bourke-White on the book You Have Seen Their Faces.
Characters in his most famous novel include Ellie May, a girl with a cleft lip, and Grandma Lester, whom
Dude runs over with his car. For 10 points, name this Southern novelist of God's Little Acre and Tobacco
Road.
ANSWER: Erskine Caldwell
014-13-97-03120

5. The influence of this group increased when Peter Porter took over the House Committee on Foreign
Affairs and Langdon Cheves became the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. John
Randolph coined this term, which denoted a group of politicians from Southern and Western states. Some
elements of this faction, led by Henry Clay, agitated for an invasion of Canada. For 10 points, identify
these Democratic-Republicans who convinced James Madison to enter a conflict with Britain in 1812.
ANSWER: war hawks
020-13-97-03121

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 6 of 10

6. This politician has children with the author of a book criticizing Japanese cartoons called The
Channel-Surfing Kids Are Fed-Up. This man was romantically involved with a journalist named Valerie
Trierweiler (tree-EH-vee-LOR). The magazine Closer claimed in January 2014 that he was having an affair
with actress Julie Gayet (GUY-yay). This man, a former partner of fellow politician Segolene Royal, was
nominated for the presidency after Dominique Strauss-Kahn's arrest. This Socialist Party leader defeated
Nicolas Sarkozy in May 2012. For 10 points, name this president of France.
ANSWER: Francois Hollande
052-13-97-03122

7. A scene in this book depicts an Ethiopian eunuch reading the book of Isaiah in his chariot. This book
describes a council held in Jerusalem where James the Just decrees that some groups may be excluded from
circumcision. It recounts the descent of the Holy Spirit on Pentecost. This book is thought to have been
written by the author of the Gospel of Luke. Matthias replaces Judas near the beginning of this book. For
10 points, name this fifth book of the New Testament, which describes what the apostles did after the
Resurrection.
ANSWER: Acts of the Apostles [prompt on the New Testament until "Luke" is read; prompt on the Bible
until "Luke" is read]
014-13-97-03123

8. A portrait of this monarch was painted by Jean Clouet (cloo-EY). He was criticized for allying his
country with the Ottoman Empire, the first European to do so. This king successfully invaded Italy by
defeating Swiss pikemen at the Battle of Marignano (MAH-rin-YAH-no), but he was captured ten years
later at Pavia (pah-VEE-uh). This monarch failed to strike an alliance with Henry VIII at the Field of the
Cloth of Gold, but was successful in cultivating the French Renaissance. For 10 points, name this Valois
(val-WAH) King of France who often fought against Holy Roman Emperor Charles V.
ANSWER: Francis I [prompt on Francis]
140-13-97-03124

9. In Spanish, this construction may be introduced with forms of the verbs "sostener," (sohs-ten-AIR),
"explicar" (ecks-plee-KAR), or "añadir" (ahn-yah-DEER). When the tense of a Spanish sentence's main
verb is in the future, verbs in this kind of construction use the conditional forms. The German "special" or
"newspaper" subjunctive is used to form this construction, which uses infinitive verbs plus accusative
nouns in Latin. For 10 points, identify this construction which communicates what another person said, and
is accomplished in English with phrases such as "she said that he is guilty."
ANSWER: indirect speech [or indirect statement]
019-13-97-03125

10. As this character dies, he says farewell to his servant Strato before telling a dead man that "I killed not
thee with half so good a will." During a funeral oration, another character continually, if sarcastically, says
that this person is an "honorable man." After this man's wife Portia kills herself, he sees a ghost telling him
"thou shalt see me at Philippi." He is proclaimed "the noblest Roman of them all" by Mark Antony. For 10
points, name this man who conspires with Cassius to assassinate the title character in Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Marcus Junius Brutus
052-13-97-03126

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 7 of 10

11. A type of protein secondary structure denoted by this letter requires four amino acids, one of which
must be a proline residue. This letter denotes the ratio of an object's speed to the speed of light. The
carnitine shuttle is used to prime the breakdown of fatty acids in this type of oxidation. This letter and
lactam denote the class of antibiotics including penicillin. The breakdown of a particle resulting in emission
of either an electron or positron is this type of radioactive decay. For 10 points, name this Greek letter that
denotes radiation intermediate in strength between alpha and gamma.
ANSWER: beta
245-13-97-03127

12. This man headed a federal commission on water quality and twice defeated Socialist Labor candidate
Eric Hass. He rose to his executive position by defeating millionaire W. Averell Harriman. This man
passed a series of namesake tough drug laws and once raised his middle finger at a reporter on the
campaign trail. He controversially married a divorcee named "Happy" and stated "that's life" after
thirty-nine people died in the Attica prison riots. For 10 points, name this governor of New York and Vice
President under Gerald Ford, who was the grandson of John D.
ANSWER: Nelson Rockefeller
048-13-97-03128

13. This man posited a theory of behavior that acknowledges the influence of both social factors and the
environment, reciprocal determinism. His best-known experiment focused on a similar area as his work
Adolescent Aggression. The experiment he designed involved adult collaborators who punched the objects
which name the experiment, causing the study's subjects to imitate them while yelling "sockaroo!" For 10
points, name this Canadian psychologist who performed the "bobo doll" experiment.
ANSWER: Albert Bandura
081-13-97-03129

14. A domed stadium in this city known as the "Big Egg" was, until 2004, the home field of a team called
the Ham Fighters. It suffered numerous casualties in Operation Meetinghouse, which resulted in over
100,000 people's ashes being interred in Sumida Ward. In 1995, this city, which has the tallest freestanding
tower in the world, had its subway system victimized by a terrorist attack perpetrated by the cult Aum
Shinrikyo. The Imperial Hotel here survived the 1923 Great Kanto Earthquake. This is the largest city on
the island of Honshu. For 10 points, name this capital of Japan.
ANSWER: Tokyo
052-13-97-03130

15. A character in this poem is swallowed by Vipunen (VEE-poo-nen), from whom he extorts the magic
words necessary to build a boat without using his hands. The earth is created at the beginning of this poem
when a bird's nest falls off the knee of Ilmatar (ILL-ma-tar), who was impregnated by the wind and
becomes the mother of Vainamoinen (VINE-a-MOY-nen). Later in this poem, Ilmarinen (ILL-ma-ree-nen)
forges the Sampo. For 10 points, name this national epic of Finland.
ANSWER: the Kalevala (KAH-leh-VAH-lah)
142-13-97-03131

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 8 of 10

VHSL States 2014
Round 3
Tiebreaker Questions

1. The MV Transpacific was responsible for transferring this substance to the Johnson Atoll as part of
Operation Pacer IVY. A class-action lawsuit concerning this substance was spearheaded by Hy Mayerson
and Victor Yannacone on behalf of Charles E. Hartz. This substance, which was used extensively during
Operation Ranch Hand, consisted of equal parts of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D and got its name from the stripes on
the barrels containing it. For 10 points, name this dangerous herbicide that was sprayed during the Vietnam
War.
ANSWER: Agent Orange
048-13-97-03132

2. The tat protein in HIV patients greatly increases the rate of this process, which is also enhanced in the
presence of acetyl transferases. Although not methylation, this process is initiated from CpG islands in
some eukaryotes. This process does not occur from Barr bodies because they have been highly methylated.
The product of this process is capped with methyl-guanosine and gets a poly-A tail. Retroviruses can do
this process in reverse. This process is initiated at a promoter and is mostly catalyzed by RNA polymerase.
For 10 points, name this process of making messenger RNAs from DNA.
ANSWER: transcription [do not accept "translation"]
190-13-97-03133

3. This poem was inspired by the poet's reflections on crossing a natural feature on his way to Mexico City
in 1920. It alludes to Abraham Lincoln's trip to New Orleans, as well as the raising of the pyramids upon
the Nile. It speaks of bathing "in the Euphrates when dawns were young" and knowing things "ancient as
the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins." For 10 points, name this Langston
Hughes poem in which the speaker's "soul has grown deep" like the title bodies of water.
ANSWER: "The Negro Speaks of Rivers"
147-13-97-03134

4. Murray Gell-Mann originally theorized the existence of this many quarks. The active ingredient of
Eskalith contains the carbonate of the element with this atomic number, which is used to treat manic
disorders. Phosphorus pentachloride has this many equatorial atoms. It is the bond order of the carbon
carbon bond acetylene, since it is the number of carbon-carbon bonds in alkynes (al-KINEZ). The law of
thermodynamics with this number says it is impossible to cool a system to absolute zero. For 10 points,
give the number of hydrogen atoms in ammonia.
ANSWER: three
239-13-97-03135

5. The protagonist of a novel by this author convinces Captain Anderson to allow James Colley to perform
a religious service on Anderson's ship. In another of his novels, Christopher Martin recounts his life as he
dies in the North Atlantic. This author of Rites of Passage and Pincher Martin described how a dead
parachutist frightens a group of boys, who mistake the body for "the Beast" that haunts the island on which
they have been stranded. For 10 points, name this British novelist of Lord of the Flies.
ANSWER: William Golding
121-13-97-03136

This is a calculation question. If the sine of a first-quadrant angle is 3/5, what is the tangent of that angle?
ANSWER: 3/4
VHSL States 2014

3

Page 9 of 10

What instrument was primarily played by Thelonious Monk, Count Basie, and Fats Waller?
ANSWER: piano

VHSL States 2014

3

Page 10 of 10

