VHSL Regionals
Round 8
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One work by this man explains verbal acts known as "mands." Another work by this psychologist argues
that the prevalence of a belief in free will has limited the possibility for social engineering. This psychologist
wrote Verbal Behavior and Beyond Freedom and Dignity. He also invented an air crib for infants and
experimented on pigeons. For 10 points, name this American behaviorist, who created a namesake box to
research operant conditioning.
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic Skinner
058-09-7-08101

2. Electromagnetic metamaterials can have a negative value for this quantity. A material has two different
values for this in birefringence. This value is equal to the square root of the product of a medium's
permittivity and permeability. The ratio of this value for two media is related to the ratio of sines of its
namesake angles by Snell's Law. For 10 points, name this ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to the speed
of light in a medium, which is about 1.33 for water.
ANSWER: index of refraction [or refractive index; or ior]
001-09-7-08102

3. One empire based in this present-day country split into the Changamir and Monomotapa
(MAH-no-muh-TAH-pah) in the late fifteenth century. This country's flag depicts a soapstone bird found at
the site of its most famous ruins. The Lancaster House Agreement gave this country its current government
and was signed by ZAPU leader Joshua Nkomo and its current leader, a ZANU-PF politician. For 10 points,
name this country that was called Rhodesia during rule by the white minority and has been led to
hyperinflation by Robert Mugabe.
ANSWER: Republic of Zimbabwe
003-09-7-08103

4. Two portions of this organ's superior temporal gyrus are named for Brodmann and for Wernicke
(VER-nick-ee). One par of this organ, the substantia nigra, produces dopamine; that part is part of the basal
ganglia, like its striatum. Those components are implicated in Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
The lobes of one part of this organ include the occipital and parietal, and this organ includes a portion
involved in motor control called the cerebellum. For 10 points, name this central organ of the nervous
system, contained in the cranium.
ANSWER: brain
022-09-7-08104

5. Ricercars (ry-chur-CAR-ayz) and canzonas (can-ZOH-nuz) were early examples of this musical form.
They begin with one voice stating the theme, and another voice entering later to play the theme in a different
key. J. S. Bach (BAHK) wrote "The Art of" this type of music. Bach also paired pieces in this musical form
with preludes in The Well-Tempered Clavier (kluh-VEER). For 10 points, name this musical form
consisting of many voices in imitative counterpoint, which Bach also paired with a toccata (tow-Kah-tuh) in
D minor.
ANSWER: fugues (fyoogs)
004-09-7-08105

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. During this President's administration, the CIA helped overthrow Guatemala's leader Jacobo Arbenz. His
farewell address warned about the dangers of the "military industrial-complex." This man's Vice-President
participated in the Kitchen Debate with Nikita Khrushchev and gave a speech discussing the dog Checkers.
This man twice defeated Adlai Stevenson on a ticket with Richard Nixon. For 10 points, name this successor
of Harry Truman as President, who was the former Supreme Allied Commander in World War II.
ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower
027-09-7-08106

7. One work of art that exemplifies this movement depicts an airplane firing rockets to destroy an enemy
fighter. An artist associated with this movement worked out of a studio called the Silver Factory. The
painting Whaam! emerged from this movement, and was created with the Ben-Day dot technique by Roy
Lichtenstein. This movement also saw the creation of fifty silk-screen images of Marilyn Monroe and a
painting of a solitary Campbell's Soup can. For 10 points, name this 1960s artistic movement exemplified by
the works of Andy Warhol.
ANSWER: Pop Art
052-09-7-08107

8. In one of this man's poems, the narrator claims "I'se been a-climbin' on, and reachin' ladders, and turning
corners" after telling her child "life for me ain't been no crystal stair." In another of his poems, he asserts
"my soul has grown deep like the rivers." In another work, this poet asks if something "dr[ies] up, like a
raisin in the sun?" This poet wrote "Mother to Son" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers." For 10 points, name
this poet who asked, "What happens to a dream deferred?" in his poem "Harlem."
ANSWER: James Mercer Langston Hughes
027-09-7-08108

9. This company offered a namesake million dollar prize for any group that improved its rating algorithm by
ten percent or more. This company was accused of "throttling" for its practice of delaying services to its
most active customers. This company uses Microsoft Silverlight for its "Watch Instantly" feature, and
recently expanded to the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. For 10 points, name this company that allows
customers to rent DVDs through the mail by paying a monthly fee.
ANSWER: Netflix
045-09-7-08109

10. This author wrote a work about the Hamilton and Trask families based on the Cain and Abel story. In
another of his novels, Candy helps fantasize about creating a farm before another character accidentally kills
Curly's wife. In another work, this writer of East of Eden wrote about a family's journey with the preacher
Jim Casy to California, from Oklahoma, during the Dust Bowl. For 10 points, name this author who wrote
about Lenny and George in Of Mice and Men and the Joad family in The Grapes of Wrath.
ANSWER: John Ernst Steinbeck, Jr.
005-09-7-08110

11. During this war, one side built a long pontoon bridge over the Genitchi Strait. One side in this war
defended Home Hill during the Battle of Inkerman. Florence Nightingale earned the moniker "Lady with the
Lamp" for tending to wounded soldiers during this war. At one of its battles, Cardigan and Raglan sent a unit
headlong into Russian artillery at Balaclava in the "Charge of the Light Brigade." For 10 points, name this
war which pitted the French, British, and Ottomans against the Russians from 1853 to 1856.
ANSWER: Crimean War
015-09-7-08111

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. In one work by this man, the "person of consequence" refuses to help out a simpleton who is unable to
change reports from the first person to the third person without great effort. In another work by this man, a
barber finds the title object baked in his breakfast bread and tries to throw it away into the Neva River. In
one of this author’s novels, Pavel Chichikov collects dead serfs who are recorded as alive on the census. For
10 points, name this Russian author of the short stories "The Nose" and "The Overcoat" and the novel Dead
Souls.
ANSWER: Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol
034-09-7-08112

13. One battle in this conflict resulted in the Duke of Villeroi (VEE-luh-WAH) being captured at Cremona.
The settlement of this war granted England a monopoly on the trans-Atlantic slave trade. The allies achieved
victory at this war's Battle of Oudenarde (WEE-duh-nard) after Eugene of Savoy and the Duke of
Marlborough united their armies. This conflict was ended when Philip V was recognized as heir of Charles
II by the Peace of Utrecht. For 10 points, name this war that attempted to prevent a Bourbon king from
ascending to the throne.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
032-09-7-08113

14. When glaciers cover these objects, a landform called a tuya (TOO-yuh) is formed. Maars (MARZ) and
tuff rings are examples of these objects. A lahar (luh-HAR) is a mud flow that is caused by the action of
these features, which can produce pahoehoe (pah-HOY-hoy) and aa (AH-ah). Pyroclastic flows can occur
when they become active. Their types include composite cone and cinder cone. This geologic feature is
common in the Ring of Fire. For 10 points, name these mountains that form when lava erupts to the earth's
surface.
ANSWER: volcanoes
063-09-7-08114

15. Grover devised a quantum version of one of these algorithms and admissible heuristics are used in the
A*(A star) type of this algorithm. Another form of this process starts in the middle of a list and only
considers the half that might have a certain value. Both the interpolation and binary form of this algorithm
can only be run on ordered lists. The linear form of this algorithm can be run on any list and runs through
every value. For 10 points, name this algorithm named for its function of looking through lists for a certain
key element.
ANSWER: search algorithms
023-09-7-08115

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 8
Directed Round
1A. What adjective, derived from the name of a monarch, is often applied to the era in which Alfred Lord
Tennyson and Robert Browning wrote many of their works, or to a rigid system of morality that eschews
any public reference to bodily activities?
ANSWER:
Victorian
1B. Eighty-four percent of animal species belong to what phylum, which includes lobsters, spiders, and
insects?
ANSWER: Arthropoda [or arthropods]
2A. A 2009 sequel for the Wii built on the success of what 2006 Nintendo DS game, which reintroduced the
original side-scrolling mechanic for Nintendo's flagship character?
ANSWER: New Super Mario Brothers
2B. "Starlight," "Take a Bow," and the title track are some of the radio-friendly songs this British band's
2006 album Black Holes and Revelations. Identify this band, which released the follow-up The Resistance in
2009.
ANSWER: Muse
3A. A meager twenty-five-dollar fine for violating the law is causing many Virginia restaurant owners to
find profit in defying what restriction, that took effect on December 1, 2009 across the Commonwealth?
ANSWER: ban on smoking in restaurants and bars [accept any phrasing that expresses knowledge of a
smoking restriction of some kind]
3B. Founded in 1883 at Johns Hopkins University, it has since sold more than six million copies of its
Handbook for Writers of Research Papers. What is this organization, whose namesake citation style is used
in place of the APA and Chicago styles in certain fields?
ANSWER:
the MLA [or Modern Language Association]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Multiply (5x+3)(6x+3).
ANSWER: 30x2 + 33x + 9
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Add four and a half to three and a seventh.
ANSWER: 7 9/14 [or 107/14]
5A. In what language may you wish someone "buon compleanno" (BWAN com-PLAHN-yo) on his birthday
or "buon natale" (BWON nah-TAH-leh) on Christmas?
ANSWER: Italian [or Italiano]
5B. Identify the German engraver and painter of the Northern Renaissance who created Knight, Death, and
the Devil and the magic-square-containing Melancholia I.
ANSWER: Albrecht Dürer
VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A map has a scale of 3/8 inch to 11 miles. If two cities are
10.5 inches apart on the map, how far apart are they really?
ANSWER: 308 miles
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find all numbers not in the domain of the function f=4x+3)/(x2
- 12x + 32).
ANSWER: 4, 8 [both answers required]
7A. The Navajo Nation operates what cartographic tourist attraction, six miles outside of Teec Nos Pos,
Arizona?
ANSWER: Four Corners Monument
7B. What word refers to the smallest unit of sound available to a language, as opposed to the smallest unit of
meaning, which is called a morpheme?
ANSWER: phoneme
8A. This quantity is taken into account when evaluating possible damage to delicate instruments in moving
equipment. Identify this third derivative of position, which measures the instantaneous change in
acceleration.
ANSWER: jerk [or jolt]
8B. What multidisciplinary scientist proved that amino acids could be produced from simpler chemicals by
ultraviolet exposure, recorded messages from Earth placed on the Voyager and Pioneer probes, and
introduced the concept of "nuclear winter," all while engaging in such science-popularizing activities as
hosting the program Cosmos?
ANSWER: Carl Edward Sagan
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. In triangle ABC, side AB has length 13, side BC has length 8,
and the sine of angle ACB is 0.85. What is the sine of angle BAC, to the nearest hundredth?
ANSWER: 0.52
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A random variable takes the value 1 with probability 0.15, the
value 2 with probability 0.68, and the value 3 with probability 0.17. Find the expected value of this random
variable.
ANSWER: 2.02
10A. The Soviet Vityaz (vi-CHAZ) and the French-American Trieste were two bathyscaphes
(BATH-ih-scapes) that made ten-kilometer dives to the bottom of what Pacific Ocean structure, which is the
deepest known point on Earth?
ANSWER: Mariana Trench [or Marianas Trench]
10B. What titan of Swedish literature depicted a woman whose plans change from running off with the
servant Jean to killing herself in his masterpiece Miss Julie?
ANSWER: August Strindberg
VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 8
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One independence movement in this country began with the Cry of Villa de Los Santos and was led by
Jóse de Fábrega. One leader of this country became penpals with the ten-year-old Sarah York before being
captured when American forces blasted loud music outside the Vatican embassy. A site in this country was
the subject of the Hay-Bunau Varilla Treaty and was created after this country separated from Colombia in
1903. For 10 points, name this home of Manuel Noriega, which received control of its namesake canal in
1999.
ANSWER: Republic of Panama [or Republica de Panama]
015-09-7-08117

2. An attempt to solve the "problem of demarcation" that defines this field was advanced in a book that set
out the "falsification" principle, called "the logic of" this kind of "discovery," which was written by Karl
Popper. Later, a sociological analysis of this field's development, which claims that it proceeds through
"paradigm shifts," was written under the title "the structure of" this kind of "revolutions," by Thomas Kuhn.
For 10 points, identify this intellectual pursuit, which abides by a hypothesis-centered "method" advanced by
Francis Bacon.
ANSWER: science [or scientific or other word forms]
019-09-7-08118

3. The Turkevich method can be used to make nanoparticles of this metal which have applications in drug
delivery. It is refined by the Wohlwill (VOLE-vill) process, and it can be mined by cyanide leaching. Its
only stable isotope is 197. It is sometimes found in telluride ores, and it is the most ductile and malleable
element. It reacts with chlorine, explaining why it is susceptible to aqua regia. This metal was used to detect
the atomic nucleus in a namesake "foil" experiment. For 10 points, name this metallic element with symbol
Au.
ANSWER: gold
001-09-7-08119

4. This performer was inspired by Ray Noble's song "Cherokee" to record "Ko-Ko" with his band. His
quintet included Duke Jordan, Tommy Potter, Max Roach, and Miles Davis. That quintet performed early
be-bop music, which he helped pioneer. Several of his compositions, such as "Ornithology" and
"Birdfeathers," have become jazz standards. For 10 points, name this alto saxophonist whose original
nickname, "Yardbird", was simplified to "Bird."
ANSWER: Charlie "Bird" Parker
045-09-7-08120

5. One poem describes a woman "beloved in life of" this man. That poem mentioning this man is about Anne
Rutledge and is found in Spoon River Anthology. One elegy for this man laments the "great star" in the
"western sky in the night." Another elegy for him proclaims "the ship is anchor'd safe" and that for this
person "they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning." For 10 points, name this President, whose
death was lamented in Whitman's "O Captain! My Captain!"
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
002-09-7-08121

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Sidney Rigdon was one of this group's earliest spokesmen. Militant groups connected to this religion
became known as Danites. Along with Paiute Native Americans, some members of this group were
perpetrators of the Mountain Meadows Massacre. They fought a namesake "war" with the U.S. government
in the 1850s. They were driven out of Missouri and Illinois to a place they called "Deseret." For 10 points,
name this group, founded by Joseph Smith, that was led to the Great Salt Lake in Utah by Brigham Young.
ANSWER: Mormons [or LDS; or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints]
063-09-7-08122

7. Wavefunctions of the particle in a box use this function because it can be made to meet the boundary
conditions. The Gibbs phenomenon occurs in a method that approximates any function using this function
and its derivative, which is called a Fourier (FOR-ee-ay) series. The magnitude of a cross-product is
proportional to this function of the angle between the vectors. This function's law is the equality, for a
triangle, of each side's ratio to this function of the side's angle. Its reciprocal is the cosecant. For 10 points,
name this function, equal in trigonometry to the ratio of the opposite side to the hypotenuse.
ANSWER: sine
022-09-7-08123

8. Some members of this phylum keep their bodies clean through the use of pedicellaria
(pe-deh-sell-AIR-ee-uh). Many members of this phylum exhibit pentaradial symmetry. Its species have a
system of interlocking calcium carbonate plates called stereom. Creatures in it have tube feet called podia.
Podia are found at the end of this phylum's main method of movement and respiration, the water-vascular
system. For 10 points, name this phylum of sea cucumbers and starfish, which has a Greek name to describe
members' spiny skin.
ANSWER: Echinodermata [or echinoderms]
023-09-7-08124

9. In the run-up to World War II, this city was the location of a Nazi plot that assassinated Engelbert Dolfuss
and put Kurt Schuschnigg in power. Polish king John Sobieski helped defend this city in 1683 in an event
that allegedly led to the invention of the croissant. That was the second of two sieges, the other being 1529,
in which the Ottomans tried to take this seat of Hapsburg power. For 10 points, name this city which served
as the site of an 1815 Congress that redrew the borders of post-Napoleonic Europe.
ANSWER: Vienna [or Wien; or Viden; or Becs]
003-09-7-08125

10. This country contains the world's largest piece of limestone, the Nullarbor Plain. The Morning Glory
Cloud can be seen off the north of this country in the Gulf of Carpentaria. The lowest and highest points in
this nation are Lake Eyre and Mount Kosciusko, respectively. This home of the Great Dividing Range
contains the cities of Darwin, Adelaide, and Brisbane and is separated from Tasmania by the Bass Strait. The
home of the Great Barrier Reef is, for 10 points, what country that occupies an entire continent?
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
020-09-7-08126

11. In this novel, a baby is born with a pig tail and is eaten by an army of ants. One character in this work,
the mechanic Mauricio (mah-REE-see-oh) Babilonia, is always accompanied by butterflies. Three thousand
people die in a strike against a banana company in this novel. The gypsy Melquíades (mel-KYE-uh-dees)
creates a manuscript in this work, which centers on the Buendía family. It ends with the death of Aureliano
and the destruction of Macondo. For 10 points, name this magical realist novel by Gabriel García Márquez.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien Años de Soledad]
030-09-7-08127

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This mythical figure fought six-armed giants and rescued King Phineus (fin-AY-us) in Asia from some
bothersome harpies. Zetes (ZEE-teez) and Calais (cah-LAY-iss), children of the North Wind, were part of a
group led by this man that also included Odysseus's grandfather Autolycus (AW-toe-LYE-kus), Nestor, and
Meleager (MEL-ee-EY-ger). With the help of a potion brewed by the daughter of King Aeetes
(eye-EE-teez), this hero was able to elude a dragon and secure the Golden Fleece. For 10 points, name this
onetime husband of Medea and leader of the Argonauts.
ANSWER: Jason
063-09-7-08128

13. The epigraph for this poem translates to a claim that "there are more invisible than visible beings in the
universe." Its central figure sees two hundred men die shortly after a dice game gives his soul to
Life-in-Death. In the frame story, the title character of this poem accosts a wedding guest and tells the tale of
seeing "water, water every where" without "any drop to drink." For 10 points, name this poem from Lyrical
Ballads that describes the title figure killing an albatross and was written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
ANSWER: "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
019-09-7-08129

14. In historiography, this word refers to the fallacious study of history as a march of progress towards the
present. This term also refers to the party, led by Robert Walpole, which dominated mid-eighteenth-century
British politics before passing the Great Reform Bill. These original opponents of the Tories also share their
name with an American party, formed by Henry Clay and other anti-Jacksonian elements. For 10 points,
identify this party, under whose banner William Henry Harrison and Zachary Taylor were elected to the
Presidency.
ANSWER: Whig Party [or whigs; or Whiggish view of history; or other word forms]
019-09-7-08130

15. One of this author's fictional characters watches dead rats pile up, treats Father Paneloux, and stays in
contact with his wife, who left Oran. In an essay, this author confronts the absurdity of existence by
referencing a Greek figure who rolled a rock up a hill in The Myth of Sisyphus. In one of this novels, a
character learns his mother has died and shoots an Arab on the beach. Protagonists created by this author
include Dr. Rieux (ree-OO) and Meursault (mer-SOH). For 10 points, name this French existentialist who
wrote The Plague and The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus (ca-MOO)
063-09-7-08131

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 8
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Their strength as a function of distance can be modeled by the Lennard-Jones potential. Their namesake
also names an equation of state which modifies the ideal gas law. Unlike covalent and ionic bonds, they are
caused by changes in the polarizations of nearby molecules. One variety of them arises between nonpolar
molecules due to induced dipoles, and is known as London dispersion forces. For 10 points, identify these
generalized weak intermolecular forces, which are named after a Dutch scientist.
ANSWER: Van der Waals forces
024-09-7-08132

2. This figure informed a butler that he would be spared and told a baker that he would be hanged. In order
to test his siblings, he plants his silver goblet in Benjamin's bag and accuses his brother of theft. This man is
imprisoned after being falsely accused of attempted rape by Potiphar's wife. He interprets Pharaoh's dream
about fat and skinny cattle to mean that Egypt will suffer seven years of famine. For 10 points, name this son
of Jacob who possessed a multicolored coat and was sold into slavery by his brothers.
ANSWER: Joseph [or Yosef]
004-09-7-08133

3. One character in this work obsessively makes shoes in order to relieve his guilt at not being able to save a
man from the guillotine. Another of its characters recognizes her brother Solomon but is blackmailed into
secrecy after it is revealed that Solomon has been spying for the British and the French. That woman, Miss
Pross, shoots Madame Defarge in order to protect Lucy Manette, who is in love with Charles Darney. For 10
points, name the novel, in which Sydney Carton sacrifices himself to save Charles, a work by Charles
Dickens.
ANSWER: A Tale of Two Cities
032-09-7-08134

4. One kind of these singers is a coloratura. The arias "Vissi d'Arte" and "O Mio Babbino Caro" were written
for this kind of singer. The soubrette (SUE-bret) has this operatic voice, which sings the title roles of the
operas Tosca and Madame Butterfly. Singers in this voice include Jenny Lind, Beverly Sills, and Maria
Callas. For 10 points, name this highest voice of a female opera singer.
ANSWER: soprano
004-09-7-08135

5. A powerful desiccant is made from the pentoxide of this element. A compound containing this element is
a dental etching solution and iron III oxide rust remover. This element occurs in plus-3 and plus-5 oxidation
states in its two triprotic acids. It forms a variety of elemental structures in its white and red allotropes.
Because this element possesses a 3-s-2-3-p-3 configuration, it can break the octet rule, unlike nitrogen,
which is also in its family. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 15 and symbol P.
ANSWER: phosphorus
020-09-7-08136

VHSL Regionals Round 8 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

