VHSL Districts
Round 6
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. The first character of this name had a weakness against wood and fought villains such as Solomon Grundy
and Harlequin. The most famous person to hold this title became the Spectre until his 2005 resurrection to
retake this title. This role was first occupied by Alan Scott, while a later version was replaced after turning
into the villain Parallax. Ryan Reynolds is slated to play this character in a 2011 film. His identities include
Kyle Rayner and Hal Jordan. For 10 points, name this DC superhero who gets his color from a power ring.
ANSWER: Green Lantern
002-09-3-06101

2. At one point in this novel, Noah leaves his family to live by a river and survive on fish. Characters in this
novel include the preacher Jim Casy, Connie Rivers, and Rivers' wife, Rose of Sharon. Another character in
this novel dies crossing the Mojave Desert. That character's husband doesn't want to leave Oklahoma in this
novel, although the rest of the central family supports the trek to California. For 10 points, name this novel
about the Depression-era Joad family by John Steinbeck.
ANSWER: The Grapes of Wrath
024-09-3-06102

3. This man composed a piece that includes a musical illustration of bath water, entitled Symphonia
Domestica. "Of the Backworldsmen" and "Of Science" are among the sections of another of this man's
works. A folk hero disguises himself as a monk and is hanged in this composer's Till Eulenspiegel's Merry
Pranks. He composed "The Dance of the Seven Veils" for the opera Salome (SALL-oh-may). For 10 points,
name this composer of Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
030-09-3-06103

4. This organ's head is removed in Whipple's operation. Some people have a second duct in this organ, the
duct of Santorini. The acinar cells of this organ are stimulated by cholecystokinin (co-luh-sis-toe-KIN-in).
This organ is connected to the bile duct by the duct of Wirsung (VEER-sung). The delta cells of this organ
produce somatostatin (so-mat-oh-STAT-in), and it also produces glucagon. For 10 points, name this organ
which contains the islets of Langerhans, whose beta cells produce insulin.
ANSWER: pancreas
024-09-3-06104

5. From 1856 to the end of the Civil War, this person led the New York branch of William Lloyd Garrison's
American Anti-Slavery Society. Later, she edited The Revolution along with Parker Pillsbury and Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and she joined with Stanton again to found NAWSA (NAW-suh). She and her three sisters
tried to register to vote in the 1872 presidential election, but they were first denied, then arrested for voting.
For 10 points, name this pioneer of women's rights, who was honored by having her image put on a dollar
coin.
ANSWER: Susan Brownell Anthony
045-09-3-06105

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The distance from a hydrogen atom nucleus that an electron is most likely to be found is known as this
man's namesake radius. This man posited that simultaneous wave-particle duality was impossible to observe
as part of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics he created with Heisenberg
(HIGH-zuhn-buhrg). This man's model of the atom modified that of Rutherford. For 10 points, name this
physicist who posited that atoms consist of negatively charged electrons that follow circular orbits around a
dense, positively charged nucleus.
ANSWER: Niels Bohr
058-09-3-06106

7. This painting partially shares its name with a work in which a couple clasps hands in front of two
sailboats moored to one another. That work shows the lights of Arles (ARL) reflected in the Rhone River. A
cypress tree dominates the left side of this painting. In its center, a church steeple rises above the town of
Saint-Rémy (sahn RAY-mee). This painting shows swirling clouds and a crescent moon. For 10 points,
name this painting that shows a nocturnal sky, a masterpiece of Vincent van Gogh.
ANSWER: The Starry Night [accept Starry Night over the Rhone before "cypress" is read]
064-09-3-06107

8. During one trip by this leader, a series of fake villages were allegedly built to give a false sense of
prosperity by Grigory Potemkin (GREE-goh-ree poh-TEM-kin). This ruler's army put down a revolt of
Cossacks led by Pugachev (poo-guh-CHOFF), who claimed to be this leader's dead husband, Peter III. This
ruler took part in all three partitions of Poland. For 10 points, name this enlightened despot, who was born in
Prussia but eventually came to rule as Empress of Russia.
ANSWER: Catherine II of Russia [or Catherine the Great; or Yekaterina II; or Yekaterina Velikaya;
prompt on Catherine; prompt on Yekaterina]
023-09-3-06108

9. The service on this holiday begins with a quote from Mark, Chapter 1, verse 15, that includes the
command "Repent, and believe the Gospel." The Orthodox observe the similar holiday of Clean Monday due
to differences in calendars. In Western churches, it occurs forty-six days before Easter. The characteristic
emblem of this first day of Lent is created by burning the leaves used on Palm Sunday. For 10 points,
identify this Christian observance, in which a cross is drawn on worshippers' foreheads using the namesake
substance.
ANSWER: Ash Wednesday
019-09-3-06109

10. One leader of this country was shot by Mehmet Ali Agca (AKH-chuh) and oversaw this country's
establishment of diplomatic relations with Israel in 1993. Pietro Gasparri signed the Lateran Treaty to create
this nation. Eugenio Pacelli (you-JEEN-ee-oh puh-CHEL-ee) and Karol Wojtyla (VOY-chuh-luh) were two
rulers of this nation, who each adopted new names after being elected by the College of Cardinals. For 10
points, name this country that is surrounded by Italy and was once headed by Pope John Paul II.
ANSWER: State of the Vatican City [or the Holy See; or Il Stato della Citta del Vaticano]
027-09-3-06110

11. One type of this device stores data in circuits having two stable states known as flip-flops such that the
device need not be externally refreshed, while another type uses single capacitors. Flash is a nonvolatile type
of this device, which can come in dynamic or static types. If this device is insufficient for a certain task, a
computer will use some hard drive space in a process known as swapping. For 10 points, name this
temporary type of storage in which data can be retrieved at some constant time regardless of its relation to
other data.
ANSWER: RAM [or random access memory; prompt on memory]
058-09-3-06111
VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. In a novel written in this language, Amina is hit by a car and Fahmy is shot by the British. That novel,
Palace Walk, is part of a trilogy in this language with Palace of Desire and Sugar Street. The story of
Morgiana, who kills forty thieves for Ali Baba, was also written in this language. The tales of Sinbad are
presented in this language by Scheherazade (shuh-her-uh-ZOD). For 10 points, name this language used by
Naguib Mahfouz (nah-GEEB mock-FOOZ), as well as in The Thousand and One Nights and the Quran.
ANSWER: Arabic [or al-Arabiya]
027-09-3-06112

13. In one phase of this process, the Z-scheme provides energy to reduce adenine (ADD-uh-neen)
derivatives. One type of this process requires PEP carboxylase (car-BOX-ih-lace) and physically separates
its two phases; that process is called CAM. One component of this process is the reaction of RuBP catalyzed
by rubisco (roo-BISS-ko); that reaction is part of the Calvin cycle. For 10 points, name this process, which
occurs in and around the chloroplasts (KLOR-oh-PLASTS) in leaves, by which plants turn carbon dioxide
and light into sugars.
ANSWER: photosynthesis [or light-dependent reactions until "two"]
022-09-3-06113

14. One incident which occurred during this event was the Taiyuan (TIE-won) Massacre, in which Christian
missionaries were killed. This event was quelled by the Eight-Nation Alliance and secretly encouraged by
the Dowager Empress. Its instigators believed themselves invulnerable to bullets and referred to itself as the
Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists. For 10 points, name this uprising which lasted from 1899 to
1901 during the Qing (CHING) Dynasty and attempted to expel foreigners from China.
ANSWER: Boxer Rebellion [or anything reasonable mentioning the Boxers]
024-09-3-06114

15. Wendy Wright and Henry Jackson were among the leaders of groups opposing this activity in
Washington, D.C. in 2009. This activity became legal in New Hampshire as of January 2010, but was
rejected by voters on Election Day 2009 in Maine. A 2009 bill authorizing this in New York failed to pass
the legislature, meaning that Iowa, Connecticut, Vermont, and Massachusetts were the only four states
where it was recognized as of last year. For 10 points, identify this status, which was revoked in 2008 by
California's Proposition 8.
ANSWER: same-sex marriage [or gay marriage or other obviously equivalent answers; prompt on
marriage during the first sentence only]
019-09-3-06115

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 6
Directed Round
1A. The western U.S.'s Ogallala formation is an example of what massive underground sources of water?
ANSWER: aquifers
1B. What Scottish chemist made an accidental discovery in an old petri dish that saved the lives of millions
when he found the antibacterial agent penicillin?
ANSWER:
Alexander Fleming
2A. In Spanish, what verb mood usually expresses doubt, uncertainty, or denial in a dependent clause?
ANSWER: subjunctive mood
2B. Identify the triptych (TRIP-tick). housed at the Prado (PRAH-doe), that shows paradise on the left and
Hell on the right, and was painted by Hieronymous Bosch (here-AH-nuh-mus BOSH).
ANSWER: The Garden of Earthly Delights
3A. The novels Philosopher or Dog? by Joaquim Machado de Assis (joe-a-KEEM MAH-shah JA-sees) and
Blindness by Jose Saramago are some of the literary classics originally written in what language?
ANSWER: Portuguese [or Português]
3B. Two examples of this device from the Odyssey are "swift-footed" Achilles and "ox-eyed" Hera. Give the
term in literature for a word that accompanies someone's name or takes its place.
ANSWER: epithet
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. If one and a quarter cup of sugar is needed to make a batch of
two dozen cookies, how many cookies can be made with 15 cups of sugar?
ANSWER: 288 [or 24 dozen or 12 batches]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Add four and five-ninths to five and two-sevenths.
ANSWER: 620/63 [or nine and fifty-three sixty-thirds]
5A. Samuel Richardson's works Pamela and Clarissa are classic examples of what kind of novel, which is
told through letters between the characters?
ANSWER: epistolary novel
5B. This team was nicknamed the "bad boys" of the NBA in the 80s. Name this team, whose current roster
includes Jason Maxiell, Rodney Stuckey, and Rip Hamilton.
ANSWER:
Detroit Pistons [or Detroit Pistons]
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate (-7x + 8y)/(3x - 9y) when x = -9 and y = -2.
ANSWER: -47/9 [or negative five and two-ninths]

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Factor x2 - 20x + 91.
ANSWER: (x-7)(x-13) [order of the factors does not matter]
7A. What phenomenon, which produces a bluish glow in nuclear reactors, occurs when beta particles travel
faster than the speed of light of a specific medium?
ANSWER:
Cherenkov radiation [or Cerenkov radiation]
7B. Identify the country whose salt flats of Salar de Uyuni (sah-LAR day oo-YOO-nee) contain huge
amounts of lithium, which its president, Evo Morales, refuses to let western companies mine.
ANSWER: Plurinational State of Bolivia [or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia]
8A. This district of London is located toward the city's East End and is the site of the Royal Opera House.
Tourists may enjoy an abundance of licensed street performers in what area, made famous in Pygmalion as
the spot where Henry Higgins discovers Eliza Dolittle selling flowers?
ANSWER: Covent Garden
8B. Name the biological cycle that breaks down acetyl CoA (uh-SEE-till co-"A") into carbon dioxide and
water, which are then passed to the electron transport chain.
ANSWER: Krebs cycle [or tricarboxylic acid cycle; or citric acid cycle]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the area of a trapezoid with a height of 12 inches, a top
base of 11 inches, and a bottom base of 18 inches.
ANSWER: 174 square inches
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the mean of the six numbers 59, 88, 69, 78, 5, and 91.
ANSWER: 65
10A. The games Alpha Centauri and Call to Power are spinoffs of what series of turn-based strategy games
from designer Sid Meier?
ANSWER:
Civilization
10B. What anti-Keynesian economist explained his ideas in Capitalism and Freedom and advocated policies
such as supplying school vouchers and abolishing the draft?
ANSWER:
Milton Friedman

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 6
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One of this author's protagonists is sheltered by a family that brings guns to church to continue their feud
with the Shepherdsons. That protagonist's inability to thread a needle ruins the ruse that he was a girl named
Sarah Williams. This author of several works set on the Mississippi River wrote about a title character's
escape from Widow Douglas and Miss Watson with the slave Jim. For 10 points, name this author of
Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer.
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
022-09-3-06117

2. One set of these objects is orthogonal with respect to a Gaussian weighting function, and another is used
to solve Laplace's (luh-PLAH-sez) equation in spherical coordinates; those sets of these objects are named
for Hermite (er-MEET) and Legendre (luh-ZHAN-druh). Writing a Taylor series attempts to approximate a
differentiable function as one of these objects. One of these is guaranteed to have a number of roots equal to
its degree by the fundamental theorem of algebra. For 10 points, name these functions of a variable and its
powers, such as x squared plus two x plus one.
ANSWER: polynomials
022-09-3-06118

3. In one play by this author, Hugo Barine kills Hoederer (HOY-dur-er), but is unaware that the Party wants
to create a martyr. This author of Dirty Hands wrote about the sweetish sickness that afflicts Antoine
Roquentin in his novel Nausea. His play about the interactions of Ines, Garcin, and Estelle inspired the
saying "Hell is other people." For 10 points, name this author of No Exit and other French existentialist
works.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre
020-09-3-06119

4. This country's city of Spanish Lookout is home to its only commercially viable oilfields. The tallest peak
in this nation is named after Arthur Conan Doyle. Its borders are partially defined by the Sarstoon and
Hondo rivers. This country's capital used to be a coastal city named for the country, but the devastating 1961
Hurricane Hattie forced a new planned capital to be built inland. For 10 points, name this country, that was
once called British Honduras, a Caribbean scuba-diving haven with capital at Belmopan.
ANSWER: Belize
026-09-3-06120

5. Rudyard Kipling wrote a response to this poem in which he bemoaned that "the thirty million English sent
twenty pounds and four!" The action of this poem is completed while "all the world wonder'd." The speaker
reveals "someone had blunder'd," but the title group rides "into the valley of death" after deciding "their's not
to reason why, their's just to do and die." For 10 points, name this Alfred, Lord Tennyson poem about a
group of six hundred British soldiers who ride into Russian cannon fire.
ANSWER: "The Charge of the Light Brigade"
015-09-3-06121

6. One work by this composer includes the aria "Sanctus fortis" and a chorus of souls singing Psalm 90 in its
two parts. This composer adapted a Cardinal Newman poem into The Dream of Gerontius and included
"Dorabella" and "Nimrod" as part of a greater work. He described several friends in his Enigma Variations
and compiled a set of six military marches including the tune "Land of Hope and Glory." For 10 points,
name this English composer whose first Pomp and Circumstance march is commonly played at graduations.
ANSWER: Sir Edward William Elgar
020-09-3-06122
VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This quantity can be somewhat overcome in biological systems by hydrogen tunneling. When this
quantity rather than product stability determines which product is formed, the reaction is said to be under
kinetic control. The Arrhenius (ar-REN-ee-us) equation relates it to temperature and reaction rate. This is the
amount of energy between the reactants and the transition state. For 10 points, identify this energy barrier
that must be overcome for a reaction to take place.
ANSWER: activation energy [or free energy of activation]
001-09-3-06123

8. Followers of this politician often use the tactic of "entryism." This man founded the Fourth International,
which opposed the concept of "socialism in one country." This Russian negotiator at the Treaty of
Brest-Litovsk was the leader of the Red Army during the Russian Civil War. He was ultimately assassinated
by Ramón Mercader with an ice-axe. For 10 points, name this Communist who, after losing a power struggle
with Stalin in 1928, was expelled from the Party and forced to flee to Mexico.
ANSWER: Leon Trotsky [or Lev Davidovich Bronshtein]
045-09-3-06124

9. One title character created by this author is the captain of the Ghost. Ernest Everhart fights the Oligarchy
in his work The Iron Heel. Another of his title characters fights with Lip-Lip. The main character of a
different work by this author defeats Spitz in a brawl and wins a thousand dollars for John Thornton. For 10
points, name this American author of the short story "To Build A Fire" and the novels The Sea-Wolf, White
Fang, and The Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney]
062-09-3-06125

10. Lonsdaleite is a hexagonal type of this mineral associated with meteor impacts. Individual units of this
mineral are classified based on the amount of nitrogen and boron in the lattice. This mineral is most
commonly found in lamproite and kimberlite. It consists of sp3 carbon bonded in a tetrahedral network.
When sold commercially, it is rated in terms of its color, clarity, cut, and carat. It rates a ten on the Mohs
scale. For 10 points, name this valuable gem that is the hardest known mineral.
ANSWER: diamond
001-09-3-06126

11. Critical assistance at this battle came from an alliance with the Choctaw under Pushmahata. This battle
was fought on the grounds of Chalmette Plantation and also involved naval aid from pirate Jean Lafitte.
Edward Packenham's British troops were defeated here, though neither commander was aware that the
Treaty of Ghent had ended the war two weeks before this battle was fought. For 10 points, what final Battle
of the War of 1812 was a victory for Andrew Jackson on the Gulf of Mexico?
ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans
002-09-3-06127

12. While traveling as an ordinary peasant with Hermes, this god was so impressed with their hospitality that
he turned Baucis and Philemon into trees and spared them from a flood. The Korybantes
(CORE-ee-ban-tees) banged their swords and shields to cover this god's cries when he was cared for by the
goat Amalthea (ah-MAL-thay-uh) as an infant. This god's mother Rhea substituted a stone for him at birth so
his father Cronus wouldn't eat him. For 10 points, name this father of Athena and Ares and wife of the
jealous Hera.
ANSWER: Zeus [or Jupiter; or Jove]
015-09-3-06128

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This leader cited an earthquake and Church influence as reasons for the failure of his initial efforts in the
Cartagena (CAR-tuh-HAY-nuh) Manifesto. This winning commander at Carabobo (CAH-ruh-BO-bo) issued
a decree threatening death to those not following him. After the Battle of Boyacá (boy-uh-CAH), this leader
sent Sucre (SUE-cray) and San Martin (sahn mar-TEEN) to fight in Ecuador and Peru. For 10 points, name
this president of Venezuela, Bolivia, and Gran Colombia who was the "liberator" of five South American
nations.
ANSWER: Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar Palacios y Blanco
020-09-3-06129

14. One character in this novel is obsessed with a shoe that belonged to her adopted daughter Agnes as a
baby. In this book, Clopin is a king of the vagabonds who tries to hang the poet Pierre Gringoire
(grin-WAR). Another character has a pet goat named Djali (JAH-lee). In this novel, Phoebus is a captain of
the King’s Archers who is stabbed by the villain Archdeacon Frollo. For 10 points, name this Victor Hugo
novel in which the gypsy Esmeralda is loved by the deformed bell ringer Quasimodo.
ANSWER: The Hunchback of Notre Dame [or Notre-Dame de Paris]
015-09-3-06130

15. This man acted as an arbitrator in the aftermath of the War of the Triple Alliance, giving a disputed area
to Paraguay. This President signed a bill allowing women to practice law at the Supreme Court. His attempt
to defend the gold standard was thwarted when Congress overrode his veto of the Bland-Allison Act. This
man was derided by opponents as "His Fraudulency," because his election was secured by discarding certain
votes from Oregon and Florida. For 10 points, name this President who defeated Samuel Tilden in the
tainted 1876 election.
ANSWER: Rutherford Birchard Hayes
024-09-3-06131

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 6
Tiebreaker Questions
1. John Donne's "The Sun Rising," in which the sun is personified as a "busy old fool," uses this poetic
device. John Keats's "Ode on a Grecian Urn" uses this device when the speaker addresses the images on the
side of the ancient vessel. Another example of this device occurs in Julius Caesar when Mark Antony talks
to the title character’s corpse. For 10 points, what literary term describes this rhetorical device, in which
something inanimate or absent is spoken to as though it could respond?
ANSWER: apostrophe
045-09-3-06132

2. The phonological loop was introduced as part of the "working" model for this faculty. One form of it is
improved by "chunking." That form of this faculty is related to George Miller's idea that it is governed by
the number seven plus or minus two. The assassination of John F. Kennedy is commonly cited as eliciting
the "flashbulb" form of this faculty. For 10 points, name this faculty that is commonly divided into long-term
and short-term varieties and is lost by sufferers of amnesia.
ANSWER: memory [or short-term memory]
020-09-3-06133

3. The relative abundance of one of these elements to potassium gives a rock sample's time since
recrystallization. One of these elements is the net product of the C-N-O cycle in stars. The hexafluoride
(HEX-uh-FLOOR-ide) of one of these elements was the first compound formed using one of them; they are
typically inert. For 10 points, name these elements with full electron shells, a group that includes argon and
helium.
ANSWER: noble gases [or inert gases until "inert"; or Group VIIIA; or Group 18]
022-09-3-06134

4. A misquoted passage from Tertullian is the basis for the saying that this term describes the belief in
Christ. Albert Camus defines and examines it in his essay The Myth of Sisyphus, in which he claims that
even though this word describes life, everyone need not commit suicide. This word also completes the name
of a type of logical refutation in which the argument is "reduced" to it. For 10 points, name this word that
also names a type of ridiculous theater associated with Eugene Ionesco.
ANSWER: absurdity [accept absurdism; absurdo; absurdum or any reasonable word form]
045-09-3-06135

5. At the border of the alpine version of this biome, stilted trees called krummholz (KRUM-holes) are found.
This environment is prone to solifluction (sol-ih-FLUCK-shun). A version of this biome is found on the
Colorado Plateau. Lichens (LYE-kens) and reindeer mosses are found in this biome; those plants are fed
upon by caribou in the Arctic version of this biome. This biome contains frozen soil known as permafrost.
For 10 points, name this cold "treeless plain" biome found in places like Alaska.
ANSWER: tundra
001-09-3-06136

VHSL Districts Round 6 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

