VHSL Regionals
Round 2
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This man names an algorithm that takes numbers a and b and returns the answer of the algorithm on
numbers b and a mod b. That algorithm computes the greatest common divisor. He proved that there are
infinitely many primes, and he wrote a work in which the first four books deal with plane geometry and
include the Pythagorean Theorem and the parallel postulate. For 10 points, name this Greek mathematician
who wrote Elements and is considered the father of geometry.
ANSWER: Euclid of Alexandria
040-09-7-02101

2. This man won the sponsorship of Louis XIV with the plays The Blunderer and Sganarelle
(suh-GAN-uh-REL). His marriage to a younger woman is reflected in his play The School for Wives. This
playwright fell ill and died while acting in the title role of his The Imaginary Invalid. He wrote about the
angry Alceste in his The Misanthrope. For 10 points, name this French playwright of a work about Orgon’s
interactions with a con artist, Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Molière [ or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
062-09-7-02102

3. This man led a legion of the navy during the Uruguayan Civil War. He objected to the granting of Savoy
and Nice (NEECE) to France under the terms of the Treaty of Villafranca, which contributed to his dislike of
Camillo Cavour. The annexation of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies by Sardinia resulted from this man's
Expedition of the Thousand. For 10 points, name this figure of the Risorgimento (ree-SOR-jee-MEN-toh)
who led the Red Shirts as part of his campaign to unify Italy.
ANSWER: Giuseppi Garibaldi
032-09-7-02103

4. This quantity is the conjugate variable of position. The de Broglie (duh BROY) equation sets wavelength
equal to Planck's constant divided by this quantity. This quantity, unlike kinetic energy, is conserved
regardless of whether a collision is elastic or inelastic. This quantity is symbolized P. For 10 points, name
this vector quantity found by multiplying mass and velocity.
ANSWER: linear momentum [do not accept or prompt on "angular momentum"]
026-09-7-02104

5. One group of twelve works by this composer was commissioned by Johann Peter Solomon. In his 94th
symphony, a resounding fortissimo chord suddenly appears during an otherwise slow movement. He wrote
12 "London" Symphonies and an oratorio based on the book of Genesis entitled The Creation. For 10 points,
name this Austrian composer who wrote 104 numbered symphonies, including ones named "Clock,"
"Farewell" and "Surprise."
ANSWER: Franz Joseph Haydn (HAI-den)
052-09-7-02105

6. In one of this author's novels, Fanny Elmer reads a Henry Fielding novel to get closer to a man obsessed
with the past. The title character of that novel is the Cambridge-educated son of Betty Flanders. In another
work by this writer, Lucrezia marries the depressed World War I veteran Septimus Smith. In that work by
her, the psychiatrist Sir William Bradshaw, Peter Walsh, and Lady Rosseter attend a dinner party hosted by
the narrator, Clarissa. For 10 points, name this author of Jacob's Room and Mrs. Dalloway.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Stephen]
063-09-7-02106

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This composer wrote a tone poem in which the English horn represents a mythical bird of the underworld.
This man also wrote an orchestral suite which depicted such images as the castle of Karl Knutsson. Besides
writing The Swan of Tuonela (TOO-o-nay-la) and the Karelia Suite, this composer wrote a symphonic poem
meant to protest Russian censorship within his home country. His Lemminkainen (LEM-enk-eye-nen) Suite
was inspired by his country's national epic, the Kalevala. For 10 points, name this composer of Finlandia.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius (sey-BAIL-ay-us)
052-09-7-02107

8. This man wrote about Richard Wright in such books as Notes of a Native Son. This author’s discussions
with Margaret Mead were collected in A Rap on Race. One novel by this man sees David run away with
Hella despite his love for the title character. That work is Giovanni's Room. This writer’s most famous work
is the story of the "Temple of the Fire Baptized" and the conversion that takes place there. For 10 points,
name this creator of John Grimes, who is the protagonist of his Go Tell It on the Mountain.
ANSWER: James Arthur Baldwin
062-09-7-02108

9. This philosopher expressed his concern for the humans, not the horses, who survived a stable fire. This
man claimed that reciprocity was the single best word to live by, thus formulating his Silver Rule. This
compiler of the Spring and Autumn Annals formulated the ideas later taught by Mencius. He described
benevolence as li and created an ethics centered on ren. He advocated the "mandate of heaven," and
collected his teachings in the Analects. For 10 points, name this Chinese thinker whose school opposed
Daoism.
ANSWER: Confucius [or Kong Fuzi ; pronounced KONG-foo-tsee]
020-09-7-02109

10. Under this President, the Force Acts were used to prosecute Ku Klux Klan members. He used the slogan
"Let us have peace" in his campaign against Horatio Seymour. This President's secretary, Orville Babcock,
was indicted for participating in the Whiskey Ring. This President was in power during the Panic of 1873
and headed the second half of Reconstruction. For 10 points, name this man whose two White House terms
were plagued by corruption, tarring the reputation he had earned as the victorious Union commander in the
Civil War.
ANSWER: Ulysses Simpson Grant
032-09-7-02110

11. This composer's sixth symphony in B minor has an unusually quiet ending to its fourth movement and
triumphant ending to its third movement; that symphony is called the "Pathetique." Another of this
composer's works quotes the Russian and French national anthems to depict the battle of Borodino. One of
his ballets includes a battle between soldiers and mice and the dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy. For 10 points,
name this Russian composer who used a cannon in the 1812 Overture, and who wrote Swan Lake and The
Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
032-09-7-02111

12. Eleanor Roosevelt founded the Tractors for Freedom Committee to ransom the hostages captured during
this event. Once this operation's location was selected, it was known as Operation Zapata; earlier, the overall
goal was called Pluto. This event featured a drop of over one hundred fifty paratroopers in Operation Falcon.
Weak CIA support led to the failure of, for 10 points, what April 1961 attempt to oust Castro from Cuba,
which was named for the body of water where the volunteers landed?.
ANSWER: Bay of Pigs invasion [or Bahía de Cochinos]
022-09-7-02112

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This language recently introduced autoboxing. GUIs (GOO-ees) can be created in this language by AWT
("A-W-T") and Swing. Its string class is immutable, but its stringbuffer class is mutable. Common
exceptions in this language are IndexOutOfBoundsException, NullPointerException, and
RuntimeException. It runs on a namesake virtual machine. For 10 points, name this object oriented Sun
Microsystems created programming language.
ANSWER: Java
001-09-7-02113

14. This empire's capital moved from Niani to Kangaba after the reign of Mahmud III. It developed after a
victory at the battle of Kirina over Sumanguru by this empire's founder, Sundiata Keita. Another ruler of this
kingdom was so rich that his gold-strewn pilgrimage to Mecca caused prices to shoot up in Cairo. For 10
points, name this ancient kingdom, once ruled by Mansa Musa, which contained the city of Timbuktu.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Mali [or the Mali Empire; or the Manding Empire; or Manden Kurafa]
022-09-7-02114

15. One section of a work by this author compares the Bank of England's charging of interest to the
production of bad Baroque art. This author wrote a poem that compares the people he sees to "petals on a
wet, black bough" called "In a Station of the Metro." This poet translated poetry by Li Po, such as "The
River Merchant's Wife." One work by this author was written partially in Pisa, Italy, where he lived due to
Fascist sympathies that led to his confinement after World War II in an American mental hospital. For 10
points, name this author of the Cantos.
ANSWER: Ezra Weston Loomis Pound
022-09-7-02115

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 2
Directed Round
1A. Name the Washington volcano, located about fifty miles northeast of Portland, that is most famous for a
massive eruption in May of 1980 that collapsed the northern face of the mountain.
ANSWER: Mount St. Helens
1B. The right one of these chambers of the heart pumps blood into pulmonary circulation. Name these
chambers, whose left and thicker-walled one pumps blood through the aorta to the rest of the body.
ANSWER: ventricles
2A. What German sociologist delivered the Freiburg Address against the German aristocracy and wrote The
Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism?
ANSWER: Max Weber
2B. Name the Toni Morrison novel in which a young woman, who may be a reincarnation of a murdered
baby girl, exploits her mother Sethe and alienates her sister Denver.
ANSWER: Beloved
3A. Chains of volcanic islands and ocean trenches occur at the namesake zones of what process, in which an
oceanic plate slides beneath another plate?
ANSWER: subduction
3B. Economic adviser Lawrence Summers has predicted an improvement from the ten percent rate of what
labor statistic, which is related to inflation by the Phillips curve?
ANSWER: unemployment rate
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Evaluate: 32.23 - 8.898.
ANSWER: 23.332
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve for x: y = 3x - 5.
ANSWER: x = (y+5)/3
5A. What type of long poetry, characterized by works such as the Aeneid and the Iliad, typically begins with
an invocation to a muse?
ANSWER: epic verse
5B. Name the language family, whose recognition was advocated by Marcus Boxhorn and William Jones,
that includes Hindi and English.
ANSWER: Indo-European

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A quadrilateral has four angles. Two of these angles are the
same; the third is twice as large as the first two, while the fourth is 18 degrees larger than the third. What is
the measure of the two identical angles?
ANSWER: 57 degrees
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Factor: 3x2 - 35x + 72.
ANSWER: (x-9)(3x-8) [the order of the factors does not matter]
7A. Name the Jewish physician and researcher who was instrumental in creating a vaccine against polio in
1955.
ANSWER: Jonas Salk
7B. "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night" by Dylan Thomas is a notable example of what poetic form,
which includes two repeated refrains over its nineteen lines?
ANSWER: villanelle
8A. This format can hold up to five times the amount of information of a DVD and overcame the
now-defunct rival HD-DVD. Identify this video disc format, which gets its name from the color of the laser
used to read its contents.
ANSWER: blu ray disc
8B. Identify the television show that stars David Boreanaz as FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth and Emily
Deschanel as the title forensic anthropologist, Temperance Brennan.
ANSWER: Bones
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. A pyramid has a square base, 30 inches on each side. The
height of the pyramid is 20 inches. What is the surface area of the pyramid?
ANSWER: 2400 square inches
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A group of six teams plays a tournament, with the top two
teams advancing to a top level of playoffs and the next two teams advancing to a lower level of playoffs. If
we do not care about order of finish inside the two-team playoff groups, how many different qualifying
groups are possible?
ANSWER: 90
10A. What rotational analogue of force is calculated by the cross product of force with the radius from the
pivot point?
ANSWER: torque
10B. Identify the painter of the French Revolution who is known for such works as The Death of Marat and
The Coronation of Napoleon.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 2
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one appearance, this character is an obsessed fan who is upset that author Paul Sheldon is planning to
kill off Snuggly Jeff. This character's love interests include Susie Swanson, and he plays the role of Darth
Vader in Blue Harvest. He often envisions his bear Rupert as a muscular man. In this character's first
appearance, he builds a laser in an attempt to kill his mother Lois. For 10 points, name this brother of both
Chris and Meg, the youngest member of the Griffin family on Family Guy.
ANSWER: Stewie Griffin [prompt on Griffin before it is read]
064-09-7-02117

2. This poet lamented the loss of "that store...counted best" that now "in ashes lie" in one poem. Another
poem by this writer claims that "friends, less wise than true" "snatcht" "the ill-formed offspring of [this
poet's] feeble brain." Those works by this poet are titled "Upon the Burning of Our House" and "The Author
to Her Book." Some of this woman's works were published without her knowledge by her brother-in-law in
England. For 10 points, name this seventeenth century American female poet of The Tenth Muse Lately
Sprung Up in America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet
023-09-7-02118

3. After praying to God, this figure causes the three-part fracture of the leg of Simon Magus. He cuts off the
ear of the servant Malchus at the scene of Jesus's arrest and lies before the rooster crows twice. Prior to
denying Jesus, this brother of the apostle Andrew briefly refuses to have his feet washed. Martyred by being
crucified upside down, this figure is referred to in a dialogue that establishes him as the rock upon which
Jesus would build his church. For 10 points, name this early church leader.
ANSWER: Simon Peter [or Saint Peter]
020-09-7-02119

4. During early infection by this microbe, lymph nodes may swell because it replicates extensively in
dendritic (den-DRITT-ick) cells. This virus is treated by HAART ("HEART") drugs like lopinavir
(low-pin-AV-eer), and many strains of this virus have become resistant to AZT (A-Z-T). The condition
caused by this microbe occurs after CD4 white cell count drops below 200. This virus is transmitted through
bodily fluids, most commonly blood and sexual secretions. For 10 points, name this retrovirus that causes
AIDS.
ANSWER: HIV [or Human Immunodeficiency Virus; do not accept "Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome"; do not accept "AIDS"]
032-09-7-02120

5. This scientist's namesake equation relates the change in equilibrium constant of a reaction to the change in
a system's temperature. His namesake factor is used to calculate colligative properties like osmotic pressure.
That factor denotes the concentration of dissociated particles of a solute and is designated i. For 10 points,
name this Dutchman who was the first Nobel Laureate in Chemistry.
ANSWER: Jacobus Henricus van't Hoff
058-09-7-02121

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One version of this scene depicts a washer-woman with her hand in a bucket, looking at two male servants
clad in blue and green. That version of this scene shows a cloud of ethereal spirits around a lamp at the upper
left, and places the main participants of this scene on a diagonal axis. In addition to Tintoretto's rendition,
another paitning of this event shows an effeminate John to the left of a blue-sashed figure who holds his
palms upward on a long table. For 10 points, name this painting by Leonardo da Vinci that shows Christ's
final meal.
ANSWER: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo; or L'ultima cena]
020-09-7-02122

7. According to legend, this man brought Greece the alphabet. When Illyria was destroyed, Zeus turned this
figure and Harmonia into black serpents and sent them to the Elysian Fields. This man was ordered by the
oracle at Delphi to cease his quest to find his sister Europa and to settle at the spot where a cow lay down.
This man created a race of armed men known as Spartoi after planting dragon's teeth. For 10 points, name
this founder of Thebes.
ANSWER: Cadmus
030-09-7-02123

8. This group occupied Gotland under Winrich von Kniprode (VIN-rick von NIP-road), who led their
successful defeat of the pirates known as the Victual Brothers. This group set up a monastic state after
conquering Baltic pagans during the Northern Crusades. Their fall came under their Grand Master Ulrich
von Jungingen (OOL-rick von YOON-geen-gehn), who lost the Battle of Tannenberg against the
Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. For 10 points, identify this order of knights whose name indicates that
they were German.
ANSWER: the Teutonic Knights of St. Mary's Hospital in Jerusalem [or Teutonic Order; do not accept
"Knights Hospitaller"]
026-09-7-02124

9. Like anorexia, one type of this disease can lead to Kussmaul (KOOSS-mall) breathing indicative of severe
ketoacidosis (KEE-tow-ASS-id-OH-siss). Other symptoms of this disease include fatigue, thirst, hunger, and
frequent urination. Type 2 of this disease often results from obesity in adults, while Type 1 occurs in
juveniles and is a result of the body attacking beta cells in the islets of Langerhans. For 10 points, name this
illness in which the pancreas does not produce enough insulin or in which cells become insulin resistant.
ANSWER: diabetes mellitus
032-09-7-02125

10. This series of conflicts began with a dispute over the town of Messana. In the second of these conflicts,
Hasdrubal met defeat at Metaurus River. In the buildup to the last of these wars, Cato the Elder ended every
speech by advocating the complete destruction of the enemy. Battles in these wars included Lake Trasimene
(trah-SIM-eh-nee), Cannae, and Zama, where Scipio defeated Hannibal. For 10 points, name this three-war
struggle for control of the Mediterranean between the Romans and Carthaginians.
ANSWER: Punic Wars
063-09-7-02126

11. This author wrote "we thought it was the Judgment day" during "that night your great guns, unawares,
shook all our coffins as we lay" in his poem "Channel Firing." Boldwood shoots and kills Sergeant Troy in
this man's novel about Bathsheba Everdene, set in Wessex. In another of this author's novels, the title
character leaves after Richard Newson returns to claim his daughter, Elizabeth-Jane. For 10 points, what
author of Far From the Madding Crowd wrote about Michael Henchard in The Mayor of Casterbridge?
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy
034-09-7-02127

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. The existence of this entity supports a theory that invalidated the Deccan Flats Hypothesis. It contains
fragments of shocked quartz and tektite glass. Luis Alvarez and his son Walter hypothesized the reason for
this entity's existence. It has high levels of iridium, which suggests that it was formed concurrently with the
object that formed the Chicxulub Crater on the Yucatan Peninsula. For 10 points, name this boundary
formed by the asteroid that killed the dinosaurs, usually named for two letters that abbreviate the periods it
demarcates.
ANSWER: the K-T boundary [accept Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary; accept Cretaceous-Paleogene
boundary; accept K-PG boundary]
040-09-7-02128

13. In one of this author's novels, soldiers kill a barber who throws a beer mug at a prostitute. He also wrote
a series of novels that chronicles three generations of a family whose patriarch romances single women he
meets at the grocery store. In the first of that series, Amina is struck by a car and exiled from her home
because she left without permission. This author wrote the novels Sugar Street, Palace Walk, and Palace of
Desire. For 10 points, name this Egyptian author of the Cairo Trilogy.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
026-09-7-02129

14. This movement consulted with German academic Rudolf von Gneist to create a constitution. One
uprising against this movement was led by Saigo and was called the Satsuma rebellion. An important
document of this movement was the Charter Oath. Reforms resulting from this movement included the
repartitioning of the daimyo's land. The Tokugawa shogunate was overthrown and the emperor was returned
to power during, for 10 points, what nineteenth century movement which Westernized Japan?
ANSWER: Meiji restoration [or Meiji Ishin]
032-09-7-02130

15. This President became embroiled in the Travelgate controversy early in his presidency. The Americorps
program was created during this man’s administration. This signer of the Brady Bill oversaw the military’s
adoption of the "Don’t Ask Don’t Tell" policy and presided over military actions in Bosnia and Somalia.
This President was hampered by the Whitewater Scandal and appointed Madeline Albright as Secretary of
State. For 10 points, name this U.S. President who was impeached following an affair with Monica
Lewinsky.
ANSWER: William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton [or William Jefferson Blythe III]
015-09-7-02131

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 2
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This river's valley was the subject of the Johnston Unified Water Plan, which involved using Lake
Tiberias as a reservoir. It is formed from the confluence of the Hasbani, Dan, and Banyas; a secret project
attempted to divert the Hasbani and Banyas to the Yarmuk River instead. Use of this river is a point of
contention between Israel and the country named for this major source of the Dead Sea. For 10 points, name
this river which is mentioned in many gospel songs because, in the Bible, it is where Jesus is baptized.
ANSWER: Jordan River
003-09-7-02132

2. Although the cuticle surrounds this structure to prevent water loss, it also emits excessive water through
guttation. The epidermal layer on its lower surface is interrupted by openings called stomata, surrounded by
guard cells, which control transpiration. Some plants lose this structure through abscission. For 10 points,
name this plant organ where photosynthesis takes place and, because of high concentration of chloroplasts,
often looks green.
ANSWER: leaf
034-09-7-02133

3. A mineral containing this element and lead was one of the earliest semiconductors and is commonly
called galena. This element is extracted by the Frasch process, and the only amino acids containing this
element are methionine and cysteine. The odors of onion, garlic, and skunk spray are caused by compounds
of this element called thiols. A compund consisting of this element and two hydrogen atoms notably smells
like rotten eggs. For 10 points, name this element, a yellow nonmetal with atomic number 16 and symbol S.
ANSWER: sulfur [or S]
032-09-7-02134

4. One figure with this animal as its surname was depicted as the rival of Lewis Baboon in pamphlets by
John Arbuthnot. Frescoes at the palace of Knossos (kuh-NAW-siss) show that "leaping" over this animal
was a sport in ancient Minoan culture. A portly man with a Union Jack waistcoat, who is the national
symbol of Britain, is known as "John" with this surname. This animal's name also denotes a stock market
with rising prices. For 10 points, during every July's Festival of San Fermin in Pamplona, daring participants
"run" with what male cattle?
ANSWER: bulls [prompt on cattle; accept male cattle before "male" is read; do not accept or prompt on
cows, as all clues refer to bulls only]
019-09-7-02135

5. This man's "little tragedies" include The Stone Guest and Mozart and Salieri. His poem The Bronze
Horseman is a tale of St. Petersburg. Several of this man's works were later adapted to operas, including
Ruslan and Ludmila, The Tale of Tsar Saltan, and Boris Godunov. One of this author's title characters rejects
Tatyana, only to fall in love with her later. That title character kills his friend Vladimir Lensky. For 10
points, name this Russian author of Eugene Onegin (yoo-JAY-nee on-YAYG-in).
ANSWER: Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin
062-09-7-02136

VHSL Regionals Round 2 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

