VHSL States
Round 4
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This man's childhood "Grand Tour" produced the first copy of Gregorio Allegri's Miserere, which the
Vatican kept secret, when he transcribed it from memory after one hearing. He composed six quartets
dedicated to Josef Haydn. His twenty-first piano concerto is called "Elvira Madigan." His final symphony
was in C major, and was his forty-first. For 10 points, name this Salzburg-born composer whose music is
listed in the Koechel catalog, and wrote the Little Night Music and Jupiter symphony.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [accept Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart]
026-09-9-04101

2. This author wrote about flowers that “eat my oxygen” in “Tulips” and ended one poem by claiming “I
rise with my red hair and I eat men like air” after stating her skin was as “Bright as a Nazi lampshade.” This
author of “Lady Lazarus” wrote “I have always been scared of you,with your Luftwaffe” in a poem in
which she conflates Nazi imagery with her father. This author also wrote a novel about Esther Greenwood’s
psychiatric treatment. For 10 points, name this suicidal American author of “Daddy” and The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
015-09-9-04102

3. This figure's blood transformed into anemones after he was gored by a boar. Theias (THY us) chases his
daughter Myrrha with a knife after their incestuous union produces this figure. One love interest of this
figure placed him in a chest after birth. He was given in that chest to Persephone, who refused to give him
up. Zeus settled the dispute by decreeing that this man must spend half the year of earth with Aphrodite and
half in the underworld with Persephone. For 10 points, name this mythological figure whose name is often
used to describe any handsome young man.
ANSWER: Adonis
045-09-9-04103

4. In one of this author’s novels, Clavdia Chauchat has an affair with the protagonist. This man created a
Jesuit educated Jew who duels with Ludovico Settembrini named Leo Naptha. One of his works is about the
composer Adrian Leverkuhn selling his soul to the devil. He wrote about a man who becomes obsessed with
the Polish boy Tadzio. This author of Doktor Faustus wrote about a man who lives in a Swiss sanatorium
named Hans Castorp. Gustav von Aschenbach (AAH shen bach) dies in a story by this man. For 10 points,
name this author of The Magic Mountain and Death in Venice.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
027-09-9-04104

5. In a letter to this man, William Molyneux questioned whether a blind man given sight could recognize
touched items. That letter responded to this man's work on Boyle's idea of primary and secondary qualities.
He defended his religion in The Reasonableness of Christianity, but argued against persecuting dissenters in
his Letter Concerning Toleration. This empiricist advanced a natural rights theory of the social contract and
formulated the tabula (TAH boo lah) rasa. For 10 points, name this Englishman who influenced the U.S.
Founding Fathers with his Two Treatises on Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
019-09-9-04105

VHSL States Round 4 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This author wrote a novel narrated by Sophie, the aunt of policeman Pieter van Vlaanderen (VLAN durr
en). This author of Too Late the Phalarope wrote a work in which a political activist named Dubula
constructs Shanty Town. That work's plot is motivated by a letter from Theophilus Msimangu (mm see
MAHN goo) telling the protagonist to help his sick sister, Gertrude, who is actually a prostitute and informs
Stephen Kumalo that for the murder of Arthur Jarvis, his son Absalom is in jail. For 10 points, name this
South African author of Cry, the Beloved Country.
ANSWER: Alan Paton (PAY ton)
022-09-9-04106

7. This man's chief political opponent is proposing to reverse this person's defunding of the Council on
Learning. Opposition leader Michael Ignatieff also denounced as "a crazy way of running democracy" this
head of government's decision to petition Governor-General Michaelle Jean to prorogue Parliament. Since
defeating Paul Martin in 2006, he has led a minority government as the head of the Conservative Party. For
10 points, name this current prime minister of Canada.
ANSWER: Stephen Joseph Harper
019-09-9-04107

8. This author claimed to be "Done with the compass, done with the chart" in one poem and described
feeling "zero at the bone" in a poem about snakes. This author of "Wild Nights! Wild Nights!" and "A
Narrow Fellow in the Grass" claimed that she "could not see to see" after hearing a "blue, uncertain,
stumbling" sound in another poem. She surmises that "the horses' heads / were toward eternity" in a poem in
which she rides in a carriage with Immortality. For 10 points, name this poet who heard a fly buzz when she
died and for whom Death kindly stopped.
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
029-09-9-04108

9. This figure separated the university aspect of the al-Azhar mosque and had its ulema issue new rulings to
support his policies. Before taking power, this figure eliminated all parties but Liberation Rally and deposed
Muhammad Naguib, whom he had earlier helped to take power following the success of the Free Officers
movement against King Farouk. Prior to uniting his country with Syria to form the United Arab Republic, he
built the Aswan High Dam, forming a namesake lake. For 10 points, name this second Egyptian president,
who was succeeded by Anwar Sadat.
ANSWER: Gamal Abdel Nasser
022-09-9-04109

10. One character in this play poses as a Welshman named Le Roy. A scene in this play sees an offensive
gift of tennis balls offered to the title character. One of the final scenes in this play sees that character
requiring a translator, Alice, to woo the French Katharine. This play opens with a chorus talking about “a
Muse of fire.” The title character has a speech on St. Crispin’s Day where he calls his men a “band of
brothers” and declares "once more unto the breach, dear friends." For 10 points, name this Shakespearean
play which describes the titular British king’s success at the battle of Agincourt.
ANSWER: Henry V
052-09-9-04110

VHSL States Round 4 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. Lane Kirkland organized a boycott to support this organization, and gave it over six million dollars in
aid. This organization was created after authorities ignored twenty-one proposed postulates based on KOR's
Charter of Workers' Rights. It protested rising food prices and food shortages in its country, and its impetus
was a dockworkers strike in the Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk. For 10 points, name this trade union led by Lech
Walesa, which spurred the end of Soviet control of Poland.
ANSWER: Solidarity [or Independent Self-Governing Trade Union; or Solidarnosc; or Niezalezzny
Samorzad Zwiazkow Zawodowych]
004-09-9-04111

12. Historically, it was believed that these objects could be modeled as a cavity with equally likely modes
that increased with frequency. The fourth power of temperature is proportional to the flux emitted by one of
these according to the Stefan-Boltzmann (STEF-on BOLTS-mon) law. They have a wavelength of
maximum intensity described by Wien's (VEENZ) displacement law. The ultraviolet catastrophe describes
the breakdown of the Rayleigh-Jeans Law governing radiation from these entities. For 10 points, name these
objects that absorb all incoming energy.
ANSWER: blackbody
001-09-9-04112

13. Joseph Smith appealed to this president to intervene against Lilburn Boggs's extermination order. This
man was the target of Charles Ogle's Gold Spoon Oration. This man was president during the Amistad
Affair, and the bloodless Aroostook War also occurred during his single term. His first year in office saw the
British relations strained by the Caroline Affair, and his entire term was overcast by the Panic of 1837. For
10 points, name this Democratic Politician who served as Andrew Jackson's Vice President before becoming
the eighth President.
ANSWER: Martin Van Buren
015-09-9-04113

14. An alternate name for this type of reaction is "metathesis" (muh-TATH-uh-sis). If one of the products of
this kind of reaction breaks down to release a gas, it is an effervescent reaction. This type of reaction is also
undergone when acids and bases are neutralized to form salts. This type of reaction differs from a redox
reaction in that no reactant changes oxidation states. In the most common form of this kind of reaction, two
ionic solutions are added to each other to form a precipitate. For 10 points, name this type of reaction in
which portions of two reactants swap positions with each other.
ANSWER: double displacement reactions [or double replacement reactions]
003-09-9-04114

15. In the finale of this show's first season, one character breaks up with her boyfriend for posting intimate
details on his blog. In the same episode, another character compares a relationship to the Schrödinger's cat
thought experiment. One character in this show is unable to speak to women except when he's drunk, and the
two main characters, Leonard and Sheldon, are similarly socially inept. For 10 points, name this show
created by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, about two physicists who are roommates at Caltech.
ANSWER: The Big Bang Theory
024-09-9-04115

VHSL States Round 4 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 4
Directed Round
1A. What European city is the site of the city hall Römer, the hub airport for Lufthanza, and the second
largest stock exchange in Europe, behind the one in London?
ANSWER: Frankfurt, Germany
1B. What flap of cartilage tissue covers the entrance into trachea during ingestion to prevent choking on
food?
ANSWER: epiglottis
2A. Examples of this genre include Headlong Hall by Thomas Love Peacock and Point/Counterpoint by
Aldous Huxley. What is this term, describing a literary work in which real, identifiable people are thinly
disguised as fictional characters?
ANSWER: roman à clef
2B. What Danish physicist told Einstein, “Don’t tell God what to do” when defending his Copenhagen
interpretation of quantum physics?
ANSWER: Niels Bohr
3A. What Roman playwright of The Eunuch shares his name with a figure who is told “this is stupid stuff”
in a poem by A.E. Housman?
ANSWER: Terence
3B. What phenomenon in psychology, also known as the correspondence bias, was observed by Edward
Jones and Victor Harris in people who reacted to pro and anti Castro essays?
ANSWER: fundamental attribution error
4A.This is a 10-second calculation question. Give the prime factorization of 16,200.
ANSWER:

233452

4B.This is a 10-second calculation question. Multiply 7.55 times 3.8.
ANSWER: 28.69
5A. Name the South American city that beat out Chicago, Tokyo, and finally Madrid to be selected as the
host of 2016 Summer Olympics.
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
5B. Karen and Richard are the two musicians in what duo, whose songs include “Top of the World” and
“Yesterday Once More?”
ANSWER: The Carpenters

VHSL States Round 4 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A.This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the foci of the hyperbola with equation 5(x-2)2 - 3(y+1)2 =
30.
ANSWER: (-2, -1) and (6, -1)
6B.This is a 20-second calculation question. Factor: 8x2 + 78x + 85.
ANSWER: (4x+5)(2x+17) [order of factors does not matter]
7A. Name the lowest atmospheric layer, where almost all of weather on Earth occurs.
ANSWER: troposphere
7B. What organization led by Captain Paul Watson uses stink bombs and other sabotage tactics to fight what
it calls “illegal slaughter of whales” by Japanese ships?
ANSWER: Sea Shepherd Conservation Society
8A. What force studied in tribology, whose static form allows for the movement of wheels, is described in
Amontons' Laws?
ANSWER: friction
8B. Woman With Her Throat Cut is a sculpture of a praying mantis by what Swiss artist, known for
extremely thin, elongated sculptures that reflects his existential philosophy?
ANSWER: Alberto Giacometti
9A.This is a 30-second calculation question. A coin is weighted to land heads 60% of the time. If you flip
this coin three times, what is the probability that you will get at least two heads?
ANSWER: 81/125 [or 0.648]
9B.This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the surface area of a cylinder that has a radius of 9 inches
and a height of 13 inches. Use 3.14 as an approximation for pi.
ANSWER: 1243.44 square inches
10A. English words like “algebra” and “zenith” come from what language, the original language of Qur'an?
ANSWER: Arabic
10B. An example of this technique is lines from The Inferno at the beginning of "The Love Song of J. Alfred
Prufrock." Give the name for a quotation that prefaces a book or a poem.
ANSWER: epigraph

VHSL States Round 4 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 4
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One side in this conflict was led by Gaston of Orléans and Bartolomé Mitre (MEE-tray). It began with the
invasion of Mato Grosso, and its other engagements include the Battle of Cerro Corá [SAIR-o co-RAH] and
the Battle of Tuyutí [too-yoo-TEE]. This conflict resulted in the defeat of a nation led by Francisco Solano
López which lost the Battle of Riachuelo [REE-ah-chway-lo] to Brazil. For 10 points, name this bloody war
fought from 1864 to 1870 between Paraguay and the namesake alliance of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay.
ANSWER: War of the Triple Alliance
024-09-9-04117

2. This nation is home to the Buddhist monuments of Borobudur and Prambanan. This country also shares
an island with a nation with capital at Dili, Timor, and controls the islands which were the destination of
Ferdinand Magellan, the Moluccas, or Spice Islands. This nation is also home to a volcano whose eruption
created the Year Without a Summer, Mount Krakatoa. Its western province of Aceh was devastated by a
tsunami in 2004. For 10 points, name this nation which includes the islands of Java, Sumatra, and Borneo
with capital at Jakarta.
ANSWER: Indonesia
059-09-9-04118

3. The second man to hold this post previously developed high-yield corn strains, wrote The Century of the
Common Man, and later ran for president as the candidate of the third Progressive Party. The first man to
hold this post was nicknamed "Cactus Jack" and opposed his boss' court-packing scheme. The final man to
hold this post later made the decision to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki after becoming
president. For 10 points, name this post held by Henry Wallace, John Nance Garner, and Harry Truman
under the president who led the United States during the New Deal and World War II.
ANSWER: Vice President of Franklin Roosevelt [prompt on partial answers]
030-09-9-04119

4. These can be treated as a collection of stream processors. They often use z-buffers and they make use of
framebuffers. These devices must deal with transformations, clipping, and shaders. Two popular ways of
writing software that use them are OpenGL and DirectX. These devices use many small computing units to
operate on vertices and pixels. For 10 points, name these components of a computer that accelerate the
rendering and display of visual output.
ANSWER: GPU [or graphics processing unit; or video card; or graphics card]
001-09-9-04120

5. Because he was attacked by Achilles when he was tending his flocks, he organized the Dardanians to
attack the Greeks. This man founded the town of Lavinium, named after his wife. He protected the body of
Pandarus. Later, in battle, Diomedes broke this man's hip by throwing a stone, leading to his mother trying to
rescue him. This ancestor of Romulus and Remus was the son of Venus and Anchises. Dido of Carthage
killed herself when this man left her. For 10 points, name this Trojan survivor who was the subject of an epic
by Virgil.
ANSWER: Aeneas
027-09-9-04121

VHSL States Round 4 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This material completely surrounds lands known as "kipuka." A landform called a tuya results when this
substance is found beneath a glacier. This substance interacts with water to form the "pillow" type of it.
When this substance is very liquid, it is known as pahoehoe (pa-HOY-hoy). When this material takes on a
chunky consistency, it is known as aa (AH-ah). Composite, or "strato" cones, alternate between this emitting
this material and expelling tephra and ash. For 10 points, name this type of molten rock, the above-ground
counterpart of magma.
ANSWER: lava [do not accept "magma"]
026-09-9-04122

7. This politician led a faction of his political party that opposed the Lecompton Constitution. Shortly before
death, he made a trip to dissuade border states from seceding. As chairman of the powerful Committee on
Territories, this Senator designed the Kansas-Nebraska Act. Later, he ran in an election with Herschel
Johnson as his running mate and finished behind John Bell, Southern Democrat John Breckinridge and a
man he debated at such sites as Alton and Freeport. For 10 points, name this Illinois Democrat who in 1858
engaged in a series of debates with Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: Stephen Arnold Douglas
064-09-9-04123

8. This is the number of variables that the Ackermann function takes. Euler's formula states that the number
of vertices, minus the number of edges, plus the number of faces of any convex polyhedron is equal to this
number. This is the only number for which the reciprocals of its powers sum to the number itself. This is the
highest number x at which a to the x plus b to the x can equal c to the x, according to Fermat's Last Theorem.
It is the third number in the Fibonacci series. For 10 points, name this number, the only even prime.
ANSWER: two
026-09-9-04124

9. This man's eldest son was part of a plot to overthrow him and was called "the Hunchback." The
"miniscule" script was developed as part of this ruler's namesake "Renaissance." Einhard, this man's
biographer, served as secretary for one of this man's sons, Louis the Pious. His army's ambush by Basques
following the Battle of Roncevaux (RON say VAW) Pass was chronicled in the Song of Roland. The second
Carolingian ruler was for 10 points, what son of Pepin the Short, who was crowned on Christmas Day by
Pope Leo III as Holy Roman Emperor?
ANSWER: Charlemagne
051-09-9-04125

10. This process can be reversed in a pathway involving urokinase ("YOUR"-oh-KINE-ase), and it is
downregulated by prostacyclin (PROS-tuh-"SIGH"-klin). Christmas disease results from a lack of Factor IX
involved in this process. During this process, the serine protease (PRO-tee-ase) thrombin (THROM-bin)
converts fibrinogen (fie-BRIN-oh-jen) into fibrin (FIE-brin), which forms a mesh polymer. Platelets have
several important roles in this process. For 10 points, name this process by which by which the blood
congeals after injury, which is impaired in hemophilia (HEE-mo-FILL-ee-uh).
ANSWER: coagulation [or clotting]
001-09-9-04126

VHSL States Round 4 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This ruler occupied Finland in a period known as the Greater Wrath, Following his selection by the
Duma, a rebellion of the Streltsy was led by his future regent, Sofia Alekseyevna. He fought the battles of
Narva and Poltava in a conflict ended by the Treaty of Nystad, the Great Northern War against Sweden. This
leader implemented a tax on beards and promoted European dress and customs. For 10 points, name this
modernizign tsar of Russia.
ANSWER: Peter I of Russia [or Peter the Great of Russia; or Pyotr Alexeyevich Romanov; prompt on
Peter]
022-09-9-04127

12. The first section of this work was reused in its composer's Juditha Triumphans. That F major movement
represents a hunt. It was originally published as part of its composer's Opus 8, entitled "The Contest between
Harmony and Invention." The second part of this work concludes with a thunderstorm, and the first depicts
bird in the first movement, according to its accompanying sonnets. For 10 points, name this set of four violin
concertos by Antonio Vivaldi representing different times of year.
ANSWER: The Four Seasons [or Le Quattro Stagioni]
024-09-9-04128

13. The Hoffman modulation contrast type of these devices enhances phase gradients. A component named
after Nomarski (no-MAR-skee) is used in the differential interference contrast type of these devices. Abbe
(AH-BAY) condensers are attached to these devices. Confocal ones remove light that is out of focues. They
have objective and ocular pieces. The multiplication of the strengths of two of their pieces gives the total
magnification. For 10 points, name these laboratory devices that magnify images of cells and other
structures.
ANSWER: optical microscopes
001-09-9-04129

14. One of his paintings shows a man and child huddled and facing a woman on a beach, all without shoes.
Another work by this painter shows the faint outline of a woman's head visible above the neck of a hunched,
cross-legged figure holding an instrument. This artist of The Tragedy and The Old Guitarist paintd a chaotic
scene with a screaming horse's head that depicted the bombing of a Basque town. This painter of Guernica
(ger-NEE-kah) also had "Rose" and "Blue" periods. For 10 points, name this Spanish Cubist painter.
ANSWER: Pablo Picasso [or Pablo Diego José Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno María de los
Remedios Cipriano de la Santísima Trinidad Ruiz y Picasso]
023-09-9-04130

15. Near the end of this novel, a character's attempts to call an ambulance are thwarted when Clytie burns
the manor house. One character in this novel begins an affair with the teenaged Milly shortly after his son
Charles Bon is murdered in front of his manor's gates. The final sections of this novel involve the meeting of
Miss Rosa Coldfield and the author's recurring character Quentin Compson, who learns the story of the
central family. This novel opens when Thomas Sutpen buys land to build his plantation. For 10 points, name
this Biblically-titled novel by William Faulkner.
ANSWER: Absalom, Absalom!
020-09-9-04131

VHSL States Round 4 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 4
Tiebreaker Questions
1. In the 1980s and 90s, this man developed government and binding theory and the Minimalist Program.
His namesake hierarchy classifies formal grammars. He discussed the sentence "Colorless green ideas sleep
furiously" in his magnum opus, Syntactic Structures. He developed the concept of principles and parameters,
which he considers to be a part of the universal grammar. For 10 points, name this founder of generative
grammar, a linguist who is also known for left-wing political writing.
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky
024-09-9-04132

2. One book associated with this religion is translated as the "Record of the Transmission of the Light." One
common practice in this religion is counting one's breaths. One school in this religion was founded by
Dogen, who emphasized "practice-realization." Another school in this religion emphasizes riddles found in
collections such as The Gateless Gate and The Blue Cliff Record. Those riddles, known as koans, include
"Does a dog have Buddha-nature?" and "What is the sound of one hand clapping?". For 10 points, name this
offshoot of Buddhism that emphasizes meditation and is common in Japan.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhism [or Ch'an Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism]
003-09-9-04133

3. The product of one type of this process is recycled in the Cori Cycle after it is transported to the liver.
This biochemical process is preferred over oxidative phosphorylation by organisms like yeast, and it is
essential to such diverse phenomena as muscle soreness and the brewing of beer. For 10 points, name this
alternative pathway to cellular respiration, in which cells anaerobically break pyruvate into products like
ethanol or lactic acid instead of oxidizing it to carbon dioxide.
ANSWER: fermentation
022-09-9-04134

4. This work closes with Bailey declaring himself head of an expedition, and setting up strict penalties for
anyone who would challenge his role as governor, judge, and record keeper. This work includes a
description of a Haberdasher, Carpenter, Weaver, and Dyer, who do not appear later. This section begins
with a description of the return of spring, with the accompanying April showers. For 10 points, name this
section that describes pilgrims at the Tabard Inn, preceding the Knight's Tale in a collection by Geoffrey
Chaucer.
ANSWER: the General Prologue to the Canterbury Tales [prompt on partial answer]
062-09-9-04135

5. The entropy of one of these is the subject of the Gibbs paradox, and their entropy is described by
the Sackur-Tetrode equation. Each of this kind of molecule has kinetic energy of "three halves times k
sub b" times the temperature, and they can modeled by the (*) Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution. The
kinetic theory assumptions that govern them include point like masses and elastic collisions with no
intermolecular forces. For 10 points, name these gases whose associated law says that PV equals nRT.
ANSWER: monatomic ideal gases [prompt on gases]
001-09-11-04136

VHSL States Round 4 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

