VHSL Regionals
Round 5
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This city's upscale areas include Abu Nuwas Street and the Al-Mansur district. In the Middle Ages, this
city was the home to the House of Wisdom, a major center of translation and science. This former capital of
the Abassid Empire is divided in two by the Tigris River. Its current neighborhoods include the fortified
Green Zone and a large slum known as Sadr City. For 10 points, name this former seat of power for Saddam
Hussein, which remains the capital of Iraq.
ANSWER: Baghdad
019-09-7-05101

2. This man is the only three-term governor in California history, and he was Thomas Dewey's running mate
in the 1948 Presidential election. Dwight Eisenhower referred to this man's appointment as his
"biggest...fool mistake." This man chaired the committee that investigated the assassination of John F.
Kennedy, while serving from 1953 to 1969 as Supreme Court Chief Justice. For 10 points, name this man,
whose court issued landmark rulings such as Miranda v. Arizona.
ANSWER: Earl Warren
003-09-7-05102

3. One type of this construct can be used to determine the linear independence of a set of differentiable
functions. That is the Wronskian (RON-ski-un) type of this function. The value of this is set to zero in order
to solve the eigenvalue (EYE-gen-val-yoo) problem. A matrix is invertible if and only if this function of the
matrix is nonzero. For 10 points, identify this function defined only for square matrices, which for a
two-by-two matrix a, b, c, d is equal to a d minus b c.
ANSWER: determinants
029-09-7-05103

4. One queen from this family is believed to have ordered the Huguenot Gaspard de Coligny’s (gahs-PARD
day co-LIN-yeez) assassination. One Pope from this family refused to annul Henry VIII’s first marriage. A
woman from this family is blamed for the St. Bartholomew’s Day massacre. A different Pope from this
family was in power when Martin Luther began the Reformation. Savonarola was a monk who gained
control of a city from this family. For 10 points, name this family that produced Clement VII, Leo X, and
Lorenzo the Magnificent, and ruled Florence.
ANSWER: de Medicis
027-09-7-05104

5. This layer's strongest part contains cataclasite breccias and is called the brittle-ductile transition zone.
Over three-quarters of one part of this layer of the earth is silicon and aluminum oxide. This layer is
separated from the one below it by the Moho discontinuity, and it is one component of the lithosphere.
Directly below this layer, convection in the asthenosphere breaks it up into tectonic plates. For 10 points,
name this outermost layer of the Earth, that sits on top of the mantle.
ANSWER: the crust
022-09-7-05105

6. The pro-trade Walker Tariff was passed during the term of this President, who was asked to demonstrate
the location of spilled blood by Abraham Lincoln's Spot Resolutions. After this man's ambassador John
Slidell failed to negotiate a purchase, this President sent the army across the Nueces (new-EY-seys) to
initiate a war. During his term, the U.S. annexed Texas and gained the Oregon Territory. For 10 points,
name this dark horse President who fought with Mexico.
ANSWER: James Knox Polk
020-09-7-05106
VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This man composed a set of pieces depicting a gnome running on crooked legs and French women
arguing at the "Market at Limoges." Ravel orchestrated this man's "Promenade" theme from that work,
which includes "The Great Gate of Kiev." Another of this man’s pieces includes an "Assembly of Witches"
section and takes place on St. John’s Night. For 10 points, name this member of the Russian Five, who
composed Pictures at an Exhibition and Night on Bald Mountain.
ANSWER: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky
030-09-7-05107

8. This modern definition of these groups was proposed by Ernst Mayr, who advocated the use of a
"biological concept" of it. A "keystone" group of this type, such as Pisaster, is an indicator of the effect of
pollution. Theodosius Dobzhansky (dobe-ZAN-ski) gave a genetic explanation for the creation of these
divisions, focusing on how they are created by reproductive isolation. The process by which these groups
form can be allopatric, sympatric, or peripatric. For 10 points, binomial nomenclature consists of genus
along with what other taxonomic rank?
ANSWER: species
026-09-7-05108

9. The two primary forms of this religion are known as Rada and Petro. Its ceremonies include the kanzo and
the taking of the ason, the latter of which involves ascending to the priesthood as either a mambo or a
houngan (HOON-gahn). This religion reveres the crossroads as the intersection between the earthly and
spirit worlds, and venerates lwa (LO-uh) such as Ogoun (OH-"goon") and Legba. In this religion, nasty lwa
(LO-uh) can create zombies. For 10 points, name this religion, most popularly practiced in Haiti.
ANSWER: voodoo [or voudon]
003-09-7-05109

10. This author wrote, "Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children," in a poem that discusses pregnancy.
Philomena Guinea provides financial support for the protagonist of this writer's only novel, in which a girl
obsessed with the Rosenbergs undergoes psychiatric treatment with Dr. Nolan. This author of the poem "The
Munich Mannequins" also wrote about "you do not do, you do not do" to open a poem about a man "with a
Meinkampf look." For 10 points, name this American author who wrote the poem "Daddy" and the novel
The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
036-09-7-05110

11. The "turmoil" following this election was cited by Theodore Olson in his oral arguments in Bush v. Gore
. During this election, the Illinois state legislature elected Supreme Court Justice David Davis to the Senate;
Joseph Bradley, a Republican, took Davis's place on the fifteen-member commission that decided which
candidate would get this election's disputed votes from South Carolina, Louisiana, Oregon, and Florida. For
10 points, name this election in which Samuel Tilden lost to the so-called "Rutherfraud B. Hayes."
ANSWER: Presidential Election of 1876
003-09-7-05111

12. The approximation for the period of these objects must include an infinite expansion when dealing the
large amplitude variety of this object. Chaotic systems can be displayed by setting a large one of these into
motion. The period of the simple type of this object equals two pi times the square root of its length over
gravity. One type of this object is used to show the rotation of the earth and is named for Foucault
(foo-KOH). For 10 points, name this physical object often demonstrated using a swinging mass suspended
by a string.
ANSWER: pendulums [or large amplitude pendulums; or double pendulums; or simple pendulums; or
Foucault pendulums]
023-09-7-05112
VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. One of this artist's paintings shows three older women, one holding a teacup, in front of Emanuel
Leutze's (LOYT-zuh's) Washington Crossing the Delaware. Another of his paintings depicts a man pushing
back a red curtain to reveal Washington chopping down a cherry tree. This artist used his sister and dentist
as models for another painting whose background shows a white house with a cathedral-like upper window.
For 10 points, name this Iowa painter, who depicted a pitchfork-wielding farmer in American Gothic.
ANSWER: Grant DeVolson Wood
026-09-7-05113

14. This author created a woman who wears a brooch that says "Love conquers all" named Madame
Eglentyne. He wrote about a dream of the Black Knight, representing John of Gaunt, titled The Book of the
Duchess. This author wrote about Alison's courting by Absalom in a story told by the Miller and about
pilgrims going to the shrine of Thomas Becket who meet at the Tabard Inn. Palomon and Arcite are the main
characters in his "The Knight's Tale." For 10 points, name this author of The Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
027-09-7-05114

15. This man created a confederation of Greek states called the Panhellenion. A cult dedicated to his young
companion Antinous (AN-tin-ooce) arose after the youth's death. This emperor saw to the completion of a
massive temple of Zeus begun centuries earlier, the Pantheon, after which he assumed the title Olympius. He
put down the Bar Kokhba (bar COKE-buh) revolt in Judea after succeeding Trajan as emperor. For 10
points, name this Roman emperor who built a namesake wall in Northern Britain.
ANSWER: Hadrian [or Adrian; or Caesar Traianus Hadrianus Augustus; or Publius Aelius Hadrianus]
030-09-7-05115

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 5
Directed Round
1A. What city on the Sava River is the capital of Croatia?
ANSWER: Zagreb
1B. Name the French anthropologist who wrote The Savage Mind and pioneered structuralism in
anthropology.
ANSWER: Claude Lévi-Strauss
2A. Name the Jane Austen novel that details the relationship between Anne Elliot and Frederick Wentworth.
ANSWER: Persuasion
2B. Wgat Rockbridge County, Virginia native invented an automatic reaper that was said to "move the line
of civilization westward by thirty miles a year?"
ANSWER: Cyrus Hall McCormick Sr.
3A. The preterite (PREH-tur-it) and imperfect are the two most common tenses used in Spanish to express
what temporal relationship?
ANSWER: past tense
3B. Name the baseball franchise that signed Randy Wolf in the 2009 offseason to bolster a team that already
features Yovani Gallardo (guy-YARD-oh) and Ryan Braun.
ANSWER: Milwaukee Brewers [or Milwaukee Brewers]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve the equation 4x + 3 = 9x - 1.
ANSWER: 4/5
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Divide 16.146 by 2.07.
ANSWER: 7.8
5A. Name the literary device in which a word or sequence of words is repeated at the beginning of multiple
consecutive lines of poetry.
ANSWER: anaphora
5B. This substance is in the red blood cells of about eight-five percent of humans, and can cause a dangerous
immune response if the blood is transfused to a person without this substance. Identify this protein which is
named for its original discovery in a type of monkey.
ANSWER: Rh factor
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Solve the equation x2 - 11x = -30.
ANSWER: x = 5, 6 [both answers required]

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the radius of the sphere whose volume is six times its
surface area.
ANSWER: 18
7A. Name the law of thermodynamics that states that the entropy of the universe is always increasing.
ANSWER: the Second Law of Thermodynamics [or two or other specifications of the second law]
7B. Name the Harvard legal philosopher who is on leave to work in the Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs in the Obama administration.
ANSWER: Cass R. Sunstein
8A. Name the principle proposed by Nicolas Steno which states that older layers of sedimentary rock are
found below younger ones.
ANSWER: law/principle of superposition
8B. Identify the novelist who created Dracula.
ANSWER: Abraham "Bram" Stoker
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the sample standard deviation of the numbers
5,3,3,2,1,8,6? Note that this is not the same as the population standard deviation. You do not need to
simplify the radical.
ANSWER: square root of 6
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is sixteen choose three times 3.5?
ANSWER: 1971.2
10A. Name the rap singer who claims to want the money, cars, and clothes in "Successful" and also crooned
"baby you my everything" in "Best I Ever Had."
ANSWER: Drake [or Aubrey Graham]
10B. The Creation of Adam, The Great Flood, and The Last Judgment are among the frescoes that were
painted in the early sixteenth century in what building?
ANSWER: the Sistine Chapel

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 5
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This value for a substance can be obtained using the Baumé scale or a hydrometer. For an ideal gas, it is
equal to the ratio of the product of molar mass and pressure to the gas constant times temperature. It is
symbolized by rho. Among the natural elements, osmium and iridium have the highest value of this. The
difference in this between ice and water is why ice floats. For 10 points, name this ratio of mass to density,
which, for water, is about one gram per milliliter.
ANSWER: density [or specific gravity]
001-09-7-05117

2. This composer used triplets of an arpeggiated C-sharp minor chord to open his “Sonata Quasi una
Fantasia.” He composed a five movement symphony depicting a peasant reunion and a thunderstorm. He
wrote a symphony that uses a repeated motif of G-G-G-E flat. He depicted “fate knocking at the door” in
one symphony, and set Schiller’s poem “Ode to Joy” in another. This composer wrote the “Moonlight”
sonata, as well as a fifth symphony in C minor, the “Pastoral” symphony, and the “Choral” symphony, his
ninth. For 10 points, name this deaf composer.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
027-09-7-05118

3. In a memoir of his imprisonment, this man described hearing the voices of the revolutionary Victor Banjo
and his grandfather Adekunle Fajuyi (AH-day-KUN-lay fah-JOO-yee]. That memoir is The Man Died. This
man also wrote a play in which Elesin Oba strangles himself after seeing his dead son Olunde. That play is
Death and the King’s Horseman . A play by this man set in Ilujinle (EE-loo-JIN-lay) sees Bale (BAH-lay)
win the hand of Sidi. For 10 points, name this Nigerian playwright of The Lion and the Jewel.
ANSWER: Akinwande Oluwole Soyinka
030-09-7-05119

4. This system includes a protein whose great variety is guaranteed by V(D)J recombination. Those proteins
are synthesized by cells of this system that have receptors IL-7 and CD19 and come in major forms like
"plasma" and "memory." This system includes mast cells and granulocytes (GRAN-yoo-low-sites) that stain
a characteristic brick-red, called eosinophils (ee-oh-SIN-uh-filz). Many cells of this system are transported
through the lymph, and this system's cells include macrophages (MAK-row-fay-jez), as well as several types
of B cells. For 10 points, name this system that contains white blood cells.
ANSWER: immune system [accept equivalents]
022-09-7-05120

5. The gradual end of slavery in this country was declared in the Law of the Free Womb. Soon afterwards,
the Golden Law entirely ended slavery here. One president of this country committed suicide after
implementing the "Estado Novo" and was named Getúlio Vargas (zhe-TOO-lee-oh VAHR-gahs). This
country's first emperor was the expatriate Pedro I. For 10 points, name this country, that was discovered by
Pedro Cabral for Portugal, and is the largest country in South America.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]
023-09-7-05121

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This woman was given flowers by the Horae (HOR-eye), gold necklaces by the Charities, and the ability
to weave and sew by Athena. Her only child was a survivor of the catastrophic Flood named Phyrrha
(PEER-uh). This wife of Epimethius committed a notorious action that was conceived by Zeus as a
punishment to mankind for accepting fire from Prometheus. That action left hope, even as the spirits of evil
filled the world. For 10 points, identify this woman in Greek mythology, who removed the lid of a namesake
"box."
ANSWER: Pandora
019-09-7-05122

7. In one story by this author, Azalea Adair is protected from her abusive husband by Uncle Caesar, an
African-American carriage driver. That story by this man is "A Municipal Report." This author wrote a
collection in response to Ward McAllister's claim that only four hundred people in New York City were
worth noticing called The Four Million. He also wrote a story about Bill Driscoll and Sam Howard's
kidnapping of an incorrigible child. For 10 points, name this American author of "The Gift of the Magi" and
"The Ransom of Red Chief."
ANSWER: O. Henry [or William Sidney Porter]
030-09-7-05123

8. This person told a Fox News reporter that a certain campaign, which she would later become a paid
spokeswoman for, was "not realistic at all." In December 2009, she filed a motion for sole custody of her
son. Her ex-fiancé recently insisted on making that custody suit public, citing fears of this woman's mother.
This woman ended her engagement to Levi Johnston shortly after the birth of the couple's son son Tripp. For
10 points, identify this eldest daughter of the former Governor of Alaska.
ANSWER: Bristol Palin [prompt on Palin; do not accept or prompt on "Sarah Palin"]
002-09-7-05124

9. A scar on this man's thigh from a wound suffered during a boar hunt leads his servant and childhood nurse
Euryclea (you-RIH-klee-uh) to recognize him. Sacrifices of the sacred cattle of Helios led to a disaster, of
which this man was the only survivor. He pretended to be named "no man" in order to blind the Cyclops
Polyphemus (pall-uh-FEE-mus). This man's dog Argos died upon seeing him return from Troy after ten
years to defeat his wife Penelope's suitors. For 10 points, name this king of Ithaca and hero of a namesake
epic.
ANSWER: Odysseus [or Ulysses; or Ulixes]
032-09-7-05125

10. A revolt in favor of this man's half-brother Ivan V led this man to disband his country's largest military
unit, the streltsy. This man led one side in a war that saw battles at Narva and Poltava. That war pitted him
against Sweden and Charles XII and was called the Great Northern War. This ruler forced the boyars of his
country to wear new clothes and shave their beards. For 10 points, name this man who built a "window to
the west" in the city of St. Petersburg, and who greatly westernized Russia around the turn of the eighteenth
century.
ANSWER: Peter I [or Peter the Great; or Pyotr Veliky; prompt on Peter]
023-09-7-05126

11. The singer of this song states, "life starts when the church ends." This song wishes that Bob Marley rests
in peace, and the singer states he is "up at Bed-Stuy." This song is used as Derek Jeter’s walkup music. The
singer claims he is the "new Sinatra." Its title location is a "concrete jungle where dreams are made of." For
10 points, name this Jay-Z song featuring Alicia Keys with a chorus that states, "Let's hear it for New York."
ANSWER: "Empire State of Mind"
030-09-7-05127

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. A character in this novel goes to London to get a haircut, earning the ire of another character, who
condemns the protagonist for scolding Miss Bates. This novel sees a woman from Bath marry Mr. Elton
after he is rejected by the protagonist. Its protgaonsit tries to set up her best friend with Frank Churchill, who
is secretly engaged to Jane Fairfax. This novel's protagonist, a friend of Harriet Smith, marries Mr.
Knightley. For 10 points, name this novel about the matchmaking antics of the titular Miss Woodhouse, a
work by Jane Austen.
ANSWER: Emma
058-09-7-05128

13. Software that create and maintain these things should ideally follow the ACID ("acid") paradigm. They
are often implemented using B-plus trees; a simple implementation of one of them is a flat file. Different
models of them include hierarchical and relational. They are often structured into tables, rows, and columns,
which can be manipulated by languages such as SQL. For 10 points, name these organized collections of
information, which are manipulated by programs such as Oracle and Microsoft Access.
ANSWER: database [or DBMS]
001-09-7-05129

14. This author created Rotpeter, a former circus ape who learns to talk, in "A Report to an Academy."
Frieda's fiancee K is not able to take his job as a surveyor in this man's novel The Castle. Another
protagonist of a work by this man is killed in a quarry for an unknown crime in The Trial. In one story by
this author, a man who was trying to raise money to send his sister to the conservatory has apples thrown at
him. For 10 points, name this author, who described Gregor Samsa's transformation into a bug in "The
Metamorphosis."
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
019-09-7-05130

15. One ruler with this last name was assassinated by Operation Blue Star after advising Fakruddin Ali
Ahmed to declare a state of emergency. Another leader with this last name encouraged people to create
khadi, or homespun clothing, and led a march to Dandi to protest a tax on salt. For 10 points, identify this
surname shared by Indian Prime Minister Indira, and Mohandas, whose non-violent protests earned him the
nickname "Mahatma."
ANSWER: Gandhi
004-09-7-05131

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 5
Tiebreaker Questions
1. An important protein in these objects' membrane is glycophorin. Those of camels are oddly shaped.
Immature ones are called reticulocytes (reh-TICK-yoo-low-sites), and mature ones are called erythrocytes
(uh-RITH-row-sites). Diseases that are manifested in these cells include HDN, thalassemia
(thal-aa-SEE-mee-uh), and sickle cell anemia. In mammals, they do not have a nucleus, and they contain
large quantities of hemoglobin. For 10 points, name these cells that transport oxygen throughout the body.
ANSWER: red blood cells [or RBCs; accept _erythrocytes before it is read]
001-09-7-05132

2. The first chapter of this book is entitled "A Fable for Tomorrow" and tells of a harmonious town suddenly
hit with a "strange blight." A parody of this book is "The Desolate Year," which imagined a world where
insects ran amok. That parody of this work was produced by the Monsanto Corporation, which, along with
other companies, objected to this book’s criticism of the pesticide DDT. For 10 points, name this landmark
environmentalist book, written by Rachel Carson.
ANSWER: Silent Spring
052-09-7-05133

3. One of this man's novels discusses how only Edward Griffith realizes that Mr. Gray is John Paul Jones.
This man created a character who settles down in Templeton with his blood-brother John. This author of The
Pilot wrote about a man who encounters Judith and Hetty Hutter near Lake Glimmerglass. That character
created by this author also rescues Cora and Alice Munro along with his friend Chingachgook. For 10
points, name this man who created Natty Bumppo in his novels The Deerslayer and The Last of the
Mohicans.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
026-09-7-05134

4. This god threw himself onto a funeral pyre and then became the planet Venus. He mixed the bones from
the previous four worlds with his own blood to create humanity. The twin brother of this god is a dog-faced
lightning deity named Xolotl (SHO-lot-el). This god was once exiled by the "smoking mirror" Tezcatlipoca
(TEZ-kat-lee-poe-kah). Because this god had light skin and a light beard, believers made the grave mistake
of confusing this feathered serpent with Hernan Cortes (cor-TEZ). For 10 points, name this chief deity of the
Aztecs.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl (ket-ZAL-co-ahh-tl)
004-09-7-05135

5. In light atoms, the spin and orbital types of this quantity are coupled by Russell-Saunders coupling.
Clebsch-Gordan coefficients are used in the addition of this quantity. According to Noether's [NUH-ters]
theorem, this quantity is conserved in rotationally invariant systems. The time derivative of this quantity is
equal to torque. For 10 points, name this quantity that is symbolized L and is the rotational analogue of
linear momentum.
ANSWER: angular momentum [do not accept or prompt on "momentum"]
024-09-7-05136

VHSL Regionals Round 5 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

