VHSL Districts
Round 4
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In the myths of the Pacific Northwest, one of these animals creates the world by dropping a stone in the
ocean and by hurting Seagull until he drops a box. In Celtic myth, Morrigan takes the form of one of these
birds to scout her battlefields. Two of these named "thought" and "memory" fly out from Hlidskjalf
(HLID-skee-yalf) to give a one-eyed god news about Midgard. Huginn (HOO-gin) and Muninn (MOO-nin)
are two of these animals, the two servants of Odin. For 10 points, name these black birds, also known as
corvids, that are typically associated with ill luck.
ANSWER: ravens [or crows; or corvids prior to mention]
020-09-3-04101

2. Members of this kingdom can produce carcinogenic aflatoxins (AFF-luh-TOCK-sins). An important
phylum in it is Ascomycota (ASS-ko-my-KO-tuh). Mycorrhizae (my-CORE"-iz-ay) in this kingdom form
important symbiotic relationships with plant roots. Important structures of organisms in this kingdom
include the parisitic haustoria (how-STORE-ee-uh) and the filamentous hyphae (HY-fee). For 10 points,
name this kingdom that includes yeasts, molds, and mushroom-producing organisms.
ANSWER: fungi
001-09-3-04102

3. These people were judged a second time by a committee that included MIT president Samuel Stratton and
Harvard president Lawrence Lowell. In 1977, Michael Dukakis issued them a posthumous pardon on
charges of murdering F.A. Parmenter and Alessandro Berardelli while robbing a shoe factory. They were
executed in 1927 after six years of national debate, which focused on whether they were convicted more for
their radical politics than any actual crime. For 10 points, name these two Italian anarchists, who were found
guilty of murder in Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti [both last names required for correct answer; order does
not matter; do not prompt on partial answer]
045-09-3-04103

4. The earliest surviving literary work in this language is a hymn by a semi-legendary shepherd named
Caedmon. A common feature of dramatic poetry in this language was the use of expressions such as
"ring-giver" to mean "king," known as kennings. One poem in this language tells of how the hall Heorot
(HAY-uh-rot), owned by Hrothgar (ROTH-gahr), is defended from a descendant of Cain named Grendel.
For 10 points, identify this language in which Beowulf was written.
ANSWER: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English; do not accept or prompt on "Middle
English"]
019-09-3-04104

5. Its namesake suite is modeled in four layers, including those named "Link," "Transport," and
"Application." Values important to this system can be represented in CIDR ("cider") notation. The newest
version of this replaces ARP ("A-R-P") with a procedure called "Neighbor Discovery" and also allows
strings of zeroes to be represented by double colons. That new version, its sixth, also uses a 128-bit system
for its namesake addresses. For 10 points, identify this network addressing protocol commonly paired with
TCP.
ANSWER: IP [or Internet Protocol; accept TCP/IP or Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol
before "newest version" is read]
029-09-3-04105

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The title character of one of this author's novels accidentally causes the drowning of Chicken Little. In
addition to creating Sula, this author wrote about Macon Dead's search for identity in Song of Solomon.
Another work by this author includes characters such as Cholly and Pecola Breedlove, who yearns for the
title facial feature in The Bluest Eye. Sethe kills her daughter rather than send her back into slavery in
another novel by, for 10 points, what American author of Beloved?
ANSWER: Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford; or Chloe Anthony Wofford]
024-09-3-04106

7. This man created the covert Special Operations Executive that was headed by Hugh Dalton. Herbert
Asquith appointed this man First Lord of the Admiralty, a post which he resigned after Gallipoli. He served
as his own Minister of Defense while attending the Tehran and Yalta Conferences, along with Roosevelt and
Stalin, as one of the Big Three. For 10 points, name this man who succeeded Neville Chamberlain as prime
minister of Great Britain and led the country through World War II.
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill
005-09-3-04107

8. This man wrote a long poem whose title character is separated from her lover Gabriel Lajeunesse
(LAH-zhoo-NESS) during the Great Upheaval of Nova Scotia. Another of his poems is about an event of
which "hardly a man is now alive who remembers." That poem describes a trip "through every Middlesex
village and farm" after two lamps glow in the Old North Church. This poet wrote Evangeline and "Paul
Revere's Ride." For 10 points, name this nineteenth century American poet of a work about the husband of
Minnehaha, called The Song of Hiawatha.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
030-09-3-04108

9. In September 2009, this country withdrew a video promoting tourism, which seemed to imply that a
citizen of this country had conceived a child with a stranger on a vacation here. In January 2010, police in
this country arrested a man with an axe at the home of Kurt Westergaard (VEST-er-guard). Westergaard has
been under police protection since the Jyllands-Posten (yih-LONDZ PAHS-ten) newspaper in this country
published his work in 2006. For 10 points, name this country which was targeted by demonstrations in the
Middle East over Westergaard's caricatures of Muhammad.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark]
019-09-3-04109

10. After kicking a preseason extra point against the Patriots, this athlete stated that he was Esteban, "the
most interesting footballer in the world." He was fined for holding a dollar bill during a replay challenge and
for donning a poncho and sombrero after scoring a touchdown against the Lions. This player was drafted out
of Oregon State by the Cincinnati Bengals. For 10 points, name this NFL wide receiver who, in 2008, legally
changed his name to reflect the number on his jersey in inaccurate Spanish.
ANSWER: Chad Ochocinco [or Chad Johnson; or Chad Hachi Go]
045-09-3-04110

11. One character in this play suggests "be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar" and "neither a borrower
nor a lender be" to his son. Another person in this play is exhorted "Get thee to a nunnery!" One man in this
play holds the skull of a jester and opines "Alas, poor Yorick!" In another speech from this play, the title
character notes that it is nobler to suffer "the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune." For 10 points, name
this Shakespeare play in which the title character ponders the question "To be or not to be."
ANSWER: The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
015-09-3-04111

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. One short story by this author features a Chinese spy who attempts to convey knowledge of Belgian
artillery positions to Germany. Another of his stories details the inside of a library that contains every
possible book. "The Garden of Forking Paths" and "The Library of Babel" are among this author's short
stories collected in Ficciones (FICK-see-OH-nace). For 10 points, name this blind Argentinean author of "El
Aleph."
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges (BOR-hace)
002-09-3-04112

13. This number to the power of itself is about 0.20788, or e to the negative pi over two power. This number
is multiplied times the sine function in De Moivre's formula. It is related to e, pi, 1 and 0 by Euler's identity.
This number is equal to its own fifth power, and both it and its opposite are the solutions to the equation
x^2+1=0. Used to form complex numbers, for 10 points, identify this number equal to the square root of -1
and is represented by a single letter.
ANSWER: i [or the imaginary unit]
063-09-3-04113

14. One character in this work witnesses the death of the public official Marmeladov (mar-MEL-ah-dohv),
who falls under a carriage. The main character of this work is eventually forced into telling the truth by the
investigator Porfiry. Another man in this novel goes into the publishing business with Dunya and is named
Razumihin (rah-ZOO-mee-hin). The protagonist of this work is followed to Siberia by the prostitute Sonya
after killing a pawnbroker and her sister. For 10 points, name this novel about Raskolnikov
(rass-CALL-nih-koff) by Fyodor Dostoevsky (doze-toy-EV-skee).
ANSWER: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i Nakazaniye]
023-09-3-04114

15. These beings were helped by Eileithyia (ay-lay-THWEE-uh) in trying to delay the birth of Herakles
(HAIR-uh-clees). This group claimed that when a certain stick was fully burned Meleagar (MEL-ee-ayg-ur)
would die. One member of this group was known as the "apportioner of lots." This group was made up of
Lachesis (LACK-uh-sis), Atropos (AT-rah-POS), and Clotho (CLOH-THOH). For 10 points, name this trio
of female deities from Greek mythology who spun, measured, and cut the thread of life to determine a
person's destiny.
ANSWER: Fates [or Moirai; or all of Lachesis, Atropos, and Clotho in any order before read; or Parcae
before "Greek"]
023-09-3-04115

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 4
Directed Round
1A. What form of poetry was mastered by Basho and is made up of three lines containing five, seven, and
five syallables?
ANSWER: haikus
1B. Identify the German who created the forty-two-line Bible using his invention, the printing press.
ANSWER: Johannes Gutenberg
2A. What physicist won a Nobel Prize for his explanation of the photoelectric effect?
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
2B. Give the literary term for the practice of using words that contain similar vowel sounds near one another.
ANSWER: assonance
3A. Name the 2009 video game sequel whose plotline includes Russia invading the United States.
ANSWER: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 [or Call of Duty 6; do not accept or prompt on "Modern
Warfare" or "Call of Duty" without the correct numbers]
3B. Barack Obama's 2009 acceptance speech tried to reconcile the meaning of what award with current U.S.
military deployments?
ANSWER: Nobel Peace Prize [or Nobels fredspris]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Evaluate 5x - 4y if x = 6 and y = 2.
ANSWER: 22
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. If an egg has 200 milligrams of cholesterol and a slice of bacon
has 25 milligrams of cholesterol, how much cholesterol is in a breakfast of two eggs and five slices of
bacon?
ANSWER: 525 milligrams
5A. What word of German origin is used similarly in both Yiddish and English to identify something as
broken?
ANSWER: kaput
5B. What team won the 2008 NBA Championship after making moves to acquire Kevin Garnett and Ray
Allen to join Paul Pierce in the previous offseason?
ANSWER: Boston Celtics [or Boston Celtics]
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A taxicab charges $1.75 for the first quarter mile and sixty
cents for each further quarter mile. How much will a five and a half mile ride cost?
ANSWER: $14.35
VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the intersection point of the lines y=-4x+22 and y=5x-32.
ANSWER: (6, -2) [or x=6, y=-2]
7A. What sort of event can be measured by the moment magnitude scale or the Mercalli intensity scale?
ANSWER: earthquakes
7B. Name the Edvard Munch (MOONK) painting that portrays two figures in the background and the main
figure in the foreground, doing the title action under a red sky.
ANSWER: The Scream [or Skrik]
8A. What area in Baden-Württemburg (BAH-den VURT-em-burg), Germany, is famous for its cuckoo
clocks and is the origin of the Danube River?
ANSWER: Black Forest [or Schwarzwald]
8B. What organ attached to the large intestine performs no known function, but can cause death when its
inflammation goes untreated?
ANSWER: appendix
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If theta is an angle in quadrant III, and the sine of theta is
negative square root of 65 divided by 9, what is the tangent of the angle theta?
ANSWER: square root of 65 divided by 4
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A bag has six blue ping pong balls and four yellow ping pong
balls. What is the probability that, if you reach in and pull out two ping pong balls, they will both be yellow?
ANSWER: 2/15
10A. The "tick-tock" of a clock or the "bang" of a gun are examples of what sort of words, that sound like
what they are describing?
ANSWER: onomatopoeia (AH-nuh-mah-tuh-PEE-uh)
10B. Identify the Swiss psychologist who developed the concepts of "synchronicity" and "archetypes" and
had a falling-out with Sigmund Freud.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 4
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one play by this author, a scholar lusts after Gretchen and attends the demonic festival of Walpurgis
(voll-PURR-giss) Night. Another of his works is about an artist realizing he will never win the love of
Charlotte (SHAHR-LO-tuh), prompting that character to shoot himself. That work by this author, The
Sorrows of Young Werther (VER-tur), is an example of the Sturm und Drang literary movement. For 10
points, name this German author who wrote about a man selling his soul to Mephistopheles
(MEF-uh-STOFF-a-lees) in the play Faust.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (GURR-tuh)
052-09-3-04117

2. One king of this dynasty lacquered the capital city walls at incredible cost. This dynasty suppressed
Mohism (MOE-izm) and was eventually overthrown by Liu (loo) Bang. One ruler of this dynasty led the
"burning of books and burying of scholars" campaign. This dynasty ended the Warring States period,
imposed legalism, and started building the Great Wall under this dynasty's founder, Shi Huang Di (SHE
wong DEE). For 10 points, name this predecessor of the Han dynasty which brutally unified China.
ANSWER: Qin (CHIN) dynasty
060-09-3-04118

3. The complexometric (kom-PLEX-oh-MET-rick) type of this technique uses chelating (KEE-lay-ting)
compounds such as EDTA ("E-D-T-A"). Inflections in the graph of this technique occur at a point when the
amount of two solutions are equal; that point is the equivalence point. This technique enables one to find the
concentration of an acid or base by using it to neutralize a solution of known concentration. For 10 points,
name this technique that uses a buret (byur-ET) to slowly add a solution of known concentration to a
solution of unknown concentration.
ANSWER: titration
032-09-3-04119

4. This composer had a serenade and his thirty-fifth symphony commissioned by the Haffner family. This
composer’s works were catalogued by Ludwig von Kochel (KUR-kel). he composed a singspiel
(SHING-shpiel) opera where Pamina accompanies Tamino to the temple of Sarastro. The thirteenth of his
serenades is known by the title A Little Night Music. Franz Sussmayr (SOOS-mayer) finished the Requiem
mass this composer wrote on his deathbed. His forty-first symphony ends with a double fugue and is called
Jupiter. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of The Magic Flute.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
015-09-3-04120

5. The war sparked by this event featured a siege of La Rochelle by the Royalists under Prince Henry and
was known as the Fourth War of Religion. Among its victims was the admiral Gaspard de Coligny
(cuh-LIN-yee), who was stabbed at his home by Henry of Guise (GEEZ). This even ended Catherine de
Medici's image as a conciliator, as she was one of its primary instigators. For 10 points, name this event of
August 1572, in which about three thousand Huguenots were killed by a Parisian mob on a Catholic feast
day.
ANSWER: Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre
062-09-3-04121

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. These compounds are synthesized from aldehydes (AL-duh-hides) in the Strecker synthesis. Their side
chains, sometimes known as R groups, face outwards in beta sheets. They also form alpha helices
(HEEL-uh-seez). One of these compounds, encoded by the start codon AUG (A-U-G), is methionine
(muh-THIGH-oh-neen). Eight of the twenty common types of these are essential, because they cannot be
synthesized by the human body. For 10 points, name these building blocks of proteins.
ANSWER: amino acids
024-09-3-04122

7. Critics of this policy were subjected to the Rivonia Trial and imprisoned on Robben Island. The National
Party won a 1948 election on a campaign for this policy. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission
examined this program after F.W. de Klerk agreed to end it. For 10 points, name this policy, opposed by the
African National Congress and Nelson Mandela, which constituted the system of racial segregation in South
Africa between 1948 and 1994.
ANSWER: apartheid
015-09-3-04123

8. This painter contrasted a figure placing forehead to knee with a hand holding an egg in his work The
Metamorphosis of Narcissus. Multiple images of a colorfully garbed Venus de Milo appear in this artist's
Hallucinogenic Toreador. This creator of the Mae West Lips Couch and the Lobster Telephone painted a
work in which ants swarm a pocket watch and three clocks appear to melt. For 10 points, name this
mustachioed Spanish Surrealist who painted The Persistence of Memory.
ANSWER: Salvador Dalí [or Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech]
063-09-3-04124

9. This term refers to the total radiant flux of a system. For fluids, this quantity is given by the product of
pressure and volumetric flow rate. In circuits, this quantity is equal to voltage squared over resistance. In
rotational systems, it is torque times angular velocity. It can be calculated by multiplying force and velocity.
For 10 points, name this measure of work done in an amount of time, whose unit is the watt.
ANSWER: power
022-09-3-04125

10. This composer parodied Richard Wagner's (REE-card VOG-nerz) Tristan and Isolde (eye-SOLE-duh) in
his Children’s Corner Suite . "The Play of the Waves" is a movement in one of his works. He composed a
solo piano work entitled Suite Bergamesque (bur-guh-MESK). Stephane Mallarmé inspired this man's
Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun. He composed La Mer (MARE) and “Clair De Lune.” For 10 points,
name this French Impressionist composer.
ANSWER: Achille-Claude Debussy
062-09-3-04126

11. In honor of his perseverance in traveling upriver, this man was given the name "Bula Matari" (BOO-luh
mah-TAH-ree), meaning "Breaker of Rocks." This Welsh-born man became a journalist after fighting in the
American Civil War. The New York Herald financed his 1874 expedition to trace the course of the Congo
River, three years after his journey to locate a missing Scottish missionary. He found the missionary several
months later, in poor health, at Lake Tanganyika (tahn-gahn-YEE-kuh). For 10 points, what explorer
reportedly uttered the greeting "Dr. Livingstone, I presume"?
ANSWER: Henry Morton Stanley [or John Rowlands]
045-09-3-04127

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This material is divided into I-type and S-type by the White-Chappell system. The QAPF ("Q-A-P-F")
diagram depicts the different types of this material that form when its constituent parts combine in different
amounts. Oceanic tectonic plates subduct beneath continental ones because basalt is denser than this type of
rock. The volcanic analogue of this type of plutonic rock is rhyolite. For 10 points, name this rock comprised
of quartz and feldspar, which takes its name from the Latin word for its coarse grains.
ANSWER: granite
026-09-3-04128

13. This man declared that "the war in Vietnam is but a symptom of a far deeper malady within the
American spirit" and coined the phrase "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere" in his Letter
From a Birmingham Jail. This pastor of Dexter Avenue Baptist church spoke of an America where "little
black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and
brothers." For 10 points, name this civil rights leader who gave the I Have a Dream speech.
ANSWER: Martin Luther King, Jr.
063-09-3-04129

14. This man was put on trial by both Felix and Festus. After an earthquake struck the jail he was imprisoned
in, this man baptized his jailer. He is first reported as giving approval to the stoning of Saint Stephen. He
wrote instructional letters to his followers Timothy and Titus. This man was helped by Barnabas after he was
blinded while on the road to Damascus, which prompted him to accept Christianity, as recorded in the Book
of Acts. The author of such biblical epistles as Romans and Corinthians, for 10 points, name this Christian
saint, who was born with the name "Saul."
ANSWER: Paul [accept Saul before it is read]
052-09-3-04130

15. This man collaborated with Frankie Yale to help Johnny Torrio win a war against Big Jim Colosimo. A
veteran of the James Street Boys and Five Points Gang in Brooklyn, he later held onto his power by ordering
executions of Bugs Moran's followers in a garage. Before he was jailed on tax evasion charges in 1931, this
figure was responsible for the St. Valentine's Day Massacre in 1929. He made his money in bootlegging and
was often known as "Scarface." For 10 points, name this Prohibition-era mobster who controlled crime in
Chicago.
ANSWER: Alphonse "Al" Capone
045-09-3-04131

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 4
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Carmody and Britton-Robinson name two "universal" solutions of this type. These solutions can be
prepared by solving an equation that multiplies 2.303 to a term containing K-sub-w and K-sub-a; that
equation used for these solutions is the Henderson-Hasselbalch (HOSS-el-BOCK) equation. These solutions
usually consist of a weak acid or base and its conjugate acid or base, such as the carbonic acid-bicarbonate
(bi-CAR-bo-NATE) system in the blood. For 10 points, name these solutions that keep pH consistent.
ANSWER: buffers
020-09-3-04132

2. The Doon Valley lies in this range's Shivalik (SHEE-vuh-leek) Hills, which are home to Gujjar (GOO-jur)
tribes in the Mohan Pass. This range’s largest lake is the brackish Pangong, situated just below Changla
(SHONG-lah) Pass, and this range is the origin of the Irrawaddy (ERR-uh-wah-dee) River. Much of this
range is populated by Sherpa tribes. It contains the peaks Lhotse (LOTE-seh) and Kangchenjunga
(KAN-chen-JOON-guh) as well as K2. For 10 points, name this mountain range, which is the longest in Asia
and contains Mount Everest.
ANSWER: the Himalayas [or Himalayan Range]
060-09-3-04133

3. This psychologist referred to his brand of psychology as a "third force" apart from Freudianism and
behaviorism. This man elaborated on a concept first proposed in The Organism by Kurt Goldstein. In
Towards a Psychology of Being, he put forth a concept of human motivation divided into five levels,
including safety, esteem, and self-actualization. For 10 points, identify this psychologist who developed a
namesake "hierarchy of needs."
ANSWER: Abraham Harold Maslow
024-09-3-04134

4. Mutations in these entities can result in Leigh Syndrome. These structures carry their own maternally
inherited genomes independent of the nucleus. Lynn Margulis (MAR-goo-LYS) postulated that both
chloroplasts and these entities evolved from symbiotic bacteria within a host cell. Within the matrix of these
organelles, pyruvate (PIE-roo-VATE), NADH, and glucose undergo the Krebs cycle, and they are divided
by cristae (CREES-tay). For 10 points, name this organelle responsible for the synthesis of ATP, which
supplies cellular energy.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
059-09-3-04135

5. This author wrote several essays about John Brown, such as "A Plea for Captain John Brown." He notes
"that government is best which governs least" in "Civil Disobedience." This author’s best-known work
contains sections such as "Where I Lived, and What I Lived For" and "The Pond in Winter." That work
describes his life in the woods in Massachusetts. For 10 points, name this transcendentalist author of Walden
.
ANSWER: Henry David Thoreau
024-09-3-04136

VHSL Districts Round 4 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

