VHSL States
Round 7
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. Fred Willard plays Shelby Forthright in this movie, a CEO who appears in instructional videos. One
character in this movie is named Microbe Obliterator and follows the protagonist for a large part of the film,
cleaning. The protagonist finds himself on the starliner Axiom, flagship of the Buy n Large corporation, to
which he and a companion bring a small plant, proof that Earth is once again habitable. For 10 points, name
this Pixar movie about a namesake trash-compacting robot that falls in love with EVE.
ANSWER: WALL-E
022-09-9-07101

2. Some of this man’s leftist supporters were massacred by the right-wing “Triple A” terrorist group in the
Ezeiza Massacre. This man was excommunicated by Pius XII shortly before he was overthrown in a coup,
which saw him flee to Franco’s Spain. After his death, this man was succeeded in office by his wife, Isabel
Martinez. Some of this man’s supporters were known as the “decamisados,” or “the shirtless ones,” who
revered this man’s earlier wife, a movie actress. For 10 points, name this Argentinean leader, noted for his
marriage to Eva Duarte.
ANSWER: Juan Domingo Peron
052-09-9-07102

3. A breach in the security of this company in December 2009 led this company's chief legal officer David
Drummond to conclude that some of its offices might have to be closed down. By shutting down those
offices, this company may lose even more of its share of the market in one country to its competitor Baidu.
This company's reaction came in light of the illegal accessing of e-mail accounts held by human rights
activists in a certain country. For 10 points, name this American company that allowed censorship of its
search engine after 2006 in China.
ANSWER: Google Inc. [prompt on Gmail]
023-09-9-07103

4. A period of bombings and murders in this country was known as the “Years of Lead.” One Christian
Democratic political leader from this country was kidnapped and murdered by a leftist terrorist group called
the Red Brigades. A conservative Masonic organization in this country was nicknamed “P2” and included
among its members this country’s current prime minister, a billionaire who founded the company Fininvest.
For 10 points, name this European nation, the home of Aldo Moro, which is currently led by Silvio
Berlusconi.
ANSWER: Italy
052-09-9-07104

5. In some sources, this man had a daughter, Roma, who married Aeneas. Pisistratus accompanied this man
on his journey to Sparta. This man convinced his father not to slay Medon or the minster Phemius. When he
was a baby, this man was placed by Palamedes in the path of a plow. Athena sent this man to visit Nestor at
Pylos. This figure appears in the Telegony where he marries Circe, who enchanted sailors led by his father,
who had gone missing for twenty years. For 10 points, name this son of Penelope and Odysseus.
ANSWER: Telemachus
003-09-9-07105

VHSL States Round 7 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Along with mollusks, this grouping is defined by the existence of a cavity for blood circulation known as
the hemocoel (HEE-moh-"SEAL"). This phylum takes in oxygen through stacks of plates filled with blood
known as book lungs. One extinct member of this phylum was the most common animal of the Cambrian
Explosion. That animal was a three lobed marine creature known as the trilobite (TRY-lo-bite). Members of
this phylum have exoskeletons made of chitin (KYE-tin). For 10 points, name this phylum that includes
crustaceans (crus-TAY-"shins") and insects.
ANSWER: Arthropoda [or arthropods]
059-09-9-07106

7. Soldiers from this country caused the Pidjiguiti Massacre, beginning this nation's struggle against the
PAIGC in its colony of Guinea-Bissau. This nation fought the FNLA in one colony and FRELIMO and
RENAMO in another until the fall of its government in the Carnation Revolution. Though this resulted in the
independence of those two colonies, Angola and Mozambique, only in 1999 did this nation hand over its
colony of Macau and it currently retains the Azores. For 10 points, name this country which colonized Brazil
with capital at Lisbon.
ANSWER: Portugal
059-09-9-07107

8. "Low barrier" types of these entities occur in the catalytic triad of serine proteases. A unique form of these
is present in borane-ammonia complexes. In RNA and proteins, they are chiefly responsible for secondary
structure. Water expands upon freezing because these entities become ordered. They usually involve
fluorine, nitrogen, or oxygen and their namesake element. For 10 points, name these exceptionally strong
dipole-dipole interactions.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonds
001-09-9-07108

9. This musical work was the first symphony scored for three horns instead of two. It has a solo horn enter
with the main melody four measures before the rest of the orchestra in its first movement's recapitulation. Its
second movement is a funeral march, and this symphony is in E-flat major. It is dedicated to the "memory of
a great man," although it was originally dedicated to Napoleon. For 10 points, name this symphony by
Ludwig van Beethoven, his third.
ANSWER: Symphony no. 3, "Eroica" [accept either; accept no. 3 or third before mentioned]
004-09-9-07109

10. During congressional debate over this agreement, a Senator from New York claimed there was “a higher
law than the Constitution.” Several politicians expressed support for this agreement in the Georgia Platform.
One incident during the Senate debate saw Henry Foote pull a gun on Thomas Hart Benton. This agreement
set up the Territories of New Mexico and Utah and was largely designed by Stephen Douglas. For 10 points,
name this agreement which made California a free state and passed the Fugitive Slave Law, one of the later
attempts to prevent secession.
ANSWER: Compromise of 1850
052-09-9-07110

11. This body releases cytochrome ("SIGH"-tow-krome) c to trigger apoptosis (AY-pop-TOW-sis). The
DNA found in these organelles (OR-guh-NELLZ) is passed down matrilineally (MAT-ruh-LIN-ee-uh-lee),
and along with its double membrane, may be evidence for its endosymbiotic (EN-"dough"-sim-by-OTT-ick)
origin. Its inner folds are called cristae (KRIS-tay), and its matrix is home to respiration reactions like
glycolysis (GLY-"CALL"-ih-sis). For 10 points, name this organelle, the "powerhouse" of the cell.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
026-09-9-07111

VHSL States Round 7 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This poem uses sod as a representation of death. The seventh stanza of this poem mentions the sad heart
of Ruth standing in tears “amid the alien corn”. In its fourth stanza the poet states he will fly, not “charioted
by Bacchus” but instead on the “viewless wings of Poesy”. This poem ends by asking “Do I wake or
sleep?” and it opens with its narrator exclaiming that he felt like he just drank hemlock because his senses
are numb and his heart aches. Later, the poet exclaims that the title creature “was not born for death”. For 10
points, name this John Keats poem dedicated to a bird.
ANSWER: "Ode to a Nightingale"
064-09-9-07112

13. A conflict in this play occurs when part of a woman's body is first described as "angelic" but then as
"monkeylike," shortly before a handful of snapdragons is dubbed a "wedding bouquet" of "pansies,
rosemary, and violence." Near its end, a character is accused of eating a telegram announcing that a man had
died in a car accident while swerving to avoid a porcupine. Games of "Get the Guest" and "Humiliate the
Host" ensue in this play when Honey and her husband, the new biology professor Nick, visit the home of
older faculty member George and his wife Martha, who squabble over a nonexistent son. For 10 points,
name this drama by Edward Albee, whose title refers to the British feminist author of Mrs. Dalloway.
ANSWER: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
019-09-9-07113

14. He composed a stilted piano lullaby called "Of Foreign Lands and Peoples" to begin his piano suite that
also contains the "Dreaming" movement. This composer musically depicted the Cologne Cathedral in his
third symphony. This composer of Dichterliebe and Scenes from Childhood dedicated his Kreisleriana to
Chopin. He depicted himself musically as "Florestan" and "Eusebius" in such works as Papillons and
Carnival. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Rhenish and Spring symphonies.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
026-09-9-07114

15. In Minkowski space, this quantity equals the rate of change above the four-momentum vector with
respect to proper time. The total amount of this quantity imparted on a charged particle by both the magnetic
and electric fields is named for Lorentz. This quantity is equal to the time derivative of the body's
momentum by Newton's Second Law. Work is equal to this quantity times distance. For 10 points, name this
vector quantity measured in newtons, which equals mass times acceleration.
ANSWER: force [or net force]
026-09-9-07115

VHSL States Round 7 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 7
Directed Round
1A. Original plans for it date back to the Roman control of its location. It was finally inaugurated in 1869,
with France winning the right to lease it for 100 years. For 10 points, identify this waterway.
ANSWER: the Suez Canal
1B. It is found in cereal grains and white rice is fortified with this vitamin. Name this B-complex vitamin,
the deficiency of which causes beriberi.
ANSWER: thiamin [or B1]
2A. Examples of these types of languages include the Gullah and Geechee vernacular of the Georgia and
South Carolina Sea Islands. Name this type of vernacular language that developed on plantations in the 17th
and 18th centuries due to contact between groups that spoke different languages.
ANSWER: creole
2B. It is generally prohibited as evidence because it depends on the truth of someone not available for
cross-examination. Name this type of legal testimony that consists of what a witness heard others say.
ANSWER: hearsay
3A. One man associated with this movement wrote God's Trombones, and wrote the anthem "Lift Every
Voice and Sing." James Weldon Johnson was a member of what early 20th century literary movement
whose other members included Jean Toomer and Countee Cullen?
ANSWER: Harlem Renaissance
3B. This man played office manager John Williamson in the film version of Glengarry Glen Ross, and he
also played Verbal Kint in The Usual Suspects. Name this actor who played Lex Luthor in Superman
Returns.
ANSWER: Kevin Spacey
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is 7/3 divided 2/9?
ANSWER: 21/2 [or 10.5]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the value of w if 3w=7w+11? Give your answer in
decimal form.
ANSWER: -2.75
5A. Erskine Caldwell's novel Tobacco Road is set in this state, as is Alfred Uhry's play Driving Miss Daisy.
Name this state, the setting for Tara in Gone With the Wind.
ANSWER: Georgia
5B. This man was married to fellow artist Lee Krasner, and he painted Full Fathom Five. Name this
American Abstract Expressionist painter who gained fame for his "drip" technique.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollock
VHSL States Round 7 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is 3.567*9.877?
ANSWER: 35.231259
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If Professor Persikov has has an initial population of four frogs
and the population doubles every 4 weeks, how many frogs does he have after a year? You may assume that
there are 52 weeks in a year.
ANSWER: 32,768
7A. Bo Jackson won a Heisman trophy while playing for this school, and Tommy Tuberville led this school
to an undefeated season in 2004. Name this Alabama-based university nicknamed "The Tigers."
ANSWER: Auburn
7B. The former CEO of Hewlett-Packard, Carly Fiorina, seeking the Republican nomination to challenge
this senator in 2010. Name this woman who, with Diane Feinstein, is a U.S. Senator from California.
ANSWER: Barbara Boxer
8A. It is located above the point where a fault ruptures during an earthquake. Name this area on the earth's
surface directly above the focus.
ANSWER: epicenter
8B. It is a seven-line iambic pentameter stanza with rhyme scheme ababbcc. Chaucer used it in Troilus and
Criseyde and The Parliament of Foules. Identify this regally-named poetry scheme.
ANSWER: rhyme royal
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What are the roots of x3 - 5.5x2 - 17.5x + 49?
ANSWER: x=-3.5, 2, 7 [accept in any order]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Consider a cone of height h and radius r. If 14h=336 and
3r+3=h and we approximate pi by 3.14, what is the surface area of the cone?
ANSWER: 703.36
10A. This number is the constant of proportionality between the velocities of galaxies and their distances.
Name this constant named in honor of an American astronomer that shows the rate at which the universe is
expanding.
ANSWER: Hubble constant
10B. This man perfected the process of using dry plates for photography, and he introduced the roll film on a
transparent base. Name this founder of his namesake Kodak film company.
ANSWER: George Eastman

VHSL States Round 7 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 7
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This city is the home of Oscar Niemeyer's Copan Building, and the 9 de Julho Palace is also located here.
The massive Morumbi and Pacaembu football stadiums are located here. This city's Mirante do Vale is the
tallest building in this city's country. Guaruja is a beach resort for this city. The Parque do Ibirapuera is the
home of this city's Art Biennial. This city is located on the Tiete (Tyuh-Tey), and Pinheiros, rivers. This
city's Atlantic port is Santos. For 10 points, name this largest city in Brazil.
ANSWER: Sao Paulo
030-09-9-07117

2. This man sued Jimmy Carter, saying the president could not nullify a treaty with Taiwan without Senate
approval. Late in life, he alarmed conservatives by claiming that “gays have served honorably in the military
since Julius Caesar.” Ronald Reagan gave the “A Time For Choosing” speech in support of this man, who
proclaimed that “extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice.” He was attacked in a commercial showing a
daisy-picking girl consumed by a nuclear explosion. For 10 points, name this Arizona Republican defeated
by Lyndon Johnson in 1964.
ANSWER: Barry Goldwater
052-09-9-07118

3. In complete metric spaces, Cauchy sequences always have one of these. Those of a function can be found
using the sandwich theorem and a typical definition is that for some delta region around x, f(x) will be
within some epsilon region. A technique for finding indeterminate ones of functions of form f(x)/g(x) c uses
the ratio of the respective derivatives and is better known as L’Hôpital’s rule. These are often used to give
define derivatives. For 10 points, name this concept often given as the value of a function as it approaches a
certain point.
ANSWER: limit
064-09-9-07119

4. This substance is assumed to have vertical equipotential lines in order to simplify solutions to an equation
for its movement. That assumption named for Dupoit is invoked along with Darcy's law to explain this
substance's movement. Pockets of air are found alongside it in the vadose zone. It is present in any bedrock
pore in the phreatic zone. Structures that contain it can emit it spontaneously if its namesake "table" is above
ground level. This substance flows freely from artesian wells. For 10 points, name this substance, which is
found in porous rock in aquifers.
ANSWER: water [accept groundwater; or underground water; or H2O; or other reasonable equivalents]
022-09-9-07120

5. The protagonist of this story stops drinking tea at night in order to save more money. After being mocked
by fellow copyists, the protagonist of this story is helped by Petrovich to spend eighty rubles in St.
Petersburg. The protagonist of this story dies of a fever while ranting about a Person of Consequence who
berated him for asking about an item stolen after a party. Akaky Akakievich haunts St. Petersburg in
continuing pursuit of a piece of clothing in this story. For 10 points, name this short story about that titular
lost piece of winter clothing, written by Nikolai Gogol.
ANSWER: "The Overcoat" [or "Shinel"]
032-09-9-07121

VHSL States Round 7 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This battle proved indecisive due to Milham and Longstreet's inability to pursue the defeated enemy. Its
turning point came when one unit overran Ellsworth's Fire Zouaves on Henry House Hill after being
described by Bernard Bee as being like a "stone wall," and the withdrawal of the losing side under Irwin
McDowell was blocked by the large number of spectators. For 10 points, name this Confederate victory
where Stonewall Jackson earned his nickname, the first major battle of the American Civil War.
ANSWER: First Battle of Bull Run [or First Battle of Manassas Junction, prompt on "Bull Run" or
"Manassas"]
059-09-9-07122

7. This author wrote a three-character play about junk store owner Don and his friends, who attempt to steal
a rare coin collection. This man’s most famous play features a police detective named Baylen, who
interrogates such other characters as Dave Moss and George Aaronow. This author of American Buffalo
created Shelly “the Machine” Levene and Ricky Roma, who are both obsessed with obtaining sales leads.
For 10 points, name this American playwright who described the cutthroat world of real estate sales in
Glengarry Glen Ross.
ANSWER: David Mamet
052-09-9-07123

8. An administrator of the French one of these organizations, Joseph Dupleix, was recalled after being
defeated by Robert Clive. The Dutch one of these organizations was based out of Batavia, and massacred
workers for a different one of these at Amboina. That other one was colloquially known as John Company,
and was the target of the Sepoy Rebellion, which ended its status as the de facto government of its namesake
colony. For 10 points, give the common name of these joint-stock companies originally charted to
participate in the spice trade.
ANSWER: East India Company [or East India Companies]
004-09-9-07124

9. One author used this language to write a novel about the quest of two students who call themselves the
Visceral Realists. This language was used by that author to write the novels 2666, and The Savage
Detectives. Another author used this language to write a short story about a man who sees a point that
contains all other points showing him the entire universe. For 10 points, name this language used to write
"The Aleph," and "The Garden of Forking Paths," as well as similar works by Roberto Bolaño, Jorge Luis
Borges, and other authors from Argentina.
ANSWER: Spanish Language [accept Español]
004-09-9-07125

10. This language's arguments dot callee gives extra power to anonymous functions. Like Python, it has a for
in construction. Commonly used libraries for this language includes Ext, YUI, and Dojo. Primitive types in
this language include undefined and null. Instead of using classes, this language like its Self predecessor
uses prototypes. Local variables can be declared by the keyword var. For 10 points, name this programming
language often used in webpages.
ANSWER: JavaScript [or ECMAScript; or JScript]
024-09-9-07126

VHSL States Round 7 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. One queen with this name fought the Chincha Island war and was forced into exile in 1868 after
becoming the only queen-regent of a unified Spain. Another queen of this name was nicknamed “The
She-Wolf of France” and aided Roger Mortimer in overthrowing her husband Edward II. Another queen
with this name expelled all Jews from her kingdom in the Alhambra decree and was the mother of Joanna
the Mad. That queen with this name earned the epithet “the Catholic” and sponsored the voyages of
Christopher Columbus. For 10 points, give this name held by a queen of Castille whose marriage to
Ferdinand of Aragon unified Spain.
ANSWER: Isabella
015-09-9-07127

12. He called the framework for nature to allow people to mentally develop genetic epistemology. He
claimed that in one stage of life, we are unable to understand conservation. This man believed that we learn
through adapting our schemas. He claimed that in one stage of life, we are unable to understand
conservation. That phase is called the preoperational stage, which precedes the concrete and formal
operational stages, but follows the sensorimotor stage. For 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist who
studied the mental development of children.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
027-09-9-07128

13. This work, which was written for a competition with Horace Smith, ends by describing the "lone and
level sands" that "stretch far away." A visage in this poem conveys the frown, wrinkled lip, and "sneer of
cold command" of the title figure, who is also described as "the hand that mocked them and the heart that
fed." This poem relates the story of a traveler met in an "antique land" who tells of "two vast and trunkless
legs of stone" in the desert. A pedestal described in this poem reads "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and
despair!" For 10 points, name this sonnet about a titular "king of kings," written by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
ANSWER: "Ozymandias"
026-09-9-07129

14. This philosopher created a table that used the headings of quantity, quality, modality, and relation to
define different forms of judgment. One work by this man describes the impossibility of disproving two
valid but contradictory claims called antinomies. This philosopher wrote that morals came out of a
rationality called the categorical imperative in his work Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals. This
thinker wrote multiple critiques, such as his Critique of Pure Reason. For 10 points, name this
eighteenth-century German philosopher.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
023-09-9-07130

15. Felix Mendelssohn's overture Calm Sea and Prosperous Voyage was inspired by two short poems by this
author. This author asked "Who rides so late through the night and wind?" in his poem about a child killed
by a supernatural being, "The Erl King." This author wrote a two-part play whose title character fathers a
child with Gretchen and marries Helen of Troy after selling his soul to Mephistopheles
(meh-fist-OFF-oh-leas). For 10 points, name this German author of Faust.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
004-09-9-07131

VHSL States Round 7 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 7
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This organ is calcified in a condition named for its resemblance to porcelain, and a condition caused by an
excess of cholesterol is named for this organ's resemblance to a strawberry. Like the pancreas, it is emptied
through the action of the hormone cholecystokinin (COAL-uh-sis-toe-KINE-in). Its cystic duct connects
with the common hepatic duct; that connection forms a duct named for a substance the liver produces but
this organ stores. For 10 points, name this organ found just above the liver, whose main function is to store
bile.
ANSWER: gallbladder
024-09-9-07132

2. This artistic movement spawned another movement that focused on the effects of light, luminism. A
craggy peak overlooks a burgeoning civilization and a naval battle in one series of paintings from this
movement. One painter in this group depicted a contemporary meeting William Cullen Bryant on a rock
outcropping in Kindred Spirits. Other works of this movement include Heart of the Andes, and the Voyage of
Life and Course of Empire series. Its members included Asher Durand and Thomas Cole. For 10 points,
name this group of American landscape artists, named for a New York valley.
ANSWER: Hudson River School
062-09-9-07133

3. In this work, Jacinto is seen guarding the opening of a ceremonial cave, and Antonio Jose Martinez had
earlier instigated a revolt of the Taos Indians. Magdalena warns the title character of the evil intentions of
her husband Buck Scales and lives with Kit Carson, and the lifelong friend of the title character is Father
Joseph Vaillant. For 10 points, name this novel centering on Father Jean Marie Latour's experiences in New
Mexico, a work of Willa Cather.
ANSWER: Death Comes for the Archbishop
030-09-9-07134

4. One text of this type begins with a "euhemerized" (yoo-HEM-er-ized) prologue in which the central
figures are claimed to be resettled Trojan warriors who came to be worshiped. One of these texts contains a
poem in which a trickster god levies insults at the other gods. The "Poetic" or "Elder" one of these texts
contains such "lays" as the Lokasenna and Voluspa. The "Prose" one was written by Icelandic statesman
Snorri Sturluson. Both of these texts outline a system of myth that contains such figures as Baldur, Loki, and
Odin. For 10 points, give the general name for these primary-source texts for Norse mythology.
ANSWER: the Eddas
026-09-9-07135

5. One problem concerning the substances is solved using the Sackur-Tetrode equation and is presented in
the Gibbs paradox. The law named for these substances is not effective when dealing with high pressures or
low temperatures. That law is a combination of laws named for Charles and Boyle. These substances are
assumed to have no attractions between themselves, and have completely elastic collisions. For 10 points,
name this hypothetical form of a phase of matter, which is modeled by its same named equation of PV=nRT
("P-V equals N-R-T").
ANSWER: ideal gases [prompt on gases]
023-09-9-07136

VHSL States Round 7 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

