VHSL Districts
Round 3
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. Operation Blitz was one attempt to quell an uprising in this country, which included the Lari Massacre
and was led by Dedan Kimathi (DEE-dahn key-MAH-tee). More recent rulers of this country have included
Daniel arap Moi (MOY), who was opposed by Richard Leakey. A 2007 election in this country saw Raila
Odinga (RYE-luh oh-DING-guh) controversially lose to Mwai Kibaki (mu-WHY kee-BAH-kee). For 10
points, name this location of the Mau Mau rebellion and homeland of Barack Obama's father.
ANSWER: Republic of Kenya
038-09-3-03101

2. In this novel, Matt Bonner's yellow mule is given a mock funeral by the entire town. One character in it is
beaten after cutting a plug of tobacco and saved from drowning by grabbing a swimming cow's tail. The
heroine of this work marries a man with huge toenails and unwashed feet, Logan Killicks, before running off
to Eatonville with Jody Starks. The protagonist also marries Tea Cake, whom she shoots in self-defense after
he gets rabies. For 10 points, name this novel about Janie Crawford by Zora Neale Hurston.
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God
060-09-3-03102

3. Shaders of this type can perform effects such as bump mapping. Rendering "sub" this changes the
chromatic composition and is often used in font display. They are not directly encoded for in vector files, but
they are used in raster, or bitmap files. The number of these on a monitor is referred to as resolution. For 10
points, name this smallest unit of a computerized image, which are often measured in "megas" when talking
about digital cameras.
ANSWER: pixel
001-09-3-03103

4. A comedic scene in this play sees a porter pretending to be Hell's gatekeeper. Near the end of this play,
the title character muses about the creeping of "tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow" before comparing
life to a tale "full of sound and fury." A key scene in this play features a sleepwalking woman envisioning a
spot of Duncan's blood on her hands. The title character is ultimately slain by a man "not of woman born,"
Macduff. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean tragedy about a murderous king of Scotland.
ANSWER: The Tragedy of Macbeth
052-09-3-03104

5. This thinker argued that the belief in an omnipotent, invisible god led to the development of abstract
thought in his book Moses and Monotheism. He outlined his belief that people have a death instinct in his
book Beyond the Pleasure Principle. This man argued that women are envious of the power of male
genitalia. He theorized that the mind was divided into the superego, the ego, and the id. For 10 points, name
this Austrian psychiatrist who developed psychoanalysis.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud]
004-09-3-03105

6. One novel by this author examines three former students of Lord Lugard College, including information
minister Christopher Oriko and newspaper editor Ikem Osodi (EE-kem oh-SO-dee). That novel is centered
in the fictional country of Kangan and is called Anthills of the Savannah. This man also wrote a novel in
which the main character kills the boy Ikemefuna (ICK-eh-meh-FOO-nah) and beats his wife during the
Week of Peace. For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of a work about the Igbo tribe member Okonkwo
(oh-CONK-whoa), titled Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Albert Chinualumogu Achebe
030-09-3-03106
VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. People who have been arrested for arranging these activities in recent years include Wang Fengyou
(WONG feng-YOO), who used ant farms as a cover. The original one of these was started with thirty dollars
worth of European postage stamps by an Italian immigrant to the U.S. This term refers to any investment
plan that pays dividends out of the funds put down by new investors until collapsing. For 10 points, name
this type of scam, for which Bernard Madoff is now serving a lengthy prison sentence.
ANSWER: a Ponzi scheme
045-09-3-03107

8. A 1770 struggle in New York City over this group's attempt to erect a large pole led to the Battle of
Golden Hill. A chapter of this group raided the HMS Gaspee. Many of these groups branched out from the
smaller local organizations created in opposition to the Currency Act, the Committees of Correspondence. A
leading chapter of this organization was led by Samuel Adams and raided a ship dressed as Indians in the
Boston Tea Party. For 10 points, name this patriotic organization that was a driving force of the American
Revolution.
ANSWER: the Sons of Liberty
002-09-3-03108

9. Low acetylcholine (uh-SEE-till-KO-leen) levels in the brain are thought to cause this disease, in which tau
protein forms "tangles." It may also be caused by accumulation of amyloid (AMM-uh-loyd) beta plaques.
This disorder is often managed with the drug memantine (muh-MAN-teen). This disease kills neurons of the
hippocampus (HIP-oh-KAM-pus), causing dementia. For 10 points, name this neurodegenerative
(NUR-oh-dee-JEN-ur-uh-tiv) illness that leads to memory loss and decreased cognitive ability in the elderly.
ANSWER: Alzheimer's disease
032-09-3-03109

10. This woman was the mother of Henry VIII's first wife, the hard-to-divorce Catherine. This queen's
private confessor forced Marranos (mah-RAHN-os) and Moriscos (more-EES-cos) to undergo an auto-da-fe
(auto-dah-fey). She worked with her husband to capture Grenada and complete the Reconquista
(reh-con-KEE-stuh). Torquemada (TOR-kay-MAH-dah) revived the Inquisition under her rule, which also
saw the unification of the two largest Spanish kingdoms. For 10 points, name this queen of Castile who
created modern Spain by marrying the king of Aragon, Ferdinand.
ANSWER: Isabella I of Castile [or Isabella of Castile; or Isabella the Catholic; or Isabel la Catolica]
027-09-3-03110

11. Ken Ribet proved the Epsilon conjecture by proving that it could be translated into a non-modular
elliptical curve, and therefore any counterexample would also serve as such for the Taniyama-Shimura
(taa-nee-YAA-maa she-MOO-rah) Conjecture. This theorem was eventually proven by Andrew Wiles. For
10 points, name this theorem that states that it is impossible to separate any power higher than the second
into two like powers.
ANSWER: Fermat's Last Theorem [or Fermat's Great Theorem; prompt on Fermat's theorem]
002-09-3-03111

12. One character in this novel has his flesh eaten by janissaries (JAH-nuh-ser-eez). Another character,
Jacques the Anabaptist, drowns in the harbor of Lisbon during an earthquake. The protagonist of this work
was long tutored at Castle Thunder-Ten-Tronckh by a caricature of Leibniz (LYBE-nitz) named Dr.
Pangloss. For 10 points, name this French satire of "optimism," written by Voltaire.
ANSWER: Candide: Or, Optimism [or Candide: Ou, L’Optimisme ]
022-09-3-03112

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. The Supreme Court ruled that this organization was Constitutional in the Ashwander case. Republican
Presidential nominee Wendell Wilkie first came to prominence by crusading against this agency. It aided
Alcoa in producing aluminum for warplane parts by building the Fontana Dam, and it had an administrative
center in Muscle Shoals, Alabama. For 10 points, name this New Deal organization that provided jobs by
constructing hydroelectric plants in the namesake river valley.
ANSWER: Tennessee Valley Authority [or TVA]
020-09-3-03113

14. This organ is attached to the body cavity by the falciform (FALL-sih-form) ligament. Gluconeogenesis
(GLUE-ko-NEE-oh-JEN-uh-sis) and cholesterol synthesis occur in this organ. One of two major blood
vessels connected to this organ is the portal vein. The gallbladder stores bile produced by this larger organ.
Failure of this organ causes skin and eyes to yellow in a condition called jaundice (JOHN-diss). For 10
points, name this organ afflicted by diseases like hepatitis and cirrhosis (sih-ROW-sis), which filters poisons
from the body.
ANSWER: liver
032-09-3-03114

15. Members of this band shared a house at 710 Ashbury Street in San Francisco. This group included the
song "Playing in the Band" and a cover of "Johnny B. Goode" on their "Skull and Roses" album. The
surviving members of this band dropped one word from its name and played at an inaugural ball for
President Obama. They are better known for songs such as "Truckin'" which attracted legions of namesake
fans to their shows. For 10 points, name this rock group that included Bob Weir, Phil Lesh, and Jerry Garcia.
ANSWER: The Grateful Dead
045-09-3-03115

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 3
Directed Round
1A. The Sorbonne is located in this neighborhood, which is known for its student population and its many
bistros and shops. What is this section of Paris that gets its name from the international language of learning
that was widely spoken there by students in the Middle Ages?
ANSWER: the Latin Quarter [or Quartier Latin]
1B. Their movement forms drumlins and moraines. Name these large, mobile, perennial ice masses.
ANSWER: glaciers
2A. Name the 2009 movie in which a supersoldier played by Sam Worthington infiltrates the blue-skinned
Na'vi (nah-VEE).
ANSWER: Avatar
2B. A dog representing fidelity, a circular mirror showing the artist, and a very large hat are elements of
what painting by Jan van Eyck (YON von IKE) of an Italian man's nuptials?
ANSWER: The Arnolfini Wedding [or The Arnolfini Marriage; or Giovanni Arnolfini and his Bride; or
any reasonable answer containing the name "Arnolfini" and an indication of a marriage]
3A. Emily Dickinson used this technique when she rhymed "sun" and "gone" in the poem "A narrow fellow
in the grass." Name this variety of rhyme, in which final syllables are consonant with each other, as
contrasted with the identical sounds of full rhyme.
ANSWER: slant rhyme [or oblique rhyme; or off rhyme; or half rhyme; or near rhyme]
3B. President Obama plans to send an additional thirty thousand troops to what country as part of a
long-term plan to withdraw from it entirely?
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Convert 29/40 to decimal notation.
ANSWER: 0.725
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the slope of the line through the points (1, 6) and (9, -2).
ANSWER: -1
5A. Name the alphabet used to write the Slavic languages of Russian, Ukranian, and Bulgarian.
ANSWER: Cyrillic alphabert
5B. It is the amount of energy needed to separate a crystal into gaseous ions. Name this quantity, that is
symbolized "U."
ANSWER: lattice energy

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A jogging trail is two and a third miles long, and nine-tenths of
it is paved. How much of the trail is paved?
ANSWER: 21/10 miles [or two and a tenth or 2.1]
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate the expression 8x3-7xy2, if x = -2 and y = 1.
ANSWER: -50
7A. This man has a namesake zeta function. Name the German mathematician whose namesake sums
approximate the area under a curve and can be calculated by right, left, middle, or trapezoidal methods.
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann (REE-mon)
7B. She wrote the song "Speechless" to ask her father to get surgery and made a bizarre, racy music video
for "Bad Romance." Name this pop singer of "Poker Face."
ANSWER: Lady Gaga [or Stephanie Germanotta]
8A. Identify the fourteen-line poetic form, with a Petrarchan variety and Shakespearean variety, that is used
for such poems as "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"
ANSWER: sonnet
8B. In this book, Scout's father defends a black man accused of rape. Name this work by Harper Lee in
which Atticus instructs Scout never to perform the title action.
ANSWER: To Kill A Mockingbird
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. A teacher counts the homework grade as half a test, and the
final exam as one-and-a-half times a test. If a student has a homework grade of 54, three test grades of 73,
95, 91, and a final exam grade of 78, what is that student's grade?
ANSWER: 80.6
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the volume of a rectangular box if the length is 4.5, the
width is equal to 8, and the height is the product of the length and the width.
ANSWER: 1296
10A. This vessel has ascending and descending portions. Name this largest artery in the body, which splits
into two smaller arteries in the abdomen.
ANSWER: aorta
10B. What anthropologist wrote Growing Up in New Guinea but may be most famous for a work that Derek
Freeman claimed was based on the lies of Manu adolescents, Coming of Age in Samoa?
ANSWER: Margaret Mead

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 3
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One poem by this author repeats the line "come live with me and be my love." This author of "The
Passionate Shepherd to His Love" wrote a play about a figure who addresses a speech to Helen of Troy,
asking "was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships?" In another play by this author, Barabas falls into a
boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this English dramatist who wrote Tamburlaine, Doctor Faustus, and
The Jew of Malta before dying in a tavern brawl.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
020-09-3-03117

2. The winning side of this battle had just been defeated at Artemesium (arr-tuh-MEEZ-ee-um). The
commander who won this battle was later ostracized and forced to work for the son of its loser. That winning
commander, Themistocles (thuh-MIST-oh-cleez), fulfilled a prophecy of achieving victory through wooden
walls, by using the superior maneuverability of his force's triremes (TRY-reemz) to defeat the fleet of King
Xerxes (ZERK-sees). For 10 points, name this 480 BCE naval battle which resulted in the defeat of the
Persian fleet by the Greeks.
ANSWER: Battle of Salamis
059-09-3-03118

3. When this man was nine years old, his father Yesugei (YEH-sue-GUY) was poisoned by a rival clan. This
man returned to power in alliance with Toghril (TOE-gril) but then turned on Toghril to claim the throne.
This grandfather of the Middle Eastern conqueror Hulagu (hoo-LAH-goo) was succeeded as leader of the
empire he founded by his son named Ogedei (OH-guh-die). For 10 points, name this creator of the Mongol
Empire and grandfather of Kublai, who served as the first khan.
ANSWER: Genghis Khan [or Temujin; prompt on Great Khan]
023-09-3-03119

4. For one year, this god served as shepherd to King Admetus (odd-MEE-tus) as penance for killing the
Cyclops. After this god won a contest judged by the Muses, he flayed Marsyas (MAR-see-ahs) for his
audacity. This god slew a dragon that lived in the caves of Mount Parnassus after it chased his mother. This
slayer of Python is sometimes credited with inventing the lyre due to his patronage of music. His mother,
Leto, also gave birth to his twin Artemis. For 10 points, name this Greek god who is often distinguished
from Helios but was a god of the Sun.
ANSWER: Apollo [or Phoebus]
027-09-3-03120

5. This quantity is increased in the proximity effect, which results from current crowding in materials that
are close together. This quantity is proportional to the length of a wire and inversely proportional to the cross
section of a wire. The "sea of electrons" effect makes this quantity low in metals. It is equal to potential over
current according to Ohm's (OMEZ) Law, and it is effectively zero in superconductors. For 10 points,
identify this measure of a material's opposition to the flow of steady current through it.
ANSWER: electrical resistance
032-09-3-03121

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This man's first symphony was composed in the style of Haydn and thus nicknamed the "Classical." He
wrote an opera where Fata Morgana curses a prince to be enamored with fruit entitled The Love For Three
Oranges. This composer used the timpani and bass drum to depict gunshots, an oboe to represent a duck,
and strings and French horns to signify the two title characters. For 10 points, name this composer of Peter
and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev
003-09-3-03122

7. At one point in this work, the helmsman Palinurus (PAH-lee-NOR-us) drifts off to sleep, falls into the
ocean, and drowns. The good friends Nisus (NEE-suss) and Euryalus (yurr-ee-AH-luss) appear in both the
raid in Book Nine and the funeral games in Book Five. This poem ends with the hero killing Turnus to
avenge the death of Pallas. Earlier, its hero's departure from Carthage causes Dido to kill herself. For 10
points, identify this epic Latin poem, by Virgil, which depicts a Trojan refugee coming to Italy.
ANSWER: the Aeneid (uh-NEE-id)
019-09-3-03123

8. This city has eleven Michelin three-star restaurants, more than any other in the world. It is divided into
twenty-three wards, and was the site of Frank Lloyd Wright’s Imperial Hotel, which survived the 1923
earthquake here. This city's most expensive department stores are in Ginza. It is served by the Narita Airport
and was once called Edo. The most populous city on Honshu is, for 10 points, what capital of Japan?
ANSWER: Tokyo
034-09-3-03124

9. This element combines with nitrogen and sulfur to form compounds largely responsible for acid rain. Four
of these atoms combine with chlorine to form the perchlorate ion. This element's triatomic version forms a
layer which protects the Earth from ultraviolet radiation and is known as ozone. Its diatomic form used in
respiration. For 10 points, name this element which combines with two hydrogen atoms to form water.
ANSWER: oxygen [or O]
059-09-3-03125

10. This painter depicted treasures lining the floor and soldiers stabbing writhing concubines as a monarch in
white and gold reclines on a bed in his The Death of Sardanapalus. This artist also executed a work that
includes dead revolutionaries on the ground and a boy waving two pistols. Central to that painting is a
bare-breasted woman who holds a musket in one hand and the tricolored French flag in the other. For 10
points, name this French painter of Liberty Leading the People.
ANSWER: Eugene Delacroix (del-uh-CWAH) [or Ferdinand Victor Eugene Delacroix]
032-09-3-03126

11. This man came in second to John Bell while running for the sole presidential nomination of the
Constitutional Union Party. He was soon removed from office as governor for opposing secession. After a
presidential term that he did serve, this man was succeeded by Mirabeau (MEER-uh-boh) Bonaparte Lamar.
He led an army to victory at San Jacinto, the battle that secured Texan independence. For 10 points, name
this two-term President of Texas and namesake of that state's most populous city.
ANSWER: Samuel Houston
003-09-3-03127

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This person attempted to reconcile his religion with neighboring clans by incorporating the gods Manat,
al-Uzza, and al-Lat. He rode the legendary flying horse Buraq during his Night Journey to Jerusalem. His
wives included Khadija (kah-DEE-juh) and Aisha (eye-EE-shuh), whose father Abu Bakr (BEK-ur) became
this man's first successor. This prophet repudiated the Satanic Verses and embarked on the first hajj (HAHJ)
to Medina from his home town of Mecca. For 10 points, name this prophet who founded Islam.
ANSWER: Ab? al-Q?sim Muhammad ibn 'Abd All?h ibn 'Abd al-Muttalib ibn H?shim
004-09-3-03128

13. The title character of this novel is left a sizeable amount of money by the copper magnate Dan Cody.
Elsewhere, the gangster Meyer Wolfsheim claims credit for fixing the 1919 World Series. Its narrator goes
out with the professional golfer Jordan Baker. The death of Myrtle in a car crash causes George Wilson to
shoot the title character in his swimming pool. For 10 points, name this novel in which Nick Carraway and
Daisy Buchanan attend parties in West Egg, a critique of Jazz Age excess by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: The Great Gatsby
015-09-3-03129

14. The lifecycles of these phenomena are driven by the movement of air by water called the "rear flank
downdraft." These phenomena occur in an accessory cloud that extends beneath a cumulonimbus known as a
wall cloud. They are given a rating from zero to five depending on their severity according to a scale named
for Pearson and Fujita. They are most prevalent in a region occupying the Great Plains and Midwest, known
as their namesake "alley." For 10 points, name these destructive, rotating columns of air that spring from
funnel clouds.
ANSWER: tornadoes
058-09-3-03130

15. The diverse Black Army of this country was led by king Matthias Corvinus. It was represented in the
1848 revolutions by Lajos Kossuth (LIE-oce ko-SOOT) and was redrawn after World War I by the Treaty of
Trianon. This country was briefly Communist in 1919 under Béla Kun; later, János Kádár (YAH-nohsh
KAH-dahr) came to power after Soviet tanks rolled into this country in 1956. For 10 points, name this
Central European country that was colonized by the Magyar people and, in 1867, became part of a "dual
monarchy" with Austria.
ANSWER: Republic of Hungary [accept Magyar Köztársaság before "Magyar" is read]
020-09-3-03131

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 3
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This man wrote an overture incorporating the song Gaudeamus Igitur (GAW-deh-AH-mus I-gi-TER) that
is often contrasted with his Tragic Overture. A czardas (ZAR-das) inspired the fifth of his Hungarian
Dances. This composer of the Academic Festival Overture used the Lutheran bible for the text of his
German Requiem. For 10 points, name this composer of a namesake lullaby.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
059-09-3-03132

2. In this process, the breakdown of a structure made of tubulin (TOO-byoo-lin) leads to the creation of
asters. A structure sometimes known as the equatorial plate is formed during the middle part of this process.
In this process, spindle fibers attach to kinetochores (kin-ET-oh-cores) on centromeres (SEN-tro-MEERS)
and then elongate to help separate sister chromatids (KRO-muh-tids). For 10 points, name this process
followed by cytokinesis (site-oh-kin-EE-sis) in which a eukaryotic (YOU-carry-aht-ic) cell divides into two
daughter cells.
ANSWER: mitosis [accept prophase before "plate" is read]
023-09-3-03133

3. This individual disintegrated a diamond to form carbon dioxide with the same weight in carbon, thus
discovering that diamonds were an allotrope of carbon. That discovery helped him conceive of a theory of
conservation of mass. This scientist named the gas oxygen after repeating Joseph Priestly's experiments with
so-called "dephlogisticated (DEE-flaw-JIS-tick-AY-ted) air." For 10 points, name this French chemist
executed by the French Revolution, nicknamed "the father of chemistry."
ANSWER: Antoine Lavoisier ["LAH-vu-ah-SEE-eh"]
059-09-3-03134

4. In one work by this man, the murdered Donald Willsson tries to expose corruption in Personville,
Montana. That novel by this man is about the Continental Ops and is titled Red Harvest. Julie Wolf's murder
is investigated by Nick and Nora Charles in his The Thin Man. Another of this man's characters has the
client Brigid O'Shaughnessy, who tries to seduce the detective Sam Spade. For 10 points, name this author
of the "hard boiled" novel The Maltese Falcon.
ANSWER: Samuel Dashiell Hammett
027-09-3-03135

5. The personification of fresh waters in this kingdom's mythology, Apsu (OP-soo), was defeated and used
as a foundation for a temple by Ea (EY-uh) or Enki. The Tablet of Destinies was affixed to Kingu, the son of
one monster in this mythology. That monster's defeat was told in the Enuma Elish (EH-noo-muh
eh-LEESH), the creation myth of this kingdom, which ends in Tiamat's (TEE-uh-motz) defeat by Marduk
(MAR-dook), for whom a ziggurat was built in this kingdom's namesake capital. The Ishtar Gate is located
in, for 10 points, what Mesopotamian city, the center of an empire once ruled by the lawmaker Hammurabi?
ANSWER: Babylon [accept word forms]
003-09-3-03136

VHSL Districts Round 3 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

