Subject: Berk Game 2 (fwd)
Date: Fri, 11 Oct 1996 15:09:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: Gaius Gracchus <gaius@uclink2.berkeley.edu>
To: David Matthew Levinson <dmlevins@uclink2.berkeley.edu>

Toss-Ups  and bonuses for game 2 (written by Gaius, MB, N. Meyer, et all)

1. Razhumikhin.  Marmeladov.  Svidrigailov.  Sonia.  Porfiry Petrovich.  And
the main character, Raskolnikov.  These are the characters in, FTP, what
classic novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky?
        Ans:  _Crime and Punishment_

2. Soda cans are pressurized to keep the carbonation in the liquid.  This is
one physical manifestation of a law that states that the solubility of a gas
in a liquid is proportional to pressure.  FTP, name this law of chemistry.
        Ans:  Henry's Law

3. This man hung out in sewers during secret revolutionary activities and
developed a skin condition that required him to be almost constantly
immersed in water.  FTP, who was this Frenchman, stabbed in his bathtub
by Charlotte Corday, and the subject of a famous painting by
Jacques-Louis David?
        Ans:   Jean-Paul MARAT

4. A pianist of prodigious talent, his works include Preludes, Nocturnes,
Polonnaises, and Mazurkas.  FTP, identify this composer, played by Hugh
Grant in the film "Impromptu", who had a famous love affair with author
George Sand.
        Ans:   Frederic CHOPIN

5. Developed by a member of the Eleatic school of Greek philisophy, they are
meant to question the nature of space and time.  One deals with an arrow in
flight, another with a footrace, and another with the impossibility of
getting
from point A to point B in a finite number of steps.  FTP, identify these
"paradoxes", named after their creator.
        Ans:  ZENOUS Paradoxes

6.  He wears number 32 out of admiration for Magic Johnson, and despite
the rookie salary cap may be one of the wealthiest men in America that still
live with their mother.  FTP, identify this former University of Maryland
All-Star who now plays forward on the Golden State Warriors.
            Ans:    Joe SMITH

7. The first one was Frederic Muhlenburg; others have been named Cannon,
Wright, and Reed.  The person who holds this position is first in line to
become president if the vice-president dies.  FTP, identify this post
currently held by Newt Gingrich.
        Ans:  SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE

8. The fighting in this country right now is centered around the struggle
between warlords named Roosevelt Johnson and Charles Taylor.  FTP,
identify this African nation, whose capital is named for U.S. president
James Monroe.
        Ans:  LIBERIA

9. He is currently working on a screenplay about an incident in the
early life of Eugene O'Neill.  One of his most recent plays, "Slavs!", has
become an international hit.  FTP, identify this Pulitzer Prize-winning
playwright of "Perestroika" and "Millenium Approaches", both part of his
critically and commercially successful "Angels in America".
               Ans:    Tony KUSHNER

10.  Born in 1606 in Leyden, one of this artists's most famous works is
acutally entitled "The Company of Captain Franz Banning-Cocq", though it is
more commonly known as "The Night Watch".  FTP, who was this Dutch
painter renowned for his realistic portraits.
        Ans:  REMBRANDT van Rijn

11.  It was named by Dr. Karl Johnson after a river, and looks like an
eyebolt
with a long tail.  Marburg and it are the only examples of the so-called
"thread virus" family.  It first appeared in 1976 in southern Sudan, then
later that year in northern Zaire.  Its effects are something out of
nightmare; the virus multiplies rapidly in almost every body tissue until
the body begins to hemorrhage from every pore.  It reemerged in 1987 in a
group of monkeys in a test lab near Washington D.C. - an occurrence
documented in the Richard Preston bestseller, The Hot Zone.  FTP, what is
this virus most recently seen in the Zairean city of Kikwit.
        Ans:  EBOLA

12.  The Nepal-Tibet border is the home of Mount Everest, the tallest
mountain in the world.  Since the Earth bulges near the equator, however,
you'd have to journey to a different country to reach the point the point
on Earth's surface from the center.  This point is located in on top of
Mount Chimborazo, which is located in this mountainous equatorial
country.  FTP, what is this South American country, owner of the
Galapagos, with its capital at Quito?
        Ans:  ECUADOR

13.   Going by the formula C12-H4-Cl4-O2, it is one of the most toxic
substances on earth.  Among its side effects in humans is a weakening of
the immune system.  FTP, name this deadly chemical which can be found in
milk cartons and in Agent Orange.
        Ans:  DIOXIN

A mistranslation has caused generations of readers to think this artifact
to be more colorful than it likely was.  According to song, it was red
and yellow and green and brown and scarlet and black and ocher and peach
and many other hues, but according to Biblical scholars, it wasn't meant
to be many-colored, but merely to have sleeves.  FTP, what was this
garment worn by the eleventh son of Jacob?
        Ans:  JOSEPH's COAT (of many colors)

14.   The Greek commander strew logs upon the battlefield, thus largely
nullifying the superior speed and versatility of the enemy forces.  The
Greek hoplites - including the later-to-be-famous Aeschylus - proceeded
to drive off the numerically superior Persian forces, a feat which inspired
Pheidippidas, a Greek soldier, to run all the way back to Athens with the
news.  He died upon arrival, but his feat inspired the creation of a
long-distance race which took its name from the battle fought on that
day.  FTP, what do we call a race of 26 miles, 385 yards?
        Ans:  MARATHON

15. A type of suit, the "bad, naughty" leader of the Castle Anthrax, the sax
player from "Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem", and a mild French
exclamation all have names that sound alike. FTP, what's the common
homonym?
        Ans:  ZOOT

16. His original speech was so long and boring - filled, apparently, with
memories from his schoolboy studies of Plutarch - that Daniel Webster
prevailed upon him to edit it.  After a day of work, a haggard Webster
turned up at a dinner party and proclaimed that he had "just killed
seventeen Roman proconsuls as dead as smelts."  Still,  the speech took
its author well over an hour to read, during which time he caught a chill
that led to pneumonia, then death a month later.  FTP, name the general
who gave that speech on a bitterly cold day in March 1841.
        Ans:  William Henry HARRISON

17. This element is probably the only one with its own newsgroup.  Its
fans love it for several reasons: first, it burns with a wonderful blue
flame - indeed, its name derives from the sky-blue lines in its spectrum;
when eaten, it causes a distinctive mania; its hydroxide, which will eat
through glass, is the most powerful base known; and, like most alkali
metals, it explodes violently on contact with water.  FTP, name this
component of the most accurate clocks known.
        Ans:  CESIUM

18.  They were invented by Arthur Wynne in 1913, though variants have
existed for centuries.  Modern creators include Manny Nosowsky, Trip
Payne, Mike Shenk, Henry Hook, and Merl Reagle; in New York, they
have have been edited by Mel Taub, Will Weng, Eugene Maleska, and now
Will Shortz.  FTP, what are these puzzles, done by thousands of commuters
daily?
        Ans:  CROSSWORD puzzles

19.  His doctor, valet, cook, maid, three of his five children, his wife and
himself were all killed on a single night.  Recent DNA testing on his
skeleton confirm that it is really his, though his children's skeletons
could not be identified with complete assurance, thus giving new hope to
those who believe that one of his daughters, thanks to a jewel-encrusted
corset, survived the gunfire in the Yekaterinburg cellar.  FTP, name
this father of Anastasia, last of the Romanov czars of Russia.
        Ans:  Czar NICHOLAS II

20.  A child of Echidna and Typhon, it had one immortal head and maybe as
many as nine others.  However, every time one of its heads was cut off,
two more grew in its place.  Finally, Heracles slew it with the help of
his torch wielding nephew.  FTP, what was this dragon-like monster which
lived in teh swamps of Lernia?
        Ans:  Lernean HYDRA

21.  This soldier, statesman, and poet was a leading member of Queen
Eliabeth's court.  He became governor of Flushing but in 1586 was wounded
during an attack on the Spanish, died a few days later.  He is known
writing the first major work of English literary criticism, _Apology for
Poetry_.  FTP,
who was this poet, the author of Astrophel and Stella.
        Ans:  Sir Philip SIDNEY

22. These two words were made famous by Eden Jacobowitz.  One day in 1993,
about a dozen sorority sisters were making noise near High Rise North
residence hall at the University of Pennsylvania, and some students
inside the hall began shouting at them.  Afterwards Jacobowitz was the
only one who admitted to shouting at them.  FTP, give the epithet that he
applied to them.
        Ans :  WATER BUFFALO

23.  No one is really certain who his father really was.  He alternately
stated Aegaeus or Poseidon, depending upon the situation.  When Aegeus
threw himself into the sea with grief, HE became king of Athens.  By this
time he had slain the Minotaur.  FTP, who was this famous king who
abducted Ariadne?
        Ans:   THESEUS

24.  From her childhood experiences on Prince Edward Island, she prepared
what was to be a short serial for a Sunday School paper. It was so
successful, however, that she wrote 6 sequels.  FTP Who is this author of
"Anne of Green Gables"?
        Ans:  Lucy Maud MONTGOMERY

25. One of the founders of the still dominant Republican Party of Indiana,
from 1863 to 1869 he served as  US Speaker of the House. Implicated in the
Credit Mobilier Scandal, FTP who was Vice President from 1869 to 1873 under
Ulysses S. Grant?
        Ans:  Schuyler COLFAX

BONUSES (all 30 points unless otherwise stated)

1.   In 1914, the Austro-Hungarian empire dominated central Europe.
Now its former holdings include parts of 12 countries.  Excluding the
obvious Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, and Solvakia, for five points
apiece, after the first two name the other eight current nations.
        ITALY, CROATIA, BOSNIA, SLOVENIA, SERBIA, ROMANIA,
UKRAINE, POLAND,

2. Answer the following questions on the eye:
* (a) These cells respond to low levels of light, but not to color, and
allow seeing in the "dark"
* RODS
* (b) There are three kinds of these cells, sensitive to blue, green, and
red light, giving us color vision
* CONES
* (c) Light is focused on this, at the back of the eye, where chemical
reactions produce a nerve impulse
* RETINA

3.  Name any 6 of the 10 largest islands in the world for 5 points each.
        Answer:  Greenland or Kalaallit Nunaat, New Guinea, Borneo, Madagascar,
Baffin, Sumatra, Honshu, Great Britain, Victoria, Ellesmere

4.  Identify the Shakespeare play and its speaker from a famous quote
(five points for both pieces of information correct):
* (a)  the lean and hungry look         \Julius Caeser, Caeser (about
Cassius)
* (b) Lord, what fools these mortals be \A Midsummer Night's Dream, Puck\
* (c) Neither a borrower nor a lender be                \Hamlet, Pollonius\
* (d) Once more into the breach, dear friend    \King Henry V, King Henry\
* (e) Parting is such sweet sorrow                      \Romeo and
Juliet, Juliet\
* (f) Fear not till burnam woods come to Dunsinane      \MacBeth, witches\

5. This bonus tests your knowledge of pop music.  Name the artists that
recorded the following lyrics for 10 points each.

1) Sometimes, the light's all shining on me, other times I can barely see.
Lately, it occurs to me, what a long, strange trip it's been.
        Ans:  The _Grateful Dead_ (prompt on Dead) (from "Truckin'")
2) I see the girls go by dressed in their summer clothes.  I have to turn my
head until my darkness goes.
        Ans: The _Rolling Stones_ (prompt on Stones) (from "Paint It Black")
        3) Leonard Bernstein, Leonid Brezhnev, Lenny Bruce and Lester
Banks, birthday party, cheesecake, jelly bean, boom.
        Ans: _R.E.M._ (from "It's the End of the World As We Know It (and
I               Feel Fine)")

6.  Answer the following riddles from Tolkien's _The Hobbit_ for ten each:

1) A box without hinges, key, or lid,
    Yet inside golden treasure is hid.
        Answer: _Egg_

2)   This thing all things devours:
Birds, beasts, trees, flowers;
Gnaws iron, bites steel;
Grinds hard stones to meal;
Skays king, ruins town,
And beats high mountain down.
        Answer: _Time_

3)  Alive without breath,
As cold as death;
Never thirsty, ever drinking,
All in mail never clinking.

Answer: _Fish_

7.   Although Maine may not seem like a very reliable state despite the
derisive, Ras goes Maine, so goes the nationS  several important Senators
from Maine have influenced national affairs.  For 10 each identify:
        a.  This recently deceased Democrat was 1968 VP nominee and later
CarterUs Secretary of State.
        Ans:  Ed MUSKIE
        b.  First woman Senator elected in her own right, this Republican
was famed for denouncing McCarthy.
        Ans:  Margaret CHASE SMITH  (prompt for more than Smith)
        c.  This recently retired Democrat was Senate Majority leader.
        Ans:  George MITCHELL

8.  Given a moon, identify the planet which it orbits for 10 pts each.
a. Charon               PLUTO
b. Triton               NEPTUNE
c. Phobos               MARS

9.  Name the author from works:  30-20-10.
        a. Death in the Afternoon, Green Hills of Africa
        b. A Farewell to Arms, For Whom the Bell Tolls
        c. The Sun Also Rises, The Old Man and the Sea
Ans:  Ernest HEMINGWAY

10.  Given the name of a person, identify the religion he founded for 5
pts each,
bonus 5 for getting all 5 correct.

a. Lao Tze                              DAOISM or TAOISM
b. Guru Nanak                   SIKHISM
c. Mahavira                             JAINISM
d. Siddhartha Gautama           BUDDHISM
e. Baha Ullah                   BAHA'ISM  (accept BAHA'I)

11. The Internet has introduced a great deal of technical jargon into the
mainstream vocabulary, much of it in the form of acronyms. You will
receive 10 points for supplying the full letter expansion for several
acronyms common with Net surfers.
        a.   html
/HYPERTEXT MARKUP LANGUAGE/
        b.   ppp
/POINT to POINT PROTOCOL/
        c.   tcp/ip
/TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROTOCOL INTERNET PROTOCOL/

12.  Zeus was famous for having many lovers.  Given one of ZeusU many
children, identify the mother of:
Apollo          LETO
Perseus         DANAE
Hermes          MAIA
Athena          METIS  also accept:  NONE
Heracles                ALCMENA or ALCMENE
Dionysus                SEMELE

13.  Identify the baseball stars who hit these famous home runs in the
   World Series, for ten points each:
    (i) In Game 7 of the 1960 Series, this Pittsburgh 2nd baseman's home
        run in the ninth inning gave his team a 10-9 win over the heavily
        favored New York Yankees.
           Ans: Bill MAZEROSKI
    (ii) In Game 6 of the 1975 Series, this Boston catcher hit a home run
         off the foul pole to give his team a 12-inning win over the Reds.
  Ans: Carlton FISK
    (iii) In Game 6 of the 1993 Series, this Toronto outfielder hit a
          3-run homer in the bottom of the ninth to win the championship
          for the Blue Jays over Philadelphia.
           Ans: Joe CARTER

14.  Until about 1803, the monarch of Great Britain claimed title to five
domains, not counting Wales.  For 5 points each, name those 5 places with
a 5 point bonus for getting all 5.
        ENGLAND         SCOTLAND                IRELAND
        HANNOVER        FRANCE (!)

15.  The United States uses dollars, the United Kingdom pounds.
For 5 points apiece identify the currency of these other nations.

     Austria:                   SCHILLING
     Netherlands:        GUILDER
     India:                     RUPEE
     South Africa:       RAND
     South Korea:        WON
     Israel:                    SHEKEL

16.  Proteins in the body are made up of amino acids. Answer the
following questions for the stated number of points.
        5:  A basic set of amino acids are used to create proteins.  How
many are in this set?
                        A: TWENTY
        10: Amino acids are linked to each other by a certain type of
bond, which links the amino terminus of one acid to the carboxy terminus
of the other.  What is this type of bond called?
                        A: PEPTIDE
        15: Only one of the twenty basic amino acids is actually an IMINO
acid; its nitrogen is bonded to two carbon atoms.  For 15 points,
which one is it?
                        A:  PROLINE

17.   Many Hollywood movies have glorified the cowboys of the old West, but
can you identify the following movies which contained the word "cowboy" in
their titles?  For ten points each, given the two lead actors, provide the
name of the "cowboy" movie.
   (i) Jon Voight, Dustin Hoffman
        Ans: MIDNIGHT COWBOY
   (ii) John Travolta, Debra Winger
        Ans: URBAN COWBOY
   (iii) Matt Dillon, Kelly Lynch
        Ans: DRUGSTORE COWBOY

18.   30-20-10, name the world leader.
    (30) He was the head of Israel's armed forces during the Six Day War
         of 1967, and he served as Defense Minister under Prime Minister
         Golda Meir.
    (20) He succeeded Meir as Prime Minister in 1975 and served in that
         post until Menachem Begin was elected in 1977.
    (10) He returned to the office of Prime Minister in 1992 and held
         that position until he was assasinated in November of 1995.
            Ans: Yitzhak RABIN

19. Given the name of a successful book which became an Oscar-winning
   movie, name the author.  10 points each:
    (i) Gone With the Wind
         Ans: Margaret MITCHELL
    (ii) The Godfather
          Ans: Mario Puzo
    (iii) Out of Africa
           Ans: Isak DINESEN

20.  30-20-10  building

        30.  The foundations for it were laid by William the Conqueror in 1078.
Later, it was used as a mint, and King Henry VII made it his home.
        20.   Queen Elizabeth I and her mother lived there, as did Sir
Walter Raleigh.
        10.  Name this official residence and treasure house which in 900
years of existence also housed 1700 prisoners.
        Ans:  TOWER OF LONDON

21.  30-20-10   place

        30.  A medium-sized province, it contains 2% of world's population.
        20.  During WW II the Chinese capital lay in this province, at Chungking.
        10.  Name this region best known today for its spicy cuisine.
             Ans:  SZECHUAN

22. Charles Perrault, Brother Grimm, Aesop, or Hans Christian
Anderson: Identify the following as coming from one of the above:
* (a) The Boy Who Cried Wolf            \Aesop\
* (b) The Emporer's New Clothes         \Hans Christian Anderson\
* (c) Hansel and Gretel                 \Brothers Grimm\
* (d) Rumpelstiltskin                           \Brothers Grimm\
* (e) Sleeping Beauty                   \Charles Perrault\
* (f) Puss in Boots                             \Charles Perrault\

23.  For 5 points each, name the 5 U.S. Presidents that were in office
for the
shortest time, and a bonus 5 points for getting them in order, shortest term
first.
        Answer:  WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON,  James GARFIELD,  Zachary
TAYLOR,  John KENNEDY,  Warren HARDING
          ****CHECK to be sure FORD was longer than HARDING and
JFK

24.  The House of York had only three monarchs in its 25 year duration
and the first of thsoe three ruled for 22 of them.  For ten points each,
identify these three kings:
        Ans:   EDWARD IV,  EDWARD V,  RICHARD III
