NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 4, Page 3 


Tossup 4: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
There are no parentheses in this problem.Simplify the folowingproduct: the log basefourof ten, 
times the log base three of four, times the log base ten of three. The only way to solve this problem 
is to use the change of base formula, whichstatesthat the log base b of a is equal to the natural log
of a over the natural log ofb. 
Answer: 1 

Bonus 4: Social Studies (World History) 
Identify these facts related to the Edictof Nantes. 
A: In what year was theEdict issued? 
B: The Edict granted freedoms towhat French group of people? 
C: What King issued the Edict? 
D: What later French king,known as the Sun King, repealedthe Edict? 
Answers: A: 1598 B: Huguenots (prompt French Calvinists)C: HenryIV of Navare (prompt on 
Henry) D: Louis XIV (prompt on Louis) 


Tossup 5: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
This Italian painter is considered one of the first greatrepresentatives of theBaroque style of 
painting. He was influenced by a number of great painters such as Titian, but alsodeveloped his 
own skils, including popularizing the technique of tenebroso,a technique of painting that creates 
contrasts between light and dark more violent than chiaroscuro,to create great emotion forthe 
viewer. Name this painter who is mostfamous for his paintings Death of the Virgin and The Denial of 
Saint Peter. 
Answer: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio 

Bonus 5: Miscelaneous (Entertainment) 
High school sports movies are touching, aren'tthey? 
A: In this movie set in Indiana, Gene Hackman becomes the basketbal coach of a smal town high 
school. 
B: This movie staring Denzel Washington as coach Herman Boone tels the story of the T.C. 
Wiliams footbal team after it was integrated in the early 1970s. 
C: This 2002 movie basedon a true storystars Dennis Quaid, a high school basebal coach who trys
out for the big leagues, and eventualy makes it with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
D: Based on a book, this movie stars Bily Bob Thornton as a Texas footbal coach. Tim McGraw 
also has a role in the movie. 
Answers: A: Hoosiers B: Remember the Titans C: The Rookie D: Friday Night Lights 

Tossup 6: Social Studies (Geography) 
The first setlement on thisisland nation was founded by Diego Velazquez de Cuelar in 1511, four 
years before its capital city was founded. Itsmoto translates to "Homeland or Death," and its flag 
has a red triangle with a whitestar on the left side of it. Name this Caribbean nation 90 miles south 
of Miami, thathas its capital at Havana. 
Answer: Republic of Cuba 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

