NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 7 


Bonus 13: Science (Physics)
Al scientists know that imperial units are prety awful. Given a non-SI unit,state the physical quantity 
it measures. 
A: Slug 
B: Pound 
C: Pole 
D: Kenning 
Answers: A: Mass (do not accept weight) B: Force (accept weight, do not accept mass) C: Length 
(accept distance) D: Volume 


Tossup 14: Miscelaneous (Interdisciplinary)
The leter's the same. The ticker symbol for U.S. Steel Corporation,the symbol used in chemistry to 
designate a generic halogen, the symbol for birth and death in Kabbalah, a windowing system for 
Posix systems,the symbol for 50-proof alcohol, the prefix of experimental U.S. aircrafts, the 
surname of members of the Nation of Islam, the first leter of a two-leter Coldplayalbum, the 
repetition operator in Perl, a measurement of optical disc drive speeds, an abbreviation for the 
prefixes "trans," "cross," and "Christ," and the female chromosomein the human sex-determination 
system. Name this leter. 
Answer: X 

Bonus 14: Literature (Literature) 
Given a description, identifythe work by Tennessee Wiliams. 
A: In this playsetin Mexico, a former Priest-turned-tour bus driver named Shannon is accused of 
raping a teenager. 
B: Many people, including Brick Polit, arevying for the fortune of Big DaddyPolit in this Wiliams 
play. 
C: Tom and Laura Wingfield are main characters in this playabout a group of prized possessions 
that includes a unicorn.
D: In this play, Blanche DuBois is raped by Stanley Kowalski. 
Answers: A: Night of the Iguana B:Cat on a Hot Tin Roof C: The Glass Menagerie D: A 
Streetcar Named Desire 

Tossup 15: Social Studies (World History) 
In 1810, this man joined Chilean nationalist rebels fighting for independence from Spain. The rebels 
were defeated in 1814, but 1817 they went back on the ofensive defeating the Spanish with the help 
of Argentine general José de San Martín. Name this liberator andfirst head of state of Chile,a man 
with an unusual name due to his joint Spanish and Irishheritage. 
Answer: Bernardo O'Higgins 

Bonus 15: Math (Geometry)
Find the volumes of the folowing cubes. 
A: The cube whose circumscribed sphere has a surface area of 48 pi square inches. 
B: The cube whose inscribed sphere has a volume of 8 pi cubic inches. 
C: The cube whose great diagonal has a length of root 147 inches. 
D: The cube whose total length of edgesequals 60 inches. 
Answers: (accept "inches cubed" for "cubic inches", prompt for units) A: 64 cubic inches B: 48 
cubic inches C: 343 cubic inches D: 125 cubic inches 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

