NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 7 


Bonus 13: Miscelaneous (Sports) 
Answerthe folowing questions regarding the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final. 
A: This country, whose national soccer landscape has been rocked by a match-fixing scandal 
involving teams such as Juventus, won theWorld Cup. 
B: This country lost in the finals of the World Cup.They last won in 1998. 
C: This striker holds the record for most goals by an active player for his national team. His
teammate, Zinedine Zidane (zin-eh-deen zi-dahn), holds thirdplace.
D: Zidane's most infamous moment came in the 2006 final where he headbutedthis opposing 
player and was red-carded. 
Answers: A: Italy B: France C: ThieryHenry D: Marco Materazzi 

Tossup 14: Literature (Literature) 
Many versions include additions by Thomas Middleton,primarily the addition of Act Three,Scene 
Five, in which the witches meet with Hecate.Soon after the title character defeats a rebel army from 
Ireland and Norway, the king fulfils a prophecy by giving him the title of Thane of Cawdor,causing 
him to consider forcefuly making a second prophecy come true. Due to his wife's pressure,he finaly 
kils Duncan at Inverness Castle, and thus begins the tragedy. Name this play by Wiliam 
Shakespeare in which the title Scot becomesking, only to be kiled by a man who is not of woman 
born. 
Answer: Macbeth 

Bonus 14: Math (Calculus) 
Find the indefinite integrals of the folowing functions. Do not include a constant of integration. 
A: 10 cosine of 5 x 
B: 3 over the quantity ninex squared plus one 
C: 20 x cubed plus4 x 
D: One over the quantity x times the natural log of three 
Answers: A: 2 sin(5x) B: arctan(gent) of 3x (or "inverse tan(gent)") C: 5x^4 + 2 x^2 D: log, base 
3, of x (ornatural log of x over natural log of 3) 

Tossup 15: Science (Physics) - Computational(30 Seconds) 
Ignore friction andsignificant figures. A500 kilogram truck is traveling at 10 meters per second.It 
hits a stationary object and starts traveling with that object, but at a speed of only 8 meters per 
second. Assuming momentum is conserved,what was the mass of the object it hit? 
Answer: 125 kilograms (prompt for units) 

Bonus 15: Social Studies (Curent Events) 
Answerthese questions related to recent happenings at the United Nations. 
A: This man has served as UN Secretary General for the last tenyears, and his term wil expire on 
December 31, 2006. 
B: This is the African country from which the curent Secretary General hails.Itscapital is Accra. 
C: This South Korean wil replace him as SecretaryGeneral from 2007 to 2011. 
D: The UN recently voted for bans on exporting luxury goodslike plasma televisions and iPods to 
this country, to punish its leader for the country's October 2006 nuclear testing. 
Answers: A: Kofi Annan B: Ghana C: Ban Ki-moon(prompt on Ki-moon) D: North Korea 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

