NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 1, Page 6 


Tossup 11: Math (Geometry) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Points A,B, C, and D lie on acircle. You draw two intersecting chords, one through points A and B,
and another through points C and D. The two chords intersect at point X. If AXis 3, BX is 4, and CX 
is 2, what is the length of DX? This problem can be easily solved if you recal a power theorem from 
geometry that relates two intersecting chords. 
Answer: 6 

Bonus 11: Literature (Literature) 
Given a groupof characters, name the work by Ernest Hemingway. 
A: Manolin and Santiago 
B: Bret Ashley and JakeBarnes 
C: FordMaddox Ford and James Joyce 
D: RogerDavis and Thomas Hudson 
Answers: A: Old Man and the Sea B:The Sun Also Rises C: AMovableFeast D: Islands in the 
Stream 

Tossup 12: Miscelaneous (Technology) 
According to the Red Book, these store data in 2352-byte sectors, 75 of which are read every 
second. That data must be sampled at 44,100 hertz, and encoded in two-channel 16-bit Pulse Code 
Modulation. Because this amounts to over 10 megabytes every minute, they canonly store upto 
about 80 minutes worth of data. Name this medium abbreviated CDDA, a circular disc used to store 
sound. 
Answer: Audio CDs (accept reasonable equivalents, do not accept data CD) 

Bonus 12: Fine Arts(Music) 
Name these operas by Gioacchino Rossini. 
A: His last opera,it is rarely performed because it is six hours long, but everyone can whistle the 
cavalry charge in its overture. 
B: In this opera, the titular character, Isabela, tries to find Lindoro after a shipwreck of the coast of 
Algeria. 
C: This operais partialy based of of a common fairytale,using the philosopher Alidoro instead of a 
fairy godmother. 
D: Subtitled "The Moor of Venice," this opera is partialybased of of a Shakespeare play, though its
plot is very diferentfrom the original. 
Answers: A: Wiliam Tel (accept Guilaume Tel) B: The Italian Girl in Algiers (accept L'italiana in 
Algeri, prompt on Italian inAlgiers) C:Cinderela (accept La Cenerentola) D: Otelo 

Tossup 13: Social Studies (U.S.History) 
The surprise element of this batle mayhave resulted from drunkenness amongthe mercenaryarmy 
being atacked. During this batle, the Continental Army was able to cross byboat from Pennsylvania 
into New Jersey. Name this batle where the Continental ArmyledbyGeorge Washington won a 
spectacular victory after crossing the Delaware to surprise the Hessian garison of the batle's 
namesake New Jersey city. 
Answer: Batle of Trenton 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

