NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 8 


Tossup 16: Miscelaneous (Interdisciplinary)
The name's thesame. In math, it refers to a sequence of vector subspaces, each of which is a 
subspaceof the next. In computer science, it refers to one ormore bits that store a status value 
checked by other functions. In music, it is atached to the top of a note's stem,unless there's a bar 
instead. Drivers and chess players are often woried that it wil fal before theyaredone. In common 
parlance, if it is red,it signals that something is wrong. Unless, of course, it is also white and blue. 
Name this term which most commonly refers to a piece of cloth that shows one's patriotism. 
Answer: Flag 

Bonus 16: Science (Physics)
The annus mirabilis papers were four papers writen in 1905 byAlbert Einstein. 
A: Einstein won the Nobel Prize for a paper explainingthis efectof light on metals. 
B: Another paper dealtwith this shaking motion of tiny particles in fluid. 
C: A third paper extended Newtonian physics to objects moving nearthe speed of light in inertial 
reference frames, introducing this theory. 
D: His fourth paper was titled "Doesthe inertia of a body depend upon itsenergy content?" and 
introduced this, his most famous equation. 
Answers: A: Photoelectric efect B: Brownian motion C: Special relativity(prompt relativity, do 
not accept general relativity) D: E=mc squared (acceptequivalents) 


Tossup 17: Math (Other) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the length of the latus rectum of the elipse given by the equation, x squared over 25 plus y 
squared over nine equalsone. Itmay help you to know that the latus rectum isthe line segment 
going through one focus, perpendicular to the major axis, starting and ending onthe elipse. To solve 
this problem, you must first locate one focus of the elipse. Because this elipse ishorizontal, you 
know that you can find they-coordinate of one end of the latus rectum by plugging in the x-value of 
the focus, andbecause it is centered about the origin, you can findthe length of the latus rectum by 
doubling that y-coordinate. 
Answer: 18/5 (3.6) 

Bonus 17: Literature (Literature) 
Name the Shakespeare characters that said each of these famous lines. 
A: How beauteous mankind is! Obrave new world, that has such people in't! 
B: Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears. 
C: Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them. 
D: We are such stuf as dreams are made on;and our litle life Is rounded with a sleep. 
Answers: A: Miranda B:Mark Antony C: Malvolio D: Prospero 

Tossup 18: Science (Physics) 
It can be defined as the projection of the state vectoronto the position basis. The square of its 
absolute value, integrated over al space, is equal to 1, meaning that its absolute square is a 
probability densityfunction of a particle's location in a given region of space.Its namesake realized 
the problems it can pose before it colapses, creating afamous thought experiment with an 
unfortunate feline.Namethis function of quantum mechanics named after Erwin Schrödinger. 
Answer: Schrödinger wavefunction (accept Schrödinger wave equation)





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

