NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 4, Page 9 


Tossup 19: Literature (Language Arts) 
Winston Churchil supported its use, though critics said thathis inspirational phrase "blood, toil, 
sweat, and tears," wouldbe translated as "blood, hard work,eyewash and body water." Createdin 
1930, it issupposed totake only sevenweeks to learn, andwas intended as an international 
language which native English speakers could understand without needing to learn. Name this 
constructed language created by Charles Kay Ogden which consists of reduced grammar and 850 
words. 
Answer: Basic English 

Bonus 19: Science (Astronomy) 
Name these firsts in space. 
A: The first American satelite in space. 
B: The first animal in space. 
C: The first American in orbit. 
D: The first woman in space.
Answers: A: Explorer I (prompt on Explorer) B: Laika (prompt on dog) C: John Glenn D: Valentina
Tereshkova 

Tossup 20: Social Studies (World History) 
John le Caréfeatured this thoroughfare in a few of his novels. This symbol of the Cold War was 
located at theintersection of Friedrich-strasse, Zimmer-strasse and Mauer-strasse. Today, there is a 
museum here, which struggles to keep a balance between what is viewed as an embarassment and 
a tourist destination.Identify this crossing point on the wal between East and West Berlin that is 
named for the third leter in the NATO alphabet. 
Answer: Checkpoint Charlie 

Bonus 20: Literature (Literature) 
Identify the folowing works and then answer a question about them. 
A: D.H. Lawrence's novel about a mother's love for her children, and her disilusionment with her 
husband Walter Morel's career. 
B: This novel by Richard Llewelyn tels thestory of the Morgans, a poor family from SouthWales. 
C: Emile Zola's undisputed masterpiece, it folows Etienne Lantier and is named for a month of the 
French Revolutionary Calendar. 
D: What profession do al three of these novels have in common? 
Answers: A: Sons and Lovers B: How Green Was MyValeyC: Germinal D: Coal Mining (accept 
equivalents, prompt on mining) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

