NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 4 


Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Music) 
Give thefirstthree sylables in order. They originaly came from the first sylables in each phrase of 
the chant "Ut queant laxis." Later, the first was changed from "ut"to become more singable, and "ti" 
was added to the end. Known formalyas the solfege (SOHL-fej) system, give the first three 
sylables of this system assigning a sylable to each note of the diatonic scale, the first of which 
doesn't actualymean "a female deer." 
Answer: Do re mi 

Bonus 6: Science (Biology) 
Answerthese questions about plant physiology. 
A: This nonporous stripin the roots forces water and minerals to difuse through cel membranes, 
filtering whatis alowedinto the plant.
B: Thesechannelsof dead cels carywater from the roots up to the leaves. 
C: Because trees cannotpump water up their trunks, water is puled up by this process after it 
evaporates from stomata. 
D: These channels cary nectar up anddownthe trunk using osmotic pressure. 
Answers: A: Casparian strip B: Xylem C: Transpiration D:Phloem 

Tossup 7: Science (Earth Science) 
They are chosen from six diferent lists that are rotatedin six-year cycles. Every leter is used except 
for Q, U, X, Y, and Z.Each list alternates genders; three begin with male names and three with 
female names. Though theselistshave beenused since 1979, manynames have been replaced, 
such as Katya replacing Katrina in 2005.Name this weather phenomenon that gets names like 
Chris, Alberto, Andrew, and Floyd. 
Answer: Hurricane names 

Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Answerthe folowing questions about Francis Scot Key and the writing of our national anthem: 
A: Key was inspired to write the lyrics while witnessing a batle during this war. 
B: The poem he wrote was titled "The Defense of" this Fortwhich was being bombarded by the 
British.
C: Key observed the batle from the deck of this British ship. 
D: This U.S. president, in 1931,signed the bil making the "Star Spangled Banner" the American 
national anthem. 
Answers: A: War of 1812 B: Fort McHenry C: HMS Tonnant D:Herbert Hoover 

Tossup 8: Miscelaneous (Entertainment) 
You only need to give the first three words.This seven-word phrase was rediscovered in 1999 by 
OverClocked ReMix, awebsite thattries to preserve old video game music. It was first penned by 
translators of the 1989 Japanese arcade game Zero Wing. In the introductory cut scene, acyborg 
appears to the crew of a ship, informing them that the CATS organization has taken over their entire 
base, though it doesn't come out quite that way. Name the nounphrase that hesays instead, 
sparking the creation of aFlash animation and subsequent internet craze, by making the boastthat 
it,quote, "are belong to us." 
Answer: Al your base are belong to us (donot accept grammatical alternatives) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

