NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 4, Page 4 


Bonus 6: Math (Geometry) 
Find the surface area of the folowing three-dimensional solids. 
A: A cube circumscribed about a sphere with a surface area of 16 pi square centimeters. 
B: A square pyramid with height of 4 centimeters and base side length of 6 centimeters. 
C: A tetrahedron with side length of 4 centimeters.
D: A sphere whose great circle has an area of 173 square centimeters. 
Answers: (accept "centimeters squared" for "squarecentimeters", prompt for units) A: 96 square 
centimeters B: 96 square centimeters C:16 root3 square centimeters D: 692 square 
centimeters 

Tossup 7: Miscelaneous (Other) 
Name the product in question. Though originalyawarded 2.7 milion dolars in punitive damages and 
200,000 in compensatorydamages,a judge reduced Stela Liebeck's winnings from her lawsuit to 
640,000 in 1994. The case started after Liebeck needed eight days in a hospital and two years of 
subsequent treatment for third-degree burns to her skin underneath her coton sweatpants. Name 
the 190degree liquid that burned her, bought at a drive-thru at McDonald's. 
Answer: McDonald's cofee 

Bonus 7: Literature (Mythology) 
Identify the folowing women in mythology. 
A: This woman unleashed al the worlds evilswhen she opened a namesake box. 
B: This daughter of Oedipus buried herbrother in spite of her uncle's wishes. 
C: This queen of Carthage was quite smiten of Aeneas. 
D: This woman was the wife of Hector and mother ofAstyanax.
Answers: A: Pandora B: Antigone C: DidoD: Andromache 

Tossup 8: Math (Other)
It satisfies the Jacobi identity andis distributive over addition, but it is not associative. Unlike a 
related operation, it onlyexists in Euclideanthree-space, and its result is caled a pseudo-vector 
because it does not transform likeother vectors. It is anti-commutative, and its sign is popularly 
determined using the "right hand rule." Name this binary vector operation that finds a vector 
perpendicular to two other vectors.
Answer: Cross product 

Bonus 8: Science (Biology) 
Name these parts of nerve cels. 
A: The cel body of a nerve cel, it is Greek for "body." 
B: Nerve cels transmitsignals awayfrom the cel body along these long finger-like projections.
C: Around those projections is this sheath, providing electrical insulation and speedingup the 
nervous impulses. 
D: These glial (GLEE-uhl) support cels grow around the nerve cel projections, secreting the 
aforementioned insulating sheath that surounds them.
Answers: A: Soma B: Axon (acceptnerve fibers, prompt on nerves) C: Myelin sheath D:Schwann 
cels 

Tossup 9: Literature (Literature) 
This expatriate poet influenced figures like T.S. Eliot and H.D.Though his short poems such as “In a 
Station of the Metro” are frequently reproduced, he is perhaps best known for a long,unfinished 
work with which he himself remained unsatisfied. As that work's title suggests, it is an atempt to 
unite melody and poetry. Identify this frontman for the Imagistmovementand author of The Cantos. 
Answer: EzraWeston Loomis Pound 

Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

