NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 4, Page 6 


Tossup 11: Literature (Literature) 
As in the other two parts, the last word of this canticle is "stele," or "stars." Its author's guide is 
Beatrice, the perfectwoman, modeled after a real woman he met in Florence. Instead of descending 
through teraces or circles, however, the author ascends through concentric spheres. After going 
through nine spheres, Beatrice leaves the author with SaintBernard, who alows him to meet Jesus 
and Mary, and eventualy, transcends existence and sees three rings representing God himself. 
Name this 33-canto work byDante,the last section of The Divine Comedy. 
Answer: Paradiso (accept Paradise, prompt on Heaven) 

Bonus 11: Miscelaneous (Sports) 
Given a description of a Big Ten basketbal team, identifythe team. Either school name or nickname 
wil be accepted. 
A: This team won the 1989 NCAA tournament,and are now coached by Tommy Amaker. 
B: Alando Tucker is back to lead this team,who plays theirhome games at the Kohl Center. 
C: Highschool senior Eric Gordon backed out of a verbal commitment to Ilinois to sign with this 
school, whichhired Kelvin Sampson this year. 
D: Thad Mata has brought top recruits to this university, including Greg Oden, a likely lotery 
selection in the next NBA draft. 
Answers: A: Michigan Wolverines (accept eitherhalf of name)B: Wisconsin Badgers (accept 
either half of name) C: Indiana Hoosiers (accept eitherhalf of name) D: Ohio State Buckeyes 
(accept either half of name) 


Tossup 12: Math (Geometry) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the area of a triangle with sides of length4, 5, and 7. Instead of atempting to construct the 
triangle, it is much easier to use Heron's formula onthe three side lengths, recognizing that the 
semiperimeter is 8. 
Answer: 4v6 square units 

Bonus 12: Science (Chemistry) 
Given the molecule CH4, and assuming carbon has an atomic mass of 12, andhydrogen of 1, 
answer the folowing questions.
A: What is the mole fraction of hydrogen in that molecule? 
B: What is the name of that molecule, a gas at standard temperature and pressure? 
C: What is themassof 11.2 liters of that gas,at standard temperature and pressure? 
D: If one mole of it fuly combusted in air, how many moles of oxygen would be consumed? 
Answers: A: 1/4 (accept .25, 25%; do not accept answerif it has units) B: Methane C: 8 grams D: 2 
moles 

Tossup 13: Miscelaneous (Entertainment) 
He atended Johns Hopkins Universitybut was expeled for cheating.Folowing this, he went on to 
atend the University of Michigan, where he graduated with his M.D., specializingin infectious 
disease and nephrology. He had muscle in his right quadriceps removed due to it becoming necrotic 
afteran infarction he had sufered. Like his inspiration, he has a drug addiction, and only has one 
good friend. While cocaine was the drug of choice for that inspiration, Sherlock Holmes, he instead 
is addicted to Vicodin. Identifythis character, whoespouses that "everybody lies" and is played by 
Hugh Laurie on the FOX drama thatshares his name. 
Answer: Gregory House, M.D. 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

