NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Given the campaign slogan, name the man who used it. 
A: "Hekept us out of war." 
B: "I like Ike." 
C: "A Chicken in every pot.A car in every garage." 
D: "Are you beter of now than youwere four years ago?" 
Answers: A: Woodrow Wilson B:DwightDavid Eisenhower C: HerbertHoover D: Ronald 
Reagan 

Tossup 4: Science (Chemistry) 
A silver-gray metal, its 99m isomer undergoes beta decaywith a half-life of 6 hours. It is used 
extensively innuclear medicine toimage the circulatory system, spleen, and damaged heart tissue.
First synthesized by Emilio Segré and Carlo Perier in 1937, it only exists naturaly on Earth as a 
productof uranium fission.Name this chemical elementwith atomic number43, the lightest synthetic 
element. 
Answer: Technetium 

Bonus 4: Literature (Literature) 
Many literaryworks have identical or similar titles. Answer the folowing from the descriptions that 
are given. 
A: A playby Lilian Helman or a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfelow 
B: A narative by Geofrey Chaucer or a play by Wiliam Shakespeare 
C: A short story by Ray Bradbury or a poem by Walt Whitman.
D: A play by Sophocles or a play by Jean Anouilh (zhawn ahn-oo-EEL) 
Answers: A: The Children's Hour B: Troilus and Cressida (also accept Troilus and Criseyde) C: I
Sing the Body Electric D: Antigone 

Tossup 5: Social Studies (Other) 
This term was coined by JudeWanniski, a reporter forthe Wal StreetJournal, after he heard it 
explainedto him in 1974 by its inventor, who supposedly sketched iton a napkin. Demonstrating the 
concept of taxable incomeelasticity, it depicts thatthere exists an optimum tax rate to maximize 
government revenue. Name this economic graph named after the mancredited with its invention, a 
curve central to the theory of supply side economics. 
Answer: Lafercurve 

Bonus 5: Math (General) 
Name the folowing concepts in mathematics related to prime numbers. 
A: This conjecturestatesthat every even integer greaterthan 2 can be writen as a sum of two 
primes. 
B: This algorithm named after a Greek mathematician is one way to find prime numbers by crossing 
of al numbers that are multiples of prime numbers, and thus are composite. 
C: This conjecture states thatthere areinfinitely many primesthat are two greaterthan another
prime number. 
D: According to the prime number theorem, the chance of N being prime is approximately one over 
this function of N. 
Answers: A: Goldbach conjecture B: Sieve of Eratosthenes C: Twin prime conjecture D: 
Natural log (accept "ln") 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

