NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 4, Page 8 


Bonus 16: Math (Algebra) 
Solve the folowing equationsfor x. 
A: 2 to the quantity x + 4, equals 8 to the quantityx - 1. 
B: 2 to the x equals 5 to the x. 
C: x squared - 6 x + 9 = 0. 
D: In radians, the smalest positivesolution of sineof x equals cosine of x. 
Answers: A: x = 7/2 (3.5) B: x = 0 C: x = 3 D: x = pi/4 

Tossup 17: Science (Biology) 
It requires calorimetry to measure directly, though Haris and Benedict derived equations to 
approximate it. For a typical Scholastic Bowl player, itmight be somewhere around 1600 kilocalories 
per day. Regulated by the hypothalamus, much of itpowers the liver and brain. Namethis 
measurement of energy expenditure not including the sympathetic nervous division, the minimum 
number of calories necessaryto maintain bodily processes. 
Answer: Basal metabolism rate (accept BMR,accept resting metabolism rate (RMR), prompt on 
metabolism rate)


Bonus 17: Literature (Literature) 
Given the name of a trilogy, name the author. Some of them are considered trilogies even though 
additional books have been writen. 
A: The Foundation Trilogy 
B: The Nova Trilogy 
C: The USA Trilogy 
D: The VALIS Trilogy 
Answers: A: Isaac AsimovB: Wiliam Seward Buroughs I C: John dos Passos D: Philip 
Kindred Dick 

Tossup 18: Math (Calculus) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the average value of thesine of x plus the cosine of x,from xequals zero to x equals pi.To 
solve this problem, remember that the average value of a continuous function can be found by 
dividing the definite integral over the length of the interval. 
Answer: 2/pi

Bonus 18: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Given a description, identifythe famous assassin. 
A: This man was on a mission to kil the seven most powerful rulers in the world; however, he wasn't 
able to kil anyone else after Wiliam McKinley. 
B: This Palestinianimmigrant became famous when, at the Ambassador Hotel, he shot Robert 
Kennedy. 
C: This man, who couldn't obtain a government job,shot James Garfield at a train station.
D: There has beenmuch debate overwhether this man acted alone; however, there wasn't much 
time to ask him as Jack Ruby shot him on November 24th, 1963. 
Answers: A: LeonCzolgosz(CHO-guh-loash; accept reasonable pronunciations) B: Sirhan 
Bishara Sirhan C: Charles J. Guiteau D:Lee HarveyOswald 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

