NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 8 


Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
The garden in front of it contains a bronze statue that honors Dmitry Pozharsky and Kuzma Minin, 
two military heroes of The Time of Troubles. This building was first commissioned by Ivan the 
Terible to commemorate the capture of Kazan. Legend dictates that Ivan had the architect, Postnik 
Yakovlev, blinded so that he could never create a more magnificentbuilding for anyone else. Identify 
this colorful cathedral that consists of nine chapels united by a single central towerthat stands right 
next to the Kremlin. 
Answer: Cathedral of St. Basil the Blessed or St. Basil's Cathedral (also accept The Cathedral of 
Intercession of the Virgin on the Moat) 


Bonus 16: Social Studies (World History) 
Identify these facts related to the vikings. 
A: This colorful man was exiled from Iceland becauseof his supposed connection to some murders. 
B: The answer to Part A founded a colony onthis island, the largest in the world. 
C: This man, the son of the answer to Part A, is thought to have been the first European to enter the 
Americas. 
D: The answer to Part C landed in what is nowthis Canadian province. 
Answers: A: Erik the Red (prompt on Eric) B: Greenland C: Leif Ericson D: Newfoundland 

Tossup 17: Math (Other) 
This term was first introduced by the Smaltalk programming language in the 1970s, which also 
introduced many of its keyfeatures, like inheritance. Polymorphism and encapsulation through 
message passing are other features found in most implementations.Name thisprogramming 
paradigm used by the dot NET framework and Java, which supports methods, classes,and the 
namesake type of class instance. 
Answer: Object Oriented Programming (accept OO, OOP; prompt"object")

Bonus 17: Miscelaneous (Sports) 
Name the folowing athletes born on November18th. 
A: This quarterback's record of 70,553 passing yards, combinedbetween the NFL and CFL,was 
surpassed in September 2006.He was elected to the NFL Hal of Fame as a Seatle Seahawk in 
2006. 
B: This pitcher was drafted by the Chicago Cubs in 1984, and was traded, along with Rafael 
Palmeiro, to the TexasRangers in 1988.He has won over 200 games and curently pitches for 
Philadelphia. 
C: This University of Maryland basketbal player was drafted second overal by the Boston Celtics in 
1986, but tragicaly died of a drug overdose less than two days after the draft. 
D: This basebal player was released by the Minnesota Twins after the 2002 season, and signed 
with the Boston Red Sox. He has been a perennial MVP candidate, regardless of his position as a 
designated hiter. 
Answers: A: Waren Moon B: Jamie Moyer C: Len Bias D: David Ortiz (prompt on"Big Papi") 

Tossup 18: Social Studies (U.S.History) 
In 1856, two years after a namesake act that repealed the Missouri Compromise,this statewas the 
site of John Brown's Potawatomie Massacre that kiled five people that were pro-slavery. The 
LeCompton Constitution, which supported slavery, was not passed bythis state, and in 1861 it 
entered the union as free state. Name this "bleeding" state, whose capital city's Board of Education 
lost a landmark 1954 Supreme Court case to Oliver Brown. 
Answer: Kansas 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

