NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 4 


Bonus 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
Given a description of a Spanish speaking artist, namethe artist.
A: This muralist's Man at the Crossroads was torn down after it was discovered ithad communist 
pictures in it.
B: This wife of the answer to PartA painted manyself portaits after an accident left her bedridden. 
Many of theseportraits showed of her facial hair. 
C: This Colombian artistis best known for his depictions of plump women. He also released 
paintingsabout the Abu Ghraib scandal. 
D: This artistliked to paint about Mexican history. In 1966, he won theLenin Peace Prize. 
Answers: A: Diego RiveraB: Frida Kahlo C: Fernando Botero D: David Alfaro Siqueiros 

Tossup 7: Literature (Mythology) 
After deciding a contest between Hjalmgunnar (he-YALM-gun-er) and Agnar she is put in a magical 
sleep byOdin, and is surounded by a ring of fire of such magnitude that onlya hero could traverse 
it.She is eventualy awakened by Sigurd, to whom shewilinglygives herself. Folowing his death, 
she throws herself on his funeral pyre. Identify this shieldmaiden and titular Valkyrie of one of 
Wagner's operas.
Answer: Brünnhilde (also accept Brynhildr) 

Bonus 7: Science (Physics) 
Find the total resistance of the circuits with the folowing configurations of resistors. Give exact 
answers.
A: 6 ohms and 4 ohms connected in paralel. 
B: 8 ohms and 3 ohms connected in paralel. 
C: Four3 ohm resistors connected in paralel. 
D: 1 ohm connected in paralel to a series of a 2 ohm and a4 ohm resistor. 
Answers: A: 12/5 ohms B:24/11 ohm C: 3/4 ohms D: 6/7 ohms 

Tossup 8: Math (General) 
The characteristic polynomial is found by seting it equal tozero. When applied to the Jacobian, it 
returns a value used in the substitution rule for multiple integrals. It is equal to the product of the 
eigenvalues of its input. Non-zero values indicate that the inputis invertible. Itis equivalent to the 
scalartriple product of three three-dimensional vectors, and in general, returns the n-dimensional 
volume enclosed by n n-dimensional vectors. Used in Cramer's rule, name this value associated with 
square matrices that,for a two-by-two matrix, is equal to a d minus b c. 
Answer: Determinant 

Bonus 8: Literature (Literature) 
Identify these facts related to Jack London. 
A: London was born in this California city. 
B: This novel, London's most famous work, was about a dog namedBuck. 
C: This poet, who wrote A Wine of Wizardry,was a close friendof London's.
D: Humphrey van Weyden is helped out by the captain of the Ghost in this London work. 
Answers: A: San Francisco B: Cal of the Wild C: George Sterling D:Sea-Wolf 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

