NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 7, Page 8 


Bonus 13: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Name these people who worked under Franklin Delano Roosevelt. 
A: This Secretary of the Interior, who lived in Winnetka, was one of thetwo Cabinet members who 
served for al of FDR's presidency. 
B: At various times, this manserved as FDR's Vice President, Secretary of Agriculture, and 
Secretaryof Commerce. In 1948 he ran for president on the ticket of the Progressive Party. 
C: This man was the lastVice President under FDR. 
D: This man, who served from 1933 to1944, is the longest serving Secretary of State in American 
history. 
Answers: A: Harold LeClair Ickes B: Henry Agard Walace C: Hary S. Truman D: Cordel Hul

Tossup 14: Science (Physics) - Computational(30 Seconds) 
John has a long massless stick labeled with distances from one end. He ishanging a six-kilogram 
weight atthe three-meter mark,and a four-kilogram weight at the eight-meter mark. Where can he 
place a fulcrum so that the stick balances? One way to solve this problem is to set x as the fulcrum 
point, and calculate thetorques interms of x,seting the net torque equal to zero. 
Answer: 5 metersmark 

Bonus 14: Fine Arts(Music) 
Answerthese related questions about music theory. 
A: This type of scale isin Ionian mode, and is often characterizedas happy. 
B: This type of scale isin Aeolian mode, often caled sad. 
C: Equivalent to playing al the black notes ona piano, this type of scale is namedfor the number of 
notes it has in each octave. 
D: This type of scale hasa lowered third and, unlike the "natural" and"melodic" varieties, a raised 
seventh. 
Answers: A: Major B: Minor C: Pentatonic D: Harmonic minor 

Tossup 15: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the quantity root three plus i, close quantity, raised to the twelfth power, where i is the square 
rootof negative one. One wayto solve this problem would be to cube the quantity, and then raise it 
to the fourth power. It would be faster, however, to convert the complex numberto polar form, and 
then apply De Moivre's theorem. Using these or any other techniques,find root three plusi, quantity 
raised to the twelfth power. 
Answer: 4096 (accept "4096 cis 0" or "4096 plus zero i") 

Bonus 15: Social Studies (World History) 
Identify these revolutions named after plants or colors. 
A: This revolution demanded the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanonfolowing the 
assassination of opposition leader Rafik Hariri in 2005. 
B: Folowing disputed elections in 2003 in Georgia, this revolution led to the overthrow of Eduard 
Shevardnadze and his replacement by Mikhail Saakashvili. 
C: This was an almost bloodless, leftist, military-led coup which started on April 25, 1974, in Lisbon, 
Portugal.
D: This is the name that was first used by hopeful commentators,and later pickedup by President 
Bush, to describe democracy coming to Iraq in 2005. It was named for the semi-permanent ink with 
which voters' fingers were dyed to prevent double voting. 
Answers: A: Cedar Revolution B: Rose Revolution C:Carnation Revolution D: Purple 
Revolution 



Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

