NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Science (Chemistry) 
Name these chemical measurements calculated using moles. 
A: This is the number of moles of a solute per liter of solution. 
B: This is the number of moles of a solute per kilogram of solvent. 
C: In acid-base chemistry, this is the number of moles of ionizablehydrogen orhydroxide groups per 
liter of solution. 
D: This dimensionless quantity is the numberof moles of one substance divided by the numberof 
moles of another substance.
Answers: A: Molarity(not molality) B: Molality(not molarity) C: Normality D: Mole ratio 

Tossup 4: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
You are trying to figure out the exact number of minutes after 3:00 that the minute and hour hands 
wil first be at the same position. You knowthat tosolve this problem, you haveto express both hand 
positions as angles, and that the hour hand moves one twelfth as much as the minute hand for each 
minute thatelapses.Given these facts, and that the hour hand starts perfectly horizontal, exactly 
how many minutes after 3:00 wil the two hands overlap? 
Answer: 180/11 minutes 

Bonus 4: Social Studies (Geography) 
Identify these facts about Spain. 
A: Along with Portugal, Spain is situated on this peninsula.
B: This city is Spain's capital. 
C: This southern region lies on the Mediteranean, and contains the city of Sevile. 
D: This city, a former Moorish stronghold, is where La Alhambra is located. 
Answers: A: Iberian Peninsula B: Madrid C: Andalucia D: Granada 

Tossup 5: Fine Arts (Music) 
Its sound is produced by the namesake objects, which are aranged in ranks, and can be caled 
diapasons (DI-a-PAY-zonz), strings, or flutes, depending on the sound theyproduce.The person
playing the instrument can control which ones are used by seting various stops for the manuals or 
pedalboard at the console. Caled by Mozart the "king of instruments," name this large instrument 
often found in churches, whichlooks somewhat like a piano. 
Answer: Pipeorgan (prompt organ) 

Bonus 5: Literature (Literature) 
Given a description of a Herman Hesse novel, name the work.
A: This novel folows the title character's spiritual journey, and it includesthe characters Kamala and 
Vasudeva. 
B: This work centers on Hary Haler, and is partly autobiographical. 
C: Sometimes titled Magister Ludi, this novel folows JosephKnecht. 
D: The subtitle of this work is "The Story of Emil Sinclair's Youth", and Gnosticism is referenced in it. 
Answers: A: Siddhartha B: SteppenwolfC: TheGlass Bead Game D: Demian 

Tossup 6: Science (Astronomy) 
Located from 50 to 100thousand astronomical units from the sun,it is a very large sphere beginning 
at the outsideof the Kuiper belt. If it exists,it is left over from the nebula that formed the sun, and 
contains milions of comet nuclei, some of which enter the solar system. Name this theoretical cloud 
named after a Dutch astronomer, that only contains one discovered object, Sedna. 
Answer: (Öpik-)Oort cloud 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

