NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 9 


Bonus 18: Science (Chemistry) 
Give thename, not the formula, of the chemical that makesup each of the folowing four common 
household products. 
A: Bakingsoda 
B: Epsom salt 
C: Nail polish remover 
D: Borax 
Answers: A: Sodium bicarbonate (accept sodiumhydrogen carbonate)B: Magnesium sulfate 
heptahydrate C: Acetone (accept propanone) D: Hydrated sodium tetraborate (may be folowed
by"decahydrate" or "pentahydrate", but not necessary) 


Tossup 19: Literature (Literature) 
Scholars nowpoint to its scribe as being Adam Pinkhurst, based on the letering of an oathsigned 
byhim. Curently located in the Huntington Library of San Marino, California,it began to be 
assembled by the Lord Chancelor, SirThomas Egerton and Viscount Brackley. Folowing his death, 
it continued to be added to by his decendants. Its ilustrations are much more elaborate than those of 
its companion, the Hengwrt.Identify this early15th century manuscript of Chaucer's The Canterbury 
Tales. 
Answer: Elesmere Manuscript of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales 

Bonus 19: Fine Arts(Music) - Three Parts 
Name these three Czech composers. 
A: Most famous for his Ninth Symphony, "From theNewWorld,"he is also known for the opera 
Rusalka and his second celoconcerto. 
B: A Czech nationalist, he is famous for his comedic opera "The Bartered Bride," anda set of 
symphonic poems titled "Ma Vlast," or "My Country." 
C: Other thanBohuslav Martinu (MAR-teen-ooh), this Czech composer is pretymuch the only other 
one anyone knows about. He is mainly known for his operas, especialy Jenufaand The Cunning 
Litle Vixen. 
Answers: A: Antonin Dvorák (d'VOR-zhak) B: Bedrich Smetana C: Leos Janácek (yuh-NAH-
check)


Tossup 20: Science (Physics) 
Carbon-13 is,though carbon-12 and carbon-14 are not. Photons and gluons are not, thoughleptons 
and quarks are.In general, an even number of these particles together is a boson, but an odd 
number together remains one of this type of particle. Because theirwavefunctions are 
antisymmetric, they obey Fermi-Dirac statistics rather than Bose-Einstein, and therefore obey the 
Pauli exclusion principle.Name this type of particle that has half-integer spin, named after an Italian 
physicist. 
Answer: Fermion 

Bonus 20: Math (Algebra) 
Find al the real zeros of the folowing polynomials. 
A: xcubed - 15 x squared + 75 x - 126 
B: xcubed + 7 x squared - 2 x - 14 
C: 5 x squared + 14 x - 3 
D: x to the fifth power + 5x to the fourth power + 10 x cubed + 10 x squared + 5 x + 1 
Answers: (must have al answers in any order, but no additional answers) A: 6B: root 2, negative 
root 2,-7 C: -3 and 1/5 (1/5=.2) D: -1 



Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

