NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 5 


Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
Given the work of art, identifythe location where the painting or sculpture can curently be found.
A: Venus de Milo, by Alexandros of Antioch 
B: The Night Watch,byRembrandt Harmenszoon vanRijn
C: Pietà, by Michelangelo 
D: Las Meninas, by Diego Velásquez 
Answers: A: The Louvre B: Rijksmuseum C: St. Peter's Basilica D: Museo del Prado 

Tossup 9: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
You have the polynomial x cubed plus 6 x squared minus 14 x plus 16. You want to find the one real 
rootof this equation, and you know that one plus i is a root. Because taking out a singlecomplex
factor would result in imaginary coeficients, this problem would be easier to solve using the fact that 
the conjugateof one plus i must also be a solution. Perhapseasiest, however, is to realize the 
productof the two complex roots is two, and that you can easily figureout the product of al three 
roots. No mater how you do it,what is the real root of the polynomial? 
Answer: -8 

Bonus 9: Science (Chemistry) 
Give theformulas, without charges, of the folowing polyatomic ions. 
A: Permanganate 
B: Iodate
C: Dichromate 
D: Cyanate 
Answers: A: MnO4 B:IO3 C: Cr2O7 D: OCN 

Tossup 10: Literature (Literature) 
Meaning "behold theman," it was first spoken by Pontius Pilate of Jesus. Napoleon supposedly said 
a French translation of thephrase when meeting Goethe. Also the title of a book, subtitled "How One 
Becomes What One Is," it contains sections caled things like "Why I Am So Wise" and "Why I Write 
Such Good Books." It was the last book writen by its philosopher author before he went insane, 
dying in 1900. Name this book explaining how significant its author was,writen by the German 
philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche.
Answer: Ecce Homo 

Bonus 10: Miscelaneous (Interdisciplinary) 
Answerthe folowing questions about valeys of death. 
A: In what book of the Bible wil you find the line "Yea, though Iwalk through the valey of the 
shadow of death,I wil fear no evil"? 
B: What national park is seventy-six miles east of the highest point in the continental U.S.,Mount
Whitney? 
C: In what poem wil you find the lines, "Into the valey of Death / Rode the six hundred"? 
D: What 1995 rap songbeginswith "As I walk through the valeyof the shadow of death / I take a 
look atmy life and realize there's nothingleft"? 
Answers: A: Psalms (acceptPsalm23) B: Death Valey C: The Charge of the Light Brigade D: 
Gangsta's Paradise 

HALFTIME 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

