NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 7, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Science (Chemistry) 
First discovered in 1965, this chemical has long been the subject of much controversy. In 1995, the 
FDA reportedthat it alone represented 75% of al reports of adverse efects to food ingredients.The
methyl ester of phenylalanine (FEE-nul-AL-uh-NEEN) andaspartic acid, foods that contain this
chemical are required to cary a warning for phenylketonurics (FEE-nul-KEE-toh-NUR-iks) because
it could be deadly to them. Name this famous artificial sweetener,the one contained in Equal and 
NutraSweet. 
Answer: Aspartame (prompt Equal or NutraSweet before mentioned) 

Bonus 1: Literature (Literature) 
Identify these facts related to Thomas Hardy. 
A: Hardy used this fictional seting for manyof his works. 
B: This title girl is raped byAlec in an 1891 Hardy work. 
C: Sue and Arabela are characters in this serialized novel, Hardy's last,that was published in ful in 
1895. 
D: Clym Yeobright and Eustacia Vye are characters in this novel set mostly in Egdon Heath. 
Answers: A: Wessex B: Tess of the d'Urberviles C: Jude the Obscure D: Return of the Native 

Tossup 2: Social Studies (World History) 
It opens with text appearing on a stone wal, folowed by shots of the sky and the assembling 
masses below Adolf Hitler's plane. It goeson to present speeches of other German leaders in 
addition to a large and memorable raly scene. Identify this documentary byfilmmaker Leni 
Riefenstahl thatis the most famous Nazi propaganda film of al time.
Answer: Triumph of the Wil (also accept Triumph des Wilens)

Bonus 2: Math (Algebra) 
Identify the folowing about the function, f of x equals x squared plus x minus 2. 
A: What typeof conic section does it describe? 
B: Give both of its roots.You must have both corect. 
C: Find a vertex of the conic section, as an ordered pair.
D: If youdivide f of x by the quantity x minus one,what arethe coordinates of theresulting 
removable discontinuity? 
Answers: A: Parabola B: x = 1 and -2 (in either order, must have both corect) C: (-1/2 , -9/4) (-.5 , -
2.25) D: (1 , 3) 


Tossup 3: Literature (Literature) 
The narator of this work is stranded in the Sahara desert after a planecrash, a situation inspired by
an actual accident the author had. While stranded, the narator meets a strange person who 
immediatelyrequests that he draw him a sheep.Thenarator'sfirst drawing is rejected for notbeing 
a sheep, but an elephant being eaten by a boa constrictor.The later drawings are rejected until the 
narator draws a box, with the sheep not visible, butinside. The boy who requested the drawing, it 
turns out, was originaly from the asteroid B-612, which is home to three volcanoes and a rose.
Identify this work, which focuses on the folies of man and the simple truths theytend to forgetwith 
age; the most famous novel of French aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. 
Answer: The Litle Prince (also accept Le Petit Prince) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

