NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Social Studies (Other) 
Name these systems of philosophy. 
A: Started by JeremyBentham, this system holds that it is best to produce the greatest good for the 
greatest number of people. 
B: Often criticized by Friedrich Nietzsche,this outlook statesthat human existence is without any 
purpose or value. 
C: This related system basedon the work of Soren Kierkegaard atempts to understand the purpose 
of human existence,but believes that there is a purpose. 
D: This theory named after aGreek philosopher states that the greatest good is to seek moderate 
pleasure for one's self. 
Answers: A: Utilitarianism B: Nihilism C: ExistentialismD: Epicureanism 

Tossup 4: Science (Chemistry) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
To the nearest gram, what isthe gram equivalent mass of carbonic acid? One equivalent is the 
amountof acid required to produceone mole of hydrogen atoms in solution. Because carbonic acid 
is diprotic (die-PRAH-tic), this is equivalent to half a mole of carbonic acid. 
Answer: 31 grams

Bonus 4: Literature (Literature) 
Given a description, namethe work by Edith Wharton.
A: This novel, whose title is taken from Ecclesiastes, contains thecharactersLawrence Selden and 
Lily Bart. 
B: This novel set in New York is about Elen Olenska, May Weland, and Newland Archer.
C: This novel that Wharton was working on when she died is about young women debuting in 
London. 
D: Set in Starkfield, this novel is about the title character and his wife Zeena, as wel as Matie Silver. 
The titular character and Matie atempt to commit suicide by sledding into a tree, but they fail. 
Answers: A: The House of MirthB: The Age ofInnocenceC: The Buccaneers D: Ethan Frome 

Tossup 5: Social Studies (Geography) 
First recognized in 1843,itbecame theprotectorate of Basutoland,finaly gaining autonomy in 1965. 
After the Basotho National Partylost elections in 1970, they imprisoned the opposition and remained 
in power until a 1986 coup. But you don't need to hear the rest of their history. Name this African 
country of under 12,000 square miles, with capital at Maseru, with oficial languages of English and 
Sesotho, which is entirely contained within the country of South Africa. 
Answer: Kingdom of Lesotho (leh-SOO-doo) 

Bonus 5: Math (General) 
Fuly factor the folowing polynomials.
A: xcubed - 6 x squared + 12 x -8 
B: 2 x squared - 9 x- 5 
C: x squared + 5 x + 6 
D: 3 x squared + 31 x + 56 
Answers: (accept quantities in any order) A: (x-2) cubed B:(x-5) (2x+1) C: (x+3) (x+2) D:(x+8) 
(3x+7) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

