NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 8 


Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
Curently at the Museo del Prado,when closed, it pictures the earth as a discwithin a transparent 
sphere.Opening the shuters reveals three portions, the leftmost representing Eden, prominently 
featuring the Tree of Knowledge. The rightmost portion represents hel, including pictures of the 
seven deadly sins. The middle portion, for which this work is named, shows how humanity gained its 
sinfulness, representing hedonists as they stand around nude. Name this 1504 oil tryptich (TRIP-
tich) by Hieronymous Bosch. 
Answer: The Garden ofEarthly Delights 

Bonus 16: Literature (Literature) 
Identify the authors of the folowing works that have basebal as their subject. 
A: The Natural 
B: Bang the Drum Slowly 
C: Shoeless Joe 
D: Casey at the Bat
Answers: A: Bernard Malamud B: Mark Haris C: W. P. Kinsela D: Ernest Lawrence Thayer 

Tossup 17: Math (Other) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the harmonicmean of the set 5, 10, 15. Rememberthat the harmonic mean is a measure of 
central tendency, equal to the number of numbers, divided bythe sum of the reciprocals of the 
numbers. 
Answer: 90/11 

Bonus 17: Science (Biology) 
If, for the sake of science, I wereto poke you in the arm with a germ-covered pin,your immune 
system would respond in these ways to keep you from geting sick. 
A: The first response to iritation or infection is usualy this, a nonspecific responsethat causes 
redness and sweling,and would perhaps make you feel like yourarm was on fire. 
B: Next, the memory type of this type of white blood cel would respondto antigens in your blood, 
multiplying into manyplasma cels. 
C: Those cels would then release many of these Y-shaped proteins that bind to antigens, the 
mediators of humoral immunity. 
D: This type of white blood cel controls cel-mediated immunity, and would trigger macrophages to
atack any foreign cels. 
Answers: A: Inflammatory response B: B cel C: AntibodyD: T cel 

Tossup 18: Social Studies (Geography) 
The first Europeans to see this lake were Sir Richard Burton and John Hanning Spekein 1858, 13 
years before a famous meeting there. The Lukugua River flows out of it, and itis situated in the 
southern part of the Western Rift Valey. Name this lake located between Congoand Tanzania, the 
second deepest in the world, where in 1871 Henry Stanley found Dr. Livingstone. 
Answer: Lake Tanganyika 

Bonus 18: Fine Arts(Music) 
Name the composers of the folowing symphonic poems. 
A: Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun 
B: Danse Macabre(DAHNS muh-KAHBR) 
C: The Sorcerer's Apprentice 
D: Night on Bald Mountain 
Answers: A: Claude Debussy B: Camile Saint-Saëns C: Paul Dukas D: ModestMussorgsky


Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

