NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Math (General) 
For linear algebra, it states that al vector spaces share four fundamental subspaces. For curves, it 
states that a curve with non-zero curvature isdetermined by its curvature and torsion. For arithmetic, 
it states that everynatural number has a unique prime factorization. For algebra,it states that every 
complex polynomial of degree n has exactly n complex roots. Most famously, for calculus, it states 
that integration and diferentiation are inverse operations. Name this type of important theorem 
presentin many branches of mathematics.
Answer: Fundamental Theorem 

Bonus 1: Social Studies (Other) 
Name these concepts from economics. 
A: Goods that are wanted but not necessary, have this sort of utility that diminishes as someonehas 
more and more. 
B: Karl Marx was a major proponent of this theory thatstatesthat the worth of agood should be 
determined by theamountof work needed to manufacture it. 
C: This conflicting theorystates that the price of agood is determined by the price of the resources 
that made it. 
D: This curve named after an American economist graphs the cumulative distribution of wealth ina 
society. 
Answers: A: Marginal utilityB: Labor theoryof value C:Cost-of-production theoryof value D:
Lorenz curve 

Tossup 2: Science (Biology) 
It is named after the Latin word for sausage, because it can be found in badly-handled meat 
products, though in modern times, sodium nitrite hasbeen used as a preservative to prevent 
bacterial growth. Likely the mostpotent toxin known to man, 100 grams would beenough to kil 
every human on earth.Despite this fact, it is commonly used in smal doses toparalyze muscles for 
up to six months. Name this toxin used in Botox. 
Answer: Botulin(um) toxin (accept botulism) 

Bonus 2: Miscelaneous (Interdisciplinary) 
AP. Two leters which strike fear into the hearts of highschool students. 
A: Thosestudents likely associate AP with the Advanced Placement program run by this national 
examination board. 
B: Most other people, however, would probablyfirst think of this organization, the largest news 
agency in the world. 
C: AP also stands for this, a general term for devices that alow wireless devices to connect to wired
networks. 
D: AP could also refer to this discharge of electric potential that occurs in neurons. 
Answers: A: Colege Board B:AssociatedPress C:Wireless Access Point D: Action potential 

Tossup 3: Literature (Literature) 
The narator of this book begins by saying he was born in 1857, assuring the reader thathe does not 
in factmean 1957. Writen as if itwere published 112 years after its actual publicationdate, this 
utopian novel consists mostly of the narator expressing his awe at thewonders of modern society 
afterhe fals asleep for over a hundred years, waking up in the year 2000 inthe houseof Dr. Leete. 
Name this novel narated by Julian West, andwriten by Edward Belamy. 
Answer: Looking Backward: 2000-1887 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

