NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 7, Page 9 


Tossup 16: Miscelaneous (Technology) 
(Pronounce first three aswords) SOAP, REST, AJAX, RSS, Atom, JavaScript.A step ahead of the
original static HTML websites of the early Internet, these technologies were given this colective 
name by Doug Dougherty, which was popularized byO'Reily Media. Name this type of new web 
technology that claims to be a whole version ahead of the first. 
Answer: Web 2.0 (prompt on related answers without "2.0") 

Bonus 16: Math (Other)
Find the probabilities of the folowing events occuring when you draw two cards from the top of a 
standard deck of cards, without replacing the first card before drawing the second. 
A: Both cardshave a numberon them. That is, neither is an ace, jack, queen, or king. 
B: The cards are in the same suit.
C: The cards are of the same rank. 
D: The cards are of the same suit and rank.
Answers: A: 105/221 B: 4/17 C: 1/17 D: 0 

Tossup 17: Science (Astronomy) 
It either plots the color index and absolute magnitude, or thetemperature and luminosity. It has 
several lines, representing supergiants, bright giants, giants, subgiants, and the line that most stars 
lie on,the main sequence. Name this astronomic diagram named after two scientists, that depicts
the lives of stars. 
Answer: Hertzsprung-Russel diagram (accept H-R diagram, HRD, color-magnitudediagram) 

Bonus 17: Literature (Literature) 
"I think that I shal never see, a poem lovely as a tree." 
A: Name the title of the famous poem that begins thatway. 
B: According to the poem, "Poems are made by fools like me, but only" this can maketrees. 
C: Name its author, anAmerican poet born in 1886and kiled during World War I. 
D: "I think that I shal never see, a bilboard lovely as a tree. Indeed, unless the bilboards fal, I'l 
never see a tree at al." Name the famous witicist and writer of light verse that penned this retort. 
Answers: A: TreesB: God C: Joyce Kilmer D: Ogden Nash 

Tossup 18: Literature (Mythology)
This deity is the son of thegod of wisdom, Ea, who giveshim control over humanity. The Enuma 
Elish describes how this god was made king of the gods by the Anunnaki after he slew the monster 
Tiamat, after which humans were created. Name this Mesopotamian sun god and patron god of 
Babylon. 
Answer: Marduk 

Bonus 18: Science (Physics)
Give theelectric charges of each of the folowing particles.
A: Electron 
B: Electron neutrino 
C: Up quark 
D: Botom quark 
Answers: A: -1 B: 0 C: 2/3 D: -1/3 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

