NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 1, Page 4 


Bonus 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
Identify the Frenchpainters of the folowing paintings. 
A: Impression, Sunrise 
B: The Dance Class 
C: Paris Street, RainyWeather 
D: The Origin of the World 
Answers: A: Claude Monet (not Manet) B: EdgarDegas C: Gustave Cailebote D: Gustave 
Courbet 

Tossup 7: Literature (Literature) 
His friend Arthur Hugh Clough was the inspirationforthis poet's work Thyrsis. Midway through his 
career he switched from poetry to focusing on critical essays. The son of a schoolteacher, his most 
famous work ended with the lines "Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight/ Where ignorant
armies clash by night." Name this Victorian poet who wrote Dover Beach. 
Answer: Mathew Arnold 

Bonus 7: Social Studies (World History) 
Identify these facts related to the Silk Road. 
A: At one point it travels through this country, that includes the cityof Kandahar. 
B: This man who is credited with coining the term was the uncle of a famous World War I fighter pilot 
nicknamed the Red Baron. 
C: This Italian traveled with his father Niccolo andmet withKubla Khan. 
D: The Silk Road became partly obsolete when this man found an al-water route to India.
Answers: A: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan B: Ferdinand Freiher von Richthofen C: Marco 
Polo D: Vasco da Gama 

Tossup 8: Miscelaneous (Entertainment) 
This song's titlecomes from words that the writer's friend spray-painted onhis wal. He thought it 
was some sort of moto, butafter the song's release, he found out that it simply referedto the brand 
of his girlfriend's deodorant. Despite this song's almost uninteligible lyrics, ithas been hailed as the 
anthem of a generation, and catapulted his band and the grunge rock movement to recognition. In 
2001, its lines "I feel stupid andcontagious / here we are now,entertain us" were voted third best 
song lyrics in the U.K. Name this song writen by Kurt Cobain, the firsthit single of Nirvana. 
Answer: Smels Like TeenSpirit 

Bonus 8: Math (Geometry) 
Find the area of the folowing geometric figures. 
A: An equilateral triangle withsides of length 10. 
B: A regular hexagon with sides of length 2. 
C: A regular hexagon with apothem (uh-POTH-em) of three root three. 
D: A regular pentagon with sides twice the length of the sides of a pentagon whose area is 20. 
Answers: A: 25 root3 B: 6 root 3 C: 54 root 3 D: 80 

Tossup 9: Math (General) 
It is the x-coordinate of the global maximum of x to the one over x power. Alternatively, it is the limit 
of the quantity1 + 1/n, close quantity, to the n power, as n approaches infinity. Besides that, it is also 
the sum of the reciprocals of the factorials of the wholenumbers. Famously,raising itto the i times pi 
power yields negative one. Name this number,the base of natural logarithms, approximately equal 
to 2.718. 
Answer: e 


Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

