NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 7 


Bonus 13: Literature (Literature) 
Identify the folowing Catholicauthors. 
A: She lived in Georgia and wrote the short story colection A Good Man Is Hard To Find. 
B: The son of a famous Conservative, he wrote Thank You For Smoking. 
C: This priest has writen a lot of novels, including Irish Crystal and The PassoverTrilogy, in addition 
to newspapercolumns,homilies, and works of nonfiction. 
D: He converted in1930, fifteen years before completing Brideshead Revisited. 
Answers: A: Flannery O'Connor B: Christopher BuckleyC: Andrew Greeley D: Arthur Evelyn 
St. John Waugh 

Tossup 14: Math (Calculus) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
x is restricted to be between negative pi over twoand pi overtwo. Fuly simplify your answer. Find 
the derivative, with respect to x,of the definite integral from zero to thesine of x, of the inverse sine 
of t, dt. You can solve this problem byevaluating the definite integral and then thederivative, though 
it would be easier to evaluateboth at once, remembering to use the chain rule. 
Answer: x cos(x) (accept cos(x) times x; note that the restricted domain ensures thatarcsin(sin(x) = 
x) 


Bonus 14: Miscelaneous (Technology) 
Name these ways of connecting peripherals to computers. 
A: Now one of the most popular connectors, the 2.0 variety of this sends data at rates up to 480 
megabits per second. 
B: Also known as IEEE 1394, this comes in four- and six-pin varieties.It is used for camcorders and 
other high-volumeoperationsbecause it travels up to 800 megabits per second. 
C: Also known as "mini-DIN," this circular six-pin connector is often used for keyboards and mice. 
D: This trapezoidal 25-pin port was once used for printers. It is namedfor the fact that it does not 
send data serialy. 
Answers: A: USB (Universal Serial Bus) B: Firewire C:PS/2 D: Paralel 

Tossup 15: Science (Biology) 
Not present in bacterialplasmids, theyoccur only in linear chromosomes, in humans with the patern 
TTAGGG. Comprising up to 300,000 base pairs of DNA, they alow DNA polymerase to act on entire 
chromosomes, because it is unable to copy al the way to the end. Consequently, these are 
shortened every time a cel divides, and their length is thought to be associated with aging. Name 
this bufer DNA at the ends of linear chromosomes. 
Answer: Telomere 

Bonus 15: Math (Other)
I'l give you two SI prefixes. You have to multiplythem and give the resulting SI prefix. For example, 
if Isay "kilo times kilo," you know that's a thousandtimes a thousand, or one milion, so yourespond 
"mega." 
A: Hecto times deca 
B: Gigatimeskilo 
C: Mega times nano 
D: Kilo times peta 
Answers: A: Kilo B: Tera C: Mili D: Exa 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

