NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Literature (Literature) 
His next book is rumored to be about Sofia Kovalevskaya,the first major female Russian 
mathematician. Thiseclectic author is wel known for the blend of "high" and "low" culture in his 
works, ranging from alusionsto Nabokov's Lolita toThelonious Monk and the Beatles. His two 
cameos on the Simpsonsarethe only times his voice has been broadcast in the media. Name this 
author of Vineland, Mason & Dixon, The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Answer: Thomas Ruggles Pynchon V 

Bonus 1: Math (Geometry) 
Find the areas of the folowing figures. 
A: A circle with circumference 10. 
B: A square with diagonal of 4. 
C: A triangle with sides of 3, 3, and 5.
D: A regular hexagon with sides of length 2. 
Answers: A: 25 / pi B: 8 C: 5 root 11 / 4 (or 5/4 root 11) D:6 root 3 

Tossup 2: Science (Biology) 
For some reason, puferfish havevery minimal ones. It is unknown why theyexist, though their 
discoverers were awarded the 1993 Nobel Prize in Medicine. They sometimes enhance splicing, 
perhaps by altering the secondary structure of RNA, and some even are ribozymes that splice 
themselves,though most are thought to besimply junk DNA without apurpose. Name these 
sections of DNA not used in transcription, with a name short for "intervening sequences." 
Answer: Introns (accept "intervening sequences" before last clue)

Bonus 2: Miscelaneous (Other) 
Identify the folowing fadsof the 80s and 90s. 
A: Each of these stufed animals came with a heart shaped tag with a bit of poetry inside atached. 
B: It appears to be a cross between a hamster, a cat and an owl, but one can not be quite sure.
These obnoxious things talkedto each other and made an awful racket. 
C: This toy sold by Bandai, namedfor the Japanese word for 'egg', was bannedat prety much every
school due to children contantly havingto clean up its poop during classes.
D: This craze is named after a juice made from passion fruit, orange and guava. It features a 
helogoodbye music video, and a tournamentis held with these. 
Answers: A: Beanie Babies B: Furby C:Tamagotchi (not Giga Petsor Nano Pets, they weren't 
sold by Bandai) D: Pogs (begrudginglyalso accept Milkcaps) 

Tossup 3: Social Studies (World History) 
The Koran refers to her as Bilqis, and in Ethiopia, where her kingdom is believed to have been 
located, she is caled Makeda. She is not mentioned in the Bible by name, but she appears in First 
Kings and Second Chronicles. In thosepassages, she visits King Solomon with many gifts, including 
four and a half tons of gold. Impressed with Solomon’s wisdom and wealth,she sings the praises of 
the Hebrew God. What royal figure of legendary wealth is rumored to have an afair with King 
Solomon? 
Answer: The Queen of Sheba 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

