NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 2, Page 4 


Bonus 6: Miscelaneous (Technology) 
Apple's line of iPods has been geting larger and larger. 
A: In gigabytes, this is the largestcapacity of iPod now available. 
B: First introduced in 2004, this line of iPods was updated in 2005 and discontinued later that year.
C: The iPod Shufle's promotional taglinewas that "Life is"this, much like the Shufle itself. 
D: The iPod Shufle was the firstiPod to use this type of memorywhich is much smaler but more 
expensive than smal harddrives. The Nanonow also uses it. 
Answers: A: 80 GB B: iPod Mini C: Random D: Flash 

Tossup 7: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
This founder and first President of the Royal Societyof London also made a number of advances in 
medicine, being the first person to successfuly inject a substance intothe bloodstream of an animal. 
However he is most notable for his work in architecture,designingbuildings such as the Royal 
Observatory, and the Libraryat Trinity Colege in Cambridge. Name this Knight of the British Empire, 
who designed a total of 53 churches in London alone, but is best known for designing St. Paul's
Cathedral. 
Answer: Sir Christopher James Wren 

Bonus 7: Social Studies (Geography) 
Given a description, identifythe United States lake. 
A: This Vermont lake, named after a Frenchman, is considered the "sixth" Great Lake. 
B: This is the man-made lakecreated byHoover Dam. 
C: This is the deepest lake in the United States. 
D: The levees on this lake near New Orleans broke during Huricane Katrina. 
Answers: A: Lake Champlain B: Lake Mead C: Crater Lake D: Lake Pontchartrain 

Tossup 8: Literature (LanguageArts) 
Spel the one-word name of the medical profession sometimes abbreviatedENT. Though 
practitioners are known also as "head and neck surgeons," their primary focus, as this word 
suggests, is on ears, noses, and throats. Spel otolaryngology (OH-toh-LAIR-in-JAH-luh-GEE).
Answer: OTOLARYNGOLOGY (accept grammatical variants, acceptOTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY
before end) 


Bonus 8: Science (Chemistry) 
Give thecommon charge of each of the folowing ions. 
A: Magnesium ion
B: Ferous ion
C: Ammonium ion 
D: Plumbic ion 
Answers: A: +2 B: +2 C: +1 D: +4 

Tossup 9: Social Studies (World History) 
The combatants of this era included the Yan, Wei, Qi (CHEE), Chu, and Han. The era led to the rise 
of the Chinese philosophies of Legalism, Taoism,and Confucianism, and is often considered tobe 
the later half of the Zhou (JOE) Dynasty, even though they lost control of theircountry. Name this 
period of factionalized conflict starting in the fifth centuryB.C., which was ended in221 B.C. by 
China's reunification under the Qin (CHIN) dynasty. 
Answer: Period of Waring States (accept close equivalents) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

