NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 6 


Tossup 11: Science (Biology) 
Though a fairly common process, the ethidium bromide dye and acrylamide medium it often uses 
are both toxic, and requirespecial handling. This process can separate any molecules by size, 
though it is typicalyused on negatively-charged restriction fragments of DNA. Name this methodof 
comparing DNA fragments that generates several columns of fluorescent bands caled DNA ladders. 
Answer: Gel electrophoresis (accept DNA electrophoresis) 

Bonus 11: Math (Algebra) 
Compute the folowing sums.
A: The sum from x = 1 to x = 101, of the cosine of pi x. 
B: The sum of the first ten perfect squares. 
C: The sum of the first five prime numbers. 
D: The sum of the first hundred natural numbers. 
Answers: A: -1 B: 385 C:28 D:5050 

Tossup 12: Literature (Literature) 
Under the contract of its production, nofilm adaptation can be made of this playuntil the West End 
production of it has beenclosed for at least six months. This performance hasbeen running non-
stop since November 25, 1952, making it the longest continuouslyrunning playanywhere. In it, the 
characters become snowed in to a new hotel converted from the old Monkswel Manor. Detective 
Sergeant Troter arives on skis to tel the guests that he believes a murder may be on his way tothe 
hotel. Folowing the subsequent murder of Mrs.Boyle,one of the guests, it is obvious that the 
murderer is already there. Identifythis play, atthe conclusion of which, by tradition, the audience is 
asked not to reveal the murderer to anyone outside the theatre and which is Agatha Christie's most 
famous. 
Answer: The Mousetrap 

Bonus 12: Fine Arts(Music) 
Identify each of the folowing instruments as single-reed, double-reed, or no-reed. 
A: Clarinet
B: French horn 
C: English horn 
D: Bassoon 
Answers: A: Single reed B: No reed (accept zero, etc) C: Double reed D: Double reed 

Tossup 13: Math (Geometry) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the diameter of a right circular cylinder with a volume of 250 over pi,and a base circumference 
equal to its height. To solve this problem,you need to realize thatpi r squared h equals 250 over pi,
and that the base circumference and heightare equal to pi times the diameter, or2 pi r. With these 
considerations, you should be able to easily find the radius or height, by which you can solve forthe 
diameter of the cylinder as required by this question. 
Answer: 10 over pi 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

