NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 7 


Bonus 13: Literature (Literature) 
Given a description, namethe work by Franz Kafka. 
A: This novela is about how Gregor Samsaturns intoa bug. 
B: Karl Rossman comes to the United States in this novel.
C: This novel is abouthowJosef K.goes through the titular process.
D: A surveyor named K. travels tothe title structure. 
Answers: A: Metamorphosis B: Amerika (accept The Stoker) C: The TrialD: The Castle 

Tossup 14: Math (Calculus) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find dy over dx for the equation y squared minus x squared equals two y. To findthis derivative,you 
have to use implicit diferentiation, applying the chain rule onthe y terms, and then solving for dy 
over dx. 
Answer: x / (y-1) (x over the quantity yminus one; accept +/- v(y^2-2y)or 1 +/- v(x^2+1) 

Bonus 14: Miscelaneous (Technology) 
Name these web browsers other than Internet Explorer.
A: The most popular alternative browser, this browser by the Mozila Foundation is curentlyat 
version 2.0. 
B: Based on code from the Mozila Foundation but independently developed, this browser is native 
to Mac OS 10. It is curently at version1.0.3. 
C: Curentlyat version 9.02, this web browser is developed by a company based in Norway. They
have partnered with Nintendo to createversions of their browser for several recent Nintendo 
consoles. 
D: Developed by Apple Computer, this browsercurently at version 2.0.4 is bundled with Mac OS 10. 
Answers: A: Mozila Firefox B: Camino C: Opera D: Safari 

Tossup 15: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
The first modern patent is thoughtto have been given to this Italian architect, for his design of a 
vessel that would be used to cary loads down a river. Throughout his life, he had a biter rivalry with 
felow sculptor Lorenzo Ghiberti,which included losing in a competition to create the second set of 
bronzedoors for the baptistery of the cathedral in Florence, which eventualy was caled the "Gates 
of Paradise". Often credited with inventing linear perspective, name this architect who is most 
famous for hiswork on the Duomoin Florence. 
Answer: Filippo Bruneleschi 

Bonus 15: Social Studies (Other) 
Name these economists. 
A: This economist coined the term "conspicuous consumption" in his 1899 book, "The Theory of the 
Leisure Class." 
B: This Canadian-born economist that diedin 2006 coined such terms as "conventional wisdom" in 
his 1958 book, "TheAfluent Society." 
C: This American economist and prominent monetarist also died in 2006. 
D: This 2006 winner of the Nobel Peace Prize founded the Grameen Bank and created the concept
of "micro-lending." 
Answers: A: Thorstein Veblen B:John Kenneth Galbraith C: Milton Friedman D: Muhammad 
Yunus





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

