NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 2, Page 9 


Bonus 18: Fine Arts(Visual Art) 
Given a description, identifythe American artist. 
A: This Iowan is most famous for a work in which he portayed his sister and his dentist as a farm 
couple. The dentist was holding a pitchfork. 
B: This female artist was raised in Pennsylvania butlater lived in France. Among her works are 
"Summertime"and "The Child's Bath." 
C: This landscapepainter,who spent much of his life in Maine, painted "Eight Bels" and "Mending 
the Nets." 
D: This man from Missouri painted murals in the Missouri State Capitol and Truman presidential 
Library. 
Answers: A: Grant DeVolson Wood B: Mary Stevenson Cassat C:Winslow Homer D: Thomas 
HartBenton 

Tossup 19: Literature (Literature) 
He wrotethe screenplay for Shakespeare in Love. HisArcadia splits its action between 1809 and 
1989 in the same house.His The Real Inspector Hound is about two theatre critics who somehow 
become involved in the action onstage. This author's mostfamous play borows its title characters 
from Shakespeare. Identify this Czech author of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead. 
Answer: TomStoppard 

Bonus 19: Social Studies (World History) 
There were quite a few wars in the 18thcentury. Given a war,name the treaty that ended it. For al 
answers,please use the word "Treaty"instead of "Peace." 
A: Warof Spanish Succession 
B: Warof Austrian Succession 
C: Seven Years War 
D: American Revolution 
Answers: A: Treaty of UtrechtB: Treatyof Aix-la-Chappele (accept Treaty ofAachen) C: Treaty
of Paris (accept Treaty of Hubertusburg) D: Treaty ofParis 

Tossup 20: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
It takes 24 minutes for a faucet to fil a sink, and 6 minutes for a hose to fil the same sink.You want 
to know how long it would take for both to fil the sink together.This can be accomplished by 
summing the fractions of the sink thateach fils up every minute, and realizing that the answer to this 
question multipliedbythat fraction must equal one. Using this or any other method, find the time it 
would take to fil the sink with the faucet andhose simultaneously. 
Answer: 24/5 minutes (or 4.8) 

Bonus 20: Science (Biology) 
Answerthese questions about blood types. 
A: If a couple has the blood types A and AB, what is the one blood type their children cannothave? 
B: Because they haveneither anti-A nor anti-B antibodies, a person with this blood type can be 
transfused with any type of blood. 
C: Because it has neither A nor B antigens, this blood type can betransfused into anyone. 
D: The plus and minusthat accompanyblood type designations indicate the presence or absence of 
the D antigen of this factor named after a type of monkey. 
Answers: A: O B:AB C: O D: Rhesus factor(accept Rh) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

