NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 2, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Math (Algebra) 
Simplify the folowing complex numbers. Al your answers should be in a + b i form.
A: The quantity 2 + 2 root 3 i, close quantity,to the sixth power. 
B: The quantity 1 + 7 i divided by the quantity 3 + i. 
C: The quantity 2 + i times the quantity 1 + 6i. 
D: The quantity 1 - i, quantity squared.
Answers: A: 4096 + 0iB: 1 + 2i C: - 4 + 13i D: 0 - 2i 

Tossup 4: Science (Astronomy) 
After al of a star's hydrogen is fused into helium, they expel their outer material and al that remains 
is these hot cores. A milion times more dense than the sun, they cannot weigh more than 1.4 solar
masses,the Chandrasekhar limit, because abovethat mass they wil instead colapseas neutron 
stars or explode as supernovas. Name these bright dense stars, a category to which Happy and
Grumpy also belong. 
Answer: White dwarf stars (prompt dwarf) 

Bonus 4: Literature (Literature) 
Identify the Arthur Miler playfrom a description. 
A: Eddie Carbone harbors ilegal immigrants, who are also his wife's relatives, in this play. 
B: This play is about the title character, WilyLoman,and his delusional faith in the American dream. 
C: Abigail Wiliams and John Proctorare characters in this play set during the Salem witch trials. 
D: The Keler and Deever families are prominent in this play about a businessman who sold broken 
airplane parts to the government during World War I. 
Answers: A: A View from the Bridge B: Death of a SalesmanC: The Crucible D: Al My Sons 

Tossup 5: Social Studies (Curent Events) 
In 1998he was detained in Britain because the Spanish wanted to extradite him forhis role in 
torturing Spanish citizens during his reign.In 2001, back in his home country, he had his immunity 
taken from him, though hewas eventualydeemed unfit for defending himself incourt. He was 
connected to Operation Columbo,in which many leftists simply disappeared. That event occured in
1975, two years after his takeover of Salvador Alende's government. Name this former Chilean 
dictator who died on December 10, 2006. 
Answer: Augusto Pinochet Ugarte 

Bonus 5: Science (Biology) 
Given the name of a disease caused by a vitamin deficiency,give the deficient vitaminthat causes it. 
A: Night-blindness 
B: Beriberi (BERRY-BERRY) 
C: Scurvy 
D: Rickets 
Answers: A: Vitamin A (accept retinol) B: Vitamin B1 (accept thiamine, prompt on "B") C: Vitamin 
C (accept ascorbicacid) D:Vitamin D 

Tossup 6: Math (General) 
An unusual one is Knuth's(kuh-NOOTH's) quater-imaginary one using 2i, which is capable of 
expressing al complex numbers with the digits 0, 1,2, and3. More typical integral ones are able to 
express al real numbers withthe same number of distinctdigits. Name this generalized type of 
positional number system,often used with sixteen for hexadecimal, two for binary, or most 
commonly, ten for decimal. 
Answer: Number base (accept radix)


Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

