NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 4, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Science (Chemistry) 
With formula C10H14N2, it can be found in tomatoes, eggplants, and potatoes, though itis more 
commonly thought of in another plant. Highly toxic, it isa part of manyinsecticides. 50 miligrams
could be enough to kil an adult human, but its flash point of 95 degrees Celsiusmeans thathumans 
don't inhale as muchwhenthey expose themselves to it. Name this molecule named after a genus
of nightshadeplants, the addictive chemical in tobacco. 
Answer: Nicotine 

Bonus 1: Social Studies (CurentEvents) 
Identify these facts about a military coup that occured this month. 
A: Laisenia Qarase was the Prime Minister of this country where a coup began on December 4th. 
B: This Commodore led the coup. 
C: This president supposedly dimissed the parliament of the answer to part A. 
D: The main portion of the coup occured inthis capital city. 
Answers: A: Republic of Fiji Islands B: Commodore Josaia "Frank" Voreqe Bainimarama (bay-
NEE-muh-RAH-muh) C: Ratu Josefa Iloilo D: Suva 


Tossup 2: Literature (Literature) 
In this work, faling of a stool and hiting his side against the wal was the cause for themain 
character'sdeath. The title character's son kisses his handright before he dies, in one of his few 
moments of clarity.At the beginning of the book, the title character's coleagues are thinking of how 
they can gain from his demise. Name this novela by Leo Tolstoy.
Answer: The Death of Ivan Ilyich 

Bonus 2: Math (General) 
Perform the folowing operations with the complex number x equals 5 + 7 i. Give al complex 
answers in a + b i form. 
A: Find x cubed. 
B: Find the complex modulus, or norm, of x. 
C: Find xmultiplied by the quantity 2 - 3 i. 
D: Find the complex conjugate of x. 
Answers: A: -610 +182 i B: root 74 C: 31 - i D: 5 - 7 i 

Tossup 3: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
The law that got thispresident intotrouble was proposed by the Radical Republicans to prevent his 
atempted removal of Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton. That law wasthe Tenure of Ofice Act, which 
was passed in 1867, twoyears into this man's presidency.Name this impeached 17th president,the 
successor to Abraham Lincoln. 
Answer: Andrew Johnson (prompt on Johnson) 

Bonus 3: Fine Arts (Music) 
Composing sometimes runs in the blood. Given the first names of related composers, identify each 
common surname. 
A: From the Classical period, Leopold and hisson Wolfgang Amadeus. 
B: From the Romantic period, Felix and, before she maried, his sister Fanny. 
C: From the Baroque period,Johann Ambrosius,his son Johann Sebastian,and J.S.'s two sons 
Wilhelm Friedemann, and Carl Philipp Emanuel. 
D: From the Baroque period,Francesco, his brother Alessandro,and Alessandro's son Domenico. 
Answers: A: Mozart B: Mendelssohn C: Bach D: Scarlati 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

