NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 6 


Tossup 11: Literature (Language Arts) 
A few alphabetic ones have been created, though the most famous ones are geometric, like Boyd 
and Pitman, scriptlike Gabelsberger, or elipse-based, like Thomas, Teeline,and Gregg. Also caled 
brachygraphy, this method simply indicates vowel and consonant sounds, often doing so with 
squiggles withlines intersecting them. Name this class of writing systems thatcan alow taking notes 
at over 300 words per minute, which are often used by courtreporters. 
Answer: Shorthand systems (accept stenography) 

Bonus 11: Social Studies (World History) 
Answerthese questions about Carthage. 
A: The ancient city of Carthage is located in this present-day North African capital. 
B: Carthage was formed by colonists from this Phoenician city-state of the coast of modern day 
Lebanon, which was besieged by Alexanderthe Great in 332 B.C. 
C: Name this mythical founder of Carthage, who commits suicide after Aeneas leaves her in The 
Aeneid. 
D: Name the victorious Roman general who defeated Hannibal atthe previously mentioned batle. 
Answers: A: Tunis B: Tyre C: Dido D:Scipio Africanus 

Tossup 12: Science (Biology) 
Invented by Peter Mitchel in 1961, this theory explainshow ATP synthase is powered. The electron 
transport chain pumps protons into the intermembrane space of the mitochondria,causing this type 
of potential tobuild up, and the energy they generate when rushing back into the matrix powers
phosphorylation. Namethis type of electrochemical potential energy likened to a concentration 
gradient. 
Answer: Chemiosmosis (prompt on proton gradient) 

Bonus 12: Math (Calculus) 
Identify these theorems from calculus that apply to a function f(x) (f of x),that is continuous on the 
interval a to b. 
A: If d is between f(a) and f(b), there must be a valuec between a and b such that f(c) equals d.
B: There must be a value c between a and b such that f prime of c is equal to the slopeof the secant 
line from f(a) to f(b). 
C: If f(a) equals f(b), there mustbe a value c between a and b such that f prime of c equals zero. 
D: If f(x) is smooth, it can be expressed bya polynomial of infinitedegree, centered around any 
point. 
Answers: A: Intermediate Value Theorem B: Mean Value Theorem C: Role's Theorem (prompt 
on Mean Value Theorem) D: Taylor's Theorem 


Tossup 13: Social Studies (U.S.History) 
The defendant in this case had originalybeen a postmaster in Cherokee teritory, so the governor of 
Georgia had him removed from that post so he could be arested. He had violated a law that stated 
any white person had to have a license to live on Indian teritory; however, if he had applied for a
license it is unlikely he would have been granted one. In its decision, the Supreme Court mandated 
that the federal government could protect Native Americans from state governments.Name this 
1832 case which is rumored to have prompted President Jackson to say,"John Marshal hasmade 
his decision; nowlethim enforce it!" 
Answer: Worcester v. Georgia (Pronounced WOR-ster; accept reasonablepronunciations) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

