NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 7, Page 7 


Tossup 11: Literature (Literature) 
The final, modest words of his most famous work are "I shal live on in the centuries to come." He 
was a contemporary of Virgil and Propertius, but,unlike them, did not acceptthe sponsorship of the 
poet-minded Emperor, Augustus. The opening lines to thatmost famous work, "My intention is to tel 
of bodies changed to diferent forms" lead into fifteen books describing the creationof the world and 
various transformations afterward. That work was not his mostinfluential at the time, however, it was 
his Art of Love that may have led to hisexile from Rome. Identifythis Roman poet of the 
Metamorphoses. 
Answer: Pubius Ovidius Naso 

Bonus 11: Miscelaneous (Interdisciplinary) 
Name these things thatare not part of the Zodiac. 
A: In mathematics, this is a surface of revolution shaped like a doughnut. 
B: This NASA program was started in 1962 as the successorto the Mercuryprogram.Comprising 
twelve missions, it was conducted using TitanI launch vehicles. 
C: Also known as the Southern Tropic, this tropic is at 23 degrees south latitude, the southernmost 
latitude at which the sun can ever be seen directly overhead.
D: This Pope ruledfrom 440 to 461 AD, succeeding Pope Sixtus I. Sometimes giventhe epithet
"The Great," he turned Atila the Hun away from Rome, and established the supremacy of the 
papacy. 
Answers: A: Torus B:Gemini C: Tropic of Capricorn D: Pope Leo I (or Leo the Great, promptLeo)

Tossup 12: Social Studies (U.S.History) 
She revealed this real identity in 1980,and now claims that herlawyers Sarah Weddington and 
Linda Cofee forced her to take her case to court. Furthermore,she claims thatshe was notin fact
raped, and now stronglyopposes the court decision made in her favor in 1973 before the Supreme 
Court. Name this nowpro-lifewoman, the real identity of theplaintif in Roe v. Wade. 
Answer: Norma McCorvey(prompt Jane Roe) 

Bonus 12: Literature (Language Arts) 
Identify these terms named after people.
A: This is a flatering adjective for slightly plump women, named after a Flemish painter who often 
featured them in his artwork. 
B: This noun refers to switching coresponding sylables in a "tip of the slung," er, slip of the tongue, 
that wasoften commited by its namesake Oxfordwarden. 
C: This noun named after a character from Richard Sheridan's "The Rivals" refers to incorectly 
substituting a word with asimilar word, like "pineapple" for "pinnacle." 
D: This noun meaning "fanatical patriotism" is named after a French soldier who was wounded 
seventeen times butcontinued to fight for Napoleon. Now the term often refers to the belief that men 
are superior to women. 
Answers: A: Rubenesque B: Spoonerism C: Malapropism D: Chauvinism 

Tossup 13: Math (General) 
If it were false, then according to the epsilon conjecture, the Shimura-Taniyama conjecture would 
also be false. Though it took until 1999 to prove the ful Shimura-Taniyama conjecture, in 1995, it
was shown true for al semistable eliptic curves, suficientfor Richard Taylor and Andrew Wiles to 
prove this theorem. Name this famous theorem in mathematics whose proof was supposedly too 
long forits originator to write down, which states thatx to the nplus y to the n equals z to the n isnot 
true for integer triplets when n is an integerabove two. 
Answer: Fermat's last theorem 


Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

