NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 1, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Science (Biology) 
Along with thethymus, this is one of the two items that can be used to make sweetbread. The 
function of this organ was discovered when two scientists removed it from a living dog, and then 
noticed flies buzzing around a pool of the dog's urine. Identify this gland that, when not present, 
caused the dog's urine tohave an unusualy high sugar content, and which contains the Islets (EYE-
lits) of Langerhans. 
Answer: Pancreas 

Bonus 1: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Given a description, identifythese facts related to a silver or gold rush.
A: In 1859, this richest silver ore deposit was discovered in Nevada. 
B: In 1848, a gold rush began at this California man's mil. 
C: Silver ore deposits were found by Captain John M.Bulard in 1870 in the teritory that became
this state. 
D: This gold rush in theYukon teritory began in 1896 after gold was found at Rabbit Creek.
Answers: A: Comstock Lode B: John Suter C: New Mexico D: Klondike Gold Rush 

Tossup 2: Literature (Literature) 
Ironicaly, the plant refered to in the title, which symbolizedperseverance andaspirations to a beter 
life in thebook, is actualy a weed associated more with destruction than achievement.Its persistent 
growth paralels the struggle of the novel’s young protagonist, Francie, to keep a positive outlook 
despite herfamily’s poverty. Name this novel of ordinary life by BetySmith. 
Answer: A Tree Grows in Brooklyn 

Bonus 2: Miscelaneous (Other) 
Identify the folowing pieces of video game hardware.
A: This Seventh Generation console, originaly known as 'Revolution', relies heavilyon infrared 
sensitivity and internal accelerometersfor control. 
B: This 16-Bitera system featured innovativeperipheralssuch as a mouse, the Multitap, and the 
SuperScope. 
C: Sega's final video game console, it was the first console to integrate online capabilities of the 
shelf. Despite being discontinued in early2001, games are stil being made for it. 
D: Pushed to an earlyrelease in orderto fil the gap in time beforethe N64, this unpopular console 
featured red and black graphics and achieved 3D visuals through the use of paralax. 
Answers: A: Nintendo WiB: Super Nintendo Entertainment System (accept SNES) C: Sega 
Dreamcast D: Nintendo Virtual Boy 

Tossup 3: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Calculate 259 squared minus241 squared. You can do this by squaring each number and then 
subtracting your two results, though itwould be much easierto realize that the final result is equal to 
a diference of squares, and can be separated into the product of a sum and diference which is 
much easier to compute.Either way, what is 259 squared minus 241 squared? 
Answer: 9000 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

