NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 2, Page 7 


Bonus 13: Miscelaneous (Entertainment)
Given a famous line, name the movie from which it is taken. 
A: “Roads? Where we’re going we don’t need roads.” 
B: “You can’t handle the truth.” 
C: “That’s what I love about these high school girls, man. I keep geting older, they stay the same 
age.” 
D: “Fasten your seatbelts. It’s going to be a bumpy night.” 
Answers: A: Backto the Future Part I B: A Few Good Men C: Dazed and Confused D:Al About 
Eve 

Tossup 14: Literature (Literature) 
From 1948-1953, this man hosted a radio show caled Halmark Playhouse. In 1920 his first wel 
known novel, Catherine Herself, was published. A term that is a synonym fora utopia comes from 
the seting of his most famous work. Name this author who created the fictional area of Shangri-La in 
his novel “Lost Horizon.” 
Answer: James Hilton 

Bonus 14: Science (Physics)
An object is shot out of acannon at 15v2 (fifteen root two) meters per second,at 45 degrees to the 
horizontal. 
A: What is the vertical component of its velocity? 
B: Ignoring air resistance and using 10 meters per second squared as gravitational acceleration, for 
how many seconds wil the object stayairborne? 
C: How far wil it travel horizontaly before faling? 
D: What wil its maximum height be? 
Answers: (prompt for units) A: 15 meters/second B: 3 seconds C: 45 meters D: 11.25 meters (or 
45/4) 


Tossup 15: Math (Calculus) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Simplify youranswer so that it contains only one trig function, which is not raised to any power. Find 
the derivative of the function f of xequals 13 times thesine squared of 2x. Remember to use the 
chain rule, and that your answer can be simplified using a particular doubleangle identity. 
Answer: 26 sine of 4x 

Bonus 15: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Answerthe folowing questions about the 1968 Democratic National Convention. 
A: In what city was itheld? 
B: What candidate did the delegates end up selecting?
C: There was quite the fracas outside the convention. What nickname was given to the group, 
including Abbie Hofman and Jery Rubin, that was charged with inciting to riot?
D: What swinish candidate did this group atempt to nominate as President, as a member of the 
Yippie Party? 
Answers: A: Chicago, IL B: Hubert HumphreyC: The Chicago Seven (acceptChicago Eight) D: 
Pigasus the Immortal 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

