NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 7, Page 4 


Tossup 6: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
This man was the son of a Presbyterian minister and atended Princeton. An opponent of Nasser, he 
ascended to the position he ismost famousfor in 1953, andhe developed many of the plans by the 
United Statesduring the Cold War. Name this Secretary of State under Eisenhower,who shares his
name with a WashingtonD.C.airport. 
Answer: John Foster Dules 

Bonus 6: Miscelaneous (Entertainment) 
According to ForbesMagazine, these are, in order, Holywood's four most expensive movies of al 
time, adjusting for inflation. 
A: Most expensive was this 1963 movie staring Elizabeth Taylor in the titlequeen's role, at an 
adjusted price of 286 milion dolars. 
B: Second most expensive was this 1997 movie, ata price of 247 milion dolars.Fortunately, it won 
a lot of Oscars, and grossed 2.3 bilion dolars worldwide. 
C: Third mostexpensive was this 1995 post-apocalyptic movie staring Kevin Costner, at a price of 
229 milion dolars. 
D: Fourth most expensive was this 2003 movie, at a price of 217 milion dolars. Its star became 
governor of California later that year. 
Answers: A: Cleopatra B: TitanicC: Waterworld D: Terminator 3: Rise ofthe Machines (accept 
T3, prompt on Terminator) 


Tossup 7: Math (Calculus) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
At time t, a particlemoving along the xaxis has a velocityof 4 t cubedplus 6 t, meters per second. 
At time t equals 0,it has a positionof five meters. What is its position at the time when its 
acceleration equals 54 meters per second squared? Tosolve this question, youhave to find both the 
acceleration and position functions, and realize that the position function is uniquely determined by 
the starting condition. 
Answer: 33 meters (promptfor units) 

Bonus 7: Science (Biology) 
They sound awfuly similar. Namethese molecules, but preferably not ten times fast. 
A: This monosaccharide's D form is caled dextrose, and itis created during photosynthesis. 
B: This branched polysaccharide isstored in the muscles and liver, and is the primary storage for 
ingested sugar. 
C: This polypeptide hormone is secreted bythe alphacelsof the pancreas, and has the opposite 
efect from insulin. 
D: Also caled brain sugar, this monosaccharide is the consitituent of lactose that wasn't the answer
to the first part of this bonus. 
Answers: A: Glucose B: Glycogen C: Glucagon D: Galactose 

Tossup 8: Literature (Literature) 
It is divided into four voyages, the third of which encompasses five diferent locations. In the second, 
the title character almost dies of exhaustionfrom performing too much, though the eforts of Glum-
dal-clitch, a litle girl, save him. Inthe first, his eyes are almost put out for treason, as he refuses to 
take sides in the batle between big-endians and litle-endians. In his fourth and final journey, he
comes to adore the society of the Houyhnhnms (HOYN-ums), though the horses finalykick him of 
of theirisland. Name this satire about the title character's journeys, by Jonathan Swift. 
Answer: Guliver's Travels (prompt Guliver) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

