NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Known as the “Lone Eagle”, this man made advances in medicine, inventing the glass perfusion 
pump, which alows organs to be kept outsidethe body during surgery. Bruno Hauptmann is strongly 
linked to this man, Time magazine's first Man of theYear, as Hauptmann was convicted for the 
famous kidnapping and murder of this man's son. Identify this man, the first to pilot a solo non-stop 
flight across the Atlantic Ocean. 
Answer: Charles Augustus Lindbergh, Jr. 

Bonus 1: Literature (Language Arts) 
Given a description, givethe grammatical term thatis being described. 
A: It has a subject and a predicate, and forms part ofa sentence or can stand alone, depending on 
whether it's independent or not. 
B: A sequence of two or more words aranged in a grammatical construction and acting as a unit in a 
sentence. 
C: It hasa subjectand a predicate, conveys a complete thought, and has a terminal punctuation 
mark. 
D: A subject and a predicate that cannot stand alone and often answers the questions "Who?",
"How?", or "Why?" 
Answers: A: Clause B: Phrase C: Sentence D: Adverbial Clause 

Tossup 2: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the determinant of the folowing 3by3 matrix: First row 6,5, 1, second row0, 3, 2,third row 11, 
10, 8. One way to find the determinant would be to expand by minors along the left column, realizing 
that the determinant is equal to 6 times the determinant of the botom-right two-by-two matrix, plus 
11 times the determinant of the upper-right two-by-two matrix. Using this or any other technique,find 
the determinantof the matrix. 
Answer: 101 

Bonus 2: Science (Biology) 
Given a taxonomicclassification of the leopard, name whether it is a kingdom, phylum, class, order,
family, genus, or species. 
A: Chordata 
B: Felidae 
C: Mammalia 
D: Panthera 
Answers: A: Phylum B: Family C: Class D: Genus 

Tossup 3: Literature (Literature) 
He blames Southwark ale for any potential faults in his storyteling. The narator who records his 
story apologizes inadvance of the tale, asking the reader to “reflect a litle, anddon’t hold me to 
blame/There’s no sense making earnest out of game.” His livelihood is made beter by pressing his 
“goldenthumb” down on scales of measured grain. Name this pilgrim with alarge red warton his 
nose from Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales. 
Answer: The Miler 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

