NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 9 


Bonus 18: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Identify these events that occured on December 16th. 
A: This event, in whichmembers of the Sons of Liberty dressed up as Mohawk Indians to protest 
taxes,occured in 1773. 
B: In 1811 a terible earthquake occured inthis Missouri faultzone. 
C: The batle for this Tennessee city was won by Union troops under George Thomas.
D: In 1960 during a snowstorm,two airplanes colided while one of them was approaching this New 
York airport. 
Answers: A: Boston Tea Party (prompt on Tea Party) B: New Madrid C: NashvileD: Idlewild 
Airport 

Tossup 19: Literature (Literature) 
Twenty-fifth on the Modern Library's listof the bestnovels of al time,this novel begins as Mrs. 
Moore atempts to arange a mariage between her son, Ronny Heaslop,and a young English girl 
she has brought along. Neither woman isfamiliar with local English customs, however, and both are 
overly polite and interested in the natives' afairs. Things begin to go wrong in Chandrapore as a 
local doctor ofers to take them to the nearby Marabar Caves, andthe young woman, Adela 
Quested, falsely accuses Dr. Aziz of atempting rape while she is in the cave. Name this 1924 novel 
byE.M. Forster aboutthe relations between English and Indians. 
Answer: A Passage to India 

Bonus 19: Science (Biology) 
Name these requisite features of chordates. 
A: Though humans lose theirs before birth, al chordatesmust at somepoint have this feature 
extending past their anus. 
B: Chordates don't need to have vertebrae; rather, they al have this flexible rod that might or might 
not turn into vertebrae. 
C: Chordates alsoneed theseslitsin their pharynx, similarto gils. 
D: This holow tube forms from dorsal ectoderm, andis later transformed into the brain andspinal 
cord. Arthropods have ventral ones instead. 
Answers: A: Postanal tail B: Notochord C: Pharyngeal slits (accept pharyngeal pouches) D: 
Dorsal holow nerve cord (do not acceptspinal cord) 

Tossup 20: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
The work is based on a real sailoruprising during the Russian Revolution of 1905. Composed of five 
episodes, its mostfamous and dramatic is the fourth, caled "The Odessa Staircase," which features 
an apocryphal massacre of civilians by the Czar's forces on a very long staircase, where a dying 
woman knocks over her baby cariage, which toters down the stairs amidst the violence. Writen in 
1925 as a Bolshevik propaganda film, name this silentfilm by Sergei Eisensteinwhich was votedthe 
greatest film ever at the 1958World's Fair. 
Answer: The Batleship Potemkin 

Bonus 20: Social Studies (Curent Events) 
An Asiannation recently crowned its 13th king. 
A: Name that nation, formerly ruled by Tuanku Syed Sirajuddin. 
B: Name this capital where the crowning ceremony took place. 
C: Name this new ruler of that country. 
D: Name this formertitle of the answer to PartC; it isa historicaly Arabic term. 
Answers: A: Malaysia B: Kuala Lumpur C: Mizan ZainalAbidin D: Sultan 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

