NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Math (Algebra) 
Find the eccentricity of each of thefolowing conics. 
A: An elipse with equation 9 x squaredplus 18 x plus 4 ysquaredequals 27. 
B: The conic with equation x squared plus y squared equals one. 
C: The parabola with equation y equals x squared plus seven x minus four. 
D: A hyperbola where the distance from thevertices to the foci is two, and the length of the
semimajor axis is three. 
Answers: A: v5 / 3 B:0 C:1 D: 5/3 

Tossup 4: Social Studies (Curent Events) 
Santa Fe curently has the highestin the country. Of states, Washington leads,folowed by Oregon, 
Connecticut, and Vermont. Five statesdon't have one explicitly, simply abiding by the federal 
guideline, which Congress isnow seeking toraise. Ilinois is sixteenth, but recently voted for a sharp 
increase on July 1 of next year, folowed by additional yearly raises until 2010.Curently at $5.15 
federaly and $6.50 in Ilinois, name this mandated level of pay that atempts to ensurethat workers
are not exploited. 
Answer: Minimum wage (data asof December 2006) 

Bonus 4: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
Identify the central figureor figures in each of the folowing paintings by name. 
A: Self-portrait with bandaged ear 
B: The School of Athens - Name both figures. 
C: Primavera 
D: Las Meninas 
Answers: A: Vincent van Gogh B: Plato and Aristotle (either order) C: Venus (accept Aphrodite)
D: TheInfanta Margarita (acceptMargaret Theresa ofSpain) 

Tossup 5: Math (Algebra) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Convert the folowing two by three matrix to reduced row echelon form. Its top row is 3, 4,18, and
botom row1, 2, 8. Remember that row-reduced echelon form means thatthere should be ones 
along the main diagonal and zeros below the main diagonal. You are alowed to swaprows,add a 
multiple of one row to another row,or multiplyany row by a constant. It might be easier, however, to 
simply think of this matrix as a linear system, solve it, and convert back into a matrix. 
Answer: Top row: 1, 0, 2; botom row: 0,1, 3 (this can be read in any way, but do not accept any 
other answer) 


Bonus 5: Literature (Literature) 
Identify these non-English speaking poets from a description. 
A: This man,who wrote during the time of Augustus, created the phrase "Carpe Diem" and wrote Ars 
Poetica. 
B: This 11th century Persian poet wrote the Rubaiyat. 
C: This man's namehas become synonomous with an Italian sonnet, and he often wrote to a woman 
named Laura. 
D: This Chinese writer, known as the Poet Immortal, wrote Drinking Alone under the Moon. 
Answers: A: Horace (accept Quintus Horatius Flaccus) B: Omar Khayyam C: Petrarch (accept 
Francesco Petrarca) D: Li Bo (accept Li Bai or Li Po) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

