NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 2, Page 8 


Tossup 16: Miscelaneous (Sports) 
They are impossible to truly achieve in basebal, but the classic “Botom of theninth, two outs, ful 
count, bases loaded, down by one” scenario is a close representation. Derek Fisher had one to 
defeat the Spurs in the 2003-2004 NBA playofs. Name this two-word sports feat, accomplished by 
Adam Vinateri in the New EnglandPatriots’ first two SuperBowl victories and by any numberof 
athletes making a desperation shot at the very end of a quarter, half, or game.
Answer: Buzzer Beater (accept clear-knowledge equivalents) 

Bonus 16: Math (Other)
There are 3 red bals, 2 green bals, and 5 blue bals in a bag. 
A: What is the probability of selecting aredbal and then a green bal,assuming that the first bal 
selected is put back in the bag before the second is drawn? 
B: What are the odds against selecting a blue bal? 
C: What are the odds in favor of selecting a red bal? Remember to answerwith odds, not 
probability, for this and the previous part. 
D: If it costs 1 dolar to select a bal, and red bals are worth 2 dolars, green bals are worth 3 dolars,
and blue bals are 1 dolar,what is the expected value of yourchange in money? 
Answers: A: 3/50 (or 6%) B: 1 to 1 (donot accept 1 or 1 over 1) C: 3 to 7 (do not accept 3 over 7) D: 
Positive $.70 (or 70 cents) 

Tossup 17: Social Studies (U.S.History) 
It was originaly knownas Litle Hunting Creek Plantation, and the most wel known owner's half 
brother Lawrence renamed it in honor of his commander. The most famous owner lived there from 
1759 until his death in 1799. That owner's remains are on the grounds, as wel as other family 
members, including wife Martha. Name this Virginia estate on thePotomac, the former home of 
GeorgeWashington. 
Answer: Mount Vernon 

Bonus 17: Literature (Literature) 
Identify the folowing from from The Merchant of Venice. 
A: The first name of the title character.
B: The man who borows money from Shylock. 
C: What is inside the corect casket thatPortia's husband selects. 
D: Shylock's daughter, she sels a ring Shylock gave her mother and maries the Christian Lorenzo. 
Answers: A: Antonio B: Bassanio C: Portrait of Portia (accept equivalents) D: Jessica 

Tossup 18: Science (Earth Science) 
Renamed theSea RiverMediteranean after repairs, it was on its 28th voyage on March 23, 1989. 
Leaving its namesake terminal in Alaska witha ful 52 milion galons, it hit a reef in Prince Wiliam 
Sound, and spiled an estimated 10.8 milion galons of oil into the ocean. Name this oil tanker whose 
operating company merged with Mobil in 1999. 
Answer: Exxon Valdez (prompt partial answer) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

