NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 7, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Identify the folowing terms from World War I by significant numbers.
A: 14, as in the 14th of Wilson’s Fourteen Points,which laid the groundwork for the founding of this 
body that would serve to arbitrate world disputes. 
B: 13, as in the 13 Republican Senators that were given this title. Led by HenryCabotLodge, they 
would not agree with Wilson’s plan to ratify the Treaty of Versailes. 
C: 3, as in the 3 nations involved in the Triple Aliance. Name al three, al or nothing. 
D: 5, 7, and 15, as in the date of the sinking of this ship. Although denied at the time, it turns out that 
it was carying contraband, along with 128 Americans. 
Answers: A: The League of Nations B: The Ireconcilables (accept Ireconcilable) C: Germany, 
Italy, and Austria-Hungary (also accept Austro-Hungarian Empire; accept in any order) D: 
Lusitania 

Tossup 4: Math (Geometry) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
You want to find the costof the red plastic in one cylindrical plastic tumbler. You know that the 
tumblers have a radius of one and a half inches and a height of 5 inches, and have negligible width. 
The base is made of blueplastic, and the sides of red plastic, which costs four cents per pi square 
feet. Knowing thatthe amount of red plasticis equal to the lateral surface area of a tumbler, find the 
cost of red plastic in the tumbler. 
Answer: 60 cents (accept .60 dolars) 

Bonus 4: Science (Chemistry) 
Name these amino acids. 
A: Abbreviated ALA, this amino acid has a methyl group atachedto the central carbon. 
B: This amino acid, with a name similar to the amino acid in the first part, has aphenyl group 
atached to the methyl group.
C: Abbreviated GLY, this is the simplest of amino acids, and has two hydrogens atached to the 
alpha carbon. 
D: This is the only aminoacid in proteins whose side group bonds cyclicaly to the backbone. 
Answers: A: Alanine B: Phenylalanine C: Glycine D:Proline 

Tossup 5: Miscelaneous (Other) 
Invented in the mid-1910s, these are typicaly made of soft felt, though they canbe made out of twil 
or even straw. They are named for thetitle female in a play by Victorien Sardou, a princess who 
wore them.Creased down the middle, these hats are caled trilbys in Europe. Name this type of hat,
of which a red one is wornbyShadowman, the character in the logo of Red Hat Linux, and which 
lends its name to a modern "Core" Linux distribution. 
Answer: Fedora 

Bonus 5: Literature (Literature) 
Identify these facts related to a group of poets.
A: This poet,who was very fond of his siter Dorothy, wrote Lines Composed a Few Miles Above 
Tintern Abbey and Lines Writen in EarlySpring. 
B: This friend of the answer to Part A wrote Lyrical Balads with him, though this man is more famous 
for his Rime of the AncientMariner. 
C: This poet wrote After Blenheim and the Curse of Kehama. 
D: These three Romantic poets were known colectivelyas this group,named afteran English 
district. 
Answers: A: Wiliam Wordsworth B: Samuel Taylor Coleridge C: RobertSouthey D: Lake Poets 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

