NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 1, Page 3 


Bonus 3: Literature (Literature) 
War! What is it good for? A lot of wel known novels, that's what. Given a description, identify the war 
novel.
A: This novel set during the Napoleonic invasion of Russia contains the characters Piere Bezukhov 
and Petya Rostov. 
B: This novel about Henry Fleming is set during the American Civil War. 
C: Yossarian is the dissatisfied main character of this novel by Joseph Heler. 
D: This novel set during World War I is about an ambulance driver named Frederic Henry. 
Answers: A: War and Peace B: Red Badge of Courage C:Catch-22 D: A Farewel to Arms 

Tossup 4: Fine Arts (Music) 
Though its 1904 premiere was not very successful, it is now one of the most frequently performed 
operas.The tragic events begin when Goro, the matchmaker, sets up a local girl with anaval 
lieutenant, despite the protestations of the girl's family and Sharpless, the American consul. After the 
lieutenant leaves, he maries an American wife, abandoning the title character, who commits 
seppuku. Name this opera about a Japanesegeisha girl and her devotion to Lieutenant B.F. 
Pinkerton, writen by Giacomo Puccini. 
Answer: Madama Buterfly(accept Madame Buterfly) 

Bonus 4: Science (Astronomy) 
Estimate these quantities related to the sun, al to within fifteen percent. 
A: In whole minutes, this is how long it takes the sun's light toreach earth.
B: In miles, this is the distance between the earth and sun. 
C: In miles, this is the diameter of the sun. 
D: In Kelvins, this is the surface temperature of the sun. 
Answers: A: 8 minutes(7-9)B: 93 milion miles(79-107) C: 865,000miles (735,000-995,000) D: 
5778 Kelvins (4900-6650) 

Tossup 5: Social Studies (Geography) 
97 milion cubic yards of sediment were moved to create it, and in the first 15 years of its operation 
3,000 ships were grounded because it was so narow. Duringits first year, only 2 ships a day 
passed through its waters, which include Lake Manzala, Lake Timsah, and the Biter Lakes.Name 
this waterway, located between the delta of the Nile and the Sinai Peninsula, thatconnectsthe Red 
Sea to the Mediteranean Sea. 
Answer: Suez Canal (prompt on Suez; accept Qanat as-Suways) 

Bonus 5: Math (Other) 
Find the probabilities of the folowing events occuring when you rol two fair six-sided dice. 
A: You getan even sum.
B: You rol two of the same number.
C: Youget a prime sum. 
D: Youget a sum greater than eight. 
Answers: A: 1/2 B: 1/6 C: 5/12 D: 5/18 

Tossup 6: Science (Chemistry) 
With formula C7H5N3O6, it stains skin bright yelow, leading to the nickname "canary girls" for the 
World War I workers who handled it. First made by JosephWilbrand in 1863, name this chemical 
formaly named methyl-1,3,5-trinitrobenzene, a famous explosive with a three-leter name. 
Answer: TNT (accept trinitrotoluene) 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

