NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 9 


Bonus 18: Literature (Literature) 
Given a character, namethe Jane Austen heroine he maried. 
A: Colonel Brandon 
B: Mr. Knightley 
C: Captain Wentworth 
D: Edward Ferars 
Answers: A: MarianneDashwood B: Emma Woodhouse C: Anne Eliot D:Elinor Dashwood 

Tossup 19: Science (Chemistry) 
Four standard chemical quantities are this, including osmotic pressure. Another is vapor pressure, 
because Raoult's law depends on the mole fraction of each component of a solution. Name this type 
of chemical property of solutions, the other two being boiling-point elevation and freezing-point 
depression, that depend only on the molality (moh-LAL-i-tee)of solute particles in the solution. 
Answer: Coligative 

Bonus 19: Math (Calculus) 
f(x) (f ofx) is an odd function.If its definite integral from 0 to 5 is 2, from -2 to 5 is 7, and from 1 to 5
is 4, then find the folowing. 
A: The definite integral of f(x) from 0 to 1. 
B: The definite integral of f(x) from 2 to 5. 
C: The definite integral of 2 f(x) from 1 to 5. 
D: The definite integral of f(x-1) from 2 to 3. 
Answers: A: -2 B: 7 C: 8D: -3 

Tossup 20: Literature (Literature) 
This man's father was murdered by his serfs after he was cruel towards them. His first work was the 
praised "Poor Folk," though he is more famous for other works, including one about Prince Myshkin, 
an idiot. Another of his works told the story of three brothers, while hismost famous novel was about 
a student named Raskolnikov (rass-CAWL-nih-kov). Name this author of the Brothers Karamazov 
(kehr-uh-MAH-zov) and Crime and Punishment. 
Answer: Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky(accept Fedor Dostoevsky) 

Bonus 20: Social Studies (Curent Events) 
On November 1, 2006, aformer Russian inteligence oficer suddenlyfel il from an apparent case of 
poisoning. 
A: Name this Russian dissident who died on November 23 amidst worldwide media coverage.
B: He fel il from radiation poisoning after ingesting the radioactive 210 isotope of this element.
C: He was previously a lieutenant-colonel in this Russian securityorganization, the modern 
successor to the KGB. 
D: Formerly Eastern Orthodox,during his ilness he converted to this religion, and reportedly asked 
for burial rites in the same tradition. 
Answers: A: Alexander Litvinenko B: Polonium-210 C: FSB D: Islam 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

