NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 5 


Bonus 8: Math (General) 
You have two binary numbers, A and B.A equals 0 1 1,and B equals 1 0 0. Perform the folowing 
operations and give your answers in binary. 
A: A AND B 
B: A OR B 
C: A XOR (x-or) B 
D: NOT A 
Answers: A: 0 (or 0 0 0) B:1 1 1 C: 1 1 1 D: 1 0 0 

Tossup 9: Science (Chemistry) 
Its existence was rebuted by Leo Szilard, saying that it would need to expend energy to measure 
the speed of molecules, and the total entropy of the system would increaseanyway. Proposed in 
1867, it refers to a being that stands between two partitioned gas chambers, opening a trapdoor to 
letfaster molecules into one chamber, and slower molecules into another chamber. Name this 
thoughtexperiment named after a Scotish physicist, that atempts to violate the second law of 
thermodynamics.
Answer: Maxwel's demon 

Bonus 9: Literature (Mythology) 
Identify the folowing mythological transformations. 
A: This daughter of Tantalus was transformed into a rock as she weptover the loss of her fourteen 
children. 
B: This nymph of Artemis and lover of Zeus was turned into a bear, and consequently wasalmost
kiled by her son duringa hunt.
C: This nymph was changed into holow water reeds inorder to avoid the lecherous clutches of Pan.
D: This woman was turned into a white heifer after a brief afairwith Zeus in the form of a cloud. 
Answers: A: Niobe B:Calisto C: Syrinx D: Io 

Tossup 10: Social Studies (U.S.History) 
A parodyof typical Campari alcohol advertisements, the falseinterview described a prominent 
Protestant minister's "first time" with Campari.Unlike real advertisements, however, this addepicted 
him talking of the drunken tryst inthe outhouse with his mother that resulted.He sued the magazine 
that ran the ad, claiming it was libel and led to emotional distress,though it was clearly marked as a 
parody. Namethe 1988 Supreme Court casethat resulted, ruling 8-0 that the pornographic 
magazine was not libelous. 
Answer: Hustler Magazine v. Falwel (accept Flynt v. Falwel) 

Bonus 10: Science (Chemistry) 
Answerthese questions about chemicals that are not the same. 
A: Oxygen and ozone,or diamond, graphite, and fulerene. Though al pure elemental statesof their
atom, theyare caled these because they have diferentnumbers of thatatom.
B: Genericaly, chemicals with thesame chemical formula but diferent structures are caled these. 
C: This specific term refers to some chemicals, like 1-propanol and 2-propanol,that have the same 
formulabut diferent bond structures in 2D. 
D: This specific term refers to chemicals that have the same bond structures in 2D, but not in 3D. 
Answers: A: AlotropeB: Isomer C: Structural isomer (prompt on isomer)D: Stereoisomer 
(prompton isomeror geometric isomer) 


HALFTIME 



Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

