NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 8, Page 6 


Tossup 11: Social Studies (World History) 
Also known as “Operation Hummingbird,” the more popular name for this event refers to the 
slaughter of Vortigern’smen by mercenaries in Arthurian myth. The SA, led byErnst Rohm, stood as
the only threat to the Nazi Party, and Hitler was under great pressure to lessen their influence. So, 
Hitler arestedRohm, who was later shot, and ordered the murder of up to 400 men. Whatname is 
given to the nightof June 30, 1934? 
Answer: The Night of Long Knives 

Bonus 11: Math (Other)
Name these standard Unix command-line utilities. Al youranswers shouldbe two leter 
abbreviations. 
A: This program deletes or removes files. 
B: This program moves or renames files. 
C: This program copies files from one location to another. 
D: This program lists al the files in the curentdirectory.
Answers: A: rm B: mv C: cp D: ls

Tossup 12: Literature (Literature) 
In the introduction, a play is being put on for Christopher Sly, a drunk man who is being treated like a 
lord to play atrick on him. That play constitutes the rest of the actual work.In it, Hortensio wants to 
mary Bianca, but her father says thatnobody may mary Bianca until her sister ismaried. 
Hortensiogets hisfriend to mary her forherlarge dowry, because his friend believes he can cure 
his new wife's bad temper. Name this play by Wiliam Shakespeare in which Petruchio successfuly 
softens his il-temperedwife Katherine. 
Answer: The Taming of the Shrew 

Bonus 12: Fine Arts(Music) 
Name the American composers of the folowing operas.
A: Porgy and Bess
B: Treemonisha 
C: Doctor Atomic 
D: The Tender Land 
Answers: A: George Gershwin B: Scot Joplin C: John Adams D: Aaron Copland 

Tossup 13: Social Studies (Other) 
One of the ten largestorganized religions in the world, it has over23 milion members worldwide. It 
holds that humans should have anintimate relationship withGod to achieve salvation,and must
achieve this by meditating to ignore the Five Evils,as wel as Maya, the worldly distractions that 
suround them. This religion was started in the earlysixteenth century, and shaped by ten masters in
the centuries that folowed. Name this religionof the Punjab regionin India founded by Guru Nanak, 
whose holiest city is Amritsar. 
Answer: Sikhism 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

