NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 8 


Tossup 16: Social Studies (Curent Events) 
This House Commitee has been chaired by Pete Hoekstra, and it wil soon be led by Silvestre 
Reyes. Reyes waschosen ahead of Jane Harman andAlcee Hastings. Its Subcommitees include 
Oversight and Terorism, and it deals with issues involved in the colecting of information. Name this 
Commitee that has been criticized because it did not chalenge the contention that Iraq was building 
Weapons of MassDestruction.
Answer: Permanent Select Commitee onInteligence 

Bonus 16: Math (Other)
Name these terms from programming related to special areas of computers. 
A: This term refers to a program that runs non-native programs as if it were another type of 
computer. 
B: Java programs are able to run on many operating systems becauseJava runs programs through 
this sort of environment that acts like a platform-independent false computer. 
C: Programmers like to play around, and, like smal children, can do so in this sort of environment
that isolates potentialy dangerous code. One can be found on Wikipedia. 
D: Sometimes systems are isolated and setup to intentionaly atract hackers. They are given this 
name, because, like Winnie the Pooh, hackers get in trouble trying to get them. 
Answers: A: Emulator B: Virtualmachine (accept "virtual environment") C: Sandbox D: Honeypot 

Tossup 17: Miscelaneous (Sports) 
After recieving the pul, the handler might huck to someone deep down the field, or might throw to 
someone cuting in of of the stack, or if they are unable to break their mark, they might throw to their 
dump. Players who play this sportare sometimes caled flatbalers, and are generaly some of the
nicest people you might meet. Many atributethis to "The Spirit of the Game" which encompasses 
the principles of fair play, sportsmanship, and joyof playthat al players abide by.This includes 
caling one's own fouls and penalties,while workingthem out with the player who commitedthem. 
Identify this sport, in which the 175 gram Ultra-Star is the only object sanctioned for championship 
play by the UPA and is surprisingly, not madebyWham-O. 
Answer: Ultimate Frisbee 

Bonus 17: Literature (Mythology) 
Name these locations from Norse mythology. 
A: Humans live in this world,surounded byan impassable ocean. 
B: Gods live in thisworldseparate from the human world. 
C: The rainbow bridge, it connects the world of the humans with the world of the gods. 
D: The World Tree, it isthoughtto connect al nine worlds. 
Answers: A: Midgard B: Asgard C: Bifrost D: Yggdrasil 

Tossup 18: Math (General) 
He moved to St. Petersburg in 1727, and after Daniel Bernouli left, becamethe head of the local 
academy's mathematics department. Losing sight in his righteye in1735, he was rendered 
completely blind by a cataract in his left. Heremained productiveafterwards,however, because of 
his phenomenal memory, which alowed him to recite the Aeneid from heart. Name this 
mathematician, the inventor of modern function notation and the calculus of variations, discovererof 
the power series for arctangent and e, and Swiss namesake of the identity that zero equals one plus 
e to the i pi. 
Answer: Leonhard Euler 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

