NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 2, Page 2 



Tossup 1: Math (Other)- Computational (30 Seconds) 
Find the rootmean square,or RMS, of the set 1, 2,3, 4, 5. To compute this, you can use the fact 
that the RMS squared is equal to the sum of the mean squared and the populationstandard 
deviationsquared. However,it would probably be easier to remember thatthe RMS is defined as the 
square root of the quotient of the sum of the squares of the numbers, divided by the number of 
numbers. In other words, you can simply addup one squared through five squared, divide byfive, 
and take the square root. 
Answer: v11 

Bonus 1: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Identify these facts related to the 1890Congress. 
A: That congress convened duringthe term of this 23rd president. 
B: This act was the first legislative atempt to interfere with business. 
C: Named after a future president, thisprotective tarif rewarded nations that used American goods. 
D: Because of the large amount of money it spent, the1890 congress became known as this. 
Answers: A: Benjamin Harison (prompt on Harison) B:Sherman Anti-Trust Act C: McKinley 
Tarif D: Bilion-Dolar Congress 

Tossup 2: Literature (Literature) 
Bertram Roomford says of him “I could carve a beter man out of a banana,” and the novel is a non-
sequential series of his blunders. After being captured along with Roland Weary, he is held as a 
prisoner of war. Twentyyears later,he sufers a terible head injury in a plane crash, making him 
unable to perform his job as an optometristin Ilium, New York. Name this character who became 
“unstuck in time,” the protagonist of Slaughterhouse-Five? 
Answer: BilyPilgrim 

Bonus 2: Fine Arts (Music) 
Identify the Russian composers of the folowing works. 
A: Peter and the Wolf 
B: The Queen of Spades 
C: Prince Igor 
D: Scheherazade 
Answers: A: SergeiProkofiev B: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky C: Alexander Borodin D: Nikolai 
Rimsky-Korsakov 

Tossup 3: Miscelaneous (Other) 
Founded in 1892, it originaly sold sporting goods, including the rifle that Ernest Hemingway kiled 
himself with. In 1909 it started publishing its catalog, which has createdcontroversyin recent years. 
Also controversial are logos on the clothing it sels, including possibly racist caricatures, and sexist
phrases like "Who needs brains when you have these" printed on the front of female clothing. Name 
this clothing companyfounded by twomen, whose catalog cameunder fire in the late 1990s for its 
pictures of nude models. 
Answer: Abercrombie & Fitch (prompt on Abercrombie) 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

