NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 5, Page 5 


Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Visual Art) 
Given a description of a Northern European artist, name him. 
A: This painter of "Girl With a Pearl Earing" spent much of his life in Delft. 
B: This father of a painter with thesame name painted "The Tower of Babel." 
C: This Flemish painter developed oil painting, and painted such works as "The Arnolfini Portrait." 
D: This 20th centurypainter is known forhis mathematical related works, including "Drawing Hands." 
Answers: A: Jan VermeerB: PieterBrueghel the Elder (prompt on Brueghel) C: Jan Van Eyck D: 
M(aurits) C(ornelis) Escher 

Tossup 9: Math (Calculus) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Calculate the limit, as h approaches zero, of three to the powerof the quantity three plus h, close 
quantity, minus 27, al divided by h. Because this limitis of the form zero over zero, you can evaluate
it using l'Hopital's rule, or alternatively, by recognizing thatit is the limit definition of a derivative.
Answer: 27 ln 3 (27 times the natural log of 3) 

Bonus 9: Science (Earth Science)
Identify these terms related to glaciers. 
A: There are two main categories of glaciers, the continental type, and this type found near
mountains. 
B: As a glacier moves, it leaves behind this, a name for glacial sediment. 
C: From the Welsh for "valey," this three leter word refers to a curved region with a lip formed by 
glaciermovement. 
D: Glaciers can also form curved hils, caled this from the Gaelic for "hil crest."
Answers: A: Alpine glacier B: Moraine C: Cwm (pron. coom) D: Drumlin 

Tossup 10: Literature (Mythology)
It is sometimes lent to Athena, and in rare cases to Apolo. In theIliad, Apolo uses it to push the 
Achaeans back to their ships prior to revivingthe woundedHector. In some stories it is made from 
the flayed skin of various defeated enemies, both of Athena and of Zeus. This awful to behold item is 
sometimes described as adorned with golden tassels and a likeness of a gorgon in the center of it. 
Identify this protective item, which, as a shield,features into an epithet of Zeus in the Iliad, and 
according to Homer was forged for him byHephaestus. 
Answer: Aegis 

Bonus 10: Miscelaneous (Other) 
Identify the folowing webcomics.
A: This is arguably the most famous webcomic, featuring dialoguerife with vulgarities, cracks about 
the video game industry, and characters Gabe andTycho. 
B: This is another very popular webcomic,produced by Fred "Piro" Galagher, who draws it inthe 
style of aJapanese manga. 
C: Writen by Scot Kurtz, this comic is about a magazine publishing company,and features 
characters Brent,Jade, Cole,Francis and Skul the Trol. 
D: It is a gaming related webcomic andanimated series writen byTim Buckley, known online as 
Absath. It is named foran unpopular computerkeyboard shortcut. 
Answers: A: Penny Arcade B: Megatokyo C:PvP or Player vs. Player D:Ctrl+Alt+Del ("Control 
Alt Delete") 


HALFTIME 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

