NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 5 


Tossup 9: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Its name was taken in part from words spoken by Winston Churchil in1940, and it lasted from 
December 16th, 1944 to January16th, 1945. Occuringin the Ardennes Forest, the 101st Airborne 
became famous there for surviving while being surounded at Bastogne. Paton's Third Army finaly 
broke through the encirclement in late December,which led to theevacuation of the Germans.
Name this final German ofensive of World War I.
Answer: Batle of the Bulge (acceptArdennes Ofensive before Ardennes is mentioned) 

Bonus 9: Math (General) 
You have six beads, three of which areidentical. 
A: In how many distinguishable ways can you order the beads in a straightline? 
B: How many more distinguishable ways would you have to order thebeads if you could tel the 
identical beads apart? 
C: How manydistinguishable pairs of beads can you take out of these six beads? Order does not 
mater. 
D: How manydistinguishable necklaces canyou make outof the six beads and a piece of string? 
Answers: A: 120 B: 600 C:7 D: 20 

Tossup 10: Miscelaneous (Sports) 
From 1992 to 1995, he managed four straight Rookies of the Year; Eric Karos, Mike Piazza, Raul 
Mondesi, andHideo Nomo. He retired in 1996, but was the third base coach in the 2001 Al Star 
Game when Vladimir Guerero's bat splintered towards him, knocking him over. Name this longtime 
manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers, whoalso managed the 2000 US Olympic basebal team to the 
gold medal. 
Answer: TommyLasorda 

Bonus 10: Social Studies (World History) 
Answerthe folowing questions about the Medici family. 
A: This Italian city was the Medici stronghold. 
B: This Medici, known as the Magnificent, is the most famous of al thefamily members and lived
during the Renaissance. 
C: This member of the Medici family was the Queen of France and the wife of Henry I.
D: This building, whichis now an art galery that has works such as Primavera, was once an ofice 
building for the Medicis. 
Answers: A: Florence B: Lorenzo de Medici C: Catherine deMedici D:Ufizi Galery

HALFTIME 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

