NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 6, Page 2 


Tossup 1: Social Studies (World History) 
Born Tafari Makonnen, his father was the governor of Harar, and died when he was only13. At age 
19, he inherited the post, and in 1928, atage 36, was crowned king by Empress Zewditu. Selected 
byTime Magazine in 1935 as Man of the Year, five years after receiving his final post, onlyone year 
later, Italy invaded his country, and he was sent into exile. Name this man who Rastafarians 
consider God incarnate, who acted as Emperor of Ethiopia from 1930 until 1974. 
Answer: EmperorHaileSelassieI 

Bonus 1: Literature (Literature) 
Identify the folowing about ashort story. 
A: In this short story, two people, Bil Driscol and the narator, try to raise money for a town-lot 
scheme through the title action.
B: The father of the title figure, whom the narator cals "respectable and tight" and "a mortgage 
fancier." 
C: The title event takes place in and right outside this Alabama town. 
D: At the end, the two main characters end up forking over how much money? 
Answers: A: The Ransom of Red Chief B: Ebenezer Dorset (accept Dorset)C: SummitD: $250 

Tossup 2: Math (Geometry) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
Howmany sides does a regular polygon have, if each internal angle measures 171 degrees? This 
problem is easiest if you recal that the external angles of the polygon must add up to 360 degrees, 
that there is one external angle per side, and that eachexternal angle is supplementary to an 
internal angle. 
Answer: 40 

Bonus 2: Science (Astronomy) 
Name these comets. 
A: In 1994, this comet colided with Jupiter.
B: Seen every 75 years, Mark Twain was born and died in years that this cometpassed by Earth. 
C: This very bright comet with a hyphenated name is sometimes known as "The Great Comet of 
1997,"for the lasttime it passed by Earth. 
D: Also known as "The Great Comet of 1996," this comet is named after the Japanese amateur 
astronomer who discovered it. 
Answers: A: Shoemaker-Levy 9 B: Haley('s) comet C: Hale-Bopp D:Hyakutake 

Tossup 3: Literature (Literature) 
Scholars have noted that the form of this 1889 poem,one short line folowing a longer line,actualy 
mimics the content of the poem. The wavelike nature of that form is veryappropriate for this poem, 
which is largely considered to be composed as the author's own elegy, as the poem has a tone of 
finality aboutit.Identify this poem, an extended metaphor comparing death to traversing a sandbar, 
that traditionaly closes out any anthologized versions of Alfred, Lord Tennyson's poetry. 
Answer: Crossing theBar 





Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

