NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 3, Page 9 


Tossup 19: Literature (Literature) 
This writer batled clinical depression and bipolar disorder, though she was stila confessional poet. 
She was maried to future British Poet Laureate Ted Hughes, and she is known mainly for one novel 
and thefact that she commited suicide. Name this writer, who made Peanut Buter and Jely 
sandwiches for her children before sticking her head inthe oven, that wrote Daddy and TheBel Jar. 
Answer: Sylvia Plath 

Bonus 19: Math (Algebra) 
Answerthe folowing questions about the conic section with equation 9 x squared plus 18 x plus 16 y 
squared equals 135. 
A: What typeof conic section is it?
B: What are the coordinates of its center? 
C: What is thelength of its major axis? 
D: What are the coordinates of one of itsfoci? 
Answers: A: Elipse B: (-1,0) C:8 D: (-1 - v7,0) or (-1 + v7,0) (accept either orboth) 

Tossup 20: Science (Chemistry) 
First patented in 1908 by its namesake, he won a Nobel Prize in 1918 for developing it. To favor the 
forwardreaction, it is typicaly used at 200 atmospheres of pressure and 500 degrees celsius, along 
with an osmium, uranium, or more commonly, iron catalyst. Name this chemical process used to 
make artificial fertilizers,that convertsnitrogen and hydrogen gasinto ammonia. 
Answer: Haber-Bosch process 

Bonus 20: Social Studies (U.S. History) 
Identify the folowing facts about the formation of U.S. Steel. 
A: A Pitsburgh based company started bythis Scotsman was formed a large part of U.S. Steel. 
B: Elbert Gary owned this Chicago based Steel company that was also crucial to themerger. 
C: This wel known financier helped buy outthe answer to Part A.
D: This man was the first president of U.S. Steel; a wel known contemporary finance business 
shares his name.
Answers: A: Andrew Carnegie B: Federal Steel Company C: John Pierpont Morgan D: Charles 
Michael Schwab 

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS: 

Tossup 21: Science (Biology) 
Mostly efective against gram-positive bacteria, its original discoverer thought itwould not be useful 
for humans. Combined, however, with the drug probenecid, it lasted longerinthe body before being 
excreted, a discovery which, along with its mass production, won the 1945 Nobel Prize in Medicine 
for Howard Florey, Ernst Chain, and itsoriginal discoverer, Alexander Fleming. Name this common 
antibiotic which was isolated from a similarly-named mold. 
Answer: Penicilin (accept penicilium) 

Bonus 21: Science (Physics)
Name these classes of particles from particlephysics. 
A: Thesefundamental particles come in six flavors,the most heavy of which isthe "top." 
B: Thesefundamental particles also have six flavors, including the muon, tau, and electron. 
C: Like protons and neutrons, these particles are always made up of three quarks. 
D: This type of boson mediates a force, like the W, Z, and photon. 
Answers: A: Quark B: Lepton C: Baryon (do not accept fermion) D: Gauge boson (accept vector 
boson)

Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

