NewTrier Varsity 2006  Round 1, Page 8 


Bonus 16: Literature (Literature) 
Given a fictional family, name the author who created it. 
A: Sutpen 
B: Finch 
C: Tyrone 
D: Glass 
Answers: A: Wiliam Faulkner B: Harper Lee C: Eugene O'NeilD: Jerome David Salinger 

Tossup 17: Math (Other) - Computational (30 Seconds) 
What isthe probability that you rol a sum of less than five on three six-sided dice? To solve this 
problem, you can realize that the only sums that satisfy thisquestion are three and four,and that the 
answer is simplythe numberof ways you can rol a three or a four, divided by the total numberof 
results possible. 
Answer: 1/54 

Bonus 17: Miscelaneous (Entertainment)
Did you watch TGIF when you were younger? Wel, you should have, because it wouldrealyhelp 
you with this bonus. Given a list of characters, name the show that appeared in ABC's TGIF lineup. 
A: ShawnHunter, Topanga (tuh-PANG-guh) Lawrence, and Cory Mathews. 
B: HarveyKinkle, Salem Saberhagen thetalking cat,and Zelda Spelman. 
C: J.T. Lambert, Dana Foster, and Jean-Luc Rieupeyroux (ree-pah-ROO). 
D: Carl Winslow, Waldo Geraldo Faldo, and Steve Urkel. 
Answers: A: Boy Meets World B:Sabrina the Teenage Witch C: Step by Step D: Family Maters 

Tossup 18: Social Studies (World History) 
This group was created bythe National Convention on April 6 1793. It had 12 members and acted 
asthe executive government of France until 1795. Famous members included the scientist Lazare 
Carnot; the mayorof Paris, Jerome deVileneuve; and the politician Georges Danton. While being 
ledbyits most famous Jacobin member, itlaunched its policies of Total War and The Reign of 
Teror. Name this commiteeled by Maximilien Robespiere which denounced thousands of 
Frenchman as enemies of the French Revolution,and had them executed by guilotine. 
Answer: The Commitee of Public Safety 

Bonus 18: Science (Biology) 
Name these lobes of the human brain. 
A: This anterior lobe of the brain controls judgment and personality. 
B: This caudal lobe of the brain contains the primary auditory cortex and helps process auditory 
signals, comprehension, and verbal memory. 
C: This smalest posterior lobe of the brain contains the primary visual cortex and processes visual 
data. 
D: This cranial posterior lobe of the brain is not wel understood, but is known to integrate sensory
information. 
Answers: A: Frontal lobe B: Temporal lobe C: Occipital lobe D: Parietal lobe 

Tossup 19: Literature (Literature) 
Its publication was an extraordinary event in Soviet literary history, as it was the first account of 
Stalinist repression to beopenly distributed. Name this novel, which describes the life of a prisoner 
in a labor camp in the 1950s, by Alexander Solzhenitsyn. 
Answer: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich 




Aegis Questions © 2006  htp:/www.aegisquestions.com/ 

