Semis:
[History]
1. The aim of those who instituted this short-lived
turbulent era was to eliminate all internal
counterrevolutionary elements, to raise new armies and
to assure food supplies for the armies and cities, but
it essentially became a war dictatorship set up to
rule their country in its national emergency. While it
answered the need for a strong executive and saved
France from anarchy and military defeat, its effect
upon public opinion, especially foreign opinion, was
extremely harmful to the Revolutionary cause because
of its harsh measures. For ten points, name this
period of the French Revolution that lasted for a
brief time from September 1793 to July 1794, during
which hundreds of executions of presumed enemies of
the state were carried out.
Reign of Terror

BONUS: Given the description of an event, person, or
group of the French revolutionary period, name it for
5 points each with a 5-point bonus for all correct.

Political group that led France during the Reign of
Terror. Jacobins
Dominant member of the Jacobins, overthrown in 1794. 
Maximilien Robespierre
French king deposed by the Revolution. Louis XVI
Motto of the Revolutionaries in French, LEF for short.
Liberté, égalité, fraternité 
Roland Garros-sounding agreement. Tennis Court Oath

[Music] 
2. He was the godfather of Carl Phillip Emmanuel Bach,
who succeeded him at his position of music director
for the five major churches in Hamburg. He wrote 21
violin concertos and eight concertos for two violins,
as well as horn, trumpet and recorder concertos. He
had a very long career compared to his contemporaries
and was extremely prolific in his chamber and church
music. He also wrote opera, to little acclaim, that
is rarely heard today. For ten points, name this
Baroque period composer who composed more music than
Bach and Handel combined.
Georg Phillip Telemann

BONUS: 30-20-10- Name the symphony.
30: Its scherzo is short and contains a bass solo.
20: It was one of the first symphonies to be based on
a single rhythmic motif.
10: Many have thought it illustrates fate or tragedy.
Beethoven's 5th Symphony

[Sociology]
3. Amazingly, most of this man's work was written in a
period of semiretirement he started at the age of 40,
following a nervous breakdown. His ideas put the word
"charisma" into common usage, applying the word in
reference to the term for the divine grace God bestows
on saints, to the "gifts" of certain great leaders who
seem to derive their authority from a higher power.
Most famously, he linked the Calvinistic depiction of
work as a religious calling to the development of an
enterprise culture in which capitalism thrives. FTP,
name this German sociologist, known for coining the
phrase "Protestant work ethic" in the 1904-5 essay The
Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. 
Max Weber

BONUS: Answer these questions about sociology. (10
points each)
The man who coined the term "sociology" in 1839:
Auguste Comte
British philosopher and proponent of Social Darwinism:
Herbert Spencer
Influential 20th century Harvard sociologist known for
his compelling but often untested and contradictory
theories: Talcott Parsons 

[Physics]
4. This term, coined by German physicist Rudolf
Clausius in 1850, describes an idea that helps explain
why a heat engine is never 100% efficient, or why heat
can never be converted entirely into work. In fact,
this value measures the portion of heat lost in a
system when used to do work, and underlies all energy
conversion processes through its importance to the
second law of thermodynamics. FTP, name this term,
which can be interpreted to describe the level of
randomness or disorder in a system.
entropy

BONUS: Given a thermodynamic formula, name the
quantity it describes for 15 points each.
&#8721;(energy of bonds formed) - &#8721;(energy of
bonds broken): enthalpy
&#8710;H - T&#8710;S, read "change in enthalpy minus
temperature times the change in entropy": 
Gibbs free energy

[His]
5. Her first husband was Gnaeus Domiticus Ahenobarbus.
Her actions in her later years were all for the
purpose of gaining supreme power in the Roman Empire
for her son. She was the sister of one emperor, the
wife of another, and the mother of a third. FTP, name
this mother of Nero. 
Agrippina the Younger (prompt on Agrippina) 

BONUS:
Agrippina the Younger was related to three Roman
emperors. Therefore, this bonus is about Roman
emperors; name the emperor described for ten points
each. 

If Augustus was the first Roman Emperor, name this
fourth Roman emperor, who gained the throne when his
predecessor was killed by the praetorian guards, and
to whom Agrippina was married. 
Claudius

Name this third Roman emperor, who reigned for fours
years before being killed by his guards, and to whom
Agrippina was a sister. 
Caligula

Finally, name the first emperor to reign in 69 AD, the
year of the four emperors. 
Galba

[His/Lit]
6. This man was the prison psychologist for the
majority of the 1945 - 1946 war crimes trial in
Nuremberg, Germany. He later published a book
consisting of some of his notes on the defendants,
called Nuremberg Diary. FTP, name the author of the
Psychology of Dictatorship. 
G. M. Gilbert

BONUS:
Given the description of the person associated with
trial, name him or her FTP each. 

This man was the chief prosecutor for the Soviet Union
during the trial, a general, and appointed Chief
Prosecutor of the USSR upon his return and stayed in
that post until the 1980s. 
Roman Rudenko

This man assumed the roles of Rudolf Hess upon the
latter's flight to England. He was tried in absentia
at the trial and sentenced to death by hanging. 
Martin Bormann

This man was Leader of the German Labor Front. He
committed suicide in his cell following the
indictment. 
Robert Ley

[Lit] 
7. This philosopher promoted the idea that reality
exists as an absolute mind containing all truth, which
is gradually revealed through human experience and
knowledge. He suggested that the true understanding
of anything must be based on its origins and its
evolution into what it currently is. In accordance
with this idea of historicism, his dialectic consists
of taking two opposite ideas, a thesis and an
antithesis, and taking the best elements of each to
form a higher truth. FTP, name this German, who in
1807 published The Phenomenology of Spirit.
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel

BONUS:
Identify these other philosophers from works FTPE.

Summa Theologica
Thomas Aquinas

A Treatise of Human Nature
David Hume

Thus Spake Zarathustra
Friedrich Nietzche

[His] 
8. He was born in 1738 in Ireland. At age 18 he was
commissioned as an officer in the British army and
fought in the French and Indian War before immigrating
to America in 1772. He was commissioned as a brigadier
general in the fledgling colonial army and commanded
an expeditionary force sent to Canada that captured
Montreal. On December 4, 1775 his forces laid siege to
Quebec. Although his troops were greatly outnumbered,
he led several daring attacks on the fortress. On
December 31, he was killed by cannon fire. FTP, name
this man after whom a county in Maryland is named
after.
Richard Montgomery

BONUS:
Montgomery County, Maryland, is named after Richard
Montgomery. For 5 points each and a 5 point bonus for
all correct, name the Maryland county given the brief
clue.

Located in Washington, D.C. metro area. Named after a
prince of Denmark from the 17th century.
Prince George's

Name derived from family name of Lord Baltimore. 
Contains Jack Bay.
Calvert

Located on Chesapeake Bay. Named for the Earl of
Dorsets.
Dorchester

Named for the daughter of Thomas Arundell of Wardour. 
Includes Smith and South Marsh Islands in the
Chesapeake Bay.
Somerset

Named for county of the same name bordering the
English Channel in southeast England. Contains
Langford Bay.
Kent

[Lit]
9. The Duke of Vienna needs someone to clean up his
randy town. He appoints Angelo because he will
strictly enforce the town's laws against fornication
and prostitution. Angelo's first criminal is Claudio,
who consummated his marriage prematurely, and Claudio
is sentenced to death. However, Angelo is willing to
let Claudio off the hook if Claudio's virgin sister
Isabella agrees to sleep with him. Eventually, the
Duke, who has been in disguise the whole time,
uncovers Angelo's scheme in, FTP, what Shakespearean
comedy?
Measure for Measure

(Note: Because this question mentions fornication and
prostitution, it is probably the dirtiest question in
this tournament, thanks to his majesty, the STD Jeff
Cohen.)

BONUS: It's time for a Shakespeare bonus! Given the
characters, identify the work for ascending point
values.
5: Fluellen, Pistol, Henry V Henry V
10: Parolles, Helena, Bertram All's Well That Ends
Well
15: Don John, Claudio, Hero Much Ado About Nothing

[Hist]
10. He is a native of Chicago, and in his law practice
there he developed a specialization in antitrust law. 
In the Supreme Court he has expressed a concern for
maintaining the integrity of the electoral processes,
such as in his majority opinion in the 1983 case
Anderson v. Celebreeze. He has established a
reputation for independence and moderation, and is not
easily associated with any particular voting bloc. 
FTP, identify Gerald Ford's only nominee to the
Supreme Court.
John Paul Stevens

BONUS:
Given the president and the year that a justice was
added to the court, name the justice for ten points
apiece.

1) Bush, 1990 David Souter
2) Clinton, 1994 Stephen Breyer
3) Reagan, 1981 Sandra Day O'Connor

[Hist]
11. Mustapha Kemal is elected president of Turkey and
120,000 die in an earthquake in Tokyo and Yokohama. 
Millikan wins the Nobel Physics Prize for his work on
the elementary electric charge and Yeats takes the
Nobel for Literature. President Harding dies and the
Beer Hall Putsch falls through. FTP, name the year in
which all of these events took place.
1923

BONUS:
1923 was important year, but can you name this other
important year on a 30-20-10 basis.

30: A gas leak from a pesticide plant at Bhopal
resulted in the deaths of at least 3,300 people.
20: East and West Germany achieved better relations
with new financial and travel accords.
10: Madonna's Like A Virgin is number two on the
charts and Ghostbusters by Ray Parker Jr. finishes the
year at number 4, but the number 1 spot goes to
Prince's When Doves Cry.
1984

[Lit] 
12. "No grades were given, but there were oral exams
each week. You were expected to respond to questions,
and you were expected to pose questions of your own. 
You were also required to perform physical tasks now
and then, such as lifting the professor's head to a
comfortable spot on the pillow or placing his glasses
on the bridge of his nose. Kissing him good-bye
earned you extra credit. No books were required, yet
many topics were covered, including love, work,
community, family, aging, forgiveness, and, finally,
death. The last lecture was brief, only a few words. 
A funeral was held in lieu of graduation. Although no
final exam was given, you were expected to produce one
long paper on what was learned. That paper is
presented here." This highly acclaimed book bears the
above introduction and is subtitled "An old man, a
young man, and life's greatest lesson." FTP, name
this book written by Mitch Albom about his weekly
meetings with the title character, his old college
professor, who was dying from Lou Gehrig's Disease.
Tuesdays with Morrie

BONUS:
For 10 points each, answer the following questions
about Tuesdays with Morrie.

What city does Mitch travel to each week to meet with
Morrie each week?
Boston

What strenuous physical activity did Morrie Schwartz
love to engage in?
Dancing (or equivalent)

At what university near Boston, Massachusetts, did
Morrie teach and Mitch graduate from?
Brandeis University

[GK] 
13. Related to Estonian and possibly even Korean, this
language has no gender, no articles, and no equivalent
of the English "to have." It is a highly inflected
language in which such words as prepositions exist as
suffixes, there are 15 distinct cases of nouns, a
sentence may be turned into a question by appending
the syllable "ko" to a verb, and in negative sentences
the word "ei" (pronounced like "A", as in "A-Team") is
conjugated instead of the verb. FTP, name the
language of the Kalevala (KAH-le-VA-la), which is
spoken in such cities as Tampere (TAM-puh-REH), Espoo
(ES-poh), and Helsinki.
Finnish

BONUS:
Name the official language or languages of the
following countries for increasing point values.

5 points: Canada
English and French

10 points: Switzerland
German, French, and Italian

15 points: Ethiopia
Amharic

[Sci]
14. The Marsh test can detect even trace amounts of
this chemical element, which is added to Germanium to
strengthen semiconductor devices and to molten lead to
ensure that bullets are perfectly spherical. One
compound of it is Salvarsan, used to treat syphilis,
yet it also appears in many insecticides and poisonous
gases. FTP, name this semimetal with atomic number
33.
Arsenic

BONUS:
For five points apiece, name the element, given its
atomic number.

1) 14 Silicon
2) 12 Magnesium
3) 31 Gallium
4) 10 Neon
5) 79 Gold
6) 80 Mercury

[Sci] 
15. Some who hate Microsoft would argue that anyone
who uses Windows deserves all of its "features," and
this is no exception. Even Bill Gates couldn't avoid
it when he was demonstrating Windows 98 at a Comdex
trade show. An unsuspecting user of a buggy, unstable
system such as Windows 95 might be surprised to see
its message, with such intimidating lines as "A fatal
exception 0E has occured" and "The current application
will be terminated." FTP, name this Microsoft
phenomenon, whose green cousin was seen recently when
X-Box demos crashed at retailers around the country
and which features white text on a blue background. 
Blue Screen of Death (prompt on Blue Screen)

BONUS:
The Blue Screen of Death isn't the only bad thing to
have come from Microsoft in recent years. Name these
other mistakes from that wacky computing monopoly for
increasing point values. 

5 points: This e-mail program is so poorly written,
with such "features" as the automatic execution of
programs and scripts attached to e-mails, that it has
fallen prey to dozens of worms such as ILOVEYOU,
Melissa, Sircam, and Nimda.
Microsoft Outlook

10 points: This overgrown animated office supply
really tries hard to help Microsoft Office users, but
it usually gets things wrong in the end. Unless turned
off by default (which is now automatic in Office XP),
it pops up at semi-random times to offer advice and
links to "Help" articles. 
Clippy (also accept "Office Assistant")

15 points: This family-oriented interface turned the
Windows 3.1 desktop into a model home, with rooms,
furniture and more, and used cartoon characters and a
handful of programs such as Letter Writer and
Checkbook to ostensibly make a family's life easier
through computing. 
Microsoft Bob

[Math] 
16. Pencil and paper ready. FQTP, What is the
integral from negative pi/3 to positive pi/3 of
(x*cos(x) + 3)dx (read: "x cosine x plus 3")?
2 pi (2&#960;)

BONUS:
Identify the following related mathematical statements
FTPE. 
(Note to reader: do not give the answers until all 3
parts have been read)

Every positive integer can be decomposed uniquely into
a product of powers of primes.
Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic

Every nth degree polynomial has n roots.
Fundamental Theorem of Algebra 

Differentiation is the inverse of integration; the
integral of a function over some interval is the
difference in values of its anti-derivative at that
interval's endpoints.
Fundamental Theorem of Calculus