Round 6 

LETTER ROUND 

The Letter V 

This physicist studied deviations from the ideal gas
law equation and developed an equation to describe
gases in which the effects of intermolecular forces
are appreciable.
Johannes Van der Waals 

In 1623, this man was appointed official court painter
to Philip IV of Spain. Identify this artist whose
best-known work is Las Meninas.
Diego Velazquez 

This Pacific city is Russia's chief eastern port and
population center.
Vladivostok 

In his work Dracula, Bram Stoker modeled Count Dracula
after this Transylvanian tyrant.
Vlad the Impaler 

Some stars appear to flicker, brightening and dimming
over a short period of time. What is the term for
these stars that change magnitudes over a period of a
few hours up to several hundred days.
Variable Stars 

Despite the Catholic Church's ban on dissection, this
man studied human cadavers and became the first
anatomist.
Andreas Vesalius 

This British rank is above a baron and below an earl.
Viscount 

The satiric style of this 18th and 19th century
American, Socialist writer, and social critic allowed
him to coin famous phrases such as "conspicuous
consumption."
Thorstein Veblen 

In 66AD, Emperor Nero put this man in charge of the
war against the Jews in Judea. He eventually became
Roman Emperor and was succeeded by his sons Titus and
Domitian.
Titus Flavius Vespasian 

This city held the 1986 World's Fair, of which the
theme was transportation and communication. Name this
city, which has landmarks such as the General Motors
Palace where the Canucks play, Lighthouse Park and the
University of British Columbia; the city is also
located near Seattle, Washington.
Vancouver, British Columbia 

REPLACEMENTS 

This military term is used in reference to the troops
who march in front of an army.
Vanguard 

In 1736, this Enlightenment philosopher began a
correspondence with the future Frederick the Great of
Prussia. Identify this man, born François Marie
Arouet, whose most famous work is Candide.
Voltaire 


UNTIMED INDIVIDUAL 

Team A 

This element has atomic number 104. It was named in
honor of the man who coined the term nucleus from his
observations in the gold foil experiment.
Rutherfordium 

This African country borders the Atlantic Ocean to the
west, Western Sahara to the north, Algeria in the
northeast, Mali in the east, and Senegal in the
southwest. Identify this country, whose capital and
largest town is Nouakchott.
Mauritania 

10 seconds - Factor completely: 2x2-x-1.
(2x+1)(x-1) 

Some of this American boxer's fights were viewed as
symbolic of certain military conflicts occurring in
the world at the time. One example is his 1938 fight
with Max Schmeling, the German fighter who had beaten
him two years before. Name this boxer, nicknamed the
"Brown Bomber."
Joe Louis 

This little used SI unit is used to measure the dose
equivalent and has units of Joules per kilogram.
Sievert 

Team B 

This element has atomic number 107. It was named in
honor of the man who theorized that electrons move
around the nucleus of an atom in restricted orbits and
created the first physical model of an atom.
Bohrium 

This African country borders Zambia to the west,
Tanzania to the north, and Mozambique in the east,
south, and southwest. Identify this country whose
capital is Lilongwe.
Malawi 

10 seconds - Factor completely: 3x2-9x+6
3(x-2)(x-1) 

According to Herodotus' History, the Greek forces at
Thermopylae were heavily outnumbered in part because
many city-states had kept soldiers home because these
sporting events were due soon. Name these games,
suppressed by Theodosius I.
The Olympic Games 

This little used SI unit is used to measure inductance
and is obtained when the change of current of 1 ampere
per second in a coil produces a countervoltage of 1
divided by the number of Volts.
Henry 

REPLACEMENTS 

This material was not common until the 16th century,
when stoppers were made from it for glass bottles.
Name this material, found on a tree, that shares its
name with the second largest city in Ireland. 
Cork 

This solid-body electric guitar was first made in the
1950's and has changed very little since then. Name
this guitar, very popular with Rock and Roll
musicians, developed by Fender. 
Stratocaster 


CATEGORY ROUND 

Given the country, identify its monetary unit.

Thailand
Baht 

Russia
Ruble 

India
Rupee 

Turkey
Lira 

Poland
Zloty 

Panama
Balboa 

China
Yuan (accept Renminbi) 

Sweden
Krone 

Netherlands
Guilder 

South Africa
Rand 

REPLACEMENTS 

Israel
New Shekel 

Yugoslavia
New Dinar 


TIMED INDIVIDUAL 

Team A 

"Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again" is the
first sentence to this novel.
Rebecca 

Find the circumference of the circle with the equation
(x-1)^2 + (y-2)^2 = 25.
10*pi 

Noted as Indiana's "most effective protestant", this
man said, "While there is a lower class, I am in it;
while there is a criminal element, I am of it; while
there is a soul in prison, I am not free!" FTP, name
this man who, in 1920, ran for the office of President
of the United States from a jail cell in Atlanta,
Georgia, and received about 3.5% of the vote.
Eugene V. Debs 

The flag of this country has a white star on a blue
background.
Somalia 

This man was born in Lessines, and studied at the
Academie Royale des Beaux-Arts in Brussels. He is
noted for works that contain an extraordinary
juxtaposition of ordinary objects or an unusual
context that gives new meaning to familiar things.
FTP, name this Belgian surrealist.
Rene Magritte 

This museum, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, is an
example of hemicycle styling.
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum 

This kind and loving couple gave shelter to Mercury
and Jupiter when their neighbors wouldn't. In reward,
they were granted death at the same time. FTP, name
these two people, who, upon death, turned into two
different trees.
Baucis and Philemon 

Team B 

The first line of this novel states that "All happy
families are alike but each unhappy family is unlike
any other unhappy family."
Anna Karenina 

Give the circumference of a circle with the equation
(x-7)^2 + (y+6)^2 = 4.
4*pi 

This American statesman was one of the most popular
and influential political leaders in American history.
He was secretary of state under John Quincy Adams, and
an unsuccessful candidate for the presidency in 1824,
1832, and 1844. FTP, name this Speaker of the House
known as "the Great Compromiser." 
Henry Clay 

The flag of this country has a yellow star centered on
a red background.
Vietnam 

This Dutch painter called himself a neoplasticist. He
used horizontal and vertical black lines that outline
blocks of pure white, red, blue or yellow to express
his conception of ultimate harmony and equilibrium.
FTP, name this artist of Composition in White, Black,
and Red.
Piet Mondrian 

Two buildings in Arizona and Wisconsin share the same
name, respectively West and East, of Frank Lloyd
Wright's home 
Taliesin 

This man built this woman out of marble, but fell in
love with his own creation. Venus decided to give her
life because she felt sorry for his circumstance. FTP,
name these two lovers.
Pygmalian and Galatea 

REPLACEMENTS 

In 1997, this African-American trumpet player became
the first jazz artist to win the Pulitzer Prize for
music. Name this man who, since 1990, has been the
artistic director for the "Jazz at Lincoln Center"
program. 
Wynton Marsalis 

This government agency, established in 1973, has the
authority to recall products from the marketplace.
Among its duties are to enforce the Flammable Fabrics
Act, Poison Prevention Packaging Act, and the
Hazardous Substances Act. Name this agency whose
acronym is CPSC. 
Consumer Product Safety Commission (prompt on CPSC
before mention)


GRAB BAG 

The opening and closing of these structures is
dictated by the flow of potassium ions into and out of
the guard cells. FTP, identify these structures that
can be found on leaves that allow for the passage of
oxygen, carbon dioxide, and water into and out of the
plant.
Stomata (accept Stomates) 

In 1704, Scottish sailor Alexander Selkirk quarreled
with his captain and asked to be put ashore in the
Juan Fernandez Islands. He remained on Más a Tierra
Island for more than four years. His adventures were
the basis for this novel by Daniel Defoe. FTP, name
this classic novel. 
The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of
Robinson Crusoe 

During the Reformation in the sixteenth century, the
Roman Catholic Church was quickly losing members to
Protestantism. The Church therefore needed someone to
go out and increase the number of Church members
through conversion. Thus, the Church ordained St.
Ignatius Loyola to found, FTP, what group also known
as the Society of Jesus.
Jesuits 

This Russian composer was one of the first to promote
a national Russian style. He served in the army, and
after his death from alcohol poisoning, most of his
music was edited by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, but often
to such an extent that it misrepresented his
originals. He also made much use of traditional
Russian folk songs. Even though his own musical
training was sketchy, his best work was the opera
Boris Godunov. FTP, identify this composer of Night on
Bald Mountain.
Modest Mussorgsky 

This Italian physicist and mathematician was Galileo's
secretary and his eventual successor in Florence.
However, he is more famous for his invention of the
barometer in 1643. FTP, identify this man who has a
unit of pressure named after him which equals one
millimeter of mercury.
Evangelista Torricelli 

This five-letter French word was formed from the
initials of British king Charles II's ministers.
However, this word ultimately derives from the Hebrew
word Kaballah, which referred to a mystical
interpretation of the Scriptures. FTP, identify this
word meaning "a small group joined in a secret
intrigue."
Cabal 

In this story, a prince and his wife are banished to
live in a forest. A villain then kidnaps the wife, and
the prince goes off to rescue her with the help of a
civilization of monkeys. FTP, this is the plot of what
Indian epic featuring characters such as Ravana, Sita,
and Rama. 
The Ramayana 

Soccer star Luis Figo of Portugal was voted European
Player of the Year in 2000 and was the favorite to win
the FIFA World Player of the Year Award as well.
Instead, it came as a surprise that another European
player was voted best in the world. FTP, identify this
French midfielder who led his country to the World Cup
1998 and Euro 2000 titles, and whose nickname is
"Zizou."
Zinedine Zidane 

This town in Southern Czech Republic is an
agricultural center and became the seat of the
Anabaptists in 1528. However, it is more famous for
being the site of a famous battle that is described in
Tolstoy's War and Peace. FTP, what town was the
location of the "Battle of the Three Emperors" where,
in 1805, Napoleon I scored his most famous victory by
defeating both Austrian Emperor Francis II and Russian
Czar Alexander I.
Austerlitz 

This Russian-born novelist is considered one of the
greatest novelists and prose stylists in English
literature. In 1874 he went to sea and later joined an
English merchant ship, becoming a British citizen. His
early works in include Almayer's Folly and The Nigger
of the Narcissus. FTP, name this author of Polish
descent who also wrote Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad (also accept Teodor Josef Konrad Walecz
Korzeniowski) 

10 seconds - The parabola y=3x2 has a tangent at the
point where x=1. Find the value of x where this point
intersects the x-axis.
1/2

Mintaka, Alnilam, Alnitak, Bellatrix, Saiph,
Betelgeuse, and Rygel. FTP, these are all stars in
what winter constellation that is also known as the
hunter.
Orion the Hunter

The largest glacier of this mountain flows into the
resort valley of Chamonix. Under this mountain in
1965, one of the longest vehicular tunnels in the
world was opened, linking Chamonix with Courmayeur,
Italy. FTP, identify this mountain located on the
French-Italian border that is the second highest
mountain in Europe.
Mont Blanc 

This medieval thinker was born in Cordoba, Spain in
1135. His great philosophical work was called Moreh
Nevukhim, translated as Guide for the Perplexed. In
it, he explained the esoteric ideas in the Bible,
formulated a proof of the existence of God, and
clarified baffling metaphysical and religious
problems. FTP, identify this Jew who is more famous
for his organization of Jewish oral law in his Mishneh
Torah.
Maimonides (accept Rabbi Moses ben Maimon or Rambam) 

This German artist was a portraitist to the rich and
famous of his time, including Maximilian I, in 1518
and Christian II, in 1521. He became involved in an
art movement begun in Italy that strove to show
perspective and depth in art. However, this artist
created illusion without using a paintbrush. FTP,
identify this German who published a portfolio of
woodcuts called The Apocalypse of St. John.
Albrecht Durer 

REPLACEMENTS 

This American director and screenwriter, born in 1944,
studied at the University of Florida. FTP, name this
man, whose films include Stop Making Sense, a concert
film about the Talking Heads, and Silence of the
Lambs. 
Jonathan Demme 

This American journalist and political leader was
editor of publications such as the New Yorker, the
Jeffersonian, and the Log Cabin. FTP, name this man
who employed Karl Marx as a European correspondent,
publishing dispatches that became classics of Marxian
socialism. 
Horace Greeley