Round of 16
CHEMISTRY: Uses for this simple class of organic
compounds include fuel for cooking and heating, base
material for candle making, industrial feedstock, and
lubrication. In their pure forms at room temperature
they exist as gases and liquids as well as solids,
depending on the number of carbon and hydrogen atoms
in each particular molecule. They are hydrophobic and
dissolve only in nonpolar or very weakly polar
solvents. Because only single bonds are present in
these compounds, they are also known as saturated
hydrocarbons since the maximum possible number of
hydrogens are bonded to each carbon. For ten points,
name this simplest hydrocarbon family, with the
general formula CnH2n+2. 
Alkanes

BONUS: Answer these questions concerning alkanes for
10 points each.

Alkanes that form rings with the general formula CnH2n
to account for the fact that there are no end carbons
are known by what general name?
Cycloalkanes
What letter placed before the name of an alkane
indicates that it is unbranched, or straight-chained? 

n
For 10 points, all or nothing, what are the names of
the three simplest alkanes?
Methane, Ethane, and Propane

[FA] 
This style of music burst onto the scene between 1991
and 1996. The style is based the discontortion of
guitars and is rooted in a generational discontent.
"Smells Like Teen Spirit" by Nirvana was the first hit
song, and this led to the popularity of bands such as
the Smashing Pumpkins; a representative album of the
style is "Melon Collie and the Infinite Sadness" by
the aforementioned band. FTP, name this style of music
that is also typified by Nirvana's "Bleach",
Soundgarden's "Superunknown", Pearl Jam's "Ten" and
Alice in Chains' "Dirt".
Grunge

BONUS
Name these older rock bands from clues FTP each.

This band was the highest-grossing live band in the
history of rock music; they named themselves after a
dictionary entry describing a type of folktale and
were comprised of Phil Lesh, Bob Lear, Phil McKernan,
Bill Kreutzmann, Mickey Hart and their leader Jerry
Garcia.
The Grateful Dead

This British band became famous for destroying its
instruments after concerts, starting in 1964; the
members of the band that created "Tommy", "Pinball
Wizard" and "Magic Bus" are John Entwistle, Keith
Moon, Roger Daltrey and the leader Peter Townshend.
The Who

This band is credited as the pioneer of art rock and
produced hits in the late 1960s and early 1970s such
as "Nights in White Satin", "Tuesday Afternoon" and
"Ride My Seesaw"; members were Mike Pinder, Ray
Thomas, Graeme Edge, Denny Laine and James Hayward.
The Moody Blues

LITERATURE
TOSSUP: The climax of this "inside narrative,"
published in 1924, is an allusion to the martyrdom of
Jesus on the cross, making scholars debate whether the
work is meant to praise or criticize Christianity. 
This novella, set in the year 1797 on the H.M.S.
Indomitable, is a classic tale of good and evil: an
innocent young sailor struggles to reconcile his
natural tendency to do good with the darker side of
humanity revealed to him by his fellow shipmate's
actions to keep him down. FTP, name the posthumously
published last work of Herman Melville.
Answer: Billy Budd

BONUS: Given a line from a short story by Herman
Melville, name the story. (15 points each)
"I'd prefer not to." - "Bartleby the Scrivener"
" 'You are saved,' cried Captain Delano, more and more
astonished and pained; 'you are saved: what has cast
such a shadow upon you?'" - "Benito Cereno"

WORLD HISTORY (EXPLORATION)
TOSSUP: Born in a town outside of Oslo, this Norwegian
studied medicine for two years before going to sea in
1897 aboard the Belgica. He traveled with the ship as
it became the first ship to spend the winter in
Antarctic waters, and later went on his own to
complete the first voyage from the Atlantic to the
Pacific through the Arctic waters of Canada in 1906. 
These experiences inspired him to try to discover the
North Pole, but he quickly changed his plans when he
learned that an American, Commander Robert E. Peary,
beat him to it. FTP, name this explorer, who, with
four companions, beat Peary to the South Pole by five
weeks after reaching it on December 14, 1911.
Answer: Roald Amundsen

BONUS: Given the following polar equations, identify
the shape of its graph. (5 points each, 5 point bonus
for all correct)
r = cos(2&#952;): rose
r = a(1 + sin(&#952;)): cardioid
r2 = sin(2&#952;): lemniscate
r = &#952;: (double) spiral of Archimedes
rcos(&#952;) = a: line

ART
TOSSUP: This Frenchman was the heir to his father's
banking fortune, but he was more interested in
studying writing and painting than pursuing more
stable professional ambitions as his family desired. 
Like his childhood friend Emile Zola, he originally
believed that uncompromising realism was the best way
to represent modernity in his art, but later abandoned
this idea and the school of Impressionism during his
reclusive final years to paint in a more abstract
manner that illustrated natural settings with bold
colors in thick, shapeless brushstrokes. FTP, name
this 19th century French artist most famous for his
series of paintings of nude female bathers (actually
modeled by old men) and landscapes depicting Mont
Sainte-Victoire in Aix-en-Provence.
Answer: Paul Cézanne

BONUS: Since Cézanne was the father of modern art,
many scholars credit him for inspiring many of its
styles in the early 20th century. Given the names of
artists, name the early 20th century style or school
of art most commonly associated with their work. (5
points each, 5 point bonus for all correct)
Georges Braque, Pablo Picasso - Cubism 
Joan Miró, René Magritte, Salvador Dali - Surrealism
Marcel Duchamp - Dada(ism)
Maurice de Vlaminck, André Derain, Henri Matisse -
Fauvism 
Wasilly Kandinsky, Paul Klee - German expressionism
(also accept "Bauhaus" or "Abstract Expressionism")

[PC] 
"Toss 18 on 1. Toss 18 on 1, on 1. Ready, Break!" This
is an example of a huddle; this particular play is the
left power sweep run to perfection by the Washington
Redskins and their star running back Stephen Davis.
The concept of the huddle was first started so that
the quarterback could relay plays to his offensive
teammates that came from the sideline without giving
them away to the defense. A university that only
accepts physically impaired people was the first to
start using the huddle, a necessity because hand
signals had to be shown to the offense as opposed to
the normal play call. FTP, name the university that
invented the huddle; the university is located in
Washington, D.C. and only accepts the hearing
impaired.
Gallaudet University

BONUS
Name the team name given a college for five points
each. Five-point bonus for all correct.

University of Montana
Grizzlies

The Air Force Academy
Falcons

Texas Christian University
Horned Frogs

University of Akron
Zips

Boise State University
Broncos

[Sci] 10 seconds: FQTP, assuming a frictionless
surface, find the force exerted on a toy car by a
circular ramp if the mass of the toy car is 10
kilograms, the velocity of the toy car is 8 meters per
second and the radius of the circle is 4 meters.
160 Newtons

B17. Since you love physics so much, here are more
problems for fifteen points each. Assume acceleration
due to gravity is 10 meters/seconds^2 (read: 10 meters
per seconds squared) and that the objects are
travelling on frictionless surfaces. 
a) 15 seconds: Find the final velocity of a 2000
Newton car initially at rest if it elastically
collides with a 2200 Newton van initially travelling
at 15 meters per second; the van stops moving
immediately after the collision.
16.5 meters per second
b) 15 seconds: Find the initial height of a 5-kilogram
block that travels at a constant 12 meters per second;
energy is conserved during the block's slide down a
ramp and onto a table.
7.2 meters

[His] This man, whose code names included
"Asymptote," "Shelley," and "The White 
Rabbit," was a member of the British Special
Operations Executive during World War II. He
parachuted into France several times, where his main
job was to organize all the separate groups of the
French Resistance into a "secret army." Captured by
the Gestapo in March 1944, he was tortured and sent to
the concentration camp Buchenwald. FTP, this man
survived and was awarded the George Cross by King
George VI and was appointed to the Legion of Honor. 
Forest Frederick Yeo-Thomas

BONUS
Given the real or original name of the person, give
the name he or she is 
more commonly known by for 5 points each, with a 5
point bonus for all correct. 

Karol Wojtyla
Pope John Paul II

Viacheslav Scriabin
Viacheslav Molotov

Judith Tuvim
Judy Holliday

Iosif Dzhugashvili 
Josef Stalin

David Gruen 
David Ben-Gurion

[FA]
This artist broke away from his figurative, pre-war
style in 1948, and developed a style of painting based
on fields of color. However, they were no strong
contrasts or clear outlines in his works. On the
surface of a vertically oriented canvas, he would
place two or three hazily defined rectangles that
seemed to float in a field of color. He claimed that
his abstract pictures were direct expressions of
emotional states. FTP, name the artist of Orange and
Yellow. 
Mark Rothko

BONUS
Given a work of a post-1945 artist, name him or her
FTP each. 

Blue Nude 1
Henri Matisse

Flag
Jasper Johns

M-Maybe (A Girl's Picture)
Roy Lichtenstein

[Geo] 
This country was part of the Mayan civilization during
the first millennium AD. Columbus explored it on his
final voyage in 1502. Located in the north central
part of Central America, it has a 400-mile Caribbean
Sea coastline and a 40-mile Pacific Ocean coastline.
The second largest country in Central America, this
nation is slightly larger than the state of Tennessee.
Generally mountainous, it is marked by fertile
plateaus, river valleys, and narrow coastal plains.
FTP, give the name of the country whose neighbors are
Guatemala to the west, El Salvador to the South, and
Nicaragua to the east.
Honduras

BONUS
For ascending point values, give the following
information about Honduras.

5 - Capital city
Tegucigalpa

10 - Monetary unit
Lempira

15 - Current president?
Carlos Roberto Flores Facusse

[Sci] This disorder is often caused by Factor V
Leiden and prothrombin 20210 mutations. It often
causes pregnant women to suffer miscarriages and
causes many who suffer from it to have strokes and/or
heart attacks. FTP, name this blood clotting
disorder, the opposite of hemophilia, which causes the
blood to clot at an abnormally high rate.
Thrombophilia

BONUS
You obviously know your clotting. Now let's see if
you can name the organ that each of the following
arteries serves on a 5-10-15 basis.

5: Internal carotid artery
Brain

10: Common hepatic artery
Liver

15: Cystic artery
Gall Bladder

[His] 
The first UCLA student to letter in four separate
sports, he was stationed at Fort Riley in Kansas
during World War II. He then played for the Kansas
City Monarchs, followed by the Montreal Royals. "I do
not care if half the League strikes.. They will be
suspended, and I don't care if it wrecks the National
League for five years. This is the United States of
America, and one citizen has as much right to play as
another." These stern words were said by Ford Frick
to the St. Louis Cardinals, before a game against this
man's team. For ten points, name this baseball
player, hired by Branch Rickey to play for the
Brooklyn Dodgers, beginning in 1947.
Jackie Robinson

BONUS 
Answer these conjunction questions for ten points
each. All are at least partially, but perhaps not
totally, about famous African- Americans.

A former chairman of the Student Non-Violent
Coordinating Committee and Black Panther, and the
current high-scoring basketball player for the
Washington Wizards.
Stokely Car Michael Jordan 

A woman who won an Olympic bronze medal in 1956 and
three gold medals in 1960 for track, and the current
Mayor of New York City.
Wilma Rudolph Giuliani

A man who convinced Slobodan Milosevich to release
three American soldiers in Yugoslavia, and the
Abstract Expressionist whom Time Magazine in 1956
called "Jack the Dripper." 
Jesse Jackson Pollock

[His] This American donated funds in 1937 for the
construction of the National Gallery of Art to house
his personal art collection, which he also donated. 
He also donated $10 million dollars to found a college
that would later merge with the college of another
philanthropist and evolve into one of the nation's top
universities. FTP, name the man who served as
Secretary of Treasury under Harding, Coolidge, and
Hoover.
Andrew Mellon

BONUS
In case you hadn't guessed, the founder of the other
college was Andrew Carnegie. For the stated number of
points, answer these questions about Carnegie.

5 points: In what country was Carnegie born?
Scotland

10 points: What was the name of the college that
Carnegie founded?
Carnegie Institute of Technology or Carnegie Technical
Schools

15 points: What was the name of Carnegie's first
business?
Keystone Bridge Company

TOSSUP
In the 17th century this man improved telescopic
lenses, discovered a satellite of Saturn, and studied
the rings of Saturn. His findings were described in
his Systema Saturnium in 1659. He was the first to use
the pendulum in clocks, and he discovered the
polarization of light by double refraction in calcite
in 1678. However, his chief achievement was his
principle which holds that, concerning light waves,
every point on a wave front is itself a source of new
waves. FTP, identify this Dutchman whose father
Constatijn was a humanist and poet. 
Christian Huygens 

BONUS: Given the quantity, derive its units in basic
SI units. For example, if I give you Newtons, you say
kg times m / s2 (kilogram meters per second squared). 
Answers are valued 5-10-15 and teams will have eight
seconds.
5: Joules 
kg x m2 / s2 (kilogram meters squared per second
squared or variant) 
10: Watt
kg x m2 / s3 (kilogram meters squared per second
cubed or variant) 
15: Ohm
kg x m2 / C2 / s (kilogram meters squared per coulomb
squared seconds)

TOSSUP
This man was born to Andrew and Monique, but became an
orphan at age 11 after both of his parents died in a
mountain-climbing accident. He started his schooling
at Eton at the age of twelve, but was expelled. At
age 17, after having lost his virginity to a girl from
Paris, he applied for a job at the Ministry of
Defense. To achieve the rank that he currently holds,
this man had to complete two missions (killing a
Japanese code expert and then killing a Norwegian
agent that had spied for the Russians). FTP, name
this man that sleeps with a gun under his pillow and
is the creation of Ian Fleming.
James Bond

Bonus
Bond is known to be a serious ladies' man. For five
points apiece, given the Bond girl, name the 007
movie.

Melina Havelock For Your Eyes Only
Solitaire Live and Let Die
Paris Carver Tomorrow Never Dies
Pam Bouvier License to Kill
Honey Ryder Dr. No
Pussy Galore Goldfinger

[Art]
Expansion plans for this museum include an additional
building along New York's East River. Its newest
branch has opened in Las Vegas inside the Venetian
Resort. Frank Gehry is slated to design the East
River complex. FTP, name this museum whose Bilbao
branch was designed by the same architect Frank Gehry;
the museum's main branch is on Fifth Avenue.
Guggenheim Museum

Bonus
The Guggenheim is home to many great works of art. 
For fifteen points apiece, given the work of art, name
the branch of the Guggenheim that holds it.

Salvador Dali's Birth of Liquid Desires
Venice
Andy Warhol's Self Portrait
New York

GEOGRAPHY
Covering over 30,000 acres of the northeastern United
States, it was once known as Sieur de Monts National
Monument as well as Lafayette National Park. It
includes part of granite, sea-girdled Mount Desert
Island; half of Isle au Haut, with its spectacular
cliffs; and the headland of the Schoodic Peninsula,
which extends farther into the sea than any other
point on the eastern coast. Here freshwater lakes
reflect the "murmuring pines and the hemlocks" of the
forest that Longfellow's "Evangeline" knew, for this
was once a part of the French colony of the same name.
For ten points, name this first National Park
established east of the Mississippi where Cadillac
Mountain, the highest point on the eastern coast of
North America, is located.
Acadia National Park (do not accept "Arcadia")

BONUS: Given the National Park, name the state in
which it is located for 5 points each.

Glacier National Park Montana
Zion National Park Utah
Arches National Park Utah
Big Bend National Park Texas
Bryce Canyon National Park Utah
Capitol Reef National Park Utah

GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Scientifically known as Homarus
americanus, they are of various families of marine,
bottom-dwelling decapods with compound eyes, long
antennae, and usually the first pair of legs modified
into large, powerful pincers. A female one of these
species of arthropod can produce as many as
8,000-10,000 eggs when it reaches sexually maturity
and becomes legal to catch at age 6 or 7; these eggs
will turn orange when cooked. Meat from this species
has a distinctive flavor, both mild and slightly
sweet, and is considered a delicacy by many as it is
used in dishes ranging from salads to stews and
bisques. For 10 points, name these popular seafood
creatures that are greenish or dark gray in color when
alive, but turn bright red when boiled, for which the
state of Maine is famous.
Lobsters

BONUS: Given the description of certain seafood, name
it for varying point value.

For 5: Squid cooked as food.
Calamari 
For 5: Any of various families of small, usually
freshwater decapods somewhat resembling little
lobsters.
Crayfish (also accept Crawfish)
For 10: Edible bivalve mollusks often used to make a
sauce for linguini, red or white.
Clams
For 10: A somewhat marshmallow-shaped mollusk ranging
in size whose name also designates baking with a milk
sauce and bread crumbs.
Scallop

[His] Full name required. A strong advocator of the
Bill of Rights, he was appointed as one of the first
two senators from the state of Virginia in 1789. He
resigned the senate in 1792 due to poor health and
died two years later at his estate Chantilly, in
Westmoreland County. He refused to attend the
Constitutional Convention of 1787, leading Virginia's
opposition to the new constitution. Earlier, he had
been a member of the Virginia House of Burgesses as
well as representing Virginia in the First and Second
Continental Congresses. FTP, name this man who
introduced the bill in the Second Continental Congress
that absolved American allegiance with Great Britain
in 1776.
Richard Henry Lee

BONUS
For 10 points each, name these other famous Lees. Full
name required.

He served as president at Washington College (now
named Washington & Lee). He is a celebrated general
of the American Civil War.
Robert E. Lee

He was commissioned as captain in the fifth group of
Virginia Light Dragoons in the Revolutionary War. 
With a surprise attack at Paulus Hook, New Jersey, he
captured 400 British soldiers while losing just one
man. He was nicknamed "Light Horse Harry."
Henry Lee III (accept Light Horse Harry Lee until
mentioned)

Although this corporation also makes underwear,
sausages, shoe polish, and soap, it is most commonly
associated with its frozen cheesecakes.
Sara Lee

[Geo] 
This waterway is approximately 350 miles and has a
waterfall in the capital of the state in which it is
located. It is also the longest river in the state in
which it is located, formed by the union of the
Jackson and Cowpasture rivers. Lynchburg, Scottsville,
Richmond and Hampton Roads are major cities along the
path of this important river, which then empties into
the Chesapeake Bay. FTP, name the Virginia river along
which the first permanent English settlement in
America was founded in 1607.
James River

BONUS
Given cities along it, name the river FTP each.

Ulm, Budapest, Belgrade, Vienna
Danube River

Allahabad, Delhi, Agra, Saharanpur
Yamuna River

Pittsburgh, Cairo, Cincinnati, Louisville
Ohio River

REPLACEMENTS:
[Lit]
These stories were compiled over hundreds of years as
they were passed down orally from generation to
generation. A broad frame story starts at the
beginning of the collection and gives a context to the
various stories it contains. The present form of the
story came to shape in the 1500s, but was only
translated into English by Richard Francis Burton in
the 1880s with a different title. The story, dated as
early as the 800s, begins with the enraged sultan
Schahriar planning the execution of his unfaithful
wife. FTP, name this classic set of stories told by
Scheherazade in an aim to prevent her husband from
executing her.
The Arabian Nights (also accept The Thousand Nights
and a Night or anything close)

BONUS
Answer these questions about specific stories in the
Arabian Nights for fifteen points each.

The story starts with a poor porter wandering around
Baghdad complaining about the hardships of his life
and the contrasting great wealth of the naval wayfarer
on whose doorstep he sits. Then the rich man tells a
set of stories regarding his voyages and the hardships
he had to get through to achieve such great wealth;
name the title character of this story.
Sinbad the Sailor (prompt on Sinbad)

The story starts discussing a sultan who had three
sons and a niece; the niece's name was Princess
Nouronnihar and she was the prize of the kingdom. The
sultan wishes to get her married, and when the
Princess suddenly falls ill, he offers her hand to
whomever is able to cure her. Prince Ahmed cures her
with a magic apple and then thinks he will be married,
but the sultan makes her hard to get; in his chase for
her Ahmed gets lured away and falls in love with a
cave-dwelling enchantress. Name the story from the
Arabian Nights.
Prince Ahmed and the Fairy (prompt on Prince Ahmed)

[His] He was born in Portugal around 1480, and sailed
to India in 1505. In 1507, he traded in India and
fought naval battles with the Turks. In 1517, he went
to Spain to obtain support from Charles I for a visit
to the Spice Islands, which lay in Spanish lands. Of
course, a visit to the Spice Islands was not the
important part of the voyage, but rather the fact that
this man planned to sail west... all the way. This
includes the voyage home, meaning that the trip would
circumnavigate the globe. FTP, name this man who,
while not himself the first to circumnavigate the
globe, did lead a crew that was the first to do so,
after his death in the Philippines.
Ferdinand Magellan 

BONUS 
Answer these questions about other explorers for ten
points each. 

This Frenchman claimed Acadia for the French to settle
in 1604 with the help of Pierre du Gua, Sieur de
Monts; he is more famous for sailing up the Saint
Lawrence River and establishing the trading post of
Quebec.
Samuel de Champlain

This explorer of Africa in the 1860s and 1870s gained
international renown for his long disappearance while
exploring the interior of the continent and abolishing
the slave trade; for this reason the New York Herald
sent reporter Henry M. Stanley to find this man, who
was living quietly in a small town on Lake Tanganyika.
Doctor David Livingstone

This 19th-century British explorer was the first
European to sight Lake Victoria and recognize it as
the source of the Nile River; he made the trip to
Africa with fellow explorer Richard Francis Burton
after being initially delayed in making the journey by
his participation on the side of Britain in the
Crimean War. 
John Hanning Speke