ROUND 3 

LETTER ROUND 

The Letter S 

This man set numerous NCAA records during his 3rd and
final year in college, including most touchdowns,
rushing yards and all-purpose yards in a season. He
played 10 seasons in the NFL before abruptly retiring
in 1999, only 1,457 yards away from becoming the NFL's
all-time leading rusher as a member of the Detroit
Lions.
Barry Sanders

This element, with atomic weight 50 and atomic number
21, is silver-white in color, is found in the D group,
and has symbol Sc.
Scandium 

C++ modified this data type with the class, although
all it really was lacking was public and private
indicators as well as inheritance features. Name this
object capable of grouping many different data types
together.
Struct 

Although this man is noted for being Grover
Cleveland's second vice-president, his grandson with
the same name is more remembered for losing twice in
the 1950's in presidential elections to Dwight
Eisenhower.
Adlai Stevenson 

This theory in economics was widely held by the Reagan
administration. It is a fiscal policy that attempts to
increase economic growth by increasing the amount of
resources. Many supporters of this theory oppose
manipulation of aggregate demand through open market
operations or interest rates.
Supply Side Economics 

This early Romantic composer was born in 1797 near
Vienna. This Austrian only lived 31 years, but in that
short period he wrote the Trout Quartet and symphonies
nicknamed Tragic, Great, and Unfinished.
Franz Schubert 

This author wrote many of his works concerning
aviation and he enjoyed flying so much that he joined
the Allied air force in 1942 but disappeared in 1944.
His most famous book, one of the most widely read
during the 20th century, is The Little Prince.
Antoine de Saint-Exupery 

This country, located 46 degrees north and 15 degrees
east, is slightly smaller than the size of New Jersey.
Name this country which borders Austria, Hungary,
Italy and Croatia which gained its independence from
Yugoslavia in 1991 and has its capital at Ljubljana
(said LOOB-liana).
Slovenia 

This word may be defined as conduct or language
inciting rebellion against the authority of state, and
it is in the name of the acts passed by John Adams
which prompted the writing of the Kentucky and
Virginia Resolutions.
Sedition 

This painter was inspired by Delacroix and was a
leader in developing chromo-luminarism, commonly
referred to as pointillism. Name this author of
Bathers at Asni Res and Sunday Afternoon on the Island
of La Grande Jatte.
Georges Seurat 

REPLACEMENTS 

This Indian Chief led his tribe into Canada before
turning back eventually. Name this Sioux ruler, who
was killed in a skirmish at the Battle of Wounded Knee
Sitting Bull 

Full name required. This movie made #15 on the AFI's
list of the top 100 movies and has attracted quite a
following. Name this 1977 George Lucas movie which
recently has had a prequel released.
Star Wars: A New Hope (prompt on "Star Wars")


UNTIMED INDIVIDUAL 

Team A 

Identify both the states in the Continental US which
contain the northernmost and southernmost points.
Minnesota and Florida 

For questions two and three, give the answers
concerning both events that happened in 1564: The
painter of the Last Judgment dies while the author of
Troilus and Cressida and Measure for Measure is born.
Michelangelo and Shakespeare 
Note to reader: The above constitutes 2 questions. 

8 seconds - Evaluate the following expression:
secant(pi/3) + cosine(-3 pi) + sin(11pi/6).
1/2 

Identify the poet who wrote the following lines:
And you, my father, there on the sad height
Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Dylan Thomas 

Team B 

Identify both the state capitols in the Continental
U.S. which are the northernmost and southernmost.
Olympia and Tallahassee (only a few seconds south of
Baton Rogue) 

For questions two and three, give the answers
concerning both events that happened in 1846: This
bill would have banned slavery in any territory gained
from Mexico, but it was defeated by John Calhoun and
this territory was gained by a treaty with Great
Britain after abandoning the "54-40 or fight" slogan.
Wilmot Proviso and Oregon Territory 
Note to reader: The above constitutes 2 questions. 

8 seconds - Evaluate the following expression:
cosecant(pi/6) + sin(-pi/2) + tan(5pi/4).
0 

Identify the poet who wrote the following lines
A land where all things always seem'd the same
And round about the keel with faces pale,
Dark faces pale against that rosy flame,
The mild-eyed melancholy Lotos-eaters came.
Alfred, Lord Tennyson 

REPLACEMENTS 

This war was a series of uprisings that began in 1675
led by the Indian Chief Metacomet in response to
Massachusetts colonist encroachments on native lands.
Name this war, in which an Indian alliance burned many
towns and where the English changed Metacomet's name.
King Philip's War 

This English king, the third son of Henry II and
Eleanor of Aquitaine, fought in the infamous Third
Crusade along with Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I and
French ruler Philip II. His death came in 1199 in a
skirmish with the French in a rather trivial incident
due to an arrow. 
Richard I (accept "The Lion-Hearted") 


CATEGORY ROUND 

Given two works, the second more famous, and then a
little clue about his life, name the composer

German Requiem, Academic Festival Overture, German's
works reflected move from romanticism to classicism 
Johannes Brahms 

On The Steppes of Central Asia, Prince Igor, started
out as a chemist then became part of "The Russian 5" 
Alexander Borodin 

Goldberg Variations, Brandenburg Concertos, part of
German composing family that stretched 7 generations
Johann Sebastian Bach 

Duke Bluebeard's Castle, Concerto for Orchestra, 20th
century Hungarian who redefined Magyar music
Béla Bartók 

Candide, West Side Story, he directed the New York
Philharmonic and lectured at Harvard University
Leonard Bernstein 

War Requiem, The Young Person's Guide to the
Orchestra, wrote music for Queen Elizabeth II's
coronation
Benjamin Britten 

Sonata Pathétique, Choral Symphony, went deaf in his
later life after studying with Haydn and briefly
Mozart
Ludwig van Beethoven 

Roman Carnival Overture, Symphonie Fantastique,
invented symphonic poem genre used by Wagner and
Strauss
(Louis) Hector Berlioz 

School for Scandal, Adagio for Strings, neoromantic
American 20th century composer who won 2 Pulitzer
Prizes
Samuel Barber 

The Pearl Fishers, Carmen, late 19th century French
realist who could sight-read the hardest of Liszt's
works
Georges Bizet 

REPLACEMENTS 

Tamara and Russia, Islamey, formed "The Russian 5" in
the aim to use native melodies in compositions
Mily Balakirev 

The Boy's Magic Horn, Songs of a Wayfarer, Austrian
who also conducted with the New York Philharmonic 
Gustav Mahler 

TIMED INDIVIDUAL 

Team A 

Name the Roman hero of the Second Punic War who sacked
Carthage and was victorious at the Battle of Zama.
Scipio Africanus the Elder (prompt on "Scipio") 

This now-disbanded band has released the albums
"Gish", "Pisces Iscariot" and "Siamese Dream". 
Smashing Pumpkins 

Solve the following equation for x: e^(x^2 - 4) = 1.
(read: e to the quantity x squared minus four equals
1)
Plus or Minus 2 (accept "2 and negative 2") 

Identify the amendment, passed in 1964, which forbade
poll taxes in voting.
24th 

Identify the Italian baroque sculptor who created the
baldachin over the altar of St. Peter's Basilica, The
Ecstasy of Saint Teresa and Abduction of Proserpina.
Gianlorenzo Bernini 

This Tampa Bay Lightning player led the NHL in rookie
scoring in the 2000-2001 season.
Brad Richards

Identify this country, which borders Romania and
Ukraine and is on the Black Sea, with capital at
Chisinau.
Moldova 

Team B 

In Greek Mythology, he was the son of Glaucus, King of
Corinth, who rode the Pegasus and slew the Chimera.
Bellerophon 

This band has released the albums "The Bends", "Ok
Computer" and most recently "Amnesiac".
Radiohead

Solve the following equation for x: x^2 + 7x + 6 = 0.
-6 and -1 

Identify the amendment, passed in 1951, which limits
the president to two elected terms in office.
22nd 

Upon his return to England from Paris, the Great Fire
of 1666 destroyed many buildings in London, allowing
this English architect to redesign many structures,
including St. Paul's Cathedral.
Sir Christopher Wren 

This Ottawa Senator was second in the NHL in rookie
scoring in the 2000-2001 season.
Martin Havlat

Identify this country, landlocked by China and India
and near Mount Everest, with capital at Thimphu.
Bhutan 

REPLACEMENTS 

Identify this country, which borders Cameroon and
Gabon and is on the Gulf of Guinea, with capital at
Malabo. 
Equatorial Guinea

This Orlando Magic player from the University of
Florida led the NBA in rookie scoring in the 2000-2001
season.
Mike Miller 


GRAB BAG 

This director's recent adaptation of a famous play has
many celebrity cameos, including appearances by Jack
Lemmon, Richard Attenborough, Judi Dench, Billy
Crystal, Robin Williams and Kate Winslet. Name this
director, who took the title role in the 1996
production of Hamlet.
Kenneth Branagh 

A.A. Tappman, Metcalf, A. Fortiori, Wren, Luciana,
Whitcomb and Mudd are all minor characters in this
book about the military, where the protagonist is
chased around by his dead-friend's prostitute, his
roommate is a MacGuyver type character when it comes
to making things and the supply-guy runs an
international black market ring. More famous
characters include Wintergreen, McWatt, Aarfy, Dunbar,
Dreedle, Nately, Minderbinder and Cathcart. Name this
1955 book filled with humor and horror by Joseph
Heller.
Catch-22 

This Greek poet lived during the seventh century BCE
and lived on the island of Lesbos. She was so highly
regarded that hundreds of years after her death Plato
referred to her as the "tenth muse." Name this female
lyric poet who is famous for the line, "Someone, I
tell you, will remember us."
Sappho 

This man, born in Germany in 1777, was intrigued by
mathematics by age 17 and went to work on the problem
of how to make a heptagon with ruler and compass. He
was a genius in many areas, including astronomy, where
he devised a new method to calculate the orbits of
objects in space. However, he is better known for work
in math and physics, including applying mathematics to
magnetism, and a unit of magnetic field intensity is
named for him. Name this man, the first developer of
non-Euclidean geometry and creator of the Fundamental
Theorem of Algebra.
Carl Friedrich Gauss 

This movie, released in 1984, starts with the main
character and lead actress, the director's wife, being
thrown out together after an ill-fated exchange at a
nightclub. The two people, along with their Asian
side-kick are forced to jump out of their plane and
end up helping the people of a small town in India.
Name this movie, the second of a trilogy, starring
Jonathan Ke Quan, Kate Capshaw, and Harrison Ford.
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom 

Involved in the second stage of five-stage mitosis,
these organelles start on the same side of the
nucleus. Subsequently as prophase progresses, the
structures separate and move towards opposite sides of
the cell. Name these cell components that radiate
microtubules while moving apart and are only present
in animal cells.
Centrioles 

This painter, along with Campin, prevailed in
establishing Ars Nova or "new art" in the late Gothic
style in northern Europe in the 15th century, which is
characterized by vivid oil colors, copious details,
accurately rendered textures and the portrayal of
three-dimensional spaces on two-dimensional surfaces.
Name this Flemish painter of "Adoration of the Lamb",
"Madonna and Child with Chancellor Rolin" and
"Crucifixion and Last Judgement".
Jean van Eyck 

8 seconds: Give the range of x in radians:
(cos^-1(cos(x))). (read: the arc cosine of the cosine
of x)
0 <= x <= pi 

This man was the child of Hermes and either Penelope,
the wife of Odysseus, or the nymph Callisto. A myth
regarding him is that he invented the syrinx, which
was later renamed after him, when a nymph he was
chasing transformed into a strand of reeds. Also,
after the Athenians defeated the Persians at the
Battle of Marathon, a shrine on the slope of the
Acropolis was built in honor of his aid to
Phidippides. Name the Greek god of shepherds and
flocks, born in Arcadia, with the torso and arms of a
human and the ears, horns and legs of a goat.
Pan

This American author only lived 47 years, and his
writing career only began at age 30. After his humor
magazine "The Rolling Stone" failed, he was jailed for
3 years for bank embezzlement, where his short story
production began. After "The Four Million" was
published, a mockery of the famous list of the 400
most prestigious families in New York, he wrote freely
about his past in Texas, New Orleans, Honduras and
North Carolina. Name the man whose most famous works
are "The Rose of Dixie", "Memoirs of a Yellow Dog",
"The Social Triangle" and "The Gift of the Magi", and
whose real name is William Sydney Porter.
O. Henry (prompt on "Henry") (also prompt on
"Porter/William Sydney Porter" before the last phrase)

This book details a summer spent at a New Hampshire
boarding school during World War II. It focuses on the
main character's feelings of jealousy going against
reason, especially after he sub-consciously hurts his
best friend. Name this book, set at Devon School,
featuring Gene and Finnius, written by John Knowles.
A Separate Peace 

This physicist who lived from 1824 to 1907 is best
known for his work in the field of thermodynamics. He
worked in tandem with James Prescott Joule to explain
how an air conditioning unit functions. This man also
received the Order of Merit in 1902, contributed to
the theory of elasticity and estimated the age of the
sun. Name this British physicist who had a unit named
after him that is a measure of temperature. 
Lord Kelvin (accept "William Thomson")

This musical opened on Broadway in 1953 and takes
place around the 11th century BCE, featuring one
real-life character. Several songs include The Olive
Tree, Rahadlakum, and Rhymes Have I. The storyline
follows an unnamed poet and his daughter though a good
turn of fortune that lands the father as an emir and
the daughter falling in love with the Caliph. For ten
points, name this musical, which actually features
Omar Khayem, drew all of its music from themes of
Alexander Borodin and features the songs Nights of My
Nights, Not Since Nineveh, Was I Wazir and Stranger In
Paradise.
Kismet 

This conflict began as a result of the death of Holy
Roman Emperor Charles VI. Three foreigners claimed the
throne that was intended for his daughter Maria
Theresa. The tension arose after Prussia invaded
Silesia, and soon involved much of Europe. Name this
war, fought between 1740 and 1748, which paralleled
King George's War in North America, and was ended by
the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
War of the Austrian Succession 

This author grew up in Eatonsville, Florida, the first
incorporated all-black town in the U.S. where her
father was mayor several times. Although part of the
Harlem Renaissance, her works were often received
critically, saying they produced negative black
stereotypes. Name this woman, whose most famous book,
which follows the life of Janie Woods through her
marriages to Logan Killicks, Joe Starks and Tea Cake,
is Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston 

REPLACEMENTS 

This English soccer player was the first active player
to be knighted. He was born in 1915 and debuted on the
English national team at age 19. At age 41, this man
was selected as the first European Player of the Year,
partly because he never received a yellow card in his
33-year career. 35,000 people showed up for a tribute
held for him in 1965; he is widely regarded as the
greatest goal scorer ever. Name this English gentleman
who shares his surname with a pitcher traded to
Oakland in exchange for Mark McGwire in 1997 and with
a perennial Pro Bowl guard who has played 18 years
with the Tennessee Titans.
Sir Stanley Matthews 

10 seconds - solve for the roots of this polynomial:
x^4 + 20x^2 + 64 = 0.
+/- 2i and +/- 4i 