T1. [History] This term, invented during World War II,
is similar to the American concept of Manifest Destiny
that explained the Indian Removals and purchase of
Alaska from Russia in the middle of the 19th century.
Adolf Hitler used this term to justify the invasions
of Austria and Czechoslovakia that prompted the start
of World War II. Hitler meant, through use of the
word, that Germans did not have enough room in their
country and therefore needed to expand beyond their
own borders and annex more land. FTP, give the German
word that means "living space".
Lebensraum

B1. Name these other figures from World War FTP each.
a) This French marshal who later became the commander
of the Allied forces is generally considered the
leader most responsible for the Allied victory.
Ferdinand Foch
b) This anti-Stalinist Russian commander was captured
by the Germans early in World War II and later fought
with the Germans against the Soviet Union.
Andrey Andreyevich Vlasov
c) This British commander organized the Allied retreat
from Dunkirk in 1940 as the German army had begun to
encircle the city and threatened to trap a large
number of enemy men.
Viscount Gort

T2. [Science] This German-born British biochemist
lived from 1900 to 1981 and was also a Nobel laureate.
He made heavy contributions to the chemistry of body
processes through work at the universities of
Gottingen, Freiburg, Munich, Berlin and Hamburg. He
then served as an assistant of biology at the Kaiser
Wilhelm Institute; shortly thereafter he became a
Rockefeller student at Cambridge and went on to teach
at the University of Sheffield. While at Sheffield and
the University of Oxford, he was a professor of
biochemistry and the director of research in cell
metabolism, allowing him time to work on his greatest
achievement. FTP, name the developer of the cycle
which explains how the various chemical factors in
food are turned into physical energy in the body; the
cycle is also known as the citric acid cycle.
Sir Hans Adolf Krebs

B2. Name these other biology-related scientists FTP
each.
a) This 20th century American evolutionary biologist
is among the architects of the modern synthesis of
evolutionary biology; his major claim fame is the
statement that geographic separation is the driving
force behind the emergence of new species.
Ernst Mayr
b) This 20th century American biologist is one of
three men who won the 1962 Nobel Prize for discovering
the structure of the DNA molecule to be a double
helix; this man has gone on to be director of the
Human Genome Project at the National Institutes of
Health for 4 years.
James Dewey Watson
c) This 20th century American geneticist won the 1969
Nobel Prize in medicine for finding out the
replication mechanism of viruses and their genetic
structure; he is more famous for conducting the
"blender experiment" which proved that genes are made
up of DNA.
Alfred Day Hershey

T3. [Literature] Pam, Peter, George, Janet, Jack,
Colin and Barbara, and unofficially Scamper the dog.
The aforementioned people were members of an adventure
society created by this author. Often the troublemaker
in the stories was Jack's annoying sister Susie, who
attempted to deceive the society by leading them
astray, but in fact they always managed to find a case
out of it. FTP, name this female English mystery
author of The Secret Seven series.
Enid Blyton

B3. Name these other mystery writers FTP each.
a) This author born in Torquay based the exploits of
her unconventional detectives on trips to Iraq and
Syria, and naturally events that occurred in England
to Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot.
Agatha Christie
b) This author born in St. Mary's County, Maryland
based the exploits of his "tough" detective on his own
personal experience serving as a detective after World
War; the introduction of Sam Spade in "The Maltese
Falcon" set the precedent for future mystery
character.
Dashiell Hammett
c) This American author created the character of
Kinsey Millhone and has a common theme in the titles
of her books; they all begin with a letter of the
alphabet such as "A is for Alibi" and "B is for
Burglar".
Sue Grafton

T4. [History] This man was born in Valladolid on May
21, 1527, the son of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and
Isabella of Portugal. He received large portions of
land in the Netherlands and Italy from his father, and
he established control of these regions by having four
different wives. The Spanish inquisition was started
in the Netherlands under his reign to gain control of
the Protestants, and he also exiled the Muslims from
Spain. FTP, name this man who is most famous for
ordering the construction of El Escorial, a monastic
palace outside of Madrid, and who also ordered the
construction and fateful dispatch of the Spanish
Armada to the British Isles in 1588. 
Philip II of Spain or Felipe II (prompt on Philip II)

B4. Since you seem to know a lot about Philip II,
answer more questions about him FTP each.
a) During Philip II's reign, these islands, the
northernmost island group in the Malay Archipelago,
were conquered by Spain.
Philippines
b) In 1571, Philip II sent his half-brother John of
Austria on a naval expedition to destroy the Ottoman
navy, an exercise now known as this battle.
Battle of Lepanto
c) From 1590 to 1598, Philip II aided the Catholic
forces of the Holy League in a war against this
Huguenot French king.
Henry IV

T5. [Math] A teacher asked her students to find the
sum of the first one hundred numbers, or from 1 to
100. One student almost immediately came up to the
teacher and told her that he was done. Astonished by
the pupil's speed, the teacher checked the answer and
was even more amazed to see it was correct. After
learning the method, the teacher pushed this German,
who was at the time in primary school, to pursue
mathematics although he was more interested in foreign
languages. FTP, name this man who later studied at the
University of Gottingen, was the first person to
develop a non-Euclidean geometry and proved that every
algebraic equation has at least one solution, now
known as the fundamental theorem of algebra.
Carl Friedrich Gauss

B5. Name these other mathematicians FTP each.
a) This 17th century Englishman was the teacher of
Isaac Newton and geometrically devised many of the
basic theorems of calculus, including the fundamental
theorem of calculus.
Isaac Barrow
b) This Italian of the 12th and 13th centuries wrote
about mathematics in a story problem format, with
mental problems such as the summation of recurrent
series included, such as the series named after him in
which every term is equal to the sum of the two
preceding terms. 
Leonardo Fibonacci
c) This 20th century American is famous for his proof
which states that the propositions upon which math is
based are unprovable because it is possible to
construct an axiom in a logical system using symbols
that is neither provable nor disprovable within the
same system.
Kurt Gödel

T6. [Literature] It begins in the tiny town of
Mayenfeld. The protagonist is travelling with her aunt
as her mother died after childbirth; they are going to
give the child to Uncle Alp. Uncle Alp is a loner
living on top of a mountain in Dorfli who is actually
the main character's grandfather, but obtained the
name after his son Tobias' death. Eventually Alp comes
to love the child but she is taken away from him by
Detie and forced to work as the caretaker of an
invalid girl named Clara. FTP, name this book that
takes place in the Swiss Alps, the classic of Johanna
Spyri, which involves the title character, Miss
Rottenmeier, Peter and the Seseman family.
Heidi

B6. Name these other novels about children FTP each.
a) This novel is about an orphan who copes with the
death of his first wife, the hatred of his remaining
relative towards him and his best friend's betrayal to
make something of his life; characters in this Dickens
book include the Wickmans, Strongs, Peggottys and
Micawbers.
David Copperfield
b) This novel is about an orphan who leaves the street
to live with a widow so that he can join his friend's
robber band, which leads to more mischief; characters
in this Twain novel include the Widow Douglas,
Shepherdsons, Grangerfords, Miss Watson and the King
and Duke.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
c) This novel is about a family who gets shipwrecked
on an island in the South Pacific when their intended
destination was New Guinea; characters in this Johann
Wyss novel include Fritz, Jack, Francis, Elizabeth and
Ernest, and animals Turk, Flora and Grizzle.
The Swiss Family Robinson

T7. [Sports] Two answers required. The rivalry between
these two teams is the longest running in major
college football, with 111 meetings having occurred
since 1907. The teams play for Paul Bunyan's Axe,
which had not changed hands since 1994 until the
maroon-and-gold team finally defeated the red-clad
team this year. Original members of the Big Ten
Conference, the Badgers and Golden Gophers have fared
poorly this year, as neither team will make a bowl
game. FTP, name the state universities of the states
that border Lake Superior but not Lake Huron.
Wisconsin and Minnesota (accept on Badgers and Golden
Gophers before 3rd sentence)

B7. Given the teams involved, give the rivalry game's
nickname for five points each. Five-point bonus for
all correct.
a) Washington and Washington State
Apple Cup
b) Mississippi and Mississippi State
Egg Bowl
c) Purdue and Indiana
Old Oaken Bucket
d) Pittsburgh and West Virginia
Backyard Brawl
e) Alabama and Auburn
Iron Bowl

T8. [Geography] This waterway is approximately 350
miles and has a waterfall in the capital of the state
in which it is located. It is also the longest river
in the state in which it is located, formed by the
union of the Jackson and Cowpasture rivers. Lynchburg,
Scottsville, Richmond and Hampton Roads are major
cities along the path of this important river, which
then empties into the Chesapeake Bay. FTP, name the
Virginia river along which the first permanent English
settlement in America was founded in 1607.
James River

B8. Given cities along it, name the river FTP each.
a) Ulm, Budapest, Belgrade, Vienna
Danube River
b) Allahabad, Delhi, Agra, Saharanpur
Yamuna River
c) Pittsburgh, Cairo, Cincinnati, Louisville
Ohio River

T9. [Name] Name is the same. Sir Andrew won the 1963
Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for his
research of the chemical phenomena involved in the
transmission of nerve impulses. Julian was a
biologist, philosopher, educator and author schooled
at Oxford who influenced the study of embryology and
the behavioral sciences. Thomas coined the term
agnosticism, vigorously supported Darwin's theory of
evolution and elevated the place of science in
modern-day thinking. Finally, Aldous was a novelist
and critic whose works, including "Brave New World",
were noted for their pessimistic satire. FTP, give the
common last name.
Huxley

B9. As you know, Aldous, Thomas and Julian Huxley were
relatives. Give the common last name of these other
"families" given a description of the people in them
FTP each.
a) This baseball family has had three generations of
major leaguers: Gus was a member of the Cincinnati
Reds, Buddy is the Rockies' manager and David is the
Mariners' third baseman.
Bell
b) This political family had bad luck in presidential
elections as the elder Adlai lost three times; however
the younger Adlai avoided the presidency and founded
the third United Nations.
Stevenson
c) While not related, Cary was an American film star
who was popular for his flair for romantic comedy,
while the 18th U.S. president is now known for his
tomb in New York City.
Grant

T10. [Music] This style of music burst onto the scene
between 1991 and 1996. The style is based the
discontortion of guitars and is rooted in a
generational discontent. "Smells Like Teen Spirit" by
Nirvana was the first hit song, and this led to the
popularity of bands such as the Smashing Pumpkins; a
representative album of the style is "Melon Collie and
the Infinite Sadness" by the aforementioned band. FTP,
name this style of music that is also typified by
Nirvana's "Bleach", Soundgarden's "Superunknown",
Pearl Jam's "Ten" and Alice in Chains' "Dirt".
Grunge

B10. Name these older rock bands from clues FTP each.
a) This band was the highest-grossing live band in the
history of rock music; they named themselves after a
dictionary entry describing a type of folktale and
were comprised of Phil Lesh, Bob Lear, Phil McKernan,
Bill Kreutzmann, Mickey Hart and their leader Jerry
Garcia.
The Grateful Dead
b) This British band became famous for destroying its
instruments after concerts, starting in 1964; the
members of the band that created "Tommy", "Pinball
Wizard" and "Magic Bus" are John Entwistle, Keith
Moon, Roger Daltrey and the leader Peter Townshend.
The Who
c) This band is credited as the pioneer of art rock
and produced hits in the late 1960s and early 1970s
such as "Nights in White Satin", "Tuesday Afternoon"
and "Ride My Seesaw"; members were Mike Pinder, Ray
Thomas, Graeme Edge, Denny Laine and James Hayward.
The Moody Blues

T11. [Science] This element was the first to be
created artificially, in 1973 by Emilio Segrè and
Carlo Perrier. Isotopes of the element are known
ranging in mass number for 90 to 111. Although this
element is not part of any decay series, minute traces
of it were found in 1988 in a molybdenum mine in
Colorado. Bombarding molybdenum targets with deuterons
artificially created the element; deuterons consist of
a proton and a neutron. FTP, name the Transition
element with atomic number 43 and symbol Tc.
Technetium

B11. Name the element from clues FTP each.
a) This odorless, colorless noble gas was discovered
in 1898 by William Ramsay and Morris Travers and was
originally thought chemically inert; the element has
atomic number 54 and is principally used in lighting
devices such as high-speed photographic tubes.
Xenon
b) This soft, silver-white metallic Transition element
was predicted to exist by Mendeleev but actually
discovered by Nilson; the element has atomic number
21, forms trivalent and colorless salts and is
sometimes regarded as one of the rare earth elements.
Scandium
c) This hard, brittle, semi-metallic element,
necessary in traces for plant growth, is toxic in
large quantities; the element is found purely as an
amorphous powder and has atomic number 5.
Boron

T12. [Word] Give the word that fits before each of the
following phrases. Strong, man, pin, gate, long, land,
set, sail, stone, cold, board, lock, band, dress and
ache. All of these words can have what prefix before
them?
Head

B12. Given a set of words, find the common
three-letter prefix that they share FTP each.
a) A traditional character in pantomime who has now
come to be known as a buffoon, a famous motorcycle
company and one of the names of the Hindu God Vishnu/a
cult named after him.
Har-
b) A famous department store company founded by Sam
Walton, the middle name of Ralph Emerson and the lake
written about by Transcendentalist Henry David
Thoreau.
Wal-
c) A famous pharmaceutical company, a comedy by
Shakespeare starring Antonio and the economic system
mentioned by Adam Smith that rose with the fall of
feudalism in Europe.
Mer-

T13. [Math] 10 seconds: Find the interval on which
f(x) = x^2 + 4x + 8 is decreasing. (F(x): x squared
plus 4x plus 8.)
x < --2 (read: x is less than negative 2 or negative 2
is greater than x) 

B13. Since you love math, here are more math problems
for fifteen points each.
a) 15 seconds: Find the double integral with respect
to x of f(x) = 2x^2 + 3x - 4. Don't forget the
constants. (F(x) is read: 2x squared plus 3x minus 4)
1/6 x^4 + 1/2 x^3 - 2x^2 + Cx + D (read: one-sixth x
to the fourth plus one-half x cubed minus 2x squared
plus a constant times x plus a different constant) (C
and D are random)
b) 15 seconds: Find the third derivative with respect
to x of f(x) = 5x^4 + 4x^3 - 3x + 9. (F(x) is read: 5x
to the fourth plus 4x cubed minus 3x plus 9)
120x + 24 (read: one hundred twenty x plus 24)

T14. [History] This man was born in 1877 in Savad Kouh
in Mazandaran Province and at age 21 began a campaign
to expel the Soviets from the Northern part of his
country. In 1921 as commander of a cossack force, he
led a coup d' état that lead to him becoming premier
in 1923. His elected reign begin with the deposition
of ruler Ahmad Shah by the Majlis or National
Assembly. Westernization in his country began during
his reign with the improval of the transportation
system, but Britain and the USSR kicked him out of
power in 1944 when he began to lean toward the Axis
powers. FTP, name this Iranian ruler whose son
Muhammad followed him as shah of Iran.
Reza Shah Pahlavi

B14. Name these other Asian rulers FTP each.
a) This Indian ruler was the only child of Jawaharlal
Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, and was
highly popular for the liberation of Bangladesh from
Pakistan; however she was not liked by everyone in
India, as proved by her assassination by Sikh
extremists.
Indira Gandhi (prompt on Gandhi)
b) This Pakistani ruler was the first Asian woman to
be elected president of the Oxford Union and only came
to political prominence because her father was jailed;
in December 1988 due to the death of Zia ul-Haq she
and her Pakistan People's Party rose to power for one
year.
Benazir Bhutto
c) This Thai ruler established the present dynasty of
Thai kings in 1782; he renamed himself Rama I and
remained in power until 1809; he drew up the plans for
a commercial treaty with Great Britain that increased
European influence in the 19th century in Thailand.
Pya Chakri

T15. [Sports] "Toss 18 on 1. Toss 18 on 1, on 1.
Ready, Break!" This is an example of a huddle; this
particular play is the sweep play run to perfection by
the Washington Redskins and their star running back
Stephen Davis. The concept of the huddle was first
started so that the quarterback could relay plays to
his offensive teammates that came from the sideline
without giving them away to the defense. A university
that only accepts physically impaired people was the
first to start using the huddle, a necessity because
hand signals had to be shown to the offense as opposed
to the normal play call. FTP, name the university that
invented the huddle; the university is located in
Washington, D.C. and only accepts the hearing
impaired.
Gallaudet University

B15. Name the team name given a college for five
points each. Five-point bonus for all correct.
a) University of Montana
Grizzlies
b) The Air Force Academy
Falcons
c) Texas Christian University
Horned Frogs
d) University of Akron
Zips
e) Boise State University
Broncos

T16. [Religion] Name the religion, not the person.
This religion was organized at Pembroke College and
the University of Oxford as the evangelist leader was
an undergraduate student. The English organizer of the
religion joined the Holy Club (a college group), and
the nickname of group members became the name of the
religion. In 1736, the organizer became ordained a
deacon in the Church of England and traveled to
Georgia as a missionary. Later he returned to America
to inaugurate the Great Awakening along with Jonathan
Edwards and the Wesleys after being banned from
England. FTP, name the religion organized by George
Whitefield.
Methodism

B16. Given the "religion", name the founder for five
points each. Five-point bonus for all correct.
a) Scientology
L. Ron Hubbard
b) Shintoism (not Siddhartha Gautama)
Kobo Daishi
c) Armianism
Archbishop William Laud
d) Presbyterianism
John Knox
e) Pietism
Jakob Spener

T17. [Science] 10 seconds: Assuming a frictionless
surface, find the force exerted on a toy car by a
circular ramp if the mass of the toy car is 10
kilograms, the velocity of the toy car is 8 meters per
second and the radius of the circle is 4 meters.
160 Newtons

B17. Since you love physics so much, here are more
problems for fifteen points each. Assume acceleration
due to gravity is 10 meters/seconds^2 (read: 10 meters
per seconds squared) and that the objects are
travelling on frictionless surfaces. 
a) 15 seconds: Find the final velocity of a 2000
Newton car initially at rest if it elastically
collides with a 2200 Newton van initially travelling
at 15 meters per second; the van stops moving
immediately after the collision.
16.5 meters per second
b) 15 seconds: Find the initial height of a 5-kilogram
block that travels at a constant 12 meters per second;
energy is conserved during the block's slide down a
ramp and onto a table.
7.2 meters

T18. [Literature] These stories were compiled over
hundreds of years as they were passed down orally from
generation to generation. A broad frame story starts
at the beginning of the collection and gives a context
to the various stories it contains. The present form
of the story came to shape in the 1500s, but was only
translated into English by Richard Francis Burton in
the 1880s with a different title. The story, dated as
early as the 800s, begins with the enraged sultan
Schahriar planning the execution of his unfaithful
wife. FTP, name this classic set of stories told by
Scheherazade in an aim to prevent her husband from
executing her.
The Arabian Nights (also accept The Thousand Nights
and a Night)

B18. Answer these questions about specific stories in
the Arabian Nights for fifteen points each.
a) The story starts with a poor porter wandering
around Baghdad complaining about the hardships of his
life and the contrasting great wealth of the naval
wayfarer on whose doorstep he sits. Then the rich man
tells a set of stories regarding his voyages and the
hardships he had to get through to achieve such great
wealth; name the title character of this story.
Sinbad the Sailor (prompt on Sinbad)
b) The story starts discussing a sultan who had three
sons and a niece; the niece's name was Princess
Nouronnihar and she was the prize of the kingdom. The
sultan wishes to get her married, and when the
Princess suddenly falls ill, he offers her hand to
whomever is able to cure her. Prince Ahmed cures her
with a magic apple and then thinks he will be married,
but the sultan makes her hard to get; in his chase for
her Ahmed gets lured away and falls in love with a
cave-dwelling enchantress. Name the story from the
Arabian Nights.
Prince Ahmed and the Fairy (prompt on Prince Ahmed)

T19. [Geography] This country is bordered by Sudan,
Kenya, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda
and Tanzania. It also borders Lakes Albert and
Victoria in Central Africa. English and Swahili are
the country's main languages, and its flag is black,
yellow and red with a bird in the center. The
country's main natural resource is its soil, and its
currency is the shilling. FTP, name the country with
capital at Kampala. 
Uganda

B19. Given the country, name its currency for five
points each. Five-point bonus for all correct.
a) Norway
Krone
b) Peru
Inti
c) Yugoslavia
Dinar
d) Mali
Franc (CFA if someone cares)
e) Slovenia
Tolar

T20. [Computer Science] This computer language is
noted for being compiled and highly structured, as its
roots come from science and engineering. Although
science and engineering are still the main users of
the language, over the last 35 years the language has
been expanded to other areas of study. Invented from
1954 to 1958 by Jim Backus, the language is the
progenitor of many high-level concepts such as
variables, expressions, statements,
iterative/conditional statements, separately compiled
subroutines and formatted input/output. FTP, give the
acronym for the language called Formulation
Translation.
FORTRAN

B20. Given the acronym for a computer language, expand
it FTP each.
a) BASIC
Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code
b) COBOL
Common Business Oriented Language
c) PROLOG
Programming in Logic