Round 10 

LETTER ROUND 

The Letter B 

Influenced by Zen and Confucianism, it stressed
military virtues, feudal loyalty, and filial piety.
FTP, name this code of honor among the Samurai class
of Japan.
Bushido 

This satirical English writer wrote such books as
Enderby and Earthly Powers, but is probably better
known for his work about Alex, a violent gang leader
in an equally violent society of the near future. FTP,
name this man, author of A Clockwork Orange.
Anthony Burgess 

The major airport of this city, nestled in the
Cordillera Central of the Andes Mountains, is El
Dorado International Airport. FTP, name this city
located 8,500 feet above sea level that is home to
President Andres Pastrana.
Bogota, Colombia 

Starting his career as a Methodist minister, this man
left the church in 1861 to work among the poor in the
slums of London. FTP, name this man who in 1878, along
with his wife Catherine, founded the Salvation Army.
William Booth 

These islands have been under Spanish rule since 1349
and their major products include grapes, olives, and
citrus fruit, but tourism is extremely important. FTP,
name this group of islands of Eastern Spain whose
largest three members are Ibiza, Minorca, and Majorca.
Balearic Islands 

It is believed that this man marched his troops up
through a route in Northern Virginia. He died in 1755
after being the commander-in-chief of British forces
in North America and suffering a crushing defeat in
the French and Indian Wars. FTP, name this man who is
the namesake for the road on which our school is
located.
Edward Braddock 

This painter is famous for his cartoon-like satirical
renderings of Latin American cultural archetypes. FTP,
name this Colombian-born painter of The Musicians and
Still Life with Watermelon whose depictions of
generals, politicians, religious figures, historical
figures, and other members of society are generally
depicted as fat.
Fernando Botero 

Born in 1849, this woman co-wrote the play Esmeralda
with William H. Gillette. FTP, name this English-born
US author who wrote Little Lord Fauntleroy and The
Secret Garden.
Frances Hodgson Burnett 

It is the opposite of the theory of spontaneous
generation. FTP, name this theory, that claims that
all living things are derived from other living
organisms.
Biogenesis 

This man devoted much labor and expense to an
unsuccessful attempt to devise mechanical calculating
devices. FTP, name this man who along with Herschel
and Peacock introduced the Leibnizian "d" notation for
calculus into British mathematical use in place of the
less flexible "dot" notation devised by Newton.
Charles Babbage 

REPLACEMENTS 

This man defected to the West in 1974 while touring in
Canada with the Bolshoi Company. He has since worked
in New York with Jerome Robbins, Kevin O'Day and
George Balanchine. FTP, name this Latvian who began
his career in the Kirov Ballet Company in Leningrad.
Mikhail Baryshnikov

This was the name of the fearsome North Wind in Greek
Mythology, usually depicted with wild, unkempt hair
and a serpent's tail. 
Boreas 


UNTIMED INDIVIDUAL 

Team A 

A French mission was built here in 1642 and later it
became an important fur-trading center that was ceded
to Britain in 1763. FTP, name this city that lies at
the confluence of the St. Lawrence and Ottawa Rivers
and is home to baseball's Olympic Stadium.
Montreal 

This author is responsible for Good as Gold and the
play We Bombed in New Haven, but who is better known
for his grotesquely humorous novel about an American
bombardier's "deep-seated survival anxieties" during
World War II.
Joseph Heller 

This man was one of the leading members of the pop art
movement and his works including a copy of the US flag
show this. Name this artist, the man behind 1958's
Flag and a 1960 work of two cast beer cans titled
Painted Bronze.
Jasper Johns 

If a certain item costs $1.60, and there is a 9%
regional sales tax and a 6% state sales tax, how much
does the item finally cost.
$1.84 

This man was born on December 12, 1923 and made a
guest appearance as himself in an Adam Sandler flick.
Name this man who was insulted by Happy Gilmore with
profanity mocking this man's daytime television game
show.
Bob Barker 

Team B 

This city is the second largest in the Keystone State.
FTP, name this city located on the site where the
Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers converge to form the
Ohio and is home to baseball's PNC Park.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 

Name the book that starts out "Listen: Billy Pilgrim
has come unstuck in time" and is a World War II book
by Kurt Vonnegut Jr. which describes the firebombing
of Dresden.
Slaughterhouse Five 

From the beautiful city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
this pop artist was one of the leaders of the pop art
movement. FTP, name this man, the title subject of a
movie involving a shooting and for an entire wall of
painted cans.
Andy Warhol 

If a certain item costs $1.40 with all taxes but there
is a 7% sale along with another 8% discount, both
affecting the base price, what is the new cost of the
item.
$1.19 

Christopher McDonald played this man in a 1996 golf
movie. FTP, name this character, the archenemy of
Happy Gilmore.
Shooter McGavin 

REPLACEMENTS 

Which well-known talk show host, currently the host of
a late night show, said "The reason that there are two
senators for each state is so one can be the
designated driver."
Jay Leno 

Which well-known talk show host said "I know believe
in reincarnation. Tonight's monologue is going to
come back as a dog."
Johnny Carson 


CATEGORY ROUND 

On This Day - FTP each, answer these questions all
related to May 19, the originally scheduled date for
this tournament.

On this day in 1536, this woman, the second wife of
Henry VIII, was beheaded in the Tower of London after
being convicted of adultery.
Anne Boleyn 

On this day in 1890, this man, the first president of
the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, was born.
Ho Chi Minh 

On this day in 1993, a Boeing 727 crashed into a
mountainside leaving 132 people dead in this country's
city of Medellin.
Colombia 

On this day in 1992, the 27th amendment was ratified
prohibiting Congress from doing what.
Raising salary before next term (accept anything
pretty close) 

On this day in 1994, this woman died of non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma at the age of 64 after being married to a
Greek shipping magnet and the 35th President of the
US.
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis 

In his works he showed resentment toward his Puritan
roots. Name this US author, who died on this day in
1864, the author of The House of Seven Gables.
Nathaniel Hawthorne 

On this day in 1795, this man, the first governor of
New Hampshire, died. He was one of the signers of the
Declaration of Independence. Name this man who shares
his name with a popular NBC character.
Josiah Bartlett 

On this day in 1910, this pitcher and namesake to a
prestigious baseball award won his 500th game against
the Washington Senators 5-4 in 11 innings.
Cy Young 

On this day in 1925, this man was born in Omaha,
Nebraska. He later went on to change his last name to
represent that his real surname was lost during
slavery. Name this man with a former last name of
Little, who was the assassinated leader of the black
Muslims.
Malcolm X 

He was a major investor in the B&O Railroad and died
on Christmas Eve 1873. In his will he left 7 million
dollars to a university and medical center in
Baltimore and both now bear his name. Name this man,
born on this day in 1795.
Johns Hopkins 

REPLACEMENTS 

On this day in 1506, this man selected his son Diego
as his sole heir. Name this explorer born in Genoa,
Italy and discoverer of the West Indies.
Christopher Columbus 

Born on May 19th, this well-known guitarist and
singer, famous for smashing his guitar at the end of a
performance, reportedly went though at least a dozen
guitars every year. FTP, name this lead singer of The
Who.
Pete Townshend 


TIMED INDIVIDUAL 

Team A 

Adam Heyer, Frank Gusenberg, Pete Gusenberg, John May,
Al Weinshank, and James Clark were murdered by members
of Capone's gang disguised as police at this event.
St. Valentine's Day Massacre 

In the John F. Kennedy line "Ich bin ein Berliner,"
what does ein Berliner translate to in English.
Jelly Doughnut 

What are the zeros of the following equation: y = 2x^3
+ 4x^2 + 2x
0 and -1 

This city was founded in the fifth century AD and was
the third largest in the Soviet Union. Name this city,
the capital of Ukraine.
Kiev 

This alumni of Ohio State University is the running
back who led the NFC in rushing yards during the
2000-01 season; this man is a key member of the
offense keyed by Quarterback Daunte Culpeper and Wide
Receivers Cris Carter and Randy Moss.
Robert Smith

Fabian, Curio, Valentine, Orsino, Olivia, and Malvolio
are characters in this William Shakespeare play.
Twelfth Night 

I am a Rock and The Boxer are two hits by the duo that
sang The Sound of Silence and Mrs. Robinson.
Simon and Garfunkel 

Team B 

This man was the leader of Al Capone's opposition gang
in Chicago and whose gang members were killed in the
Saint Valentine's Day Massacre.
Bugs Moran 

When Pope John Paul II visited Miami a t-shirt
manufacturer printed shirts saying "Yo vi a la Papa,"
which translates into English as saying that he saw
what.
Potato 

Find the zeros of the following equation: y = 6x^2 +
24x - 72
-6 and 2 

This city lies on the Svisloch River and in 1991
became the capital of an independent Belarus.
Minsk 

This alumni of Southern Missouri State University is
the wide receiver who led the AFC in receiving yards
during the 2000-01 season; this man is a key member of
the offense keyed by Quarterback Brian Griese and
Running Backs Olandis Gary and Mike Anderson.
Rod Smith

Antonio, Salerio, Lorenzo, Jessica, Portia, and
Shylock are all characters in which William
Shakespeare play.
The Merchant of Venice 

Monday and Little Man were songs done by this husband
and wife duo which had the hits of The Beat Goes On
and I Got You Babe.
Sonny and Cher 

REPLACEMENTS 

This well-known writer said, "The first amendment says
that religious groups, no matter how small or
unpopular, shall have the right to hassle you in
airports."
Dave Barry 

This well-known writer said, "In the first place, God
made idiots. That was for practice. Then he made
school boards."
Mark Twain 


GRAB BAG 

The phrase "felices ter et amplius, quos inrupta tenet
copula," literally translated as "thrice happy and
more, those whom the unbroken chains bond," hangs over
the entrance to Harvard yard. FTP, name the author of
this phrase who also penned "carpe diem" and who is
well-known for his Satires and Odes.
Horace (accept Quintus Horatius Flaccus) 

The sum of the potential differences that traverse any
closed loop in a circuit must be zero. The total
current that enters a junction must equal the total
current that leaves the junction. FTP, these two
statements make up the rules of this man, a 19th
century German physicist who firmly developed spectrum
analysis along with Robert Bunsen as well as aiding in
analyzing circuits.
Gustav Kirchhoff 

This man was born on July 22, 1882, in Nyack, NY, and
studied illustration before switching to the New York
School of Art in 1901 to study painting. He was
greatly influenced by such European masters as
Velazquez and Goya. FTP, name this artist who has the
common theme in his paintings of loneliness, as is
evidenced in his most famous work, Nighthawks.
Edward Hopper 

He is an intelligent, sensitive, and immature monster
who lives with his mother in a cave underneath a
swamp. From the very onset of his life, he questions
the world around him. FTP, name this character, the
subject of a novel by John Gardner, and the monster
who ultimately is killed by Beowulf.
Grendel 

This man is known for having made many statues of
divinities and sports heroes. After meeting with
immense success in Athens, he was accused of
embezzling gold and, as some accounts say, banished
from Athens. FTP, name the greatest of Greek sculptors
whom Pericles commissioned to build the Parthenon, the
statue of Athena, and, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia.
Phidias 

10 seconds - what is the third derivative of ln(7x).
2/x^3 

This author was raised in a Bonapartist home, became a
Royalist as a young man, but was Republican by the
Revolution of 1848. In 1851, following the
unsuccessful revolt against Napoleon III, he fled to
Belgium, and in 1855 began a 15-year-long exile on the
island of Guernsey. FTP, name this author of Les
Miserables and the Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Victor Hugo 

Nicknamed "the Prince of Shadows," this man was born
in Leida in 1606 and died in Amsterdam in 1669. He
painted over 100 self-portraits, and portraits of his
mistress, Hendrickje. FTP, name this baroque Dutch
artist most who painted such works as Lucretia, The
Blinding of Samson, and The Militia Company of Frans
Banning Cocq Preparing to March Out.
Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn 

This American scientist received a doctorate in botany
in 1927 from Cornell University and then became
involved with the Carnegie Institution in Washington.
Her most famous work came in the field of genetics,
however. FTP, name the winner of the 1983 Nobel Prize
for medicine who discovered that genes can shift their
positions on chromosomes, important to understanding
hereditary processes. 
Barbara McClintock

Our friendly tournament director, Jeff Cohen, is
frequently referred to by this name. FTP, give the
name for the third derivative of position with respect
to time. 
Jerk 

A completely white landscape with a bird flying away
and a car in the distance moving slowly towards the
camera open this film . It later goes on to tell the
true story of murders stemming from Jerry Lundegaard's
botched attempted at fraud involving his wife's
kidnapping. FTP, name this 1995 film, the breakout hit
for Joel and Ethan Coen.
Fargo 

After several lawyers had failed to defend Sam
Shephard, the man on whom The Fugitive is based, this
young polygraph expert took his case. Grilling key
witnesses for the prosecution this man forced some of
them to admit holes in the case agains t him. For ten
points, name this man, hired for the defense of O. J.
Simpson.
F. Lee Bailey 

This soccer player was considered the heir to Pele but
became embroiled in off-field problems late in his
career. His famous "Hand of God" goal against England
in the 1986 World Cup semifinal marked his rise into
the spotlight. After drug problems in 1990, this man
attempted to make a comeback but was unable due to
physical limitations. FTP, name this man who was
Argentina's star and became famous around the world
for his high-profile lifestyle.
Diego Maradona 

Considering that this man was quite dignified and a
grand gentleman, he probably would not have
appreciated having one of his pieces put to a techno
beat and played for The Matrix. Born in 1857 near
Worchester, he was already composing by the age of
ten, although his first major success, the Froissart
Overture wasn't published until 1889. Ten years later
he had become quite popular, especially with his
Enigma Variations. In 1901, this man unwantingly
became an English nationalist composer when at Edward
VII's coronation, one of his five popular marches was
played. FTP, name this composer of the marches
entitled Pomp and Circumstance.
Edward Elgar 

Divide a list of numbers in half, and recurse on each
half, dividing them into halves, and so on. At each
level, after recursing, combine the two halves so that
the elements of the list are in the appropriate order.
FTP, name this algorithm used to sort a list in order
N log N time.
Merge sort

REPLACEMENTS 

Trained by both Abwehr and MI-6, he was one of
Britain's most successful double agents. This 30-year
old Yugoslavian international playboy was responsible
for identifying all German double agents, helping
thwart Hitler's Operation Sea Lion, and leaking
Germany's Microdot technology. FTP, name this man who
was kicked out of the U.S. for drinking and
womanizing.
Dusko Popov 

This democrat from Alabama was probably known more for
his demeanor than his politics. He was in Cuba,
suffering from tuberculosis on his inauguration day.
However, he died shortly after, serving as Vice
President for only six weeks. That made him the only
bachelor Vice President, and the only to be sworn into
office outside the country. FTP, name this running
mate to Franklin Pierce.
William Rufus De Vane King 