Date:Wed, 16 Apr 1997 13:41:06 -0700 (PDT)
From:Gaius Stern <gaius@server.Berkeley.EDLJ>
To:Matthew Akins <matthe@utdallas.edu>
Cc:gaius@server.Berkeley.EDU, avp@@acs.ess.ucla.edu, ptolemy@wam-umd.edu,      redling@utdallas.edu, mds@stat-ohio-state.edu, topquark@iastate.edu
Subject: UCLA bonuses



1997 High School Academic Buzzer Alliance UCLA Bonuses
     by Oz Pathare (UCLA) edited by Gaius Stern (Berk)

1.Abraham Lincoln was the first President to serve more than four years
inoffice but less than eight. There have been six others You'll get 5
points each for naming all 6, but you must name 3 to earn any poi
A:William MCKINLEY, T. ROOSEVELT, Calvin COOLIDGE, Harry TRUMAN,
L. JOHNSON,Richard NIXON

2. Answer these questions about Ludwig von Beethoven FTP each.
In 1792, following the death of Mozart, Beethoven studied under this
Austrian co@ser
A: Joseph HAYDN
This woman was identified as Antonie Brentano; a movie was made about her in the early 1990's. A letter, dated 1812, is addressed to her.
A: the IMMORTAL BELOVED
Within 10 percent, give the number of operas Beethoven composed. A: ONE

3.     Given the Shakespearen line, identify its speaker and the play. You will get 10 points for each speaker and 5 points for each play. nWe are such stuff/ As dreams are made on, and our little life/ Is rounded with a sleep.m
A: PROSPERO in The TEMPEST
"If music be the food of love, play on.m
A:Duke ORSINO in TWELFTH NIGHT

4.Given the following list of co@nents of the cardiopulmonary system,
list in order the path of blood through the heart and lungs, from deoxygenated blood to oxygenated. You'll get 5 points for each component
in the righ@ place.They are: aorta; left ventricle; right ventricle;
pulmonary arteries; pulmnary veins; lungs
A: RIGHT VENTICLE;  PULMONARY ARTERIES; LUNGS; PULMONARY VEINS;
     LEFT VENTRICLE; AORTA

5.Identify the following British monarch, 30/20/10
30.     He was named after his grandfather who was king of England. The son of a pretender to the throne, obtained the throne by coercing the embattled king to disown his son in his favor, if the attacks would end. 20. He crossed the English Channel in 1154 upon the death of Stephen.
10.     He brought Eleanor of Aquitaine to England as his wife and made England a major power in his 35 year reign.
HENRY II

6.     The latest White House mini-scandal involves the revelation that two senior administration officials, Clinton's former and current chiefs of staff, helped line up employment for an ex-associate attorney general after he resigned facing allegations concerning fraudulent billings. FTP each, name:

The ex-associate Attorney General, who now flush with funds has refused to cooperate with the Whitewater investigators:
A: Webster HUBBELL
The former White House Chief of Staff
A: Thomas MCLARTY
The current White House Chief of Staff
A:Erskine BOWLES

7.30-20-10, name the NBA coach.
30:one day earlier this season his 13-year old son told him a joke:
@Knock-knock.u
"Whols there?u replied the naive coach. 'Owen."
"Owen who?"
mO and 13,m
which was his then woeful team's record at that point in the season. 20: "No wonder they're having probl @ " said Charles Barkley at the time: mtheir best shooter is their coach.,
10:He has since turned the Suns somewhat around, and might even get them
into the playoffs, a place he bec @ familiar with as a r of championship squads during the 1980's.
A:Danny AINGE

8.Answer these questions about radiometric dating.
Carbon-14 is probably the most well-known isotope used in radioactive dating.
1.Within 500 years, what is the half-life of Carbon-14 as it decays
intoNitrogen-14 ?
A:-5730_ years (accept 5230-6230)
2-3. The parent isotope potassium has a half-life of 1.3 billion years and decays into two different daughter isotopes, each have an atomic weight of 40. FTP, name them.
A:ARGON; CALCIUM

9.Identify the city on a 30-20-10 basis

30:originally quite compact in area, during the 19th century it
incorporated all of the nearby smaller cities, including Frankford and Southwark. Before Paris incorporated its outlying suburbs later in the century, this American city had a larger area than any other in the world.

20:     It constitutes its own county. Adjoining counties include Montgomery, Burlington, and Gloucester.

10:     In population, it is the 2nd largest on the east coast and the fifth largest overall in the US.
A:PHILADELPHIA, Pennsylvania

10.     FTP each, given the work for which he or she received a Pulitzer Prize, name the author.
1. Beloved
A:Toni MORRISON
2.Arrowsmith
A:Sinclair LEWIS
3:The Old Man and the Sea
A:Ernest HEMINGWAY

11.Answer these elements of Jewish mythology FTP each.
A)One became Rabbi Judah's trusty aide and often saved Jews from
anti-semitic plots in Prague. Name this   -made creature
A: GOLEM
B)     She's a winged creature with long hair who seduces men, endangers women in childbirth, haunts people in their homes, and bore children with Adam
A: LILITH
C)     The war raged by this king and the allied forces of evil on Israel is supposed to signal the coming of the messiah.
A:GOG (do not accept "Magog")

12.Place the following Chinese dynasties in order from earliest to most

recent. 5 points for each in its correct place: Tang, Shang, Chou, Sui, Hsia, Han.
A:HSia, Shang, Chou, Han, Sui, Tang
13.     Entertairffent Weekly recently published their annual 100 Most Powerful People in Entertaiment issue. Identify some of these

players FTP each
A) Number one on the list is this foreigner who owns a network,
a movie studio, a publishing house, and over a hundred newspapers.

A:Rupert MURDOCH

B)     This man is #4 on the list even though he is not even chai of

his company, but that's because he recently sold his company to an even larger media company. He is currently @roiled in a highly publicized feud with Rupert Murdoch, and he is one of the few people on the EW list who would probably also make a 100 most powerful people in sports list, as he owns both a baseball and basketball team.

A: Ted
C)     This former superagent used to be near the very top of the list, but he's fallen to 14th place after changing jobs from CAA to a studio position at Disney, which he then quit after the list c @ out.
A:Michael _QVITZ_

14.Given the description name the part of the atmosphere described FTP
each. 12 miles thick at the equator and 5 miles thick at the poles, weather and clouds form here and more than half of the atmosphere's gases, water vapor, and dust particles are in the first 4 miles.

A: TROPOSPHERE
It ranges 150 miles or more over the Earth's surface. The ionosphere is contained within this larger atmospheric layer.

A: THERMOSPHERE
The ozone layer is found here and so are icy winds. Stretching to 30 miles in the sky, the air here is usually dry and clear.
A:STRATOSPHERE

15.30-20-10, name the author.
30-- The main character in his two best known works is Stephen

Daedalus.
20-- He is considered the father of the "Stream of Consciouness4

style of literature.
10-- His novels include mthe Dublinerso and mfinnegan's Waken

A:James _JOYCEL

16.     Answer the following related questions on a 10-5 basis. 10-- Ex-NFL players Ray Nitschke, Mike Henry and Joe Knapp appeared in this movie as players on the prison guard team. 5-- The team of prisoners was led by an actor who in real life was
     d First Team All- State while playing for Florida State University and was being scouted by pro teams when he was in a car accident that shattered his knees as well as his pro football prospects.

     A: _THE LONGEST YARD-
     10-- The chief town on this resort island is Edgartown.

     5-- It is part of Massachusetts
     A: @THA - S VINEYARD-
10-- It was originally established in a 12th century castle. 5-- It's named after the street on the north back of the Thames near Westminster Bridge where it used to be located.

     A:-SCOTLAND YARD-
17.30-20-10, name the figure from Greek mythology.
30:At the outset of the Trojan War, this man set sail with the Greeks for
Troy, but his fellow warriors left him in Lemnos because of the putrescent
odor of the festering wound he had.
20:     A staunch friend of Heracles, this man lit Heracles, funeral pyre on mt. oeta when his poisoned friend begged for death. In thanks, Heracles gave him the weapons Heracles had used to kill, among others, Geryon.

10:     This man put these weapons - a bow and a collection of poisoned arrows - to use. Allowed to rejoin the Greeks at the end of the Trojan War, it was his arrow that killed Paris.
A:PHILOCCTETES

18.     In this bonus you will be given a two lists of three events from the First World War. Arraneg them in order of earliest to latest. You'll get five points for each event you place correctly.
A)     the abdication of the Kaiser; the treaty if Brest-Litovsk; the armistice of the West;
Ans:BREST-LITOVSK; ABDICATION; ARMISTICE
B)     the start of the First Battle of the Somm@, the sinking of the Lusitania; and the first combat for @rican troops.
Ans: LUSITANIA;    SOMME;   AMERICAN COMBAT;

19.Given a description of an opera, nam it for 10 points each.
Itopens with the King of Spain about to confer knighthood on Don Rodrigo.
A:Le CID or The CID (do not accept EL CID)
The title character is a hunchbacked jester who gets cursed by Monterone at the beginning.
A: RIGOLETTO
Violetta Valery, a consumptive courtesan, falls in love with Alfredo Germnt.
A:La TRAVI-ATA

20.Identify the following rivers, 10 each:
A)It form the border between Gerogia and South Carolina.
Ans:SAVANNAH River
B)It forms much of the border between North Korea and China.
Ans: YALU River     (also accept Tumen river)
C)     This river flows between New Hanpshire and Vermont. Ans: CONNECTICUT

21.     Identify these musical term of Italian origin FTP each >From the word for nharp,m it is a broken chord in which the notes are played in succession
A: ARPEGGIO
Literally 'from the head,, it is an indication that a previosly played section of music is to be repeated
A: DE CAPO
Meaning Nbound together,* it describes a smooth preformance without accentuated notes
A: LEGATO

22.     How much do you remember about early 20th Century Mexican history? Identify the following FTP each:
A)     This corrupt dictator of Mexico was driven from power after over years in power in 1911.
Ans, Porfirio DIAZ
B)     This Mexican politician rose against Diaz and became President of Mexico with support from the US. He was arrested and murdered in 1913, nuch to the distress of Woodrow Wilson.
Ans:Francisco MADERO
This general overthrew Madero and made h @ elf ruler of Mexico. This drew the wrath and opposition of the US. He was forced out in 1916. Ans: Victoriano HUERTA


