Cavalier Classic 1996
Extra questions

Tossups :

1)  He wrote his first novel, A Transit to Narcissus, as a Harvard undergraduate, though it was not published until 1978.  After fictional works like The Deer Park and The American Dream, he turned to social criticism, such as Armies of the Night and The
Executioner's Song.  FTP, identify this American writer, best known for The Naked And The Dead.

Answer : Norman _Mailer_

2)  Created by Hephaestus, her name literally means "All-gifted."  She married Epimetheus, the brother of Prometheus, who accepted the gift that Zeus had given her for her husband.  FTP, name this mythological first woman, whose box contained all the evil
s of the world, as well as hope.

Answer : _Pandora_

3)  This radioactive element can replace calcium in bones if food contaminated with it is eaten.  First isolated in 1808 by Sir Humphrey Davy, it is not in wide-scale production since calcium and barium have similar chemical properties but are much cheape
r.  FTP, name this element whose isotope with mass number 90 is the most feared component of radioactive fallout, having atomic number 38 and symbol Sr.

Answer : _strontium_

4)  Her autobiographies include Dance to the Piper and And Promenade Home.  Beginning her career in dance in 1929, she created ballets based on American themes such as "Rodeo" and "Fall River Legend."  FTP, identify this American choreographer, best known
 for 1943's "Oklahoma!".

Answer:  Agnes _De Mille_

5)  His collected short stories, translated by his son Dmitri, were published for the first time in 1995.  Although his early novels, such as King, Queen, Knave and Invitation to a Beheading, were written in Russian, he began writing in English with 1941'
s The Real Life of Sebastian Knight.  FTP, name this author, best known for Ada, Pale Fire, and Lolita.

Answer : Vladimir _Nabokov_

6)  It has an equatorial distance of alomost 75,000 miles, and an atmosphere of hydrogen, helium, and traces of methane and ammonia.  Its largest satellite is the only natural satellite in the solar system with a substantial atmosphere.  FTP, name this ri
nged planet, the sixth from the sun.

Answer : _Saturn_

7)  Although he wanted to study with Mozart, the master was dead by the time he got to Vienna, so he studied with Haydn instead.  He wrote sixteen string quartets, thirty two piano sonatas, and vocal works such as the Missa Solemnis and Fidelio.  FTP, ide
ntify this German composer, best known for a work written after he had gone deaf, the Choral Symphony.

Answer : Ludwig von _Beethoven_

8)  He has already lost one Senate race to his state's formidable incumbent, who outspent him by $4.5 million dollars in 1990, with much of the money going to create ads attacking this African-American's stand on affirmative action.  FTP, name this former
 mayor of Charlotte, North Carolina, who is once again attempting to dethrone Jesse Helms.

Answer: Harvey _Gantt_

9)  Daughter of King Belus, she fled Tyre when her brother killed her husband.  According to early legend, she killed herself to escape the romantic interests of the African prince Hierbas.  In the Aeneid, she kills herself after being deserted by Aeneas.
  FTP, name this legendary queen of Carthage.

Answer:  _Dido_

10)  He collaborated with Ford Madox Ford on Romance and The Inheritors.  His first novel, Almayer's Folly, was published in 1895, and was soon followed by An Outcast of the Islands and The Nigger of the Narcissus.  FTP, name this Polish born writer, best
 known for The Secret Sharer, Lord Jim, and Heart of Darkness.

Answer : Joseph _Conrad_

11)  The chloride and bromide compounds of this alkali metal are used as desiccants. It combines with aluminum and hydrogen to form a compound which reduces aldehydes, ketones, and carboxylic esters to alcohols. Its hydroxide compound is used to thicken g
rease and extend the life of batteries, and its carbonate compound has proven useful in the treatment
of manic-depressive disorder. FTP, name this element with atomic number three and symbol Li.

Answer : _lithium_

12)  On this plain in Attica, northeast of Athens, the Greeks won a 490 BC victory over the Persians that ended DariusÍ encroachments into the region.  According to legend, news of the victory was brought by the runner Pheidippides to Athens, over 26 mile
s away.  Commemorations of that run have given the name of the plain, and of the battle, a place in history. FTP, what is that name?

Answer : _Marathon_

Extra boni :

1)  Evaluate the following mathematical expressions FTP each.
a) 4 factorial
b) The derivative of x squared at x=1
c) The integral of x from 0 to 1

Answers : _24_; _2_; _1/2_

2)  FTP each, identify these speakers from the Democratic National Convention:
a) In 1992, he related his son's near-death in a car accident; this year he discussed his sister's fatal battle with lung cancer.
b) The keynote address was given by this governor of Indiana, who formerly lost his Senate seat to Dan Quayle.
c) The President was renominated by this veteran Senator from Connecticut.

Answer: Albert _Gore_; Evan _Bayh_ (BYE); Christopher _Dodd_

3)  Identify the following terms from physics FTP each.
a)  Motion which takes place at speeds much less than the speed of light is called this, after an Italian physicist.
b)  Motion which occurs near the speed of light is called this, a term used in this manner first by Einstein.
c)  This transformation helps explain the relativistic effects of time dilation and length contraction.

Answers : _Galilean_ motion; _relativistic_ motion; _Lorentz_        transform

4)  FTP each, identify these Clinton administration appointees.
a) This former U.S. Trade representative replaced the late Ron Brown as Commerce Secretary in 1996.
b) This general replaced Lee Brown as drug policy coordinator or drug czar.
c)  This man was confirmed as Central Intelligence director in 1995.

Answer: Mickey _Kantor_; Barry _McCaffrey_; John _Deutch_

5)  FTP each, identify the French painters who created the following works:
a) "Still Life with Peppermint Bottle" and "Still Life with Plaster Cupid"
b) "Olympia" and "The Dead Toreador"
c) "Luncheon of the Boating Party" and "Girl with a Watering Can"

Answer: Paul _Cezanne_; Eduard _Manet_; Pierre Auguste                     _Renoir_

6)  Identify the Norwegians FTP each.
a) This Norwegian composer produced such pieces as Concerto in A Minor and the Peer Gynt suite.
b) This Norwegian artist painted works such as "The Scream" that express inner torment.
c) This Norwegian-American football coach converted to Roman Catholicism at Notre Dame because he was tired of being the only Norwegian Lutheran there.

Answers: Edvard _Grieg_; Edvard _Munch_; Knute _Rockne_

7)  Identify the state where the following rivers have their source, FTP each.
a) Rio Grande
b) Ohio River
c) Missouri River

Answers : _Colorado_; _Pennsylvania_; Montana_

8)  Identify the English word from its foreign equivalents, 30-20-10.
30) The Japanese word "go"
20) The German word "Sprache" (SPRAHCH)
10) The French word "Langue" (LONG)

Answer : _Language_
