(

Round 1
1. Peru's anchovy harvest in 1982-83 was destroyed because of it, but it remains to be seen how
high anchovy prices will rise this year. What is this Pacific weather phenomenon that seems to
cause all the world's problems?
El Nino
2. Its state song is appropriately "Old Folks at Home." Ceded to the US in 1819 by the AdamsOnis Treaty, what is this US state first explored by Juan Ponce de Leon?
Florida

3. In 1912 he participated in the modern pentathlon, but didn't medal, partly because he didn't use
a standard pistol in the shooting event. Who was this military man who later led the U.S. Third
army in WWII?·
George Patton

4. Chiefly known for his narrative verse and ballads dealing with English history, what 20th
century English poet penned "Barrel Organ" and "The Highwayman?"
Alfred Noyes

(

5. In Turkish, it's known as Karadeniz Bogazi and on either side are the strategic castles of
Rumeli Hisar and Anadolu Hisar. What is 'this 20-mile strait separating the Black Sea and the Sea
of Marrilara?
The Bosporus
6. What German philosopher and historian argued that all cultures are subject to the cycle of
growth and decay in his two-volume work published from 1918-22, The Decline of the West?
Oswald Spengler
7. He led the UK's efforts to develop an atomic bomb during WWII and was knighted for his
work and his more famous earlier achievements. Who was this 1935 winner of the Nobel Prize
for Physics for his discovery of the neutron?
Sir James Chadwick
8. What is the sine of the larger acute angle of a right triangle with sides of 5 and 12 furlongs?
12/13
9. His effigy is customarily burned every 5th of November. Who was this conspirator arrested in
1605 in the ceUarofthe Houses of Parliament, later hanged, drawn, and quartered for his role in
the Gunpowder Plot?
Guy Fawkes

10. Along with his brother Edouard, he was the first to use demountable pneumatic tires on motor
cars. The company he founded also produces high-quality maps and guidebooks. Who was this
Frenchman, who, in 1888, founded his famous tire company?

Andre Michelin
11. Known as "Old Bullion" because of his distrust of paper currency, he lost his seat in the
Senate because of his opposition to slavery. Who was this leader of the Democratic Party in the
western US and Missouri senator for 30 years?

Thomas Hart Benton
12. When he grows older he falls in love with Kitty, the daughter of Major Brydon. Also the
hwnan friend of Bagheera, Grey Brother, and Baloo, who is this boy raised by wolves, the
protagonist of Kipling's The Jungle Book?
Mowgli

D o\u.13. Among his films are White Sheik, Ginger and Fred, and La Dulce Vita. Who was this Italian
film director who died in 1993 and whose most famous film is 81h?

Federico Fellini
14 'Tn parts ofIndiaI presence of this ion in water is 10 parts per million, which causes deformed
bones and mottling teeth. A sraaller presence in water can strengthen bones and teeth, however.
What is this ion often combined with sodium and other elements and found in toothpaste?

Fluoride
15. In 1798 he joined the Russian navy as a rear admiral and fought against Turkey. However, he
is better known for his exploits with the US navy. Who was this seaman who captured the
Serapis?

John Paul Jones
16. This Greek hero also became King ofTiryns and slew the Kraken, which was going to devour
Andromeda. Who was this son of Zeus and Danae, who also killed the gorgon Medusa?

Perseus
17. Some of her works include the Castles of Athlia and Dunbayne and The Italian, both of
which were written in the Gothic style. Who was this English writer whose most famous Gothic
novel was The Mysteries of Udolfo?

Anne Radcliffe
18. To the ancient Egyptians these animals symbolized both evil and female fertility. Menes was
supposedly killed by one. What is this animal truit is said to be one of the most dangerous in the
wild whose name comes from the Greek for ''river horse?"

Hippopotamus

()

(

19. Its name is from the Latin, but it was written in Greek. What is the name of this oldest Greek
translation of the Old Testament that gets its name from the group of seventy scholars
traditionally given credit for it?

the Septuagint
20. In 1937 he donated his art collection to the public along with funds for constructing the
National Galley of Art in Washington. Who was this American industrialist, who served under
three U.S. presidents as Secretary of the Treasury?

Andrew Mellon

End o{lst Quarter
21. Aside form his plays, he is known for his screen adaptations of earlier works such as Tom
Jones and The Picture of Dorian Gray. Who was this "angry" playwright of Inadmissible
Evidence and Look Back in Anger?

John Osborne
22. It's the term given to the mass of one liter of hydrogen gas at standard temperature and
pressure. What·s this term used for weighing gases that sounds like someone with a lisp saying
the first name of the star of TV's Get a Life and the movie Cabin Boy?

crith (Chris Elliot is the star)
(

23. Its name is derived from a Roman general who bested Hannibal by using weariness and
caution rather than violence or defiance. What was this socialist group founded by British middleclass intellectuals whose most notable member was George Bernard Shaw?

Fabian Society or the Fabians (named after Quintus Fabius)
24. Portrayed in the movie Braveheart as a traitor who reforms after the death of Mel Gibson,
what Scottish king after the death of William Wallace defeated Edward I's son, Edward II, in
1314 at Bannockburn and signed the 1328 treaty of Northampton recognizing Scotland's
independence?

Robert the Bruce (Robert

n

25. Its brightest star is known as either Alphecca or Gemma, and it lies between Hercules and
BoOtes. Representing the headband of Ariadne cast into the sky by Dionysius, what is this
constellation of the northern hemisphere also known as the Northern Crown?

Corona BoreaUs (accept Northern Crown on early buzz)

o

(

26. Born in Verona, Italy, he moved to Vienna at age 16 and became court composer in 1774 and
Hofkapellmeister in 1778. Among his pupils were Beethoven and Schubert. He wrote mainly
Italian operas, including Falstaff, based on The Merry Wives of Windsor. He isn't best known for
his musical accomplishments, however. Who was this famous court rival of Mozart?

Antonio Salieri
27. The Cisalpine area lay south of the Alps and north of the Apennines, and it was incorporated
into Italy in 42 BC. However, the Transalpine region is the more famous part. What was this
land frequented by Celts and other Germanic groups, bordered by the Rhine, the Alps, and the
Pyrenees, which was completely overrun by the Romans under Julius Caesar?

Gaul
.
.
28. His first novel, Horseman, Pass By, was the basis for the 1963 movie, Hud. Other works of
his include Cadillac Jack, Terms of Endearment, and The Last Picture Show. Who is this winner
of the 1986 Pulitzer Prize for his Western novel, Lonesome Dove?

Larry McMurtry
29. He favors territorial expansion as far as the nation formerly known as ZaIre and has proposed
mergers with several other nations. His theories, based on Mao Zedong's, are collected in a green
book instead of a red one. '~'ho is this thorn in the side of many Western nations and Libyan
dictator?

Moamar Khadaffi (Gadaffi, Quadaffi)
(

30. Francisco de Pisa described this artist's late medieval palace as one of the most beautiful in
Toledo. Who was this Spanish mannerist, born Domenikos Theotokopoulos, who painted the
stormy View of Toledo and The Burial of Count Orgaz?

EI Greco
31. Founded in 1789 as the Society of Friends ofthe Constitution, their more popular name
stemmed from the Dominican convent at Paris where they met. What was this revolutionary
group quashed in 1794 when many of its members, including MaxmillianRobespierre, were
executed?
/

the Jacobins
32. He was only known by his surname until he went back to Medieval times and the viewer
learned that his first name was Angus. Who was this nemesis of the evil Murdoc and employee of
the Phoenix Foundation who could short circuit a nuclear missile with a paper clip and build a
blowtorch out of a bicycle?

Macgyver

o

(

33. Guy in his zamboni can smooth an ice hockey rink in 10 minutes. Henri in his souped-up
variety can finish a rink in 5 minutes. How long would it take both of them working together to
smooth the rink during I st intermission?
3 minutes 20 seconds
34. Through a window he inserted into a dog's stomach, he observed and learned a great deal on
the physiology of the digestive system, for which he won the 1904 Nobel Prize in Physiology or
Medicine. Who was this Russian scientist who also used dogs in his research on the conditioned
reflex?
Ivan Pavlov

35. She had no children and her replacement was picked by the Act of Settlement. The chief
event of her reign was the War of Spanish Succession, which lasted until a year before her death.
Who was this daughter of James II and last Stuart mdnarch of Britain?

Am''\..

I.

q ..

",.e",-

A"" ...... :

(y,,-\

36. His PassiC!ns 0/ the Mind is about Sigmund Freud. Sailor on Horseback is about Jack
London. The Agony and the Ecstasy is about Michelangelo. Lust/or Life is about Vincent Van
Gogh. Name the American author of all these fictional biographies and several others.
Irving Stone

(

37. He was beheaded by his stepfather Shiva, who had never seen him before. Parvaati had
created him out of dirt and ordered Shiva to rebuild him, but the head was lost, so he stole one
from a nearby animal. Who is this elephant-headed Hindu god?
Ganesha (Ganes or Ganpati)
38. It was approved in 1956 by the Chinese government, but Beijing Palace hasn't caught on as a
popular restaurant name in America. Due to this system, in 1979 Mao Tse-Tung became Mao
Zedong and Canton became Guangzhou. What is this system which transforms Chinese words
into the Latin alphabet?
Pinyin
39. At 16,066 feet, it's located in the Ellsworth Mountains and was first scaled in 1966 by an
American expedition led by Nicholas Clinch. Although it has a French-sounding name, it was
named after a Georgia politician who served in the U.S. House of Representatives for a record 50
years from 1914-64. What is this mountain, the highest peak in Antarctica?
Vinson Massif (named after Carl Vinson)
40. His father, HjaImar, was the Prime Minister of Sweden during WWII. In 1961 because ofhis
many peacekeeping efforts, he was given the Nobel Prize posthumously. Who was this UN
Secretary General who died in a plane crash in Zambia?
Dag Hammarskjold

o

(

\.

41. Originally titled The King's Arena, it's the story of a young man condemned and put into a
great arena and told to open one of two doors. Behind one is a beautiful maiden and behind the
other is a ravenous beast waiting to devour him. What is this Frank Stockton story?

The Lady or the Tiger
42. It was discovered in 1742 and named Van Dieman's Land, but its name was later changed to
honor its discoverer. Cook visited in 1777 and in 1803 the British took possession of it and
established a penal colony at Hobart. Separated from the mainland by the Bass Strait, what is this
Australian island?

Tasmania
43. This game involves a banker and two players. Face cards count nothing and the first digit is
disregarded on double-digit sums. The object of the game is to hold two or three cards that count
as close to nine as possible. What is this casino game, 007's favourite?

Baccarat
44. Films produced in his studio in the early 1930s included Scarface and Hell's Angels. In 1935
he broke the world's air speed record in a craft ofhis own design. Who was this entrepreneur and
aeronautical fanatic who was the longtime owner of Trans World Airlines and builder of the
Spruce Goose?

Howard Hughes

(

45. He championed church reform, but remained a loyal Catholic and disliked Martin Luther. He
knew many of the scholars of continental Europe and his English friends included Henry VIII and
Sir Thomas More. Who was this Rotterdammer, author of the satires, The Education of a
Christian Prince and In Praise of Folly?

Desiderius Erasmus

o

A is for Worksheet

(
1.

Group of 1950s and 60s British authors including Kingsley Amis and
John Osborne

2.

Ship Jason sailed on to find the Golden Fleece

3.

16th century Italian poet of Orlando Furioso

4.

British actor famous for his role as Mr. Bean

5.

1805 battle also known as the Battle of the Three Emperors

6.

Greek philosopher, successor to Thales, creator of the first map of the
world

(

7.

Alternative name for the non-sex chromosomes

8.

Nation whose capital is Baku

9.

Fancy name for an area where many bee hives are kept

10.

Derisive name given to school of US painters known as "The Eight"

11.

His number is 6.02

12.

2nd man on the moon

l3.

Medieval scientist and lover of HelOise

14.

US film director of M*A *S*H and Kansas City

15.

4th Islamic caliph, supported by Shi' ites, assassinated in 656

16.

Roman slave who pulled a thorn out of a lion's paw, basis of a Shaw

* 10"23

play
17.

Only US jockey to win the Triple Crown twice, doing so in 1941 and
1948

C)

18.

North Irish politician and leader of the Sinn Fein

19.

Semitic tongue probably spoken by Jesus and his apostles

20.

US jazz trumpeter famous for saying "Hello, Dolly!"

(

(

o

A is for answers:
1. Angry Young Men
2. bgo
3. Ludovico Ariosto
4. Rowan Atkinson
5. Austerlitz
6. Anaximander
7. auto somes
8. Azerbaijan
9. mlli!r.Y
10. Ashcan Schoo I
11. Amadeo Avogadro
12. Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin
13. Peter Abelard
14. Robert Altman
15. Ali
16. Androcles
17. Eddie Arcaro
18. Gerry Adams
19. Aramaic
20. Louis Armstrong

Bonuses for Round 1

(
Bonus 1: Name the inventor or discover described.
1. This English chemist discovered oxygen.
2. This figure of the Industrial Revolution invented the seed drill
3. This scientist at the University ofIowa discovered the bands of radiation that circle the earth
4. He discovered several elements, including sodium and potassium

1.
2.
3.
4.

Joseph Priestly
Jethro Tull
James Van Allen
Sir Humphrey !!!n:

Bonus 2: Name the rock band that released the following albums:

(

1. Exile on Main Street
2. Disraeli Gears
3. Physical Graffiti
4. Automatic for the People

The Rolling Stones
Cream
Led Zeppelin

REM

Bonus 3: Given 3 cities, name the state in which they are all located.
1.
2.
3.
4.

o

Laurel, Starkville, Gulfport
St. Cloud, Rochester, Mankato
Manchester, Portsmouth, Nashua
Lafayette, Kokomo, Terre Haute

-----

Mississippi
Minnesota
New Hampshire
Indiana

Bonus 4: Identify the foUowing stadiums outside the United States.
1. This St. Denis stadium hosted the 1998 World Cup finals.
2. The finals of the 1966 World Cup and track and field events of the 1948 Olympics were held at
this English site
3. The Toronto Blue Jays make their home in this stadium.
4. The largest stadium in the world is in this European capital city.

1.
2.
3.
4.

Stade de France
Wembley Stadium
SkyDome
Prague

