Round 2
1. What English winner ofthe Nobel Prize for Literature in 1932 wrote such moralist novels as
the play Strife and his6-volume work chronicling the life of the British middle class, the Forsyte
Saga?
John Galsworthy
2. What colony settled originally by the Swedes in 1638, beat out Pennsylvania by five days in
ratifYing the constitution to become the first state in the Union?
Delaware
3. Among his books are Nine Chains to the Moon and Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth.
Who was this American architect and engineer who developed the Dymaxion house and also a
structure based on the strength of the triangle, the geodesic dome?
R. Buckminster Fuller
4. A powerful right hander, he won the heavyweig' It bare knuckles title in 1882 over Paddy Ryan
and successfully defended his title for ten years. Who was this old-time boxer defeated in an 1892
gloved match by "Gentleman" Jim Corbett?
John L. Sullivan

(
5. Discovered by Pierre Jules Cesar Janssen in 1868, this element was first obtained on Earth in
1895 from the mineral clevite. What is this element, the second most common in the universe and
the least reactive of all the elements?
Helium
6. What term was ascribed to the Republicans who, in 1884, deserted their party nominee, James
G. Blaine, to vote for Democratic nominee Grover Cleveland?
Mugwumps
7. What contemporary American author, born in Exeter, NH, has written such novels as A Prayer
for Owen Meany and A Son of the Circus, but is most famous for his 1978 nove4 The World
According to Garp?
John Irving
8. It contains idols of ancient gods, n~erous pictures of Jesus and Christian figures, and the
Black Stone. Thought to have been built by Abraham, it sits in the courtyard of the al-Haram
Mosque. What is. this windowless, cubic building towards which Muslims pray?
The Ka'aba

(.

9. Their name is from Navajo and means "enemy ancestors," and their descendants are the Pueblo
and Hopi Indians of Arizona and New Mexico. Who were these prehistoric people of the
American Southwest known for their cliff dwellings?
Anasazi

10. Developed by Max Wertheimer, Kurt Koflka, and Wolfgang Kohler, its chief phrase is said to
be "the whole is greater than the sum of its parts." What is this German school of psychology?
Gestalt
11. Henri raises 3-legged chickens and 5-legged sheep for various carnival sideshows. How many
of each animal are there in his grossly-undersized pen if Henri counts 20 heads and 76 legs?
12 chickens, 8 sheep

12. This physicist and astronomer explained that the "ears" Galileo found on Saturn were rings
and also discovered that planet's largest moon, Titan. Who was this Dutch inventor of the
pendulum clock?
Christiaan Huygens
13. Designated a national park in 1980, it includes Anacapa, Santa Barbara, Santa Rosa, San
MigueL and Santa Cruz islands. What is this California park lu.')wn for its rookeries of sea lions?
Channel Islands National Park

(

14. A long-time advocate of U-Boat warfare, in 1943 he became commander-in-chiefofthe
German navy. Who was this leader who became FUhrer upon the death of Hitler and signed
Germany's surrender?
Karl Donitz
15. This English composer born in 1874 wrote several operas including The Tale of a Wandering
Scholar and The Perfect Fool. Who was this composer best known for his orchestral suite, The
Planets?
Gustav Holst
16. The original one was one of the horns of the goat Almatheia, which Zeus caused to refill its
contents indefinitely. What is this object often pictured at Thanksgiving, Latin for "hom of
plenty?"
Cornucopia (prompt on "horn of plenty")
17. A "person from Porlock" detained this poem's poet for about an hour and caused the poet to
write only 54 out of the 200 or 300 or so lines h~ figured out in a drug-induced sleep. What is
this fragment published in Christabel and Other Poems, written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge?
Kubla Khan

c)

18. What is the name given to the hairlike outgrowths found on the gametophytes offerns,
liverworts, and mosses which fulfill the same functions as roots in higher plants?
rhizoids

(

19. Who, in 1485, defeated Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field, thus ending the Wars of
the Roses?

Henry VII (Henry Tudor)
20. It was linked to Athens by the Long Walls in about 460 BC. After the destruction of Athens
by the Romans in 86 BC, it went into decline. Today it as an industrial suburb,) What is this city,
the ancient and modem port of Athens?

Piraeus

End of 1st Quarter
21. His archenemy is Citizen Chauvelin, an agent of Robespierre, and the title character's real
name is Sir Percy Blakeney, who appears to be a foppish English aristocrat but is actually a
master of disguise who smuggles French aristocrats to safety and out of the clutches of the Reign
of Terror. Thjs is the plot to what novel written by Baroness Emmuska Orczy?

The Scarlet Pimpernel

(

22. Originally a travelling salesman, he encountered many hotels and restau.;.mts on his trips.
Encouraged by his friends, he published Adventures in Good Eating in 1936 and also wrote travel
guides. He then founded a publishing house that was concerned with similar books. Who was
this food critic who later licensed his name to a line prepackaged cake mixes?

Duncan Hines
23. After returning to America after a stay in Europe, he reacted against European modernism to
create a style of Populist American art based on midwestern life. Who was this painter known for
his murals in the Truman Presidential Library and Missouri State Capitol?

Thomas Hart Benton
24. Originally a professor of journalism at Drake and Northwestern, he later became a director at
an advertising agency and then a professor at the Pulitzer School of Journalism at Columbia
University, where he founded the American Institute of Public Opinion. Who was this man
known for developing polls that took a representative sample of public opinion?

George Gallup
25. The name is the same as that of many insects resembling gnats, divided into the nonbiting ones
of the family Chironimidae and the biting ones of the family Ceratopogonidae who suck blood and
whose larvae are the "blood worms" found in stagnant water. What is the name for these types of
insects that is also the same as Barbie's best friend?

Midge(s)

o

(

26. He defeated the German general Wallenstein at the Battle of Llitzen in 1632 but was killed in
the battle. Who was this man known as the "Lion of the North" who waged successful wars
against Russia, Denmark, and Poland and was king of Sweden from 1611?

Gustavus Adolphus
27. When a star grow old, it moves into the upper right corner. At the end of its life it goes back
to the bottom left. Most stars lie in a narrow band stretching from the lower right corner to the
upper left corner, an area called the main sequence; What is this diagram named for its Danish
and American originators?

Hertzprung-Russell diagram
28. How many calories are required to convet;1\ 6 grams of ice at 0° Celsius to
~calories

wa~er

at go Celsius?

29. This author rrom Pennsylvania moved to New Mexico in 1928. Immensely interested in
frontier life and early American history, most ofhis works center on that subject. Who is this
author of Sea o/Grass, A Light in the Forest, and his trilogy of pioneer life, from which The
Town won the 1950 Pulitzer Prize?

Conrad Richter

(

30. He joined Peter the Great's navy and fought in the Swedish wars. He was then appointed to
explore the Sea of Kamchatka to sea whether Russia was connected by land to North AIuerica.
Who was this Danish-born Russian navigator who died on his eponymous island in his eponymous
sea?

Vitus Bering
31. His visually realistic portraits are modeled after Velasquez, Gainsborough, and Reynolds and
he was once described as "an American born in Italy, educated in France, who looks like a
German, speaks like an Englishman, and paints like a Spaniard. Who was this painter who
painted portraits mostly of wealthy Europeans, most notably one entitled Madame Xl

John Singer Sargent
32. It's a Catholic university, but its nickname is the same as the name for members ofa
Protestant society in northern Ireland, who drew their name from the family of William III who
replaced Catholic James II after the Glorious Revolution. What is this Big East powerhouse in
upstate New York?

Syracuse University (nickname: Orangemen)
33. When the Turks took over, the mosaics were painted over, all Chfistian symbols were
destroyed, and a minaret was added at each of the four corners. What is this structure, now a
museum, built from 532-37 at the orders of the Byzantine Emperor Justinian I?

Hagia Sophia

o

c

34. His first published poem was in Shakespeare's Second Folio, issued in 1632, and was entitled
"An Epitaph on Shakespeare." His last major work was the 1671 play, Samson Agonistes. \\/ho
\-vas this English author who also penned such works as Areopagitica and "On His Blindness?"

John Milton
35. He was a pilot for India Airlines until his brother Sanjay's death in an air crash, after which he
was elected to Parliament. He became Prime Minister in 1984, but after being defeated in the
1989 election, he was assassinated in 1991. Who was this grandson of Nehru and eldest son of
Indira Gandhi?
Rajiv Gandhi
36. Its features include a two-pronged wall plug, a pre-molded handgrip well, and a durable outer
casing to prevent fall-apart. While Magnetbox, Panaphonics, and Somy are all superior machines,
this TV was purchased in the Ogdenville Outlet Mall and paid for in pennies by Homer Simpson.
What is this brand of TV for those who like to watch TV, and I mean really watch it?
Carnivale
37. It began in 1739 when a shipmaster came into Parliament and told of his cruel treatment by
the Spanish, who mutilated him. Prime Minister Robert Walpole declared war on Spain and the
war eventually became a part ofthe larger War of Austrian Succession. What was this war over a
body part?

the War of Jenkins' Ear
(

38. It was first identified by the German alchemist Hennig Brand who prepared it from urine,
which has nothing to do with its chemical symbol. Large quantities of it exist in the soil,
especially in the mineral apatite. What is this non-metallic element named from the Greek for
"light producing" with atomic weight of approximately 31 ?

Phosphorus
39. From the Greek for "wise man", the name has now become to be regarded as someone who
exhibits fallacious reasoning. What is this term for one of the group of 5th century Athenian
lecturt$ decried by Plato who were more interested in winning arguments than establishing the
truth?

the Sophists
40. An existentialist like Jean-Paul Sartre, he split away from Sartre's ideological vices,
particularly his vocal communist sympathies, and thus was attacked in Sartre's journal, Les Temps
Moderne. Who was this 1957 Nobel Prize winning author of such works as the play, Caligula,
the essay, The Myth of Sisyphus, and the novel, The Plague?

Albert Camus

o

(

41. Excommunicated in 1497 for his denouncing of Pope Alexander VI, he \vas tortured, hanged,
and burned for his heresy in 1498. Who was this Dominican friar who had earlier led a crusade
against political and religious vice and corruption, resulting in the expulsion of the Medici family
from Florence?

Girolamo Savonarola
42. Proven to be a hoax in 1953, his jaw was actually that of an orangutan. What was the name
given to the person whose fossilized skull fragments were "discovered" by Charles Dawson in
Sussex, England, in 1913, once believed to be Europe's earliest human remains?

Piltdown Man
43. Red Guards under Trotsky, with orders from Lenin, seized the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg
and arrested members ofKerensky's provisional government. The next day the Second AllRussian congress of Soviets gave power to the Bolsheviks. These were the events of what event
that actually took place on November 6, 1917 on the Western calendar?

October Revolution
44. His Seargeant Cuffwas based on Inspector John Whichler, a Scotland Yard detective, and
Cuff's careful procedures and meticulous reconstructions went on to inspire other detective
writers. Who was this English author of early detective novels such as The Woman in White, and
the novel in which Cuff appears, The Moonstone?

Wilkie Collins
(

45. They participated in General Leclerc's advance from Chad to Tripoli and the Syrian
campaigns, and their symbol was the Cross of Lorraine. Also participating in the liberation of
France and the invasion of Germany, what was this Charles DeGaulle-led movement in France
that resisted the Axis after the France surrendered to Germany in 1940?

the Free French (Fighting France)

o

Worksheets?! They're Grrreat!

(

1. _ _ _ _ _ _ Sculptor of The Gates of Paradise in the baptistry of Florence
Cathedral
2.- - - - - - Founder of the American Federation of Labor
3.
TV show featuring Sgt. Vince Carter
4.

Group of Mongols driven out of Russia by Ivan the Great

5.

Founder of the Bauhaus school of architecture

6.

Recently deceased Arizona senator and author of The Conscience of

a Conservative
7.- - - - - - TV's ButlerlLieutenant Governor Benson

(

8.

Botswana's capital city

9.

Lanthanide element, # 64 on the periodic table

10.

Russian author of The Lower Depths

11.

Mythical trio of Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa

12.

Horace Walpole's The Castle ofOtranto is the first work in this
literary genre

13._ _ _ _ _ _ French composer of the opera, Faust
14.

English abbey said to have been founded by Joseph of Arimathea

15.

Ecuador's largest city

16.

Canadian-born economist who wrote The Affluent Society

17.

The name of Pygmalion's sculpture that came to life

18.

He had numerous schemes to transform Smurfs into gold

19.

German painter of The Isenheim Altarpiece

20.

American choreographer and collaborator on ballets with Aaron
Copland

C)

Grrreat Answers:

(
1. Lorenzo Ghiberti
2. Samuel Gompers
3. Gomer Pyle, USMC
4. Golden Horde
5. Walter Gropius
6. Barry Goldwater
7. Robert Guillaume
8. Gaborone
9. Gadolineum
10. Maxim Gorkiy
11. Gorgons
12. Gothic
13. Charles Gounod
14. Glastonbury
15. Guayaquil
16. John Kenneth Galbraith
17. Galatea
18. Gargamel
19. Matthias Grunewald
20. Martha Graham

(

o

Bonuses for Round 2

(
Bonus 1: Who played the following kid parts on these classic and not-so-classic TV programs?
1.
2.
3.
4.

Robby Brady on The Brady Bunch
Mike Lookinland
Arnold Jackson-Drummond on Diff'rent Strokes -- Gary Coleman
Eddie Haskell on Leave It to Beaver
Ken Osmond
Steve Urkel on Family Matters
-- Jaleel White

Bonus 2: Name the Renaissance artist ofthe following works.

1. The Tribute Aloney
2. Madonna of the Rocks
3. Woodcut of St. Jerome in his Study
4. The Sistine Madonna

-- Masaccio (Tomaso di Giovanni di Simone
Guidi)
Leonardo da Vinci (accept Leonardo)
Albrecht Diirer
Raphael

Bonus 3: Given an old city and team name for a current professional franchise, give the current
location and name.
\

(

1. Kansas City Scouts of the NHL

2. Seattle Pilots of MLB
3. Quebec Nordiques of the NHL
4. Baltimore Bullets of the NBA
l. New Jersel: Devils

2. Milwaukee Brewers
3. Colorado Avalanche
4. Washington Wizards

Bonus 4: Give the authors ofthe following classics of children's literature.

1.
2.
3.
4.

(J

Pinocchio
Heidi
The Swiss Family Robinson
The Wind and the Willows

-----

Carlo Collodi
Johann Spl:ri
Johann David Wl:SS
Kenneth Grahame

