NEW TRIER VARSITY 2009
ROUND 3

1. One character in this work runs through the forest tacking his hastily-scrawled love poems to trees, hoping that
passersby will see his beloved’s “virtue witnessed everywhere”. One of Duke Senior’s courtiers, Jaques (JAY-kwess)
makes a speech which ends “sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.” That monologue tells of the “seven ages
of man”, and begins with the line “All the world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely players.” Featuring the
marriage of Touchstone to Audrey and the love of Orlando dressing up as a boy, Ganymede, identify this play in
which Rosalind marries Orlando alongside three other newlywed couples, a work by Shakespeare.
ANSWER: As You Like It
2. This country’s attempts at independence were twice set back at Cancha Rayada, the first time when its future
President Manuel Blanco Encalada was overwhelmed by Royalist forces and the second time when Mariano Osorio
was victorious. Two of the stages in this country’s war for independence are the Patria Vieja and Patria Nueva
Campaigns. The major successes of the latter campaign came at Chacabuco and Maipú. Its first two leaders were José
Miguel Carrera and Bernardo O’Higgins. In more recent times, a military coup in this country in 1973 replaced
Salvador Allende with Augusto Pinochet. Name this South American country currently headed by Michelle Bachelet
whose capital is at Santiago.
ANSWER: Chile
3. This man created a diagram that has points like boiling, roasting, and smoking, the culinary triangle. In one work,
he wrote about the dichotomy of the bricoleur and the engineer, and he also noted that, in world mythologies, ravens
and coyotes are often trickster gods that mediate life and death. He wrote The Naked Man and From Honey to
Ashes in a four-part work that traces a myth through the cultures of Brazil and Central America, Mythologiques. Name
this author of Elementary Structures of Kinship, The Savage Mind, and The Raw and the Cooked, a Jewish-French
anthropologist who founded Structuralism.
ANSWER: Claude Lévi-Strauss
4. This man’s first opera was a parody of Jean-Jacques Rousseau’s Le decin du village, or The Village Soothsayer, in the
form of a German singspiel. In addition to Bastien and Bastienne, he used the Italian opera seria form for a work which
sees the titular king of Crete refuse to sacrifice his son to Neptune, while another work features the aria “Martern aller
Arten,” sung by Constanze, who has been kidnapped by Pasha Selim. This composer’s other operas see a statue
dragging the title character to hell, as well as the Queen of the Night aria. Name this Austrian composer
ofIdomeneo, The Abduction from the Seraglio, Don Giovanni, and The Magic Flute.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart]
5. One variety of this object uses magnetic fields to separate particles according to their spin energies—the beam
variety, which is contrasted with the fountain kind. These objects, conceived by Isidor Rabi, were used to test the
theory of special relativity in the Hafele-Keating experiment, in which they were flown around the world in airplanes
in opposite directions to measure time dilation. The principal one for the US is located in Boulder at NIST, and
provides synchronization capabilities integral to the operation of GPS. Often based on alkali metals like rubidium or
cesium, name these objects that measure the frequency of quantum energy level transitions to keep time.
ANSWER: atomic clocks [accept modifiers of “beam” or “fountain” before both have been mentioned]

6. This team was awarded the 1925 NFL Championship when the league suspended the Pottsville Maroons. Their
last championship was brought home by Paul Christman and Charlie Trippi in 1947. They were quarterbacked by
Jim Hart for most of their time in St. Louis, where they were moved by the Bidwill family after many unsuccessful
years in Comiskey Park. A few years ago, their then-coach said of the Chicago Bears, “they are who we thought they
were”. Identify this team, currently a member of the NFC West division, which played in Super Bowl 43 and features
a high-powered offense led by receivers Larry Fitzgerald and Anquan Boldin and quarterback Kurt Warner.
ANSWER: Arizona Cardinals [accept either or both parts]
7. In this writer’s first novel, Ellen is captured by The Angler and is saved by Edward Walcott and the titular
Fanshawe. One of his short stories focuses on Georgiana, who many men covet, despite the hand-shaped blemish she
has on her cheek, and another story tells of the Reverend Hooper, who dons a piece of headwear representing the sin
everyone hides. One of his novels features Clifford, who spends thirty years in jail for allegedly murdering his uncle
Jaffrey Pyncheon, while another novel contains Governor Bellingham, who supports Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale.
Identify this author of The Minister’s Black Veil, The House of the Seven Gables and The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne [or Nathaniel Hathorne]
8. The outer wall of this building is surrounded by a nearly 200-meter-wide moat and an inscription comparing its
waters to the water feeding the Ganges. This place’s architecture reflects a style also found in Orissa and Tamil Nadu,
India. The temple complex is decorated in relief, depicting vignettes from the Ramayana; this is in keeping with the
fact that the temple was once dedicated to Vishnu, though it later became dedicated to Buddha. Devatas also grace the
structure, throughout the many galleries and open halls that characterize the Khmer style. Name this temple built for
Suryavarman the Second located in Cambodia whose main entrance appears to be a series of three spindle-like
towers.
ANSWER: Angkor Wat
9. In their digestive tract, these animals possess a ridge to increase their intestines’ surface area, known as the spiral
valve. This group of organisms have canals filled with glycoprotein-based gel that detect electromagnetic fields, called
the ampullae of Lorenzini. Unlike most fish, these animals must swim constantly to avoid sinking, because they lack a
swim bladder. They are found in the orderSelachii, and comprise the Elasmobranchs along with rays and skates. Name
this type of cartilaginous fish noted for their tough, scaly skin, types of which include tiger, hammerhead, and great
white.
ANSWER: sharks [accept Selachimorpha or Selachimorphs before “Selachii”; accept more specific answers; prompt
on Chondrichthyes; prompt on Elasmobranchs before mentioned]
10. Senator Edward Everett petitioned against this measure, which was rejected by the House and led to a Senate
deadlock over John W. Taylor’s amendment. When the question of freed blacks came up, the “second” one of these
was engineered, and the Kansas-Nebraska Act ended Jesse B. Thomas’s thirty-six thirty restriction. The Dred
Scott decision said that Congress could not prohibit slavery in territories, so this was declared unconstitutional. It
specifically dealt with Maine’s admission as a free state, and it was helped along by Henry Clay. Name this 1820
agreement that admitted the namesake state to the Union as a slave state.
ANSWER: The Missouri Compromise [or Compromise of 1820 until “1820” is read]

New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 3 tossups, page 2 of 4

11. The entropy of this type of substance can be predicted by the Sackur-Tetrode equation, and their molecules move
randomly while observing Newton’s laws of motion and not interacting. The Boltzmann constant is the ratio of the
namesake constant of this substance to Avogadro’s number, while the law of these substances can be refined by the
Van der Waals equation. Modeled by the kinetic-molecular theory, their namesake constant equals about 8.31 joules
per mole-kelvin. Name these theoretical substances that obey the laws of Gay-Lussac, Avogadro, Charles, and Boyle,
as well as their namesake law, which states that P V equals n R T.
ANSWER: ideal gases [or perfect gases; prompt on gases; accept modifier of “monatomic”]
12. At the end of this novel, one character admonishes the townspeople to stop treating cattle as currency, and
another character donates milk to all the children in the village. Earlier, Tomlinson and Dubula organize a bus
boycott. A lawyer named Mr. Carmichael takes on a robbery case pro deo and helps get Johannes Parfuri and
Matthew acquitted. The protagonist leaves Ndotsheni after receiving a letter from Theophilus Msimangu that
concerns the illness of Gertrude. After traveling to Johannesburg, the protagonist learns about the murder of Arthur
Jarvis. Name this novel in which Absalom, the son of Stephen Kumalo, is hanged, a work by Alan Paton.
ANSWER: Cry, the Beloved Country
13. This measure was accompanied by a provision that one of its beneficiary countries would help develop a
replacement for the gold standard. In support of it, the president at the time compared the situation to a neighbor
needing a garden hose to put out a fire, and this law reversed two major acts, including the Johnson Debt-Default Act.
Opposed by William E. Borah, Robert Taft, and other isolationists, this law bypassed the Neutrality Act of two years
prior by abrogating its provision of “cash and carry”. Name this program in which America supplied weapons to
countries like Brazil, China, the Soviet Union, and Britain, passed in early 1941.
ANSWER: Lend-Lease Act(s) [or lend-lease program; or Public Law 77–11; or H.R. 1776; accept An Act to
Promote the Defense of the United States]
14. This work sees Mr. Kimble, a town doctor without a medical degree, become very irritable when playing cards, as
well as the marriage of William Dane to Sarah, the former fiancée of another character. The main character of the
work begins the novel living in Lantern Village before he is falsely accused of stealing from his church’s congregation
and driven out of town. Godfrey Cass is revealed to be the father of an orphan girl by the poor woman Molly in this
work which also reveals that his brother Dunstan is the one who stole the protagonist’s hoarded gold. The title
character in this work adopts Eppie after finding her in the snow. Identify this work featuring a weaver from Raveloe
by George Eliot.
ANSWER: Silas Marner; The Weaver of Raveloe
15. This city was the capital of Carpetania under Roman rule, and the Visigoths made it their capital after they were
expelled from what is now France. It experienced a golden age during La Convivencia, when Jews, Christians, and
Muslims lived peacefully together before the Inquisition. In 1087, Alphonso VI made it his capital, but its prestige
was reduced when Castile merged with Aragon. During the Spanish Civil War, it was the location of the Siege of the
Alcazar. Name this former capital of Spain, located just south of Madrid.
ANSWER: Toledo

New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 3 tossups, page 3 of 4

16. These substances were recently used to create a radio that received signals via their vibration. Processes for their
production include chemical vapor deposition and laser ablation. These objects were first created in the fifties, but
little notice was taken until 1991. Their toxicity is being questioned before these substances are developed for
biological applications like the delivery of drugs. Theirsp2 bonding gives them a higher tensile strength than diamond,
and they can be single- or mutiply-walled. Consisting of rolled-up graphene, identify these allotropes of carbon that
are cylindrical.
ANSWER: carbon nanotubes [accept CNTs; accept carbon nanotubules]
17. The masculine half of this deity is known as Purusha, while this figure’s female form is called Satrap. Among the
objects in his arms are a water jug, a scepter, and either a bow, string of beads, or spoon. Daksha was born from the
thumb of this deity, who was born from a lotus springing from a navel of another deity. To keep Shatarupa within his
sight, he grew five heads, but after falsely claiming to have found one end of the lingam while in the form of a swan,
one of them was cut off. Name this deity who along with Shiva and Vishnu makes up the Hindu trimurti.
ANSWER: Brahma
18. This issue was addressed by the Supreme Court decisions Harris v. McRae, which upheld an amendment to the
Social Securities Act, Hodgson v. Minnesota, which stated that certain laws need a judicial bypass, and two cases
involving LeRoy Carhart. It also is addressed by the Mexico City Policy, which has been suspended by each of the last
two Democratic presidents. This issue has been raised by 2009 amendments submitted by Senator Ben Nelson and
Congressman Bart Stupak. Those amendments maintain the status of the Hyde Amendment, which does not allow
funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to be used for this purpose. Patrick Kennedy claims he
was told not to take communion because of his stance on this issue. Name this issue addressed by the 1973 Supreme
Court case Roe v. Wade.
ANSWER: abortion [accept word forms; prompt on choice, life, or similar answers; do not accept more specific
answers unless “federal funding of abortion” or “the Hyde Amendment” is given before “Hodgson v. Minnesota” is
mentioned]
19. This constellation’s namesake meteor shower appears to originate between this constellation and Gemini. One
star of this constellation is blue-white and forms one of its legs; that is its kappa star, Saiph. This constellation’s
gamma star, bright because of its high temperature, is Bellatrix, while its most famous star is bright because of its
enormous size—a blue supergiant combining high temperature and large volume, Rigel. In addition to containing
Saiph and Betelgeuse, this group’s three stars Alnilam, Alnitak, and Mintaka form an asterism known as its “belt”.
Name this constellation known as the Hunter.
ANSWER: Orion
20. Orthodox churches consider this figure’s ascension to be an instance of the resurrection. Those churches also
observe a feast of the Dormition of this figure, and in the Koran, this figure uniquely had access to the Al-Mihrab.
One story recounts how this figure was nearly divorced out of shame. This figure is the daughter of Joachim and Saint
Anne, and she is considered to have been free from sin from the time she spent in the womb. Name this recipient of
an Annunciation from Gabriel and the subject of the Immaculate Conception, the wife of Joseph and the mother of
Jesus Christ.
ANSWER: the Virgin Mary [or St. Mary; or Mariam]

New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 3 tossups, page 4 of 4

