1/ .
\

\

Round 3
1. He was Poet Laureate for England from 1936 until his death in 1967. Who was this writer best
known for his poems of the sea including "Cargoes" and "Sea Fever?"

John Masefield
2. In March 1998, Joe Carollo, the incumbent, won his suit alleging election fraud against Xavier
Suarez, the challenger and mayor-elect of what notoriously corrupt major US city?
Miami, Florida
3. Known in Eskimo as Nuuk, it was founded in 1721 near the ruins of a 10th century Norse
settlement. What is this town on the Davis Strait, the capital of Greenland?
Godthib (Godthaab)
4. This German composer and organist greatly influenced lS. Bach since he was the teacher of
Bach's older brother. Who was this 17th century composer of church music most famous for his
Canon in D Major?
Johann Pachelbel

(

5. What French sociologist and anthropologist compared social order in small-scale societies to
that in industrial ones in his 1893 work, The Division of Labour in Society?
Emil Durkheim
6. He stated that the total electric flux through a closed surface is proportional to the charge
enclosed in that surface. Who was this German mathematician, after whom was named the unit of
magnetic induction?
Carl Friedrich Gauss
7. The Archbishop ofMainz got permission from Pope Leo X for this man to go about his work.
Who was this Dominican friar attacked by Martin Luther in his 95 Theses for selling plenary
indulgences?
Johan Tezel (Tetzel)
8. Followed up by Men Against the Sea and Pitcairn's Island, what Charles Nordhoffand James
Hall novel chronicles the rebellion led by Fletcher Christian against their cruel commander,
Captain William Bligh?
Mutiny on the Bounty
9. In return for his services, Zeus gave his father, Tros, a stud of exceptional value. Who was this
beautiful Trojan youth whisked away to Mt. Olympus by an eagle, where he became cupbearer to
the gods?
Ganymede

10. It's from the same genus of the mustard family as the cabbage and grows in two principal
varieties: the white and the yellow, which is also knovm as the Swedish variety or rutabaga. \\ bat
is this garden vegetable that yields no blood when squeezed?

turnip
11. Although usually remembered around Christmas, his feast day is September 28. A pious
Christian, he made peace with Henry the Fowler of Gerrnany, but was assassinated in 929 by his
brother Boleslav I, who succeeded him as Duke of Bohemia. Who was this "good king?"

St. Wenceslas
12. The president resides at Aspen Lodge there, and for a time it was known as Number Four for
security reasons after Kennedy's assassination. Named after Eisenhower's grandson and
originally called Shangri-la, what is this retreat and site of the Egyptian-Israeli peace accord?

Camp David
13. The US assumed claims against the Mexican government of$3.25 million. The Rio Grande
was accepted as the boundary of Texas. The territories of New Mexico and California wee ceded
to the US for $15 million. These were the terms of what 1848 treaty?

Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo

(

14. He is known as the Primate: of England, but is not the first peer of the realm, with that honor
going to the archbishop of Canterbury, who is the Primate of all England. Who is this only other
archbishop of the Anglican Church?

tbe Arcbbisbop of York
15. Unlike Hamlet, he is a man of action. Originally he planned to invade Denmark, but invaded
Poland instead. Who is this Prince of Norway who arrives to claim the Danish throne after
Hamlet's death?

Fortinbras
16. At x=4, what is the slope of a line tangent to the curve y = x3+ 4x2+ 9?

IQ
17. For acetylene, it's CH. For benzene, it's also CH. What is this type of chemical formula that
describes the basic mathematical relationship among the components of a substance?

Emperical formula
18. Made a republic of Yugoslavia in 1946, its capital is Podgorica. What is this remaining state,
along with Serbia, in the modern nation of Yugoslavia?

Montenegro

o

19. He first appeared in The Happy Return and is the central character in 12 books, including
Flying Coulours and A Ship of the Line. Who is this British naval officer during the Napoleonic
Wars, the creation ofC. S. Forester?
Horatio Hornblower

(

20. Ruled a violation of the Shennan Anti-trust Act, into what J.P. Morgan-o\Yned company did
James Hill and Averill Harriman try to merge their railroads?
the Northern Securities Company

End 0(1s1 Quarter

21. The founder of modern Italian architecture. he modeled his work on that of ancient Rome and
designed many of the palaces and villas in the Vicenza regio~ most notably the Villa Rotunda.
Who was this 16th century architect and author of The Four Books ofArchitecture?
Andrea PalJadio
22. During the 1970s he turned from acting in critically acclaimed films to produce and direct
such so-called "comedies" as Stir Crazy and Ghost Dad, which starred Bill Cosby. Who is this
star of Lilies of the Field and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?
Sidney Poitier
23. His earliest play, The Butterfly's Evil Spell, flopped, but he achieved widespread fame with
his poetry and later dramatic works. Who was this major Spanish author of the 20th century,
famous for his plays, The House of Bernarda Alba and Blood Wedding?
Federico Garcia Lorca
(

24. They usually call themselves Romani and originally came from India. Their name is believed
to be a corruption of the word "Egyptian" because Medieval Europeans believed they came from
Egypt. The Nazis didn't even acknowledge their deaths in the Holocaust, since they were
considered the lowest on the natural hierarchy. What is this travelling ethnic group, most of whom
live in Eastern Europe?
Gypsies
25. It was originally led by a group of French-educated Marxists and launched its first major
insurgence against a right-wing military coup in 1970. Known for its policy of "urban cleansing"
which killed at least 3 million people during it years ofIeadership, what is this formerly Pol Potled communist group?
Khmer Rouge
26. His first important discovery came in 1922 and was the finding of lysozyme, a substance with
bacteria-killing properties found in mucus and saliva. However, he's better known for his
accidental discovery six years later. Who was this winner of the 1945 Nobel Prize in Medicine for
his discovery of penicillin?
Sir Alexander Fleming

o

(

27. Previously Reagan's Secretary of the Treasury from 1981-85, he was forced to resign from his
position as White house Chief of Staff due to his possible involvement in the Iran-Contra scandal.
Who is this official whose name is often confused with the president under whom he was
employed?
Donald Regan
28. He was defeated along with his father Ahab at the Battle of Ramoth-Gilead by the King of
Syria. Who was this biblical personality, king of Judah, also the son of Jezebel, now principally
remembered as being part of an exclamation beginning with "Holy" or "Jumpin'?"
Jehosaphat
29. Later novels ofhis include, The Paper Men, The Spire, and Rites of Passage, ,but he is most
well known for his first book. Who was this British recipient of the 1983 Nobel Prize
remembered for his book about a group of English school boys on a tropical island reverting to
savagery, Lord of the Flies?
William Golding
30. It's not known whether the area's named for St. Denis and other early Christian martyrs or for
an ancient temple to Mars which once stood there. What is this hill in north Paris topped by the
Basilica ofSacn!-Couer and famous for its cab8.L\"~s?
Montmartre

(

31. A train carrying red paint travels west at 70 miles per hour while a train carrying yellow paint
is travelling east on the same track at 50 miles per hour. lfthe trains are 620 miles apart, how
long will it take for them to collide and leave behind a putrid slli!de of orange, that along with the
foul stench of death would disgust rescue workers?
5 hours 10 minutes
32. Along with Shostakovich and Prokofiev, he was condemned by the Communist Party for his
music which was seen as anti-Soviet, but later that year he was praised for his score to the movie,
Lenin. Who was this composer, an expert on the music and instruments of the Orient, most
famous for his "Sabre Dance?"
Aram llich Khachaturian
33. His 44-game hitting streak in 1897 was a record until Joe DiMaggio broke it 44 years later,
Who was this star ofthe Baltimore Orioles and New York Highlanders during the dead ball era,
who, when asked by a member of the press about his batting strategy, replied, "I hit 'em where
they ain't?"
William "Wee Willie" Keeler

o

34. Even though Homer Simpson supported him, he lost the 1988 Republican nomination for
President. A career military officer, he was Nixon's civilian Chief of Staff during Watergate and
later NATO commander. Who was this man who, while serving as Secretary of State is was
notorious for saying he was in charge at the White House after Reagan's attempted assassination?
Alexander Haig

(

35. The site is now occupied by the Turkish city of Bodrum. The birthplace of Herodotus, its
main building was a square structure containing Ionic columns topped by a 24-step pyramid and a
large horse-drawn chariot. What is this ancient city famous for its tomb of King Mausolus?

Halicarnassus
36. The last prisoner in both the Tower of London and Spandau Prison in Berlin, he flew alone to
Scotland to try to negotiate a treaty with the British in 1941, when he was captured. Who was
this major Nazi figure, the transcriber of Me in Kampf, and later Hitler's deputy FUhrer?

Rudolf Hess
37. This 1957 play features Jimmy Porter, a young man who has reached an uncomfortable
position at the edge of the middle class where he can see the traditional possessors of higher rank
stop his rise. What is this John Osborne play that came to be seen as the model of an entire
generation of young British writers?

Look Back in Anger
38. He became the leading painter in Venice after the death of Titian. His major commissions
there include the painting cycle for the Scuola di San Rocco and the decoration of the Doge's
Palace after a 1577 fire. Who was this mannerist painter bor!! Tacopo Robusti known for his
rendition of the Last Supper?

Tintoretto
(

39. It must be allowed for in guided missiles, but, contrary to popular belief, it has no real effect
on the direction of swirling water. What is this effect, a result of the deflective force caused by
the earth's east to west rotation?

Coriolis effect
40. This English city near the Welsh border on the river Wye is famous for its cathedral which
contains the Mappa Mundi, a Medieval map of the world. What is this city, from which the
villainous bishop in Robin Hood hailed and is the namesake of a variety of beef cattle?

Hereford
41. His novels had been on the English best-sellers list for years, but only became popular in
America after a TV miniseries based on his novel, Odds Against. Who is this former steeplechase
jockey tumed detective story writer who places all his novels in a horse racing environment?

Dick Francis
42. His early works include The High Price of Bullion and Reply to Mr. Bosanquet's Practical
Observations on the Report of the Bullion Committee, published in 1810 and 1811, respectively.
Who was this English-born Jewish economist educated ib. the Netherlands most famous for his
1817 work, On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, which develops his Iron Law
of Wages?

David Ricardo

(

. 0. It was pioneered in the late 1700s by William Withering, and its side effects include nausea
and pulse irregularities, but it increases the efficiency of the heart by strengthening its contractions
and slowing its rate. What is this drug that comes from the European woodland plant, foxglove.
and was the first cardiac drug?
Digitalis
44. This work was the author's only novel and did not appear until 11 years after his suicide. The
author's mother persuaded Walker Percy to publish it, and it quickly won acclaim. A satirical
comedy revolving around New Orleans native Ignatius Reilly, it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in
1981. What is this John Kennedy Toole novel?
A Confederacy of Dunces
45. Born in Vienna, he founded and edited Der Jude from 1916-24. He became a professor of
comparative religion and then directed an institute for Jewish adult education. In 1938 he fled
from the Nazi regime to Palestine. Who was this major figure of religious existentialism and
author ofthe 1923 work I and Thou?
Martin Buber

o

WorCsheet

(

1. _ _ _ _ _ _ Mountain range whose highest peak is Mt. Elbrus

2.- - - - - - Scottish author of Sartor Resartus and The French Revolution
3. _ _ _ _ _ _ Britsh general who led the Charge of the Light Brigade

4. _ _ _ _ _ _ Italian island in the Tyrrhenian Sea famous for its Blue Grotto
5. _ _ _ _ _ _ Creator of the detective, Philip Marlowe
6. _ _ _ _ _ _ Another tenn for the body's biological clock
7. _ _ _ _ _ _ Univision sportscaster famous for yelling
"Gooooooooooooooooooooooooooooaaal" !
8. _ _-'--_ _ _ Governor of New York who planned the Erie Canal
9.

African island nation whose capital is Moroni

10.

Christian church in Egypt founded by St. Mark

11.

Attempted 1860 compromise by a Kentucky senator that recognized
slavery S of 36°30

(

12.- -

18th century Italian adventurer known for his exaggerated exploits
and seductions

13.- - - - - - Acid whose fonnula is H2C03
14.
Uruguayan card ga?J1e similar to rummy with jokers and deuces wild
15.

American city nicknamed "Porkopolis"

16.

19th century French founder of sociology

17.

Iron framed glass building designed to house the Great Exhibition of
1851

18 . _ _ _ _ _ _ Fonner Monty Python member and star of TV's Fawlty Towers
19.

Path traced out by a point on the circumference of a circle as the
circle rolls in a straight line

20.______ On The Simpsons, the superintendent of Springfield schools

o

(

AnCers
1. Caucasus
2. Thomas Carlyle
3. Earl of Cardigan
4. Capri
5. Raymond Chandler
6. Circadian Rhythms
7. Andres Cantor
8. DeWitt Clinton
9. Comoros
10. Coptic Church
11. Crittenden Compromise
12. Giacomo Girolomo Casanova
13. carbonic acid
14. canasta
15. Cincinnati
16. Auguste Comte
17. Crystal Palace
18. John CIeese

(

o

19. cycloid

20. Superintendent Chalmers

Bonuses for Round 3

(
Bonus 1: Name the Austrian composers of the following works:

1.
2.
3.
4.

The Abduction of the Seraglio
Songs of the Earth
The Clock Symphony
The Trout Symphony

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Gustav Mahler
Franz Josef Haydn
Franz Schubert

Bonus 2: IdentifY the following from your favorite TV programme, The Simpsons.
1.5 points for both, all or nothing: the names of the two KBBL DJ's who nearly lost their jobs by
offering Bart an elephant as an alternative to a $10,000 cash prize
2. Homer works in this sector of the nuclear plant.
3. Milhouse was this Radioactiveman sidekick in a failed movie project
4. The Springfield Atoms' star quarterback

(

1.
2.
3.
4.

Bill and Marty
Sector 7G
Fallout Boy
Dan "The Boy" Taylor

Bonus 3: How much do you remember about the 1998 World Cup and its players? Answer the
following.
1. With his game-winning goal against Argentina in the quarterfinals, he became the leading
scorer in Dutch history.
2. This 18-year-old English sensetion is remembered for his outstanding breakaway goal in the
second round also against Argentina, but in a losing effort.
3. This Danish goalkeeper was one of the major reasons the Danes made the quarterfinals before
losing to Brazil.
4. Christian Vieri scored 5 goals for Italy, but this much-hyped striker on the Italian side did not
get a single goal.
1.
2.
3.
4.

o

Dennis Bergkamp
Michael Owen
Peter Schmeishel
Alessandro Del Piero

Bonus 4: Give the monosyllabic unit of currency of the tollowing nations.

(
\

(

1.
2.
3.
4.

Albania
South Africa
South Korea
Vietnam

-- Lek

-- B!!!!!
-- .IDl!!
-- Dong

c

Lee's Summit North Scholar Bowl Tournament -- October 10, 1998
Round: _ _ _Team A: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Team B: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
Tossups in 1st and 2nd quarters: 10 points. Tossups in 4th quarter: 20 points.
Bonus questions 2nd quarter: 5 points. Worksheet questions in thirdquarter: 10 points
Team A

Team B

Team A

Team B

1.

16.

31.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

17.

32.

IS.

33.

19.

34.
I-----+-----f

37.

23.

3S.

24.

10.
11.
12.

25.

26.
27.

13.
14.

29.

15.

30.

39.
I-----+-----f
I-----+-----f
t----+-----f

2S.

Score 1st Quarter
Team A
Team B

36.

22.

9.

Team B

35.

20.
21.

7.
8.

(

Team A

40.
41.
42.
43.

44.
1-----+-------1

45.

Halftime Score (l st & 2nd Q)
TeamA _ _
TeamB _ _

Score 2nd Quarter
Team A
Bonus
Team B
Bonus

Bonus Points:
Team

~f~ l ~ I

A

I I I

Team

I I

Score 3rd Quarter (Worksheet):
TeamA _ _ _ __
TeamB _ _ _ __

Final Score: Team A _ _ _ __

()

Signatures:

B

I I I I

Score 4th Quarter
TeamA _ _ _ __
TeamB _ _ _ __

TeamB _ _ _ __

Team A _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Team B _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
(coach or captain)

(coach or captain)

