(

Round 4
1. This American author set many of his works in the fictional town of Gibbsville, Pennsylvania.
Who was this writer of such novels as Butterfield 8 and Appointment in Samarra?

Jobn O'Hara
2. He is the patron saint of archers and also of pin makers, since he looked like a pincushion after
the Roman army executed him. Who was this 3rd century martyr bound to a tree and shot with
arrows but then beaten to death because he didn't die?

St. Sebastian
3. Although it may be produced in some stars, it has not been found on Earth and is only
produced by bombarding molybdenum with deuteronS. What is this silver-gray element, the first
manmade element, with atomic number 43?

Tecbnetium
4. It adjoins Waterton Lakes National Park in SW Alberta and together they form an International
Peace Park. What is this nationall'e-'k along the Continental Divide in NW Montana?

Glacier National Park

(

5. What is the second derivative of the function f(x) = 4x"'5 - 12xA2 + 17?
80x A 3 - 24
6. He was killed by his brother, Polyneices, because he refused to share the throne of Thebes.
Who was this son and half-brother of Oedipus?

Eteocles
7. This Frenchman studied medicine until 1823 when he turned to music. Who was this Romantic
composer of such symphonic pieces as Harold in Italy, Romeo and Juliet, and what is regarded as
his masterpiece, Symphonie Fantastique?

Hector Berlioz
8. Known for its Lipizzaner stallions, which world-renowned school of horsemanship was
founded in the late 16th century in Vienna?

Tbe Spanisb Riding Scbool
9. Although he never exhibited with the Impressionists, he was associated with them from the
1870s. Who was this painter of Olympia, and The Bar at the Folies Bergere?

Edouard Manet

C)

(

10. Besides being a general, he was also an accomplished playwTight \V'hose most notable work
was the 1786 play, The Heiress. Who was this British capturer of Ticonderoga and Fort Edward
who in 1777 surrendered his forces at Saratoga?
John Burgoyne
11. Containing one of the largest extinct volcanic craters in the world on Mt. Haleakala, its chief
cities include Wailuku and Lahaina. What is this popular tourist destination and second largest of,
the Hawaiian islands?

12. Among the most complex of the single-celled organisms, they are found in freshwater. They
swim rapidly in a corkscrew-like fashion due to the coordinated movement oftheir cilia. What
are these slipper-shaped protozoa?
paramecia (paramecium)
13. It comes from the Russian acronym for Chief Administration of Corrective Labor Camps,
which was a part of the KGB. What was this vast Soviet penal network brought to the limelight
by Alexander Solzhenitsyn?
GULAG (Gulag Archipelago)

(

14. He committed suicide in 1949 after illness forced him to resign from his post. Secretary of the
Navy under FDR and Truman, who was this man, who, in 1947 became the first US Secretary of
Defense?
James Vincent Forrestal
15. It begins with the lines "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be." What is this poem
from the 1864 collection Dramatis Personae by Robert Browning supposedly in the worlds of
one of the foremost Medieval Jewish scholars?
Rabbi Ben Ezra
16. Although in highbrow literary circles the name generally refers to any outstanding hunter, it is
more popularly known as an insult. What is this eponym of the son ofCush, "a mighty hunter
before the Lord" from the book of Genesis?
Nimrod
17. It was founded in 1909 by Jews from Jaffa and merged with Jaffa in 1950. Located on the
Mediterranean, it was the first capital of Israel and many embassies are located there since many
nations, including the US, refuse to recognize Jerusalem as the capital. What is this city, Israel's
2nd largest?
Tel Aviv-Yafo

o

18. Because ofhis bravery, in 1696 he was commissioned to suppress piracy, but in Madagascar
he became a pirate himself. Who was this Scottish privateer and pirate captured in Boston and
then hanged and left to rot in London in 1701?
Captain William Kidd

(

19. In 1927 he calculated the mass and size of the galaxy and the sun's distance from the center.
Who was this Dutch astronomer that also proposed that comets exist in a spherical halo around
the sun, an area now named for him?

Jan Hendrik Oort (area is the Oort cloud)
20. The first film of this genre was A Fistful of Dollars directed by Sergio Leone and starring
Clint Eastwood, who went on to star in several more. What were these films featuring gun-toting
outlaws filmed in Spain and, more famously, in Italy?

Spaghetti Westerns
End of 1st Quarter
21. According to one version of the story, to get rid ofhis aftliction he was told to bathe in the
river Pactolus. ~g ofPhrygia, he helped the satyr, Silenus, so Dionysius granted him a wish.
Who was this legendary king with the golden touch?

Midas
22. After a career in the French army, he became interested in botany, publishing French Flora in
1773. After becoming a professor of invertebrate zoology, l._~ produced his major work, Natural
History of Vertebrate Animals. Who was this Naturalist and Pre-Darwinian evolutionist?

Jean-Baptiste Lamarck
(

23. A massive granite edifice, it was constructed by Juan Bautista de Toledo and his successor,
Juan de Herrera. It houses a substantial library and a fine art gallery with works by Titian, EI
Greco, and Velasquez. What is this 16th century palace/monastery complex built for Philip II
outside Madrid?

EI Escorial
24. This Italian poet is most associated with hermeticism, which concentrated on obscure, isolated
phrases, thus allowing him to work through the Fascist period without being held down by
political censorship. His main collections include And It's Suddenly Evening, Water and Land,
and Sunken Oboe. Who was this winner of the 1959 Nobel Prize in Literature whose last name is
reminiscent of a famous bell-ringer?

Salvatore Quasimodo
25. They speak an Athabascan language and are thought to have migrated from the north. Once
nomadic, they became primarily pastoral in the 17th century. Kit Carson subdued them by killing
their sheep after the tribe raided Pueblo and Spanish settlements. WhB.t is this southwestern tribe,
the largest tribe in the U. S. ?

Navajo

o

c

26. Among his actions as Prime Minister were rectifYing Aberdeen's mismanagement of the
Crimean War, suppressing the Sepoy Rebellion, and nearly involving Britain to side with the
South during the Civil War. Who was this politician serving as a Tory while Prime Minister from
1855-68 but beginning his political career as a Whig, whom Barney Gumbel regards as Britain's
best Prime Minister?
Lord Henry John Temple Palmerston
27.1. Michael Bishop and Harold Vannus were awarded the 1989 Nobel Prize for Physiology or
Medicine for their concept of these, but they were discovered by the French cancer specialist,
dominique Stehelin. What are these types of genes carried by a virus that cause cells to divide
abnormally, forming tumors?
oncogenes
28. Named after a psychedelic dessert made by the lead singer's grandmother, this group was
originally named after former Oklahoma Sooner and then New Jersey Net Mookie Blaylock.
They changed their name, but their first album drew its title from Blaylock's uniform number.
Name this Seattle grunge band whose albums have included Vs., Yield, and Vitalogy.
Pearl Jam (Ten was the first album)

(

29. Originally he was a not-so-bright astronomer, but in later editions d~ ~loped into a wise
country sage, who dispensed advice as quickly as a vending machine with such tidbits as "God
helps those who help themselves," and "A penny saved is a penny earned." Who was this
character created by Ben Franklin?
Poor Richard Saunders
30. His most famous student was Igor Stravinsky, and, like Stravinsky, most ofhis works were
inspired by Russian history and legend. Who was this member of the Russian Five whose operas
include The Maid of Ps/wv, The Golden Cockerel, and The Snow Maiden?
Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
31. It marked the first major English victory on the European mainland since Agincourt and also
was the first successful defeat of Louis XIV's armies. What was this 1704 battle on the Danube,
the greatest military triumph of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy in the War of Spanish
Succession?
Battle of Blenheim
32. Before this university got its current name in 1900, it went through several that weren't so
successful including the Old Gold Knights, the Antelopes, and the Bugeaters, which for some
reason didn't stick. This football powerhouse won its first two offive national championships in
1970 and 71 under Bob Devaney. What is this university whose team is now coached by Frank
Solich, who replaced the legendary Tom Osborne?
Nebraska Cornhuskers

o

c

33. Born Marie Josephe Rose Tascher de Ie Pogerie on the island of Martinique. she married
Alexander de Beauharnais, who was guillotined in 1794. From 1796-1809, she was Empress of
the French until her marriage was annulled so her husband could marry Marie Louise. Who was
this wife of Napoleon?

Josephine
34. Some of his plays include The Island and Master Harold... and the Boys, which were both
written after his most famous work. Who is this South African playwright, author of the first play
to be performed with a mixed cast in his native land, The Blood Knot?

Athol Fugard
35. It's the story of Christy Brown, a poor Dubliner born with cerebral palsy. He is intellectually
brilliant but is unable to control his body and cannot write with his hands. What is this 1989
movie named for the part of the body with which Brown could write, for which Daniel Day-Lewis
won an Oscar for Best Actor?
My Left Foot
36. This Scottish chemist was the first to work with colloids and also observed that some
substances pass through a membrane more quickly than others, thus discovering dialysis. This
work led him to develop his 1833 law. Who was this chemist, known for his Law oi .:te Diffusion
of Gases?

Thomas Graham
(

37. His first book, published in 1721, was entitled Persian Letters, and in 1734 he published
Reflections of the Causes of the Grandeur and Declension of the Romans. Who was this member
of the Bordeaux Parlement chiefly known for his 1750 work, The Spirit of the Laws?

Charles-Louis, Baron de Montesquieu
38. Some of his works include murals at the San Francisco Stock Exchange and some depicting
the auto industry at the Detroit Institute of Art. His work at Rockefeller Center was destroyed
because he refused to delete the image of Lenin from his composition. Who was this Mexican
muralist and husband of Frida Kahlo?

Diego Rivera
39. A man, a la The Hunchback of Notre Dame, falls from a 125 meter clock tower. Assuming
his acceleration is a constant 10 meters per second squared, how many seconds does it take for
him to become sidewalk art?
~

seconds

40. On the original 1957 pilot episode of Leave It to Beaver he played Frankie, the Eddi Haskelltype character. In 1984-85 he was a regular on Saturday Night Live and in 1998 portrayed a selfabsorbed TV anchorman in Godzilla. Who is this actor who currently does the voices of Otto,
Principal Skinner, Smithers, Mr. Burns, and many other Simpsons characters?

o

Harry Shearer

(

41. It was founded in 1975 and its projects include the Giotto space probe. plans to build
Columbus, a space station to attach to the future American one. and a shuttle project called
Hermes. What is this agency headquartered in Paris with joint involvement from the German,
French, British, and various other governments?

ESA or European Space Agency
42. There are two main methods, the peritoneal and "hemo" types. The hemo type uses the
patient's blood while the peritoneal uses one ofthe body's natural semipermeable membranes.
What is this medical process used to treat nephritis and other ailments, which mimics the effects
of the kidneys?

dialysis
43. In civil and mechanical engineering it is the property of a solid that, when under continuous
stress, causes it to deform beyond its yield point. What is this term, the same as an insultuous
name often said by characters on The Brady Bunch and what Eddie Haskell is according to
Beaver?

creep (grudgingly accept "creepy"even tbougb it is not a name)
44. Although probably actually based on German philosopher Christian von Wolff, who
popularized Leibniz' works, he is often said to be an incarnation ofLeibniz himself Who is this
optimistic teacher to the title cilaracter and quoter of the line, "All is for the best in this, the best
of all possible worlds," in Candide?

(

Dr. Pangloss
45. He was a rear admiral before joining the National Security Council in 1981 and becoming
Reagan's national security advisor in 1985. He resigned in 1986 after Iran-Contra allegations
sprang up. His convictions were overturned in 1991, but his name has become a popular insult.
Who was this supervisor of Oliver North?

Jobn Poindexter

C)

D'oh! Another Worksheet
("
\ .

1. _ _ _ _ _ _ Limestone-like mineral fonned from calcium magnesium carbonate

2.._ _ _ _ _ _ British Poet Laureate who wrote "The Hind and the Panther"
3. _ _ _ _ _ _ Port on the Adriatic coast of Croatia, chief city of Dalmatia
4. _ _ _ _ _ _ Pythias' s pal
5. _ _ _ _ _ _ Name for Japanese parliament
6.

Inflammation of pockets of herniation in the large intestine

7. _ _ _ _ _ _ Ancient Greek proponent of atomic theory
8. _ _ _ _ _ _ The "Manassa Mauler" who lost the heavyweight crown in 1926 to
Gene Tunney
9. _ _ _ _ _ _ Type of Egyptian writing derived from hieroglyphs used for
everyday--one of the three styles found on the Rosetta stone
10._ _ _ _ _ _ Large Gennan breed of guard dog named after man who wanted the
meanest dog possible
(

11.- - - - - - Kiev is on this river
12._ _ _ _ _ _ Roman emperor who split Rome into Eastern and Western Empires
13.

Star of Jaws and Mr. Holland's Opus

14. _ _ _ _ _ _ Composer of The Sorceror's Apprentice
15. _ _ _ _ _ _ Inventor of the pneumatic bicycle tire, later applied to cars
16. _ _ _ _ _ _ Disability reading words where mixed up get
17._ _ _ _ _ _ National park home to Mt. McKinley
18. _ _ _ _ _ _ Survey compiled in 1086 at the request of William the Conqueror
19._ _ _ _ _ _ Kansas-Nebraska Act proponent known as the "Little Giant"
20. _ _ _ _ _ _ He was fonnerly Barbara Walters' even more elderly cohost on

20120

o

(

D'oh! The Answers:
1. dolomite
2. John Dryden
3. Dubrovnik
4. parnon
5. Diet
6. Diverticulitis
7. Democritus
8. Jack Dempsey
9. demotic
10. Doberman pinscher
12. Dnieper
13. Dioclctian
14. Richard Dreyfuss
15. Paul Dukas
16. dyslexia
17. Denali
18. Domesday Book
19. Stephen Douglas
20. Hugh Downs

(

o

Bonuses for Round 4
(
Bonus 1: Identify the author of the following 20th century plays:
1. The Dumb Waiter -- Harold Pinter

2. Picnic
3. The Odd Couple
4. Endgame

-- William Inge
-- Neil Simon
-- Samuel Beckett

Bon us 2: Four times since 1981 has an actor won best director for a movie he starred in but not
won the award for best actor. Name these four famous actors.

Warren Beatty (for Reds in 1981)
Kevin Costner (for Dances With Wolves in 1990)
Clint Eastwood (for Unforgiven in 1992)
Mel Gibson (for Braveheart in 1995)

Bonus 3: Identify the following people whose friends may call or have called them "Dave".

(

1. He often appeared on Letterman, and this stunt man evenh~Qhis own cartoon show along_____ _
with his sidekick, Fuji.
--~
2. He played Uncle Joey on the ever-so-annoying Full House.
3. The current NY Yankee pitcher who won the 1994 Cy Young Award while with the Royals
4. He was Prime Minister of England during WWI.

1. Super Dave Osborne
2. Dave Coulier
3. David Cone
4. David Lloyd-George

Bonus 4: Name the states in which the following national parks are located.
1. Lake Clark National Park and Preserve
2. Canyonlands National Park
3. Guadalupe Mountains National Park
4. North Cascades National Park

o

-- Alaska
-- Utah
-- Texas
-- Washington

