(

Round 5
1. It was begun in 1916, but was not completed until 1969 by Walter Hancock. What is this
Gutzon Borglum bas-relief near Atlanta featuring the equestrian figures of Robert E. Lee,
Jefferson Davis, and Stonewall Jackson?
Stone Mountain

2. He went west because he said he had "Injuns on the brain" and described his time in Wyoming
and his studies of the Sioux tribe. Who was this writer of The Oregon Trail?
Francis Parkman
3. His admission to the USA for medical treatments prompted the holding of 52 American
diplomats in Tehran. Overthrown in the Revolution of 1979, who was this last Shah ofIran?
Mohammed Reza Pahlavi
4. Its ancient name was the Fretum Siculum and it separates the Ionian and Tyrrhenian Seas.
What is this strait that also separates mainland T 'lly fonn Sicily?
Strait of Messina

(

5. Discovered by Marguerite Perey in 1939, its longest-lived isotope has a half-life ofa mere 21
minutes. What is this alkali metal with atomic number 87 and named after Perey's homeland?
Francium
6. The philosophers here are followed around by "flappers" who flap inflated bladders at their
heads to bring them back to reality. What is this flying island discovered by Gulliver on his third
voyage?
Laputa
7. With his research on the fruit fly, what American winner of the 1933 Nobel Prize invented the
techniques of genetic mapping, discovered sex chromosomes, and detennined that genes were
located on chromosomes?
Thomas Hunt Morgan
8. Known as the "Man in the Glass Booth," what escaped Nazi war criminal was captured in
Argentina in 1960 and then brought to Israel where he was tried and executed for war crimes?
Adolf Eichmann

o

9. When Patrick Leahy attached a rider to a bill to extend $56 million dollars in Sea Grant funds
to schools in Vennont, he officially designated what body of water, more than ten times smaller
than any of the original five, a Great Lake?
Lake Champlain

c

10. jeremy Bentham, who accused him of being against legal rdorm. criticized his work. \\Ino
was this judge who, from 1765-69, published his Commentaries on the Laws of England?
Sir William Blackstone
11. Guy rolls two 20-sided dice in an attempt to get a sum 0[20. What is the probability that he
will succeed?
19/400

12. Annexed by Britain in 1890 and independent in 1963, on this island Freddie Mercury was born
in 1946. What is this island off the east African coast that in 1964 joined Tanganyika to form the
republic of Tanzania?
Zanzibar
13. In English, Byron in Don Juan most notably used the form. Arising in Italy in the 14th century
and often used by Boccaccio and others, what is this 8-line verse with rhyme scheme a-b-a-b-a-bc-c?
Ottava Rima
14. The grounds around Washington, D.C. and the Campus of the University of CaliforniaBerkeley were among his later landscape projects. Who wa... this landscape architect most famous
for being the designer of New York's Central Park?
Frederick Law Olmsted
15. Combining aspects of Hinduism and Islam, it was founded by Guru Nanak in the Punjab
region of northern India. What is this religion whose sacred scripture is the Adi Granth and
whose major center is the city of Amritsar?
Sikhism
16. His writings were written in Thomas Shelton's system of shorthand and went undeciphered
until 1819. Who was this naval administrator and writer who, from 1660-69 kept his famous
diary, which provides the best historical account of life in Charles II's London?
Samuel Pepys
17. In 1519 its population was 400,000, and it was situated on two islands in Lake Texcoco.
What was this city located on the site of modern-day Mexico City, the capital of the Aztecs?
Tenochtitlan
18. It occurs because of the depletion of ATP and phosphoryl creatinine within skeletal muscle
fibers and usually occurs around three hours after death and lasts for a few days. What is this
temporary stiffening of the body after death?
rigor mortis

(

19. His fIrst Hollywood film was 1968's Rosemary's Baby, but he went through a troubled period
after the murder of his pregnant wife, Sharon Tate, in 1969 by the Manson family. Wbo ,vas this
director of A1acbeth in 1971 and his most successful work the 1974 picture, Chinatown?
Roman Polanski
20. The most popular writer of the Czechoslovakia between the World Wars, he is best known for
his science fiction dramas. Who was this author of Rossum's Universal Robots, or R. UR.?

Karl Capek
End orist Quarter
21. He had the gift ofprophe<;:y but refused to provide information to the mortals who sought it
from him. Menelaus sought him out and though this god metamorphosed into several different
shapes, he could not escape and had to answer Menelaus' questions. Who was this shape-shifting
god of the sea?

Proteus
22. It was provoked by a wave of migration from overpopulated El Salvador to the sparsely
populated territory of Western Honduras. A war lasting only a few days, it was named such
because the fighting came to a peak during the qualifying matches ofthc _' 970 World Cup. What
was this Central American contlict?

The Football War
(

23. Nearly 300 qfthem were wrecked during filming, but on screen it never seemed to have a
scratch since several identical Dodge Chargers were kept on hapd during each episode's shooting.
What was this legendary TV car, the pride ofBo and Luke Duke?

The General Lee
24. It's the first volume of a trilogy, with the later books being Peder Victorious and Their
Father's God. It's the story of a smaIl group of Norwegian farmers in Minnesota centered on Per
Hansa. What is this novel subtitled "A Saga of the Prairie," written by Ole E. Rolvaag?

Giants in the Earth
25. His works include The Psychology of Intelligence and The Language and Thought of a Child,
His theories are centered on the concept that children perceive the world differently than adults
and their stages of development follow the same sequence. Who was this 20th century Swiss
psychologist?

Jean Piaget
26. He was imaginative and innovative, but he has few paintings known to be his actual work. A
pupil of Giovanni Bellini, in this Venetian's Castelfranco Madonna, he developed the sacra
conversazione--the organization of space in which the Virgin and Child are on a high throne.
Who is this painter known for his Sleeping Venus and The Tempest?

Giorgione

CJ

(

27. After Acre fell in 1291, they moved their headquarters to Cyprus, then later to Rhodes, then,
after being expelled by the Ottomans, to Malta. Napoleon ousted them in 1798 and they moved
to Rome. What is this religious order originally intended to help sick pilgrims in the Holy Land,
but later played a prominent military role in the Crusades?

Knights Hospitallers
28. They cause such diseases as AIDS and leukemia. Using RNA instead of DNA to replicate,
they have a built-in enzyme known as reverse transcriptase to convert its RNA to DNA once
inside a host cell. What are these types of viruses that sound like something from the '70s?

retroviruses
29. Born ofItalian-Jewish descent, but baptized a Christian, among his novels are Sybil, Vivian
Grey and Conigsby. Who was this English writer also famous as a political leader serving as
Conservative Prime Minister in 1868 and from 1864-70, the constant bane of William Gladstone?

Benjamin Disraeli
30. Henri rows 5 miles downstream on a river with a current of 5 miles per hour to steel pears
from a tree growing in a hippie organic farm. He rows a constant 10 miles per hour in caIm
water. How long does his trip take to and from his home, assuming he spends 10 minutes
gathering pears and that there is a 5 minute walk to and from his home to his boat?

1 hour 40 minutes

(

31. He was captured and shot by the Spanish in 1811. In September the year before he rang a
church bell in Dolores, signaling to his parishioners that the revolution against Spain had begun.
Who was this Mexican priest known as ''the Father of Mexican independence?"
Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla

32. This French city was known in Roman times as Durocaturum and was the traditional place of
the crowning of French kings since Clovis's baptism here in 496. What is this city, capital of the
Champagne region, famous for its cathedral and also for being the site where on May 7, 1945, the
Gennan High Command officially surrendered to Dwight Eisenhower?

Reims (Rheims)
33. This author, painter, and composer born in Prussia wrote two novels: The Life and Opinions
0/ Kater Murr, with a Fragmentary Biography o/Conductor Johannes Kreisler and The Devi!'s
Elixir. However, he is better known for his collection of supernatural short stories. Who was this
man of letters, upon whose stories Jacques Offenbach wrote a famous opera?

E. T.A. (Ernst Theodor Amadeus) Hoffman (Opera is The Tales of Hoffman)
34. Her career almost ended in the 1980s when she entered a drug rehab center to combat her
numerous addictions but emerged from the experience with the basis for her first novel, Postcards
From the Edge, which became a movie. Who is this actress, the former wife of Paul Simon, and
also the daughter of Debbie Reynolds, best known for her portrayal ofLeia Organa in Star Wars?

Carrie Fisher

35. The cell wall is made up of two overlapping valves called frustules which fit together like a lid·
on a pillbox, and the fossils of these organisms are used in the dynamite and plastics industries.
'N'hat are these single-celled organisms whose two walls are made up primarily of silica?
diatoms
36. If you were to become Vice President, you couldn't do any worse than this man. He took the
oath of office in Cuba where he was looking for a cure to his ailments. He died at his home in
Alabama in April 1853--one month after his inauguration. Who was this elected, but never
serving Vice President under Franklin Pierce?
William Rufus de Vane King
37. In the second part of the drama, written nearly 25 years after the first, the title character's fate
is reversed as the divine interferes with the demonic's claim on his soul. What is this Goethe
work concerning a Gennan doctor who, in a pact with Mephistopeles, receives great knowledge?
Faust
38. It was named after the Viceroy of New Spain and founded in 1706. It's rapidly growing and
is a major center for technology with Intel and the Sandia National Laboratories. What is this
New Mexico city where Bugs Bunny seems to always miss a left turn?
Alburguergue

(

39. This 1956 film featured Bela Lugosi's last perfonnance. He died during the production so his
role was completed by the director's wife's chiropractor who remained hooded, but was still
noticeably taller and younger than Lugosi. What is this film. directed by Ed Wood, often regarded
as the worst movie of all time?
Plan 9 From Outer Space
40. This two-part work is subtitled "Virtue Rewarded" and is often considered as the first modem
English novel. It tells the story of a young maidservant pursued by Mr. B., who tries to seduce
her and fails, but she convinces him to marry her, anyway. What is this epistolary Samuel
Richardson novel?
Pamela
41. Once the coronation place of Swedish kings, its Gothic cathedral contains the burial places of
Linnaeus, Swedenborg, not to mention most of Sweden's monarchs. Founded in 1477, its
university is Sweden's oldest. What is this city, north of Stockhohn, Sweden's third largest?
Uppsala
42. When the Viking King Sweyn Forkbeard took hold of England in 1013, he forced this king
into exile in Nonnandy. After Sweyn's death he returned to combat Canute but his son Edmund
Ironside rebelled against him. Who was this Saxon king whose nickname is mistranslated and
actually means ill-advised, not hesitant or ill-prepared?
iEthelred (Ethelred) II the Unready

o

·n. Their real names were Julius, Arthur, Leonard, Herbert, and ~fi1ton, which, although
humorous in their own right, were not their stage names. The relatively unimportant Leonard left
after their vaudeville days. Herbert left in 1935. What was this comedy team that starred in such
films as Duck Soup and A Night at the Opera?

the Marx Brothers
44. Subtitled "The Mistakes of a Night". It concerns the Hardcastle family, Sir Charles Marlow,
who has proposed that his son and Highcastle's daughter become more acquainted with each
other, Tony Lumpkin, and the serVants and patrons of the Three Jolly Pigeons. The play is mostly
about the ever-so-many romantic misunderstandings that take place. What is this 1773 comedy
written by Oliver Goldsmith?

She Stoops to Conquer
45. The type used in electronics is also known as a potentiometer and can be used as a volume
contro~ for example. What is this type of switch used to vary electrical resistance without
interrupting the current, notably used when dimming lights?

rheostat (prompt on "dimmer switch")

(

o

(

WErkshEEt
.

l. _ _ _ _ _ _ Italian author of In the Name of the Rose

2.

Norwegian sailor who in 985 founded the first colonies on
Greenland

3._ _ _ _ _ _ Auxiliary language invented in 1887 by Ludwig Lazarus Zamenhof
4.

First name of cooking show host who loves to shout "Bam!"

5.

Ancient Italian civilization who succumbed to the Romans in the 3rd
cent. BC

6.. _ _ _ _ _ _ Sculptures from the Parthenon brought to England from 1801-03
7.' - - - - - - Mountain that is Colorado's tallest
8. _ _ _ _ _ _ Transcendentalist author of essays such as Self Reliance
9. _ _ _ _ _ _ English author of Adam Bede, born Mary Ann Evans
10._ _ _ _ _ _ He won his 1921 Nobel Prize for explaining the photoelectric effect
11.' _ _ _ _ _ _ Russian film director of Alexander Nevsky and The Battleship

(

Potemkin
12.

Dutch humanist author of In Praise of Folly

13._ _ _ _ _ _ Nation whose capital is Tallinn
14.

Bolivian MLS star known as "EI Diablo"

15._ _ _ _ _ _ Element #99 on the periodic table
16._ _ _ _ _ _ Commander-in-chief of Allied forces in W. Europe during WWII
17._ _ _ _ _ _ Father MacKenzie buried this Beatles title character along with her
name
18.______ Study of factors influencing the spread and frequency of disease
19.

British prime minister during the Suez crisis

20.

Complete the following line with the appropriate variety of fruit:
"Your mother was a hamster, and your father smellt of

o

!"

WErkshEEt Answers:
1. Umberto Eco
2. Erik the Red
3. Esperanto
4. Emeril Lagasse
5. Etruscans
6. Elgin Marbles
7. Mt. Elbert
8. Ralph Waldo Emerson
9. George Eliot
10. Albert Einstein
11. Sergei Eisenstein
12. Desiderius Erasmus
13. Estonia
14. Marco Etcheverry
15. Einsteinium
16. Dwight Eisenhower
17. Eleanor Rigby
18. epidemiology
19. Sir Anthony Eden
20. Elderberries

(

o

Bonuses for Round 5

(

Bonus 1: Answer the following about Comedy Central's hit variety show, Viva Variety.
1. Michael Ian Blackportrays which lovable, "All-American" announcer and sidekick to Mr. and
the former Mrs. Laupin?
2 and 3. For five points each, what are the first names of Mr. and the former Mrs. Laupin?
4. The stars: Black, Thomas Lennon, and Kerry Kinney were originally on what MTV comedy
series?
1. Jobnny Blue Jeans

2. Meridetb
3. Agatb~
4. Tbe State

Bonus 2: Identify the following battles from a brief description.
1.
2.
3.
4.

This 1862 McClellan victory is said to have been the bloodiest battle in the Civil War
Harold II fended off Norse King Harald Hardrada at this 1066 battle, just days before Hastings
This 1916 battle was the largest naval battle during WWI
This 1805 Napoleon victory is also called "The Battle of the Three Emperors"

1.
2.
3.
4.

Battle of Antietam (Sbarpsburg)
Battle of Stamford Bridge
Battle of Jutland
Battle of Austerlitz

(

Bonus 3: Give the authors of the following strangely titled works.
1.
2.
3.
4.

The Effect a/Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds
Radical Chic and Mau-mauing the Flak Catchers
The Mambo Kings Play Songs 0/ Love
Centennial

Paul Zindel
Tom Wolfe
Oscar Hijuelos
-- James Micbener

Bonus 4: Give the capitals ofthe following British territories or dependencies.

C)

1.
2.
3.
4.

Bermuda
The Falkland Islands
The Isle of Man
Montserrat

Hamilton
Stanley
Douglas
Plymoutb

