Round 6

(

1. This 20th century English dramatist's Quaker upbringing strongly influenced his work. Who is
this author of the plays Curtmantle, which concerns the dispute between Henry II and Thomas
Becket, and This Lady's Not For Burning?

Christopher fu

2. He was deposed in a military coup in 1963 by Ne Win. In 1948 he helped secure Burma's
independence from Britain. Who was this first Burmese premier whose name resembles
something you may ask yourselves if you don't know the answer to this question?

UNu
3. Using the arsenic compound, Salvarsan, what German bacteriologist and immunologist, the
assistant to Robert Koch, developed the first cure for syphilis?

.

Paul Ehrlich

4. Performed here every ten years, except during WWII, to cr 'TlIIlemorate the end of the Black
Plague in 1634, what Bavarian village is home to the world's most famous passion play?

Oberammergau

(

5. When he was 19 he left Albany to mine for gold in California. There he helped found and edit
The Overland Monthly. Who was this associate of Mark Twain and author of such works as
"Plain Language From Truthful James" and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat?"

Bret Harte
6. Other signs of it include weakness and aching of joints and muscles, and the drying up of the
skin and hair, besides the famous bleeding gums. What is this disease, the scourge of pirates
everywhere, caused by a lack of Vitamin C?

scurvy
7. Henri is a mediocre math student. He got a 64, a 51, and a 57 on his first 3 tests. Since he
can't figure out what he needs on the next two tests to get a D--60%, in the class, he asks his
friend Guy .. What is Guy's answer'l
64%
8. They released only one album, Never Mind the Bollucks, in 1977. Becoming notorious under
the guidance of their manager, Malcolm McLaren what was this UK punk group whose members
included John Lyden and John Ritchie, a.k.a. Johnny Rotten and Sid Vicious?

the Sex Pistols

o

(.

9. He was CIA director from 1953 to 1961 and helped found the organization. The Bay of Pigs
fiasco and the backlash it caused forced him to resign from his post. \Vho was this US lawyer, the
younger brother of Eisenhower's secretary of State?
Alan Dulles
10. In what Sinclair Lewis novel does the idealistic young bride Carol Kennicott wish to bring
culture to the small town of Gopher Prairie, Minnesota?
Main Street
11. Cadre! Rinpoche, who was looking for the reincarnation of him, was imprisoned in 1997. The
abbot of the monastery of Tashilhunpo, who is this Tibetan spiritual leader second only to the
Dalai Lama in importance? .
the Panchen Lama

12. This port city on the Indian Ocean was known as Lourenyo Marques until 1976, when its
nation gained its independence from Portugal. What is this capital of Mozambique?
Maputo
13. In 1898 he died of cancer before his operatic version of Poe's The Fall of the House of Usher

could be completed. Who was this French composer of The Prodigal Chhi and a work inspired
by the Imagist poet Stephane Mallanne, Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun?
Claude Debussy
(

14. The literary genre created by him was called by Matthew Arnold "the dialogue of the mind
itself" Who was this 16th century city councilman of Bordeaws: and later country gentleman who
is remembered for his Essais?
Michel de Montaigne

15. Originally a plumber from New York, he became president of the AFL in 1951. On the
Simpsons in an episode of"Klassic Krusty," he and Krusty discussed collective bargaining
agreements. Who was this labor leader, who, in 1955 became the first president of the AFL-CIO?
George Meany
16. This type of deformed protein wa..c;; discovered by Stanley Prusiner and leads to such diseases

as mad cow disease. What is this type of infectious agent that doesn't rely on nucleic acid, but
uses protein to reproduce?

17. One of the founders of the Liberal Association of South Africa, some ofhis works about

apartheid include Too Late the Phalarope and Ah, But Your Land Is Beautiful. Who is this
author more famous for his book on also about apartheid, Cry, the Beloved Country?
Alan Paton

o

C·

18. An active supporter of the Bolsheviks, this American tounded the Communist Labor Party and
then moved to the USSR, and was buried in the Kremlin after he died. 'Nbo was this journalist,
the author of Ten Days That Shook the World?
John Reed
19. It was rebuilt in 1956, and it was founded by St. Benedict in 529. What is this Italian
monastery NW of Naples, destroyed by the Allies during heavy fighting and used by the Nazis as
a propaganda device to drum up support?
Monte Cassino
20. It's used in lasers and in televisions helps make the color red. The not-so-creative French
chemist Eugene Demar9ay named it for where it was found. What is this element with number 63
named after a continent?
Europium

End o(1s1 Quarter
21. His Indian name was Mahpiua Luta and in 1869 signed the Fort Laramie Treaty in which he
promised not to fight against the settlers, so he didn't participate in the war that culmiI....:ted at
Little Bighorn. Who was this Oglala Sioux chief from Nebraska who became more
accommodating to the US government after his leading the armed resistance along the Bozeman
Trail?
Red Cloud
22. Their names are still in use today in various allusions describing a duo that behaves riotously.
Originally they were the names of the two chief characters in Pierce Egan's Life in London and
were called "men about town." Two of the most violent and crazy characters in cartoon history
are appropriately named after them. What is this MOM-created cartoon duo, the poster animals
for violence on TV?
Tom and Jerry
23. A sequel to it entitled Rupert of Hentzau appeared in 1898. This novel follows the
swashbuckling adventures ofRudoIfRassendyll, who looks like the king ofRuritania. Black
Michael and Rupert kidnap the king and Rassendyll impersonates the monarch and helps thwart
the plot to usurp the throne. This is the rough story of what 1894 novel by Sir Anthony Hope?
The Prisoner of Zenda
24. Two of the order's largest abbeys in the British Isles were Fountains Abbey in Yorkshire and
Tintern Abbey in Monmouthshire in Wales. It was founded in 1098 by Robert of Molesme, and it
was shaped greatly by Bernard of Clairvaux. What is this order popularly known as the
Whitefriars, an offshoot of the Benedictines, founded in Citaux, France?
The Cistercians

CJ

('

25. Very good friends with Robby Robertson of The Band, he tilmed the documentary of their last
performance, entitled The Last Waltz. Robertson later wrote the scores to some ofms later
movies. Who is this Academy Award-winning director of such films as The Last Temptation of
Christ, Taxi Driver, and Raging Bull?
Martin Scorsese
26. This class of primitive marine invertebrates is usually attached to the seabed by a long stalk
and members have at least 10 and can have up to 200 tentacles in a ring around the mouth of the
creature. Sea lilies remain stalked while feather stars break off their stalks and become freeswimming. What is this class of echinoderms?
Crinoids (crinoidea)
27. This city was taken from the Lombards and given to the Pope in 754 by Pepin the Short and
previously served as the capital of the Ostrogoths and Byzantine exarchs. Connected to the
Adriatic by canal, it's known for its numerous Roman and Byzantine buildings, notably the Church
of San Vitale with its exquisite 6th century mosaics. What is this city, once the capital of the
Western Roman Empire and the chief Byzantine city in Italy?
Ravenna

(

28. Dedicated to the Earl of Pembroke and the Earl of Montgomery, it was compiled by John
Heminges and Henry Gadell in 1623, and it includes 36 plays, not including Pericles, Prince of
Tyre, which was added later along with several disputed works. What is this first collection of the
plays of Shakespeare?
The First Folio
29. It debuted in February 1992 and lasted three whole weeks. In this CBS attempt for a
primetime animated series that could be as popular as The Simpsons, John Ritter played Inspector
Gil; Ed Asner was Chief Abalone, and Tim Curry was Sharkster--a crooked attorney. What was
this underwater cop comedy?
Fish Police

30. He led the Calydonian boar hunt and was the one who killed the beast. He gave the animal's
hide to Atalanta and killed his uncles when they tried to take it. In revenge, his mother threw a
certain log in the fireplace, thus fulfilling the prophecy that said this hero would die when it was
burned. Name this great Greek warrior.
Meleager
31. This compilation of228 Latin and German poems was discovered in the monastery at

Benediktbeuern in 1803. Probably written around 1230, there are three major types: moralsatirical poems, love poems, and poems of camaraderie, including a great many drinking songs.
What is this group of poems, of which a selection was used, including "0 Fortuna!," for the
masterpiece of Carl OrID
Carmina Burana

o

(

32. Guy stole 300 feet of police tape from a squad car. To playa joke on Henri. he \vishes to
barricade Henri's car, along with several others of people he doesn't know. in a dOwntO\vil parking
lot. Assuming a building forms one side of the lot, what is the largest rectangular area, in square
feet, he could enclose?

10,000 square feet
33. The name's the same: A city in SE Texas and the home of Lamar University, the last name of
William, a 19th century American physician who studied the digestive system by looking through
a hole that wouldn't close in the stomach of Alexis St. Martin, and the surname of Hugh, who
played Ward Cleaver on Leave It to Beaver. What's the cornrnon name?

Beaumont
34. This publisher born in Luxembourg founded Amazing Stories, America's first science fiction
magazine in 1926. In honor ofhis pioneering efforts.in the sci-fi genre, the annual award for
achievement given by the World Science Fiction Convention since 1953 has been named for him.
Who is this namesake of the Hugo?

Hugo Gernsback

(

35. Among his pupils at Cambridge was Ludwig Wittgenstein. Well-known for his radical social
views, he was an active pacifist and, along with Jean-Paul Sartre, led the European opposition to
U.S. involvement in Vietnam. His writings inclurle Marriage and Morals and A History of
Western Philosophy. Who was this mathematician and philosopher awarded the 1950 Nobel
Prize for Literature, who, along with Alfed North Whitehead published' Principia Mathematica?

Bertrand Russell
36. He hadn't really written anything until in 1759, at the age of 47, when he published the first
two volumes of his most famous work. Who was this English vicar, author of Sermons of Mr.
Yorick, but more importantly The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman?

Laurence Sterne
37. Their performing names were "Otis", "Charlie", "Lefty", "Nelson", and "Lucky"--all with the
same last name. After "Lefty" died in 1988, the remaining members changed their names to
"Clayton", "Muddy", "Spike", and "Boo". What was this all-star band whose only albums were
Volume 1 and Volume 3 whose individual names were really Jeff Lynne, Tom Petty, Roy Orbison,
George Harrison, and Bob Dylan?

The Traveling Wilburys
38. Because the Koran was very restrained and obscure in many areas, Muslims turned to oral
traditions that recounted the life and sayings of Muhammed. What is the term for the six
nonscriptural collections ofMuharnrned's sayings which form the basis for Islamic law?

the al-Hadith

39. It is manufactured in the Czech Republic and is safe to handle and difficult to trace since it
leaves no smell. This makes it perfect for paramilitary organizations of all types. What is this
plastic explosive thought to have been used in the downing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie,
Scotland, in 1988?
Semtex
40. Her works include Liber Scivias, a mystical treatise, and Liber Simplicis Medicinae, an
encyclopedia of natural history in which she gave both Latin and German names for the species.
Who was this 12th century multi-talented German Benedictine abbess of the convent of St.
Disibode?
Hildegard of Bingen
41. Cosmo Kramer says that this man is a member of his health club. His children's book,
Haroun and the Sea of Stories was published in 1990, a year after his going into seclusion. Who
is· this author of Midnight's Children and The Satanic Verses?
Salman Rushdie (enthusiastically accept "Sal Bass"--his alias according to Kramer)
42. The son of Septimus Severus, he was a cruel ruler and was assassinated in 217 after killing his
brother, with whom he ruled for a time, five years earlier. His name stems from the Celtic cloak
he often wore. Who was emperor best known for his building projects, including Rome's largest
bathhouse, which was named for him?
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Caracalla
43. In the 1980s he emerged as a critic of the nuclear arms race and was the president of the
World Bank from 1967-81. Soon after he became president of Ford in 1960, he joined the
Kennedy administration. Who was this Kennedy Secretary of Defense?
Robert McNamara
44. By this artist's own account he had no remorse for killing or injuring his rivals. In 1527 he
killed the Constable of Bourbon and was also imprisoned several times. Who was this Italian
goldsmith and sculptor whose best-known wo!'ks are the gold saltcellar of Francis I of France and
his bronze, "Perseus?"
Benvenuto Cellini
45. Some of this 20th century author's plays include Henri Christophe, Dream on Monkey
Mountain, and 0 Babylon!, which is about a Rastafarian community. Who is this West Indian
poet and playwright and winner of the 1992 Nobel Prize for Literature?
Derek Walcott

c)

This B Another Worksheet
1.______ Danish physicist who proposed the modem atomic model

2.

Spanish conquistador, the first European to see the Pacific Ocean

3.

Spanish golfer, winner of the British Open in 1979, 1984, and 1988

4.

US developer of the transistor and two-time winner of the Nobel Prize for
Physics

5. _ _ _ _ _ _ "Father of the American Novel"; author of Wieland in 1798 and Ormand
in 1799
6.

15th century Italian poet of Orlando Innamorato

7. _ _ _ _ _ _ Early 20th century group of English writers including E.M. Forster and
Virginia Woolf
8._ _ _'---__ Deficiency disease caused by lack of thiamin
9.

Swedish tilm director of Cries and Whispers and The Seventh Seal

10.

Type of sturgeon from which caviar is obtained

11.

Calcutta is the chief city in this region ofNE India and Bangladesh

12.

Republic declared in 1846 by a group of settlers in Sacramento Valley, Ca.

13.

Trader and scout who discovered the Great Salt Lake

14.

NY Yankee who holds record for number of World Series games played

15.

Queen of the Iceni who led a 1st century revolt against the Romans in SE
England

16._ _ _ _ _ First socialist prime minister of France, imprisoned by the Vichy
government
17._ _ _ _ _ Voice of Barney Rubble and many Warner Bros. cartoon characters
18.

Roman Christian philosopher and author of The Consolation ofPhilosophy

19.

French physicist who discovered radioactivity

20.

English conspiracy to assassinate Elizabeth I and bring Mary, Queen of
Scots to power

(
These B the answers:

(

C)

1. Niels Bohr
2. T/asco Nunez de Balboa
3. Seve Ballesteros
4. John Bardeen
5. Charles Brockden Brown
6. Matteo Maria Boiardo
7. Bloomsbury Group
8. beriberi
9. Ingmar Bergman
10. beluga
11. Bengal
12. Bear Flag Republic
13. Jim Bridger
14. Yogi Berra
15. Boudicca (Boadicea)
16. Leon Blum
17. Mel Blanc
18 .. Ancius Manlius Severinus Boethius
19. Henri Becquerel
20. Babbington Plot

Bonuses for Round 6

(

Bonus 1: IdentifY the following celebrities, all of whom were mentioned in a Beatles song.
1 and 2. For five points each, name the Labour British Prime Minister at the time of the album

Revolver and the future Conservative Prime Minister whose names were mockingly sung in
"Taxman."
3. Author of the Narrative ofA. Gordon Pym mentioned in John Lennon's ramblings in "I Am
the Walrus"
4. In "Glass Onion" Lennon referred to the "Walrus" as none other than this artist whose first
solo album contained "Maybe I'm Amazed"
1 and 2. Harold Wilson and Edward Heath (Mr. Wilson and Mr. Heath)

3. Edgar Allan Poe
4. Paul McCartney (accept Paul)

Bonus 2: C...pital cities often relocate, especially in developing nations. I'll give you the name of
a nation's old capital and you supply the current one.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Lagos
Adbijan
Belize City
Dar es Salaam

Abuja, Nigeria
Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast
Belmopan, Belize
-- Dodoma, Tanzania

Bonus 3: Answer the following about dogs.
1.
2.
3.
4.

In what family do dogs belong?
-- Canis
This breed of small dogs served as watchdogs for Tibetan monks
Lhasa Apso
PBS' Wishbone and Eddie on Frasier are what breed of dog? -- Jack Russell Terriers
This Chinese breed has a black tongue.
-- ~ Chow

Bonus 4: Give the Irish-born author of the pairs of works

1.
2.
3.
4.

()

The Plough and the Stars and The Shadow of a Gunman
"The Wild Swans at Coole" and "Sailing to Byzantium"
The Playboy of the Western World and Riders to the Sea
The Battle of the Books and The Tale of the Tub

-----

Sean O'Casey
William Butler Yeats
John M. Synge
Jonathan Swift

