NEW TRIER VARSITY 2009
ROUND 7

1. Born in Lobos, this leader supported the military coup that overthrew Ramon Castillo, leading to his appointment
as Secretary of Labor and Welfare. He used his new power to form a paramilitary group, the Descamisados, and he
soon became Vice President and Secretary for War. In 1945 he was arrested, but his followers forced his release by
demonstrating. He soon became President and worked on infrastructure, such as the construction of Ministro
Pistarini Airport. His government was patterned after Mussolini’s, and he probably played a role in protecting former
Nazis. Name this leader of Argentina, known for working with his wife, Evita.
ANSWER: Juan Domingo Perón
2. These entities are used by the Multi-Axis Crystal Spectrometer to determine atomic arrangements, and security
systems may soon detect explosives by measuring the scattering of these particles. A gamma ray is emitted in their
namesake capture. When isolated, these hadrons break down in about 15 minutes; they are also fired to cause fission,
and produced to sustain that chain reaction. A type of baryon, they consist of an up and two down quarks. Name
these particles, the more massive of the two nucleons, discovered in 1932 by James Chadwick and with no charge.
ANSWER: neutrons
3. This man and Edward Poins pretend to ditch their friend on the way to robbing some travelers on a highway so
they can stage a fake robbery. Later on, this character goes to battle at Shrewsbury against Hotspur and saves his
father’s life in the process. As a young man he is depicted as unbridled and immature, and he hangs out at the Boar’s
Head Tavern with rowdy friends including John Falstaff. As a mature king, he speaks the line “we few, we happy few,
we band of brothers; For he today that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother” in his Saint Crispin’s day speech.
Name this character, depicted in several similarly-named historical plays by Shakespeare.
ANSWER: Henry V [accept Prince Hal or Prince Harry]
4. An aggressive move during this war by Count Pappenheim led to the defeat of his commander, the Count of Tilly,
at the Battle of Breitenfeld. Its early stages involved a military build-up by Duke Maximilian and Frederick V, which
came to a head when Ferdinand of Styria was not accepted as the King of Bohemia. The Peace of Augsburg, which
allowed each duchy of the Holy Roman Empire to choose which religion they would follow, was partially to blame for
this series of conflicts. Some of its key figures were Richelieu and Gustavus Adolphus, and it eventually led to the
Hapsburgs losing Spain and Holland. Name this religious and political conflict that ended with the Peace of
Westphalia in 1648.
ANSWER: Thirty Years’ War
5. With Schützenberger, this man names a hierarchy for computer science syntax, and, with Edward S. Herman, he
wrote Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media. This author of Modular Approaches to the
Study of Mind developed the base phrase structure in Minimalism Program and coined the phrase “poverty of the
stimulus,” an important concept in his ideas of universal and generative grammar. Name this man who proved that a
phrase can be grammatically correct but also nonsensical by constructing “colorless green ideas sleep furiously” in his
bookSyntactic Structures, a linguist from MIT.
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky

6. Some of the separatists in this country formed the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, and some of its political parties
merged to form the Lakas-Kampi-CMD Party last year. That party recently expelled a provincial Governor and his
son who is campaigning to replace him, the Ampatuan family. The candidate running against him is Esmael
Mangudadatu, whose family and closest supporters, along with several journalists, were victims of the Maguindanao
Massacre on this country’s island of Mindanao. This country is also the location of the Mayon volcano. Name this
country headed by Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo whose capital is Manila.
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]
7. The men in this work speak “of planting and rain, tractors and taxes”. Some neighbors are denounced as a “pack of
crazy old fools” to Mr. and Mrs. Adams by Old Man Warner. Earlier, Bobby Martin and Dickie Dell-a-croy are
spotted playing, and some wooden chips were previously housed in Mr. Graves’ barn before being replaced by paper,
as per the orders to the local coal entrepreneur. That character, Mr. Summers, later brings out a three-legged stool on
June 27th and puts a black box on the stool. Townspeople like the Dunbars are relieved that they don’t meet the fate
of Tessie Hutchinson, who draws a slip of paper with a black spot on it. Name this short story in which Tessie is
stoned to death as a result of the titular ritual, a work by Shirley Jackson.
ANSWER: “The Lottery”
8. This law was first discovered in 1908 by a German physician who pioneered the analysis of ascertainment bias in
biology, due to his work studying twins. Another scientist, who described this theory as “very simple”, independently
introduced it in order to disprove an argument by Udny Yule against Mendelian inheritance. Deviations from it are
quantified as the inbreeding coefficient. Assuming no selection or mutation and purely random mating, name this
principle of Mendelian genetics derived from a binomial expansion.
ANSWER: Hardy-Weinberg principle [or Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium]
9. The third game in this series allows players to be transported to the “realm of Rellim Ohcanep” after playing 100
versus matches, letting players partake in a round of Galaxian. One playable character in this series, Kenshi, is tricked
into using a powerful magical sword which leaves him blind. Other characters include the brothers Taven and
Daegon, who are charged with stopping Blaze, who would be responsible for the impending “Armageddon”; and
Noob Saibot, a character who is actually the resurrected soul of a past, blue clad, ice-wielding, Lin Kuei ninja
originally from Earthrealm. Created by Ed Boon and John Tobias, identify this video game series that was a driving
force behind the creation of the ESRB due to its outrageously graphic Fatalities.
ANSWER: Mortal Kombat
10. While a guest of Cocalus, this figure brought about the death of one guest by filling his bath with boiling water.
Pausanius believed this man to be the creator of carpentry, attributing to him items like the saw, the axe, and the
plumb line. In one myth about this man, he is discovered when he uses an ant to thread a piece of string through a
seashell; in another myth, this man pushes his nephew Perdix off of a high cliff because he is jealous of his potential as
an inventor. Name this man whose symbol was a delta, who created the labyrinth for King Minos, and whose son
Icarus died when he flew too close to the sun.
ANSWER: Daedalus
11. This process is caused by “ced” genes, first discovered in C. elegans. Nitrous oxide is thought to induce this event,
by activating SMACs and allowing cytochrome c to exit the mitochondria. Some viruses, like Epstein-Barr, contain
IAPs which directly inhibit it, while others can inhibit the p53 transcription factor which regulates it. Theories for its
deliberate initiation by the human body include the TNF-induced model, which may play a role in autoimmune
diseases. Triggered by caspase proteins, name this process of programmed cell death.
ANSWER: apoptosis
New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 7 tossups, page 2 of 4

12. One of this poet’s works describes three friends: an intellectual based on James Fields, an idealist based on himself,
and a traveler based on Bayard Taylor. Another work is about a December day in his native Massachusetts when the
sun gave sadder light than a waning moon, and another is about a resident of Frederick, Maryland who shamed
Stonewall Jackson. This poet’s pamphlet “Justice and Expediency” called for immediate emancipation of slaves.
Associated with the Fireside Poets, name this Quaker poet famous for The Tent on the Beach, Barbara Frietchie,
and Snow-Bound.
ANSWER: John Greenleaf Whittier
13. The Birch reduction transforms this compound into 1,4-cyclohexadiene, while the Friedel-Crafts reaction can
acylate or alkylate this compound. When one of the hydrogens in this compound is replaced with a hydroxyl group, it
is known as phenol, while replacing a hydrogen with a methyl group renames it toluene, which has recently replaced
this carcinogen in industrial applications. Friedrich Kekulé envisioned the structure of this molecule as a snake biting
its own tail. Name this aromatic, cyclic hydrocarbon with formula C6H6.
ANSWER: benzene [or benzol; prompt on C6H6 before the end]
14. The top British commanders during this event were George Anson, Patrick Grant, and Colin Campbell. Some of
the successful British leaders were Hugh Rose, Henry Havelock, and William Hodson, though the latter two
eventually died at Lucknow. This event ended a dynasty that had ruled for three centuries when the offspring of Zafar
were killed and he was exiled. It began at Meerut among rumors that rifle cartridges contained fat from pork and beef,
making them unclean for use by, respectively, Muslims and Hindus. Some of the early fighting took place in Delhi.
Name this nineteenth-century fighting associated with Indian soldiers.
ANSWER: Sepoy Mutiny [or Indian Rebellion of 1857; accept Indian Mutiny; accept Great Rebellion;
accept Revolt of 1857; accept Uprising of 1857]
15. An unfinished second version of this painting in the London Tate has only one strap in the subject's dress. The
light in this painting is from the right, accentuating the brooch in the subject's hair and both shoulder straps of her
dress. That dress is low cut and shows the pale skin of the the titular character. This painting was very unpopular
when it was first shown at the Salon in 1884, leading its American painter to leave France. Identify this seven-foot-tall
painting of Virginie Gautreau, a work by John Singer Sargent.
ANSWER: Portrait of Madame X
16. This man sold his namesake carbine rifle to the Buchanan administration, and deferred to George C. Meade at the
Battle of North Anna. This victor of the Battle of Campbell’s Station also issued General Order Number 38. He tried
a namesake “bridge” formation at the Battle of Antietam and, after George B. McClellan didn’t pursue Robert E. Lee,
this man was put in control of the Army of the Potomac. After his defeat at Fredericksburg, he was replaced in that
position by Joseph Hooker, and, after the Civil War, he served as governor of Rhode Island. Name this Union general
who lends his name to a style of facial hair.
ANSWER: Ambrose Everett Burnside
17. This character’s father fell off a tree, and his mother died of milk fever. This resident of the Gorbeau House
attempts to rescue a sailor, but intentionally throws himself overboard. This former tree pruner steals money from
Petite Gervais and rescues Fauchelevant from a stray cart. His marksmanship helps when he joins Enjolras, and he
earlier travels to the home of Azelma and Éponine Thénardier to find the daughter of Fantine. He later carries Marius
through the sewers of Paris so that Marius can marry his adopted daughter, Cosette. Pursued by Inspector Javert,
name this Victor Hugo character who serves nineteen years on a chain gang for stealing a loaf of bread in Les
Misérables.
ANSWER: Jean Valjean [accept either or both names; prompt on 24601 or 9430]
New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 7 tossups, page 3 of 4

18. This composer wrote a cycle of five songs, beginning with “The Angel” and ending with “Dreams”, based on the
poetry of Mathilde Wesendonck. One of his early works, based on Shakespeare’sMeasure for Measure, is known in
English as The Ban on Love. Some of his best-known songs are “Entrance of the Guests” and “Liebestod”, and his only
well-known comedy is about Eva Pogner, who is supposed to marry the winner of a singing contest in Nuremberg.
His works are performed annually at the Bayreuth (bi-ROIT) Festival, especially Parsifal, Das Rheingold, The
Valkyrie,Siegfried, and Götterdämmerung (gur-tur-DU-mu-rung). Name this German opera composer of
the Ring cycle.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Richard Wagner
19. This philosopher argued that states themselves were eventually to be subsumed under the hierarchy of world
history, but described the state as “The March of God through the world”. He compared two philosophers in his The
Difference Between Fichte’s and Schelling’s Systems of Philosophy. He also wrote The Science of Logic, and in his most
famous work, he created sections on Reason, Spirit, and Religion, and discussed his famous triad composed of thesis,
antithesis, and synthesis. Name this philosopher who popularized the dialectic and wrote The Philosophy of Right
and The Phenomenology of Mind.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
20. Exponentiations of the function one plus x can be approximated by the Bernoulli one of these entities, while
another one governs inner products and is named for Cauchy (koh-SHEE) and Schwarz. Any two numbers must
satisfy one of three properties, two of which are of this type, according to the trichotomy property, and these types of
relations are antisymmetric. The arithmetic-geometric one of these concerns the means of those types, while the
namesake geometric figures as well as metric spaces must satisfy the triangle one of these relations. Name this type of
relation in which two quantities are compared using an order, such as “less than” or “greater than”.
ANSWER: inequality/ies [accept ordering relation before “order”]

New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 7 tossups, page 4 of 4

