(

Round 7
1. In this work a music teacher uses his hypnotic abilities to manipulate one ofhis students and
transfonns her into a superstar. What is this George DuMaurier novel featuring Svengali. the evil
hypnotist?
Trilby
2. In Sparta they outnumbered the Spartans and were owned by the state which used them as
soldiers after the P~rsian Wars until being freed in 369 Be. What was this class of Greeks
between free men and slaves?
Helots
3. A student of Schoenberg, he used the 12-tone scale to a great extent. Who was this Viennese
composer known for the operas, Lulu and Wozzeck?
Alban Berg
4. It was known as CitIaltepetl in Aztec times, and j! last erupted in 1687. What is this dormant
volcano, which at 18,406 feet is North America's third highest and Mexico's tallest mountain?
Mt. Orizaba

(

5. A close friend of Shelley, in most of this satirist's works, a company of humorists meets in a
country house and talk over something or other. Who is this author of such works as Melincourt
and Nightmare Abbey?
Thomas Love Peacock
6. The sine ofan angle is 7/25 and the hypotenuse of the triangle is 75 hands. What is the length
of the angle's adjacent side?
24 hands
7. He was deposed in 1988 for being unable to improve Chile's economic conditions. Who was
this president since 1973, who, as army general, led a CIA-backed coup against Marxist president
Salvador Allende?
Augusto Pinochet Ugarte
8. It has no blood vessels and relies on the aqueous humor for fluid. What is this optical part
continuous with the sclera that is the transparent covering of the eye?
Cornea

o

9. While in Italy in 1764, he got the idea for his work while "musing amidst the ruins of the
Capitol." Who was this English historian, author of the many-volumed work, The History a/the
Decline and Fall and the Roman Empire?
Edward Gibbon

(

10. Stressing simple living, bravery, and self-discipline, what term meaning "the way of the
warrior" is given to the code of honor of the Japanese military caste, the samurai?
Bushido
11. Divided into eightseven-and-a-half-minute periods known as chukkers, and it originated in
Persia before spreading to India and then to England. What is this sport played between two
teams of four whose water variety does not involve swimming horses?
Polo
12. This novel has also been published in English as The Diary of Antoine Roquentin. In it,
Roquentin records his violent.feelings of disgust because people can't help but to exist, but do so
for no apparent reason. What is this Jean-Paul Sartre novel?
Nausea
13. This group of organic compounds contains a carbonyl group that bonds to two carbon atoms.
What is this group whose simplest member is acetone?
Ketones

(

14. It was found in discovered in 1846 close to the position preo.~ted by Urban Leverrier. What
is this planet discovered by Johann Gottfried Galle, who also discovered its chief satellite, Triton,
a month later?
Neptune
15. His successful invasion of Carthage in the 2nd Punic War c'!used the Carthagenians to call
Hannibal back from Italy to defend his homeland. Who was this Roman general who defeated
Hannibal in 202 BC at Zama?
Scipio Africanus
16. What Swedish novelist received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1951 for such works as
Barabbus, The Dwarf, and The Hangman?
Par Lagerkvist
17. Before James Watt's invention of a steam engine this Englishman had an earlier version. Who
was this inventor of the "fire engine," which didn't put out fires but instead pumped water out of
mines?
Thomas Newcomen
18. Expo '98 held in Lisbon this summer celebrated the SOOth anniversary of his trip. Who was
this Portuguese navigator who arrived in Calicut in 1498 as the first European to reach India by
sea?
Vasco da Gama

o

19. Texel is the largest and westernmost island in this group that was formed by the sinking of the
land between them and the European coast. What is this group of islands off the coast of the
Netherlands and Germany?

(

Frisian Islands
20. This poem was first published in 1820 along with Prometheus Unbound. In the title of the
Noel Coward farce, Blithe Spirit, Coward drew his title from its first line. What is this Shelley
poem?

To a Skylark

End

or 1st Quarter

21. One has one "N" in his last name, but the other has two. One was a French politician who
had a plan for pooling the coal and steel resouces of Western Europe and was Prime Minister of
France and then President of the EEC. The other was a German romantic composer and a friend
ofBrahrns and Chopin who composed song cycles and published The New Chronicle of Music.
What is the common sounding name?

Robert Scbuman(n)
22. It's the year 2044 and an illegal, addictive drug-like computer disk create::. powerful and
destructive virtual realities. The novel concerns Jake Cardigan, an ex-con cop out to prove his
innocence and Detective Walter Bascon who needs to find a missing scientist who can solve the
world's troubles. What is this science fiction novel by William Shatner?

(

Tek War
23. He became a deacon in Rome under Pope Sixtus II and when the Roman emperor Valerian
summoned him to bring forth the treasures ofthe church, he brought out the beggars of the city
saying that they were the treasures. Valerian disagrees and sentenced him to death in 257. Who
was this Christian martyr said to have been roasted alive upon a gridiron?

St. Lawrence

.5

24. A term in three distinct scientific fields, in mathematics it is a geometrical aberration of a lens
which skews light rays from a pointed object meet in a larger, tear-shaped spot on the image
plane. In astronomy it's the hazy cloud of gas and dust that surrounds a cornet. In medicine, it's a
state of deep unconsciousness. What's the common term?

Coma
25. On the night of September 13, 1945 he was accidentally killed in the Austrian village of
Mittersill when he went outside to smoke a cigar at night and bumped into an American soldier.
The soldier thought he was being attacked and shot him dead. Who was this composer of the
Second Viennese school and student of Schoenberg who composed 5 Pieces for Orchestra, the
fourth part of which is less than 30 seconds long?

Anton von Webern

(

26. Baudelaire said that this painter was "passionately in love with passion." and his paintings
show it with great amounts of action and movement. He was friends with Paganini and Chopin
and painted famous portraits of them. Who was this French Romantic painter ofAfassacre at
Chios and The Death of Sardanopolous?
Eugene Delacroix
27. Recently they have been reported to be seen on people showcased on such programs as
"Unsolved Mysteries" and others like it, St. Francis of Assisi was said to have shown these marks
because of his extreme piety. What is the term for the seemingly miraculous wounds on people's
hands, feet, and side, corresponding to the traditional wounds Christ is said to have received
during his crucifixion?
stigmata
28. To playa new game he's invented, Guy wishes to fill his slightly-Iarger-than-normal
basketball exactly half-full of water. Assuming the ball is 12 inches in diameter, how many cubic
inches of water does he need?
144 pi cubic inches
29. Most of his plays are political satires combining black humor with slapstick and include The
Accidental Death of an Anarchist and Can't Pay? Won't Pay!. Who is this Italian pla)'\\'.ight,
winner of the 1997 Noblel pru.e for Literature?
Dario Fo
30. When the Carthagenians were developing their Mediterranean empire, they signed a treaty
with the Romans, promising they would not go north of this river whose ancient name is the root
of the name of its peninsula. What is this river whose delta is southwest of Tarragona and whose
length makes it the longest river entirely in Spain?
Ebro (ancient name is Iberus)
31. As a result of its protest to French nuclear testing, one of its ships was sunk in the S. Pacific in
1985, killing a crewmember. In one ofhis flashbacks, it is revealed that Monty Burns drilled a
hole in another one of this organization's boats. What is this environmental pressure group
created in 1971?
Greenpeace
32. The later variety of this tongue fluorished as a literary language befor the 18th century. It is
extinct as a spoken language, but is still the liturgical language of most branches of the Eastern
Orthodox Church. What is this Slavic tongue?
Old Church Slavonic or Old Bulgarian or Old Slavonic

(j

33. Rarely performed in modem times, much of it, like A Midsummer Night's Dream, was taken
from "The Knight's Tale" from The Canterbury Tales. It tells the story ofPalamon and Arcite,
who are prisoners of Theseus, King of Athens. What is this tragicomedy, a probable collaboration
between John Fletcher and Shakespeare, usually considered Shakespeare's last play?
The Two Noble Kinsmen

34. He played the Baroque-style piano counterpoint on "In My Life" on the album Rubber Soul
and \\!Tote and orchestrated much of the soundtrack of Yellow Submarine. A classically trained
oboist, under his direction the Beatles turned rock and roll into high art. Who was this producer,
who, with the exception of Let It Be, produced all the Beatles' albums?
Sir George Martin
35. His paintings were commissioned for numerous WP A projects and also painted the mural in
the Hall of Pharmacy at the 1939 New York World's Fair. Known for his series of "Woman"
paintings, who was this Dutch-born Abstract Expressionist who died in 1997?
Willem De Kooning
36. Japan used them as a submarine base during WWII, and oil was discovered there in 1976,
literally adding the fuel to the fire concerning these ~J1dbars and small reef islands. They
command the sea passage from Japan to Singapore and all or parts are claimed by Malaysia,
Japan, the Philippines, and most notably, Taiwan and China. What is this disputed island group?
The Spratley Islands
37. Nicknamed "The Great Stone Face" because of his deadpan expression, this Vaudeville star
that switched to the silver screen rivaled Charlie Chaplin in popularity in the silent era. Who was
this comedian who starred in "Fatty" Arbuckle comedies who made his last screen appearance in
1966's A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum?
Buster Keaton
38. He became the modei for many later Russian literary heroes. He rejects Tatyana, a simple
country girl, but when she rises in society later in life, she rejects him. Who is this title character
in a verse novel by Alexandr Pushkin?
Eugene Onegin
39. This socialist politician was Israeli Prime minister from 1984-86 and then became foreign
minister under in a powersharing agreement with Yitzhak Shamir, and along with Yitzhak Rabin
and Yassir Arafat he won the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize. Who is this Israeli politician who
succeeded Rabin after his assassination but then was defeated in the 1996 election by Bibi
Netanyahu?
Shimon Peres
40. This city's soccer club, Juventus, is a perennial Serie A and European power and from 186164 the city was the first capital of unified Italy. What is this city on the Po and serving as the
capital of the Piedmont region is famous for its disputed garment said to have been \\!Tapped
around the dead body of Christ?
Turin (Torino)

()

(

41. According to the 13 th century French romance Huon of Bordeau.'C, he was the illegitimate son
of Julius Caesar. Shakespeare used him and his wife in A Midsummer Sight's Dream. \'ino is
this mythical king of elves and fairies?
Oberon
42. Real Betis, a Spanish team took him up on his $35 million asking price, making him the
highest paid soccer player in the world. He didn't even start in the World Cup, though, playing
behind Bebeto and usually coming off the bench for an offensive spark. Who is this young
Brazillian, whose fancy footwork was shown on a moving sidewalk in the Rio airport in a Nike
commercial, touted as the next Ronaldo, who is only two years older?
Denilson
43. This Turkic people settled in the Volga region around the 2nd century AD. By the 8th
century their empire reached from the Caspian Sea as far west as Kiev until they were defeated in
965 by the Duk. of Kiev. Who were these Byzantine-friendly people whose nobility embraced
Judaism and are the ancestors of many European Jews?
the Khazars
44. Along with Peter Martin, he founded City Lights, a publishing company and America's first
all-paperback bookstore, in San Francisco. His press published many of the collections of Denise
Levertov, Gregory Corso, and Allen Ginsburg. Who was this Beat poet whose own works
include Her and A Coney Island of the Mincf?
Lawrence Ferlinghetti
45. Urban development revived it from a dirty industrial center to a more corporate center in the
1960s, and the city is the largest inland port in the United States. What is this city founded as
Fort Duquesne, the site of the merger of the Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers?
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C)

Worksheet made possible by: the Letter F and Number 20

(
l. _ _ _ _ _ _ Island group fought over by the UK and Argentina in 1982

2.- - - - - - American known as the "Poet of the Revolution"
3. _ _ _ _ _ _ Nickname for the location of the US State Department
4.

1870-71 War settled by the Treaty of Frankfurt

5. _ _ _ _ _ _ Legendary spectral ship supposedly seen of the Cape of Good Hope

6. _ _ _ _ _ _ Poe sho!1 story concerning Roderick and his sister, Madelaine
7. _ _ _ _ _ _ Pacific island nation whose capital is Suva
8. _ _ _ _ _ _ Former capital of Morocco and hat birthplace

9. _ _ _ _ _ _ Matisse-led style whose name is taken from the French for ''wild
beast"
10._ _ _ _ _ Leader of the group of pickpockets in Oliver Twist

(

11.

Outspoken Protestant leader of "the Moral Majority"

12.

Longest river in British Columbia

13.

English author of The French Lieutenant's Woman

14.

Keeper of the Grail wounded by the spear of Longinus

15.

Chief constituent of igneous rock; hardness of 6 on Moh' s scale

16.

Polish scientist who discovered and coined the term "Vital amines"-later shortened to vitamins

17. _ _ _ _ _ Author of The Feminine Mystique
18.

Baudelaire collection of poetry showing the bad side of beauty

19.

Former Riverdancer and now the self-proclaimed "Lord of the Dance"

20.

Singer of "Johnny Angel" and later a star on TV's Coach

Answers made possible by: the letter Fand number 20

(

I.
2.
3.
4.

Falkland Islands
Philip Freneau
Foggy Bottom
franco-Prussian War
5. Flying Dutchman
6. The Fall of the House of Usher

7.

£ill

8. Fez
9. Fauvism (Les Fauves)
10. Fagin
II. Jerry Falwell
12. Fraser
13. John Fowles
14. The Fisher King
15. feldspar
16. Casimir Funk
17. Betty Friedan
18. Les Fleurs du Mal (The Flowers of Evil)
19. Michael Flatley
20. Shelly Fabares

(

o

Bonuses for Round 7

Bonus 1: For five points apiece, answer the following about the island nation of Malta.

1. What is its capital city?

2. What is its official language other than Maltese?
3. Name either of the two major islands that comprise Malta
4. The Maltese were converted to Christianity by which apostle who shipwrecked there?
1.
2.
3.
4.

Valetta
English
Gozo or Comino
St. Paul

Bonus 2: When given the other members ofa band, you furnish the remaining member, for
eyample if I said, "John Lennon, Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr", you'd say "George Harrison",
hopefully.

1. Robert Plant, John Bonham. Jimmy Page

(

John Paul Jones
Roger Daltrey
2. Keith Moon, John Entwistle, Pete Townshend
3. Ginger Baker and Jack Evans
Eric Clapton
4. John Densmore, Robby Krieger, Ray Manzarek -- Jim Morrison

Bonus 3: Give the nationalities of the following famous historical figures.
1. Bernardo O'Higgins
2. Eamon de Valera
3. Baruch Spinoza
4. Gregor Mendel

-- Chilean
-- Irish (prompt on American since he was born in New York
City)
Dutch
-- Austrian

Bonus 4: Name the artists who recorded the following bad songs. All of these songs have
appeared recently on TV commercials for various terrible music collections.

o

1.
2.
3.
4.

"The Night Chicago Died"
"Rock Me Gently"
"Love Train"
"Karma Chameleon"

Paper Lace
Andy Kim
The Ojays
-- Culture Club (Prompt on Boy George)

