11 March SRV Wolfpack Classic
Round 8 -- Toss-ups
1. In 1600, Sir William Gilbert proposed that the Earth was a huge one of these, an effect
possibly explained by a dynamo effect from the minerals in a liquid state contained in the
outer core. Considering the Earth as one, its moment is 8.0 times 10 to the 22nd joules per
tesla [8.0E22 J/T]. FTP name this type of material most often identified with iron.
magnet
2. This religious group was founded in the 7th century as a political faction supporting the
fourth caliph, the son-in-law of Mohammad and advocating the legitimacy of Ali's
descendents, the Alids. The Safavid dynasty of Iran made it the sole legal faith of its
empire. FTP, name this Muslim group which has established a foothold in Yemen, Iraq,
Shi'ite OR Shi'ism OR
and Iran over the centuries.
Shi'ah
3. Roughly 26 miles in length, its concrete slabs were about 4 meters high and are
sometimes topped by barbed wire and large metal pipes. Guard dogs and mines could
usually be found on one side of it. FTP, name this former landmark whose construction
was begun in 1961, where over 70 people died while trying to cross to a noncommunist
city before it was finally tom down.
Ans: Berlin Wall
4. The most nearly complete original version is at the Asiatic Society library in Calcutta
and has 516 A-A-B-A rhymed epigrammatic quatrains. One famous translation of this
work was done in 1968 by Robert Graves in collaboration with Sufi poet Ali-Shah. FTP,
name this work by a 12th-century Persian poet which was most famously translated in
1859 anonymously by Edward Fitzgerald.
Answer: Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam (prompt on Rubaiyat)
5. This protege of Louis Sullivan was the subject of a 1970 musical tribute by Paul
Simon. Much of his wo~k was residential, such as the Robie House, but his Imperial
Hotel in Tokyo was so technically sound that it survived the terrible earthquake of 1923.
FTP nam,e this organic architect famed for the spiral design of the Guggenheim Museum
and for the house in Pennsylvania known as Falling Water.
Frank Lloyd Wright
6.
Its inventor, Abraham Gesner, hoped that it would curb whale hunting. Its name
comes from the Greek for wax, and it is a pale liquid fuel distilled from thick crude oil.
Identify this close relative of gasoline, known also as lamp oil, coal oil, and paraffin oil.
Kerosene
7. The "Exon" volume, kept in the cathedral chapter of Exeter, gives a detailed account of
Wilts, Dorset, Somerset, Devon, and Cornwall, while the "Exchequer" volume covers
most of the rest of England. FTP name this great book compiled by order of William the
Domesday Book
Conqueror.
8. His family wanted the 1000-pound bronze statue of him smoking a pipe and wearing a
fedora while sitting on a bench placed at his home, Rowan Oak, or on the campus of the
University of Mississippi. Instead a magnolia tree was tom down to make room for it in
front of the City Hall of Oxford, Mississippi. FTP name this Southern author of Sartorius,
Intruder in the Dust, and As 1 Lay Dying.
William Faulkner

g, I

9. This daughter of Tantalus in Greek mythology had six sons and six daughters. When
she commanded the people of Thebes to worship her instead ofLeto, Apollo and Artemis
killed all her children. FTP name this queen who was turned into a stone that was forever
wet with her tears.
N io be
10. Its logical category is that once we express out mental states linguistically, they
become public physical states, while its hard fonn is wholly materialistic. FTP, J.B.
Watson originated what "hard science" approach to psychology championed by B.F.
behaviorism
Skinner?
11. He graduated from Stanford University in 1895 and began his career as a mining
engineer. He served as US Food Administrator and as Secretary of Commerce. He was
defeated in his reelection bid because, despite his experience in disaster control, he mostly
waited for the Great Depression to correct itself. FTP name this President elected in 1928'7
answer: Herbert Hoover
12. In medicine, one type of tomography injects certain isotopes into the body and tracks
photons resulting from emission of these particles. Gamma rays with energies of more
than 1 million electron volts striking the nuclei of atoms produce pairs consisting of
electrons and these, which would produce a burst of photons if they met. FTP, name these
particles, confirmed in 1932 by Carl David Anderson after being theorized in 1928 by Paul
Dirac.
Answer: positrons (positive electron or antielectron)
13. Fed by 336 rivers including the Selenga and the Turka, this lake can be navigated from
May to October by wooden rafts. The oldest freshwater lake in the world; it is also the
only freshwater lake containing hydrothennal vents. FTP, name this Siberian lake, which
contains about one fifth of the world's supply of fresh water.
Answer: Lake Baikal
14. The 3rd generation of a eccentric doctor is a lecturer at Medical School who is upset to
learn he has inherited the family castle. Eccentric characters inhabit the castle, including the
caretaker whose name causes horses to neigh. He discovers his progenitor was right, that
one can reanimate the dead, but the project goes awry when an abnonnal brain is used on
the patient. FTP name this Mel Brooks movie starring Gene Wilder and Marty Feldman.
answer: Young Frankenstein
15. "Humor," this author wrote, "is emotional chaos remembered in tranquility." His
own writing illustrated this definition. Generally straight-faced, speaking in steady tones,
he tranquilly described his chaotic world of bewildered men, seals in bedrooms, stuffed
ex-wives on top of bookcases, and plump boneless dogs with flapping ears. For ten
points, name this author, whose works include The Thirteen Clocks, and "The Secret Life
of Walter Mitty."
James Thurber
16. The father of English common law, he was heartbroken to find his son John on a list
of his enemies. Unlike Louis vn of France, this king produced sons in a marriage to
Eleanor of Aquitaine, including Richard. For ten points, name this English king who
Henry II
appointed Thomas Becket Archbishop of Canterbury.
17. A member of the Phylum Cnidaria, the Class Hydrozoa, and the Order Siphonophore,
these pelagic creatures prefer the ocean surface where they can use their swimming bell as a
floating sail while dragging their lengthy tentacles (the record for which is 75 feet) behind
to stun and capture prey. Numerous nematocysts puncture and send neurotoxins into the

tangled animals. FTP, name these marine creatures which appear bluish-pink in the
temperate oceans where they are found.
answer: Portugese man-of-war or physalia
18. The night before he died he promised his wife he'd spend more time at home with her
and his baby son. Killed in a plane crash, he left behind such humorous blue collar songs
as "Roller Derby Queen" and ballads like "Operator", and "I'll Have To Say I Love You In
a Song." FTP, name the Philly-born singer/songwriter of classic hits such as "Bad, Bad
Leroy Brown."
ans: Jim Croce
19. The Russian name for it translates to "Frozen Star"; they use that term because
Russian translation of the more common American name is considered obscene. John
Mitchell predicted their existence in 1784. FTP give the common name for these bodies so
massive that not even light can escape their gravitational pull.
Answer: black hole
20. The major force behind the liberal movement called La Reforma, he was provisional
President during the War of Reform. He won three terms as President before his ouster by
Sebastian Lerdo de Tejada. FTP name this revered Mexican leader, for whom is named the
city just across the Rio Grande from EI Paso.
Answer: Benito Juarez
21. It may surprise you that oral doses of extracts of this plant have been available in
American pharmacies since 1986. Already widely known to ease nausea, it is also used for
glaucoma FTP, give the common name for Cannabis sativa which is the carrier of both the
profitable and aesthetically-pleasing THe extract.
[on any of the many possible synonyms, prompt for more
ans: marijuana
information]

