TOSSUPS - ROUND 8

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHATIANOOGA

Here's a beneficiary ofLBJ's Great Society programs. This high school dropout from Marshall, Texas,
learned his trade in the Job Corps. In 1968 he won Olympic gold in the heavyweight division, and in Jan. 1973
he knocked out Joe Frazier for the world heavyweight crown. FTP name this boxer, who lost his title to
Muhammad Ali in 1974 and lost another title bout in 1991 to Evander Holyfield. [George Foreman]
Hard to believe, but the namesake of an accredited U.S. college attended school for a whopping 12 days in
his life. He served a 7-year stint as a territorial governor, and his replacement was such a hot issue that Pres.
Buchanan sent troops to install his successor. He founded over 200 cities and town and brought over 100,000
settlers west, not counting the ones he fathered by 16 different wives. FTP name the 2nd President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
[Brigham
Young]
This Pennsylvanian developed a formal technique paralleling Isadora Duncan's style in that the solar
plexus was the mainspring of all movement, while the back was freer and more flexible and the limbs more
extended than in classical ballet. Her choreography, like Duncan's, often accented the effect of gravity.
Among her over 150 works are Acrobats of God, Diversion ofAngels, and Clytemnestra. FTP name the
choreographer of Copland's Appalachian Spring.
[Martha
Graham]
Daphne and Seymour are uninhabited; so are Genovesa, Marchena, Santiago, Fernandina, and Wolf. Baltra is
basically uninhabited except for an airport. In fact, a mere four islands are home to the 6,000 residents of this
island group -- Floreana, Santa Cruz, Isabela, and San Cristobal. FTP name this Ecuadorian island group,
which also includes a small island named Darwin.
[Galapagos
Islands]
In 1763 he published A Treatise on Tolerance. His other non-fiction works include History of Charles
XII. King of Sweden and Letters on the English Nation. His play Zaire was enormously popular, but his most
famous works were Micromegas, Zadig, and Candide. FTP name this French author.
[Voltaire (acc. Francois Marie Arouet)]
During the Civil War, this graduate of Kenyon College was major of the 23rd Ohio Volunteers and rose
to the rank of brevet maj or general. Twice elected governor of Ohio, he believed he'd lost the Presidential
election to Samuel J. Tilden, but his supporters crafted a deal which changed the outcome in the Electoral
College. FTP name this man who became President in 1877 by one electoral vote.
[Rutherford Birchard Hayes]
This was invented in China in roughly 2000 B.C., conveniently around the time the milking offarm
animals also began in China. A favorite dish of the Chinese Emperors, it consisted of a soft milk and rice
concoction packed in snow or frozen on a platter. FTP name this dairy product that "I scream, you scream, we
[ice cream]
all scream for!"
He spent 2 years abstracting articles for Physics Abstracts before writing such popular science books as
Profiles of the Future and The Exploration of Space. In a 1945 article in Wireless World he set forth the idea of
placing communications satellites in a 24-hour orbit. His primary fame, though, rests on short stories such as
"The Nine Billion Names of God" and "The Star" and novels like Childhood's End and 2001 : A Space Odyssey.
FTP name him.
[Arthur C. Clarke]
Pencil & paper may be needed. Take one of each of the 5 Platonic solids -- the tetrahedron, cube,
octahedron, dodecahedron, and icosahedron. FTP, if you add together the number of faces, what is the total?
[~

Its author reputedly told a scholar attempting to divine its meaning, "IfI can shed any obscurity on the
subject, please let me know. " Inspired in part by Vico's cyclical philosophy of history, it begins with the second
halfofa sentence, the first half of which finishes this 1939 novel by James Joyce. FTP name it.
[Finnegans Wake]
They can easily be bred in small glass jars containing raw oatmeal wetted with a suspension of brewer's
yeast. Sometimes called vinegar flies or wine flies, the adults are about 1/8" long and have one pair of broad
wings, feathery antennae, and usually bright red eyes. Their claim to fame comes from genetics research,
especially that of Thomas Hunt Morgan. FTP name this genus of fruit fly.
[drosophila]
This case pitted a major newspaper against the Attorney General of Alabama. The Supreme Court ruled
that the 1st Amendment protected the press from libel suits for defamatory reports on a public official unless the
official proved that the reports were made from actual malice. FTP name this 1964 Supreme Court case.
[New York Times Co. v. Sullivan]
Its scheduled 1848 premiere was cancelled because of its composer's revolutionary activities. In 1850 it
premiered in Weimar with Franz Liszt conducting; the composer, who was still in exile in Switzerland, finally
saw it in 1861 . Characters include Ortrud, Telramund, Elsa, and King Henry the Fowler. FTP name this
Wagner opera, famed for the title character's exit by a swan-drawn boat.
[Lohengrin]
5.
His numerous inventions include the pulse transfer controlling device essential to magnetic storage of
computer data. In 1965 he invented LOCI, a desktop computer which looked like an adding machine except
that it could generate logarithms with a single keystroke. FTP name this Chinese-born physician,
mathematician, and computer tycoon.
[An Wang]
2.
Founded before the 8th century, it often changed hands. It was even ceded briefly to Oliver Cromwell,
but in 1662 Charles II sold it back to France. It became a major commercial center in the 19th century but was
virtually demolished in World War II. FTP name this Flemish port on the North Sea, which from May 26 to
June 4, 1940, was the site of the epic naval evacuation of almost 400,000 Allied troops. [Dunkirk!
Dunkerque]

BONI -- ROUND 8

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHATTANOOGA

For 10 pts. each, name the Cabinet posts held by the following sets of appointees:
(a) Albert Gallatin, C. Douglas Dillon, William Shultz, Nicholas Brady, and former Chattanoogan William G.
McAdoo
[Treasury]
(b) Raymond Donovan, Elizabeth Dole, Robert Reich, and former Chattanoogan Bill Brock
[Labor]
(c) Will Hays, Lawrence O'Brien, the aptly named Retum J. Meigs, and former Chattanoogan David M. Key
[Postmaster General]

TRA VELS WITH CHARliE: Y'know, while lots of films have a city name in the title, there just aren't as
many movies as you might think where the city IS the title. FTP each, given a partial cast list, name the film
which shares its name with one of the far-too-many cities Charlie has visited:
[Fargo]
(a) Frances McDormand, William H. Macy, Harve Presnell
(b) Tom Hanks, Denzel Washington, Antonio Banderas, Jason Robards, Jr.
[Philadelphia]
(c) Lily Tomlin, Karen Black, Henry Gibson, Keith Carradine, Ned Beatty [Nashville]
13.
FlOP each identify these places from the descliption that might appear in Fodor's (or should I say
Frodo's?) Middle-Earth:
(a) While the central feature, the volcano Orodruin or Mount Doom, is truly impressive, access is difficult.
[Mordor]
You can avoid the crowds at Cirith Gorgor by a side nip through Cirith Ungol.
(b) One of the last untouched old-growth forests in Middle-Earth, this enclave on the River Silverlode is the
site of the exclusive retreat where Lord Celebom and Lady Galadriel have preserved Elvish traditions of the Elder
Days.
[Lorien or Lothlorien; accept
Laurelindorenan]
(c) Also called the Riddermark, this grassland stretches westward from the Great River to the River Isen.
Its people are renowned for their horsemanship. The Fields of Pellenor battlefield is a must-see historic site, as is
[Rohan]
the grave of Theoden.
14.
each:

Given the discoverer, year, and source of name, name these asteroids, the first 3 to be discovered, 5 pts.
(a) Giuseppe Piazzi, 1801, the Roman goddess of feltility
(b) Heinrich Olbers, 1802, the Greek goddess of wisdom
(c) Karl L. Harding, 1804, the Roman goddess of marriage

Name the author from a list of works (titles in English), 30-20-10:
15.
(a) Drums in the Night and The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny
(b) Saint Joan of the Stockyards and The Good Woman of Szechuan
(c) The Caucasian Chalk Circle and The Threepenny Opera

[Ceres]
[Pallas]
[Juno]

[Bertoh Brecht]

16.
Call this a Meat Loaf history bonus, where 2 out of 3 ain't bad. Name all three members of the following
groups for 10 pts. per set. If you can name 2 of the 3 members you'll get 5 pts.
(a) The 1st Tliumvirate
[Julius Caesar, Pompey, Crass us]
(b) The 2nd Triumvirate
[Octavian (accept Augustus), Mark Antony, Lepidus]
(c) The Great Triumvirate
[Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun]
Going for baroque... For 10 pts. each, name the composers of the following from the baroque
17.
period:
[George F. Handel]
(a) Water Music and Fireworks Music
[Antonio Vivaldi]
(b) The Four Seasons

(c) QrfuQ

[Claudio Monteverdi]

Given a description of a type of stress, name it FfP each:
(a) Stress resulting from pushes at the ends of a material
(b) Stress resulting from pulls at the ends of a material
(c) Stress from a force tangent to a material surface

[compression]
[tension]
[shear]

Given a founder or early leader of a Christian denomination or sect, name it FfP each:
(a) John Knox [Presbyterians]
(b) William Miller
[Seventh-Day Adventists]
(c) Ann Lee
[Shakers]
Name the author from works, 30-20-10:
(a) Silver Pitchers and Independence, Spinning-Wheel Stories
(b) Hospital Sketches; A Long Fatal Love Chase; Eight Cousins
(c) Little Men; Little Women
[Louisa May Alcott]
Given dinosaurs, for 5 pts. each, tell whether they flourished in the Triassic, Jurassic, or Cretaceous Period:
(a) Styracosaurus and triceratops
[Cretaceous]
(b) Apatosaurus and diplodocus
[Jurassic]
(c) AnkylosaUlus and tyrannosaurus rex
[Cretaceous]
Identify these pop 3.ltists of the '60' s, 10 pts. each:
(a) He first gained fame for his "happenings", a '50's precursor to performance art. Then he hit the big time-literally -- with giant sculptures of common objects, such as "Giant Hamburger" and "Lipstick."
[Claes
Oldenburg]
(b) He began as an abstract expressionist but gained fame for enlargements of panels from comic strips, such as
"Eddie Diptych" and "Preparedness."
[Roy
Lichtenstein]
(c) This Pittsburgh native owed his fame as much for his ability to promote himself and those in his entourage as to
his paintings of commercial icons such as Campbell's Soup cans.
[Andy
Warhol]
Name the authors of these feminist works, 5 pts. each:
(a) Backlash
[Susan Faludi]
(b) The Female Eunuch
[Germaine Greer]
(c) The Second Sex
[Simone de Beauvoir]

Name the British Prime Minister from quotes for the stated number of points:
(a) 5 pts.: "I believe it is peace for our time." [Neville Chamberlain]
(b) 10 pts.: "Give us the tools and we will finish the job." [Winston Churchill]
(c) 15 pts.: "All the world over I will back the masses against the classes." [William E. Gladstone]

