11 March SRV Wolfpack Classic 2001
Toss-ups -- round 9
1.
Headquarted in Haifa, Israel, it began in 1844 in Iran. It teaches that the revealed
religions of the world are in agreement and that each of the prophet-founders of the religions
revealed the will of God for a particular time and place in history. FTP name this pacifist
religion, of which the prophet-founder is the Baha' Ullah.

Baha'i
2.
This SI unit for amount of substance was defined in 1971 as "... the amount of substance
ofa system which contains as many elementary entities as there are atoms in .012 kilogram of
carbon-12". It has the useful property that one of these units of an element or compound has the
same mass in grams as the element or compound's weight in atomic mass units. Name this unit,
which may be interpreted as 6.022 times 10 to the 23rd objects.
MOLE or MOL
3. Robert Clive's preparations to attack Bengal caused the nawab of Bengal to seize a key city.
The nawab then locked away British prisoners in anticipation of Clive's arrival. FTP, name this
infamous incident in which only 20 prisoners survived, when 60 British prisoners were locked
overnight in an airless dungeon.
Ans: The Black Hole of Calcutta
4. His five years of service with the Indian Imperial Police led to his novel Burmese Days.
Later, Israel Gollancz commissioned him to write a documentary about unemployed life, which
was published as The Road 10 Wigan Pier. FTP, name this author best known for political satires
on totalitarianism and socialism, the creator of the character Winston Smith in the novel 1984.
Ans: George Orwell (acc. Eric Arthur Blair)
5. It was founded as a trading post in 1871 by Van Smith, and named by Smith for his father.
Lying along the Hondo river, it became the county seat of Chaves County in 1889 and houses the
New Mexico Military Institute. FTP, name this town, now a tourist attraction to those interested
Roswell
in UFO sightings.
6
Ion. Menexenus. Philebus. Theaetetus. Protagoras. Parmenides. Critias. Phaedrus.
Phaedo. Crito. FTP these are all among the dialogues of what philosopher?
[Plato; if early buzz with "dialogues" ask for more info]
7.
You will have 10 seconds to solve and then buzz in on the following question. Once you
buzz you will only have five seconds: FTP find the roots of the following polynomial: 4x 2-4x-8
[4 x squared minus four x minus 8].
answer: -1 and 2
8. A brigadier general in the British Army during the War of 1812, he was killed in the Battle of
the Thames. Born on Mad River, near present-day Springfield, Ohio, this man witnessed the
suffering inflicted on his people by the whites from an early age. He and his brother,

Tenskwatawa, persuaded Native Americans to avoid liquor, to cultivate their land, and to return
to traditional Indian ways oflife. FTP, name this man, now famous for his supposed curse on
the American presidency.
Tecumseh
9. Had not Zetes and Calais come to the rescue, king Phineus would have starved to death
because of these monsters. They defiled all they touched and were invincible to human attack
since they simply flew out of reach. Then along came the Argonauts and the wiunged sons of
Boreas chased them off. FTP name these horrible female creatures whose name is still evoke'd
by Gaius when he speaks of an utterly intolerable female.
answer: Harpy
10
Scanlon has destructive fantasies, Seefelt and Frederickson are epileptics, George has a
pathological fear of dirt, and Harding voluntarily committed himself to the asylum. The narrator
is a huge, paranoid-schizophrenic Indian who eventually escapes by throwing a control panel
through a window. FTP, name this novel narrated by Chief Bromden in which Randle
McMurphy and Nurse Ratched struggle for control of a mental ward, the best-known work of
Ken Kesey.
Ans: One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
11. The Greeks believed that they were an atmospheric phenomena, which was believed until
Brahe showed that they are considerably farther away. Newton used their trajectory to discover
their orbits. According to Fred Whipple's "dirty snowball" model, their nuclei, each a few
kilometers in diameter, consist of frozen water, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and methane mixed
with grit and dust. Identify these small celestial bodies.

COMETS
12 This long narrow body of water extends for about 24 miles and forms part of the Caledonian
Canal. It stretches from Fort Augustus to Inverness, and its fame is based on observations made
near the town ofDrumnadrochit. FTP name this lake of Scotland, best known for the "monster"
which is reported to live in it.
LOCH NESS
13. He served as Chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports from 1990
to 1994. His first acting role was in 1976 in Stay Hungry, unless you count his appearance as
himself in Pumping Iron. FTP name this actor of such movies as Junior, and Terminator 2:
Judgment Day who is considering a run for governor.
answer: Arnold SCHWARZENEGGER
14.
This Missouri native served in the Spanish-American War and also led a force into
Mexico during the Mexican Revolution to find Pancho Villa. The rank of General of the Armies
was created for him. FTP name the American general who led the US Expeditionary force
during World War 1.
answer: John PERSHING
15.
Frederick Taylor and Lillian Gilbreth's time and motion studies in the 19th century laid
the groundwork for this field. It grew in importance during World War II when engineers sought
to

design military equipment usable by a wide variety of people. Today it is applied to the design
of workplaces and tools in general, and to consumer devices. Name this field, formerly known
as human factors engineering, whose name means the "science of work".

ERGONOMICS
16.
"And gentlemen in England, now abed,lShall think themselves accursed they were not
here,lAnd hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks/That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's
Day". This concludes a passionate speech delivered before the Battle of Agincourt in 1415,
which the English forces, under this king, won resoundingly, though not as lopsidedly as
Shakespeare's play suggests. FTP name this title character, who ruled England from 1413 until
1422.
HENRY V
17. According to legend, it was "discovered" around 600 AD by an Ethiopian goatherder who
noticed his animals were very energetic. In a poem about it, Talleyrand wrote, "Black as the
devil, / Hot as hell, / Pure as an angel, / Sweet as love." It comes from trees of the madder
family, whose cherry-like seeds are harvested from Liberian, robusta, and Arabian varieties of
the tree and processed. FTP, name this caffeinated beverage brewed from beans.
Answer: coffee
18.
Explaining why this athlete will have more impact than Mandela, Gandhi, and the
Buddha, his father said "He'll have the power to impact nations. Not people. Nations. The
world is just getting a taste of his power." This aside, he is dramatically impacting golf, drawing
large and diverse crowds to events where he competes. FTPdentify this golfer, who was named
Sports Illustrated's 1996 Sportsman of the Year after winning his 3rd consecutive US Amateur
in August 1996, but before winning the 1997 Master's.
Eldrick "Tiger" WOODS
19.
Tipped offby a member of the Nobel committee, he used his trip to Stockholm as an
opportunity to defect. Five years later, on a squash court at the University of Chicago, he led the
team that achieved the first controlled nuclear chain reaction. FTP name this Italian-American
physicist, winner of the 1938 Nobel Prize for Physics.
Enrico FERMI
20. Liberal Republicans grew disenchanted with the corruption of the Grant administration, so
they nominated this man. A newspaper man, he had no political experience, but had built his
career as an opponent of Tammany Hall's corruption. However he lost the election and then his
life within a few months of each other. FTP name this 1872 Democratic candidate who should
have taken his own advice to "Go Westl" instead of running for president.
answer: Horace Greeley
21. It was formed in 1963 as a rhythm and blues band. However, by the late sixties, it had
become a well known rock band, notorious for drug arrests and its 1969 Altamont, California
concert where Hell's Angels killed an attendee. Among its albums are Between the Buttons, Let
it Bleed, Hot Rocks, and Steel Wheels. Name this rock band, whose members include Charlie
Watts, Bill Wyman, Keith Richards, and Mick Jagger.
The ROLLING STONES

11 March SRV Wolfpack Classic 2001

BONI - ROUND 9
1.

Name this heavenly body, 30-20-10:

(30) Giuseppe Piazzi discovered this - quote - "new planet" - unquote - in 180 L but a
lack of data made it very difficult to determine its orbit.
(20) LateI', it was found to be only 488 miles in diameter, although it still makes up about
one half of the combined mass of the asteroids in our solar system.
(10) The largest asteroid, it's named for the Roman goddess of agriculture.

CERES
2. "I love America, I believe in America ... " and thus begins Mario Puzo's epic of
Mafioso life in the Corleone family. If you've seen the trilogy of movies or read the
book, fuhgeddabout it! This'll be an easy 30 pts. If you haven't, we better make you an
offer you can't refuse.
a) The first Godfather, many say the only true Godfather, was wonderfully portrayed by
Brando and for which he declined the Oscar in 1973. What was the name of the first
Godfather?
Don Vito Corleone; accept VITO ANDOLINI

(prompt for more on Don

Corleone)
b)

The unexpected heir to Don Vito's patriarchal throne, he was a cool, soft-spoken

businessman- until it came to Kay, his wife. He then could become almost maniacal and
highly emotional. The 2nd godfather in Puzo's
epic, he was portrayed by Al Pacino in all 3 theatrical versions.

Michael Corleone
c) Robert Duvall's performance of Tom Hagen, the Corleone family's legal counsel, in the
first 2 movies may have been better than the other all-stars around him. Hagen, the tough
Irish kid adopted by Don Vito, even had to pose as Don for a time when many believed
Michael was dead. What was the Italian name for a Mafia legal advisor, normally a
position revered and given only to a Sicilian?

consigliere (con-seal-ee-air-ay; be generous on pronunciation)
3. Identify the capital of the given Canadian province FTPE.
1. Manitoba
2. Saskatchewan
3. Nova Scotia
4. FTPE name the styles of art identified with the following characteristics.

WINNIPEG
REGINA
HALIFAX

A. Displays large-scale forms; artists included Rembrandt and Rubens during 16'h and
1Th centuries.

BAROQUE
B. Based on classical and early Christian forms; specialized in frescoes and mosaics.
BYZANTINE
C. Identified with Pablo Picasso and based on figures that do not depend on different
points of view CUBISM
5. Name the following parts of the human kidney FTP each.
A. The kidney is made up of approximately 1 million of these excretory units which
contain the Loop of Henle.
Answer: nephrons
B. This is the cup-shaped end of a nephron which encloses the glomerulus and send its
filtrates into the nephron.
Answer: Bowman's capsule (also accept renal capsule)
C. This is the indentation on the concave inner border of the kidney through which blood
vessels enter and leave.
Answer: hilum
6. FTPE answer these questions about World War I:
l. Who assassinated Archduke Francis Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914?

Gavrilo PRINCIP
2. On May 7,1915, which ocean liner did German submarines sink, killing 1,198 people,
including 128 Americans?

LUSITANIA
3. In which September, 1914 battle was the German drive stopped 25 miles out of Paris?
FIRST Battle of the MARNE
7.

Identify this poet, 30-20-10:
(a) At his home in North Carolina, now a National Historic Site, they maintain a herd of

goats descended from those raised by his wife, a championship goat breeder. One of his
poems includes the quote "Drum on your drums, batter on your banjos, sob on the long
cool winding saxophones. Go to it, 0 jazzmen"
(b) In addition to his poetry, he was an avid collector of folks songs and wrote a
two-volume biography of Abraham Lincoln. One of his poems includes the quote "Hog
butcher of the world ... "
(c) Often considered the poet laureate of the proletarian Midwest, he often used elements
of folklore and an extended, paragraph-length line in Chicago Poelns, Smoke and Steel,
and The People, Yes
Carl Sandburg

8. Go ahead, miss these and make the readers feel old. For 5 pts. each and a total of 30,
given Eighties hits with a one-word title, name the artists who performed them.
A. "Panama," "Dreams," and "Jump"
Van Halen
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.

"Abacab" and "Misunderstanding"
"Automatic," "Fire," and "Jump"
"Hello" and "Truly"
"Africa" and "Pamela"
"Never" and "Alone"

9.
1.
2.
3.

FTPE name the city in which each museum is located.
the Louvre
the Hermitage [AIR - mi - TAJ] Museum
the Ashmoleam Museum

Genesis
Pointer Sisters
Lionel Richie
Toto
Heart

PARIS
ST. PETERSBURG
OXFORD

10. Identify the author of each work of American literature FTPE:
1. Snowbound
John Greenleaf WHITTIER
2. 0 Pioneers
Willa CATHER
3. Our Town
Thornton WILDER
11. Identify the present-day African countries from things that occurred there FTP each.
A. 5 points: The uprising of the Kikuyu people in the Mau Mau Rebellion.
Answer: Kenya
B. 10 points: The 1962 splitting of the Action Group, the major Yoruba political party,
and a 1967-70 civil war.
Answer: Nigeria
C. 15 points: A 1964 drive for independence by a guerrilla group known as FRELIMO.
Answer: Mozambique
12. Name the artists who created each of these paintings.
1. Birth a/Venus
2. Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte
3. American Gothic

Sandro BOTTICELLI
Georges SEURAT
Grant WOOD

13. Identify the cell organelle for 10 points each.
In these organelles, cells assemble proteins according to their genetic instructions.
A. The free variety is suspended in cytosol, while the bound variety are attached to the
endoplasmic reticulum.
Ans: Ribosomes

B. It consists of flattened membranous sacs, and each stack has a cis face and a trans
face.
Ans: Goigi Apparatus
C. These organelles are bags of hydrolytic enzumes used to digest fats, polysaccharides,
and nucleic acids. They are theorized to form by budding from the Golgi apparatus.
Ans:_Lysosomes
14. Latin and Greek are both case based languages which means the ending of a noun
will change suffix depending upon its use. Given a major use for a case, for the stated
number of points:
answer: Nominative
A. For 5 points Subject
answer: Accusative
B. For 5 points Direct object
C. For 10 points: shoes posession
answer: Genitive
D. For 10 points: Direct Address
answer: Vocative
15. Identify each of the following wars.
A. This 1982 war between Argentina and Britain started when the former invaded the
British-governed islands for which the war is named.
FALKLANDS War
B. The Treaty of Frankfurt ended this 1870 war in which Germany annexed A1sace and
Lorraine.
FRANCO-PRUSSIAN War
C. Britain and France sought to prevent further westward expansion by Russia in this
war that lasted from 1853 to 1856.

CRIMEAN War

16. How much do you know about dinosaurs? FTPE identify each group from its
members.
A. Robert Plant, Jimmy Page, John Paul Jones, and John Bonham
LED ZEPPELIN
B. Freddie Mercury, Brian May, John Deacon, and Roger Taylor.

QUEEN

C. Jon Anderson, Chris Squire, Rick Wakeman, Bill Bruford, and Steve Howe, among
YES
others
17. Identify the artist on a 30-20-10 basis
[30]
He was born in 1483 in Urbino, where he began his education in the arts.
Pope Julius II cOlmnissioned him to paint a cycle of frescoes in a suite of rooms at
[20]
the Vatican known as the Stanze.
[10]
Among those frescoes are the DisjJuta and the School of Athens
Raffaello Sanzio or RAPHAEL

18. Identify each famous Bible translator or producer FTPE:
1. He completed his English translation of the New Testament in 1525-the first published
English text of any part of the Bible, but was executed before he could finish the Old
Testament. Only one complete copy of his translation remains.

William TYNDALE

2. This 4th century Saint was the primary translator of the Vulgate. the Latin translation
of the Bible considered official by the Catholic Church.
Saint JEROME
3. His German translation of the Bible. the New Testament in 1522. and the Old in 1534.
exerted a significant influence on German literature.
Martin LUTHER
19. FTPE give the metric unit for each of the following measures.
1. power
2. electric current
3. luminosity

WATT
AMPERE or AMP
CANDELA

20. Identify the following formal or informal groups of writers.
1. Gertrude Stein told Ernest Hemingway that he and other American authors living
abroad following World War I were this.
a LOST GENERATION
2. This group, whose name comes from their loyalty to Charles I and his son during the
English Civil War. included Thomas Carew, John Suckling, Robert Herrick, and Richard
CAVALIER Poets
Lovelace.
3. The ideas of this group of French intellectuals formed the basis for the Enlightenment.
PHILOSOPHES
Its members included Diderot, Montesquieu, Voltaire, and Rosseau.

