PACE NSC 2012
Round 1
Tossups
1. One member of a family created by this author becomes obsessed with reenacting the sinking of
the Wilhelm Gustloff with Wolfgang Stremplin. That family first appeared in a novel by this author
in which Pilenz recounts hanging out near a half-sunken Polish minesweeper with the
large-Adam’s-appled orphan Joachim Mahlke. This creator of the Pokriefke family is most famous
for a novel in which Herbert (*) Truczinski attempts to make love to a ship’s figurehead. The protagonist
of that novel becomes the lover of Roswitha Raguna after joining Bebra’s circus troupe in order to leave
Danzig, and stops growing at age three. For 10 points, identify this German author of Crabwalk, Cat and
Mouse, and The Tin Drum.
ANSWER: Gunter Wilhelm Grass
<Carson>

2. Late in his life, the Count de Soisson allied with this man’s Master of the Robes, the Marquis de
Cinq-Mars, to overthrow one of his advisers. One of his ministers revoked the paulette tax that had
been instituted by his father, antagonizing noblemen like Henri, Duke of Rohan. That early minister
of this monarch was named Charles de Luynes. During his reign, the Protestant stronghold at La
Rochelle was captured. This man decided not to dismiss his chief adviser during the (*) Day of the
Dupes. His mother, Marie de Medici, served as his regent after his predecessor was assassinated. His reign
was dominated by his chief minister, Cardinal Richelieu. For 10 points, name this French monarch, the
father of the Sun King.
ANSWER: Louis XIII [or Louis the Just or Louis le Juste; prompt on "Louis"]
<Bentley>

3. This country hosts the Valhalla Experimental Station, which plants macadamia trees to restore
local agribusiness. This country claims territory between the Hondo and Sibun Rivers, but it agreed
to a "Line of Adjacency" in 2000. This country's northernmost department, Peten, has its capital at
Flores. In colonial times, this country was governed from the city of Antigua. The world's first Mixed
Cultural and Natural World Heritage Site, (*) Tikal, is located in this country, whose currency, the
quetzal, is named for a bird sacred to one of its indigenous peoples, the Quiche Maya. For 10 points, name
this Central American country embroiled in a border dispute with Belize, which also borders Honduras and
Mexico.
ANSWER: Republic of Guatemala [or Republica de Guatemala]
<Wynne>

4. A suite by this composer features the songs of Jean-Baptiste Besard in its movement "Courtly
Airs." The second movement of a piece by this composer draws heavily from the twelfth-century
German chant "Christ ist erstanden" to depict the Jubilee. Another piece by this composer features
a series of trumpet blasts to depict the horn of Triton. He composed a symphonic poem whose four
movements depict a set of landmarks “at (*) dawn,” “in the early morning,” “at midday,” and “at
sunset.” This composer of Ancient Airs and Dances and Roman Festivals also wrote a piece representing
the title objects at Janiculum and the Appian way. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of The
Fountains of Rome and The Pines of Rome.
ANSWER: Ottorino Respighi
<Montoya>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 1 of 13

5. When this property is nonzero, an applied magnetic field creates an even number of sublevels in
the anomalous Zeeman effect. The precession of this quantity’s vector generates signals in NMR
spectroscopy, in which coupling between particles with this property causes splitting. It was first
discovered in an experiment in which a furnace launched a beam of sliver atoms through an
inhomogenous magnetic field, performed by (*) Stern and Gerlach. It is represented by up or down
arrows in configuration diagrams, and each subshell of an orbital can contain only two electrons due to the
fact that this property for an electron is either ½ or negative ½. For 10 points, name this property, the
quantum number representing the intrinsic angular momentum of a particle.
ANSWER: spin angular momentum [or intrinsic angular momentum before mention; prompt on "angular
momentum" or "momentum" before mention]
<Mukherjee>

6. One model of this concept postulates a central executive governing a "phonological loop" and
"visuospatial scratchpad," and was developed by Baddeley and Hitch. Increased synchrony of theta
wave activity is considered a neurological "tag" for this process. This process does not explain the
primacy effect in the research of Herman Ebbinghaus, but does explain the (*) recency effect.
Cognitive load theory is derived from the limitations of this construct, which is thought to be impaired in
ADHD. The process known as "chunking" can enhance this faculty's capacity, which was defined by
George Miller's "Magic Number" of seven plus or minus two. For 10 points, identify this type of memory,
converted by consolidation into the long-term variety.
ANSWER: working memory [or short-term memory; prompt on just "memory"]
<Wynne>

7. One of these gods copulated with the horses of Erichthonius of Dardania. Several of them lived on
the island of Lipara. Robert Graves claims that in the Pelasgian creation myth, Eurynome first had
sex with one of them who later raped the Athenian princess Oreithyia. Although it was Hephaestus
who created Pandora, these gods brought her to life. One of them was jealous of Apollo, so he
changed the path of a (*) discus and made it kill Hyacinthus. Odysseus's men opened a bag containing all
but one of them that was given as a gift by their ruler, Aeolus. Their names were Eurus, Notus, Boreas, and
Zephyrus. For 10 points, name these figures that presided over the four cardinal directions of a
meteorological phenomenon.
ANSWER: the four winds [or Anemoi]
<Gupta>

8. One person sentenced in this affair had previously defended three suspects in the Fountain
children murders. John Kendrick started the investigation into it. A court case that arose from it set
the precedent that Congress had the power to compel testimony. This incident was investigated by
Thomas Walsh's commission and gave rise to the Supreme Court case (*) McGrain v. Daugherty.
Harry Sinclair and Edward Doheny were both charged in this incident; another person convicted was
previously a senator from New Mexico. It involved a bribe given to Secretary of the Interior Albert Fall in
order to gain exclusive rights to Elk Hills, California and a site in Wyoming. For 10 points, name this
Harding administration scandal over oil drilling contracts.
ANSWER: Teapot Dome scandal
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 2 of 13

9. It is not the mitochondria, but the cytochrome P450 system localizes to this organelle. A tetramer
of Sec61 proteins forms the translocon in this organelle’s membrane. COPII coated vesicles bud
from this organelle, which has a membrane protein complex that recognizes the signal recognition
particle. One protein in this organelle catalyzes N-linked glycosylation of proteins, while another is
responsible for forming disulfide bonds. One version of this organelle is responsible for (*) drug
detoxification, while secretory proteins are synthesized in another section of this organelle, which then
transfers those proteins to the Golgi apparatus. For 10 points, name this organelle which comes in rough
and smooth varieties, whose name means “little net”.
ANSWER: Endoplasmic reticulum [or ER; accept smooth ER or rough ER]
<Mukherjee>

10. One author from this country set a work in which Alf Dubbo, Mordecai Himmelfarb, and others
experience a vision from the Book of Ezekiel in the fictional town of Sarsaparilla. That author from
this country also wrote a novel about the painter Hurtle Duffield. This home to the author of Riders
in the Chariot and The Vivisector is also the birthplace of an author who wrote a novel about two
gamblers who make a bet involving moving a (*) glass church to Bellingen, called Oscar and Lucinda.
That author wrote about an armor-wearing bushranger from this country in The True History of the Kelly
Gang. For 10 points, name this home of Patrick White and Peter Carey, who set his novel Illywhacker in
New South Wales.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
<Carson>

11. This man aroused controversy for taking a secret trip to persuade Russia against selling
anti-aircraft missiles. He signed the Wye River memorandum during his first term, during which he
called for Jonathan Pollard's release. He was wounded as part of the commando team that killed the
Sabena Flight 571 hijackers, and his brother was the only casualty of the (*) Entebbe Raid. He
responded to another leader's Cairo speech by proclaiming his support for a demilitarized state in a speech
at Bar-Ilan. He was defeated by Ehud Barak in one election and currently heads the Likud Party. He
recently agreed to a two-state solution and direct talks with Mahmoud Abbas’s Palestinian National
Authority. For 10 points, name this current prime minister of Israel.
ANSWER: Benjamin “Bibi” Netanyahu
<Mukherjee>

12. This poem's twenty-fourth section describes how "seas of bright juice suffuse heaven" and
declares "Unscrew the locks from the doors! / Unscrew the doors themselves from their jambs!" Its
twenty-first section begins with its speaker declaring that he is "the poet of the Body" and the "poet
of the Soul." A child asks "What is the (*) grass?" in the sixth section of this poem, whose fifty-second
and final section ends with the line "I stop somewhere waiting for you" after the speaker sounds his
"barbaric yawp" over the "roofs of the world." When it was published in 1855, it took up over half of the
pages of its author's collection Leaves of Grass. For 10 points, name this long poem by Walt Whitman
which begins "I celebrate myself and sing myself."
ANSWER: "Song of Myself"
<Magin>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 3 of 13

13. Mark Levine named a chord consisting of a major third interval followed by three perfect fourths
after this album's first track, where it is used as the “amen response figure” on the piano. George
Russell’s book Lydian Chromatic Concept of Total Organization inspired this album's use of a
“modal” approach not based on chords. The biography Portrait in Jazz reveals that pianist Bill Evans
wrote its third track, (*) “Blue in Green,” and that a spectator who snuck into concerts without paying
inspired the title of its track “Freddie Freeloader.” Cannonball Adderley and John Coltrane were the
saxophonists for this album, whose tracks include “Flamenco Sketches” and “So What.” For 10 points,
name this colorfully titled album by Miles Davis.
ANSWER: Kind of Blue
<Gioia>

14. The sign of this operation tells whether a linear transformation preserves orientation. The
shoestring method for finding the area of a polygon is based on a formula that uses this operation. A
simplex in n dimensions can have its volume calculated using the Cayley-Menger type of this
operation. One method of calculating this operation involves expansion by minors, which takes into
account that this function is alternating multilinear. For a (*) system of linear equations, doing this on
collections of coefficients is used to find solutions according to Cramer’s rule. Invertible entities have
nonzero value for this operation, which for a two-by-two input is equal to ad minus bc. For 10 points, name
this operation taken on matrices and symbolized by straight lines.
ANSWER: determinant
<Mukherjee>

15. These structures have at least one room with two gigantic wall-mirrors facing each other. At the
dedication of each of these structures, a Hosanna shout is performed. Endowment ceremonies in
these places precede weddings, which unite a couple into "celestial marriages" because of the sealing
power that they grant. The basements of many of them contain large water tanks used as baptismal
fonts, which may be used on volunteers acting as proxies for (*) dead people. Sacred places for special
ordinances are provided by these secretive buildings, which are often topped by golden angel statues. One
of the earliest ones was built in Nauvoo under the orders of Joseph Smith. For 10 points, name these holy
places in the Church of Jesus Christ Latter Day Saints.
ANSWER: Mormon temples [prompt on Mormon places of worship or synonyms; prompt on temples;
accept Church of Jesus Christ Latter Day Saints temples before mentioned; accept LDS temples before
mention of "Latter Day Saints"; do not accept "Mormon churches" or "meetinghouses" or other wrong
answers]
<Gupta>

16. One method of producing this compound uses an iridium di-iodide di-carbonyl catalyst, which
replaced an earlier rhodium-based catalyst. Current methods of synthesizing this compound involve
the metal-catalyzed carbonylation of methanol, which includes the aforementioned Cativa and (*)
Monsanto processes. One form of this compound with no water in solution is commonly used as a
recrystallization solvent; that is its "glacial" variety. It has a pKa of about 4.8 and can be synthesized by
twice oxidizing ethanol. This two-carbon molecule is one of the simplest with a carboxyl group, though it
has one more carbon than formic acid. For 10 points, name this acid with formula CH3COOH, which is
found in vinegar.
ANSWER: acetic acid [or acetate; accept CH3COO, CH3COO minus, or CH3COOH before the formula
is read]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 4 of 13

17. In one work by this author, Solomon Flamborough fails to prevent Moses from buying a gross of
green spectacles from Ephraim Jenkinson. David Garrick wrote a prologue in which the actor Mr.
Woodward laments the death of comedy for another work by this man. The plot of that work is set in
motion in the Three Pigeons Inn, where the protagonist and Hastings encounter Tony (*) Lumpkin.
This author penned a novel in which Sophia is abducted by Timothy Baxter but rescued by Mr. Burchell,
who eventually reveals himself to be Squire Thornhill’s virtuous uncle and saves the family of Charles
Primrose. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Charles Marlow and Kate Hardcastle in She
Stoops to Conquer and penned The Vicar of Wakefield.
ANSWER: Oliver Goldsmith
<Carson>

18. One painting by this artist sees Jesus standing above the words “Salve nos Christe redemptor”
and two translucent patrons. This painter of Ecce Homo decorated the exterior of another work with
the image of a flat landscape encased in a glass sphere, and set God’s all-seeing eye at the center of
his circular (*) Seven Deadly Sins. People are crushed by the title conveyance in the center panel of
another work by this artist, whose most famous work includes a knife attached to a pair of giant ears and a
“tree man” whose body is broken like an egg to punish his sodomy. That work is divided into panels
representing Eden, False Paradise, and Hell. For 10 points, name this Dutch artist of The Haywain and The
Garden of Earthly Delights.
ANSWER: Hieronymus Bosch [or Joroen Bosch or Jeroen Anthoniszoon van Aken]
<Bentley>

19. This thinker noted the difficulty of learning to swim by making motions while hanging from a
harness. This man compared ballet dancers who stumble slightly after a leap to those who land in
perfect posture in a “Preliminary Expectoration,” in the first of three Problemata. In another book,
this thinker charted the wooing and sudden divorce of Cordelia, mirroring his own treatment of (*)
Regine Olsen. This creator of the "Diary of a Seducer" argued that one can stand above the universal when
the ethical is suspended teleologically. He described infinite resignation as the last step before the leap to
faith. For 10 points, name this Christian thinker who lauded Abraham in Fear and Trembling, wrote
Either/Or, and hailed from Denmark.
ANSWER: Soren Aabye Kierkegaard [or Johannes de Silentio; or Victor Eremita; or William Afham; or
Frater Taciturnus; or Constantin Constantius; or Vigilius Haufniensis; or Nicolaus Notabene; or
A.B.C.D E.F. Godthaab; or A.B.C.D.E.F. Rosenblad; or Inter et Inter; or Procul; or Captain Scipio; or
Judge William; or A.F.; or Hilarius Bookbinder; or Johannes Climacus; or H.H.; or Anti-Climacus;
prompt on "A"; prompt on "B"]
<Jackson>

20. After a political reform, this place was ruled by the Popular Assembly and a much stronger
Tribunal of One Hundred and Four. The anonymous text Periplus claims a flotilla from here traveled
in the Atlantic as far south as Gabon. The seizure of Himera led to a disastrous attack on Syracuse
by a powerful family of this city called the Magonids. The Periplus claims to be a copy of an
inscription from a temple to (*) Ba'al Hammon in this city. This city signed a treaty agreeing not to make
a separate peace with the general Pyrrhus, and later lost at the Battle of Zama. Ultimately, Scipio
Aemilianus seized and razed this city, whose military was at one time commanded by Hannibal. For 10
points, name this city that fought Rome in three Punic Wars.
ANSWER: Carthage
<Bailey>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 5 of 13

PACE NSC 2012
Round 1
Tiebreakers
21. This author wrote of a man who lures his victims to a pool of water by promising to show them a
picture of the colonel. In that play, Dany's murder leads the protagonist to leave the radiant city. In
another play by this man, the Doctor and Marie attempt to console the 400-year-old protagonist on
his impending death. This author of The Killer and (*) Exit the King also wrote a play in which the
protagonist shouts "I'm not capitulating!" rather than follow Dudard and Daisy in a certain transformation.
In another of his plays, the Martins and the Smiths begin speaking in non-sequiturs after the Fire Chief
mentions the title singer. For 10 points, name this creator of Berenger, the Romanian author of Rhinoceros
and The Bald Soprano.
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]
<Kirsch>

22. The Lonicera fly is the first known example of this type of creature to arise naturally, and
introgression creates organisms of this type. In plants, one type of these organisms can arise through
sympatric speciation via allopolyploidy. Transgressive phenotypes arise in organisms of this type,
and guinea fowl are able to form interfamilial ones. Their namesake vigor describes their sometimes
superior function relative to their parents. Haldane’s rule notes that heterogametic ones have more
frequent (*) sterility. This word is also used to describe genetic crosses between heterozygotes, whose "di"
type gives a 9 to 3 to 3 to 1 phenotypic ratio. For 10 points, give this term used for organisms such as
mules, which result from species interbreeding.
ANSWER: hybrids [prompt "heterozygotes" or "heterozygous" organisms; do NOT accept “species”]
<Jackson>

23. One person who held this title went on a crusade against the Galindians. Another person who
held this title was manipulated by the Duke of the Seniorate Province and had the nickname
“Wrymouth.” It was also held by a man called “the elbow-high” and a man who granted Jews
citizenship in the Statute of Kalisz. Those were members of the (*) Piast Dynasty, and a later house
which possessed this title was founded by a man who defeated Ulrich von Jungingen at the Battle of
Grunwald. For 10 points, identify this title that was held by such men as Casimir III and Miezko I, as well
as several who also ruled Lithuania in a personal union.
ANSWER: King of Poland [or Grand Duke of Poland-Lithuania]
<Foster>

24. One type of this device contains a series of magnets with alternating poles called an undulator,
and uses charged particles moving sinusoidally as the medium. These devices were used to cool a
clump of rubidium atoms to create the first (*) Bose-Einstein condensate, and they are also used to
deliver power to a deuterium-tritium pellet in inertial confinement fusion. These devices require a
three-level system, because they rely on population inversion, and simple ones consist of a gain medium
with a pair of mirrors on either side to create a resonator. For 10 points, name these devices which use
changes of energy levels in electrons to generate a coherent beam of light, used in CD players, weapon
sights, and pointers.
ANSWER: Laser [accept more specific answers, like free electron laser; also accept Light Amplification
by Stimulated Emission of Radiation]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 6 of 13

PACE NSC 2012
Round 1
Bonuses
1. Answer the following about the wonderful world of wartime weaponry, for 10 points each.
[10] This mysterious Byzantine weapon may have been invented by Kallinikos. Possibly created using
naphtha, it was used to destroy various Muslim fleets and could reportedly continue to burn while floating
on water.
ANSWER: Greek fire [prompt on "sea fire", "water fire", or "fire"]
[10] This medieval siege engine was used to fling heavy projectiles. Unlike catapults, it used the energy
from a counterweight to launch objects, but like catapults it became obsolete after gunpowder was
popularized.
ANSWER: trebuchet
[10] This Byzantine ruler was described as inventing several types of trebuchets during the 1097 Siege of
Nicaea. This ruler’s request of aid from Europe triggered the First Crusade, and his daughter Anna wrote a
notable biography of him.
ANSWER: Alexius I Comnenus
<Cheyne>

2. The Baron tells the other characters about the Actor's suicide-by-hanging at the end of this play. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this play set in a boardinghouse run by Kostilyoff, who is killed by the thief Vaska Pepel. It
centers on a vagabond named Luka.
ANSWER: The Lower Depths [or Na Dne]
[10] This Russian playwright, a founder of socialist realism who wrote his novel Mother while traveling
through the Adirondack Mountains, penned The Lower Depths.
ANSWER: Maxim Gorky [or Alexei Maximovich Peshkov]
[10] In 1931, this figure autographed a copy of Gorky's "A Girl and Death", claiming that it was "stronger
than Goethe's Faust". This Soviet leader was described as a "Kremlin Caucasian" who forged "rules and
decrees like horseshoes" in an "Epigram" by Osip Mandelstam.
ANSWER: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Iosef Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili]
<Carson>

3. Identify the following authors whose non-fiction inspired major social trends, for 10 points each:
[10] This marine biologist and author of The Sea Around Us launched modern environmentalism in the
United States by publishing Silent Spring.
ANSWER: Rachel Carson
[10] This author wrote the novel Ramona and tract A Century of Dishonor to publicize the plight of Native
Americans in the late 19th century.
ANSWER: Helen Hunt Jackson [or Helen Fiske; accept just “Hunt,” which was her sole last name for a
while]
[10] The 1948 publication of The Seven Storey Mountain, an autobiography by this Trappist Monk of
Kentucky’s Gethsemani Abbey, ignited American interest in religious meditation.
ANSWER: Thomas Merton
<Ray>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 7 of 13

4. In life, pharoahs were regarded as incarnations of this deity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this falcon deity who vanquished Set, the great enemy of his father Osiris.
ANSWER: Horus
[10] One form of Horus, Horus-Behdety, fathered a child with this cow-headed goddess, who once
performed an erotic dance to cheer up Ra.
ANSWER: Hathor
[10] Another view of the Horus-Set conflict is that it symbolized this region's conquest by its counterpart.
Rulers of this region wore a red crown known as the Deshret.
ANSWER: Lower Egypt [do not prompt on or accept "Egypt"]
<Gupta>

5. On Broadway, this opera was reworked into Miss Saigon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Puccini opera set in Japan, in which the title character, Cio-Cio San, is impregnated and
abandoned by the American sailor Benjamin Franklin Pinkerton.
ANSWER: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]
[10] After her maid Suzuki warns her that Pinkerton may never return, Cio-Cio San sings this aria, in which
she imagines seeing the smoke of a returning ship and reuniting with Pinkerton.
ANSWER: "Un Bel Di, Vedremo" [or "One Beautiful Day"]
[10] This other Puccini opera features the act two aria “Musetta’s Waltz,” and ends with Rodolfo crying
over the dead body of Mimi.
ANSWER: La bohème [or The Bohemians]
<Thompson>

6. The entropy of one of these is proportional to their area, and their namesake information paradox deals
with the loss of physical information within them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these astronomical bodies that consist of an event horizon surrounding a gravitational
singularity.
ANSWER: black hole
[10] This physicist names a type of radiation given off by black holes. He also disagreed with Leonard
Susskind over interpretations of the information paradox.
ANSWER: Stephen Hawking
[10] Hawking radiation occurs when this event happens near the event horizon. In this process, a particle
and antiparticle are spontaneously created from a photon.
ANSWER: pair production
<Neithalath>

7. This man was the godson of Horace Walpole and would go on to replace Philip Schuyler as the general
in charge of American troops in New York. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this general who suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Camden. With Benedict Arnold, he
had earlier defeated John Burgoyne at the Battle of Saratoga.
ANSWER: Horatio Lloyd Gates
[10] The overall commander of the British forces at Camden was this general who also saw his position
bombarded by the Comte de Grasse and the French navy at the Battle of Yorktown.
ANSWER: Charles Cornwallis, 1st Marquess Cornwallis [or Viscount Brome or The Earl Cornwallis]
[10] The Green Dragoons or British Legion was led by this infamous loyalist colonel, nicknamed the
“Butcher.” Most of his contingent was captured at the later Battle of Cowpens.
ANSWER: Sir Banastre Tarleton, 1st Baronet
<Foster>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 8 of 13

8. This collection makes a distinction between compelling-yet-fictional “story-truth” and entirely factual
“happening-truth” in its section “Good Form,” and in its title story, Kiowa’s death in a sewage field makes
Lieutenant Jimmy Cross feel very guilty. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this collection of stories narrated by their author, Tim O’Brien.
ANSWER: The Things They Carried
[10] The Things They Carried is set during this war, fought in a country where Alden Pyle advocated for a
“third force” before its onset in Graham Greene’s The Quiet American. Its outcome is flipped in the
alternate history of Watchmen.
ANSWER: the Vietnam War
[10] The title character of one of this author's works dies saving some Vietnamese children from a grenade.
Earlier in that work by this man, the title character had accidentally killed Tabitha Wheelwright with a foul
ball.
ANSWER: John Winslow Irving [or John Wallace Blunt, Jr.; the work is A Prayer for Owen Meany]
<Jackson>

9. Stable, autonomously replicating versions of these elements are called episomes, and one particularly
useful one encodes for a postsegregational killing system. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these small loops of DNA found in bacteria, originally discovered by Joshua Lederberg. The F
one encodes for a fertility factor, and the R one codes genes that confer antibiotic resistance.
ANSWER: plasmid
[10] The F plasmid confers the ability to transfer genetic information by this mechanism, in which a sex
pilus is extended between two bacteria.
ANSWER: conjugation
[10] High frequency of recombination or Hfr strains use mating bridges to transfer genetic material. Hfr
strains are created when the F plasmid does this with respect to the bacterial genome, which is also done by
lysogenic phages.
ANSWER: integrates into the genome [or inserts, joins, fuses, jumps into, becomes part of, puts itself
in, etc]
<Mukherjee>

10. H. W. Janson et al described how the title figure’s horse was being “urged on ... by the light from the
left” in this artist’s The Polish Rider. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this artist better known for Aristotle with a Bust of Homer.
ANSWER: Rembrandt van Rijn
[10] This Rembrandt painting’s nickname comes from the varnish that has darkened the image. A man in a
red sash gestures at a man in a yellow suit in the foreground of this group portrait of the Company of
Captain Frans Banning Cocq.
ANSWER: The Night Watch
[10] In this late religious painting by Rembrandt, a bearded man wearing a red jacket comforts the title
character, who is depicted kneeling and wearing tattered clothes with his back to the viewer.
ANSWER: The Return of the Prodigal Son
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 9 of 13

11. This city was in a tripartite confederation with Tlacopan and Texcoco. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city, which was defended on “La Noche Triste.”
ANSWER: Tenochtitlan
[10] Tenochtitlan was the capital of this people, who were ruled by Montezuma and controlled central
Mexico when Cortes arrived.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] This ritual practice of the Aztecs was initiated by emperor Tlacaelel, who took captives for sacrifice
from Tlaxcala after small battles. These rituals took the place of full-scale warfare.
ANSWER: flowery wars [or xochiyaoyotl]
<Weiner>

12. A cat named Charlemagne and an iguana named Schwarzenegger figure in this work, in which Liquid
Sheep drummer Janet Hayakawa helps John Brown write a personal ad that leads to a romance with Liz
Donati. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this novel composed of 690 sonnets, which centers on a group of yuppies living in San
Francisco.
ANSWER: The Golden Gate
[10] The Golden Gate was written by this Indian author, who detailed Rupa Mehra's attempts to find the
title figure for her daughter Lata in his incredibly long novel A Suitable Boy.
ANSWER: Vikram Seth
[10] The Golden Gate was written in "Onegin stanzas", which take their name from their use in this
Russian author's Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin
<Kirsch>

13. They include the agriculture spirit Inari, who employs foxes, and a female who once darkened the
world by hiding in a cave out of frustration. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these gods and spirits worshipped in Shinto, which often correspond to features in the natural
world of Japan. The chief one is the sun goddess Amaterasu.
ANSWER: kami
[10] This brother of Amaterasu and Tsukuyomi offended her by flinging a flayed horse into her abode. This
slayer of an eight-headed serpent is the kami of the sea and storms.
ANSWER: Susano’o [or Susanowo]
[10] Amaterasu handed down one of these objects, along with the Kusanagi blade and a string of beads,
among three imperial regalia to the Japanese emperors. Another is embedded in an Aztec jaguar god’s foot
or chest.
ANSWER: a mirror
<Jackson>

14. This composer wrote his twelfth string quartet, the "American," in the town of Spillville, Iowa. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Czech composer whose ninth symphony in E minor is called “From the New World.”
ANSWER: Antonin Dvorak
[10] Inspired by the Hungarian Dances of his friend Johannes Brahms, Dvorak composed these sixteen
pieces based on the music of his native Bohemia.
ANSWER: Slavonic Dances
[10] Following the death of his daughter Josefa, Dvorak composed this religious work, a setting of a hymn
to the Virgin Mary. Giovanni Pergolesi composed a setting of the same text for soprano, alto, and strings.
ANSWER: Stabat Mater
<Rosenberg>
PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 10 of 13

15. Answer the following about recent cases judged by the International Criminal Court, for 10 points each.
[10] Controversy continues over whether Saif al-Islam Gaddafi should stand trial before the ICC or be tried
by the new government of this country, which his father used to rule.
ANSWER: Libya
[10] In April 2012, this former Liberian president was convicted by the ICC of 11 counts of crimes against
humanity associated with the civil wars in Liberia and Sierra Leone.
ANSWER: Charles Taylor
[10] This country's richest citizen and former deputy prime minister is among four men who will stand trial
before the ICC for orchestrating ethnic violence in the wake of this country's 2007 presidential election, in
which the Orange Democratic Movement lost because of probable fraud.
ANSWER: Kenya
<Haddad-Fonda>

16. Developed by an American geologist and his team at Geophysical Laboratories in Washington D.C, it
was created to explain the association patterns of certain mineral classes in rocks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this diagram divided into discontinuous and continuous branches, which sorts minerals by their
crystallization temperature.
ANSWER: Bowen’s reaction series [Prompt on partial answer]
[10] The continuous branch of Bowen's reaction series moves from plagioclase feldspars that are rich in
sodium to those rich in this element, whose carbonate is a principal component of limestone.
ANSWER: calcium [or Ca]
[10] At the end of the discontinuous branch is this mineral, whose gem-grade variety is called peridot. Its
solid solution series contains forsterite and fayalite.
ANSWER: olivine
<Lasker>

17. Answer the following about The Prince, for 10 points each.
[10] This Italian scholar wrote The Prince and dedicated it to Lorenzo de' Medici.
ANSWER: Niccolo Machiavelli
[10] In a late chapter of The Prince, Machiavelli advises a middle road between ignoring all advice and
relying on the counsel of these individuals, who might take advantage of self-absorbed princes.
ANSWER: flatterers [or those who engage in flattery]
[10] This quality is contrasted with prudence throughout The Prince. Machiavelli compares it to a woman
who must be beaten if necessary. In an earlier work, Boethius compared it to a goddess spinning a wheel.
ANSWER: fortune [or Fortuna; accept synonyms such as luck]
<Jose>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 11 of 13

18. This process is commonly performed using an indicator like phenolphthalein, and adding more of the
analyte is a common way of compensating when the equivalence point is overshot. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this chemical technique which attempts to find the amount of an analyte in a solution by
dripping in a standard solution. Finding the concentration of an acid by adding a base is a common
example.
ANSWER: titration [prompt on "gravimetric analysis" or "gravimetry"]
[10] Acid-base titrations commonly use this graduated cylindrical piece of glassware with a stopcock on the
bottom.
ANSWER: buret
[10] Another piece of glassware with a stopcock is a separatory funnel, which is commonly used in this
procedure. In this procedure, a sample is purified by putting an immiscible aqueous and organic phase
together and removing the phase containing the product you want.
ANSWER: liquid-liquid extraction
<Mukherjee>

19. In 1712, this man was impeached for corruption and imprisoned in the Tower of London by his Tory
opponents. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this politician, active during the reigns of George I and George II. He was forced out of power
for opposing the War of Jenkins' Ear.
ANSWER: Sir Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Oxford
[10] Robert Walpole was the first man to hold this post. The holder of this post lives at 10 Downing Street.
ANSWER: The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
[10] Robert Walpole is credited with keeping England out of this country's 1733 to 1738 succession war,
which followed the death of Augustus the Strong.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Poland [or Polska; or War of Polish Succession]
<Bentley>

20. Its first poem describes how the speaker will be happy "when those lily hands" are like "captives
trembling at the victor's sight", and it was published with its author’s Epithalamion. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of eighty-nine sonnets, written to correspond to the Scriptural readings prescribed by the
Book of Common Prayer for the days leading up to the author's marriage to Elizabeth Boyle.
ANSWER: Amoretti
[10] This English poet wrote the Amoretti, but he may be better known for describing Archimago and
Duessa's attempts to waylay the Redcrosse Knight in his epic The Faerie Queen.
ANSWER: Edmund Spenser
[10] Elizabeth I was the inspiration for this title character of The Faerie Queen, who sends the Redcrosse
Knight on his quest to liberate Una’s kingdom from a monstrous dragon.
ANSWER: Gloriana
<Gioia>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 12 of 13

PACE NSC 2012
Round 1
Tiebreakers
21. Answer these questions about using derivatives to find special points on functions, for 10 points each:
[10] If a differentiable function has a minimum or maximum along an interval, Rolle’s Theorem
guarantees that its first derivative, and therefore its slope, will equal this value at the extremum.
ANSWER: zero
[10] A function’s second derivative equals 0 and changes sign from positive to negative or vice versa at this
kind of point, which is neither a maximum nor minimum.
ANSWER: point of inflection [or inflection point; anti-prompt “saddle point”]
[10] To find extrema of a multivariable function along a constraint curve, these values, symbolized lambda,
are found. The product of this value and the constraint curve’s gradient equals the original function’s
gradient.
ANSWER: Lagrange multipliers
<Jackson>

22. Identify the following about some works set during Roman times, for 10 points each.
[10] Robert Graves wrote two historical novels about this Roman emperor. In those novels, this emperor
informs the reader of his knowledge of Etruscan and describes the death of his predecessor, Caligula.
ANSWER: Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus
[10] This Henryk Sienkiewicz novel, set during the reign of Nero, sees Marcus Vinicius convert to
Christianity after hearing a speech given by Saint Peter. Vinicius and his lover Lygia flee to Sicily near the
end of this novel.
ANSWER: Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero [or Quo vadis: Powiesc z czasow Nerona]
[10] The eruption of Mount Vesuvius saves Glaucus from death in the Coliseum in this British author's
novel The Last Days of Pompeii. His other novels include Paul Clifford, which infamously begins "It was a
dark and stormy night".
ANSWER: Edward George Earle Lytton Bulwer-Lytton, 1st Baron Lytton
<Bentley>

23. This battle marked the end of concerted attempts to press the Roman border beyond the Rhine. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this 9 CE slaughter, in which the Cherusci leader Hermann destroyed the Roman army of
Publius Quinctilius Varus.
ANSWER: Battle of Teutoberger Forest [or Teutoberger Wald]
[10] This author of The Lives of the Caesars depicts Augustus crying out "give me back my legions!" upon
learning of the disaster at Teutoberger Wald.
ANSWER: Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus
[10] In the book and miniseries I, Claudius, Augustus more memorably demands to know the location of
these items, the symbolic figures of birds which stood atop the Roman battle standards.
ANSWER: eagles [or aquilae, I guess, even though the works mentioned are in English]
<Weiner>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 1

Page 13 of 13

