NEW TRIER VARSITY 2009
ROUND 10

1. A posthumous work of this thinker sees Cleanthes’ use of the teleological argument attacked by Philo, who claims
human reason cannot understand the divine. Book I of another work by this author discusses skepticism and the
importance of the experimental method. When it was unsuccessful, that book was edited into a work that includes a
discussion of human reason compared to animal reason, as well as sections titled “Of Probability,” “Of Liberty and
Necessity,” and “Of Miracles.” The author of Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion, name this Scottish Empiricist
philosopher and author of Treatise of Human Nature and An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: David Hume
2. One of this man’s works depicts a scene with a woman wearing a saffron dress performing the titular action, while
another painting shows two infants and a woman elevating a rosy-cheeked girl. Those works, The Reader and The SeeSaw, pale in comparison to this man’s most famous work, in which a cherub on the left with its finger in its mouth
observes a voyeur in the bottom left of the painting. That voyeur is looking up the dress of his mistress, whose pink
slipper flies across the middle of the painting. Identify this rococo master best known for The Swing.
ANSWER: Jean-Honoré Fragonard
3. One of this writer’s poems answers the question, “How should I greet thee?” with the response, “With silence and
tears.” A narrative poem by this man involves the luckless tutor Pedrillo who is cannibalized on a boat going from
Spain to Greece. In addition to writing such poems as “So we’ll go no more a roving”, this man played a major role in
the Greek War of Independence against the Ottoman Empire. Penning such poems as “When We Two Parted” and
“She Walks in Beauty”, identify this man, a pioneer of the British Romanticism movement who also wrote the
narrative poemsDon Juan (JOO-uhn) and Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage.
ANSWER: George Gordon, Lord Byron [accept either or both parts]
4. In one version of his birth, this figure is the son of Nephthys and Ra, and his cult was located in Cynopolis. His
daughter, Kabechet, is a celestial serpent or ostrich that purifies or quenches a monarch. This god is represented by a
full black canid wearing ribbons while holding a flagellum in the crook of his arm. It is his responsibility to weigh
Ma’at, a feather, against a deceased person’s heart. Name this jackal-headed Egyptian god of embalming and death.
ANSWER: Anubis
5. This city’s historic center contains the Senado Square and the A-Ma Temple, and it consists of a namesake
peninsula and the islands of Taipa and Coloane. This city’s main border crossing with its neighbor is the Portas do
Cerco. From 1962, the city’s main industry was monopolized by Stanley Ho; the 2002 end of that monopoly led to
the construction of the Cotai Strip, which contains the Wynn, the MGM Grand, and the Venetian, the fourth largest
building in the world by floor area. Name this Chinese city popular with Kim Jong-Il, the world’s highest-volume
gambling center, which from 1849 to 1999 was a possession of Portugal.
ANSWER: Macao [or Aòmén]

6. This word names a field lacrosse team from San Francisco, an arena football team from New York, and the NFL
Europe team from Barcelona. The Crusader Esper is obtained by defeating eight of these creatures in the World of
Ruin in Final Fantasy VI, and in the original Pokémon Red and Blue, there were only three Pokémon with this type
and there was only one move with this type. Famous examples include Smaug, Puff, Saphira, Spyro, and Norbert.
Identify this type of fantastical creature that often appears at Chinese New Year parades and, in a popular role-playing
game, is paired with “Dungeons”.
ANSWER: dragons
7. With Bärbel Inhelder, this man conducted the Three Mountains experiment. He also expounded upon the
sociological, biological, and logical models of intellectual development in his theory of “genetic epistemology”. This
author of Biology and Knowledge wrote about a two-fold process of juvenile moral development in The Moral Judgment
of the Child. He also gave a name to our understanding that, when something disappears from view, it isn’t really gone.
Besides “object permanence”, this psychologist formulated a theory with stages like preoperational and sensorimotor,
which are differentiated by their development of schema. Name this Swiss psychologist who studied albino sparrows
and devised the cognitive theory of development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
8. This man penned the lines “The slippery verge her feet beguiled/She tumbled headlong in” in a poem he wrote for
his lifelong friend Horace Walpole, “Ode on the Death of a Favourite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes”. He is
responsible for many memorable lines including “Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest” and “where ignorance is
bliss,/’tis folly to be wise”, the latter of which came from his “Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College”. The writer
of the line “Far from the madding crowd’s ignoble strife” in his most famous work, identify this poet of “Elegy Written
in a Country Churchyard”.
ANSWER: Thomas Gray
9. In apicomplexans, this process involves the transformation of merozoites into gamonts, while in fungi, it includes a
stage in which mycelia fuse: plasmogamy. While most protists do not engage in this process,
some Euglena and Amoeba do. Another variation of this process leads to vivipary. In humans, it is most effective just
before the beginning of the luteal phase, and it is often employed recreationally by bonobos. Birds’ execution of this
process is called a cloacal kiss, and most organisms pair off for it. Name this process that results in genetically diverse
offspring.
ANSWER: sexual reproduction [prompt on reproduction; accept mating or other equivalents]
10. The original version of this piece was orchestrated by Ferde Grofé eight days before its premiere, although part of
the solo was improvised and not written down until after that first performance at “An Experiment in Modern
Music,” organized by Paul Whitehead. This work includes a Cuban clave (CLAH-vay) dance rhythm, but also uses
extensive rubato, especially in a theme inspired by the composer’s train ride to Boston. In one of the rehearsals, Russ
Gorman added the 17-note diatonic scale clarinet glissando that opens this work. Melding jazz and classical music,
name this 1924 piano concerto by George Gershwin.
ANSWER: Rhapsody in Blue

New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 10 tossups, page 2 of 4

11. This author wrote about a plan to demolish and put up condos in place of 1839 Wylie Avenue. Another work
which took place in that same building follows a 285-year-old woman who helps Citizen Barlow to redemption, Aunt
Ester. Another of his works follows the story of Doaker Charles and Doaker’s family’s most prized possession, a piano
with pictures of their ancestors carved on it. The playwright of Two Trains Running and King Hedley II, identify this
man who is responsible for nine plays set in the Hill District, the Pittsburgh Cycle, including Joe Turner’s Come and
Gone, The Piano Lesson, Radio Golf, and a work about garbageman Troy Maxson, Fences.
ANSWER: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel, Jr.]
12. The inspiration for this work was tied by its composer to the music of Scotland via the pentatonic scale. Its
scherzo third movement pays homage to Beethoven’s Ninth with a 3/4 molto vivace before the poco sostenuto section
recalls his homeland. That movement contrasts with the Largo second movement, which opens with an English horn
solo that inspired William Arms Fisher’s spiritual “Goin’ Home.” Name this work, which doesn’t actually contain a
theme based on “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” the last-composed symphony by Antonín Dvořák.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 9 in E Minor: “From the New World”, Opus 95 [accept any underlined part]
13. Four consul members were executed for plotting against this emperor before he entered Rome, and once in Rome
he publicly burned records of uncollectable debts. Some historians believe he was given his throne thanks to a
fictitious adoption pulled off by Pompeia Plotina just after the death of her husband Trajan. Despite his military
background, there was little fighting during his reign other than putting down Bar Kokhba’s Revolt in 132 CE. He
traveled for over half his reign, inspecting the legions and having them build fortifications on the borders of the
Empire. Name this emperor most famous for a namesake wall in Britain.
ANSWER: Publius Aelius Hadrianus Augustus
14. This scientist’s namesake equations relate the velocity, angular velocity, and the time-derivative of co-energy to
force and moment for rigid objects in inviscid fluids. One of his theories states that at equilibrium, the wavelengthaveraged emissivity and reflectivity sum to one; that is this physicist’s eponymous law of radiation. He worked with
Robert Bunsen to discover rubidium and cesium, and also coined the term “black body”. A set of laws named for this
scientist can be derived from the laws of conservation of charge and energy, and state that the current going into a
junction equals the current going out of the junction, as well as that the voltage around a closed loop is zero. Identify
this German physicist, the namesake of two laws about electrical circuits—the junction and loop rules.
ANSWER: Gustav Robert Kirchhoff
15. After supporting William H. Crawford, this politician received Georgia’s vote for Vice President and, as a
governor, passed the Bank Safety Act. He resigned as Secretary of State after the Peggy Eaton affair and as President,
he rejected Mormon pleas to override the Extermination Order. During his presidency, Winfield Scott fought Canada
over a Maine boundary dispute, and Canadian loyalists burned and threw an American ship over Niagara Falls.
Besides dealing with the Aroostook War and the Caroline Affair, he ran for President as a Free Soiler in 1848. Name
this “Little Magician” who dealt with the Panic of 1837 just after succeeding Andrew Jackson as President.
ANSWER: Martin van Buren
16. Before this man became a ruler, he helped the Russian Orthodox Church get its own patriarch, and took away the
power of peasants to transfer landowners. This ruler’s claim to the throne was based on his sister Irene’s childless
marriage to Feodor I and the death of Feodor’s uncle Nikita. As tsar, this man favored English merchants after
receiving a flattering letter from Elizabeth I, but during his reign poor harvests led to severe food shortages. During
and after his reign, several people tried to gain the throne by claiming to be the missing son of Ivan the Terrible. Name
this tsar whose rule is considered the beginning of the Time of Troubles.
ANSWER: Boris Fyodorovich Godunov
New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 10 tossups, page 3 of 4

17. This constant is used in simple gas thermodynamics to find the pressure of a gas, by dividing volume by the
product of the number of molecules of gas, the temperature, and it. The average energy per degree of freedom equals
one-half the product of this constant with the temperature of a substance. Entropy can be defined as this constant
multiplied by the natural logarithm of the number of microstates consistent with the given macrostate. Identify this
constant utilized in thermodynamics, commonly denoted k-sub-B and named after an Austrian physicist crucial in
developing the field of statistical thermodynamics.
ANSWER: Boltzmann constant [accept k-sub-B before it is mentioned; prompt on k]
18. The protagonist of this novel discusses ancient Indian philosophy with his landlady, and dreams of a girl from
Bürger’s poetry named Molly. The preface of this novel is addressed to a character called the Editor, and the
protagonist frequents the Black Eagle bar and used to love Rosa Kreisler. The title character has an affair with Maria,
and he skips a show advertised “FOR MADMEN ONLY” after the Fancy Dress Ball. He encounters a jazz
saxophonist who also loves Mozart, Pablo. Pablo has an affair with the title character’s lover, prompting him to stab
Hermine in the Magic Theater. Name this novel about Harry Haller, a work by Hermann Hesse.
ANSWER: Der Steppenwolf [or The Steppenwolf; prompt on either or both parts of Harry Haller before mentioned]
19. Aleksander Wolszczan and Dale Frail found the first confirmed example of one these bodies using pulsar timing,
but a more prolific method for their detection is the radial velocity method, which looks for changes in spectral lines
due to the Doppler effect. A different method examines changes in brightness of a star due to these objects’ transits.
Both pulsar timing and radial velocity take advantage of small perturbations in the motion of a star due to one of these
orbiting masses. Name these objects found both inside and outside the Solar Systems, examples of which in the solar
system include Mars and Jupiter.
ANSWER: extrasolar planets [or exoplanets]
20. After this man’s uncle became Pope Sixtus IV, he received positions of ever greater power, eventually gaining
enough influence to bribe electors to rig a papal election in favor of Innocent VIII. Fearing for his safety, he did not
spend much time at the Vatican during the reign of Alexander VI, but he eventually succeeded Pius III and arrested
Cesare Borgia. He also organized the League of Cambrai against Venice, but he later joined with Venice to oppose
Louis XII of France. Name this man who commissioned the Sistine Chapel and Saint Peter’s Basilica, also known as
the Warrior Pope.
ANSWER: Julius II [prompt on Warrior Pope before mentioned; prompt on Julius; accept Giuliano Della Rovere]

New Trier Varsity 2009
Round 10 tossups, page 4 of 4

