TOSSUPS - ROUND 10

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHATTANOOGA

Washington and Jefferson. Oberlin. Rice. Penn. Akron. Clemson. Auburn. Georgia Tech. Toss in
Brown, where he played but never coached, and you have the schools on the resume of a man whom Frank
Elisou immortalized in bronze with the help of then-Fordham coach Jim Crowley. FTP name the first athletic
director of New York's Downtown Athletic Club, for whom they named their best-known trophy .
[John Heisman]
His most famous speech is quoted by Gregory Peck in Gentlemen's Agreement and Mel Gibson in The
Man Without a Face . In the Mel Brooks version of To Be or Not to Be Brooks as Hitler hears it from one of his
fellow actors. His speech begins, "Hath not a Jew eyes?" FTP name this memorable character from
Shakespeare's The Merchant o/Venice.
[Shylock]
It arose to counter the efforts of such men as J. Carvell Williams, head of the Liberation Society, and
Edward Miall, editor of the Nonconformist. This reactionary movement sought to bolster state support for the
Anglican Church in the mid-19th century. It would long ago have been forgotten save for one curiosity : its one[antidisestablishmentarianism]
word name is 28 letters long. FTP name this school of thought.

Gregory B. Jarvis, Michael 1. Smith, Ronald E. McNair, Ellison S. Onizuka, Judith A. Resnick, Francis R.
Scobee, and Christa McAuliffe all died FTP 73 seconds after takeoff from the Kennedy Space Center on Jan. 28,
1986 on what ill-fated shuttle?
[the Challenger]
This French-American author won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1986 for his work in promoting human rights.
However, he is more famous for his many novels that refer in some way to the horrors suffered by prisoners in the
Nazi concentration camps. FTP name this man whose novel Night describes his experience at Auschwitz. [Elie
Wiesel]
A lawyer and legislator by profession, this resident of Toulouse achieved some fame as a poet and
scholar. He made fundamental contributions to differential calculus, integral calculus, and probability theory.
His reputation today, though, rests on his work in numbers theory, including this theorem: Ifx, y, and z are
integers, then the equation X TO THE N PLUS Y TO THE N EQUALS Z TO THE N has no solution where n
is greater than 2 and x, y, and z are not equal to zero. FTP name this 17th century mathematician, whose
theorem just mentioned was finally proven 3 centuries later by Andrew Wiles. [Pierre de Fermat]
It may seem obvious to anyone who' s ever used a Slinky, but in 1676 it was news to other scientists. It
states that the amount a spring stretches varies directly with its tension. FTP name this law, named for the
Englishman who discovered it.
[Hooke's Law]

If you watch USA' s Up All Night, you may have seen him in such cheapies as Fraternity Vacation, a far
cry from his own directorial efforts such as Bob Roberts and DeadMan Walking. FTP name this actor, who
first hit it big as "Nuke" Laloosh in Bull Durham and has since starred in The Player, The Hudsucker Proxy,
and The Shawshank Redemption.
[Tim Robbins]
His operas include "The Abduction from the Seraglio," "Cosi Fan Tutte," "The Marriage of Figaro,"
"The Magic Flute," and "Don Giovanni ." FTP name this child prodigy whose other compositions include his
"Requiem" (1791) and "Eine Kleine Nachtmusik."
[Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart]
The drug RU-486 works by affecting the body's response to this hormone. It controls the ability of the
uterus to hold a fertilized egg. Produced in the corpus luteum as well as in the ovaries, it also aids in
[progesterone]
development of milk production. FTP name this hormone.

5.
He once said, "Whenever a child lies you will always find a severe parent. A lie would have no sense
unless the truth were felt to be dangerous." (I assumed from this quote that he never had kids, but checked and
it seems he had four.) Amazingly, over 50 years before the introduction of the Corvette, he wrote Study of
Organ Inferiority and Its Psychical Compensation. Other works include The Neurotic Constitution, and
Understanding Human Nature. FTP name the father of individual psychology, who coined the term "inferiority
complex." .
[Alfred Adler]
7.
He was largely self-educated; his Quaker beliefs excluded him from Oxford and Cambridge, even
though he was so advanced at age 12 that his village school made him the headmaster. He determined the
temperature at which water reaches its maximum density. In 1803 he concluded, independently of Gay-Lussac,
that all gases have the same coeeficient of thermal expansion, and he proposed his law of partial pressures. FTP
name this chemist, whose 1808 book New System of Chemical Philosophy asserted that matter was made up of
atoms of different elements which could be distinguished by their weights.
[John Dalton]
11.
Educated as a metallurgist, naturally he flourished behind the Iron Curtain and got his first major
appointment from Stalin, whose pseudonym means "steel." This Ukranian succeeded Voroshilov as Chairman
of the Praesidum of the Supreme Soviet. The strongest of the ensuing troika, he used a doctrine of limited
sovereignty of satellite states to justify the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and the crackdown on Poland in
1981. FTP name this Soviet leader, who replaced Khrushchev as First Secretary in 1964 [Leonid Brezhnev]
13 .
He wrote an influential algebra text and reformed the calendar, leading to the start of the Jalali era in
A.D. 1079. But we know him chiefly from words put in his mouth 736 years after his death, such as "A book
of verses underneath the bough/A loaf of bread, ajug of wine, and thoulBeside me in the wilderness." FTP
[Omar
name this astronomer, mathematician, and poet, namesake of Edward Fitzgerald's Rubaiyat.
Kbayyam]
17.
The plaintiff was the cashier of the Baltimore branch of the Second Bank of the U.S. His attorneys were
William Pinkney and Daniel Webster. The unanimous opinion by Chief Justice Marshall cited Article VI's
assertion that the Constitution was the supreme law of the land and held that Congress' power "to make all laws
necessary and proper" to carry out the specific powers conferred on it superseded any state actions. FTP name
[McCulloch v. Maryland]
this landmark 1819 Supreme Court ruling.
It includes the regions of Severocesky, Vychocesky, Zapadocesky, Jihocesky, and Stredocesky. It was
ruled from 871 to 1310 by the Premyslid dynasty and from 1310 to 1620 to the Luxemburg dynasty. The last
three kings of the latter were also Hapsburgs, which explains why it hasn't been an independent entity since.
FTP name this province, whose sovereigns often had great names such as Ladislas Posthumus, Spithnjew I,
John the Blind, Boleslav I, and Wenceslaus the Holy.
[Bohemia]

BONI -- ROUND 10

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHATIANOOGA

FfP each name the Russian author of:
(a) War and Peace, Anna Karenina
[Leo Tolstoy]
(b) Crime and Punishment, The Brothers Karamazov, The Idiot
(c) The Gulag Archipelago, Cancer Ward, August 1914

[Fyodor Dostoevsky]
[Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn]

8.
Here are answerable questions connected to some guy you probably never heard of. FTP each, answer
the following about the significant but forgotten career of chemist Louis Nicolas Vauquelin:
(a) A few months ahead of Martin Klaproth he discovered this metal, atomic number 24, in a Siberian mineral
called crocolite. He gave it its name because so many of its compounds are brightly colored.
[chromium]
(b) Vauquelin was the first to recognize a new element present in emeralds. He named it glucinium because of
the sweet taste of some of its salts, but this element, atomic number 4, was renamed after the mineral which
forms emeralds by Friedrich Wohler, who first isolated it.
[beryllium]
(c) Vauquelin also discovered this polysaccharide compound in apples. Its most important property is its ability
to form gels at low temperatures.
[pectin]

5.
TRA VELS WITH CHARUE: Given the Cabinet members, identify the 20th century President, 5 pts.
each. Your clue: Charlie has visited the birthplace, home, library, and/or gravesite of each. And yes, that
actually does narrow the possibilities down.
(a) Caspar Weinberger, George Shultz, Melvin Laird, Henry Kissinger
[Nixon]
(b) Henry Morgenthau, Harry Hopkins, Henry L. Stimson
[Franklin Roosevelt]
[Kennedy]
(c) Abraham Ribicoff, Arthur Goldberg, Stewart Udall, Orville Freeman
(d) Bob Hannegan, Fred Vinson, James Forrestal, Henry L. Stimson
[Truman]
(e) Juanita Kreps, Bob Bergland, Griffin Bell, Cyrus Vance
[Carter]
(f) Philander Knox, Franklin MacVeagh, George Wickersham, Henry L. Stimson [Taft]
[Editor's note: Stimson also served under Hoover, but Charlie has yet to visit West Branch, IA]
FfP each name these musical instruments from the standard symphony orchestra:
(a) Lowest woodwind instrument, featured prominently in "The Sorceror's Apprentice"
[contrabassoon; do not accept or prompt on "bassoon"]
(b) Highest woodwind instrument, featured prominently in "The Stars and Stripes Forever"
[piccolo]
(c) String instrument pitched between viola and bass; among its best-known virtuosos was Pablo Casals. [cello]

Given the definition of an electrical unit of measure, give the unit, 10 pts. each:
(a) Equal to the passage of 6.25 times 10 to the 18th electrons past a given point in an electrical system
[coulomb]
[ampere; accept amp]
(b) Equal to the flow of one coulomb per second
[volt]
(c) Equal to one joule of energy per coulomb of electricity
Poetry is often written in someone's hand, but it may also involve feet. Name these metrical feet, 10 pts.
each:
(a) One long or stressed syllable preceding one short or unstressed syllable [trochee]
(b) One short or unstressed syllable preceding one long or stressed syllable[iamb]
[spondee]
(c) Two long or stressed syllables
Given a star of magnitude 2.5 or brighter, name the constellation for 5 pts. each:
(a) Aldebaran [Taurus]
(b) Sirius
[Canis Major]

(c) Algol
(d) Canopus
(e) Spica
(f) Altair

[Perseus]
[Carina]
[Virgo]
[Aquila]

23.
In the early 1800' s five Southern tribes of Native Americans came to be known as the Five Civilized
Tribes because of their extensive acculturation to European patterns. For 5 pts. each or 30 for all 5 correct,
name them.
[Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek, Seminole]

22.

Answer these biochemistry questions, 10 pts. each:
(a) These are the two classes of opioid receptors, peptides produced in the brains of vertebrates. The first
were discovered by John Hughes and Hans Kosterlitz in 1974, the other in 1976 by Choh Hao Li and David Chung.
[enkephlins and
Name them for 10 pts. each.
endorphins]
(c) Otto Loewi and Hallett Dale shared the 1936 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology for their work on
this substance involved in nerve impulses, which Loewi oroginally dubbed "Vagusstoff' because he found it
released by the vagus nerve.
[acetylcholine]
23.
Name this man, 30-20-10:
(a) His middle name is Delight. As a teen in Seattle one of his friends was Ray Charles. His first film score
was for The Pawnbroker (1965).
(b) He has arranged for Dizzy Gillespie, Lionel Hampton, Frank Sinatra, and Sarah Vaughan. His first
successful album was The Birth of a Band. Although so far he's oh-for-six in Oscar nominations, he holds an
Emmy for the score for Roots.
(c) He also has a record 26 Grammys, and he conducted and arranged USA for Africa's "We Are the World."
[Quincy Jones]
3.
Going into the 1998 only five major league franchises had never had their pitchers throw a no-hitter,
although two of them -- the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays -- have a good excuse.
Name the other 3 teams from the following clues, 10 pts. each:
(a) They've never had a no-hitter even though three of their pitchers have won the Cy Young Award -- Gaylord
Perry, Randy Jones, and Mark Davis.
[San Diego Padres]
(b) This team even has a pitcher in the Hall of Fame, but he threw his only no-hitter after he'd left them, late in
his career in a brief stint with Cincinnati.
[New York Mets]
(c) It's no surprise that this team lacks a no-hitter. More amazing is that one was thrown against them at home,
[Colorado Rockies]
by Hideo Nomo in Sept. 1996.
4.
Name the rutist from works, 30-20-10-5:
(a) The books Ten O'Clock and The Gentle Art of Making Enemies; The etchings series Thames (1860) and the
painting "At the Piano" (1859)
(b) The paintings "The Blue Wave" (1860) and "The White Girl: Symphony in White No. I" (1862)
(c) The painting "Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket", criticism of which by Alfred Ruskin led to
a celebrated lawsuit
(d) The painting "The Artist's Mother: Arrangement in Gray and Black" [James Abbott McNeill Whistler]

Name the Shakespeare play from which the titles of the following books and plays were taken,
10 pts. each:
(a) Kathleen O'Brien's Our Little Life and Aldous Huxley's Brave New World [The Tempest]

(b) L. Ford's III Met by Moonlight and Francis Boon's Lord. What Fools
[A Midsummer Night's Dream]
(c) M.e. Munday's The Ravelled Sleave and Philip BaiTY'S To-morrow and TO-mQITOW
[Macbeth]
Odd how famous authors keep bumping into each other. Name the following authors, 10 pts. each:
(a) Before he died in a traffic accident, this author managed to write four novels, two of which were Miss
Lonelyhearts and The Day of the Locust.
[Nathanael West]
(b) While in New York City West was associate editor of Contact with this man, who wrote lots and lots of
[William Carlos Williams]
poetry about his hometown, Paterson, New Jersey.
(c) At the same time West also mismanaged a shabby hotel, where this author briefly sobered up long
enough to write The Thin Man.
[Dashiell Hammett]

