1989 High School Tournament
Round Twelve
1. It never rests. It is striped but involuntary. Its fibers are not separate, but branching and interlocked. It combines
features of both skeletal and smooth muscle. For 10 points--what word describes this vital type of muscle?
Answer: Cardiac
2. A 1923 poll listed this man as the front-runner in the coming presidential election, despite the fact that he wasn't even
running. Another poll ranked him third, just behind Jesus and Napoleon, as history's greatest man. he probably didn't care
a whit about such polls as evidenced by his famous remark, "History is bunk." FTP--name this industrialist.
Answer: Henry Ford
3. Steven Vincent Benet described her. in these lines:
"A moth of a woman! Shut in a garden, lives on scraps of Etemity
With ·a dog, a procession of sunsets and certain poems/ She scribbles on bits of paper."
For 10 points--who was this reclusive "Belle of Amherst"?
Answer: Emily Dickinson
4. Slavery was outlawed in the United States by the Thirteenth Amendment, but in 1947 Congress passed a bill which
unions condemned as the "slave labor law." For 10 points--name this act which outlawed the closed shop.
Answer: Taft-Hartley Act
5. The very first one was built. in 1817 and was named Noah's Ark. In 1831 a retired British actor designed one that was
100 feet long and seated 200 people. After the Civil War, their popularity dwindled and by the 1970's fewer than five were
left to carry on the tradition. FTP--identify these "floating palaces" immortalized in an Edna Ferber novel.
Answer: Showboats
6. Feather, Fairy, Angel, Ribbon, Bridal Veil, Widow's Tears, Victoria. For 10 points--these are all names for what specific
type of natural phenomenon?
Answer: Waterfalls or Cataracts
7. John Milton described him in these words: "He, above the restlln shape and gesture eminent,! Stood like a tower. His
form had not yet lostl All her original brightness, nor appeared/ L:ess than Archangel ruined." For 10 points--name this, the
most sympathetically-treated character in Paradise Lost.
Answer: ~ or Lucifer or the Devil
8. This Congressional Act was patriotically numbered 1776 and was entitled "An Act Further to Promote the Defense of
the United States." It passed in response to Winston Churchill's request to "give us the tools and we will finish the job." For
10 points--name this law which made the U.S. the arsenal of democracy.
Answer: Lend-Lease Act
9. This 11 th century Scottish thane was popularly believed to have been an ancestor of the House of Stuart . His ghost is
probably more famol!s than he is. FTP--name this minor-historical figure.made famolis in Shakespeare's Macbeth.
Answer: Ban guo
10. This city saw both the legal beginning and the legal ending of Hitler's Final Solution. There in 1935, a series of laws
was promulgated excluding Jews from citizenship. There in 1946, the surviving leaders of the Third Reich were
condemned for crimes against humanity. For 10 points--name this German city.
Answer: Nuremberg or NOmberg
11. Recounting the sordid life of Jeeter Lester and his family in rural Georgia, it ran continuously on Broadway from 1933
to 1941. For 10 points-name this popular novel and play by Erskine Caldwell.
Answer: Tobacco.BQgQ
12. During World War II, the Japanese Army cut the famed Burma Road. If the Allies were to continue aiding China, they
must fly supplies "over the Hump." For 10 points-exactly what was this hump?
Answer: Himalaya Mountains
13. If you should ever get the strange desire to know how many pigs there were in England in 1085 and the names of the
owners of each pig, you could find your answers in a remarkably detailed census compiled by order of William the
Conqueror. For 10 points--name this book.
Answer: Domesday or Doomsday Book

14. He was a country doctor, living near Bryantown, Maryland, when, in the early morning hours of April 15, 1865 he
received a knock on his door. He set the caller's broken leg and gave him a bed for the night. The next morning he
reported the visit to the police and was promptly arrested. For 10 points--name this doctor who spent four years in prison
for aiding John Wilkes Booth.
Answer: Samuel MYQQ
15. In 1800 he published an account of his near-fatal inhalation of water gas, a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide.
His earlier experiments with another gas were more pleasurable. For 10 points--name this British chemist who described
the exhilarating properties of nitrous oxide, or laughing gas.
Answer: Sir Humphrey ~
16. A neutron induces fission of a Uranium-235 nucleus which breaks up into two medium-sized nuclei and some
neutrons; one of the latter then enters a Uranium-238 nucleus turning it into U-239, which then decays radioactively into
Plutonium, which, as it turns out, is useful fuel. Current experiments in this type of reactor are ongoing in Scotland, Idaho,
and Tennessee. For 10 points--what type of reactor produces more fuel than it consumes?
Answer: Breeder Reactor
17. "I was just bone weary," she later explained, so tired and laden with packages, she sat in the first empty seat she
found. The police booked her for violating a state law requiring segregated seating on all public transportation. For 10
points--name this initiator of the Montgomery bus boycott of 1955.
Answer: Rosa ~
18. It's scientifically defined as "the duration of 9,192,631,770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition
between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the cesium-133 atom." FTP--what is this measure, 86,400 of which
equal one day?
Answer: One second
19. She was in Labor for a record twelve years. For 10 points--name this member of FOR's cabinet who became the first
female cabinet member in 1933 at the Department of Labor.
Answer: Frances Perkins
20. Number one weighed 184 pounds. Number two weighed 1120 pounds and carried a dog. There were eleven in all and
were given a name which means "traveler" in Russian. FTP--nartle this series of satellites which began the space age on
October 4, 1957.
Answer: Sputniks
21 . An Irish orphan meets a Tibetan lama a(1d joins him in a search for the River of Immortality in India. This is a key part of
a popular novel by Rudyard Kipling. For 10 points--what is this novel's three-letter title?
Answer: Kim

