TOSSUPS - ROUND 12

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHATTANOOGA

Alan Turing, Michael Cretu, and Edward Elgar may seem to have nothing in common, but Turing broke
this code, Elgar wrote these variations, and Cretu with his wife Sandra went by this name when they recorded
mcmxc aD. which contained Gregorian chants, house beats, and quotes from the Bible and the Marquis de Sade
in songs like Sadeness. FTP what is the common term which means a riddle or mystery? [enigma]
It's the name of an Appalachian folk song in which "it's mourning for its own true love just like I mourn
for mine." It's also the novel featuring lost love Clara, unacknowledged son Newt, and best friends Augustus
McCrea and Woodrow F. Call, two former Texas Rangers on a cattle drive to Montana. FTP name this Pulitzer
Prize-winning novel by Larry McMurtry.
[Lonesome Dove]
9.
He failed as a schoolmaster and a chicken farmer; for years he lived off his mistress' income. Widely
seen as weak and colorless, he nonetheless survived a series of ambituous subordinates such as Heydrich and
Eichmann by making sure he kept Hitler happy. He persuaded himself that the Allies would accept him as head
of an anti-Soviet postwar Germany, but when captured by the British he killed himself before they saw through
his disguise. FTP name the most banal of the Nazis, head of the SS and the Gestapo.
[Heinrich Rimmler]
10.
He and his gang successfully toppled a rival gang including Fatz, Dook Laroo, and Mitzi Mozzarella and
led by the notorious Billy Bob. His cohorts include Helen, Jasper, Munch, and Pasqually. FTP name the
spokesman and titular figurehead of the franchise chain that bought out Showbiz and thus monopolized the
market for noisy arcade games, birthday parties, and woefully overpriced pizza. [Chuck E. Cheese]
4.
The son ofOmri, he was the seventh king of the northern kingdom of Israel, and through lineal
intermarriage he maintained an alliance with Judan strong enough to help both withstand the Assyrians. But as
related in I Kings, the prophet Elijah led strong opposition to his wife, who was a worshipper of Baal. FTP
name this Biblical figure, namesake of characters created by Ray Stevens and Herman Melville. [Ahab or
Achab]
Interiors, September, Alice, Stardust Memories, Love and Death, Manhattan, Crimes & Misdemeanors,
Bananas, Zelig, Radio Days, and Annie Hall are all films directed by this man originally born with the surname
[Woody Allen}
Konigsberg. FTP who is he?
They quarreled frequently and had several flops, among them The Grand Duke, Thespis, and The Yeomen
of the Guard. In fact, opening night audiences actually booed Ruddigore and were indifferent to Iolanthe. FTP
name the team that luckily made enough money off The Mikado and HM.S. Pinafore.
[W.S. Gilbert &
Arthur Sullivan]
Theories proposed to define and describe this include Robinson's non-standard analysis, AL. Cauchy's
regime of rigor, and the work of Weierstrass on existence theorems, Cantor on general set theory, and Peano on
mathematical logic. Peano brought things full circle, since one of this field's founders was also a logic freak. FTP
name this branch of mathematics, proposed independently in different forms by Leibnitz and Newton.
[calculus]
P.J. O'Rourke described them as "trying to enforce the kind of propriety, the mores, that were usual in
American society, at every income level, 25 years ago ... But modem society has become so lawless and screwy
that they have had to start a street gang to teach people decorum." FTP name this allegedly nonviolent vigilante
group, founded by Curtis Sliwa, whose uniform is topped by a red beret.
[the Guardian Angels]
The word is Hebrew for "circuit". It was the name of a city in Manasseh assigned to the family of
Gershon in the Old Testament, as well as part of the plateau of Barshan between Mt. Hermon and the Wadi el-

Yarmuk east of the Jordan. Because Syrian artillery routinely shelled Israel from the hills there, Israel has kept
the portion that it seized during the Six Day War. FTP name this small occupied territory.
[Golan or Golan Heights]
The term was introduced in 1878 by Wilhelm Friedrich Kuhne. James Batcheller Sumner was the first
to crystallize a pure one, jackbean urease, in 1926. FTP name this class of conjugated proteins that serve as
biochemical catalysts. [enzyme(s)]
He's reputed to haunt the house in New York's Hudson Valley where Alan Jay Lerner stayed while
writing My Fair Lady. Although embarrassed by the losses at Paoli's Massacre and the confusion at
Germantown, he drew praise for his roles in the battles of Three Rivers, Brandywine, Monmouth, and Stony
Point. More cautious than his nickname implied, he returned to military service some years later and pacified
the Old Northwest. FTP name this Revolutionary War Hero, for whom a fort in northern Indiana was named.
[Anthony Wayne]
A tribal leader is banished for seven years for accidentally killing a kinsman. He returns to find his
village subject to colonial laws and Christian influence. The leader, Okonkwo, kills a British messenger but
finds his tribesmen will not support him and hangs himself in despair. FTP name this 1958 novel by Chinua
Achebe.
[Things Fall Apart]

BONI-- ROUND 12

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHA TTANOOGA

6.
Wes Craven's Scream may have the unintentional effect of launching a new wave of splatter movies,
which if history is any indication will mostly be bad. For 10 pts. each name these landmark splatter films:
(a) The surprise success of this 1978 John Carpenter film set in Haddonfield, Illinois, launched the biggest wave
of splatter films, most of which (including its three sequels) overlooked the fact that one reason it succeeded
was its unpredictable sense of timing.
[Halloween]
(b) This low-budget 1980 film, directed by Sean S. Cunningham, was a huge success despite its predictability
and launched an endless stream of progressively less plausible sequels. It would be useful for playing Six
Degrees of Kevin Bacon if any of the other cast members other than the aged Betsy Palmer had ever hilil
careers.
[Friday the Thirteenth]
(c) Wes Craven put two new twists on the genre in 1984 by giving the bad guy all the good lines and by putting
him inside people's dreams, making it possible to explain away almost anything. This one is worth watching if
for no other reason than to see Johnny Depp get killed.
[A Nightmare on Elm Street]
FTP each give the terms from church architecture from definitions:
(a) In a Roman basilica, the central aisle; in a church, the main section extending from the entrance to the
crossing
[nave]
(b) A semicircular area at the end of the church, usually containing the altar
[apse]
(c) In a religious institution, a courtyard with covered walks
[cloister]
TRA VELS WITH CHARliE: When Charlie crossed state lines while crossing the following rivers, for 5
pts. per state, name each of the two states involved.
(a) Wabash
[lllinois & Indiana]
(b) Big Sandy [Kentucky & West Virginia]
(c) Sabine
[Texas & Louisiana]
The dates 1607 and 1620 are ingrained in our memories, but 1609 deserves its share of glory as a major
year in the early exploration and settlement of the U.S. FTP each answer the following about 1609:
(a) He explored New York harbor and sailed up the river now named for him as far north as present-day Albany
[Henry or Hemik _Hudson--1
(b) Coming into present-day New York from the other direction, this Frenchman explored the lake on the New
York-Vermont border now named for him [Samuel de _Champlain--1
(c) The Spanish established this town in 1609, making it the second-oldest continuously inhabited European
settlement in the present-day U.S.
[Santa Fe]
Name the authors of these works with title characters, or character titles if you prefer, 5 pts. each:
(a) Lord Jim [Joseph Conrad]
(b) Uncle Vanya
[Anton Chekhov]
(c) Cyrano de Bergerac
[Edmond Rostand]
In addition to being devoted to the Koran, adherents of Islam are expected to worship Allah through the
Five Pillars. For 5 pts. each, name these required forms of observance.
[READER'S NOTE: accept close equivalents]
[Answers: 1) ~hahadah, or confession of faith, or the statement "There is no God but God, and
Muhammad is his prophet"
2) salat, or prayer five times daily while facing Mecca
3) the giving of alms
4) the keeping of the fast of Ramadan
5) haj, or making a pilgrimage to Mecca]

For an additional five points, give the English translation of the word "Islam".
[obedience or submission (to the will of Allah); accept close equivalents]
These scientific pioneers were all inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in the 1970's. For
10 pts. each name the man who:
(a) Developed applications of substances which polarized light and developed instant photography
[Edwin H. Land]
(b) Obtained 214 patents on various aspects of rocketry, including the first control mechanisms for rocket
guidance
[Robert H. Goddard]
(c) Developed, independently of Paul-Lou is-Toussaint Heroult, a cheap method of processing the previously
precious metal aluminum
[Charles M. Hall]
"What follows is based on actual occun-ences. Although much has been changed for rhetorical
purposes, it must be regarded in its essence as fact. However, it should in no way be associated with that great
body of factual information related to orthodox Zen Buddhist practice. It's not very factual on motorcycles
either." FTP each:
(a) Name the 1974 book which begins with the preceding author's note, subtitled "An Inquiry into Values."
[Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance]
(b) Second, name its reclusive author, who described the conflict between his values and his hometown, "In the
Far East the master is considered a living Buddha, but in Minneapolis they wonder why he doesn't have a job."
[Robert Pirsig]
(c) Finally, name the 1991 novel, subtitled "An Inquiry into Morals," in which Pirsig described "the
Metaphysics of QUality."
[Lila]
9.
It's more than a Buffett song or a Tommy Lee Jones film. Name each big volcano for the stated number
of points:
(a) 5 pts.: This Indonesian volcano may have had the most powerful eruption of modern times in 1883. Its
death toll of 37,000 was in part from the tidal waves it produced which slammed into heavily populated islands
nearby.
[Krakatau or Krakatoa]
(b) 10 pts.: The bigger of its two 1902 eruptions sent a deadly cloud of flaming gas which killed 29,000 on
[Mont _Pelee-1
Martinique, including all but one resident of the then-large city of St. Pierre.
(c) 15 pts.: On Sumbawa in Indonesia, its 1815 eruption is blamed for the deaths of 162,000 worldwide, most of
whom died of disease or famine caused by the altered weather in its aftermath.
[Mt. _ Tambora-1
Fill in the missing letter from these physics fOimulas for 10 pts. each, and specify whether it is capital or
power-case. If you need the name of the laws the equations express, you'll get only 5 pts.
(la) BLANK = fl
(lb) Law of wave motion
[capital W]
(2a) BLANK = VIR [read V over R]
(2b) Ohm's law
[capital I]
(3a) BLANK = hcll [read hc over 1]
(3b) The combination of the law of wave motion and the law of electromagnetic energy [capital E]
For the original Book of Lists, now-forgotten opera star Regina Resnik offered a list of her 10 favorite
operas of all time. Given one of those she chose, name the composer, 10 pts. each:
(a) Tristan und Isolde
[Richard Wagner]
(b) Peter Grimes
[Benjamin Britten]
(c) Boris Godunov
[Modest Mussorgsky]

For 10 pts. each, answer the following questions about the Dreyfuss affair:
(a) After his 1894 conviction for allegedly giving military secrets to the Germans, Dreyfuss was sent to this
notorious penal colony in French Guiana.
[Devil's Island]
(b) The handwriting on the incriminating memorandum actually belonged to this officer. [Major Esterhazy]
(c) After a military comt acquitted Esterhazy, this famed novelist wrote his famous "1' Accuse" letter, naming
the officers behing the framing of Dreyfuss and the subsequent cover-up.
[Emile Zola]

