Georgia High School State Championship
Armstrong State College
March 11-12, 1988
Written by Mike Decker and Tom Waters

Tossups
Fourteen

1. In "Little Shop of Horrors," Audrey II is a carnivorous plant that craves blood. For 10 points--what more elementary
substance does the Venus-flytrap extract from its victims?
Answer: Nitrogen
2. It certainly doesn't lack for length, elegance of diction, or a cast of famous characters. For 10 points--name this sixbook 16th century epic starring Venus, the Angel Gabriel, Adam and Eve, Despair, King Arthur, and the heroine Queen
Elizabeth.
Answer: The Faerie Queene
3. A surgeon who cuts into one is liable to be out of business, but a prospector who cuts into one has struck it rich. For 10
points--what one word identifies both an ore-bearing layer and a blood-carrying vessel?
Answer:..Ymn
4. She derived her stage name from the Australian city of her birth. For 10 points--name this soprano who, in turn, lent her
name to a type of toast and to a peach dessert?
Answer: Dame Nellie ~ (from Melbourne)
5. While a young postdoc at Gottingen, he developed a radically new mathematical formalism called "matrix mechanics."
In it, the classic equations of Newtonian mechanics were replaced by equations involving two-dimensional arrays of
numbers. For 10 points--this was the first indication of the genius and innovative ness of what German physicist who later
explained why we can never simultaneously know the position and velocity of any particle?
Answer: Werner Heisenberg
6. Tax evasion is not illegal in this country and its treaties with the United States exempt it from having to co-operate in
any investigation of activities not considered illegal there. Hence, U.S. tax evaders can stash their cash there with fear of
exposure. For 10 points--what is this nation of some 6 million, famous or notorious for its secret bank accounts?
Answer: Switzerland
7. Until the discovery of the Americas, world maps made in Europe invariably had this city located at the center of the
world. For 10 points--what is this capital city near the juncture of the three then-known continents?
Answer: Jerusalem
8. It was subtitled "A Peep at Polynesian Life." Published in 1846, it was Herman Melville's first novel. For 10 points--give
me the one-word title of this South Seas adventure.
Answer: Typee
9. The loss of weight an object seems·to incur when it is placed in a liquid is equal to the weight of the liquid it displaces.
For 10 points--who suddenly discovered this principle while taking a bath in the third century BC?
Answer: Archimedes .
10. Tourists to this northern Italian city might wish to visit the world famous opera house known as La Scala. at they might
want to visit the church which houses de Vinci's.famous fresco, The Last Supper. FTP--name this capital of Lombardy.
Answer: Mil9n
11. The U-2 caused an intemational controversy in 1960. For 10 points--what international incident was precipitated by
the U-20 in 1915?
Answer: Sinking of the Lusitania
12. He should have retired at the venerable age of 62 back in 1918 and lived off his glory as the "hero of Verdun." Instead,
he stayed in the military and the govemment and ended his days imprisoned in a lonely fortress on a tiny island in the
North Atlantic. For 10 points--who was this French national hero turned French national outcast and traitor?
Answer: Marshal [Henri-jPhilippe Emm (pay-TAN)
13. John Adams was staying at a Philadelphia inn in the fall of 1776 when he asked his roommate to close a window lest
they both catch cold. His roomie immediately launched into an extended lecture on the true causes of colds and
continued on and on until Adams finally fell asleep--with the window still open. For 10 points--who was Adams' longwinded, know-it-all roommate, fellow founding father, and America's leading experimental scientist?
Answer: Benjamin Franklin

14. China has one; Ohio has one; and Switzerland has 26 of them. For 10 points--what name is shared by these cities and
political divisions?
Answer: 1&otQn
15. The 1.986 Nobel Prize in Physics went to Emest Ruska for work he did in 1933. Such a 50-year gap is almost the norm
in Nobel Prizes, but the 1987 Physics Prize went to Alex Muller and Georg Bednorz for a discovery they made scarcely 12 .
months earlier--a discovery so big that the Nobel committee couldn't ignore it. For 10 points--what did they find a way to
induce at relatively high temperatures?
Answer: Superconductivity or Superconduction
16. He retired from public life with the reflection: "1 think I can retire to private life with the consciousness that I shall
receive from posterity the credit of having been elected to the highest possible position .. . without any of the cares and
responsibilities of the office." For 10 points--who was this New York governor who had the presidential election stolen from
him in early 1877?
Answer: Samuel J. Tilden
17. For almost 50 years, the federal government refused its applications to become a state, and it was not until January
of 1896 that it was admitted as the 45th state and then only after its constitution was rewritten to specifically forbid
polygamy. For 10 points--name this state.
Answer: Utah
18. William coined the phrase "stream of consciousness" while Henry employed the technique in his many novels. For 10
points--what was the last name of these brothers?
Answer: James
19. For a quick 10 points--what is the smallest two digit natural number that is a perfect cube?
Answer: 2I
20. Galileo and Newton are small and inconspicuous. Tycho, Copemicus, and Kepler have rays. In 1665 Robert Hooke
sought to explain them by dropping objects into wet plaster of Paris. For 10 points--what are these things?
Answer: Lunar ~ (or Equivalents)
21. Charles Dickens, visiting it in 1842, reported: "It is sometimes called the City of Magnificent Distances, but it might
with greater propriety be called the City of Magnificent Intentions [owing to its] spacious avenues that begin in nothing
and lead nowhere." For 10 points--name this now more populous city laid out by Pierre L'Enfant (Ion-FONT).
Answer: Washington, DC

