TOSSUPS - ROUND 14

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHA TTANOOGA

4.
The defeat of its Sicilian expedition by Gelon and Theron in 480 B.C. was overshadowed by the battle of
Salamis, reputedly fought on the same day. Its residents worshipped Melkart, Baal-Hammon, and Eshmoun and
practiced human sacrifice at least into the 1st century B.c. Capital of the Vandals after Gaiseric conquered it in
A.D. 439, it was retaken in 533 by Belisarius and ironically remained loyal to Rome until Arab conquest in the 7th
century. FTP name this North African port, Rome's principal rival until it was vanquished in the Punic Wars.
[Carthage]
She is the main character of Roberta Gellis' Roselynde Chronicles. Wooed unsuccessfully by Gwal, she
married Manawyddon after her first husband died. She had to do 7 years' penance because it was believed that
she'd killed her son, but the stolen child turned up as the adopted son of the great Teyrnon Twry Briant. FTP name
[Rhiannon]
this Celtic heroine, namesake of a megahit for Fleetwood Mac.
His best friend Olivier, blinded in battle, ironically struck the blow that reputedly killed him after their
betrayal by his stepfather Ganelon. Of course we can't be sure, since the version with these details, possibly by
Turold, takes a minor encounter with the Basques and elevates it to a grand battle against the Saracens. FTP name
the hero of the rearguard at the Battle of Roncesvalles, subject of one of the most famed medieval epics.
[Roland; accept Orlando or Hroutland]
6.
It was accepted by the New Yorker in 1947 without revision except for one clever request -- to change
the calendar date of the story's action to match the issue date, June 26. The few character names given in it are
carefully chosen -- Mr. Summers and Mr. Graves are in charge of the proceedings, and the old-timer who
regrets a few minor changes over the years is Old Man Warner. I haven't found any symbolism yet in the name
of Tessie Hutchinson, who draws the slip with the black spot. FTP name this chilling short story by Shirley
Jackson.
["The Lottery"]
7.
At his father's death he turned to a cousin, tears in his eyes, and said, "What is going to happen to me, to
you, to Xenia, to Alix, to mother, to all of Russia? I am not prepared to be tsar. I never wanted to become one. I
know nothing of the business of ruling." He then spent the next 23 years proving his point. FTP name the
ineffectual son of Alexander ITI, whose reign as tsar is remembered mainly because there hasn't been one since.
[Nicholas II]
8.
On Jan. 30, 1901, Dr. Humphrey Haines found one near Rorotua, New Zealand, that reached a height of
1500 feet. Named Waimangu, it became a popular tourist site until Aug. 1903, when it killed 4 people and knocked
their bodies half a mile away. That's a cautionary note for those who visit Steamboat in Wyoming, the largest
currently active, which only hits about 114 the height. FTP name this natural phenomena caused by the heat of
buried volcanic rocks, the most famous of which is "Old Faithful.".
[geyser]
10.
It's perhaps the deadliest battle to take place a day after the losers surrendered. 25 U.S. soldiers were killed,
mostly by friendly fire from the rifles and the powerful Hotchkiss guns. Their foes lost about 300, most of them
unarmed women and children. No one knows who fired the first shot as U.S. troops were disarming about 120
warriors of the Lakota Sioux on Dec. 29, 1890. FTP name this, the last major battle with the Plains Indians.
[Wounded Knee]
11.
A fanciful Disney version of his life showed him as the father of nine daughters, but we have no hard facts
about his family. We know he had a smile of Christian charity and was able to still the rising tumult. We know
there was ease in his manner, pride in his bearing, and a smile on his face. And though we have no idea where or
even when he was born or died, we do know he plied his trade in Mudville. FTP name the title character of Ernest
Lawrence Thayer's beloved baseball poem.
[the mighty Casey]

12.
Reputedly the bastard son of Talleyrand, he saw himself as anti-Romantic and disliked the work of
contemporaries Hugo, Balzac, and Berlioz. He only achieved acclaim late in life, long after he had painted both
his Medeas, Death of Sardanapalus, and Algerian Women at Home. FTP name the artist of the 1830
masterpiece Liberty on the Barricades.
[Eugene Delacroix]
13.
He designed cranes to drop lead weights on nearby enemy ships and demonstrated that a helical blade could
move water, thus inventing the propeller about 2,000 years before anyone found a way to use it for ship propulsion.
He may have invented the dry dock, designed a corkscrew-style water pump, improved the pulley, and made the
most accurate ancient calculation of pi. FTP name this man, who is also credited with the discovery of the principle
of buoyancy.
[Archimedes]
14.
The term first appeared labeling a bucket of tar in a Herblock cartoon. Ironically, its namesake was not
among the 4 Republican leaders pictured dragging the GOP elephant toward the tar. FTP give the term for the
discrediting of political opponents by claiming they had close ties to Communists, named for the Wisconsin senator
who perfected the technique.
[McCarthyism]
15.
This species of enterrous bacteria appear under the microscope as short rod cells and, when properly
stained, retain a pink color. They are covered in flagella which makes movement and entrance into a host very easy.
FTP, name this common bacteria whose harmful strains are found in tainted water supplies and mammalian feces
[Escherichia coli or E. coli]
and whose friendly, symbiotic strains can be found in the human gut.
16.
It was prompted by a series of papers presented to the Philological Society in 1857 by RC. Trench. lA.H.
Murray became its editor & charted a tough new course. The first volume appeared in 1884; it was dedicated to
Queen Victoria, but the last volume appeared two monarchs later in 1928. It had 252,259 entries, not counting
those in the supplements. FTP name this mammoth lexicon designed to encompass the entire formal and
substantive history of the English language.
[Oxford English Dictionary]
17.
It's used to make bubble chambers and flash lamps. Colorless, odorless, and tasteless, it forms compounds
with fluorine and oxygen. It was discovered in 1898 by Sir William Ramsay and Morris W . Travers, but then so
were most of the noble gases. This one shares its name with a famed New York disco and a good '80's pinball
game. FTP name this noble gas, atomic number 54.
[xenon]
18
His rap sheet included arrests in 1918 and in 1961 for pacifist demonstrations. He was disappointed by the
lukewarm reception of his last major philosophical work, Human Knowledge, but won the Nobel Prize for
Literature 2 years later. FTP name the author of Analysis of Mind, Mysticism and Logic, and The Problems of
Psychology, who also collaborated with Alfred North Whitehead on Principia Mathematica.
[Bertrand
Russell]
19.
To the west it's linked to Lake Maurepas through Pass Manchac. The Rigolets and Chef Menteur channels
connect it to the Gulf of Mexico, and the Bonnet Carre Spillway and Floodway diverts excess flow into from the
Mississippi. FTP name this brackish tidal lake north of New Orleans.
[Lake
Pontchartrain]
He and his mate actually live in a nearby park most of the year, so he has to be moved amid great pomp
and ceremony to his heated bunker at Gobbler's Knob each year for his moment in the sun. He doesn't always
appreciate being disturbed; his kind often hibernates until March. FTP name the 4-legged oracle of a small
Pennsylvania town, the dean of groundhogs.
[Punxsutawney Phil]

BONI -- ROUND 14

1998 DENNIS HASKINS OPEN, UT-CHATIANOOGA

FfP each name the French Romantic painters from works:

(a) Oath of the Horatii, Death of Marat
[Jacques Louis David]
(b) The Raft of the Medusa
[Theodore Gericault (pronounced Jericho)]
(c) Liberty Leading the People, The Death of Sardanapalus, Women of Algiers
[Eugene Delacroix]
5.
Given a former labor leader, for 10 points each, name the union with which he is best associated:
(a) John L. Lewis
[United Mine Workers or UMW; accept CIO, or Congress of Industrial Organizations]
[Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters]
(b) A. Philip Randolph
(c) Walter Reuther
[United Auto Workers or UA W]
10.
Let's talk about those other Elizabethan and Jacobean plays -- you know, the ones we KNOW
Shakespeare didn't write. Name the author or authors of the following for 10 pts. each::
[Ben Jonson]
(a) Volpone
[Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher]
(b) Philaster, or Love Lies a-Bleeding
[Christopher Marlowe]
(c) The Jew of Malta
Philosophy works with three-word titles are so much shorter to type for bonuses. For 10 pts. each, name the
authors of:
(a) I and Thou
[Martin Buber]
(b) Being and Time [Martin Heidegger]
(c) Fear and Trembling
[Soren Kierkegaard]
For each disease, tell whether the causing agent is a bacteria, a virus, or a fungus, 5 pts. each:
(a) Hepatitis [virus]
(b) Blastomycosis
[fungus]
(c) Measles
[virus]
(d) Lyme disease
[bacteria]
(e) Histoplasmosis
[fungus]
(f) Botulism [bacteria]
According to President Bush's 1992 State of the Union address, the U.S. soldiers who fought in Korea
helped win the Cold War and bring down Communism. This was news to those Koreans still under Communist
rule. Since Bush didn't recall much about that war, can you help him? Answer the following, 10 pts. each:
(a) The daring amphibious invasion here on Sept. 15, 1950, was code-named Operation Chromite.
North Koreans were caught off-guard because 28-foot tides here made such a landing a theoretical
impossibility.
[Inchon]
(b) This was the nickname for an ancient volcanic crater about 5 miles wide and rimmed by high hills.
Right along the eventual demarcation line, it was hotly contested for almost a year as UN forces tried to drive
North Korean artillery off its heights.
[the Punchbowl]
(c) One of the fiercest battles over control of the Punchbowl was for control of this nearby ridge, an
extension of Bloody Ridge. In the autumn of 1951 it took American and French troops nearly six weeks to
secure it.
[Heartbreak Ridge]
Back before the dispute between CART and the Indianapolis Speedway, many people actually cared who won
the Indy 500. Given multiple years, name the Indy 500 winner, 10 pts. each:
[_AI Unser_; do not accept Al Unser Jr.]
(a) 1970, 1971, 1978, 1987
(b) 1961, 1964, 1967, 1977
[A.J. Foyt]
(c) 1974, 1976, 1980
[Johnny Rutherford]

11.
Name yet another prominent intellectual who fled Germany after Hitler's rise in 1933, 30-20-10:
(a) He'd probably have fled anyway, but his 1932 completion of the libretto for the ultimately unfinished opera
Moses undAron must have sealed the deal. His pupils included Berg, Webern, and Cage.
(b) His early works include "Verklarte Nacht" ("Transfigured night") and "Gurrelieder" ("Songs of Gurra"), the
instrumentation for which included 10 horns and a length of iron chain. In some later works, such as the "Ode
to Napoleon," he reestablished a certain contact with tonality.
(c) He invented the musical composition technique called serialism, used in his atonal works such as
"Erwartung" ("Expectation") and "PielTot Lunaire."
[Arnold Schoenberg]

