Georgia High School State Championship
Armstrong State College
March 11-12, 1988
Written by Mike Decker and Tom Waters

Tossups
Fifteen

1. A baseball pitcher, winding up for a pitch, shows the wide range of motion that this type of joint permits. For 10 points-- .
what type of joint connects the arm to the shoulder and the legs to the hips?
Answer: .65ill and ~
2. As he once put it: "I choose to be a plain New Hampshire farmer! With an income in cash of, say, a thousand! From, say,
a publisher in New York City! At present I am living in Vermont." For 10 points--who was this New Englander who affected a
plain, rustic exterior while doing very well by those New York City publishers who published his poems?
Answer: Robert~
3. The poet Ovid lived there until 8 AD when Augustus sent him into exile. Napoleon lived there in exile until 1815 when he
escaped to France. For 10 points--what is this small Mediterranean island?
Answer: .ElQg
4. He was a conservative Republican president who refused renomination and almost certain re-election in order to
devote the rest of his life to prison reform and increasing educational opportunities for Southern blacks. Unfortunately,
history largely remembers him for the likely crooked way party partisans secured his election . For 10 points--who was
he?
Answer: Rutherford B. ~
5. Mercury, when spilled on a laboratory bench, forms tiny spherical drops which are difficult to retrieve. This is an
indication of the strength of intermolecular attractive forces in mercury. For 10 points--what term identifies this elastic-like
force?
Answer: Surface Tension
6. In May of 1976, Princess Margaret was divorced from her husband Lord Snowden--the first divorce in the royal family in
quite some time. For 10 points--who was the last previous royal to get divorced--back in the 16th century?
Answer: Henry VIII
,
7. It was first located in 1831 on the northernmost extension of North America, the Boothia Peninsula. For 10 points--what
is this point called?
Answer. North Magnetic Pole
8. Scientists think that at one time it secreted an enzyme that helped to digest the walls of plant cells. It has apparently
lost all functions and is now the typical vestigial organ. For 10 points--what is it?
Answer: Appendix
9. He was, ironically, of Jewish descent himself. In 1492 he persuaded Ferdinand and Isabella to expel Spain's Jews. For
10 points--name this grand inquisitor who sent about 2,000 people to the stake.
Answer: Tomas de Torguemada
10. LIke other vitamins, this one is necessary for good health, but there can be too much of a good thing. Polar bear liver,
for instance, is so rich in this fat-soluble vitamin that it is deadly poisonous to humans. For 10 points--what is this vitamin
which prevents night blindness?
Answer. Vitamin Aor Retinol
11. A set contains five elements. For 10 points--how many subsets does the set have?
Answer: ~(which is 2 to the fifth power)
12. W.E.B. DuBois was well endowed with initials but manages only a poor second to this earlier writer who initialed
himself "O.F.O.F.W.W." For 10 points--who was this 19th century Irishman who wrote The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Answer. Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde
13. In 1988, protesting students shut down a Washington, DC college campus and promised to continue the take-over
until another new college president was named. Their complaint was that the newly selected president couldn't speak
their language--Ameslan, or American Sign Language. For 10 points--name this premier college for the deaf.
Answer. Gallaudet College

14. For periods of varying length, money used in America was coined in silver or gold, or backed by paper notes and
federal bank deposits. The commodity which has so far had the longst run as an American medium of exchange is not
minted or printed, but planted, picked, and cured. For 10 points--what is this long-time southern cash crop?
Answer: Tobacco
15. Crane and Company of Dalton, Massachusetts is the exclusive manufacturer of a type of paper which consists of
75% cotton and 25% linen; which is .0042 to .0045 inches thick; and which is permeated with tiny blue and red fibers. For
10 pints--what does the government use this paper for?
Answer: To Make ~ or Paper Currency
16. In 1984 the British journal The Guardian proclaimed that a certain Mr. Arnold Arnold had finally succeeded in doing
what Euler, Lagrange, Gauss, and Poincare had failed to do. The claim was soon proved false but briefly excited the
sedate world of pure mathematics which continues to try to prove that X to the N power plus Y to the N power equals Z to
the N power ~if N equals two. For 10 points--what name is given to this troublesome theorem?
Answer: &!:!nm's Last (or Lost) Theorem
17. In 1307 he was arrested for threatening the governor's life, saved that same governor's life while en route to prison,
escaped the clutches of the law, and then killed the governor in an ambush. Such is the second most famous tale about-for 10 points--what legendary Swiss patriot?
Answer: William Th1!
18. In Japan, this crime can include advocating that Japan go to war with any other country. In Britain, it includes any
sexual attack on the wife or eldest unmarried daughter of the king. In the United States, it is constitutionally and narrowly
limited in scope. For 10 points--what is this crime against one's country?
Answer: Treason
19. His second most famous line, delivered in his most famous speech, reads: "The humblest citizen of all the land, when
clad in the armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the hosts of error!" For 10 points--who delivered this line before
the 1896 Democratic Convention?
Answer: William Jennings ~
20. The Tamil word for "sauce" is used in English not just for a certain kind of sauce but for that combination of spices
used by the Tamils to flavor their foods: cumin, coriander, cayenne, and turmeric. For 10 points--what is this word
essential to much of Indian cookery?
Answer:~

21. This curious term has been used to refer both to old-time southern Democrats who would loyally vote the straight
party ticket no matter who (or what) was on it and to a now-illegal type of labor contract in which a worker had to pledge not
to join a union. For 10 points--what is this colorful two-word term?
Answer: Yellow Dog

