PACE NSC 2012
Round 19: Finals 1
Tossups
1. One of this character's friends sees a man spitting off a bridge and immediately hires that man,
Planchet, to be this character's servant. This character is shot in the throat at Maastricht and dies
shortly after receiving a promotion. He develops a rivalry with the "Man from Meung," who steals
his introduction letter and is revealed to be the Comte de (*) Rochefort. He and his landlord's wife
Constance Bonancieux convey diamonds from the Queen to the Duke of Buckingham, despite the
interference of Milady de Winter. This character’s namesake romances include the novel The Vicomte de
Bragelonne, which ends with The Man in the Iron Mask. For 10 points, name this character who befriends
Athos, Porthos and Aramis in The Three Musketeers.
ANSWER: D'Artagnan [or Charles Ogier de Batz de Castelmore, Comte d'Artagnan]
<Bentley>

2. This composer created a “mike tone” by having the trombone play above the clarinet for a song he
composed with Benny Bigard. At the 1956 Newport Jazz Festival, Paul Gonsalves played a solo for 27
choruses during one of this composer's songs, reviving his career. This composer of “Diminuendo
and Crescendo in Blue” and (*) “Sophisticated Lady” featured Johnny Hodges and Juan Tizol in his
band, whose signature tune was co-written with Billy Strayhorn. His orchestra played at the Cotton Club
from 1927 to 1931, performing standards such as his "Mood Indigo." For 10 points, name this pianist and
bandleader who wrote the standards “Take the A Train” and “It Don't Mean a Thing (If It Ain't Got That
Swing).”
ANSWER: Edward Kennedy “Duke” Ellington
<Gioia>

3. In spectroscopy, thermal motion of particles causes line broadening via this effect. Within an
optical trap, this effect can be used to cool atoms; that setup is used to create Bose-Einstein
condensates. At relativistic speeds, this effect's namesake factor is the Lorenz gamma times the
quantity one minus v divided by the speed of light. Special relativity predicts a transverse version of
it. At lower speeds, the wave (*) velocity is added or subtracted from the receiver or source speed in the
numerator and denominator, respectively, of the factor multiplying the frequency. For 10 points, identify
this effect in which the relative motion of the emitter and observer causes a shift in the observed frequency
of a wave.
ANSWER: Doppler effect
<Mukherjee>

4. The concept of “deferred action” was used to explain away the horribly botched facial surgery
endured by one of these figures. Another of them was a Russian emigrant whose name derived from
the stark-white figures he observed in a tree outside his window. One of these figures witnessed a
carriage overturn in a park, leading his reactions to clattering noises to be bizarrely blamed on large
horse (*) genitalia. These individuals included the “Wolf Man,” a boy called “Little Hans,” and Anna O.,
and they were used to illustrate concepts like repression, castration anxiety, and thanatos by the author of
Civilization and its Discontents and The Interpretation of Dreams. For 10 points, name these figures who
were treated and used as case studies by the Austrian founder of psychoanalysis.
ANSWER: patients of Sigmund Freud [accept all reasonable equivalents like “clients,” “subjects,” “case
studies,” etc. as long as the answer has Freud in it; accept The Interpretation of Dreams or just Sigmund
Freud before "these figures"]
<Ray>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 1 of 14

5. An attempt to tax fruit by this city's Spanish rulers led to the rebellion of Masaniello. A later
rebellion here involved this city liberating itself from Nazi occupation in a namesake “four days.”
This city, where the rulers were supported by the lower-class Lazzaroni, was where Emma Hamilton
met Horatio Nelson during Nelson’s mission against the (*) Parthenopean Republic here. Later in the
Napoleonic era, this home of the Camorra was ruled by Joseph Bonaparte and Joachim Murat. This target
of Garibaldi’s Expedition of the Thousand was the seat of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. For 10 points,
name this Italian city in the environs of Vesuvius.
ANSWER: Naples [or Napoli]
<Weiner>

6. This god's daughter once used a love charm to make Io fall in love with Zeus and was transformed
into a wryneck as punishment. This god swore off all clothes after being kicked by Hercules, who was
dressed as Omphale, out of their bedroom. He spread his namesake frenzy among a group of
shepherds, who tore Echo limb from limb after she ran away from this god. In a contest judged by
Timolus, (*) Midas grew ass's ears by ruling in favor of this god against Apollo. River nymphs transformed
his love interest Syrinx into some reeds, from which this god fashioned a musical instrument. He is equated
with the Roman Faunus, had goat legs, and loved to play the pipes. For 10 points, name this son of Hermes,
a satyr.
ANSWER: Pan [or Faunus before mentioned]
<Mukherjee>

7. Jerry Pournelle wrote, “it’s raining soup, and [this politician] has the blueprints for soup bowls”
in his preface to this man’s manifesto “Window of Opportunity.” This man praised zoos in A Nation
Like No Other and chronicled Pope John Paul II’s role in ending communism in the film Nine Days
that Changed the World. Attack ads against this man by Restore Our Future used footage from a
global warming commercial he made with Nancy Pelosi. He produced two (*) Restoring God in
America films with his wife Callista, and he has been attacked for serving as an advisor for Freddie Mac.
For 10 points, name this unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination who was once Speaker of
the House.
ANSWER: Newton Leroy “Newt” Gingrich [or Newton Leroy McPherson]
<Bentley>

8. In one novel set in this city, the title character eyes a woman who reminds him of his dead wife
Minna Davis during an earthquake. Post Office, Factotum, and Ham on Rye are among the works
about a native of this city named Henry Chinaski. The "Burning" of this city is painted by Tod
Hackett, who befriends Homer Simpson in another novel set in this city. Kathleen Moore become the
mistress of (*) Monroe Stahr in another novel set here. This setting of Nathanael West's The Day of the
Locust is also the home of Philip Marlowe, who appears in The Big Sleep. For 10 points, name this city
home to Charles Bukowski, also the setting of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The Last Tycoon, which centers on a
movie executive in Hollywood.
ANSWER: Los Angeles, California [or L.A.; accept Hollywood until it is read]
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 2 of 14

9. This country was home to the city of Cuscatlán, built by the Pipil people. The dissatisfaction of
indigo planters led men like Manuel Jose Acre and Jose Matias Delgado to organize an independence
movement in this nation. The Fourteen Families in this country presided over its switch to a coffee
economy. Men like Jose Maria Lemus and Oscar Osorio took power here in the Majors’ Revolution,
and it fought its eastern neighbor in the (*) Soccer War. The assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero
sparked a civil war in this country in the 1980s. For 10 points, fighting between Jose Napoleon Duarte and
the FMLN occurred in what small Central American country?
ANSWER: El Salvador
<Bentley>

10. Some cells in this organ develop from the ultimobrachial body, and dysgenesis of this organ is
linked to Pax8 mutations. This organ descends through the foramen cecum during development.
Granulomas appear in this organ in De Quervain’s disease. In another disease, anti-peroxidase
antibodies attack this organ. Exophthalmos, or eye-popping, is a symptom of overstimulation of this
organ, whose main product is cleaved from colloid and is secreted by (*) follicular cells. C cells in this
organ secrete a peptide that opposes the action of PTH, called calcitonin. The main product of this organ is
created by fusing two molecules of tyrosine together and adding iodine, which is why iodine deficiency
causes goiter. For 10 points, name this gland in the neck.
ANSWER: thyroid
<Mukherjee>

11. This author wrote a story hinging on the Zhuangzi-esque question of whether a victim of a
motorcycle accident dreams he is a Moteca Indian, or vice-versa. In another story by this author of
"The Night Face-Up," Roberto Michel sees a middle-aged woman trying to seduce a young boy in an
old photograph he took. That story, "Las Babas del Diablo", was adapted into Michelangelo (*)
Antonioni's film Blow-Up. The infant Rocamadour dies in his most famous novel, which describes Serpent
Club member Horacio Oliveira's search for La Maga and begins with a "Table of Instructions" on how to
proceed through its chapters, 99 of which are "expendable". For 10 points, name this Argentine author of
Rayuela, or Hopscotch.
ANSWER: Julio Cortazar [or Jules Florencio Cortazar]
<Bollinger>

12. One of these pieces begins with a melody whose series of dissonant minor seconds make it seem
like the pianist is playing the wrong notes. In the second of these pieces, the right hand's third,
fourth, and fifth fingers play rapid chromatic passages. They are collected in their composer's Opus
10 and Opus 25, and include pieces nicknamed "Ocean" and (*) "Winter Wind." They were the first
piano pieces of their type to become concert pieces rather than simple technical challenges. The twelfth of
them was inspired by an 1830 uprising in their composer's home country and is nicknamed
"Revolutionary." For 10 points, name these studies for piano written by a Romantic Polish composer.
ANSWER: Frederic Chopin’s etudes [prompt on partial answer; prompt on Frederic "Chopin's studies",
"studies", or equivalents]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 3 of 14

13. The OSCAR dataset maps these entities, which are responsible for mixing isopynic parcels via
cabbeling. Stommel showed that their “westward intensification” was due to gradients in the Coriolis
force. The total flux due to these phenomena is measured in Sverdrups. One driving force for them is
variations in temperature and salt concentration; those differences drive (*) upwellings and
downwellings. Wind forcing results in net transport via these entities at 90 degrees to the wind direction, a
process called Ekman transport. Sediment buildup causes the “turbidity” type of these entities. Examples of
another form of these entities include the Kuroshio, North Equatorial, and Antarctic circumpolar. For 10
points, name these flows of water through the Earth’s oceans.
ANSWER: oceanic currents [accept oceanic circulation; prompt on "flow" or "ocean flow"; prompt on
anything that implies water is moving]
<Mukherjee>

14. A "pseudo-" version of this author is known as "the Old Oligarch." One of his works has a
section about the fictional King Abradatas and tells of how its subject diverted a river to attack
Babylon. Another of his works has an episode in which the protagonists cry "Thalatta! Thalatta!"
after finding the Black Sea. One of his works was an early example of the "mirrors for princes"
genre, a biography entitled the (*) Cyropaedia. Another of his works details how several officers were
killed after going to Tissaphernes' feast, and how the protagonists won the Battle of Cunaxa on behalf of
Cyrus the Younger. For 10 points, name this historian who detailed the Expedition of the Ten Thousand in
his Anabasis.
ANSWER: Xenophon
<Mukherjee>

15. On one holy day honoring this figure, followers offer bael-tree leaves and cold water, or draw
three stripes of ash across their foreheads to commemorate the digging of the Well of Wisdom, or
Jnana Vapi, in his holiest temple. This deity detected a fellow god’s lie about reaching the end of an
infinitely-tall tower of fire, since he was actually the tower, and removed the fifth (*) head from that
liar, Brahma. Often depicted crushing a dwarf with one foot in the air, he is worshiped using stump-like
structures called lingams. Though not Neptune, he wears a crescent moon in his matted hair and wields a
trident. For 10 points, name this consort of Parvati who can incinerate others by opening his third eye, a
Hindu Trumurti member and destroyer god.
ANSWER: Shiva [accept Siva; accept Maha Shivaratri until “this figure” is read]
<Jackson>

16. This poet wonders "what made fatuous sunbeams toil / To break earth’s sleep at all?" in a work
beginning "Move him into the sun." The speaker of another of his poems asks, "What candles may
be held to speed them all?" before asserting that the "holy glimmers of goodbyes" will shine "not in
the hands of boys but in their eyes." This poet of "Futility" described the "shrill, demented choirs of
wailing (*) shells" in a sonnet that asks "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?" In another poem,
he wrote of an "ecstasy of fumbling" prompted by a gas attack which left a man "guttering, choking,
drowning." For 10 points, name this poet of "Anthem for Doomed Youth" who decried "the old Lie" in
"Dulce et Decorum Est" and died in World War I.
ANSWER: Wilfred Edward Salter Owen
<Gioia>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 4 of 14

17. In his work in this discipline, Aristotle considered a sea battle that happened in the distant past in
formulating his own "master argument." Another work in this field analyzes the doctrines of being,
essence, and concept. Residues and concomitant variations are two of five of Mill's methods in this
field. The creation of possible worlds by adding qualifiers, like adding the word "usually" to "Eric is
sad," is the province of the (*) "modal" form of it. One law in this field postulates the excluded middle.
DeMorgan's laws apply to the operators in this field, which uses a construction made up of a major
premise, a minor premise, and a conclusion. For 10 points, name this field of philosophy that uses the
syllogism and is concerned with deductive reasoning.
ANSWER: logic [accept word forms]
<Neithalath>

18. One member of this group went on to found the Death Valley Chamber of Commerce. Their
targets included a man who was trying to sell a used radio, Steven Parent; the heir to the Folger
Coffee fortune; and hair stylist Jay Sebring. A different member of this group was, along with Sarah
Jane Moore, one of two women who attempted to (*) assassinate Gerald Ford in 1975. This group was
exposed when Susan Atkins bragged about their killings to another inmate and was put on trial in a 1970
spectacle which included Lynette Fromme protesting outside the courthouse with swastikas carved into her
forehead. For 10 points, name this cult which found secret messages in Beatles songs, especially "Helter
Skelter," and killed actress Sharon Tate in 1969, among eight others.
ANSWER: the Family [or the Manson Family; or the Mansons]
<Weiner>

19. This artist painted a dwarf with extra-long fingers named Achille Emperaire. This artist of
Pyramid of Skulls placed apples around an armless statue in his Still Life with Cherub. A man in a
black coat with his back to the viewer looks at a nude and her black servant in a work exhibited
alongside this man’s House of the Hanged Man. Besides A (*) Modern Olympia, he painted trees
forming a triangle above a group of nude women in The Large Bathers. He also executed numerous
versions of Card Players. He painted several landscapes of a mountain visible from his house in Provence.
For 10 points, name this French post-impressionist and proto-cubist fond of painting Mont Sainte-Victoire.
ANSWER: Paul Cezanne
<Bentley>

20. This substance comes in “white fuming” and “red fuming” varieties at 16 molar concentration. It
is commonly mixed with water at 68% concentration, at which it forms an azeotrope. Modern
methods of producing pure forms of this strong oxidizing agent involve dehydrating the product with
sulfuric acid and bubbling the reactant through hydrogen peroxide instead of water. Its large-scale
production is done by mixing five equivalents of diatomic oxygen with four equivalents of (*)
ammonia in the presence of a platinum/rhodium catalyst in the Ostwald process. Its pKa is approximately
negative 1, and mixing it with hydrochloric acid gives aqua regia. For 10 points, name this compound with
formula HNO3, a very strong acid.
ANSWER: nitric acid [accept HNO3 or nitrate before mention; prompt after]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 5 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 19: Finals 1
Tiebreakers
21. This man names a phenomenon that charged particles undergo when repeatedly reflected by a
magnetic mirror, his namesake acceleration. In a semiconductor, he names the energy of the highest
occupied quantum state. The probability of a quantum eigenstate transition is given by his "Golden
Rule". This man’s theory of beta decay posited the creation of a neutrino via the weak force. With
(*) Dirac, this scientist names the distribution followed by particles of half-integer spin, which also carry
his name. This man discovered several new elements by irradiation with slow neutrons, and he names
element number 100. For 10 points, name this Italian physicist who created the first self-sustaining nuclear
chain reaction and participated in the Manhattan Project.
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi
<Mukherjee>

22. In one battle in this war, James Hope Grant’s forces captured the Eight-Mile Bridge, and in
another, the USS San Jacinto destroyed the Pearl River Forts. One side intervened in this war due to
the execution of August Chapdelaine. Lord Elgin burned the Summer Palaces during this conflict.
After this conflict, the Office of Foreign Affairs was created as part of the (*) Self-Strengthening
Movement by Prince Gong. This conflict began after a Red Ensign was taken down after the Arrow was
boarded, which violated the Treaty of Nanking. For 10 points, name this conflict between China and a
British-French alliance, the second in a series of conflicts to ensure a certain narcotic could be exported.
ANSWER: Second Opium War [prompt on "Opium War" till "second", accept after; accept Second
Anglo-Chinese War or Second China War before "China", prompt after; accept Arrow War till "Arrow",
prompt after; accept Anglo-French expedition to China till "China", prompt after]
<Mukherjee>

23. This character is forced to manage a garden for two years before escaping his enslavement by the
Salé Rovers with the boy Xury. After this character discovers in Lisbon that he has accrued a fortune
from Mr. Wells profitably managing his sugar plantation in Brazil, he crosses the Pyrenees, where he
is attacked by wolves during a snowstorm. This character convinces a man who worships (*)
Benamuckee to call him "master." He meets a parrot named Poll and discovers a mysterious single
footprint in a place dubbed "Despair" and found near the mouth of the Orinoco. While on that island, this
character fights off cannibals with the help of Friday. For 10 points, name this Alexander Selkirk-inspired
stranded sailor, the title character of a Daniel Defoe novel.
ANSWER: Robinson Crusoe [accept either underlined portion]
<Gioia>

24. This leader is tricked into signing a peace treaty with the Gibeonites and orders the execution of
Achan for illegally taking plunder. He is commanded to hold out his javelin towards the city of Ai, a
sign that the city will fall into his people’s hands. Along with Caleb, he is the only scout to give a
positive report regarding the invasion of (*) Canaan. This leader sent in spies to one city, where they met
a prostitute named Rahab. In one battle, this man defeated the Amorites after praying for the sun to stand
still. He instructed his priests to blow trumpets during his defeat of Jericho. For 10 points, name this man,
whose namesake book describes his leadership of the Israelites after Moses.
ANSWER: Joshua [or Y’hoshua or Hoshea]
<Cheyne>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 6 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 19: Finals 1
Bonuses
1. Because this man ascribed heresies to the teachings of philosophers like Plato and Aristotle, he is often
regarded as an exemplar of the anti-intellectualism of the early Church. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Carthaginian author, perhaps best known for originating the term "trinity."
ANSWER: Tertullian [or Quintus Septimius Florens Tertullianus]
[10] The trinity posed some problems regarding the deity of Christ, the chief concern of this first
ecumenical council, convoked by Constantine the Great in 325. Despite popular misconceptions, it had
nothing to do with determining the canon.
ANSWER: First Council of Nicaea [no need to prompt on Nicaea, but do not accept "Second Council of
Nicaea"]
[10] Books like Tobit and Judith are considered to be canon by this Christian community found in Egypt.
ANSWER: Coptic Christianity [or Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria]
<Gupta>

2. Identify the following about some equestrian statues, for 10 points each.
[10] This work by the Rococo sculptor Etienne Maurice Falconet sees the title Russian figure and his steed
standing on a gigantic boulder known as the “Thunder Stone.”
ANSWER: The Bronze Horseman [or the Equestrian Statue of Peter the Great; or the Copper
Horseman]
[10] Gutzon Borglum’s equestrian statue of Philip Sheridan is located in Washington, D.C., but Borglum is
better known for this landmark located in the Black Hills of South Dakota.
ANSWER: Mount Rushmore National Memorial
[10] This Renaissance artist created the Funerary Monument to Sir John Hawkwood, which was painted to
look like it was an equestrian statue. Another of his paintings depicts Niccolò da Tolentino on horseback
during a battle.
ANSWER: Paolo Uccello [or Paolo di Dono]
<Bentley>

3. During this era, a period of economic expansion and the flourishing of the arts took place in its Genroku
Period. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this government that was ended by an era of rapid industrialization called the Meiji
restoration. Ieyasu was its first leader.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate [or Tokugawa Period; or Edo Period; or Tokugawa Bafuku; or Edo
Bafuku]
[10] The Tokugawa Shogunate began after the defeat of forces loyal to Toyotomi Hideyori at this 1600
battle. Ishida Mitsunari was a losing commander here.
ANSWER: Battle of Sekigahara [or Battle of the Sundered Realm]
[10] The Tokugawa shogunate had a policy of persecuting these people. Amakusa Shiro led an uprising of
peasants, most of whom were these people, in the Shimabara Rebellion.
ANSWER: Christians [or Kirishitan; accept Roman Catholic but no other denomination]
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 7 of 14

4. This state's northernmost county, Aroostook, was the subject of an 1830s “war” resolved by the
Webster-Ashburton Treaty. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state, which contains Speckled Mountain in the eastern section of the White Mountain
National Forest.
ANSWER: Maine
[10] Cadillac Mountain, named for an 18th-century French explorer, rises on Mount Desert Island in this
Maine national park.
ANSWER: Acadia National Park
[10] This peak in Baxter State Park is Maine's highest point and the northern end of the Appalachian Trail.
ANSWER: Mount Katahdin
<Hoppes>

5. This process occurs when a neutron collides with the nucleus of a heavy atom, and reactors that use it
have graphite control rods that absorb neutrons. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this process that occurs in nuclear reactors, in which a heavy atom is split into lighter ones.
ANSWER: nuclear fission
[10] This value, which is calculated from the density, fudge factor, cross section, and number of scattering
events, is the minimum amount of fissile material required for a nuclear chain reaction.
ANSWER: critical mass
[10] This is the mass of the fissile isotope of uranium. It makes up less than one percent of naturally
occurring uranium, which is why enrichment is important.
ANSWER: 235
<Mukherjee>

6. The protagonist of this novel uses the memory of his lazy father Unoka as motivation to excel and gains
renown after defeating Amalinze the Cat in a wrestling match. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1958 novel by Chinua Achebe. It tells of the life and eventual suicide of the village leader
Okonkwo and takes its title from Yeats’s “The Second Coming”.
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
[10] Okonkwo, like Akunna and Ogbuefi Ezeudu, is a clan leader in this Igbo village. Many of its residents,
including Okonkwo’s son Nwoye, are converted to Christianity by Mr. Brown.
ANSWER: Umuofia
[10] Okonkwo commits “nso-ani” by engaging in this action during the Week of Peace, for which he is
fined a length of cloth and one hundred cowries.
ANSWER: beating his third wife Ojiugo [or beating Ojiugo; accept synonyms for “beating” and prompt
on partial answers]
<Carson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 8 of 14

7. A Roman philosopher who took his surname from this school of thought was the first to formulate the
regress argument. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this school of thought, which contends that all knowledge comes from experience. It is the
cornerstone of the philosophy of science due to its emphasis on experimental evidence.
ANSWER: empiricism [or word forms]
[10] Different truths-by-themselves can be derived because empiricism is incompatible with the traditional
analytic/synthetic distinction according to this thinker's Two Dogmas of Empiricism.
ANSWER: Willard van Orman Quine
[10] Quine also argued that any number of hypotheses about how to perform this action may be defended,
thus leading to its indeterminacy. Walter Benjamin argued that the "task" of the person doing it is to aspire
to "pure language."
ANSWER: translation [or word forms]
<Neithalath>

8. Philip II upholds Juan Crespo's decision to execute an army captain who had abducted his daughter
Isabel in this man's play The Mayor of Zalamea. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this seventeenth-century dramatist who depicted the unusual effects of an isolated childhood
on Seigusmundo, the son of the King of Poland, in his play La Vida es Sueño, or Life is a Dream.
ANSWER: Pedro Calderon de la Barca [or Pedro Calderon de la Barca y Barreda Gonzalez de Henao
Ruiz de Blasco y Riaño]
[10] Calderon, like the Culteranist poet Luis de Gongora and his Conceptist rival Francisco de Quevedo, is
an author from the "Golden Age" of literature in this Iberian country.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]
[10] This Spanish author invented the term "nivola" to describe his works that were not quite novels, such
as Niebla and San Manuel Bueno, Martir. He also wrote philosophical works like The Tragic Sense of Life.
ANSWER: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo
<Carson>

9. This phylum's members alternate between a motile medusa stage and a sessile polyp stage, and during
development they only have two germ layers bound by a mesoglea. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phylum of simple animals which includes hydras, jellyfish, and sea anemones.
ANSWER: cnidarians
[10] Cnidarians lack this middle germ layer, which in humans is sandwiched between the ectoderm and
endoderm and develops into the connective tissues and muscles of the body.
ANSWER: mesoderm
[10] A common model organism used to study development is this amphibian, which is useful due to its
large oocytes. The gray crescent appears on the dorsal side of its embryo during gastrulation.
ANSWER: Xenopus laevis [or X laevis or African clawed frog; prompt on "frog"]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 9 of 14

10. Identify the following about tanks, for 10 points each.
[10] The first combat use of tanks was at the village of Flers during this World War I battle, which also
included the South African defense of Delville Wood.
ANSWER: Battle of the Somme [or Somme offensive]
[10] Although around a thousand of the second iteration of these German tanks were used in the Invasion
of Poland, Allied tanks with 50 or 75 millimeter weapons started rendering that iteration ineffective.
ANSWER: Panzer Tank [or Panzerkampfwagen]
[10] 1961 saw a tank standoff at this German border crossing. Peter Fechter’s body was stranded here a
year later, and it’s now home to the Allied Museum.
ANSWER: Checkpoint Charlie [prompt on "Berlin Wall"]
<Bentley>

11. One leader of this place, Ilus, was blinded when the Palladium was sent to earth. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this city whose walls were built by Poseidon and Apollo.
ANSWER: Troy
[10] The first king of Troy was this son of Ilus, under whose rule the walls of Troy were built. He was
killed by Heracles after refusing to give up his magic horses.
ANSWER: Laomedon
[10] This son of Priam and abductor of Helen was exposed on a hillside as a child. During the Trojan War,
he managed to kill Achilles with an arrow.
ANSWER: Paris
<Mukherjee>

12. This symphony calls for eight trumpets, eight French horns, seven trombones, three different choirs,
and an organ. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this symphony, whose second part is based on the final scene from Faust, Part Two. It begins
with a setting of the hymn "Veni, creator spiritus."
ANSWER: Symphony No. 8 in E-flat Major [or “Symphony of a Thousand”]
[10] The "Symphony of a Thousand" was written by this Austrian composer of The Song of the Earth,
whose second symphony is nicknamed "Resurrection."
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
[10] Mahler’s score also calls for this keyboard instrument that produces sound by striking metal bars.
Tchaikovsky featured it in his “Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy.”
ANSWER: celesta [or celeste]
<Thompson>

13. Answer the following about Anthony Ashley Cooper, the 7th Earl of Shaftesbury, for 10 points each.
[10] Shaftesbury was a political ally of this prime minister, who commanded the force that defeated
Napoleon Bonaparte at the Battle of Waterloo
ANSWER: Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington [accept either underlined portion]
[10] In 1832 Shaftesbury opposed the first two of these acts that expanded British suffrage, on the grounds
that they would cause class warfare.
ANSWER: Reform Acts [or Reform Bills]
[10] Shaftesbury pushed for an 1875 act banning this form of child labor after the death of George
Brewster. Workers in this profession were prone to a type of skin cancer of the scrotum, suffocation, and
bone deformities.
ANSWER: chimney-sweeping [accept equivalents]
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 10 of 14

14. For 10 points each, answer the following about boxplots.
[10] The length of the "box" in a boxplot is given by this range between the data points in the twenty-fifth
and seventy-fifth percentiles.
ANSWER: interquartile range [or IQR]
[10] These data points are depicted as circles or asterisks on a boxplot. They represent values that are
unusually different from the rest of the data set and may indicate errors in their collection.
ANSWER: outliers
[10] Traditionally, outliers are data points greater than this many interquartile ranges beyond the upper or
lower quartiles.
ANSWER: 1.5 [or 3/2]
<Wynne>

15. Identify the following about linguistics, for 10 points each:
[10] This subfield of linguistics deals with the rules of how words and other elements form grammatical
sentences.
ANSWER: syntax
[10] This other subfield consists of the description and analysis of units of meaning in a language, such as
words, affixes, and parts of speech.
ANSWER: morphology
[10] This subfield examines the ways in which context affects meaning. Such context might consist of the
situation or knowledge of the participants.
ANSWER: pragmatics
<Bentley>

16. The speaker describes how "the Sabbath rang slowly / in the pebbles of the holy streams" at the end of
the second stanza of this poem, which tells of a time when the speaker "was young and easy under the
apple boughs." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this poem by the author of Under Milk Wood, which ends with the lines "Time held me green
and dying, though I sang in my chains like the sea."
ANSWER: "Fern Hill"
[10] The author of "Fern Hill," Dylan Thomas, also penned this famous villanelle for his dying father,
which urges the addressee to "rage, rage against the dying of the light."
ANSWER: "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night"
[10] This poem, an early success for Thomas, describes figures whose "bones are picked clean", saying that
"Though they sink through the sea they shall rise again" and averring "Though lovers be lost love shall
not."
ANSWER: "And Death Shall Have No Dominion"
<Carson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 11 of 14

17. The title figure holds a flower pot in his portrait Woman with Plants, while his oddly-bulging
landscapes include Young Corn. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this artist who depicted three haughty ladies in front of Washington Crossing the Delaware in
one painting.
ANSWER: Grant Wood
[10] Grant Wood is best known for this painting, in which a farmer holds a pitchfork next to his spinster
sister.
ANSWER: American Gothic
[10] This other American Regionalist painter included scenes like Pioneer Days and Huckleberry Finn in
his Social History of the State of Missouri, located in the capitol building in Jefferson. He also painted Cut
the Line.
ANSWER: Thomas Hart Benton
<Bentley>

18. The pro-slavery Lecompton constitution was advanced during this conflict, and Charles Sumner gave a
speech about the “crime” of the state it took place in. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this conflict which was set off by an incident in which Charles Dow was shot by a pro-slavery
settler, leading to John Brown joining the conflict. It included the Wakarusa War and Potawatomie
Massacre.
ANSWER: Bleeding Kansas [or Bloody Kansas; or the Border War]
[10] This was the name given to pro-slavery elements who came into Kansas from Missouri in order to turn
Kansas into a slave state.
ANSWER: Border Ruffians
[10] This abolitionist preacher raised money to buy rifles for anti-slavery forces during Bleeding Kansas,
which were known as his namesake “bibles.”
ANSWER: Henry Ward Beecher
<Mukherjee>

19. The sum of the exponents in these laws gives the overall order of the reaction, and they are usually
derived through kinetic experiments. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these laws that describe how fast a chemical reaction will occur given the concentrations of the
reactants.
ANSWER: rate law
[10] The rate law for a reaction can be derived from analyzing these sub-steps of a reaction. These are steps
in a reaction mechanism in which a set of intermediates turns into another set of intermediates with no
other species in between.
ANSWER: elementary step
[10] The slowest elementary step in a reaction is given this name, indicating its importance to finding the
velocity of the overall reaction.
ANSWER: rate-determining step [or rate-limiting step]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 12 of 14

20. This book’s protagonist researches his collateral ancestor Cass Mastern and refers to Adam Stanton as
the "man of idea," while his boss is the "man of fact." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book about Jack Burden, who serves as the personal aide to the increasingly corrupt
Governor Willie Stark.
ANSWER: All The King’s Men
[10] This proponent of New Criticism and the Southern Agrarian movement co-founded the Southern
Review with Cleanth Brooks and wrote All The King’s Men.
ANSWER: Robert Penn Warren
[10] This character served as a father figure to Jack Burden, until Jack learns that his taking of a bribe early
in his career indirectly caused Mortimer Littlepaugh’s suicide.
ANSWER: Judge Montague Irwin [accept either underlined portion]
<Graebner>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 13 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 19: Finals 1
Tiebreakers
21. The Westermarck effect is a reverse version of this type of learning that is thought to prevent incest. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this type of learning that usually takes place in childhood. An excellent example is a group of
geese following the first thing they see after they hatch.
ANSWER: imprinting
[10] This scientist discovered the imprinting mechanism with his experiments on graylag geese. This
biologist also wrote King Solomon’s Ring and On Aggression.
ANSWER: Konrad Lorenz
[10] The window for imprinting is given this name. After this span of time, imprinted behaviors can no
longer occur.
ANSWER: critical period
<Mukherjee>

22. [Moderator: Do not read "Irish" or "Ireland" in the answer if the first part is missed]
It was the political goal of Isaac Butt, and the legislation providing for it failed twice, in 1886 and 1893.
For 10 points each:
[10] John Redmond nearly achieved what political ambition, supported by Charles Parnell and opposed by
the Orange Order?
ANSWER: Irish Home Rule [or the Government of Ireland Act; or the independence of Ireland]
[10] Home Rule meant separate governments in Great Britain and this present-day country, which became
independent thanks to a treaty signed by Michael Collins.
ANSWER: Ireland [do not accept or prompt on "Northern Ireland"]
[10] One blow to the Home Rule movement was the spurious accusation of involvement by Parnell in this
1882 mass killing of British government figures, actually perpetrated by the Invincibles.
ANSWER: the Phoenix Park murders
<Ueda>

23. In one scene in this work, the Father entices Madame Pace to return to the stage by putting coats and
hats on racks. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play, ostensibly set during a staging of its author's other play The Rules of the Game,
which ends with the drowning of the Child and the suicide of the Boy.
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei Personaggi in Cerca d'Autore]
[10] An actor becomes convinced he is actually a certain Holy Roman Emperor after falling off his horse
and hitting his head in Henry IV, a play by this Sicilian author of Six Characters in Search of an Author.
ANSWER: Luigi Pirandello
[10] Pirandello's best novel is this 1904 work, in which the title character wins a small fortune gambling in
Monte Carlo, finds that he has been declared dead, and decides to adopt a new identity.
ANSWER: The Late Mattia Pascal [or Il Fu Mattia Pascal]
<Carson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 19: Finals 1

Page 14 of 14

