Sample Questions
Toss~Ups

and Bonuses for Carne 2, 1996 Berkeley "California Classic"
(written by Gaius Stem, Mike Bennett, Nick Meyer, David Levinson)

Tossups
1. Razhumikhin, Marrneladov, Svidrigailov, Sonia, Porfiry Petrovich, and Raskolnikov
are all characters in, for 10 points, what classic novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky?
Answer: Crime and Punishment
2. Soda cans are pressurized to keep the carbonation in the liquid. This is one physical
manifestation of a law that states that the solubility of a gas in a liquid is proportional to
pressure. For 10 points, mime this law of chemistry.
Answer: Henry's Law
3. This man hung out in sewers during secret revolutionary activities and developed a
skin condition that required him to be almost constantly immersed in water. For 10
points, who was this Frenchman, stabbed in his bathtub by Charlotte Corday, and the
subject of a famous painting by Jacques-Louis David?
Answer: Jean-Paul Marat
4. A pianist of prodigious talent, his works include Preludes, Nocturnes, Polonnaises, and
Mazurkas. For 10 points, identify this composer, played by Hugh Grant in the film
"Impromptu", who had a famous love affair with author George Sand.
Answer: Frederic Chopin
5. From her childhood experiences on Prince Edward Island, she prepared what was to be
a short serial for a Sunday School paper. It was so successful, however, that she wrote 6
sequels. For 10 points who is this author of "Anne of Green Gables"?
Answer: Lucy Maud Montgomery
6. He wears number 32 out of admiration for Magic Johnson, and despite the rookie
salary cap may be one of the wealthiest men in America that still live with their mother.
For 10 points, identify this former University of Maryland All-Star who now plays
forward on the Golden State Warriors.
Answer: Joe Smith

7. The first one was Frederic Muhlenburg; others have been named Cannon, Wright, and
Reed. The person who holds this position is first in line to become president if the vicepresident dies. For 10 points, identify this post currently held by Newt Gingrich.
Answer: Speaker of the House
8. Born in 1606 in Leyden, one of this artists's most famous works is acutaily entitled
"The Company of Captain Franz Banning~Cocq", though it is more commonly known as
"The Night Watch". For 10 points, who was this Dutch painter renowned for his realistic
portraits.
Answer: Rembrandt vat). Rijn
9. It was named by Dr. Karl Johnson after a river, and looks like an eyebolt with a long
tail. It first appeared in 1976 in southern Sudan, then later that year in northern Zaire. Its
effects are I)omething out of nightmare; the virus multiplies rapidly in almost every body
tissue until the body begins to hemorrhage from every pore. For 10 points, what is this
virus most recently seen in the Zairean city of Kikwit.
Answer: Ebola
10. The Nepal~Tibet border is the horne of Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the
world. Since the Earth bulges near the equator, however, you'd have to journey to a
different country to reach the point the point on Earth's surface from the center. This
point is located in on top of Mount Chimhorazo, which is located in this mountainous
equatorial country. For 10 points, what is this South American country, owner of the
Galapagos, with its capital at Quito?
Answer: Ecuador
11. The Greek hoplites - including the later-to-be-famous Aeschylus - proceeded to drive
off the numerically superior Persian forces, a feat which inspired Pheidippidas, a Greek
soldier, to run all the way back to Athens with the news. He died upon arrival, but his feat
inspired the creation of a long-distance race which took its name from the battle fought
on that day. For 10 points, what do we call a race of 26 miles, 385 yards?
Answer: Marathon
12. A type of suit, the "bad, naughty" leader of the Castle Anthrax, the sax player from
"Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem", and a mild French exclamation all have names that
sound alike. For 10 points, what's the common homonym?
Answer: Zoot

13. They were invented by Arthur Wynne in 1913, though variants have existed for
centuries. Modern creators include Manny Nosowsky, Trip Payne, Mike Shenk, Henry
Hook, and Merl Reagle; in New York, they have have been edited by Mel Taub, Will
Weng, Eugene Maleska, and now Will Shortz. For 10 points, what are these puzzles,
done by thousands of commuters daily?
Answer: Crossword puzzles
14. His doctor, valet, cook, maid, three of his five children, his wife and himself were all
killed on a single night. Recent DNA testing on his skeleton confirm that it is really his,
though his children's skeletons could not be identified with complete assurance, thus
giving new hope to those who believe that one of his daughters, thanks to a jewelencrusted corset, survived the gunfire in the Yekaterinburg cellar. For 10 points, name
this father of Anastasia, last of the Romanov czars of Russia.
Answer: Czar Nicholas II
15. No one is really certain who his father really was. He alternately stated Aegaeus or
Poseidon, depending upon the situation. When Aegeus threw himself into the sea with
grief, HE became king of Athens. By this time he had slain the Minotaur. For 10 points,
who was this famous king who abducted Ariadne?
Answer: Theseus
Bonuses
1. In 1914, the Austro-Hungarian empire dominated central Europe. Now its former
holdings include parts of 12 countries. Excluding the obvious Austria, Hungary, Czech
Republic, and Slovakia, for five points apiece, after the first two name the other eight
current nations.
Answer: Italy, Croatia, Bosnia, Slovenia, Serbia, Romania, Ukraine, Poland
2. Answer the following questions on the eye:
(a) These cells respond to low levels of light, but not to color, and allow seeing in the
"dark"
Answer: Rods
(b) There are three kinds of these cells, sensitive to blue, green, and red light, giving us
color vision
Answer: Cones
(c) Light is focused on this, at the back of the eye, where chemical reactions produce a
nerve impulse
Answer: Retina

3. Identify the Shakespeare play and its speaker from a famous quote (five points for both
pieces of information correct):
(a) Lord, what fools these mortals be
Answer: A Midsummer Night's Dream, Puck
(b) Parting is such sweet sorrow
Answer: Romeo and Juliet, Juliet
(c) Fear not till bumam woods come to Dunsinane
Answer: MacBeth, witches
4. Many Hollywood movies have glorified the cowboys of the old West, but can you
identify the following movies which contained the word "cowboy" in their titles? For ten
points each, given the two lead actors, provide the name of the "cowboy" movie.
(a) Jon Voight, Dustin Hoffman
Answer; Midnight Cowboy
(b) John Travolta, Debra Winger
Answer: Urban Cowboy
(c) Matt Dillon, Kelly Lynch
Answer: Drugstore Cowboy
5. Answer the following riddles from Tolkien's The Hobbit for 15 each:
(a) A box without hinges, key, or lid,
Yet inside golden treasure is hid.
Answer: Egg
(b) This thing all things devours:
Birds, beasts, trees, flowers;
Gnaws iron, bites steel;
Grinds hard stones to meal;
Slays king, ruins town,
And beats high mountain down.
Answer: Time
6. Given a moon, identify the planet which it orbits for 10 pts each.
(a) Charon
Answer: Pluto
(b) Triton
Answer: Neptune
(c) Phobos
Answer: Mars

7. The Internet has introduced a great deal of technical jargon into the mainstream
vocabulary, much of it in the form of acronyms. You will receive 10 points for supplying
the full letter expansion for several acronyms common with Net surfers.
(a)HTML
Answer: Hypertext Markup Language
(b) PPP

Answer: Point to Point Protocol
(c) TCP/IP

Answer: Transmission Control Protocol! Internet Protocol

8. Zeus was famous for having many lovers. Given one of Zeus' many children, identify
the mother of:
(a) Apollo
Answer: Leto
(b) Perseus
Answer: Danae
(c) Hermes
Answer: Maia
9. The United States uses dollars, the United Kingdom pounds. For 10 points apiece
identify the currency of these other nations.
(a) India:
Answer: Rupee
(b) South Korea;
Answer: Won
(c) Israel:
Answer: Shekel

10. Proteins in the body are made up of amino acids. Answer the following questions for
the stated number of points.
(a) A basic set of amino acids are used to create proteins. For 5 points, how many are in
this set?
Answer: Twenty
(b) Amino acids are linked to each other by a certain type of bond, which links the amino
terminus of one acid to the carboxy terminus of the other. For 10 points, what is this type
of bond called?
Answer: Peptide

(c) Only one of the twenty basic amino acids is actually an JMINO acid; its nitrogen is
bonded to two carbon atoms. For 15 points, which one is it?
Answer: Proline

11. This bonus tests your knowledge of pop music. Name the artists that recorded the
following lyrics for 10 points each.
(a) Sometimes, the light's all shining on me, other times I can barely see. Lately, it occurs
to me, what a long, strange trip it's been.
Answer: The Grateful Dead (prompt on Dead) (from "Truckin"')
(b) I see the girls go by dressed in their summer clothes. I have to tum my head until my
darkness goes.
Answer: The Rolling Stones (prompt on Stones) (from "Paint It Black")
(c) Leonard Bernstein, Leonid Brezhnev, Lenny Bruce and Lester Banks, birthday party,
cheesecake, jelly bean, boom.
Answer: R.E.M. (from "It's the End of the World As We Know It (and I Feel
Fine)")

