Zooo
Round 8 Tossups
I. This nation was the first to cOllvcrt to Christianity, having done so under king Trdat III circa in the year 30 I
CEo Unlike their neighbours, its people did not convcrt to Islam in the seventh century; now they are surrounded
by potentially hostile neighbours like the Azeris, \'.,ith whom they reccntly fought a war over the enclave of
Nag~mo-Kara~akh (Na GOH~ no Kare a BACH). For 10 pojJs, identify this former Soviet republic that was
(..~( '?i...!
'f:e./Y21/V-.;1
the sIte ofa major earthquake In 1988~~/~. i
Answer: Arm~.!i~

iG+

ttz

2. Pcncil and Paper appropriate - Sure you know that mighty Casey struck out in his last at-bat. But in his first
three at-bats he had a double, a triple, and ground oui. If in his fOUlth at-bat, he struck out, FTP what is slugging
average for these four at-bats.
Answer: 1.25
3. TIlis collection ends with the widely anthologized story The Patient Griselda. In it, seven women and three men
flee plague-stricken Florence for a villa in nearby Fiesole, where each person rules for a day and sets stipulations
for the daily tales to be told by all the participants, resulting in a collection of 100 pieces, several of which became
the basis for parts of Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales". FTP, name this collection of tales by Boccaccio.
Answer: TIle Decameron
.
4. TIle 15,000 kinds of these organisms are classified based on their mycobiont component. They can be crustlike,
leaflike, or stalked, and are found worldwide due to their favorable symbiotic relationship, in which one part
excretes a carbohydrate that is used as food by the other part, which in tum provides a protective structure for the
first part. FTP, name these organisms composed of a fungus and an alga.
Answer: lichen
5. As a boy growing up in Simbirsk, he distinguished himself in Latin and Greek. He became a radical, however,
in 1887, when his brother Alexander, a student at the University of Saint Petersburg, was hanged for conspiring
to assassinate Czar Alexander HI. fTP, name this founder and
•
first leader of the Soviet Union.
Answer: Vladimir Ilyich Lenin (or Ulyanov)
6. Levels on the current version of this game include Mower Madness and Bow Wow Falls. Originally an arcade
game, later made into an Atari game, Hasbro Interactive has updated it for computers as well as Sony Playskltion,
with all new levels and 3D graphics. FTP, name tJlis game which features crocodiles, sinking turtles, cars,
trucks, and the title amphibian.
(A: _Frogger~
7. TIlis author collaborated with John Huston on the screenplay for 1956's Moby Dick. At the age of 12 he began
writing at least 4 hours a day, and followed his first collection of stories, Dark Carnival, with works like The
Golden Apples of the Slill, The Illustrated Man, Dandelion Wine and Something Wicked This Way Comes. FTP,
name this science-fiction author of Fahrenheit 451 and The Martian Chronicles.
Answer: Ray _Bradbury_
8. His career started in 1508 when he and Georgiane were commissioned to paint frescoes on the Fondaco di
Tedesche (11le Gennan Exchange) in Venice. He defied convention in his 1526 work Madonna of the House of
Pesam, which was the first to not place the Madonna in the centre of the painting. His later works were marked
by the.use of intense colours and dissolving fonns, a style which anticipated the Impressionists. For 10 points identity this 10ng-lived'Venetian painter known for his use of the paintings Sacred and Frrdane [,ove and Venus of
Urhino.
Answer: Tiziano Vecellio

. 1

~

1_

Accept: Jit@l!
9. [s it a moon or a p lanct? 111is "moon" has the largcst size ratio in the solar system to the planet that it orbits.
Scientists spoculate it may be half of a binary planet system. FTP identify this moon named for the mythological
ferryman of the lJI1derworid which orbits Pluto.
Answer: Charon
10. When swearing allegiance to the English crown, the president of Sidney Sussex College at Cambridge
University ceremoniously draws a curtain covering a portrait of this man shut to avoid giving him offence. The
man in the portrait attended the College in 1616, but left the following year after the death of his f.:lther. For 10
points - identify this man who executed King Charles I and later became Lord Protector of England.
Answer: Oliver Cromwell
11. "I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless matter, [ might in process oftime renew life where
death had apparently devoted the body to corruption." These words, spoken by the titular character of this book
denote the point where his Prometheus idea takes root and his obsession with animation begins. They also show
that he is still thinking about the untimely death of his mother in an epidemic, and thinking that he might be able to
bring her back to life. Subtitled "The Modem Prometheus," for ten points, name this 1818 published work.
(A: Frankenstein.-J
12. There is no church or clerh'Y, nor teaching on the worship of God or gods, or life after death. Focusing on
social life, govemment, education, and personal behavior, important tex'ts include the book of the second sage
known as Mencius, as well as the book of changes, the ( Ching. FTP, what is this philosophy fOlJl1ded in 6th
century BC China whose main text is the Analects?
Answer: Confucianism
13. Related to the Goths, this Germanic tribe of the middle Danube fled west following the HlJI1I1ish invasions of
376 AD, ultimately crossing the Rhine into the Roman empire in 406. They conquered the whole of Roman
Africa, and their pirate fleets roamed the Mediterranean, sacking Rome in 455. lbeir last king, Gelimer, was
defeated by the East Romans under Belisarius in 534, and they disappeared. FTP name this tribe whose name has
survived as a synonym for willful destruction.
(A: _ Vandals.-J
14. TIley are so reactive that they never occur free in nature; instead, they are found combined with metals in salts
such as sodium chloride. This has led to their name, which means "salt-fonners". FTP, what is the collective name
ofthese elements in group 7, which include fluorine,
chlorine, bromine, iodine, and astatine?
Answer: Halogens
15. This river's valley is home to the cities of Aix-en-provence (Eks-on-Provance) the home of Paul Cezanne and
the Papal palace at Avignon. You find Marseilles at the mouth of this river. FTP identify this French river along
which a prominent wine-producing region is fOlJl1d.
Answer: The Rhone
16. In response to the war cry, "American blood has been shed upon American soil," he maintained an even
temper. By impugning the validity of the statement in Congress and issuing "spot resolutions," he revealed that
such Mexican transgressions were often hype. For ten points, identify this individual.
(A: Abraham _Lincoln_)
17. This Roman statesman was elected consul in 63 BCE, but Clodius Pulcher had him exiled 5 years later.
Author of the treatises "On the State", "On the Nature of the Gods", and "On the Orator", he served as governor

---,.

ofCilicia before being executed ~ue to his opposition to Octavian in 43 BCE, and is known today for the more
than 900 letters which have survived to the present day. FTP, name this greatest of all Roman orators.
Answer: Marcus Tullius Cicero
18. If you listen carefully to this song, you'll hear lead singer Jack Ely start singing one of the verses two bars
early. It is one of the most heavily litigated songs in history, having been the subject of an FBI obscenity
investigation in the I 960s and a royalties lawsuit in 1998. For 10 points - identify this 1963 hit by the Kingsmen
legendary for its poorly enunciated lyrics.
Answer: Louie Louie
19. It is a whitish form of limestone, composed of the remains of small marine organisms such as foraminirera
and coccolithophores; it formed after the shells and skeletons of these organisms were deposited on the sea
bottom. Chemically it is almost pure calcium carbonate. [t is particularly common in strata of the Cretaceous
period, which takes its name for the Latin for this form of limestone. Large deposits are found in Iowa, Texas,
and Arkansas, and in the British [sles, where it is notably exposed in the White Cliffs of Dover. FTP, name this
substance found in most classrooms.
Answer: Chalk
20. He created the humans of the current age by descending to Mictlan and sprinkling his blood on the bones of
deceased humans from earlier ages. Another legend had him being driven into exile by Tezcatlipoca; he promised
to retum from the east in the year I-Reed, which corresponded to 1519 on the Julian calendar. For 10 pointsidentify this Aztec god whose was prophesied to retum to Mexico in the same year that Heman Cortes arrived.
Answer: Q.uetzalcoatl
Round 8 Bonuses
I. Three women are the only people to win the Newbery medal twice. For ten points each, name them given
books.
The Giver; Number the Stars
Answer: Lois _Lowry_
Jacob Have I Love; Bridge to Terabithia
Answer: Katerine - PattersonThe View from Saturday; From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. basil E. Frankweiler
Answer: E.L. _Konigsburg_
2. Answer the following questions about the film "Airplane", FTPE:
I. Name the man who played Co-Pilot Murdoch, who revealed his true identity as an LA Lakers basketball
player.
ANSWER: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
2. Name the actor who played Dr. Rumack, easily identified in the film by the stethoscope he happened to be
wearing at the time. This actor also starred in such films as "The Naked Gun"
ANSWER: Leslie Nielson
3. What food served on the plane poisoned the crew and many of the passengers?
ANSWER: fish
3. Just because no-one lives there doesn't mean it doesn't have a history. FTPE, answer these questions about the
exploration of Antarctica.
A. He was the first exp lorer to cross the Antarctic Circle, reaching 71 degrees 10 minutes south in 1773. He is
better known for his explorations in the Pacific.
Answer: [Captain] James Cook

B. In 1843, this English exp lorer reached a record latitude of 78 degrees south, and reached the ice shelf that
bears his name.
Answer: Sir James Clark RQ~~
C. In 1840, Jules Dumont d'Urville sailed along palt of the Antarctic coast, giving that part of the continent and
the pen!,'llins that live there this, the name of his wife
Answer: Adelie
4. FTPE, name these terms from the study of subatomic particles.
I. (10 points) First, name the subatomic particles which can be classified as up, down, top, bottom, charmed, and
strange.
Answer: _quarks_
2. (10 points) Next, name the large class of elementary particles, composed of mesons and baryons, that interact
by means of the strong force, and are formed by combinations of quarks.
Answer: Hadrons
3. (10 points) Finally, quarks are thought to be held together by these appropriately named hypothetical particles,
which come in eight varieties.
Answer: ~Iuons_
5. This is a 30-20-10 bonus about rivers in Greek mythology, in which each clue will be about a different river. If
you name the 30 point river, the question is over, but if your answer is wrong, you will hear a 20 point question
about a different river, and a 10 point clues about a third river if necessary.
I. (30 points) This river, whose name means "river of sorrows", is one of the 5 rivers of the infernal regions.
Phlegethon and Cocytus flow into it, and in the Divine Comedy it divides the borderland from Limbo.
Answer: Acheron
2. (20 points) One of the rivers of Hades, the souls of the dead must drink this river's waters so that they forget
their pasts.
Answer: - Lethe3. (I 0 points) Charon ferries the dead across this sacred river of Hades.
Answer: _Styx._ (moderator: please berate any player who mentions Mr. Roboto)
6. Answer these questions on the Civil War, for ten points each.
a. At 4:30 AM on April 12, 1861, this Confederate General Pierre Beauregard began the attack on this fort.
ANSWER: Fort Sumter
b. An unsuccessful Presidential candidate in 1856, this Union officer proclaimed emancipation in Missouri.
President Lincoln revoked the unauthorized action on September 11, 1861, however.
ANSWER: John Charles Fremont
c. After Winfield Scott was forced to retire, this man became commander of the U.S. Army. This man, known as
the "Napoleon of the West", would go on to lose the 1864 Presidential Election to Lincoln.
ANSWER: George McClellan
7. [dentifYthe authors of the following poems FTPE
I. Because 1 Could Not Stop for Death
ANSWER: Emily _Dickinson_
2. Old) ronsides
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes
3. Do Not Go Gentle Into that Good Night
ANSWER: Dylan _Thomas_
8. Only 3 films have swept the Oscars, winning Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Director and Best
Screenp lay.
FFPE, name the three films, one in 1935, one in 1975 and one in 1991.

(A: _It Happened One Night_.One Fle\v Over the Cuckoo's Ncst_, and _Silence of the Lambs.)
FTP, name the director of Silence ofthe Lambs.
(A: Jonathan Demme_)
For a final five points, name the actress who won an Oscar for her portrayal of Big Nurse in One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest.
(A: Louise _Fletcher->
9. Answer these questions about neurological disorders for 10 points each.
A. Recent research indicated that patients in the later stages ofthese disease that some have claimed to be caused
by an excess of aluminum in the brain lose their mental skills in the reverse order to that in which they were
acquired. Its most famous sufferer is Ronald Reagan.
Answer: Alzhe.Ll!lerJ>. disease
B. This rare disorder, the human equivalent of mad cow disease, was responsible for the ban on British beef a
few years bzck.
Answer: {;!Q.uzfelcit-Jac9b disease
C. This genetic disease, named after the physician who described it in 1871, causes the cerebmm to deteriorate,
leading to uncontrollable muscle movement in its victims.
Answer: HW1tingtonl>. disease (or chorea)
10.30-20-10 name the person.
30) Portrayed by Katherine Hepburn in the film The Lion in Winter, this Medieval woman is famous for her
energy, her vigor, and her rebellions against her second husband.
20) She died in 1204 during the reign of her youngest son, John.
10) Name this woman who was married to both Louis VI I of France and Henry II of England.
(A: _Eleanor of Aquitaine_)
11. The Golden Age of English opera began when - wait a second; there was no golden age of English opera.
For 10 points each, identify these operas by English composers, none of whom were fortW1ate enough to live in a
golden age.
A. The best known aria in this Henry Purcell (PURSE - ul) work is "When I am laid in e.:,rth," which is sung by
the Queen of Carthage.
Answer: Dido and Aeneas
B. This John Gay work formed the basis for Kurt Weill's and Bertolt Brecht's The Threepenny Opera.
Answer: The Beggar's ORera
C. This opera by Benjamin Britten shares its title with a novella by Herman Melville.
Answer: Billy Budd
12. Name the leaders of these insurrections from American history, FTPE.
I. (10 points) After an attack against western Virginia settlers by Native Americans went without a response from
the Virginia government, this farmer led a 1675-76 revolt that resulted in the burning of Jamestown.
Answer: Nathaniel Bacon
2. (10 points) This former captain in the American army led a 1786-87 insurrection in response to the impossible
economic demands placed upon Massachusetts farmers.
Answer: Daniel_Shays_
3. (10 points) This slave planned an uprising in 1831 which led to the deaths of 50 whites and 100 slaves before it
was crushed.
Answer: Nat Turner
13. Answer the following about the construction of the perioctic table for 10 points each.
A. This Russian chemist's creation of the periodic table was considered important enough for element 101 to be
named after him.

Answer: Dimitri M~1!9.~y.Y£\'
B. Mendeleyev used the periodic Jaw he described to predict the properties of this element that was at the time
undiscovered. He made his prediction using the properties of aluminum, which is located directly above it on the
table.
Answer: galliu!!!
C. Mendeleyev did not know that the intertranisitional elements even existed when he composed his primitive
form of the table. FFPE, give the common names of the two sets of intertransitional elements.
Answer: .@l.lthanides and actinides
14. Important Battles in British History - Given the battle, name the war in which it was fought, FFPE
I. Battle of Dettingen
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession
2. Battle of Trafalgar
ANSWER: _Napoleonic Wars_or _War of the Third Coalition_
3. Battle of Agincourt
ANSWER: Hundred Years' War
4. Battle of Tewkesbury
ANSWER: Wars of the Roses
5. Battle of Blenheim
ANSWER: ~_War of the Spanish Succession_
6. Battle of Yorktown
ANSWER: War of the _American Revolution_ or _American Revolutionary War_
15. Answer the following about cultures of Sub-Saharan Africa for 15 points each.
A. This people who founded this empire originated in the Dendi region of northwest Nigeria. The empire
collapsed in 1591 when Moroccan troops attacked with firearms.
Answer: Songhai
B. Founded in the late 11th century by Tuareg Nomads, this Songhai trading post had a population of 40,000
during the 16th century.
Answer: Tombouctou
Equivalent: Timbuktu
16. 30-20-10, name the author from works.
I. (30 points) The Sufferings and Greatness of the Masters, Reflections of an Unpolitical Man, Mario and the
Magician, Joseph and His Brothers, Tonio Kroger
(20 points) Confessions of Felix Krull: Confidence Man, Buddenbrooks
(IO points) Death In Venice, The Magic Mountain
Answer: Thomas Mann
17. Name the following constants which describe properties of materials in physics, FTP each:
a) This constant measures the ability of a material to withstand changes in lenhTfh under the influence of a
compressing force, and is equal to the stress divided by the strain.
Answer: Young's modulus or modulus of elasticity
b) This constant, measured in units of force per unit area, is equal to the maximum load that a material can
support without breaking divided by the material's cross-sectional area.
Answer: Tensile strenhTfh
c) This property offerromagnetic materials refers to the temperature above which the material loses its
ferromagnetic properties.
Answer: Curie point or Curie temperature

18. Sign1lmd Freud was a wacky guy. He identified five stages of human development, then gave them names that
sound like fetishes. For five points each plus an extra five for putting them in order, name them.
Answers in order: _ORAL_, _ANAL....J __ PHALLlC_, _LATENT....J _GENITAL __
(Note: The author swears he is not making this up!)
19. Answer these questions about the films and screenplays of American playwright David Mamet for 10 points
each.
A. Levine, a Chicago real estate agent, is about to be fired in this 1984 play that was made into a film in 1992.
Answer: Glengarry Glen Ross
B. This 1992 play about a student bringing sexual harassment charges against her college professor is perhaps
Mamet's most controversial.
Answer: Oleanna
C. Mamet also wrote the screenplay for this 1998 film starring Dustin Hoffinan and Robert de Niro as two men
working to restore the President's tarnished image.
Answer: Wag the Dog
20. Identify these American paintings, for ten points each.
This painting by the Quaker preacher Edward Hicks is based on a description found in Isaiah 11 :6. In it a wide
range of predatory animals rest with an array of herbivores.
Answer: the _Peaceable Kingdom_
This painting shows a woman sitting in a wooden chair facing left. Her hair is pulled back and she wears a dark
dress and a white scarf and cap on her head. In the back there is a curtain and a small painting on drab wall. For
ten points give the painting's title or name the artist for five points.
Answer: _Arrangement in Grey and Black_No. I: The Artist's Mother or James _Whistler_
In this 1899 painting by Winslow Homer, a solitary black sailor in a small, disabled boat is beset by sharks and
alone on a stormy sea.
Answer: Gulf Stream

Berkeley's WIT 7: Packet by the Ullil'ersity of Massachllsetts a/ld Boston University, courtesy of MIT
Beaver Bonspiei
Tossups
1. It is usually broken up into three suites: #1 in F Major with hurns. #2 in D Major with trumpets, and #3
in G Major with flutes. The original manuscript of this work is now lost and many contemporary
publications disagree about its original notation and orchestration. but most scholars agree that an edition
published by Roger Fiske is probably canonical. FrP, identify this work by Handel which was written
around 1717 for a planned royal boat trip down the Thames.
Answer: Water Music or WassenllUsik . .
2. The biogenic type of this substance consists of minute organic remains of organisms such as diatoms and
radiolaria. Non-biogenic lypes. such as red clay, consist of wind-hlown volcanic ash, meteoric dust, and
material carried by icebergs which e\entually sink to the bottom of the ocean. FrP, identify the sludge-like
material with a monosyllabic name \,,:hich is deposited on the ocean floor far from land.
Answer: ooze
3. J.D. Barrow and F.J. Tipler adopt this term for a final state or the universe in which life-forms have
engulfed absolutely everything. In transfinite mathematics, it denotes the smallest infinite ordinal.
Teilhard deChardin (TAIL-hard DAY -shar-DAN) uses it to signi h the end-point in history. FrP, identify
this term and letter used to symbol ically represent the omniscien(c' of God in the book of Revelation, the
last letter in the Greek alphabet.
Answer: Omega
4. In 1861 he was wrongly accused of abducting a rancher's child. and was arrested by the U.S. Army, but
he soon escaped, beginning a personal protracted guerilla war ag:linst the United States that lasted over 10
years. In 1872, General Oliver Howard finally reached a peace settlement with him after promising his
people a reservation on their native Lind. FTP, name this chief 01' the Chiricahua (CHEER-eh-cah-HOOah) Apache who died in 1874,
Answer: Cochise
5. Only hydrogen does not exhibit thh effecl. and it can be felt during the escape of air through a valve of
an inflated bicycle tire. Simply PUl. il is the fall in temperature 01':1 gas as it expands adiabatically through
a narrow jet. FrP, identify this effect which is the basic principle' hehind most refrigerators, named for the
two British scientists who gave their names to the SI units of worK and temperature.
Answer: louIe-Kelvin Efkcl or Kelvin-louIe Effect or l!.~lde-Thomson effect
6. Its highest point is Mount Orohena, and if you flew to this island in the South Pacific, you would
probably land at Faaa International /-\ irport. Once on the ground YOU could visit a monument to Captain
Cook at Venus Point. or sail about I () miles west to the island ol'\loorea, FTP, name this French
Polynesian island whose administrative capital is Papeete,
Answer: Tahiti
7. He produced a report on Santa Fe which was influential in elll'()uraging expansion into lands which
would eventually become New Mexico and Western Texas,ancl he served as a brigadier general in the War
of 1812, during which he was fatally \\;ounded during the attack un York in Canada. FfP, name this man
who is best known for exploring the Arkansas and Red river systems as well as a mountain near Colorado
Springs, Colorado which now bears his name,
Zebulon Pike
8. A movie version of this novel featured a young Hugh Grant. and hecause of its homosexual theme, the
novel was published only after the its ,luthor's death, It is a talc Ill'the coming of age of a Cambridge
University student and his growing an.'eptance of his hOlllosexualilY as he as he takes as his lover Alee
Scudder, the gamekeeper on the cst:l!c' of his friend, Clive. FTP, identify this novel by E.M. Forster.
Answer: Maurice

18. Writing in the 12th Century, her work includes fables, visions of purgatory, and 1ais [lay 1- short
narratives about romantic adventures usually involving magical circumstances. The longest of her lais [lay1
is Eliduc [EII-ee-dook], a tale about a man with two wives. FTP, name this Anglo-Norman poet, the first
known woman to write poetry in French, whp wrote at the court of Henry II .
. Answer: Marie de France or Mary of France
19. This law guaranteed that its subjects could keep so-called "places de surere"" for eight years, and it
created a Chambre de I 'Edit to deal with any disputes that it would create. Its political clauses were
nullified by the Peace of Ales, and it was completely revoked in 1685 by Louis XIV, resulting in an
emigration of some 400,000 Protestants. For 10 points, name this 1598 edict defining the rights of
Huguenots.
Answer: .Edict of Nantes (Edit de Nantes)
20. This roughly lO-inch-long organ has a horseshoe shape. It can be divided into 4 parts: the supedor, the
descending, the horizontal, ~nd the ascending. Ducts from the pancreas and gallbladder enter in the
descending part, and work on food arid gastric juices that enter the superior part from the pylorus of the
stomach. FTP, what is this shortest part of the small intestine, which is followed by th.e jejunum and the
ileum?
Answer: Duodenum (do not p~ompt on "small intestine")
21. "A Ull dOffore del/mia sone", sung by Dr. Bartolo. "Una voce poco fa", sung by Rosina. "1/ vecchioffo
cerca moglie," sung by Berta. "La Calunnia", sung by Don Basilio. All of these arias, as well as "Ah, il piu
fiero," sung by Count Almaviva, can be found FTP in what opera, along with the aria "Largo al factotum",
sung by Figaro?
.
Answer: The Barber of Seville or 1/ Barbiere Di Sil'iglia

b) In 1856, this Englishman patented converter which uses cold air to convert pig iron into steel.
Answer: Henry Bessemer
c) This paleontologist at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia became the first American to
identify dinosaur fossils.
Answer: Joseph Leidy
7. Identify the architects of the following American buildings FTP each.
a) The Allegheny County Courthouse in Pittsburgh, PA
Answer: Henry Hobson Richardson
b) St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City
Answer: James Renwick
c) The White House
Answer: James Hoban
8. Identify the following two people associated with the Oxford Movement for 15 points each.
a) This man's sermon "National Apostasy", was considered to mark the beginning of the movement. A
college at Oxford is named for him.
Answer: John Keble
b) This man, made a Cardinal in 1879, is most famous for his Apologia Pro Via Sua.
Answer: John Henry Newman
9.30-20-10, name the author.
a) (30) The first person in his family to leave his village for the city in several hundred years, he claims the
biggest impression on him as a child were the stories told to him by his grandmother and two banned books
given to him by his mother: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn and The Strange Adventures of Nils
Holgerssoll.
b) (20) His first novel was 1958's Nip tI~e Buds Shoot the Kids. His 1964 novel, A Personal Matter, was
borne out of decision to have his son operated on as an infant for a herniated brain.
c) (10) His son, Hikari, is a well-regarded pianist, while he won the 1994 Nobel Prize for Literature.
Answer: Kenzaburo Oe
10. Identify the following deserts from clues FTPE.
a) Much of it has no sand, but is bare rock. With a name translating to "waterless place", its high elevation
makes it the coldest desert in the world outside of Antarctica.
Answer: Gobi Desert
b) This desert, along with the Great Basin desert to the north, the Sonoran desert to the south, and the
Chihuahuan desert, together comprise what is sometimes known as the North American desert.
Answer: Mojave Desert
c) This Australian desert is home to the country's largest nature reserve. It lies between the Great Sandy and
Great Victorian deserts, and is named after an anthropologist who died there in search of water.
Answer: Gibson Desert
II. Name these leaders of 20th century Poland, for 10 points each:
a) He proclaimed an independentPolish republic in 1918 and served as premier for much of the 1920s, but
soon became military dictator.
.
Answer: Jozef Pilsudski
b) When he became General Secretary in 1981, declared martial law and banned Solidarity. He ruled until
1989.
Answer: Wojciech Jaruzelski
.
c) This head of the Solidarity union was imprisoned by Jaruzelski but was elected president in 1990.
Answer: Lech Walesa
12. Name these physical chemists, for. I 0 points each:
a) He bombarded uranium with neutrons in 1938 to find the first chemical evidence of nuclear fission
products.
Answer: Otto Hahn

\
Answer: Augustin Jean Fresnel (pronounced "freh-nehl")

"
18. Identify these islands I 0 points each:
a) Discovered by Abel Tasman and visited by Capt. James Cook, this independent republic is comprised of
about 320 islands and is a member of the Commonwealth. Its largest islands are Viti Levu, which holds its
capital Suva.
Answer: Eili
b) French and Malagasay are the official languages in this country. It is separated from the mainland by the
Mozambique Channel and is the world's fourth largest island
Answer: Madagascar
c) One of the world's most densely populated regions, it accommodates nearly two-thirds of the population
ofIndonesia, along with its capital.
Answer: Java
19. Identify the following techniques used in DNA sequencing, FTP each:
I. The method developed in 1983 by Kary Mullis which was the first technique to make numerous copies
of a segment of DNA quickly and accurately and involves the use of DNA polymerase.
Answer: Eolymerase ~hain Reaction
2. The technique in which, after fragments of DNA have been separated using restriction enzymes and gel
electrophoresis, a radioactive probe is used to recognize specific DNA sequences. This technique is
considerably more sensitive than PCR.
Answer: Restriction-Eragment Length Eolymorphism blot
3. The process in which DNA segments are moved from an agarose gel to a nitrocellulose filter paper sheet
using capillary action, and are then investigated using radioactive probes. This process was the first of a
group of four techniques with related names to be invented.
Answer: Southern blot
20. Identify the following early kings in Great Britain or Ireland, FTPE:
a) The king of Kent from 560-616 who issued the first extant code of Anglo-Saxon laws, converted to
Christianity, and whose kingdom ultimately included all of England south of the Humber.
Answer: Ethelbert I
b) The king of Wessex from 802-839 who pulled Wessex out of the Mercian confederation and became
accepted as king in Kent, Sussex, Essex, and Surrey. His reign was a turning point in English history
because it destroyed Mercian ascendancy and established Wessex as the strongest English kingdom.
Answer: Egbert
c) The high king of Munster from 976 and ofIreland from 1002- \0 14 who defeated Maelsechlainn II and
was hacked to death by Northmenfrom Dublin after the battle at Clontarf.
Answer: Brian Boru

