2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 1

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 2

Tossup 1: Science (Astronomy)
Of its 13 satellites, only one was found before the twentieth century, a moon with a retrograde orbit.
Atmospheric events on this planet include "the Scooter" as well as the Great Dark Spot. Voyager 2
discovered five of its moons, including Thalassa and Proteus, and collected pictures of the alreadydiscovered Nereid and Triton. Name this planet, named for the Roman god of the sea, the eighth
planet from the sun.
Answer: Neptune
Bonus 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Identify these facts related to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
1. Shortly after Kennedy was killed, Jack Ruby murdered this man, the President's assassin.
Answer: Lee Harvey Oswald
2. This Governor of Texas riding in the car with Kennedy was also shot, but managed to survive.
Answer: John Bowden Connally, Jr.
3. This silent home movie showing the Presidential caravan is the best known recording of the
assassination.
Answer: Zapruder Film
Tossup 2: Literature (Literature)
In one of his works, “Suddenly, Last Summer,” Violet Venable threatens Catherine Holly with a
frontal lobotomy. That procedure had been done to his sister Rose in 1937. He wrote numerous
plays including Camino Real and The Rose Tattoo, while his only novel was The Roman Spring of
Mrs. Stone. He wrote about Reverence T. Lawrence Shannon in The Night of the Iguana. Name this
author, famous for his play about Tom Wingfield, whose sister Laura owns the titular Glass
Menagerie.
Answer: Tennessee Williams
Bonus 2: Math (General) -- Computational
Given the starting value and common ratio for an infinite geometric series, find its sum or state that it
diverges.
1. Starting value 2, common ratio 1/2.
2. Starting value 3, common ratio 1.
3. Starting value -2, common ratio 0.
Answers: 1: 4 2: Diverges 3: -2
Tossup 3: Social Studies (World History)
Backed by the New York Herald, this man searched for the source of the Nile, encountering Lake
Victoria and Lake Tanganyika in the process. However, the British weren't particularly impressed
with his discoveries, but his knowledge of interior Africa led him to partner with Belgium's King
Leopold II. Name this explorer who, upon finding a fellow explorer, uttered the words, "Dr.
Livingstone, I presume?"
Answer: Sir Henry Morton Stanley

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 3

Bonus 3: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Answer these questions about works of art that never quite got the finishing touch from their
creators.
1. Begun in 1481, this early da Vinci painting has a complete central scene of the Virgin Mary and
Child surrounded by praying shepherds, despite much of the background being unfinished.
Answer: The Adoration of the Magi
2. In 1909, this artist died, leaving his painting of four cowboys seated around a campfire incomplete,
but an enlarged version of his bronze statue The Bronco Buster finished.
Answer: Frederic Remington
3. Along with St. Matthew, Michelangelo's other unfinished sculptures for the tomb of Julius II include
Bearded, Beardless, Rebellious, and Dying examples of these figures.
Answer: slaves
Tossup 4: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Calculate the determinant of a three by three matrix with rows 5 2 3, 4 7 0, and 9 2 3.
Answer: -84
Bonus 4: Social Studies (Geography)
Identify these facts related to South Africa, given a clue.
1. Formerly a leper colony, this island near Cape Town also used to be home to a prison, which
once housed Nelson Mandela.
Answer: Robben Island
2. Maseru is the capital of this country that is entirely surrounded by South Africa.
Answer: Kingdom of Lesotho
3. This longest river of South Africa forms the border between it and Namibia.
Answer: Orange River
Tossup 5: Fine Arts (Music)
On the back of a rough draft of this work was found a fragment for a cello concerto that was finished
by Leonovich and Langston. It has a second dance movement marked in an odd 5/4 and a loud third
that traps audiences into clapping early. In the first movement, one instrument has a solo marked
with 6 p’s followed by a tutti fortissimo blast. That instrument, a bassoon, also introduces the first
theme in an opening solo. The epithet for the symphony means “emotional,” not the false cognate
meaning “pitiful”. Name this final symphony by Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky.
Answer: Pathetique Symphony (or Tchaikovsky’s Sixth Symphony in B Minor; accept
just Sixth after “Tchaikovsky”)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 4

Bonus 5: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Identify these people who majored in mathematics in college, yet still went on to lead normal, happy
lives.
1. This actress was a math major at DeAnza Junior College before her TV roles as Lois Lane and
Susan Mayer on Desperate Housewives.
Answer: Teri Hatcher
2. This composer earned a Bachelor's in math from the University of Chicago about 20 years before
his operas Einstein on the Beach and Satyagraha made him famous.
Answer: Philip Glass
3. This communist had to end his mathematical studies in Odessa when he was sent to Siberia.
Leading the Red Army in the Civil War and being exiled by Stalin also proved distracting.
Answer: Leon Trotsky (accept Lev Davidovich Bronstein)
Tossup 6: Social Studies (Other)
One type of it times the increase in the money supply equals money created. That monetary variety
varies inversely as the reserve ratio. The spending type varies inversely with the derivative of the
savings function with respect to disposable income. That value, the MPS, determines this number
because the greater the marginal propensity to save, the greater the leakages that reduce its effect.
In Keynsian economics, what number times the injection equals the net increase in GDP?
Answer: multiplier
Bonus 6: Math (Other) -- Computational
Answer the following about the sine of the quantity pi x + pi over 4.
1. What is its period?
2. What is its value at 0?
3. What is the smallest positive number x for which it equals zero?
Answers: 1: 2 2: root 2 / 2 (accept 1 / root 2) 3: 3/4
Tossup 7: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
He traveled to the moon with Apollo 10, and he’s often found riding a Sopwith Camel as one of his
many alter egos. He likes to steal Bulwer-Lytton’s opening phrase of “It was a dark and stormy
night.” His brothers include Spike and Olaf who were born at the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm. A lover of
root beer and friend of Woodstock, he often sleeps on top of his doghouse. Name the beagle that
appears in Charles Schultz’s comic strip Peanuts owned by Charlie Brown.
Answer: Snoopy

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 5

Bonus 7: Literature (Literature)
Aeschylus was one of the most noteworthy Greek Tragedians.
1. This work of Aeschylus was set entirely at the rock on which the title character was chained for
giving fire to mortals.
Answer: Prometheus Bound (do not accept Prometheus Unbound)
2. This work is actually a trilogy that includes parts "Agamemnon," "The Libation Bearers," and "The
Eumenides;" the fourth part, "Proteus," does not survive.
Answer: Orestia
3. The action of this Aeschylus play immediately precedes the action of Sophocles' Antigone, and as
such, had its ending rewritten after Aeschylus' death; changed to have Antigone announcing her
intentions to bury the newly dead Polynices.
Answer: Seven Against Thebes
Tossup 8: Math (Algebra)
These are sometime plotted on a two dimensional number line to indicate their deviance from
rational numbers. They were first mentioned by Gerolamo Cardano in the 16th century, and the
name that eventually became attached to them was coined by Rene Descartes in the 17th century,
although at the time the term referred to the entire class of complex numbers, not just this subgroup.
Name this class of numbers whose progession through the powers can be recalled via the chant "i, 1, -i, 1" (I, negative 1, negative I, one).
Answer: Imaginary numbers (Prompt on i on early buzz)
Bonus 8: Science (Biology)
The Krebs cycle occurs in these organelles present in all cells.
1. Name these organelles responsible for regenerating ATP, known as the power plants of cells.
Answer: Mitochondria
2. Cristae and the inner membrane surround this acidic innermost region of mitochondria.
Answer: Matrix
3. According to this theory, mitochondria and chloroplasts were originally bacteria which eventually
evolved to become part of eukaryotic cells.
Answer: Endosymbiotic theory
Tossup 9: Literature (Mythology)
One of this figure's sons was turned into a wolf only to tear out the entrails of another of his sons to
fashion a chain. This came as a punishment for a previous action he had brought about while the
gods were taking turns throwing things at a deity whose skin was penetrable only to mistletoe. His
responsibility for the death of Baldur thus earned the ire of Odin, who kept this father of Sleipnir,
Fenrir, and Jormungand (YORE-moon-gond) tied up until Ragnarok. Name this shape-shifting
trickster god of Norse mythology.
Answer: Loki or Loke

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 6

Bonus 9: Math (Geometry) -- Computational
Calculate the surface area of the following solids.
1. A cylinder with radius 2 and height 3.
2. A sphere which can be inscribed in a cube of side length 4.
3. A cube whose surface area equals its volume.
Answers: 1: 20 pi 2: 16 pi 3: 216
Tossup 10: Science (Physics)
For chemical systems, it can be defined as the partial derivative of free energy with respect to the
number of particles. It is equal to k q1 q2 over r for stationary charged particles, and equals one half
k x squared for springs following Hooke's law. For gravity, it is equal to m g h. Name this type of
stored energy, contrasted with kinetic energy.
Answer: Potential energy
Bonus 10: Literature (Literature)
Author Matthew Pearl's debut work was a murder mystery set with a very unlikely hero.
1. Identify that hero, who produced the first American translation of Dante's Divine Comedy.
Answer: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
2. Longfellow invited people to gatherings at his house in order to discuss the ongoing translation,
including this editor of The Atlantic Monthly author of The Bigelow Papers.
Answer: James Russell Lowell
3. Pearl's book "The Dante Club" also places this author of The Chambered Nautilus and The
Autocrat of the Breakfast Table in on the meetings, though he might not have actually been involved.
Answer: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 7

Tossup 11: Literature (Literature)
One of the main characters is reading Jude the Obscure in English class at the beginning of this
work. It also sees Karen Aldrich successfully commit suicide and Jeannine Pratt become
romantically involved with that aforementioned main character. Beth leaves Calvin at the climax of
this novel, leading to the a bridging of a gap between Calvin and his formerly disillusioned son.
Chronicling the stories of Calvin and his son Conrad Jarrett after Con survives a sailing accident that
his brother Buck didn't, identify this novel by Judith Guest.
Answer: Ordinary People
Bonus 11: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Name these Nickelodeon game shows from the 90s.
1. Contestants compete in various physical challenges that culminate in an ascent of the Aggro
Crag.
Answer: Nickelodeon GUTS (accept Global Guts)
2. The field of six teams, including the Green Monkeys and Silver Snakes, was narrowed down to
one that would try to retrieve an ancient object.
Answer: Legends of the Hidden Temple
3. Often featuring Danny and Lori Beth from "All That", it involved four panelists trying to guess the
contestant's secret talent.
Answer: Figure It Out
Tossup 12: Math (Calculus) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the limit, as x approaches infinity, of (3x^2 + 14) / (x^2 – 912x + 1).
Answer: 3
Bonus 12: Science (Earth Science)
Clouds are classified based on the height of their bottoms, not where the tip is. Identify the following
related to clouds.
1. This type of high-altitude cloud is characterized by thin, wisplike strands, leading to the common
name of "mare's tail." They are sometimes formed by the contrails of aircraft.
Answer: Cirrus clouds
2. Sometimes convection at high altitudes produces another form of Cirrus cloud called this, different
due to containing not only frozen water crystals, but also some supercooled liquid water.
Answer: Cirrocumulus clouds
3. Often, the frozen water crystals in Cirrocumulus clouds rapidly freeze the liquid droplets,
transforming them into Cirrostratus clouds and producing this form of precipitation which evaporates
before reaching the ground.
Answer: Virga
Tossup 13: Miscellaneous (Sports)
His last NFL point was the first dropkick extra point since 1941. In 1999, he led the Buffalo Bills to
ten wins but was controversially replaced by Rob Johnson in the playoffs. He achieved great
success in the CFL and the USFL and in college, where he won the 1984 Heisman Trophy and a
famous game against Miami. Identify this quarterback, famous for launching a Hail Mary pass on
Thanksgiving for Boston College.
Answer: Doug Flutie
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 8

Bonus 13: Fine Arts (Music)
Identify these composers who each left an unfinished symphony behind.
1. Probably the most famous incomplete symphony is this man's No. 8 in B minor, which was only
half finished when he began his first song cycle, Die schöne Müllerin.
Answer: Franz Schubert
2. This composer abandoned his Symphony in E flat in favor of his Pathetique Symphony, but part
was later used in his Piano Concerto No. 3.
Answer: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
3. Distracted by the affair between his wife and architect Walter Gropius, this man never completed
his Symphony No. 10, but he did finish his Song of the Earth.
Answer: Gustav Mahler
Tossup 14: Science (Chemistry)
It can be calculated from the Faraday constant divided by the elementary charge, and was first
calculated by Johann Loschmidt. It is also equal to the gas constant divided by Boltzmann's
constant, and the atomic mass unit is defined in terms of it. Name this chemical constant defined as
the number of atoms in 12 grams of carbon-12, whose value is 6.02 times 10 to the 23rd inverse
moles.
Answer: Avogadro's number
Bonus 14: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Answer the following about constitutional amendments.
1. This amendment was proposed and ratified after part of the Wilson-Gorman Tariff was ruled
unconstitutional in the case of Pollock v Farmer's Loan and Trust Co.
Answer: 16th
2. This amendment replaced the Supreme Court decision in Chisholm v Georgia, and the case of
Hans v Louisiana allowed for a broad interpretation of sovereign immunity.
Answer: 11th
3. The constitutionality deadline for ratifying this amendment was upheld in Dillon v Glass, and it
superseded the Volstead Act.
Answer: 18th
Tossup 15: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Although the figure himself is idealized, the rest of the painting is, for the most part, true to life. It is
sometimes compared to Michelangelo's Pieta, since in both works, the person of focus has an
elongated arm hanging down. In this 18th century painting, that arm is attached to a hand which
clutches a quill, while their left hand is holding a note. A bloody towel lies behind the title figure, who
is lying in a bathtub. Name this painting of a deceased French figure, a work by Jacques-Louis
David (dah-VEED).
Answer: The Death of Marat (accept La Mort de Marat)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 9

Bonus 15: Science (Physics)
In the equation E equals m c squared, c stands for the speed of light. Identify the meanings of these
other variables.
1. The Q in the formula Q equals m c delta-T, stands for this quantity.
Answer: heat (prompt on energy)
2. The L in the formula L equals m v r sine theta, stands for this quantity.
Answer: angular momentum
3. The Phi in the formula Phi equals A B cosine theta, stands for this quantity.
Answer: magnetic flux
Tossup 16: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Battles in this war included Red Bank and Bennington, the latter of which featured commanders
Friedrich Baum and Seth Warner. General Charles Lee was captured at Basking Ridge, though later
exchanged for an opposing general. The turning point in this war was the battles of Freeman's Farm
and Bemis Heights, which composed the Battles of Saratoga. Name this 18th century war which
ended when Cornwallis surrendered at Yorktown.
Answer: American Revolutionary War (accept clear knowledge equivalents)
Bonus 16: Math (Algebra)
Identify these conic sections from a description.
1. This conic section has eccentricity zero and is a special case of an ellipse.
Answer: Circle
2. This conic section is the set of points that are equidistant from a given point and line.
Answer: Parabola
3. This conic section has eccentricity greater than one, and consists of two disconnected branches.
Answer: Hyperbola
Tossup 17: Science (Biology)
This condition increases the risk of epilepsy, leukemia, and Alzheimer's disease, and is often
accompanied by congenital heart disease. A Robertsonian translocation can result in the familial
variety, and it can be diagnosed by monitoring alpha-fetoprotein levels or with a karyotype. Data
suggests it is many times more likely to occur to mothers above the age of 35. Name this aneuploid
genetic condition caused by having three copies of chromosome 21.
Answer: Down('s) syndrome (accept trisomy 21 before the end)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 10

Bonus 17: Literature (Literature)
Works of allegory are ones that are written to represent a meaning other than the literal. Identify the
following allegories of the Christian persuasion.
1. This, probably the most famous allegory of them all, is Dante's representation of the different
levels of the Christian afterlife.
Answer: The Divine Comedy (accept La Divina Commedia)
2. This narrative poem by William Langland concerns the lives of the characters Dowel ("Do-Well"),
Dobet ("Do-Bet"), and Dobest ("Do-Best").
Answer: Piers Plowman
3. This Bunyan work is also a very well known Christian allegory. Heck, he even went so far as to
name the main character "Christian."
Answer: The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come
Tossup 18: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Given a house that is 8 ft tall and a ladder placed at a 30 degree angle 5 ft away such that the ladder
exactly touches the roof of the house, how long is the ladder?
Answer: root 89 ft
Bonus 18: Social Studies (World History)
Answer some questions about vetoes.
1. Though held by many governors, Clinton was the only U.S. President to have this power to reject
specific parts of legislation.
Answer: line-item veto
2. Jus Exclusivae, the so-called papal veto, was the right of monarchs to exclude a certain cardinal
from being elected during one of these meetings that determines the next pope.
Answer: papal conclave
3. Veto rights are given to the 5 permanent members of this smaller assembly of the United Nations.
Answer: UN Security Council
Tossup 19: Literature (Literature)
An early success of the writer by this name was about defective engines that kill the son of a war
profiteer named Joe Keller. His essay manifesto "Tragedy and the Common Man" appeared shortly
before a play about a common man who kills himself for insurance money to help his family: Linda,
Happy and Biff Loman. Once called before the House Un-American Activities Commission because
of supposed communist ties, name this playwright who wrote about McCarthyism in The Crucible.
Answer: Arthur Miller

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 11

Bonus 19: Science (Chemistry)
The third one states that, as a system approaches absolute zero, entropy decreases to a minimum
value.
1. Give the collective term for these laws about work and heat.
Answer: Laws of thermodynamics
2. In Celsius, to the nearest degree, give the temperature of absolute zero.
Answer: -273(.15) Celsius
3. This law of thermodynamics states that, if two systems are each in thermal equilibrium with a third
system, then they are also in thermal equilibrium with each other.
Answer: Zeroth law of thermodynamics
Tossup 20: Social Studies (Current Events)
Early in his governmental career, this man was head of the Committee for State Security, and later
was the director of the Federal Security Service. Gaining fame for defeating rebels in Chechnya, in
1999 he became president of his country, replacing Boris Yeltsin. Name this former KGB agent and
current Prime Minister of Russia.
Answer: Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin
Bonus 20: Literature (Literature)
Answer these questions about a book published in 1908.
1. This book includes an incident in which Rat and Mole are helped in their search for Otter’s son by
the god Pan.
Answer: The Wind in the Willows
2. This is the author of The Wind in the Willows.
Answer: Kenneth Grahame
3. This author wrote Toad of Toad Hall, the play that made The Wind in the Willows famous, in
addition to stories about his son’s stuffed animals.
Answer: A(lan) A(lexander) Milne

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 1, Page 12

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Science (Biology)
Deviations from this are measured by the inbreeding coefficient. It does not hold if genetic drift,
mutations, or sexual selection occur, and it can be generalized to consider polyploid or multi-allele
genes. It is usually formulated as p squared plus 2 p q plus q squared equals 1, where p and q are
allele frequencies. Name this biological principle independently described by its two namesakes in
1908.
Answer: Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium/principle (accept equivalents)
Bonus 21: Social Studies (Geography)
Identify these European seas, given clues.
1. The Thames (TEMS) and the Elbe are two tributaries of this sea that connects to the Atlantic by
way of the English Channel, and it is surrounded by Denmark and Norway, among others.
Answer: North Sea
2. Two straits connect the North Sea to this body of water to its east, and Stockholm and St.
Petersburg lie on its banks.
Answer: Baltic Sea
3. This northern arm of the Mediterranean Sea bordering Italy is connected to the Ionian Sea by the
Strait of Otranto.
Answer: Adriatic Sea

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 2

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 2

Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
In this town, the Niagra Movement held its first meeting in the U.S. in 1906 at Storer College. It is
now the location of the headquarters of the Appalachian Trail Conservancy. In 1785, Washington
traveled here to look into the possibilities of canals, and in 1794 he recommended that an armory
and arsenal be built on this site. One notable October 16th, Dr. John Starry went to investigate the
shooting of a freed black, Heyward Shepherd. Name this now West Virginia town, to which some
marines under the command of Robert E. Lee were called out to put down an 1859 raid by the
abolitionist John Brown.
Answer: Harper’s Ferry
Bonus 1: Literature (Literature)
Tattoo is more than just a character on Fantasy Island.
1. This collection of short stories is tied together by a frame narrative about a man's animated
tattoos, each of which tells one of the short stories within it.
Answer: The Illustrated Man
2. This Illinois native wrote The Illustrated Man.
Answer: Ray Bradbury
3. Another "illustrated man," Mr. Dark, appears as the owner of a nefarious carnival in this Bradbury
work.
Answer: Something Wicked This Way Comes
Tossup 2: Math (General)
The non-negative ones are the coefficients of the power series of the function x over quantity one
minus x, quantity squared. Their cardinality equals Aleph null. The floor function gives the largest
one not greater than a number. They are often denoted with a symbol that stands for the German
“Zahlen,” which is a boldface Z. Name the set of numbers that can be negative, positive, or zero and
have no fractional part.
Answer: integer
Bonus 2: Science (Physics)
Identify these things related to optics.
1. This law states that, for a ray passing between two media, the ratio of the sines of the angles of
incidence equals the reciprocal of the ratio of the indices of refraction.
Answer: Snell's law
2. This phenomenon occurs when a ray of light strikes a boundary between two media and bounces
entirely back into the original medium.
Answer: Total internal reflection
3. Total internal reflection occurs when the angle of incidence is above this angle for the two media.
Answer: Critical angle

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 3

Tossup 3: Literature (Literature)
This character originally appeared in some short stories of his creator's; "Slight Rebellion off
Madison" and "I'm Crazy" which were retooled into chapters of the book which he is the protagonist
of. He lives with his roommate Stradlater, who has been going out with his childhood friend Jane
Gallagher. His older brother D.B. is a Hollywood screener, and his sister Phoebe is only ten. He was
profoundly affected by the death of his brother Allie, and often mentions his poetry-inscribed lefthanded baseball mitt. Expelled from Pencey Prep, identify this character, the protagonist and
antihero of J.D. Salinger's The Catcher in The Rye.
Answer: Holden Caulfield
Bonus 3: Social Studies (Other)
Give the terms related to the Roman Catholic Church.
1. The First Vatican council declared that the pope has infallibility only when he speaks “from the
chair,” which is the English translation of this Latin phrase.
Answer: ex cathedra
2. This form of prayer consists of decades of 10 Hail Marys and 1 Our Father prayed while
meditating on certain Mysteries.
Answer: rosary
3. This is the process of formally declaring that a person is a saint.
Answer: canonization (do not accept beatification)
Tossup 4: Science (Biology)
A synthetic one of these chemicals was used as a defoliant in Agent Orange, because they promote
ethylene production at high concentrations. Their action is explained by the acid growth hypothesis,
and their polar diffusion results in apical dominance. Found in nature as indole-acetic acid, they are
responsible for several tropisms. Produced in meristems and seeds, name this plant hormone
responsible for cell elongation.
Answer: Auxin
Bonus 4: Literature (Literature)
The Harlem Renaissance was described by James Weldon Johnson as the "flowering of Negro
literature." Identify the following Harlem Renaissance poets.
1. This author of the widely anthologized "We Wear the Mask" had his first work published in a
newspaper printed by his high school friends Orville and Wilbur Wright.
Answer: Paul Laurence Dunbar
2. This influential poet penned "The Negro Speaks of Rivers," in addition to "Harlem: Dream
Deferred".
Answer: Langston Hughes
3. While more well known for her novel Their Eyes Were Watching God, she also did anthropological
work in college with the likes of Frank Boaz, Margaret Meade and Ruth Benedict.
Answer: Zora Neale Hurston

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 4

Tossup 5: Social Studies (World History)
Construction of this city began in 1703. Built on swampland by laboring serfs, it later became known
as the Venice of the North, and over the course of the 20th century, endured many name changes, a
revolution, and a 872 day siege at the hands of the German and Finnish armies. Name this second
city of Russia.
Answer: St. Petersburg
Bonus 5: Math (Geometry)
Identify these formulas from geometry.
1. This theorem states that, for a right triangle, the sum of the squares of the legs is equal to the
square of the hypotenuse.
Answer: Pythagorean theorem
2. This formula for the area of a triangle is named after an Alexandrian mathematician, and relies
only on the semiperimeter and the lengths of each of the three sides.
Answer: Hero's formula (accept Heron's formula)
3. Hero's formula is a special case of this similar formula for the area of a cyclic quadrilateral.
Answer: Brahmagupta's formula
Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Fluorescent lights had just been developed at time of this work's creation, which explains the
unusual brightness at night. A yellow door on the right and an orange building on the left also add
brightness to this painting, and an advertisement for Phillies cigars sits atop the main building. One
figure has his back turned to the viewer, while two other patrons face the worker behind the counter.
Name this painting of a diner and its customers by Edward Hopper.
Answer: Nighthawks
Bonus 6: Science (Astronomy)
Answer these questions about some locales within our solar system that just might harbor
extraterrestrial life.
1. This planet's moon Enceladus has sub-surface liquid water and geysers powered by internal heat,
making it a possible location.
Answer: Saturn
2. This largest moon of Saturn seems to have the perfect conditions for organic chemistry with a
methane atmosphere and lakes of liquid hydrocarbons.
Answer: Titan
3. The most promising prospect, however, is this smallest of the Galilean moons, which boasts a thin
oxygen atmosphere and immense oceans beneath a surface of ice.
Answer: Europa
Tossup 7: Science (Chemistry)
Its heaviest named element was predicted by Mendeleev, and is radioactive with a longest half-life
around 8 hours. The only group in the periodic table to have solid, liquid, and gaseous elements at
standard temperature and pressure, its elements are highly reactive, and all exist as diatomic
molecules. Name this group containing astatine, iodine, bromine, chlorine, and fluorine.
Answer: Halogens

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 5

Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History)
While Jamestown may have been the first permanent settlement in what is now the United States,
the short-lived Roanoke Colony preceded it by roughly 20 years.
1. Queen Elizabeth I gave this famed explorer the right to establish a colony on the New World's
coast.
Answer: Sir Walter Raleigh
2. This baby, the granddaughter of Colony leader John White, was the first English child born in the
Americas.
Answer: Virginia Dare
3. When White returned in 1590 to find the area deserted, one of the few clues was this word etched
into a nearby tree.
Answer: Cro
Tossup 8: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
It is the singular feminine demonstrative pronoun in French. It can be a term for a transparent sheet
that traditional animation is drawn on. It is also a single hexagonal compartment of a honeycomb or
an updraft in a thunderstorm. In chemistry, it describes a two half-reactions separated to create a
current between them. Name this term, named after the ones that monks inhabit by Robert Hooke,
for the smallest thing able to carry out all the functions of life.
Answer: cell (all clues with different spellings are pronounced identically)
Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Music)
Identify the following German Romantic composers.
1. This composer’s first symphony is often referred to as “Beethoven’s Tenth,” and he made a name
for himself with his German Requiem and namesake Lullaby.
Answer: Johannes Brahms
2. This composer of the Scottish and Italian Symphonies was unhappy with his fifth symphony, the
Reformation, composed for the 300th anniversary of the Augsburg Confession.
Answer: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy
3. When this composer of the Rhenish Symphony and husband to Clara Wieck (veek) went insane,
Brahms was the only visitor he would accept in the asylum.
Answer: Robert Schumann
Tossup 9: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the area of a hexagon in which the perpendicular distance between opposite sides is 14.
Answer: 98 root 3

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 6

Bonus 9: Science (Biology)
Identify these functional units of the human body systems.
1. This unit of the nervous system is a single cell consisting of a body, dendrites, and an axon.
Answer: neuron (prompt on nerve cell)
2. This unit of the excretory system consists of proximal and distal convoluted tubules, a Loop of
Henle, and a Bowman's capsule surrounding the glomerulus.
Answer: nephron
3. This unit of the muscular system is only found in striated tissue, and includes all overlapping actin
and myosin filaments between adjacent Z-lines.
Answer: sarcomere
Tossup 10: Literature (Mythology)
Hesiod states that this figure was given the talent of needlework by Athena and the power of
persuasion by Hermes. According to Greek mythology, this figure was forged by Hephaestus as a
punishment for Prometheus tricking Zeus and, despite Prometheus's pleading, Epimetheus marries
her. The Greeks consider her to be the first woman, and after a certain action, she leaves only hope
in the jar she carries with her. Name this woman whose curiosity resulted in her releasing evils upon
mankind from her eponymous "box".
Answer: Pandora
Bonus 10: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Few musicians have been as influential as the guitar player from Hibbing, MN.
1. An early icon of the folk movement, some of this singer-songwriter's better known songs are Like
a Rolling Stone and The Times They Are-A Changin'.
Answer: Bob Dylan (accept Robert Zimmerman)
2. In the mid 1960s, Dylan toured Europe with this group backing him up. They went on to produce
songs like The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down and The Weight.
Answer: The Band
3. Jakob Dylan, Bob Dylan's son, is the lead singer of this alternative band best known for their song
One Headlight.
Answer: The Wallflowers
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 7

Tossup 11: Science (Earth Science)
Composed mainly of silicon dioxide and aluminum oxide, this type of rock is especially common in
the northeastern United States. As evidenced by its large grains, it's an igneous rock that is both
felsic and intrusive. Name this type of rock frequently used in buildings and carvings, and that lends
its name to the nickname of New Hampshire.
Answer: Granite
Bonus 11: Math (Calculus) -- Computational
Evaluate the derivatives of the following functions at x = 2.
1. The quantity x squared plus two, quantity squared.
2. Three sine of the quantity pi x plus pi, close quantity.
3. x over the quantity x squared plus 1, close quantity.
Answers: 1: 48 2: -3 pi 3: -3/25
Tossup 12: Literature (Literature)
In one work written by an author from this country, Ambrose Bierce comes to this country to die. It is
the native country of only one Nobel Prize winner in Literature. That 1990 winner wrote a non-fiction
work about this country’s history that examined machismo. Name this country, the setting of The Old
Gringo and The Labyrinth of Solitude by Carlos Fuentes and Octavio Paz respectively.
Answer: Mexico
Bonus 12: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Identify the creators of various Adoration of the Magi paintings for ten points each.
1. He painted many religious themes, including The Adoration of the Magi, but is more famous for
mythological works like The Birth of Venus and Primavera.
Answer: Sandro Botticelli
2. Though all of the subjects in this Flemish man’s Adoration of the Magi are clothed, he made
himself known for painting nudes, as in Massacre of the Innocents.
Answer: Peter Paul Rubens
3. This man painted his Adoration of the Magi as a triptych. Many of his other paintings, such as The
Garden of Earthly Delights, are also triptychs.
Answer: Hieronymus Bosch
Tossup 13: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
In a + b i form, where i is the square root of negative one, give the simplified expansion of (2+3i),
quantity cubed.
Answer: -46 + 9 i

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 8

Bonus 13: Science (Chemistry)
Identify the gas law, from a brief description.
1. Pressure and volume are inversely proportional.
Answer: Boyle's law
2. Temperature and volume are directly proportional.
Answer: Charles's law
3. This law combines Boyle's law, Charles's law, and Gay-Lussac's law, stating that pressure times
volume equals the number of moles times the gas constant times temperature.
Answer: Ideal gas law
Tossup 14: Miscellaneous (Sports)
This man was selected to the All-Pac 10 team three times, and was selected in the first round of the
2003 MLB draft. Prior to the 2008 season, he was traded to his current team for minor leaguer Chris
Carter. Not even an opening day starter, he quickly gained time in left field and was the most
consistent hitter for his team in the first half of the season, which kept them in the AL Central race.
His season ended with an injury to his wrist, and likely factor in his team's first round playoff exit to
the Tampa Bay Rays. Name this power hitting outfielder for the Chicago White Sox.
Answer: Carlos Quentin
Bonus 14: Literature (Literature)
A 1915 work sees the main character living in a room alone, mostly clinging to the ceiling or sleeping
under the couch.
1. Identify this work, in which the main character is changed into a large insect.
Answer: The Metamorphosis (do not accept Metamorphoses)
2. The Metamorphosis was written by this man.
Answer: Franz Kafka
3. This is the main character who is mysteriously transformed.
Answer: Gregor Samsa
Tossup 15: Social Studies (U.S. History)
This treaty, negotiated with Alexander Baring, helped slow the slave trade, and gave the United
States the right to navigate the St. John River. Putting an end to the Aroostook War, it was signed in
1842. Establishing a boundary on Lake Superior, name this treaty that also defined the border
between New Brunswick and Maine.
Answer: Webster-Ashburton Treaty
Bonus 15: Math (Geometry) -- Computational
Find the following angles, expressed in degrees.
1. The sum of the internal angles in a hexagon.
2. The sum of the external angles in a 10-gon.
3. The measure of one internal angle in a regular 24-gon.
Answers: 1: 720 degrees 2: 360 degrees 3: 165 degrees

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 9

Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Music)
One of Rick Mooney’s books of etudes for this instrument is subtitled “Thumbs of Steel,” humorously
referring to the callus that forms when playing in the upper register. Its second lowest string is the
bottom line in bass clef. The repertoire for it as a solo instrument includes a Concerto in E Minor by
Elgar and one in B Minor by Dvorak, and two by Saint-Saens in addition to The Swan from Carnival
of the Animals. Name the instrument for which J.S. Bach wrote 6 unaccompanied suites, always
played sitting down by Yo-Yo Ma.
Answer: violin-cello
Bonus 16: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Answer some related questions about U.S. History
1. This strong-willed temperance advocate used to smash up bars with a hatchet to get her point
across.
Answer: Carrie Nation
2. The League of Nations was proposed as part of this President’s Fourteen Points
Answer: Thomas Woodrow Wilson
3. Wilson was the President of this University located in a New Jersey town of the same name.
Answer: Princeton University
Tossup 17: Math (Other) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Convert the Cartesian coordinates (√3, 1) to polar coordinates.
Answer: (2, π/6)
Bonus 17: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Identify the following possessions of Jim Irsay.
1. Irsay is the sole owner of this NFL team which features noted shill Peyton Manning and won
Super Bowl 41 over the Chicago Bears.
Answer: Indianapolis Colts (accept either half)
2. In 2001, Irsay purchased “the roll,” a 120 foot long scroll of the original manuscript of this Beat
novel featuring Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty.
Answer: On the Road
3. Irsay owns numerous historic guitars, including one owned by this guitarist, famous for the songs
“All Things Must Pass” and “Got My Mind Set On You.”
Answer: George Harrison
Tossup 18: Social Studies (Geography)
It is technically made up of three volcanoes, and it last erupted in 1707. Located near five lakes that
are named after it, its name means "everlasting life." Numerous shrines and temples are located in
the vicinity of this volcano, which reaches 12388 feet. Name this volcano that women were not
allowed to climb until the Meiji Restoration, the tallest point in Japan.
Answer: Mount Fuji

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 10

Bonus 18: Literature (Literature)
Answer the following about a play, for ten points each.
1. The title refers to one character's relapse into morphine addiction as a result of her son coming
down with TB, while her husband is a cheapskate alcoholic.
Answer: Long Day's Journey into Night
2. Edmund, the TB-stricken youngest son, is seen as a self-depiction of this author of Long Day's
Journey into Night.
Answer: Eugene O'Neill
3. This is the name of the family that is depicted in O'Neill's Long Day's Journey into Night.
Answer: Tyrone family
Tossup 19: Science (Physics)
It is typically described by the Coulomb approximation, which assumes that surface area does not
affect its magnitude. Its "limiting" type is the maximum value before motion takes place, and is equal
to the normal force times mu sub s. Name this force that comes in static and kinetic varieties, which
resists motion between two bodies.
Answer: Friction
Bonus 19: Math (General) -- Computational
Find the following values related to the Fibonacci sequence, which starts 1, 1, 2, 3, 5.
1. Find the eighth number of the Fibonacci sequence.
2. This is the number of prime numbers in the first ten Fibonacci numbers.
3. This is the first number in the Fibonacci sequence above 100.
Answers: 1: 21 2: 4 3: 144
Tossup 20: Literature (Literature)
His most famous novel describes such episodes as the narrator's adventures in San Francisco with
Remi Boncoeur and his trip to Mexico with Stan Shepard. A collaboration he produced with William
S. Burroughs titled "And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks" will be published for the first time
this Tuesday. Besides writing The Dharma Bums, he is also known for writing his most famous work
on sheets of huge tracing paper, which he taped together to form a massive scroll. A Beat
Generation writer, identify this author of On the Road.
Answer: Jack Kerouac
Bonus 20: Social Studies (World History)
Let's see if you can best the Encyclopedia Britannica, which got the following facts wrong.
1. The EB misquotes the rule from Leviticus 18:16, forbidding marriage with a brother's wife, that this
man invoked to annul his marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
Answer: Henry VIII
2. The actual birth year of this man, born Josef Dzhugashvili in Georgia, is 1878, but he tricked the
EB into making him a year younger after he became dictator of the Soviet Union.
Answer: Joseph Stalin
3. The EB wrongly labels this city as capital of the Wu kingdom in 212 AD, but does accurately
describe the massacre that took place there when the Japanese army invaded in 1937.
Answer: Nanking (accept Nanjing)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 2, Page 11

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Give the area of a triangle with vertices (4,1), (2,5), and (1,0). Recall that the area of a triangle can
be computed by finding half the magnitude of the cross product of two vectors along its sides.
Answer: 7
Bonus 21: Literature (Mythology)
Hephaestus, arguably the most brutish of the gods, was good with his hands, and not much else.
Identify the following about the smith to the gods.
1. Either Zeus or Hera threw Hephaestus off Mount Olympus, and he landed on this island, where he
made his forge.
Answer: Lemnos
2. Hephaestus' failed attempt to sleep with this deity led to the birth of Erechtheus.
Answer: Pallas Athena (accept Minerva)
3. In Homer's Iliad, Hephaestus was said to have been married to Aglaea, a member of this trio of
deities.
Answer: Graces (accept Charites or Gratiae)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 3

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 2

Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Prior to the events of September 11, 2001 this was the greatest single loss of American civilian life in
a non-natural disaster. Occurring on November 18, 1978 in northwester Guyana, this event was
immediately preceded by shootings on the Port Kaituma Airstrip, including the death of
Congressman Leo Ryan. Commonly called by the location at which it took place, identify this mass
suicide by members of the People's Temple, which spawned the catchphrase "Don't Drink the KoolAid."
Answer: Jonestown Massacre
Bonus 1: Literature (Literature)
Name these novels that take place over the span of 24 hours.
1. This Joyce novel about Leopold Bloom is set in Dublin on June 16th, 1904.
Answer: Ulysses
2. This novel by Malcolm Lowry about Geoffrey Firmin is set on the Day of the Dead in 1939.
Answer: Under the Volcano
3. This 1962 Solzhenitsyn work follows the titular prisoner in a Soviet gulag.
Answer: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich
Tossup 2: Math (General) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Consider y to be a consonant. Given a sack of tiles with letters on them, where each vowel is on
twice as many tiles as each consonant, what are the odds of drawing an E from the sack? Express
your answer as a reduced fraction.
Answer: 2/31
Bonus 2: Science (Physics)
Answer these questions about superlative substances in nature.
1. These are chemicals whose pH is lower than concentrated H2SO4.
Answer: superacid
2. These are substances with zero viscosity, such as very cold helium.
Answer: superfluid
3. These are materials that can scratch diamond, such as rhenium diboride.
Answer: superhard
Tossup 3: Literature (Literature)
Robert Wood suggests in his "Essay on the Original Genius of" this man that he was as illiterate as
some of his characters. A poem by Keats references Chapman's translation of him, and this man
himself was known for a set of hymns to various deities. One of his most famous works begins
"Rage--Goddess, sing the rage of Peleus's son Achilles" and tells of that man's exploits in the Trojan
War. Name this wandering minstrel, the creator of The Odyssey and The Iliad.
Answer: Homer

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 3

Bonus 3: Social Studies (World History)
Answer these related questions.
1. This banker formed U.S. Steel with Elbert Gary and gave much of his art collection to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Answer: John Pierpont Morgan
2. Historian Edmund Morgan argued that this 1676 rebellion in Jamestown against Governor
Berkeley helped switch labor from indentured servants to slaves.
Answer: Bacon’s Rebellion
3. About fifty years before Bacon’s Rebellion, Francis Bacon wrote this utopian novel about
Bensalem and the experiments of the residents of Salomon’s House.
Answer: The New Atlantis
Tossup 4: Science (Biology)
Members of this kingdom can reproduce asexually by producing spores that form clones, or sexually
by a life cycle that goes through haploid, dikaryotic, and diploid stages. Yeasts are a member of this
kingdom, whose larger members typically grow long filaments called hyphae, which form a larger
mass known as the mycelium. Name this biological kingdom which includes molds and mushrooms.
Answer: Fungi
Bonus 4: Literature (Literature)
A 1942 novel tells the story of an alienated French man who kills an Arab man in Algiers.
1. Name this novel, which sees that man convicted of murder largely due to his lack of emotions at
his mother's funeral rather than the actual act of murder.
Answer: The Stranger (accept The Outsider or L’Étranger)
2. This Algerian author wrote The Stranger.
Answer: Albert Camus (ka-MOO)
3. This is the name of the character who is on trial to be executed in The Stranger.
Answer: Mersault
Tossup 5: Social Studies (Geography)
The legislative assembly of the Spanish Basques is located in this town in Biscay, where the
Gernikako Arbola, the oak which symbolizes the rights and freedoms of the Basque people. Since
the tree's planting in the 14th Century, the town has suffered much, including a bombing by Luftwaffe
planes on the 26th of April, 1937. Name this Spanish town, the destruction of which Pablo Picasso
immortalized in one of his most famous paintings.
Answer: Guernica
Bonus 5: Math (Calculus) -- Computational
Find the following limits, or state that the limit does not exist.
1. The quantity sine of x, close quantity, over x, as x approaches 0.
2. The quantity x squared plus 2, close quantity, over the quantity 5x squared minus 5x, as x
approaches infinity.
3. One over x, as x approaches 0.
Answers: 1: 1 2: 1/5 3: does not exist

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 4

Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
His "On the Threshold of Liberty" features a cannon pointing at what appear to be pictures of random
environments on a wall. He is also remembered for his strategic placement of a green apple over the
face of a man in a bowler hat. Creating one painting of a train coming directly out of a fireplace,
identify this Belgian artist responsible for "Time Transfixed" as well as "The Treachery of Images", a
picture of a pipe with subtext that reads "Ceci n'est pas une pipe."
Answer: René Magritte
Bonus 6: Science (Earth Science)
Identify these terms related to the measurement of earthquakes.
1. Developed by a Cal Tech professor, this most well known scale uses a base-10 logarithmic scale
to measure the magnitude of an earthquake.
Answer: Richter Scale
2. These machines are instrumental to the Richter scale, as they measure waves sent through the
ground by an earthquake.
Answer: Seismometers (prompt Seismographs)
3. Often confused with the Richter scale, this scale that measures an earthquake's intensity was
revised by Frank Neumann and Harry Wood.
Answer: Modified Mercalli Scale
Tossup 7: Science (Chemistry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
A buffer is composed of two components: HA and A minus. Find the acid dissociation constant of HA
if the pH of a buffered solution is 4.0 when the concentration of A minus in the solution is 2.0 molar
and the concentration of HA is 0.2 molar.
Answer: 1.0 x 10^-3 (or 0.001)
Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Given clues, identify the following trails prominent in American history.
1. The most well known of all the trails, this 2,000 mile long stretch started in Independence, MO and
led settlers towards the Columbia River.
Answer: Oregon Trail
2. The U.S. military used this trail during the Mexican-American War, and many travelers used the
Cimarron Cutoff to get to its namesake city.
Answer: Santa Fe Trail
3. This cattle trail began near San Antonio and went north to Abilene, KS, where there was a depot
for the Kansas Pacific Railroad.
Answer: Chisholm Trail
Tossup 8: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
A running gag throughout this show is the subtle appearance of a pineapple in every episode.
Taking place in Santa Barbara, CA one of the co-owners of the title business also works for a
pharmacy company. The main character's father is a former cop who taught him to be especially
observant, which allows him to appear as if he has supernatural powers. Name this USA show in
which James Roday stars a police consultant with phony clairvoyant powers.
Answer: Psych

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 5

Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Music)
The third of them features strings only, while the penultimate one of them includes a lengthy
harpsichord cadenza.
1. Name this set of six instrumental works, written for the margrave Christian Ludwig.
Answer: Brandenburg Concertos
2. This Baroque composer wrote the Brandenburg concertos and who probably played that
harpsichord cadenza.
Answer: Johann Sebastian Bach
3. Bach published this 1722 set of 24 preludes and fugues - one in each major and minor key - for
keyboard instruments.
Answer: The Well-Tempered Clavier
Tossup 9: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the volume of a cube with an internal diagonal of 5 root 3.
Answer: 125
Bonus 9: Science (Chemistry)
Given an ion, identify its oxidation number.
1. Fluoride
Answer: -1
2. Ammonium
Answer: +1
3. Borate
Answer: -3
Tossup 10: Literature (Literature)
In this novel, Mademoiselle Reisz counsels a much younger protagonist in the proto-feminist ways of
the independent woman. Adèle Ratignolle acts as a perfect wife and mother, a foil to the main
character, while Alcée Arobin and Robert Lebrun serve as a means of sexual exploration to her.
Taking place in Creole Louisiana, identify this work in which Edna Pontellier eventually drowns
herself, written by Kate Chopin.
Answer: The Awakening
Bonus 10: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
There are so many songs that you would easily recognize upon hearing them at a sporting event or
dance, but can you remember who performed them?
1. "Get Ready for This" is one of the hit songs by this eurodance group from Amsterdam, featuring
vocals by rapper Ray Slijngaard.
Answer: 2 Unlimited
2. This German group had a huge 2006 hit, a cover of Maggie Reilly's "Everytime We Touch."
Answer: Cascada
3. This man performed "Rock and Roll, Part 2," also called "The Hey Song," a song often heard at
sporting events after the home team scores.
Answer: Gary Glitter (accept Paul Francis Gadd)
HALFTIME
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 6

Tossup 11: Science (Astronomy)
The mass of all its objects combined is less than a tenth of the Earth's mass, and many of its objects
are in binary systems, including Charon. It is located about 30 to 55 astronomical units from the sun,
and Neptune's orbital resonances cause certain regions in it to be sparsely populated. Name this
region of trans-Neptunian objects which includes Pluto.
Answer: Kuiper belt
Bonus 11: Math (Algebra) -- Computational
Given x equals 1 - 3 i and y equals 2 + i, calculate the following, expressing your answer in a + b i
form when appropriate.
1. a plus b.
2. a times b.
3. The complex modulus of a divided by b.
Answers: 1: 3 - 2 i 2: 5 - 5 i 3: root 2
Tossup 12: Literature (Literature)
One character in this work hangs himself in an attic, the church choir director Simon Stimson.
Another character decides to relive her 12th birthday after dying in childbirth. It has three acts: “Daily
Life,” "Love and Marriage," and “Death.” Staged with no scenery or props, it tells the story of George
Gibbs and Emily Webb of Grovers Corners, New Hampshire. Featuring lots of meta-theatrical
devices, identify this play featuring a Stage Manager for a narrator, written by Thornton Wilder.
Answer: Our Town
Bonus 12: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Identify these related artists for ten points each.
1. Water lilies were a frequent subject for this French painter of Impression: Sunrise.
Answer: Claude Oscar Monet
2. Sunflowers appear often in the works of this Dutchman, who is also famous for The Potato
Eaters.
Answer: Vincent Willem van Gogh
3. Irises and jack-in-the-pulpits appear often in the abstract pictures of desert flowers that made this
American woman famous.
Answer: Georgia O'Keeffe
Tossup 13: Math (General)
This number is equal to i plus i times the square root of i, all over i. Its infinite tetrate is equal to its
square. One plus this number is known as the silver ratio, named because its relationship to the Pell
numbers is analogous to that between the golden ratio and Fibonnacci numbers. One approximation
of it is 99/70. Give this number, also called Pythagoras’s constant because one of his ancient
followers proved that it is irrational, the length of the hypotenuse of a right isosceles triangle with a
leg of length one.
Answer: square root of two

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 7

Bonus 13: Science (Biology)
It is responsible for motor control and coordination.
1. Name this region of the brain whose name is Latin for "small brain," and which is also resopnsible
for integrating sensory information from other parts of the brain.
Answer: Cerebellum
2. This smallest, dorsal lobe of the brain is responsible for visual processing.
Answer: Occipital lobe
3. The two hemispheres of the brain are connected by this structure which is sometimes severed to
alleviate extreme epilepsy.
Answer: Corpus callosum
Tossup 14: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
The one written by Aristotle encouraged remarriage while the one penned by Patrick Henry
condemned it, though unsuccessfully. The one from Ben Franklin ironically advised his daughter that
wearing jewelry was a "vain and useless pastime." Virgil's first one asked that the Aeneid be burned
and Napoleon's second one requested that his hair be shaved off and distributed to friends. The
most famous one, however, remains Shakespeare's in which his "second best bed" is the only item
bequeathed to his wife, Anne Hathaway. Identify this formal legal document in which one outlines
what will happen to his possessions and whatnot after they die.
Answer: Last Will and Testament
Bonus 14: Literature (Literature)
Since everybody seems to be going green these days, let's join them. Answer these ecology minded
literature questions.
1. Esther Greenwood is a protagonist who could probably save some electricity by cutting back on
her shock treatments in this Plath novel.
Answer: The Bell Jar
2. Unless this Fireside poet stops burning wood and spewing soot in the atmosphere, his poem
“Snow-Bound” will become a thing of the past.
Answer: John Greenleaf Whittier
3. Graham Greene doesn’t live up to his surname in this novel that shamelessly promotes taking
long trips all over Mexico just like the Whiskey Priest.
Answer: The Power and the Glory
Tossup 15: Social Studies (Other)
This man compiled several Teacher’s Word Books of frequently encountered words to be used with
children. That intelligence facilitates the number of neural bonds formed by experience between
perceived stimuli and emitted responses is his theory of connectionism. The fact that stimuliresponse sequences followed by pleasure get “stamped in” and that sequences followed by pain get
“stamped out” is his Law of Effect. Name this author of Animal Intelligence, who put cats into puzzle
boxes to test their ability to learn.
Answer: Edward Thorndike

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 8

Bonus 15: Math (General) -- Computational
Give the probability of the following occurring for a fair two-sided coin. Express answers as reduced
fractions.
1. You get exactly one head in two flips.
2. You get exactly two heads in three flips.
3. You get three or more heads in four flips.
Answers: 1: 1/2 2: 3/8 3: 5/16
Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Music)
In 1945, this man joined Charlie Parker’s quintet, and ten years later, his first great quintet featured
John Coltrane on tenor sax. He worked with Gil Evans on albums such as Sketches of Spain, but his
most famous work came in 1959 with Bill Evans on piano for songs such as “Freddy Freeloader” and
“So What.” Name this jazz trumpeter, famous for the albums Birth of the Cool and Kind of Blue.
Answer: Miles Davis
Bonus 16: Social Studies (World History)
The Mexica Tenochca, the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan, together made up
one of the most powerful presences in Mesoamerica.
1. Identify the common name for the alliance of these three groups.
Answer: Aztec Empire (accept Aztec Triple Alliance)
2. The Aztecs are commonly associated with this seat of government power, located where present
day Mexico City is.
Answer: Tenochtitlan
3. This is the language that the people of the Aztec Empire spoke.
Answer: Nahuatl
Tossup 17: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
There is a room of leaky pipes. It takes Mario thirty minutes to fix it, and Luigi 20 minutes. How long
does it take them to fix it if they work together?
Answer: 12 minutes
Bonus 17: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
In honor of the late Paul Newman, identify these movies he starred in.
1. In this 1967 movie, Newman played the title prisoner in a Florida jail. It is best remembered for
Newman delivering the line, "What we've got here is a failure to communicate."
Answer: Cool Hand Luke
2. Newman paired up with Robert Redford for this 1969 Western that featured the two actors in the
title roles as bank robbers.
Answer: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
3. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid was directed by George Roy Hill, who also directed this
1977 Newman comedy in which the actor starred as Reggie Dunlop, a player and coach for the
Charlestown Chiefs, a minor league hockey team.
Answer: Slap Shot

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 9

Tossup 18: Social Studies (World History)
His parents' land was confiscated by the government during his youth, and early in his adult life he
wrote works with Ivan Vyskocil. He frequently found himself in jail, especially after 1968's Prague
Spring, during which his plays were banned. Always the political activist, his country would later join
NATO during his reign. Name this president of the Czech Republic and previously Czechoslovakia, a
position he reached because of the Velvet Revolution.
Answer: Vaclav Havel
Bonus 18: Literature (Literature)
Answer these questions about literary things related to the phrase “Arma virumque cano.”
1. This is the English translation of the Latin phrase.
Answer: I sing of arms and the man (accept any combination of the words with the same
meaning)
2. This epic poem begins “I sing of arms and the man.”
Answer: Aeneid
3. This playwright’s play “Arms and the Man” is about the Bulgarian Raina Petkoff, her betrothed
Sergius Saranoff and a Swiss soldier named Bluntschli.
Answer: George Bernard Shaw
Tossup 19: Science (Physics)
When it is known through the center of mass, other ones of these can be obtained through the
parallel axis theorem. It is equal to m l squared over 12 for a rod, and one half of it times the
rotational speed squared is the rotational kinetic energy of a body. Equal to m r squared for a point
mass, name this quantity of rotating bodies, analogous to mass.
Answer: Moment of inertia (accept angular mass)
Bonus 19: Math (Other)
Identify the answers all related to numbers with certain property.
1. This term marks a number that is equal to the sum of its divisors.
Answer: perfect number
2. This is the smallest perfect number.
Answer: 6 (1+2+3)
3. None of the perfect numbers observed so far are also this, meaning they are in the form 2n+1
where n is an integer.
Answer: odd
Tossup 20: Literature (Literature)
One of his works was written as a fictionalization of a huge literary revelation he once had in his
mother's room. The main character listens to and ridicules tapes of monologues he recorded in his
youth, in that work, Krapp's Last Tape. Another of his works is a one-act play with four characters,
including Hamm, an old, blind man and not able to stand up, and his servant Clov, who cannot sit
down. That play, Endgame, while considered to be one of his best, pales in comparison to his other
work featuring the tramps Vladimir and Estragon. Identify this Irish author of Waiting for Godot.
Answer: Samuel Beckett

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 3, Page 10

Bonus 20: Social Studies (Geography)
Even in the realm of geography, the Encyclopedia Britannica can make a few goofs.
1. Along with stating the wrong date for the city's founding, the EB incorrectly places the town hall,
cathedral, and Gediminas Castle of this capital of Lithuania.
Answer: Vilnius
2. The EB erroneously implies that there is only one island by this name, when in fact it is an entire
archipelago in the Taiwan Strait with Nangan as the largest member.
Answer: Matsu Islands
3. A 12-year-old boy corrected the EB in 2005 by moving the town of Khotyn from Moldova to this
larger neighboring country to the east.
Answer: Ukraine

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Fine Arts (Other)
While this man was born in Kenosha, Wisconsin, he would rise to his greatest notoriety due to
events which supposedly occurred in New Jersey. A superb actor and filmmaker, his work won
numerous awards, including the Palme d'Or at Cannes for his version of Othello. However, he is
more famous for a film loosely based on the life of William Randolph Hearst, and a radio broadcast
of War of the Worlds. Name this lion of 20th Century American entertainment.
Answer: Orson Welles
Bonus 21: Literature (Mythology)
Geirrod tried to trap him, and the berserkers worshipped one of his sons.
1. Identify this Norse deity, the owner of Mjollnir.
Answer: Thor
2. After Loki cut of the hair of this goddess, Thor's wife, Thor threatened to smash Loki unless his
wife's hair was restored.
Answer: Sif
3. At Ragnarok, Thor will slay and be slain by this large creature which he had almost caught on a
prior fishing trip.
Answer: Jormungandr (accept Midgard serpent)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 4

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 2

Tossup 1: Science (Astronomy)
Some candidates for its composition include WIMPs such as the Lightest Supersymmetric Particle
and MACHOs. Evidence to support its existence includes the Bullet Cluster and Galactic rotation
curves. Using gravitational lensing, one can reconstruct its location and density based on the
bending of light that passes near it. Making up about a quarter of the mass-energy of the universe,
name this indirectly observable phenomenon that gets its name because it does not give off
electromagnetic radiation.
Answer: dark matter
Bonus 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
It's not cold in here, but this bonus is about Aaron Burr!
1. Burr is perhaps most remembered for having shot and killed this first Secretary of the Treasury
during a duel in New Jersey.
Answer: Alexander Hamilton
2. After Burr fled New York, he planned an invasion of this country, which led to him being brought
up on charges of treason.
Answer: Mexico
3. Burr was betrayed by this American officer, who was actually a spy for Spain.
Answer: General James Wilkinson
Tossup 2: Literature (Literature)
The author of this work had his interest sparked enough by a three-hundred word New York Times
article to take a cross country trip of over 1,600 miles. Two ex-convicts on parole, Richard Hickock
and Perry Smith, hatch a brilliant plan to commit a robbery and then start a new life in Mexico. The
work details how this all goes awry when they discover their intended target did not in fact, keep a
safe full of cash. Detailing the 1959 murder of a wealthy farmer, his wife and two children in
Holcomb, Kansas, identify this 1966 work of nonfiction by Truman Capote.
Answer: In Cold Blood: A True Account of a Multiple Murder and Its Consequences
Bonus 2: Math (General) -- Computational
You have three red marbles, four green, and one blue marble in a bag. Find the probability of the
following, expressed as a reduced fraction.
1. You pull two marbles out of the bag, without replacement, and both are red.
2. You pull three marbles out of the bag, without replacement, and none is blue.
3. You pull four marbles out of the bag, without replacement, and all four are green.
Answers: 1: 3/28 2: 5/8 3: 1/70
Tossup 3: Social Studies (World History)
This man's father was an adviser to Menilek II, and early in his political career he was governor of
Sidamo. With a name meaning "Might of the Trinity," this man became ruler of his nation when
Empress Zauditu died. He ruled until 1974, when he was deposed and lived in house arrest until his
death a year later. Name this mid-20th century leader of Ethiopia.
Answer: Haile Selassie I (accept Ras Tafari Makonnen)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 3

Bonus 3: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Answer the following about the creators of some sculptures of David for ten points each.
1. This man created the most well-known David sculpture. The marble nude portrays David holding
his sling, before the battle with Goliath.
Answer: Michelangelo
2. In the 15th century, this renaissance man created a nearly nude, bronze David standing on the
head of Goliath and holding the giant’s sword.
Answer: Donatello
3. Donatello is also famous for a statue of this slayer of dragons. The statue wears full medieval
armor and was a tribute to armorers in Orsanmichele.
Answer: St. George (do not accept St. George and the Dragon)
Tossup 4: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the area of a square where the distance between the midpoints of adjacent sides is 3.
Answer: 18
Bonus 4: Social Studies (Geography)
Identify these world capitals that were planned and built in the last 50 years.
1. Resembling an airplane when viewed from above, this capital is divided by the Monumental Axis
and is located about 450 miles from Rio de Janeiro, the city it replaced.
Answer: Brasilia, Brazil
2. Completed in 1970 after Hurricane Hattie and a following tidal wave destroyed Belize City, this
capital was built far enough inland to avoid another disaster.
Answer: Belmopan, Belize
3. Home to both the National Mosque and National Christian Centre, this capital replaced the
overcrowded Lagos in 1991, but shanty towns have grown quickly here as well.
Answer: Abuja Municipal Area Council, Nigeria
Tossup 5: Fine Arts (Music)
It’s not The Rite of Spring, but in 1912, Vaslav Nijinsky’s performance of it caused outrage in Paris.
That performance was a ballet inspired by a poem of the same name, describing the title character’s
experiences with nymphs following a nap, written by Stephane Mallarmé (mal-ar-may). Name this
work, famous for a musical Prelude written by Claude Debussy.
Answer: Afternoon of a Faun
Bonus 5: Miscellaneous (Sports)
Answer these questions about some of the new events featured at the Summer Olympics in Beijing.
1. New to this year's games were men's and women's individual events using this kind of bike
designed for hilly dirt tracks.
Answer: BMX
2. The only pure-swimming event not held in a pool and with no preliminary heats, this race used
freestyle rules over its 10 kilometer length.
Answer: Marathon swim
3. This 3000 meter event that requires the runners to jump over 28 barriers and clear 7 water pits
around the track saw women compete for the first time.
Answer: Steeplechase
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 4

Tossup 6: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Costing over $300,000 when it was built, it was over 200 feet long and carried 50 guns. Under the
command of Isaac Hull it defeated the Guerriere, which is where it received its nickname, as enemy
sailors thought their shots could not penetrate this ship. Paul Revere crafted some of the ironwork
for it, and Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote a poem about it. Christened in 1797, name this ship, the
oldest commissioned warship still afloat.
Answer: U.S.S. Constitution (prompt on Old Ironsides)
Bonus 6: Math (Geometry) -- Computational
Find the areas of the following figures.
1. A regular hexagon with sides of length 2.
2. A square inscribed in a circle of diameter 4.
3. One face of a tetrahedron whose surface area is four times the length of an edge.
Answers: 1: 6 root 3 2: 8 3: root 3 / 12 (accept 1 / 4 root 3)
Tossup 7: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
It is the name of the first single ever released by The Police, and also the title of the eleventh
episode of Heroes, in which we see the Haitian speak for the first time. Also sharing this name is a
series of PC and console games prominently featuring a mutant named Harold, remnants of the U.S.
Government dubbed "The Enclave" and a series of underground "vaults"; the third installment of
which was released on Oct. 28. Identify this, most commonly defined as the residual radiation
hazard from a nuclear explosion.
Answer: Fallout
Bonus 7: Literature (Literature)
Identify these novels written in the early 20th century and set in Chicago.
1. This 1906 muckraking novel follows Jurgis Rudkus in the Back of the Yards neighborhood.
Answer: The Jungle
2. The protagonist and title character's last name is Meeber in this Dreiser novel published in 1900.
Answer: Sister Carrie
3. It was supposed to be the second of the Epic of the Wheat trilogy, but Norris never wrote "The
Wolf" to follow this 1903 novel about the Board of Trade.
Answer: The Pit
Tossup 8: Math (Other) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Convert the following number from decimal to binary: 153.
Answer: 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 5

Bonus 8: Science (Biology)
It is produced in the pancreas, in the beta cells of the Islets of Langerhans.
1. Name this hormone whose absence causes diabetes.
Answer: Insulin
2. Insulin directs cells to stop using fat for energy, and to store glucose in this polysaccharide
sometimes called "animal starch."
Answer: Glycogen
3. This hormone causes cells to convert glycogen back into glucose, and functions as the opposite
of insulin.
Answer: Glucagon
Tossup 9: Literature (Mythology)
Along with his faithful friend Achates and his son Ascanius, this progeny of Anchises and Venus
made a noteworthy escape. Consequently, he traveled to Thrace, Crete, Epirus, Sicily, and Cumae,
where he visited the underworld, among other destinations. While his first wife Creusa died in the
aforementioned escape, he later defeated Turnus to win Lavinia's hand in marriage. Also having a
notable rendezvous with the Carthaginian Queen Dido, identify this Trojan hero who is the focus of a
work by Vergil.
Answer: Aeneas
Bonus 9: Math (General)
Answer these questions about mathematical logic.
1. This namesake logic-based math uses the values "true" and "false," along with operations like
"and," "or," and "not."
Answer: Boolean algebra
2. There are exactly this many distinct binary Boolean operators, a fact which can be determined by
combinatorics.
Answer: 16
3. These namesake laws state that, for example, the negation of the quantity P and Q is the same as
the OR of the quantities "not P" and "not Q."
Answer: De Morgan's laws
Tossup 10: Science (Physics)
The value of the work function for a material determines the threshold frequency for this effect, under
which it does not occur. It was first observed by Becquerel and Hertz, and its explanation relied on
the then-new concept of quantized energy called photons. In this effect, electrons are ejected from
metal when struck by light of a certain frequency. Also known as the Hertz effect, name this
phenomenon first described completely by Einstein.
Answer: Photoelectric effect (accept Hertz effect before mentioned)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 6

Bonus 10: Literature (Literature)
The metaphysical poets were a loose grouping of poets who were focused on, well, metaphysical
concerns.
1. Perhaps the most famous metaphysical poet was this preacher who penned a collection of Holy
Sonnets including number ten, which begins with the words "Death, be not proud..."
Answer: John Donne
2. Donne greatly influenced this Welsh poet and playwright who penned Under Milk Wood as well as
"Do not go gentle into that good night."
Answer: Dylan Thomas
3. Donne also influenced this Anglo-American author of The Age of Anxiety and The Ascent of F6.
Answer: W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 7

Tossup 11: Literature (Literature)
A train ride in 1966 inspired his poem "Iron Horse" which was included in the collection "The Fall of
America." Philip Glass's Sixth Symphony is based on his Plutonian Ode. A 1957 obscenity case
concerns the publication of his most famous work by the San Francisco-based City Lights
Bookstore, owned by Lawrence Ferlinghetti. Another of his poems is a five-part elegy for a woman
who died in 1956, his mother Naomi, and is titled Kaddish. Identify this man, whose most famous
poem, dedicated to Carl Solomon, is entitled Howl?
Answer: Allen Ginsburg
Bonus 11: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Identify the following songs about heroes.
1. This popular Bette Midler song is know for its opening lyrics, “Did you ever know that you’re my
hero?”
Answer: You Are the Wind Beneath My Wings
2. The titular musician in this Foreigner song “took one guitar” that got him to the top with “stars in
his eyes.”
Answer: Jukebox Hero
3. Covered by Green Day and David Bowie, among others, this 1970 John Lennon song is one of his
most political, describing how they keep you “doped with religion and sex and TV.”
Answer: Working Class Hero
Tossup 12: Math (General)
For a graph, this man's namesake path traverses each edge exactly once. His namesake identity
states that e to the i pi = -1. His circle is also known as the nine-point circle, as it connects nine
points relevant to a given triangle. His line connects a triangle's circumcenter, orthocenter, centroid,
and the center of the aforementioned circle. Name this mathematician, namesake of the notation e.
Answer: Leonhard Euler (Oiler)
Bonus 12: Science (Astronomy)
Identify the planets that the following moons orbit.
1. Io, Ganymede, and Callisto.
Answer: Jupiter
2. Titania and Oberon.
Answer: Saturn
3. Dysnomia, formerly known as Gabrielle.
Answer: Eris
Tossup 13: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
One named Roezl is a Czech botonist who discovered many species of orchids. A saint by this
name from Nursia was very important in establishing rules for monastic life. A reagent containing
blue copper 2+ ions that are reduced by sugars is named after another. Also the surname of the
author of The Chrysanthemum and the Sword as well as Patterns of Culture, give this name, the one
assumed by Joseph Ratzinger in 2005 when he became pope.
Answer: Benedict

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 8

Bonus 13: Fine Arts (Music)
Identify these musical instruments that aren't celebrated nearly enough.
1. Producing a tone somewhere between the trumpet and French horn, this cornet cousin was made
a jazz staple by Miles Davis, though its greatest player is still Chuck Mangione.
Answer: flugelhorn
2. Now more popular in the Far East than in its native Italy, the modern version of this instrument is a
hollow, egg-shaped vessel with 8 fingerholes, 2 thumbholes, a mouth tube, and a distinctly squeaky
sound.
Answer: ocarina
3. Invented by Ben Franklin and featured in compositions by Mozart and Beethoven, this instrument
consists of a rotating spindle of glass bowls that produce tones when touched by the player's
moistened fingers.
Answer: glass harmonica (accept armonica, hydrocrystalophone)
Tossup 14: Science (Chemistry)
He named hydrogen and oxygen, and used a calorimeter to show respiration produces energy. One
of the creators of the original metric system, he showed that phlogiston does not exist. A tax
collector in Paris, he was executed by guillotine during the French Revolution. Name this French
chemist who formulated the law of conservation of mass.
Answer: Antoine Lavoisier
Bonus 14: Social Studies (Current Events)
Pirates aren't just funny historical figures! They still exist today, as evidenced by their raiding of a
ship in September 2008.
1. The ship, bound for Kenya, originated from this European country.
Answer: Ukraine
2. Pirates attacked the Ukrainian vessel in waters off the coast of this East African country.
Answer: Somalia (accept Somali Republic)
3. One theory is that the weapons on board the ship were eventually going to be sold to people in
this country, whose Darfur region has seen genocide for the past several years.
Answer: Republic of the Sudan
Tossup 15: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
One of this type of animal lies on the bed of the Venus of Urbino, while another is seen standing by
the river in Constable’s The Haywain. In The Luncheon of the Boating Party, Renoir depicts a
woman playing with one, and another sniffs at the lunch of a small party in Sunday Afternoon on the
Island of La Grande Jatte. Identify this animal, used to represent loyalty and protection in works like
The Arnolfini Wedding and Las Meninas, a type of domestic canine.
Answer: dog (accept reasonable equivalents)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 9

Bonus 15: Science (Physics)
The SI, or metric, system uses seven base units to define all units of measurement.
1. The base unit of temperature is this absolute scale.
Answer: Kelvin
2. Electric current is measured in these units, defined as one coulomb of charge per second.
Answer: Ampere (accept amp)
3. Luminous intensity is measured by this base unit, equal to one lumen per steradian.
Answer: Coulomb
Tossup 16: Social Studies (U.S. History)
This amendment mandates that congress must convene on January 3rd unless otherwise decided.
In addition, this amendment states how a president is chosen if one is not properly elected by
inaugeration day, such as was almost the case with George Bush and Al Gore in 2000. Until the
passing of this amendment, new terms for elected officials started in March of the following year,
rather than the January date we adhere to now. Name this amendment that lessens the time
between election and swearing in, shortening its namesake "lameduck period".
Answer: 20th Amendment to the Constitution(Prompt on lame duck)
Bonus 16: Math (Calculus) -- Computational
Find the derivatives of the following functions, at x equals negative one.
1. Arctangent of 3x.
2. 2 over the quantity x squared plus 1, close quantity.
3. Natural log of the quantity x plus 5.
Answers: 1: 3/10 2: 1 3: 1/4
Tossup 17: Science (Biology)
Attached to the vastus intermedialis, medialis, and lateralis, this bone sits between two epicondyles.
This is the largest of the sesamoid bones, so classified because it is completely embedded within a
tendon. With a base situated above its apex, it functions primarily to increase the angle at which the
quadriceps tendon acts on the femur, assisting in leg extension. Name this bone that protects the
knee.
Answer: patella (or kneecap)
Bonus 17: Literature (Mythology)
At night, he fights Apep in the underworld, and in the Book of the Dead, he is the "Lord of the
Northern Sky."
1. Identify this god of chaos and husband of Nephthys.
Answer: Seth (accept Setekh or Setesh)
2. In an eighty-year fight, Set tore out the left eye of this nephew of his, but lost a foreleg in the
process.
Answer: Horus (accept Har)
3. In one story, Seth became the voice of thunder after going to live with this god.
Answer: Ra (accept Re or Phra)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 10

Tossup 18: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Calculate the cross product of the two vectors (1, 2, 3) and (2, 4, 5).
Answer: (-2, 1, 0)
Bonus 18: Social Studies (World History)
According to the late historian Thomas A. Bailey, there have actually been 9 world wars; identify the
first three from brief descriptions.
1. Ended by the Treaty of Utrecht and encompassing Queen Anne's War in North American, this war
was a conflict between the Bourbons and Habsburgs that finally placed Philip V on the disputed
throne.
Answer: War of the Spanish Succession
2. Begun when Prussia refused to recognize the ascendancy of Maria Theresa to the Habsburg
throne, this war saw fighting in Canada and India and was ended by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
Answer: War of the Austrian Succession
3. Ending just three years before the War of Spanish Succession began, this war secured French
control of Haiti and included William of Orange's invasion of England, but it severely harmed the
prestige of Louis XIV.
Answer: War of the League of Augsburg (accept Nine Years' War, War of the Grand Alliance)
Tossup 19: Literature (Literature)
In this work, the death of Aeschere is prompted by an earlier killing, and the protagonist finds that
man's head in an enemy's home. Earlier in his life, the protagonist had raced Breca in a swimming
contest but had to fend off sea monsters along the way. That title hero of the Geats and one-time
user of the sword Hrunting ends up finally being killed at an old age by a dragon. Name this old
English epic poem about the slayer of Grendel.
Answer: Beowulf
Bonus 19: Science (Chemistry)
Identify these products of uranium-238's decay.
1. The loss of an alpha particle transforms uranium-238 into the 234 isotope of this element,
considered the best alternative fuel for fission reactors.
Answer: Thorium
2. After four more transmutations, thorium-234 becomes the longest-lived isotope of this alkaline
earth metal, first extracted from pitchblende by the Curies.
Answer: Radium
3. Another alpha decay changes radium-226 into an isotope of this gas with a half-life of just 4 days.
Answer: Radon
Tossup 20: Social Studies (Other)
This company was founded in Texas in 1984 as "PC's Limited". They had their IPO in 1988 for 8.50
a share, a far cry from their current position in the Fortune 500. That same year the company
changed its name to what it is today, although in 2003 they swapped out the "Computer Corporation"
ending in favor of simply "Inc." They gained a lot of attention in the 2000's for their commercials and
also for their buyout of Alienware. Dude, name this computer company famous for their inexpensive
equipment.
Answer: Dell
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 4, Page 11

Bonus 20: Literature (Literature)
Identify the crimes committed by these fictional characters.
1. Jean Valjean is only trying to help his family but still receives a 5-year sentence for this crime in
Les Miserables.
Answer: stealing a loaf of bread (accept clear knowledge equivalents)
2. In the play Oedipus Rex, Oedipus exiles himself from Thebes when he learns that he committed
this specific crime some 12 years earlier.
Answer: patricide (accept killing his father, prompt on murder)
3. Although he also commits the crime of sex, Winston Smith is arrested and tortured by O'Brien in
Orwell's 1984 for keeping a diary, which is this type of crime.
Answer: thoughtcrime (accept crimethink)

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
As it begins, you learn that some member of the Villain’s International League of Evil, or V.I.L.E. has
stolen some priceless world treasure (an ancient Aztec calendar, the Stanley Cup, the Eiffel Tower
elevators, it's all up for grabs), and it's your job as a member of the ACME detective agency to run
out, recover the stolen item and nab the perpetrator. Some versions of this computer game included
a world almanac in order to make getting around easier. Created by Brøderbund Software, identify
this game that asks a question about a woman.
Answer: Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?
Bonus 21: Social Studies (Other)
Answer these questions about some of the more controversial historians of the past century.
1. Widely condemned in the 1940s for claiming President Roosevelt tricked the country into war, this
historian earlier argued that the Founding Fathers wrote the Constitution to best serve their own
economic interests.
Answer: Charles A. Beard
2. Published in 1980, this Howard Zinn nonfiction book includes chapters on the genocide committed
by Columbus, U.S. imperialism in the Philippines, and early American feminists.
Answer: A People's History of the United States
3. Completed in 2006, this Martin Bernal work uses linguistic evidence to argue that the ancient
Egyptians were originally from central Africa and that their influence is responsible for the rise of
Greek civilization.
Answer: Black Athena: The Afroasiatic Roots of Classical Civilization

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 5

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 2

Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
A graduate of the Harvard Business School, he also served on the faculty there, and became the
first non-family member to be president of the Ford Motor Company. However, he only held that
position for a month before joining Kennedy's cabinet. Name this former Secretary of Defense, who
has often taken much of the blame for the American involvement in Vietnam.
Answer: Robert Strange McNamara
Bonus 1: Literature (Literature)
The Beat Generation took a lot from their poetic precursors.
1. This man, known for his long poem Howl, once had a memorable auditory hallucination of Blake
reading poems aloud to him.
Answer: Allen Ginsberg
2. A great influence on Ginsberg was this man, who, in addition to having an outstanding beard,
wrote such works as Leaves of Grass.
Answer: Walt Whitman
3. This Ginsberg poem specifically mentions Whitman, calling him a "childless, lonely old grubber, /
poking among the meats in the refrigerator."
Answer: A Supermarket in California
Tossup 2: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
If the two legs of a right triangle measure 20 and 21, what is the perimeter of the triangle?
Answer: 70
Bonus 2: Science (Physics)
It was elucidated by general relativity, and its strength is approximately 9.8 meters per second
squared on Earth.
1. Name this fundamental force of nature first explained mathematically by Isaac Newton.
Answer: Gravity
2. The law of universal gravitation, like Coulomb's law, is this type of law due to its relationship with
distance.
Answer: Inverse-square law
3. The universal gravitational constant was first determined experimentally by this British physicist,
using a torsion balance.
Answer: Henry Cavendish
Tossup 3: Literature (Literature)
This author first gained acclaim for early novels like "The Victim" and "Dangling Man". His final novel,
Ravelstein profiles his fellow university professor Allan Bloom, while he deals with the death of poet
and friend Delmore Schwartz in one of his more noteworthy books, which won the 1976 Pulitzer and
contributed to his winning of the Nobel that same year. Identify this author of Humboldt's Gift,
Herzog, and The Adventures of Augie March,
Answer: Saul Bellow

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 3

Bonus 3: Social Studies (Other)
Given a description, identify these terms from law.
1. Originating from tort law, its written form is libel while its verbal form is slander, and to do it to a
business is called disparagement.
Answer: Defamation
2. Typically, a defendant will receive this with a complaint, and it compels him or her to make an
appearance.
Answer: Summons
3. While compensatory damages will reward a plaintiff for their actual injuries, these types of
damages are intended to actually punish the liable party.
Answer: Punitive Damages
Tossup 4: Science (Biology)
These initially bind to the Shine-Dalgarno or Kazak boxes, and are released by release factor
proteins. They are powered by GTP, and progress from the N-terminus to the C-terminus. Consisting
of 30S and 50S subunits in prokaryotes, and 40S and 60S subunits in eukaryotes, they contain the
A, P, and E binding sites, each of which accepts one tRNA and three mRNA base pairs. Name these
organelles which translate mRNA into proteins.
Answer: Ribosome
Bonus 4: Literature (Literature)
Some works of Literature use a series of documents to depict the action that is going on in the story.
1. This is the name for the form of Literature that uses documents such as letters, newspaper
clippings or even, in a more modern context, Instant Messages.
Answer: Epistolary novel
2. This Alice Walker novel, focusing on the life of the African American woman during the 1930s is
written in the Epistolary form.
Answer: The Color Purple
3. This epistolary Goethe novel tells the story of a young artist who falls in love with Lotte, and
eventually kills himself.
Answer: The Sorrows of Young Werther (accept Die Leiden des jungen Werthers)
Tossup 5: Social Studies (World History)
At the 1567 Council of Trent, they were forbidden to be given as a result of financial dealing. Johann
Tetzel, who campaigned for the building of St. Peter’s Basilica, is remembered for his work with
these. They fell out of favor at least partially due to the work of Martin Luther who attacked their sale
in his 95 Theses. Name these Catholic Church documents which give remission of sin for good
deeds.
Answer: Indulgence
Bonus 5: Math (Geometry) -- Computational
Give the volumes of the following figures.
1. A sphere with a great circle of circumference 3 pi.
2. A cube with diagonal of length 6 root 3.
3. A cone with height 4 and whose base has circumference 6 pi.
Answers: 1: 9 pi / 2 2: 216 3: 12 pi
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 4

Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Music)
A symphonic poem by this man was written for the jubilee of Czar Alexander II. His most famous
work, an opera, sees the Mongol Kontchak fighting Galitsky and his brother, the title character; one
section in that opera is the Polovetsian Dances. Name this Russian composer of In the Steppes of
Central Asia and Prince Igor.
Answer: Alexander Borodin
Bonus 6: Science (Earth Science)
Baking soda and vinegar can make a pretty big mess, but real volcanoes can be even more volatile.
1. Among volcanoes, this type is probably the most explosive. It is formed by its repetitive eruptions,
layering lava on top of ash, on top of lava, etc.
Answer: Stratovolcanoes (accept Compostite volcanoes)
2. One example of a stratovolcano is this small island in the Tyrrhenian Sea, one of the Aeolian
Islands, that has been constantly erupting for thousands of years.
Answer: Mt. Stromboli
3. This feature of volcanoes occurs when a collapse is triggered by the emptying of the magma
chamber beneath the volcano, usually as the result of a large volcanic eruption.
Answer: Caldera
Tossup 7: Science (Chemistry)
The Sanderson definition suggests it is related to the inverse of volume, while the Allred-Rochow
definition relates it to the Z effective and inverse square of covalent radius. The Mulliken scale
utilizes first ionization energy and electron affinity to measure this property, while the better known
Pauling scale provides its value for in relation to hydrogen, though most agree that fluorine
possesses the highest value. Name this chemical property, the ability of an atom to attract electrons
in a bond.
Answer: Electronegativity
Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Everyone loves a little Teddy Roosevelt now and again! Answer these questions about one of our
more humorous presidents.
1. Roosevelt was actually only elected once -- he initially ascended to the presidency upon the
assassination of this president in Buffalo.
Answer: William McKinley
2. The 1906 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Roosevelt for his work in helping end the RussoJapanese War, the culmination of which was this 1905 treaty.
Answer: Treaty of Portsmouth
3. In 1912, Roosevelt lost the Republication nomination, and instead ran for the Progressive party,
which went under this name.
Answer: Bull Moose Party

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 5

Tossup 8: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
In 2007 this man toured with John Mayer, who often played with this man on the song Narcolepsy.
That song was off the 1999 album the Unauthorized Biography of Reinhold Messner, the last album
he produced with his band before going solo. A previous album with his band, Whatever and Ever
Amen, featured a song about an abortion his high school girl friend had. Name this piano rocker who
was in a band with two others, not four as the band's name would suggest, and had a hit song with
Brick.
Answer: Ben Folds
Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Music)
Answer these questions about Shakespeare at the opera.
1. Prior to his successful Falstaff, this man composed the tragic masterpiece Otello, with the Moor as
tenor and Jago as baritone.
Answer: Giuseppe Verdi
2. Based on Shakespeare's Much Ado About Nothing, this Hector Berlioz opera ends with the title
couple, a mezzo-soprano and tenor, signing a marriage contract.
Answer: Beatrice et Benedict (accept Beatrice and Benedict)
3. A baritone Drunken Poet and non-singing Titania and Oberon are the main characters in Henry
Purcell's The Fairy-Queen, which is loosely based on this Shakespeare play.
Answer: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Tossup 9: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Give the two roots of the equation 5x squared + 12x + 4.
Answer: -2 and -2/5
Bonus 9: Science (Biology)
Until the 90s, taxonomists considered the five kingdoms to be the main divisions of organisms.
1. Archaea, bacteria, and eukarya form the three of these that have supplanted kingdoms as the
highest taxonomic rank.
Answer: Domain
2. The eukarya domain contains the animal kingdom, which contains many groupings of this level.
Examples include chordates, arthropods, and echinoderms.
Answer: Phylum
3. On the other end of the spectrum is this rank, larger than species. For humans, it is "homo."
Answer: Genus
Tossup 10: Literature (Literature)
One of this authors works, about a lower-class young man who dreams of becoming a scholar, was
publicly burnt by the Bishop of Wakefield. Becoming tired of his novels being panned for their
purported moral ambiguity, this author began to dedicate himself fully to his poetry, including works
like "Channel Firing", "The Darkling Thrush", and "The Convergence of the Twain," a poem about
The Titanic. Identify this author who created the fictional locale of Wessex, and used it in such
novels as Jude the Obscure and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Answer: Thomas Hardy

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 6

Bonus 10: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Name these things related to the archangel Gabriel.
1. Gabriel’s salutation at the Annunciation is the source for this prayer in honor of the Virgin, a major
part of the rosary.
Answer: Hail Mary (or Ave Maria)
2. Troy Maxson’s brother in this August Wilson play is insane and believes himself to be Gabriel; he
even tries to blow a horn to open the gates of heaven for Troy.
Answer: Fences
3. After a plane crash, the Bollywood star Farishta takes on the persona of Gibreel in this novel that
earned Salman Rushdie a Booker prize and a fatwa.
Answer: The Satanic Verses
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 7

Tossup 11: Science (Astronomy)
Haumea (how-MAY-a) was officially recognized as the fifth of these in 2008. Haumea’s discovery
was officially announced in July 2005, two days before Mike Brown’s team announced the discovery
of two more current members of this classification, Makemake, as well as the largest known, Eris.
Name this astronomical designation, also bestowed upon former planet Pluto in 2006.
Answer: Dwarf Planet
Bonus 11: Math (Calculus)
Identify these mathematicians who came close to inventing the calculus before Isaac Newton.
1. While trying to find the area of a circular quadrant, this man effectively integrated the sine
function, but he is better known for work on the theory of probability and a namesake Triangle.
Answer: Blaise Pascal
2. This friend and colleague of Pascal devised a general procedure for finding the minima, maxima,
and tangents of curves and also made contributions to number theory like his Little and Last
Theorems.
Answer: Pierre de Fermat
3. It is clear from a recently rediscovered codex that this ancient Greek could sum infinite series and
understood the concept of limits, but he has always been famous for approximating the value of pi
and stating the Law of the Lever.
Answer: Archimedes of Syracuse
Tossup 12: Literature (Literature)
His desire to see American fairy tales that American children could relate to led him to write a
collection of American folk-tales rooted in Midwestern culture, Rootabaga Stories. He included in it
stories about things such as big cities, farms, trains and corn fairies. This Illinois native also won two
Pulitzers, one for a biography of Abraham Lincoln and another for his poetry. Penning such lines as
"The fog comes / on little cat feet" and "Hog Butcher for the World, / Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat,"
identify this poet who wrote some famous poems about Chicago.
Answer: Carl Sandburg
Bonus 12: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Answer the following about art and one of its creators for ten points each.
1. Identify this painting, in which a young woman is seen using a shallow pan to wash a little girl’s
foot.
Answer: The Child's Bath (accept The Bath)
2. The Child’s Bath is an example of the scenes of typical family life painted by this American
Impressionist of the 19th century.
Answer: Mary Stevenson Cassatt
3. Mary Cassatt also painted this boldly colored 1894 picture of a man, woman, and child in a
rowboat.
Answer: The Boating Party

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 8

Tossup 13: Math (Calculus) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the area bounded by the y axis, y equals 0, y equals 1, and the graph f of y equals y squared
plus 4y minus 2. It may help you to realize that although the function is in terms of y, the fact that all
the other boundaries are also in terms of y ensure it is still possible to integrate using the same
procedures as functions in terms of x.
Answer: 1/3 square units
Bonus 13: Science (Chemistry)
Identify these constants from chemistry.
1. Usually symbolized by a capital R, the approximate value of this constant is 0.0821 literatmospheres per Kelvin per mole.
Answer: ideal gas constant (accept universal gas constant)
2. Calculated by dividing the gas constant by Avogadro's number, this constant, represented by
small k, is about 1.38x10^-23 Joules per Kelvin.
Answer: Boltzmann constant
3. Useful for describing the size of an electron cloud, this constant has the symbol a-sub-zero and is
approximately 0.53 angstroms for hydrogen.
Answer: Bohr radius
Tossup 14: Miscellaneous (Sports)
This man played for three teams in his 23 year career, including the Winnipeg Jets and Hartford
Whalers. He wore two different numbers before settling on 9, and he won the Stanley Cup in 1961.
Known as the Golden Jet, he was a teammate of Stan Mikita for much of his career. Name this
Chicago Black Hawk great, the father of former NHL star Brett.
Answer: Bobby Hull
Bonus 14: Literature (Literature)
Britons love their King Arthur.
1. This Tennyson work is a cycle of twelve narrative poems that tell the entire story of Arthur from
birth to death.
Answer: Idylls of the King
2. This work by T.H. White is divided into four parts and takes its title from the inscription above
Arthur's grave.
Answer: The Once and Future King
3. This Thomas Malory work is the source material for both Idylls of the King and The Once and
Future King.
Answer: Le Morte d'Arthur (do not accept "The Death of Arthur")
Tossup 15: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Although a graduate of Yale, he was later president of Princeton University. Initially not a believer of
predestination, he later embraced the idea and this became part of his writings. A colleague of
George Whitefield, his most famous work was delivered at Enfield. Name this colonial preacher, an
integral component of the Great Awakening, who wrote Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God.
Answer: Jonathan Edwards

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 9

Bonus 15: Math (Other) -- Computational
Convert the following numbers to binary.
1. 24 in base 10.
2. 1F in base 16.
3. 144 in base 5.
Answers: 1: 1 1 0 0 0 2: 1 1 1 1 1 3: 1 1 0 0 0 1
Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
One of his first paintings, The Procuress, betrays the influence of the Utrecht Caravaggists (Kare-ahvah-jists). Later works include Little Street and an allegory called The Art of Painting. His most
famous works depict his hometown, as seen across a river, and a young lady in a blue turban. Name
this Dutch Baroque painter of View of Delft and Girl with a Pearl Earring.
Answer: Johannes of Jan Vermeer van Delft
Bonus 16: Social Studies (World History)
Everyone knows those Spartans loved to fight. Answer the following about battles involving Sparta.
1. In this 480 C.E. battle, Leonidas I delayed Xerxes I advance using a narrow passage, and many
fewer soldiers than the Persians had.
Answer: Battle of Thermopylae
2. The last major battle of the Peloponnesian War, this 405 C.E. naval battle saw the Spartans
completely destroy the Athenian navy in the Hellespont.
Answer: Battle of Aegospotami
3. This was the Spartan general who destroyed the Athenian navy at Aegospotami.
Answer: Lysander
Tossup 17: Math (Calculus)
When he was 15, Gauss guessed that n over this function of n is approximately equal to the number
of primes less than n. A Taylor series centered about x equals one must be used to provide a power
series of it since it cannot be expressed using a MacLaurin series. Using an accumulation function, it
is the integral of one over t, dt, from 1 to x. Its graph is monotonic positive, and its domain is limited
to the positive real numbers. What function is the logarithm base e of x?
Answer: natural logarithm of x (accept ln of x)
Bonus 17: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Answer these questions about some films left unfinished, at least for a while, after the death of their
stars.
1. Although this star of Enter the Dragon died in 1973, the movie he was making, Game of Death,
was released five years later with a look-alike in the non-martial arts scenes.
Answer: Bruce Lee
2. The Other Side of the Wind and The Dreamers both ceased production in 1985 upon the death of
this actor-director, though his first film, Citizen Kane, won't soon be forgotten.
Answer: Orson Welles
3. After Heath Ledger died in January, director Terry Gilliam suspended production of this not-yetreleased fantasy film, but decided to finish it when Johnny Depp, Jude Law, and Colin Farrell all
agreed to fill Ledger's role.
Answer: The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 10

Tossup 18: Social Studies (Geography)
Designated a UNESCO world heritage site in 1982, its name means "Wild Geese" and it is believed
nearly 20,000 people once lived here. Artifacts from as far away the Appalachians and the Gulf of
Mexico have been found here, and the largest of its eponymous structures is named Monks. Name
this ancient site of the Mississippian people, located near St. Louis in southwestern Illinois.
Answer: Cahokia Mounds
Bonus 18: Literature (Literature)
Identify these literary works that were left unfinished at the time of their authors' deaths.
1. Charles Dickens was writing the seventh installment of this novel when he died, so the murderer
of the title character remains unknown, though several clues point to John Jasper.
Answer: The Mystery of Edwin Drood
2. Set in 1930s Hollywood, this unfinished F. Scott Fitzgerald novel is narrated by Cecelia, whose
love for the frustrated movie producer Monroe Stahr goes unrequited.
Answer: The Love of The Last Tycoon: A Western
3. This satirical poem by Lord Byron stops in the middle of Canto XVII, after the title character has
fallen in love with Aurora and seen what he thinks is the Black Friar ghost.
Answer: Don Juan
Tossup 19: Science (Physics) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
A particle of mass 4kg, initially starting at rest at the origin experiences a force along the x-axis of
8x^3 Newtons. Find its velocity in meters per second after it travels a distance of 4 meters. It may
help to know that the force does work equal to the kinetic energy of the object, and that work is also
the integral of force along the x-axis from 0 to 4.
Answer: 16 m/s
Bonus 19: Math (General) -- Computational
Given the sets A equals 2, 3, 4, 5, and B equals 1, 3, 5, give the following.
1. The cardinality of A union B.
2. The cardinality of A intersect B.
3. The cardinality of the power set of A.
Answers: 1: 5 2: 2 3: 16
Tossup 20: Literature (Literature)
His first revolutionary exploits were directed against the Austrian empire on behalf of Italian
nationalists. However, it was his exploits against the Ottoman Empire, on behalf of Greek rebels
which cemented his reputation as a champion of revolutionaries. Name this British poet, author of
works such as "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage" and "She Walks in Beauty."
Answer: Lord Byron (accept George Gordon)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 5, Page 11

Bonus 20: Social Studies (World History)
Identify the following about angry mobs throughout history.
1. During it, a still-unidentified person threw a bomb among protesters and police, and several labor
leaders were convicted and hanged. Three of those convicted were later pardoned by Illinois
Governor John Altgeld.
Answer: Haymarket Square Riot
2. This insurrection immediately followed the collapse of the Second Empire, and the government
formed by it was made up of Jacobins, Proudhonists, and Blanquistes.
Answer: Paris Commune (accept Commune of Paris)
3. Also known as Wat Tyler's Rebellion, this English revolt was caused by the instigation of a poll tax
and an attempt to fix maximum wages immediately following the Black Death.
Answer: Peasants' Revolt

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Literature (Literature)
His “Observations of an Unpolitical Man” showed him early on to be a conservative, which is why his
quick endorsement of the Weimar republic surprised many at the time. Late in life, he got into an
argument with Schoenberg after he attributed the 12-tone style to the character Adrian Leverkuhn.
His novel “Lotte in Weimar” concerns the life of Goethe, whom he imitated in the choice of a subject
for his novel Doktor Faustus. Name this German author famous for his depiction of Gustav von
Aschenbach in the novella Death in Venice.
Answer: Thomas Mann
Bonus 21: Fine Arts (Music)
Answer the following about Italian opera.
1. The last opera by Rossini, this work is famous for its overture which ends with a cavalry charge
galop, commonly associated with the Lone Ranger.
Answer: William Tell
2. 14 of this composer’s 24 operas, including Idomeneo and Cosi fan Tutte, are Italian language,
even though the composer himself was Austrian.
Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
3. The title character of this Puccini opera, loved by both a painter and the chief of police, leaps to
her death at the end of the opera.
Answer: Tosca

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 6

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 2

Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Born to a 16 year old girl, this man was frequently in trouble with the law in his youth out east.
Interested in music, he knew many in the industry, including Dennis Wilson. Shortly after moving to
California, he began preaching about an approaching race war to members of his "Family," and he
held his headquarters at Spahn Ranch. Name this cult leader held responsible for the 1969 murder
of Roman Polanski's pregnant wife, Sharon Tate.
Answer: Charles Milles Manson
Bonus 1: Literature (Literature)
Robots create all sorts of ethical dilemmas that Literature loves to explore in depth.
1. One such work is this Philip K. Dick novel in which Rick Deckard is an android bounty hunter who
comes to find himself feeling empathy for his realistic humanoid targets.
Answer: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? (do not accept Blade Runner)
2. In order to make robots more useful to humans, and to make his stories more interesting, this
author came up with three laws of robotics.
Answer: Isaac Asimov
3. This Czech author invented the word "robot" itself in his Rossum's Universal Robots.
Answer: Karel Capek
Tossup 2: Math (Other) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Convert the following number from hexadecimal to decimal: 2 A 3.
Answer: 675
Bonus 2: Science (Physics)
Its relation with current is described by the Biot-Savart law.
1. Name this force which affects moving charges, whose poles always come in pairs.
Answer: Magnetism (accept electromagnetism)
2. This is the SI unit of the magnetic field, equal to 10,000 gauss, named after a famous Serbian
inventor.
Answer: Tesla
3. Iron, cobalt, and nickel are among the substances which are permanently magnetized, referred to
as this type of magnetism.
Answer: Ferromagnetism
Tossup 3: Literature (Literature)
One memorable episode in this work sees the Marquis St. Evrémonde killing the son of the peasant
Gaspard, and tossing him a coin in recompense for his loss. Later, in order to buy some time for two
of the main characters to escape the country, Miss Pross engages in a struggle with the pistolcarrying Madame Defarge, with the result being a deaf Pross and a dead Defarge. Ending with the
death of Sydney Carton and also featuring the love of Lucie Manette and Charles Darnay, identify
this Dickens novel which begins "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times."
Answer: A Tale of Two Cities

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 3

Bonus 3: Social Studies (World History)
Beginning with the Battle of Covadonga in 718, it was partially finished by Alfonso III of Portugal.
1. Identify the term applied by to the military campaigns organized to drive the Moors out of the
Iberian peninsula.
Answer: Reconquista
2. The Reconquista in Spain was completed after this tiny Nasrid kingdom.
Answer: Granada
3. This pair of monarchs set up a base in Santa Fe and remained until Granada was taken over.
Answer: Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile
Tossup 4: Science (Biology)
Hfr bacteria have the genes necessary for this already integrated into their plasmids. Discovered by
Lederberg and Tatum, it requires a relaxosome and transferosome to take place, and bacteria
capable of this have a special pilus that helps attach them to other bacteria. Unlike the similar
transformation and transduction mechanisms, it requires direct cell contact. Name this mechanism
requiring an F plasmid, in which bacteria can transfer genes to other bacteria.
Answer: Bacterial conjugation
Bonus 4: Literature (Literature)
Middle English can be pretty hard to pronounce, even if you know what you're doing.
1. This author of Parliament of Fowls, The Romance of the Rose, and Treatise on the Astrolabe is
probably the best known user of Middle English.
Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
2. Chaucer is best known for writing this unfinished frame narrative.
Answer: The Canterbury Tales
3. The Canterbury Tales begins with a storytelling contest proposed by Harry Bailey, the owner of
this Inn and starting point for the journey.
Answer: The Tabard Inn
Tossup 5: Social Studies (Geography)
It forms a part of the border between four sets of states, and the Cannonball, Knife, and Teton rivers
are tributaries of it. Fort Peck is situated along it, and it flows past Council Bluffs and Omaha.
Nicknamed the "Big Muddy," it merges with the Mississippi in its namesake state. Name this river,
this second longest in the United States.
Answer: Missouri River
Bonus 5: Math (Algebra) -- Computational
Simplify the following expressions containing logarithms. Your answers should contain at most one
logarithm.
1. log base 10 of 15 minus log base 10 of 5.
2. log base 9 of 27, times log base 5 of 25.
3. log base 4 of 64, times log base 8 of 2.
Answers: 1: log base 10 of 3 2: 9/2 3: 1

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 4

Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
He was the court painter for Philip the Good, and he once painted a Madonna with Child featuring
the energetic Chancellor Rolin directly interacting with them. His Portrait of a Man in Red Turban
actually depicts a man wearing red a chaperon, and might be a self-portrait. Completing his brother
Hubert's work on the Ghent Altarpiece, identify this artist who also painted the Arnolfini Wedding
Portrait.
Answer: Jan Van Eyck
Bonus 6: Science (Astronomy)
Answer the following about our planetary neighbor, Mars.
1. Originally "discovered" by Giovanni Schiaparelli, Percival Lowell thought that these were areas of
vegetation.
Answer: canals of mars (accept canali)
2. This system of canyons near Mars' equator contains sedimentary sequences, suggesting the
former presence of lakes. Some of its walls may have been formed as a result of the shifting of the
Tharsis rise.
Answer: Valles Marineris (accept Mariner valleys)
3. To the northwest of the Tharsis rise is this volcano, the highest point in our known solar system.
Its summit is a caldera that measures 85 km across.
Answer: Olympus Mons
Tossup 7: Science (Chemistry)
The Born-Haber cycle utilizes it to calculate the lattice energy of an ionic compound. It can be used
to calculate the energy of difficult reactions, such as the conversion of graphite to diamond. Though
it also applies to entropy and Gibbs free energy, it is usually stated in terms of enthalpy, and
essentially states that enthalpy is a state function. Name this chemical law stating that any pathway
from certain reactants to products has the same change in enthalpy.
Answer: Hess's law
Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Who knew Jefferson Davis was related to so many famous politicians? Identify them from the
following clues.
1. Jefferson's father-in-law was this 12th president that was known as Old Rough and Ready, and
who died less than a year and a half into his term.
Answer: Zachary Taylor
2. Davis was distantly related to this vertically challenged fourth president, who was named as
defendant in an 1803 case against Marbury.
Answer: James Madison
3. By way of Taylor, Davis was also distantly related to this Colonial politician from Virginia, who was
the congressman who first proposed the idea of declaring America's independence.
Answer: Richard Henry Lee

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 5

Tossup 8: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
This arcade game was the first to feature the input of initials on the high score table. It came about
due to the invention of holograms, despite the fact that it features none. This game was one of the
games set to be released for the ill-fated holographic projection gaming system Cosmos. A space
shooter designed by Ed Logg, identify this game, set to a thumping Jaws-like bass track, which had
players shooting flying saucers and minor planetoids.
Answer: Asteroids
Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Give the titles of these paintings that have something in common.
1. A masterpiece from Picasso's Blue Period, the distorted title figure of this painting is blind,
emaciated, and plays while seated cross-legged on the floor.
Answer: The Old Guitarist
2. Rejected by the Salon for its intentional flatness, the title figure of this Edouard Manet painting
wears a blue and red uniform and plays while standing.
Answer: The Fifer
3. Sold by the Pennsylvania Academy to help finance the purchase of The Gross Clinic, this other
Thomas Eakins painting shows the bearded title figure naturally playing while seated.
Answer: The Cello Player
Tossup 9: Math (General) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Seven answers required. In order of descending powers of x, give the coefficients of the expansion
of (1+x)^6. It may help to know that the answer is the same as the values across the 6th row of
Pascal's triangle.
Answer: 1 6 15 20 15 6 1
Bonus 9: Science (Chemistry)
It replaced Liebig's definition of acids and bases, and states that bases dissociate to produce
hydroxide ions in solution.
1. Name this acid-base definition proposed by a namesake Swedish chemist.
Answer: Arrhenius definition
2. A generalization of the Arrhenius definition, this definition states that bases are proton acceptors.
Answer: Bronsted-Lowry definition
3. The Bronsted-Lowry and Lewis definitions explain the existence of this type of substance which
can act as either an acid or a base.
Answer: Amphoteric
Tossup 10: Literature (Literature)
He was president of the Royal Society when Newton first published Principia Mathematica, and
hence, his name appears on the first page of every first edition of it. His most famous work was
written in a type of shorthand known as Tachygraphy, and upon its discovery was thought to be
ciphered. A key for his work eventually discovered for it, but not before The Reverend John Smith
spent three years decoding it. Writing about a paragraph a day for almost a decade, identify this
man, most famous for chronicling in his diary events such as The 1666 Great Fire of London.
Answer: Samuel Pepys

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 6

Bonus 10: Miscellaneous (Sports)
Coaches have a weird way of giving back to former employers. FTPE, answer the following about
coaches "giving back" to old stomping grounds.
1. This Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach won Super Bowl XXXVII over the Oakland Raiders, who had
traded him the previous year.
Answer: Jon Gruden
2. Former England international Shaun Edwards was offered the job of coaching England's B team,
but instead joined as an assistant under Warren Gatland for this country's national team which won
the 2008 Six Nations.
Answer: Wales
3. This former Dallas Mavericks coach and current Golden State Warriors head coach upset the topseeded Mavs in the first round of the 2007 NBA playoffs.
Answer: Don Nelson
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 7

Tossup 11: Science (Earth Science)
One term associated with them is a Wadati-Benioff zone, which occur at depths of more than 700
kilometers. Earthquakes are partially created when the cool layer of rock from the earth's surface is
thrust down into the asthenosphere. The opposite of sea-floor spreading, they occur at convergent
plate boundaries. Name these areas where plates collide and one slides under another one.
Answer: Subduction Zones
Bonus 11: Math (Algebra) -- Computational
Given the vector A = (1, 3, 5), find the following.
1. The length of A.
2. The cosine of the angle between A and (1,0,0).
3. The cross product of A and (2,5,10).
Answers: 1: root 35 2: 1 / root 35 (accept (root 35) / 35) 3: (5, 0, -1)
Tossup 12: Literature (Mythology)
Some sources call him an Athenian by birth who was banished after killing his brilliant nephew
Perdix. In an attempt to locate him, another man presented the challenge of passing a thread
through a spiraled shell. At the behest of King Cocalus, this man had an ant crawl through the
passages. Traveling to Siciliy, King Minos then demanded that Cocalus hand over this man, but was
instead killed himself. Name this legendarily clever artist and scientist who escaped from the island
of Crete and his own Labyrinth by means of wax wings along with his ill-fated son Icarus.
Answer: Daedalus (accept Daidalos)
Bonus 12: Fine Arts (Music)
It ends with “When I am laid in Earth,” known as the lament of the title female character.
1. Name this 1689 opera, based on the fourth book of Virgil’s epic poem.
Answer: Dido and Aeneas
2. The composer of Dido and Aeneas was this Englishman, who also composed The Fairy-Queen.
Answer: Henry Purcell
3. The original score of Dido and Aeneas has been lost. This composer of The Young Person’s
Guide to the Orchestra wrote one realization of the score in the 20th century.
Answer: Benjamin Britten
Tossup 13: Math (Calculus) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Give the indefinite integral of the following: 4/5 x^3 - 27 x^2 + 12 + e^x.
Answer: 1/5 x^4 - 9 x^3 + 12x + e^x + C (Accept "plus a constant" or similar in lieu of "+ C")

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 8

Bonus 13: Science (Biology)
Varieties include mutualistic, parasitic, and commensal.
1. Name this term referring to long-term inter-species relations in ecosystems.
Answer: Symbiosis
2. Contrasted with symbiosis, this mechanism involves one species evolving to look like another
one.
Answer: Mimicry
3. In this form of mimicry named after an English biologist, one species evolves to be harmful to
predators, and then another harmless species evolves to look like the first one.
Answer: Batesian mimicry
Tossup 14: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
In French, the pleonastic use of these two letters occurs after certain conjunctions such as avant
que. In Latin, placing them at the end of the first word in a sentence indicates a question. In
Esperanto, Czech, Serbian, and Croatian, they simply mean “no.” It is the atomic symbol of the
element with valence electron configuration 2s2 2p6. Give the abbreviation for a compass bearing of
45 degrees and the postal code of the state with capital at Lincoln.
Answer: ne
Bonus 14: Literature (Literature)
Children often appear in Literature and are often the crux around which the action revolves. Identify
the following about children in Literature.
1. Eppie is rescued by the title character and, after settling in to his home, jumps into the "coal hole"
in this work by George Eliot.
Answer: Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe
2. This author's young Alice appears in numerous fantastical works including "Through the LookingGlass"
Answer: Lewis Carroll (accept Charles Lutwidge Dodgson)
3. Cosette, a young girl, is forced to do chores for the Thénardiers around their inn, before she is
rescued by Jean Valjean in this Victor Hugo work.
Answer: Les Misérables
Tossup 15: Social Studies (Other)
Founded in 1913, its headquarters are located in the Eccles building, though it is more well known
for its other locations. Thousands are members of it, and their chief interaction is through setting of
discount rates. With branches in cities such as Minneapolis and Chicago, it was formerly chaired by
Alan Greenspan. Name this banking authority currently headed by Ben Bernanke.
Answer: Federal Reserve System (prompt on The Fed or Federal Reserve Bank)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 9

Bonus 15: Math (Geometry)
Identify these three-dimensional objects.
1. Informally known as a donut, this surface can be generated by revolving a circle about an axis that
does not touch the circle.
Answer: Torus
2. This is a portion of a sphere to one side of a plane intersecting the sphere.
Answer: Spherical cap
3. This is a non-orientable surface formed by joining two ends of a strip after twisting one end
halfway. Curiously, it has only one side.
Answer: Mobius strip
Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Music)
Two of the operas of this composer concern musical contests. In one, a young knight named
Walther woos Eva. Another concerns a legendary German poet and a conflict between Venus and
Elisabeth. Those operas are titled The Master Singer of Nurnberg and Tannhauser. Name this
composer, most famous for a four-part opera involving Fafnir, Brunnhilde, and the Ring of the
Niebelungs (NEE bah lungs).
Answer: Richard Wagner
Bonus 16: Social Studies (Other)
Answer these questions about ancient sects whose beliefs are still largely a mystery.
1. According to Julius Caesar, this Celtic order burned human sacrifices in giant wickermen, believed
in transmigration of the soul, and worshiped oak trees.
Answer: Druids
2. The main enemy of the Israelites from Judges through second Samuel, this people worshiped
Dagon, Ashtoreth, and Baal, but ran into some trouble when Samson pulled down their temple.
Answer: Philistines
3. The followers of this ancient Greek were taught to believe in reincarnation, the harmony of the
spheres, the purifying qualities of music, and a universe built from numbers.
Answer: Pythagoras
Tossup 17: Math (Other)
It can be computed by evaluating the Gregory-Leibniz series, but much more effective are algorithms
discovered by Ramanujan. It is the volume of Gabriel’s horn, the surface formed by rotating 1/x
around the x axis from x equals one to x equals infinity. It is not constructible, a consequence of
which implies the impossibility of squaring the circle. Name this transcendental number, famously
computed by Archimedes.
Answer: pi (or Archimedes' number, or Ludolph's number)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 10

Bonus 17: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Sometimes one band covers another and makes a song a completely different genre.
1. This happened in 2006 when Quietdrive released a cover of "Time After Time", originally
performed by this New Wave songstress.
Answer: Cynthia Ann "Cyndi" Lauper
2. Aerosmith covered "Remember (Walking in the Sand)", which was originally performed by this
60's girl group also known for "Leader of the Pack".
Answer: The Shangri-Las
3. Outkast's rockin' song about a breakup "Hey Ya!" was turned into an internet sensation when Mat
Weddle, frontman of this unsigned folk band covered it acoustically.
Answer: Obadiah Parker
Tossup 18: Social Studies (World History)
He certainly got off to a rough start with the senate, instilling an early enmity towards himself due to
his execution of four former consuls. He put down the Jewish Bar Kokhba revolt after three long
years of fighting. Having a sexual relationship with a young Greek boy named Antinous, he was
subsequently ridiculed for it. The third of the Five Good Emperors, identify this Roman man, famous
for his namesake wall.
Answer: Publius Aelius Hadrianus
Bonus 18: Literature (Literature)
It began to fly solo after finally breaking off from the renga, where it had initially served as an
introductory stanza.
1. Identify this type of poem which features a standard number of syllables in each line, and often
include allusions to seasons in their most traditional form.
Answer: Haiku
2. This poet of the Edo period in Japan is probably the most noteworthy writer of haiku.
Answer: Matsuo Basho
3. Haiku had a large impact on the Imagist writers, including this poet, who trimmed a sixty line poem
down to two, creating his "In a Station of the Metro."
Answer: Ezra Pound
Tossup 19: Science (Physics)
They are analogous to springs in oscillatory circuits, and high-quality ones have mica or glass. They
can be used in AC coupling, to filter out DC signals, because they pass AC voltages more easily.
The voltage across one is inversely proportional to the permittivity of its dielectric, and these are
measured by charge divided by voltage. Classically consisting of two charged plates separated by a
dielectric, name these circuit elements measured in farads.
Answer: Capacitor
Bonus 19: Math (Geometry) -- Computational
Find the area of the following figures.
1. A triangle with sides of length 3, 5, and 6.
2. A circle circumscribed about a square of side length 2.
3. A rhombus with diagonals of length 4 and 5.
Answers: 1: 2 root 14 2: 2 pi 3: 10
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 6, Page 11

Tossup 20: Literature (Literature)
Its first edition states that its contents are experimental, and also calls the materials of poetry “every
subject which can interest the human mind.” One poem in it begins “five years have passed,”
referring to the time since the speaker has been to the Wye River. Another, the first in the work, is in
seven parts and contains the line “I shot the Albatross.” A seminal work of Romantic poetry, identify
this collection which includes "Lines Composed a few Miles Above Tinturn Abbey" and "Rime of the
Ancient Mariner," written by William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
Answer: Lyrical Ballads, With a Few Other Poems
Bonus 20: Social Studies (Geography)
Time for a bonus about everybody's favorite state you can see Russia from! That's right, Alaska.
1. Surrounded by the mainland and the Alaska Peninsula, this body of water known for its high tides
is at the eastern edge of the Bering Sea.
Answer: Bristol Bay
2. Gravina Island's 50 residents would have been among the few people helped by this structure,
often in the news recently as an example of pork barrel spending.
Answer: Bridge to Nowhere (prompt on Gravina Island Bridge)
3. There is constant debate over whether to drill for oil in this protected zone of northern Alaska.
Answer: ANWR (accept Arctic National Wildlife Refuge)

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Literature (Literature)
One of his novels is presented as a 999 line long poem of the fictional John Shade, paired with an
expository introduction and commentary on it by the just as fictional scholar Charles Kinbote. He
also made several noteworthy contributions to the field of entomology, including the discovery of
some species of butterfly. Writing first in his native Russian, he came to prominence when he began
writing in English, including his best known work, about a girl named Dolores Haze and a man
named Humbert Humbert. Identify this author of Pale Fire and Lolita.
Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
Bonus 21: Science (Biology) -- Computational
In a monohybrid cross, one of these would have two lowercase letters in the bottom right.
1. Named after a British geneticist, identify these grids used to diagram the possible genotypes of a
test cross.
Answer: Punnett square
2. In a monohybrid cross big A little a, cross big A little a, what fraction of the offspring will have a
dominant phenotype?
Answer: 3/4 (accept 75%)
3. Of the 3/4 of the offspring exhibiting a dominant phenotype, 2/3 of those have both a dominant
and a recessive allele, and are called this.
Answer: Heterozygotes

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 7

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 2

Tossup 1: Science (Earth Science)
This Era was a time of tectonic, climatic and evolutionary activity, the beginning of which is set by
the P-T boundary, a cataclysmic extinction event coming at the end of the Permian Period.
Dinosaurs lived and died in this Era, which also saw the proliferation of birds, primates and flowering
plants. Containing the Cretaceous, Jurassic and Triassic Periods, identify this Era of geologic time,
from the Greek for "middle animals."
Answer: Mesozoic Era
Bonus 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Identify these Civil War battles from clues.
1. Stonewall Jackson was accidentally killed by Confederates at this 1863 battle in Virginia.
Answer: Chancellorsville
2. Confederate General Albert Sidney Johnston was killed at this 1862 battle in Tennessee that is
called the Battle of Pittsburg Landing in the south.
Answer: Shiloh
3. William Rosecrans commanded the losing Union troops while the Confederates were successfully
led by Braxton Bragg at this 1863 battle in northern Georgia. The harshest yet defeat for the north, it
marked the end of that campaign.
Answer: Chickamauga
Tossup 2: Literature (Literature)
At one point in this story, the narrator is infatuated with a girl named Gilberte. Her mother used to be
called Odette de Crecy. Her father, a wealthy jew, once visited the narrator’s great-aunt’s house in
Cambray. Years later, the narrator is reminded of that place by the taste of a pastry called a
madeleine. The narrator describes two roads, Guermantes Way and Swann’s way, which are names
of two of the seven parts of this work. The free-form recollections of a narrator who shares the
author’s given name, identify this work, the magnus opus of Marcel Proust.
Answer: Remembrance of Things Past (accept In Search of Lost Time or A la recherche du temps
perdu)
Bonus 2: Math (Other) – Computational
Convert the following numbers to decimal.
1. 1001 in binary.
2. 3F in hexadecimal.
3. 743 in octal.
Answers: 1: 9 2: 63 3: 483
Tossup 3: Social Studies (World History)
It occurred after Herschel Grynszpan shot Ernst vom Rath, and cost its victims billions of dollars.
Orders for it were actually issued from Munich, where there was a celebration for the anniversary of
the Beer Hall Putsch. Directly resulting in the expansion of concentration camps, it occurred in
November, 1938. Name this two day campaign to terrorize Jewish people in Germany.
Answer: Kristallnacht (accept Night of the Broken Glass)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 3

Bonus 3: Fine Arts (Other)
Answer these questions about some famous buildings that survive in an unfinished state.
1. Even after 28 years of building the 56 bedrooms, 41 fireplaces, and 61 bathrooms, the San
Simeon Castle of this newspaper magnate still didn't fulfill the original plans.
Answer: William Randolph Hearst
2. One of Spain's most popular tourist attractions, this Barcelona church, designed by Antoni Gaudi,
was begun in 1882, but the apse may not be finished until 2026.
Answer: La Sagrada Familia
3. Built for Richard Wagner and famous as the model for Sleeping Beauty Castle in Disneyland,
construction of this Bavarian palace stopped the day King Ludwig was declared insane.
Answer: Neuschwanstein Castle
Tossup 4: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the length of one edge of an icosahedron if the total surface area is 320 times root 3. It may
help to know that an icosahedron has 20 sides that are all equilateral triangles.
Answer: 8
Bonus 4: Social Studies (Geography)
Identify these terms for the administrative divisions of a country, similar to states in the U.S.
1. The Swiss Confederation consists of 26 of these sovereign regions, including Geneva and Bern,
that have their own constitutions and may choose to practice direct democracy.
Answer: cantons
2. Ranging in size from the whole island of Hokkaido to the 700 square mile Kagawa area, there are
47 of these governor-led subdivisions in Japan.
Answer: prefectures (accept todofuken)
3. Commonly used in medieval Europe and referring to an area controlled by a bailiff for the benefit
of the monarch, Jersey and Guernsey in the Channel Islands are the only two of these that still exist.
Answer: bailiwicks
Tossup 5: Fine Arts (Music)
This composer’s most famous work sees the newlywed Judith asking the title character to allow her
to open seven doors. Inspired by the atonality movement, his mime drama The Miraculous Mandarin
premiered to scandal in 1926. That atonality contrasted with the folk songs that he recorded from his
native Hungary and other nations. Name this composer, most famous for Duke Bluebeard’s Castle.
Answer: Bela Bartok

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 4

Bonus 5: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Answer these questions related to the French word for fox, “renard” (ray-NARD).
1. The Renard is a friend of this character who hails from Asteroid B612 in a Saint-Exupery work of
the same name.
Answer: The Little Prince (ou Le Petit Prince)
2. “Renard” is a 1916 opera-ballet by this composer, better known for The Firebird, which he based
on the medieval fables of the trickster fox.
Answer: Igor Stravinsky
3. Gabrielle Renard was the nanny for this artist’s son and appears in some of his paintings. He is
better known for The Dance at Le Moulin de la Galette.
Answer: Pierre Auguste Renoir
Tossup 6: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Born in Homer, Illinois, this lawman gained fame for his work as a cavalry scout for the Union Army
in the West during the civil war, and then for his later work as marshal of the violent cattle town of
Abilene, Kansas. There was nothing wrong with drawing a hand of aces and eights until this man
drew it in a game of five card draw in Deadwood, South Dakota, and was promptly shot in the back.
Name this gunfighter of the Wild West.
Answer: Wild Bill Hickok
Bonus 6: Math (General)
This term was coined by Benoit Mandelbrot.
1. Identify these self-similar geometric objects, examples of which include the Mandelbrot set and
Julia set.
Answer: Fractal
2. This fractal consists of a triangle whose middle section is repeatedly removed.
Answer: Sierpinski triangle
3. This extends the concept of dimension to fractals, assigning them fractional dimensions.
Answer: Hausdorff dimension
Tossup 7: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Save for one guitar part, this band's self-titled first album was entirely performed by its founder and
lead singer. Their live album, Skin and Bones, contained the song Marigold, which was actually
written by the band's founder while he was the drummer for a previous band. Their second album
produced hits such as Walking After You and My Hero, as well as a song that was on Guitar Hero 2,
Monkey Wrench. Name this band fronted by former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl, whose album The
Colour and the Shape featured the track Everlong.
Answer: Foo Fighters

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 5

Bonus 7: Literature (Literature)
Answer the following about some grave poems. Do not answer with a number.
1. In this poem, the title figures pass by "a house that seemed a swelling of the ground," and ride in a
carriage that "held but just ourselves and immortality."
Answer: Because I Could Not Stop for Death
2. After "the windows failed," the speaker "could not see to see," and the stillness around the
speaker's body was like that "in the air between the heaves of a storm."
Answer: I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died
3. Because I Could Not Stop for Death and I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died were both penned by
this reclusive poet from Amherst, Massachusetts.
Answer: Emily Dickinson
Tossup 8: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the sum of the coefficients of the terms in the expansion of the quantity x plus y, close quantity,
to the fifth power.
Answer: 32
Bonus 8: Science (Biology)
Identify these important biological molecules.
1. This ubiquitous polysaccharide makes up the cell wall in plants, and is a major component of
paper.
Answer: Cellulose
2. Related to cellulose, this nitrogen-containing polysaccharide is found in fungi and crustaceans.
Answer: Chitin
3. This is a term for lipids with four fused carbon rings, all of which are produced in plants from the
molecule lanosterol.
Answer: Steroid
Tossup 9: Literature (Literature)
Two of these "of Mutabilitie" comprise Book 7 of The Fairie Queen. Sets of them discuss John
Adams, China, and Venice in a work by an expatriate Modernist who lived in Italy. A famous one that
is the first of a hundred begins "Midway upon the journey of our life." Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage, The
Divine Comedy, and Ezra Pound’s work of the same name are all divided into them. Name the type
of division, often present in epic works, whose name comes from the Latin for song.
Answer: Canto (do not accept "Cantus")
Bonus 9: Math (Calculus) -- Computational
Find the derivatives of the following functions.
1. sine of x times cosecant of x.
2. Inverse tangent of x.
3. x times the natural log of x.
Answers: 1: 0 2: 1 / (x^2 + 1) 3: 1 + ln(x)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 6

Tossup 10: Science (Physics)
Scientists at the South Pole constructed one that took 24 hours and 50 minutes to complete its
precession. Its angular speed is proportional to the sine of the latitude, so at the equator it does not
rotate. One of them that operates in the Musee des Arts et Metiers in Paris figures prominently in a
novel by Umberto Eco. Name this device that has a weight at the end of a wire, used to demonstrate
the rotation of the Earth.
Answer: Foucault pendulum
Bonus 10: Literature (Literature)
Maxwell Perkins joined the venerable publishing house of Scribner's in 1910 as an editor and never
looked back.
1. Among the men Perkins is responsible for discovering include this author who made his first big
break with This Side of Paradise.
Answer: F. Scott Fitzgerald
2. Perkins' next big find was Ernest Hemingway, who published this first major work about expatriate
Americans under Perkins.
Answer: The Sun Also Rises
3. The relationship between Perkins and Thomas Wolfe featured lots of conflict, including much
disagreement over the removal of 90,000 words from this novel of Wolfe's, which centers on a thinly
veiled mirror of Wolfe's hometown.
Answer: Look Homeward, Angel
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 7

Tossup 11: Literature (Literature)
Prior to glasnost, it was distributed largely by means of Samizdat, an underground ring of literature
distribution. Tracing the history of the titular locales from 1918 to 1956, it begins with Lenin's original
decrees shortly after the October Revolution, and ends with Khrushchev's Secret Speech
denouncing Stalin's cult of personality. The author of this work also produced "The First Circle,"
which details a specific instance of the titular entity. Focusing on a system of Russian labor camps,
identify this work by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
Answer: The Gulag Archipelago
Bonus 11: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Identify these mock awards that few people want the honor of accepting.
1. Actually accepted by Halle Berry in 2005, "winners" of this award last year included Worst Actor,
Eddie Murphy for Norbit, and Worst Actress, Lindsay Lohan for I Know Who Killed Me.
Answer: Golden Raspberry Award (accept Razzie)
2. Awarded to scientists who make people laugh and think, this prize has gone to Mayu Yamamoto
for extracting vanilla flavor from cow dung and to Patricia Agostino for giving Viagra to hamsters.
Answer: Ig Nobel Prize (do not prompt on Nobel Prize)
3. Honoring those who improve the species' gene pool by accidentally removing themselves from it,
one 2008 nominee for this award blew up his snowmobile when he crashed attempting to chase a
jackrabbit into a drainage pipe.
Answer: Darwin Award
Tossup 12: Math (Calculus)
It is the Householder method of order 1, and counting the iterations of this for x cubed minus one
yields a Wada basin. For the cube root of x, this always results in worse estimates, and starting
values can never be taken at the extrema of a function. Otherwise, it converges quadratically. Name
this eponymous method for finding roots of a differentiable function, named after a prominent British
mathematician.
Answer: Newton's method
Bonus 12: Science (Astronomy)
They are smaller than their Schwarzschild radii, which are consequently known as their event
horizons.
1. Name these gravitational singularities in space, from which not even light can escape.
Answer: Black holes
2. According to the "no hair" theorem, mass, charge, and this are the only independent properties of
a black hole.
Answer: Angular momentum
3. Tiny black holes can evaporate by emitting enough of this type of theorized radiation, predicted by
its namesake to emanate from all black holes.
Answer: Hawking radiation

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 8

Tossup 13: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
The name's the same. Esther was known for her portrayal of Florida on "Good Times". Capcom
created a female robot by this name who was built for housekeeping instead of fighting; she might
be Mega Man's sister. Michel was a French mathematician with a namesake theorem. Samari and
Antrel are unrelated professional football players. A barrel one means to rotate along the lateral axis.
Building up to a big announcement might require one to be performed on a drum, identify this word,
which is a notable candy when paired with "Tootsie".
Answer: Roll(e)
Bonus 13: Fine Arts (Music)
Name the following composers who worked with Maurice Maeterlinck’s play Pelleas et Melisande.
(pell-ee-as ay mell-ih-sahnd)
1. This composer’s only opera is the most famous adaptation of Pelleas et Melisande, but he is more
famous for the work Clair de Lune.
Answer: Claude Debussy
2. This composer’s first completed orchestral work was a symphonic poem based on the play; this
came several years before he developed the 12-tone technique.
Answer: Arnold Schoenberg
3. This composer did an eight movement suite on the work; he also wrote the Karelia Suite,
serenading his homeland.
Answer: Jean Sibelius
Tossup 14: Science (Chemistry)
This type of property requires van 't Hoff's factor as an empirical correction for the amount of solute
which actually dissociates. Raoult's law describes one of these, vapor pressure, which is
proportional to the mole fraction of each dissolved component. Osmotic pressure, boiling point
elevation, and freezing point depression are the other common examples of these. Name these
chemical properties which depend on the molality (moh-LAL-ih-ty) of solute in a substance, but not
their identity.
Answer: Colligative properties
Bonus 14: Social Studies (Current Events)
Identify these current Illinois political figures.
1. This current Illinois governor has been under a cloud of corruption for most of tenure, especially
since the recent conviction of friend Tony Rezko.
Answer: Rod Blagojevich
2. One possible contender for governor in the next election is this Attorney General, the child of the
Speaker of the Illinois House.
Answer: Lisa Madigan
3. In August, this President of the Illinois Senate announced he will not seek another term, and
caused a stir by saying he wished his son would take over his spot in the Senate.
Answer: Emil Jones, Jr.

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 9

Tossup 15: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
In one of this man’s paintings, animated skeletons wage war on the living. Another shows fishermen
cutting open an enormous catch. In addition to The Triumph of Death and Big Fish Eat Small Fish,
he painted Landscape With the Fall of Icarus and many images of Flemish working-class life. Name
this painter of The Peasant Wedding and The Peasant Dance.
Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder (prompt on Bruegel, accept equivalents)
Bonus 15: Science (Physics)
They can capture electrons to turn into neutrons, the opposite of beta decay.
1. Name these particle whose charge is opposite that of the electron's.
Answer: Proton
2. There are six flavors of these subatomic particles, including "charm" and "strange." Protons are
made up of two "up" ones and one "down" one.
Answer: Quark
3. In addition to an electric charge, quarks have this kind of so-called charge, allowing them to
interact via the strong force.
Answer: Color charge
Tossup 16: Social Studies (Geography)
While this nation's official language is English, its 3,000 kilometer north-south railway is named the
Ghan in honor of the Afghan camel drivers who helped white settlers explore the arid interior. Name
this country, whose northern port of Darwin was connected via rail to Adelaide only in 2004.
Answer: Australia
Bonus 16: Math (Algebra) -- Computational
Given the complex numbers x = 3 + 3 i, and y = 2 + i, find the following. Give your answers in a + b i
form where appropriate.
1. Give the modulus of a.
2. Give a times b.
3. Give a divided by b.
Answers: 1: 3 root 2 2: 3 + 9 i 3: 9/5 + 3/5 i (accept 1.8 + .6 i)
Tossup 17: Science (Biology)
Recognition of Class I or Class II MHC molecules distinguishes two types of these. The former is
responsible for killing cancerous or virally infected cells and is responsible for tissue transplant
rejection. The latter binds to antigen-presenting cells like dendritic cells or macrophages and then
releases cytokines to further promote the immune response. Including cytotoxic and helper cells,
name this type of white blood cell involved in cell-mediated immunity that partially develops in the
thymus.
Answer: T cell or lymphocyte

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 10

Bonus 17: Literature (Language Arts)
Answer these questions about the T-V dichotomy, a social distinction in language.
1. T-V distinguishes between formal and informal pronouns of this “person,” the one used when
addressing someone directly.
Answer: second person
2. The T-V dichotomy can be seen clearly in these two second person subject pronouns of French
Answer: tu and vous (either order)
3. The T-V dichotomy is evident in this now-archaic subject pronoun in English which used to be
derogatory in some circumstances, but now ironically survives mostly in liturgical addresses to
deities.
Answer: thou
Tossup 18: Math (Other) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Give the period of the equation y = 2 sin(3 pi x + 12).
Answer: 3/2
Bonus 18: Social Studies (World History)
Given clues, identify the Egyptian ruler.
1. The second longest serving Pharaoh, he warred with the Hittites, and was also ruler when the
Exodus occurred.
Answer: Ramses II (prompt on Ramses)
2. This ruler during the New Kingdom died young, and his tomb was found in 1922 by Howard
Carter.
Answer: Tutankhamen (prompt on King Tut; accept Tutankhaten)
3. This ruler of the 18th dynasty was the Father-in-law of Tutenkhamen, and he also built many cities
and temples, like on at Karnak.
Answer: Akhenaton (accept Amenhotep IV)
Tossup 19: Literature (Literature)
The title of this novel was adjusted from "Dark House" to its current name due to a comment by the
author's wife while sitting on the porch one evening. In it, Reverend Gail Hightower is somewhat of a
town pariah, only visited occasionally by Byron Bunch. Bunch also figures into the story because he
has fallen in love with the pregnant Lena Grove, who is traveling to Jefferson to locate her unborn
child's father. Set in the fictional Yoknapatawpha county, identify this novel which also follows Joe
Christmas, written by William Faulkner.
Answer: Light in August
Bonus 19: Science (Chemistry)
Identify these terms related to radioactive decay.
1. These particles are helium nuclei, and were shot at gold foil in a famous Rutherford experiment.
Answer: Alpha particle
2. These are simply electrons emitted by nuclei during radioactive decay.
Answer: Beta particle
3. Beta and gamma radiation can be detected by this "counter" which clicks when it is hit by ionizing
radiation.
Answer: Geiger counter
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 7, Page 11

Tossup 20: Social Studies (Other)
Named after Viracocha, an Incan sun god, this vessel was crewed by six men, none of whom were
from the continent it set sail from. Its captain was attempting to prove that ancient people could have
settled Polynesia by sailing from South America. Name this raft that was piloted across the Pacific
Ocean by Thor Heyerdahl.
Answer: Kon-Tiki
Bonus 20: Literature (Literature)
Sometimes characters can come to be defined by their careers. Identify the following characters
based on their work experience.
1. This character is an immigrant working in the meat packing industry in Chicago in an Upton
Sinclair work.
Answer: Jurgis Rudkis (accept either)
2. This title character of a Sinclair Lewis work runs the gamut of scientific jobs in his tenure as a
doctor all over the world.
Answer: Martin Arrowsmith
3. This man might be one of the best representatives of teachers to be found in Literature. He
teaches at Brookfield, an all-boys boarding school in a work by James Hilton.
Answer: Mr. Chips (accept Arthur Chipping)

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Social Studies (World History)
He gained infamy due to the legend of him ordering the murder of his two nephews, both of whom
had greater claim to the British throne than he. According to Shakespeare, he would have fared
poorly at horse trading. Name this king of England who was a member of the house of York, and
reigned from 1483 to his death in 1485 at the conclusion of the Wars of the Roses.
Answer: Richard III
Bonus 21: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Answer these questions about a set of classical elements and their influence on pop culture.
1. In the dialogue Timaeus, Plato associates the tetrahedron, octahedron, icosahedron, and cube
with these four basic elements.
Answer: fire, air, water, & earth (accept answers in any order)
2. Stan Lee was influenced by the Greek elements when he assigned powers to the Fantastic Four
in 1961; give the superhero names of the four team members in any order.
Answer: Mr. Fantastic, Human Torch, Thing, & Invisible Woman/Girl (accept answers in any
order)
3. In this animated series that airs on Nickelodeon, the world is divided into four nations, each based
on an element, and the hero Aang must master all four to defeat the Fire Lord.
Answer: Avatar: The Last Airbender

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 8

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 2

Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Headed by over a group of over 50 local leaders, it began with the desire to promote "peace, civil
authority, (and) righteousness." In addition, it sought to protect its members from foreign invaders,
who were beginning to enter its lands. When the Tuscarora joined in 1722, its membership rose from
five to six tribes. Name this group of American Indian tribes in New York.
Answer: Iroquois Confederacy (accept Iroquois League; prompt on Five or Six Nations)
Bonus 1: Literature (Literature)
A group of people called the "Merry Pranksters" drove a bus called "Furthur" cross-country in 1964.
1. The group formed around this proponent of psychedelic drugs and author of One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest.
Answer: Ken Kesey
2. This work of New Journalism centers around parties that Kesey held, often featuring
performances by The Grateful Dead, which received their moniker from their substantial use of LSD.
Answer: The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test
3. This author of The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test also penned The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Answer: Tom Wolfe
Tossup 2: Math (Geometry) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Give the side length of a triangle which is inscribed in a circle of circumference 20 pi.
Answer: 10 root 3
Bonus 2: Science (Physics)
Answer these questions about fluid dynamics.
1. This quantity describes a fluid's resistance to flow, and corresponds to its perceived thickness.
Answer: Viscosity
2. Fluids for which viscosity is a simple linear relationship are termed this. More precisely, these
namesake fluids have shear stress proportional to velocity.
Answer: Newtonian fluids
3. A smooth, parallel fluid flow is called laminar; the opposite, a chaotic flow, is called this.
Answer: Turbulent
Tossup 3: Literature (Literature)
This protagonist kills four people during the course of the book. An old man named Ezeudu warned
him against killing the first, a boy named Ikemefuna. Later at a funeral, this man's gun explodes, and
a shard of it accidentally strikes and kills a boy. Consequently, he is exiled from his village of
Umuofia for seven years. He returns and eventually kills a white man and then hangs himself.
Identify this man, of the Ibo clan, the main character of Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart.
Answer: Okonkwo

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 3

Bonus 3: Social Studies (Other)
What the hell! Identify the following about various hells.
1. This Judaic underworld is sometimes translated as “hell” but really is simply a final resting place
for all the dead.
Answer: Sheol
2. This Islamic hell derives from the Hebrew word for the Judaic place of torment and contains the
tree Zaquum.
Answer: Jahannam (three syllables, do NOT accept Jannah, or Gehennam)
3. This place in Greek mythology is a lower world of punishment for evildoers, more like Jahannam
than Sheol.
Answer: Tartarus
Tossup 4: Science (Biology)
It typically occurs in the tropo- form, consisting of numerous long fibers in a helix. Ehlers-Danlos
syndrome, osteogenesis imperfecta, and scurvy affect its production. When hydrolyzed, it forms
gelatin, and along with keratin, it makes up skin and many other tissues. Name this most common
protein in mammals, a major component of connective tissue.
Answer: Collagen
Bonus 4: Literature (Literature)
The country of China is responsible for a great many prolific poets.
1. This poet, the writer of "Drinking Alone by Moonlight" among many others, was said to have
drowned attempting to embrace the reflection of the moon.
Answer: Li Bai (accept Li Po)
2. Li Bai was idolized by this other poet, sometimes called the Poet-Sage by Chinese critics, whom
he met for the first time in 744.
Answer: Du Fu (accept Tu Fu)
3. Both Li Bai and Du Fu wrote during this golden age of Chinese literature, a dynasty that lasted
from 618-907, a period which also saw the An Shi Rebellion take place.
Answer: T'ang Dynasty
Tossup 5: Social Studies (World History)
This man was the second member of the dynasty with which he shares his name. During his reign,
General Belisarius managed not only to crush unrest, but also take back North Africa from the
Vandals, and defeat the Ostrogoths in Italy. Ruling from 527 until his death, this Eastern Roman
Emperor saw to the building of the Hagia Sophia during his reign. Ruling with his Empress Theodora
by his side, identify this Emperor who is noteworthy for his judicial reforms, specifically completing
the codification of Roman Law.
Answer: Justinian I the Great (accept Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Iustinianus)
Bonus 5: Math (Geometry) -- Computational
Perform the following conversions between coordinate systems.
1. (2, 150 degrees) from polar to rectangular.
2. (3, 135 degrees, 45 degrees) from spherical to rectangular.
3. (2, 45 degrees, 2 root 3) from cylindrical to spherical.
Answers: 1: (- root 3, 1) 2: (-3/2, 3/2, 3 root 2 / 2) 3: (4, 45 degrees, 30 degrees)
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 4

Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
British members of this artistic school include Sir Peter Blake , David Hockney, and Richard
Hamilton, who created the collage Just What is it that Makes Today’s Homes So Different, So
Appealing? Other works of this movement include an American flag by Jasper Johns and comic-strip
paintings by Roy Lichtenstein. Name this twentieth century art movement associated with mass
production of commercial images, whose most famous member was Andy Warhol.
Answer: Pop Art
Bonus 6: Science (Astronomy)
It plots the spectral class versus the magnitude of stars.
1. Name this doubly-eponymous diagram also referred to as the color-magnitude diagram.
Answer: Hertzsprung-Russell diagram (accept HR diagram)
2. Most stars lie on a diagonal band on the HR diagram, known as this.
Answer: Main sequence
3. One of the axes on the HR diagram is absolute magnitude, or equivalently, this scale measuring
the energy output of a star, which rates the sun as a 1.
Answer: Luminosity
Tossup 7: Science (Chemistry)
One type of it uses a supercritical fluid, usually carbon dioxide, and is useful for separating chiral
compounds. More common are the high performance liquid type, which employs a pressurized
column, and the thin layer type, which often uses a silicon wafer. In general, it always has a mobile
phase and a stationary phase. Name this lab technique for separating mixtures, commonly used in
basic biology classes to analyze the plant pigment chlorophyll.
Answer: chromatography
Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Identify these historical figures whose likenesses have been added to the National Statuary Hall
Collection this decade.
1. Given by Kansas as the first ever replacement, this man's statue is fittingly green since he served
as Supreme Allied Commander during Word War II before being elected the thirty-fourth president.
Answer: Dwight D. Eisenhower
2. Shown carrying her infant son, this woman is honored by North Dakota's statue recognizing her
indomitable spirit while guiding the Lewis and Clark expedition.
Answer: Sakakawea (accept Sacajawea, Sacagawea)
3. New Mexico's statue of this Native American religious leader is the only one carved in pink marble
and it shows the scars from his flogging and the knotted cord he used to time the 1680 Pueblo
Revolt that defeated the Spanish.
Answer: Po'pay

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 5

Tossup 8: Miscellaneous (Technology)
This company had its roots in seismic technology to search for petroleum. Recently, it has won two
Emmy awards for developing DLP television technology. In 1958, one of its employees, Jack Kilby,
decided not to go on vacation, and proceeded to invent the integrated circuit. Identify this company
which has two divisions, Semiconductor and Educational Technologies, the second of which
produces a line of calculators including the "84 plus" and "89 Titanium".
Answer: Texas Instruments (prompt on TI)
Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Music)
Identify the following works by Igor Stravinsky.
1. This primal ballet is subtitled “Pictures from Pagan Russia.” Consisting of The Adoration of the
Earth and The Sacrifice, it features tonic dissonance and heavy percussion.
Answer: The Rite of Spring (accept Le Sacre du Printemps)
2. Based on the traditional puppet theater of Russia, this ballet tells of the titular doll’s imprisonment
by the cruel Showmaster and his love for the Ballerina.
Answer: Petrushka
3. With the help of the titular creature, Prince Ivan rescues a group of princesses from the castle of
an ogre in this ballet inspired by a Russian folk tale.
Answer: The Firebird Suite (accept L'Oiseau de Feu)
Tossup 9: Math (Calculus) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Find the derivative of (4x squared + 10) quantity squared, + 3x to the fourth.
Answer: 76x cubed + 160x
Bonus 9: Science (Biology)
Developed by Kary Mullis, this technique requires thermal cycling usually performed by special
machines.
1. Name this laboratory technique that allows the rapid amplification of a DNA sequence.
Answer: PCR (accept polymerase chain reaction)
2. Because PCR is performed at higher temperatures than normal DNA synthesis, it requires the
thermostable Taq version of this enzyme responsible for DNA replication.
Answer: DNA polymerase
3. Polymerase needs these short fragments of complementary DNA strands, which serve as the
starting points of DNA synthesis.
Answer: Primer
Tossup 10: Literature (Literature)
One of them features personified figures of Love, Ambition, and Poetry and is “on Indolence.”
Another that begins “O Goddess!” is dedicated to the lover of Eros, Psyche. One of the most famous
ends with the question “Do I wake or sleep?” while another that begins “Thou unravish’d bride of
quietness” ends by equating truth and beauty. Name these poems of a specific form by the author of
Endymion, which include the one “on a Grecian Urn” and another “to a Nightingale.”
Answer: odes of John Keats (prompt on insufficient answers like “poems by Keats”)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 6

Bonus 10: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
War movies are awesome. As such, you will get a bonus about them.
1. Mel Gibson plays a soldier in Vietnam in this 2002 film directed by Randall Wallace.
Answer: We Were Soldiers
2. Matthew Broderick portrays Robert Gould Shaw, the commander of an all Black regiment in the
Civil War, in this movie also starring Morgan Freeman and Denzel Washington.
Answer: Glory
3. Tom Hanks leads a squad of soldiers, one whom is played by Vin Diesel, in performing the titular
act. Matt Damon also stars.
Answer: Saving Private Ryan
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 7

Tossup 11: Science (Earth Science)
Brackish water is found in these, and life often flourishes based on the salinity of the water. The
Amazon River creates one that extends far beyond the Brazilian coast, and the Chesapeake Bay is
the largest one in the US. Identify this type of body of water, featuring fresh water emptying into a
salt water sea.
Answer: Estuary
Bonus 11: Math (Algebra) -- Computational
Solve the following equations for x. Give all solutions.
1. x^2 + x - 2 = 0
2. x^3 + 2 x^2 - x - 2 = 0
3. sin x = cos x. Only give solutions between 0 and 2 pi.
Answers: 1: -2 and 1 2: 1 and -1 and -2 3: pi / 4 and 5 pi / 4
Tossup 12: Literature (Literature)
He is a notable member of the Cacophony Society, people who pursue "experiences beyond the
pale of mainstream society." This society would provide the basis for his creation of "Project
Mayhem" in his most famous novel. A pioneer of modern Transgressional Fiction, he has written
such works as "Invisible Monsters", and a horror trilogy consisting of "Diary", "Lullaby" and
"Haunted". Also producing a story about con man Victor Mancini, "Choke", identify this author whose
most famous novel is about a nameless protagonist and his interactions with Tyler Durden, in "Fight
Club"
Answer: Chuck Palahniuk
Bonus 12: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Answer the following about an architect for ten points each.
1. This American architect is associated with the Prairie School of design and is known for buildings
like The Imperial Hotel in Tokyo and the Guggenheim Museum in New York City.
Answer: Frank Lloyd Wright
2. This Chicago building became the quintessential example of Prairie House design. It was
originally built to house the family for which it is named.
Answer: Robie House
3. Wright built this private home to highlight surrounding natural features, especially the natural
stream that runs through and below the house.
Answer: Fallingwater
Tossup 13: Math (Other) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
You have a dartboard shaped like a square with side length 4. It has a circular region inscribed in it.
If you are guaranteed to hit the square with a dart, then what is the probability that you hit inside the
circular region?
Answer: pi / 4

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 8

Bonus 13: Science (Chemistry)
It requires nitrogen and hydrogen gas, and uses an iron catalyst.
1. Name this industrial chemical process which produces ammonia.
Answer: Haber(-Bosch) process
2. The solid iron catalyst is in a different phase from the gaseous reactants, so it is called this type of
catalyst.
Answer: Heterogeneous catalyst
3. The Haber process is conducted under very high pressures, because this principle dictates that
high pressures shift the chemical equilibrium toward the products.
Answer: Le Chatelier's principle
Tossup 14: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Tamoszius plays one in The Jungle, and Mick tries to make one out of a ukulele in The Heart Is a
Lonely Hunter. Laura and Mary listen to Pa play one from their trundle bed in Little House in the Big
Woods. In a Study in Scarlet, Watson mentions that the detective Sherlock Holmes also plays it.
Name the instrument supposedly played by the Devil in Georgia and by Nero while Rome burned,
the highest stringed instrument in the orchestra.
Answer: violin (accept fiddle)
Bonus 14: Literature (Mythology)
Answer the following about some strange, but surely delicious, mythological creations.
1. In order to appease the Greek gods, this figure slew his son and had him made into food. He
resides in the underworld, unable to eat and unable to drink.
Answer: Tantalus
2. This "feathered serpent" used his own blood and bone meal to make a race of humans.
Answer: Quetzalcoatl
3. The mead of poetry that was consumed by Odin was a mixture of honey and the blood of Kvasir.
Kvasir himself was made from a mixture of this substance belonging to the Aesir and Vanir.
Answer: spit (accept equivalents)
Tossup 15: Social Studies (U.S. History)
He was taught to read by Mrs. Hugh Auld while living in Maryland. He held multiple political offices,
including minister to Haiti and was an adviser to Abraham Lincoln. An opponent of violence, he
founded the North Star. Name this former slave who was instrumental in the 19th century abolitionist
movement.
Answer: Frederick Douglass (accept Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey)
Bonus 15: Math (Algebra) -- Computational
Find the following related to the vectors A = (1, 2) and B = (4, 1).
1. Find the dot product of A and B.
2. Find the cosine of the angle between A and B.
3. Find the area of the triangle bounded by the two vectors.
Answers: 1: 6 2: 7 root 85 / 85 (accept 7 / root 85) 3: 7/2

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 9

Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Music)
He wrote the Song of the Rats and the Song of the Fleas for an oratorio, The Damnation of Faust,
and he also wrote an opera set after the Trojan War, called Les Troyens. His most famous work
features hallucinations following an opium trip; the fourth movement ends with a decapitation, and
the fifth and final movement portrays a Witches’ Sabbath. Name this lover of Harriet Smithson and
French composer of Symphonie Fantastique.
Answer: Hector Berlioz
Bonus 16: Social Studies (Geography)
Its water famously becomes mist before it hits the ground after a plunge of about half a mile.
1. Name this waterfall, the tallest in the world.
Answer: Angel Falls
2. Angel Falls is south of the Orinoco River in this country.
Answer: Venezuela
3. Angel Falls is in this Venezuelan state, whose namesake, along with Jose de San Martin,
liberated much of South America from Spain in the 1830’s.
Answer: Simon de Bolivar
Tossup 17: Math (General)
It is generalized by the unproven Hadwiger conjecture, and a weaker version was proven by
Petersen in 1891. For surfaces other than the plane, the number required by the theorem depends
on the characteristic of the surface, and is seven for a torus. Its eventual proof in the 70s required
listing hundreds of pages of cases, and was verified by a computer. Name this theorem about the
number of labels required to label planar graphs.
Answer: Four color theorem
Bonus 17: Miscellaneous (Sports)
Name the following inductees into the MLB Hall of Fame.
1. Two answers required: Both of 2007’s inductees, one Oriole and one Padre, received more than
97% of the vote.
Answer: Cal Ripken Jr. and Tony Gwinn Sr.
2. This longtime Kansas City Royal third baseman, inducted in 1999, was famously ejected from a
game after a home run for using too much pine tar.
Answer: George Brett
3. The only player inducted in 2008 was this relief pitcher who played for 9 teams, but is possibly
best known as a New York Yankee.
Answer: Rich “Goose” Gossage (prompt on “Goose”)
Tossup 18: Social Studies (Other)
He both attended and taught at Harvard, and he also was the chair of the Psychology department at
Indiana University. In 1957 he published his Verbal Behavior, and he is known for extensive work
with operant conditioning. Some of this research used his so called "box" which trained animals to
complete certain tasks. Name this behaviorist who authored Walden Two.
Answer: Burrhus Frederic Skinner

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 10

Bonus 18: Literature (Literature)
The "big three" of 17th century French Literature have undeniably had great impact on Literature as
we know it.
1. One of the "big three," Pierre Corneille wrote this work, based upon the legend of Rodrigo Díaz de
Vivar.
Answer: Le Cid (do not accept El Cid)
2. Another member was this man, most often called by his stage name, best known for The
Misanthrope and Tartuffe.
Answer: Molière (accept Jean-Baptiste Poquelin)
3. After Corneille and Molière, the third member is this man, who wrote of Roman Emperor Titus and
his tragic love for a woman the public disapproves of in his Bérénice.
Answer: Jean Baptiste Racine
Tossup 19: Science (Physics)
It only affects left-handed leptons and quarks, and can violate P and CP symmetries. Because it is
mediated by heavy bosons, it only operates within distances of 10 to the -18 meters. The only flavorchanging interaction, it is mediated by the W and Z bosons. Name this fundamental force which is
responsible for beta decay, and which has been unified with the electromagnetic force.
Answer: Weak force
Bonus 19: Math (Calculus)
Identify the following theorems from calculus. All refer to smooth, differentiable curves.
1. On an interval from a to b, there exists some point c, where the derivative of f at c has the same
slope as the line connecting a and b.
Answer: Mean Value Theorem
2. On an interval from a to b, where f of a equals f of b, the derivative of f equals zero at some point.
Answer: Rolle's Theorem
3. For a closed curve, the line integral of some vector function within the curve is equivalent to the
double integral of the function's curl across the region.
Answer: Green's Theorem
Tossup 20: Literature (Literature)
The starting manuscript of this novel was a letter that its author began writing to a dying grandfather.
Some critics say that it is actually roman à clef, telling a real life story behind a façade of fiction. It is
proposed that The Poet in the novel probably represents Pablo Neruda, and that the author's cousin,
once removed represents both The Candidate and The President. Detailing four generations of life in
the Trueba family and mostly chronicling Esteban his clairvoyant wife Clara, identify this work, the
debut novel of Isabel Allende.
Answer: The House of the Spirits (accept La Casa de los Espíritus)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 8, Page 11

Bonus 20: Social Studies (World History)
Answer these questions about some of the most feared secret police in history.
1. Like the SS, this group was headed by Heinrich Himmler until the end of the war and it was mainly
responsible for the "preventative arrest" of communists, trade unionists, clergy, and other political
opponents of the Nazis.
Answer: Gestapo (accept Geheime Staatspolizei)
2. In this country, the SAVAK had the power to censor fundamentalist Muslim books and torture
dissenters but could not prevent the toppling of the Shah in 1979.
Answer: Iran
3. Transformed into the KGB by Khrushchev, this secret police force ran the Gulag system, purged
the Communist Party, and carried out nearly one million executions under Stalin.
Answer: NKVD (accept People's Commissariat of/for Internal Affairs)

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS
Tossup 21: Social Studies (World History)
The Polish bombe was invented expressly to crack the codes used by this machine. Invented in the
1920s, the machine came into widespread use in the late 1930s, and was the target of much work
by cryptographic analysts at Bletchley Park, England, during the course of World War II. Name this
German code machine.
Answer: Enigma
Bonus 21: Science (Biology)
Many advances in biology have come from research performed on animals.
1. These animals were researched by Karl Landsteiner, who discovered their namesake Rh-positive
and Rh-negative blood groups.
Answer: Rhesus monkeys (prompt on monkey)
2. Using the domestic chicken as a test subject, Robert Good found that this organ was responsible
for cell-mediated immunity and the maturation of T-lymphocytes.
Answer: thymus
3. Cats were the first recipients of split-brain surgery and the first mammals whose female cells were
found to contain an inactivated X-chromosome, more commonly called this.
Answer: Barr body

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff
Round 9

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 2

Tossup 1: Social Studies (U.S. History)
The Supreme Court ruled these entities constitutional in a case that used the “strict scrutiny”
standard as outlined in footnote four to a 1938 Supreme Court case. Hugo Black claimed that
“pressing public necessity,” and not racism, justified their existence in the 1944 case Korematsu vs.
US. Name these entities, established by Executive Order 9066 during World War II.
Answer: Japanese internment camps (accept equivalents, prompt if “Japanese” is not given)
Bonus 1: Literature (Literature)
Name these poets that died in World War I.
1. This American is really only known for the cute 12-line poem “Trees.” He died at the Second
Battle of the Marne in 1918.
Answer: Joyce Kilmer
2. This English author of realistic war poetry such as "Anthem for a Doomed Youth" and “Dulce Et
Decorem Est” was killed shortly before the war ended.
Answer: Wilfred Owen
3. This poet’s patriotic and idealistic poetry is often contrasted with that of Owen. He died after a
mosquito bite got infected before his collection “1914” could be published.
Answer: Rupert Brooke
Tossup 2: Math (Algebra) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Calculate the dot product of the vector normal to the plane 2 x + 3 y + 4 z = 3 and the vector
(4, 8, 7).
Answer: 60
Bonus 2: Science (Physics)
Name these effects from physics.
1. In this effect, a wave emitted by a moving source is perceived at a different frequency.
Answer: Doppler effect
2. In this effect, in a rotating frame of reference, objects moving in a straight line are seen to move in
an arc.
Answer: Coriolis effect
3. In this strange effect, under certain conditions, warm water freezes more quickly than colder
water. It can be accounted for by convection currents and a number of other contributing factors.
Answer: Mpemba effect
Tossup 3: Literature (Literature)
This most important possession was supposedly dyed by an Egyptian with blood "conserved from
maidens' hearts." A prostitute, Bianca, is ordered to copy the embroidery on it, a pattern of red
strawberries. Since it was a husband's first gift to a wife, Cassio's possession of it gives that
husband enough evidence to smother that wife. Identify this important piece of cloth owned by
Desdemona in Shakespeare's Othello.
Answer: Desdemona's Handkerchief

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 3

Bonus 3: Social Studies (World History)
Identify the following Israeli Prime Ministers.
1. This founder of the Histadrut served as the first Minister of Defense and Prime Minister of the
state of Israel.
Answer: David Ben-Gurion (accept Gruen)
2. The successor to Levi Eshkol, the government of this former Minister of Defense under BenGurion and Eshkol fell apart as a result of the Yom Kippur War.
Answer: Golda Meir (accept Mabovitch or Myerson)
3. The Chief of Staff during the Six-Day War, in 1993 he signed the Israeli-PLO accords, but was
shot in 1995 by Yigal Amir.
Answer: Yitzhak Rabin
Tossup 4: Science (Biology)
It is elucidated in the cohesion-tension theory, which states that capillary action and water's cohesion
allow this to occur. It starts when water evaporates in stomata, causing a column of water below to
rise up due to surface tension. Name this mechanism which, along with root pressure, transports
water up the xylem in a plant.
Answer: Transpiration
Bonus 4: Literature (Mythology)
FTPE, identify the following about mythological dogs.
1. This canine always caught its prey, except when chasing the Teumissian fox, who could never be
caught. Zeus had enough of their chase, and turned both to stone.
Answer: Laelaps
2. This four-eyed dog guards the entrance to Helheim and its chest is covered in blood. Tyr will kill it
at Ragnarok.
Answer: Garm
3. Sirius, the Dog Star, was put into the sky after this giant hunter and his dog were killed by a
scorpion.
Answer: Orion
Tossup 5: Social Studies (Geography)
Over three million people inhabit this country currently led by Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf. The Mande,
Kwa, and Mel make up much of the indigenous population of this country, though many of its citizens
are descended from people who arrived from America in the early 19th century. Name this country
with capital at Monrovia that was founded in 1822 by freed slaves.
Answer: Republic of Liberia
Bonus 5: Math (Calculus) -- Computation
Find the definite integrals from 0 to 1 of the following functions.
1. x squared plus 1.
2. Natural log of the quantity x squared.
3. x squared over the quantity 1 + x, close quantity.
Answers: 1: 4/3 2: -2 3: ln(2) - 1/2 (natural log of 2, minus 1/2)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 4

Tossup 6: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
The house portrayed is located in Cushing, Maine, where the artist had been staying when he saw
the scene that inspired the painting, still stands. The artist took artistic license in its depiction,
separating the barn from the house and changing the lay of the land a bit. The title girl had an
undiagnosed muscular deterioration that paralyzed her lower body; it was likely Polio. Featuring a
girl in a pink dress lying in some grass, identify this painting by Andrew Wyeth.
Answer: Christina's World
Bonus 6: Science (Earth Science)
Answer the following about glaciers.
1. Surface tension on a glacier can create these rifts that commonly present problems for mountain
climbers.
Answer: Crevasse
2. This is the term for the reduction in size of a glacier. Zones where this occurs are contrasted with
accumulation zones.
Answer: Ablation
3. This is the term for a long, whale-shaped hill formed by a glacier, commonly found in the Eastern
United States and in Europe.
Answer: Drumlin
Tossup 7: Science (Chemistry)
He discovered tetratomic oxygen, and diagrammed atoms as cubes with electrons on the corners. A
rival of Irving Langmuir, he was key in developing modern chemical thermodynamics. His early work
on the covalent bond led to his namesake dot structures and his expanded definition of acids and
bases in terms of electron pairs. Name this American chemist whose namesake acids are electronpair acceptors.
Answer: Gilbert Lewis
Bonus 7: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Answer these questions about the various plans of government debated at the 1787 Constitutional
Convention.
1. Largely the work of James Madison, the plan named after this state favored large states by
making the size of both legislative houses proportional to population.
Answer: Virginia Plan
2. Drafted by William Paterson in response to the Virginia Plan, this plan aided small states by giving
equal representation in the legislature and would have allowed for multiple presidents.
Answer: New Jersey Plan
3. Never seriously considered by the delegates, the plan submitted by this man resembled the old
Roman Republic with Senators and a national Governor elected for life.
Answer: Alexander Hamilton

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 5

Tossup 8: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
He was responsible for a Saturday morning show geared towards children titled "Sam and Friends,"
which featured the first appearance of what was to become his most famous, green character. He
met his wife while they were working on this show, and when she finally retired, he hired Jerry Juhl
and Frank Oz to replace her in two of her duties. Innovating the use of a soft foam covered with
fabric instead of wood, and rods instead of strings for puppets, identify this creator of Kermit the Frog
along with the rest of The Muppets.
Answer: James Maury "Jim" Henson
Bonus 8: Fine Arts (Music)
Sometimes popular figures have no choice but to be the subjects of 20th century works of opera and
ballet. Identify the following about the subject.
1. Henry McCarty, better known as Billy the Kid was the subject of a ballet by this man, also known
for Appalachian Spring.
Answer: Aaron Copland
2. This minimalist composer came to prominence with his opera Nixon in China.
Answer: John Coolidge Adams
3. This Stephen Sondheim musical is based on the painting "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La
Grande Jatte".
Answer: Sunday in the Park with George
Tossup 9: Math (Calculus)
The Scott version of this concept applies to partially ordered sets. Topologically, if the inverse image
of any open set is open, then a function is this. The popcorn function and the step function are not,
while all polynomials are. The intermediate value theorem applies to any function that is this, also
defined as the condition that f of x equals the limit of f at x for all x. Name this type of function from
calculus, a superset of the differentiable functions.
Answer: Continuous function
Bonus 9: Science (Chemistry)
Its structure consists of six carbons in a ring, each bonded to one hydrogen.
1. Name this molecule with formula C6H6, whose alternating single and double bonds resonate.
Answer: Benzene
2. Benzene is the simplest of this class of hydrocarbons, also known as arenes, which are named for
their scent.
Answer: Aromatic hydrocarbons
3. One derivative of benzene is this solvent, also known as methylbenzene, a gasoline additive and
main ingredient of TNT.
Answer: Toluene

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 6

Tossup 10: Literature (Literature)
This author got his first break with a story that includes a unicycling bear, “The Pension Grillparzer.”
His later novels such as “The Second Wind of the Cuckold” were all overshadowed by his mother's
feminist non-fiction work "A Sexual Suspect," which elucidates upon such events as his one-sided
conception. He died at the hand of a woman who had cut out her own tongue to join the Ellen
Jamesians. Identify this character, named after his father, a Technical Sergeant, who is the title
character in a novel by Johnathan Irving, telling of "The World According to" this man.
Answer: T. S. Garp
Bonus 10: Miscellaneous (Interdisciplinary)
Identify the following insurance agents. Obviously, they became famous for other occupations.
1. This writer is famous for novels featuring Jack Ryan, including The Hunt for Red October and
Patriot Games.
Answer: Tom Clancy
2. This modernist poet wrote "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" and "The Emperor of Ice
Cream."
Answer: Wallace Stevens
3. This American composer of Three Places in New England wrote a work with four movements
based on transcendentalists called the Concord Sonata.
Answer: Charles Ives
HALFTIME

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 7

Tossup 11: Science (Astronomy)
Antony Hewish first discovered, and Jocelyn Bell first interpreted, these entities. One of these is in
the center of the Crab Nebula, and they were originally called Little Green Men, due to the prevailing
thought they were caused by aliens. Identify this type of astronomical body, which Thomas Gold
correctly determined is a rotating neutron star.
Answer: Pulsar
Bonus 11: Math (Algebra)
Identify the following terms relating to functions.
1. A function maps from a set called this, to another set called the range.
Answer: Domain
2. If f of x does not equal f of y, whenever x does not equal y, then f is said to be this.
Answer: Injective (accept one-to-one)
3. If, for any y in the range, there is an x such that f of x equals y, f is said to be this.
Answer: Surjective (accept onto)
Tossup 12: Literature (Mythology)
He decreed that all of the hymens of the virgins in the city he ruled belonged to him. To burn off
some of that extra energy, Aruru creates a wild man to match him. After wrestling, this man has a
bunch of dreams on the way to killing the guardian of the Cedar Forest, Humbaba. After he rejects
the sexual advances of Ishtar, she sends the Bull of Heaven to attack him, and this man and his
companion kill it. Name this man, a king of Uruk, who gets really sad and goes to find immortality
after his friend Enkidu dies.
Answer: Gilgamesh
Bonus 12: Fine Arts (Visual Art)
Mythology is often the subject of many famous works of art.
1. One such often depicted woman was this daughter of King Acrisius and mother to Perseus who
was impregnated by a shower of gold.
Answer: Danaë
2. Danaë was famously painted in the 16th century by this painter, who depicted her as rather
nonchalant about Zeus' visit; at least compared to her handmaiden, who is trying to use her apron to
catch some of the gold.
Answer: Titian (accept Tiziano Vecelli)
3. Danaë was then painted some eighty years later by this artist, who depicted her as having just
awoken, reaching out for the golden light around her.
Answer: Rembrandt van Rijn
Tossup 13: Math (Calculus) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Give the tenth derivative of e to the 2x power.
Answer: 1024*e^(2x)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 8

Bonus 13: Science (Biology)
Its name comes from the Latin and Greek for "putrefaction of tissues."
1. Name this medical condition defined as the death of tissue due to loss of blood supply.
Answer: Gangrene
2. This form of gangrene results from a bacterial infection that causes swelling which blocks blood
vessels.
Answer: Wet gangrene
3. This condition, usually called "flesh-eating bacteria," results from a bacterial infection which
releases toxins destroying skin and muscle tissue.
Answer: Necrotizing fasciitis
Tossup 14: Miscellaneous (Sports)
He was selected in the 2005 draft a pick after Marvin Williams, whose college team had beaten his
months earlier in the NCAA Men's Basketball championship. This point guard played high school
basketball in Texas with Bracey Wright, who played his college ball for the rival Indiana Hoosiers. In
the pros he has had a rivalry with fellow 2005 draft pick Chris Paul, who teamed with this man to
lead the United States to a gold medal at the 2008 Olympic Games. Name this former member of
the Illinois basketball team, a current starter for the Utah Jazz.
Answer: Deron Williams
Bonus 14: Literature (Literature)
Literary Criticism is one of the most confusing and complicated fields of study.
1. This is one of the most well known strategies of critical analysis; it tries to uncover internal
contradictions and assumptions within the language of works.
Answer: Deconstruction (do not accept deconstructivism)
2. The creation of the term "deconstruction" is attributed to this man, an Algerian-born Frenchman
whose best known work is Of Grammatology.
Answer: Jacques Derrida
3. One of Derrida's more famous interpretations was of a Biblical passage, specifically one involving
Abraham's sacrifice of this son.
Answer: Isaac
Tossup 15: Social Studies (Current Events)
According to the Washington Times, he might run against Marty Kaptur for Congress in 2010. An
opponent of Social Security, he is an employee of A.W. Newell Corporation. He is in talks to
purchase the Toledo company that annually earns more than a quarter of a million dollars. Critical of
a proposed tax plan, he recently met with Democratic leaders to express his concerns, which made
him the talk of the national media. Name this man frequently used by the McCain campaign to
illustrate its supposed benefits for the middle class, a skilled laborer from Ohio.
Answer: Joe the Plumber (accept Joseph Wurzelbacher)

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 9

Bonus 15: Math (Algebra) - Computational
Identify the following about the matrix with top row 3, 4, 5, middle row 1, 2, 7, and bottom row 0, 0, 3.
1. The trace of the matrix.
2. The determinant of the matrix.
3. The 2,1 minor of the matrix.
Answers: 1: 8 2: 6 3: 12
Tossup 16: Fine Arts (Music)
In this opera, Marzelline, Rocco's daughter, falls in love with the titular character, though it turns out
that he is actually a woman in disguise. This opera exists in three versions, and has four different
overtures, including one called "Leonore No. 3". Taking place in a Spanish prison, it tells the story of
Florestan's wife, who saves him from execution by Governor Pizarro. Name this only opera of
Beethoven.
Answer: Fidelio
Bonus 16: Social Studies (U.S. History)
Answer the following about important Supreme Court cases.
1. This case established that speech that caused “clear and present danger,” such as falsely
shouting fire in a movie theater, was not protected under the First Amendment.
Answer: Schenck v. United States
2. This case involved a man charged with breaking into a pool hall but who was not given legal
counsel because it was not a capital crime.
Answer: Gideon v. Wainwright
3. This 1973 case, heard by the Burger court, upheld the right to privacy.
Answer: Roe v. Wade
Tossup 17: Math (General) -- Computational (30 Seconds)
Given an urn with 8 blue marbles, 3 green marbles, and 5 red marbles, what are the odds of pulling
two blue marbles in consecutive draws in the marbles are not replaced?
Answer: 7/30
Bonus 17: Miscellaneous (Entertainment)
Answer these questions related to the "Battle of Britpop" that occurred in 1995 between two British
bands that released singles on the same day.
1. This band led by the Gallagher brothers lost the "Battle," but other songs off the same album did
better commercially, such as "Don't Look Back in Anger" and "Wonderwall."
Answer: Oasis
2. Oasis lost out to this band and their single "Country House," but they are much more well known
for the later hit "Song 2."
Answer: Blur
3. After Blur went on hiatus in 2003, Damon Albarn focused his efforts on this virtual band, that has
hits like "Kids With Guns" and "Feel Good, Inc."
Answer: Gorillaz

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 10

Tossup 18: Social Studies (World History)
This man served as consul in 460 BCE and was a persistent opponent of attempts to improve legal
situations for the Roman plebeians. Upon promotion to his most famous position, he immediately
appointed Lucius Tarquitius his Magister Equitum. The morning after this promotion, he went to the
popular assembly and ordered that everyone of military age to report to the Campus Martius by the
end of the day. The next day he personally led this newly amassed army into battle against the
neighboring Aequians. Identify this man, a dictator for only sixteen days, who retired back to his farm
after that period.
Answer: Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus
Bonus 18: Literature (Literature)
Identify the following about Ireland’s National Theatre.
1. Name this theatre, located in Dublin, where Sean O’Casey debuted The Plough and the Stars in
1926 to riots.
Answer: Abbey Theatre
2. This earlier play about Christy Mahon by John Synge also premiered at the Abbey and produced
riots.
Answer: The Playboy of the Western World
3. This Nobel Prize winning playwright’s “On Baile’s Strand” and “Cathleen Ni Houlihan” were on the
first bill at the Abbey.
Answer: William Butler Yeats
Tossup 19: Science (Physics)
The basis for the 1907 Nobel Prize in Physics, this experiment used a device which could be rotated
on top of a pool of mercury. The device used mirrors and a beam of light, and could detect
interference as small as a hundredth of a fringe. The so-called interferometer was used to prove the
famous null effect, that an aether could not be detected. Name this experiment which disproved the
luminiferous aether and paved the way for Einstein's special relativity.
Answer: Michelson-Morley experiment
Bonus 19: Math (Other) -- Computational
Given the letters A, B, C, D, and E, find the number of distinct ways for the following to occur:
1. The number of five-letter sequences, where each letter is used once.
2. The number of three-letter sequences, where each letter can be used any number of times.
3. The number of two-letter pairs, where each letter can be used any number of times, where neither
letter is a vowel.
Answers: 1: 120 2: 125 3: 9
Tossup 20: Literature (Literature)
A crucial subplot of this work involves a group of schoolboys, including one sickly one, whose funeral
acts as the epilogue to the work. "The Grand Inquisitor" is a poem contained within Book Five of this
work, which also features a character who, as a child, collected stray cats so that he could hang
them and later conduct elaborate burials for them. Identify this final novel of Fyodor Dostoevsky,
featuring the titular characters Alyosha, Ivan and Dmitri.
Answer: The Brothers Karamazov
Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

2008 IHSSBCA Kickoff

Round 9, Page 11

Bonus 20: Social Studies (Other)
Little Billy had a bad day at school; identify by number the constitutional amendment in the Bill of
Rights suppressed or violated in each of the following cases.
1. When he got to school, Little Billy's teacher searched his backpack, had a police dog sniff out his
locker, and made him give a urine specimen.
Answer: Fourth Amendment
2. Later, when Little Billy passed a note to his friend Little Jimmy, the teacher hit him with a hard
paddle.
Answer: Eighth Amendment
3. At the end of the day, the principal noticed that Little Billy was wearing a black armband to protest
the war and so he was suspended from school.
Answer: First Amendment

TIEBREAKERS/REPLACEMENTS:
Tossup 21: Science (Biology)
Varieties of it include transient global, lacunar, and posthypnotic. Dissociative fugue is a prolonged
kind in which the patient leaves home and develops an entire new identity. Some people who have it
cannot imagine the future, as there is damage to the hippocampus. It comes in anterograde and
retrograde varieties, depending on relative position of events to the onset of the symptoms, often a
head trauma. Name this psychological symptom in which the memory is impaired.
Answer: amnesia
Bonus 21: Math (Other)
Given two fair, six-sided dice, give the probabilities of the following occurring, as reduced fractions.
1. You roll the dice twice, and get a total of seven each time.
Answer: 1/36
2. You roll the dice once, and the total is a prime number.
Answer: 15/36
3. You roll the dice once, and the two dice have the same number.
Answer: 1/6

Aegis Questions © 2008

http://www.aegisquestions.com/

