The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 0Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) According to some sources, this President instructed Andrew Jackson “don’t forget to scream”
if he saw an alligator when he sent Jackson to Florida to deal with the Seminoles. A period of
his presidency in which life was described as “but a dream” became known as the Era of Good
Feelings. He told European powers to go “down the stream” and back to their own hemisphere
in his namesake doctrine. For ten points, name this fifth American president immortalized in a
children’s song with an aquatic theme.
ANSWER: James Monroe, Row, Row Your Boat
(2) An injury to this figure’s eye caused him to burble in a game against Houston, snapping his
college team’s 47-game winning streak; later in his career, this figure wore goggles to protect his
eyes of flame brought about by corneal erosion syndrome. This manxome foe’s signature move
consisted of whiffling through the lane and sweeping the ball over his head. This performer of
the sky hook was defeated on a frabjous day in 1984 when the Celtics won game 7 of the NBA
Finals, but he won seven total championships with the Bucks and Lakers. For ten points, name
this center who leads the NBA in all-time scoring and was slain with a vorpal sword in a Lewis
Carroll poem.
ANSWER: Kareem Abdul-Jabbarwocky (or Kareem
Carroll-Alcindor with hyphenated names in either order)

Abdul-Jabberwocky, accept

Lewis

(3) This team was held in camp by General William Sherman in Leavenworth but now holds training
camp at Missouri Western State University. A contest to name this team saw popular suggestions
of the Mules, the Royals, and Thunder-Rolling-Down-The-Mountain. This team surrendered to
General Nelson Appleton Miles and Vince Lombardi in Super Bowl I, but went on the win Super
Bowl IV. After ending the 2012 season with a 2-14 record, this team declared that it was “tired”,
that its heart was “sick and sad”, and that it would “fight no more forever”. For ten points,
name this AFC West team named for a leader of the Nez Perce tribe.
ANSWER:

Kansas City Chief Josephs (prompt on “Chief Joseph(s)”)

(4) In honor of this game’s 1898 discovery in Paris, four of the seven teams competing in its 1900
Olympic debut were French. The Russian team was penalized with a brutality, resulting in
a red card and a 5-meter shot, for poisoning opponent Alexander Litvinenko. This game is
the penultimate step in decay sequence of Soccuramium-238. This sport’s energetic spring shot
occurs when a high level of alpha radiation causes the ball to bounce out of the water, after which
it is tapped into the goal. Named for the home country of its co-discoverers, for ten points, name
this aquatic sport with chemical formula H2 OPo.
ANSWER:

Water Polonium

Round 0- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(5) An early version of this group’s most famous work, which was found in the church of St. Helen of
the Blessed Shroud, is called the Ölenberg Manuscript. Antisemitic works of this group, including
The Jews’ Stone and The Girl Who Was Killed by Jews, were favorites of Illinois Nazis. This
pair traveled in an old Mount Prospect police car investigating consonant shifts in their native
language and transcribing stories like Rapunzel and Hansel and Gretel. Consisting of “Joliet
Jacob” and Wilhelm, for ten points, name this duo that went “on a mission from God” driving
around Chicago collecting the folklore of the German people.
ANSWER: The Blues Brothers Grimm
(6) Fires and ominous clouds on the right side of this painting depict the feeling of being “warm
beneath the storm”, while figures in the upper center of this painting “shout and swim about”
with fish and mermaids. Two nudes separated by a robed man on the left side experience “what
joy for every girl and boy/Knowing they’re happy and they’re safe”. The titular location lies
“near a cave” on the upper left from which a flock of blackbirds fly, and small shrubs provide
that location with its notable “shade”. For ten points, name this Hieronymus Bosch painting
that inspired a Beatles song declaring “I’d like to be under the sea” in this location.
ANSWER:

Octopus’s Garden of Earthly Delights

Round 0- Page 2

