Round 7
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #1: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Late in this person’s presidency, he signed a bill giving
loan guarantees to Chrysler to prevent its bankruptcy.
After this person was president, he started negotiations
on an agreed framework to limit North Korean nuclear
weapons. As president, this person appointed Shirley
Hufstedler as the ﬁrst Secretary of Education and
James Schlesinger as the ﬁrst Secretary of Energy. This
former governor of Georgia negotiated the return of the
Panama Canal Zone to Panama. Name this president
during the Iran Hostage Crisis, who failed to be
re-elected when he lost to Ronald Reagan.

(James Earl) Jimmy Carter
(Jr.)

Question #2: Miscellaneous – Technology
10 points
Chrome OS is built on this operating system. It is an
alternative to System V [“ﬁve”] and BSD, and is a
component of the LAMP bundle. This operating
system, developed at the University of Helsinki, often
uses GNOME for its graphics, and is available in
“distributions” like Gentoo, Debian, and Ubuntu
[uh-BUN-too]. It is derived from the GNU [G-N-U]
project. Name this open-source operating system that
was created by Linus Torvalds, a variant of Unix
[YOO-niks].

1

Linux [LIN-iks] [prompt on
Unix before “System V”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Science – Chemistry
10 points
An isotope of this element is the most common target
for neutron capture therapy. Clusters of this element are
held together by electron-deﬁcient three center-two
electron bonds. Those clusters can have closo
[“CLOSE-oh”], nido [“NIGH”-doh], or arachno
[“uh-RACK-no”] structures predicted by Wade’s rules.
This element is used in the ﬁrst step of an
anti-Markovnikov [mar-KOV-nee-kof] addition of an
alcohol. This element’s triﬂuoride is a common
example of a Lewis acid, and violates the octet rule by
having only 6 electrons. This element is included in the
silicate used to make Pyrex glass. Name this element
whose atomic number is 5 and whose symbol is B.

boron [prompt on B before
the end]

Question #4: Social Studies – Religion
10 points
One tradition claims this man fathered Shehid bin Jer,
from whom the Yazidi are descended. In First
Corinthians, he is called both a “living soul” and a
“life-giving spirit”. In Islam, Raziel gave the Tzohar to
this man, before whom all prostrated except Iblees. In
Jewish folklore, his ﬁrst wife Lilith refused to submit to
him. He lived for 930 years, fathering Seth at the age of
130. Soon after this man named all the living creatures,
one of his ribs was taken away. Name this father of
Cain and Abel who was expelled from the Garden of
Eden along with his wife Eve.

2

Adam [may be pronounced
ah-DAHM]

Round 7
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #5: Science – Health
10 points
This substance secreted by some Bacillus
[buh-SIL-lus] bacteria is added to corn starch and water
in the production of corn syrup. The strength of a
sample of this substance is measured in dextrinizing
units. Pleural [“plural”] tests for this substance and
blood tests for both lipase [“LIE-pace”] and this
substance are used to detect pancreatitis
[“pain”-kree-uh-“TIE”-tiss]. Medicines that inhibit this
enzyme, which are used for type 2 diabetes and are a
controversial weight loss drug, are also called starch
blockers. It is secreted by the serous gland. Name this
enzyme that converts starch into sugar, found in saliva.

amylase [accept
alpha-amylase; prompt on
enzymes]

Question #6: Literature – Grammar/Usage
10 points
George Kennedy developed the Yale system for
transliterating this language. Ancient calligraphy in this
language utilized seal, cursive, and clerical scripts.
This is the most-spoken language to use CJK characters,
in which context they are called hanzi and are collected
in the Hanyu Da Zidian [HAHN-yoo dah ZI-dee-un]. It
is usually romanized using the Wade-Giles or Pinyin
system. Name this most-spoken language in the world,
whose dialects include Cantonese and Mandarin.

3

Chinese language [accept
Cantonese or Mandarin
before “Cantonese”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This mathematician’s impossibility theorem
completed work by Paolo Ruﬃni [roo-FEE-nee].
1 Name this Danish mathematician who
independently of Galois [gal-wah] determined
which degrees of polynomials could not be solved
formulaically [for-myu-LAY-ik-lee].
2 According to the Abel [AH-bel] impossibility
theorem, this is the highest-degree polynomial
whose roots can always be found with a standard
formula.
3 Find all real zeroes for the quartic trinomial x to the
fourth minus six x to the third plus eight x squared.
Give the three answers in any order.

Niels (Henrik) Abel
[AH-bul]

fourth-degree polynomial or
degree four or quartic
polynomial/function/equation
x = 0, x = 2, and x=4 [any
order; “or” may be
substituted for “and”]

Question #8: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This name of certain functions is based on the
appearance of their graphs, which have several
horizontal parts.
1 Name these functions, one example of which is the
ﬂoor function, which always rounds down, and
another of which is the ceiling function, which
always rounds up.
2 This English mathematician is the namesake of a
step function that equals one for all positive inputs,
equals zero for all negative inputs, and equals
one-half if the input is zero.
3 What is the result of applying the ﬂoor function, or
rounding down function, to an input of −10/3
[“negative ten over three”]?

4

step functions [or staircase
functions]

Oliver Heaviside

-4

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Fine Arts – Jazz
10 points per part
This person’s performances increased the prominence
of the tenor saxophone in jazz music.
1 Name this musician who transformed the song
“Body and Soul” with his 1939 recording. His song
“Blues for Yolande [yoh-LAHN-day]” appears on
the album on which he encounters Ben Webster.
2 Hawkins played on the song “Manteca” for this
trumpeter, known for his big cheeks and bent
instrument.
3 This tenor saxophonist recorded “The Girl from
Ipanema [IP-uh-NEE-muh]” with singer Astrud
Gilberto.

Coleman “Hawk” Hawkins
[prompt on Hawk]

“Dizzy” Gillespie [or John
Birks Gillespie]
Stan(ley) Getz

Question #10: Fine Arts – Jazz
10 points per part
This musician composed the album Free Jazz: A
Collective Improvisation, which featured a quartet in
each of its two channels.
1 Name this alto saxophonist who passed away in
2015.
2 The songs “Lonely Woman”, “Congeniality”, and
“Focus on Sanity” are on this Coleman album
released in 1959, the year before Free Jazz.
3 This earlier alto saxophonist recorded “Yardbird
Suite” and “Ornithology”.

5

Ornette Coleman
The Shape of Jazz to Come

Charlie “Bird” Parker

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This person died of a heart attack in 2006 before the
end of his trial at The Hague [rhymes with “vague”]
for crimes against humanity.
1 Name this former president of the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, who was accused of ordering an
ethnic cleansing of Albanians in Kosovo.
2

3

Milošević’s actions as president of this Socialist
Republic included invasions of Croatia and Bosnia.
In 2006, Montenegro became an independent
nation after breaking oﬀ from this country.
The Bosnian War was ended by a peace agreement
signed in this U.S. city.

Slobodan Milošević
[mee-LAW-sheh-vich, but be
lenient]
(Republic of) Serbia (or
Republika Srbija)

Dayton, Ohio

Question #12: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
Described in detail in the Mozarabic
[moze-uh-RAB-ik] Chronicle, this skirmish was
prompted by a request by Odo the Great.
1 Name this battle which ended the life of Muslim
leader Abdul Rahman. Some historians also view it
as ending the expansion of the Umayyad
[OO-my-yad] caliphate.
2 This father of Pepin the Short organized his
infantry into a square at the Battle of Tours.

3

Charles Martel’s only defeat came against Radbod
at this location, the home of his stepmother
Plectrude. After the Neustrians took over this town,
Martel rallied and avenged his loss.
6

Battle of Tours [toor] [or
Battle of Poitiers
[pwaht-yay]]
Charles Martel [accept
Carolus Martellus or Karl
Martell; prompt on The
Hammer]
Cologne [or Köln]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
Substances with this property can be studied with
EPR [E-P-R] spectroscopy.
1 Name this property of materials that are attracted
by external magnetic ﬁelds but do not retain
magnetization.
2 Paramagnetism often occurs in these compounds
with unpaired electrons.
3 Paramagnetic materials like gadolinium can be
used as contrast agents in this technique, reducing
the amount of time needed for a scan while
sacriﬁcing little resolution.

paramagnetism or
paramagnetic materials
free radicals
nMRI [or nuclear magnetic
resonance imaging; do not
accept “NMR
(spectroscopy)”]

Question #14: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
In late 2015, German scientists used the Wendelstein
7-X to put helium into this phase of matter.
1 Name this phase of matter that can be formed by
induction in a technique called ICP.
2 The plasma in an ICP is typically this noble gas
instead of helium. This is the third most common
gas in the atmosphere.
3 Argon plasma is used medically in the
gastrointestinal tract to aid with this process, also
known as blood clotting.

7

plasma
argon [accept Ar]

blood coagulation [or
coagulating]

Round 7
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #15: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
This person wrote about billionaire businessman
Mickey Ross in the two-character play China Doll. His
characters Deborah Soloman and Joan Webber often
complain about men in general and Dan Shapiro and
Bernie Litko speciﬁcally in Sexual Perversity in
Chicago. In another of this writer’s plays, Donny
Dubrow tries to steal back a coin. This playwright also
wrote about Richard Roma’s attempts to become the
top closer at an unethical real estate ﬁrm. Name this
author of American Buﬀalo and Glengarry Glen Ross.

David (Alan) Mamet

Question #16: Social Studies – U.S. Government
10 points
When the Supreme Court used the third article of the
Constitution to establish jurisdiction in Dred Scott,
Roger Taney’s [TAW-nee’z] decision extended the
interpretation of this other article’s Property Clause.
The last part of this article protects states from invasion
and from domestic violence after guaranteeing a
republican form of government in each state. This
article contains the Fugitive Slave and Extradition
Clauses, and it also describes how new states can be
admitted. Name this article of the U.S. Constitution
describing relationships between states, which
immediately follows the articles describing the
branches of government.

8

Article Four [or fourth
article]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This statistical measure is often replaced by a similar
measure when the variance is not known or the sample
size is small. While that other measure has a mean of
50 and a standard deviation of 10, this measure has a
mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1. One deﬁnition
of an outlier is that it is a data point for which the
absolute value of this quantity is above 2 or above 3.
This value is an alternative to the t-score. Name this
value that describes how many standard deviations
away from the mean a data point is.

z-score [accept z-value or
normal score or standard
score; prompt on z or sigma]

Question #18: Literature – Mythology
10 points
During a Sardinian invasion, this ﬁgure exposed
himself to ﬁre and then embraced the attackers. Plato
wrote that this ﬁgure carried a brass tablet of laws
during his triennial journeys. Depending on the source,
this creature was either a gift from Hephaestus
[huh-FESS-tuss] to Minos [MY-nohss] or from Zeus to
Europa. After he refused to let the Argonauts land,
Medea [meh-DEE-uh] forced out the pin holding his
blood, killing him. He hurled large rocks at ships that
approached the shore. Name this bronze man of Greek
myth who circled Crete three times each day.

9

Talos

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Science – Physics
10 points
A pair of substances that tend to exhibit this
phenomenon are mixed when using a dilution
refrigerator. Heat transfer can occur in a wave-like
motion in substances exhibiting this phenomenon. One
substance that demonstrates this phenomenon will
undergo Pomeranchuk [poh-mur-AN-chook] cooling in
place of solidiﬁcation. The transition to this
phenomenon occurs below the lambda point.
Substances exhibiting this phenomenon can form a
Rollin ﬁlm and creep up the walls of their containers.
This phenomenon is most well documented in helium-4
at very cold temperatures. Name this phenomenon in
which a gas or liquid behaves as if its viscosity were
zero.

superﬂuidity [accept word
forms]

Question #20: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
One painting by this artist shows his head and the heads
of his assistants facing diﬀerent directions above three
animal heads facing corresponding directions. This
painter of Allegory of Prudence showed Diana in two
paintings that have a stream seemingly connecting
them: one painting shows Diana learning that Callisto
is pregnant, and the other shows Diana meeting
Actaeon [“ACT”-ay-ahn]. This painter also showed a
naked woman holding a posy of roses while her head
and arm are propped on pillows while two other women
are in the background by a chest. Name this 16th
century Italian who painted Venus of Urbino.

10

Titian [TEE-shun] [or
Tiziano Vecelli or Tiziano
Vecellio]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Mathematics – Analytic Geometry
10 points per part
This class of surfaces consists of sets of solutions to
second-degree polynomials in the variables x, y, and z.
1 Name these surfaces such as ellipsoids,
paraboloids, and hyperboloids.

quadric surfaces [accept
quadratic surfaces]

2

Find the vertex of the paraboloid deﬁned by the
equation z equals x squared plus six x plus y
squared. Give your answer as an ordered triple.

(–3, 0, –9) [order matters;
accept answers such as x =
–3, y = 0, z = –9]

3

Find the shortest distance between the origin and
the hyperboloid given by the equation x squared
divided by 9, minus y squared divided by 16, minus
z squared divided by 25, equals 1.

3

Question #22: Mathematics – Analytic Geometry
10 points per part
This vector operation can only be deﬁned usefully in
three or seven dimensions.
1 Name this type of vector multiplication that can be
used to ﬁnd the curl of a vector ﬁeld, or to ﬁnd the
area of a parallelogram.

cross product [accept
crossing; accept directed
area product; prompt on
vector product]

2

If vector P has the components 1, 0, 0, and vector
Q has the components 2, 3, 4, evaluate P cross Q.

(0, –4, 3) [order matters,
accept answers such as
0i–4j+3k or x = 0, y = –4, z
= 3]

3

Find the curl of the vector ﬁeld deﬁned by the
components y, 3, 5.

(0, 0, –1) [order matters,
accept answers such as
0i+0j–1k or x = 0, y = 0, z =
–1]

11

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
In this ﬁrst novel of the Epic of Wheat trilogy,
Annixter convinces Magnus Derrick to take on
moneyed interests on behalf of ranchers.
1 Name this Frank Norris novel in which S. Behrman
attempts to buy and seize land to expand a
monopoly.
2 S. Behrman’s eﬀorts were on behalf of one of these
companies. Anna Karenina committed suicide
using a vehicle operated by this kind of company.
3

The Octopus is subtitled “A Story of” this state, the
setting for Tortilla Flat.

The Octopus

railroad companies or
railroads [prompt on
answers referring to
transportation or shipping]
California

Question #24: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This poem is addressed “To him who in the love of
Nature holds communion with her visible forms”.
1 Name this poem whose speaker describes one’s
ﬁnal thoughts as a spiritual blight, and claims that
Nature can have “a voice of gladness, and a smile,
and eloquence of beauty”.
2 “Thanatopsis” was written by this American at the
age of 17. He also wrote “To a Waterfowl”.
3 Carol Kennicott is a member of the “Thanatopsis
Club” in the novel Main Street by this author.

12

“Thanatopsis”

William Cullen Bryant
(Harry) Sinclair Lewis

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This set of nine proteins is involved in the humoral
defense.
1 Name this set of proteins of the innate immune
system, named for the fact that they help phagocytic
[fay-goh-“SITE”-ik] cells and antibodies.
2 The proteins of the complement system form the
membrane attack complex, which induces death in
cells through this manner. This process involves
the rupture of the membrane.
3 C5a of the complement system helps cause this
immune response, which makes an area red and
swollen.

complement system

lysis [“LIE-sis”] or lysing
[“LICE-ing”]

inﬂammation [accept word
forms]

Question #26: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This catecholamine [kat-uh-KOH-luh-meen] is
released from a namesake gland on top of the kidneys.
1 Name this hormone, also found in an EpiPen. It is
responsible for the ﬁght-or-ﬂight response.
2 The center of an epinephrine molecule is chiral
[KIE-rul]. Epinephrine treatments to improve
breathing work best when they are this type of
mixture with equal amounts of both enantiomers
[en-ANT-ee-oh-murz].
3 Adrenaline is released from these cells within the
adrenal medulla.

13

adrenaline or epinephrine
racemic [ray-SEE-mik]
mixtures

chromaﬃn cells

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Social Studies – Economics
10 points per part
By deﬁnition, these factors are not accounted for in
calculating price within a given market.
1 Name this factor accounted for on the marginal
social cost curve. It is a consequence of economic
activity that aﬀects people who are not buying,
selling, or producing.

externality [or externalities
or external costs; accept
more speciﬁc answers that
include an underlined term]

2

This author of The Economics of Welfare is the
namesake of a tax designed to account for negative
externalities.

Arthur (Cecil) Pigou
[“pig-oh”] [prompt on
Pigovian taxes]

3

Pollution, a classic example of an externality, can
be addressed by this type of system, in which the
government limits the total amount of pollution and
companies buy and sell the right to pollute.

cap and trade [accept word
forms like capping and
trading; accept emissions
trading]

Question #28: Social Studies – Economics
10 points per part
Adam Smith wrote that this value for land was
determined by how it was used.
1 Name this concept deﬁned by Henry George as
income gained by ownership, especially the
ownership of land.
2 This English economist described rent as a
“diﬀerential surplus.” In Principles of Political
Economy and Taxation, he expounded on his
theory of comparative advantage.
3 Ricardo argued against the use of paper currency in
The High Price of this. This catchall term
describes bars or ingots of precious metals, such as
gold and silver.

14

rent

David Ricardo

bullion

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
In Pappus’s Hexagon Theorem, this relationship arises
when three points on one line are connected to three
points on another line. Menelaus’s [men-uh-LAY-us’z]
theorem can be used to determine whether this
relationship exists between points. When several points
in a plane are transformed using a nonzero matrix with
a zero determinant, the points take on this relationship.
Three points with this relationship cannot be used to
deﬁne a plane, and any two points must have this
relationship. Give this term for points that are along the
same line.

collinearity [prompt on
descriptive answers
mentioning points on the
same line]

Question #30: Literature – British Literature
10 points
In this play, a man looking to learn to quarrel relies on
insults such as “you are a pimp”, and two Anabaptists
travel from Amsterdam to do business with the title
character. During this play, a fake explosion is used to
get Epicure Mammon to leave. This work’s action
begins with the departure of Lovewit on account of the
plague, which allows Jeremy the Butler to assume the
guise of Face. Name this Ben Jonson play in which
Subtle pretends to be a person who can turn anything
into gold.

15

The Alchemist

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This person was the main assistant of Fridtjof
[FREED-yawf] Nansen during a Russian famine and in
providing relief to Armenian refugees. With Johan
Hjort [YOH-han h’YORT], he co-founded his country’s
National Unity party. He ruled his country jointly with
Josef [YOH-sef] Terboven and was given the title
“Minister President.” He was eventually convicted for
the murder of Gunnar Eilifsen [GOON-ur
“EYE”-lif-sen] and killed by ﬁring squad in front of the
Akershus [UH-kuss-HOOS] Fortress. This person
attempted to gain power by taking over the national
radio station, but King Haakon VII [ha-KOHN “the
seventh”] refused to recognize him. Name this World
War Two Norwegian traitor.

Vidkun (Abraham Lauritz
Jonsson) Quisling

Question #32: Science – Biology
10 points
The SCF complex and the anaphase-promoting
complex both perform the addition of this molecule,
which is commonly added to targets with KEN [ken]
boxes and destruction boxes. This molecule is added to
targets at lysine [“LIE-seen”] residues, and it forms
chains by being added to its own lysine residues. The
addition of this protein occurs by forming thioester
[“THIGH”-oh-ess-tur] linkages to a set of three
enzymes labelled E1, E2, and E3. The formation of a
chain of this 76-amino-acid polypeptide sends targets to
the proteasome [PROH-tee-uh-sohm]. Name this small
protein which is added to proteins to mark them for
degradation, which is named due to it being found in
nearly every tissue.

16

ubiquitin
[yoo-BIH-“quit-in”] [do not
accept “ubiquinol”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
This composer’s Octet in E-ﬂat major, written when he
was 16, is still performed. Much later, this composer
worked with Ferdinand David, the premier soloist, on
Violin Concerto in E Minor. One of his symphonies
ends with a Saltarello that shifts to A minor; that piece,
written soon after his Fingal’s Cave, or Hebrides
[HEH-bri-dees] Overture, is the Italian Symphony.
This composer also wrote an overture and incidental
music for Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Name this composer whose “Wedding March” is often
performed with Wagner’s [VAHG-ner’s] “Bridal
Chorus”.

Felix Mendelssohn [or
Jakob Ludwig Felix
Mendelssohn Bartholdy]

Extra Question #2: Social Studies – World History
10 points
The Fourteen Families oversaw the growth of the coﬀee
crop in this country, where the violent gang MS-13 was
founded. Archbishop Óscar Romero was assassinated
in 1980 while leading a Mass in this country. One of its
presidents, Tomás Regalado, died while trying to
invade Guatemala. This country’s invasion of a
neighbor kicked oﬀ a “100-Hour War” that was ended
with the help of the OAS. Among the catalysts of that
war was an antagonistic policy towards immigrants
from this country, as well as a tense series of soccer
games against Honduras. Name this Central American
country whose capital is San Salvador.

17

(Republic of) El Salvador
[or República de El
Salvador]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Science – Earth Science
10 points
In soil, this quantity is tested by measuring electrical
conductivity, speciﬁc gravity, TSS, and SAR. This soil
quantity can become problematic if there is irrigation
and a lot of evaporation without enough leaching. In
water, this quantity is often measured in parts per
thousand. This quantity is low in water called
oligohaline [OH-lih-goh-HAY-leen]; a value around 10
or 20 causes water to be classiﬁed as brackish. This
quantity is lowered by reverse osmosis, allowing the
water to become more like groundwater or river water
so people can drink it. Name this measurement of the
concentration of salt.

salinity [accept word forms;
accept answers mentioning
salt before “concentration”]

Extra Question #4: Literature – British Literature
10 points
In this novel, Dr. Kemp’s gun was used to shoot a cop.
The protagonist of this novel then goes on a “Reign of
Terror”, killing Mr. Wicksteed, who was the steward of
Lord Burdock. The protagonist in this tale was accused
of performing vivisection on a cat, and he burned down
the boarding house to hide the evidence. Thomas
Marvel takes the money and notebooks from this
work’s protagonist. The title condition of this story is
achieved by the protagonist by altering his body’s
refractive index. Name this H. G. Wells novel in which
Griﬃn is able to sneak around undetected.

18

The Invisible Man

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The delay type of this entity is used when a variable is
aﬀected by previous values. If none of this entity’s
terms contain just the independent variable or a
constant, then it is classiﬁed as homogeneous. One side
of one example of these entities is a function times the
quantity one minus the same function, and can be used
to deﬁne the logistic function. Perhaps the simplest
example of these things is solved by a constant times
the exponential function. They are similar in nature to
diﬀerence equations, and some can be solved by
separation of variables. Name these equations that
relate a function and its derivatives.

19

(ordinary) diﬀerential
equations [or ODEs]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
The Supreme Court case Luther v Borden concerned
the arrest of one participant in this uprising.
1 Name this rebellion that was ended by the drafting
of a new constitution in Newport, Rhode Island. Its
leader was unoﬃcially elected as governor
alongside Samuel Ward King.
2 This president, who replaced William Henry
Harrison, refused to directly intervene in Dorr’s
Rebellion.
3 The ultimate goal of Dorr’s rebellion was to
increase the number of men who had this right.

Dorr’s Rebellion

John Tyler

right to vote [or suﬀrage or
political franchise; accept
word forms]

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
This massacre wiped out the members of the People’s
Temple, including its founder.
1 Name this event in Guyana during which 900
people committed suicide, with the children forced
to drink Flavor Aid laced with potassium cyanide.
2 The Jonestown massacre was likely prompted by
the murder of this Congressman in Port Kaituma
following a visit to Jonestown.
3 The Jonestown massacre was the largest deliberate
death of American citizens until the 9/11 attacks
during this year.

20

Jonestown massacre

Leo (Joseph) Ryan (Jr.)

2001 [prompt on ’01]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
This name applies to several situations, one of which
involves two people making bets until one person runs
out of money.
1 Name this problem in which a person with a ﬁnite
amount of money bets against an institution with an
inﬁnite amount of money.
2 Gambler’s ruin is sometimes contrasted with this
mistaken belief that if a random situation has not
happened recently, then it is more likely to happen
soon.
3 If the ﬁrst card drawn from a randomly shuﬄed
deck is an ace, and it is not replaced, then what is
the probability that the second card is also an ace?
Give your answer as a reduced fraction.

gambler’s ruin

gambler’s fallacy

1/17

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
This person became president of the Royal Society in
1684, and he wrote a letter that became a well-known
probability problem.
1 Name this person most famous for his diary, which
describes life in London before and after the Great
Fire.
2 Pepys described the problem in a letter to this man,
the author of Principia Mathematica
[prin-KIP-ee-uh “math”-uh-MAT-ih-kuh].
3 One of the problems was to ﬁnd the probability of
getting at least one six when a fair die is rolled six
times. The problem is solved by subtracting this
number raised to the sixth power from one.

21

Samuel Pepys [“peeps”]

(Sir) Isaac Newton

5/6 [or 0.83 repeating]

