Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #1: Science – Chemistry
10 points
The Zimmerman-Traxler model of the aldol
[AAL-dawl] concentration contains an intermediate
ring formed from this many atoms. This number is the
denticity of EDTA. A compound with this many
carbons can exist in a boat conformation, but is more
stable in its chair conformation. The cycloalkane
[SYKE-loh-AL-“cane”] with this number of carbons
experiences the least possible ring strain. This is the
coordination number of an octahedral complex. A
compound with this number of carbons and this many
hydrogens had its ring-structure deduced by August
Kekulé [KEK-yoo-lay]. Name this number of carbons
in cyclohexane and in benzene.

six

Question #2: Social Studies – U.S. Government
10 points
During the Watergate scandal, George H. W. Bush
resigned from this post, which as president he demoted
from being a Cabinet-level position. Edward Stettinius
resigned from being Secretary of State to become the
ﬁrst American to hold this position. On the other hand,
Madeleine Albright resigned from this position to
become Secretary of State. Susan Rice and Samantha
Power have held this position during the Obama
administration. Name this person who represents U.S.
interests to an international organization.

1

United States Ambassador
to the United Nations [accept
variations like United
Nations Ambassador;
accept U.S. Permanent
Representative to the U.N.;
prompt on ambassador]

Round 3
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #3: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In this novel, the protagonist repeats the words “I am”
to herself as she swims at the beach following a
discussion with Cal about a play. This novel’s
protagonist’s boyfriend, who has an aﬀair with a
waitress and is placed in a sanitarium when he gets
tuberculosis, is Buddy Willard. Jay Cee works as an
editor at Ladies’ Day magazine, where the protagonist
gets an internship. Dr. Gordon and Dr. Nolan
administer shock therapy as treatments for depression.
Name this novel about Esther Greenwood, written by
Sylvia Plath.

The Bell Jar

Question #4: Miscellaneous – Agriculture
10 points
Milk from this animal is a key ingredient in cajeta
[kah-HAY-tah], a Mexican syrup. Meat from adults of
this animal is called chevon [SHEV-un], while khashi,
which comes from castrated ones, can be found in many
biryani [beer-YAH-nee] dishes. Mohair is sourced from
the Angora breed of this animal, and cashmere is also
made of its wool. This animal is in the same genus
[JEE-nus] as the ibex [“EYE”-beks] and the same
family as the antelope and sheep. The young of these
animals are called kids. Name these horned farm
animals known for eating almost anything.

2

goats [accept answers
containing Capra]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Social Studies – World History
10 points
As an adviser to this ruler, Guido Verbeck suggested
sending students to study in other countries. This
leader oversaw the creation of a new constitution that
would later be replaced by a document stating
“Sovereign power resides with the people”. The
Satsuma [SAHT-soo-mah] rebellion was an attempt to
overthrow this ruler, and it was led by Saigo Takamori
[SIE-go tah-kah-MOR-ee]. He promulgated the Charter
Oath after taking power by ending the the Tokugawa
Shogunate [toe-koo-GAH-wah SHOW-gun-ate]. Name
this Japanese emperor, the namesake of a 19th-century
“Restoration”.

the Meiji emperor [accept
Meiji-tenno or Mutsuhito]

Question #6: Science – Astronomy
10 points
For this project, students at the University of Colorado
built the Venetia [veh-NEE-shuh] Burney Student Dust
Counter. This mission observed heat-induced lightning
strikes away from Earth, took the closest images of the
Little Red Spot, and made a map of Io [“EYE-oh”].
Carrying the Ralph telescope, Alice spectrometer
[spek-TRAH-meh-ter], and Long Range
Reconnaissance Imager, this spacecraft used a ﬂyby of
Jupiter to gain speed in 2007. This mission made the
closest approach to Hydra, Kerberos, Nix, and Styx.
Name this mission that, during the summer of 2015
approached Charon [“SHARE-on”] and Pluto.

3

New Horizons

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
If you know the coordinates of the endpoints of a
segment in two dimensions, this point on the segment
can be found by taking the average of the
x-coordinates and the average of the y-coordinates.
1 Name this kind of point that is halfway between the
endpoints of a segment.
2 If a triangle has an area of 24 square units, what is
the area of a triangle formed by connecting the
midpoints of its three sides?
3 If a square has an area of 24 square units, what is
the area of a square formed by connecting the
midpoints of its four sides?

midpoint(s)
6 square units

12 square units

Question #8: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
A polygon is called cyclic [“SICK-lick”] if this kind
of circle can be drawn for it.
1 Name this circle that goes through all of the
vertices [VER-tuh-sees] of a polygon.

circumcircle or
circumscribed circle

2

Find the radius of a circle circumscribed about a
square whose sides each measure 10 units.

5 root 2 units [or 5 times the
square root of 2 or 5
radical 2 or equivalents]

3

Find the radius of a circle circumscribed about a
3-4-5 right triangle.

2.5 units [or 2 1/2 or 5/2
units]

4

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Fine Arts – Musical Theatre
10 points per part
Yul Brynner, who played the pharaoh in the movie
The Ten Commandments, also played one of the title
characters in the stage and ﬁlm versions of this
musical.
1 Name this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical set in
Siam.
2 This is the ﬁrst name of the female lead in The King
and I. She is hired to teach the king’s children.
3 Near the end of the musical, the title characters
sing this song whose title asks a question. In this
song, the king repeats, “One, two, three and?”

The King and I
Anna [do not accept “Ann”]
“Shall We Dance?”

Question #10: Fine Arts – Musical Theatre
10 points per part
This musical, loosely based on Romeo and Juliet, is
set in New York City and portrays the conﬂicts
between white people and Puerto Rican immigrants.
1 Name this musical, a collaboration between
Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim.
2 The conﬂict in West Side Story comes from this
former member of the Jets falling in love with
Maria.
3 At the end of the musical, Maria holds Tony and
sings a brief reprise of this song that is performed
earlier in the musical. This song says “Hold my
hand and I’ll take you there.”

5

West Side Story
Tony

Somewhere [or There’s a
Place for Us]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This protein’s aﬃnity for oxygen decreases in low pH
[P-H], a phenomenon known as the Bohr eﬀect.
1 Name this protein responsible for transporting
oxygen in the blood.
2 Hemoglobin’s aﬃnity for this compound is
signiﬁcantly higher than its aﬃnity for oxygen,
which leads to this compound’s toxicity.
3 The mutation in hemoglobin that causes sickle-cell
anemia results from this amino acid being changed
to glutamate [GLOO-tuh-mate].

hemoglobin
carbon monoxide [accept
CO]
valine [accept Val; prompt
on V]

Question #12: Science – Biology
10 points per part
Due to inbreeding, the genetic diversity of these
animals is so lacking that they can transmit a face
cancer by biting.
1 Name these carnivorous marsupials found on an
island south of Australia.
2
3

Because they are carnivorous, Tasmanian devils are
this sort of organism, which hunts for prey.
Predator-prey interactions can be modeled by this
pair of non-linear diﬀerential equations.

6

Tasmanian devils [or
Sarcophilus harrisii; accept
Sarcophilus]
predators
Lotka-Volterra equations

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Literature – Mythology
10 points per part
This daughter of Peneus [puh-NAY-us] was turned
into a laurel tree.
1 Name this nymph who was shot with a lead-tipped
arrow and called out to her father for help.
2 After this god insulted Eros’s [AIR-ohss’z] archery
skills, Eros shot him with a gold-tipped arrow. The
arrow made this god fall in love with Daphne and
made the laurel tree sacred to him.
3 Daphne’s father Peneus was this kind of god.
Collectively called the Potamoi, they possessed the
power of transformation. Heracles defeated one of
them for the hand of Deianeira [day-uh-NAIR-uh].

Daphne
Apollo

river god(s) [prompt on
water god(s)]

Question #14: Literature – Mythology
10 points per part
One Chinese tale concerning this event involved
Pangu growing 10 feet per day until he burst apart.
1 Name this process that in Greek mythology was
undertaken by Eurynome [yur-IN-oh-mee] and
Ophion [“OH-fee-on”] acting on Chaos.

2

3

The creation myth with Pangu revolved around one
of these objects from which Pangu was born.
These objects are commonly painted for a holiday
celebrating the resurrection of Jesus.
These creation deities of Aboriginal tribes live in
permanent waterholes and awoke during
Dreamtime. Their bodies created rivers, mountains,
and valleys.

7

creation of the Universe
[accept equivalents,
including “Earth” in place of
“Universe”; do not accept
answers referring to people]
eggs [accept more speciﬁc
answers]

Rainbow Serpents [accept
Rainbow Snakes; prompt
partial answers]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
In an 1893 speech on the moral leadership of the
religious press, this person complained about being
called an inﬁdel for ﬁfty years. This advocate’s writings
are found in the collection Failure is Impossible. When
the University of Rochester promised to widen its
acceptance policies if it raised enough money, this
person pledged her life insurance policy. She never
paid the 100-dollar ﬁne levied against her for voting in
the 1872 presidential election. This person and
Elizabeth Cady Stanton started the National Woman
Suﬀrage Association. Name this activist whose
likeness is on some dollar coins.

Susan B(rownell) Anthony

Question #16: Science – Physics
10 points
A method of analyzing these structures plots intensity
against 2 times theta. The orientation of a plane in one
of these structures can be depicted with a Miller index.
These structures can be idealized with a construct
named for Bravais [bruh-VAY]. The angle at which an
X-ray will diﬀract through one of these structures is
determined by Bragg’s law. Compounds composed of
these structures are deﬁned by a unit cell, and thus have
long-range order, unlike amorphous substances. Name
these solids with repeating structures, such as table salt
and diamonds.

8

crystals [or crystalline
substances; prompt on unit
cells; prompt on solids]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Literature – British Literature
10 points
The speaker of this poem gets much pleasure from rest
and sleep, and claims that poppy or charms can have
the same eﬀect as this poem’s subject. This poem looks
forward to a time in which “we wake eternally”. The
subject of this poem dwells with “poison, war, and
sickness”, and the speaker calls the title ﬁgure “a slave
to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men”. Give the
common name, or ﬁrst line, of Holy Sonnet X [“ten”]
by John Donne [dun], in which the speaker ridicules the
Grim Reaper.

“Death Be Not Proud”
[accept Holy Sonnet X
before “Holy”]

Question #18: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This type of mathematics combined with addition
produces the cyclic groups. Pocklington’s algorithm
uses this type of mathematics to ﬁnd quadratic residues.
Euler’s totient [OY-lur’z TOE-shent] relies on this type
of math and is a generalization of Fermat’s [fair-mah’z]
little theorem, which also uses it. This system reduces
numbers to equivalence classes based on their residues,
or remainders when divided by a given number. It is
sometimes compared to counting on a clock. Name this
kind of arithmetic in which numbers are said to be
“congruent” rather than equal, a fact symbolized by a
“triple equals sign”.

9

modular arithmetic [accept
modulo or modulus; prompt
on clock arithmetic]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
One painting by this artist has a bright white spot at the
bottom surrounded by white strokes that get
progressively darker at the top. That painting was
renamed by this artist from White Rose — Abstraction
to Ballet Skirt or Electric Light. One painting by this
painter showed an expanse of hills behind a very close
cross. Flying across the country inspired this painter’s
series Sky Above Clouds, and many paintings by this
artist depict large ﬂowers or animal skulls. Name this
painter of Black Cross, New Mexico who was the wife
of the photographer Alfred Stieglitz.

Georgia (Totto) O’Keeﬀe

Question #20: Literature – World Literature
10 points
A civil war in this country inspired a play in which
Cripple and Blindman wager body parts in a dice game.
The drama A Dance in the Forests was written in
commemoration of this nation’s independence. In one
drama set in this country, Simon Pilkings was able to
stop Elesin from taking his own life, but not Olunde;
that play is Death and the King’s Horseman. Name this
country, the setting for many plays by Wole [waw-leh]
Soyinka and novels by Chinua Achebe.

10

(Federal Republic of)
Nigeria

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
An “R” is sometimes added to the name of these
constructs to refer to the reaction.
1 Name these tables which use initial concentrations
to ﬁnd ﬁnal concentrations of reactants and
products.
2 The concentrations found using an ICE table can be
used to determine this constant, symbolized keq
[“K sub E Q”].
3 Equilibrium constants can also be written in terms
of this quantity, which is related to the mole
fraction of a gas by Dalton’s law.

RICE tables

equilibrium constant

partial pressure [prompt on
pressure]

Question #22: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This technique typically uses an indicator like
phenolphthalein [fee-nawl-THAY-leen] as a reference.
1 Name this technique which uses a substance of
known concentration to ﬁnd the concentration of
another substance.
2 A titration is ﬁnished at this point, where the
known has fully reacted with the unknown.
3 Titration is used in this test which uses manganese,
iodide, and hydroxide to determine the
concentration of dissolved oxygen in solution.

11

acid-base titration [or
titrating]
equivalence point
Winkler test

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
In 2003, Gray Davis lost a recall election and was
replaced in this post by Arnold Schwarzenegger.
1 Name this position that was held by Earl Warren
when he was nominated to become Chief Justice.
During the Civil War, Leland Stanford held this
post for two years.
2 This person served two terms as governor of
California before seeking the 1976 Republican
presidential nomination. He lost that nomination,
but four years later he won both the nomination and
the presidency.
3 This man, nicknamed “Moonbeam,” succeeded
Reagan as governor. He was twice elected mayor of
Oakland before becoming governor again in 2011.

governor of California
[accept equivalents; prompt
on governor]
Ronald (Wilson) Reagan

(Edmund Gerald) Jerry
Brown (Jr.)

Question #24: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
The Clark Memorandum concerning this policy was
written in response to the Kellogg-Briand Pact.
1 Name this policy dating back to 1823, expressing
American opposition to European interference in
the aﬀairs of countries west of the Atlantic Ocean.
2 This was the name of Franklin Roosevelt’s Latin
American policy. He used these words in his
inaugural address, saying the United States would
respect the rights of other countries.
3 Theodore Roosevelt’s corollary to the Monroe
Doctrine was issued as a response to European
“gunboat diplomacy” with regard to this South
American nation, later led by Hugo Chávez.

12

Monroe Doctrine

Good Neighbor policy

Venezuela

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Mathematics – Pre-Calculus
10 points per part
If these ﬁgures are horizontal or oblique lines, then
graphs approach them as x approaches positive or
negative inﬁnity.
1 Name these ﬁgures approached, but not necessarily
reached, by graphs. A hyperbola always has two of
them.
2 In graphs of rational functions, some
discontinuities are at values of x with vertical
asymptotes. If a rational function’s graph has a
discontinuity that is not a vertical asymptote, then
what feature does it have instead?
3 Find the y-coordinate of the hole in the graph of y
equals the quantity x squared minus nine, end
quantity, divided by the quantity x plus three.

asymptotes
[“ASS-imp-totes”]
hole [or removable
discontinuity]

–6 [or (−3, −6); do not
accept “6”]

Question #26: Mathematics – Pre-Calculus
10 points per part
This type of change can be represented by a matrix.
1

Name this kind of change that may shift, stretch, or
reﬂect points or functions.

(linear) transformations
(prompt on bijections or
bijective functions)

2

This type of linear transformation consists of
moving points in one direction based on their
initial position in a perpendicular direction.

shearing [or shear mapping
or shear transformation or
transvection]

3

The way in which a transformation aﬀects area is
dependent on its determinant. Find the determinant
of the two-by-two matrix whose top row is 3, 5 and
whose bottom row is 6, 3.

–21 [do not prompt on “21”]

13

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
A performance of Pyramus and Thisbe [THIZ-bee] by
a group of “rude mechanicals” occurs during a
wedding in this play.
1 Name this play in which Theseus gives Hermia
four days to submit to her father and marry
Demetrius, or be put to death.
2 In A Midsummer Night’s Dream, this
mischief-maker gives Nick Bottom the head of a
donkey, and when told to ﬁnd a certain ﬂower,
bragged that he could go around the world in 40
minutes.
3 Puck’s love potion blunder caused this character,
the beloved of Hermia, to fall in love with Helena.

A Midsummer Night’s
Dream
Robin Goodfellow or Puck
[accept any underlined
name]

Lysander

Question #28: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
While at the Salem House Academy, this character is
forced to wear a sign that says “beware of him, he
bites.”
1 Name this narrator who is unsure as to whether he
“shall be the hero of [his] own life”.

David Copperﬁeld [accept
either]

2

This author of David Copperﬁeld occasionally
published works under the pseudonym “Boz”.

Charles (John Huﬀam)
Dickens

3

This rival of David taught himself law and planned
to marry Agnes Wickﬁeld, but his schemes are
undone by Wilkins Micawber.

Uriah Heep [accept either]

14

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This quantity can be calculated by dividing a
covariance by a product of standard deviations. A
quantity used for similar purposes to this one is named
for Spearman and based on rankings. This quantity is
squared to ﬁnd the coeﬃcient of determination, which
tells what percent of a variation in one variable is
determined by the variation in another variable. This
quantity measures how linear the relationship between
two variables is, and it must fall between negative one
and positive one, inclusive. A large value for this
quantity does not imply causation. Name this quantity
often represented by a lower-case r.

(Pearson product-moment)
correlation coeﬃcient
[accept PPMCC or PCC;
accept Pearson’s r before the
end]

Question #30: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This country’s colonies were liberated via the Armed
Forces Movement. This country sent political prisoners
to Tarrafal Camp, which became known as “Camp of
the Slow Death”. This country and the Vatican signed
the Concordat of 1940. That agreement was made
under António de Oliveira Salazar, whose policies were
called the Estado Novo and were ended by the
Carnation Revolution in 1974. This country was the
predominant colonial power in Angola and
Mozambique. Name this country that occupies the
southwest part of the Iberian Peninsula, which it shares
with Spain.

15

Portugal [or Portuguese
Republic or República
Portuguesa]

Round 3
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #31: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one of this writer’s novels, a professor of classics at
Athena College was accused of racism, and it is
revealed that he was an African-American passing as a
Jew. That professor, Coleman Silk, was the neighbor of
one of this author’s recurring characters who served as
the narrator for a novel about the Swede. In another
novel, the Pilgrim, the Pumpkin, and the Monkey are
revealed in psychoanalysis sessions held by Dr.
Spielvogel. Name this author of American Pastoral,
The Human Stain, and Portnoy’s Complaint.

Philip (Milton) Roth

Question #32: Science – Biology
10 points
The alkaloids in belladonna dilate the pupils by
preventing the action of this compound, as atropine
[ay-TROH-peen] blocks this compound’s muscarinic
[mus-kuh-RIN-ik] receptors. A large amount of this
compound is found in the basal nucleus of Meynert.
This neurotransmitter’s re-uptake is performed through
the action of a namesake esterase [ESS-tur-“ace”]
enzyme. The release of this compound opens
ligand-gated sodium channels, which in turn stimulate
the t-tubules, causing the sarcoplasmic reticulum
[SAR-koh-PLAZ-mik reh-TIK-yoo-lum] to release
calcium. This compound is found in vesicles at the
neuromuscular junction. Name this neurotransmitter
responsible for muscle contraction.

16

acetylcholine
[uh-SEE-tul-KOH-leen]
[prompt on ACh]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Chinese participants referred to this event’s location as
Gum San. James Polk’s inaugural address included the
results of Richard Mason’s report concerning this event.
Initially centered in the New Helvetia [hel-VESH-yuh]
settlement on the American River, it exploded after a
public display by Sam Brannan. This event resulted
from a discovery by James Marshall at Sutter’s Mill,
and participants in it were known as Forty-Niners.
Name this event in which people traveled towards the
Paciﬁc in hopes of striking it rich.

California gold rush
[accept 1849 gold rush
before “Forty-Niners”;
prompt on gold rush; accept
answers referring to the
ﬁnding of gold at Sutter’s
Mill or Sutter’s Ranch before
“Sutter’s”]

Extra Question #2: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This adjective refers to data collected from a person
without that person’s knowledge, and to a data structure
that as much as possible only includes actual data. This
type of diﬀerentiation is equivalent to using the
opposite of the partial derivative with respect to x,
divided by the partial derivative with respect to y. This
form of diﬀerentiation uses the chain rule and the fact
that one variable depends on another variable. Name
this adjective that refers to functions whose expressions
cannot be solved for the dependent variable.

17

implicit [accept implicit
data or implicit
diﬀerentiation or implicit
derivatives]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Fine Arts – Composers of the Modern Era
10 points
This composer’s only symphony, completed in 1928, is
less than 10 minutes long even though the ﬁrst minute
is immediately repeated and some parts are played
backwards to create palindromes. This composer
claimed that all of his pieces addressed the death of his
mother. This composer lost his job composing for the
Vienna Workers Symphony Orchestra at about the time
he wrote Concerto for Nine Instruments. His most
performed piece is his Opus One Passacaglia
[pah-sah-KAH-lee-ah]. Name this composer who,
along with Alban Berg and Arnold Schoenberg
[SHURN-burg], was part of the Second Viennese
School.

Anton Webern [VAY-burn]

Extra Question #4: Literature – World Literature
10 points
This play’s last act opens with the Head of
Construction cursing the lack of written documentation
on the part of two other department heads, Dr. Gall and
Dr. Hallemeier. The opening scene of this play features
a poster advertising “the cheapest workforce you can
get”, as well as one of the title characters taking
dictation from Domin. It ends with Primus
[PREE-mus] and Helena falling in love. Name this
Karel Capek [CHAH-pek] play in which almost all of
humanity is destroyed by robots.

18

R.U.R.: Rossum’s Universal
Robots [or R.U.R.:
Rossumovi univerzální
roboti; accept any underlined
portion]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Science – Health
10 points
This disease can be treated by isoniazid
[“eye”-suh-NYE-uh-zid], and the FDA has recently
approved bedaquiline [beh-DAK-wih-leen] for it. This
disease can be prevented in children by the Bacillus
[buh-SIL-lus] Calmette-Guerin vaccine. Like leprosy,
this disease is caused by mycobacteria
[MY-koh-“bacteria”]. A detection method for it
involves injecting a small amount of ﬂuid under the
skin in the arm. That injection, called the Mantoux
[man-too] test, leads to a raised hard skin region in
positive cases. Name this infectious disease, once
known as consumption, that most commonly aﬀects the
lungs.

19

tuberculosis [or TB; prompt
on consumption before it is
mentioned]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
He led the victorious Ottoman forces at the Gallipoli
[guh-LIP-uh-lee] Campaign and became the ﬁrst
president of Turkey.
1 Name this rival of Enver Pasha who was victorious
over the Greeks at the Battle of Sakarya. The
subsequent deposition of Sultan Mehmet VI [6] led
to his transition from a military career to a political
one.
2 Following the Sultan’s resignation, the Allied
Powers agreed to this treaty that set the boundaries
of modern Turkey.
3 This group of principles promoted by Atatürk
included adopting the Latin alphabet and
expanding state-owned manufacturing.

(Mustafa) Kemal Atatürk
[accept either]

Treaty of Lausanne

Six Arrows [or Alti ok;
prompt on Kemalism or
Atatürkism]

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
The turning point in this uprising was Louis Riel’s
[loo-ee ree-el’z] agreement with the decision to
execute Thomas Scott.
1 Name this uprising in which Scott had been held at
Upper Fort Garry, a key position later recaptured
by Garnet Wolseley.
2 The Red River Rebellion occurred during John
MacDonald’s ﬁrst time as Prime Minister of this
country.
3 The Red River territory was eventually folded into
this Canadian province. A late-19th-century
compromise solved a crisis over the segregation of
Catholics in its public schools.

20

Red River Rebellion [accept
synonyms for “Rebellion”]
(Dominion of) Canada

Manitoba

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
Instead of a unit circle, this version of trigonometry
uses the graph of the equation x squared minus y
squared equals one.
1 Name this version of trigonometry whose functions
are often given in terms of the exponential function.

hyperbolic trig(onometry)
[prompt on hyperbola]

2

This function equals one-half the quantity e raised
to the x power minus e raised to the opposite of x
power.

hyperbolic sine of x [or
sinch x or sinh x; do not
prompt on “sine” or “sin”]

3

Find the limit as x approaches inﬁnity of the
hyperbolic tangent of x.

one

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
One of these identities for the tangent function is the
quantity one minus the cosine function, end quantity,
divided by the sine function; it can also be written as
the sine function divided by the quantity one plus the
cosine function.
1 Name this set of trigonometric identities.

half-angle identities [accept
more speciﬁc answers]

2

The half-angle identity for sine has this function
inside a square root, subtracted from one and then
divided by two.

cosine [accept answers
additionally mentioning any
letter]

3

If the sine of an angle in the ﬁrst quadrant is
one-half of the square root of three, then what is
the sine of half that angle?

1/2 [or 0.5]

21

