Round 6
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #1: Literature – British Literature
10 points
In one of this author’s novels, a note reading “done
because we are too menny” is left by Little Father Time
to explain a murder-suicide. This author created a
sailor who swore oﬀ alcohol for 21 years after he took
ﬁve guineas as payment for his wife and daughter. One
of his title characters worked at Talbothays Dairy as a
milkmaid. That “pure woman”, who was loved by
Angel Clare, was executed for the murder of Alec.
Name this author of Jude the Obscure, The Mayor of
Casterbridge, and Tess of the d’Urbervilles.

Thomas Hardy

Question #2: Miscellaneous – Sports
10 points
In 2003, Maren Meinert sent this game into overtime,
during which Nia Kunzer scored a golden goal.
Norway appeared in the ﬁrst two of these matches,
losing the ﬁrst to the U.S. and defeating Germany in the
second. In one iteration of this game, Kristine Lilly’s
header kept the game scoreless, and after scoring the
game-winning penalty kick Brandi Chastain removed
her shirt in celebration. Name this quadrennial game,
whose latest iteration saw Carli Lloyd score a hat trick
as the USA beat Japan 5-2.

1

FIFA Women’s World Cup
Final [accept
Championship or
equivalents for Final;
prompt on partial answers;
prompt on soccer or
association football]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The product of two sums of these numbers equals the
sum of two of these numbers according to the
Brahmagupta-Fibonacci [brah-mah-GOOP-tah
ﬁh-boh-NAH-chee] identity. The sum of any two
consecutive triangular numbers must be one of these
numbers. The nth value of these numbers equals the
previous value plus 2n minus one, which is a reason
that these numbers are generated by adding consecutive
odd numbers starting from 1. A set of these numbers in
which one of them is the sum of the other two is a
Pythagorean triple. Name these numbers such as 1, 4,
9, 16, and 25.

perfect squares [or square
numbers]

Question #4: Social Studies – World History
10 points
Gyrth unsuccessfully argued for a delay prior to this
battle, during which he was killed along with his
brother Leofwine [lee-ohv-“wine”]. The winning side
at this battle planned for a landing on the Isle of Wight,
but came ashore at Pevensey instead. The losing side’s
forces mostly consisted of fyrd and housecarls, and its
commander was killed at Senlac Hill by an arrow to the
eye, which was depicted on the Bayeux [“by-you”]
Tapestry. This battle occurred early in the Norman
conquest of England. Name this 1066 battle won by
William of Normandy.

2

Battle of Hastings

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Science – Biology
10 points
The kinetic properties of these substances are shown on
a Lineweaver-Burk plot and are modeled by the
Michaelis-Menten [mih-KAY-liss MEN-tin] equation.
The induced-ﬁt model describes these proteins, having
superseded the lock-and-key model of how substrates
[“SUB-straights”] bind to their active sites. Their
names often end in “ase”, as in reductase
[ree-DUK-tayss]. Name these proteins that act as
biological catalysts.

enzymes [prompt on
catalysts]

Question #6: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
The protagonist of this novel was chipping ice to cool
the title character when a ﬂashback caused her to attack
Mr. Bodwin with the pick in her hand. Drawing on the
Margaret Garner incident, much of this novel’s action
takes place at 124 Bluestone Road, the address for the
Sweet Home plantation. In response to the
schoolteacher’s approach, the protagonist took a saw to
the title character’s throat to prevent her becoming a
slave. Name this novel in which the escaped slave Sethe
[“SETH”-uh] kills the title child, and which was
written by Toni Morrison.

3

Beloved

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
Problems in this branch of probability often use a
vertical bar to mean “given that”.
1 Name this area of probability concerned with
events that depend on other events.

2

3

A prominent theorem in conditional probability is
named for this 18th-century Englishman. This
theory relates the probability of A given B, to the
probability of B given A, using the separate
probabilities of A and B.
A person ﬂips two fair coins, and at least one of the
coins is a head. What is the probability that both of
the coins are heads? The answer is not 12 .

conditional probability
[prompt on posterior;
prompt on but do not say
Bayesian probability]
Thomas Bayes [or Bayes’(s)
theorem]

1/3 [or 0.3 repeating]

Question #8: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
The answer to this problem is generally given as 23
people.
1 Name this problem that asks how many people
need to be in a room so that it’s more likely than
not that at least two of the people have a certain
thing in common.
2 Because of this “principle”, the probability of at
least two people having a common birthday equals
one if the number of people is at least 367.
3

If two people who were not born in a leap year are
chosen at random, what is the probability that they
share a birthday?
4

birthday problem [or
birthday fallacy or similar
answers]
pigeonhole principle [or
Dirichlet’s box or
Dirichlet’s drawer
principle]
1/365

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Social Studies – Geography
10 points per part
Coeur d’Alene [kur duh-“LANE”] is the largest city in
this state’s panhandle.
1 Name this state separated from Montana by the
Bitterroot Mountains.
2 Idaho borders six states and this Canadian province
that contains Vancouver.
3 The Snake River winds through this gorge on the
border of Oregon and Idaho. This is the deepest
river gorge in the United States.

Idaho
British Columbia
Hells Canyon

Question #10: Social Studies – Geography
10 points per part
This trail passed by some of the oldest houses in the
United States, which are pueblos.
1 Identify this trail named for its ending point, which
is now the capital of New Mexico.
2 Though the Santa Fe Trail had some diﬀerent
routes, the mountain route followed much of this
river that goes through Pueblo, Colorado and
Wichita, Kansas.
3 In the 1800s, the eastern terminus of the Santa Fe
trail was the city of Franklin in this state. The
Oregon Trail began at Independence in this same
state.

5

Santa Fe Trail
Arkansas River

Missouri

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This physicist’s namesake equation can be written as
“H psi [”sigh“] equals E psi”.
1 Identify this Austrian physicist, also the namesake
of a thought experiment involving a cat that is both
alive and dead.
2

3

The Schrödinger equation is used to analyze the
energies of this simple system, which consists of a
particle in a small space with two impenetrable
barriers around it
The “psi” in the Schrödinger equation is one of
these “functions” that describe the quantum state of
a particle.

Erwin (Rudolf Josef
Alexander) Schrödinger
[AIR-vin SHRAY-din-gur]
particle in a box [or inﬁnite
square well]

wave functions

Question #12: Science – Physics
10 points per part
Physics students usually assume that these objects are
massless and frictionless, and that the ropes going
across them do not stretch at all.
1 Name this simple machine consisting of a wheel
around which a rope or a cable is partly wound.
2 This setup consists of multiple pulleys aligned on
the same axle. It results in a great mechanical
advantage because the tension is distributed over
several loops of rope.
3 A pulley is also used in this “machine”, in which a
rope with two diﬀerent masses on each end is
passed over a pulley.

6

pulley(s)
block and tackle

Atwood(’s) machine

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
In The Sailor Who Fell From Grace with the Sea, one
of these animals is smashed against a rock and then
dissected.
1 Name this kind of animal, one of which drowns in
a tub of goldﬁshes in a Thomas Gray poem.

(house) cat [or kitten; or
Felis silvestris catus or Felis
catus]

2

This Japanese author of The Sailor Who Fell from
Grace with the Sea included the koan “Nansen kills
a kitten” in his novel The Temple of the Golden
Pavilion.

Mishima Yukio [accept
Kimitake Hiraoka; accept
names in either order;
prompt on Yukio]

3

Mishima performed this act after a failed attempt to
overthrow the Japanese government.

suicide [accept or seppuku
or hara-kiri; accept other
answers referring to killing
himself with a sword]

Question #14: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
The type of stanza named after this character uses
iambic tetrameter [“eye-AM”-bik tet-RAM-ih-tur].
1 Name this ﬁctional Russian character who rejected
the advances of Tatiana, only for Tatiana to reject
him after marrying Prince Gremin. This is the title
character of a novel written in verse.
2 Eugene Onegin was written by this poet. He wrote
about an army oﬃcer who went insane after losing
a fortune at cards in The Queen of Spades.
3 As a result of his ﬂirtations with Olga, Eugene
takes part in one of these events, which ends with
the death of Vladimir Lensky.

7

Eugene Onegin [or Yevgeny
Onegin; accept any
underlined name]
Alexander (Sergeyevich)
Pushkin
duels [prompt on ﬁghts or
similar terms]

Round 6
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #15: Social Studies – Economics
10 points
The Black-Scholes model ﬁnds this quantity for
European put and call options. Market participants who
cannot aﬀect this concept are called “takers” of it. In
the income eﬀect, aggregate demand goes up while this
value remains constant. This value’s elasticity refers to
a relative change in it with respect to a change in
aggregate demand. Creating distinct markets for
diﬀerent groups of consumers allows for discrimination
based on this concept. Name this economic quantity,
the amount of money required to pay for a good or
service.

price [accept cost]

Question #16: Science – Chemistry
10 points
Hammond’s postulate says that a transition state’s
structure will resemble whichever of the reactants or
products is closer to it in this value. One type of this
quantity is equal to negative Boltzmann’s constant
times temperature times the natural log of the partition
function, and is applicable to systems with constant
volume and temperature. Another form of this quantity
is equal to enthalpy minus temperature times entropy,
and is used to determine whether or not a reaction is
spontaneous. Name these quantities, which measure
“usable” work, types of which are named for Helmholtz
and Gibbs.

8

free energy [accept
Helmholtz free energy or
Gibbs free energy; prompt
on energy; prompt on Gibbs
function]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
Ottorino Respighi [oh-toh-REE-noh res-PEE-gee] used
music from this composer for the ballet The Fantastic
Toyshop. One of this composer’s operas, based on a
Voltaire novel, involves a love letter sent from
Amenaide [ah-meh-nayd] to the title character,
Tancredi. Near the beginning of another of this
composer’s operas, “Miei rampolli femminini [mee-AY
rahm-POH-lee feh-mee-NEE-nee]” is sung by Don
Magniﬁco [dohn mahn-YEE-fee-koh]. The title
character in that opera, who forgives her family in the
aria “Non più [pyoo] mesta”, is based on Cinderella. In
another opera by this composer, “Una voce poco fa
[OO-nah VOH-chay POH-koh FAH]” is sung by
Rosina. Name this Italian composer who wrote about
Count Almaviva in The Barber of Seville.

Gioachino (Antonio) Rossini

Question #18: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
In this battle’s aftermath, Charles O’Hara’s sword was
accepted by Benjamin Lincoln. Robert Abercrombie’s
spiking of cannons did little in this battle, while the
capture of Redoubts Nine and Ten helped turn the tide.
The Comte de Grasse’s [kawmt day GRAHSS’z] defeat
of Thomas Graves prevented a naval escape in this
battle, and the losing side’s band played the tune “The
World Turned Upside Down” during the surrender.
This battle was fought about 20 miles east of
Williamsburg, Virginia, and it ended in October 1781.
Name this Revolutionary War battle that culminated in
Cornwallis’s surrender.

9

Battle (or Siege) of
Yorktown

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Literature – World Literature
10 points
This author created characters who “live horizontally”
sitting in lounge chairs. In a novel by this writer, the
medical director Behrens is compared to Rhadamanthys
[rad-uh-MAN-thiss]. In that novel by this author, Hans
Castorp travels to a sanatorium and is infected by
tuberculosis. In a novella by this author, the protagonist
travels to Lido [LEE-doh] island and meets a beautiful
Polish boy named Tadzio. Name this German novelist
of The Magic Mountain who wrote about Gustav
[GOO-staf] von Aschenbach in Death in Venice.

(Paul) Thomas Mann
[TOH-mahss MAHN]

Question #20: Science – Astronomy
10 points
A catalogue of these objects sorted by their spectra was
researched by Edward Pickering and is named for
Henry Draper. These objects were classiﬁed into ﬁve
classes by Angelo Secchi [SEK-kee]. If their spectra
lack hydrogen lines, these objects are classiﬁed as
Wolf-Rayet. These are sorted by temperature using the
Morgan-Keenan system, which uses the letters O, B, A,
F, G, K, and M. These objects often evolve along the
main sequence on the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram.
Groups of them can appear to form patterns such as
asterisms and constellations. Name these hot objects in
the universe that produce light, one example of which is
the Sun.

10

stars

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This artist beat out Filippo Brunelleschi
[broo-neh-LESS-kee] for one prominent job but then
lost to him for another.
1 Name this artist whose bronze doors were
nicknamed “the Gates of Paradise” by
Michelangelo.
2 Brunelleschi’s dome and Ghiberti’s doors are in
this city, which is also the home of Michelangelo’s
David.
3 This 15th-century artist made several works for the
Convent of San Marco in Florence, including the
fresco The Annunciation.

Lorenzo Ghiberti
[gee-BAIR-tee]
Florence, Italy [or Firenze]

Fra Angelico [or Guido di
Pietro or Fra Giovanni da
Fiesole or Fra Giovanni
Angelico or il Beato
Angelico]

Question #22: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
One of several works by this painter showing horses is
The Parade, also known as Race Horses in front of the
Tribunes.
1 Name this French artist who also painted Ballet
Rehearsal and The Ballet Class. He was sometimes
classiﬁed as an Impressionist against his wishes.
2

3

Degas’ trip to the United States led to his ﬁrst
successful painting, which shows a cotton oﬃce in
this city.
Degas made a portrait of this American
Impressionist who moved to France. Many of this
artist’s paintings showed a mother and child.

11

Edgar Degas [day-gah] [or
Hilaire-Germain-Edgar
Degas]
New Orleans, Louisiana

Mary Cassatt

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
This boat’s captain ignored the recommendation from
the Admiralty that it zigzag its path to avoid detection
by U-boats.
1 Name this British ocean liner that was sunk on May
7, 1915. The Germans cited the munitions it was
carrying as justiﬁcation for the attack.
2 The Lusitania was on its normal return voyage
from this American city to Liverpool when it was
attacked.
3 In the aftermath of the sinking of the Lusitania,
this paciﬁst Secretary of State resigned.

RMS Lusitania

New York City [accept
NYC]
William Jennings Bryan

Question #24: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Designed to favor manufacturers in the Mid-Atlantic,
this legislation raised duties on hemp, wool, and
imported textiles.
1 Name this legislation intended to sink the
presidency of John Quincy Adams. Henry Clay
proposed using some of the funds generated by it to
repopulate slaves overseas.
2 In response to the passage of the Tariﬀ of 1828,
this vice president from South Carolina wrote that
states had the right to nullify federal laws.
3 After South Carolina nulliﬁed the Tariﬀ of 1828,
Congress reduced some of the tariﬀs in an 1832
bill but also passed this law that allowed for the use
of federal troops to collect tariﬀ funds.

12

Tariﬀ of 1828 or Tariﬀ of
Abominations

John C(aldwell) Calhoun

Force Bill [or Force Act]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This law states that pressure times volume equals the
number of moles of the substance times a constant
times temperature.
1 Name this law about a certain phase of matter. The
van der Waals [van dur “walls”] equation adjusts
this law to account for intermolecular forces.
2 The ideal gas law is obtained by combining
Charles’ law, Gay-Lussac’s law, Avogadro’s law,
and this law stating that at constant temperature
and for a ﬁxed amount of a gas, pressure and
volume are inversely proportional.
3 The ideal gas law and this theory of gases make the
same simplifying assumptions: molecular
collisions are perfectly elastic, and individual
molecules have no volume.

ideal gas law [accept
combined gas law]
Boyle’s law

kinetic-molecular theory (of
gases)

Question #26: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This theory was developed by Ronald Gillespie and
Ronald Nyholm.
1 Name this theory that predicts molecular structure
based on the repulsion of electron pairs.

VSEPR [VES-pur] theory
[or valence-shell electron
pair repulsion theory]

2

Since water has two bonds and two lone pairs,
VSEPR theory predicts that it will have this
geometry.

bent geometry or bent shape
[accept similar answers that
contain bent]

3

Electron pairs and bonds are shown on “dot
structures” named for this chemist, who also
proposed a theory of acids and bases which deﬁnes
them as electron-pair acceptors and donors.

Gilbert Newton Lewis

13

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
Near the end of this play’s ﬁrst act, one character
ponders the vastness of the universe, thinking it is
contained “within the mind of God”.
1 Name this Thornton Wilder play narrated by the
Stage Manager.
2 Members of these two families drive most of the
play’s action; they are bound together at the end of
Act II upon the wedding of George and Emily.
3

Our Town is set in this ﬁctional New Hampshire
town.

Our Town
Gibbs and Webb families
[either order; accept
variations like Gibbses and
Webbs]
Grover’s Corners [do not
accept “Grover’s Corner”]

Question #28: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
In this story, Professor Baglioni [bal-YOH-nee] gives
a scientist medicine that kills him.
1 Name this short story about a young woman who
became poisonous due to her father’s experiments.
2 Goodman Grey claimed that the title religious
leader in this story had gone mad for donning a
garment made of crepe [krape]. It was inspired by
the career of Joseph Moody, who performed a
similar action after killing a friend.
3 “Rappaccini’s Daughter” and “The Minister’s
Black Veil” were written by this author of The
Scarlet Letter.

14

“Rappaccini’s Daughter”
“The Minister’s Black Veil”

Nathaniel Hawthorne [or
Nathaniel Hathorne]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Bézout’s [beh-zoo’z] identity states that this value can
be written as a linear combination of two given
numbers. This operation on A and B is used to
determine whether A times X plus B times Y equals C
has integer solutions for X and Y. This value can be
found by repeatedly replacing the larger of two numbers
with the diﬀerence of the numbers, a procedure called
the Euclidean [yoo-KLID-ee-un] algorithm. This value
can also be found for two numbers by multiplying the
numbers and dividing by their least common multiple.
If this value for two numbers is equal to one, the
numbers are called “relatively prime”. Name this value,
the largest that evenly divides two given numbers.

greatest common divisor
[or greatest common factor
or GCD or GCF or highest
common factor or hcf]

Question #30: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This leader defeated the Merkit tribe after it kidnapped
his wife, Borte [BOR-tuh]. One of his shamans claimed
that this man was the representative of the “Eternal
Blue Sky”. This ruler promulgated the Yasa law code
and established a capital at Karakorum
[kahr-uh-KOR-um]. During the ostracism following the
death of his father Yesukhei [YEH-soo-kye], this leader
killed his half-brother, Bekhter. This leader was
succeeded by his son Ogedei [OE-guh-die]. Name this
founder of the Mongol empire, the grandfather of
Kublai Khan.

15

Genghis Khan [or Temujin
or Chingis Khan; prompt on
Khan]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Science – Physics
10 points
These devices generate both the pump and the probe
used in “pump-probe” techniques. Common gain
media used in these devices include neodymium
[nee-oh-“DIE”-mee-um]-doped Y.A.G. or a mixture of
helium and neon. Pumping is used in these devices in
order to achieve a state called population inversion,
during which a photon is less likely to be absorbed and
more likely to result in stimulated emission. Name
these devices that produce a coherent, focused beam of
light, which is often green or red.

lasers

Question #32: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This writer ended the preface to a novel by stating “All
art is quite useless.” One of this author’s title characters
discovered a bank book with a lock that outlined
payments to a woman later revealed to be her mother,
Mrs. Erlynne [UR-lin]. Lord Darlington’s interest in a
married woman is for naught in this writer play Lady
Windermere’s Fan. His time in prison for
homosexuality inspired his “Ballad of Reading Gaol
[RED-ing ”jail“]”. Name this author who wrote about a
painting that aged instead of the person it depicted in
The Picture of Dorian Gray.

16

Oscar (Finghals O’Flahertie
Wills) Wilde

Round 6
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Extra Question #1: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
One painting by this artist shows a young man with one
shoe oﬀ kneeling away from the viewer and being
hugged by his father. Another Biblically inspired work
by this painter shows a shocked group looking at a hand
that is writing vertical Hebrew words. In addition to
Return of the Prodigal Son and Belshazzar’s Feast, this
artist made a painting showing a forearm muscle lesson,
and one of a militia company led by Captain Frans
Banning Cocq. Name this 17th-century Dutch painter
of The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp and The
Night Watch.

Rembrandt [or Rembrandt
Harmenszoon van Rijn]

Extra Question #2: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Every natural number is the sum of at most nine whole
numbers raised to this power. This is the fewest number
of dimensions in which a random walk is not expected
to return to the origin. When the chaos game has this
many starting sides, it creates the Sierpinski
[sir-PIN-skee] gasket. This number is the smallest
possible degree of a polynomial whose graph has an
inﬂection point. A polygon with this many sides must
be convex and does not have any diagonals. Name this
smallest odd prime number, equal to the degree of a
cubic and the number of sides of a triangle.

17

3 [or third (power); accept
perfect cubes or cubic
functions/polynomials]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one play by this author, Grandma tells Mrs. Barker
about an adopted baby who was killed. In another play
by this author, Peter holds the knife that Jerry uses to
commit suicide. In the most famous play by this writer
of The American Dream, one character announces that
a porcupine caused a car accident that killed a man.
That statement occurs during a game of “Bringing up
Baby”. The characters in that play by this author ﬁgure
out that George and Martha’s son is ﬁctional. Name
this author of The Zoo Story and Who’s Afraid of
Virginia Woolf?.

Edward (Franklin) Albee

Extra Question #4: Science – Physics
10 points
This kind of motion is represented by matrices in the
group SO(3) [S-O “three”]. A disc undergoing this
motion at relativistic speeds should appear to both
contract and not contract according to Ehrenfest’s
paradox. When a system’s Lagrangian
[luh-GRAHN-zhee-un] is symmetric with respect to
this process, Noether’s [NOY-tur’z] theorem states
angular momentum will be conserved. The analog of
mass for this sort of motion is the moment of inertia.
Name this type of motion that occurs around an axis in
a wheel.

18

rotation [accept rotating;
accept spinning]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
At a conference in Albany, this groups ceded control of
Ohio with the exception of the Wyoming and
Susquehanna [sus-kweh-HAN-uh] Valleys. This group
fought a French-backed enemy in the Beaver Wars.
Bound together by the Great Law of Peace, this group
was founded by Dekanawidah
[duh-KAN-uh-WEE-duh] and Hiawatha. This group
added the Tuscarora in 1722, changing one of their
names from the Five Nations to the Six Nations. Name
this amalgamation of Indian tribes in the northeast
United States.

19

Iroquois Confederacy or
Iroquois League [accept
Haudenosaunee or People
of the Long House; prompt
on Iroquois, Five Nations,
or Six Nations]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
In one poem, this writer described how “someones
married their everyones” and “one day anyone died i
guess.”
1 Name this poet who employed unconventional
punctuation and capitalization in such poems as
“Maggie and Milly and Molly and May”.
2 The title locale in this E. E. Cummings poem has
“up so ﬂoating many bells down”, which does not
help the children who “are apt to forget to
remember.”
3 In a Cummings poem about this character, who is
“glad and big”, the narrator indicates that unless
“statistics lie”, this ﬁgure was “more brave than me,
more blonde than you.”

E(dward) E(stlin)
Cummings
Anyone Lived in a Pretty
How Town

Olaf [accept I Sing of Olaf
Glad and Big]

Extra Question #7: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This character started a school called Plumﬁeld on an
estate she inherited from an aunt, and ran it with her
husband, a professor from Germany.
1 Name this character, called “my dear fellow” by
Laurie, who worked as a governess for the Kirkes
in New York before meeting Fritz.
2
3

Jo March was the second-oldest sister in this
author’s novel Little Women.
This eldest of the March sisters married John
Brooke, Laurie’s tutor. She gave birth to the twins
Daisy and Demi, and later had another daughter,
Josy.

20

Josephine March [accept Jo
Bhaer, prompt on March or
Bhaer]
Louisa May Alcott
Meg March [prompt on
March]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
This statement is equivalent to Playfair’s axiom.
1

Name this postulate stating that if a line intersects
two lines, then the two intersected lines meet on the
side where the angles formed with the one line total
less than two right angles.

parallel postulate [or ﬁfth
postulate; accept, but do not
otherwise reveal, Euclid’s
ﬁfth postulate]

2

The parallel postulate was the ﬁfth postulate stated
in the geometry textbook Elements by this ancient
Greek mathematician.
Give the total measure of two right angles.

Euclid (of Alexandria)

3

180 degrees or pi radians

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
In this kind of triangle, the square of the length of the
longest side is greater than the sum of the squares of
the other two sides.
1 Name this kind of triangle that contains an angle
measuring between 90 and 180 degrees.
2 Triangles with obtuse angles are either isosceles
[“eye”-SAH-suh-lees] or this type of triangle,
which has three diﬀerent side lengths.
3 Find the length of the longest side of an isosceles
triangle if its vertex angle is 120 degrees, and each
of the other sides is six units long.

21

obtuse triangle(s)
scalene triangle

6 root 3 units [or 6 times the
square root of 3 or 6
radical 3 or equivalents]

