Round 8
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #1: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The “numbers” named for this person are numeric
encodings of sentences in formal languages. This
person simpliﬁed the work of von Neumann [vawn
NOY-mun] and Bernays to develop an alternative to
Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory. One of this person’s
theorems stated that a theory including a statement of
its own consistency must be inconsistent. That theorem
is in this person’s On Formally Undecidable
Propositions in Principia [prin-CHI-pee-uh]
Mathematica and Related Systems. Name this
mathematician whose most famous result can be
phrased as “in any system strong enough to describe
arithmetic, some statements are true but unprovable”.

Kurt Gödel [“girdle”]

Question #2: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This character drank tobacco-steeped rum before
reading a bible and throwing his calendar oﬀ track. He
was forced into slavery in Sallee following his capture
by Moors. Purchased simultaneously with Xury by a
Portuguese man, he later became a plantation owner.
This character made a cross and carved the date he
arrived on an island where he fought cannibals and
rescued Friday. Name this sailor who, in a story
inspired by the adventures of Alexander Selkirk, is
marooned in a novel by Daniel Defoe.

1

Robinson Crusoe [accept
either]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
One painting by this artist shows a man holding up a
dagger while he pulls a uniformed man he just stabbed
head ﬁrst oﬀ the back of a white horse. The Duchess of
Alba, dressed in black, points to his name in the ground
in one of his paintings, while another painting of the
Duchess shows her in white standing next to her dog
with both of them wearing a red bow. Another of his
paintings is lit by a square lantern between a man
holding his arms out and a ﬁring squad. Name this
artist of The Charge of the Mamelukes and The Third of
May 1808.

Francisco (José de) Goya (y
Lucientes)

Question #4: Science – Physics
10 points
The power spectral density of thermal noise is
proportional to temperature and this quantity. Leon
Chua proposed a circuit element whose value for this
quantity depends on the history of charge that has
passed through it. Three elements with known values
for this quantity can be used to measure the unknown
value of a fourth object by assembling the four into a
conﬁguration called the Wheatstone bridge. For a wire,
this quantity is proportional to length and inversely
proportional to area. A complex analogue of this
quantity used in alternating-current circuits is called
impedance. The power dissipated by a circuit
component equals the square of the current through the
component squared times this property of it. Name this
quantity equal to electrical potential diﬀerence divided
by current, and measured in ohms.

2

resistance [do not accept
“resistivity”]

Round 8
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #5: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
One key participant in this election was quoted by
Robert Novak describing the losing candidate as being
for “amnesty, abortion, and acid”. The source of that
quote would later be backed “1000 percent” before
withdrawing following revelations concerning
electroshock therapy. Actions taken during this election
led to Mark Felt becoming an anonymous source for
Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward under the name
“Deep Throat”. Name this election during which
George McGovern lost to Richard Nixon, who then
started his second term.

United States presidential
election of 1972 [prompt on
answers mentioning ’72]

Question #6: Literature – World Literature
10 points
An actor who is supposed to be playing Jupiter takes a
ladder so that he can view this character. This child of
Sister Gudule [guh-dool] spared the life of a trespassing
poet by agreeing to marry him. This character owned a
goat that could spell out the name of her love interest.
Threatened with a vise being applied to her feet, she
falsely confesses to the murder of Captain Phoebus
[FEE-bus], which was actually committed by Claude
Frollo. Name this gypsy, the love interest of Quasimodo
in Victor Hugo’s The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

3

Esmeralda [accept Agnes]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
Emerson, Lake, and Palmer performed this Modest
Mussorgsky suite.
1 Name this suite ending with “The Great Gate of
Kiev” that was inspired by the art of Viktor
Hartmann.
2 A commonly performed version of Pictures at an
Exhibition was arranged by this composer of
Bolero.
3 Another popular arrangement of Pictures at an
Exhibition was made by this person, who
conducted the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1912 to
1940.

Pictures at an Exhibition
[or Kartiniki s Veestavskee]
(Joseph-)Maurice Ravel

Leopold (Anthony)
Stokowski

Question #8: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
This piano quintet in A major is number 667 in the
Deutsch [doych] catalogue.
1 Name this quintet by Franz Schubert that calls for a
piano and a double bass.
2

3

Give the nickname of Schubert’s symphony that is
usually numbered eighth. It contains two
movements and a scherzo [“SCARE”-tsoh].
This nickname is used for Schubert’s ﬁnal ﬁnished
symphony. English speakers often label it as his
ninth symphony, but it is sometimes numbered
seventh or eighth.

4

Trout quintet [or Das
Forellen Quintett; accept
Die Forelle]
Unﬁnished Symphony

The Great C Major

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These compounds undergo beta oxidation to produce
energy.
1 Name these compounds which join with glycerol
[GLIS-ur-awl] to form triglycerides
[“try”-GLISS-ur-“ides”].
2 One of the products of beta oxidation is this
thioester [“thigh-oh-ester”], which consists of a
two-carbon group bound to a certain coenzyme
[koh-“enzyme”].
3 The two carbons of the acetyl in acetyl-CoA are
added to this compound at the beginning of the
Krebs cycle. In C4 plants, PEP carboxylase [P-E-P
kar-“BOX”-ih-“lace”] forms this molecule from
pyruvate [“pie”-ROO-vayt] and carbon dioxide.

fatty acids [prompt on
carboxylic acids]
acetyl-CoA [uh-SEE-tul
KOH-ay] or acetyl
coenzyme A
oxaloacetate
[“OX”-uh-loh-“ASS”-ih-tayt]

Question #10: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This structure is composed of a ﬁbrillar [FIB-ril-ur]
center, dense ﬁbrillar component, and a granular
component.
1 Name this structure within the nucleus.

2

3

These nucleolar accessory bodies help process
RNA produced in the nucleolus. They are named
for their Spanish discoverer.
The nucleolus is where these organelles are
produced that are responsible for translation and
stud the rough endoplasmic reticulum.

5

nucleolus
[nook-lee-OH-luss] [or
nucleoli; do not accept
“nucleus” or “nuclei”]
Cajal [kah-HAHL] body/ies

ribosomes

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
An exterior angle of a regular type of this polygon
measures 36 degrees.
1 Name these polygons that have 10 sides.
2
3

Find the angle measure in degrees of an interior
angle of a regular decagon.
How many diagonals does a convex decagon have?

(regular) decagons
144 degrees
35 diagonals

Question #12: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
This theorem, also known as the SAS inequality,
addresses the situation when two triangles have a pair
of congruent sides, but the angle between them is not
congruent.
1 Name the theorem stating that if side PQ is
congruent to XY, side QR is congruent to YZ, and
angle PQR is greater than angle XYZ, then side PR
is greater than XZ.
2 If two sides of a triangle are each 6 units long, and
the angle between them is 60 degrees, then how
long is the other side of the triangle?
3 If two sides of a triangle are each 6 units long, and
the angle between them is 90 degrees, then how
long is the other side of the triangle?

6

hinge theorem [or open
mouth theorem]

6 units

6 root 2 units [or 6 times the
square root of 2 or 6 radical
2 units or equivalents]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Though he did not create this character, Anthony
Burgess wrote that the inspiration for this character
came from posters depicting J. M. Bennett.
1 Name this English Socialist Party leader, who was
also the leader and the guardian of the Revolution.
2 This employee of the Ministry of Truth could not
distinctly remember when Big Brother rose to
power. Mr. Charrington trapped him and Julia, and
he betrayed his lover once a cage of rats was placed
on his head.
3 Winston Smith is the protagonist of this dystopian
George Orwell novel.

Big Brother
Winston Smith [accept
either]

Nineteen Eighty-Four

Question #14: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Much to the chagrin of Jabez Wilson, it was dissolved
on October 9, 1890.
1 Name this ﬁctional organization that hired Jabez to
copy out of the Encyclopedia Britannica, which
was a pretext for Vincent Spaulding and John Clay
to burrow an underground tunnel to a nearby bank.
2 The elaborate robbery of the City and Suburban
Bank was foiled by this detective.
3

After capturing the criminals, Holmes misquotes a
line from a letter to George Sand written by this
author of Madame Bovary.

7

The Red-Headed League

Sherlock Holmes [accept
either]
Gustave Flaubert
[“ﬂow-bear”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Miscellaneous – Popular Culture
10 points
This channel teamed up with the BBC for the ﬁrst
season of Liquid Television, and it aired the cartoons
Clone High and Daria. Carson Daly made his big
break hosting this channel’s top-10 show Total Request
Live. One of its shows, about a woman looking for her
biological family, is Finding Carter. Two of this
channel’s annual award shows use golden popcorn and
a moonman as trophies. This channel airs 16 and
Pregnant. Name this home of the reality series Jersey
Shore, which started out in 1981 as a station that
showed music videos.

MTV [accept Music
Television or Music TV]

Question #16: Science – Astronomy
10 points
Attempts to explain this object’s rotational period of
less than four hours have focused on a graze-and-merge
collision between two objects roughly equal in size.
This object is believed to be in a 7:12 [“seven to
twelve”] orbital resonance with Neptune. This object’s
high albedo [al-BEE-doh] is attributed to a surface of
water ice. Its rotational speed explains why this
ellipsoidal object has not become approximately
spherical. The moons of this object are Hi’iaka
[“high”-ee-AH-kah] and Namaka [nah-MAH-kah].
Name this ﬁfth object to be classiﬁed as a dwarf planet,
receiving the classiﬁcation just after Makemake
[mah-kay-mah-kay].

8

Haumea

Round 8
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #17: Social Studies – World History
10 points
In Life of Aristeides [ar-iss-TAY-uh-deez], Plutarch
[PLOO-tark] described the perversion of this process,
citing an agreement between Alcibiades
[al-sih-BYE-uh-deez] and Nicias [NISH-ee-uss]. It was
introduced due to the actions of Hippias [“hippie-us”],
and the ﬁrst person aﬀected by it was a son of Charmus
[KAR-muss] named Hipparchus [hip-ARK-uss]. This
process was only successful if there were at least 6,000
votes cast; those votes were cast on pieces of broken
pottery. Name this ancient practice of expelling a
citizen from Athens for 10 years.

ostracism [accept word
forms; do not accept “exile”
or “banishment”]

Question #18: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one work, this writer described an object that “has
the power to kill without the power to die” and whose
speaker is a “deadly foe”, as “none stir the second time.”
This person wrote of a creature that appeared between
the speaker and the light, with a “blue, uncertain,
stumbling buzz”. This poet also described seeing
schoolchildren “at recess in the ring” and a house “that
seemed a Swelling of the Ground” while in a carriage
that “held Immortality”. Name this writer of “Because
I Could not Stop For Death”, a poet from Amherst.

9

Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Science – Biology
10 points
The gene TSIX [“T six”] controls the formation of
these structures by opposing the action of the eﬀector
protein XIST [“exist”]. Bruce Beutler’s [BOYT-lur’z]
investigation of women heterozygous
[“hetero”-ZY-guss] for G6PD [G “six” P-D] deﬁciency
supported the existence of these structures. Mary
Lyon’s hypothesis explained the formation of these
structures, which is sometimes called lyonization. The
randomness of which objects undergo this process
causes the pattern of calico cats. Women typically have
one of these per cell, while men usually have none.
Name these inactivated X chromosomes.

Barr bodies [do not prompt
on “X chromosome(s)”]

Question #20: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Thomas Edison improved on this man’s creation with
the Quadriplex system, while Ezra Cornell improved
the insulation for a key component of his creation.
During the Whig nominating convention where Clay
and Freylinghuysen [FREE-ling-hie-sun] were
victorious, he bested a railroad in a race by two hours.
This person’s main invention improved on a system
based on ﬁve magnetic needles, invented by Cooke and
Westinghouse, and was used to send to Albert Vail the
message “what hath God wrought” from Baltimore,
then to relay it back to this man. Name this inventor of
the single-wire telegraph and the “code” it used.

10

Samuel (Finley Breese)
Morse

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This act was the subject of a poem “copied out of a
loose paper”, and it resulted in the loss of both pelf
and store.
1 Occurring at night on July 10, 1666, the speaker
looked on the bright side of this event, saying “The
world no longer let me love. My hope and treasure
lie above.”
2
3

Anne Bradstreet’s house burned down in this state,
the setting of The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible.
In a quaternion [kwuh-TER-nee-un], Bradstreet
described the ﬁrst of these stages as “son of
Phlegm, grandchild to water”. In Shakespeare’s
Twelfth Night, Jacques [JAY-kweez] describes
seven of them.

burning of the house of
Anne Bradstreet [accept
equivalents or “Verses upon
the Burning of our House,
July 10th, 1666”]
Massachusetts
Ages of Man [accept “Four
Ages of Man”; prompt on
Ages]

Question #22: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
He grew to love being in a hospital setting while
stationed at Lowery Field, Colorado.
1 Name this character who used the pseudonym
Washington Irving while censoring letters. One of
his superiors used the same name and occasionally
reversed it.
2 Yossarian attempts to weasel his way out of ﬂying
combat missions in this novel by Joseph Heller.
3 Noting its brevity, Major Major Major Major
switched from using the name “Washington Irving”
to the name of this British poet, occasionally
reversing his name as well.

11

(Captain) (John) Yossarian

Catch-22
John Milton

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
If x equals the sin of y, then for a particular set of
inputs, y equals this function of x.
1 Name this function on x whose derivative equals
one divided by the square root of the quantity one
minus x squared.
2
3

Give the largest number in the domain of the
arcsine function.
Evaluate the arcsine of negative one-half. Give
your answer in radians between negative pi divided
by 2, and positive pi divided by 2.

arcsine (of x) [prompt on
answers containing inverse
sine but do not prompt on
sine]
one
negative pi over 6 [or
negative one-sixth (times)
pi; accept divided by in
place of “over”; do not
prompt on partial answers]

Question #24: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
This angle is used to describe the sight line of an
observer who is looking upward, but not straight up.
1 Give the name for the angle between the horizontal
and the upward line of sight.
2

3

If the sine of the angle of elevation to the Sun is
three ﬁfths, ﬁnd the length of the shadow cast by a
person who is 120 centimeters tall. Give the height
in centimeters.
If the angle of elevation to the Sun is 30 degrees,
what is the ratio of the length of a shadow cast to
the height of the object casting the shadow?

12

angle of elevation [accept
angle of altitude]
160 centimeters

root 3 [or the square root of
3 or radical 3; do not accept
“3”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
Bhimrao Ambedkar [BIM-rao ahm-BED-kar] put
forth 22 vows with which hundreds of thousands of
these people converted to Buddhism, and he strongly
advocated for reserved legislative seats for them.
1 Name these people whose rights were supported by
Namdeo Dhasal, who helped found a Panther
organization to agitate for their rights.
2
3

In 1997, Kocheril Narayanan became the ﬁrst Dalit
elected to this oﬃce.
This paciﬁst leader coined the term “Harijan”, or
“Children of God”, for Dalits. During a prayer, this
person was assassinated by Nathuram Godse.

Dalits people [or
Untouchables or Scheduled
or Harijan or Panchamas or
or Asprushya]
President of India
Mohandas (Karamchand)
Gandhi [accept Mahatma
Gandhi; prompt on Gandhi]

Question #26: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This nation gained territory from Bolivia in the Chaco
[CHAH-koh] War.
1 Name this country led by Alfredo Stroessner for
much of the 20th century. Francisco Solano López
led this country in a war in which it failed to
capture Mato Grosso [MAH-toh GROH-soh].
2 In this conﬂict, Paraguay was soundly defeated by
Brazil, Uruguay, and another country. It came to an
end following Francisco Solano López’s death at
Cerro Cora [SAIR-oh KOH-rah].
3 When Francisco Solano López was in a dispute
with Brazil, this country’s president Bartolomé
Mitre [bar-TOH-loh-MAY MEE-tray] joined with
Brazil and Uruguay to form the Triple Alliance.
13

(Republic of) Paraguay [or
República del Paraguay]

War of the Triple Alliance
[prompt on Paraguayan
War]
Argentina

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This ﬁeld of mathematics incorporates the principle
of least action used in Lagrangian [luh-GRAN-jee-un]
mechanics.
1 Name this ﬁeld in which functionals are optimized
by solving their associated Euler-Lagrange [OY-lur
luh-GRAHNJ] equation.
2
3

This operator represents total energy, and lends its
name to a formulation of mechanics.
The equations of motion in Hamiltonian mechanics
can be found by considering the Hamiltonian as a
function of three quantities, including this product
of mass and velocity.

calculus of variations [or
variational calculus; do not
prompt on partial answers]
Hamiltonian operator
linear momentum [prompt
on p; do not accept “angular
momentum”]

Question #28: Science – Physics
10 points per part
One of the laws named for this man states that an
object in motion will continue moving if no forces act
upon it.
1 Identify this namesake of three laws of motion.
2

3

In Newton’s cannonball thought experiment, an
object will leave the orbit of the earth if it exceeds
this speed, which for a spherically symmetric body
is equal to the square root of the quantity 2 times
the universal gravitational constant times mass over
radius.
Newton’s rings are an interference pattern that
appear when light is reﬂected between surfaces
with these two shapes.

14

Isaac Newton
escape speed [accept escape
velocity]

ﬂat [or planar or plane] and
spherical [or sphere;
prompt on round] [either
order]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This act’s perpetrator asserted that its target was
“dumb”, but being dumb “wasn’t against the law”.
Immediately before this event, Joseph Martin read a
letter in which one party wrote “there is no substitute
for victory.” This event resulted in the promotion of
Matthew Ridgway. Shortly afterwards, the target of this
event gave the “Old Soldiers Never Die” speech to a
joint session of Congress. Name this controversial
action towards an Army General by a sitting President
during the Korean War.

Harry Truman ﬁring
Douglas MacArthur [accept
similar answers mentioning
MacArthur and the notion
of ﬁring or dismissal or
relief of duties]

Question #30: Literature – World Literature
10 points
The person who describes this location states “My
solitude is cheered by that elegant hope.” The contents
of this location can be broken down into 25 characters.
One group of its employees, the “Puriﬁers”, seeks out a
crimson area, while others seek out the perfect index.
This place consists of hexagonal rooms whose contents
are 410 pages long and can be used to write any literary
work. Name this ﬁctional book depository created by
Jorge Luis Borges [HOR-gay loo-EESS BOR-hayss]
whose name references a Biblical tower.

15

the Library of Babel [or La
biblioteca de Babel; prompt
on “Universe” or “Library”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Science – Chemistry
10 points
The presence of one of these ligands results in a weak
stretch in the 1600-to-2000-inverse-centimeter range in
an IR spectrum. DIBAL [“DIE-ball”] is a reagent that
donates this group. Along with alkyl [AL-kul] shifts,
this ion commonly shifts in carbocation
[KAR-boh-“CAT-ion”] rearrangements. LAH [L-A-H]
and a compound consisting of sodium bound to boron
bound to this anion [“AN-ion”] are reducing agents that
work by donating this ion. Name this monatomic
[MAHN-“atomic”] anion whose formula is H− [“H
minus”].

hydride ion [accept H −
before the end; prompt on
hydrogen ion; do NOT
accept “H+ ”]

Question #32: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The inequality named for this person states that the
quantity one plus x, end quantity, raised to the n power,
is greater than or equal to one plus n times x. This
person’s “golden theorem” is an early version of the law
of large numbers. His book Acta Eruditorum described
lemniscates [LEM-nih-“skates”]. The processes and
trials named for this person, like the algebra named for
George Boole, can have two possible outcomes. Name
this mathematician whose nephew Daniel used the
conservation of energy to develop a law describing the
ﬂow of a ﬂuid.

16

Jakob Bernoulli

Round 8
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Extra Question #1: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This island country is where Olaf Frederick Nelson led
the “Mau” movement in response to eﬀorts to
undermine the power of local chiefs, called matai.
Despite allegations of negligence during the inﬂuenza
epidemic, the League of Nations granted New Zealand
a mandate over this nation. A typhoon struck this area
in 1889, averting an armed conﬂict between the United
States, UK, and Germany. This country is now headed
by Tufuga Eﬁ [too-FOO-gah eh-FEE]. Name this
Paciﬁc Island nation whose capital is Apia.

Western Samoa [do not
accept American Samoa]

Extra Question #2: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
One artist in this movement painted another artist in
this movement smoking a pipe that is easy to see in
front of the subject’s white shirt but diﬃcult to see in
front of his red and yellow face. That painting by
Maurice de Vlaminck shows the painter of Landscape
near Cassis and Fishing Boats, Collioure
[“coal”-yoor]. Another artist in this movement painted
Le bonheur de vivre [lay “bone”-ur day vee-vruh].
Members of this movement built on the strong colors
used by post-Impressionists such as Vincent van Gogh.
Name this French movement that included Andre
Derain and Henri Matisse [awn-ree mah-tees], whose
name means “wild beasts”.

17

Fauvism or Fauvist
movement [or les Fauves
[lay fohv]]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The numbers named for this person equal the number
of Boolean functions for a given number of variables.
The fact that any set of real numbers has a least upper
bound is the type of completeness named for this
mathematician. This person and Georg [GAY-ork]
Cantor are the namesakes of the axiom that real
numbers correspond to points on a line. Another
process named for this person deﬁnes the real numbers
by creating two subsets of the rational numbers, one of
which has an upper bound. Name this German number
theorist who formally constructed the set of real
numbers using namesake “cuts”.

(Julius Wilhelm) Richard
Dedekind [REEK-hart
DAY-day-keent]

Extra Question #4: Literature – World Literature
10 points
This person wrote a series of dialogues that took place
“in the presence of The Lady Truth”; St. Augustine
criticizes his own faith in this author’s Secretum. This
writer used Latin hexameter in an epic poem about the
Second Punic War, Africa. One of his collections has
sections called “In Life” and “In Death”, divided by the
passing of a woman whom this author met in Avignon
[a-veen-yawn]. The rhyme scheme ABBA ABBA CDE
CDE [A-A-B-A (pause) A-B-B-A (pause) C-D-E
(pause) C-D-E] characterizes this poet’s namesake type
of sonnet, also called the Italian sonnet. Name this
author who wrote about his love Laura in Il Canzoniere
[eel kahn-zoh-nee-AIR-ay].

18

Petrarch [or Francesco
Petrarca]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Science – Biology
10 points
The product of zeta potential and relative permittivity
is proportional to a form of mobility used when
performing this technique in a capillary. When
performing this technique, a reference ladder may be
used, and will result in logarithmic spacing. Isoelectric
[“EYE-so-electric”] focusing is done with a 2D version
of this technique, which includes SDS-PAGE
[S-D-S-“page”]. The results of this technique may be
transferred to a membrane and hybridized in a Southern
blot. Ethidium bromide [eh-THID-ee-um
BROH-myde] and UV [U-V] light are commonly used
to view the results of this technique, which are a series
of bands that migrate out from wells. Name this
technique in which particles are separated by size by
applying an electric ﬁeld.

19

gel electrophoresis

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
He was the actual ruler during the presidencies of
Carlos Mendieta and José Barnet.
1 Name this person who gained power in a 1952
coup, cancelling an election he probably would
have lost. He ﬂed his country early in 1959 after
losing the Battle of Santa Clara.
2 Another candidate in the 1952 elections was this
young lawyer. In 1953, he failed to spark an
uprising with an attack on the Moncada military
barracks.
3 Fidel and this man, his brother, began planning the
successful 26th of July movement while in prison
for the Moncada attack.

(Rubén) Fulgencio Batista
(Zaldívar)

Fidel (Alejandro) Castro
(Ruz) [prompt on Castro]

Raúl (Modesto) Castro
(Ruz)

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
After his mother died, this person instituted a
year-long ban on milk consumption, and pregnant
women were killed alongside their husbands.
1 Name this African leader credited with introducing
the buﬀalo horn formation. He also had his soldiers
carry color-coded shields to indicate their position
within the formation.
2 Shaka was born and died in what is now this
country.
3

This person of Zulu heritage became the president
of South Africa in 2009 and maintained power with
the 2014 election.

20

Shaka Zulu [or Shaka
kaSenzangakhona; prompt
on Zulu]
(Republic of) South Africa
[prompt on “RSA”]
Jacob (Gedleyihlekisa)
Zuma

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This quantity’s conjugate variable is temperature.
1
2
3

Name this quantity symbolized S, which represents
the disorder of a system.
Entropy, like volume and particle number, is this
sort of variable whose size scales with the system’s.

entropy

By taking the mixed partial derivatives of the
thermodynamic potentials and considering the
symmetry of second derivatives, these
equations—which relate the partials of temperature,
volume, pressure, and entropy—can be obtained.

Maxwell(’s) relations [do
not accept “Maxwell’s
equations”]

extensive quantity/ies or
extensive variables

Extra Question #9: Science – Physics
10 points per part
LC circuits display behavior analogous to these
mechanical systems.
1 Name these systems that demonstrate undamped
sinusoidal motion, such as a mass on a spring
without friction.

2

3

Resistance or friction causes a harmonic oscillator
to demonstrate this behavior, in which its
amplitude decays.
The size of this value, equal to the resonant
frequency over the bandwidth, can characterize
how damped an oscillator is.

21

simple harmonic oscillators
[or SHOs; accept simple
harmonic motion or SHM;
do not accept or reveal
answers mentioning
“damped”]
damping [accept
dampening]
Q factor or quality factor

