Round 2
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #1: Science – Astronomy
10 points
Before this astronaut was allowed to return to space, he
needed surgery for Ménière’s [mayn-YAIR’Z] disease,
which aﬀects the inner ear. He became the only one of
the original Mercury Seven astronauts to walk on the
Moon. After landing there as part of the Apollo 14
mission, he hit two golf shots. This person ﬂew in the
Freedom 7 craft in May 1961. That ﬂight only lasted
about ﬁfteen minutes, landing near the Bahamas.
Because of a delay, that ﬂight took place after a Vostok
1 ﬂight by Yuri Gagarin. Name this astronaut who,
before John Glenn’s orbital mission, became the ﬁrst
American in space.

Alan Shepard

Question #2: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This person changed his last name to Johnson to hide
his identity, then changed it again to match characters
in “The Lady of the Lake”. In the 1872 presidential
election, he was Victoria Woodhull’s running mate for
the Equal Rights Party. He was the only
African-American present at the Seneca Falls
convention, and the story of his life was told in My
Bondage and My Freedom. This person worked closely
with William Lloyd Garrison until Garrison burned
copies of the Constitution. Name this publisher of the
North Star, an escaped slave who became an
abolitionist.

1

Frederick Douglass [or
Frederick Augustus
Washington Bailey]

Round 2
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #3: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This author wrote of a gate with gold and black
inscriptions, one side of which states, “Through me
men go into that blessed place.” A debate which results
in the “formel eagle” not choosing a mate occurs at the
title meeting of birds in this writer’s A Parliament of
Fowls. One of his characters, Madam Eglantine
[EH-glun-tine], was a prioress; another of his
characters, who talks about a woman who became
beautiful after marrying a knight, was the Wife of Bath.
He wrote about pilgrims on a journey to the grave of
Thomas á Becket. Name this author of The Canterbury
Tales.

Geoﬀrey Chaucer

Question #4: Miscellaneous – Popular Culture
10 points
One album by this band featured a cover designed by
Peter Blake and Jann Haworth [HAH-wurth] showing
them in front of dozens of celebrities. Another of their
album covers shows them crossing the street, with the
person in front wearing white. One song by this band
features “a sermon that no one will hear” written by
Father McKenzie. That song by this band was paired
with another that describes a “sky of blue and sea of
green.” Those songs are “Eleanor Rigby” and “Yellow
Submarine”. Name this British band that featured
Ringo Starr on drums and Paul McCartney on bass
guitar.

2

The Beatles

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Science – Biology
10 points
A model for the development of these structures claims
that the A, B, and C transcription factors aﬀect
development of diﬀerent parts of these structures.
Double fertilization takes place inside of these
structures. The corollas [kuh-ROH-luhz] that form
these structures tend to have four or ﬁve parts in dicots
[“DIE-cots”], but three or six parts in monocots
[MAH-noh-“cots”]. The sepal [SEE-pul] is found
under these structures. They often attract pollinators
with their nectar. Name these reproductive structures in
plants, composed of petals.

ﬂowers [prompt on petals or
angiosperms]

Question #6: Literature – Mythology
10 points
In China, one of the gods of this phenomenon was Hui
Lu [wee loo], who kept birds in his gourd. In Norse
mythology, the realm devoted to this phenomenon is
populated by the Eldjötnar [ELD-yoht-nar]. That realm,
Muspelheim [MOOS-pul-hyme], is ruled by Sinmara
and Surt. Like Loki in Norse mythology, in Native
American mythology Coyote steals this phenomenon
for humans. In Greek mythology, Zeus hid this from
humans after being tricked by Prometheus, but
Prometheus took it back. Name this hot, light
phenomenon that several mythologies predict will be
used to end the world.

3

ﬁre [or ﬂames]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
This operation gives the number of ways that items
can be selected from a group if order matters.
1 Name this operation often contrasted with
combination.
2
3

In how many ways can 3 items be chosen from a
pool of 5 items, if order matters?
Divide 7 factorial by the quantity 7 permutation 5.

permutation [prompt on
nPr]
60
2

Question #8: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
These diagrams are Euler [OY-lur] diagrams in which
every possible combination is shown.
1 Name these diagrams in which sets are often
represented as overlapping circles.
2 If there are a total of 7 elements in set A, a total of
9 elements in set B, and 3 elements common to
both sets, then how many elements are in set A but
not in set B?
3 In the same situation, ﬁnd the probability that an
item in set B chosen at random is also in set A.
Again, the situation is that there are 7 elements in
set A, 9 elements in set B, and 3 elements in both
sets.

4

Venn diagrams
4 elements

1/3 [or 0.3 repeating]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Social Studies – Psychology
10 points per part
The Bobo doll experiment tested observational
learning in this type of person.
1 Name this group of people who experience the ﬁrst
three of Jean Piaget’s [jeen pee-ah-jay’s] four stages
and the ﬁrst four of Erik Erikson’s eight stages.
2

3

In the Little Albert experiment, John Watson
aﬀected a child’s reactions to other objects by
making loud noises to coincide with interactions
with this kind of animal.
In that experiment, Watson’s actions were an
example of this form of conditioning, in which the
subject eventually pairs an unconditioned stimulus
with a conditioned response.

children [accept equivalents
such as young people or
kids; prompt on students or
babies or infants]
(white or brown) rat [or
Rattus norvegicus]

classical conditioning

Question #10: Social Studies – Psychology
10 points per part
The tobacco industry was alleged to have inﬂuenced
the science behind the formulation of the “type A”
theory of this concept.
1 Name this concept that incorporates the way a
person thinks, feels, and behaves. The
Myers-Briggs test for it gives results such as INTJ
and ESFP.
2 The Myers-Briggs test is grounded in the work of
this psychotherapist, who introduced the concepts
of anima and animus.
3 Participants in this personality test are shown a
series of inkblots and asked to interpret what they
see.

5

personality

Carl (Gustav) Jung [yoong]

Rorschach inkblot test

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This quantity is equal to the cross product of the lever
arm with the applied force.
1 Name this quantity, the rotational analogue of
force.
2 If moment of inertia is constant, torque divided by
moment of inertia equals this quantity — a fact
analogous to Newton’s second law.
3

For a solid sphere with uniform density, the
moment of inertia about an axis through the center
is equal to this value times the sphere’s mass times
its radius squared.

torque
angular acceleration or
rotational acceleration [do
not prompt on
“acceleration”]
2/5 [or 0.4]

Question #12: Science – Physics
10 points per part
The conservation law for this quantity can be used to
derive the equation of motion for an ideal rocket.
1 Name this quantity equal to mass times velocity.

2
3

This term refers to a change in momentum. It is
equal to the integral of force with respect to time.
The Heisenberg uncertainty principle applies to
position and momentum because the commutator
of the two variables does not have this value.

6

linear momentum [do not
accept “angular momentum”
or “rotational momentum”]
impulse
zero

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
This character attempted to distract a scholar by
taking him to a witches’ sabbath on Walpurgis
[VAHL-pur-gis] Night.
1 Name this incarnation of the devil who ﬁrst appears
in the form of a poodle. His attempt to claim one
man’s soul was thwarted by angels using rose
petals.

Mephistopheles [or
Mephisto; do not accept
“Satan”, “Lucifer”, or other
putative synonyms]

2

Mephistopheles made a bet with God about the
soul of this German scholar.

Dr. Heinrich Faust [accept
Doctor Faustus]

3

This German author of The Sorrows of Young
Werther [VAIR-tair] wrote of the seduction and
redemption of Gretchen in Faust.

Johann Wolfgang von
Goethe [GRR-tuh]

Question #14: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
Algerian author Kamel Daoud [kah-mel dah-ood]
re-worked this text, telling it from a diﬀerent
perspective.
1 Name this novel in which the narrator, who does
not cry at his mother’s funeral, shoots an Arab.

The Stranger [or
L’Etranger]

2

The Stranger is by this French author.

Albert Camus [al-“bear”
kam-oo]

3

Daoud’s novel, The Meursault [mair-sawl]
Investigation, is told from the perspective of Harun
[hah-ROON], who had this relationship with the
Arab whom Meursault shot.

younger brother [accept
sibling]

7

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
This city is the home of the Archbasilica of St. John
Lateran, which is behind the largest of this city’s
thirteen major obelisks. For many years, this city’s
largest building was a round structure designed as a
mausoleum, Castel Sant’Angelo. This city’s Trinita dei
Monti Church is at the top end of a set of 135 steps
leading from its Spanish Embassy. Nicola Salvi
designed its Trevi Fountain. The world’s largest
unreinforced concrete dome, which contains an
enormous oculus [AHK-yoo-lus], is in this city’s
Pantheon. Name this city featuring the Flavian
Amphitheatre, or Colosseum, which surrounds Vatican
City.

Rome, Italy [or Roma; do
not accept “Vatican (City)”]

Question #16: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The gradient of a function is a “ﬁeld” in which every
point is one of these objects. A space consisting of
these objects can be deﬁned using a set called a basis.
These objects are often represented as a matrix with
one row or one column. Projecting one of these objects
onto the coordinate axes gives its components. The dot
product takes two of these mathematical things and
produces a scalar. Name this mathematical concept that
consists of a magnitude and a direction.

8

vector(s)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This person disputed the claims of his brother-in-law
Charles II of Spain, sparking the War of Devolution.
Following the arrest of Nicolas Fouquet [nee-koh-law
foo-kay], this person appointed Jean-Baptiste Colbert
[zhahn bap-teest “coal-bear”] as ﬁnance minister. This
ruler revoked the Edict of Nantes [nahnt] by issuing the
Edict of Fontainebleau [fawn-ten-bloh]. His grandson
Philip V gained power in the War of Spanish
Succession. This leader described his absolute power
with the phrase “l’etat c’est moi [lay-tah say mwah]”,
meaning “I am the state.” Name this French “Sun
King” who ruled for 72 years.

Louis XIV [14]

Question #18: Science – Chemistry
10 points
Two of these things are emitted in the Auger [oh-zhay]
eﬀect. When sodium is placed into ammonia, a deep
blue color occurs due to the formation of a salt with
these as the anion [“AN-ion”]. In organic chemistry, the
transfer of these things is represented by arrows. These
things occupy the HOMO but not the LUMO. These
particles are transferred in a redox reaction. J.J.
Thomson discovered these particles while working with
a cathode ray tube. The octet rule says that atoms try to
have eight of these particles in their valence shells.
Name these negatively charged particles which
surround the nucleus of an atom.

9

electrons

Round 2
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #19: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one play by this writer, a bride and window dummy
appear to argue. In that same play by this author, a
conception is signaled when the title mark burns on
Seraﬁna’s [sair-uh-FEE-nuh’z] chest. This writer of The
Rose Tattoo wrote about a character who feels a click in
his head that makes him peaceful. That character,
Brick, describes the experience to Big Daddy. This
author also wrote about a woman who loses her home,
Belle Reve [bel reev], and goes to stay with her sister
Stella Kowalski in New Orleans. Name this playwright
of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire.

Tennessee Williams [or
Thomas Lanier Williams III]

Question #20: Social Studies – Economics
10 points
The rate of this condition is measured using the current
population survey, which was revised in 1994. Okun’s
[OH-kun’s] law describes a conditional relationship
between the rate of this condition and GDP. Its rate is
represented on the x-axis in graphing the Phillips curve.
The eﬃciency wage hypothesis argues that this
condition results from managers not paying the
market-clearing wage. John Maynard Keynes [“canes”]
wrote about the cyclic nature of this problem. The
frictional form of this condition applies to someone
“between jobs”. Name this status held by people who
are looking for work but who do not currently have a
job.

10

unemployment [accept
being unemployed; accept
employment or being
employed before “Phillips
curve”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
Several theorems in mathematics are described by this
word; one of them states that every non-constant
polynomial has at least one root in the complex
numbers.
1 Give the name common to these theorems. The
example “of calculus” states that integrals can be
evaluated using anti-derivatives.
2 Credit for the fundamental theorem of calculus is
usually given to either Isaac Newton of England or
this German mathematician.
3 Find both solutions to the equation x squared plus 9
equals 0.

fundamental theorems

Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz

3i and −3i [either order;
“or” may be substituted for
“and”; accept ±3i; accept
the square root of −1 in
place of i]

Question #22: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
On the complex plane, these numbers form the
vertical axis.
1 Name this set of numbers, each of which equals i
times some real number.
2

3

This French mathematician developed a formula
for raising complex numbers to powers, relying on
the expression of complex numbers in polar form.
Find the value of i raised to the tenth power.

11

(purely) imaginary numbers
[do not accept “complex
(number(s))”]
Abraham de Moivre [duh
mwahv]
−1 [do not accept “1”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
One short story collection by this author opens with
“The Sisters”.
1 Name this Irish novelist who wrote about Stephen
Daedalus in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
and Ulysses.
2 “The Dead” is the last story in this James Joyce
collection.
3 In “The Dead”, this is the profession of Gabriel
Conroy. The enemy of Sherlock Holmes, James
Moriarty, also held this type of job.

James (Augustine Aloysius)
Joyce
Dubliners
university professor [prompt
on teacher or researcher]

Question #24: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Linda died from overdosing on this drug, which she
had gotten from Dr. Shaw.
1 Name this ﬁctional drug that causes its user to go
on a “holiday”. Its eﬀects were described as “all
the advantages of Christianity and alcohol, and
none of the defects.”
2 Soma is the drug of choice for the civilized
characters in this dystopian [dis-TOH-pee-un]
novel in which people are classiﬁed as Alpha
through Epsilon unless they live on a Savage
Reservation.
3 Brave New World is by this author of Point
Counterpoint and Crome Yellow.

12

soma [SOH-muh]

Brave New World

Aldous (Leonard) Huxley

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This leader wrote a Defense of the Seven Sacraments
that led to Pope Leo X granting him the title
“Defender of the Faith”.
1 Name this king who was later excommunicated
following his break with the Catholic Church, as he
sought to divorce Catherine of Aragon in order to
marry Anne Boleyn [boh-LIN].
2 This adviser to Henry VIII refused to recognize the
monarch as leader of the Anglican Church, for
which he was beheaded. This man also wrote
Utopia.
3 Edward VI [6], the only son of Henry VIII, was
succeeded by this cousin. After nine days, this
noblewoman was replaced by Bloody Mary.

Henry VIII [8] [prompt on
Henry]

Sir Thomas More

Lady Jane Grey [accept
Lady Jane Dudley]

Question #26: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This event began at the Bürgerbräukeller
[“BURGER-brow”-KELL-ur] and relied on the
Kampfbund [KAHMPF-boond] for paramilitary
support.
1 Name this attempt to overthrow the government,
launched in Munich [MYOO-nik] in 1923.
2
3

The self-proclaimed “drummer” of the Kampfbund
was this future Chancellor of Germany.
While in prison for his role in the Putsch, Hitler
dictated the ﬁrst portion of his autobiography Mein
Kampf to this man, his personal secretary. This
deputy leader of the Nazis eventually was captured
in Scotland.

13

Beer Hall Putsch [prompt
on Munich Putsch]
Adolf Hitler
Rudolf Hess

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
Each of these violin concertos [kun-“CHAIR-toes”] is
paired with a sonnet.
1 Name these pieces published in 1725 as part of The
Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
2
3

The Four Seasons were written by this composer,
who was nicknamed “The Red Priest”.
Vivaldi named one of his ﬂute concertos in D
major for this type of small bird.

The Four Seasons [or Le
quattro stagioni]
Antonio Vivaldi
goldﬁnch [or gardellino]

Question #28: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
This composer’s musically talented family included
his son Carl Philipp Emanuel.
1 Name this 18th-century composer of a Toccata and
Fugue in D minor and the Goldberg Variations.
2 Bach often performed on this instrument. He
designed the one for Divi Blasii [DIH-vee
BLAH-see] Church in Muhlhausen, which is still
used. The one in St. Thomas Church in Leipzig
[LYPE-tsig] is designed to look like the one he
used.
3 This other composer’s third symphony, completed
in 1886, is nicknamed the “Organ Symphony”
because of the major role the organ plays in it.

14

Johann Sebastian Bach
pipe organ or church organ

(Charles-)Camille
Saint-Saens [kaa-meel
san-sahnss]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Science – Physics
10 points
For a probability distribution, this quantity is equal to
the sum of the product of each term’s probability with
the natural log of the probability. That form of this
quantity is named for Claude Shannon. This quantity is
the conjugate variable of temperature. It does not
change in a reversible process. This quantity is
proportional to the log of the number of microstates.
Maxwell’s demon could hypothetically decrease this
quantity. The second law of thermodynamics states that
this quantity cannot decrease in a closed system. Name
this quantity that measures the disorder of a system.

entropy [prompt on S]

Question #30: Literature – World Literature
10 points
This author wrote of a gatekeeper who prevents a man
from going through a door in the story “Before the
Law”, which appears within this writer’s novel that
ends with a bank oﬃcer dying “like a dog”. Max Brod
chose to publish most of this author’s manuscripts after
this author’s death. In one of this writer’s novellas, the
protagonist attempts to listen to his sister Greta
[GREH-tuh] play the violin, after which his family
abandons him. That protagonist is injured when his dad
throws apples at him. Name this Czech author who
wrote of Gregor Samsa’s transformation into an insect
in The Metamorphosis.

15

Franz Kafka

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
A special case of Jensen’s inequality states that one of
these quantities is less than or equal to the other, and
those quantities are only equal if a distribution just has
one value. This quantity is the ﬁrst raw moment of a
distribution. The law of large numbers states that over
many samples, this quantity converges to the expected
value. The fact that extreme measurements are usually
followed by less extreme measurements is referred to as
the “regression to” this value. This measurement of
central tendency is less robust than the mode and the
median. Name this average of a set of numbers.

arithmetic mean [prompt on
expected value or average]

Question #32: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This president defeated a candidate whose nominating
convention was nicknamed the “Klanbake”. In his
inaugural address, this president said the United States
had reached “a state of contentment seldom before
seen”. Earlier, as governor, this man sent a telegram
indicating that “there is no right to strike against the
public safety” to Samuel Gompers during the Boston
Police Strike. This person became president when his
predecessor suﬀered a cerebral hemorrhage in 1923.
Name this president who was nicknamed “Silent Cal”.

16

(John) Calvin Coolidge(, Jr.)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Science – Biology
10 points
One step in this pathway is catalyzed by the iron-sulfur
protein aconitase [uh-KAH-nih-tayss]. In the ﬁrst step
of this pathway, oxaloacetate
[“OX”-uh-loh-ASS-uh-tayt] reacts with a thioester
[“THIGH”-oh-ES-tur] to form citrate [“SIT-rate”].
Each instance of this pathway yields one ATP, four
NADH, and one FADH2 , as well as three molecules of
carbon dioxide. Acetyl-CoA [uh-SEE-tul koh-ay] is
formed in this pathway by the activity of pyruvate
dehydrogenase [“pie”-ROO-vayt
dee-“high”-DRAH-juh-nayss], which uses the product
of glycolysis [gly-KAH-luh-sis]. The products of this
pathway are used to provide electrons for the electron
transport chain. Name this “cycle” that occurs during
aerobic respiration.

Krebs cycle [or citric acid
cycle or tricarboxylic acid
cycle or TCA cycle; prompt
on aerobic cellular
respiration before
“aerobic”]

Extra Question #2: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
William Kincaid played a platinum version of this
instrument with open-hole keys. The pianist Francis
Poulenc [poo-lenk] wrote a sonata for this instrument
that he ﬁrst performed with Jean [zhahn]-Pierre
Rampal. Modern-day versions of this instrument use
the Boehm [baym] system. Their lowest note is either
middle C or the B one note lower. James Galway
played this instrument, which is a woodwind but does
not use a reed. Name this instrument, a larger and lower
version of the piccolo, which creates sound when air is
blown across an opening.

17

(transverse) ﬂute

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Laplace’s [luh-PLAH-suz] formula uses these object’s
adjugates, which are also known as their adjoints or
adjuncts, and which are found by calculating their
minors and then transposing. The Cayley-Hamilton
theorem states that these objects satisfy their own
characteristic equations, which are typically used to
ﬁnd their eigenvalues [“eye-gun-values”]. The trace of
a square example of one of these objects is calculated
by adding the entries on the main diagonal. Name these
rectangular arrangements of numbers, square examples
of which have a determinant.

matrix or matrices

Extra Question #4: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This group took on the “Armalite-and-ballot box
strategy” following protests over prisoners not being
granted Special Category Status. Members of this
group planted a bomb that killed Lord Mountbatten. Its
support swelled after Bobby Sands died in a hunger
strike. This organization has undergone several splits,
the ﬁrst of which occurred after Michael Collins signed
a treaty with Great Britain. Sinn Fein [shin fayn] is this
group’s political arm. Name this terrorist group whose
ultimate goal is to unite all of Ireland.

18

(Provisional) Irish
Republican Army [or IRA;
accept Sinn Fein before
“Lord Mountbatten” is
mentioned; do not accept it
after that]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
After attacking a man in a red sweater, this character is
taught the law of the club. Sold by the compulsive
gambler Manuel, this character was spared from the
fate that befell Hal, Charles, and Mercedes. He
delivered on a wager by pulling a half-ton sled one
hundred yards. He attacked a group of Yeehat natives
that killed his master, John Thornton. This character
defeats Spitz after being sent from California to the
Klondike. Name this St. Bernard-Scotch Collie, the
protagonist of Jack London’s The Call of the Wild.

19

Buck

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
The Civil Service Commission was initially set up to
enforce the provisions of this act, meant to ensure
competent people were hired for certain jobs.
1 Name this 1883 civil service reform act that was
meant to do away with the “spoils system” for jobs
with the federal government.
2 The impetus for the Pendleton Act was the
assassination of this president, which took place
because Charles Guiteau [gee-toh] believed he
deserved an appointment as an ambassador.
3 This state was the ﬁrst to set up a similar system for
state workers, but because its system did not apply
on the municipal level, it did little to curb the
inﬂuence of Tammany Hall.

Pendleton (Civil Service
Reform) Act
James A(bram) Garﬁeld

New York (State)

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
To enforce the 15th Amendment, this law banned
literacy tests for voting.
1 Name this act amended in 1975 to cover
language-based minorities. Some of its provisions
were weakened by the Shelby County v. Holder
decision in 2013.
2 Shelby County, which was able to weaken the act,
is located in this state.
3 The Voting Rights Act gave the Justice Department
the authority to investigate poll taxes; poll taxes
were made unconstitutional via this amendment.

20

Voting Rights Act of 1965

Alabama
24th Amendment to the
United States Constitution

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This element was used in Madame Wu’s experiments
to detect parity violation.
1 Name this element, found after iron on the periodic
table, whose symbol is Co [C-O].
2 Alfred Werner studied these compounds that often
have cobalt centers. These compounds consist of
metal centers bound to multiple ligands
[LIG-undz].
3 Cobalt is found in the center of this B vitamin,
which the body needs intrinsic factor to absorb.

cobalt
coordination complexes [or
metal complexes or complex
ions]
vitamin B12 [or cobalamin
or cyanocobalamin]

Extra Question #9: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
A stretch of the spectrum at 1700 inverse centimeters
is characteristic of one of these structures.
1 Name this functional group consisting of a carbon
double-bonded to an oxygen. They are present in
aldehydes [AL-duh-“hides”] and ketones
[“KEY-tones”].
2 To test for the presence of an aldehyde, one can use
this reagent, which forms a silver mirror in the
presence of an aldehyde.
3 Carbonyl ligands [LIG-undz] consist of this
diatomic molecule, which also has the formula CO.
This molecule is a poisonous, odorless, colorless
gas produced by incomplete combustion.

21

carbonyl [KAR-buh-nil]
group(s)

Tollens’(s) reagent [accept
Tollens test]
carbon monoxide

