Round 4
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #1: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The Lissajous [lees-ah-zhoo] curve with a phase shift
of one-fourth pi and a frequency ratio of two is one of
these shapes. This shape is generated by the polar
equation r equals one divided by the quantity one plus
cosine theta. Rays that are parallel before reﬂecting oﬀ
one of these shapes will converge to a point. This shape
is the locus of all points the same distance from a ﬁxed
line, called a directrix, and a ﬁxed point, called a focus.
The graph of a quadratic function is this kind of shape.
Name this shape generated by the equation y equals x
squared.

parabolas [prompt on conic
sections or conics]

Question #2: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This character was invited to “crush a cup of wine” by
an illiterate servant after he read aloud a guest list. This
character was called a “beautiful tyrant” and “ﬁend
angelical” by his love interest after he asks “What light
through yonder window breaks?”. He paid an
apothecary 40 ducats [DUK-uts] for a lethal drug.
Prince Escalus banished this character following his
murder of Tybalt [TIB-alt]. Name this “star-crossed
lover” of the Montague family, whose poison
consumption leads Juliet to stab herself in a
Shakespeare play.

1

Romeo Montague [prompt
on Montague before it is
mentioned]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Science – Earth Science
10 points
A recent study of these objects at El Tatio
[TAH-tee-oh], including El Jefe [HEH-fay], in Chile,
emphasized the importance of underground bends and
loops in their structures. These formations name a type
of opal silica also known as siliceous [sih-LIH-see-us]
sinter. These formations are similar to the fumaroles
[FYOO-muh-“roles”] located on sides of volcanoes. A
valley of these objects is on Kamchatka Peninsula, but
the largest collection of them is in Yellowstone National
Park. These formations are also similar to hot springs,
but they erupt. Name these formations, such as Old
Faithful, that shoot water and steam into the air.

geysers [prompt on hot
springs]

Question #4: Social Studies – World History
10 points
Theodore Roosevelt used the indemnity money from
this event to create a scholarship program. This event
included the Siege of the International Legations,
which was stopped by the Eight-Nation Alliance.
Attacks during this event against Dagu [DAH-goo] forts
by foreign ships led the Empress Dowager Cixi
[DOW-uh-jer SEE-shee] to support the rebels. The
rebels in this uprising used exercises that they believed
made them immune to bullets; they targeted foreigners
and local Christians and were known at ﬁrst as the
Righteous and Harmonious Fists. Name this 1900
uprising in Beijing.

2

Boxer Rebellion [accept
Boxers or Boxer Uprising or
Yihetuan, accept Righteous
Harmony Movement before
“Righteous”; accept Society
of Righteous and
Harmonious Fists before
mentioned]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Miscellaneous – Industrial Arts
10 points
This material is not salt, but the Ancient Greek and
Roman names for the Dead Sea stemmed from its
abundance of this substance. In its most common
application, the Hveem [veem] test is used to determine
the maximum amount needed, and it is applied as the
prime and tack coat. Used in the base of Japan lacquer,
its mastic form has a higher binder content and is a
popular waterprooﬁng agent. The natural form of this
substance is in the La Brea [BRAY-uh] Tar Pits. Name
this black substance used in the manufacture of most
roof shingles and to pave roads.

asphalt [accept bitumen;
prompt on tar or pavement]

Question #6: Science – Biology
10 points
This organ’s cells contain intercalated
[in-TER-kuh-lay-ted] discs and form a syncytium
[sin-“SITE”-ee-um]. The bundle of His [rhymes with
“geese”] and Purkinje [pur-KIN-jee] ﬁbers help provide
conduction to this organ, relaying signals from the S.A.
and A.V. nodes. This organ contains a pair of semilunar
valves, as well as bicuspid and tricuspid valves. The
vena cava [VEE-nuh KAY-vuh] leads into the right
atrium of this organ. Its left ventricle [VEN-trih-kul] is
the point of origin of the aorta [ay-OR-tuh]. Name this
organ responsible for pumping blood throughout the
body.

3

heart [accept cardiac
muscle]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
The graph of the equation x squared plus y squared
equals 1 is this speciﬁc shape.
1 Name this ﬁgure used in trigonometry. The sine
function gives the y-coordinate of where the
terminal side of an angle in standard position
intersects this ﬁgure.
2 This is the quadrant on the unit circle where the
sine and cosine functions are both negative.
3 The point on the unit circle corresponding to an
angle of 240 degrees is located in the third quadrant.
Give the value of the tangent of 240 degrees.

unit circle [prompt on
circle]

3rd
root 3 [or square root of 3
or radical 3, do not accept
“3”, do not accept negative
answers]

Question #8: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
In the equation of a sine or cosine graph, this value
appears as a coeﬃcient for the sine or cosine function.
1 Name this quantity equal to half the vertical
distance between the highest and lowest points on a
graph.
2 This term can refer to the horizontal distance taken
up by one cycle of a graph, making it synonymous
with “wavelength”. This term can also refer to the
amount of time taken for one wave cycle.
3 Find the phase shift of the graph of y equals 2, plus
3 times the cosine of the quantity, 4 x minus 5, end
quantity. Give the smallest possible positive
answer.

4

amplitude

period

5/4 [or 1.25 or 1 + 1/4;
accept additional
information specifying that
the shift is positive or to the
right]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Social Studies – Current Events
10 points per part
In this person’s two Senate election campaigns, he
won the Democratic nomination, but declined the
nomination.
1 Name this independent senator from Vermont.

(Bernard) Bernie Sanders

2

During his 2016 presidential campaign, Sanders
has said that he would not form one of these
independent organizations that can raise unlimited
funds.

Super PACs [or super
political action committees;
do not prompt on “PAC(s)”
or “political action
committee(s)”]

3

On top of rejecting Super PAC [pak] funds,
Sanders has also called for the reversal of the
Supreme Court opinion in this case, which ruled
that independent expenditures by corporations are
protected speech under the First Amendment.

Citizens United v. FEC [or
Citizens United v. Federal
Election Commission]

Question #10: Social Studies – Current Events
10 points per part
Pope Francis visited the U.S. in September 2015.
1

2

3

Name the Ohio Republican who resigned as
Speaker of the House the day after the Pope’s
speech to Congress.
During his visit, Pope Francis canonized Junipero
Serra [hoo-nee-PAIR-oh SAIR-ah] for his
missionary work in this former Spanish colony,
now a U.S. state.
Paul Gosar, a Republican from this state, boycotted
the Pope’s speech because of the Pope’s position on
climate change. This state is currently led by Doug
Ducey, who succeeded Jan Brewer.

5

John Andrew Boehner
[BAY-nur]
California

Arizona

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
This writer’s stint as his country’s ambassador to
India inspired his poem “A Tale of Two Gardens”.
1 Name this writer who talked about the Tlatelolco
[t’lah-tay-LOHL-koh] massacre in his “Post data”
speech, which was added to later versions of his
essay compilation The Labyrinth of Solitude.
2 The massacre occurred in this country, which Paz
was from.
3

Paz’s circular poem “Sun Stone” was inspired by
the circular calendar of this civilization, which
used to control what is now Mexico City.

Octavio Paz (Lozano)

Mexico [or United Mexican
States or Estados Unidos
Mexicanos]
Aztecs

Question #12: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
At this play’s conclusion, Dubois [doo-bwah] informs
the protagonist that he lost a suit.
1 Name this drama in which the protagonist indicates
his desire to leave “an abyss where vice is
triumphant” and seek out a place where “one may
enjoy the freedom of being an honest man”.
2

3

This author of The Misanthrope died onstage
during a performance of his play The Imaginary
Invalid.
In The Misanthrope, Oronte’s [aw-rahnt’s] lawsuit
against Alceste [al-sest] stemmed from the latter’s
insults directed at one of these 14-line poems
written by Oronte.

6

The Misanthrope(, or the
Cantankerous Lover) [or Le
Misanthrope (ou
l’Atrabilaire amoureux)]
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste
Poquelin]
sonnets

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Science – Physics
10 points per part
One of Amontons’ [ah-man-taw’z] laws of this
phenomenon states that it is independent of the area of
contact.
1 Name this force that opposes motion. In ﬂuid
mechanics, it is called drag.
2 This friction, sometimes contrasted with kinetic
friction, is the force that needs to be overcome to
get an object to start moving.
3 This French scientist’s research into static and
kinetic friction led to his model of friction, which
states that the force of friction is less than or equal
to the coeﬃcient of friction times the normal force.

friction(al force)
static friction [or stiction]

Charles-Augustin de
Coulomb [koo-lawmb]

Question #14: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This quantity equals about 1.34 for water.
1

Name this quantity, the ratio of the speed of light in
a vacuum to the speed of light in a particular
medium. Light bends when it travels between
media with diﬀerent values for this quantity.

index of refraction [or
refractive index; prompt on
partial answers; prompt on
n]

2

The index of refraction is multiplied by the sine of
the angle of incidence in this formula, named for a
Dutch scientist.
In a medium with a high index of refraction, it may
be easier to observe this eﬀect, in which a charged
particle moves faster than light in its medium,
emitting bluish radiation analogous to a sonic
boom.

Snell’s law [or Snellius’ law]

3

7

Cherenkov
[“CHAIR”-en-kawﬀ]
radiation

Round 4
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #15: Social Studies – Geography
10 points
The Pay-Khoy are a northern extension of this
mountain range. This range’s western slopes are
drained by the Pechora basin. Its Nether-Polar section
features its tallest peaks, including Mount Narodnaya
[nah-RODE-nie-yah], which is south of the Kara
[KAH-rah] Sea and drains eastward to the Ob River.
The southern end of this range is near the Aral Sea,
though much of the waters from it drain into the
Caspian Sea. This range extends southward into
Kazakhstan, and it is primarily located in Russia. Name
this mountain range that divides Europe from Asia.

Ural Mountains or Urals [or
Uralsky Khrebet]

Question #16: Literature – World Literature
10 points
In one poem, this author describes Guido Cavalcanti
[GEE-doh kah-vahl-KAHN-tee] as “the ﬁrst of my
friends.” The opening poem of that collection by this
author describes it as a “book of memory”. This author
of La Vita Nuova wrote a collection in which the
narrator encounters God in the Empyrean
[em-PEER-ee-un], and passes through a gate with the
inscription “Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.” The
narrator of that work is guided by Virgil and Beatrice.
Name this author who described a journey from hell to
purgatory and then heaven in The Divine Comedy.

8

Dante Alighieri [DAHN-tay
ah-lee-gee-“AIR”-ee] [or
Durante degli Alighieri;
accept any underlined
portion]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
Inspired by a revival of Jean-Philippe Rameau’s [zhahn
ﬁh-leep rah-moh’z] music, this composer included an
homage [AHM-uj] to Rameau after this composer’s
Reﬂections in the Water in his ﬁrst set of Images.
Another work by this composer was developed into a
ballet by Vaslav Nijinsky and was based on a Stéphane
Mallarmé [steh-fahn mah-lahr-may] poem. This
composer also wrote a set of three symphonic sketches
that included “Play of the Waves”. Those pieces are
Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun and La mer [lah
mair]. Name this French composer whose Suite
bergamasque [ber-ga-mask] includes “Clair de lune
[loon]”.

Claude(-Achille) Debussy
[klohd deb-yoo-see]

Question #18: Science – Chemistry
10 points
The van ’t Hoﬀ [vawnt HAWFF] factor is the ratio of
the actual and expected values of this quantity. Beer’s
law states that absorption is proportional to this
quantity’s product with path length and the extinction
coeﬃcient. Partial pressures can be used in place of
this quantity when deﬁning the equilibrium constant.
Colligative [kah-LIG-uh-tiv] properties are
proportional to a form of this quantity called molality
[moh-LAAL-ih-tee]. Name this quantity describing
how much of a compound has dissolved in a solution,
which can be measured as molarity.

9

(molar) concentration
[prompt on molality or
molarity or molar before
“molality”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Herbert and Sue Hicks initially agreed to participate in
this event, and H. G. Wells was approached as a leader
for the opposing side by George Rappleyea
[RAP-ul-yay]. Based on a text written by George
William Hunter, H. L. Mencken called one person
involved in this case a “Fundamentalist Pope”. Brought
on by a violation of the Butler Act, this event attracted
national attention to Dayton, Tennessee. This event is
the subject of the play Inherit the Wind, and it pitted
Clarence Darrow against William Jennings Bryan.
Name this trial about the teaching of evolution.

Scopes monkey trial [accept
either underlined part; accept
The State of Tennessee v.
John Thomas Scopes]

Question #20: Literature – Mythology
10 points
This creature’s saliva formed the poisonous aconite
[AK-uh-“night”] plant. The third and ﬁnal time the
king of Tiryns [TIR-inz] leapt into a wine jar, it was
upon seeing this beast. In the Aeneid [uh-NEE-id], the
Cumaean Sibyl [kyoo-MAY-un SIB-ul] gave this
creature a spiked cake. Hesiod [HEH-see-ahd] wrote of
this creature having 50 heads, which may have counted
the serpents in its mane. After charming Charon
[“CARE-on”], Orpheus [OR-fee-us] was able to tame
this monster. This creature guards the entrance to the
underworld in Greek myth. Name this dog who is
usually depicted with three heads.

10

Cerberus [accept Kerberos]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
The painter Daniele da Volterra tried to add clothing
to this painting to cover ﬁgures’ nakedness.
1 Name this Michelangelo painting in which Jesus
decides who rises and who falls.
2

3

This painter made a triptych [TRIP-tik] of The Last
Judgment. He also made the triptych The Garden
of Earthly Delights.
The Garden of Earthly Delights hangs in this major
art museum in Madrid.

The Last Judgment [or Il
Giudizio Universale]
Hieronymus Bosch [or
Jheronimus van Aken]
Museo del Prado [or The
Prado]

Question #22: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This was the main style of painting and architecture in
western Europe during the 17th and early 18th
centuries.
1 Name this style dominant between the Mannerist
and Rococo periods.
2 This Flemish baroque painter created The Elevation
of the Cross and The Descent from the Cross.
3 This Baroque artist designed the Cornaro Chapel
and created the sculpture Ecstasy of Saint Teresa
for it.

11

(early) baroque art
Peter Paul Rubens
Gian Lorenzo Bernini [or
Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This technique can be used to change a quadratic
function from standard form into vertex form.
1 Name this process in which you add a constant so
that a quadratic expression becomes a perfect
square trinomial.
2
3

What number should be added to x squared plus
twelve x in order to complete the square?
What is the only solution to the equation x squared
plus twelve x plus thirty-six equals zero?

completing the square
[accept word forms such as
complete the square]
36
x = –6

Question #24: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
The graph of this function is half of a horizontal
parabola.
1 Name this function equivalent to raising a number
to the one-half power.

(taking the) square root
[accept variations like
square rooting; prompt on
radical]

2

Simplify the square root of 72 as much as possible,
by taking as many powers as possible out of the
radical.

6 root 2 [or 6 times the
square root of 2 or 6
radical 2 or equivalents]

3

Find the square root of the quantity two raised to
the tenth power. Give your answer without using
any exponents.

32 [prompt on two to the
ﬁfth power]

12

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
In one speech, this person described humanity
“hanging from a cross of iron.”
1 Name this president whose farewell address warned
about the expansion of the military-industrial
complex. He had been the Supreme Commander of
the Allied Forces during World War II.
2 In consecutive presidential elections, Eisenhower
defeated this “egghead”. This person’s grandfather
was Grover Cleveland’s vice president.
3 Near the end of Eisenhower’s presidency, Gary
Powers was captured by the Soviet Union after
ﬂying one of these spy planes for the CIA.

Dwight D(avid) (“Ike”)
Eisenhower

Adlai E(wing) Stevenson II

Lockheed U2 [prompt on
Dragon Lady]

Question #26: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
During his Presidential campaign, this person
promised a “return to normalcy”.
1 Name this president whose advisers were
nicknamed “the Ohio Gang”. His short presidency
was tainted by the Teapot Dome scandal.
2 This person was Harding’s Secretary of Commerce.
He led the U.S. Food Administration during World
War I and later ordered Douglas MacArthur to
move against the Bonus Army when he became
president.
3 Teapot Dome, which was leased to oil companies
that bribed Secretary of the Interior Albert Bacon
Fall, is in this state.

13

Warren G(amaliel) Harding

Herbert (Clark) Hoover

Wyoming

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Henry Sweet was the inspiration for this ﬁctional
linguist.
1 Name this phonetics professor who created a
“Universal Alphabet” that was read by the author of
“Spoken Sanskrit,” Colonel Pickering.
2 Henry Higgins wagered Colonel Pickering that he
could get this Cockney girl to pass among nobility.
3

This Irish playwright wrote about Henry Higgins’
attempts to train Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion. This
playwright also wrote Major Barbara and Saint
Joan.

Professor Henry Higgins
[prompt on Henry]
Eliza Doolittle [accept
either]
George Bernard Shaw

Question #28: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
One sergeant compared the havoc wreaked by this
man and the title character to the Battle of Golgotha
[GAHL-guh-thuh].
1 Name this character who was told by a witch that
he would not be a king, but would beget a line of
them. Three murderers do him in, but his son
Fleance [FLAY-unss] escaped the attack.
2 Banquo’s murder was ordered by this thane
[rhymes with “train”], the title character of a
Shakespeare play. He also killed King Duncan, but
Macduﬀ ended up taking this man’s head.
3 After Macbeth dies, this heir of Duncan becomes
king. His forces approached Macbeth’s castle using
plants from Birnam Wood as a disguise.

14

(Lord) Banquo

Macbeth

Malcolm

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Science – Physics
10 points
Three of these objects with known strengths can be
used to ﬁnd the strength of an unknown fourth one by
assembling them into a Wheatstone bridge. Capacitors
and these devices are usually labeled with colored
bands to indicate their strength, which can be
calculated as the voltage across them divided by the
current passing through them. They are represented by
a zig-zag on a circuit diagram. Name these circuit
components that oppose the ﬂow of current and that are
governed by Ohm’s law.

resistors [prompt on
resistance]

Question #30: Social Studies – World History
10 points
The founder of Metaxim led a coup in this country that
established its “Third Civilization”. King Constantine’s
dismissal of this country’s prime minister in the
Apostasy Crisis was followed by the Regime of the
Colonels. Ottoman troops murdered thousands of
revolting citizens here during the Chios [KEE-ohss]
Massacre. This country and Turkey were supported by
the Truman Doctrine. This country has recently been
headed by the Syriza [seer-EEZ-uh] Party’s Alexis
Tsipras [SEE-pruss]. Name this European country
whose legislature is called the Hellenic [heh-LEH-nik]
Parliament, and which is governed from Athens.

15

Greece [before “Hellenic”,
accept Hellenic Republic or
Ellas or Ellada or Elliniki
Dhimokratia]

Round 4
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #31: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one story by this writer, men are only allowed to
think about women during the Time of Mating, and
people’s jobs are selected by the Council of Vocations.
This author wrote of an unseen character that saw
towers shining on the bottom of the ocean, and
subsequently sank his ship. This author created a
character who built a motor powered by atmospheric
static electricity, John Galt. This founder of
Objectivism wrote of textbook writer Ellsworth Toohey,
who sought to undermine architect Howard Roark.
Name this author of Anthem, Atlas Shrugged, and The
Fountainhead.

Ayn [rhymes with “mine”]
Rand [or Alisa Zinovyevna
Rosenbaum]

Question #32: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
One example of this kind of shape is formed by
extending lines drawn through adjacent points that
trisect the sides of a quadrilateral, and is named for
Ferdinand Wittenbauer. Similarly, connecting the
adjacent midpoints of any quadrilateral produces one of
these shapes. This is the most general quadrilateral
whose diagonals divide it into congruent triangles. Its
area can be found by treating adjacent sides as vectors
and ﬁnding the magnitude of the cross product. If its
sides are all equal in length, this shape is a rhombus.
This shape’s adjacent angles are supplementary. If its
angles are right angles, this shape is a rectangle. Name
this shape whose opposite sides are congruent and
parallel.

16

parallelogram [prompt on
quadrilateral or
quadrangle before
“quadrilateral”]

Round 4
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Extra Question #1: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
A yellow arc goes around much of this painter’s
Shimmering Substance, which was created soon after
he and his wife bought a barn on Long Island. What
appears to be a black gash runs nearly top to bottom of
this painter’s mostly white work titled The Deep. One
of his works got its nickname from eight blue lines
running nearly top to bottom. That painting is known
as either Blue Poles or Number Eleven, 1952. He was
married to the artist Lee Krasner until he died from
driving under the inﬂuence. Name this abstract
expressionist famous for his drip paintings.

(Paul) Jackson Pollock
[accept Shimmering
Substance before
“painter’s”]

Extra Question #2: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
The Blount Report was commissioned after an uprising
in this territory, while the Newlands Resolution allowed
for its annexation. It was home to a colony founded by
Father Demian [DAY-mee-un], and an attempt to do
away with this state’s Bayonet Constitution was
followed by a coup [koo] led by Sanford Dole. It was a
kingdom ruled by Kamekameha
[kah-MAY-kah-MAY-hah] and Liliuokalani
[LIL-ee-oo-oh-kuh-LAH-nee] before the U.S. annexed
it. Barack Obama was born in this state. Name this
state in the middle of the Paciﬁc Ocean.

17

Hawai‘i

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
If the ﬁrst two terms of a strictly monotone sequence
increasing [accept word
are ﬁve and ten, then the entire sequence must have this forms]
property. If the ﬁrst derivative of a function has this
property, then the function is concave up. If a
diﬀerentiable function has this property, then its ﬁrst
derivative is positive. If a function f has this property
and A is less than B, then f of A must be less than f of B.
An arithmetic sequence has this property if the
common diﬀerence is positive. Name this property of
functions or sequences whose graphs go upward.

Extra Question #4: Science – Physics
10 points
Imperfections in these structures can be due to
vacancies or occupation of interstitial
[“inter”-STIH-shul] sites. The orientation of these
structures can be described using Miller indices
[IN-duh-sees]. These structures are formed in a
puriﬁcation method in which a compound is dissolved
in solution, and then the solution is cooled. The pattern
light makes after interacting with one of these
structures can be modeled with Bragg’s law. These
structures are deﬁned by a repeating unit cell. Name
these lattice structures that consist of ordered
arrangements of atoms, examples of which include
quartz and diamond.

18

crystals [prompt on lattices;
accept crystal lattices]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
Among the locations seen by the speaker in this poem
are a school where children “strove” at recess, and
ﬁelds of grazing grain. After being passed by the
setting sun in this poem, the speaker felt a chill on
account of her tulle [“tool”] tippet and gossamer gown.
At the end of this poem, the narrator surmises that the
“horses’ heads were toward eternity.” The speaker of
this poem had put away labor and leisure for the civility
of the title ﬁgure, who was accompanied by
immortality. Name this poem by Emily Dickinson in
which a ﬁgure “stopped for her”.

19

“Because I Could not Stop
for Death” [accept answers
mentioning 712]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This reactive oxygen species in the body is broken
down by catalase [KAA-tuh-“lace”].
1 Name this cation [“cat-eye-on”] whose formula is
O2 2− [“O two, two minus”], and which is also
found in the compound H2 O2 [“H two O two”].
2 Another reactive oxygen species is this ion with
formula O2 1− [“O two, one minus”], which is
broken down by a namesake dismutase
[dis-myoo-TASE] into peroxide and oxygen.
3 A mutation in the superoxide dismutase gene
SOD1 [sahd “one”] is common in patients with this
neuron-killing disease sometimes named for a
baseball player.

peroxide [accept hydrogen
peroxide]
superoxide

amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis [or ALS; or Lou
Gehrig’s disease]

Extra Question #7: Science – Biology
10 points per part
Proteins enter this organelle through the “TOM” and
“TIM” complexes.
1 Name this organelle, famously described “the
powerhouse of the cell”.

mitochondrion [or
mitochondria]

2

Lynn Margulis proposed this theory that suggests
the mitochondrion originated as a separate microbe
[“MIKE-robe”] that was “swallowed” by another
cell.

endosymbiotic
[EN-doh-SIM-by-AH-tik]
theory or endosymbiosis
[EN-doh-SIM-by-OH-sis]
[or symbiogenesis]

3

The endosymbiotic theory is supported by the fact
that the mitochondria has its own genome, which is
passed down through these people.

mothers [accept
matrilineally or maternally
or similar variations; accept
females or women]

20

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
The central ﬁgure of this poem cannot hear the bugle
trills or see the bouquets and ribbon wreaths, for he
has “fallen cold and dead”.
1 Name this poem whose speaker walks “with
mournful tread” even though “the prize we sought
was won.”
2 “O Captain! My Captain!” was published in later
editions of this poet’s collection Leaves of Grass.
3 This Whitman poem, another elegy to Abraham
Lincoln, features a gray-brown bird singing a carol
that describes death as “lovely and soothing”.

“O Captain! My Captain!”

Walt(er) Whitman
“When Lilacs Last in the
Dooryard Bloom’d”

Extra Question #9: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
It may “stink like rotten meat / or crust and sugar over
— like a syrupy sweet”.
1 Name this abstract concept, the subject of the poem
“Harlem”, which might “just sag, like a heavy
load”.
2 This author of “Harlem” described bodies of water
“ancient as the world and older than the ﬂow of
blood in human veins” in the poem “The Negro
Speaks of Rivers.”
3 The opening stanza of “Harlem” inquires as to
whether a dream deferred dries up like this object.
Lorraine Hansberry titled her drama about the
Younger family after this item.

21

a dream deferred [prompt
on dream]
(James Mercer) Langston
Hughes

a raisin in the sun

