Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #1: Fine Arts – Composers of the Modern Era
10 points
One piece by this composer repeats a high F sharp, B, F
sharp chord. He composed the incidental music for
Mikhail Lermontov’s [lair-MAHN-tawﬀ’s] play
Masquerade. In this composer’s last ballet, based
loosely on ancient history, Phrygia [FRIJ-ee-uh] is
rescued by the title character. In another ballet by this
composer, the title character falls in love with Kazakov
after her husband is caught smuggling. One of his
songs was the Armenian anthem when Armenia was
part of the Soviet Union. Name this composer whose
ballet Gayane [gah-YAH-nuh] features the “Sabre
Dance”.

Aram Khachaturian
[ka-chuh-TUR-ee-an]

Question #2: Science – Physics
10 points
This equation can be combined with the London
equation to determine the London penetration depth.
Taking the divergence of this equation yields the
continuity equation. Because the original form of this
equation did not work with capacitors, a term
symbolized J was introduced to it; that term is equal to
the time derivative of the D-ﬁeld, is also called the
displacement current, and was added by James Clerk
[“Clark”] Maxwell. This equation states that the path
integral of the magnetic ﬁeld in a loop is proportional
to the current enclosed. Identify this equation, one of
Maxwell equations, named for the Frenchman whose
name is also given to the SI unit for electrical current.

1

Ampère’s (circuit) law [or
the Ampère-Maxwell law]

Round 5
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #3: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
In the Five-Power treaty, this country was the 3 in the
ﬁve-ﬁve-three ratio regarding tonnage. This country
apologized to the United States during the 1930s for
slapping a diplomat in the Allison incident and
destroying a gunship in the Panay incident. Its capital
was bombed during the Doolittle raid. This country
stopped emigration to the U.S. in the 1907 Gentleman’s
Agreement. Poston, Tule Lake, and Manzanar housed
people from this country living in the United States
when they were interned during World War Two. Name
this country on which the U.S. dropped two atomic
bombs.

Japan [or Nihon-koku or
Nippon-koku or Empire of
Japan or Dai Nippon
Teikoku or (Greater)
Japanese Empire]

Question #4: Literature – Mythology
10 points
The god of these creatures saved the sons of Horus, and
that god’s worship was centered at Faiyum [FY-yoom].
Messengers of Set took the form of this animal. Neith
[nayth], the “Nurse of” them, was the mother of the god
of these creatures. When retrieving the body parts of
Osiris, Horus took the form of this animal. Sobek was
depicted with the head of one of these animals. In Just
So Stories, one of these animals made elephants have a
long nose. Roald Dahl wrote a story about an enormous
one that wants to eat children. Name this amphibious
animal that, in Peter Pan, swallowed a clock and chases
Captain Hook.

2

crocodiles [do not accept
“alligator(s)”]

Round 5
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #5: Science – Health
10 points
An epidemic of this disease in Australia in 1940 led to
the discovery that it causes congenital cataracts. This
disease was blamed for thousands of encephalitis
[en-SEF-uh-“LIE”-tiss] cases in the United States
during the 1960s, before its vaccine became common.
This disease’s symptoms include a rash that begins at
the face. One nickname for it is based on the fact that
the rash lasts three days. Another nickname is based on
the nationality of Daniel Sennert, who ﬁrst described it.
Name this disease whose vaccine is usually combined
with those for mumps and measles, providing the ‘R’ in
the MMR vaccine.

rubella [prompt on German
measles or three-day
measles]

Question #6: Literature – World Literature
10 points
This character is sometimes referred to as though his
last name is Zancas. This illiterate character often
dictates letters to his wife. Eventually given control of
the island of Barataria, he refused to help Ricote
[ree-KOH-tay]—a Morisco—recover a lost treasure as
it would be treason. This husband of Teresa Cascajo
[kahss-KAH-hoh] is promised an island, and knows the
truth about Aldonza Lorenzo, whom his boss calls
Dulcinea [dul-see-NAY-uh]. He rides a donkey named
Dapple. Name this squire to Don Quijote [dohn
kee-HOH-tay].

3

Sancho Panza [accept
either]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
A successor of this structure spanned between the
River Clyde and the Firth of Forth.
1 Name this structure targeted during the Barbarian
Conspiracy. It separated Caledonia from the rest of
the Roman Empire.
2 At the time of construction, Hadrian’s Wall was
meant to keep this tribe out of Roman Britain.
Their namesake stones often features inscriptions
written in their “ogam” language.
3

Hadrian and his successor Antoninus Pius were
part of this group of Roman rulers that ruled from
96 to 180 CE.

Hadrian’s Wall [or Vallum
Aelium; prompt on Wall]
Picts [accept Cruithne or
Cruthin people; prompt on
Scots, do not accept
“Irishmen”]
Five Good Emperors
[prompt on Nerva-Antonine
dynasty]

Question #8: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
Isaac Komnenos [KOHM-nuh-nohss] was overthrown
by this leader after he made the mistake of
imprisoning this man’s wife, Berengaria of Navarre
[bair-en-GAIR-ee-uh “of” nuh-VAR].
1 Name this leader falsely accused of involvement in
the death of Conrad of Montferrat [mawnt-fair-ah].
He was later captured by Leopold V [5] of Austria.

Richard I [accept Richard
the Lionhearted or Richard
Coeur de Lion; prompt on
Richard]

2

Richard Lionheart’s rescue of his wife from Cyprus
occurred during this expedition, which also saw the
death of Frederick Barbarrosa.

Third Crusade [prompt on
King’s Crusade or
Crusades]

3

The Third Crusade was ended via the Treaty of
Jaﬀa, which was signed by this founder of the
Ayyubid [“EYE”-yoo-bid] dynasty.

Saladin [or Salah ad-Din
Yusuf ibn Ayyub]

4

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Science – Biology
10 points per part
During this process in humans, the three tissue layers
begin to diﬀerentiate.
1 Identify this process that develops a namesake
structure from the blastula when it folds into itself,
forming a pore which later becomes the digestive
cavity.
2

3

The nervous tissue is oddly not derived from
mesoderm, but from this outer layer that forms the
skin, as it folds into the gastrula to form the neural
crest.
In addition to the neural crest, the ectoderm
contains cells that develop into this structure,
which in turn develops into the brain and spinal
cord. Defects in this structure cause spina biﬁda
[SPIE-nuh BI-ﬁ-duh].

gastrulation [or
gastrulating; do not accept
“blastulation” or
“blastulating”]
ectoderm

neural tube [prompt on
tube, neural groove, neural
plate, or medullary groove]

Question #10: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This woody tissue is composed of tracheids
[TRAY-kee-idz] and vessel elements.
1 Name this plant tissue that transports water, in
contrast to the nutrient-carrying phloem
[“FLOW”-im].
2 Xylem and phloem are derived from the vascular
cambium, which is a type of this undiﬀerentiated
plant tissue. The apical [AY-pi-kul] portion of this
tissue is responsible for leaf and root growth.
3 In plants, this ground tissue becomes the soft tissue
found in leaves. With animals, this term refers to
functional organs, opposed to the structural stroma.

5

xylem [ZYE-lim]

meristem

parenchyma
[“PAIR-in”-KY-muh]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
In this play, “strike one” stemmed from a ﬁght
regarding one person’s desire to play football, while
“strike two” stemmed from a ﬁght after one
protagonist revealed his inﬁdelity.
1 Name this play in which Troy Maxson fought to
become a garbage truck driver
2 Fences was written by this author of Ma Rainey’s
Black Bottom and The Piano Lesson.
3

Fences is part of a ten-play cycle named after this
city.

Fences
August Wilson [or Frederick
August Kittel Jr.]
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
[accept The Pittsburgh
Cycle]

Question #12: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
His biography of Abraham Lincoln’s “War Years”
won him a Pulitzer Prize.
1 Name this poet who described bodies piling high in
“Grass.” In another poem, he wrote of fog coming
in on little cat feet.
2 The speaker in this Sandburg poem has seen “the
marks of wanton hunger” and “the gunman kill and
go free to kill again”.
3 Most of the stories in this Carl Sandburg collection
are told by the Potato Face Blind Man, a resident of
the town of Liver-and-Onions.

6

Carl (August) Sandburg

“Chicago”

Rootabaga Stories

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
Though it was not painted by him, this painting shows
the artist Gustave Caillebotte [kye-“boat”] sitting
backwards in a chair.
1 Name this painting that shows the artist’s future
wife, Aline Charigot [ah-leen shar-ee-goh], playing
with a dog at a table.
2

3

Luncheon of the Boating Party was painted by this
Impressionist. His other works include Girl With a
Hoop and a portrait of Claude Monet [moh-nay]
holding a brush.
Renoir also made portraits of this other
Impressionist, who painted Flood at Port-Marly
and several works set at Hampton Court.

Luncheon of the Boating
Party [or Le dejeuner des
canotiers]
Pierre-Auguste Renoir

Alfred Sisley

Question #14: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
There are two places by this name, one in Spring
Green, Wisconsin, and the other in Scottsdale,
Arizona.
1 Name these homes and architecture studios that
share a Welsh name.
2

3

The Taliesin studios were designed by this
architect, who also designed the Robie House and
Fallingwater.
Wright designed this company’s headquarters in
Racine [ruh-SEEN], Wisconsin.

7

Taliesin [tah-lee-ESS-in]
[accept Taliesin East and
Taliesin West]
Frank Lloyd Wright [or
Frank Lincoln Wright]
Johnson Wax Company [or
S. C. Johnson & Son]

Round 5
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #15: Miscellaneous – Journalism
10 points
In October 2015, this person caused controversy by
tweeting a suggestion that Ben Carson would be the
ﬁrst “real black President”. This person was attacked
with a pie during the Leveson inquiry, which stemmed
from allegations that several of his employees engaged
in phone hacking. In September 2015, one of his
companies purchased a majority stake in National
Geographic. This Australian founded a cable news
channel whose shows include The O’Reilly Factor and
Hannity. Name this founder of News Corporation and
Fox News.

(Keith) Rupert Murdoch

Question #16: Social Studies – Religion
10 points
This oﬃce’s insignia includes gold and silver keys held
together by a red cord. When the holder of this job dies,
a piece of jewelry is destroyed with a silver hammer
after the death is conﬁrmed by tapping him on the
forehead with that hammer. The holder of this oﬃce
used to be the only person to wear a pallium, but he
now can confer them to other people. Mehmet Ali
Agca [AH-jah] tried to assassinate the holder of this
oﬃce in 1981. This person wears the Ring of the
Fisherman, commemorating the ﬁrst holder of this job,
St. Peter. White smoke signals the selection of a new
one. Name this leader of the Roman Catholic Church.

8

Pope [or Pontiﬀ (of Rome);
or Pontifex Maximus; or
Bishop of Rome]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
A tangential quadrilateral is this type of shape if and
only if the products of its opposite side lengths are
equal. When one of these quadrilaterals has three
interior angles of 72 degrees, it can be combined with a
dart in Penrose tiling. When these shapes have opposite
right angles, they are cyclic, meaning that they have
circumcircles. Exactly one of the diagonals of these
shapes is the perpendicular bisector of the other one.
Name this type of quadrilateral, also called a deltoid, in
which there are two pairs of adjacent congruent sides.

kite [accept deltoid before it
is mentioned]

Question #18: Literature – Grammar/Usage
10 points
Richard Rorty wrote a book about philsophy’s turn
towards this ﬁeld of study. Randy Harris wrote a book
about an academic war in this ﬁeld, which featured
George Lakoﬀ and John Ross on one side. Charles
Bally and Albert Sechehaye [SESH-uh-hay] complied a
key text in this ﬁeld based on the lectures of Ferdinand
de Saussure [saw-sur], which argued for synchronic
analysis within it. The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis is also
known as the principle of relativity of this ﬁeld, and
states that how people communicate inﬂuences how
they see the world. Name this study of the structure and
origin of languages.

9

linguistics [prompt on
answers mentioning
languages]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Richard Lawrence was beaten due to his failed attempt
to assassinate this man. This man killed Charles
Dickinson after being shot in the chest in a duel. This
person accepted the surrender of William Weatherford
following a resounding victory that put down the Red
Stick resistance at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend.
Francis Preston Blair and Amos Kendall were part of
this person’s group of informal advisers formed after
the Peggy Eaton Aﬀair. Name this man who formed the
Kitchen Cabinet and got revenge for the “Corrupt
Bargain” by defeating John Quincy Adams in the 1828
presidential election.

Andrew Jackson

Question #20: Science – Chemistry
10 points
Defects in these molecules appear as D-bands in
Raman [RAM-un] spectra. These molecules can
contain Stone-Wales defects. One type of these
molecules can come in chiral [KYE-rul], armchair, or
zig-zag conformations. One type of these molecules
can be single-walled or multi-walled, and resembles a
rolled-up graphene sheet, while another was prepared
by ﬁring a laser at graphite. These molecules have
extremely high tensile strength and are named for an
architect whose designs resembled geodesic domes.
Name this class of molecules that includes carbon
nanotubes and a 60-carbon soccer ball-shaped
molecule.

10

fullerenes [accept
buckministerfullerene;
accept carbon nanotubes
before “nanotubes”; prompt
on buckyballs; prompt on
answers mentioning carbon
allotropes]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
In 1900, this mathematician presented 23 unsolved
problems that he thought mathematicians should
focus on during the 20th century.
1 Name this mathematician who also introduced the
paradox of the Grand Hotel.
2 The paradox of the Grand Hotel addresses sets of
this type. This speciﬁc kind of inﬁnity is
sometimes represented by aleph [AH-lef] null, and
sets with this size can be put in one-to-one
correspondence with the natural numbers.
3 One of Hilbert’s Problems involved sphere packing.
What is the volume of a sphere with a radius of
one?

David Hilbert
countably inﬁnite sets
[accept countable sets or
enumerable sets or
denumerable sets]
four-thirds pi [accept
equivalents such as four pi
over three]

Question #22: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This form of division is straightforward when dividing
by a ﬁrst degree binomial whose ﬁrst term is x.
1 Name this alternative to long division of
polynomials, which begins by placing the number
subtracted from x in the upper left corner.
2 Synthetic division is often used to ﬁnd roots of
polynomials. Another tool used is this
mathematician’s rule of signs, which gives bounds
on the possible number of positive and negative
roots.
3 Divide the quantity x cubed plus two x squared
minus three, end quantity, by the quantity x minus
one.

11

synthetic division

René Descartes [reh-nay
day-kart]

x2 + 3x + 3 [or
equivalents]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Literature – Mythology
10 points per part
In Aztec myth, those who traveled to the east and west
parts of this region accompanied the sun.
1 Name this region whose nothern section is ruled by
Mictlantecuhtli [MIKT-lahn-teh-KOOT-lee], who
sat on a throne surrounded by spiders and owls.
Humans traveling to it had to endure barrages of
arrows and crashing mountains.
2 After returning from the underworld with bones,
Quetzalcoatl [KET-sul-koh-AH-tul] ground them
up and mixed them with this substance to make a
new race of humans.
3 Mictlantecuhtli’s [mikt-lahn-TEK-oo-tlee’s]
headdress is made of these things taken from owls.
Coatlicue [KWAHT-lee-kway] became pregnant
after stuﬃng a ball of them into her bosom.

the Aztec underworld
[accept Aztec hell; prompt
on Mictlan]

blood

feathers

Question #24: Literature – Mythology
10 points per part
This king chained Thanatos to a tree and dodged
death by instructing Merope [mur-OH-pee] to not
place an obol under his tongue.
1 Name this Corinthian king who was eventually
given an unending task by Zeus.
2 Proteus attempted to engineer the death of this
grandson of Sisyphus by having Iobates
[“eye”-AH-buh-teez] put him to death. Instead, he
slew the Chimera [ky-MAIR-uh].
3 Bellerophon’s cousin Melampus gained the ability
to communicate with animals after sparing two of
these creatures that were about to be killed.

12

Sisyphus
Bellerophon
[beh-LAIR-oh-fahn]

snakes [accept serpents]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – U.S. Government
10 points per part
In September 2014, this agency went after Corinthian
Colleges over its recruiting practices.
1 Name this federal organization tasked with helping
borrowers understand the terms of their debt, and
protecting them against unfair practices by lenders.

Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau or
CFPB

2

This Massachusetts Senator was an early champion
of the CFPB, but she was passed over in favor of
Richard Cordray to chair it.

Elizabeth (Ann Herring)
Warren [accept either
underlined name]

3

The law that created the CFPB was named for
Michigan Senator Chris Dodd and this gay former
Congressman from Massachusetts.

Barney Frank

Question #26: Social Studies – U.S. Government
10 points per part
Shaun McCutcheon won his suit against this
organization in a 2014 Supreme Court case.
1 Name this group of six presidential appointees,
tasked with regulating political campaigns.
2

3

The Federal Election Commission also lost a
Supreme Court decision against this group that
produced Hillary: The Movie. That 2010 decision
in favor of this group makes it easier for
organizations to spend money on campaigns.
The Citizens United decision limited the impact of
a campaign ﬁnance reform law sponsored by John
McCain and this senator from Wisconsin who is
trying to regain his seat in 2016.

13

Federal Election
Commission or FEC
Citizens United

Russell Dana “Russ”
Feingold

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This relationship cannot be held by events that are
separated by a space-like interval.
1 Name this relationship between two events in
which one is the result of the other.

causality [accept forms of
cause]

2

If two particles are in a space-like interval, there
exists some reference frame where they have this
temporal relationship. This cannot happen in a
time-like interval.

simultaneity [or
simultaneous; accept any
answer containing the idea of
happening at the same time]

3

In Minkowski [meen-KAWFF-skee] space, the
slope between space-like and time-like intervals is
this value, the so-called “speed limit of the
universe”.

speed of light in a vacuum
[or c0 ]

Question #28: Science – Physics
10 points per part
Gerard ’t Hooft [GAIR-ard et HOH-uft] and
Alexander Polyakov theorized a type of this particle.
1 Name this hyptothetical particle that would be an
isolated source of magnetic ﬁeld.
2 This man’s namesake law of magnetism states that
monopoles cannot exist, in a form analogous to that
of his law that the electric ﬂux through some closed
surface is proportional to the charge enclosed by
the surface.
3 Paul Dirac [duh-rahk] showed that the existence of
magnetic monopoles would imply the quantization
of this quantity. It is debatable whether this
quantity is quantized at the value found in
Millikan’s oil-drop experiment or at one-third of
that value.
14

magnetic monopole
(Johann) Carl Friedrich
Gauss [rhymes with
“house”]

electric charge

Round 5
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #29: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one poem, this writer contrasted strong things like
“feeding a wife” and “rent” with “Dream”. One of her
poetry collections features sections titled “Noted from
the Childhood and Girlhood” and “The Womanhood”.
This writer said “You can never be forgotten” about
Mayor Harold Washington. Her ﬁrst collection, set on
the South Side of Chicago, was A Street in Bronzeville.
This author set one poem at the Golden Shovel, where
seven pool players “lurk late” and “strike straight”.
Name this author of “Annie Allen” and “We Real
Cool”.

Gwendolyn (Elizabeth)
Brooks

Question #30: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The test named for this quantity says that if this quantity
does not equal zero for a sequence, then its associated
series cannot converge, but that test named for this
concept can only prove that a series does converge for
alternating sequences. Examples of these quantities
involving indeterminate forms can be evaluated using
derivatives according to l’Hôpital’s [loh-pee-tahl’z]
rule, and derivatives themselves are deﬁned using this
operation for f of x minus f of a, all over x minus a, as x
approaches a. For a continuous function, this quantity
must exist and equal the output of the function. Name
these values that are approached by a function.

15

limits

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Social Studies – World History
10 points
In 2005, this country launched Operation Restore Order,
which targeted illegal settlements. In 1992, the “willing
buyer, willing seller” provision was removed from its
land reform agreement, which gave the government the
power to force whites oﬀ of farmland. Following an
electoral victory by the Movement for Democratic
Change, its president entered into a power-sharing
agreement with Morgan Tsvangirai [CHANG-ih-“rye”].
This country suspended its dollar in 2009 when it
became nearly worthless from hyperinﬂation. Name
this country led by Robert Mugabe [moo-GAH-bay].

(Republic of) Zimbabwe

Question #32: Science – Biology
10 points
The protein ABCD1 [A-B-C-D-“one”] is responsible
for transporting fatty acids to this organelle, and
mutations in that protein can result in
adrenoleukodystrophy
[uh-DREE-noh-LOO-koh-DISS-troh-fee]. For fatty
acids with chains too long for mitochondria
[“my-toe-CON”-dree-uh] to process, beta-oxidation
begins in this organelle. A non-hemoglobin enzyme in
this organelle contains four heme [heem] groups and is
known for its extremely high turnover. This organelle,
which is aﬀected by Zellweger syndrome, contains
catalase [“CAT-uh-lace”], which breaks down a reactive
oxygen species. Name this organelle responsible for the
breakdown of the radical H2O2 [“H two O two”].

16

peroxisome(s)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
One example of this concept is named after the ﬁctional
Colonel Blotto, while another type is classiﬁed as either
noisy or silent. A Hicks-optimal outcome in one of
these things maximizes the total output and is always
Pareto-optimal. When there is no reason for any of the
inputs to one of these things to change, which always
occurs for some mixed strategies, then this has achieved
a Nash equilibrium. When one person’s loss is
another’s gain, these are called zero-sum. Name these
strategic situations often involving players making a
decision about cooperation, such as the prisoner’s
dilemma.

games [or game theory]

Extra Question #2: Literature – British Literature
10 points
In one of this writer’s poems, the speaker claims his
love will last “while the sands o’ life shall run” and will
outlast “rocks melting with the sun”. Songs by this poet
such as “Had I A Cave” are sung at events in late
January to commemorate his life, called his namesake
“suppers”. He wrote of a creature “shunned by saint
and sinner” that was observed “on a lady’s bonnet at
church”. The narrator “will come again, my love, tho it
were ten thousand mile” in this poet’s “My Love is Like
a Red, Red Rose”. Name this author of “To a Mouse”, a
Scottish poet who wrote the words to “Auld Lang
Syne.”

17

Robert Burns

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
When he died, Béla Bartók was working on a concerto
for this instrument, eventually ﬁnished by Tibor
[TEE-bor] Serly and performed by William Primrose.
This is the main instrument in Flos Campi [KAM-pee]
by Ralph [rayﬀ] Vaughan Williams. Alessandro Rolla
was falsely credited for writing the ﬁrst concerto for
this instrument years after Georg Philipp Telemann
wrote one. The lowest note this instrument can play is
the C below middle C. Music for this string instrument
is commonly written in the alto clef. Name this
instrument that joins two violins and a cello to form a
string quartet.

viola

Extra Question #4: Science – Chemistry
10 points
This role, which is not catalysis, is served by zeolites
[ZEE-oh-“lights”] placed in an aquarium. A glass frit
may be used in this process. A ﬂask used in a setup for
this process has an opening near the top to connect to a
vacuum. That vacuum setup commonly uses sintered
crucibles or Büchner [BOOK-ner] funnels to facilitate
this process. Typically some sort of porous medium is
used in this process, such as a namesake type of paper
commonly used when using gravity for this process.
This method is commonly used to purify water in
homes. Name this process used to remove solids from a
liquid.

18

ﬁltration [accept word
forms such as ﬁltering]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Social Studies – World History
10 points
In this city, an intellectual group called the White Rose
opposed Adolf Hitler, but its leaders were beheaded.
This city was the main site of Operation Hummingbird,
the planned massacre of a number of Brownshirts. This
major city is only 10 miles from the Dachau
[DAH-“cow”] concentration camp used by the Nazis.
An agreement signed in this city in 1938 led Neville
Chamberlain to proclaim “peace in our time”. The
Black September group killed 11 Israeli athletes during
the 1972 Summer Olympics in this city. Name this site
of Adolf Hitler’s failed Beer Hall Putsch, the capital of
Bavaria.

19

Munich [or München;
accept Minga]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This law is used to determine the purity of a solution
of DNA by observing values at 260 and 280
nanometers.
1 Name this law central to spectrophotometry
[SPEK-troh-foh-TAH-mih-tree], which states that
concentration is proportional to absorbance.
2 In one formulation of Beer’s law, this quantity is
multiplied by path length times concentration. This
quantity is represented by the Greek letter epsilon.
3

When using Beer’s law, typically this value is
initially measured. The opposite of the logarithm
of this quantity is used to ﬁnd absorbance.

Beer’s law [or
Beer-Lambert law]
molar absorbtivity or the
extinction coeﬃcient [or
molar attenuation
coeﬃcient]
(percent) transmittance

Extra Question #7: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This process involves the formation of a namesake
“cage” of molecules.
1 Name this speciﬁc process, sometimes called
dissolution or dissolving, in which a solute
associates with molecules of solvent.
2 A model of solvation is named for Max Born, who,
along with this scientist, names a cycle that uses
Hess’s law to calculate various enthalpies. This
scientist invented a process for the production of
ammonia.
3 The aﬃnity that polar molecules have for polar
solvents, and that nonpolar molecules have for
nonpolar solvents, is commonly remembered using
this three-word phrase.

20

solvation [accept solvating]

Fritz Haber

like dissolves like

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 5
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
Her father’s looming presence is symbolized by
gloves and boots, and her mother told her to “think
like and act as a man.”
1 Name this character who, after an aﬀair with Jean,
took the valet’s razor and killed herself.
2 This Swedish author wrote Miss Julie.
3

Jean was engaged to Christine, who held this job.
In To Kill a Mockingbird, Calpurnia had this job in
the Finch household.

Miss Julie [or Froken Julie]
(Johan) August Strindberg
cook [accept chef]

Extra Question #9: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
A mistake in his position on Frou-Frou’s saddle leads
to this military oﬃcer breaking his leg.
1 Name this character who rejected the love of Kitty.
Kitty turned down a proposal because of her love
for this man.
2

3

This lover of Count Vronsky is the title character of
the Leo Tolstoy novel that she and Vronsky appear
in.
Kitty eventually came around and married this
farmer. At one point, the urge to commit suicide
within this man was so strong that he made a point
of hiding knives and guns.

21

Count Alexei (Kirilich)
Vronsky [accept either
underlined name]
Anna Karenina [accept
either]
Konstantin Levin [accept
either]

