Round 7
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #1: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This person’s visit to the White House was the
backdrop for Scott Joplin’s A Guest of Honor. This
person was derided as the “Great Accommodater” after
he implored listeners to “cast down their buckets”, and
he claimed a factory-earned dollar was worth more than
one spent on opera. That speech was called the Atlanta
Compromise. This person was hired away from the
Hampton Institute in 1881 to become principal of a new
school in Alabama. Name this author of Up From
Slavery who started the Tuskegee Institute and was a
rival of W. E. B. Du Bois [doo boyss].

Booker T(aliaferro)
Washington

Question #2: Science – Health
10 points
These problems are commonly caused by Streptococcus
mutans [STREP-tuh-kah-kus MYOO-tuns], which can
survive in an acidic environment and can convert
sugars into dextran and lactic acid. These problems can
be classiﬁed as smooth-surface or as pit-and-ﬁssure.
These problems usually only occur in the cementum
[suh-MEN-tum] in older people because of protection
from the periodontium [PAIR-ee-oh-DAHN-shum].
These problems more typically involve
demineralization of enamel. The incidence of these
problems are reduced by water ﬂuoridation. Name
these problems, often treated with ﬁllings, that involve
the breaking down of teeth.

1

dental caries [or cavity/ies;
accept tooth decay and
prompt on decay]

Round 7
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #3: Literature – Grammar/Usage
10 points
In his Chinese room theory, John Searle argued that this
concept “is neither constitutive nor suﬃcient for
semantics”. Contextual inﬂection is dictated by this
concept, while inherent inﬂection is not. The theory of
transformational-generative grammar was reﬁned in
Aspects of the Theory of this concept, which was
written by Noam Chomsky. Dependency grammar does
not recognize categories of it, such as parts of speech.
Name this term for the rules that govern a language’s
sentence structure.

syntax

Question #4: Social Studies – Religion
10 points
In the book of the Bible named for this person, the
servants who eat nothing but vegetables for ten days
look healthier than the young men who eat the royal
food. This person predicted the rise of Darius the Mede
[duh-RY-us “the” MEED] after one king was weighed
and found wanting. This man was the companion of
Shadrach [SHAD-rahk], Meshach [MEE-shak], and
Abednego [uh-BED-nuh-goh], who are thrown into a
ﬁery furnace. This person interpreted the dreams of
Nebuchadnezzar [neb-uh-kud-NEZ-ur]. Name this Old
Testament prophet who was thrown into a lions’ den.

2

Daniel [may be pronounced
dah-nee-EL]

Round 7
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #5: Miscellaneous – Technology
10 points
Following a complaint by Sun about this company’s
licensing practices, the European Commission ﬁned
this company multiple times for antitrust violations. In
2008, this company pulled out of a major deal to buy
Yahoo, but in 2011 it spent 8.5 billion dollars to
purchase Skype. Its mobile division was established
after it formed a partnership with Nokia. Its brand
names include HoloLens, Surface, and Xbox. Name
this tech giant, founded by Paul Allen and Bill Gates,
that created the Windows operating system.

Microsoft Corporation

Question #6: Science – Chemistry
10 points
This ion has an equal ranking on the Hofmeister
[HAWF-“my”-stir] series with ﬂuorine, which is why
its ammonium [uh-MOH-nee-um] salt is used for
“salting out” proteins. Gilbert Lewis proposed that this
anion [AN-“eye”-on] contains no double bonds, but
rather single bonds and a central atom with a formal
charge of 2+ [“two plus”]. This ion joins with
magnesium in Epsom salt, and is paired with calcium
in gypsum [JIP-sum]. The contact process is used to
make a compound equivalent to two hydrogens bonded
to this ion, sulfuric acid. Name this anion whose
formula is SO4 2− [“S O four, two minus”].

3

sulfate ion [before beginning
to state the formula at the
end, accept SO4 2− or
SO4 −2 ]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
When considering solutions to the equation x minus
three, quantity squared, equals zero, you might say
that the solution is “three, with a this of two”.
1 Give this term used to measure a repeated root or
factor.
2

3

Find the only unique factor of x cubed, plus nine x
squared, plus twenty-seven x, plus twenty-seven.
Keep in mind that this is an expression, not an
equation.
Give the only root of that polynomial; again, it is x
cubed, plus nine x squared, plus twenty-seven x,
plus twenty-seven.

(algebraic) multiplicity
[prompt on multiple]
x+3 [or 3+x; allow answers
that also state it is cubed or
raised to the third power]
x = –3

Question #8: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
The graph of this type of function is a horizontal line.
1
2
3

Name this type of linear function, which can be
expressed as f of x equals a number.
What is the slope of a constant function?

constant function

How many distinct values are in the range of a
constant function?

one

4

zero [do not accept “no
slope” or “undeﬁned”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Fine Arts – Jazz
10 points per part
This singer called her autobiography Lady Sings the
Blues.
1 Name this jazz singer who struggled with heroin
addiction and died from cirrhosis [sur-OH-sis] of
the liver at the age of 44.
2 Billie Holiday performed and co-wrote this song
that says, “Mama may have, Papa may have.”
3 Billie Holiday also performed and co-wrote this
song narrated by a woman who allows her cheating
lover to return. Its title follows the words, “Hush
now.”

Billie Holiday [or Eleanora
Fagan]
“God Bless the Child”
“Don’t Explain”

Question #10: Fine Arts – Jazz
10 points per part
Bernie Hanighen added lyrics to this song, which
states “It begins to tell” at the title time.
1 Name this song that was used as a title track in a
1986 ﬁlm starring Dexter Gordon.
2
3

’Round Midnight was written by this jazz pianist,
who also wrote “Straight, No Chaser”.
This musician featured the song “’Round Midnight”
on his ﬁrst album at Columbia Records, ’Round
About Midnight. His later albums with Columbia
included Kind of Blue and Sketches of Spain.

5

’Round Midnight [accept
’Round About Midnight]
Thelonious (Sphere) Monk
Miles (Dewey) Davis (III)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
The mobility of liburna [lih-BUR-nuh] compared to
quinqueremes [KWIN-kwuh-reemz] proved decisive
in this battle, as did the defection of Quintus Dellius.
1 Name this battle in the Ionian Sea, whose ﬁrst
attack was launched by Gaius Sosius [“GUY”-us
SOH-shus] from the losers’ left side.
2 The victorious leader at Actium, Marcus Agrippa,
became the son-in-law of this founder of the
Roman Empire.
3

Following defeat at Actium, these two lovers ﬂed to
Egypt; both committed suicide after another defeat
at Alexandria.

Battle of Actium

Augustus Caesar [or Gaius
Octavius or Gaius (Julius
Caesar) Octavianus]
Marc Antony [or Marcus
Antonius] and Cleopatra
VII Philopator [either order]

Question #12: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
A former cook for the King’s African Riﬂes, this
dictator shelled the palace of King Mutesa
[moo-TAY-suh] II on the orders of Prime Minister
Milton Obote [oh-BOH-tay].
1 Name this strongman who seized power from
Obote in 1971 after the prime minister left for a trip
to Singapore.
2 Idi Amin thus took power in this country.
Historians disagree as to whether he was born in
this country’s capital, Kampala [kum-PAH-luh].
3 Idi Amin’s fall from power was spurred by a failed
invasion of this neighboring nation, led by Julius
Nyerere [nee-uh-RAIR-ay], in an eﬀort to take over
Kagera [kah-GAIR-uh].

6

Idi Amin [EE-dee
ah-MEEN] (Dada)
(Republic of) Uganda [or
Jamhuri ya Uganda]
Tanzania

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
The Pauling scale is one way to deﬁne this quantity.
1

2
3

Name this value that describes how strongly an
atom attracts electrons. Diﬀerences in this quantity
can be used to determine if a bond will be ionic or
covalent [koh-VAY-lint].
On the Pauling scale, this element has the highest
electronegativity: 4. It is the lightest halogen.
The Allred-Rochow deﬁnition of electronegativity
uses this quantity, sometimes symbolized “Z eﬀ”.
This quantity is calculated with consideration of
shielding due to inner electrons.

electronegativity

ﬂuorine [accept F]
eﬀective nuclear charge [do
not accept or prompt on
partial answers]

Question #14: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
At standard temperature and pressure, it is a diatomic
[“DIE-atomic”] gas with a triple bond.
1 Name this gas, the most abundant component of
the Earth’s atmosphere.
2

3

Nitrogen gas is produced in the Wolﬀ-Kishner
reduction, where its source is this compound used
in rocket fuel. Its formula is N2 H4 [“N two, H
four”].
This compound is formed from nitrogen and
hydrogen gases in the Haber process. It is
commonly used in fertilizers, and its formula is
NH3 [“N H three”].

7

nitrogen [or dinitrogen; or
N2 ]
hydrazine
[“HIGH”-druh-zeen]

ammonia [do not accept
“ammonium”]

Round 7
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #15: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In this story, one character “would have been a good
woman, if it had been somebody there to shoot her
every minute of her life”. That character touched a man
on the shoulder before being hit by three bullets in the
chest. In this story, the cat Pitty Sing caused an
accident, after which John Bailey and his family
encounter a group of criminals. The grandmother in
this story wants to travel to Tennessee instead of
Florida. Name this Flannery O’Connor story in which a
family is killed by the Misﬁt.

“A Good Man is Hard to
Find”

Question #16: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
One painting by this artist is based on Leonardo’s
Madonna and Child with Flowers and is nicknamed for
the ﬂowers symbolizing marriage held by Mary and the
baby Jesus. A painting by this artist similar to the
Mona Lisa shows a woman holding a little unicorn.
This person and his assistants painted the Stanza della
Segnatura [sen-yah-TOO-rah] and three other rooms
for the Vatican. One fresco in that room, which shows
the Trinity above theologians arguing about
transubstantiation, is La Disputa [lah dees-POO-tah].
Name this painter who depicted Plato, Aristotle, and
several other great thinkers in his School of Athens.

8

Raphael [or Raﬀaello or
Sanzio or Raﬀaello Sanzio
da Urbino]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This mathematical term can refer to the transformation
of a point relative to a circle by dividing the radius
squared of the circle by the distance of the point from
the circle center. This term also refers to changing the
proposition “If P, then Q” to “If not P, then not Q.” If
this operation is performed on a square matrix, then
multiplying the new matrix by the original gives an
identity matrix. This operation can be performed on
functions that are both one-to-one and onto; for
instance, this operation applied to the function “x
cubed” gives “the cube root of x”. Name this operation
whose “multiplicative” type is equivalent to taking the
reciprocal.

inversion [or inverting or
inverse]

Question #18: Social Studies – U.S. Government
10 points
The Supreme Court overturned Anthony Cramer’s
conviction for this crime, ruling that buying drinks was
not a suﬃcient act. Enlistment of persons to commit
this crime is not suﬃcient for a conviction, according to
the majority opinion in Ex parte Bollman, which
concerned a man who recruited people for the
Burr-Wilkinson Plot. This crime is mentioned before
bribery and high crimes and misdemeanors as an
impeachable oﬀense in the Constitution. Name this act
of levying war against, or giving aid and comfort to,
enemies of the United States.

9

treason

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Science – Physics
10 points
In an equation describing these devices, the reciprocal
of a characteristic length is proportional to n minus one
times various terms containing the two radii that deﬁne
one of these structures. The power of one of these
devices is measured in diopters [“die”-AHP-turz]. One
of these devices named for Fresnel [fruh-NEL] is
commonly used in lighthouses. Chromatic aberrations
can occur in these devices. Like mirrors, they can be
concave or convex, and they create images that are real
or virtual depending on their distance from the focal
point. Name these devices that focus light refracting
through them, and which are often made of glass.

lens

Question #20: Literature – Mythology
10 points
This god’s trishula [trih-SHOO-lah] symbolizes the
Shiva [or Siva; prompt on
past, present, and future. During the churning of the
Mahadeva]
ocean, this god swallowed halahala
[HAH-lah-HAH-lah], whose presence in his throat led
to the epithet “Neelakantha [nee-lah-KAHN-thah]”.
This god cursed the ketaki [keh-TAH-kee] ﬂower after
it conspired with Brahma in a contest with Vishnu,
which involved a lingam. Ganesh was decapitated by
this god for refusing his demand to see his wife, Parvati.
Name this Hindu destroyer god, a member of the
trimurti along with Brahma and Vishnu.

10

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Social Studies – Economics
10 points per part
In The Nature of Rent, this person described the rent
as the diﬀerence in productivity for plots of land.
1 Name this writer of “Essay on the Principle of
Population”, who warned about the arithmetic
growth of resources in contrast to the geometric
growth of population.
2 Malthus opposed these laws, since he argued that
they inhibited labor mobility, instead advocating
for “indoor relief” where the “fare should be hard”.
3

Thomas Malthus clashed with David Ricardo over
these British laws regarding a certain crop. Robert
Peel oversaw their repeal, and the subsequent defeat
of the Irish Coercion bill led to his resignation.

Thomas Malthus

English Poor Laws [accept
Old Poor or New Poor Law
or Poor Law Amendment
Act of 1834]
Corn Laws

Question #22: Social Studies – Economics
10 points per part
In this kind of market, the Herﬁndahl-Hirschman
index is 10,000.
1 Name this market structure in which there is a
single seller.
2

3

Monopolies can result from high barriers to entry,
such as these expenses that are independent of the
amount of output. Common examples include
building and land leases.
In a monopoly, deadweight loss occurs because of
the monopolist setting marginal revenue equal to
marginal cost so as to maximize this value.

11

monopoly [do not accept
“monopolistic competition”]
ﬁxed costs

proﬁt

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These proteins can diversify via V(D)J [V-D-J]
recombination.
1 Name these y-shaped proteins that bind to antigens
[AN-tih-jinz].
2

3

Antibodies are released from these lymphocytes
[LIM-foh-“sites”], which develop in the bone
marrow and are commonly contrasted with T cells.
The immune system recognizes cells by antigens,
as well as these glycoproteins
[GLY-koh-“proteins”] that are classiﬁed as class
one and class two. These are used to distinguish
the self from the non-self.

antibodies [or
immunoglobulins or
antibody]
B cells

MHC [or major
histocompatability
complex]

Question #24: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These structures contain hydrogen bonds between
every four units.
1 Name these structures that, along with beta-pleated
sheets, are characteristic of proteins’ secondary
structure.
2 Alpha helices [HEE-luh-sees] are common in
proteins that span this cellular structure, which
surrounds the cell and is composed of a lipid
[LIP-id] bilayer.
3 Alpha helices were discovered by this chemist, who
is also known for proposing that people take
megadoses of vitamin C.

12

alpha helices or alpha helix
[prompt on helices or helix]
cell membrane [or plasma
membrane]

Linus Pauling

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This site was home to Tuttle’s grocery, where French
Pete and Kanaka [kuh-NAH-kuh] Joe shot each other.
1 Name this location where a hotel was planned
before the overﬂow of the North Fork River killed
Thomas Luck.
2 This author of “The Luck of Roaring Camp” wrote
about the suicide of gambler John Oakhurst in
“The Outcasts of Poker Flat.”
3 In “The Luck of Roaring Camp”, Oakhurst’s
“melancholy air and intellectual abstraction” drew a
comparison to this Shakespearean character, the
Prince of Denmark.

The Luck of Roaring Camp

(Francis) Bret Harte

Hamlet

Question #26: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This sailor was impressed into service on the HMS
Bellipotent.
1 Name this “foretopman” who refused a bribe of two
guineas before accidentally killing John Claggart.
2 Billy Budd is the title character of a novel by this
author, who wrote about Captain Ahab pursuing a
whale in Moby-Dick.
3 This four-word phrase was the last thing uttered by
Billy Budd before he was hanged.

13

Billy Budd [accept either]
Herman Melville

“God bless Captain Vere”

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Mathematics – Analytic Geometry
10 points per part
This way of describing a curve often uses the variable
t to represent the progression of time.
1 Name this system in which the variables that
represent coordinates are expressed using a
diﬀerent variable. Often, x and y are expressed in
terms of t.
2 What curve is generated by the set of parametric
equations x equals the tangent of t, and, y equals
the secant of t?
3 Find the area of the shape generated by the
parametric equations x equals 3 times the sine of t,
and, y equals 4 times the cosine of t.

parametric equations
[accept parameterization;
prompt on parameter]
hyperbola [prompt on conic
section]
12 pi

Question #28: Mathematics – Analytic Geometry
10 points per part
This mathematical entity can be thought of as
inﬁnitely long, inﬁnitely wide, and inﬁnitely thin.
1 Name this shape generated by equations of the
form A x plus B y plus C z plus D equals zero,
where A, B, C, and D can be any number.
2 For the equation above, the vector whose
components are (A, B, C) is perpendicular to the
plane, so it is given this name.
3 Find the shortest distance from the origin to the
plane x plus 2 y plus 2 z equals 1.

14

plane

normal vector

1/3

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This leader outlawed the practice of splitting
immovable property when its owner died in his Law of
Single Inheritance. He initially shared power with his
brother, Ivan V, and was succeeded by his daughter,
Elizabeth I. He gained control of the Baltic via the
Treaty of Nystad [NYE-stad], which was signed shortly
after his victory at Poltava [“pole”-TAH-vuh] over
Sweden in the Great Northern War. Among his policies
was a tax for noblemen with beards. Name this Russian
tsar who modernized the nation and built a new capital
on the Gulf of Finland.

Peter the Great [accept
Peter I or Pyotr I
Alexeyevich Romanov;
prompt on Peter]

Question #30: Science – Biology
10 points
A mutation in this protein can cause the blue sclera
[SKLAIR-uh] characteristic of osteogenesis
[AHS-tee-oh-“genesis”] imperfecta. This protein
contains the unusual amino acid hydroxyproline
[“high”-DRAHK-see-PROH-leen]. This protein, which
requires vitamin C to synthesize, contains glycines
[GLY-seenz] at roughly one in three residues, which
allows it to form its triple helix structure. This protein
forms a basket-weave shape when it forms scars. This
protein is used to make gelatin. Name this most
common protein in the human body, which makes up a
large part of connective tissue.

15

collagen

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Literature – British Literature
10 points
In this novel, Anne’s revelation of a secret engagement
Sense and Sensibility
led to the Steele sisters being thrown out of Barton Park.
A sprained ankle in this novel leads to a brief aﬀair with
the father of Miss Williams’ baby, John Willoughby.
Upon learning of her ﬁancé’s disinheritance, Lucy
Steele opted to marry Robert Ferrars instead of Edward.
Henry dies at the beginning of this novel, leaving it up
to his son from his ﬁrst wife to take care of his second
wife and their daughters. Name this Jane Austen novel
about Elinor and Marianne Dashwood.

Question #32: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
An example of this solid named for Prince Rupert can
pass through a smaller example of this solid. The
diﬀerence between this solid and a rhombohedron
[rahm-boh-HEE-dron] is that this solid has right angles.
The Delian [DEE-lee-un] problem is to construct one
of these shapes with exactly twice the volume of
another one, which is impossible using a straightedge
and compass. Also known as a regular hexahedron
[“HEX”-uh-HEE-drun], this shape is one of the
Platonic [pluh-TAH-nik] solids. Name this square
prism with has six square faces.

16

cube [before “hexahedron”,
accept regular hexahedron
and prompt on hexahedron;
prompt on square prism
before “prism”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Social Studies – World History
10 points
In 1999, Nairi Hunanyan [NAY-ree hoo-NAN-yun] led
an attack on this country’s parliament that killed
Parliament Speaker Karen Demirchyan
[duh-MIRCH-yun] and Prime Minister Vazgen
Sargsyan [sargs-YAN]. This country has a longstanding
dispute over the region of Nagorno-Karabakh with
Azerbaijan [az-ur-by-ZHAHN]. Its predominant ethnic
group was targeted by Enver Pasha in a World War I
genocide orchestrated by Turkey. Name this eastern
European nation whose capital is Yerevan.

(Republic of) Armenia [or
Hayastani Hanrapetut’yun]

Extra Question #2: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
This composer dedicated his ﬁrst set of twelve études
[ay-toods] to Franz Liszt [“least”] and his second set to
Liszt’s mistress Marie d’Agoult [dah-gool]. Though he
did not nickname the individual pieces, they are often
referred to by names such as Waterfall, Ocean, or
Revolutionary. After John Field wrote the ﬁrst
nocturnes, this composer wrote 21 of them that are still
widely performed. He also composed a large number of
mazurkas and the “Tragic” and “Military” Polonaises.
Name this pianist who spent the ﬁrst half of his life in
Poland and second half in Paris, the composer of the
Minute [MIH-nit] Waltz.

17

Frédéric (François) Chopin
[fray-day-REEK shoh-PAN]
[or Fryderyk Franciszek
Szopen]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The organization TPTP maintains a list of thousands of
problems for which this entity can be created by a
computer. Herbert Robbins used a computer system
called EQP to create one of these. Computers assisting
with the creation of these things became controversial
after one was created by Wolfgang Haken and Kenneth
Appel for the four color theorem. Andrew Wiles wrote
a famous example for Fermat’s [fair-mah’z] Last
Theorem. A basis step and an inductive step comprise
ones of these that are done “by induction”. Name these
writings used to demonstrate the certainty of
mathematical theorems, which in high school are often
written in two columns.

mathematical proof(s)
[accept answers referring to
proving mathematical
statements]

Extra Question #4: Science – Earth Science
10 points
Two measurements of this condition are the
Keetch-Byram index and the Palmer index. To monitor
this condition, a center at the University of Nebraska
releases a map each Thursday supported by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and
the Department of Agriculture. This condition can lead
to excessive dust storms. One measure of this condition
uses wildﬁre risk, while another uses temperature and
precipitation levels. Name this condition, recently a
major problem in California, in which an area does not
have enough water.

18

drought [prompt on
descriptive answers that
mention lack of rain or
precipitation]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Literature – British Literature
10 points
As part of his self-education, this character read
Plutarch’s [PLOO-tark’s] Lives of Illustrious Greeks
and Romans. During a trip to the Orkney Islands, he
vowed to be with a man on his wedding night, during
which this character killed Elizabeth Clerval. He used a
locket to frame Justine Moritz for a murder. This
character, who has yellow eyes and is eight feet tall,
pursues its creator. Name this creation of a Swiss
scientist named Victor in a novel by Mary Shelley.

19

Frankenstein’s monster
[accept similar answers
including both underlined
parts; prompt on the
creature; do not accept or
prompt on “Frankenstein”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Much of this person’s local support waned after John
Winthrop was elected governor.
1 Name this supporter of antinomianism who, was
formally excommunicated by the Boston Church
before being encouraged by Roger Williams to start
a colony in present-day Rhode Island.
2 Convicted of slandering the ministers, Anne
Hutchinson was banished from this colony, as were
many unrepentant non-Puritans.
3 The charter for the Massachusetts Bay Colony was
granted by this king. Following the English Civil
War, he was hanged outside Whitehall.

Anne (Marbury)
Hutchinson [accept either
underlined name]
Massachusetts Bay Colony
[prompt on Massachusetts]
Charles I [prompt on
Charles]

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
To alleviate the eﬀects of this event, J. P. Morgan and
the Rothschilds helped replenish the gold reserves of
the U.S. Treasury.
1 Name this ﬁnancial collapse during the second
term of Grover Cleveland.
2 One cause of the Panic of 1893 was this act that
mandated additional purchases of the namesake
precious metal on top of the requirements outlined
in the Bland-Allison Act.
3 The Sherman Silver Purchase Act was passed
alongside this protective tariﬀ that raised the
average rate to over 48%. Its namesake
congressman became president after Cleveland’s
second term.

20

Panic of 1893
Sherman Silver Purchase
Act [prompt on partial
answer]
McKinley Tariﬀ

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 7
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
To calculate binomial probabilities, this operation is
used on a combination and the powers of two
probabilities.
1 Name this operation also performed on two
independent probabilities to calculate the
probability of both events occurring.
2

3

If the probability of event A is one-ﬁfth, and the
probability of event B is ten-elevenths, and events A
and B are independent, then what is the probability
that both events will happen?
If a fair coin is ﬂipped ﬁve times, what is the
probability of getting exactly four heads?

multiplication or
multiplying or product
[accept times]
2/11 [or 0.18 repeating]

5/32 [or 0.15625]

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
This method was used by John von Neumann [vawn
NOY-mun] to make predictions on the ENIAC
[EE-nee-aak] computer during the development of the
hydrogen bomb.
1 Name this type of statistical method that
incorporates randomness and is named for a region
in Europe.
2 If a Monte Carlo method was used to roll a pair of
fair dice 36 times, what would be the expected
number of times that a sum of 7 would come up?
3 A roulette wheel has 18 red slots, 18 black slots,
and 2 green slots. If a Monte Carlo method was
used to spin the wheel 190 times, what would be
the expected number of times the ball landed in a
green slot?

21

Monte Carlo method [or
Monte Carlo experiment]
6 times

10 times

