Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #1: Social Studies – World History
10 points
British forts in what is now this country were targeted
by the Fenian [FEE-nee-un] Raids. The transfer of
Rupert’s Land to this country sparked the Red River
Rebellion, which ended when Louis Riel [loo-ee ree-el]
left. During this nation’s October Crisis in 1970, the
FLQ attempted to get the French-speaking part of this
country to secede. This modern country includes most
of the regions explored by Jacques Cartier [zhahk
kar-tee-ay] and Samuel de Champlain. Name this
country whose past prime ministers include John
Macdonald, Pierre Trudeau, and Stephen Harper.

Canada

Question #2: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The repeated subtraction of this type of function from
the reciprocal function is used to approximate the Euler
[OY-ler]-Mascheroni constant. This function was used
to develop Kepler’s Third Law and design slide rules.
The value of this function’s derivative varies inversely
with its input, an example of which is that for one of
this type of function, the derivative is 1 over x. This
function allows multiplication problems to be
converted into addition problems. Name this inverse of
exponential functions, whose “common” form is called
base 10 and whose “natural” form is base e.

1

(natural or common)
logarithms or log(arithmic)
functions [accept answers
that additionally include
“natural” or “common” or a
base]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
One character in this opera says “It is a mismatch to
take a soldier when one could have an oﬃcer.” The title
character of this opera sings about visiting Lillas Pastia
[LIL-las PAHS-tyah] and dancing the Seguedilla
[say-gway-DEE-yah]. This opera begins with Corporal
Morales and some soldiers relaxing in a square when
they are approached by Micaela, who is looking for
Don José [dohn zhoh-say]. Soon after that, the women
who work in a cigarette factory get oﬀ of work. This
opera includes the “Toreador Song” and “Habanera
[ah-bah-NAIR-ah]”. Name this opera about a gypsy
woman, composed by Georges Bizet [jorj bee-zay].

Carmen

Question #4: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
This author wrote of visiting Pio Baroja [PEE-oh
bah-ROH-hah], whom this writer felt was more
deserving of a Nobel Prize than himself. One of his
novels, about smuggling Chinese workers into Florida,
is To Have and Have Not. Robert Cohn’s aﬀair with
Lady Brett Ashley served as the backdrop to one of his
novels, and an 18-foot marlin secures the reputation of
the ﬁsherman Santiago in another of his works. Name
this author of Death in the Afternoon, The Sun Also
Rises, and “The Old Man and the Sea.”

2

Ernest (Miller) Hemingway

Round 1
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #5: Science – Chemistry
10 points
Chlorine is added to this compound to create an
insecticide called lindane [LIN-dayn]. Pyrene
[“PIE”-reen] and anthrocene [“AN-throw-seen”] are
larger derivatives of this compound. This compound is
the most famous compound that both is planar and
satisﬁes Hückel’s rule, which results in its great
stability. Scientists were baﬄed by the structure of this
molecule until August Kekulé’s [KEK-oo-leh’z] dream
of a snake eating its own tail led him to propose it
having a cyclic structure. Name this most notable
aromatic compound, whose formula is C6 H6 .

benzene [prompt on C6 H6
before the end]

Question #6: Social Studies – Geography
10 points
Two islands in this lake are named Manitou
[MAN-ih-too] after spirits in Algonquian
[al-GAHN-kee-un] mythology. Cars are ferried across
this body of water by the SS Badger, which travels
between the towns of Ludington and Manitowoc
[MAN-ih-tuh-wahk]. A town named Holland near this
body of water celebrates an annual Tulip Time Festival.
The Door Peninsula separates Green Bay from the main
part of this lake. The Straits of Mackinac
[MAAK-ih-naw] separate it from Lake Huron. Cities
on the shore of this lake include Gary and Milwaukee.
Name this Great Lake bordered by Wisconsin, Indiana,
and Illinois.

3

Lake Michigan

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Statistics
10 points per part
This type of diagram shows all the information from
the ﬁve-number summary of a data set.
1 Name this kind of diagram that shows the
minimum, maximum, and quartiles of a
distribution.
2

3

A segment drawn inside the box of a boxplot
represents this value, also known as the second
quartile. This value separates the higher half of a
distribution from the lower half.
Find the interquartile range for a distribution with a
minimum of 10, a ﬁrst quartile of 12, a median of
15, a third quartile of 20, and a maximum value of
23.

boxplot [or
box-and-whisker plot or
box-and-whisker diagram]
median [prompt on 50th
percentile or ﬁfth decile]

8

Question #8: Mathematics – Statistics
10 points per part
This two-word phrase is sometimes used to claim that
diﬀerences between values are due to random errors.
1 Name this type of statement that is tested in
statistical experiments. This statement is falsely
rejected in a type I [1] error.
2 This is the name for a subgroup of a population
measured in a statistical experiment. One way of
calculating the standard deviation is named for this
term; the other type is the population standard
deviation.
3 If an experiment with a 7% chance of success was
tried 500 times, what would be the expected
number of successes?

4

null hypothesis

sample

35

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This character used a lasso to defeat Sagramore
[SAG-ruh-mor] in a duel to the death.
1 Name this character who is stabbed by
Meliagraunce [MEL-ee-uh-grawnss] and is the
target of a spell causing him to sleep for 1,300
years.

Hank Morgan [accept
either; prompt on The Boss;
prompt on, but do not
otherwise reveal, The
Connecticut Yankee]

2

Hank Morgan travels from 19th-century America
to medieval times in this novel.

A Connecticut Yankee in
King Arthur’s Court [or A
Yankee in King Arthur’s
Court or A Yankee at the
Court of King Arthur]

3

This satirist wrote A Connecticut Yankee in King
Arthur’s Court. He also wrote The Adventures of
Tom Sawyer.

Mark Twain [or Samuel
(Langhorne) Clemens]

Question #10: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This resident of West Egg was shot after taking the
blame for something Daisy Buchanan had done.
1 Name this graduate of St. Olaf’s, whom George
Wilson killed for supposedly running over George’s
wife Myrtle.

Jay Gatsby [accept either;
accept Gatz, Jimmy, or The
Great Gatsby]

2

Jay Gatsby appears in The Great Gatsby, which is
by this author.

F(rancis) Scott (Key)
Fitzgerald

3

Henry Gatz and Owl Eyes were among the few
attendees of this event. When Klipspringer was
invited to this event, he asked about tennis shoes.

Jay Gatsby’s funeral [accept
similar answers referencing a
funeral or memorial]

5

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These diagrams use the alleles [uh-LEELS] of parents
to depict the possible genotypes [“gene-oh-types”] of
oﬀspring.
1 Name these “squares”. They show a 3-to-1
phenotype [FEE-noh-“type”] ratio when crossing a
pair of heterozygous [HET-uh-roh-ZY-gus] parents.
2 Punnett squares are used to analyze the types of
inheritance patterns named for this man, an
Austrian monk who studied pea plants.
3

Punnett squares are especially used for this method
of determining whether an organism is
homozygous or heterozygous, in which the
organism of unknown genotype is bred with a
homozygous recessive partner.

Punnett squares

Gregor Mendel [accept
Mendelian inheritance or
Mendelian genetics]
test cross(ing)

Question #12: Science – Biology
10 points per part
Cells in this kind of tissue contain an organelle called
the sarcoplasmic reticulum [sar-koh-PLAS-mik
reh-TIK-yoo-lum].
1 Name this type of tissue that contracts to allow
humans to move. It comes in skeletal, smooth, and
cardiac varieties.
2 This is the functional unit of a muscle. It is
composed of actin and myosin [MY-oh-sin].
3 Sarcomeres do not contract until they encounter
ions of this element, which stop troponin
[TROH-poh-nin] from blocking the binding of
actin and myosin. This element is found in the
sarcoplasmic reticulum.

6

muscle tissue or muscles

sarcomere
calcium [or Ca; accept
Ca2+ ]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Social Studies – Religion
10 points per part
In this person’s namesake book in the Old Testament,
Satan is told that he can touch everything this man has
but cannot take this man’s life.
1 Name this man who blesses God even when his
possessions and his family are destroyed.
2

3

In the Septuagint [sep-TOO-uh-jint], this elder
brother of Jacob was named as Job’s grandfather.
This person gave up his birthright to Jacob in
exchange for a bowl of stew.
In Chapter 14 verse 14 of his namesake book, this
prophet indicated that Noah, Daniel, and Job could
only save themselves when Jerusalem is judged.

Job [rhymes with “lobe”] [or
Iyov]
Esau [or Aysav]

Ezekiel [or Yechezkayl]

Question #14: Social Studies – Religion
10 points per part
This saint was arrested following his denunciation of
the relationship between Herod Antipas [AN-tuh-pus]
and Herodias [hur-AH-dee-us].
1 Name this son of Zechariah [zek-uh-RY-uh] and
Elizabeth who described Jesus as the “Lamb of
God.” He performed a ritual on Jesus Christ in the
River Jordan.
2 This angel appeared to Zechariah in the temple to
foretell the birth of John the Baptist. In Islam, this
angel narrated the Koran to Muhammad.
3 With her mother’s encouragement, this daughter of
Herod Antipas demanded the head of John the
Baptist.

7

John the Baptist [prompt on
John]

Gabriel [accept Jibril]

Salome

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Miscellaneous – Consumer Education
10 points
This company ended its relationship with Redington
Gulf following an SEC inquiry into illegal business
deals with Iran. Following the cancellation of a
collaboration with Napster on a personal media player,
this tech company made a deal with Apple allowing it
to sell a line of iPods with its own logo on the back. It
was founded during the Great Depression in a one-car
garage in Palo Alto, and since its 2002 acquisition of
Compaq it focused on the personal computing market.
This company sells Stream, ENVY, and Pavilion
laptops, and it split in 2015. Name this tech giant that
in 1999 hired Carly Fiorina as CEO.

Hewlett Packard [or HP
Inc.; accept Hewlett Packard
Enterprise]

Question #16: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This poet invited readers to join him in singing the
sweet chorus of “Ha ha he” in “Laughing Song”. This
poet wrote of an animal with “such a tender voice,
making all the vales rejoice” in a poem in which God is
told to bless that animal and the animal is asked “who
made” it. That poem, “The Lamb”, is in this writer’s
Songs of Innocence. In another of this writer’s poems,
the speaker asks, “What immortal hand or eye, could
frame thy fearful symmetry?”. Name this poet who
wrote of an animal “burning bright in the forests of the
night” in “The Tyger”.

8

William Blake

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Science – Earth Science
10 points
A member of the rose family called Polylepis
[“poly”-LEP-iss] grows on these formations. These
formations are typically the home of edelweiss
[AY-dul-“vise”], which has a species name making the
relationship explicit. These landforms are also the most
common homes of vicugnas [vee-KOO-nyas] and
chinchillas. The fault-block types of these objects can
be found in Harz [“hearts”], Germany and, like the fold
type, are formed by continental drift. These objects
often form volcanoes. Name these very large objects
that often collect in ranges such as the Great Dividing
Range, the Andes, and the Himalayas.

mountains [or alpine;
accept mountain range
before it is mentioned]

Question #18: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
During this president’s term in oﬃce, John Fries [frees]
led a rebellion against a property tax. Also during his
presidency, Congress ended treaties with France and
authorized attacks on French ships in what became
known as the Quasi-War. Those events occurred after
this president announced that French diplomats sought
bribes in the XYZ Aﬀair, and they led to him backing
the Alien and Sedition Acts. Name this drafter of the
Massachusetts State Constitution, who was the ﬁrst
vice president and second president.

9

John Adams [prompt on
“Adams”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Literature – World Literature
10 points
On his way to Küsnacht [KOOS-nahkt], this character
steered a boat to shore before putting his captors back
out to sea. This person’s murder of a tyrant, which
happened after his victim showed Armgart no pity, led
to the signal Ulrich [OOL-rik] of Rubenz was looking
for to start a revolution. This person was captured after
he did not salute the governor’s cap, and he later killed
that governor, Albrecht [AHL-brekt] Gessler. Name
this Swiss archer who was given a chance to save his
own life by shooting an apple oﬀ the head of his son.

William Tell [accept either;
accept Wilhelm Tell or
Guillaume Tell]

Question #20: Science – Biology
10 points
In these cells, the release of calcium ions causes the
egg cells [or ova or ovum or
cortical reaction. These cells are surrounded by a layer oocytes]
called the zona pellucida [ZOH-nuh peh-LOO-sih-duh].
The formation of these cells also results in the creation
of three polar bodies. When these cells develop, the
corpus luteum [LOO-tee-um] is formed. These cells,
which are large enough to be seen with the naked eye,
are stored in follicles until they are released into the
Fallopian [fuh-LOH-pee-un] tubes. One of these cells
is shed with the endometrium [EN-doh-MEE-tree-um]
during menstruation. Name these female sex gametes
that are fertilized by sperm cells.

10

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
This term refers to any line that intersects two other
lines at distinct points.
1 Name this line that creates congruent alternate
interior angles when the two lines it intersects are
parallel.
2 If a transversal intersects two parallel lines, and one
of the interior angles formed is 37 degrees, then
what is the degree measure of the interior angle
adjacent to that one? Consecutive interior angles
are not congruent in this case.
3 Suppose transversal lines ABC and XYZ intersect
three parallel lines named AX, BY, and CZ. If
segment AB measures 4 units, BC measures 6 units,
and XY measures 6 units, then what is the length of
YZ?

transversal line [accept
transverse line]
143 degrees

9 units

Question #22: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
This term can refer to a plane that touches a sphere at
one point.
1 Name this term for two mathematical objects, such
as a line and a curve, that touch at only one point.
2

3

If two circles, one with a radius of 3 units and the
other with a radius of 4 units, are 3 units apart, then
how far apart are their centers?
In the situation above, ﬁnd the length of a segment
from a point of tangency on the circle of radius 3
units to the center of the circle of radius 4 units.

11

tangent line [accept line of
tangency]
10 units

root 91 units [or the square
root of 91 units or radical
91 units or equivalents, do
not accept “91”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
His birth name was Doménikos Theotokópoulos
[doh-MEN-ee-kohss thay-oh-toh-KOH-puh-lohss].
1 Give the common nickname for this painter of The
Nobleman with his Hand on his Chest and The
Burial of the Count of Orgaz.
2 Most of El Greco’s famous paintings such as View
of Toledo [toh-LAY-doh] were made in this country.
Salvador Dalí lived in Catalonia, which is currently
part of this country.
3 Catalonia was also home to this artist of The
Harlequin’s Carnival and the sculpture The Caress
of a Bird.

El Greco

(Kingdom of) Spain [or
Reino de España]

Joan Miró [zhoh-AHN
mee-ROH]

Question #24: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This artist painted The Old Guitarist during his Blue
Period.
1 Name this painter of Guernica [gair-NEE-kah].
2

3

Picasso played a leading role in the analytic,
synthetic, and crystal phases of this art movement,
in which objects were simultaneously shown from
diﬀerent viewpoints.
This painter used cubism in his portrait of Picasso,
as well as in his pieces Violin and Checkerboard
and Harlequin with Guitar.

12

Pablo (Ruiz y) Picasso
cubism [or cubist
movement]

Juan Gris [wahn “grease”]
[or José Victoriano Carmelo
Carlos González-Pérez]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
This battle began with a surprise attack on Pittsburg
Landing, led by Albert Sidney Johnston and Pierre
Beauregard.
1 Name this battle won by Union forces after they
regrouped at the Hornet’s Nest. Reinforcements led
by Don Carlos Buell [BYOO-ul] helped turn the
tide on the second day.
2 The Battle of Shiloh and the Battle of Stones River
near Murfreesboro were fought in this state.
3 Following the Battle of Shiloh, calls for the
removal of this general were countered by President
Lincoln’s assertion that “I can’t spare this man; he
ﬁghts”. This person later became commanding
general of the Union and the U.S. President.

Battle of Shiloh [prompt on
Pittsburg Landing]

Tennessee
(Hiram) Ulysses S. Grant

Question #26: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Norman Butler and Thomas Johnson refused to admit
to their role in this man’s assassination, while
Talmadge Hayer confessed at trial.
1 Name this person who founded Muslim Mosque,
Incorporated after leaving the Nation of Islam. His
departure followed a 90-day silence that was
ordered by the Nation of Islam’s leader.
2

3

The 90-day silence was a response to Malcolm X’s
comment about “chickens coming home to roost so
soon”, which is how he described the assassination
of this president in 1963.
The Autobiography of Malcolm X was actually
written by this journalist, also the author of Roots.

13

Malcolm X [or El-Hajj
Malik El-Shabazz; accept
Malcolm Little; prompt on
partial answer]
John F(itzgerald) Kennedy
[accept JFK]

Alex(ander Murray Palmer)
Haley

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
A common introduction-to-chemistry experiment
involves using this technique to separate the pigments
in ink.
1 Name this technique that separates a compound
based on a mobile phase’s aﬃnity for a stationary
phase.
2

3

Simple chromatography often uses this paper-based
material, which is also commonly used when
funneling.
Ion-exchange chromatography can be used to
separate proteins because each protein has a
diﬀerent value for this number, the pH [P-H] at
which it is neutral.

chromatography
[kroh-muh-TAH-gruh-fee]
[accept chromatogram]
ﬁlter paper [or ﬁltration
paper]
isoelectric point

Question #28: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
A form of this technique named for Karl Fischer can
be used to ﬁnd the amount of water in a sample.
1 Name this technique in which a substance of
known concentration is used to ﬁnd the
concentration of another substance. It is commonly
done with acids and bases.
2 In an acid-base titration, one of these substances is
typically added to determine visually when a pH
threshold is crossed. Probably the most common
one is phenolphthalein [fee-nawlf-THAY-leen].
3 A titration is performed until this point, where the
unknown and known substances have reacted in the
stoichiometrically [STOY-kee-oh-“METRIC”-lee]
same amount.

14

titration [“tie-TRAY”-shun]
[or titrating]

pH indicator

equivalence point

Round 1
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #29: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
This town was home to Major Andre’s tree and Wiley’s
Swamp, and its schoolhouse was designed by Yost van
Houton [“HOW”-tun]. It is about two miles from Tarry
Town, and its plowboys occasionally hear a former
resident chanting melancholy psalm tunes. One of the
students who attends school in this town is Katrina Van
Tassel. Its dominant spirit was said to be the ghost of a
Hessian trooper. Name this location, once the home of
Ichabod [IK-uh-bahd] Crane and the setting for a
Washington Irving story about the Headless Horseman.

Sleepy Hollow, New York

Question #30: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Two of these entities can be proven equal to each other
using the axiom of extensionality. A group consists of
an operation and one of these entities. Russell’s
paradox concerns one of these mathematical things that
cannot exist. Taking the “power” of one of these results
in one of them with more elements. The universal
example of these entities contains everything, including
itself. Two of these things can be combined using either
union or intersection. Name these mathematical lists of
elements, which are often written using curly brackets.

15

sets

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Social Studies – World History
10 points
When Caecilian [sih-SIL-yen] was appointed as the
bishop in this city, Majorinus [MAY-jor-EE-nus]
attempted to replace him during a conﬂict that led to
the creation of the Donatist [DAHN-uh-tist] sect. This
city’s forces won the Battle of Lake Trasimene
[TRAZ-ih-meen] but lost the Battle of Zama to forces
led by Masinissa [MASS-uh-NIS-uh] and Scipio
Africanus [SIP-ee-oh af-rih-KAN-us]. According to
legend, the land for this city’s citadel was claimed using
oxhide strips. Name this city that lost the Punic
[PYOO-nik] Wars against Rome and was led by
Hannibal.

Carthage [prompt on Tunis]

Question #32: Science – Physics
10 points
Wien’s [veen’z] displacement constant divided by
temperature gives a value for this quantity. The cross
section for Rayleigh [RA-lay] scattering is inversely
proportional to the fourth power of this quantity.
Planck’s constant divided by momentum gives a
version of this quantity that can describe any matter and
is named for Louis de Broglie [loo-ee duh broy]. This
value times frequency gives the phase speed of a wave.
For visible light, it is between about 400 and 700
nanometers. Name this quantity, the distance between
successive crests of a wave.

16

wavelength [prompt on
length or distance]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This character settled down with the daughter of Abdul
Gafur, who had tried to frame this man for the theft of
Gisborne’s money. Called “Frog” by one set of
adoptive parents, this character was aided by Hathi
[HAH-thee] in getting revenge on Buldeo
[bul-DAY-oh], who had ordered the imprisonment of
Messua [meh-SOO-uh]. At a Council Rock meeting led
by Akela [uh-KEE-luh], this character was vouched for
by the panther Bagheera [buh-GEER-uh] and the bear
Baloo. After being hunted by the tiger Shere Khan, this
boy is raised by wolves. Name this human protagonist
of Rudyard Kipling’s Jungle Book.

Mowgli

Extra Question #2: Science – Astronomy
10 points
Harlow Shapley argued that this location was the entire
universe when he opposed Heber Curtis during the
Great Debate in 1920. The center of this object, which
put out large ﬂares detected in recent years by the
Chandra X-ray Observatory, is the supermassive black
hole Sagittarius A-star. This location’s name is based
on the appearance of a band of stars in the sky that
belong to it. This location is between the Triangulum
and Andromeda galaxies in size, making it the
second-largest galaxy in the Local Group. Name this
galaxy we live in.

17

Milky Way Galaxy [prompt
on galaxy]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
David du Bose Gaillard [“GUY”-lard] designed the
part of this project known as the Culebra
[koo-LAY-brah] Cut. Philippe-Jean Bunau-Varilla
[ﬁh-leep zhahn boo-“NOW” vuh-RIL-lah] negotiated
to allow for its construction to begin after a failed
attempt to help Ferdinand de Lesseps. After Tomás
Herran rejected a treaty regarding this project, ships
were sent to gain independence from Colombia for its
namesake nation. Name this waterway that connects
the Atlantic and Paciﬁc Oceans, and runs through a
Central American country.

Panama Canal

Extra Question #4: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This shape can be parametrized as x equals r times
cosine theta, y equals r times sine theta, and z equals r.
This solid’s surface area can be calculated using a
hypotenuse from a right triangle formed from its two
basic dimensions. Cutting oﬀ either a pyramid or this
kind of shape produces a frustrum. A class of shapes
including ellipses and parabolas is deﬁned based on the
intersection of a plane and this shape. This is one kind
of shape whose volume equals one-third times the area
of its base times its height. Name this solid that has a
circular base.

18

(right circular) cone

Round 1
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Extra Question #5: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
A recent artist from this country, who traveled the
world with his Trash People, is H.A. Schult. A member
of the New Objectivity school from this country painted
Portrait of the Journalist Sylvia von Harden. Another
painter from this country often created landscapes with
people facing into the painting, such as Wanderer
above the Sea of Fog. A 16th-century engraver from
this country made Knight, Death, and the Devil. Name
this home of the Bauhaus, whose artists include Caspar
David Friedrich and Albrecht Dürer.

19

Germany [or Federal
Republic of Germany or
Bundesrepublik
Deutschland]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
Although it is known that there are inﬁnitely many of
these numbers, it is an open question whether there
are inﬁnitely many pairs of them that diﬀer by two,
which are called twins.
1 Name these counting numbers greater than one that
are only divisible by one and themselves.
2 This French woman is the namesake of prime
numbers that satisfy the rule “twice the prime
number plus one is also prime”.
3 This is the smallest prime number that is not a
Germain prime, since twice this number plus one
can be factored into three times ﬁve.

prime numbers or primes
Sophie Germain
[zhair-men]
7

Extra Question #7: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This kind of relation can be identiﬁed from its graph
by whether it passes the vertical line test.
1 Name these relations, in which each element of the
domain corresponds to exactly one element in the
range.
2 The graph of a function may have this kind of point,
where the derivative is zero. They are often, but not
always, local extrema.
3 Find the x-coordinate of the stationary point of the
function f of x equals x squared minus eight x plus
three.

20

functions

stationary points [accept
critical points]
x=4 [accept ( 4, −13)]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
The narrator of this poem “saw pale kings, and
princes too”.
1 Name this poem that describes a meeting in a
dream between a knight-at-arms and a lady in the
meads. Its narrator wakes up on a cold hillside.
2 This author of “La Belle Dame Sans Merci” wrote
“beauty is truth, truth beauty” in “Ode on a Grecian
Urn.”
3 In the knight’s dream, he gave the lady four of
these before falling asleep. In “Sir Gawain and the
Green Knight,” the carcasses of three hunted
animals are exchanged for three of these.

“La Belle Dame Sans
Merci”
John Keats

kisses

Extra Question #9: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Nicknamed “Handel” by Herbert Pocket, this
character took a job in Cairo before eventually
returning to Satis [SAT-iss] House.
1 Name this brother-in-law of Joe Gargery who aided
the escaped convict Abel Magwitch. Magwitch
later became this character’s benefactor.
2 Pip is the protagonist of this Charles Dickens novel.
3

After Pip’s sister, Mrs. Joe, was attacked by Orlick,
she wrote the letter ‘T’ to represent this object that
Orlick used.

21

Philip Pirrip or Pip [accept
any underlined name]
Great Expectations
a hammer

