Round 8
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #1: Literature – British Literature
10 points
One character in this novel justiﬁes the title act as
revenge for Daisy and other potential kidnapping
victims. At this novel’s conclusion, it is agreed that the
Yugoslavian police will be told about a man who wore
a Wagon Lit uniform to perform the title action. A
character in this novel justiﬁes not taking a case by
saying, “I do not like your face, Mr. Ratchett.” The
sequence of events in which twelve diﬀerent passengers
had a hand in killing a man was revealed by Hercule
Poirot [air-kyool pwah-roh]. Name this mystery,
written by Agatha Christie, that takes place on a train.

Murder on the Orient
Express [accept Murder on
the Calais Coach]

Question #2: Science – Physics
10 points
Solutions to a quantum mechanical system of this type
contain the Hermite [air-meet] polynomials. That
system contains energy levels with equal spacing.
Einstein’s model of heat capacity treats atoms in a
lattice as this kind of system. A dashpot can be used to
“damp” this kind of system, and under the small-angle
approximation, a pendulum can be treated as this type
of system. The equations of motion for these systems
consist of a linear combination of sine and cosine
functions. Name this type of system exempliﬁed by a
mass on a spring.

1

simple harmonic
oscillator(s) [or simple
harmonic oscillation;
accept answers referring to
simple harmonic motion;
prompt on spring(s); prompt
on oscillation or oscillator]

Round 8
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #3: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
The public wing of the ﬁrst version of this organization
was known as the Young Men’s Democratic Clubs.
Following the murder of Mary Phagan [FAY-gun],
William Simmons led the revival of this group at Stone
Mountain. Its members plotted the bombing of the 16th
Street Baptist Church in Birmingham. Politician David
Duke used to be a Grand Wizard of this organization.
Name this organization gloriﬁed in the ﬁlm The Birth
of a Nation, whose members often wear pointed hoods
and white robes.

(Knights of) the Ku Klux
Klan or KKK

Question #4: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
If the capacity type of this quantity for an object does
not equal the covering type, then the object is classiﬁed
as a fractal. For a vector space, this quantity equals the
number of vectors in the basis. When this value is n, a
simplex has n plus one vertices [VER-tih-seez].
Tesseracts exist in a space where this quantity is four,
while this value is zero for a single point. Name this
quantity equal to the number of coordinates required to
specify a point in a space, which is two for a plane.

2

dimension(ality)

Round 8
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #5: Literature – World Literature
10 points
In this play, one character uses a scarf and parasol to
hide himself from Zeus. Iris has to remind this drama’s
protagonist of her immortality. During a negotiation in
this play, one protagonist calls Heracles
[“HAIR”-uh-kleez] a bastard and gets Zeus’s
negotiators to agree to terms that involve a transfer of
power. This play opens with a search for a Hoopoe
[HOO-poh] by Euelpides [yoo-EL-pih-deez] and
Pisthetaerus [piss-thuh-TAY-rus]. Name this
Aristophanes [air-iss-TAH-fuh-neez] play in which
avian creatures build Cloudcuckooland.

The Birds [or Ornithes]

Question #6: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
This architect designed a museum featuring the yellow
prisms of Olafur Eliasson’s [OH-luh-fur
uh-LEE-uh-sun’s] Inside the Horizon, the Louis
Vuitton [LOO-ee vwee-TAWN] Foundation. This
architect also designed the Weisman Art Museum at the
University of Minnesota. Another one of this architect’s
projects features the Sky Church and was based on a
model he made out of sliced guitars. That building in
Seattle is the Experience Music Project. Name this
architect whose stainless steel designs include the Walt
Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, and Chicago’s BP
Pedestrian Bridge and Jay Pritzker Pavilion.

3

Frank (Owen) Gehry [or
Frank Owen Goldberg]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This technique typically uses an agarose
[AH-guh-rose] matrix.
1 Name this technique used to separate DNA
according to size, by applying an electric ﬁeld.
2 The DNA in the gel can be visualized by staining it
with this intercalating [in-TER-kuh-“late”-ing]
agent, which ﬂuoresces with an orange color.
3 Ethidium bromide is typically ﬂuoresced using this
kind of light. Overexposure to it may cause skin
cancer.

gel electrophoresis
ethidium bromide [accept
EtBr]
ultraviolet light [or UV
light; accept other answers
containing ultraviolet or
UV]

Question #8: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This set of reactions requires NADPH [N-A-D-P-H]
and converts carbon dioxide to G3P [G “three” P].
1 Name this set of reactions referred to as the
“light-independent” reactions of photosynthesis.

Calvin(-Benson-Bassham)
cycle [accept reductive
pentose phosphate cycle;
prompt on dark reactions or
C3 or CBB]

2

The Calvin cycle uses this enzyme to carboxylate
RuBP [kar-“BOX”-ih-“late” R-U-B-P]. It is the
most abundant enzyme on Earth.

RuBisCO [accept
ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate
carboxylase/oxygenase]

3

This alternative form of carbon ﬁxation is found in
bundle sheath-containing plants like corn. It is
named for the number of carbons in oxaloacetate
[“OX”-uh-loh-“ASS”-ih-tayt].

C4 [accept longer answers
that contain C4]

4

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
This character is the elder daughter of Baptista, and
her marriage is a precondition for the marriage of
Bianca.
1 Name this protagonist who ends up being
challenged by her husband, Petruchio
[peh-TROO-kee-oh].
2

3

Petruchio traveled from this town to Padua to ﬁnd a
wife. In another Shakespearean play, Proteus and
Valentine were Two Gentlemen from this city.
When trying to woo Bianca, both Lucretio
[loo-KREE-shee-oh] and Hortensio pretended to
disguise themselves in this role in order to be in her
company.

Katherina Minola [prompt
on Kate or Minola or
shrew]
Verona

tutor [accept teacher]

Question #10: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
This device became fully operational in the same lab
that the ILLIAC [ILL-ee-ak] computers were
manufactured in Urbana, Illinois.
1 Name this device that was Initially able to easily
defeat Frank Poole in chess. It is eventually reduced
to singing “Daisy Bell” as its modules are removed.

2

3

HAL 9000 is the primary antagonist of this novel,
in which it attempts to kill the crew aboard the
Discovery One.
2001: A Space Odyssey is by this author.

5

HAL 9000 [accept
Heuristically programmed
ALgorithmic computer
9000; prompt partial
answers]
2001: A Space Odyssey

(Sir) Arthur C(harles)
Clarke

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
Euclid’s [YOO-klid’s] fourth postulate states that all
of these geometric ﬁgures are congruent to each other.
1 Name these angles that measure 90 degrees.

right angles

2

Find the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle
if one of the legs measures the square root of 6
units, and the other leg measures 3 units.

root 15 [or the square root
of 15 or radical 15 or
equivalents]

3

If one of the acute angles in a right triangle
measures 12 degrees, 23 minutes, and 10 seconds,
what is the measure of the other acute angle?

77 degrees and 36 minutes
and 50 seconds

Question #12: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
This term refers to a section of a curve.
1
2

3

Name this term, often used for part of the
circumference of a circle.
If a circle has a radius of 12 units, what is the
length of an arc that subtends a 60-degree angle
around the circle?
Find the area of the smaller circular sector in the
same situation: a circle with a radius of 12 units,
and a sector that includes a 60-degree central angle.

6

arc
4 pi units [do not accept
“4”or “pi”]
24 (times) pi square units
[do not prompt on partial
answer]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
This composer only wrote one opera: Fidelio.
1
2

3

Name this composer whose nine symphonies
include “Eroica”.
This is the nickname of Beethoven’s sonata “Quasi
una fantasia”. This nickname is based on Ludwig
Rellstab’s comparison of this piece to a view of
Lake Lucerne at night.
This is the nickname of Beethoven’s ninth violin
sonata. It is named for a violinist who did not play
it; a Leo Tolstoy novella is named for it.

Ludwig van Beethoven
Moonlight Sonata

Kreutzer [KROYT-sur]
sonata

Question #14: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
He wrote the operas Così fan tutte [KOH-zee fahn
TOOT-tay] and Don Giovanni [dohn joh-VAH-nee].
1 Name this composer from Salzburg
[“SALTS”-burg] who started performing when he
was six years old.
2
3

This is the nickname of Mozart’s 41st symphony,
the last and the longest one that he wrote.
Mozart wrote two pieces, a quintet and a concerto,
for Anton Stadler to play on this instrument.

7

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
[or Johannes Chrysostomus
Wolfgangus Theophilus
Mozart]
Jupiter symphony
clarinet

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Miscellaneous – Popular Culture
10 points
This man portrayed the history teacher Chuck Noblet
on Strangers with Candy, and he allegedly broke an arm
stopping a civil union. This author of I Am America,
And So Can You spearheaded the “March to Keep Fear
Alive.” He hosted “This Week in God” when he was a
Daily Show correspondent, and went on to portray a
“high-status idiot” as a parody of conservative talk
show hosts on his own show. Name this former
Comedy Central host whose Report [reh-POR] used to
follow The Daily Show, and who succeeded David
Letterman as the host of The Late Show.

Stephen Colbert

Question #16: Science – Biology
10 points
The amount of this substance in solution can be
quantiﬁed by using an extinction coeﬃcient of 40 and
observing UV-Vis absorption at 260 nanometers. This
substance contains a major and minor groove, and it is
typically found in the right-handed B conformation.
Topoisomerases [TOH-poh-“EYE”-SAH-mur-“aces”]
can increase or decrease the supercoiling of this
molecule, which is synthesized during the S phase of
mitosis. Unlike a similar molecule, this molecule
typically exists in paired strands. Name this
double-helical [HEE-luh-kul] molecule that contains
human genetic information.

8

DNA [or deoxyribonucleic
acid]

Round 8
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #17: Social Studies – World History
10 points
At this meeting, it was agreed that control of Lauenberg
[LAO-en-bairg] would be oﬀered as compensation for
the loss of Norway. Four of this meeting’s attendees
agreed to remain united per the Treaty of Chaumont
[shao-mawn]; rifts within that group provided an
opening for Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand. Organized
by Klemens von Metternich, it was an attempt to strike
a balance among the European powers following the
fall of Napoleon. Name this 1814 gathering in the
capital of Austria.

Congress of Vienna

Question #18: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one work, this author wrote of “the currents of the
Universal Being circulating through me” and being
“part or particle of God”. In one essay, he wrote of an
object that takes everything in as opposed to reﬂecting:
the “transparent eyeball”. In another essay, he advised
the reader to “trust thyself” and that “a foolish
consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.” This
person used the line “the shot heard ’round the world”
in his “Concord Hymn.” Name this Transcendentalist
who wrote “Nature” and “Self-Reliance”.

9

Ralph Waldo Emerson

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Science – Astronomy
10 points
Following the Miller-Urey experiment, this person and
Bishun Khare used long-wavelength ultraviolet
radiation to produce amino [uh-MEE-noh] acids. This
person became the namesake of the Mars Pathﬁnder
lander that released Sojourner. This person speculated
about the origins of human intelligence in The Dragons
of Eden. He worked with his wife Ann Druyan on
projects explaining Earth’s place in the universe, such
as Pale Blue Dot. Name this popular scientist whose
last book was Billions and Billions and who, before
Neil deGrasse Tyson, made the original show Cosmos.

Carl Sagan

Question #20: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This person was the ambassador to China and then the
director of the CIA under President Ford. This founder
of the Points of Light Foundation was the ﬁrst to
publicly describe supply-side economics as “voodoo.”
This person uttered the slogan “Read my lips: no new
taxes” during his defeat of Michael Dukakis; not being
able to uphold that promise helped prevent his
re-election against Bill Clinton in 1992. Name this
leader, the 41st president of the United States and the
father of the 43rd president.

10

George H(erbert) W(alker)
Bush [accept Bush 41 or
Bush the Elder or
equivalents; prompt on Bush
or George Bush; do not
accept or prompt on “George
W(alker) Bush”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
Bill Driscoll and the narrator, two “desperate men”,
attempt the title action in this story to raise money for
a town-lot scheme in western Illinois.
1 Name this story in which the son of Ebenezer
Dorset is kidnapped, but annoys the kidnappers so
much they cannot keep him.
2 This author of “The Gift of the Magi” wrote “The
Ransom of Red Chief.”
3

Instead of paying $1,500 as the kidnappers
demanded, they paid Ebenezer this amount to take
back the child.

“The Ransom of Red
Chief”
O. Henry [or William
Sydney Porter]
$250

Question #22: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
One bartender in this novel supplies vagrants with
alcohol left in glasses by patrons of Ida’s Bar.
1 Name this novel featuring Dora Flood, a restaurant
owner who also runs a brothel. The plot revolves
around attempts to throw a party for the marine
biologist Doc.
2 Cannery Row and its sequel, Sweet Thursday, were
written by this author. He wrote about the gentle
giant Lennie in Of Mice and Men.
3 Cannery Row, like most of Steinbeck’s novels, is
set in this state.

11

Cannery Row

John (Ernst) Steinbeck(, Jr.)

California

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
It is deﬁned by the ratio of arc length to radius for a
circle.
1 Name this unit used to measure angles, especially
in calculus where it is more convenient than
degrees.
2 To the nearest degree, how many degrees make up
one radian?
3 Find the number of revolutions around a circle
equal to one hundred pi radians.

radian(s)

57 degrees
50 revolutions

Question #24: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
The Pythagorean Theorem is a special case of this law.
1

2

3

Name this law that can be used to ﬁnd the length of
one side of a triangle given the lengths of the other
two sides and the measure of the angle between
them.
What is the cosine of 90 degrees?

law of cosines

Find the length of the side of a triangle if the angle
opposite that side measures 60 degrees, one of the
sides measures 1 unit, and the other side measures
2 units.

root 3 units [or the square
root of 3 or radical 3 or
equivalents, do not accept
“3”]

12

zero [do not accept
responses like “no answer”
or “undeﬁned”; do not accept
answers that include units]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This person’s “Three Principles of the People”
focused on nationalism, democracy, and social reform.
1 Name this founder of the Kuomintang
[kwoh-min-TAYNG] who ﬂed to Japan following
the rise to power of Yuan Shikai [yoo-AHN
shee-KAI].

Sun Yat-Sen [or Guofu, Sun
Zhongshan, Sun Deming, or
Sun Dixiang; prompt on
Yat-sen]

2

This man was Sun Yat-sen’s successor as the leader
of the Kuomintang. He ﬂed to Taiwan following
his loss in a civil war.

Chiang Kaishek [or Jiang
Jieshi, Chiang Chieh-shih,
or Chiang Chung-cheng;
prompt on Kaishek]

3

Chiang Kaishek’s forces were unable to capture the
Red Army during this retreat. At its conclusion,
Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai [zhoh en-“LIE”] rose
to the Chinese Communist Party leadership.

Long March [accept
Changzheng]

Question #26: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This person’s popularity sank due to his proposed
policy of “Trialism”, which gave the Slavs an equal
voice along with Germans and Magyars.
1 Name this man who complained to Fehim Čurčić
[feh-HEEM KUR-chik], the mayor of Sarajevo
[sar-uh-YAY-voh], about having a bomb thrown at
him shortly before his assassination.
2 Franz Ferdinand was assassinated by this member
of the Black Hand, who failed in two suicide
attempts immediately following the attack.
3 The ultimate goal of the Black Hand was the
liberation of members of this ethnic group from
being under Hapsburg or Ottoman rule.
13

Archduke Franz Ferdinand

Gavrilo Princip

Serbians or Serbs

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Science – Physics
10 points per part
These two statements can be derived from the laws of
conservation of charge and conservation of energy.
1 Name these rules used in circuit analysis. One is
known as the “junction rule” and the other is called
the “loop rule”.
2 Kirchhoﬀ’s loop rule states that the sum of any
voltages around a closed loop must equal this value.
3 The junction rule states that the sum of this
quantity entering a node must equal the sum
exiting. This quantity is measured in amperes.

Kirchhoﬀ’s
[KUR-kawﬀ(’z)] circuit laws
zero
(electrical) current

Question #28: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This hypothetical process consists of two isentropic
[“eye”-sin-TRAH-pik] and two isothermic
[“eye”-soh-THUR-mik] steps.
1 Identify this thermodynamic cycle, named for a
Frenchman, which extracts the maximum possible
amount of work from a heat engine.
2 For the Carnot engine, this value is equal to one
minus the ratio of the temperatures of the cold and
hot reservoirs. This quantity is the work done by
the engine divided by the energy put into the
engine.
3 According to the ﬁrst law of thermodynamics,
thermal eﬃciency cannot be greater than this
number, as otherwise energy would be created.

14

Carnot [kar-noh] cycle or
Carnot engine
thermodynamic eﬃciency

one [or 100%]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Literature – World Literature
10 points
When asked whether he has heard of another character,
this character responds by asking, “The world’s biggest
windbag?”. This character’s introduction to Treville
[treh-VEEL] was stolen by the “Man from Meung
[myoon],” who turned out to be the Comte de Rochefort
[rosh-for]. After being insulted at a game of tennis by
Bernajoux [bair-nah-zhoo], this Gascon won the
ensuing duel. Brisemont [brees-mawn] drinks poisoned
wine meant for this character, sent by his nemesis
Milady de Winter. Name this swordsman who
befriends Athos, Porthos, and Aramis [AIR-uh-miss] in
Alexander Dumas’ [doo-mahs’] The Three Musketeers.

d’Artagnan

Question #30: Science – Chemistry
10 points
Four equivalents of this compound are found in EDTA
[E-D-T-A]. This compound is formed from the activity
of acetaldehyde dehydrogenase
[uh-see-TAL-duh-“hide” dee-“high”-DRAH-juh-nayss]
in the body. The simplest amino acid, glycine
[GLY-seen], is an amino derivative of this compound.
Industrial methods that form this compound involve
reacting methanol with carbon monoxide, and include
the Cativa and Monsanto processes. This compound is
the second-smallest carboxylic [“car-box-ILL”-ik] acid
after formic acid. Name this acid with formula
HC2 H3 O2 [“H, C two, H three, O two”], responsible for
the acidity of vinegar.

15

acetic acid [or ethanoic acid;
prompt on HC2 H3 O2 before
it is mentioned]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
As leader of this group, John Robinson Jr. lent
members currency marked for destruction. Alexander
Spotswood hired many of this entity’s members as
tobacco inspectors. After it backed the Boston Tea
Party, John Murray dissolved this group, whose secret
meetings led to the First Continental Congress. George
Washington, Thomas Jeﬀerson, and Patrick Henry
served in this legislature. It ﬁrst met in Jamestown and
later relocated to Williamsburg. Name this legislative
body of colonial Virginia.

(Virginia) House of
Burgesses

Question #32: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Modular arithmetic and this function are used to test for
prime numbers using Wilson’s theorem. If the “double”
variant of this function is applied to an even number,
the result equals two raised to half of the even number,
end quantity, times this function applied to half the
even number. This function can be calculated
recursively by multiplying the input times the value of
this function on the input minus one. If there are n
people, this function of n is the number of orders in
which the people can be lined up. Name this function
represented by an exclamation point.

16

(n) factorial function

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Science – Biology
10 points
Stress and low levels of this quantity result in the
adrenal [uh-DREE-nul] glands releasing cortisol
[“COURT”-ih-sawl]. A pair of hormones that control
this quantity are released by the alpha and beta cells of
the islets of Langerhans. This measurement is higher in
people after eating, which is why people typically fast
before testing it. Glucagon [GLOO-kuh-gahn]
increases this quantity by inducing the breakdown of
glycogen [GLY-koh-jen]. Name this quantity lowered
by insulin, which is often high in patients with diabetes.

blood sugar(s) level or
blood glucose level

Extra Question #2: Social Studies – World History
10 points
One of the legends of this structure is that part of it
collapsed from the tears of a widow, revealing the
bones of her dead husband. After being extended, this
structure did not serve its purpose during the Tumu
[TOO-moo] Crisis. It was extended to Yumen, and
many of its separate sections were built during the
Warring States period. Overlapping at Badaling
[bah-dah-leeng] and extending from Shan-hai-guan to
Jia-yu-guan, it was originally conceived by Shi Huang
Di and later built to its greatest extent during the Ming
Dynasty. Name this long structure built to keep the
Mongols out of China.

17

Great Wall of China [or
Wan Li Chang Cheng or
10,000-Li-Long Wall]

Round 8
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
If this value can only be achieved by the trivial solution
of a linear combination of vectors, then the set of
vectors is independent. This number is the constant
term for each equation of a homogeneous system. If a
matrix’s determinant is this number, the matrix is
called singular and cannot be inverted. This value is the
cardinality of the empty set, and if a quadratic
equation’s discriminant has this value, then the
equation has exactly one solution. This number is the
additive identity. Name this real number that cannot be
divided by.

zero

Extra Question #4: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
The engineers Émile Nouguier [ay-meel noog-yay] and
Maurice Koechlin [“COKE-lawn”] hired the architect
Stephen Sauvestre [saw-vest-ray] to design this
structure. This structure inspired the structures of the
Long Ta, Funkturm Berlin, and the second tallest
structure in Japan, but the one in Japan is painted
orange and white. This structure’s second ﬂoor has a
restaurant, named for Jules Verne, that is still accessed
by an Otis elevator. This structure is located at the end
of the Champ de Mars [shawm day mar] near the Seine
[sen] river. Name this tower built for the 1889 World’s
Fair on the centenary of the French Revolution in Paris.

18

Eiﬀel Tower [or La tour
Eiﬀel]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Literature – World Literature
10 points
The year before this play takes place, the protagonist
spent three weeks making ornaments that were
destroyed by the family cat. One character in this
drama, fearing for her wife’s teeth, tried to forbid her
from having macaroons. A signature from the
protagonist’s dead father became leverage for Krogstad
to blackmail this play’s main character. Name this
drama about the marriage between Torvald and Nora
Helmer, written by Henrik Ibsen.

19

A Doll’s House [or Et
Dukkehjem; accept A Doll
House]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This physicist corrected Ampère’s law by adding a
term called the displacement current.
1 Identify this Scottish physicist, the namesake of a
set of four equations used in electrodynamics.

James Clerk [“Clark”]
Maxwell

2

Two of Maxwell’s equations are named for this
German scientist. The one pertaining to magnetism
implies that magnetic monopoles cannot exist.

(Johann) Carl Friedrich
Gauss [rhymes with
“house”]

3

Maxwell originally published 20 equations, which
were reformulated by this man to the four by using
the curl and divergence operators.

Oliver Heaviside

Extra Question #7: Science – Physics
10 points per part
These particles are the gauge bosons for the
electromagnetic interaction.
1 Name these particles, the quanta of light.
2

3

Einstein won his Nobel Prize for explaining the
photoelectric eﬀect, in which photons striking a
metal cause the metal to eject this particle.
Wave-particle duality was extended from just
photons to all matter by this man’s formula, which
states that his namesake wavelength is equal to
Planck’s constant over the object’s momentum.

20

photons [FOH-tahnz]
electrons

Louis de Broglie [loo-ee duh
broy]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 8
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This loser at the Battle of Châlons [shah-lawn] died of
a nosebleed on the night of his wedding to Ildico
[il-dee-KOH].
1 Name this “Scourge of God” who owned a weapon
known as the Sword of Mars.
2

3

After receiving a letter from Honoria containing a
ring, Attila demanded half of this empire as a
dowry.
Attila’s loss at Châlons was the turning point of an
invasion of this ancient region. Julius Caesar wrote
a commentary on a series of wars fought here
culminating in a defeat of Vercingetorix
[vur-sin-JEH-tuh-riks].

Attila the Hun [or Atli or
Etzel]
Western Roman Empire
[prompt on partial answer]
Gaul [accept Gallia; prompt
on answers mentioning the
Gallic Wars]

Extra Question #9: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
This ringleader of Operation Condor was advised by
the “Chicago Boys” on economic policy.
1 Name this leader who was succeeded by Patricio
Aylwin in 1990. He died in 2006 before a court
could try him for the mass murder of political
dissidents.
2 Pinochet was the leader of this country, which is
now headed by Michelle Bachelet [BA-shuh-lay]
3

Pinochet maintained the policy, begun by Carlos
Ibáñez [ee-BAHN-yez] del Campo and completed
by Salvador Allende [“eye”-YEN-day], of
nationalizing mines that produced this metal.

21

Augusto Pinochet
[oh-GOO-stoh
pee-noh-SHAY] (Ugarte)
(Republic of) Chile
[CHEE-lay] [or República de
Chile]
copper

