Round 4
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #1: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This author wrote of two women named Mrs. Dai
Bread, who lived with nostalgic and blind Captain Cat
in the village of Llareggub [LAR-eg-ub]. He wrote of a
boy who was “prince of the apple towns”, “famous
among the farms”, and sang in his chains like the sea,
in “Fern Hill”. In another poem, which this author
dedicated to his father, the speaker claims that “old age
should burn and rave at close of day.” That poem
advises the listener to “Rage, rage against the dying of
the light.” Name this Welshman who wrote “Do Not
Go Gentle into That Good Night.”

Dylan (Marlais) Thomas

Question #2: Science – Biology
10 points
An organism from this phylum was studied to learn
about a system that uses the proteins Argonaute
[ar-goh-NOHT] and dicer [“DICE”-ur]. This phylum
contains a 959-cell model organism that was studied by
Craig Mello and Andrew Fire. Organisms in this
phylum do not have respiratory systems or excretory
organs. RNAi [R-N-A-I] was studied in a model
organism from this pseudocoelomate
[soo-doh-SEE-luh-“mate”] phylum. This phylum
includes C. elegans and hookworms. Name this phylum
of roundworms.

1

nematoda or nematodes
[accept roundworms before
the end; prompt on worms
before “hookworms”; do not
accept “ﬂatworms” or
“segmented worms”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Social Studies – World History
10 points
A 16th- and 17th-century dynasty in this country
shared its name with its current city Taungoo. In this
country, the resignation of Ne Win in 1988 resulted in
the creation of the State Law and Order Restoration
Council, led by General Saw Maung. Its Union
Solidarity and Development Party was defeated in 2015
elections, leading to a promise of a smooth transition
by President Thein Sein [THAYN sayn]. That election
went well for the National League Democracy party,
which is headed by Aung San Suu Kyi [awn sawn soo
chee]. Name this southeast Asian nation that in the
2000s moved its capital to Nay Pyi Taw from Rangoon.

(Union of) Burma or
(Republic of the Union of)
Myanmar
[mee-YAHN-mar] [or
Pyidaungzu Myanma
Naingngandaw]

Question #4: Miscellaneous – Industrial Arts
10 points
A strike in this industry was the subject of Ken Kesey’s
novel Sometimes a Great Notion. Independent workers
in this industry are called “gyppos” [rhymes with
“hippos”], in contrast to members of the “Four L”.
Stem-only harvesting and cut-to-length are among the
methods for operating in this industry, which is one
aspect of silviculture [SIL-vih-“culture”]. Workers in
this industry often use chainsaws, and in excess this
industry can cause deforestation. Name this industry in
which trees are cut by lumberjacks.

2

logging [accept
lumberjacking; prompt on
answers relating to forestry
or trees or wood]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Each of these numbers is a hexagonal number, meaning
that it can be written in the form 2 n squared minus n.
Euclid proved that adding consecutive powers of two
until you get a prime number, then multiplying that sum
by the last power of two in the series, gives one of these
numbers. That theorem relates these numbers to
Mersenne [mur-sen] primes. These numbers are neither
abundant nor deﬁcient, and the ﬁrst few of them are 6,
28, and 496. Name these numbers equal to the sum of
all of their proper divisors.

perfect number

Question #6: Science – Earth Science
10 points
Granules of plasma in the Sun’s photosphere are known
as “cells” named for this process. Arthur Holmes
explained plate tectonic movement using “currents”
named for this process inside the Earth’s mantle. This
process explains cloud formation, which occurs when
warm moist air rises. The cells named for this process
have warm rising centers balanced by cool peripheries.
This process involves advection and diﬀusion in ﬂuids
with temperature gradients. Name this method of heat
transfer that can only take place in a ﬂuid and is often
compared to radiation and conduction.

3

convection [or convective
heat transfer or convecting]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
In The Mysterious Island, Union soldiers discover the
hideout of this man.
1 Name this captain born as Prince Dakkar. He
utilized a Bunsen cell that required sodium instead
of zinc to power his all-electrical ship.
2 Nemo was created by this author of Twenty
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.
3

The United States military believes the Nautilus to
be a monster, which resulted in it being attacked by
this ship. Pierre Arronax, Ned Land, and Conseil
[kone-say] were aboard when it was sunk.

Captain Nemo

Jules (Gabriel) Verne [zhool
vairn]
USS Abraham Lincoln

Question #8: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
In this author’s The Stone Raft, an entire peninsula
breaks oﬀ from mainland Europe.
1 Name this author who does not use quotations or
hyphens in his writing. He wrote about a place
where nobody dies in Death with Interruptions.
2 Saramago is from this country, whose national epic
is The Lusiads [LOO-see-ads]. One of Saramago’s
novels concerns an elephant traveling from Lisbon
in this country to Vienna.
3 In another novel by Saramago, the only character
not aﬄicted with this condition—also called
“white sickness”—is the wife of an
ophthalmologist. John Milton wrote a sonnet about
living with this condition.

4

José (de Sousa) Saramago

Portugal [or Portuguese
Republic or República
Portuguesa]
blindness [accept variations
like being blind; prompt on
answers referring to
impaired vision]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Social Studies – Current Events
10 points per part
This son of a former Canadian Prime Minister led his
Liberal Party to a major sweep in October 2015
elections.
1 Name this leader who entered politics following the
death of his brother Michel [mee-shel]. He served
as an MP from Montreal prior to heading the
Liberals.
2 This incumbent Conservative Prime Minister
stepped down following the resounding defeat.
3 Trudeau is attempting to reform the way Canadians
elect members of this body, the lower house of the
Canadian Parliament. Canada’s upper house, like
ours, is called the Senate.

Justin (Pierre James)
Trudeau

Stephen (Joseph) Harper
House of Commons
[prompt partial answer]

Question #10: Social Studies – Current Events
10 points per part
A supporter of this foreign leader ﬁled a lawsuit in the
United States against Fethullah Gulen [feh-too-LAH
goo-LEN].
1 Name this Turkish leader who was the target of the
2013 Ergenekon [air-GEN-uh-kahn] coup. He was
criticized for referring to the Gezi [geh-zee] Park
protesters as “looters”.
2 Turkish leaders publicly complained about planes
from this country ﬂying over Turkish airspace en
route to the conﬂict in Syria. Turkey shot down one
of its planes in November 2015.
3 Turkey also drew criticism for arresting lawyer
Tahir Elçi [TAH-heer EL-chee], who said that a
political party representing this group of people “is
not a terrorist group.”
5

Recep Tayyip Erdogan
[AIR-doh-wahn, but be
lenient]
Russia [or Russian
Federation or Rossiya or
Rossiyskaya Federatsiya]
Kurds [or Kurdistan
Workers’ Party or Partiya
Karkeren Kurdistane]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Physics
10 points per part
These systems are sometimes described using a
hydraulic analogy that compares voltage to pressure
and resistance to pipe constriction.
1 Name these electrical systems in which current
may ﬂow. These systems typically have a voltage
source and components like resistors, inductors,
and capacitors.
2 This man’s loop and junction rules are useful for
analyzing electric circuits.
3 Thévenin’s [TEV-nin’z] theorem states that any
part of a circuit can be replaced by a series circuit.
This complementary theorem states that any part of
a circuit can be replaced by a parallel circuit.

electrical circuits [accept
electrical networks]

Gustav Kirchhoﬀ
Norton’s theorem

Question #12: Science – Physics
10 points per part
This theory explained the anomalous precession of
the perihelion [per-uh-HEE-lee-un] of Mercury.
1 Name this theory of Einstein’s that characterizes
gravity as the warping of spacetime.
2

3

In this 1959 experiment, general relativity was
tested by measuring the gravitational redshift of
Mössbauer [“MOSS”-bao-ur] gamma rays sent
between two iron-57 samples.
Gravitational redshift is similar to this eﬀect in
which the frequency of a wave changes when an
observer and the source of the wave are moving
with respect to each other.

6

general relativity [prompt
on partial answer; do not
accept “special relativity”]
Pound-Rebka experiment

Doppler eﬀect or Doppler
shift

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
These identities are named for the fact that they can be
demonstrated using a theorem about right triangles.
1 Name these three identities, one of which is that the
sine squared of x plus the cosine squared of x
equals one, for any x.
2 If the sine of x equals twelve thirteenths, what is
the only possible positive value for the cosine of x?
3 If the tangent of x equals three fourths, what is the
only possible positive value for the secant of x?

Pythagorean identities

5/13
5/4 [or 1.25 or 1 + 1/4]

Question #14: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
In a right triangle, this function of an acute angle
gives the ratio of the hypotenuse length to the length
of the side opposite the angle.
1 Name this function, the reciprocal
[reh-SIP-ruh-kul] of the sine function.

cosecant [or csc; accept
answers that additionally
mention a variable; do not
prompt on “secant”]

2

What is the cosecant of the quantity seven pi
divided by four?

negative root 2 [or negative
square root of 2 or negative
radical 2; accept the
opposite of in place of
negative]

3

Find the smallest positive input value in radians for
which the cosecant function is undeﬁned.

(one) pi radians

7

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
On account of non-payment, Hugh Forbes told Senator
Henry Wilson about this man’s activities. Years before
bailing out Jeﬀerson Davis, Gerrit Smith ﬁnancially
supported this man as part of the Secret Six. To protect
escaped slaves in Springﬁeld, Massachusetts, this
person founded the League of Gilead [GIL-ee-ad].
After the sacking of Lawrence, his followers responded
with force at Pottawatomie. Robert E. Lee led marines
to stop this man’s raid. Name this abolitionist who
attacked the arsenal at Harpers Ferry.

John Brown

Question #16: Literature – Mythology
10 points
During the creation of the world, Tezcatlipoca
[TEZ-kaht-lee-POH-kah] sacriﬁced one of these body
parts. These parts of Njord [nee-YORD] were elegant,
which led to his marriage to Skadi. While ﬁghting the
Hydra, Heracles had one of these body parts trapped,
then attacked by a crab. Orion was stung here by a
scorpion. Sciron [“SKY”-rahn] forced passersby to
wash these parts as a toll. Oedipus’ name stems from
the fact that his were swollen. The number of these
objects changes in the riddle of the Sphinx. Name these
body parts that, for the Hippopodes [“hippo”-pohdz],
resembled horse hooves.

8

feet [or foot]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
This composer’s Roman Carnival Overture borrows
heavily from his opera about Benvenuto Cellini
[ben-vay-NOO-toh chay-LEE-nee]. This composer had
a close friendship with Théophile Gautier [tay-oh-feel
goht-yay], setting six of Gautier’s poems to music in
Summer Nights. Another of this composer’s works,
which he classiﬁed as a dramatic legend, includes
Hungarian March and Dance of the Sylphes. Like
Tchaikovsky, this composer wrote a piece based on
Romeo and Juliet. Name this French composer of La
damnation de Faust who included the section “March
to the Scaﬀold” in his Symphonie fantastique.

(Louis-)Hector Berlioz

Question #18: Science – Chemistry
10 points
The Tolman cone angle was developed to characterize
ligands whose central atom is this element. A
pentaoxide [pent-uh-“oxide”] of this element is a
dessicating agent with an adamantane
[ad-uh-MAN-tayn] structure. This atom is bound to
three benzene rings in a reagent used in the Appel
reaction. An atom of this element is the central one in
an ion that forms a triprotic [“try-PRO-tick”] acid, and
its white allotrope [AL-oh-“trope”] combusts in air.
This element is immediately above arsenic on the
periodic table, and can form amine [AM-een]-like
compounds because it is below nitrogen. This element
was discovered by Hennig Brand in urine. Name this
element whose atomic symbol is P.

9

phosphorus [prompt on P
before the end]

Round 4
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #19: Social Studies – Geography
10 points
Mario Pani designed this city’s Plaza de las Tres
Culturas [“trace” kool-TOOR-ahss], which is near the
end of a wide avenue designed by Ferdinand von
Rosenzweig, the Paseo de la Reforma. Its large urban
park, Alameda Central [ah-lah-MAY-dah sen-TRAHL],
is near its large central open square, Zócalo
[ZOH-kah-loh]. This city is the home of the oﬃcial
residence called Los Pinos, which several decades ago
replaced its Chapultepec Castle. By population, it is the
largest city in the Western Hemisphere. Name this
capital of a nation bordering the U.S.

Mexico City [or Ciudad
México; accept México,
Distrito Federal]

Question #20: Literature – World Literature
10 points
In one collection, this writer relates the story of
Aristaeus [“air”-iss-TAY-us] and his bees. That work
was dedicated to Maecenas [may-SEN-us]. In another
collection, this person wrote of a boy whose birth
would be heralded as a “great increase of Jove”. This
person wrote a work in which the Cumaean Sibyl
[kyoo-MAY-un SI-bul] allowed the protagonist to speak
to the dead. That work begins with the line “I sing of
arms and the man.” Name this ancient Roman author of
Georgics, Eclogues, and The Aeneid [uh-NEE-id].

10

Virgil [or Publius Vergilius
Maro]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This person developed the type of algebra named for
him in the books The Mathematical Analysis of Logic
and An Investigation of the Laws of Thought.
1 Name this mathematician whose algebra uses
variables that are either true or false, sometimes
written as one or zero.
2 Boole used the word ’conjunction’ to represent the
concept of ’and’. What corresponding word did he
use to represent the concept of ’or’?
3 If a truth table is made for an expression in Boolean
algebra with three variables, how many possible
scenarios should be considered? Each possibility
should be represented by a row in the truth table.

George Boole [prompt on
Boolean algebra]
disjunction

8

Question #22: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This type of mathematical structure is a ring in which
every element other than zero has a multiplicative
inverse.
1 Name this kind of structure, in which there are two
operations, often called multiplication and addition,
with multiplication “distributing” over addition.
2 This ﬁeld axiom says that the quantity x plus y, end
quantity, plus z, is equal to x plus the quantity y
plus z.
3

Perhaps using the fact that multiplication is also
associative, multiply eighty-three times ﬁve times
two.

11

ﬁeld(s)

associative property of
addition [or associative
axiom]
830

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
Identify these artists whose paintings are displayed at
the National Gallery in London:
1 The museum recently displayed both versions of
this painter’s Virgin of the Rocks, though one of
them usually is in the Louvre [loov].
2

3

The museum displays this painter’s The Hay Wain
but recently sold his Salisbury Cathedral from the
Meadows to the Tate Gallery.
The Gallery closed temporarily in 1914 after ﬁve
works by this painter were attacked by a suﬀragist.
His paintings include Portrait of Doge [dohj]
Leonardo Loredan and Agony in the Garden.

Leonardo [di ser Piero] da
Vinci [accept either
underlined portion]
John Constable

Giovanni Bellini

Question #24: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This painter showed Amor, or Cupid, gleefully
trouncing on symbols of several human endeavors in
Amor Vincit [VIN-cheet] Omnia.
1 Name this late-16th- and early-17th-century Italian
artist who also painted Conversion on the Way to
Damascus.

Caravaggio
[kar-uh-VAH-jee-oh] [or
Michelangelo (da) Merisi
[muh-REE-zee]; do not
accept “Michelangelo”]

2

Some of Caravaggio’s most famous works show the
Calling, Inspiration, and Martyrdom of this saint,
the writer of the ﬁrst gospel.

Saint Matthew [or
Matityahu or Matai;
prompt on Levi]

3

Caravaggio made a “young sick” painting of this
god and another painting showing him half covered
with a robe and with leaves in his hair.

Bacchus [or Dionysus]

12

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
He had permission from the Massachusetts
Committee of Safety to capture Fort Ticonderoga
[“tie-CON”-dur-OH-guh], but begrudgingly ceded the
command to Ethan Allen.
1 Name this man whose wife introduced him to
Major John André, with whom he almost
transferred control of West Point to the British.
2 Richard Montgomery provided reinforcements for
Arnold’s attempt to take this Canadian city. Daniel
Morgan had some success, but Guy Carleton’s
release of civilians infected with smallpox rendered
the siege ineﬀective.
3 A monument to Benedict Arnold in this New York
town shows his boot. General John Burgoyne
surrendered to Horatio Gates after a battle here.

Benedict Arnold

Quebec City [or Ville de
Québec]

Saratoga

Question #26: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
In 1998, former professional wrestler and Reform
Party candidate Jesse Ventura was elected this state’s
governor over Norm Coleman and Skip Humphrey.
1 Name this state where Norm Coleman became a
senator but then lost his re-election bid to former
SNL writer and comedian Al Franken.
2 In this presidential election, Skip’s father Hubert
Humphrey won the Democratic nomination after
the assassination of Robert Kennedy.
3 This Minnesota senator was the ﬁrst Democrat to
challenge Lyndon Johnson in 1968. He was
succeeded by Hubert Humphrey in the Senate after
declining to run for re-election in 1970.
13

Minnesota

Election of 1968 [prompt on
’68]
Eugene (Joseph) McCarthy

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
During this play, Dogberry often makes ridiculous
statements like “You speak like an ancient and most
quiet watchman.”
1 Name this play in which Conrade and Borachio
were pawns of Don John, who ultimately failed in
his attempt to prevent the marriage of Hero and
Claudio.
2 These two characters carry on a battle of wits
throughout Much Ado About Nothing, but in the
end are wed alongside Hero and Claudio.
3 Much Ado About Nothing is set in this Sicilian
town, also the namesake of the strait separating
Sicily from Italy.

Much Ado About Nothing

Beatrice and Benedick
[either order]
Messina

Question #28: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Eugene Onegin is compared twice to the this poem’s
title ﬁctional traveler.
1 Name this poem whose speaker describes a
“pleasure in the pathless woods” and a “rapture on
the lonely shore”. Its ﬁrst canto contains a vivid
description of a Spanish bullﬁght.
2 This English romantic poet wrote “Childe Harold’s
Pilgrimage” as well as “She Walks in Beauty.”
3

The last canto of “Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage”
opens on this city’s Bridge of Sighs, and described
it as “a palace and a prison on each hand.”

14

“Childe Harold’s
Pilgrimage”

Lord Byron [or George
Gordon (Noel); accept any
underlined name]
Venice, Italy [or Venezia]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Science – Physics
10 points
Events caused by this force are encoded in the CKM
matrix. The gauge bosons carrying this force are more
massive than others because of the Higgs mechanism.
Madame Wu’s experiment involving cobalt-60 atoms
demonstrated that this force violates parity
conservation. This force can change the ﬂavor of
quarks, and is carried by the W and Z bosons. Glashow,
Salam, and Weinberg were awarded the 1979 Nobel
Prize in Physics for unifying this force with
electromagnetism. This force is responsible for beta
decay. Identify this fundamental force named for not
being as strong as the strong force.

weak nuclear force [or weak
interaction; prompt on
answers containing
electroweak]

Question #30: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This ruler’s army lost to Stephen Báthory’s
[BAH-tor-ee’z] at the Siege of Pskov [p’SKOHF], and
he was forced to give up Lithuanian territory conquered
during the Livonian War. This ruler sent his fourth
wife, Anna Koltovskaya [kol-tof-SKAH-yah], to a
convent, and his last wife was Maria Nagaya
[nah-GAH-yah]. After conquering the region of Kazan,
this leader ordered the construction of St. Basil’s
Cathedral. To counter dissenting boyars, this leader set
up the Oprichniki [o-PREECH-nee-kee], though he
later outlawed any mention of them. The false Dmitris
all claimed to be the son of this ruler. Name this
Russian czar known for many acts of cruelty.

15

Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan
IV Vasilyevich or Ivan
Grozny; prompt on Ivan]

Round 4
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #31: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
This word can mean the splitting of a binary tree before
reconnection in order to ﬁnd the most eﬃcient tree.
This process can be performed repeatedly to intervals
to ﬁnd roots in an application of the Intermediate Value
Theorem. If this process is performed on a triangle
angle, you can set up a proportion with the parts of the
divided triangle side and the other two sides. A radius
of a circle does this to any chord it is perpendicular to,
and the diagonals of a parallelogram do this to each
other. Name this splitting of a segment or angle into
two congruent parts.

bisection or bisecting
[prompt on answers that
involve halving; prompt on
answers indicating
subdividing or subdivision]

Question #32: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
Near the end of this novel, Dallas is allowed to say that
his dad is old-fashioned but may not say that his dad
does not like elevators. The second half of this novel
begins with a wedding at Grace Church, a three-month
honeymoon in Europe, and a competition at the
Newport Archery Club. In this novel, Manson
Mingott’s granddaughter has been in an abusive
marriage with a Polish count. Name this novel about
the marriage between May Welland and Newland
Archer, by Edith Wharton.

16

The Age of Innocence

Round 4
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Extra Question #1: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
This painter showed a woman in a dark robe carrying a
sword over her shoulder, and a woman in a yellow robe
carrying a basket with a severed head in it, in Judith
and her Maidservant. This painter showed a nearly
nude woman turning away from two robed men leaning
towards her in Susanna and The Elders. This painter of
Self-Portrait as the Allegory of Painting showed a
woman in blue being assisted by a woman in red in the
act of decapitation in the work Judith Slaying
Holofernes. Name this 17th-century female artist.

Artemisia Gentileschi
[ar-tem-EE-zee-ah
jen-teel-ESS-kee]

Extra Question #2: Science – Physics
10 points
This quantity transitions from zero to nonzero when
entering the boundary layer. Newtonian ﬂuids are
deﬁned by having a constant value for this quantity,
which comes in dynamic and kinematic varieties. For a
spherical object, drag is given as 6 pi times radius times
velocity times this quantity, according to Stokes’ law.
This quantity is measured in poise [pwahz]. The ratio
of inertial forces to the forces caused by this quantity
deﬁnes the Reynolds number. Name this resistance to
ﬂuid ﬂow.

17

viscosity

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
In this state, Lon Horiuchi was charged with
involuntary manslaughter over the death of Vicki
Weaver. Big Bill Haywood was tried for the murder of
a former governor of this state, Frank Steunenberg
[STOY-nen-burg]. Before being charged with
solicitation in an airport restroom, Larry Craig was a
congressman from this state. Randy Weaver was killed
by the FBI in the Ruby Ridge incident in this state. This
state has recently been governed by Butch Otter, and its
U.S. Senators are Jim Risch and Mike Crapo
[KRAY-poh]. Name this state known for its potato crop.

Idaho

Extra Question #4: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Dividing several prime numbers by four demonstrates
the example of this phenomenon named for Chebyshev
[CHEH-bee-shef]. The omitted variable type of this
phenomenon can lead to either its upward or downward
type. For an estimator, this value equals the expected
value of the error. Careful experimental design tries to
minimize the sampling type of this phenomenon, which
is an example of its selection type. Name this term for a
systematic measurement error which, in common
English, is a synonym of prejudice or favoritism.

18

bias

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
The setting of this work is near the Fitchburg Railway.
Walden(, or Life in the
This book features an illiterate man who lives an
Woods)
“animal life”, Alex Therien. It states “A man is rich in
proportion to the number of things which he can aﬀord
to let alone.” The writer of this book said he “wished to
live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life”.
Its ﬁrst chapter, which outlines the 28 dollars spent on
materials to build a house, is titled “Economy”. Name
this book set on a pond in rural Massachusetts, by
Henry David Thoreau.

19

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
Its name comes from the Chickasaw words for “split
land”.
1 Name this ﬁctional place that includes part of the
Tallahatchie River. Lee Goodwin was tried and
lynched in it.

Yoknapatawpha
[yawk-nuh-puh-TAW-fuh]
County

2

This author included a map of Yoknapatawpha
County in the novel Absalom, Absalom!

William (Cuthbert)
Faulkner [or William
Cuthbert Falkner]

3

This family’s “Mile” is located near the middle of
Yoknapatawpha County. A golf course was built on
a partition that was sold to pay for Quentin’s tuition
at Harvard.

Compson family or the
Compsons

Extra Question #7: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
Miss Van Campen accused the protagonist of this
novel of trying to become sick by drinking.
1 Name this novel in which the nurse Catherine
Barkley fall in love with Frederic Henry.
2 A Farwell to Arms was penned by this author. He
wrote of a ﬁsherman who admired Joe DiMaggio
in The Old Man and the Sea.
3 After deserting at the Battle of Caporetto, Frederic
Henry ﬂed to this country. Catherine Barkley
eventually died giving birth to a stillborn child
there.

20

A Farewell to Arms
Ernest (Miller) Hemingway

Switzerland [or Swiss
Confederation or Schweiz
or Schweizerische
Eidgenossenschaft or
Confederation Suisse or
Confederazione Svizzera or
Confederaziun Svizra]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 4
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Science – Biology
10 points per part
The amount of this ion surges in the egg upon
fertilization in the cortical reaction.
1 Name this ion which, like diacylglycerol
[“die”-uh-sil-GLISS-ur-awl], can activate protein
kinase C [KYE-nayss “C”].
2 Parathyroid hormone increases blood calcium by
inducing these cells to break down nearby bone
tissue.
3 Protein kinase C acts when phospholipase C
[FAHSS-foh-“LIE-pace C”] cleaves one of the
phospholipids from this cellular structure, which
consists of a lipid bilayer.

calcium [or Ca2+ ]

osteoclasts
[AH-stee-oh-klasts]
cell(ular) membrane [do not
accept “cell wall”]

Extra Question #9: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These hormones typically oppose the action of auxins.
1

Name these hormones whose eﬀects were
discovered by Folke Skoog [FOHL-keh SKOOG].
They promote cell division in plants.

cytokinins
[“SITE”-oh-KYE-nin(z)]
[do not accept “cytokines”]

2

This other plant hormone was initially believed to
cause leaves to fall. It does induce bud dormancy.

abscisic acid [or abscisin;
prompt on ABA or dormin]

3

This gaseous plant hormone causes fruits to ripen.
This compound is the simplest alkene [AL-keen].

ethylene [or ethene; prompt
on C2 H2 ]

21

