Round 3
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #1: Social Studies – U.S. Government
10 points
The ﬁrst Cabinet nomination to be rejected was a recess
appointment of Roger Taney [TAW-nee] to head this
department. In the line of succession, the leader of this
department follows the Secretary of State. Prior to the
creation of the Department of Homeland Security, the
Secret Service was under this department, which still
includes the Internal Revenue Service. It was ﬁrst
headed by Alexander Hamilton, and is now led by Jack
Lew. Name this Cabinet department that oversees the
United States Mint.

Department of the Treasury
[accept Secretary of the
Treasury; accept Roger
(Brooke) Taney before
“Roger”]

Question #2: Miscellaneous – Agriculture
10 points
The Karakul are the only fat-tailed breed of this animal
found in the United States. The Book of Genesis
features a spotted breed of this animal owned by Jacob.
In the Western United States, the Rambouillet
[ram-boo-yeh] breed of this animal is the most
common. Milk from this animal is the main ingredient
in ricotta and roquefort [ROHK-for] cheeses. Lanolin
comes from the glands of these creatures. Depending
on age, meat from this animal is called mutton or lamb.
Name this animal, the primary source of wool.

1

sheep [accept lamb before it
is mentioned]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Science – Astronomy
10 points
The Magellan spacecraft mapped the surface of this
planet, including the Colette and Sacajawea
[SAK-uh-juh-WEE-uh] calderas on the Lakshmi
[LAK-shmee] Planum. Scientists have not ﬁgured out
why concentric fractured ovals called arachnoids
[uh-RAK-noydz] form on the surface of this planet. Its
mass is the closest of all the Solar System planets to the
mass of Earth. Of the terrestrial planets, this one has by
far the greatest surface pressure due to the high density
of carbon dioxide in its atmosphere. The greenhouse
eﬀect contributes to this planet being the hottest one in
the solar system. Name this second planet from the
Sun.

Venus

Question #4: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
The eyes of the title ﬁgure in this poem “have all the
seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming”. The narrator
of this poem asks “is there balm in Gilead?” before
directing the title creature “back into the tempest and
the Night’s Plutonian shore”. The narrator of this poem
implored for forgiveness for “the fact that I was
napping, / and so gently you came rapping”. This poem
opens with the line, “Once upon a midnight dreary,
while I pondered, weak and weary”. Name this Edgar
Allan Poe poem in which “Nevermore” is uttered by the
title bird.

2

“The Raven”

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Social Studies – World History
10 points
A program for this nation, based on the Marshall Plan
and meant to undermine left-wing rebels, was proposed
by Andrés Pastrana and backed by the Clinton
administration. The murder of Jorge Eliecer Gaitan
[HOR-hay el-ee-AY-sair “guy”-TAHN] sparked riots in
this nation’s capital, which led to the period known as
La Violencia [lah vee-oh-LEN-see-ah]. Violence in
this country continues to be carried out by Marxist
FARC [fark] rebels. Pablo Escobar’s Medellín
[may-day-YEEN] drug cartel was headquartered in this
country. Name this South American nation whose
capital is Bogotá.

(Republic of) Colombia [or
República de Colombia]

Question #6: Science – Chemistry
10 points
Ethers [EE-thurz] of this element are used to protect
alcohols in organic synthesis. This element is bonded
to four carbons in the zero-chemical-shift NMR
standard TMS. This compound bound to oxygen is used
in resins for chromatography, and it serves as a
dessicant. This compound is found in diatomaceous
[“DIE”-uh-tuh-MAY-shus] earth, since diatoms
[DIE-uh-toms] integrate this element into their cell
walls. Like germanium [jur-MAY-nee-um], this
element’s small band gap makes it an eﬀective material
for semiconductors. Name this element whose oxide
comprises quartz, and whose atomic symbol is Si [S-I].

3

silicon [accept Si before the
end]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Fine Arts – Musical Theatre
10 points per part
In this musical, Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom
conspire to stage an intentionally horrible musical.
1 Name this musical based on a Mel Brooks ﬁlm.
2

3

This is the name of the musical that they produce.
Its title song contains the line “The Führer is
causing a furor.”
The Producers broke the record for Tony Awards,
which had previously been held by this musical
about a woman who wants to marry Horace
Vandergelder.

The Producers
“Springtime for Hitler”

Hello, Dolly!

Question #8: Fine Arts – Musical Theatre
10 points per part
Near the opening of this musical, several politicians
sing “Sit down, John!”.
1 Name this musical about the drafting of the
Declaration of Independence.
2 In 1776, this character sings about being from the
ﬁrst family of Virginia.
3 One of the musicals that 1776 beat out for the 1969
Tony is this one featuring the song “Age of
Aquarius”.

4

1776
Richard Henry Lee
Hair

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These organelles contain stacks of thylakoids
[“THIGH”-luh-koydz] which are surrounded by the
ﬂuid stroma [STROH-mah].
1 Name these organelles in which photosynthesis
takes place.
2

3

Chloroplasts contain chlorophyll [KLOR-oh-ﬁl],
which absorbs red and blue light and reﬂects this
primary color of light.
Chlorophyll consists of a porphyrin [POR-fuh-rin]
ring coordinated to a central atom of this element.

chloroplasts
[KLOR-oh-plasts]
green

magnesium [accept Mg]

Question #10: Science – Biology
10 points per part
These compounds are linked together by peptide
bonds.
1 Name these molecules that make up proteins. Of
the twenty common examples, nine of them are
“essential”.
2 Amino acids are linked together to form proteins in
this process, in which an mRNA transcript is read
on a ribosome [“RYE”-boh-sohm].
3 This smallest amino acid is the only one that is not
chiral [KY-rul].

5

amino acids

translation [accept answers
mentioning translating]
glycine [GLY-seen]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Literature – Mythology
10 points per part
One of this god’s epithets means “He Who Is In the
Place of Embalming”.
1 Name this jackal-headed god who served as the
psychopomp, or guide for dead souls, in the
Egyptian underworld.
2 In the Egyptian underworld, if one’s heart weighed
unfavorably against the feather of Ma’at, this
demon — depicted with a crocodile head — would
devour the heart.
3 In the trial, this husband of and brother of Isis
served as the judge. This god was killed by Set but
was able to father Horus after dying.

Anubis [accept Anpu or
Inpu]
Ammit

Osiris

Question #12: Literature – Mythology
10 points per part
This god was born from his father’s thigh after his
mother was killed by being exposed to his father’s
glory.
1 Name this youngest of the Olympians who was
rescued from Semele’s [SEH-muh-lee’z] womb. In
another tale, he was ripped to shreds by the Titans,
but his heart was implanted in Semele.
2 Dionysus granted a wish to this Phrygian
[FRIJ-ee-un] king. This king decided that
everything he touches should turn to gold.
3 After being kidnapped, Dionysus turned a group of
sailors into these animals.

6

Dionysus [“die”-uh-NY-sis]
[accept Bacchus or
Zagreus]
King Midas

dolphins

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
The base of this kind of solid may be any polygon,
and all the other faces must be triangles.
1 Name these solids that have a point on top called an
apex [AY-peks].
2 This is the name of the triangle-based pyramid that
is a Platonic [pluh-TAH-nik] solid.
3

If the base of a pyramid is an octagon, how many
total edges does the pyramid have?

pyramids
tetrahedron [or tetrahedra;
prompt on 3-simplex]
16 edges

Question #14: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
The area of this kind of shape can be found using
Brahmagupta’s [brah-muh-GOOP-tah’s] formula if it
is cyclic.
1 Name this class of polygons with four sides and no
other restrictions.
2
3

This type of quadrilateral has one pair of parallel
sides.
Find the area of an isosceles [“eye”-SAH-seh-lees]
trapezoid if its bases are three units and seven units
long, and its other sides are each ﬁve units long.

7

quadrilaterals or
quadrangles
trapezoids [or trapeziums]
5 root 21 square units [or 5
times the square root of 21
or 5 radical 21 or
equivalents]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Literature – British Literature
10 points
One poem by this person is narrated by a soldier who
asks his comrades to leave him and states “Knowledge
comes, but wisdom lingers.” This writer of “Locksley
Hall” wrote the line “’Tis better to have loved and lost
than never loved at all” in a poem dedicated to another
poet. The speaker of another poem by this author hopes
“to see [his] Pilot face to face” while performing the
title action in “Crossing the Bar.” In one of his poems,
600 soldiers ride into the valley of Death. Name this
author of “In Memoriam A.H.H.” and “The Charge of
the Light Brigade”.

Alfred, Lord Tennyson

Question #16: Science – Physics
10 points
This quantity is the boundary between a space-like and
a time-like interval. Calculations of the Lorentz factor
use the ratio of a particle’s velocity and this quantity.
The non-existence of the luminiferous ether
[loo-min-IF-ur-uss EE-thur] was shown by analyzing
this value in diﬀerent directions in the
Michelson-Morley experiment. Special relativity
assumes that this quantity is constant in all reference
frames. Energy is equivalent to rest mass times this
quantity squared. Name this quantity that in a vacuum
is about equal to three times ten to the negative eighth
meters per second.

8

speed of light [or c or
velocity of light]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
A jeweled Tiﬀany glass screen was added to this
building in 1882, the year after most of its contents
were sold at public auction. The south and north
porticos were added to this building 24 and 29 years,
respectively, after the original part was built. It has a
Vermeil [vur-MEE-il] Room named for the tableware
used in it. This building is located between Lafayette
Square and The Ellipse. James Hoban designed it after
Pierre Charles L’Enfant was ﬁred by George
Washington. Name this building at 1600 Pennsylvania
Avenue, whose West Wing includes the Oval Oﬃce.

White House

Question #18: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The average value for this quantity can be found using a
diﬀerence quotient. The length of a line on a graph can
be calculated by multiplying the change in x by the
square root of the quantity one plus this quantity
squared. The arctangent of this value gives the angle
between a line and the x-axis. This quantity equals the
opposite of the x coeﬃcient divided by the y coeﬃcient
if a line is given in standard form, while in other forms
for a line, it acts as a coeﬃcient of x, and is often
represented by the letter m. Name this value equal to
the change in y divided by the change in x, also known
as rise over run.

9

slope [prompt on ﬁrst
derivative]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Abraham Lincoln called a governor of this state “the
skeerdest man I know of”. A safe in that governor’s
oﬃce was deemed a “Bureau of Finance” established
by Oliver Morton. Dan Quayle and Benjamin Harrison
represented this state in the U.S. Senate. This state was
where George Rapp founded his utopian community,
New Harmony. William Henry Harrison defeated
Tecumseh at Prophetstown in this state. Its recent
governors have been Evan Bayh [“bye”], Mitch Daniels,
and Mike Pence. Name this Hoosier state bordered to
its west by Illinois.

Indiana

Question #20: Literature – World Literature
10 points
A short story by this author opens at Verney’s pavilion,
where Dmitri Gurov saw a woman and her Pomeranian.
This writer of “The Lady With the Dog” concluded one
of his works with the footman Firs lying down in front
of a locked door as axes are heard cutting down the title
location. In a letter to Aleksandr Lazarev, he wrote
“One must not put a loaded riﬂe on the stage if no one is
thinking of ﬁring it.” Olga, Maria, and Irina
[eh-REE-nah] are the title Three Sisters in one of his
plays. Name this Russian playwright who wrote The
Seagull and The Cherry Orchard.

10

Anton (Pavlovich) Chekhov

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
When it is used in construction and gardening, this
compound is called muriatic [myur-ee-AT-ik] acid.
1 Name this chemical whose formula is H Cl [“H C
L”].

2

3

Hydrochloric acid is mixed with nitric
[“NIGHT”-rik] acid in a three-to-one ratio to
produce this substance, named for its ability to
dissolve gold.
Hydrochloric acid is secreted by the parietal
[puh-RIE-uh-tul] cells of this organ to aid in
digestion.

hydrochloric
[“HIGH”-droh-KLOR-ik]
acid [accept hydrogen
chloride]
aqua regia [“AQUA”
REE-jee-uh]

stomach

Question #22: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
This phenomenon allows some bugs to walk on water.
1
2

3

Name this phenomenon caused by cohesive forces
in a liquid.
Surface tension causes the formation of this curved
structure, which is concave in water and convex in
mercury. When reading the volume of water in a
graduated cylinder, one looks at the bottom of one
of these structures.
Compounds that lower surface tension are given
this name. Detergents are an example of these
substances, which the lungs produce to prevent
alveoli [al-vee-OH-“lie”] from collapsing.

11

surface tension
meniscus [muh-NISS-kuss]
[prompt on crescent]

surfactants

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Griselio Torresola [gree-SAY-lee-oh tor-ay-SOH-lah]
and Oscar Collazo [koy-YAH-zoh] attempted to
assassinate this president to gain attention for Puerto
Rican independence.
1 Name this president who won the 1948 election,
though the Chicago Tribune printed a headline
claiming Dewey had defeated him.
2 This law–also called the Labor Management
Relations Act–outlawed closed shops, and passed
over Truman’s veto; he wanted to repeal it as part
of the Fair Deal.
3 Omar Bradley defended Truman’s ﬁring of this
general, claiming that this general “would have
involved us in the wrong war in the wrong place at
the wrong time against the wrong enemy”.

Harry S. Truman

Taft-Hartley Act

Douglas MacArthur

Question #24: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Kermit Tyler committed a fatal mistake in the buildup
to this event.
1 Name this ambush that resulted in the sinking of
the USS Arizona, but failed in its primary goal of
taking out the United States Paciﬁc Fleet.
2 In a speech the following day, this president
described December 7, 1941 as “a day which will
live in infamy”.
3

This Japanese admiral, who was the chief architect
behind the Pearl Harbor attack, predicted that Japan
would lose a prolonged conﬂict. He was shot over
Bougainville Island in an ambush.

12

the Japanese attack on Pearl
Harbor [accept equivalents]
Franklin Delano Roosevelt
[accept FDR; prompt on
Roosevelt]
Yamamoto Isoroku [accept
names in either order]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Mulciber [MUL-sih-bur] was the chief designer of
this capital, whose builders used liquid ﬁre and gold
in its construction.
1 Name this capital of hell, where Satan boasts about
his success against man.
2 The second book of this epic poem opens with a
debate taking place in Pandemonium. This epic
retells the story of Adam and Eve.
3 This blind poet wrote Paradise Lost. The death of
Edward King inspired his poem “Lycidas
[“LIE”-sih-dus].”

Pandemonium
Paradise Lost

John Milton

Question #26: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
Residents of this faraway land built a “traveling box”
for a diminutive guest of the queen.
1 Name this location where Glumdalclitch
[GLUM-dul-klich] makes clothes and joins the
queen’s court as a nurse to one of the queen’s
favorites.
2 This doctor ﬂed Lilliput and spent time in Blefuscu
[BLEH-fusk-yoo] before arriving in Brobdingnag.
He was mistaken for a Yahoo in the Land of the
Houyhnhnms [WIN-imz].
3 This author wrote Gulliver’s Travels.

13

Brobdingnag
[BRAHB-ding-nag]

(Dr.) Lemuel Gulliver
[accept either underlined
name]
Jonathan Swift

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Mathematics – Pre-Calculus
10 points per part
This number equals the limit as x approaches inﬁnity
of the quantity 1, plus 1 over x, end quantity, raised to
the x power.
1 Name this irrational number, approximately equal
to 2.718.
2

3

Evaluate the expression the quantity one plus one
divided by x, end quantity, raised to the x power
when x equals three.
e also equals the sum of the reciprocals of all
factorials. Find the value of 1 divided by 0
factorial, plus 1 divided by 1 factorial, plus 1
divided by 2 factorial, plus 1 divided by 3 factorial.

e [or Euler’s number or
Napier’s constant, do not
accept “Euler’s constant”]
64/27 [or 2 + 10/27 or 2.370
repeating]
8/3 [or 2 + 2/3 or 2.6
repeating]

Question #28: Mathematics – Pre-Calculus
10 points per part
This is a point where the second derivative of a
function changes either from positive to negative, or
from negative to positive.
1 Name this type of point where concavity changes.
2

3

Find the x-coordinate of the point of inﬂection for
the graph of y equals the sine of x, within the open
interval from x equals zero to x equals 2 pi radians.
This point is also the only zero of the function in
that interval, and is equivalent to 180 degrees.
Find the x-coordinate of the point of inﬂection for
the graph of y equals x cubed minus x squared.

14

inﬂection point [or point of
inﬂection]
(one (times)) pi radians

x = 1/3 [or 0.3 repeating]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Social Studies – World History
10 points
The power of this person was increased by Georges
Couthon’s [zhorzh koo-tawn’z] Law of 22 Prairial,
though that law also increased Jean-Lambert Tallien’s
[zhahn lam-bair tall-ee-en’z] desire to overthrow him.
This founder of the Cult of the Supreme Being was the
head of the Paris delegation at the National Convention.
Louis de Saint-Just [loo-ee day sawn-zhoos] attempted
to set up a dictatorship with this man — known as “the
Incorruptible” — at the helm, but he was arrested on
the 9th of Thermidor. Name this leader of the Jacobins
[zhah-koh-banz], who headed the Committee of Public
Safety and ruled France during the Reign of Terror
before he was guillotined.

Maximilien (Francois Marie
Isidore de) Robespierre

Question #30: Science – Biology
10 points
Giemsa [GIM-suh] can be used to stain these structures. chromosomes
The long arms of these structures are labeled q, while
their short arms are labeled p. The saliva glands of fruit
ﬂies contain oversized examples of this kind of
structures, called “polytene”. An abnormal number of
these is called an aneuploidy [AN-yoo-ploy-dee].
These structures are shown from longest to shortest,
followed by sex-speciﬁc ones, in a karyotype
[“CARE”-ee-oh-“type”]. An extra one of these
structures is called a trisomy [“TRY”-soh-mee], one
example of which is Down’s syndrome. Name these
structures of which humans have 46 per cell, and whose
X and Y varieties determine sex.

15

Round 3
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Question #31: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
If a matrix has this property, then its eigenvectors are
orthogonal. The number of items conserved in a
physical system equals the number of versions of this
property it has. The graph of a periodic function
exhibits the translational type of this property, and may
also exhibit the even or odd type of this property.
Regular polygons have both the rotational and
reﬂectional type of this property. Name this property
that is said to be of the “reﬂection” type for an object
that is the same as its mirror image.

symmetry [accept
symmetric (matrix)]

Question #32: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
The opening stanza to one of this author’s poems thrice
repeats the phrase “because I do not hope”. In another
of his poems, the speaker is “no longer at ease here, in
the old dispensation”. This author of “Ash Wednesday”
and “The Journey of the Magi” opened one work with
the line “Mistah Kurtz — he dead.” In that poem, the
speaker claims “this is the way the world ends, not with
a bang but with a whimper.” Another poem by this
writer begins its opening section, “The Burial of the
Dead”, with the line “April is the cruellest month.”
Name this author of “The Hollow Men” and “The
Waste Land.”

16

T(homas) S(tearns) Eliot

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
In this presidential election, the Democratic candidate
was a U.S. Senator from Michigan who was both a
former and future Secretary of State. That candidate’s
support of popular sovereignty caused William Yancey
to remove Alabama’s delegates from the convention.
During this election, Conscience Whigs and former
Liberty Party members formed the Free Soil Party,
which nominated Martin van Buren. The winner of this
election was a Mexican War hero who died in oﬃce
two years later. Name this presidential election won by
the ticket of Zachary Taylor and Millard Fillmore.

United States presidential
election of 1848 [prompt on
answers referring to the
election of Zachary Taylor]

Extra Question #2: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Brianchon’s [bree-ahn-shawn’z] theorem states that
these shapes have concurrent diagonals if they can be
circumscribed about a conic section, in which case they
have collinear diagonal intersections according to
Pascal’s theorem. Regular examples of this kind of
shape have the most sides of any regular polygon that
can tile the plane, and in regular examples of these
shapes, the exterior angles and central angles are each
60 degrees. Name this polygon, often broken into
equilateral triangles, which has six sides.

17

hexagons [prompt on
6-gons]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Fine Arts – Composers of the Modern Era
10 points
Starting in 1928, this person hosted a series of concerts
with Roger Sessions that featured music by young
composers, including his own Two Pieces for String
Quartet. This composer wrote an opera speciﬁcally for
school performances, The Second Hurricane, and an
opera set on a Midwestern farm during the Depression,
The Tender Land. Martha Graham commissioned him
to write an American ballet, which ended up
incorporating the Shaker melody Simple Gifts, and he
used cowboy songs in his ballet Billy the Kid. Name
this composer of Appalachian Spring and Rodeo
[roh-DAY-oh].

Aaron Copland

Extra Question #4: Literature – World Literature
10 points
This author wrote of the relationship between the
reporter Irene Beltran and photographer Francisco Leal
in Of Love and Shadows. In another novel, Alexander
Cold travels to the home of the People of the Mist. This
author of City of the Beasts wrote about the former
ﬁance of Rosa the Beautiful knocking out Clara’s teeth;
Clara had ended her nine-year silence to declare that
she would marry the patriarch of Las Tres Marias,
Esteban Trueba [ES-tay-bahn “true”-AY-bah]. Name
this author of House of the Spirits, a Chilean novelist.

18

Isabel Allende [EE-sah-bel
“eye”-YEN-day] (Llona)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Science – Health
10 points
This symptom can be caused by the tumors of
neuroﬁbromatosis [noo-roe-ﬁe-broe-mah-TOE-sis]
type two. In addition to thyroid problems, this
symptom is caused by Pendred syndrome. In the future,
this symptom may be treated by altering the
transmembrane channel-like one gene. This symptom
is called presbycusis [pres-bih-KYOO-sis] in old
people, in whom it is common, and the permanent type
of this symptom is called sensorineural. It is often
accompanied by tinnitus [tin-“EYE”-tiss]. This
condition is sometimes helped by a cochlear
[“COKE”-lee-ur] implant to the inner ear. Name this
symptom whose suﬀerers may read lips or use sign
language.

19

hearing loss [accept
variations; accept deafness]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
The ultimate goal of this uprising was “Constantine
[KON-stun-teen] and a Constitution”.
1 Name this revolt in the winter of 1825 that
attempted to prevent Nicholas I from becoming tsar.
The ﬁve men executed for their role in it were
hanged twice, as the ropes broke the ﬁrst time.
2

3

The Decembrist revolt took place primarily in this
city. In 1925, the Senate Square in this city was
renamed in honor of the revolt. This city was
known as Leningrad when it was in the Soviet
Union.
The revolt took place in this country.

Decembrist uprising [or
Vosstanie dekabristov;
accept similar naswers that
include Decembrists]
St. Petersburg

Russia [or Russian Empire]

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
Before this organization existed, there were
similarly-oriented groups called a Common Market
and a Coal and Steel Community.
1 Name this organization established by the
Maastricht [MAHSS-“tricked”] Agreement.
2 In 2004, this Mediterranean island nation joined
the EU despite ongoing disputes between the
Turkish-occupied north and the oﬃcially
recognized government of the southern area.
3 Viktor Yanukovych’s [yah-NOO-koh-vich’z]
refusal to sign a trade agreement with the EU on
behalf of this nation was one factor in his ouster as
president of this Eastern European nation.

20

European Union or EU
Republic of Cyprus

Ukraine [or Ukrayina]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 Sectional Tournament

Round 3
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
There are six primary trigonometric functions.
1

Which two of those functions have a period of pi
radians?

tangent and cotangent
[either order; for all parts,
accept answers that
additionally include a
variable]

2

Which two of those functions never output zero?

secant and cosecant [either
order; accept csc in place of
cosecant]

3

Give the angle in radians between 0 and 2 pi where
the cosine of x equals the cotangent of x.

pi over 2 [or one-half pi or
pi divided by 2]

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Trigonometry
10 points per part
They must be between 0 to 90 degrees.
1

reference angles

2

Name these angles that describe how far a given
angle on the unit circle is from the x-axis.
If an angle is in the second quadrant, what is the
relationship between that angle and its reference
angle?

3

Find the reference angle for 311 degrees.

49 degrees

21

supplementary angles
[prompt on answers
describing angles that add to
180 degrees or add to pi
radians; prompt on answers
that describe subtracting
from 180 degrees or pi
radians]

