Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #1: Literature – Mythology
10 points
This goddess helped her husband gain control of the
world by throwing Eurynome [yur-IH-nuh-mee] into
Tartarus. This character caught her husband with
Philyra [FIL-ur-uh], but not before Chiron [KYE-rahn]
was conceived. Following the kidnapping of
Persephone [pur-SEH-fuh-nee], this character
convinced Demeter to return to Olympus. She hid her
youngest child on Mount Dicti on Crete after fooling
her husband by giving him a stone wrapped in baby
clothes because he had swallowed their ﬁrst ﬁve
children. Name this mother of Zeus and wife of Cronos
[KROH-nohss].

Rhea

Question #2: Miscellaneous – Popular Culture
10 points
Walter Penney invented a game based around doing this
three times. In Final Fantasy Six, Edgar gained control
of his father’s castle by rigging this act. Anton Chigurh
[chi-GUR] performed this action to decide the fate of
his victims in No Country for Old Men. In the movie
Friday Night Lights, this act was used to eliminate one
team from the playoﬀs. This action is performed by
Batman villain Two-Face to determine whether he
should be good or evil. In a Tom Stoppard play,
Rosencrantz repeatedly wins bets based on this action.
Name this act used to determine which team can elect
to receive the ball at the beginning of a football game.

1

ﬂipping a coin [or tossing a
coin; accept variations like
coin toss or coin ﬂip;
prompt on answers
mentioning heads or tails]

Round 2
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #3: Science – Biology
10 points
These cells are combined with cancer cells to form
hybridomas [“hybrid”-OH-muz]. These cells undergo
clonal selection without positive selection. The marker
CD20 [C-D-“twenty”] is found on the surface of these
cells. Memory cells and plasma cells are derived from
these cells. In birds, these cells mature in the bursa of
Fabricius [fuh-BRISH-ee-us], while in humans they
mature in the bone marrow. These cells secrete
y-shaped proteins that bind to antigens. Name these
immune cells which secrete antibodies, and are helped
by T cells.

B cells or B lymphocytes
[prompt on white blood cells
or lymphocytes]

Question #4: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This person recited oyster recipes in a 15-hour ﬁlibuster
of the Glass-Steagall Act. This person was accused of
arranging the murder of J. Y. Sanders by the Dynamite
Squad, which tried to impeach him as governor. This
politician won a Supreme Court case against the
Cumberland Telephone company over rate hikes.
Shortly after announcing he would run for president,
this man was shot in the State Capitol building by Carl
Weiss. This politician’s “Share Our Wealth” program
promised “Every Man a King.” Identify this Louisiana
politician nicknamed The Kingﬁsh.

2

Huey (Pierce) Long (Jr.)

Round 2
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #5: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This author wrote about a colonel [KER-nul] who was
mentored by Joseph Addison and Richard Steele.
Jonathan Swift is portrayed as a bully in this author’s
novel The History of Henry Esmond. In another novel,
this author of The Book of Snobs wrote of Sir Pitt’s
desire to marry his children’s governess, who is already
secretly married. That novel by this author, set initially
at Miss Pinkerton’s Academy for Young Ladies,
describes the marriages of George Osborne to Amelia
Sedley and Rawdon Crawley to Becky Sharp. Name
this author of Vanity Fair.

William Makepeace
Thackeray

Question #6: Science – Astronomy
10 points
These objects are found in the Clowes-Campusano
Group and the Huge Group. Comparing the luminosity
of one of these objects to its mass gives the Eddington
ratio. The spectra of these objects features the
Gunn-Peterson trough [trawﬀ]. These objects are more
luminous than Seyfert [SEE-fert] galaxies, which are,
like these objects, active galactic nuclei. Some
astronomers believe that these objects are blazars
[BLAY-zahrs] observed from a diﬀerent angle. These
objects are believed to surround supermassive black
holes at the centers of galaxies, and they are very
distant and bright. Identify these objects whose name is
based on the fact that they are sources of radio waves.

3

quasars [prompt on blazars
before they are mentioned]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
This experiment is named for an 18th-century
Frenchman.
1 Name this experiment that involves dropping an
object onto a ﬂoor that is divided into strips, and
counting the number of objects that land in such a
way that they touch more than one strip.
2

3

The Buﬀon’s needle experiment can be used to
approximate this irrational number between 3 and
4.
If the length of the needle equals the space between
lines on the ﬂoor, what is the probability that the
needle will cross a line?

Buﬀon’s needle experiment
[accept other words in place
of “experiment”; prompt on
partial answers]
pi

2/pi

Question #8: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
Many methods used by computers to ostensibly
generate these numbers are given the preﬁx “pseudo-”
[SOO-doh] because there generally is some degree of
predictability.
1 Name these types of numbers that are supposed to
be chosen by pure chance and are not supposed to
contain patterns.
2 This pseudorandom number generator works by
squaring the previous result and dividing by the
product of two prime numbers.
3 If two digits are chosen at random, and zeroes and
repeats are possible, what is the probability that
neither of the digits is a seven?

4

random numbers [accept
pseudorandom numbers]
Blum Blum Shub

81/100 [or 0.81 or 81%]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Social Studies – Psychology
10 points per part
Muzafer Sherif [MOO-zah-fur shuh-REEF] tested this
behavior in an experiment involving a white light that
appeared to move.
1 Name this phenomenon in which people adjust
their behavior to comply with group norms.
2

3

This psychologist tested conformity during the
1950s in an experiment involving lines of diﬀerent
lengths in which actors would occasionally give
incorrect answers, causing subjects to also give
incorrect answers.
Sherif also led this experiment, in which the
“Rattlers” and “Eagles” competed against each
other in various tasks.

conformity [accept word
forms]
Solomon Asch [“ash”]

Robbers Cave Experiment

Question #10: Social Studies – Psychology
10 points per part
David Wechsler [WEK-slur] created tests for
calculating this quantity based on four distinct
clusters.
1 Name this quantity which can be measured by the
Stanford-Binet [buh-NAY], which features diﬀerent
tasks based on the test-taker’s age, including
solving reasoning problems and reversing six-digit
numbers.
2 The normal distribution for IQ scores uses 100 as
the mean, and this value for the standard deviation.
3 The Flynn eﬀect describes how the average IQ rises
with respect to this value.

5

intelligence quotient or IQ
[prompt on answers
mentioning intelligence]

15
time [accept years,
generations, or similar
answers; do not accept
“age”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Physics
10 points per part
Upon observation, one of these functions can
“collapse”.
1 Name these functions, symbolized with the Greek
letter psi [“sigh”], that describe the quantum state
of a system.
2 The wave function is the eigenfunction
[“EYE-gun-function”] of the time-independent
form of this equation. This equation and a cat in a
thought experiment are named for the same person.
3 The Aharonov-Bohm [ah-hah-ROH-nawf BOHM]
eﬀect, in which a charged particle in areas with
zero vector potential is aﬀected by the potential, is
explained using this quantity, which shifts the
graph of a sine wave horizontally.

wave functions

Schrödinger’s
[SHRAY-ding-ur’z] equation

phase shift [or Berry phase;
or geometric phase; or
Pancharatnam-Berry phase]

Question #12: Science – Physics
10 points per part
The loss of atmospheric gas via Jeans escape can be
modeled using this function.
1 Name this distribution, a model for particle speeds
in an ideal gas.
2

3

Adding a one to the denominator of the
Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution gives a
distribution that models these particles. The
function allows between zero and one particles in
any state.
Two fermions cannot occupy the same quantum
state according to this principle.

6

Maxwell-Boltzmann
distribution [prompt on
partial answers]
fermions [prompt on
electrons, leptons, or
quarks]

Pauli exclusion principle
[accept either underlined
term]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
This member of the 104th claimed that God made
stars from the Moon’s broken pieces.
1 Name this title character and friend of the Baptist
Alyoshka [al-YOSH-kuh], who despised the
scrounging Fetyukov [FET-yoo-kawf].

2

3

This author of One Day in the Life of Ivan
Denisovich [EE-vahn deh-NEE-soh-vich] also
wrote The Gulag Archipelago [GOO-lahg
ar-kih-PEL-uh-goh].
This other Solzhenitsyn novel focuses on a group of
intellectuals tasked with identifying the voice on a
taped phone call made by Volodin [vuh-LOH-din].

Ivan Denisovich [accept
either; accept Ivana,
Denisovicha, Shukov, or
One Day in the Life of Ivan
Denisovich]
Aleksandr (Isayevich)
Solzhenitsyn

The First Circle [or V kruge
pervom or In the First
Circle]

Question #14: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
The central group in this story journeyed from Rouen
[roo-en] to Le Havre [hahv-ruh].
1 Name this story in which the protagonist shares her
emergency rations with those who deemed
themselves above her, only to be shunned once the
trip resumes from Tôtes [“tote”].

“Boule de Suif” [or “Ball of
Fat” or “Ball of Lard” or
“Dumpling” or
“Butterball”]

2

“Boule de Suif” was written by this Frenchman,
who also wrote “The Necklace.”

Guy de Maupassant
[maw-pah-sahn]

3

This is the name of the title dog left to die in a
Maupassant story. This same name is used for a
stock character who loves Columbine, who in turn
loves Harlequin.

Pierrot [pyair-oh]

7

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
This painter showed a chandelier with candles whose
ﬂames are being blown strongly to the side at the top of
his painting Witching Hour. He painted a white dog
sleeping comfortably on a bed covered with a white
blanket in Master Bedroom. Without telling his wife or
his subject’s husband, he made over 200 pictures of one
of his neighbors in Pennsylvania during the 1970s and
’80s. Name this painter of Helga Testorf, who showed a
diﬀerent neighbor who suﬀered from polio trying to
make it across a farm in Christina’s World.

Andrew (Newell) Wyeth
[“WHY”-eth]

Question #16: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The Weierstrass [VYE-ur-shtrass] substitution uses
both division by two and this function to simplify
integration problems. The law of this function gives an
expression for the ratio of the diﬀerence of two lengths
divided by the sum of two lengths. Its Taylor series
begins x plus x cubed over 3 plus 2 x to the ﬁfth over 15.
When the line x equals 1 intersects the terminal side of
an angle in standard position, this function gives the
y-coordinate of the point of intersection. This function
is undeﬁned precisely when the secant function is
undeﬁned, that is, when cosine is zero, since it equals
sine divided by cosine. Name this function that, for an
acute angle in a right triangle, is the ratio of the
opposite side to the adjacent side.

8

tangent function [accept
answers that additionally
mention a variable; do not
accept “cotangent”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This ruler bet that the Château de Bagatelle could not
be constructed in three months. Nicole Lequay
pretended to be this monarch in a scam involving a
valuable piece of jewelry, which led to severe sentences
for the Cardinal de Rohan and Jeanne de la Motte. This
queen was the sister of Leopold II [2], Holy Roman
Emperor, which divided her loyalties. People who
disliked this ruler referred to her as “the Austrian
woman”. Name this woman who was sent to the
guillotine a few months after her husband Louis XVI
[16].

Marie Antoinette [or Maria
Antonia Josepha Johanna or
Maria Antonia Josephina
Johanna; prompt on partial
answer]

Question #18: Science – Chemistry
10 points
A form of this functional group bound to a
carbon-carbon double bond can be protected by a silyl
ether [SIL-il EE-thur], and is central to the mechanisms
of the Michael addition and the aldol condensation.
That form of this functional group is the tautomer
[“TAUT”-oh-mur] of a ketone [“KEY-tone”]. A
molecule with two of this functional group is used to
protect carbonyls [KAR-buh-NEELZ] by forming a 1,3
dioxolane [“die-OX-uh-lane”]. The Jones oxidation
forms a secondary one of these compounds from a
ketone, while Grignard [GREEN-yard] reagents will
form these compounds when attacking a carbonyl. A
compound with two of these functional groups is called
a diol [“DIE-awl”]. Name this functional group found
in ethanol.

9

alcohol group [or hydroxyl
group]

Round 2
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #19: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
This was the 22nd poem in the collection Spring and
All. Its four stanzas together form one sentence, though
its ﬁrst word is not capitalized. The last stanza of this
poem places the title object near farm animals, and the
third stanza describes the title object’s wet texture. The
name of that object is broken up between the third and
fourth lines. The title object probably has one wheel,
and it is “glazed with rain water”. Name this poem
about an object that “so much depends upon”, written
by William Carlos Williams.

“The Red Wheelbarrow”

Question #20: Social Studies – Economics
10 points
In General Theory, Keynes [“canes”] argued that the
“marginal eﬃciency of capital” determined this
economic value. The Keynes eﬀect states that this
value falls when prices fall. The Hicks-Hansen model
compares this quantity to real output, and the Fisher
equation compares two versions of this calculation to
the rate of inﬂation. This value is divided into 72 to
approximate the doubling period. The federal funds
rate and the prime rate are both speciﬁc examples of
this kind of value. Name this value used to calculate the
extra amount paid when borrowing money.

10

interest rate [or lending
rate]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
This work in E-ﬂat major was composed in 1850.
1

Give this symphony’s nickname, which is based on
a river going through Düsseldorf [DOOS-sel-dorf].

Rhenish [REN-ish]
Symphony [prompt on
Rhine River]

2

The “Rhenish” is the third symphony by this
composer, who married Clara Wieck [veek] against
her father’s wishes.
Schumann also wrote this eight-movement piano
piece named for an E. T. A. Hoﬀmann character.

Robert Schumann

3

Kreisleriana
[“Chrysler”-ee-ah-nah]

Question #22: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points per part
This symphony, Burghauser number 178, is in E
minor.
1 Give the nickname of this Antonín Dvořák
[d’VOR-zhahk] piece that is believed to have been
inﬂuenced by his study of African-American and
Native American music.

From the New World
Symphony [prompt on
Symphony No. 9 or Ninth
Symphony]

2

Dvorak also wrote these 16 nationalist pieces in
two groups of eight. These pieces are inﬂuenced by
Bohemian and Moravian music.

Slavonic Dances [or
Slovanske tances; prompt
on Slavonic]

3

In the ﬁrst set of Slavonic Dances, the ﬁrst and last
pieces are classiﬁed as this type of lively dance that
often follows a dumka [DOOM-kah].

furiants

11

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
x squared minus 36 is an example of this kind of
expression.
1 Name these binomials that can be factored into the
form quantity a + b, end quantity, times the
quantity a − b.
2 Factor x to the sixth power minus twenty-ﬁve
according to the diﬀerence-of-squares formula.
3

The diﬀerence of squares can simplify certain
multiplication problems. Find the product of 29
times 31.

diﬀerence of (two) squares

(x3 + 5)(x3 − 5) [or
(x3 − 5)(x3 + 5)
899

Question #24: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
This arrangement of numbers includes all the possible
outcomes of the “binomial choose” operation, which
is sometimes written “n C R”.
1 Name this arrangement used to ﬁnd the coeﬃcients
when you expand a binomial raised to a positive
integer power.
2 Find the coeﬃcient of the x squared y squared term
in the expansion of the quantity x plus y, quantity
closed, raised to the fourth power.
3 Find the coeﬃcient of the x squared y squared term
in the expansion of the quantity 2x plus 5y, quantity
closed, raised to the fourth power.

12

Pascal’s triangle

6 [accept 6x2 y 2 ]

600 [accept 600x2 y 2 ]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
The leader of this movement claimed that it “enticed
the snakes out of their lairs”.
1 Name this movement followed by the Anti-Rightist
Campaign. It was introduced in a speech entitled
“On the Correct Handling of Contradictions
Among the People”.

Hundred Flowers
Campaign [or Hundred
Flowers Movement or
Baihua yundong]

2

The Hundred Flowers Movement occurred in 1956
under this Chinese premier.

Mao Zedong [or Mao
Tse-tung; prompt on Zedong
or Tse-tung]

3

Shortly after the crackdown on open speech, Mao
instituted this set of economic reforms. The second
of the Five-Year Plans, it tried to force through
rapid industrialization but resulted in a famine.

Great Leap Forward [or Dà
yuè jǹ]

Question #26: Social Studies – World History
10 points per part
After defeating a group of Sherden pirates in the Nile
Delta, he incorporated them into his forces.
1 Name this pharaoh sometimes called Ozymandias
[ah-zee-MAN-dee-us]. This husband of Nefertari
[neh-fur-TAHR-ee] commissioned the temples at
Abu Simbel [AH-boo “symbol”].
2 Ramses signed the oldest known international
treaty with the leader Muwatallis II
[moo-wah-TAH-lis “the second”] following this
massive chariot battle.
3 After defeating a group of these people known as
Sherden, Ramses II incorporated them into his
forces at Kadesh. These mysterious people mostly
raided towns on the Mediterranean coast.
13

Ramses II [accept Ramses
the Great; prompt on
Ramses]
Battle of Kadesh
[KAY-desh]

Sea Peoples [accept People
of the Sea]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
In a 20th-century novel, this character was
re-imagined as Antoinettte Cosway.
1 Name this Creole woman who occasionally
escaped when her caretaker Grace Poole consumed
whiskey.

2

3

This man, Bertha’s husband, kept Bertha locked up
in an attic. He broke oﬀ an aﬀair with Celine
Varens, only to take in her abandoned daughter
Adele.
Edward Rochester’s initial attempt to marry this
Charlotte Brontë protagonist was interrupted by
Bertha’s brother, Richard.

Bertha Mason [accept
either; accept, but do not
otherwise reveal, Bertha
Rochester; prompt on the
Madwoman in the attic]
Edward Rochester [accept
either]

Jane Eyre [accept either]

Question #28: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
These twins are part of the “bigguns”, and were
tasked with maintaining the signal ﬁre.
1 Name these twins who thought that a dead
parachutist was a deformed ape. Initially loyal to
Ralph, they end up joining Jack Merridew’s tribe.
2 Samneric appear in this William Golding novel, in
which a boulder crushes both Piggy and a conch
[kahnk] shell.
3 The title ﬁgure in Lord of the Flies is symbolized
by the impaled head of one of these animals.

14

Samneric [or Sam and Eric]

Lord of the Flies

pig [or hog or swine]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
A perfect set has this property without having any
isolated points. A space is regular if all sets with this
property are separated from points not in those sets. An
operator has this property if that operator acting on a
converging sequence in the domain always maps to a
converging sequence in the range, and the limit is in the
range. Intervals with this property include their limit
points and are expressed in interval notation with
square brackets. Name this property which exists in
sets under an operation if that operation on elements of
the set always results in another element from the set,
and which is therefore possessed for the integers under
addition, subtraction, and multiplication, but not under
division.

closure or closed

Question #30: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
The buildup to this action began with an argument over
whether John Goldﬁnch had paid for his wig. An
exchange of words was followed by Hugh White
striking Edward Garrick. Patrick Carr’s dying
declaration was given by Samuel Hemmingway at the
trial stemming from this act on King Street. An
engraving of this action showed a superior appearing to
give an order to soldiers lined up. Governor Thomas
Hutchinson restored order after this event, which was
used to stir up anger against the British by Samuel
Adams. Name this incident in which Crispus Attucks
was among the colonists killed by British soldiers.

15

Boston Massacre

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Literature – World Literature
10 points
In a novel by this author, Vaska says he is afraid of
frogs after a doctor explains why to experiment on
them. One of this author’s collections opens with a tale
of a pair of peasants, one thrifty and the other an
idealist. In another tale by this writer, the loss of the
horse Malek Adel sends a nobleman oﬀ the deep end.
This author of Diary of a Superﬂuous Man and A
Sportsman’s Sketches wrote a novel focusing on a
physician who denies all laws except those of the
natural sciences, the nihilist [NYE-hil-ist] physician
Bazarov. Name this author of Fathers and Sons.

Ivan (Sergeyevich) Turgenev
[tur-“GAIN”-yeﬀ]

Question #32: Science – Physics
10 points
One type of these materials contains edge states with
carriers whose spin is locked at a right angle to their
momentum. A type of these materials that do not act as
calculated by conventional calculations are named for
Nevill Mott. Nickel oxide acts as one of these
compounds, which must have a large band gap. These
materials lose their namesake property at their
breakdown voltage. Examples of these materials
capable of undergoing dielectric polarization are used
between the two plate of a capacitor. Name these
materials that do not conduct electricity.

16

insulators [prompt on
dielectrics]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
This composer’s use of Mademoiselle de Lafontaine in
Le triomphe de l’amour [lay tree-awmf day lah-mor]
was unusual since almost all ballet dancers before then
were men. Using a Thomas Corneille [toh-mah
kor-nay] libretto based on a Molière [mole-yair] play,
this composer wrote the opera Psyche [SY-kee]. This
composer started the Paris Opera Ballet in 1669, and it
is now the oldest national ballet company in the world.
This composer’s career took oﬀ after he danced with
Louis XIV [14] in Benserade’s [bens-rahd’z] Ballet de
la nuit [nwee]. Name this French composer who died
after stabbing himself in the foot during a concert.

Jean-Baptiste Lully

Extra Question #2: Social Studies – World History
10 points
Adventurer Jørgen Jorgensen [YOR-gin YOR-gin-sen]
brieﬂy seized power in this nation, but he was not
backed by locals. The last hunt of the great auk
occurred in this country, which formed the Old
Covenant with Norway. It came out ahead following a
series of Cod Wars with Great Britain. A volcano
eruption in this country in 2010 disrupted northern
European air traﬃc. Though Erik the Red was born in
what is now Norway, his son Leif Erikson was born in
what is now this country. Its parliament is the Althing
[“ALL-thing”]. Name this nation on an island between
Great Britain and Greenland.

17

(Republic of) Iceland [or
Lydveldid Ísland]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Hypergeometric functions are used in the continued
fractions named for this person.This person’s Theorema
Egregium [tay-oh-RAY-mah eh-GRAY-jee-um] states
that the embedding of a surface in space does not aﬀect
its curvature. The so-called “integers” [IN-teh-jers]
named for this mathematician are actually complex
numbers whose real and imaginary parts are each
integers. This person is the namesake of a method of
reducing matrices into row-echelon [ESH-uh-lahn]
form, and Wilhelm Jordan’s [YOR-dahn’z] name is
added to this person’s name when that process leads to
reduced row-echelon form. Name this German
mathematician and physicist.

Carl Friedrich Gauss
[prompt on Gaussian]

Extra Question #4: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
This author wrote about a man who would have awed
Thor, and a woman that was “blindingly beautiful”;
they kissed the ceiling before Diana Moon Glampers
shot them both. This author also wrote about a
substance devised to deal with mud but used by Papa
Monzano to commit suicide, ice-nine. This author
created a character who became part of a zoo exhibit on
Tralfamadore after surviving the ﬁre-bombing of
Dresden. Name this author of “Harrison Bergeron”,
Cat’s Cradle, and Slaughterhouse-Five.

18

Kurt Vonnegut (Jr.)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Science – Biology
10 points
VEGF [vej-“F”] is a growth factor that contributes to
the formation of these structures. A factor said to be
derived from this tissue turned out to be nitric oxide,
which increases the permeability of these structures.
Malignant tumors can cause the formation of these
structures to increase their growth. These structures are
formed through vasculogenesis
[VASS-kyoo-loh-“genesis”] and angiogenesis
[AN-jee-oh-“genesis”]. Some of these structures
contain valves to prevent backﬂow, while the formation
of cholesterol plaques in some of these structures
causes atherosclerosis [uh-THAIR-oh-skluh-ROH-siss].
Name these structures that can be classiﬁed as arteries
and veins.

19

blood vessels [prompt on
endothelium; ask for a less
speciﬁc answer upon a
response of artery/ies or
arterioles or venules or
veins or capillary/ies]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
This tragedy was planned to take place on Patriots’
Day, and its main perpetrator was later caught driving
without a license plate.
1 Name this event that destroyed the Alfred P.
Murrah building, and resulted in the arrests of
Michael Fortier and Terry Nichols.
2
3

This man was sentenced to death by lethal injection
for masterminding the Oklahoma City bombing.
McVeigh launched the attack to avenge the civilian
deaths that occurred during the standoﬀ between
federal agents and the Branch Davidians
[duh-VID-ee-uns] in this city.

Oklahoma City bombing
[accept other words in place
of bombing]
Timothy (James) McVeigh
Waco, Texas

Extra Question #7: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
The Webster-Ashburton Treaty settled the eastern
location of this line.
1 Name this concept whose then-nebulous western
end inspired the slogan “ﬁfty-four forty or ﬁght”
before being set at the 49th parallel.

the U.S.-Canadian border
[accept equivalents; prompt
on border]

2

Before he could cross the border, this Nez Perce
leader was captured at Bear Paw Mountain. In
surrendering, he declared “I will ﬁght no more
forever.”

Chief Joseph [accept Young
Joseph or
Hin-mah-too-yah-lat-kekt;
prompt on Joseph]

3

The International Boundary Commission
responsible for the border was created by this 1794
treaty, negotiated by a Supreme Court Justice.

Jay’s Treaty [accept London
Treaty of 1794 or Treaty of
Amity, Commerce, and
Navigation]

20

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 2
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
Mothballs tend to undergo this phase transition,
whose opposite is deposition.
1 Name this phase transition in which a solid
sublimation [or subliming]
becomes a gas.
2 This solid commonly sublimates to its gaseous
dry ice
form, carbon dioxide.
3 A common lab technique for puriﬁcation involves
cold ﬁngers
sublimating a sample onto one of these apparatuses.
One of these pieces of glassware is sometimes
found on a rotary evaporator in place of a
condenser.

Extra Question #9: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
In this technique, a sample is ionized through a
method like E.S.I. or MALDI [MAHL-dee].
1 Name this technique whose peaks are separated by
how heavy they are.

2

3

In mass spectrometry, peaks are given by their ratio
of mass to this quantity, which is typically one for
analytes after ionization.
Time-of-ﬂight mass spectrometry determines mass
by setting this quantity for particles equal, and then
viewing their time-of-ﬂight through a chamber.

21

mass spectrometry [accept
mass spectroscopy; prompt
on spectrometry or
spectroscopy]
charge

kinetic energy [accept KE;
prompt on energy]

