Round 1
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #1: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
This composer wrote the books Practical Manual of
Harmony and Principles of Orchestration. One of his
works is Concerto [kun-“CHAIR”-toh] for Trombone
and Military Band. He used an astrologer to address
the audience at the beginning and end of his opera The
Golden Cockerel. Although he was Russian, this
composer studied Spanish folk songs to compose
Capriccio Espagnol [kah-PREE-choh es-pahn-YOHL].
He then returned to Russian themes for Scheherazade
[sheh-HEH-rah-ZAH-deh] and Russian Easter Festival
Overture. Name this composer whose The Tale of Tsar
Saltan includes a fast movement called “Flight of the
Bumblebee”.

Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov

Question #2: Social Studies – Geography
10 points
The Willard Bay Reservoir is adjacent to this larger
body of water. Antelope Island separates most of
Farmington Bay from this lake. Two of its tributaries,
which start in the Uinta [oo-IN-tah] Mountains, are the
Weber [WEE-bur] and Bear Rivers. The Lucin
[LOO-sin] Cutoﬀ Railroad Trestle divides this lake in
half, and the northern half is often reddish due to algae
[AL-jee]. This lake is the largest remnant of Lake
Bonneville [BAH-nuh-vil]. Other than the Great Lakes,
this is the largest lake by surface area in the United
States. Name this lake in Utah.

1

Great Salt Lake

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
A pair of elements in a non-Abelian [uh-BEE-lee-un]
group have this relationship if one of them can be
left-multiplied by some other element and
right-multiplied by that other element’s inverse to give
the other of the pair. If transposing a matrix and
performing this operation on each element results in the
original matrix, the matrix is Hermitian
[air-MEE-shun]. If two numbers have the same
magnitude but opposite angle in the complex plane,
then they have this relationship. If there is a sum or
diﬀerence involving a radical in a denominator, the
denominator is rationalized by multiplying it by a
number with this relationship to it. Name this operation
that changes a plus b i into a minus b i.

conjugates [or conjugation;
accept longer answers like
complex conjugates or
complex conjugation]

Question #4: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In one novel by this writer, Wes Jordan takes Roger Too
White on a tour to demonstrate the racial disparities in
Atlanta after Elizabeth Armholster accuses Fareek
Fanon of rape. Another novel by this writer focuses on
a hit-and-run perpetrated in the Bronx by Sherman
McCoy, who had been a successful bond trader. This
author of A Man in Full and The Bonﬁre of the Vanities
also wrote nonﬁction about the Merry Pranksters and
the American space program. Name this New
Journalist who wrote The Right Stuﬀ and The Electric
Kool-Aid Acid Test.

2

Tom Wolfe [or Thomas
K(ennerly) Wolfe; do not
accept or prompt on
“Thomas Wolfe” or “Thomas
Clayton Wolfe”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #5: Science – Chemistry
10 points
This metal was the center of one of the ﬁrst
coordination compounds known to be coordinated to an
alkene [AL-keen] ligand, Zeise’s [ZYE-suh’z] salt. An
oxide of this element forms Adams’s catalyst. The
standard hydrogen electrode is made up of this metal,
which in a compound researched by Barnett Rosenberg
is coordinated to two ammine [AM-een] ligands and
two chloride ions in a cis [siss] conﬁguration. This
metal is found in the center of the anti-cancer drug
cisplatin [sis-PLAT-in]. Like palladium, which is
directly above it on the periodic table, it is commonly
used as a catalyst. Name this expensive metal whose
atomic number is 78 and which is just to the left of gold
on the periodic table.

platinum [prompt on Pt]

Question #6: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This country’s Kataeb [kah-TAY-eb] Party was behind
the 1982 Sabra and Shatila massacre. In this country’s
government, the oﬃce of Prime Minister can only be
held by a Sunni [SOO-nee], while the President must
be Maronite. The refusal to renew Emile Lahoud as
this country’s president led to the 2005 assassination of
its Prime Minister, which the Syrian government was
accused of plotting. That murder of Raﬁk Hariri
[rah-FEEK hah-REE-ree] led to this country’s Cedar
Revolution. Name this country currently headed by
Tammam Salam, which gained independence the same
day as its neighbor Syria.

3

Lebanon [or Lebanese
Republic or Liban or
République libanaise or
Lubnan or al-Jumhuriyya
al-Lubnaniyya]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Science – Biology
10 points per part
Kayser-Fleischer [KYE-sur “FLY”-shur] rings appear
to form in this structure in patients with Wilson’s
disease.
1 Name this structure responsible for controlling the
diameter of the pupil. The color of the eye is found
in this structure.
2 Kayser-Fleischer rings are caused by copper in
Descemet’s [DES-uh-may’s] membrane, which
covers the inner surface of this transparent layer in
front of the eye. This object’s limbus separates it
from the sclera [SKLAIR-uh].
3 These almond-shaped glands at the sides of the
eyes are responsible for producing the liquid
portion of tears.

iris

cornea

lacrimal glands

Question #8: Science – Biology
10 points per part
This disease is spread by the Anopheles
[uh-NAH-fuh-lees] mosquito.
1 Name this disease that was originally treated with
quinine [KWYE-“nine”].
2 Malaria is caused by protozoa [proh-tuh-ZOH-uh]
in this genus, which includes species such as
falciparum [fal-SIP-uh-rum] and vivax
[VYE-vaks].
3 An attempt to control malaria involved the use of
this pesticide to kill mosquitoes, but its use was
discontinued after the publication of Rachel
Carson’s Silent Spring.

4

malaria
Plasmodium

DDT or
dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
The protagonist of this novel is moved to tears by
Mademoiselle Reisz’s [“rice”’z] piano-playing.
1 Name this novel in which Edna Pontellier
[pahn-tay-yay] swims out into the Gulf of Mexico.
2 This author of The Awakening wrote of Louise
Mallard’s “shocking” death in “The Story of an
Hour”.
3 In another story, Chopin wrote about this woman, a
daughter of Madame Valmonde who was thrown
out by her husband Armand Aubigny [aw-bin-yee]
for supposedly having black ancestry.

The Awakening
Kate Chopin [“show-pan”]
[or Katherine O’Flaherty]
Désirée [accept “Désirée’s
Baby”]

Question #10: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This poem’s “Footnote” features the word “holy”
repeated ﬁfteen times.
1 Name this poem dedicated to Carl Solomon, who is
told “I’m with you in Rockland.” It opens with the
line “I saw the best minds of my generation
destroyed by madness.”
2 This Beat poet wrote “Howl”.
3

The second section of “Howl” condemns this
demon “whose mind is pure machinery”. This
demon is also tied to a “sphinx of cement and
aluminum” that “bashed open skulls” and “ate up
brains and imagination”.

5

“Howl”

(Irwin) Allen Ginsberg
Moloch

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Social Studies – Religion
10 points per part
These sayings are called “weak”, or da’if [dah-EEF],
if they cannot be linked directly to the person alleged
to have originated them.
1 Give the term for these sayings that are collected in
the Six Books by some believers, and into the Four
Books by other believers.
2 The hadith are a collection of sayings uttered by
this man, the founding prophet of Islam.
3

According to Shi’a [SHEE-uh] Islam, the warning
hadith demonstrates that this person was the
rightful successor of Muhammad.

hadith [hah-DEETH] [or
ahadith]
Muhammad [or
Mohammed]
Ali ibn Abi Talib

Question #12: Social Studies – Religion
10 points per part
In this religion, each half of the cosmic time cycle
features 24 tirthankaras [tir-tan-KAR-uhz].
1 Name this eastern religion whose followers adhere
to the doctrine of ahimsa, or non-violence.
2

3

Svetambaras [sveh-TAHM-buh-rahz], the majority
sect of Jainism, is distinguished by its practitioners
wearing robes of this color, in contrast to the
Digambaras [di-GUM-buh-ruhz], who wear
nothing.
Svetambaras also believe that these people can
attain moksha, and that the tirthankara Mallinath
was this type of person. First Corinthians in the
Christian Bible states that it is a shame for these
people to speak in church.

6

Jainism [accept Jain
dharma]
white robes

women [accept equivalents
such as females]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Mathematics – Statistics
10 points per part
This type of average is also known as the quadratic
mean.
1 Name this average whose name refers to the steps
used to calculate it, which are very similar to the
steps used to measure spread using the standard
deviation.
2 The root-mean-square is often used for continuous
distributions, though it can also be used for discrete
distributions. What is the RMS average of 1 and 7?
3 In contrast to the root-mean-square average, what is
the arithmetic [air-ith-MET-ik] mean of 1 and 7?

root-mean-square average
or RMS average

5

4

Question #14: Mathematics – Statistics
10 points per part
This quantity equals the expected value of the square
of the diﬀerence between a value and the mean.
1 Name this measure of spread, equal to the standard
deviation squared.
2
3

Find the population variance of the set of two
numbers that consists of six and fourteen.
Find the sample variance of the same set of two
numbers, namely, six and fourteen.

7

variance [prompt on sigma
squared]
16
32

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Literature – British Literature
10 points
This character made a sketch of a “woman, draped and
blindfolded, carrying a lighted torch”. A Russian
known as “the Harlequin” credited this character for
“enlarging his mind.” This trader worked at the Inner
Station and was described as “hollow at the core.” He
wanted to “exterminate all the brutes,” and the
announcement that he died is used as an epigraph in T.
S. Eliot’s “The Hollow Men.” This character’s last
words were “the horror! the horror!”. Name this Joseph
Conrad character whom Charles Marlow seeks in Heart
of Darkness.

Mr. Kurtz

Question #16: Science – Biology
10 points
An enzyme in this pathway is made more active
through the activity of PFK2 [P-F-K “two”]. PFK1
catalyzes the rate-limiting step of this pathway, and is
part of its investment phase, which consumes two
molecules of ATP. Gluconeogenesis
[GLOO-koh-NEE-oh-“genesis”] is eﬀectively the
reverse of this pathway. This pathway results in a net
gain of two ATP [A-T-P], two NADH [N-A-D-H], and
twp pyruvates [“pie”-ROO-vayts], and occurs in the
cytosol [SYE-toh-sawl]. This process can occur with or
without the presence of oxygen. The Krebs cycle and
electron transport chain follow this pathway in aerobic
respiration. Name this process named for the fact that it
breaks down a molecule of glucose.

8

glycolysis [or
Embden-Meyerhof
pathway]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Miscellaneous – Consumer Education
10 points
This type of agreement is treated like a checking
account in a CMG Plan. Those whose rates are
periodically adjusted relative to a market index are
called ARMs. In the “reverse” form of this
arrangement, the owner of the collateral can access its
equity, and no monthly payments are required. Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac are involved in the secondary
market for these agreements. Almost a decade ago, a
large number of “subprime” ones led to a ﬁnancial
crisis and a spike in foreclosures. Name these loans
secured by real property, such as a house.

mortgages or mortgage
loans [prompt on loans]

Question #18: Literature – World Literature
10 points
At this play’s conclusion, the protagonist describes a
locale as a “den of thieves vice reigns among”, and
vows to ﬁnd a place where “one is free to be an honest
man”. At the beginning of this play, Philinte [fee-lant]
is criticized for praising a man. In this play, a
sonnetteer asks a man who is “more sincere than suits
the case” for feedback, only to accuse the protagonist of
libel. The discovery of gossipy letters ruins Célimène’s
[say-lee-men’z] social standing in this play. Name this
drama in which Alceste [al-sest] detests everyone, by
Molière.

9

The Misanthrope(, or the
Cantankerous Lover) [or Le
Misanthrope(, ou
l’Atrabilaire amoureux)]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #19: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
In an op-ed regarding gays in the military, this person
argued “You don’t have to be straight, you just need to
shoot straight.” A bill named for this senator and Bill
Nichols restructured the Defense Department in 1986.
Brent Bozell ghostwrote this person’s book The
Conscience of a Conservative. Ronald Reagan’s “A
Time for Choosing” speech was an endorsement of this
politician, who in accepting his party’s nomination said
“extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice.” Name
this U.S. senator from Arizona who lost to Lyndon
Johnson in the 1964 presidential election.

Barry (Morris) Goldwater
(Jr.)

Question #20: Science – Earth Science
10 points
This is the most common rock used for dusting coal
mines to prevent explosions. This rock, especially if it
has silicon dioxide impurities, is combined with clay to
make Portland cement, the most common type of
cement. This rock and dolomite are the most common
constituents of speleothems [SPEE-lee-oh-themz],
which are cave formations like stalactites. Chemically,
this rock is very similar to marble, and travertine
[TRAV-er-teen] and chalk are types of it. This rock is
made of aragonite and calcite [KAL-site]. Name this
sedimentary rock made of calcium carbonate.

10

limestone [prompt on
calcium carbonate before
the end]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
This term is taken from the name of a 17th- and
18th-century Italian mathematician.
1 Give the general name of any segment that
connects the vertex of a triangle to its opposite side.
2
3

This type of cevian connects a vertex of a triangle
to the midpoint of its opposite side.
Find the length of the median of an equilateral
triangle if each of its sides has a length of eight
units.

cevian [CHAY-vee-un, but
be generous] [prompt on
Ceva [CHAY-vuh]]
median
4 root 3 units [or 4 times the
square root of 3 or 4 radical
3 units or equivalents]

Question #22: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
The regular examples of these shapes are called
Platonic solids.
1 Name these three-dimensional solids whose faces
are polygons and whose edges are straight. This
category of solids includes, among many other
solids, pyramids with any base.
2 This class of polyhedra [“poly”-HEE-drah]
contains shapes with multiple diﬀerent shapes as
faces, but all the vertices [VER-tuh-sees] have the
same structure.
3 Find the total number of faces of a truncated
tetrahedron, which is the Archimedean solid with
the fewest number of faces.

11

polyhedra [accept
polyhedron]

Archimedean solid [accept
Archimedes’ solid]

8 faces

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This statue was created by Paul Landowski, Heitor da
Silva Costa, and Albert Caquot [ka-kwoh]. It is on
Corcovado [kor-koe-VAH-doe] mountain and is about
100 feet tall.
1 Name this statue, completed in 1931, whose outer
layers are soapstone.

Christ the Redeemer [or
Cristo Redentor]

2

Christ the Redeemer is in this country, in the city of
Rio de Janeiro.

(Federative Republic of)
Brazil [or República
Federativa do Brasil]

3

Rio de Janeiro was the capital of Brazil until Lucio
Costa and this architect designed Brasilia. With
advice from Le Corbusier [lay kor-boo-see-ay], this
architect also designed the headquarters of the
United Nations.

Oscar Niemeyer

Question #24: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This artist made portraits of Adele Bloch-Bauer.
1

2

3

Name this Vienna Secession artist who made the
Beethoven Frieze [“freeze”] and who showed a
woman with her head turned sideways and her
knees bent in The Kiss.
The Kiss and Adele Bloch-Bauer One, like many of
Klimt’s works, are embossed with foil made of this
metal.
This is the name of the central part of Klimt’s
Stoclet Frieze, which appears between a woman
and an embracing couple. The object depicted in
this section contains many spirals.

12

Gustav Klimt

gold foil [or gold leaf]

Tree of life [or
Lebensbaum; prompt on
tree or baum]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
Fluorine has the highest value for this quantity on the
Pauling scale.
1 Name this quantity, the tendency for an element to
attract electrons in a bond.
2 High values for electronegativity are what allow
nitrogen, oxygen, and ﬂuorine to participate in
these interactions, named for the element they
interact with.
3 Electronegativity increases as toward the right on
the periodic table in part due to the increase in this
quantity, which can be estimated using Slater’s
rules. This quantity is caused in part due to
shielding electrons.

electronegativity
hydrogen bonds

eﬀective nuclear charge
[prompt on answers
involving the letter Z; do not
accept incomplete answers]

Question #26: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
For glucose, CH2O [“C H two O”] is this type of
formula—the same as for ribose [“RYE”-bohss] and
formaldehyde.
1 Name this formula that shows the ratios of atoms
present in a compound, not the exact numbers.
2 The percent masses of elements used to determine
the empirical formula may be determined through
this method, in which a sample is combusted and
the masses of the products are measured.
3 Empirical formulas are commonly used to
represent these compounds, as they do not typically
exist with a ﬁxed molecular formula. These
compounds typically dissolve in water and have
high melting points due to their strong
intermolecular attractions.
13

empirical formula
elemental analysis [or CHN
analysis]

ionic compounds or ionic
solids

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
This speech compares the merchant at the crossroads
to the one in New York, and claimed income taxes
became unconstitutional when a judge changed his
mind.
1 Name this speech delivered by a man who claimed
to have the backing of the commercial and laboring
interests, as well as the “toiling masses”.
2 This Nebraskan gave the “Cross of Gold” speech at
the 1896 Democratic National Convention.
3 Bryan’s support of bimetallism [“bye-metal-ism”]
was attacked by this campaign manager for William
McKinley. A political cartoon showed this man
wearing a suit covered with dollar signs.

Cross of Gold speech

William Jennings Bryan
(Marcus Alonzo) Mark
Hanna

Question #28: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Civilians harmed by this attack constructed a series of
dugouts that the victorious soldiers nicknamed
“Prairie Dog Village.”
1 Name this attack followed by the capture of Port
Hudson. This Civil War victory for the Union was
important to the Anaconda Plan.
2 This man’s forces at Vicksburg, nicknamed the
“Forlorn Hope,” failed to capture the Stockdale
Redan. Later, his forces would burn Atlanta to the
ground before “marching to the sea”.
3 As Mississippi was about to fall, this Confederate
general ordered the abandonment of Vicksburg.
John Pemberton failed to follow his order. This
leader was later replaced by General Hood just
before Atlanta was burned.
14

Battle of Vicksburg [or
Siege of Vicksburg]
William Tecumseh Sherman

Joseph E(ggleston)
Johnston [prompt on
Johnston]

Round 1
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #29: Science – Physics
10 points
This quantity is related to a substance’s polarizability
[“polar-eye”-zuh-BIL-ih-tee] and number density by
the Lorentz-Lorenz formula. This quantity is equal to
the square root of the product of relative permeability
and permittivity. Diﬀerences in this phenomenon cause
the path-length diﬀerences that result in the coloration
of a thin ﬁlm. Icelandic spar has two diﬀerent values
for this quantity, which results in birefringence
[bie-ree-FRIN-juns]. These values for two diﬀerent
media are multiplied by the sines of of the angles of
incidence and reﬂection in Snell’s law. Name this
quantity equal to the ratio of speed of light in vacuum
to the speed of light in a given medium.

index of refraction [or
refractive index; prompt on
n; prompt on local speed of
light or c]

Question #30: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
After he shot Tim Johnson, this man’s nickname was
Atticus Finch [prompt on
revealed by Miss Maudie to be “One-Shot”. Newspaper Finch; prompt on
editor Braxton Underwood held up a shotgun to defend “One-Shot” before it is
this man when Walter Cunningham Senior organized a
mentioned]
mob against him. In one case, this character argued that
his client’s slung hand could not have left incriminating
marks on the left side of a woman’s face. He was
unable to convince a jury that Mayella Ewell was not
raped by Tom Robinson in Maycomb County. Name
this father of Jem and Scout in Harper Lee’s To Kill a
Mockingbird.

15

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
Fermat’s [fair-mah’z] right triangle theorem states that
a triangle whose three sides are each this type of
number cannot have an area that is a square of this type
of number. These numbers give a nonzero output for
Thomae’s [toh-MAY’z] function. This set of numbers
is both continuous and countable, and its countability
can be demonstrated by “spiraling outward” in a lattice
depiction of Z cross Z. Examples of the kind of function
deﬁned and named by analogy to these numbers consist
of a polynomial divided by another polynomial. When
written in decimal form, these numbers terminate or
repeat. Name this type of real number, examples of
which can be written as a quotient of integers.

rational numbers or
rationals [prompt on Q]

Question #32: Social Studies – World History
10 points
At one battle in this conﬂict, the strong wind aided the
archers of Lord Fauconberg, while the Earl of Warwick
inspired his troops by killing his own horse. At this
war’s Battle of Tewkesbury [TOOKS-bur-ee], English
heir apparent Edward of Westminster was killed.
Featuring two distinct battles at St. Albans, this war
saw the imprisonment of King Edward the Fifth and his
brother Richard, the “Princes in the Tower”. The
Stanleys support for the eventual winner helped turn the
tide in this conﬂict’s decisive battle at Bosworth Field.
Name this conﬂict in which the Houses of Lancaster
and York were represented by red and white ﬂowers.

16

War(s) of the Roses

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #1: Literature – British Literature
10 points
One of this writer’s poems is set during the title ﬁgure’s
annual day oﬀ from silk-winding, and its protagonist
proclaims “God’s in his heaven / All’s right with the
world.” This author of Pippa Passes wrote a poem in
which the speaker is told not to catch men with show,
“Fra Lippo Lippi”. In another poem by this author, a
statue of Neptune is near Fra Pandolf’s painting of the
title woman. Name this author of “My Last Duchess”,
the husband of the poet who wrote “Sonnets from the
Portuguese”.

Robert Browning [prompt
on Browning]

Extra Question #2: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
Ernest Gruening, one of the U.S. Senators from this
state, was one of two senators to vote against the Gulf
of Tonkin Resolution. Ernest Gruening’s successor as
senator from this state, who moved to enter the
Pentagon Papers into the Congressional Record, was
Mike Gravel [gruh-VEL]. The aborted Gravina Island
bridge in this state became known as the “Bridge to
Nowhere”, and was championed by its then-governor
Sarah Palin. Name this state formed from the territory
purchased from Russia in “Seward’s Folly”.

17

Alaska

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
A cube named for these numbers is built by looking for
numbers whose binary representation does not contain
consecutive ones. The polynomial expansion of one
divided by the quantity one minus x minus x squared
has these numbers as coeﬃcients. As these numbers
get larger, their ratio of consecutive values approaches
the golden ratio. These numbers, which form a speciﬁc
example of a Lucas [loo-kah] sequence, are named for a
13th-century Italian who used them to model the
growth of populations of rabbits. Identify this sequence
in which each number is the sum of the previous two,
beginning 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8.

Fibonacci sequence [accept
Fibonacci numbers]

Extra Question #4: Science – Astronomy
10 points
Before William Herschel resolved it into stars, this
person discovered a globular cluster in Canes Venatici
[KAY-neez vih-NAA-tih-“sigh”]. This person also
discovered Lexell’s comet, which made the closest
measured comet approach to Earth, and he discovered
at least ten other comets. During his searches, this
person often saw nebulous objects that needed close
inspection to determine whether they are comets. The
ﬁrst such object was the Crab Nebula, and the 31st such
object was the Andromeda Galaxy. Name this French
astronomer whose list of 110 objects became a
commonly used astronomical catalogue.

18

Charles Messier [mess-yay]

Round 1
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Extra Question #5: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
This artist’s triptych [“TRIP-tick”] Resistance,
Resurrection, Liberation is at a museum in Nice
[“niece”] that was originally dedicated to his religious
works. This artist showed himself lying down, wearing
a blue shirt and black pants, at the bottom of The Poet
Reclining. An oversized man wearing black with a
brown bag over his shoulder is facing steeply downhill
near this artist’s early hometown in Over Vitebsk. He
designed three tapestries for the Knesset [k’NEH-set]
and the ceiling for the Paris Opera. Name this artist
who showed a white goat facing a green-faced man in I
and the Village.

19

Marc (Zakharovich) Chagall
[shuh-GAHL]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
The Allens invite this protagonist on a journey to
Bath.
1 Name this protagonist of Northanger Abbey, whom
Isabella Thorpe advises to read Mysterious
Warnings and Castle of Wolfenbach.
2 Northanger Abbey is by this author, whose other
protagonists include Elizabeth Bennet and Fanny
Price.
3 Catherine has an aﬃnity for romance novels in this
genre, which includes The Mysteries of Udolpho.

Catherine Morland [accept
either]
Jane Austen

Gothic novels [or Gothic
ﬁction or Gothic romances]

Extra Question #7: Literature – British Literature
10 points per part
This mock epic was inspired by John Dryden’s
MacFlecknoe. A fourth book was later added to it
along with revisions to the original text changing the
hero to Colley Cibber [KIB-bur] from Lewis
Theobald.
1 Name this mock epic whose hero is found to be the
favorite of the goddess Dulness.
2
3

The Dunciad was written by this English author of
The Rape of the Lock.
The Dunciad parodies this ancient Roman poem
about the son of Anchises [an-KIE-sees] and
Venus.

20

The Dunciad
[“DUNCE”-ee-ad]
Alexander Pope
(the) Aeneid [uh-NEE-id]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 1
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
The x-axis and y-axis divide the plane into regions
called quadrants.
1 What is the name of the regions formed by the
division of space by the xy plane, the yz plane, and
the xz plane?
2 Find the maximum possible number of octants that
a single plane in three-space can enter. The axes do
not count as part of any octant.
3 If four-space was divided up using a method
corresponding to the division of the plane into
quadrants or three-space into octants, how many
sections would there be?

octants

7

16

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Algebra
10 points per part
These formulas are named for a French mathematician
who pioneered the use of letters to represent variables.
1 Name these formulas that give the relationship
between a polynomial’s coeﬃcients, and the sum
and the product of its roots.
2 Find the sum of the solutions to the quadratic
equation two x squared, minus ten x, plus 1, equals
zero.
3 Find the discriminant of the same equation. Again,
that equation is two x squared, minus ten x, plus 1,
equals zero. Do not take the square root of the
discriminant.

21

Vieta’s formulas [or Viète’s
formulas]
5

92

