Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #1: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
Mary tells the protagonist of this novel to eat his
chicken, but the organic functions of his body had
altered. In this novel, Gus devises a plan to rob Blum’s
delicatessen, and the body of Bessie Mears is disposed
of even though there is money in the pocket of her
dress. Bessie is killed in this book by the same man
who uses a pillow to suﬀocate Mary Dalton and then
decapitates her. The protagonist of this novel, who lives
in poverty in Chicago, is Bigger Thomas. Name this
novel by Richard Wright.

Native Son

Question #2: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
The Master Theorem is used to solve recurrence
relations that arise when analyzing these mathematical
things. George Dantzig developed one of these things
named for simplexes and used on linear programming
problems. The Church-Turing thesis essentially says
that the formal deﬁnition of these things is the same as
the intuitive deﬁnition. These concepts are often
presented in pseudocode, and if they take locally
optimal actions, they are called greedy. Name this type
of formal step-by-step procedure used to solve a
problem.

1

algorithm(s)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #3: Social Studies – World History
10 points
This person was the namesake of a German Marxist
organization founded by Rosa Luxembourg. This
leader’s forces used ropes and vines to descend onto
Gaius Claber’s troops. To avenge the death of his
colleague Crixus, this man paired oﬀ his prisoners and
had them ﬁght each other to the death. He was killed at
the Battle of Siler River during the Third Servile War,
and his forces were cruciﬁed along the Appian Way.
Crassus led the eﬀort to stop his forces, but Pompey got
the glory. Name this slave who led a revolt against the
Roman Empire.

Spartacus

Question #4: Science – Biology
10 points
Along with a lactone [“LACK-tone”], this molecule is
formed through the action of G6PD [G-“six”-P-D].
This compound allows glutathione reductase
[GLOO-tah-“THIGH-own” ree-DUK-tayss] to act on
the antioxidant glutathione. Two molecules of this
compound are formed during the oxidative
[“OX”-ih-day-tiv] phase of the pentose phosphate
pathway. A ferredoxin [fair-uh-“DOCK-sin”] in
photosystem I [1] forms this compound during the
light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis, and it is
later used as a reducing agent in the Calvin cycle.
Name this dinucleotide [“die”-NOO-klee-oh-“tide”]
that can be formed by phosphorylating
[fahss-FOR-ih-lay-ting] NADH [N-A-D-H].

2

NADPH [or nicotinamide
adenine dinucleotide
phosphate; do not prompt
on “NAD” or “NADH”]

Round 6
1st Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #5: Literature – British Literature
10 points
In this play’s prologue, the messenger describes how
the soul weeps while the body lies in clay. In this
English-language drama, the Lord is referred to as
“Adonai”, and Beauty asks whether she should be
smothered before leaving. In seeking out Confession,
Knowledge points this work’s protagonist towards the
House of Salvation. After this play’s protagonist is
deserted by Five Wits, he believes that he is completely
forsaken, and he learns that when the time comes, only
good deeds will be seen by God. Name this medieval
morality play.

The Summoning of
Everyman

Question #6: Miscellaneous – Sports
10 points
The Gleneagles Agreement was violated when this
sport was played during a “Springbok Tour” of South
Africa. Eric Rush and Jonah Lomu starred in this sport
for New Zealand. At the 2015 World Cup in this sport,
Richie McCaw was on the team that won the William
Webb Ellis Cup. The “sevens” variation of this sport
was accepted for the 2016 Rio Olympic Games. In this
sport, throwing the ball forward is illegal, and a try is
worth ﬁve points. When play stops, it can be restarted
with a scrum. Name this full-contact sport, a
predecessor to football.

3

rugby (union)

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #7: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
These stochastic [“stow-CAST”-ik] processes are
named for a Russian mathematician.
1 Name these processes that may use matrix
multiplication to demonstrate transitions from one
state to the next.
2 In a transition matrix for a Markov chain, the
numbers in each row must add up to this value.
3 A transition matrix in a Markov chain has a top row
of 0.6, 0.4 and a bottom row of 0.1, 0.9. If the
initial state is given by the column matrix with 0.5
on top and 0.5 on the bottom, what is the
probability of the top state after one step?

Markov chains or Markov
processes
one
0.35 [or 7/20 or 35%]

Question #8: Mathematics – Probability
10 points per part
This mathematical concept is used to model Brownian
motion.
1 Name this process in which the next direction to
move is chosen without any pre-existing pattern.
2

3

If an object goes up half the time and down half the
time, what is the probability that it will end up in
its original position after four evenly spaced steps?
If an object goes up half the time and down half the
time, what is the probability that it will end up
exactly one step away from its original position
after four evenly spaced steps?

4

random walk [accept word
forms]
3/8 [or 0.375]

0 [accept answers
mentioning that the speciﬁed
result is impossible; do not
accept “no answer”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #9: Social Studies – Geography
10 points per part
This region’s name came from a European folk tale in
which its inhabitants were giants.
1 Name this region in South America with many
plateaus. The Mapuche [mah-POO-chay] expanded
into this region during araucanization
[ah-RAW-kah-nih-ZAY-shun].
2 This island group just south of Patagonia is where
the HMS Sheﬃeld was sunk during a 1982 conﬂict.
Argentinians claim it belongs to them, and call it
the Islas Malvinas [EES-lahs mahl-VEE-nahs].
3 Patagonia is separated from Tierra del Fuego by
this channel of water. The Evangelistas Lighthouse
points eastward travelers to the entrance to it, and
the port Punta Arenas, Chile is on it.

Patagonia

Falkland Islands or
Falklands

Strait(s) of Magellan [or
Estrecho(s) de Magallanes]

Question #10: Social Studies – Geography
10 points per part
The Fulani and the Dogon [DOH-gon] are among this
region’s indigenous peoples.
1 Name this transition region that includes the cities
of Dakar [duh-KAHR], Niamey [nee-AH-may],
and Bamako [BAH-muh-koe].
2 The Sahel is just south of this desert, the largest by
area in the world.
3 The 2010 Sahel famine was worst near this river,
which forms the border between its namesake
country and Mauritania [mor-uh-TAY-nee-uh].

5

Sahel

Sahara Desert
Senegal River

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #11: Science – Physics
10 points per part
For a block on an inclined surface, the coeﬃcient for
the static form of quantity is equal to the tangent of
the angle of the incline.
1 Name this force that opposes motion.
2

3

Friction can cause the buildup of charge in
materials that contact in this eﬀect. Static
electricity typically is caused by this eﬀect.
A friction factor used in ﬂuid mechanics is named
for this French physicist. That factor, which varies
inversely with the Reynolds number, is used in an
equation named for this person and Julius
Weisbach [“VISE”-bahk]

friction(al force)
triboelectric eﬀect or
triboelectricity
Henry Darcy

Question #12: Science – Physics
10 points per part
For a solid sphere of uniform density, this quantity
equals two-ﬁfths times the mass of the sphere times
the sphere’s radius squared.
1 Name this quantity, the rotational analog of mass.

2

3

The moment of inertia applies to these kinds of
bodies that do not deform. In other words, the
distance between any two points in these idealized
solids does not change.
The moment of inertia can be represented as a
symmetric matrix. In that representation, the
moments of inertia are referred to by this term.
This adjective also describes the axes around which
those moments of inertia apply.
6

(ﬁrst mass) moment of
inertia [do not prompt on
partial answers]
rigid bodies

principal axes [or principal
moments of inertia]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
2nd Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #13: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
The oﬃcial lyrics to the song “Guantanamera
[GWAHN-tahn-ah-MAIR-ah]” were adapted from one
of this writer’s poems.
1 Name this author of the poetry collection Versos
Sencillos [VAIR-sohss sen-SEE-yohss], which
contains the poem “A Simple Man am I”.
2 José Martí was a strong advocate for the
independence of this Caribbean nation. The title of
an Enrique Flores-Galbis novel refers to the fact
that this country is 90 miles from Florida.
3 Cuba’s Alejo Carpentier [ah-LAY-hoh
kar-pen-tee-AIR] used this literary style in the
novel The Kingdom of This World, and in the
foreword contrasted it with European surrealism.
This genre [zhahn-ruh] tells about fantastical events
in a matter-of-fact style.

José Martí (Pérez)

(Republic of) Cuba [or
República de Cuba]

magical realism [or
marvelous realism; accept
word forms like magical
realist]

Question #14: Literature – World Literature
10 points per part
This novel features a sign writer-turned-journalist
who was born with six ﬁngers and was trapped into
marrying into the Tulsi [TOOL-see] family.
1 Name this novel in which Mohan seeks to make a
better life by obtaining the title property.
2 This Trinidadian author of A House for Mr. Biswas
wrote of Salim’s experiences in an African country
in A Bend in the River.
3 Naipaul’s novel In a Free State starts on a boat
going to this country, the home of Naguib Mahfouz
[na-GEEB mah-FOOZ].

7

A House for Mr. Biswas
V(idiadhar) S(urajsprad)
Naipaul
(Arab Republic of) Egypt

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #15: Fine Arts – Classical Music & Opera
10 points
A movement from this composer’s ﬁrst symphony, now
often played as a separate piece, is called Blumine
[bloo-MEE-nuh]. That symphony’s last movement is
labeled “Stormily agitated—Energetic”. After his
eighth symphony, this composer wrote a piece for two
singers with six songs, starting with “The Drinking
Song of Earth’s Misery”. Like Brahms, several of this
composer’s other early symphonies are considered
expressions of the folk poems in Des Knaben
Wunderhorn [dayss kuh-NAH-bin VOON-dur-“horn”].
Name this composer of “The Song of the Earth”, whose
eighth symphony is nicknamed—thanks to the large
group required to play it—the “Symphony of a
Thousand”.

Gustav Mahler

Question #16: Science – Chemistry
10 points
This technique can only analyze transitions that change
the dipole moment. Higher-resolution spectra
generated from this technique have P and R branches
due to rotations. Samples used in this technique are
commonly placed on a salt plate. The rule of mutual
exclusion states that transitions in centrosymmetric
[SEN-troh-“symmetric”] molecules cannot be both
Raman-active and active in this technique, which
makes the two complementary techniques. Peaks in
this technique are labeled using wavenumbers, and
typically correspond to vibrational normal modes. Part
of its output is in the ﬁngerprint region. Name this form
of vibrational spectroscopy, which uses a form of light
with a longer wavelength than visible light.

8

IR spectroscopy [or
infrared spectroscopy;
accept just IR or infrared
after “spectroscopy”; prompt
on spectroscopy]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #17: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
After this battle, Jesse Elliott was praised for
encouraging other Americans to join the ﬁghting, but
was criticized for being slow to engage in action
himself. William Powell painted another commander in
this battle being rowed to the Niagara from the
twice-captured Lawrence. This battle was fought near
Put-In-Bay following the defeat of the Queen Charlotte.
After this battle, William Henry Harrison was sent the
message “We have met the enemy, and they are ours”
by Oliver Hazard Perry. Name this naval battle of the
War of 1812.

Battle of Lake Erie

Question #18: Literature – World Literature
10 points
In this work, one man refuses to abandon a dog that
accompanied him on an ascent to heaven. One contest
within this story required suitors to shoot the eye of a
mechanical ﬁsh. Dushasana’s [duh-SHAH-suh-nah’s]
attempt to disrobe Draupadi [DROW-puh-dee] sparked
the conﬂict at the center of this epic. This poem details
the war between the Kauravas and Pandavas, starting
with the Adi [AH-dee] Parva and including the
Bhagavad-Gita. Name this long ancient Sanskrit epic.

9

Mahabharata [do not accept
“Bhagavad-Gita”]

Round 6
3rd Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Question #19: Science – Astronomy
10 points
The two scientists who independently discovered this
process also developed a formula unrelated to it that
ﬁnds atomic properties based on the number of protons
and neutrons. In their honor, this can be called the
Bethe-Weizsäcker [BEE-tuh “VISE”-zah-kur] process.
In order, this process emits a gamma ray, positron,
gamma ray, gamma ray, positron, and gamma ray. It
converts four hydrogen nuclei into a helium nucleus
and other particles. Though the proton-proton chain
reaction is more common in the Sun, this fusion
reaction is more common in larger stars. Name this
cycle that uses its three namesake elements as catalysts.

CNO cycle [or
carbon-nitrogen-oxygen
cycle; accept more speciﬁc
answers; accept
Bethe-Weizsäcker process
before it is mentioned]

Question #20: Social Studies – Economics
10 points
Jonathan Nitzan and Shimshon Bilcher proposed the
diﬀerential accumulation theory to explain this
phenomenon. Milton Friedman criticized Keynesian
[“CANE”-zee-un] economics for causing this
phenomenon and for its either/or approach to the
underlying causes of this phenomenon. When this
eﬀect occurs, both of the quantities used to measure the
misery index are high. Cited as a criticism of the
Phillips curve, this phenomenon occurred in the 1970s
thanks in part to OPEC instigating a supply shock in
the market for oil. Name this phenomenon in which
unemployment and inﬂation are both high.

10

stagﬂation [accept word
forms; do not accept or
prompt on “inﬂation” or
“unemployment”]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #21: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
In this play, Joseph Asagai—who plans to become a
doctor and move to Nigeria—is a suitor of Beneatha
[buh-NEETH-uh].
1 Name this play in which tensions come to a head
between the protagonist and Beneatha when a
$6,500 investment in a liquor store business is
stolen.
2 A Raisin in the Sun is by this African-American
author, who also wrote The Sign in Sidney
Brustein’s Window.
3 In A Raisin in the Sun, this representative of the
Clybourne Park Improvement Association fails to
convince the Younger family not to relocate to his
neighborhood.

A Raisin in the Sun

Lorraine (Vivian)
Hansberry
Karl Lindner [accept either]

Question #22: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
His father struck it rich in Alaska, while Ben rode
African diamonds to wealth.
1 Name this former subordinate to Howard Wagner,
who committed suicide by car crash.
2
3

Willy Loman is the protagonist of this Arthur
Miller play.
Willy’s son Biﬀ had an opportunity to play football
in college, but lost interest in his summer school
math course after visiting Willy in this city.

11

Willy Loman [prompt on
Loman]
Death of a Salesman
Boston, Massachusetts

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #23: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
In this painter’s Cat and Bird, the bird appears to be in
the forehead of the cat, whose face takes up almost the
entire painting.
1 Name this Swiss-German painter who worked
closely with Wassily Kandinsky [VAH-sil-ee
kan-DIN-skee] at the Bauhaus [rhymes with “cow
house”]. Several of his works include moon faces
or stick ﬁgures.
2 This Paul Klee work shows several birds with open
beaks on a hand crank.
3

Klee joined the Blue Rider movement, which was
started by Kandinsky and this artist of Yellow Cow
and Fighting Forms.

Paul Klee [“clay”] [be
generous with
pronunciations]

Twittering Machine [or Die
Zwitscher-Maschine]
Franz Marc

Question #24: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points per part
This painter combined his love of jazz with his love of
New York City in his painting Broadway
Boogie-Woogie.
1 Name this Dutch De Stijl [shteel] painter.
2

3

Other than white and grey, what three colors are
used in Broadway Boogie-Woogie? Unlike
Mondrian’s earlier works, there is no black.
Mondrian worked on this painting similar to
Broadway Boogie-Woogie but on a tilted canvas.
He died before completing it.

12

Piet
Mondrian [MON-dree-ahn]
red, yellow, and blue [any
order]
Victory Boogie-Woogie

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #25: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
The fractional form of this technique is useful for
separating compounds with very similar boiling
points.
1 Name this technique of purifying a liquid by
boiling it.
2 It is diﬃcult to separate components of one of these
mixtures, as their compositions do not change
when they boil.
3 When performing an azeotropic distillation, one of
these devices may be used along with a condenser
to capture water. This type of trap uses a
fractionating column and circulates cooling water.

distillation or distilling
azeotropes
[AY-zee-oh-“tropes”]
Dean-Stark apparatus [or
Dean-Stark trap]

Question #26: Science – Chemistry
10 points per part
The ﬁrst metallocene [meh-TAL-oh-seen] to be
analyzed was a complex with a center of this metal.
1 Name this element that is the primary component
of steel and that is coated with zinc in
galvanization.
2 Name that ﬁrst metallocene, a sandwich complex
whose structure was proposed by Robert Woodward
as an iron atom between two cyclopentadienyl
[sie-kloe-pen-tuh-DIE-ee-nul] ligands.
3 Iron oxide and aluminum are the most common
components of this highly exothermic mixture.
Steven Zumdahl stopped doing demonstrations
after students were injured when a beaker with this
chemical exploded.

13

iron [accept Fe]

ferrocene [“FAIR-oh-seen”]

thermite

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
4th Section
Teamwork Questions

Question #27: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
In response to this act’s passage, the House of
Burgesses approved the Virginia Resolves, the fourth
of which outlined opposition to “taxation without
representation”.
1 Name this 1765 act that regulated printed materials
in the American colonies to raise money for Great
Britain.
2 John Dickinson, who represented this colony, wrote
the Declaration of Rights and Grievances as agreed
upon at the Stamp Act Congress. Peter Minuit
[min-YOO-it] founded New Sweden in this colony.
3 Dickinson also wrote this document issued by the
Second Continental Congress, which King George
III refused to read. Meant as a critique of
ministerial policy, this document led the King to
proclaim that the colonies were in a state of
rebellion.

Stamp Act of 1765

Delaware

Olive Branch Petition

Question #28: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points per part
Also called “Men of Bronze,” two of its members,
Henry Johnson and Needham Roberts, were awarded
the Croix de Guerre [kroy de gair].
1 Give the two-word nickname for the 369th Infantry
Regiment out of New York that spent more time in
combat than any other regiment.
2 The Harlem Hellﬁghters fought as part of this
coalition of U.S. Armed Forces, led by John
Pershing, that fought in France during World War I.
3 The Harlem Hellﬁghters included Bill Robinson,
who became a famous dancer using this nickname.
14

Harlem Hellﬁghters [or
Black Rattlers]
American Expeditionary
Forces [accept AEF]
Bojangles

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #29: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
A system has this property if every statement in it can
be either proved or disproved. The axiom that in the
real numbers, every nonempty subset with an upper
bound has a least upper bound means that the real
numbers have this property. The number of edges of an
undirected graph with this property equals a triangular
number. To add a vertex to such a graph and maintain
this property, it is necessary to add a number of edges
equal to the previous number of vertices
[VER-tuh-sees]. Such graphs have an edge connecting
each pair of vertices. Name this adjective that generally
refers to anything that has all of its possible parts.

completeness [accept longer
answers like logical
completeness or logically
complete]

Question #30: Literature – British Literature
10 points
Immediately prior to this event, its beneﬁciary was
asked “Who watered the wick in Melbourne?”. The
manager of a boarding house, Peter, did not attend this
event, as he had arranged to play chess with friends.
Before this event starts, Lulu shows up with a package.
Held at the insistence of a Jew named Goldberg and an
Irishman named McCann, this event is kicked oﬀ by
Meg Boles playing a toy drum. Name this title
celebration held for the beneﬁt of Stanley Webber in a
play by Harold Pinter.

15

the Birthday Party [accept
similar answers indicating a
celebration for a birthday;
prompt on answers
indicating a celebration or
party without specifying the
occasion]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
5th Section
Toss-up Questions

Question #31: Social Studies – World History
10 points
Before taking part in the Armenian genocide, Halil Kut
lost control of this city to British troops under
Frederick Maude. When this city was ﬁrst built as
al-Mansur’s capital, it was called “the Round City” or
Madinat al-Salaam [MAH-dee-not al-sah-LAHM],
which means “City of Peace”. Hulegu [HOO-luh-goo]
Khan captured and badly damaged this Abbasid capital
in 1258, executing Al-Musta’sim. Firdos Square in this
city held a statue that was toppled by Americans in
2003. Its museum was then looted, destroying many
Mesopotamian artifacts. Name this national capital
located on the Tigris River.

Baghdad, Iraq

Question #32: Science – Physics
10 points
This quantity’s quantum mechanical operator is
negative h-bar squared over 2 m times the Laplacian
[luh-PLAH-see-un]. In Lagrangian
[luh-GRAHN-jee-un] mechanics, this quantity is
symbolized T, and in the deﬁnition of the Lagrangian a
quantity symbolized V is subtracted from it. For a
photon, this quantity is equal to Planck’s constant times
the frequency. This quantity is equal to momentum
squared over twice the mass. This quantity is not
conserved in inelastic collisions, and is often deﬁned as
one-half times mass times speed squared. Name this
energy that an object has because of its motion.

16

kinetic energy [prompt on
energy; accept just kinetic
after “energy”; prompt on
KE]

Round 6
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Extra Question #1: Fine Arts – Art History
10 points
Several paintings by this artist show the area around his
home in Bastide du Jas de Bouﬀan [bah-steed doo zhah
day boo-faw] in southern France. One of his paintings
shows four skulls stacked in the shape of a pyramid.
Another painting by this artist, in which 14 women are
in the foreground in front of arched trees, is nicknamed
The Large Bathers. Some of his paintings show Mount
Sainte-Victoire [sent veek-twar]. A group of paintings
this artist made during the 1890s show men at small
tables, and sometimes one man is smoking a pipe.
Name this post-Impressionist who painted The Card
Players.

Paul Cézanne

Extra Question #2: Social Studies – U.S. History
10 points
This justice wrote the unanimous opinion by which
Martha Lum was excluded from white schools. As
Chief Justice, he advocated for legislation to allow the
Supreme Court to only issue rulings after writs of
certiorari [ser-shee-uh-RAR-ee] were granted. While
serving as Secretary of War, this person told Teddy
Roosevelt that he would like to be Chief Justice, but
Roosevelt encouraged him to run for president instead.
He was eventually nominated to the Supreme Court in
1921 upon the death of Edward White, whom he had
appointed. Name this Chief Justice, the only one to
have also occupied the White House.

17

William Howard Taft

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #3: Mathematics – Math Concepts
10 points
One of the integral versions of this theorem sets the
integral of a product of functions equal to a function
value times the integral of one function. An extended
version of this theorem, named for Cauchy [koh-shee],
uses two functions rather than one. Rolle’s [“role’s”]
theorem is a special case of this theorem, which is often
used to prove the fundamental theorem of calculus, and
is itself proved using the Intermediate Value Theorem.
Name this theorem stating that somewhere in an
interval, a diﬀerentiable function’s tangent line has the
same slope as the secant line over that interval.

mean value theorem [accept
MVT]

Extra Question #4: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points
In this story, one character’s “ﬁneness of blood” was
compared to “conventional heroes of romance”. A king
in this story held that his subjects were “reﬁned and
cultured” through exhibitions of valor in the public
arena, which always featured either hired wailers or an
impromptu wedding. This story calls that king
“semi-barbaric”. At this story’s climax, the princess
gave a subtle signal for her lover to choose the door on
the right. Name this Frank Stockton story in which the
conclusion is never revealed.

18

“The Lady or the Tiger?”

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Toss-up Questions

Extra Question #5: Science – Physics
10 points
Laguerre [luh-GAIR] polynomials and the spherical
harmonics appear in the wavefunction for this system.
A transition in this system produces radiation with a
21-centimeter wavelength that permeates the universe.
This system demonstrates energy splitting due to the
Lamb shift and ﬁne structure. This object’s energy
levels can be calculated with the Rydberg formula. This
is the only system that ﬁts the Bohr model, though the
Bohr model was unable to explain why its spectral lines
diﬀered in brightness. Name this system, consisting of
one electron orbiting one proton, comprising the
simplest element.

19

hydrogen atom [accept H]

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #6: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
The detective who solved this woman’s murder did so
using only newspaper reports.
1 Name this “cigar-girl” who was hired by Monsieur
Le Blanc to work in a perfume shop. Her body was
found after it washed up on the shore.
2

3

“The Mystery of Marie Roget” was written by this
author as a follow-up to “The Murders in the Rue
Morgue”.
Marie’s body was eventually found on the shores of
this river, across from the Rue Pavée-Saint-André.

Marie Roget or Mary
Cecilia Rogers [accept any
underlined name]
Edgar Allan Poe

Seine River

Extra Question #7: Literature – U.S. Literature
10 points per part
This title character is scared of “little formless fears”
and of the sound of tom-toms.
1 Name this former Pullman Porter who cultivated
the myth that he could only be killed by a silver
bullet.

Emperor (Brutus) Jones
[accept either underlined
name]

2

The Emperor Jones was written by this author.

Eugene (Gladstone) O’Neill

3

O’Neill wrote about the Tyrone family in this play.

Long Day’s Journey into
Night

20

Illinois Masonic Academic Bowl
2016 State Tournament

Round 6
Extra Section
Teamwork Questions

Extra Question #8: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
The ancient Greeks studied problems related to
constructing geometric ﬁgures with a compass and
straightedge.
1 The three major problems that remained unsolved
by the Greeks were to construct a cube with twice
the volume of a given cube, construct a square with
the same area as a given circle, and to do this to any
angle.
2

3

This 19th-century French mathematician proved
cube-doubling and angle-trisecting are sometimes
impossible using only a straightedge and compass.
A ninety degree angle can be trisected by drawing
an equilateral triangle. What is the degree measure
of each angle of an equilateral triangle?

trisecting an angle [accept
answers that mean dividing
by three or splitting into
thirds or dividing into
three congruent parts]
Pierre Wantzel

60 degrees

Extra Question #9: Mathematics – Geometry
10 points per part
The altitudes of a triangle are the segments from one
vertex that form a right angle with the opposite side,
which may need to be extended.
1 The three altitudes of a triangle meet at a single
point, which is given this name.
2 In this type of triangle, two of the three altitudes
are outside of the triangle.
3 Find the length of the altitude to the hypotenuse in
an isosceles right triangle where each leg is of
length twelve.

21

orthocenter
obtuse triangle
6 root 2 [accept equivalents
such as 6 radical 2 and 6
times the square root of 2]

