PACE NSC 2012
Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers
Tossups
1. For one person to whom this happened, it followed twenty-eight hours of that person conversing
out loud as if enacting a drama in seventeen parts. This phenomenon uniquely left Rita of Cassia
with a fetid body odor; other people with this feature were often reported exuding a natural perfume.
This phenomenon and transverberation made a Capuchin friar named Padre Pio internationally
famous. After being visited by a six-winged angel atop Mount La Verna, St. (*) Francis of Assisi left,
having gained this feature. Mostly afflicting women, this form of suffering originates from Paul's saying
that "I bear on my body the marks of Jesus." For 10 points, name these sensations or physical symptoms of
Jesus' wounds during the Crucifixion.
ANSWER: stigmata [or word forms, like stigmatics]
<Gupta>

2. A group of these people were targeted for slaughter in the Sweet Dew Incident, and another one of
them gave himself the title “nine-thousand years.” Another group of them was led by Zhang Rang
and were known as the Ten Attendants, who opposed Yuan Shao. The author of the Records of the
Grand Historian became one of these (*) people after defending Li Ling. The Yellow Turban Rebellion
was launched due to the influence of these people. Another one of these people was a Muslim who
commanded a fleet of treasure ships and launched an expedition during the Ming Dynasty, named Zheng
He. For 10 points, name these people who often held great power in the court of the Chinese emperor,
which generically refers to males with genitals removed.
ANSWER: eunuchs
<Mukherjee>

3. One work created during this decade sees two men walking along a road next to a billboard
reading, “Next Time Take the Train”. One photograph taken in this decade shows a soldier dropping
his gun after being shot; that work is Death of a Loyalist Soldier by Robert Capa. A photo taken in
this decade of Allie Mae Burroughs by (*) Walker Evans was published five years later in Let Us Now
Praise Famous Men. Another photograph taken in this decade sees a woman holding her hand to her chin
as her two children look away from that camera. For 10 points, name this decade in which Dorothea Lange
took the Migrant Mother photograph, which chronicled a family impacted by the Great Depression.
ANSWER: The 1930s [prompt on “the 30s”]
<Bentley>

4. Arnold Harberger estimated this condition cost the United States $59 million annually during the
1920s. Gordon Tullock and Anne Krueger found that the social cost of "rent seeking," as exemplified
by agents investing towards this condition, greatly exceeds a more famous quantity associated with it.
Market failure or high externalities can create a social preference for this condition, a fact suggested
by its graphical representation, which depicts (*) consumer surplus adjacent to the famous "triangle" of
deadweight loss. Economies of scale may create the high barriers to entry in this situation, in which the
producer is not a price-taker. For 10 points, identify this condition contrasted with perfect competition in
which a market is dominated by a single producer.
ANSWER: monopoly [or word forms; do not accept “monopolistic competition”]
<Bailey>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 1 of 14

5. One story by this author begins with a visit from Mr. Woodifield before describing how "the boss"
saves the title creature from an inkwell, then kills it. This author of "The Fly" wrote a work set at a
dinner party, during which a blooming pear tree and Pearl Fulton cause Bertha Young to feel the
title emotion. In another of her stories, Kate the maid is fired by Josephine and Constantia, who sort
through their dead father's possessions. In the most famous story by this author of (*) "Bliss" and
"Daughters of the Late Colonel", a delivery of Godber's famous cream puffs is interrupted by news of the
death of Mr. Scott, which shocks Laura Sheridan into attempting to cancel the title event. For 10 points,
name this New Zealand-born author of "The Garden Party".
ANSWER: Katherine Mansfield [or Katherine Mansfield Beauchamp; or Kathrine Mansfield Beauchamp
Murry; or Lili Heron]
<Carson>

6. Emitters of these phenomena can be used as standard sirens, and they can only be emitted by
quadrupole sources. One proposed way of detecting them used three satellites linked by lasers, while
another proposed method was to use a cryogenically cooled and isolated bar of metal free from
outside vibration. Indirect evidence for their existence comes from the measured loss of energy from
the (*) Hulse-Taylor binary system. Another experiment to find them uses a large two-armed
interferometer and is called LIGO. They are emitted by non-symmetric rotating systems and possible
sources for them include two black holes merging. For 10 points, name these as-of-yet undetected
phenomena predicted by general relativity, a form of radiation given off by massive bodies.
ANSWER: gravitational waves [or gravity waves]
<Mukherjee>

7. The Australian contribution to this effort was Operation Pelican. Paul O. Lykins was given an
award for his participation in this effort. Its other key figures included William Tunner and Gail
Halvorsen, who earned his nickname after handing a stick of gum to a group of children. Albert
Wedemeyer supported this plan based on his experience in “the Hump”, and it was almost derailed
by the crash of a (*) C-54 on Black Friday. Planned by Lucius D. Clay with a request to Curtis LeMay, it
was officially known as Operation Vittles. It required the expansion of facilities at Tempelhof and Tegel,
and at its height there was a landing at the target city every 30 seconds. For 10 points, name this effort to
deliver supplies to a Soviet-blockaded West German capital.
ANSWER: Berlin airlift [accept Operation Vittles before mention, accept reasonable equivalents]
<Mukherjee>

8. This set of works describes angels that "drop some golden orb of perfect song into our deep, dear
silence". A more reflective entry asks "Could it mean to last, a love set pendulous between sorrow
and sorrow?" Those inspired by the pastoral tradition include the first one, whose speaker “thought
once how Theocritus had sung Of the sweet years". A more famous entry in this collection urges
"Gather the north flowers to complete the south" and asks the addressee to (*) "call me by my
pet-name!" Its best-known poem describes a certain emotion as being employed "to the depth and breadth
and height / My soul can reach". For 10 points, identify this poetry collection that includes “How do I love
thee? Let me count the ways”, a work of Elizabeth Barret Browning.
ANSWER: Sonnets from the Portuguese
<Jose>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 2 of 14

9. Precursors to this disease include DCIS and LCIS. The PARP inhibitor iniparib failed in a trial to
treat this disease. A particularly aggressive form of this disease results in the affected organ taking
on an “orange peel” appearance. A monoclonal antibody to HER2/neu, called Herceptin, was
originally developed to treat this disease. Genetic susceptibility to this disease is conferred by
mutations in BRCA1 and 2. This disease can be classified by its expression of ErbB-2, progesterone
(*) receptor, and estrogen receptor. It is subdivided into conditions of ductal and lobular origin. This
disease is screened for using mammograms and self-exams. For 10 points, name this type of cancer that is
usually treated with a mastectomy and radiation.
ANSWER: breast cancer [prompt on “cancer”]
<Mukherjee>

10. One of these works contains parables comparing the world to a forest of herbs shrouded by a
dark cloud and describing how a rich man convinces his children to leave a burning house by bribing
them with toys. Another of these works is set after its speaker finishes his daily walk to beg for food
and is titled for its ability to (*) cut through illusions and inflictions that cause desire and suffering. That
one is sparked by a question asked by Elder Subhuti and is part of the Perfection of Wisdom Genre.
Another of them, the basis of the Nichiren sect, focuses on a "flower of the Wonderful Law." They take
their name from a word meaning “to bind” and include the “Diamond” and the “Lotus." For 10 points,
name these aphoristic texts venerated in Buddhism.
ANSWER: sutras [do NOT accept "suras", those are very different]
<Jose>

11. Curtains were soaked in lime to counter the effects of this city's “Great Stink,” caused by a hot
summer and outdated sewers. Sewers in this city built by Edwin Chadwick emptied into its main
supply for drinking water, leading to more outbreaks of the cholera they were supposed to counter.
John Snow created a (*) map of its outbreaks of cholera near the Broad Street pump, showing the disease
was caused not by miasma but contaminated drinking water. Joseph Bazalgette built the Victoria and
Chelsea Embankments for a new sewage system, which largely solved the problem of cholera by
depositing this city's waste downstream. For 10 points, name this city which now receives cholera-free
water from the River Thames.
ANSWER: London
<Bailey>

12. This figure starts a fire in a cave after being refused a memory-enhancing ale and listening to
long genealogies from Hyndla. In other myths, this parent of Hnoss and Gersemi poured a horn full
of ale for the giant Hrungnir and wept tears of gold after Ottar’s death. This figure presided over
some sacrificial offerings after a war ended in a stalemate and introduced sorcery to the Aesir. This
owner of the hall Sessrumnir once slept with four (*) dwarves to obtain the necklace Brisingamen. She
uses a falcon-feather cloak to fly and owns blue cats that pull her chariot. To pay Thrym back for stealing
Mjolnir, Thor wore bridal clothes to disguise himself as this goddess. For 10 points, name this Norse
fertility goddess and twin sister of Frey.
ANSWER: Freya [or Freyja; be careful not to accept “Frigg,” “Fricka,” “Frey,” or “Freyr”]
<Jackson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 3 of 14

13. The American ambassador to this country, Michael McFaul, has repeatedly sparred with this
country’s government, which has assigned journalists to tail him, moving him to denounce it as a
“wild country.” In February 2012, one politician in this country evocatively declared “The victory
shall be ours!” at a rally on Defender of the Fatherland Day. This country was rocked in December
2011 by the For Fair Elections protests, and the Yabloko Party was not allowed to field a candidate
in elections also contested by a gold magnate who owns the (*) Brooklyn Nets. That election in this
country replaced a former chairman of Gazprom with the prime minister, himself a former president. For
10 points, name this country where Dmitri Medvedev has been replaced by Vladimir Putin.
ANSWER: Russian Federation
<Haddad-Fonda>

14. One of these instruments introduces the second theme in Dvorak’s 8th symphony, following a
more somber first theme in the strings. Solo pieces for this instrument include Luciano Berio's first
Sequenza and Faure's Morceau de Concours. Georges Barerre made one of these instruments using
platinum, which led Edgard Varese to compose Density 21.5 for it. A descending chromatic solo
passage on this instrument opens Debussy’s (*) Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun. It represents the bird
in Peter and the Wolf and is played by musicians such as Jean-Pierre Rampal and James Galway. For 10
points, name this woodwind instrument played by blowing across a hole and whose family of instruments
includes its smaller cousin, the piccolo.
ANSWER: flutes
<Rosenberg>

15. In two sequential monologues in this play, characters relate their dreams of a tree trunk with
golden eggs at its top and of a seat atop a high pillar. In one scene in this play, peasants are heard
singing a song with the chorus "Tridiridi-ralla tridiridi-ra", which one character brushes off as "an
obscene song about us". In one scene, the cook Christine prepares an abortifacient for the
"unfaithful" (*) dog Diana. The title character of this play plans to open a hotel after emerging from a
bedroom in the Count’s house with a valet who had earlier decapitated her pet bird. Jean hands this play’s
title character a razor, with which she walks offstage to kill herself. For 10 points, name this play about a
count's daughter written by August Strindberg.
ANSWER: Miss Julie [or Countess Julie; or Fröken Julie]
<Jackson>

16. The C++ Boost library contains “smart” types of these objects that work properly with
exceptions, as well as an “intrusive” example that includes an embedded reference count. A dispatch
table contains an array of these objects. When two or more of these entities have the same value,
aliasing occurs. During serialization of data for storage, these objects are (*) de-swizzled. Garbage
collection is used to free up ones that are no longer used, since those examples can cause segmentation
faults. Dynamic memory allocation uses these to store addresses. In Java, accessing nonexistent objects
throws an exception named for the null type of these. For 10 points, name these data types used to refer to
memory addresses.
ANSWER: pointer
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 4 of 14

17. One man of this last name was caught up in the Baltimore Riot of 1812, where his face was
maimed, leading him to flee to the Caribbean. Another man of this last name founded the Ohio
Company. A man of this last name coined the phrase "First in war, first in peace, and first in the
hearts of his countrymen." A member of this family was a cavalry commander who headed the 2nd
Partisan Corps at (*) Camden and Guilford Court House and put down the Whiskey Rebellion. Another
member of this family married Mary Custis and commanded the Army of Northern Virginia until
surrendering at Appomattox Court House. For 10 points, name this surname shared by “Lighthorse Harry”
and the head of the Confederate military, Robert E.
ANSWER: Lee
<Mukherjee>

18. The protagonist of this work attempts to get information by visiting Sybil, who instead gets drunk
and wants him to rape her. In its first chapter, the protagonist shouts "social equality!" after being
forced to repeat the words "social responsiblity" when laughter drowns out his speech. This novel's
narrator serves as a guide for the trustee Mr. Norton, who faints after (*) Jim Trueblood describes
committing incest with his daughter; after that incident, the protagonist is expelled by Dr. Bledsoe. Later,
its narrator befriends Tod Clifton after joining the communist Brotherhood, which is opposed by Ras the
Exhorter. 1,369 lights light the room of its unnamed black narrator. For 10 points, name this novel by
Ralph Ellison.
ANSWER: Invisible Man [do NOT accept "The Invisible Man"]
<Bollinger>

19. This artist riffed on Picasso in Purist Painting with Bottles, while he depicted a black and white
version of Matisse’s The Dance in the background of his The Artist’s Studio. A mustachioed man
stares through a periscope in this artist’s Torpedo… Los!. An anthropomorphic duck has caught his
own coat with a fishing hook in this artist’s painting, (*) Look Mickey. One of his best known works was
based on an image in All-American Men of War and depicts a fighter pilot firing a rocket at another plane.
This man used Ben Day dots in his painting Drowning Girl. For 10 points, name this pop artist of works
like Whaam!, which employed the aesthetics of comic book art.
ANSWER: Roy Lichtenstein
<Bentley>

20. Compounds of this element and silicon were first isolated by Moissan and Stock. The selectrides
are reducing agents containing this element, and cluster compounds of this element adopt closo, nido,
or arachno configurations based on the number of electrons in the system. Reacting a compound of
this element with an alkene is a method of oxidizing the less substituted carbon in violation of
Markovnikov’s rule. This element’s (*) triflouride is a powerful electron-deficient Lewis acid. Hydrides
of this element tend to form 3 center two-electron bonds, and this element tends to violate the octet rule by
having only 6 valence electrons. For 10 points, identify this element with atomic number 5 and symbol B.
ANSWER: boron [or B before mention]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 5 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers
Tiebreakers
21. This work ends with one character standing and stretching after taking an electric train ride into
the countryside with her family. Characters in this work include a cleaning woman who constantly
bangs doors and a trio of lodgers who attempt to leave without paying rent. In the original language,
its first sentence uses a word referring only to something "unclean" and "unfit for sacrifice". Its
protagonist fights to preserve a gilt-framed picture of a woman in furs, is injured when his (*) father
hits him in the back with an apple, and is forced to hide under a sofa while Grete cleans his room. It opens
with a traveling salesman waking from a "night of uneasy dreams". For 10 points, name this Franz Kafka
work in which Gregor Samsa transforms into an insect.
ANSWER: The Metamorphosis [or Die Verwandlung; accept The Transformation until "transforms" is
read]
<Carson>

22. During this event, the destroyer ORP Piorun was set up to defend the Beardmore Diesel Works,
which were the intended landing point for KD-40. During this event, Directive 23 was launched,
ordering the X Gerat instruments to destroy searchlight emplacements at Chesil Beach. During this
event, the Black Book was written, outlining a plan for Lord Halifax to be arrested and to place
Oswald (*) Moseley at the head of a new government. This operation was intended as the prelude to the
never-launched Operation Sea Lion and included the destruction of Liverpool. For 10 points, identify this
event in which Herman Goering commanded the Luftwaffe on a military action, mostly against London,
that resulted in 45,000 British civilians being killed by bombs.
ANSWER: The Blitz [or the Battle of Britain; prompt on "German bombing of the United Kingdom" or
other descriptive answers]
<Foster>

23. These functions can be defined by considering a scalar function equal to a ket on a Hilbert space.
The Born-Oppenheimer approximation decomposes this value as a product of an electronic and a
nuclear one. The square of the magnitude of this value gives the probability density function for a
given state. Fermions have antisymmetric ones and bosons have symmetric ones. These values are
eigenfunctions of the (*) Hamiltonian, meaning that they are solutions to the Schroedinger equation. Each
atomic orbital in the hydrogen atom corresponds to one of these, which collapses under measurement. For
10 points, name this value symbolized psi, which encodes the current state of a quantum mechanical
system.
ANSWER: wavefunction [or psi before mention]
<Mukherjee>

24. Several characters in this play try to salvage their first memory but can only recall a messenger
on a saddle at dawn who called their names while banging shutters. This play’s final act opens in
darkness amidst "soft sea sounds" as the main characters discover they are on a boat. One of its
characters, Alfred, is forced to star in a performance of "The Rape of the Sabine Women", put on by
an acting troupe who later perform The (*) Murder of Gonzago. Rhetoricals and repetitions are counted
as fouls in a "game of questions" played in its first act, which begins with its title characters flipping a coin
that has come up heads 92 straight times. For 10 points, name this play about two minor Hamlet characters,
written by Tom Stoppard.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
<Gioia>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 6 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers
Bonuses
1. This coordinate system represents points using a radial coordinate and an angular coordinate. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this coordinate system based on the coordinates r, defined as the square root of the sum of the
squares of the x-and y-coordinates, and theta, defined as the inverse tangent of the quotient of the y- and
x-coordinates.
ANSWER: polar coordinates
[10] This curve is given by the equation r equals a times theta. Although discovered by Conon, its
namesake used it to both trisect an angle and square the circle.
ANSWER: Archimedes' Spiral [or spiral of Archimedes; prompt on "spiral"]
[10] This curve is given by the equation r equals a times the quantity one minus cosine theta. It is a
degenerate case of the limaçon and is named for its heart-like shape.
ANSWER: cardioid
<Wynne>

2. Minor works by this author include The Last Night of Don Juan and Les Romanesques, the latter of
which was adapted into the long-running musical The Fantasticks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French author, more famous for fictionalizing the life of the author of The Other World:
The States and Empires of the Moon in a play in which that character works to aid his friend Christian de
Neuvillette.
ANSWER: Edmond Eugene Alexis Rostand
[10] That most famous Rostand play is about this large-nosed duelist, an exemplar of panache who woos
Roxane on Christian's behalf.
ANSWER: Hercule-Savinien Cyrano de Bergerac [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Cyrano de Bergerac was written in a variant of this poetic meter, which consists of twelve syllables
divided by one or two caesuras.
ANSWER: alexandrines [prompt on "dodecasyllable"]
<Carson>

3. This piece is often paired with a film with narration written by Eric Crozier. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this work composed in 1946, which uses a theme from Henry Purcell's Abdelazar to introduce
children to various instruments.
ANSWER: A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra
[10] A Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra was written by this British composer, who also wrote the
opera Peter Grimes and the War Requiem.
ANSWER: Benjamin Britten
[10] Britten published this orchestral suite of music played between the acts of Peter Grimes. It consists of
the movements "Dawn," "Sunday Morning," "Moonlight," and "Storm."
ANSWER: Four Sea Interludes
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 7 of 14

4. This creature was killed when a lead-tipped arrow melted in its mouth as it was breathing fire at Pegasus
and his rider Bellerophon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mythical monster which had a snake for a tail and had the mixed features of a goat and a
lion.
ANSWER: the Chimera
[10] This Rutulian king’s triple-plumed helmet features an image of the Chimera. He loses a war upon
Aeneas’s arrival in Italy.
ANSWER: Turnus
[10] Glaucus retells the Chimera myth to this Argive warrior in the Iliad before he and this warrior
exchange armor. This warrior had previously wounded Ares and Aphrodite in a single day of fighting.
ANSWER: Diomedes [or Tydides]
<Jackson>

5. A predecessor said of him, “No man ever started so low that accomplished so much, in all our history.”
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this President, the first to employ James G. Blaine as Secretary of State, through whom his
administration intervened diplomatically in the War of the Pacific.
ANSWER: James Abram Garfield
[10] James Garfield was assassinated on his way to Elberon, New Jersey, by this disappointed
office-seeker, who calmly announced to the police, “I am a Stalwart.”
ANSWER: Charles Julius Guiteau
[10] James Garfield told investigators to “not only probe this ulcer to the bottom, but to cut it out,” in
dealing with this scandal that implicated high-ranking figures in the US Postal Service such as Stephen
Dorsey and Bradley Barlow.
ANSWER: Star Route Scandal
<Huang>

6. For 10 points each, answer the following about the Hadramawt diaspora.
[10] The diaspora originated in this present-day country, whose Hadramawt governorate administers the
island of Socotra.
ANSWER: Republic of Yemen [or al-Jumhuriyya al-Yamaniyya]
[10] Most people working in the financial sector in this country's chief Red Sea port of Jeddah are
traditionally said to be of Hadrami origin.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia [or al-Mamlaka al-Arabiyya al-Su'udiyya]
[10] The most famous descendant of the Hadramawt diaspora was this survivor of the Battle of Tora Bora,
who was killed in May 2011 in the military suburb of Abbottabad.
ANSWER: Osama (bin Muhammad bin Awad) bin Laden [accept either underlined portion]
<Haddad-Fonda>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 8 of 14

7. A hungry one of these animals is seen sinking its teeth into its prey in a work by Henri Rousseau. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this predator that also appears in Rousseau’s Sleeping Gypsy and a Rubens sketch about a
Nemean one slain by Heracles.
ANSWER: Lion
[10] A lion appears in front of a pyramid in this artist’s Tomb of Maria Christina of Austria. He’s better
known for a scandalous sculpture of a relative of Napoleon named Paolina Borghese as Venus Victorious.
ANSWER: Antonio Canova
[10] This German artist and member of Der Blaue Reiter made a woodcut of Delacroix’s The Lion Hunt.
This man is better known for works using bright, primary colors like Deer in the Woods and 1913’s Fate of
Animals.
ANSWER: Franz Moriz Wilhelm Marc
<Bentley>

8. In another novel by this book's author, its fictional analogue is called Carnovsky. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1969 novel whose title character delivers a long monologue describing his sexual
dysfunctions, among other things, to his psychiatrist Dr. Spielvogel.
ANSWER: Portnoy's Complaint
[10] Portnoy's Complaint was written by this Jewish-American author of Goodbye, Columbus, whose
alter-ego Nathan Zuckerman appears in such books as The Ghost Writer and American Pastoral.
ANSWER: Philip Milton Roth
[10] Zuckerman also narrates this Roth novel, in which a classics professor at Athena College named
Coleman Silk is accused of racism. Silk is eventually revealed to be an African-American who has been
passing as Jewish.
ANSWER: The Human Stain
<Carson>

9. This chemical transformation takes alcohols to carbonyls and carboxylic acids. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this transformation, in which an atom loses electrons. It is the opposite of reduction.
ANSWER: oxidation
[10] This transition metal’s hexavalent oxidation state is a commonly used highly toxic oxidation agent.
The Jones reagent contains this metal.
ANSWER: chromium
[10] This other reagent is used in a test for aldehydes. It works by oxidizing the aldehyde and forming a
silver mirror as a byproduct.
ANSWER: Tollens’ reagent
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 9 of 14

10. Answer the following relating to nuclear weapons treaties, for 10 points each.
[10] The United States refused to ratify the SALT II treaty after the Soviet Union invaded this country in
1979. The CIA provided arms to the Mujahedeen to help them repel the Soviets from this country.
ANSWER: Democratic Republic of Afghanistan
[10] This Soviet leader, who was pen pals with American schoolgirl Samantha Smith, sought to preserve
his country’s nuclear strength through the “peace offensive” campaign. He was succeeded as party leader
by Konstantin Chernenko.
ANSWER: Yuri Vladimirovich Andropov
[10] This other world leader announced that his country would resume nuclear testing in Mururoa Atoll, but
then signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. He had earlier served as the Prime Minister for
Francois Mitterand.
ANSWER: Jacques Rene Chirac
<Bentley>

11. The cross-section of this type of scattering is given by the Klein-Nishina formula. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this form of scattering in which the wavelength of a photon is shifted when it collides with an
electron. It is named for an American physicist.
ANSWER: Compton scattering
[10] This type of electromagnetic radiation, which is emitted by excited nickel-60 nuclei and has a
wavelength shorter than X-rays, undergoes Compton scattering. Emitters of it are marked with an asterisk.
ANSWER: gamma rays
[10] Compton scattering and Raman scattering are both described by this term, which also refers to
collisions which do NOT conserve kinetic energy.
ANSWER: inelastic [do NOT accept “elastic”]
<Mukherjee>

12. A white man plays the role of Friday while a Trinidadian plays the role of Robinson Crusoe in this
author’s play Pantomime. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Nobel Prize-winning author from St. Lucia who collaborated with Paul Simon on The
Capeman and wrote Dream on Monkey Mountain and Omeros.
ANSWER: Derek Alton Walcott
[10] Walcott wrote a “stage version” of this epic poem, which also served as a partial inspiration for his
Omeros. One scene in this work sees the title character claim to be named "No man" after defeating a
Cyclops named Polyphemus.
ANSWER: The Odyssey [or Odysseia]
[10] This author retold the Odyssey from the perspective of Odysseus's wife and her maids in The
Penelopiad. She also wrote a post-apocalyptic novel centering on "Snowman" called Oryx and Crake.
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor Atwood
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 10 of 14

13. For 10 points each, name these jazz pianists.
[10] This pianist was the first jazz musician to have his picture on the cover of Time magazine. His
longtime saxophonist Paul Desmond wrote the standard “Take Five” in 5/4 time for his album Time Out.
ANSWER: Dave Brubeck
[10] This early jazz musician was a master of “stride” piano and wrote the standards “Squeeze Me” and
“Ain’t Misbehavin.”
ANSWER: Thomas Wright “Fats” Waller
[10] This bebop pianist collaborated with Sonny Rollins for his album Brilliant Corners and wrote the
classics “Straight, No Chaser” and “Round Midnight.”
ANSWER: Thelonious Monk
<Gioia>

14. New World examples of this type of faith include Candomblé. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process by which beliefs or practices from two separate religious traditions merge into a
viable tradition.
ANSWER: syncretism [or syncretic religion]
[10] The spirits called loa, worshiped by this syncretic faith, are often equated with Catholic saints. This
religion emerged among African slaves in Haiti.
ANSWER: Voodoo [or Vodou, or Vodun]
[10] Africa’s Yoruba people, from whom Voodoo and Santeria derived much influence, worship this
supreme god who rules above accessible spirits called orishas.
ANSWER: Olorun [or Olu-Orun; or Oludumare]
<Jackson>

15. Answer some questions about the post-World War II German economy, for 10 points each.
[10] The West German Wirtschaftswunder, or economic miracle, began during this man’s time as
chancellor. He brought his country into the European Coal and Steel Community.
ANSWER: Konrad Hermann Joseph Adenauer
[10] The economic miracle was helped by this post-World War II US reconstruction aid program, which
gave about 13 billion dollars to various European states. It was named for Truman's secretary of state.
ANSWER: Marshall plan [or European Recovery Program or ERP]
[10] During the 1950s, Germany became a full party to this set of agreements, which liberalized trade
between signatories in the Uruguay Round. In the 90s, it was replaced by the World Trade Organization.
ANSWER: GATT [or General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade]
<Bentley>

16. This psychologist described his theory of reciprocal determinism in Social Foundations of Thought and
Action. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this psychologist who conducted a landmark experiment on social learning in which children
watched and imitated adults violently abusing an inflatable Bobo doll.
ANSWER: Albert Bandura
[10] Bandura's research built on the work of this original developmental psychologist, a Switzerland native
who divided development into sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational, and formal operational
stages.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
[10] Bandura's social learning observations led him to conclude that the most reliable predictor of success
was a person's development of this faculty, which denotes a belief in one's ability to succeed and is viewed
distinctly from confidence.
ANSWER: Self-efficacy
<Ray>
PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 11 of 14

17. Disorders of this process include antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, and Vichow’s triad indicates
conditions in which it is aberrantly activated. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process by which blood forms a plug at the site of a wound. It can be triggered by the
aggregation of platelets, and hemophiliacs have mutations in the proteins integral to this process.
ANSWER: coagulation [or blood clotting or hemostasis]
[10] This is the protein mutated in the “royal” form of hemophilia, or hemophilia A. This protein is
protected by von Willebrand factor in serum.
ANSWER: Factor VIII [or Factor 8]
[10] The final clot is formed when thrombin cleaves fibrinogen into this protein, which is them crosslinked
by factor 13. The D-dimer assay detects the degradation products of this molecule.
ANSWER: fibrin [or factor 1 or factor 1a; prompt on "fibrinogen"]
<Mukherjee>

18. Amusingly-named novels by this author include He Knew He Was Right, Is He Popenjoy?, Rachel Ray,
and Can You Forgive Her?, the last of which begins his Palliser series. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Victorian novelist who wrote of Septimus Harding's retirement from his position at Hiram's
Hospital in The Warden, the first of his Barsetshire Chronicles.
ANSWER: Anthony Trollope
[10] An 1871 Trollope novel is titled for a character of this name from Humblethwaite. A more famous
character of this name is killed at the battle of Shrewsbury by his rival, Prince Hal, in Shakespeare's Henry
IV, Part 1.
ANSWER: Sir Harry Hotspur [prompt on "Harry"; prompt on "Henry Percy"]
[10] Owen and Herbert Fitzgerald compete for the hand of Clara Desmond in a Trollope novel named for
one of these structures called "Richmond". A pioneering Gothic novel by Horace Walpole is set at, and
titled for, one of these buildings in Otranto.
ANSWER: castles [or Castle Richmond; or The Castle of Otranto]
<Graebner>

19. For 10 points each, answer some questions about the Indus Valley Civilization and other civilizations
contemporaneous with it:
[10] The Indus Valley civilization existed during this age, which occurred after the Stone Age. The Aegean
civilizations developed navigation during this time.
ANSWER: Bronze age
[10] The Indus Valley civilization is often named for this archaeological site in Pakistan, northeast of the
other major Indus Valley city of Mohenjo-Daro.
ANSWER: Harappa
[10] This European early bronze age culture gets its name from the bell-shaped drinking vessels dating to
it. Its name was coined by John Abercromby.
ANSWER: Bell-Beaker people
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 12 of 14

20. This work wondered "What is the use of discussing a man's abstract right to food or to medicine?" For
10 points each:
[10] Name this 1790 philosophical tract that states a contemporaneous event was doomed to fail because it
was based on pure abstraction, rather than actually addressing human concerns.
ANSWER: Reflections on the Revolution in France
[10] This Whig politician wrote Reflections on the Revolution in France and is regarded as the "father of
conservatism."
ANSWER: Edmund Burke
[10] This man wrote a response to Burke's work in his book Rights of Man. He is best known for sneering
at the idea that a small island could rule a continent in his pamphlet Common Sense.
ANSWER: Thomas Paine
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 13 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers
Tiebreakers
21. Zoloft and Paxil selectively inhibit the reuptake of this neurotransmitter, an important source of which
is the Raphe nucleus. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this neurotransmitter which is important for sleep and suppression of pain. Its signaling is
aberrant in anxiety and depression.
ANSWER: serotonin [or 5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT]
[10] Serotonin is derived from this amino acid, which has an indole side chain and is rather bulky. It is also
the precursor to melatonin, which may explain why eating large quantities of this amino acid puts one to
sleep.
ANSWER: tryptophan [or trp ("T-R-P" or "Trip") or W]
[10] Serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine are broken down by these mitochondrial enzymes, which are
inhibited by MAOI antidepressants. Selegiline and phenelzine inhibit this enzyme.
ANSWER: monoamine oxidase [prompt on "MAO", "MAO-A", or "MAO-B"]
<Mukherjee>

22. This work opens with the protagonist travelling to New Orleans after her father informs her of his
vision problems, and in it, Fay complains about having to spend money on her husband’s operation. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this novel whose title character is named Laurel Hand. The title of this work also refers to Judge
McKelva, who is eventually buried in Mount Salus, Mississippi.
ANSWER: The Optimist’s Daughter
[10] This Southern author of The Optimist’s Daughter also wrote about Old Phoenix’s trip to Natchez,
which ends with her buying a wind-mill for her sick grandson, in "A Worn Path".
ANSWER: Eudora Alice Welty
[10] Uncle Rondo throws a packet of firecrackers into Sister’s bedroom in this short story by Eudora
Welty, in which the insufferable nature of the protagonist's family explains the title state of affairs.
ANSWER: “Why I Live at the P.O.”
<Kandlikar>

23. The invading forces in this campaign landed at Cape Helles and managed to win the Battle of Lone
Pine. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this series of World War I battles taking place on a namesake Turkish peninsula, in which
Allied forces were repulsed after the Battle of Scimitar Hill and Hill 60.
ANSWER: Gallipoli campaign
[10] This is the name given to the assembled army of Australia and New Zealand that fought the Gallipoli
campaign. They are celebrated every April 25th.
ANSWER: ANZAC [or Australian and New Zealand Army Corps; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
[10] This British General commanded the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force in the Gallipoli campaign.
Winston Churchill titled part of his history of the Boer War after this man's “march” from Bloemfontein to
Pretoria.
ANSWER: Ian Standish Monteith Hamilton
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 22: Superplayoff Tiebreakers

Page 14 of 14

