PACE NSC 2012
Round 24: Emergency Packet
Tossups
1. A longtime zoologist at this university erroneously announced that humans have forty-eight
chromosomes. That man later became president of this university, in which capacity he was sued by
a man who was enrolled in its materially inferior "law school for Negroes." That case, decided four
years before Brown, required this university to desegregate its law school and was (*) Sweatt v.
Painter. During another incident at this university, a man suffering from a glioblastoma was killed by
police after shooting at an airplane and killing sixteen others on the ground. For 10 points, name this
southern university where, in 1966, Charles Whitman went on a shooting spree from the observation deck
of its iconic clock tower.
ANSWER: the University of Texas [or UT]
<Weiner>

2. In 1994, this country's western neighbor invaded its islands of Diamant and Jabane as part of a
border dispute over the Bakassi peninsula that was resolved by the 2006 Greentree Agreement. The
city of Kousseri in the north of this country is flooded with refugees who crossed the Logone and
Chari Rivers. In 1986, 2,000 people died from volcanic gas emitted by Lake Nyos in this country. A
common language in this country is a pidgin hybrid of French and English, though prior to World
War I it was a (*) German colony. Douala, the most populous city in this country, is a major port on the
Gulf of Guinea. Both Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria have had border disputes with, for 10 points, what
country whose capital is Yaounde?
ANSWER: Republic of Cameroon [or Republique de Cameroon]
<Wynne>

3. This poet wrote of how "The generous earth itself gave us life" and how "The whole world became
my garden!" in a poem addressed to his wife Flossie that exemplifies the "triadic line" form that he
invented. He included a poem beginning on "the road to the contagious hospital" in his collection
Spring and All and claimed that there are "no ideas but in things" in a five-book poem about a city
on the Passaic. This author of "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower" and (*) Paterson asks the reader to
"forgive me / they were delicious" in a poem about eating plums and described an object "glazed with rain
water" upon which "so much depends" in his most famous poem. For 10 points, name this Imagist poet of
"This is Just to Say" and "The Red Wheelbarrow".
ANSWER: William Carlos Williams
<Carson>

4. One person with this name fell in love with a son of Simaethis and turned his blood into a river
after he was killed. Another person with this name gave birth to Metharme. The former woman was
loved by a creature who used a rake and a sickle to comb his hair and was at the center of a love
triangle in which one of her suitors threw a boulder at the other, a son of Pan. That Nereid was loved
by (*) Acis and the Cyclops Polyphemus. The most famous person with this name was named for her
milk-white complexion; that mother of Paphos turned into flesh after a prayer to Aphrodite. For 10 points,
give the common name of these women, one of whom was originally created as a statue by Pygmalion.
ANSWER: Galatea
<Wynne>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 1 of 14

5. In conformal field theories, it is at this point the correlation length becomes infinite. At this point
both the first and second derivatives of pressure with respect to volume are zero. At this point for a
binary mixture, density fluctuations of increasing wavelength cause the mixture to become cloudy. A
popular solvent used in decaffeination reactions is carbon dioxide pushed past this point, and at this
point that the enthalpy of vaporization becomes (*) zero. This point, which occurs at 647 kelvin in
water, is the endpoint of the liquid-gas boundary. For 10 points, name this point on a phase diagram at
which a substance is neither a liquid or a gas, but a homogenous mixture of both.
ANSWER: critical point [or supercritical]
<Mukherjee>

6. This man quoted Lord Acton to open a work deriding the titular concept for offering resistance
rather than alternatives due to its fear of new ideas. This thinker contrasted natural and artificial
forms of social evolution, which he dubbed “cosmos” and “taxis.” He mused on reviving the term
“Old Whig” in an aforementioned essay, appended to his The Constitution of Liberty, entitled (*)
“Why I Am Not A Conservative." This student of von Mises was recognized along with the author of An
American Dilemma three decades after publishing a work linking centrally-planned economies to the rise of
totalitarianism. A co-winner of the 1974 Economics Nobel along with Gunnar Myrdal, for 10 points,
identify this leader of the Austrian school who wrote The Road to Serfdom.
ANSWER: Friedrich August von Hayek
<Ray>

7. One architect born in this country erected a “Parthenon of steel and glass” for the US Embassy in
Athens. An architect born in this country designed the Tugendhat House in the Czech Republic,
which used themes developed in his Barcelona Pavilion at the 1929 International Exposition. An
architect born in this nation used stilts to protect a house from the flooding of the Fox River; that
home was made mainly of Roman Travertine marble and (*) plate-glass and is Illinois’ Farnsworth
House. That same architect from this country worked with Philip Johnson on the Seagram Building and
declared that “less is more”. For 10 points, name this country, the birthplace of architects like Ludwig Mies
van der Rohe and Bauhaus founder Walter Gropius.
ANSWER: Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; accept first line
buzz on West Germany or Federal Republic of Germamy or FDR or Westdeutschland]
<Bentley>

8. One character in this novel delays the carefully timed serving of "Boeuf au Daube" at a dinner
party by inappropriately asking for another cup of soup. Another of its characters laments his
inability to mentally get past the letter "Q" in the alphabet. The phrase "Someone had blundered"
from "The Charge of the Light Brigade" recurs throughout its first section, in which Minta (*) Doyle
becomes engaged to Paul Rayley. Mrs. Bast and Mrs. McNabb restore the central house in its second
section, "Time Passes", which describes Prue dying in childbirth. Lily Briscoe completes her abstract
portrait in this book's final section, while James and Cam complete the title journey with their father Mr.
Ramsay. For 10 points, name this 1927 novel by Virginia Woolf.
ANSWER: To the Lighthouse
<Gioia>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 2 of 14

9. This disease’s causative agent is subtyped by determining the number of repeats in the arp gene.
One test for it mixes patient blood with cardiolipin. Its later stages are marked by pupils that
accommodate but don’t react named for Argyll and Robertson. Its causative agent shares
morphology with Leptospira and shares a genus with the causative agents of bejel, yaws, and pinta.
Its tertiary stage can be marked by aortic dissections and (*) insanity. Paul Erlich developed the "magic
bullet" Salvarsan to treat this disease. Painless chancres are hallmarks of its primary stage, which was also
studied in an ethically dubious experiment in Tuskeegee, Alabama. For 10 points, name this sexually
transmitted disease caused by the spirochete Treponema pallidum.
ANSWER: syphilis [accept neurosyphilis throughout; accept Treponema pallidum until mention; prompt
on "Treponema" until mention]
<Bentley>

10. This event was the final reaction to the concentration of power during the "Normalization
Period." One participant's declaration announced that this event was the end of a "thousand years
struggle." It was advocated for by the leader of Public Against Violence, Vladimir Meciar. This event
resulted in the formation of an ad-hoc World Cup team called the "Representation" and in two
separate versions of the (*) koruna being maintained until the adoption of the Euro. One participant in this
event saw its president, who was opposed to it, resign rather than endorse it. For 10 points, identify this
early 1990s process, opposed by Vaclav Havel, in which the multi-ethnic country that underwent the Velvet
Revolution split into two nationalist states.
ANSWER: the Velvet Divorce [do not accept "Velvet Revolution"; prompt on partial answer; accept the
dissolution of Czechoslovakia, or the creation of the Czech Republic and Slovakia as independent
states, or other descriptive equivalents]
<Weiner>

11. This ruler gave a speech written by Reginald Blyth warning against falling into the Slough of
Despond, called the Humanity Declaration. This man opposed a coup led by rivals of the Control
Faction on February 26th. During his rule, members of the League of Blood planned to kill Charlie
Chaplin. This ruler’s military also invaded Jehol and bombed the Marco Polo Bridge. Following the
(*) Kyujo Incident, this man delivered a speech accepting the Potsdam Declaration, called the Jewel Voice
Broadcast. He ruled during the Second Sino-Japanese War, during which his future Prime Minister, Hideki
Tojo, led troops. During his reign, Admiral Yamamoto launched the attack on Pearl Harbor. For 10 points,
name this Emperor of Japan during World War II.
ANSWER: Emperor Hirohito [or Emperor Showa]
<Hothem>

12. This author wrote of a tourist attempting to lecture a supposedly lazy fisherman in his
widely-circulated story "Anecdote on the Decline of the Work Ethic". A party hosted by Else
Woltersheim sparks the conflict of another of his novels, in which the protagonist's scandalous
relationship with the bank robber Ludwig Götten leads her to shoot the journalist Werner Tötges.
This proponent of (*) "rubble literature" wrote a novel centered on the Prince Heinrich Hotel, in which
Nettlinger and Old Wobbly are revealed to be former Nazi policemen. In that novel, St. Anthony Abbey is
destroyed and rebuilt by various members of the Faehmel family. For 10 points, name this German author
of The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum and Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
ANSWER: Heinrich Theodor Böll
<Carson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 3 of 14

13. Performers of this action might encounter a shalshelet in one of four locations, but more
commonly see a pazer or et-nachta while doing it. After this action is finished, a hagba occurs and
believers raise their pinky fingers in the air. A pointer called a yad is used during this action, which is
usually done on a raised platform called the bimah after a call for blessing known as (*) aliyah. Aided
by marks called “trope,” this task is done on a different segment, or parshah, each week. For 10 points,
name this action performed for the first time in one’s life at the bar mitzvah service, the chanting of
passages from a holy scroll at a synagogue.
ANSWER: reading from the Torah [or chanting Torah trope; or cantillation of the Torah; prompt
“Torah service;” prompt “reading the Bible”]
<Jackson>

14. These entities are reduced or eliminated by increasing the size of the community according to
Linus’ Law. Hard-to-find examples of these entities are given a pun on Werner Heisenberg’s name.
It's not style, but one approach to reducing the frequency of these entities is to use static analysis
tools. These entities are typically checked for after the implementation stage in the waterfall model.
GDB is a type of program named for discovering these entities that supports operations like step-in
and setting (*) breakpoints. These occurrences frequently arise from race conditions and being off-by-one.
They're checked for through unit testing, and famous examples include the Y2K one. For 10 points, name
these defects in a computer program.
ANSWER: software bugs [or faults or errors or failures or glitches; accept defects before mentioned; do
not accept or prompt on “exceptions”]
<Bentley>

15. The "clawhammer" and "frailing" techniques were originally developed for playing this
instrument, which can be tuned to "sawmill" or "double C" tuning. Notable performers of the
four-string variety of this instrument include Harry Reser and Charlie Tagawa. A "three-finger"
style of playing this instrument that makes use of rolls was developed by Earl Scruggs. A long-necked
version of this instrument is named for Pete (*) Seeger, who wrote the classic book on how to play it. Its
earliest forms were created by adding Western-style fingerboards to West African stringed instruments. For
10 points, name this string instrument frequently played in bluegrass music, whose body consists of
material stretched over a circular frame.
ANSWER: banjo
<Wynne>

16. Performing this action will always violate H. Paul Grice’s maxim of quality. One essay about this
action is a reply to Benjamin Constant, denying that "philanthropic concerns" can justify a right to
do it. A story in which iron, silver, and gold metal is imbued by the gods into the blood of different
social classes, found in Plato's Republic, exemplifies its (*) "noble" type. Due to his duty-based ethic,
Kant believed it is morally forbidden to do this even if an inquiring murderer comes to one’s house. This
activity triggers a paradox if a speaker declares they “always” do it. For 10 points, name this action that can
be performed by omission, a deceptive verbal action whose most innocent variety is the "white" type.
ANSWER: telling a lie [or lying or being a liar; or saying a falsehood; accept noble lie before it is
mentioned]
<Jackson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 4 of 14

17. Maud Allan created a famous production of this play titled for the "Vision" of its title character.
It opens with a scene in which a Page and a Young Syrian discuss the nature of the moon, shortly
after which a voice from a cistern prophesies the coming of Christ. This play was dedicated to Lord
Alfred Douglas despite the fact that he'd botched the initial translation from the original (*) French,
and it was illustrated by Aubrey Beardsley. At the climax of this play, its protagonist kisses an item she'd
requested as a reward for performing the "dance of the seven veils". For 10 points, name this tragedy in
which the stepdaughter of Herod demands the head of Jokanaan, or John the Baptist, on a silver platter, a
play by Oscar Wilde.
ANSWER: Salome
<Carson>

18. A union of these people in the USSR published the journals Dawn and Word. This ethnicity
comprised the serfs of Corfu in medieval Greece. These people follow the law code of kris and submit
women's matters to the phuri dai. This group uses the word "gadje" to refer to outsiders. Subgroups
within this ethnicity include the entertainment-professing (*) Manush and the metalworking Kalderash.
Ziegeunerlager such as Marzahn were concentration camps established specifically for these people, who
were targeted in the Porajmos, a Nazi attempt to exterminate them. For 10 points, identify this traditionalist
ethnic group which migrated into Europe in the fourteenth century and remains the target of discrimination.
ANSWER: Gypsies [or Roma; or Romani; or any subgroup or other name for Gypsies before it is read;
there are too many other names to list, so consult an authority as needed]
<Weiner>

19. Multi-angle scattering is used in conjunction with a dextran-based polymer in the size-exclusion
type of this technique. Dividing the migration distance of the analyte by the migration distance of the
solvent gives the retention factor in this technique. Iodine vapor is used as a developer in a simple
version of this technique, and mass spectrometry relies on initially using the gas or (*)
high-performance liquid versions of this technique. All forms of this technique rely on the differing
partition coefficient of an analyte for a stationary phase versus a mobile phase. Silica plates are used in the
thin-layer version of this technique, which is used to determine the components of dyes. For 10 points,
name this chemical technique used to separate mixtures.
ANSWER: chromatography [accept more specific answers, eg thin-layer chromatography, HPLC,
liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, etc]
<Mukherjee>

20. A white curtain hangs between two pillars in Tiepolo’s version of this scene, which also sees a dog
chewing at the orange robe of a man with his back to the viewer. Ghost-like angels swirl around a
lantern in a version of this scene where the central figures are shown from a diagonal perspective. An
enormous work originally titled for this scene included numerous “armed (*) Germans … and
dwarves”, leading Paolo Veronese to re-title that work for the House of Levi. The best known version,
commissioned by Ludovico Sforza, sees the only shaded man clutching a money bag and groups together
Matthew, Jude and Simon. For 10 points, name this scene painted by Leonardo Da Vinci where Jesus and
his Twelve Apostles are gathered at a table.
ANSWER: The Last Supper
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 5 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 24: Emergency Packet
Tiebreakers
21. In 2003, this city's NK department store was the site of the assasination of a foreign affairs
minister. This city was the site of an event that included a man wandering around a bank vault
singing "Killing Me Softly," the Norrmalmstorg robbery. In order to root out supporters of Sten (*)
Sture the Younger, people in this city on an enemies list made by Archbishop Trolle were killed on the
orders of the foreign king Christian II. Shortly after a screening of the comedy The Mozart Brothers in this
city, an unknown assassin possibly working for the South African government shot prime minister Olaf
Palme in 1986. For 10 points, name this site of a 1520 "bloodbath" and of a bank hostage crisis that
inspired the term for a namesake "syndrome."
ANSWER: Stockholm
<Weiner>

22. This author wrote a dialogue between Eugenius, Crites, Lisideius, and Neander, the last of whom
asserts that Shakespeare was "the greatest soul, ancient or modern". One of his poems opens with
the line "All human things are subject to decay, and when fate summons, monarchs must obey". The
usurper Polydamas is dethroned by Leonidas, who finally marries Palmyra, in (*) Marriage a la Mode
, a play by this author of an attack on the "true-blue Protestant" Thomas Shadwell. Monmouth and
Shaftesbury are represented as the title characters of a political satire by this man, who reworked
Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra in his most famous play. For 10 points, identify this author of "Mac
Flecknoe", "Absalom and Achitophel", and All for Love.
ANSWER: John Dryden
<Carson>

23. In quantum mechanics, the square of this quantity is equal to h-bar squared times n times
quantity n plus one, and the g-factor gives the ratio of the magnetic moment to this quantity. One
form of Kepler’s Second Law states that this quantity divided by 2 m is equal to the rate of sweeping
out area. In the Bohr model, this quantity for the electron is equal to the principal quantum number
times h-bar. The vector of this quantity traces out a circle in (*) precession, and the time derivative of
this quantity is equal to the torque. The conservation of this quantity explains why a skater spins faster
when pulling their arms in. For 10 points, name this physical quantity equal to the product of the moment
of inertia and the angular velocity and symbolized L.
ANSWER: angular momentum [accept L before mention; prompt on "momentum"; do not accept "linear
momentum"]
<Mukherjee>

24. In March 2012, Gen. Burton Field gave a speech demanding complete freedom of navigation in
this sea. Controversy erupted over the “Nine-Dashed Line” in this sea, where one country claims the
Reed bank as part of its exclusive economic zone. In May 2012, a fight over the Scarborough Shoal in
this sea led one country’s travel agencies to boycott sending tourists to another country. In March
2012, another country protested plans to search for oil near the (*) Paracel Islands in this sea, and the
Spratley Islands here are claimed by six different countries. Maritime rights off the island of Palawan have
caused the war of words between Benigno Aquino and the People’s Daily. For 10 points, name this sea that
lies between Vietnam, the Philippines, and China.
ANSWER: South China Sea
<Haddad-Fonda>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 6 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 24: Emergency Packet
Bonuses
1. This short story posits a universe of hexagons interconnected by air shafts, and in this story a group
called the Purifiers sought a particularly powerful set of books called the Crimson Hexagon. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this short story, whose title structure contains all possible 410-page books.
ANSWER: “The Library of Babel” [or "La Biblioteca de Babel"]
[10] “The Library of Babel” was written by this Argentine author, who wrote about an object through
which one can see the entire universe in "The Aleph" and also penned such collections as Ficciones.
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges [or Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo]
[10] In this other Borges story, the German spy Dr. Yu Tsun evades the pursuit of MI-5 agent Richard
Madden long enough to murder the eminent Sinologist Stephen Albert.
ANSWER: "The Garden of Forking Paths" [or "El Jardín de senderos que se bifurcan"]
<Mukherjee>

2. Answer the following about bizarre, non-mainstream Christian practices, for 10 points each.
[10] This controversial Catholic organization promotes mortification of the flesh among its followers. Most
of its members are lay people who strive to do the "work of God."
ANSWER: The Prelature of the Holy Cross and Opus Dei [or Prelatura Sanctae Crucis et Operis Dei]
[10] John Gualbert's arm relics were used to perform this practice, which was done by Jesus to expel
Legion.
ANSWER: exorcism [or word forms]
[10] This dangerous Pentecostal practice is performed in some Appalachian communities. It is inspired by a
passage in the Gospel of Mark about a sign accompanying believers in God.
ANSWER: snake-handling [or serpent-handling; or word forms of the above]
<Gupta>

3. In the first section of this book, Moshe the Beadle escapes from a train and attempts to save the Jews of
Sighet. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first autobiographical novel by Elie Wiesel, which features him taking care of his despairing
father and watching a child’s hanging after arriving at Auschwitz.
ANSWER: Night [or La Nuit; or Un di Velt Hot Geshvign; or And the World Remained Silent]
[10] Auschwitz was located in this modern-day European country, the birthplace of Joseph Conrad, Henryk
Sienkiewicz, and Nobel Laureate Wladyslaw Reymont. Its national epic, Pan Tadeusz, was written by
Adam Mickiewicz.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska; or Polsko Republika]
[10] This Lithuanian-born Polish Nobel Laureate wrote novels like The Seizure of Power and poetry
collections like Facing the River, but is more famous for a study of intellectuals under totalitarian regimes
called The Captive Mind.
ANSWER: Czeslaw Milosz [TCHESS-waf MEE-wohsh, but a phonetic reading should be accepted]
<Jackson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 7 of 14

4. This unit was often controlled by a lord, who was granted power by ruling monarchs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of self-sufficient estate in which the feudal system was practiced.
ANSWER: Manor
[10] In traditional feudal structures, the Lord of the Manor was served by individuals with this rank, who
farmed plots of land in exchange for protection. Alexander II freed members of this hierarchic group in
Russia.
ANSWER: serfs
[10] Serfs in each shire were overseen by an individual with this title. Holders of this title were often
elected by the peasants as a means of ensuring loyalty.
ANSWER: reeves
<Kothari>

5. The "gauge" version of this quantity is equal to density times g times the height. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity that is transmitted everywhere equally in an incompressible fluid according to
Pascal's principle. It is equal to force divided by area.
ANSWER: pressure
[10] This equation states that the time derivative of the density plus the divergence of the density times the
velocity field is equal to zero. It is a statement of the conservation of mass for a fluid.
ANSWER: equation of continuity
[10] These very difficult-to-solve doubly eponymous equations from fluid dynamics are actually a
statement of the conservation of momentum.
ANSWER: Navier-Stokes equation
<Mukherjee>

6. This artist's commercial success provided the funds to construct the Capitol Records Building, informally
called "the house [this composer] built." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this jazz musician who headed a trio with Oscar Moore and Wesley Prince. His signature songs
include "Nature Boy" and "Unforgettable."
ANSWER: Nat King Cole [or Nathaniel Adams Coles]
[10] Cole got his start playing this instrument. Works written for it include many rags by Scott Joplin,
including "Maple Leaf Rag" and "The Entertainer."
ANSWER: piano [or pianoforte]
[10] Late in his career, this other jazz pianist influenced hip-hop with his song "Rockit." Famous songs by
this post-bop pioneer include "Cantaloupe Island" and "Watermelon Man."
ANSWER: Herbert Jeffrey "Herbie" Hancock
<Gupta>

7. The first four of these figures were called the Rashidun, or rightly-guided ones, and included Uthman
and Abu Bakr. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this title adopted by leaders of the Muslim world, used to designate successors of Muhammad.
The leaders of the Fatimids and the Ottomans often adopted this title.
ANSWER: caliph [or khalifa]
[10] This first caliphate after the Rashidun caliphate fell at the Battle of the Zab River. After being kicked
out of the Middle East, its leaders migrated to Cordoba.
ANSWER: Umayyad caliphate
[10] This successor to Abu Bakr conquered Iran and established a resilient welfare system for his empire.
He also saved many of his people from starvation by transporting food reserves during a famine.
ANSWER: Umar ibn al-Khattab
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 8 of 14

8. Identify the following about some female artists, for 10 points each.
[10] Artemesia Gentileschi graphically depicted this Biblical woman killing an Assyrian general. She’s
assisted by an old woman in a Caravaggio painting of the same scene.
ANSWER: Judith
[10] Elisabeth-Louise Vigee-Lebrun painted several sympathetic portraits of this queen, who was also
sketched on the way to her execution by Jacques-Louis David.
ANSWER: Marie Antoinette [or Maria Antonia Josepha Johanna or Maria Antonia Josephina Johanna]
[10] This artist painted her sister Edna starring down at her baby in the 1872 painting, The Cradle. She’d
later marry Eugene Manet, brother of the French painter.
ANSWER: Berthe Morisot
<Bentley>

9. In planaria, these bulb-like structures attach to tube cells at the ends of branches of longitudinal tubules
and help regulate osmotic pressure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these parts commonly found in platyhelminthes and rotifers. They use beating cilia to create a
current which removes waste products from the system.
ANSWER: flame cells [or flame bulbs]
[10] Unlike the flatworms of phylum Platyhelminthes, these worms use tubules called nephridia to excrete
waste. This phylum of segmented worms includes earthworms and leeches.
ANSWER: annelida [or annelids]
[10] Flatworms lack this fluid-filled body cavity within the mesoderm layer. By contrast, annelids have
one, as do most embryos of deuterostome animals such as humans.
ANSWER: coelom [SEE-lum; be lenient with pronunciation]
<Jackson>

10. Identify some legal philosophers, for 10 points each.
[10] In The Law of Peoples, this man outlined eight principles derived from the "original position". He
advocated the "veil of ignorance" to determine whether laws and actions are moral in A Theory of Justice.
ANSWER: John Rawls
[10] This man stated that natural law was a reflection of the eternal laws of God in one section of his
Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Thomas Aquinas
[10] This American legal scholar stated that laws should be viewed as a web which can always give a right
answer for every case and heavily criticized HLA Hart’s legal positivism in his Law’s Empire.
ANSWER: Ronald "Ronny" Dworkin
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 9 of 14

11. This group was unified under the ruler Burebista, who was assassinated the same year in which Julius
Caesar was killed. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these people of present-day Romania, subject of an 87 CE campaign launched by Domitian
against their king, Duras. A later emperor erected a column to celebrate his victory over them.
ANSWER: Dacian People [or the Dacians or Daci or Daoi or Dakoi or Dakes or Dakai]
[10] This man, one of the Five Good Emperors and the successor to Nerva, erected the aforementioned
column to commemorate his victory over the Dacians.
ANSWER: Trajan [or Caesar Divi Nervae Filius Nerva Traianus Optimus Augustus or Caesar Nerva
Traianus Germanicus or Marcus Ulpius Traianus]
[10] After success in Dacia, Trajan launched a campaign against this longtime foe of Rome, which, over a
century earlier, had destroyed a Roman army at the Battle of Carrhae.
ANSWER: Parthians [or Arsacids; prompt on "Iran" or "Iranian(s)", etc.; prompt on "Persia" or
"Persian(s)"]
<Bentley>

12. This god was given a pair of iron gloves and a staff by Grid in order to kill the giants Geirrod, Gjalp,
and Greip. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Norse god of thunder, the wielder of the hammer Mjollnir.
ANSWER: Thor
[10] Thor used Mjollnir to best this stone-hearted giant and owner of Gullfaxi in a duel.
ANSWER: Hrungnir
[10] Hymir and Thor once went fishing and caught this gigantic monster who was once disguised as a cat.
ANSWER: Jormungandr [or Midgard Serpent]
<Mukherjee>

13. The speaker of this poem laments how “man’s dominion has broken Nature’s social union” and notes
that he would be “loath to run and chase” the title character. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1785 poem about a “wee, sleekit, cow’rin, tim’rous beastie”, which famously describes
how “the best laid schemes” often go awry.
ANSWER: “To a Mouse”
[10] “To a Mouse” was written by this beloved Scottish poet, who asserted that his love was like a “red,
red rose that’s newly sprung in June” in another poem.
ANSWER: Robert Burns [or Rabbie Burns; or Robden of Solway Firth; or the Bard of Ayrshire;
prompt on “Scotland’s favorite son” or “the Bard”]
[10] The title character of this Burns poem ignores his wife Kate’s warnings, gets drunk, and shouts “Weel
done, Cutty-Sark!” at a group of witches dancing on Alloway Kirk.
ANSWER: “Tam o’ Shanter”
<Carson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 10 of 14

14. Charles T. Kelley led one section of it, and it camped out at Shreve Farm in Maryland. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this group, led by an Ohio businessman, that marched on Washington DC to protest the high
unemployment caused by the Panic of 1893.
ANSWER: Coxey’s Army
[10] Coxey’s Army protested the policies of this president. He also sent federal troops to arrest William
Hogan and his followers in 1894, after they hijacked a Northern Pacific Railway train in protest of freight
rates.
ANSWER: Stephen Grover Cleveland
[10] In the 1884 election, Cleveland was nominated by the Democratic party after this man stated "If
drafted, I will not run; if nominated, I will not accept; if elected, I will not serve."
ANSWER: William Tecumseh Sherman
<Mukherjee>

15. For 10 points each, name these hazards of volcanic eruptions.
[10] This is the term for molten rock expelled out of an erupting vent. It usually flows slowly enough for
people to move out of its way, and its types include aa (AH-AH) and pahoehoe (pah-HOY-HOY).
ANSWER: lava
[10] These much-faster-moving mixtures of rock fragments and gases can be divided into ignimbites and
nuées ardentes. One of these "ground-hugging avalanches" is thought to have destroyed Herculaneum.
ANSWER: pyroclastic flows
[10] If pyroclastic flows encounter snow or ice, the result can be one of these mixtures of water and rock
fragments that are often found near stratovolcanoes. They can also form from heavy rain, lake breakouts, or
landslides.
ANSWER: lahars [prompt on "jokulhlaups"]
<Wynne>

16. Amusing journal entries written during the field research for this work include “Resolution: Stop
chasing skirts,” as well as the author's confession that he had “scandalously pawed Nopula,” a native girl.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this tract whose creation was recounted in A Diary in the Strict Sense of the Term. It includes
chapters examining the power of magic in language and describing a trip to Dobu.
ANSWER: Argonauts of the Western Pacific
[10] This Polish anthropologist and major figure in the rise of structural functionalism wrote Argonauts of
the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
[10] One of the most famously-studied practices in anthropology is this gift exchange system using shell
jewelry, which was documented on the Trobriand Islands by Malinowski in Argonauts of the Western
Pacific.
ANSWER: Kula Ring/exchange/etc [accept anything involving the word “Kula”]
<Ray>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 11 of 14

17. Adjacent strings on a violin are traditionally tuned to this interval, which is one semitone larger than a
tritone. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this musical interval with a size of seven semitones. It is the interval between C-natural and
G-natural.
ANSWER: perfect fifth [prompt on partial answer]
[10] In the tuning system developed by this ancient Greek mathematician, the perfect fifth has a ratio of 3
to 2. According to legend, he discovered that plucking strings of different lengths produces different
musical notes.
ANSWER: Pythagoras
[10] This other musical interval has a ratio of 2 to 1, and can thus be produced by doubling or halving the
frequency of any pitch.
ANSWER: octave [or perfect octave]
<Thompson>

18. Three employees of this company died in a 2011 explosion in a factory in Chengdu, and it erected
netting around its facilities after a rash of suicides. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this prominent Chinese manufacturer.
ANSWER: Foxconn Technology Group [or Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd.]
[10] Although Foxconn creates consumer electronics for numerous companies, its association with this
technology company co-founded by Steve Wozniak has drawn the most vocal criticism. This company
makes the Safari web browser.
ANSWER: Apple Computer, Inc.
[10] This American Life devoted an entire episode to a retraction of an episode it previously aired featuring
this man, whose one-man show The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs attacked Apple’s business
practices in China.
ANSWER: Michael “Mike” Daisey
<Bentley>

19. He comes to the aid of Duncan Middleton and the Pawnee warrior Hard Heart in one novel, while in
another, he opposes Judge Marmaduke Temple. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this frontiersman and friend of Chingachgook, who kills the treacherous Huron Magua at the
end of The Last of the Mohicans.
ANSWER: Nathaniel "Natty" Bumppo [accept any underlined portion; prompt on "the trapper"; accept
any of the following: Hawkeye; La Longue Carabine; Pathfinder; Leatherstocking; Deerslayer;
Straight-Tongue; The Pigeon; or Lap-Ear]
[10] This author, whose novellas Satanstoe and The Chainbearers are included in his Littlepage
Manuscripts, created Natty Bumppo and wrote the Leatherstocking Tales.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
[10] Cooper's female characters were criticized for being "sappy as a maple and flat as a prairie" in A Fable
for Critics, a satirical book-length poem written by this Fireside poet.
ANSWER: James Russell Lowell
<Carson>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 12 of 14

20. One theory of these substances states that they maintain their stability until the zeta potential drops too
low. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these substances which consist of a dispersed phase suspended within a continuous phase.
One example is aerosols, which contain a liquid dispersed within a gas.
ANSWER: colloid
[10] This type of colloid consists of a liquid dispersed within another liquid. Mayonnaise is one of the
canonical examples.
ANSWER: emulsion
[10] This phenomenon is the scattering of light by colloid particles. Like Rayleigh scattering it depends on
the fourth power of the frequency of the incident light.
ANSWER: Tyndall effect
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 13 of 14

PACE NSC 2012
Round 24: Emergency Packet
Tiebreakers
21. Works generally attributed to this author include the riddle-filled "Wedding of Ceyx" and a depiction of
a hero's defeat of Cycnus called “The Shield of Heracles”. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ancient oral poet who described how Eros arose from primeval Chaos in a poem about the
origins of the gods called Theogony.
ANSWER: Hesiod
[10] This other work by Hesiod lays out the myth of the “five ages of man”. It is largely a didactic poem on
farming, though Hesiod takes time out to accuse his brother Perses of stealing his land.
ANSWER: Works and Days [or Erga kai Hemerai]
[10] Another treatise on farming, the Georgics, was produced by this Roman poet, who supposedly
predicted the birth of Christ in his fourth Eclogue. He may be better-known for his masterpiece, an epic
called the Aeneid.
ANSWER: Vergil [or Publius Vergilius Maro]
<Jose>

22. In 2003, it was revealed that this former president pro tempore was the father of Essie Mae
Washington-Williams with his family’s housekeeper Carrie Butler. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this longtime senator and Dixiecrat who filibustered a Civil Rights Act for 24 hours and 18
minutes, a still standing record. He also helped draft the “Southern Manifesto” in opposition to racial
integration.
ANSWER: James Strom Thurmond
[10] Governor Orval Faubus attempted to stop the desegregation of this city’s public schools, which
Eisenhower countered with an airborne division. A group of nine African-American students were escorted
into its Central High School by the army.
ANSWER: Little Rock, Arkansas
[10] Along with Kefauver and LBJ, this senator from Tennessee refused to sign the Southern Manifesto.
ANSWER: Albert Gore Sr.
<Mukherjee>

23. In some types of fish, this sense is carried by the eighth cranial nerve in addition to auditory and
vestibular information, while other organisms use the Ampullae of Lorenzini. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this "sixth sense" that is typically detected by receptors adapted from the lateral line. It is seen in
elasmobranches, which include sharks and rays.
ANSWER: electroreception [or other equivalents mentioning the perception of electricity]
[10] Convergent evolution resulted in this animal's sense of electroreception being carried instead by the
fifth cranial nerve. The electric sensors of this monotreme are found in its duck-like bill.
ANSWER: duck-billed platypus
[10] Sharks also have an unusual skeleton made entirely of this substance, which in humans is primarily
composed of Type II collagen and comes in articular and hyaline varieties.
ANSWER: cartilage
<Wynne>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 24: Emergency Packet

Page 14 of 14

