VHSL Regular Season
Round 26
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. A large-scale painting by this man includes many paintings of stone-lined lunettes. Draperies and writhing snakes were later
added to cover nude figures in this man's Last Judgement, which also includes a self-portrait of this artist on the flayed skin of St.
Bartholomew. His most famous paintings include a depiction of the Libyan sibyl and a painting in which God touches the tip of
Adam's finger to give him life. For 10 points, name this man who painted the Sistine Chapel ceiling.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Buonarotti
032-09-2-11101

2. Cadherins (cad-HERE-inz) and integrins (IN-tuh-grinz) are among the many proteins that span this structure, and flippases
(FLIP-ay-suhz) aid molecule movement in it. The fluid mosaic model of this structure states that it is composed of structures like
lipid rafts and protein complexes floating freely in a phospholipid bilayer (FOSS-fo-LIP-id BY-lay-ur). Ion channels aid ion
transport through this entity to enter or exit the cell. For 10 points, name this barrier that separates a cell from the outside
environment.
ANSWER: cell membrane
032-09-2-11102

3. One ruler of this dynasty fell to his death down several steps in his library and had reclaimed his empire from the usurper Sher
Shah Suri. The golden age of this dynasty occurred under an illiterate king whose court included the "Nine Jewels," including
Birbal. The jizya tax for non-Muslims was reinstated by this dynasty's emperor Aurangzeb (ore-ANG-zehb), the son of a ruler
who erected a public monument for his wife Mumtaz. This empire was founded by the Afghani ruler Babur and ruled by Shah
Jahan and Akbar. For 10 points, name this late-medieval Islamic empire in India.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire
020-09-2-11103

4. The Ripon Falls are a natural outlet of this lake, and the Kendu and Homa Bays lie in its Winam Gulf. Near the city of Jinja, the
Owen Falls Dam, which creates the Nalubaale Power Station, regulates the primary outflow of this lake. Ukerewe Island is the
largest island in this body of water, which also contains the Ssese Islands. The cities of Entebbe and Kampala lie on this lake, and
it is the source of the White Nile. For 10 points, name this lake bordered by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, which is the largest
lake in Africa.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria [prompt on White Nile until "lake"]
035-09-2-11104

5. This dynasty took full control after its first leader won the Battle of Gaixia (gay-ZEE-uh) against Xiang Yu, the leader of the
Chu state. The Trung sisters in Vietnam fought against this dynasty, which was interrupted by the Xin Dynasty of Wang Mang.
During this dynasty, Sima Qian compiled The Records of the Grand Historian, and this dynasty reached its greatest territorial
extent under Wudi. For 10 points, name this early Chinese dynasty founded by Liu Bang following the collapse of the Qin
Dynasty.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
036-09-2-11105

6. This novel's main character is jailed for nearly killing Mr. Fitzpatrick in a duel. The title character of this novel is often beaten
by his pedantic tutor Thwackum, and becomes the rival of Blifil after being taken in by Squire Allworthy as an infant. At the end
of this novel, the title character discovers that he was not born a bastard, allowing him to marry Sophia Western. For 10 points,
name this novel about a "foundling" by Henry Fielding.
ANSWER: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
004-09-2-11106

7. Chappell and White created a lettered classification system for this type of rock. This rock occupies most of the upper-left side
of the plutonic QAPF diagram. Pressure release is a form of weathering that causes exfoliation of layers of domes of this rock.
Rhyolite has an equivalent composition to this rock, but unlike rhyolite, this rock is intrusive. For 10 points, name this type of
igneous rock found in the domes of Yosemite.
ANSWER: granite
036-09-2-11107

VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 1 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This man established a colony at Amphipolis (am-PHI-poh-liss), and he attempted to call a Panhellenic congress in 448 BCE.
This man was an opponent of the Areopagus, and he became a prominent figure by prosecuting Cimon. This man destroyed
Euboea in 446 BCE after it revolted against the Delian League, and he oversaw a 445 truce between Sparta and his city that
allowed for a flourishing of the arts. For 10 points, name this Athenian statesman of that city's Golden Age.
ANSWER: Pericles
030-09-2-11108

9. In some accounts, this man fathered Prima by Hersilia, which was the only married woman taken when this man led a group
attempting to find wives among the Sabine Women. This man was attending a sacrifice when his great-uncle Numitor captured his
brother. He later killed that brother after claiming to have seen twelve vultures, while his brother saw only six. For 10 points,
name this legendary founder of Rome who killed his brother Remus.
ANSWER: Romulus
003-09-2-11109

10. Plotting the values of latter rows of this arrangement with a bar graph approximates a normal distribution. Adding the shallow
diagonals of this arrangement yields the Fibonacci Sequence and coloring the odd numbers in this arrangement produces a
Sierpinski Triangle. The nth row of this arrangement gives the binomial coefficients of a polynomial expansion of the nth power.
For 10 points, name this figure in which every number is the sum of the two numbers directly above, named after a French
mathematician.
ANSWER: Pascal's Triangle
036-09-2-11110

11. In the second scene of this play, a character sings a song that begins "Full fathom five thy father lies." A character in this play
commands Ferdinand to roll logs. At the same time, the jester Trinculo and butler Stephano drunkely extract an oath of slavery
from Caliban, the deformed son of Sycorax. At the end of this play, Prospero is restored to the throne of Milan thanks to the wits
of his daughter Miranda and the spirit Ariel. For 10 points, name this play, the last one written by Shakespeare, that starts with a
shipwreck due to the title storm.
ANSWER: The Tempest
019-09-2-11111

12. In Treasure Mountain, these creatures held scrolls and asked questions if you caught them with a net. In Warcraft II, these
creatures gave the human side Destroyers and Archers, and World of Warcraft includes "Night" and "Blood" types. For 10 points,
name these creatures that are typically depicted with elongated ears and sometimes come in "Wood" or "Dark" varieties.
ANSWER: elves
003-09-2-11112

13. This man claimed that one of his legal doctrines was misused in his dissent in Abrams v. United States. In this man's opinion in
Buck v. Bell, this man wrote in favor of sterilizations for "those who are manifestly unfit from continuing their kind." This man
wrote an opinion upholding the conviction of a man who distributed leaflets urging resistence to the draft in World War I. For 10
points, name this Supreme Court justice who, in his opinion in Schenck v. United States, formulated the "clear and present danger"
doctrine.
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.
030-09-2-11113

14. One episode of this work sees a man shoot a baby water buffalo to shreds after the death of his close friend. One soldier
featured in this book wears a pair of his girlfriend's pantyhose around his neck for good luck. Items in the title category include
rifles, rations, guilt, and fear. For 10 points, name this book about a group of soldiers fighting in the Vietnam War, a work of Tim
O'Brien titled for the objects the soldiers had with them.
ANSWER: The Things They Carried
032-09-2-11114

15. One king from this country employed the statesman Axel Oxenstierna (OCKS-en-STEER-nuh). This country's king Charles
XII won the battle of Narva but was crushed by Russia in the battle of Poltava during the Great Northern War. This country broke
away from the Denmark-controlled Kalmar Union under its king Gustav Vasa. Another king of this country was nicknamed the
Lion of the North before dying at Lutzen during the Thirty Years War. For 10 points, name this Scandanavian country which was
led by Gustavus Adolphus and has its capital at Stockholm.
ANSWER: Sweden
015-09-2-11115

VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 2 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 26
Directed Round
1A. Name the state, in which Justice of the Peace Keith Bardwell refused to marry an interracial couple in October 2009, and
which is governed by Bobby Jindal.
ANSWER: Louisiana
1B. Name the NBC series in which Tina Fey plays Liz Lemon, who runs the fictional TV show TGS with Tracy Jordan.
ANSWER: 30 Rock
2A. Name the number, sometimes called "Big G," which is used to calculate the force of attraction between two objects and was
discovered by Henry Cavendish.
ANSWER: gravitational constant
2B. Name the curve which claims that decreased tax rate can result in increased revenue and was the basis for supply side
economics.
ANSWER: Laffer curve
3A. Name the features of glaciers that have lateral and terminal varieties, and are an accumulation of debris.
ANSWER: moraines
3B. What phylum of invertebrates (in-VER-tuh-brutz) with exoskeletons includes the classes of insects and arachnids?
ANSWER: arthropoda [or arthropods]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the mean of the following numbers: 12, 7, 9, 8, 11, 13.
ANSWER: 20
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. How many degrees are in pi over 3 radians?
ANSWER: 60 degrees
5A. Name the literary device that refers to extreme exaggeration, as in the phrase "I could eat a horse."
ANSWER: hyperbole
5B. Name the scientist who developed the equation "E equals mc squared" and created the theories of special and general
relativity.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Two answers are required. Identify the center and radius of the following circle:
quantity x-3 squared plus quantity y plus 2 squared equals 324. ((x-3)^2 + (y+2)^2 = 324 )
ANSWER: Center at (3, -2) and radius = 18
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the value of 3 heart 7 given that x heart y is equal to x squared times y, plus
the quantity y minus x?
ANSWER: 58
7A. Name the language that has a dialect known as Kven and was used by Elias Lonrot to write the Kalevala.
ANSWER: Finnish [or Suomi]
7B. Name the Montana Senator and Senate Finance Committee chairman who was criticized for taking money from health care
companies after taking the lead on health care reform.
ANSWER: Max Baucus
8A. Name the former Auburn quarterback who struggled while opening the 2009 season starting for the Washington Redskins.
ANSWER: Jason Campbell
8B. Name the painter of The Oxbow and The Course of Empire who led the Hudson River School.
ANSWER: Thomas Cole
VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 3 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the remainder when 1372 is divided by 23?
ANSWER: 15
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Convert the binary number 10101010 into a decimal number.
ANSWER: 170
10A. Name the river that passes through Kemple, Oxford, Reading, and London.
ANSWER: River Thames
10B. Name the type of poetry often employed by Shakespeare, in which there is rhythm but no rhyming.
ANSWER: blank verse
015-09-2-11116

VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 4 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 26
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one story by this author, Pat Scully watches on as a Swede fights a cowboy and is stabbed by a gambler. In another of this
author's stories, the correspondent, the cook, the oiler, and the captain brave the ocean. One novel by this author of "The Blue
Hotel" and "The Open Boat" ends with the death of the titular "girl of the streets," Maggie. Another of this author's novels sees
Henry Fleming get the titular wound during the Civil War. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote The Red Badge of
Courage.
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
024-09-2-11117

2. This man served as military governor of Tennessee during the Civil War, after having served as that state's governor for two
terms in the 1850s. This man was the only senator from the South who did not leave after the Confederacy's secession, which
eventually led to this man succeeding Hannibal Hamlin (HAM-lin) in another post. This man's removal of Edwin Stanton violated
the Tenure of Office Act, leading to this man being the first impeached president. For 10 points, name this man who became
president after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: Andrew Johnson
023-09-2-11118

3. Recent changes proposed to this by Whatwg include canvas and article elements. It comes in strict, traditional, and frameset
versions. Common attributes include name, id, and href. Based on work done by Tim Berners-Lee, official specifications are
published by the W3C. Components created from this can be manipulated by DOM, styles are applied via CSS, and dynamic
interaction through javascript. For ten points identify this markup language used to write web pages.
ANSWER: HTML [or Hypertext Markup Language; prompt on web pages]
001-09-2-11119

4. This author wrote about a sorcerer named Cipollo, who is killed in his story Mario and the Magician. This author wrote one of
his novels from the perspective of Serenus Zeitblom, who is friends with a composer who collapses at the keyboard playing his
last work. Another novel by this man is about the family that ends with the death of Hanno. This author wrote a novel about
Adrian Leverkuhn, Doktor Faustus. This author wrote a novel set in Sanatorium Berghof in Switzerland, where Hans Castorp
lives. For 10 points, name this author of Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
027-09-2-11120

5. Deficiency of this gland's namesake hormone leads to cretinism in newborns, and thyroxine (thy-"ROCKS"-een) is required to
form that hormone. This butterfly-shaped gland sits at the front of the neck around the larynx (LAIR-"inks") and trachea
(TRAY-kee-uh). Iodine is necessary for the synthesis of this gland's namesake hormone, and a deficiency of iodine causes it to
become enlarged. For 10 points, name this endocrine gland that forms a goiter when not enough iodine is available.
ANSWER: thyroid gland
032-09-2-11121

6. This composer quoted his quartet "Cypresses" in the third movement of his Cello Concerto in B minor. This composer built on
folk themes for his early works like Moravian Duets and Slavonic Dances. This composer's ninth symphony in E minor contains a
flute solo that resembles the spiritual "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot" and was written after this composer's visit to the United States.
For 10 points, name this Czech composer of the New World Symphony.
ANSWER: Antonin Dvorak (duh-VOR-zhak)
036-09-2-11122

7. This man wrote about a hedonist who tried to "resuscitate the dead art/Of poetry" in Hugh Selwyn Mauberly. His other works
include the collection Cathay and the two-line poem "In A Station of the Metro." He translated a poem by a Chinese poet who
allegedly drowned while trying to embrace the moon. For 10 points, name this expatriate poet who translated Li Po's "The River
Merchant's Wife" and never finished his long poem The Cantos.
ANSWER: Ezra Pound
032-09-2-11123

8. The Lambertian model for this phenomenon applies to its diffuse form. The statement that the angle of incidence equals the
angle of this phenomenon holds for the specular form of this process. At an angle greater than the critical angle for an interface,
the total internal form of this occurs. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which a wavefront approaches an interface and
returns to the same medium, such as when light hits a mirror.
ANSWER: reflection
022-09-2-11124
VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 5 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This writer compared the canals of Amsterdam to the circles of Hell in a novel about the Parisian defense lawyer Clamence.
Besides writing The Fall, this author also wrote of Bernard Rieux working in the quarantined city of Oran during an epidemic. In
another work by this author, Raymond is wounded with a knife, leading Mersault to shoot an Arab. For 10 points, name this
French existentialist author of The Plague and The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
036-09-2-11125

10. This man's claim to succession was put above the rightful claim of Britannicus. This man was tutored by the philosopher
Seneca. This man attempted to build a palace called the Golden House, which was to cover a third of Rome, and he was the target
of Piso's Conspiracy. This man was the successor to Claudius, and this man had his mother Agrippina murdered. For 10 points,
name this Roman emperor under whose rule Rome burned in 64 CE.
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
030-09-2-11126

11. The title character of one of this man's plays uses the Turkish king Bajazeth as a footstool. The narrator of one of this man's
poems promises things such as "buckles of the purest gold" after urging the title character to "Come live with me and be my love."
This author of Tamburlaine and "The Passionate Shepherd to his Love" also wrote a play in which Barabas dies in a cauldron.
This author also penned a "tragical history" that adapts of the Faust legend. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of The
Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
015-09-2-11127

12. When these are displaced onto third parties, they are known as either positive or negative externalities. The value of the
alternatives that one gives up in order to pursue a particular end is known as the "opportunity" kind of this. The amount required to
manufacture one additional unit is called the "marginal" kind. The kind that does not change regardless of quantity produced is the
"fixed" type. For 10 points, identify these economic entities, which can simply be the amount of money needed to acquire a good.
ANSWER: costs
019-09-2-11128

13. The reversal of this process is known as deposition, and it occurs at temperatures and pressures below the triple point. Its
enthalpy for a given substance is the sum of the enthalpy of fusion and the enthalpy of vaporization for that substance. Its
best-known example is the 'disappearance' of dry ice. For 10 points, name this process that involves a solid directly becoming a
gas, without going through the liquid phase.
ANSWER: sublimation
047-09-2-11129

14. This man was the first American minister to Russia. While serving as Secretary of State, this man negotiated a treaty that
transferred Florida from Spanish to American control; that treaty was named for this man and Luis de Onis (OH-niss). This man
named Henry Clay as his Secretary of State after Clay helped him win a presidential election over Andrew Jackson with the
so-called "corrupt bargain." For 10 points, name this man who wrote the Monroe Doctrine, and who became president in 1824,
following in the footsteps of his father.
ANSWER: John Quincy Adams [prompt on Adams; do not accept or prompt on "John Adams"]
028-09-2-11130

15. A piano opens with a tone row in octaves in this composer's Violin Sonata. This composer set Yevtushenko's poetry to the five
movements of his Thirteenth Symphony, which commemorates the massacre of the Jews at Babi Yar. Critics accused this
composer of making his ninth symphony too light-hearted. A march-like ostinato forms the invasion theme of this composer's
seventh symphony, written around the Nazi attack of Russia. For 10 points, name this Soviet composer who feuded with Stalin
and wrote the Leningrad Symphony.
ANSWER: Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich
036-09-2-11131

VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 6 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 26
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Gilman reagents contain lithium and this element, and Egyptian blue, the first synthetic pigment, contains it. Rochelle salt and
sodium hydroxide are the components, along with this element's sulfate, of Fehling's solution. One of its oxides precipitates in a
positive test from Benedict's reagent. This metal forms a common galvanic cell with zinc. For 10 points, name this ductile
conductor, popularly used in wiring, which turns green when oxidized and has symbol Cu.
ANSWER: copper
022-09-2-11132

2. The First Letter to the Corinthians states that this figure was the first to see Jesus risen. In Matthew, this figure attempted to
imitate Jesus by walking on water, but failed. This man argued with Paul over the importance of circumcision for Christians. This
man asked Jesus to wash not only his feet but his also head and hands before the Last Supper, and he was called a "fisher of men"
along with his brother, Andrew. For 10 points, name this apostle who betrayed Jesus three times and was "rock" upon which Jesus
built his Church, the first pope.
ANSWER: Simon Peter [or Petros; or Cephas; or Kephas]
005-09-2-11133

3. The application of ATP can induce this process in cyanobacteria ("sigh"-ANN-oh-back-TEER-ee-uh), and the suprachiasmatic
(SOOP-ruh-ky-az-MAT-ic) nuclei controls this entity in mammals. It is often displayed in plants by the movement of leaves in
relation to the sun. Studies have shown that mammals can maintain one of these entities despite the absence of usual cues like light
and darkness. For 10 points, name this cycle of about 24 hours that governs organisms' activities and is often called the "biological
clock."
ANSWER: circadian rhythm
032-09-2-11134

4. This thinker argued against the liberal policies of Gladstone in The Man Versus the State. This thinker conceived of society as a
living organism in his Principles of Sociology. This man posited the development of societies from military to complex and
industrial and outlined "individuation" in Social Statics, which also introduced this man's interpretation of natural selection. For 10
points, name this British thinker who coined the term "survival of the fittest" and developed social darwinism.
ANSWER: Herbert Spencer
005-09-2-11135

5. This man wrote about an enchanted guitar in his novel Reservation Blues. "A Drug Called Tradition" is one of a collection of 21
stories set on a Spokane reservation, The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven. Many of this man's works include members
of the Spokane tribe, like the character Thomas Builds-the-Fire. For 10 points, name this Native American author of The Absolute
True Diary of a Part-Time Indian.
ANSWER: Sherman Alexie
032-09-2-11136

VHSL Regular Season Round 26 Page 7 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

