VHSL Regular Season
Round 27
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One character in this novel dreams the lyrics of a song that asks listeners to "hearken to my joyful tidings of the Golden future
time." That character in this work also proposes prohibiting drinking and sleeping in beds as some of the Seven Commandments.
Squealer's machinations in this novel result in the exile of Snowball and the unopposed rule of Napoleon. For 10 points, name this
novel in which the death of Old Major results in a revolution on Mr. Jones' farm, which is eventually corrupted by the pigs, an
allegory of the Soviet revolution by George Orwell.
ANSWER: Animal Farm
015-09-2-12101

2. This man refused to deliver the appointment of a Justice of the Peace, which the Supreme Court ruled was constitutional. This
man wrote Federalist Papers 10 and 52. Edmund Randolph was this man's mouthpiece to propose the “large state” plan at the
Constitutional Convention. This politician sponsored the Bill of Rights. This man became Thomas Jefferson’s Secretary of State
before he was sued by Marbury. The presidency of this man included the White House being burned by the British. For 10 points,
name this President who was in office during the War of 1812.
ANSWER: James Madison
027-09-2-12102

3. One of the chief shrines to this god, the Geminus (GEMM-ee-noos), was a hallway made of bronze which Roman armies
marched through on the way to war. The gates of that shrine to this god were kept open during war and were closed only twice in
Roman Republican times. This god had no Greek equivalent and was the patron of all beginnings. He also lends his name to an
expression meaning "deceptive." For 10 points, name this Roman god with two faces, who became the namesake of the first
month of the Gregorian calendar.
ANSWER: Janus
019-09-2-12103

4. This man was stripped of his offices when it was revealed that he attempted to negotiate a peace with the Swedish Count Folke
Bernadotte. This man orchestrated an attempted assassination on Albert Speer in February 1944, and he masterminded the purge
of the SA in 1934. His ordering of the deportation of 8,000 Jews in January 1943 sparked the Warsaw Ghetto uprising, and this
man established Nazi Germany's first concentration camp at Dachau. For 10 points, name this Nazi leader who headed the SS.
ANSWER: Heinrich Himmler
030-09-2-12104

5. The narrator describes Sally's hair as "shiny black like raven feathers," and that character is abused by her father and later her
husband. This novel is dedicated "a las mujeres," and its protagonist dreams of living in a white home with three bathrooms rather
than the crumbling building on the titular road. For 10 points, name this novel about Esperanza Cordero by Mexican-American
author Sandra Cisneros.
ANSWER: The House on Mango Street
032-09-2-12105

6. This technique's strong form allows for the formula in question to work for not only for some n equal to k, but n less than k.
This tool works by first proving a base case, then showing that if a formula works for some number n, then it works for "n+1." It is
very similar to recursion. This mathematical proof technique shares its name with a type of logic moving from cases to a general
conclusion. For 10 points, name this proof technique that also labels a type of reasoning that is not deductive.
ANSWER: induction or inductive
033-09-2-12106

7. This figure is depicted with the Damaru drum when represented as Nataraja, the Lord of Dance. When the serpent Vasuki
polluted the world during the churning of the ocean, this deity drank up its poison, which turned his throat blue. The consort of
this god has several forms, such as the lion-riding Durga and the mountain goddess Parvati. His third eye would burn down the
world when it is opened. For 10 points name, along with Brahma and Vishnu, what destroyer god forms the Trimurti in Hindu
myth?
ANSWER: Shiva
034-09-2-12107

VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 1 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. In polar coordinates, one of these statements says that r equals p over quantity one plus epsilon cosine theta, where p is the
semilatus rectum and epsilon is the eccentricity. Another states that the time derivative of the areal (AIR-ee-uhl) velocity is zero,
or that equal areas are swept out in equal times. The third says that the square of the period is directly proportional to the cube of
the semimajor axis. For 10 points, name these laws of planetary motion named after a German astronomer and student of Tycho
Brahe.
ANSWER: Kepler's Laws of Planetary Motion
003-09-2-12108

9. In the fortune-telling scheme of this belief system, kichi (KEY-CHEE) signifies a blessing, while kyo signifies a curse. Honden
and Torii (TO-REE-EE) make up the places of worship of this religion, the most famous of which is the Ise (EE-SAY) Shrine.
“The way of the gods” is the literal name of this religion, although its objects of worship are spirits called kami. For 10 points,
Amaterasu is the chief deity of what animistic religion of Japan?
ANSWER: Shintoism
034-09-2-12109

10. Philosopher John Searle first delineated the strong and weak types of this concept. Edward Feigenbaum developed expert
systems, which can be used to simulate this. This field, whose name was coined by John McCarthy, often makes use of the Lisp
programming language and concepts like fuzzy logic. Perceptrons are among the different types of neural networks used to
simulate this concept. For 10 points, identify this field of computer science involving problems like machine learning, knowledge
representation, and simulating human brains.
ANSWER: artificial intelligence [or AI]
029-09-2-12110

11. The pose of the main subject of this painting is taken from a portrait of Madame Recamier by Jacques Louis-David. That
subject's right hand holds a blue curtain that covers the upper right hand portion of this painting, while her noticeably shorter left
arm is mostly concealed. Another anatomical discrepancy in this painting is the subject's curvature of the spine and pelvis.
Another misrepresentation in this painting is the extra vertebrae in the subject's back, which appears to be elongated. For 10
points, name this painting of a concubine by Jean Ingres.
ANSWER: La Grande Odalisque
040-09-2-12111

12. This man served as head of both the Food Administration Board and the Commission for Relief in Belgium during World War
I. This politician successfully ran for the presidency against Al Smith. Earlier, this man had served as Secretary of Commerce to
both Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge. During this man's presidency, many homeless people lived in shantytowns named
for him. For 10 points, name this president who served during the beginning of the Great Depression, which circumstance led to
his defeat in the Election of 1932 to Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
ANSWER: Herbert Clark Hoover
023-09-2-12112

13. One character in this epic spends thirteen years in exile after gambling away all his possessions and his wife in a game of dice
with Shakuni. That character, Yudhisthira, becomes the emperor of the world after winning the Kurukshetra War. Attributed to
Vyasa, this epic recounts the war between the Kauravas and the Pandavas, and contains the Bhagavad-Gita. For 10 points, name
this Hindu epic, one of the two main Sanskrit epics along with the Ramayana.
ANSWER: the Mahabharata
004-09-2-12113

14. Runaway breakdown theory proposes that these phenomena are caused by cosmic rays. High temperatures from these
phenomena can produce the glass-like fulgurite from sand. Supercells are large storms that exhibit these phenomena. These
phenomena can occur between the base and anvil of cumulonimbus clouds, and heat produced by them creates a supersonic shock
wave. For 10 points, name these discharge of atmospheric static electricity that produce thunder.
ANSWER: lightning
036-09-2-12114

15. This author wrote about a son of Bachus and Circe who attempts to kidnap The Lady in his masque Comus. He penned the
phrase "Look homeward Angel now" in his elegy on the death of Edward King. He wrote that "books are not absolutely dead
things" in his pamphlet advocating free speech, Areopagitica (AIR-ee-oh-pah-JIH-tih-cah). This author is best known for a work
that details the construction of Pandemonium and the tempting of Eve. For 10 points, name this British author who wrote about
the fall of the rebel angels in his epic poem Paradise Lost.
ANSWER: John Milton
015-09-2-12115

VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 2 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 27
Directed Round
1A. Name the gas that contains one nitrogen atom bound to three hydrogen atoms, and releases noxious fumes when mixed with
bleach.
ANSWER:
ammonia
1B. Peter Paul Rubens painted this man in the Descent of the Cross. Name this man, who was sculpted in the Pieta being held by
his mother.
ANSWER:
Jesus Christ [or Jesus Christ]
2A. He portrayed Oprah and Karl Malone when he co-hosted The Man Show with Adam Carolla. Name this man who also helped
create Crank Yankers and now hosts a late night show on ABC.
ANSWER:
James Christian “Jimmy” Kimmel
2B. This poetic foot is used in a hexameter (hex-AM-uh-turr) in Longfellow’s poem “Evangeline.” Name this foot that uses one
stressed syllable, followed by two unstressed syllables.
ANSWER:
dactylic
3A. Name the city that is home to the James Branch Cabell library on the campus of Virginia Commonwealth University, as well
as Monument Avenue.
ANSWER:
Richmond
3B. Name the country whose government has fought in South Waziristan (wah-ZEER-uh-stan) over the Taliban’s stronghold in
Kotkai.
ANSWER:
Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or Islam-i Jamhuriya-e Pakistan]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the product of the first two perfect numbers?
ANSWER: 168
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the area of a triangle with height 19 and base 7?
ANSWER: 66.5
5A. This English word translates as "homme" in French, and "hombre" in Spanish. Name this word that translates in German as
"mensch."
ANSWER:
man
5B. When one of these pushes another downward, the overlapping area is called a “subduction zone.” Name these objects that
make up the earth’s crust in a “tectonic” model.
ANSWER:
tectonic plates
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the sum of the integers 1 through 20 inclusive?
ANSWER: 210
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. What are the real roots of the equation x2 + x - 12 = 0?
ANSWER: x = -4 and x = 3
7A. In this movie, Tinkerbell is captured along with a donkey who is voiced by Eddie Murphy. Name this first movie starring
Mike Myers as a green ogre who rescues Princess Fiona.
ANSWER:
Shrek
7B. Like the C4 pathway, this process uses PEP carboxylase to fix carbon dioxide. Name this variaion on standard
photosynthesis, in which plants open their stomata only at night.
ANSWER:
CAM pathway [or crassulacean acid metabolism]
8A. Name the man whose constant, symbolized "h," is used in his namesake radiation law about blackbodies.
ANSWER:
Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck
VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 3 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8B. What activity did Ida Wells claim was "our country's national crime," citing 241 people put to death without trial in 1892
alone?
ANSWER: lynching
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If the velocity of your car is increasing by 3 meters per second every second, how far
have you traveled in 5 seconds, assuming your velocity starts at 1.25 meters per second?
ANSWER: 43.75 meters
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the 8th entry in a sequence that uses the Fibonacci recurrence, but uses 3 and
4 to be the zeroth and first items in the sequence respectively?
ANSWER: 128
10A. What Republican defeated Jody Wagner in November 2009 to win a second term as Virginia's Lieutenant Governor?
ANSWER: William "Bill" Bolling
10B. Many of his books, including A _House for Mr. Biswas_ and Miguel Street, are set on his native Trinidad. Name this author
of Indian ancestry who wrote A Bend in the River.
ANSWER: Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul
027-09-2-12116

VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 4 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 27
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This ruler constructed his capital at Pasargadae and won the Battle of Opis in his campaigns against Nabonidus, a ruler of the
Chaldean dynasty. After the Battle of Thymbra, this man defeated the Lydian Empire and took Croesus captive. This ruler also
ended the Babylonian Captivity of the Jews, and this father of Cambyses II ended the earlier Median Empire to create an empire
which would later be ruled from Persepolis. For 10 points, name this first ruler of Achaemenid (uh-KAI-mun-ihd) Persia.
ANSWER: Cyrus the Great [or Cyrus the Elder or Cyrus II]
036-09-2-12117

2. Many fossils of this species were discovered near Acheulean (ack-OOL-ee-en) industry tools at Ternifine in Algeria. Another
member of this species was identified by Davidson Black after its tooth was found at Zhoukoudian (zoo-KOH-dee-ann), though
that fossil was destroyed during World War II. Eugène Dubois (doo-BWAY) found the first known fossil of this species on an
Indonesian island. This species flourished from 1.7 million to two hundred thousand years ago. This extinct hominid's fossils
include Peking Man and Java Man. For 10 points, identify this species, which was named for its upright walk.
ANSWER: homo erectus
019-09-2-12118

3. According to legend, one leader of this nation gave food to two angelic figures before defeating the Germans and founding the
Piast dynasty. Another dynasty in this country won in the battle of Grunwald against the Teutonic knights while allied with
Lithuania, known as the Jagiellon Dynasty. One movement in this nation centered on the Gdansk shipyard was known as
Solidarity and was led by Lech Walesa. For 10 points, name this European country that was the home of Pope John Paul II, and
whose capital city named the Soviet Union's Warsaw Pact.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland or Rzeczpospolita Polska
023-09-2-12119

4. The title character of this work drew a picture of a boa constrictor that ate an elephant that adults view as a hat. A fox in this
work informs the title character that he must be tamed before he can be a friend, and a talking rose prompts the main character to
go on a journey. The title character of this work is a native of planet B612 and is taken to other worlds by a flock of birds. For 10
points, name this work about a diminutive monarch by Antoine de Saint-Exupery.
ANSWER: The Little Prince [or Le Petit Prince]
030-09-2-12120

5. Two-time winners of this event include Harold Miner and Jason Richardson. Clyde Drexler entered this event five times
without winning once. The 2008 winner of this event took off his jersey to reveal a Superman shirt and cape, but he was defeated
in the 2009 finals by an alter ego known as "KryptoNate." For 10 points, name this NBA All-Star Weekend contest most recently
won by Dwight Howard and Nate Robinson.
ANSWER: NBA Slam Dunk Contest [or Sprite Slam Dunk Showdown]
003-09-2-12121

6. Like fruit flies, temperature-sensitive mutants of this organism are commonly studied, and the genome of this organism was the
first eukaryotic (you-KAIR-ee-ott-ic) one to be sequenced. The a or alpha types of these organisms can fuse in order to reproduce,
and this single-celled fungus reproduces asexually by budding. They can grow anaerobically (AN-air-OH-bic-uh-lee) on fructose
and carry out fermentation. For 10 points, name this organism used to make alcohol and bake bread.
ANSWER: yeast [or Sacchromyces cerevisiae]
032-09-2-12122

7. This man wrote a story in which a child was told by an angel she would dance until she became a skeleton due to her wearing
the title footwear. In addition to "The Red Shoes," one of this man's works describes Gerda's attempts to save Little Kay after a
piece of the Mirror of the Devil was lodged in his eye. That work is "The Snow Queen." For 10 points, name this Danish author of
children's stories such as "The Emperor's New Clothes" and "The Little Mermaid."
ANSWER: Hans Christian Andersen
030-09-2-12123

8. In this country, the Muslim Brotherhood attempted an uprising in Hama in 1982. This was the first Arab nation to condemn the
1991 invasion of Kuwait. This country withdrew from the United Arab Republic in 1961. A nearly thirty-year presence of troops
from this country in Lebanon was ended in 2005. For 10 points, name this Middle Eastern nation long led by Hafez al-Assad and
the Ba'ath Party.
ANSWER: Syria
030-09-2-12124

VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 5 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This man's works include a long poetic description of a New Jersy town, Paterson. He wrote about an item "glazed with rain
water beside the white chickens" in a poem in which "so much depends upon" that titular object, and in another of his poems, the
speaker apologizes for "eating all the plums that were in the icebox and which you were probably saving for breakfast." For 10
points, name this poet and physician who wrote "The Red Wheelbarrow" and "This Is Just To Say."
ANSWER: William Carlos Williams
032-09-2-12125

10. This man supervised the completion of the Moscow subway system. A period known as this man's "thaw" occurred after he
gave the Secret Speech denouncing the excesses of his predecessor. In 1960, this man banged his shoe on a desk during a meeting
of the United Nations General Assembly. For 10 points, name this Soviet leader who engaged in the Kitchen Debate with Richard
Nixon.
ANSWER: Nikita Krushchev
030-09-2-12126

11. This vitamin enhances iron absorption and is crucial for the synthesis of collagen. Pneumonia as well as colds can supposedly
be treated with megadoses of this anti-oxidant vitamin. Deficiency of this vitamin leads to a disease characterized by fragile skin
and bleeding gums, scurvy. For 10 points, name this vitamin also called ascorbic (ass-KOR-bic) acid and found in citrus fruits like
oranges.
ANSWER: Vitamin C [or ascorbic acid before mentioned]
032-09-2-12127

12. Debussy wrote three pieces of this form titled "Clouds," "Festivals," and "Sirens" for orchestra and female choir. Chopin uses
a rounded binary form to gradually embellish on two simple themes in his Opus 9 No. 2, a piece in E-flat written in this form.
Pieces of this popular Romantic Era form convey atmosphere rather than developing themes, and this form of music was first
developed by John Field. For 10 points, name this form of music that creates a mood of night.
ANSWER: Nocturne
036-09-2-12128

13. These people were led through the Civil War by John Ross. John Marshall ruled in this group's favor in Worcester v. Georgia.
The language of these people is one of the few surviving ones thanks to the syllabary created by Sequoyah. Along with the
Seminoles, Creek, Choktaw, and Chickisaw, this group formed the Five Civilized Tribes. The Treaty of New Echota forced Martin
van Buren to have Winfield Scott forcibly remove this tribe to Oklahoma. For 10 points, name this Native American tribe that was
the chief victim of the Trail of Tears.
ANSWER: Cherokee
015-09-2-12129

14. This play includes a scene in which the tale of a voodoo doll is told to Giles Corey by Ezekiel Cheever. In the fourth act of this
play, the events leading to the condemnation of women like Elizabeth cannot be halted by Reverend Parris. All this occurs because
of Abigail's attempts to seduce John Proctor while supposedly under the influence of the slave Tituba. For 10 points, name this
play about the Salem Witch Trials, written by Arthur Miller.
ANSWER: The Crucible
032-09-2-12130

15. This element's bromide salt is used to contain samples in infrared spectroscopy. An ion of this element, with a porous carbon
material at the cathode (KATH-ode), is a component of rechargeable batteries. Its salts are administered as mood-stabilizing
drugs, particularly for depression. For 10 points, name this lightest alkali metal, with atomic number three.
ANSWER: lithium [or Li]
022-09-2-12131

VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 6 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 27
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This character briefly worked as a janitor at St. Olaf's College, but describes himself as an "Oxford man" since he attended
Oxford for five months after the Armistice. This character was inspired to change his name by Dan Cody. One associate of this
character is a gambler who supposedly fixed the 1919 World Series, named Meyer Wolfsheim. This character's rise to wealth is
motivated by his love for Tom Buchanan's wife, Daisy. For 10 points, name this resident of West Egg, who is the "great" title
character of an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel.
ANSWER: Jay Gatsby [or James Gatz]
024-09-2-12132

2. Maurice Ravel wrote an orchestral work of this title that traced the development and fall of this form; that work was rejected by
Sergei Diaghilev. Anton Diabelli composed a work in this form which he then asked other Austrian composers to make variations
on. Sibelius wrote a very slow "triste" one of the pieces, and Chopin wrote one of these works nicknamed "minute." For 10 points,
name this form of music written in triple meter that often accompanies a Viennese ballroom dance.
ANSWER: Waltz [or Valse]
036-09-2-12133

3. One element in this group forms Grignard (GRIN-yurd) reagents with magnesium. Another element in this group is used in a
test to detect starches in a solution; that test is named for Lugol (LOO-gul). That element from this group is also used in a tincture
to disinfect skin. Two of these elements combine with carbon to form a series of compounds that are a major threat to the ozone
layer. For 10 points, name this group of elements that includes bromine, iodine, chlorine, and fluorine.
ANSWER: halogens [or Group 17; or Group VIIA]
022-09-2-12134

4. Amacrine (AM-uh-krin) cells in this structure regulate nervous input to ganglion ("GANG"-lee-on) cells, and this structure's
namesake pigmentosa (PIG-men-TOE-suh) causes tunnel vision and night blindness. This seven-layered structure has a sensitive
fovea (FO-vee-uh) in its macular (MACK-you-lur) region. This structure contains photoreceptor (FO-toe-ree-SEP-tur) cells like
rods and cones, and it converts light to nervous signals sent through the optic nerve. For 10 points, name this structure that lies
along the back of the eye.
ANSWER: retina
032-09-2-12135

5. This city lies on Guanabara Bay, encloses the Lagoa Rodrigo de Freitas and contains the replanted Tijuca Forest. This city
contains Copacabana, Botafogo, and Ipanema beaches and Sugarloaf Mountain. This city was the capital of its nation before the
election of Juscelino Kubitschek, and from the top of Corcovado Mountain, Christ the Redeemer looks over this city. For 10
points, name this second largest city of Brazil after Sao Paulo, set to host the 2016 Summer Olympics.
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro
036-09-2-12136

VHSL Regular Season Round 27 Page 7 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

