VHSL Regular Season
Round 28
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one story by this author, Tom King remembers humiliating the old prizefighter Stowsher Bill after losing a fight to Sandel. In
addition to "A Piece of Steak," this man wrote a dystopian work about Avis Ererhard's description of a fascist monopoly
organization in The Iron Heel. The Macedonia stole the seals of the title character's ship the Ghost in another of this author's
novels. For 10 points, name this author of The Sea Wolf, who also wrote The Call of the Wild and White Fang.
ANSWER: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney]
030-09-2-13101

2. This adjective describes the only type of scalene triangle for which the angle-side-side congruence conjecture holds. Triangles
of this type have an orthocenter at the vertex joining the two smallest sides. The length of a side of this kind of triangle can be
found by the Pythagorean Theorem. For 10 points, give this adjective that describes triangles that, because they contain an angle
with measure ninety degrees, are neither acute nor obtuse.
ANSWER: right triangles
003-09-2-13102

3. This man created a work inspired by the Ford Motor Company's River Rouge complex, Detroit Industry. He depicted the
inventors Robert Fulton and Samuel Morse along with depictions of Native American deities in his painting called Pan American
Unity. One of this man's works was located in Rockefeller Center and was destroyed due to its depiction of Lenin. For 10 points,
name this Mexican muralist who painted Man at the Crossroads, and was also the husband of Frieda Kahlo.
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
030-09-2-13103

4. In one novel by this author, the lame-legged Zina Nikolaevna attempts to seduce the husband of Raisl. In another work by this
author, Memo is loved by a man who is shot by Harriet Bird. This author wrote about a character beating Whammer Whambold in
a pitching contest. This man also wrote about Yakov Bok, who is accused of killing Christians for the Seder, in his novel The
Fixer. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the aspiring baseball player Roy Hobbs in his novel The Natural.
ANSWER: Bernard Malamud
027-09-2-13104

5. This nation established a system of "basic democracy" in 1962 based on the panchayat (pun-CHAI-yat) system of local
government under King Mahendra. A Maoist insurgency led by a man known as Prachanda arose in this country in the 1990s. The
king and queen of this nation were killed by Crown Prince Dipendra in 2001. For 10 points, name this Himalayan nation known
for its Gurkha troops.
ANSWER: Nepal
030-09-2-13105

6. This precious stone typically displays needle-like intrusions of rutile, and like common mimicks of diamond, this mineral is
produced in large scales by the Verneuil process. Synthetic rods of this precious stone are used as a gain medium in some lasers.
Its characteristic color comes from chromium, and its most valuable shade is called pidgeon's blood. For 10 points, name this
mineral of Mohs hardness nine, the red form of corundum.
ANSWER: ruby [accept corundum before mentioned]
022-09-2-13106

7. One character in this novel reunites with another at a production of Lucia (Lu-CH-ia) di Lammermoor. Another character in this
novel botches an operation on Hippolyte (IP-oh-leet) to repair a clubfoot. The father of Hippolyte, Homais (O-may), provides the
title character of this novel with arsenic after her former lovers Leon and Rodolphe fail to provide her with money to repay
Lhereux. For 10 points, name this novel about the titular wife of the country doctor Charles, a novel about a woman named Emma
written by Gustave Flaubert.
ANSWER: Madame Bovary
038-09-2-13107

8. A "wild" one is one that has not been given a specific value. Its functionality can be duplicated with a one-dimensional array.
When one is "double indirect," it means there are two of these before the actual data can be found. They are crucial in the creation
of linked lists. Arithmetic with them involves moving up and down a number of bytes depending on the data type being
referenced. For 10 points, name this type of variable whose value is a memory address.
ANSWER: pointer variable
047-09-2-13108

VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 1 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. One character in this novel dies of a snakebite. That character in this work has an embittered son who robs a ferryman. The
central character of this novel is first influenced by the wandering Samanas. Later in this work, that character is influenced by the
merchant Kamaswami and the courtesan Kamala. The protagonist of this work eventually accomplishes inner peace by listening to
the sound of a river and hearing the word "Om." Govinda, the friend of this novel's protagonist, becomes a disciple of Gotama, the
Buddha. For 10 points, name this novel by Hermann Hesse, set in India.
ANSWER: Siddhartha
020-09-2-13109

10. The harmonies of this composer's fourth symphony center on the repeated tritones. In one work by this composer, an English
horn depicts a bird swimming around the island of the dead; that work, "The Swan of Tuonela," is grouped with three other works
by this composer based on the Kalevala. This composer of the Lemminkainen Suite also wrote a symphonic poem against
Russians that includes a patriotic hymn. For 10 points, name this nationalistic composer of Finlandia.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius
036-09-2-13110

11. A group influential to this act's passage was known as the F Street Mess. A future President gave the Peoria Speech in
opposition to this legislation. The Lecompton Constitution was proposed to resolve an issue associated with this act. The
Pottawatomie Massacre was committed by John Brown in reaction to this legislation's passage. This act repealed the Missouri
Compromise. For 10 points, name this act created by Stephen Douglas, which allowed popular sovereignty to decide the fate of
slavery in the two namesake territories.
ANSWER: Kansas-Nebraska Act
035-09-2-13111

12. This author wrote a work about a man who is banished for seven years from his village as a punishment for actions including
beating his wife during the Week of Peace. That work by this author features a famous wrestler who kills Ikemefuna in the town
of Umuofia, which is later home to Christian missionaries. For 10 points, name this Nigerian author who wrote about such
characters as Obi and Okonkwo in his works No Longer at Ease and Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Albert Chinualumogu Achebe
023-09-2-13112

13. Production of this hormone is stimulated by FSH and LH. Replacement therapies for this hormone may lead to higher levels of
breast cancer and stroke. The contraceptive Depo-Provera (DEP-oh-pro-VAIR-uh) notably does not contain this hormone.
Osteoporosis in older women is in part caused by a deficiency of this type of sex hormone, which promotes breast development
and ovulation. For 10 points, name this class of female sex hormone.
ANSWER: estrogen
032-09-2-13113

14. This author wrote about a man who goes to Africa to live with the Wariri, Henderson the Rain King. He wrote a book
consisting of letters written by a man having a midlife crisis and one about a man who joins the merchant navy and marries Stella,
The Adventures of Augie March. For 10 points, name this Jewish American author of Humbold's Gift and Herzog.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
032-09-2-13114

15. Joule's first law relates this quantity to heat, time, and current squared, and an unknown value for this quantity can be
calculated given three known values using a Wheatstone bridge. The inverse of conductance, in AC circuits this quantity together
with reactance gives the impedance. This quantity is equal to potential difference divided by current, according to Ohm's Law. For
10 points, name this quantity, the measure of an object's ability to oppose the flow of a current.
ANSWER: electrical resistance
025-09-2-13115

VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 2 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 28
Directed Round
1A. In 2008, fans of rival musical genres attacked each other in this country's "emo riots." Name this country, which is led by
National Action Party president Felipe Calder
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
1B. Following the death of despised longtime owner Bill Wirtz, what Jonathan Toews-led NHL team reached the finals of the
2009 Western Conference playoffs, losing there to the Red Wings?
ANSWER: Chicago Blackhawks [or Blackhawks]
2A. Name the unit, calculated as ten times the logarithm of the power ratio, which expresses the relative loudness of a sound.
ANSWER: decibels
2B. In 2003, Francis Collins and Celera Genomics announced the completion of what initiative to map the function and
composition of every human chromosome?
ANSWER: the HGP [or the Human Genome Project]
3A. Identify the central African lake, fed by the Chari River, which has lost over ninety percent of its surface area in the past fifty
years due to droughts in the surrounding Sahel.
ANSWER: Lake Chad [or Lac Tchad]
3B. In October 2009, what Democrat was challenged to step down as House Ways and Means Committee chair due to a string of
allegations about unpaid taxes and influence-peddling?
ANSWER: Charles Rangel
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Add: 316.278 + 22.85.
ANSWER: 339.128
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve for x: 3x + 7 = 2x - 8.
ANSWER: x = 15
5A. A tetrameter (teh-TRAM-eh-ter) form using these feet is found in the Kalevala and Song of Hiawatha. Identify this poetic foot
consisting of a long syllable followed by a short one.
ANSWER: trochee [or trochaic]
5B. The apparent lack of rhyme in parts of Chaucer can be explained by what event at the end of the Middle English period, in
which the pronounciation of many important letters changed?
ANSWER: the Great Vowel Shift
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the area of a square pyramid that is as high as it is wide and as wide as it is
long, if the height is 3 inches.
ANSWER: 9 cubic inches
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find 6 star 4 if a star b equals a squared plus a b minus b squared.
ANSWER: 44
7A. When translating the sentence "I am bringing my brother to the airport" into Spanish, what two-letter Spanish contraction
correctly expresses the two English words "to the?"
ANSWER: "al" (ahl) [if necessary, ask the player to spell his answer; be sure he is not saying "el," which is not correct]
7B. The Wieskirche (VICE-kirk) in Munich and Fragonard's painting The Swing are examples of what light, nonangular period in
art, which takes its name from its occasional use of pebbles?
ANSWER: rococo
8A. This band's 2009 hit "Let Me Be Myself" was widely aired in Geico commercials. Name this group, whose previous songs
include "Here Without You" and "Kryptonite."
VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 3 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

ANSWER: 3 Doors Down
8B. The high frequency of extra fingers among the Amish is an example of what form of genetic drift, in which the traits of a
small, isolated population are reflected in descendants?
ANSWER: founder effect [or founder principle; do not accept "Sewall Wright effect"]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If the sine of a first quadrant angle is half the cosecant of that angle, what is the
tangent of that angle?
ANSWER: 1
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Two similar right triangles have smaller legs of 6 and 8, respectively. If the area of
the smaller triangle is 36, what is the area of the larger one?
ANSWER: 64
10A. The subtropical, polar front, and tropical easterly are incidents of what phenomenon, in which bands of wind move at two
hundred miles an hour in an otherwise calm atmosphere?
ANSWER: jet streams
10B. This Southern author wrote a popular stage adaptation of her own novel The Member of the Wedding. Identify this author of
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter and The Ballad of the Sad Café.
ANSWER: Carson McCullers [or Lula Carson Smith]
019-09-2-13116

VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 4 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 28
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This thinker focused on the sacred-profane dichotomy and discussed positive and negative cults in a work that argued the social
origin of religion. In addition to writing The Elementary Forms of Religious Life, he analyzed the importance of interdependence
in society, arguing that organic solidarity arises through division of labor. He noted that there are altruistic and anomic varieties to
a certain phenomenon that occurs most frequently among unmarried, childless Protestant. For 10 points, name the author of
Suicide.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim
034-09-2-13117

2. During this man's reign, Paris was rebuilt according to a plan by Baron Haussmann. This ruler defeated Louis-Eugene
Cavaignac to win his office. Forces under this man defeated Austria at the Battle of Solferino. This ruler helped appoint
Maximilian emperor of Mexico. The end of this man's reign came after his capture at the Battle of Sedan, which also ended the
Franco-Prussian War. For 10 points, name this president of France from 1848 to 1852 and emperor of France from 1852 to 1870,
who was the nephew of an earlier French emperor.
ANSWER: Napoleon III of France [or Charles-Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte; prompt on Napoleon]
038-09-2-13118

3. This religion’s texts include the Holy Piby, and one of this religion’s saints is Marcus Garvey. This religion advocates "livity,"
which involves drumming ceremonies called bingis. This religion uses the vegetarian I-tal diet. Followers of this religion believe
that they are captives in Babylon. This religion draws its name from the belief that Haile Selassie is the Second Coming of Christ.
It promotes wearing the colors red, green, gold, and black, along with dreadlocks. For 10 points, name this Jamaican religion that
advocates using ganja for meditation and was the inspiration for reggae music.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
027-09-2-13119

4. A short work by this man features its protagonist gorging on fruit with his lover Brenda and is called "Goodbye Columbus."
This man's most famous novel is narrated by its protagonist to his therapist and includes stories about a woman he calls "the
Monkey" and his tortured relationship with his mother, Sophie. .For 10 points, name this Jewish American author of novels about
Coleman Silk, as well as Portnoy's Complaint.
ANSWER: Philip Roth
032-09-2-13120

5. A military expedition against these people became known as "Buchanan's Blunder" and was led by Albert Sidney Johnston.
That expedition came after some of these people allied with the Paiute (pie-YOO-tay) Indians to perpetrate the Mountain
Meadows Massacre. The massacre took place in a state that these people called Deseret, where they fled after being driven out of
Illinois and Missouri. For 10 points, name this religious group which inspired the enmity of eastern Americans for their practice of
polygamy, and fled to Utah after the death of their founder, Joseph Smith.
ANSWER: Mormons [or LDS; or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints]
019-09-2-13121

6. Two characters in this novel are members of the "bigguns" and are collectively known as "Samneric." One character in this
novel dies after struck by a boulder thrown by Roger. Only the person holding a conch shell is allowed to speak at the assembly in
this novel, in which Ralph assumes command and leads in the construction of huts but is later challenged by Jack. For 10 points,
name this William Golding novel about English school boys stranded on an island who offer up a pig's head to a mysterious
"beast."
ANSWER: Lord of the Flies
045-09-2-13122

7. This composer wrote three Liebestraumes, [LEE-bes-traoowms] or "Love-dreams," for the piano. He wrote a turbulent Piano
Sonata in B minor that Brahms insulted by sleeping through. This composer used pounding triplet chords to start his first Mephisto
Waltz. Mazeppa is one of the composer's Transcendental Etudes. For 10 points, name this proponent of the symphonic poem, a
Hungarian piano virtuoso who used folk themes in his Hungarian Rhapsodies.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt
036-09-2-13123

VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 5 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. After scolding this figure for marrying an Ethiopian, this figure's sister was stricken with leprosy for seven days. This man flung
a tree into the water at Marah to make it sweet, and this man's arms were held up by Hur and this man's brother to help his people
defeat the Amalekites. This man married a daughter of Jethro of Midian, Zipporah, and trashed the golden calf idol created by his
brother, Aaron. For 10 points, name this man who led the Israelites out of Egypt and received the Ten Commandments from God.
ANSWER: Moses [or Moshe; or Musa]
005-09-2-13124

9. This city was home to a bloody demonstration that was organized by Father Gapon (guh-POHN). This city's growth was
facilitated by the Peace of Nystad (NEE-stat). Alexandr Menshikov (MEN-shi-koff) became this city's first governor in 1714.
Senate Square in this city saw the beginning of the Decembrist Revolt. An estimated six hundred and sixty thousand people died
in the Nine-Hundred Day Siege of this city during World War II. For 10 points, name this Russian city built by Peter the Great to
be Russia's "Window to the West."
ANSWER: Saint Petersburg [or Sankt Peterburg; prompt on Petrograd; prompt on Leningrad]
030-09-2-13125

10. This man was killed on an altar by Neoptolemus, and he achieved a concession by reminding another figure of the death of
Peleus. This man's sons Lycaon (liu-KAY-on) and Polydorus were killed on the same day in the Trojan War. Another of his sons
was abandoned on Mount Ida after a prophecy foretold the destruction of the city of which this man was king. This man ransomed
the corpse of another of his sons from Achilles. For 10 points, name this father of Paris and Hector and husband of Hecuba, who
was the last king of Troy.
ANSWER: Priam [or Podarces]
030-09-2-13126

11. This country was the location of the prison S-21, the site of over 15,000 executions, and Hun Sen was elected prime minister
here in 1985. In this nation, the government of Lon Nol was overthrown in 1975, and this country invaded by Vietnam in 1979.
For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation that was the scene of the "Killing Fields" under the brutal dictatorship of the
Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot.
ANSWER: Cambodia
030-09-2-13127

12. This number, which is equal to the amount of gas that occupies twenty-two point four liters at STP, is defined in terms of
twelve grams of carbon-twelve. Dividing the ideal gas constant by this number gives Boltzmann's constant, and dividing the
Faraday constant by this number gives the fundamental charge. For 10 points, name this number equal to the number of particles
in a mol, or approximately 6.022 times ten to the twenty-third.
ANSWER: Avogadro's constant
022-09-2-13128

13. This president was supported by a group of Supreme Court justices known as the Three Musketeers and opposed by a group
known as the Four Horsemen. This man appointed Frances Perkins as the first female member of any cabinet. This President
ratified the Agricultural Adjustment Act to suppress crop surpluses. This President also supported an attempt to generate
electricity in rural areas near the namesake river with the Tennessee Valley Authority. For 10 points, name this thirty-second
president of the United States who fought the Great Depression with his New Deal.
ANSWER: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
015-09-2-13129

14. The KDEL retention sequence signals which proteins remain in this organelle, and one of this organelle's functions is
glycosylation (gly-COSS-ill-AY-shun) of proteins. COPI (cop one) and COPII (cop two) proteins aid in transporting proteins
between the Golgi body and this organelle. The presence or absence of ribosomes on the surface of these organelles determines
whether they are of the "rough" or "smooth" variety. For 10 points, name this organelle that helps fold and transport proteins.
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [or ER]
032-09-2-13130

15. This man's marriage to Isabella of Groucester was annulled due to their familial relationship. This ruler became heir to his
brother's French possessions in the Treaty of Le Goulet. This man's kingdom was placed under interdict by Innocent III when he
refused to accept Stephen Langton as Archbishop of Canterbury. This man was the youngest son of Henry II and Eleanor of
Aquitaine. For 10 points, name this English king forced by his barons at Runneymede in 1215 to sign the Magna Carta.
ANSWER: John of England [or John Lackland]
030-09-2-13131

VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 6 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 28
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This city is home to a self-proclaimed seven-star hotel. This city is ruled by the Maktoum family, and the man-made Palm and
World Islands are found off the coast of this city. The government of this city has been criticized due to its lax standards for
treatment of this city's large guest worker population. In 2006, a company owned by the government of this city controversially
attempted to purchase the contracts to operate six United States seaports. For 10 points, name this home of the world's tallest
building, the largest city in the United Arab Emirates.
ANSWER: Dubai [or Dubayy]
038-09-2-13132

2. Vitamin B12 or folate deficiency lead to the megaloblastic (MAY-guh-lo-BLAST-ic) type of this disease. Some genetic
diseases cause overactivity of the spleen and so lead to this disorder. Misshapen red blood cells lead one variety of this disorder,
and low iron intake leads to its most common definition. For 10 points, name this illness, generally defined as a decrease in levels
of hemoglobin or of red blood cells.
ANSWER: anemia
032-09-2-13133

3. This element forms cluster compounds with iron, and those cluster compounds are important to enzymes like coenzyme
Q-cytochrome c reductase (CO-EN-zime "Q" SY-toe-krome "C" ree-DUCK-tase). Bonds between two of this element, which
form between cysteine (SIS-teen) residues, are critical to protein conformation. This element has an isotope that forms an
eight-atom ring. For 10 points, name this element associated with the smell of rotten eggs, with atomic number sixteen.
ANSWER: sulfur
022-09-2-13134

4. This poet described Nature as "red in tooth and claw" in an elegy written for Arthur Henry Hallam. This author wrote "I hope to
see my Pilot face to face" in a poem that represents the journey of the soul after death with the image of a sailor "crossing the bar."
This author of Idylls of the King commemorated a tragic charge at the Battle of Balaclava with the lines "half a league, half a
league / half a league onward / all in the valley of death / rode the six hundred." For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "The
Charge of the Light Brigade."
ANSWER: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
004-09-2-13135

5. This work argues that rulers should not employ mercenaries because they are only motivated by money. This work's eighteenth
chapter advises rulers to be like the lion and the fox. Leaders praised in this work include Septimius Severus and Cesare Borgia
[say-za-ray BOR-zha]. This work argues that fortune is more important than virtue. For 10 points, name this political treatise
which was written for Lorenzo de' Medici [may-DEE-chee] by Niccolo Machiavelli.
ANSWER: The Prince [or Il Principe]
024-09-2-13136

VHSL Regular Season Round 28 Page 7 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

