VHSL Regular Season
Round 29
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. People with this disease often suffer from Kaposi's (kuh-"POSE"-eez) sarcoma. When first discovered, this disease was called
GRID, which was an acronym describing the population it was then most prevalently discovered in. This disease can be treated
with HAART, a cocktail of multiple anti-viral drugs. This disease attacks helper T cells, leading to a weakening of the immune
system. For 10 points, name this disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV.
ANSWER: AIDS [or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; prompt on GRID before mentioned; prompt on Gay-Related
Immune Deficiency before "GRID"; do not prompt on or accept "HIV"]
021-09-2-14101

2. This leader of the New Congress declared a period known as the Emergency in 1975. Operation Blue Star, in which government
troops raided the Golden Temple of Amritsar, was ordered by this leader during her second stint in power. Her heir-apparent
Sanjay died in a 1980 plane crash, and she was succeeded as prime minister by her son Rajiv. For 10 points, name this Indian
prime minister who was assassinated by her bodyguards in 1984.
ANSWER: Indira Gandhi [prompt on Gandhi]
030-09-2-14102

3. One of this author's characters owns a charter boat that he uses to run guns between Florida and Cuba. That character, Harry
Morgan, is the protagonist of his novel To Have and Have Not. This author wrote about El Sordo’s last stand in a novel in which
Maria falls in love with the bridge bomber Robert Jordan during the Spanish Civil War. This author wrote a novel in which
Catherine Barkley is impregnated by Frederick Henry on the Italian front in World War I. For 10 points, name this author of For
Whom the Bell Tolls and A Farewell to Arms.
ANSWER: Ernest Miller Hemingway
027-09-2-14103

4. This mountain range includes the easternmost range formed in the Alleghenian Orogeny. The Draa River runs through part of
this mountain range and Jbel Toubkal is the highest peak of this mountain range. Marrakech lies not far from this mountain range,
which forms part of the southern boundary to the Strait of Gibraltar. For 10 points, name this mountain range that runs through
Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco in North Africa.
ANSWER: Atlas Mountains
036-09-2-14104

5. This author wrote a work in which herdsmen engage in amoebaean singing in the time after the assassination of Julius Caesar.
Another work by this author describes beekeeping. This author wrote about harpies cursing a crew of men to eat their own tables
and of the sibyl at Cumae leading the husband of Creusa to the underworld. For 10 points, name this poet of Eclogues and
Georgics who described the defeat of Turnus and the suicide of Dido in the Aeneid.
ANSWER: Publius Vergilius Maro
036-09-2-14105

6. A 1653 Swiss war with this name was sparked by the devaluation of the currency used in Bern. A conflict named for this type
of person caused Martin Luther to publish a pamphlet called "Against the Murderous, Thieving Hordes" of this class. Richard II's
betrayal of John Ball, Jack Straw, and Wat Tyler ended a 1381 rebellion named for these people. The fourteenth century Jacquerie
(JACK-ehr-ee) was named for a derogatory term for French members of this class. For 10 points, name this humble class of
people known as serfs in Russia.
ANSWER: peasants
015-09-2-14106

7. This god lives in the hall of Gladsheim, which is built from spears and shields. This god owns Gungnir, a spear that always hits
its target, as well as Draupnir, a gold ring that replicates itself, making this god rich. Because he acquired the wisdom of Mimir,
this god has only one eye. This god's wife is Frigg and his son is Thor, and this god rules Valhalla. For 10 points, name this leader
of the Norse gods.
ANSWER: Odin
021-09-2-14107

8. This politician wrote the "Camillus" essays and drafted George Washington's farewell address. This man proposed government
policies of assuming all wartime debts and subsidizing industry in his "Report on Public Credit" and "Report on Manufactures."
This proponent of a strong federal government was killed in a duel by Aaron Burr. For 10 points, name this Founding Father who
rebuilt the American economy as the first Secretary of the Treasury.
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton
004-09-2-14108
VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 1 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This author wrote that “dying is an art like anything else. I do it exceptionally well.” Another of this woman's works opens with
“You do not do, you do not do anymore, black shoe.” That work by this author calls the title character “Panzer man” and
announces “I’m through!” Those works, “Lady Lazarus” and “Daddy,” were collected in this woman's Ariel. This author also
wrote a novel in which Buddy Willard dates a girl who undergoes shock treatment after trying to kill herself. For 10 points, name
this creator of Esther Greenwood and author of The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath [or Victoria Lucas]
027-09-2-14109

10. One type of this construct transfers data on both the rising and falling edges of the clock signal and is known as the "double
data rate" variety of this. One of the two most basic varieties of this item stores bits as the states of flip-flops while the other
variety stores each bit in a unique capacitor. Coming in static and dynamic varieties, for 10 points, identify this volatile type of
memory used for temporary data storage, often contrasted with read-only memory.
ANSWER: RAM [or random-access memory; prompt on memory; accept DRAM or dynamic random-access memory until
"flip-flops" is read]
029-09-2-14110

11. One member of this family designed the Tuileries and masterminded the attempted assassination of the Protestant leader
Gaspard de Coligny. Another member of this family attempted to replicate Plato's Academy at the villa of Careggi. That member
also established this family's fortune through the Tolfa alum mines monopoly. Another member of this family was targeted by the
Pazzi plot. For 10 points, Catherine, Cosimo, and Lorenzo the Magnificent were among the members of what powerful family
based in Florence?
ANSWER: Medici family
030-09-2-14111

12. In this novel, the Petit-Picpus is a convent of refuge, and the Friends of the ABC is a student group. One of the principle
characters is saved from the Thernadiers, whose son Gavroche was shot after making fun of soldiers while standing on a barricade.
Marius Pontmercy falls in love with Fantine's mother Cosette in this work. For 10 points, name this novel in which Inspector
Javert pursued Jean Valean, a work of Victor Hugo.
ANSWER: Les Miserables [or The Pitiable Ones or anything similar]
030-09-2-14112

13. This country's principal leader following its independence was Jose Francia, who was known as "El Supremo." The Colorado
Party has been a longtime force in this country. In 1989, Andres Rodriguez led a coup against this country's longtime leader,
Alfredo Stroessner (STRUHS-nur), and Francisco Solano Lopez led this country into a disastrous war in 1864. For 10 points,
name this South American country that lost over half of its total population during the War of the Triple Alliance.
ANSWER: Paraguay
030-09-2-14113

14. This man depicted a giant egg in a cage in his painting Elective Affinities. He depicted a train moving out of a fireplace with a
clock on the mantle. He also painted a man in a bowler hat with a green apple in front of his face in his work Son of Man. One of
his most famous paintings depicts a pipe with "This is not a pipe" written in French beneath it. For 10 points, name this Belgian
surrealist painter of Time Transfixed and The Treachery of Images.
ANSWER: Rene Magritte
032-09-2-14114

15. This substance activates its 5-HT receptors, and tyrosine (TY-ro-seen) is the metabolic precursor of this substance. It is
released in the Raphe (RAW-fay) nuclei. Overdoses of this neurotransmitter (NUR-oh-"TRANS"-mitt-ur) can lead to high heart
rate and muscle twitching, and this neurotransmitter's levels have been shown to increase with exercise. This substance's "reuptake
inhibitors" include Zoloft and Prozac. For 10 points, name this neurotransmitter, low levels of which can cause depression.
ANSWER: serotonin
032-09-2-14115

VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 2 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 29
Directed Round
1A. This scientist took the world's first color photograph and hypothesized a "demon" who could violate the second law of
thermodynamics. Name this Scottish physicist, whose namesake "equations" describe electromagnetic fields.
ANSWER: James Clerk Maxwell
1B. George Corliss and Thomas Newcomen were some of the men who invented forms of what device, which drove the Industrial
Revolution after James Watt added the "separate condenser" to it in 1765?
ANSWER: steam engines
2A. In October 2009, a second vote in Ireland provided one of the last pieces of support needed to ratify what treaty, which
changes the structure of the European Union?
ANSWER: Lisbon Treaty [or European Reform Treaty]
2B. In the "Canyons" level of this game, the player runs into Uncle Jalapeño, one of the eight "Creator Curators." Identify this PS3
title in which "Sackboy" plays user-customized levels.
ANSWER: Little Big Planet
3A. The narrator confesses "I had done it solely to avoid looking a fool" at the end of this essay. Name this work, in which George
Orwell discusses killing a rampaging animal in Burma.
ANSWER: "Shooting an Elephant"
3B. This British author set his sequel to Henry Esmond in the New World. His sequel was 1859's The Virginians. Name this
author, who also wrote Vanity Fair.
ANSWER: William Makepeace Thackeray
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. How many trucks can a tow truck tow if a tow truck tows one truck every ten
minutes and operates for four hours?
ANSWER: 24 trucks
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the smallest prime divisor of 100,101?
ANSWER: 3
5A. This language has over a million speakers in the U.S. and uses "e" and "i" to form plurals. Name this Romance language that
has Tuscan and Corsican dialects.
ANSWER: Italian [or Italiano]
5B. This French Impressionist painted the pond in his estate at Givery in his Water Lilies series of paintings. Name this painter of
Haystacks and Rouen Cathedral.
ANSWER: Claude Oscar Monet
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the intersection of the lines y = 3x+1 and y = -3x + 7. Express your answer as
an ordered pair.
ANSWER: (1,4)
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Round the product of 1.21 and 1.21 to two decimal places.
ANSWER: 1.46
7A. Crater Lake is an example of what geologic feature, consisting of a large depression in the earth that is formed when the cone
of a volcano collapses?
ANSWER: calderas
7B. In October 2009, the U.S. Senate debated a bill, named for Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, that would add attacks based on
sexual orientation to what group of crimes that carry additional federal penalties?
ANSWER: "hate crimes"
VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 3 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8A. Gudule finds her long-lost daughter, after Archdeacon Frollo blames Esmerelda for the stabbing of Phoebus, in what 1831
French novel?
ANSWER: The Hunchback of Notre Dame [or Notre-Dame de Paris]
8B. What process of cell division produces four gametes (GAM-eats), each with half the chromosomes of the original cell, in a
prerequisite for sexual reproduction?
ANSWER: meiosis [prompt on reduction division]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If f of x is 3x+2 and g of x is x squared plus 3x plus 7, find f of g of -2.
ANSWER: 17
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Bill is currently twice as old as Bob was five years ago, and Bob is currently twice as
old as Frank will be in five years. If Bill is six times as old as Frank is now, then how old is Bob?
ANSWER: 20
10A. The Pamlico Formation forms the western border of this area, which surrounds Lake Drummond. Name this wilderness
region on the eastern Virginia-North Carolina border.
ANSWER: the Great Dismal Swamp
10B. What term, which has Crow, Omaha, Hawaiian, Sudanese, Eskimo, and Iriquois versions, is used by anthropologists to
describe a culture's naming conventions for family relationships?
ANSWER: kinship
019-09-2-14116

VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 4 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 29
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. Due to support from two separate parties, one candidate in this election had both Thomas E. Watson and Arthur Sewall as
running mates. The winner in this election employed campaign manager Mark Hanna. That winner of this election successfully
ran a "front porch campaign," opting not to travel. The Democratic nominee argued against about putting a "crown of thorns" on
the "brow of labor" in a speech supporting free silver, the Cross of Gold speech. For 10 points, name this election in which
William Jennings Bryan lost to William McKinley.
ANSWER: 1896 United States Presidential Election
028-09-2-14117

2. In 1960, this SI unit was redefined using an orange line in the spectrum of krypton-86. It is the ratio of one Joule to one
Newton, and when squared, it is the ratio of one Newton to one Pascal. It was originally defined using a platinum rod, then a
platinum-iridium bar in Paris, but its most recent definition is dependent on the speed of light. For 10 points, give this base unit
used in measurements of periods, wavelengths, and distances, the SI unit of length.
ANSWER: meter
003-09-2-14118

3. This author wrote about a woman who tries to romantically involve herself with Simon Rosedale and maintain a friendship with
Lawrence Selden. This creator of Lily Bart in House of Mirth also wrote about Mattie Silver, who attempts to sled into a tree. In
another of this woman's works, Countess Ellen Olenska tries to have a relationship with the husband of May Welland, a New York
socialite. This author created Newland Archer and wrote the novel Ethan Frome. For 10 points, name this female American author
who wrote The Age of Innocence.
ANSWER: Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
027-09-2-14119

4. The third movement of this composer's second piano sonata is written as a funeral march. This composer's G-major Andante
spianato [spee-uh-NAH-tow] is paired with his Grande Polonaise Brillante. He was the first composer to write ballades for the
piano. This composer also used A major chords to start off his "Military" Polonaise. For 10 points, name this Polish Romantic
composer of Fantasie-Impromptu, the "Revolutionary" Etude, and the "Minute" Waltz.
ANSWER: Frederic Francois Chopin
036-09-2-14120

5. For any functions circle and star, this property states that a circle quantity b star c equals quantity a circle b star quantity a circle
c. This property is often used when one quantity does not have like terms. Applying this property is the opposite of factoring out
common factors. For 10 points, give this property that says that three times quantity two x plus one equals six x plus three.
ANSWER: distributive property [or distribution]
003-09-2-14121

6. This organization runs Food for Life, the world's largest vegetarian food bank. Members seek to go 'Back to Godhead,' or to
become fully conscious of its namesake deity. It was founded in 1966 by the Swami Prabhupada [prah-boo-PAH-dah]. It was
quickly named for the first two words of its Maha Mantra. For 10 points, identify this new religious movment, a branch of
Hinduism, associated with chanters wearing orange robes.
ANSWER: Hare Krishnas [or International Society for Krishna Consciousness or ISKCON]
047-09-2-14122

7. Pahoehoe is produced by many of these geological features, which generally do not generate pyroclastic flows. A fissure in one
of these geological features can create a curtain of fire. These features are usually formed through effusive eruptions and have very
low-viscosity, fluid lava that can spread over long distances, making some of these features the largest mountains on earth. For 10
points, name these gentle-sloped volcanoes that include Mauna Loa and Kiluaea.
ANSWER: shield volcanoes
036-09-2-14123

8. In this work, a Nigerian considers straightening hair to be "mutilation." Mrs. Johnson pays an unwelcome visit to Mama and
describes a bombing in this play. George Murchison courts Beneatha in this work, who prefers Asagai. In this play, Mr. Lindner
tries to dissuade a family from moving. Willy Harris runs off with money invested in a liquor store in this work. This play ends
with Walter Lee's family moving into a white neighborhood. For 10 points, name this play about the Younger family, by Lorraine
Hansberry.
ANSWER: A Raisin in the Sun
036-09-2-14124

VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 5 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. Years before Paris, this figure joined the Lapith Pirathos (PEER-ah-thoos) in kidnapping a young Helen of Troy. This man
killed the Crommyonian (CROW-mee-OH-nee-inn) Sow and a bandit who stretched people out on a bed. This killer of Procrustes
caused the death of his father Aegeus by forgetting to change the black flags of his ships for white flags. This man abandoned
Ariadne (AIR-ree-ADD-nee) after she gave him the sword and thread he needed to navigate the labyrinth. For 10 points, name this
mythical King of Athens who killed the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
015-09-2-14125

10. Although this television show was based on a Robert Sawyer book, the only character the two have in common is Lloyd
Simcoe, who works for CERN in the book but the NLAP on TV. Simcoe has a vision that in six months he will be with Olivia
Benford in, for 10 points, what ABC show that stars Joseph Fiennes as Olivia's husband Mark and John Cho as Demetri Noh, an
FBI agent who does not experience the title phenomenon?
ANSWER: Flashforward
003-09-2-14126

11. This treaty provided for one side to settle more than three million dollars in debts. After the initial failure of the Wilmot
Proviso, the Senate also voted down an attempt to attach that Proviso to this treaty. Nicholas Trist was the chief negotiator of this
treaty. This treaty included the American government paying fifteen million dollars for a land transfer. This treaty established a
boundary at the Rio Grande river. Through this treaty, America gained control of California. For 10 points, name this treaty that
ended the Mexican-American War.
ANSWER: Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
028-09-2-14127

12. The sodium salt of this element's hydride is used as a soft reducing agent in organic chemistry, and most laboratory glassware
is heat-resistant because it is fifteen percent this element's oxide. This element is used to dope germanium to enhance p-type
conductivity. It forms compounds with hydrogen that are given prefixes like nido- and arachno-. Three atoms of this element form
a compound analogous to benzene by alternating with three atoms of nitrogen. For 10 points, name this element found in ulexite
(OO-lex-ite) and borax with atomic number five.
ANSWER: boron [or B]
022-09-2-14128

13. This author created the fictional authors Herbert Quain and Pierre Menard, the latter of whom reproduces word-for-word two
passages from Don Quixote. Captain Madden the spy Dr. Yu Tsun, who imagines a "Garden of Forking Paths," in a story by this
author. This man wrote about a Hebrew letter that symbolizes the entire universe in the story "The Aleph." He also described an
infinite hexagonal "Library of Babel" in one of his short stories. For 10 points, name this Argentine author whose fantastical short
stories are collected in Ficciones.
ANSWER: Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo
020-09-2-14129

14. This man traveled incognito as part of his country's Grand Embassy to the West, during which he learned shipbuilding skills in
the Netherlands. This ruler was forced to rule with his half-brother Ivan V for a time due to the influence of the streltsy. This man
enforced a beard tax on noblemen in his country. This ruler found military success in the Great Northern War, which allowed him
to build his "Window to the West" on the Neva. For 10 points, name this westernizing tsar of Russia who was responsible for
building the city of St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I of Russia; prompt on Peter]
023-09-2-14130

15. The epigraph for one of this author's novels is "only connect." In that novel by this man, the intellectual Schlegel sisters
connect with the more business-minded Wilcox family. In a later novel, this author describes the sexual assault trial of Dr. Aziz,
who allegedly assaulted Adela Quested in the Marabar Caves. Another novel by this author centers on Lucy Honeychurch, who
ventures to Rome and rents the novel's titular lodging. For 10 points, name this English author of A Room With a View, Howards
End, and A Passage to India.
ANSWER: Edward Morgan "E. M." Forster
045-09-2-14131

VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 6 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 29
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Literary inspired compositions by this man include his overture to Sheridan's The School for Scandal and an opera based on the
work of James Agee, Knoxville: Summer of 1914. One of this man's works was prominently featured in the Oliver Stone film
Platoon, and he also composed the opera Vanessa. For 10 points, name this American composer of Adagio for Strings,
ANSWER: Samuel Barber
030-09-2-14132

2. This poet wrote of one figure who "like a star, beacons from the abode where the Eternal are" in his elegy on the death of
another poet. This man addressed the title bird of another poem with the line "Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!" This author wrote about
a description of "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone" given by "a traveler from an antique land" in his poem "Ozymandias." For
10 points, name this author of "Adonais," "Ode to the West Wind," and "To a Skylark," who was the husband of the author of
Frankenstein, Mary.
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley
015-09-2-14133

3. This element is part of a sandwich compound with two cyclopentadienyl ("SIGH"-klo-PEN-tuh-dye-EEN-uhl) ligands. Nuclear
fusion in stars halts at this element, since elements heavier than this require a supernova to form. The form in which this element is
typically found, the pig type, has excess carbon removed and metals like chromium added. An ore of this element is hematite, and
this element is refined to form steel. For 10 points, name this element with symbol Fe.
ANSWER: iron [or Fe before mentioned]
022-09-2-14134

4. This disease's Westphal (WEST-fall) variant is characterized by unusually young onset of symptoms. This genetically dominant
disease is caused by a mutation leading to repeats on the polyQ ("PAUL"-ee CUE) region of three bases, CAG (C-A-G).
Symptoms of this disease include dementia and most notably uncontrollable jerking and writhing movements that give this disease
its alternate name of its namesake's "chorea" (kor-EE-uh). For 10 points, name this neurodegenerative
(NUR-oh-dee-JEN-ur-uh-tiv) disorder named for a British physician.
ANSWER: Huntington's disease [or Huntington's chorea before mentioned]
032-09-2-14135

5. He summarized his beliefs in the Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences. He wrote about the doctrine of being and doctrine
of essence in The Science of Logic. He set out his political philosophy in Elements of the Philosophy of Right. He postulated that
the tension between a thesis and its antithesis results in a synthesis in his namesake dialectic. For 10 points, name this German
Enlightenment philosopher who wrote Phenomenology of Spirit.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
024-09-2-14136

VHSL Regular Season Round 29 Page 7 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

