VHSL Regular Season
Round 30
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This author collected his play about Vivie, a girl who learns that her mother has become rich by running brothels, in his Plays
Unpleasant. In one of this author's plays, a poor girl decides to marry Freddy Eynsford-Hill after a professor bets Colonel
Pickering that he can teach her how to act like a lady. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Mrs. Warren's Profession,
who wrote about the transformation of the Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
004-09-2-15101

2. An early engagement in this conflict, the Battle of Dorylaeum, resulted in defeat for Kilji Arslan. This campaign was launched
after an appeal by Alexius I Komnenos. One of this campaign's leaders, Godfrey of Bouillon, gained more influence once
Bohemond of Taranto took Antioch. A predecessor to this engagement was led by Peter the Hermit, known as the Peasant's
Crusade. This campaign's primary target was the Seljuk Empire. For 10 points, name this military venture launched at the Council
of Clermont by Pope Urban II, which took Jerusalem in 1099.
ANSWER: First Crusade
035-09-2-15102

3. One of this author's characters has a custody battle with Madeleine over their daughter June. That character created by this
author writes unsent letters to such people as President Eisenhower. This author of Humboldt’s Gift and Herzog wrote a book in
which Eugene visits the Wariri tribe and leaves Africa with a lion cub. Another of this author's books is a picaresque tale of a
Chicago Jew who is the brother of Simon and Georgie and serves in World War II. For 10 points, name this author of Henderson
the Rain King and The Adventures of Augie March.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]
027-09-2-15103

4. The exploits of one of this empire's rulers was detailed in the Black Obelisk. One of its leaders, Esar-Haddon, oversaw the
conquest of Egypt, and that man murdered his brother Sennacherib (SEN-uh-CHAIR-ihb). A library of over 22,000 tablets was
assembled by one of its rulers, Assurbanipal, and Sargon established a dynasty of this empire. For 10 points, name this ancient
empire of the Middle East, with capital at Nineveh.
ANSWER: Assyrian empire
030-09-2-15104

5. This leader, who was born at Tintagel Castle, was raised by Ector because he was conceived out of wedlock. He left for the Isle
of Avalon to heal his wounds after fighting his son Mordred at the Battle of Camlan. After his struggle against Carmelide, he
married that king's daughter Guinevere despite Merlin's warnings. For 10 points, Camelot belonged to what son of Igraine and
Uther Pendragon, who wielded the sword Excalibur and led the Knights of the Round Table?
ANSWER: King Arthur
034-09-2-15105

6. One novel by this author is set mostly in the Maison Vauquer. That work features characters like a criminal referred to as
Cheater-of-Death, whose real name is Vautrin. Vautrin tries to set up a duel for the socially ambitious law student Rastignac, but
he ends up more interested in the title character's daughter Delphine. For 10 points, name this author whose Human Comedy
included works like Cousin Bette (BET), Eugénie Grandet (oo-jay-NEE gran-DAY), and Father Goriot (gore-ee-OH).
ANSWER: Honoré de Balzac
022-09-2-15106

7. In the study of graphics, an object with this name functions as the complement to a raster. The Cauch-Schwarz inequality
concerns the multiplication of two of these objects. The triangle inequality concerns the addition of these objects. These objects
sum is found by the parallelogram rule. These generalizations of numbers are the inputs of a cross product and a dot product, and
many of them feature x,y, and z components. For 10 points, name these quantities with a magnitude and direction, distinguished
from scalars.
ANSWER: vectors
033-09-2-15107

VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 1 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. One ruler during this war disappeared after the Battle of White Mountain. One portion of this conflict was not ended until
eleven years after the main peace in the Treaty of the Pyrenees. This war featured the general Albrecht von Wallenstein. One
phase of this war involved an invasion by the Swedes under Gustavus Adolphus. This war was started shortly after the second
Defenestration of Prague. For 10 points, name this war that reaffirmed the earlier Peace of Augsburg through its Peace of
Westphalia, in which fighting lasted from 1618 to 1648.
ANSWER: Thirty Years' War
023-09-2-15108

9. One work of this type has no violins in the orchestra other than a soloist in the “Sanctus” movement. That work by Gabriel
Faure [for-AY] includes the non-standard “Pie Jesu” [PEE-yay YAY-soo] movement for soprano soloist. One work of this type
was commissioned by Count Walsegg [VAWL-sayg] and has sections like the “Lacrymosa” [LAH-cree-mow-suh] and
“Offertorium” that were completed by Franz Sussmayr. [SOOS-my-er] Verdi wrote one of these for Allesandro Manzoni. Mozart
died before he could complete his version of this Roman Catholic rite. For 10 points, name this variant on the mass, meant to
revere the dead.
ANSWER: Requiem Mass
036-09-2-15109

10. One novel by this author describes the investigation into the Vicario brothers' murder of Santiago Nasar and is titled Chronicle
of a Death Foretold. Another novel by this author of The Autumn of the Patriarch sees a strike at a banana plantation followed by
a five-year rainfall, which brings about the decline of the village of Macondo. For 10 points, name this Colombian magical realist
author who wrote about Fermina Daza's marriage to Juvenal Urbino in Love in the Time of Cholera, and who created the Buendia
family in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
025-09-2-15110

11. The outer surface of these structures are covered in a material that contains amelogenins (AM-uh-lo-JEN-ins) instead of
collagens. Another part of these structures is covered by cementum (see-MEN-tum); that part is the root, whose central part is the
pulp. The primary type of these structures are typically lost starting around age six. Enamel covers the upper surface of, for 10
points, what structures used to chew food?
ANSWER: teeth
003-09-2-15111

12. Although it is not Sparta, the ancestors of this city's aristocratic families were known as the Sparti. Amphion and Zethus built
the walls of this city, which was named after the wife of Zethus. One queen of this city blinded herself after realizing she had
married her son; that son had solved the riddle of the Sphinx to become king of the city. One son of Jocasta and Oedipus
(EH-duh-pus), Polynices (PO-lee-NEE-sez), recruited six other heroes to help him regain the throne of this city from his brother
Eteocles. For 10 points, name this city in Boeotia (be-O-sha) against which seven fought.
ANSWER: Thebes
003-09-2-15112

13. One of the characters of this work wishes for a copy of the tales Undine and Sintram, and that character wrote a play called
"The Witch's Curse." Another character in this work gets punished for bringing pickled limes to school, and Annie Moffat is a
friend of one of the characters. Frederick Bhaer ultimately marries one of the title characters, who is a daughter of Marmee March.
For 10 points, Meg, Beth, Amy, and Jo are the title characters of what novel by Louisa May Alcott.
ANSWER: Little Women
030-09-2-15113

14. The Fujiwhara effect describes how these phenomenon can orbit about each other and sometimes merge. The center of these
phenomenon usually exhibit the stadium effect, and these phenomena can also cause water to pile up on coastlines to higher than
sea level. The severity of these phenomena is measured on the Saffir-Simpson Scale, and notable features of these occurrences
include storm surges and eyes. For 10 points, name these low-pressure storm systems that include ones named Wilma and Katrina.
ANSWER: Tropical cyclone [or hurricane or typhoon]
036-09-2-15114

15. One novel by this author features the murder of the doctor Danvers Carew. The central event of another of this author’s novels
is perpetrated by the captain of the Covenant, Hoseason, at the behest of the unscrupulous uncle Ebenezer. This author wrote the
sequel Catriona to follow that work about David Balfour, which was entitled Kidnapped. In another of this man’s novels, Israel
Hands attempts to kill Jim Hawkins, who outsmarts Long John Silver's pirates. For 10 points, name this creator of Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde and writer of Treasure Island.
ANSWER: Robert Louis Balfour Stevenson
019-09-2-15115

VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 2 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 30
Directed Round
1A. In French, what diacritic mark often indicates a lost “s,” as in "l’hôpital," (LOPE-it-all) which means "hospital?"
ANSWER: accent circumflex
1B. What sculpture of a goddess of victory with her wings spread out is placed prominently on the Daru staircase at the Louvre?
ANSWER: the Winged Victory of Samothrace [or Nike of Samothrace]
2A. What sedimentary rock, the crystalline form of calcite, transforms into marble, like the structurally similar dolomite?
ANSWER: limestone
2B. What last name is shared by two Japanese baseball players, one the second baseman for Houston Astros, and the other the
MVP of the 2009 World Series?
ANSWER: Matsui
3A. What figure of speech, which Keats uses in “Ode to a Grecian Urn,” is an address directed to an absent person, inanimate
objects, or intangible ideas or qualities?
ANSWER: apostrophe
3B. What Italian scientist legendarily whispered "and yet, it moves" after being forced to denounce his claims that the Earth
revolves around the Sun in 1632?
ANSWER: Galileo Galilei
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. A blorp is worth eight chorps. If you buy six trinkets at six chorps apiece, but you
can only pay with blorps, how many blorps must you pay?
ANSWER: 5 blorps
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. If the external angles of a regular polygon are all obtuse, calculate the measure of
one internal angle of that polygon.
ANSWER: 60 degrees
5A. According to the Stefan-Boltzmann Law, the radiation energy of a blackbody is proportional to the fourth power of what
quantity?
ANSWER: the blackbody's temperature
5B. What former Fortune 500 company and Dow Jones Industrial Average component filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in July,
2009, and later decided not to sell Opel?
ANSWER: General Motors Company
6A. This is a 20-second calculation questions. Find the median of the following numbers: 45, 64, 27, 68, 25, 39, 39, 57.
ANSWER: 42
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Exactly one-eighth of a circle is shaded. If the shaded area is pi over two square
inches, find the radius of the circle.
ANSWER: 2 inches
7A. A major landmark in what largest city of Tennessee is an exact replica of the Parthenon?
ANSWER: Nashville
7B. What aesthetical quality, contrasted with "the beautiful" in an Edmund Burke treatise, is characterized by the vast, boundless,
or terrifying, such as snowy mountain peaks and raging thunder storms?
ANSWER: the sublime
8A. What actor, who played the inspiring Mr. Keatings in Dead Poets Society, received an Oscar for his role as therapist for the
title character in Good Will Hunting?
ANSWER: Robin McLaurin Williams
VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 3 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8B. What hypothesis of linguistic determinism states that the structure of a language influences the way a speaker perceives the
world?
ANSWER: Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If the digits of a certain two-digit number are reversed, the resulting number is one
less than twice the original number. Find the original number.
ANSWER: 37
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. If f of x is x cubed minus 2x minus 2 and g of x is 4x+2, find g of f of -1.
ANSWER: -2
10A. California’s Proposition 8 and Maine’s Proposition 1 both deal with the legal legitimacy of what act?
ANSWER: same-sex marriage [accept equivalents; prompt on marriage]
10B. What portion of the limbic system, named for its almond shape and located in the temporal lobe, is responsible for emotional
reactions and, along with the hippocampus, memory?
ANSWER: amygdala
034-09-2-15116

VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 4 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 30
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This country is home to Cardinal Jaime Sin, who helped lead the People Power Revolution against this nation's government. In
one war in this country, Frederick Funston led a counter insurgency that squelched the guerilla leader Emilio Aguinaldo. This
country's "Freedom Constitution" was created by Corazon Aquino (uh-KEE-noh) after the fall of the dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
Along with Guam, Puerto Rico, and Cuba, this country was gained by the U.S. after the Spanish American War. For 10 points,
name this country whose shores witnessed the Battle of Manila Bay.
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]
015-09-2-15117

2. This element's tetraethyl (TET-ruh-EE-thul) form used to be used as an anti-knock agent in gasoline, and it features with
sulfuric acid in car batteries. This element's major ore is its sulfide, galena (guh-LEEN-uh). Discoveries of this element's toxicity
largely ended its presence in pipes, though it is still used in radiation shielding, as it has the highest atomic number of any stable
element. For 10 points, name this element no longer used in paint, which has symbol Pb.
ANSWER: lead [or Pb until mentioned]
022-09-2-15118

3. This author wrote a play about a woman who is separated from her lover Simon after the Fat Prince orchestrates a coup. That
play includes the judge Azdak, who mistakenly divorces Grusha and her peasant husband. This author of the Caucasian Chalk
Circle wrote about the siblings Kattrin, Eilif, and Swiss Cheese in another play set in the Thirty-Years' War. This author wrote
about Jonathan Peachum, the friend of Mack the Knife, in another play. For 10 points, name this German author who collaborated
with Kurt Weill on The Threepenny Opera.
ANSWER: (Eugen) Bertolt (Friedrich) Brecht
020-09-2-15119

4. This politician gave the Seventh of March speech during his last attempt to run for president on the Whig ticket. In response to
the Foote Resolution, this man debated with Robert Hayne during the Nullification Crisis. This man argued for his alma mater in
Dartmouth v. Woodward. This politician negotiated a treaty which resolved the Caroline Affair and Aroostook (uh-ROO-stuk)
War with Baron Ashburton in 1842. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts Senator and two-time Secretary of State, who was
part of the Great Triumvirate with Henry Clay and John C. Calhoun.
ANSWER: Daniel Webster
035-09-2-15120

5. In one film appearance, this character follows a man to the Filet of Soul restaurant, where he meets Mr. Big. In another
appearance, this character fights with Red Grant on the Orient Express. In a later film, he defeats Le Chiffre [SHEEF] in a game of
Texas Hold Em. For 10 points, name this main character of From Russia With Love, Live and Let Die, and Casino Royale.
ANSWER: James Bond
003-09-2-15121

6. An autoimmune disease that affects this organ is called celiac (SEE-lee-ak) disease, and a Meckel's (MECK-ulz) diverticulum
(DYE-vur-TICK-you-lum) can occur here at birth. This organ is where Vitamin B12 is absorbed. Food is allowed into this organ,
whose first segment absorbs iron, by the pyloric sphincter. For 10 points, name this organ lined by villi, whose three segments are
the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum.
ANSWER: small intestine
022-09-2-15122

7. This composer wrote tone poems like The Rock and The Isle of the Dead. This composer inverted the notes of another
composer's twenty-fourth caprice to write the eighteenth variation of a work for piano and orchestra. A, G-sharp, and C-sharp
triple octaves begin this composer's Prelude in C-sharp minor, which is nicknamed "The Bells of Moscow." One of this man's
works is a choral symphony based on Poe's "The Bells." For 10 points, name this late Russian Romantic who composed Rhapsody
on a Theme by Paganini.
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilievich Rachmaninoff
036-09-2-15123

VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 5 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. To save bandwidth, some versions of these objects make use of a technique in which all odd lines, then all even lines, are
traced. That technique is called interlacing. Most Windows NT-based operating systems use a setting of 60 hertz as the default
refresh rate for these pieces of hardware. Older examples of them can suffer from phosphor burn-in, while newer versions can
suffer from dead or stuck pixels. For 10 points, identify these pieces of computer hardware, which are now less likely to use CRTs
than LCDs, and which are used to display images.
ANSWER: computer monitors [accept cathode ray tubes or CRTs until "pixels"]
029-09-2-15124

9. This battle included the sinking of the Indefatigable and Queen Mary. This battle is also known as the Battle of the Skagerrak
(SKAH-gur-ak). One of the commanders at this battle was David Beatty. Beatty, along with John Jellico, faced the forces
Germany's Reinhard Scheer, and this battle allowed the British to keep control of the North Sea. For 10 points, name this principal
naval battle of World War I.
ANSWER: Jutland [or Skagerrak before mentioned]
030-09-2-15125

10. This substance displays a Bennett pinch and will often obey the Carlqvist relation, and transverse ion waves named for Alfven
occur in these materials. One special case of z-pinches in these materials is called a Birkeland current. These entities possess net
positive layers called Debye sheaths, and an important temperature and density measure of these materials may be obtained by a
Langmuir probe. For 10 points, name this phase exhibited by Tesla coils and lightning bolts, a partially ionized gas often
considered to be the fourth state of matter.
ANSWER: plasma
022-09-2-15126

11. This President signed an Amnesty Act and a Civil Rights Act mandating equal treatment in "public accommodations" that was
struck down in the so-called "Civil Rights Cases" by the majority opinion of Justice Bradley. This man adopted the slogan "Let us
have peace" in his campaign against Horatio Seymour. This man presided over the Panic of 1873 and the end of Reconstruction.
For 10 points, name this president elected after the term of Andrew Johnson, a former Civil War general.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
026-09-2-15127

12. Three fortissimo chords open one of this type of composition in C sharp minor, one of the most famous works of
Rachmaninoff. One of these in D by Frederic Chopin is nicknamed the "Raindrop," and Chopin wrote one for every major and
minor key. J.S. Bach wrote two volumes of The Well-Tempered Clavier containing fugues paired with these compositions, and
Debussy composed one "to the Afternoon of a Faun." For 10 points, name this type of short composition whose name implies that
it precedes another work.
ANSWER: prelude
032-09-2-15128

13. Zorastrians celebrate this occurrence with a ritual handshake called the "hamazor" (hah-MAH-zore) on the day of Noruz
(nor-OOZ). In Judaism, a version of this holiday is celebrated for trees on Tu bi-Shevat (TUBE-ish-VAHT). The main Jewish
version of this event begins the High Holy Days and involves the eating of apples dipped in honey and the blowing of a "shofar."
That Jewish holiday, celebrating this occurence, is known as Rosh Hashanah (ROWSH hah-SHAH-nah). For 10 points, what is
this day which, in the West, comes halfway between the Christian festivals of Christmas and Epiphany?
ANSWER: New Year's Day [accept obvious equivalents]
019-09-2-15129

14. In one convention held in this city, the "voice from the sewer" helped nominate Franklin D. Roosevelt for a third term.
Abraham Ribicoff (RIH-bi-koff) denounced the "Gestapo tactics on the streets" of this city during another convention. During that
convention, the Justice Department arrested a group, including Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman, known as this city's namesake
"Seven." For 10 points, name this site of the 1968 Democratic National Convention, where massive protests were met with
violence from policemen working for its mayor, Richard J. Daley.
ANSWER: Chicago
004-09-2-15130

15. This character has a sister named Alexandra and a brother named Jack, and his wife died of a heart attack when his daughter
was two years old. This man shoots a dog named Tim Johnson, living up to his former nickname of "one-shot," and he employs a
cook named Calpurnia. This man claims that the withered left arm of one character means that he could not have struck a woman,
but he cannot prevent Tom Robinson from being convicted of the rape of Mayella Ewell. For 10 points, name this father of Jem
and Scout in Harper Lee's novel To Kill a Mockingbird.
ANSWER: Atticus Finch [prompt on Finch]
024-09-2-15131

VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 6 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 30
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Organisms of family Cladorhizae (CLAD-o-RIZZ-ay) in this phylum capture and digest small crustaceans, though most other
members of this phylum get nutrients by filtering bacteria from seawater. Members of this animal phylum contain a system of
canals with numerous entrances and exits, though they do not contain a defined body cavity and thus do not exhibit definite
symmetry. For 10 points, name this phylum that contains sponges.
ANSWER: Porifera [prompt on sponges before mentioned]
003-09-2-15132

2. The splitting of sets of one type of these objects is the subject of ligand field theory, and that type being partially filled defines
the properties of the transition metals. The linear combination of these entities can generate molecular ones. By the Pauli
Exclusion Principle, these entities can contain at most two electrons. For 10 points, name these mathematical descriptions of the
location of electrons in an atom, examples of which include the s, three p ones, and five d ones.
ANSWER: atomic orbital [prompt on orbital; do not accept or prompt on "molecular orbital"]
022-09-2-15133

3. This man painted a gambler reaching into his back pocket to pull out a club card in his The Cardsharps. Jesus’s arm is
outstretched while dining with three other men in this painter’s The Supper at Emmaus. This painter used chiaroscuro
(CARE-uss-CORE-oh) to depict a man named Levi at a table with four other men collecting taxes while St. Peter and Jesus enter.
For 10 points, name this Italian painter of The Calling of Saint Matthew.
ANSWER: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi]
027-09-2-15134

4. This body of water will lie at the eastern end of the planned Manych Ship Canal. The humid Hyrcanian Forest is a temperate
rain forest that lies south of this body of water in the Alborz Mountains. Baku, Azerbaijan lies on a peninsula that juts into this
body of water, and the Volga empties into this lake. For 10 points, name this largest lake in the world, which is sandwiched
between the Caucasus, Iran, and Russia.
ANSWER: Caspian Sea
036-09-2-15135

5. One of this author's poems includes the line "I am the doubter and the doubt." In addition to "Merlin" and "Brahma," this man
wrote, "Unmeasure still my Shakespeare sits lone as the blessed Jew." This author stated "beauty is its own excuse for Being" in
his poem "The Rhodora." He used the metaphor of the transparent eyeball in his essay Nature. For 10 points, name this author of
the essay The Over Soul and the lecture The American Scholar who was also a leader of the American transcendentalist
movement.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
030-09-2-15136

VHSL Regular Season Round 30 Page 7 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

