VHSL Regular Season
Round 32
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. The antibiotic tetracycline (TET-ruh-"sigh"-klin) acts by inhibiting this process. During this process, proteins called elongation
factors allow a molecule with a characteristic cloverleaf structure to enter the A site. That molecule carries with it an amino acid
joined by an ester bond and possesses a three-base sequence called an anticodon (ANN-"tie"-KO-don). Always beginning with
methionine and ending with the stop codon, for 10 points, name this process by which a strand of mRNA is turned into a protein.
ANSWER: translation
022-09-2-17101

2. One author born in this country wrote the verse novel The Golden Gate. The author of A Suitable Boy is from this country, as is
the author of The Interpreter of Maladies. The earliest literature of this country includes a drama about a maiden whose signet ring
is swallowed by a fish. The only Nobel Laureate from this country wrote a collection of poems that has a preface by Yeats and
literally means "Song-Offerings." For 10 points, name this home country of Rabindranath Tagore and Kalidasa, the latter of whom
wrote in Sanskrit.
ANSWER: Republic of India [or Bharat Ganarajya]
020-09-2-17102

3. The "woven" form of this tissue is less organized and weaker, while the stronger form is called "lamellar." This tissue forms
structures that are called "sesamoid" (SESS-uh-moyd) when they are embedded in tendons. The inorganic component of this tissue
consists of the mineral hydroxyapatite ("high"-DROX-ee-APP-uh-"tight"). This tissue can become porous after menopause in
osteoporosis. For 10 points, name this tissue, the component of the skeleton.
ANSWER: bone
022-09-2-17103

4. This author instructed the title character to "go to the Western gate" in his poem "Luke Havergal." This creator of the fictional
Tilbury Town wrote of a man who was "born too late" and "coughed, and called it fate, and kept on drinking." In addition to that
poem about a "child of scorn," this poet wrote about a man observed by the "people on the pavement" whenever he went
downtown. That character created by this man inexplicably "went home and put a bullet through his head." For 10 points, name
this American poet, the creator of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory."
ANSWER: Edwin Arlington Robinson
025-09-2-17104

5. One modification of this policy was proposed by Richard Olney during the Venezuelan border dispute. This policy was
famously opposed by George Canning. Caribbean debts were the impetus for a "corollary" to this policy. This policy was
proposed by its namesake's Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams. For 10 points, name this cornerstone of American foreign
policy named for the president under whose administration it was introduced, the doctrine which set forth a policy of U.S.
opposition to European intervention in the Americas.
ANSWER: Monroe Doctrine
038-09-2-17105

6. One author with this last name wrote a poem about a woman who befriends Marian Erle and falls in love with her cousin
Romney. In addition to that author of Aurora Leigh, another author with this last name wrote a poem about the murder trial of
Guido Franceschini as well as dramatic monologues such as "Rabbi Ben Ezra" and "Fra Lippo Lippi." A poet with this last name
asked, "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways," in Sonnets from the Portuguese. For 10 points, give the shared last name of
the husband-and-wife poets Elizabeth Barrett and Robert.
ANSWER: Browning
004-09-2-17106

7. Its Courgette (core-ZHET) program takes advantage of machine instruction labels. It is the source of the a distributed storage
system called Bigtable and a distributed compute framework called MapReduce. Hidden classes are important in its V8 project
which is used for its chromium project. The home of a namesake code repository service and it recently announced a
programming language called Go. For 10 points name, this large technology company best known for Internet searching.
ANSWER: Google
001-09-2-17107

VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 1 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This man's friends include the socialist Seneca Doane and a group known as "the Bunch." This character travels to Maine with
his best friend Paul Riesling. This man encourages his son Ted to elope with Eunice Littlefield after his wife Myra falls ill. This
character who has an affair with Tanis Judique slips back into a life of conformity and conservatism at the end of the work in
which he appears. He is a resident of the fictional locale of Zenith, Winnemac. For 10 points, name this titular real estate salesman
of a novel by Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER: George Folansbee Babbitt
025-09-2-17108

9. The standard of care is used to determine whether one type of these acts has been committed. Aside from negligence, types of
these acts include nuisance, which is the act of interfering with a person's enjoyment of their property, and defamation, which is
divided into slander and libel. For 10 points, name these wrongful acts which are remedied in civil law, usually by awarding
damages.
ANSWER: torts or delicts
024-09-2-17109

10. In 1871, this city was the namesake of a treaty that settled the Alabama Claims. Fifty years later, Charles Evans Hughes
orchestrated the Five-Power Pact, which limited capital ship tonnage, at this city's namesake Naval Conference. In 1990, a mayor
of this city was caught smoking crack in a hotel room. This home of Marion Barry's political career adopted a new license plate in
2000 that reads "taxation without representation." For 10 points, name this city, which was designed by Pierre L'Enfant and
includes Georgetown and Capitol Hill.
ANSWER: Washington, D.C. [or DC; or District of Columbia]
019-09-2-17110

11. This force is necessary for the phenomenon of rolling without slipping; during that motion, this force is sometimes known as
traction. The kinetic coefficient of this force is a constant, and is less than the maximum static coefficient, which is proportional to
the normal force. For 10 points, name this force that retards motion of an object across a surface with which it is in contact.
ANSWER: friction
003-09-2-17111

12. One author from this nation wrote an epic poem called the Lusiads, and another wrote novels such as The Stone Raft and one
in which an ophthalmologist's wife is the only figure not afflited with the title condition, Blindness. The former novel sees the
Iberian peninsula break off from the rest of Europe. A series of forty-four love poems by Elizabeth Barret Browning were
disguised as though they were written by someone from this country. For 10 points, name this nation home to José Saramago,
which is visited by Candide in time for an earthquake in Lisbon.
ANSWER: Portugal
022-09-2-17112

13. An infinite series with first term one and this number as the ratio will converge to four-thirds. This is the first positive number
x for which the tangent of pi x is undefined. This number is the slope of the equation whose standard form is x minus four y equals
ten. This is also the probability of getting two heads in two tosses of a fair coin. For 10 points, give this number that is also equal
to the square of one-half.
ANSWER: 1/4 [or 0.25; or one-quarter; prompt on equivalents that are not in reduced form]
003-09-2-17113

14. One character in this novel is an African-American doctor named Benedict Copeland. In this work, the socialist Jake Blount
eats all of his meals at the New York Café, which is owned by Biff Brannon. Other characters in this novel include Mick Kelly,
who takes a job at Woolworth. That main character of this work kills himself after the death of his friend Spiros Antonapoulos.
This novel begins by noting that "In the town there were two mutes, and they were always together." For 10 points, name this
novel about John Singer, written by Carson McCullers.
ANSWER: The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
025-09-2-17114

15. While serving in this government post, Frank Kellogg sponsored a namesake pact with French foreign minister Aristide Briand
(ah-riss-TEED bri-AND). Cyrus Vance opposed a rescue attempt of American hostages while serving in this post. Cordell Hull
promoted the Good Neighbor Policy while serving in this post. Dean Rusk defended the Vietnam War while serving in this
capacity. William Seward served in this post under Abraham Lincoln. Thomas Jefferson was the first to hold this post. For 10
points, name this government post held by Madeleine Albright and Colin Powell.
ANSWER: United States Secretary of State
025-09-2-17115

VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 2 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 32
Directed Round
1A. In Japanese, this is the only consonant that can appear singularly without an attached vowel. In spanish, a tilde (TIL-duh)
over this letter changes the word for "sorrow" to the word for "ridge." What is this letter?
ANSWER: n
1B. The name for this literary technique, characteristic of epic poetry was coined in Horace's Ars Poetica. What is this term,
which refers to the opening of the narrative in the middle of the story?
ANSWER: "in medias res"
2A. This presence of this phenomenon is cited as proof of an expanding universe. Name this specific form of the Doppler effect, in
which the light from a receding source increases in wavelength.
ANSWER: redshift
2B. Gordon Allport was a pioneering psychologist in the study of what phenomenon, whose different types are described by the
Myers-Briggs test?
ANSWER: personality
3A. In current continuity, he claims to be reformed because he can make more money as a private detective. Name this Gotham
villain, who leaves puzzles at his crimes that often led to his capture by Batman.
ANSWER: Edward Nigma [or The Riddler]
3B. An Illinois prison controversially received the inmates from what former US-operated property on Cuba, which interred
several alleged terrorists?
ANSWER: Guantanamo Bay [or Gitmo; prompt on Camp X-Ray]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the greatest common factor of 64 and 162?
ANSWER: 2
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. If the sine of an angle in the first quadrant is 3/5, find the tangent of that angle.
ANSWER: 3/4
5A. It undergoes metamorphosis to become slate. Name this sedimentary rock, that is primarily composed of clay.
ANSWER: shale
5B. One part of this organ's opening releases pollen. Name this male plant organ, composed of filaments and anthers.
ANSWER: Stamen
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. You are playing a game in which you roll again if you roll a five or a six. What is the
probability that you roll at least three times?
ANSWER: 1/9
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Convert the equation y minus 6 equals negative 3 times quantity x minus 7 into
standard form.
ANSWER: 3x+y=27
7A. One work by this author sees the Republic of Gilead overthrow the United States government. Name this Canadian author
who wrote about Offred living in a dystopian future in The Handmaid's Tale.
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor Atwood
7B. One game in this series followed the adventures of Ramza Beoulve (ROM-zuh bay-OOLV) in Ivalice (EE-vuh-leece). Name
this longrunning series of roleplaying games developed by Square Enix.
ANSWER: Final Fantasy
8A. The western part of this state includes the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela (muh-NON-guh-HEEL-uh) Rivers.
Name this "Keystone State," with a capital at Harrisburg.
VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 3 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

ANSWER: Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
8B. During his time at the University of Rome, this physicist's work led to the discovery of slow neutrons. Who was this
Italian-American developer of the first nuclear reactor?
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the remainder when x cubed plus 2 x squared minus 3x plus 6 is divided by
the quantity x minus 1?
ANSWER: 6
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the area of the region bounded by the equations x squared plus y squared is less
than or equal to 4 and y is greater than or equal to x minus 2. Express your answer in terms of pi.
ANSWER: 3 pi + 2
10A. This woman called the Associated Press fact-checking of her book "opposition research." Name this former governor of
Alaska.
ANSWER: Sarah Palin
10B. A banner in this painting advertises Phillies cigars, as one man in this painting tends the counter for the three customers.
Name this Edward Hopper painting of an near-empty diner.
ANSWER: Nighthawks
002-09-2-17116

VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 4 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 32
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. A reagent with this element makes alkenes (AL-keenz) from carbonyl (CAR-bo-NEEL) compounds in the Wittig (VIT-tig)
reaction. Its black form has a structure like graphite. Its white allotropes has a tetrahedral structural unit, and the red kind forms a
network of those tetrahedrons chained together. For 10 points, name this element, whose oxide is found in the backbone of DNA,
and which is located immediately below nitrogen on the Periodic Table.
ANSWER: phosphorus [or P]
022-09-2-17117

2. The Maritz one of these is also called the Five Shilling one and occurred at the start of the first World War. One of these that
happened during the Meiji (MAY-gee) Restoration in Japan is called the Satsuma. One called Chimei (chee-MAY), or Red
Eyebrows, was carried out against the Xin dynasty of Wang Mang. Another one of these actions carried out against Emperor Ling
of Han was called Yellow Turban. For 10 points, name these events that include one which established a namesake Heavenly
Kingdom of Great Peace at Nanjing and was named for Taiping, and another called the Boxer one.
ANSWER: rebellions
022-09-2-17118

3. Ralph Bagnold's work on the formation of these entities, though written in 1941, is still mostly accurate. Barchans (BAR-chanz)
are formed where there is little of their namesake substance, which is made up of particles of diameter between 0.1 and 1.6
millimeters. The most common type of these objects is the crescentic type, which are wider than they are long. Star ones are found
in the Namib and Sahara Deserts. For 10 points, name these massive hills built by wind-blown sand.
ANSWER: sand dunes
003-09-2-17119

4. This nation is home to the volcanoes Iztaccihuatl (ISS-TACK-see-WAT-el) and Popocatepetl (PO-po-COT-uh-PET-el).
Another volcano here is a cinder cone that first appeared as a hole in a corn field and within 10 years grew 9,012 feet. The Bay of
Campeche borders this country, whose tourist destinations include Cozumel, Cabo San Lucas, Tijuana (tee-WAHN-uh), and
Cancun. For 10 points, name this country in which Ciudad Juarez (SEE-oo-dad WAR-ez) sits on the other side of the Rio Grande
from Texas.
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
027-09-2-17120

5. One form of this country was created in opposition to the Union of Arras. That Union of Utrecht in this country took part in the
Eighty Years War before gaining independence. This country was led during that war by William the Silent against the rule of
Philip II. Another William who led this country also ruled Great Britain after the Glorious Revolution. For 10 points, name this
country often ruled over by the house of Orange, a country which was once a Spanish possession in the Low Countries along with
Luxembourg and Belgium.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden; or Holland; or Dutch Republic]
023-09-2-17121

6. One character in this opera, Peter, is taken to jail as a material witness by the detective after Robbins is killed by a cotton hook
wielded by Crown. One character in this opera is frequently asked to head to New York with a 'happy dust' dealer called Sportin'
Life. This opera focuses on the inhabitants of Catfish Row, and it features the arias It ain't necessarily so and the lullaby
Summertime. For 10 points, name this opera whose title characters are a cripple and the woman he loves, a work written by
George Gershwin.
ANSWER: Porgy and Bess
023-09-2-17122

7. This composer set Gerald Bullett's "The English Galaxy of Shorter Poems" for voice and harp in his Ceremony of Carols. In
another work by this composer, variations A through M on a theme are each played by a different instrument of the orchestra, and
each variation is based off a theme from Purcell's Abedalzar. Another work by this composer sets Wilfred Owen to music. For 10
points, name this British composer of War Requiem and A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin Britten
036-09-2-17123

VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 5 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. One man with this first name defeated the Swedes at Nordlingen, issued the Edict of Restitution, and ordered the assassination
of Albrecht von Wallenstein. Another man by this name was the brother of Charles V who engineered the Peace of Augsburg.
Another man with this first name assumed command of American, French, and British forces in 1918. For 10 points, give this
shared name also held by the man who completed the Reconquista by conquering Grenada, who was the husband of Isabella.
ANSWER: Ferdinand [or Ferdinand II before "Charles V"]
030-09-2-17124

9. One book by this author sees Mickey construct an airplane out of dough in order to retrieve a bottle of milk to bake a cake. That
book by this author, In the Night Kitchen, has been frequently challenged and banned for nudity. He also wrote a book in which a
character "making mischief" in a wolf costume is named king by staring into a bunch of yellow eyes and never blinking. For 10
points, who is this author who gained international recognition in 1963 for his colorful fanged monsters in the book Where the
Wild Things Are?
ANSWER: Maurice Bernard Sendak
045-09-2-17125

10. One character in this work is saddened when he is persuaded to consent to the shooting of his dog by Carlson. The two main
characters of this work are forced to flee when one is accused of raping a girl in Weed. That alleged rapist in this novella is
haunted by the memory of his Aunt Clara. At the end of this work, one character accidentally kills Curley's wife, and is then shot
by the other main character. For 10 points, name this novella about the ranch hands George Milton and Lennie Small, which was
written by John Steinbeck.
ANSWER: Of Mice and Men
025-09-2-17126

11. An usurper of these peoples was Gelimer, and one of their greatest leaders was the target of plots of Majorian in 460 CE and
Basiliscus in 468. That great leader was the father of Huneric, and their North African kingdom was destroyed by Belisarius. They
achieved their greatest success under Gaiseric, who led them in sacking Rome in 455 CE. 10 points, name this Germanic group
whose name has become synonymous with wanton destruction.
ANSWER: Vandals
030-09-2-17127

12. This artist depicted disfigured and naked men trying to get into a boat that bears three people in his painting The Barque of
Dante. In another work, this artist painted an Ottoman on a horse that is rearing above a group of thirteen Greek civilians. This
painter of The Women of Algiers also created a work in which a man in a top hat participates in a mob that is led by a woman in a
Phrygian cap, holding a tricolor flag. For 10 points, name this French Romantic artist who painted Massacre at Chios and Liberty
Leading the People.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Victor Eugene Delacroix
036-09-2-17128

13. This word is the last in the title of a play by John Dryden that ends with two characters atop the Sphinx, based on Anthony and
Cleopatra. That play was entitled "All for" this concept. George Meredith wrote a sonnet sequence upon his marriage entitled for
the "modern" form of this concept. This word begins the title of a Shakespeare play in which Longaville, Dumaine, Berowne, and
Ferdinand do not get married at the end. For 10 points, name this feeling whose labors are lost in a Shakespeare play.
ANSWER:
love [accept All for Love; or Love's Labors Lost; or Modern Love]
033-09-2-17129

14. One former kingdom located in this present-day country was led by Taksin (tok-SIN) and called Thonburi (ton-burr-EE).
Taksin was quickly replaced by General Chakri as a ruler in this place, after expelling Burmese invaders in this country. Upon
gaining the throne of this country, Chakri took the name Rama I. This country is the only one in Southeast Asia that was never
colonized by Europeans, and was once called Siam. For 10 points, name this nation with a capital at Bangkok.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand
022-09-2-17130

15. This composer remarked "the devil may play it" about his four-movement Wanderer Fantasy, which he himself could never
play. This composer's first successful song was "Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel." Part of his incidental music to Rosamunde may
have originally been meant for the finale of this composer's eighth symphony, which had only two movements when he died. For
10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Unfinished Symphony and Trout Quintet.
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert
036-09-2-17131

VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 6 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 32
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This element is single-bonded to itself in hydrazine ("HIGH"-druh-zeen) and triple-bonded to carbon in cyanide. This element
forms in the second of three steps of a cycle of stellar fusion reactions, and the oxide that this element forms when it takes a plus
one charge is known as laughing gas. This element's diatomic form contains a triple bond. For 10 points, name this element whose
diatomic form is the gas most prevalent in the earth's atmosphere.
ANSWER: nitrogen [or N]
022-09-2-17132

2. This tissue's basic functional unit is activated by calcium binding to troponin-C (truh-POH-nin-"C") and is bounded by the
Z-line. That unit is called the sarcomere (SAR-co-meer). A disease that affects this tissue is named for Duchenne and is called its
"dystrophy." This tissue, which can be smooth, cardiac, or skeletal, forms structures such as the gluteus maximus ("GLUE"-tee-us
MAX-ih-mus) and the deltoid (DEL-toyd). For 10 points, name this tissue, which attaches to bone and contracts in order to permit
motion.
ANSWER: muscle
022-09-2-17133

3. Haydn composed one of this kind of piece labeled "for troubled times," which has been nicknamed "Lord Nelson." Beethoven
wrote one in C Major given the Latin title Solemnis. It includes the movements "Kyrie," "Gloria," "Credo," "Sanctus," and "Agnus
Dei." Palestrina wrote one named for Pope Marcellus. Bach's only complete one of these was in B Minor. For 10 points, name this
sacred musical setting of the Catholic liturgy to accompany services every Sunday.
ANSWER: Masses
012-09-2-17134

4. Brunetti wrote 44 of these for the Spanish court, while cellist Luigi Boccherini's nearly one hundred spread across Europe.
Smetana's first one is titled "From My Life," and Dvorak (duh-VOR-zhak) wrote and "American" one. Alban Berg's Lyric Suite
was originally composed in this musical form, inspiring the third of Bartok's six of these pieces. For 10 points, name this type of
chamber music composition, usually featuring a cello, a viola and two violins.
ANSWER: string quartets [prompt on quartets]
012-09-2-17135

5. One author from this country is a UC Berkeley professor who wrote The Captive Mind. This country's national epic contains a
description of "Pocketknife" and is titled Mister Thaddeus. One author from this country wrote a historical trilogy that opens with
With Fire and Sword and described Nero's persecution of Christians like Lydia in Quo Vadis?. Eliazer loses his faith by the end of
one novel set in a concentration camp here. For 10 points, name this Central European country, the setting of Elie Wiesel's Night.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]
020-09-2-17136

VHSL Regular Season Round 32 Page 7 of 7
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

