PACE NSC 2012
Round 5
Tossups
1. In this region, the ten-man “tithing” system was less prominent and, instead, the twelve-man
system of mutual responsibility for behavior known as “frankpledge” flourished. The land needed to
support one family in this area was known as "plowland" and the unit of local government was the
"wapentake." The “sokemen” were attached to lords in this area, unlike the serfs used in
neighboring regions. It was established by the (*) Treaty of Wedmore, which was signed by Guthrum
and Alfred the Great. For 10 points, identify this region around York and Northumbria where Viking
custom predominated over Anglo-Saxon law in the ninth and tenth centuries, partly named for the country
of origin of its settlers.
ANSWER: the Danelaw [or Danelaga]
<Weiner>

2. The protagonist of this work falls off his horse while riding with Comte Norbet, and one character
in this work leaves a seminary after backing a rival of Monsieur de Frilair. The first volume of this
work ends with the cryptic dedication "To the happy few". To make his mistress jealous, the
protagonist writes love letters to Madame de Fervaques. This novel’s hero meets one love interest
after they both steal copies of Voltaire from the library of the (*) Marquis de La Mole; that love interest
is named Mathilde. Late in this work, the protagonist returns home to Verrieres and shoots his other love
interest, Madame de Renal. For 10 points, name this novel about Julien Sorel, a work by Stendhal whose
title references the uniforms of the Army and the Church.
ANSWER: The Red and the Black: A Chronicle of the 19th Century [or The Scarlet and the Black; or Le
Rouge et le Noir: Chronique du XIXe siécle]
<Bentley>

3. Proteins that bind to this molecule were the first shown to have Walker motifs. It acts as a
neurotransmitter at P2Y and P2X receptors. A complex that synthesizes this molecule was imaged by
affixing it to a glass slide and attaching fluorescent actin. It is a minus-4 anion in solution, and its
terminal charges are coordinated to a magnesium ion. By negative feedback, it inhibits
phosphofructokinase, and in many cells, the majority of this compound is used by the (*)
sodium–potassium pump. This compound is created by a rotor-shaped protein with an F-sub-0 base piece
and an F-sub-1 active subunit. That synthase rotates by the action of the electron transport chain in
mitochondria. For 10 points, name this molecule, the basic energy currency of the cell.
ANSWER: ATP [or Adenosine Triphosphate; prompt on "adenosine" or "adenine", but do NOT accept
"adenine triphosphate"]
<Mukherjee>

4. Matthew Bourne's version of this ballet replaces its female ensemble with a chorus of shirtless
male dancers. Pierina Legnani introduced the thirty-two consecutive fouettes in this ballet's third-act
pas de deux during its revival in 1895. Divided into "white acts" and (*) "black acts," this ballet
focuses on a curse cast by the sorcerer Von Rothbart, who tricks its male lead into pledging eternal love for
Odile. In its final scene, the curse is broken by the double suicide of Prince Siegfried and Odette. For 10
points, name this ballet by Tchaikovsky about a woman transformed into the title bird.
ANSWER: Swan Lake [or Lebedinoye ozero]
<Magin>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 1 of 13

5. In one tradition, the most severe form of this action involves appearing in a cube known as Avici.
In Islam, it happens to people who fail the interrogation of Munkar and Nakir. It follows the
narrowing of the Chinvat bridge in Zoroastrianism. The Gospel of Matthew suggests that it is better
to cut off one's right hand than to face this circumstance, which is accompanied by (*) "weeping and
gnashing of teeth." Under certain conditions, one's accumulated karma can cause this to happen, sending
one to Naraka. Medieval artists originated the idea that it involves passing through the mouth of a monster.
Occurring after being denied access to the pearly gates, for 10 points, name this less favorable of two
post-death outcomes in many religions.
ANSWER: going to Hell [or synonyms indicating that someone is being cast into Hell; accept many
synonyms, including Gehenna, Valley of Hinnom, Naraka; or House of Lies for Hell; accept answers
like being damned to hell as well; prompt on "judgment"; prompt on "demon attack" or similar]
<Gupta>

6. In one of this author's works, a character declares his sympathy with those "who like to stay late at
the cafe" and "do not want to go to bed" and explains that in the darkness, all is "nada". One
character asks "Will you please please please stop talking?" while drinking Anis del Toro in a story
by this man in which the American tries to convince Jig to have an abortion. The title character’s
wife (*) Margot falls for the hunter Robert Wilson in a short story by this author about a coward on a
lion-hunt. This creator of Nick Adams wrote such stories as "A Clean Well-Lighted Place", "Hills Like
White Elephants", and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber". For 10 points, name this author of A
Farewell to Arms and The Old Man and the Sea.
ANSWER: Ernest Miller Hemingway
<Bentley>

7. A sign post in this painting displays a kneeling man and a deer; that sign post hangs over a child
and two adults who kindle a large fire. In its mid-ground, a figure carries a bundle of hay over a
bridge with two arches. Several black birds are perched on barren trees at the top of this painting,
which also shows a castle in the mountains in its top right. In the background, men play a game with
curved sticks. This work is the last entry in a series also featuring The Gloomy Day and The (*) Return
of the Herd. The title figures are followed by a pack of dogs, and villagers can be seen ice skating in the
distance. For 10 points, name this work set in winter by Peter Brueghel the Elder where the title figures
bring back meat they've shot.
ANSWER: The Hunters in the Snow [or The Return of the Hunters]
<Bentley>

8. One speaker in this work recalls a father who treats his two sons as foals or calves with many
people to look over them. An insane argument in this work is rebutted by considering that a trainer
is the only person in the world that improves the lot of horses. Despite the central character's belief
in spiritual beings, he is still branded an atheist in this work, whose characters include (*) Lycon and
Anytus. Meletus is the chief opponent of this work's protagonist, who declares an ignorant man to be the
wisest of all, utters the maxim "the unexamined life is not worth living," and describes himself as a gadfly
stinging the youth of Athens. Ending with a death sentence, for 10 points, name this dialogue by Plato
about the trial of Socrates.
ANSWER: Plato's Apology of Socrates
<Gupta>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 2 of 13

9. One quantity important in understanding this effect appears in the numerator of the exponential
of the Richardson–Dushman equation, and is equal to about one-half of the ionization energy of the
free atom. One can place a collecting plate next to a device undergoing this effect to find the stopping
potential. The maximum kinetic energy of a particle undergoing this effect does not depend on the
incident (*) intensity. The minimum energy needed for this effect to occur is equal to Planck’s constant
multiplied by the threshold frequency, which is equal to the work function. For 10 points, identify this
effect discovered by Heinrich Hertz and studied by Albert Einstein, in which light liberates electrons from a
metal to create a current.
ANSWER: photoelectric effect [do NOT accept "photovoltaic effect" or other wrong answers]
<Mukherjee>

10. During this president’s time in office, the confiscation of weapons purchased in San Diego from
the Itata and the death of two crew members of the USS Baltimore threatened to ruin diplomatic
relations between the US and Chile. Supporters of this president had circulated a document showing
British support for his opponent called the (*) Murchison Letter. Industrialists supporting this
president’s campaign were rewarded with the protectionist McKinley Tariff, and he signed the Sherman
Silver Purchase Act into law. For 10 points, name this President who served between the two
non-consecutive terms of Grover Cleveland.
ANSWER: Benjamin Harrison [prompt on "Harrison"]
<Huang>

11. Zygmunt Bauman considered this event as an expression of modernity. Raul Hilberg wrote a
comprehensive historical treatment of it. Christopher Browning's Ordinary Men examined the role of
Police Battalion 101 in this event, which Arno Mayer controversially argued was centrally about
communism. This event inspired the theory of logotherapy developed in Man's Search for Meaning
by Viktor (*) Frankl, who sought to reintegrate its victims into society. The phrase “the banality of evil”
was used to describe an architect of this event in Hannah Arendt's work about his 1961 trial, Eichmann in
Jerusalem. For 10 points, identify this campaign of mass genocide inflicted by the government of Adolf
Hitler.
ANSWER: The Holocaust [or Shoah; accept reasonable equivalents like Final Solution; prompt on
“World War II”]
<Ray>

12. After defeating a rival empire, this man installed a puppet ruler named Korichak. The
ambassador Ruy Gonzales de Clavijo visited his court. After his burial at the Gur-e-Amir tomb, his
youngest son, Shah Rokh, emerged victorious from the power struggle following this man’s death.
This man launched one campaign on the pretext that Hindus were being given too much religious
freedom. That campaign saw this man defeat Mahmud (*) Tughluq and sack Delhi. Troops under
Ottoman emperor Bayezid I deserted to this man’s side during the Battle of Ankara. He conquered both
Baghdad and Damascus in 1401, and established a capital at Samarkand. For 10 points, name this Mongol
ruler fond of making pyramids of skulls, whose byname refers to his injured foot.
ANSWER: Tamerlane [or Timur the Lame or Timour Lenk or Timurlenk or Tamburlaine]
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 3 of 13

13. One author from this country wrote about a skywriting poet named Carlos Wieder in the novel
Distant Star. That author from this nation also wrote a novel in which the Visceral Realists search for
the Mexican poet Cesarea Tinajero. This country is also home to an author who described the title
character’s love for the journalist Rolf Carlé and the revolutionary Huberto Naranjo in (*) Eva Luna.
This country is the birthplace of the author of The Savage Detectives and 2666 as well as an author of a
novel in which Pedro and Blanca flee to Canada; that novel, centered on the Trueba family, is The House of
the Spirits. For 10 points, which South American country was the birthplace of Roberto Bolaño and Isabel
Allende?
ANSWER: Republic of Chile [or Republica de Chile]
<Bentley>

14. This constellation names a meteor shower that originates from the Comet Encke. A “complex”
spanning this constellation and Auriga is a notable star formation region. An Asymptotic Giant
Branch star in this constellation designated RV is the prototype of a class of pulsating variables. The
prototype and namesake for low-mass protostars is this constellation’s “T” star. A “V” shaped
cluster of stars including (*) Ain form the face of this constellation. That cluster, the Hyades, joins
another cluster in this constellation which contains Alcyone and Electra, the Pleiades. The brightest star of
this constellation, Aldebaran, is known as its “eye.” For 10 points, name this zodiac constellation which
contains the Crab Nebula and symbolizes a bull.
ANSWER: Taurus [prompt on "Tauri" and "RV Tauri"]
<Lasker>

15. A sextet by this composer was rejected for performance because it contained an inverted ninth
chord. One of this composer’s pieces features a single chord repeated with different instruments,
illustrating his principle of “tone-color-melody”; that work, "Summer Morning by A Lake," is one of
his Five Pieces for Orchestra. His first major work was a string sextet based on the poetry of (*)
Richard Dehmel. This composer employed sprechstimme in a melodrama about a “moondrunk” Commedia
dell’arte character, and developed a method of composing in which all the notes of the chromatic scale
must be used before any can be repeated. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of Transfigured
Night and Pierrot Lunaire who pioneered atonality and twelve-tone music.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
<Rosenberg>

16. This man told Shimon Peres that “when it comes to killing, you know well how to kill” in a 2009
panel discussion on Gaza. He reportedly survived coup attempts drawn out in the Sledgehammer
plan. While serving as a mayor for the Welfare Party, he was arrested for reading a Ziya Gokalp
poem in 1997 in Siirt. A 2002 constitutional amendment allowed this head of the Justice and (*)
Development Party to become Prime Minister. He’s not French, but this man lifted a ban on wearing
headscarves at universities, causing tension with the secular “deep state” controlled by his country’s
military. In 2004, he tried to resolve the conflict on Cyprus, and he’s accused the EU of having an
anti-Muslim bias. For 10 points, name this Prime Minister of Turkey.
ANSWER: Recep Tayyip Erdogan [ER-do-WAN, but be extremely lenient on pronunciation]
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 4 of 13

17. According to Diodorus Siculus, this non-Greek god conquered and founded so many cities in
India that Indians consider him a god as well. The Ikhernofret Stela preserves the mysteries of this
god, for whom a great temple exists in the city of Abydos. A mob led by Patriarch Theophilus
destroyed a Roman cult that worshiped this god and his wife, replacing him with (*) Serapis. This god
entered a box sealed with lead and was thrown into a river, eventually ending up in Byblos. This god is
depicted holding a flail and has an amulet around his neck. A catfish ate his penis, but the other thirteen
pieces of his body were recovered by his wife after he was killed by Set. For 10 points, name this father of
Horus and husband of Isis, the Egyptian god of the afterlife.
ANSWER: Osiris [or Asar, Asari, Aser, Ausar, Ausir, Wesir, Usir, Usire or Ausare]
<Bentley>

18. The parties involved in these events had earlier signed the secret Treaty of the Three Black
Eagles. One of these events was partially prompted by the adoption of the May Constitution, which
replaced the system of Golden Liberty. One of these events resulted from the defeat of the (*)
Targowica Confederation. To defend against the first of these events, the Confederation of the Bar was
formed. Many historians ascribe partial blame for these events on the sejm legislature being paralyzed by
the liberum veto. For 10 points, name these events that resulted in Austria, Prussia and Russia increasing in
landmass at the expense of a country in between them.
ANSWER: Partitions of Poland [or Partitions of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth; accept First
Partition of Poland, Second Partition of Poland, or Third Partition of Poland throughout]
<Bentley>

19. In one scene in this play, the corpse of a strangled friar is propped up such that another man is
charged with murder after hitting the friar with a staff. One of its characters gives away poisoned
nosegays after sneaking into Pilla-Borza’s house disguised as a French lutenist in order to kill the
prostitute Bellamira. A forged letter causes a doubly-fatal duel between Lodowick and Mathias in
this play, which begins with Governor (*) Ferneze seizing the main character's wealth to pay the city's
tribute to the Turkish prince Calymath. The title character schemes with Ithamore to poison his own
daughter Abigail before falling into his own trap and dying in a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this
Christopher Marlowe play whose title character is the cruel Barabas.
ANSWER: The Jew of Malta
<Gioia>

20. FPLC columns are stored in a 20% solution of this substance, whose hydrogen NMR spectrum
shows a quadruplet around 3.7 ppm, a triplet around 1.2 ppm, and a broad singlet around 2.6 ppm.
It can be purified to 96% by volume before dessication must be used, because this substance forms
an azeotrope with water at that concentration. It is oxidized to acetaldehyde in biological systems.
One method of obtaining this compound involves using enzymes capable of breaking down (*)
cellulose; that method is used to extract this substance from corn. This substance is more commonly
produced from yeast using fermentation. For 10 points, name this substance with formula C2H5OH, a
two-carbon alcohol found in drinks.
ANSWER: ethanol [or ethyl alcohol or EtOH; accept C2H5OH or C2H6O until the formula; prompt on
“alcohol”]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 5 of 13

PACE NSC 2012
Round 5
Tiebreakers
21. One of this author's poems describes the "viper thoughts, that coil around my mind" and laments
how his "genial spirits fail". The speaker of another of his poems contemplates a "Babe, that sleepest
cradled by my side" while watching the title substance perform "its secret ministry". This poet
quoted "The Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens" in "Dejection: An Ode" and penned (*) "Frost at Midnight".
In another poem, he described the "flashing eyes" and "floating hair" of a figure who has "drunk the milk of
Paradise". In one of his poems, a figure complains of "Water, water, everywhere, nor any drop to drink"
after shooting an albatross. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who wrote of "a stately pleasure-dome"
in Xanadu in "Kubla Khan" and penned "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner".
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
<Gioia>

22. Families of these geometric figures that are orthogonal to one another are named for Apollonius
of Perga. These figures can be defined as the locus of points whose distance from a pair of points
holds to a fixed ratio. Ptolemy’s theorem relates the length of the sides of a quadrilateral inscribed in
one of these figures. One of these that passes through the midpoints and feet of the altitudes of a
triangle is known as the (*) nine-point one. The Law of Sines can be proven by showing that every
triangle can be circumscribed by one of these figures. These figures arise when cutting a cone with a plane
parallel to the base, and they have zero eccentricity. For 10 points, name this shape whose circumference is
pi times its diameter.
ANSWER: circles
<Mukherjee>

23. This man’s government refused to ratify a treaty which handed over Alessandria, leading him to
fire de Launey. After this man’s forces, led by the Duke of Gaeta, won the Battle of Castelfiardo, this
leader was excommunicated. This man came to power after his predecessor lost the Battle of Novara,
after which he signed the Truce of Vignale with Josepth Radetzky. His prime minister arranged for
him to sign a treaty at Plombiers with Napoleon III, and his forces won the battles of (*) Magenta and
Solferino against the Austrians. He supported Garibaldi’s campaign against the Two Sicilies, and this ruler
of Piedmont–Sardinia and employer of Count Cavour gained the title “Father of the Fatherland”. For 10
points identify this first ruler of unified Italy.
ANSWER: Victor Emmanuel II [or Vittorio Emmanuelle II; prompt on "Victor Emmanuel"; prompt on
"Vittorio Emmanuelle"]
<Mukherjee>

24. This event was initiated during an assembly at the Old South Meeting House after Sheriff
Greenleaf’s order to disperse was ignored. The owner of one affected piece of property at this event,
Francis Rotch, left to Milton to request permission that would have stopped this action. The
declaration that “this meeting can do nothing more to save the country” by Samuel (*) Adams
preceded cries of “Hurrah for Griffin’s Wharf!” as the crowd that engaged in this event formed. In the
aftermath of this event, the Lord North-led British government passed the Intolerable Acts. For 10 points,
name this event that saw colonists dress as Mohawk Indians and dump crates of tea overboard a ship.
ANSWER: Boston Tea Party
<Kothari>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 6 of 13

PACE NSC 2012
Round 5
Bonuses
1. This novel takes its title from a song attributed to the fictional singer Judy Bridgewater. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this novel, set in and around a school called Hailsham. Its three main characters, Kathy, Ruth,
and Tommy, seek to postpone donation, which will eventually lead to "completion", or death.
ANSWER: Never Let Me Go
[10] In this novel by the author of Never Let Me Go, the butler Stevens remains in denial about his master's
relationship with the Nazis as he travels to visit Miss Kenton.
ANSWER: The Remains of The Day
[10] Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day were both written by this Japanese-British author of An
Artist of The Floating World.
ANSWER: Kazuo Ishiguro [accept names in either order]
<Graebner>

2. This monarch’s forces defeated Joanna la Beltraneja in a war of succession, allowing her to inherit the
throne from Henry IV. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this queen who presided over the end of the Reconquista when Boabdil surrendered to her.
ANSWER: Isabella I of Castile [or Isabella of Castile; prompt on "Isabella"]
[10] Isabella and Ferdinand issued the Alhambra Decree, which expelled members of this religion from
Spain. Adherents to this faith of Spanish origin are known as Sephardim.
ANSWER: Jewish [or Jews or Judaism, etc]
[10] Muslims who wished not to be expelled from Spain could choose to convert to Christianity, a practice
that gained them this pejorative name.
ANSWER: Moriscos [or Little Moors; prompt on "conversos"; do not accept "marranos"]
<Kothari>

3. Answer these questions about American linguists, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of bestsellers like The Blank Slate and The Stuff of Thought argued for the human brain's
innate capacity for language in 1994's The Language Instinct.
ANSWER: Steven Pinker
[10] Pinker has something of a love-hate relationship with the theories of this MIT linguist, who described
his theory of transformational grammar in Syntactic Structures.
ANSWER: Noam Chomsky
[10] In Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things, former Chomsky student George Lakoff highlights the
importance of the “conceptual," or "cognitive," form of this device. In rhetoric, catachresis can result from
invoking unconnected examples of its more general form.
ANSWER: metaphor
<Ray>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 7 of 13

4. He was employed as an organist in Arnstadt, Weimar, and Mühlhausen before being appointed to his
most famous post. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this composer who, from 1723 until his death in 1750, held the position of Thomaskantor at
the Thomaskirche in Leipzig.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach [prompt on "Bach"]
[10] During his employment at the Lutheran Thomaskirche, Bach assembled this expansive setting of a
Catholic liturgical service, which features many instances of material borrowed from his Lutheran cantatas.
It was one of Bach's final completed works.
ANSWER: Mass in B minor [or B minor Mass; prompt on "requiem mass" or "mass"]
[10] A later mass was written by this Italian composer, who dedicated it to the novelist Alessandro
Manzoni. He also composed the operas La Traviata and Aida.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Verdi
<Thompson>

5. The entity-relationship model is used to create a web of concepts representing one of these. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these structures that store large amounts of entries in a table. SQL is commonly used to query
these entities.
ANSWER: relational databases
[10] Tables in a relational database store individual entries in these entities, which are themselves
comprised of columns. In linear algebra, matrices can be stored in this type of echelon form.
ANSWER: rows
[10] In relational databases, each row has a unique one of these objects to distinguish them from other rows
in the table. Foreign types of these objects are used to link tables in a database.
ANSWER: keys
<Orth>

6. In the third chapter of this work, the title prophet is commanded to eat a scroll. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Biblical book which begins with the title figure seeing “an immense cloud with flashing
lightning” containing four living creatures.
ANSWER: Book of Ezekiel
[10] The 16th chapter of Ezekiel claims that this city was destroyed due to its refusal to help the poor and
needy. It is destroyed in Genesis along with Gomorrah.
ANSWER: Sodom
[10] The later chapters of Ezekiel contain many prophecies against Israel’s enemies, including the people
named after this figure. He sold his birthright to his brother for a meal and later had the intended blessing of
his father Isaac stolen by that same brother.
ANSWER: Esau [or Edom]
<Cheyne>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 8 of 13

7. A common method of measuring this quantity is the arithmetic mean of the first ionization energy and
the electron affinity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property whose value is highest in fluorine. It is the tendency for an atom to attract
electrons toward it in a covalent bond, and polar bonds are created when two atoms with different values of
this quantity bond.
ANSWER: electronegativity [accept word forms]
[10] This scientist developed an electronegativity scale in terms of the square root of a polynomial of
dissociation energies. This scientist also posited that DNA was a triple helix.
ANSWER: Linus Pauling
[10] The Pauling electronegativity was developed with this theory in mind. This theory states that the outer
atomic orbitals are combined to form a bond.
ANSWER: valence bond theory
<Mukherjee>

8. Identify some assorted poets, for 10 points each.
[10] This Tang dynasty poet wrote "Departing from Baidi in the Morning" during his return from exile in
Yelang. His intense love of wine led him to write poems like "Waking from Drunkenness on a Spring Day"
and "Drinking Alone by Moonlight".
ANSWER: Li Po [or Li Bai; or Li Bo; or Li Taibai; or Li Taibo; or Li Taipo; or Ri Haku; or Qinglian
Jushi]
[10] This pseudonymous Chilean poet wrote that we cannot say "tomorrow" to children in her poem "His
Name is Today". Her other works include Desolacion and Sonnets of Death.
ANSWER: Gabriela Mistral [or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga]
[10] In England, Abraham Cowley popularized a poetic form named for this ancient Theban poet, who is
most famous for celebrating athletic achievements in his four books of "epinikia", or "victory odes".
ANSWER: Pindar [or Pindarus; accept Pindarics or Pindariques]
<Carson>

9. Answer some questions about the United States on the home front during World War I, for 10 points
each.
[10] American citizens were encouraged by the Wilson administration to grow their own food in these
areas. Hearst Corporation frequently featured articles on these places such as “Growing in the Backyard.”
ANSWER: Victory Gardens
[10] The 1917 Espionage Act was used to convict Charles Schenck, who was handing out pamphlets urging
people to resist this practice. This practice was the subject of the Selective Service Acts.
ANSWER: the draft [or conscription; prompt on things like "serving in the military" or "being forced to
serve in the military", as these things have names]
[10] Many soldiers who returned home from the conflict eventually joined this union led by Bill Haywood
which advocated for radicalism and the "one big union." Another of its members, Joe Hill, was found guilty
of a robbery in Utah and subsequently executed.
ANSWER: IWW [or Industrial Workers of the World or Wobblies]
<Foster>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 9 of 13

10. This man used a numbered list of points to describe his theory of indivisible, unextended individual
substances in his Monadology. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German polymath who argued from the principle of sufficient reason that a perfect God
must have chosen this as the best possible world.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
[10] Monadology condenses some ideas from this only book-length work by Leibniz. Its shares its name
with a genre of works defending God's omnipotence in spite of the existence of evil.
ANSWER: Essays of Theodicy on the Goodness of God, the Freedom of Man, and the Origin of Evil [or
Essais de Theodicée sur la bonté de Dieu, la liberté de l’homme et l’origine du mal]
[10] Leibniz developed calculus independently of this English thinker, a prominent figure in the Royal
Society. His theories and discoveries are laid out in the Principia Mathematica.
ANSWER: Sir Isaac Newton
<Jackson>

11. In a passage titled “I Felt My Heart Awaken”, this figure appears cradled in the arms of Love, who tells
a certain poet “Ego dominus tuus” before this figure eats that poet’s burning heart. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Florentine woman, the dedicatee of La Vita Nuova. She later encounters that work’s
author in the Earthly Paradise atop Mount Purgatory.
ANSWER: Beatrice di Folco Portinari [prompt on “Portinari”; accept Bice]
[10] Beatrice replaces Virgil as the protagonist’s guide in Paradiso, the third and final part of this epic
poem by Dante Alighieri. It begins with the Inferno.
ANSWER: the Divine Comedy [or La Divina Commedia]
[10] The original terza rima Penguin Classics translation of the Divine Comedy is the work of this British
author who wrote detective novels about Lord Peter Wimsey.
ANSWER: Dorothy Leigh Sayers
<Carson>

12. During one election here, the US sent a pair of aircraft carriers to ensure that anti-unification dissident
candidates would not be intimidated by Chinese missile testing. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this island, where Chiang Kai-Shek ruled for several years after being driven out of China
during the Chinese Civil War.
ANSWER: Taiwan [or Republic of China; do NOT accept or prompt on "People's Republic of China" or
"China"]
[10] Chiang Kai-Shek was the head of this nationalist party. It advocates the Three Principles of the People
put forward by Sun Yat-sen.
ANSWER: Kuomintang [or KMT]
[10] This longtime public face of Taiwan to the United States was Chiang Kai-Shek's second wife for
forty-eight years. She allegedly had an affair with Wendell Wilkie.
ANSWER: Soong May-ling [prompt on "Madame Chiang"]
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 10 of 13

13. An urban renewal project on the site of the Harland and Wolff shipbuilding firm in this city has created
the Titanic Quarter. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this capital of Northern Ireland.
ANSWER: Belfast
[10] Belfast is located in this northernmost of Ireland's historical provinces. Six of its counties make up
Northern Ireland, while the other three are part of the Irish Republic.
ANSWER: Ulster [or Ulaidh or Cúige Uladh]
[10] The coast of Ulster's County Antrim contains this geological curiosity composed of thousands of
hexagonal columns of basalt.
ANSWER: Giant's Causeway [or Clochán an Aifir]
<Hoppes>

14. This composer's operas include Hydrogen Jukebox and an adaptation of Coetzee's novel Waiting for the
Barbarians. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American composer whose Portrait Trilogy includes the operas Akhenaten and Satyagraha.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] The first opera in Glass's Portrait Trilogy is named for this scientist "on the beach." It features a train
that this physicist used to explain the theory of relativity.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
[10] The libretto to Einstein on the Beach contains many repetitions of numbers and these syllables used to
teach singing. They include do, re, and mi.
ANSWER: solfege syllables
<Thompson>

15. Answer some questions about electrical circuits, for 10 points each.
[10] The energy stored in an inductor is equal to one-half times the inductance times the square of this
quantity.
ANSWER: electric current [or I]
[10] In this kind of electrical system, the resistance is generalized to impedance. The current sinusoidally
varies in this system, which is contrasted with direct current.
ANSWER: AC [or alternating current]
[10] These rotating vectors in the complex plane are used to represent multiple sinusoidally varying
quantities in an AC circuit.
ANSWER: phasor [or phase vector; prompt on "vector" or "rotating vector"]
<Mukherjee>

16. This white creature had horns similar to those of the river god Achelous. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this creature which ravaged the area by the river Tethris and was offered by Eurystheus to Hera
after its capture.
ANSWER: Cretan Bull [or Marathonian bull; prompt on "bull"]
[10] The Cretan Bull was captured by this figure, who performed twelve labors as penance for killing his
family in a fit of madness.
ANSWER: Heracles [or Hercules; or Alcaeus]
[10] Heracles' final wife was Hebe, who served the Olympian gods in this capacity before being replaced
by Ganymede.
ANSWER: cupbearer [or serving drinks; or serving nectar; or serving ambrosia; or other synonyms]
<Gupta>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 11 of 13

17. This kingdom contains the phyla basidiomycota and ascomycoa, and chytrids are microscopic members
of this kingdom. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kingdom characterized by cells with walls made of chitin and organisms that can reproduce
both sexually and asexually. Mushrooms are in this kingdom.
ANSWER: fungi [or fungus]
[10] The mycelium, or body, of a fungus consists of these filamentous structures.
ANSWER: hyphae
[10] These specialized hyphae have sharp tips and are used by parasitic fungi to penetrate their hosts.
ANSWER: haustoria [or haustorium]
<Mukherjee>

18. This man pledged his support for French foreign policy and his personal conversion to Catholicism in
the Treaty of Dover, which was popular with neither his subjects nor the French king. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king, whose father was executed by Parliamentarians.
ANSWER: Charles II
[10] This younger brother of Charles was Duke of York and Albany during Charles's reign. The 1673 Test
Act was passed largely to prevent this man, a Roman Catholic, from becoming king. He did so anyway.
ANSWER: James II
[10] Changes in county and borough governments allowed this faction friendly to James to take power in
Parliament. Their name was originally given to Irish Catholic outlaws.
ANSWER: Tories
<Bailey>

19. Identify some things from the wide world of Emily Dickinson’s poetry, for 10 points each.
[10] In perhaps her most famous poem, Dickinson gets into a carriage with this character and Immortality
after noting that, because she could not stop for him, he kindly stopped for her.
ANSWER: Death
[10] Dickinson calls herself “inebriate of air . . . and debauchee of dew” after tasting this liquid “from
tankards scooped in pearl".
ANSWER: a liquor never brewed [prompt on “liquor” or other partial answers]
[10] Dickinson says of this entity that “when it comes, the landscape listens” after describing how it comes
“on winter afternoons” and “oppresses, like the weight of cathedral tunes”.
ANSWER: a certain slant of light [prompt on partial answers]
<Carson>

20. In one work in this series, a woman is represented at three different ages, including a middle image
where she is shown dancing in a red dress. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this series of paintings exhibited at the 1902 Berlin Secession. They included The Sick Child,
Three Stages of Women and The Vampire.
ANSWER: The Frieze of Life [or The Love Frieze or Livs-frisen]
[10] The Frieze of Life was painted by this artist of Death Enters the Sick Room.
ANSWER: Edvard Munch
[10] Edvard Munch is best known for this painting where a man holds his hand to his face while standing
on a bridge.
ANSWER: The Scream of Nature [or The Cry or Der Schrei der Natur]
<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 12 of 13

PACE NSC 2012
Round 5
Tiebreakers
21. After the sudden death of Matthew Harrison Brady, this play ends with Henry Drummond silently
balancing the Bible and On the Origin of Species, one in each hand. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play in which Drummond defends Bertram Cates on the charge of teaching evolution, an
allegorical dramatization of the Scopes trial.
ANSWER: Inherit the Wind
[10] H.L. Mencken, the basis for E.K. Hornbeck in Inherit the Wind, claimed that this author's second novel
Jennie Gerhardt was the second-best American novel he'd ever read. This author also wrote An American
Tragedy and Sister Carrie.
ANSWER: Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser
[10] Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee, the authors of Inherit the Wind, also fictionalized the life of this
American author, whose short stories for the New Yorker included "The Catbird Seat" and one about a man
who is constantly distracted by escapist fantasies.
ANSWER: James Grover Thurber
<Thompson>

22. This man's father Motilal founded the Swaraj Party. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first prime minister of India, who was in office from independence in 1947 until shortly
after the war with China in 1962.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru
[10] Nehru, along with Yugoslavia’s Tito, was a leader in this group which disavowed alliances with both
the United States and Soviet Union.
ANSWER: the Non-Aligned Movement
[10] Minutes before India’s official independence, Nehru delivered this speech, which proclaims “no
nation can be great whose people are narrow in thought or in action” and says that “now the time comes
when we shall redeem our pledge” of the title encounter “long years ago.”
ANSWER: “Tryst with Destiny”
<Weiner>

23. Bernard Kettlewell showed that predation was the primary driving force in the evolution of these
creatures, which evolved from white coloration to black coloration when industrial soot colored the trees
they lived on. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these insects which are an example of directional selection and are often used as a classroom
example of evolution at work.
ANSWER: peppered moths [or Biston betularia; prompt on “moths”]
[10] This theory says that species do not show continuous change over time, but tend to evolve in bursts. It
was developed by Stephen J. Gould and Niles Eldredge.
ANSWER: punctuated equilibrium
[10] This scientist heavily criticized punctuated equilibrium, believing that gaps in the fossil record
represented migration events. He's more famous for advancing a gene-centered view of evolution in The
Extended Phenotype and The Selfish Gene.
ANSWER: Richard Dawkins
<Mukherjee>

PACE NSC 2012

Round 5

Page 13 of 13

