DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

August 2007
Study Guide:
Chinese History

Chinese Dynasties
A note on terms: Many dynasties are divided into various segments (Eastern Zhou, Western Han, etc.)
that are sometimes considered different dynasties. Most often, this nomenclature refers to the location of
the Chinese capital at the time and quite often a corresponding national strength. For the purposes of this
guide, dynasties have been grouped together with major divisions annotated.
Dynasty

Description

Three Sovereigns and Five This period was not a dynasty, and is not historical, but it is considered a
Emperors (2852-2205 BCE) key pre-history in most texts. Its events are entirely mythological. The
Five Emperors are: the Yellow Emperor (ancestor of the Han ethnic
group, whose historian Cangjie invented language), Zhuanxu, Ku, Yao, and
Shun.
Xia (2070-1600 BCE)

Substantial debate exists as to the existence of this dynasty. Modern
archeology suggests something existed during this time, though it is
uncertain whether or not it was the Xia. It was founded by Yu the Great
and marks the transition from divine mandate to dynastic rule.

Shang (1600-1046 BCE)

The first historical dynasty, most of the earliest Chinese characters appear
on oracle bones from this period. The high god Di was worshiped, and the
capital was at Yin.

Zhou (1122-256 BCE)
Western Zhou
Eastern Zhou
Spring and Autumn
Period
Warring States
Period

It was founded by King Wu after the battle of Muye, though its inception is
more due to the Duke of Zhou, who organized the kingdom and oversaw
the creation of the I Jing. The longest-lasting dynasty, it saw numerous
important philosophers, including Confucius and Mencius
(Confucianism), Laozi (Daoism), Mozi (Mohism), and Han Feizei
(Legalism). Worship of Di shifts to Tian (“heaven”), and the concept of
Mandate of Heaven began. Iron was introduced and a semi-feudal
government existed. Sun Tzu published The Art of War and work on the
Grand Canal was begun.

Qin (221-206 BCE)

It was the first imperial dynasty, established by Qin Shi Huangdi (“First
Qin Emperor”). Numerous bureaucratic and cultural reforms were
established, and Han Feizei’s Legalist philosophy rose to prominence.
Construction of the Great Wall began. Li Si, Qin Shi Huang’s minister,
was a key figure.

1

Han (206 BCE-220 CE)
Western Han
Xin Dynasty
Eastern Han

Founded by Emperor Gao of the Liu family, its greatest ruler was probably
Wu Di, whose historian Sima Qian recorded the first major account of
Chinese history. It lends its name to the primary ethnicity of China.
Confucianism was state policy, and civil service exams were introduced.
The Silk Road was established and a tribute system put in place. Important
inventors included Cai Lun (paper) and Zheng Heng (numerous
mechanical devices). Block printing was probably created. Wang Mang
interrupted the Han and established the short-lived Xin dynasty. It ended
with the rule of Xian during the Yellow Turban Rebellion.

Three Kingdoms (222-263 Famously documented in Luo Guanzhong’s Romance of the Three
CE)
Kingdoms, this era featured rule by the Wei, Shu, and Wu kingdoms. The
period arose as the forces of Cao Cao (Wei), Liu Bei (Shu), and Sun Quan
(Wu) vied for power following Zhang Jiao’s Yellow Turban rebellion.
Jin Dynasty (265-420 CE)
Western Jin
Eastern Jin

This was a period of tremendous unrest. Its latter portion is known as the 16
Kingdoms.

Southern and Northern
Dynasties (420-581 CE)

Bodhidharma arrived in China and founded Zen Buddhism. Buddhism
became more popular in China.

Sui (581-619 CE)

Founded by Wen, this dynasty saw a series of invasions of Korea. The
Grand Canal was completed.

Tang (619-907)

It was ruled by the Li family and founded under Gaozu. The golden age of
Chinese culture, it is characterized by the poetry of masters like Tu Fu and
Li Bai (Li Po). It was a period of substantial influence for court eunuchs,
with a huge buildup of a standing army. There was a brief interruption
when Empress Wu Zeitan founded the Second Zhou dynasty (only Empress
to truly rule alone). It saw An Lushan’s rebellion and famously had its
capital at Chang’an. Christianity and Islam arrived in China. Chinese
control of the Middle East was checked at the Battle of Talas. The
Diamond Sutra was created.

Five Dynasties and Ten
Kingdoms (907-960 CE)

It saw more turbulence. Kingdoms became extremely factional and vied for
power.

Song Dynasty (960-1279
CE)
Northern Song
Southern Song

This dynasty was founded by Taizu. It is perhaps most famous for the
conflict between reformists led by Wang Anshi and conservatives led by
Sima Guang. It saw the establishment of a standing navy and the first use of
paper money in history. Neo-Confucianism became popular and visual art
gained prominence. Gunpowder was used in warfare. The Jinkang Incident
occurred, in which Jin Jurchens kidnapped the emperor, dividing the
dynasty into two portions. Song lost the Battle of Yamen to Kublai Khan.
2

Yuan (1271-1368 CE)

China was unified under Mongol rule following victories of Kublai Khan.
Though the Mongols undertook extensive improvement policies, they were
always seen as outsiders and overthrown relatively soon after Kublai’s
death.

Ming (1368-1644 CE)

It was founded by the Hongwu emperor and was the last ethnically Han
dynasty. Notable for its fine pottery, it saw the completion of the Great
Wall. Under Emperor Yongle, the Forbidden City was constructed, and
Grand Admiral Zheng He embarked upon a series of famous voyages,
reaching the Eastern shores of Africa. This dynasty saw the explosive rise
of commerce and interaction with the outside world (the Portuguese found
Macau during this period). Wu Cheng-en published Journey to the West
(Monkey).

Qing (1644-1911 CE)

Also known as the Manchu dynasty, it was founded by the great Jurchen
warlord Nurhaci. It was solidified by Kangxi, who began a great
dictionary project and feuded with the Christian Pope over missionaries in
China. Religious conflict culminated in the Taiping Rebellion, led by
failed scholar Hong Xiaquan. The Opium Wars begin (the First Opium
War was notably ended by Treaty of Nanking). Dowager Empress Cixi
takes power, encouraging the Boxer Rebellion against westerners in China.
Notable events include the Hundred Days’ Reform. The abdication of
Henry Pu-Yi during the conflicts between Yuan Shikai and Sun Yat-sen
lead to the end of Imperial China.

Key Figures of Modern Chinese History:
Sun Yat-sen - Usually regarded by both PRC and Taiwan as the “father of modern China.” He
transitioned China into a national state following the rule of Yuan Shikai. He is most famous for his
“Three People’s Principles” (roughly summarized as nationalism, social welfare, and democratic
government). He envisioned an industrial project that would eventually become the Three Gorges Dam.
Chiang Kai-shek - Sun Yat-sen’s successor and chief military commander. He took power over Wang
Jingwei, was the leader of the Chinese Nationalists, and fought a lengthy civil war with Mao Zedong’s
Communist forces.
Mao Zedong - First leader of the People’s Republic of China. He initiated the costly Great Leap
Forward, an unsuccessful attempt at industrialization, whose failure may have led to the Cultural
Revolution, a campaign to purge the bourgeoisie from China. He notably authored The Little Red Book,
often cited as the second most-printed book in the world behind the bible.
Gang of Four - A powerful group that was largely scapegoated for the Cultural Revolution and was
removed from power following Mao’s death. It consisted of Jiang Qing, Mao’s wife, as well as Zhang
Zhunqiao, Yao Wenyuan, and Wang Hongwen.

3

