DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

August 2007
Packet 1:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. This figure’s actions include solving an architectural dispute by encouraging four leaders to lift
sides of a cloth that held a stone, and his first male supporter may have been his ten year-old
cousin, or the first of the rashidun. It was at Mount (*) Hira that Jibrail transmitted to him the
basmala, which would be come the first sura. FTP, identify this Meccan who received the verses of
the Qur’an and founded Islam.
ANSWER: Muhammed
2. Sections of this range include the Graian, Julian, and Dolomites, and its eastern portion
contains the Flsych zone and the Brenner pass, where a famous pact was declared. This range’s
southern portion is often named for its limestone composition, and Lake Cuomo and Lake (*)
Maggiore both border it. Its highest peak is Monte Cervino, better known as the Matterhorn. FTP,
identify this mountain range that borders Lake Geneva, Italy, and Switzerland.
ANSWER: The Alps
3. Pencil and paper ready. Dren wants to know the maximum amount of ice cream he can
possibly cram into one cone, given that the cone is fifteen centimeters high and its opening has a
diameter of six centimeters. Knowing that the equation for the volume of a cone is (*) one third
times height times radius squared times pi, FTP, find the volume of the ice cream cone. You have ten
seconds.
ANSWER: 40 pi cubic centimeters [V=(pi)*(1/3)*(15)*(3)2]
4. The Cosmati floor design evident in this work was inspired by the artist’s studies of
Westminster Abbey, and an iron crucifix is visible at top left. Two Johannes Walthers hymns are
the subject of an open book, which lies next to a T-square and a (*) lute, while the shelf above
contains scientific instruments and an astrolabe against a green curtain. FTP, identify this Hans
Holbein work depicting an amorphous skull and the two titular diplomats.
ANSWER: The (French) Ambassadors
5. This country’s literary output includes an account of the famous guide Malintzin, penned by
the same author who created The Book of Emotions and told of Tita’s passionate cooking in Like
Water for Chocolate. Besides Laura (*) Esquivel, authors from this country have produced The Old
Gringo, about Ambrose Bierce’s death here, and Sun Stone, inspired by the Aztec Calendar. Carlos
Fuentes and Octavio Paz are native sons of, FTP, what most populous Spanish-speaking country?
ANSWER: Mexico (accept Mexican)

1

August 2007, Packet 1
6. An equation named for this man and Duhem describes changes in chemical potential in a
system, and he names a range of statistical constructs as well as the statistical mechanical entropy
of thermodynamic system. Like Helmholtz, he names a type of (*) thermodynamic potential, which
this American described in On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances. FTP, identify this
chemist best known for his eponymous phase rule and free energy.
ANSWER: Josiah Willard Gibbs
7. Hyman Rickover and Charles Vreeland were among those who examined it, and after the
latter’s report it was moved a substantial distance. The findings of William Samson, who had
won a victory on the opposite side of the island, supported the (*) coal bunker fire theory, though
Hearst’s “yellow journalism” stirred outrage. FTP, identify this US ship whose sinking in Havana
Harbor was “remembered” during the Spanish-American war, named for a northeastern state.
ANSWER: (Sinking or bombing of the) USS Maine
8. One of this man’s creations threatens to “sine your pitty on the runny kine” in an eponymous
2001 comedy inspired by a TV character. He has portrayed Onski next to Chris Farley’s B Fats
as well as the militant Nat X. His first success came with Bring the Pain and he notably discusses
the (*) Champagne Room in another show, while his most recent was 2004’s Never Scared. Known
for the comedy special Bigger and Blacker and roles in Head of State and Dogma, FTP, identify this
comedian whom everybody hates in a UPN show about his formative years.
ANSWER: Chris Rock
9. Towards the end of his life, his writings became political with the Patriot series, which largely
responded to colonists. He wrote of Nekayah and Imlac, who accompany the titular prince of
Abyssinia in Rasselas, and this author rose to fame by publishing The (*) Rambler. He is chiefly
known for an epic mass-biography of writers, Lives of the English Poets, and for his own biography by
James Boswell. FTP, identify this man who compiled in 1755 a Dictionary of the English Language.
ANSWER: Samuel Johnson
10. This work’s publication was delayed since the publishing organization had recently
squandered its budget on a book about the history of fish. John Flamsteed’s data was cited
extensively in it, and Chandrasekhar published an “updated” version of this tract after being
irked by its use of antiquated (*) Euclidean reasoning. With sections including “On the system of the
world” and “On the motion of the bodies,” FTP, identify this master work of Isaac Newton.
ANSWER: Principia Mathematica
11. Funds for this event were secured by Tom Clarke, who spent it huddled in a concrete room in
a post office, which served, along with Four Points, as headquarters for its instigators. Germany
failed to provide the arms needed for it to (*) succeed, and Roger Casement was unable to reach
Eoin MacNeill in time to warn him, leading to a risky raid at Phoenix Park. Led by Patrick Pearse and
James Connelly, FTP, identify this 1916 rebellion by Irish republicans, named for a Christian holiday.
ANSWER: Easter Rising (or Eiri Amach na Casca, in theory)

2

August 2007, Packet 1
12. Distance measurements by Allen Pearson were key in creating it, and in 2007 this scale was
retooled, correcting for variations in structural integrity and applying no upper limit for wind
speed for its highest realized value, (*) five. A value of four is required to destroy well-built
structures, but storms with a value of two will demolish mobile homes. FTP, identify this scale that
measures Tornado strength, named either for its Japanese formulator or for the first letter in his name.
ANSWER: Fujita Scale
13. This poem speaks of “truth’s fiery reflection” which “smiles at the explorer” and of those who
enter “fire drunk/thy sanctum.” Later, the speaker asks if the millions fall before God and if the
world recognizes its creator, and refers to the titular property as (*) “beautiful spark of the Gods”
and “daughter of Elysium.” FTP, identify this ode by Friedrich Schiller, famously set to music in
Beethoven’s 9th symphony.
ANSWER: Ode to Joy
14. This figure fathered the morbid architect Cycnus and a giant noted for his man-eating mares,
Diomedes, both of whom were slain by Heracles. The giants Ephialtes and Otus trapped him in a
jar for a year, and his more famous children include Penthesilea and (*) Hippolyta, queens of the
Amazons. He angered Hephaestus after fathering two children with Aphrodite, Phobos and Deimos.
FTP, identify this counterpart of the Roman Mars, the Greek god of war.
ANSWER: Ares (Mars is at no point correct)
15. They are prone to suffer Aspergillosis and Pebrine, and extracts from 500,000 of them
allowed for the characterization of the first known pheromone, bombykol, named after this
species’ latin name bombyx mori. They are called beondegi when (*) boiled, and their own diet
consists mainly of White Mulberry. However, it is for the single strand that makes up their cocoons that
they are best known. FTP, identify these caterpillars whose fibers were exported from China on a
namesake “road.”
ANSWER: Silkworm
16. In this work, the well-read prostitute Marya dates Nikolai, a social democracy advocate and
brother of one of the protagonists. That protagonist uses a word game to apologize to and win
the heart of his beloved Kitty, while (*) Sergei’s father yells at him over his mother’s suspected
betrayal. The affair of Dolly’s husband mirrors the title figure’s relationship with Count Vronsky, in,
FTP, what Leo Tolstoy novel whose tragic heroine ultimately throws herself under a train?
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
17. Ligand field theory effects are limited due to the strong shielding of their partially filled 4f
orbitals. Their preferred oxidation state is three plus, and their atomic radii tend to be smaller
than expected, an effect known as their namesake “contraction.” Lutetium, ytterbium, (*)
promethium, and cerium are all members of, FTP, what series, which appears above the actinides and is
named for element with symbol La?
ANSWER: Lanthanides

3

August 2007, Packet 1
18. Raymond of Tolouse conceded defeat in one treaty of this name, which ended the Albigensian
Crusade. Another established the Black Sea as a neutral territory and embarrassed Nicholas I
following the Crimean War. Three were signed in a period of (*) five years, with the latter being
signed by David Hartley, John Jay, and Benjamin Franklin in 1783. FTP, identify this city which lends
its names to treaties ending the Seven Years War, the American Revolution, and many, many others.
ANSWER: Treaty/Treaties of Paris
19. This poem’s structure is mirrored in the poet’s later “The Draft Horse,” which uses the
phrase “crack of a broken shaft” in place of the “sweep/of easy wind” but follows the same
AABA/BBCB pattern. The second stanza describes the setting as (*) “between the woods and
frozen lake” and notes that it is “the darkest evening of the year.” FTP, identify this poem which
begins by wondering “whose woods are these I think I know,” penned by Robert Frost.
ANSWER: Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening
20. As governor of Hispania, this man instituted several debt reform laws, perhaps inspired by
his own considerable debt that had been amassed when he was elected Pontifex Maximus and
which was covered by one of his rivals, who had lost at Carrhae. This leader would go on to
defeat (*) Vercingetorix, described in his Commentaries on the Gallic War. Forming the first
triumvirate along with Crassus and Pompey, FTP, name this Roman leader, assassinated by Brutus and
Cassius.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar

4

DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

August 2007
Packet 1:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Identify the following prominent Americans who attended Bowdoin College in Maine during
the 19th century, FTPE:
[10] This American author graduated in 1825, and is famous for works like A Psalm of Life and The
Song of Hiawatha.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
[10] This dark horse candidate took 35 ballots to earn the 1852 Democratic nomination. He met close
friend and biographer Nathaniel Hawthorne at Bowdoin.
ANSWER: Franklin Pierce
[10] This 1850 graduate suffered two humiliating defeats at Chancellorsville and Gettysburg, but
gained fame for his role as commissioner of the Freedmen’s Bureau and for lending his name to a black
university.
ANSWER: Oliver Otis Howard
2. Bonus: Answer the following about a philosophical school, FTPE:
[10] This doctrine, a form of consequentialism, evaluates the merit of an action based on the positive
and negative impact it can have.
ANSWER: Utilitarianism
[10] This famous proponent of Utilitarianism wrote the fittingly titled Utilitarianism. He also wrote
On Liberty.
ANSWER: John Stuart Mill
[10] This man wrote Introduction to the Principles of Morals and is sometimes called the founder of
Utilitarianism.
ANSWER: Jeremy Bentham
3. Bonus: His first name is Mohun, and he strives desperately to escape his domineering Tulsi in-laws.
[10] FTP, identify this Indo-Trinidadian who seeks a house for himself in the title of a 1961 novel.
ANSWER: (Mr.) Mohun Biswas (either name)
[10] This Trinidadian winner of the 2001 Nobel wrote A House for Mr. Biswas, as well as The Enigma
of Arrival and A Bend in the River.
ANSWER: V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad) Naipaul
[10] Naipaul’s A Bend in the River partially serves as a commentary of this novel by a Polish-born
author, in which Marlow searches for the crazed ivory merchant Kurtz.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
4. Bonus: Pencil and paper ready. You will have ten seconds per answer. You are arranging twelve
identical square tiles to form rectangles of different shapes. FTPE:
[10] What is the longest perimeter of rectangle you can make with twelve tiles?
ANSWER: 26 units [a 12x1 rectangle]
[10] What is the shortest perimeter you can make?
ANSWER: 14 units [a 4x3 rectangle]
[10] How long is the diagonal of that rectangle?
ANSWER: 5 units [3-4-5 triangle]
5

August 2007, Packet 1
5. Bonus: Two prominent composers both used the term “pathetique” to title notable compositions.
FTSNOP:
[10,10] Identify those two composers, one of whom created works like The Creatures of Prometheus
and the Eroica symphony, while the other is responsible for works like the Winter Dreams symphony
and the opera The Queen of Spades.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
[5,5] In order, what kind of compositions are the works entitled Pathetique by Beethoven and
Tchaikovsky?
ANSWER: (Piano) Sonata and Symphony (order, of course, matters)
6. Bonus: Answer the following about a famous 1957 novel, FTPE:
[10] The disintegration of antihero Dean Moriarty is central to this work, which takes its narrator Sal
Paradise from California to Mexico to New York, among other places.
ANSWER: On the Road
[10] This author of Big Sur and Visions of Cody wrote the Beat classic On the Road.
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac
[10] Sal’s best friend in On the Road is this man, who represents Allen Ginsberg.
ANSWER: Carlo Marx (either name)
7. Bonus: Identify the following rulers who were (or still are) completely out of their minds, FTPE:
[10] In between beheading subordinates for amusement and various unspeakable acts, this Roman
emperor decided to have his horse Incitatus appointed high priest and consul.
ANSWER: Caligula or Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
[10] According to this man’s official biography, he was born from a rainbow on mount Baekdu despite
numerous photos of his youth in an impoverished Russian fishing village. This North Korean Leader
also kidnapped a South Korean actress to star in his “award-winning” movies.
ANSWER: Kim Jong-Il (prompt on “Kim”)
[10] This architecturally-obsessed Bavarian is fittingly called “the Mad” and reportedly enjoyed
dropping things from his highest towers. On occasion, those things were his own peasants.
ANSWER: Ludwig II “the Mad” of Bavaria
8. Bonus: Identify these 2008 Democratic presidential candidates from comments they probably wish
they could take back, FTPE:
[10] This Delaware senator landed in hot water for claiming that an Indian accent was required to shop
at 7-11 and for referring to Barack Obama as the first mainstream black candidate who was “clean and
a nice-looking guy.”
ANSWER: Joe Biden
[10] During an NAACP debate, this candidate accidentally denounced her opponents as “not serious”
into an open mic. She’s a former first lady.
ANSWER: Hilary Rodham Clinton
[10] Actually, this Alaskan doesn’t have much of anything to take back, mainly because his youtube
video campaigns feature him staring in disturbing silence at the camera for three full minutes then
throwing rocks or starting fires.
ANSWER: Mike Gravel

6

August 2007, Packet 1
9. Bonus: FTPE, given some geographical features, identify the celestial body it is located on:
[10] Olympus Mons
ANSWER: Mars
[10] Maxwell Montes, Isthar Terra
ANSWER: Venus
[10] Gilgamesh Crater
ANSWER: Ganymede
10. Bonus: This work coined the term “conventional wisdom.” FTPE:
[10] Identify this 1958 work of political economy which criticized America for growing income
disparities and the private sector’s rise over the public sector.
ANSWER: The Affluent Society
[10] This Canadian-born economist penned A Short History of Financial Euphoria and The Affluent
Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith
[10] Galbraith wrote The Ambassador’s Journal about his time as ambassador to this country, at the
time led by Indira Gandhi.
ANSWER: India
11. Bonus: This novel ends with Maximilien Morrel paired with Valentine de Villefort and the title
character paired with his servant Haydee. FTPE:
[10] Identify this novel in which the title figure is inspired to his actions by the teachings of Abbe
Faria.
ANSWER: The Count of Monte Cristo
[10] This author of The Two Dianas, The Gold-Thieves, and The Three Musketeers wrote The Count of
Monte Cristo.
ANSWER: Alexandre Dumas, Pere or the Elder
[10] This one-time fiancée of Edmond Dantes ends up living in seclusion in Marseilles, having earlier
married her cousin, Fernando Mondego.
ANSWER: Mercedes Herrera (either name)
12. Bonus: Identify these extremely low areas, FTPE:
[10] Bounded by the Amargosa, Panamint, Sylvania, and Owlshead mountains, this California site
contains the lowest point in North America.
ANSWER: Death Valley
[10] The geological predecessor of this body of water was Lake Lisan. It is often cited as the lowest
point on Earth.
ANSWER: Dead Sea or Sea of Salt
[10] This point northeast of Fais Island is the lowest point of the oceans, and is thus also the lowest
point of the Marianas Trench.
ANSWER: Challenger Deep

7

August 2007, Packet 1
13. Bonus: They are double displacement reactions in which a salt and water are created. FTPE:
[10] Identify this kind of reaction that occurs when equal amounts of a base and an acid react with one
another.
ANSWER: Neutralization Reaction
[10] Analysis of the enthalpy and other properties of neutralization reactions is usually achieved by
using this kind of device that measures the heat of chemical reactions. Types include constant pressure
and bomb.
ANSWER: Calorimeter
[10] When a weak acid is used in a neutralization reaction, the reaction is classified as this type in
which the free energy change is positive.
ANSWER: Endothermic or Endergonic or Unfavorable or Nonspontaneous
14. Bonus: James Walker, Green Clay Smith, and Samuel Cary all ran in this election. FTSNOP:
[10] Identify this 19th century election which was followed by a noted “compromise” that ended
reconstruction.
ANSWER: Election of 1876
[5,5] These two men fronted the Democratic and Republican parties, respectively. One won the
popular vote, but the other won the election.
ANSWER: Samuel J. Tilden and Rutherford B. Hayes
[10] In this state, a controversy over ballot design erupted, with the state’s then four electoral votes
going to Hayes. It wasn’t the last time this state had that problem.
ANSWER: Florida
15. Bonus: Identify these Socratic dialogues, FTPE:
[10] Erixymachus, Pausanius, and Agathon discuss the nature of brotherly and erotic love over dinner
in Athens.
ANSWER: Symposium
[10] The title figure of this dialogue warns Socrates that a ship is coming from Delos, and tells him that
he will finance his escape from prison. Socrates refuses.
ANSWER: Crito
[10] This best-known work of Plato features the famous Allegory of the Cave, as well as discussing the
titular ideal society.
ANSWER: The Republic
16. Bonus: Identify the following athletes who suffered head injuries in ways not usually associated
with their sport, FTPE:
[10] Kermit Washington punched this Croatian Houston Rocket during a brawl in 1977, causing him to
taste his own cerebrospinal fluid.
ANSWER: Rudy Tomjanovich
[10] Perhaps inspired by Kellen Winslow, this current Pittsburgh Steeler crashed his Suzuki Hayabusa
while driving with an expired license and not wearing a helmet, resulting in numerous parts of face
being broken.
ANSWER: Ben Roethlisberger
[10] This man, who returned to boxing after preacher Benny Hinn “healed” his heart condition,
famously had two square centimeters of earlobe not so surgically removed by Mike Tyson in 1997.
ANSWER: Evander Holyfield
8

August 2007, Packet 1
17. Bonus: Name the British author from characters, F15PE, or from works, FTPE:
[15] Edward Ashburnham, John Dowell, Christopher Tietjens.
[10] Parade’s End, The Good Soldier.
ANSWER: Ford Maddox Ford
[15] Henry Esmond, Miss Pinkerton, Amelia Sedley.
[10] Pendennis, The Newcomes, Vanity Fair.
ANSWER: William Makepeace Thackeray
18. Bonus: Identify the following Chinese dynasties, FTPE:
[10] Han Feizei’s Legalist teachings rose to prominence under Commissioner Li Si and its famous first
emperor, who began the Great Wall and filled his tomb with terracotta warriors.
ANSWER: Qin
[10] It followed the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms era, and brought stability by issuing paper
currency. It was challenged by Wang Anshi (Aww-jah) and later by the Mongols, who toppled it.
ANSWER: Song
[10] The Xuande, Yongle, and Hongwu emperors were among the rulers of this last ethnically Han
dynasty that overthrew the Yuan and preceded the Manchu. It is also known for its pottery.
ANSWER: Ming
19. Bonus: Supply the words missing in the following descriptions of famous works of art, FTPE:
[10] A sign above three men and a woman in red in Edward Hopper’s Nighthawks proclaims these
cigars are available for only five cents.
ANSWER: Phillies
[10] This name is scrawled above the date “1917” on the corner of Marcel Duchamp’s Fountain. Hint:
It’s not “Marcel Duchamp.”
ANSWER: R. Mutt
[10] The first and last name of the sculptor is scratched into Mary’s sash next to “Florentine, made it”
in the Pieta that was supposedly rumored to have been done by another man.
ANSWER: Michaelangelo Buonarroti (prompt on partial answer)
20. Bonus: Name these terms from evolutionary biology, FTPE:
[10] Darwin coined this two-word term for the process by which the most heritable traits are passed on,
since the most fit members of a species are more likely to reproduce.
ANSWER: Natural Selection
[10] In contrast with natural selection, gene changes due to chance rather than advantage over
environment or competitors characterize this phenomenon.
ANSWER: Genetic Drift
[10] Genetic drift is most influential when a population undergoes this effect, the removal of a
substantial portion of a population’s gene pool, which results in greatly diminished sample size.
ANSWER: Bottleneck Effect

9

