TOSSUPS -BACKUP ROUND

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

1.
In the last hours of John Adams' administration, a new Justice of the Peace for the District of Columbia
was appointed. Jefferson tried to void this appointment, but a writ of mandamus was requested in an attempt to
override Jefferson's decision. In 1803 the Supreme Court ruled the law governing that writ was
unconstitutional. FTP, name this case in which John Marshall began the concept of judicial review.
Answer: Marbury v. Madison
2.
Johnsy is a young woman seriously ill with pneumonia. Her artist neighbor Behrman realizes she's
convinced she'll die soon and obsessed with a fading ivy vine on the wall outside her window. To give her
hope, he paints an illusion which helps her recover - but he catches pneumonia and dies instead. FTP this
describes what short story by O. Henry?
"The Last Leaf'
Answer:
3.
With his associate Lindemann he developed a special calorimeter to determine heat capacities at low
temperatures, leading to key advances in quantum theory. He made important contributions to the
understanding of ionic hydration, electrochemical cells, and the idea of buffer solutions. He formulated a law of
diffusion of electrolytes and another relating equilibrium concentrations of a solute distributed between
immiscible liquid phases, the latter of which formed the basis for modern techniques of solvent extraction. FTP
name this German physical chemist, whose heat theorem became synonymous with the Third Law of
Thermodynamics.
Answer:
Hermann Walther Nernst
4.
Because of its great size and its innovative use of glass and iron in prefabricated units, it was a milestone
in the development of modern architecture. After the exhibition closed, the prefabricated building was
dismantled and then reconstructed at Sydenham in South London. For ten points, name this famous exhibition
hall designed by Sir Joseph Paxton for the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London.
Answer: Crystal Palace
5.
Computation Tossup: You have a sphere with a diameter of 6 units. FTP, in terms of pi, what is its
volume? (READER: Allow 10 seconds before calling time)
Answer: 64 pi units cubed
6.
For a while, oddly, Chicago was trying to bring this team to their city. It appears that New Orleans and
Louisville have lost out on a chance to lure them to their city. It now seems that Memphis will be home to this
NBA franchise whose most memorable players are Mike Bibby and Sharif Abdur-Raheem. FTP, name this
team currently still in Vancouver.
Answer: Grizzlies (prompt on: Vancouver)
7.
Nikolay Ostrovsky's How the Steel was Tempered is one example of this state-mandated literary style
that writers were obligated to follow in the former Soviet Union. FTP, in what literary style did all works
display the steady progress of Soviet society toward achieving the goals of socialism?
Answer: socialist realism
8.
In this agreement many countries pledged to work for increased cooperation in economics,
peacekeeping, and the promotion of human rights. Every Europec,m nation except Albania and Andora, plus
Canada, Cyprus, and the United States, signed the agreement in 1975 at the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe. FTP, name the agreement which bears the name of Finland's capital.
Answer: Helsinki Agreement or Helsinki Accords

9.
There are effective vaccinations for this disease, but still no treatment for infected organisms. Victims
of this disease often develop a characteristic smacking of the lips as well as painful blisters on the tongue and
between the toes. Horses are immune, but sheep and swine are susceptible. FTP, name this highly-contagious
disease, a current outbreak of which is hindering European economy.
Answer: foot and mouth disease or hoof and mouth disease or aftosa (prompt on fmd)
10.
This goddess set fire to Aeneas' fleet, and was prepared Hera's bath every night. The sister of the
Harpies, she is portrayed as a normal-looking goddess in a long tunic, and she occasionally dons winged
sandals. FTP, name this Greek messenger goddess, personified as the rainbow, and whose name now describes
a portion of the eye.
Answer: Iris
11.
First performed at a December 22 nd , 1808 concert in Vienna, its composer once described this symphony
as "Fate Knocking on the Door." The BBC played the opening notes of this symphony every day during World
War II, and because of its theme's similarity to the Morse code letter "V" it came to symbolize "Victory." FTP,
name this Beethoven symphony noted for its four-note theme, roughly Ta-ta-ta-daaaa.
Answer: Beethoven's Fifth Symphony (don't require the name Beethoven after it's been read)
12.
This author wandered through Europe, supporting himself by playing the flute and by begging. Later, he
practiced medicine, taught school, wrote the gently satiric The Citizen of the World and the melancholy poem
"The Deserted Village." FTP, name the Anglo-Irish author best known for the witty comedy She Stoops to
Conquer and the novel The Vicar of Wakefield.
Answer: Oliver Goldsmith
13.
These two objects appear near the south celestial pole and are separated by approximately 22 degrees.
The larger spans about five degrees, while the smaller is less than two degrees across. Because both contain
many young stars and star clusters, they are valuable for astronomical research. FTP, identify this pair of
satellite galaxies named for a Portuguese navigator.
Answer: Magellanic Clouds
14.
One myth regarding him is that Apollo was simply punishing him for disobeying a divine command.
Another myth is that Athena or Poseidon punished him for damaging a gift. He died when two great seaserpents suddenly arrived and crushed him and his two sons to death. FTP, name this priest of Poseidon who
warned against accepting the Trojan Horse.
Answer: Laocoon (lay-AH-co-wan)
15.
Put forward in its namesake's seventh annual address to the Congress of the United States, it was
interpreted by Presidents Polk and Tyler to justify westward expansion. Originally drafted by Secretary of State
John Quincy Adams, FTP, what 1823 policy position became one of the foundations of U.S. policy in Latin
America?
Answer: Monroe Doctrine
16.
In its early form, membership was restricted to those who were regenerated, or spiritually reborn,
through a personal experience of conversion. The local church was constituted by a membership agreement
called a covenant, and the church had the authority to choose its own leaders and discipline its own members.
For ten points, what form of local church government is similar to Unitarianism and takes its name from the
church's parishioners?
Answer: congregationalism

17.
The 1758 "Conspiracy of the Tavoras" attempted to remove this nation's unpopular dictator, the marquis
of Pombal, who was ruling in the stead of King Joseph 1. In 1801 the country waged the unsuccessful "War of
the Oranges" with its eastern neighbor. FTP, what country was hit with the triple whammy of fire, a flooding
Tagus river, and an earthquake in Lisbon in 1755?
Answer: Portugal
18.
Hair, The Flood, Because He Liked to Look at It, I Asked a Six Year Old Girl, and I Was There in the
Room are some of its subsections. For the sake of thoroughness, writer Eve Ensler interviewed over 200
women while researching for this play. FTP, name this feminist theatre sensation that has boasted celebrity
performers such as Calista Flockhart, Claire Danes, Donna Hanover, and Ricki Lake.
Answer: The Vagina Monologues
19.
This physicist developed an airtight gondola in 1932, which he attached to a hydrogen filled balloon and
used to ascend to a height of 53,152 feet. In 1952 went in the opposite direction and descended 10,300 feet in
the Mediterranean Sea in a bathyscaph he had designed. FTP, identify this man whose name is nearly identical
to that of a commander of the Enterprise.
Answer: Auguste Piccard
20.
This ruler was responsible for the most executions of any English monarch - over 72,000. Two of them
were his own spouses. For ten points, name the English king given the title defender of the faith who later
broke with the church over an annulment to his second wife.
Answer: Henry VIn
21.
It is fed by the Bear, Jordan, and Weber rivers and lies near the base of the Wasatch Mountains. It has
recently increased in size somewhat, but its salinity has remained near constant. FTP, what is this large lake in
Utah?
Answer: Great Salt Lake
22.
This book ofthe Bible is named after a Jewish hero who lived during the early 600's B.C. It was used
by the Maccabees to inspire a revolt against Antiochus IV in 160 B.C. It tells the story of the interpretation of
the writing on the wall at Belteshazzar's feast and, FTP, goes on to relate the night the title character spent in
the lion's den.
Answer: Daniel
23.
Among the losing nominees for this certain year's best picture were 0/ Mice and Men, Love Affair, Dark
Victory, Goodbye Mr. Chips, and Wuthering Heights. Other nominees for this year were Ninotchka,
Stagecoach, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, and The Wizard o/Oz. FTP, name this year for which Gone With
The Wind won Best Picture.
Answer: 1939
24.
Two offshoots of this line that fell from power were the "Bayreuth" and "Ansbach" lines. The main line
descends from Sophie Charlotte of Hanover, who married the Elector of Brandenburg, Frederick 1. FTP, name
this Prussian dynastic house.
Answer: Hohenzollern

BONI - BACKUP ROUND

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

1.
FTP each, name these Roman-era authors:
This Stoic was a tragedian and author of several moral essays including On the Happy Life.
Answer: Seneca
His epic poem, De Rerum Natura, was a treatise on Epicureanism.
Answer: Lucretius
This Christian philosopher's major work was titled The City a/God.
Answer: St. Augustine
2.
Not very many brothers direct movies together. Give the shared surname of the co-directors of these
films FTPE:
Dumb and Dumber and There's Something About Mary
Answer: Farrelly
Airplane and The Naked Gun (both with a 3rd collaborator, Jim Abrahams)
Answer: Zucker [extra style points ifthey say Brothers Zucker]
Raising Arizona and (it figures) 0 Brother, Where Art Thou?
Answer: Coen
3.
FTP each, answer these questions about unification theories.
This is the theory constructed in large part by Mitchell Feigenbaum, but which is popularly attributed to James
Gleick, who wrote a book about it.
Answer: chaos theory
This is a weather-related effect of chaos theory, which demonstrates how weather is unpredictable in the longterm, because the weather system is sensitive to initial conditions, and that a small change can lead to, say, a
tornado halfway around the world.
Answer: butterfly effect
He is the meteorologist that discovered the "butterfly effect" and also discovered the pattern now known as the
"strange attractor."
Answer: Edward Lorenz
4.
For ten points each, name these gatherings from American history.
Ben Franklin proposed a plan for colonial union at this 1754 meeting.
Answer: Albany Congress
Called by New England Federalists in late 1814, this gathering of those opposed to the War of 1812 lost its
steam when the U.S. won the war.
Answer: Hartford Convention
The Chicago Seven were charged with conspiracy to cross state lines and incite riots at the Democratic National
Convention in Chicago in what year?
Answer: 1968
5.
Name the authors of the New York Times bestsellers FTP each.
Non-Fiction: An Hour Before Daylight.
ANSWER: Jimmy Carter
Fiction: A Painted House.
ANSWER: John Grisham
Paperback Fiction: We Were the Mulvaneys.
ANSWER: Joyce Carol Oates

6. Answer these computational problems FTP each. (READER: allow 15 seconds per part before calling time)
Find the integral of cos(2x).
Answer: 1/2*sin (2x)
Find all possible solutions of x2+4=0
Answer: 2i and -2i
This is the total number of opening moves for white in chess.
Answer: 20
7.
FTP each, name the constellations in which these stars appear.
Sirius
Answer: Canis Major (Accept: Greater Dog)
The Pleaides
Answer: Taurus (Accept: Bull)
Betelgeuse
Answer: Orion
8.
The 60's were wild times - the 1860's, that is. Answer the following questions about the decade FTP
each.
After freeing the serfs in 1861, this Czar called himself a greater emancipator than Lincoln.
Answer: Alexander II or Alexander the Great
The compromise of 1867 set up this central-European dual monarchy.
Answer: Austria-Hungary or the Austro-Hungarian Empire
Prussia and Austria allied to invade Denmark in 1864, and soon occupied these two territories.
Answer: Schleswig and Holstein (both required)
9.
Given a "must-have" piece of classical music, name its Romantic composer FTP each.
Andante Spianato & Grande Polonaise
Answer: Frederic Chopin
Enigma Variations
Answer: Edward Elgar
Concerto in D for Piano (also known as the Concerto for the Left Hand) and Bolero
Answer: Maurice Ravel
10.
FTP each, name these Greek deities from their descriptions.
This "most gentle and most terrible" god, son of Semele, would have fit in well in the sixties, being known for
an almost complete lack of restraint.
Answer: Dionysus
Her mother was very sorrowful when her "lover" kidnapped her and took her to his home. Name this goddess,
kidnapped by Hades and who is indirectly responsible for the four seasons of the year.
Answer: Persephone
She was the sister of Apollo, the virgin goddess of the hunt.
Answer: Artemis
11.
Name the painter given a clue FTP apiece.
He painted The Sowers and The Gleaners
Answer: Jean Francois Millet
He lived with Paul Gauguin and cut off his own ear.
Answer: Vincent Van Gogh
This Italian proved his artistic skill to a patron by drawing a perfect circle freehand, and would later paint most
of the Arena Chapel.
Answer: Giotto di Bondone

12.
30,20, 10 name the organ.
30 - A wound to Alexis St. Martin, a soldier at Fr. Mackinac, allowed surgeon William Beaumont to observe
the workings of this organ. In 1838, Beaumont published the results of238 experiments he performed on St.
Martin.
20 - Its interior subdivisions include the cardia, the fundus, the intermediate region, and the pylorus.
10 - It is connected, via the pyloric sphincter, to the small intestine.
Answer: stomach
13.
Gen. James Shields is the only person to serve in the U.S. Senate from 3 different states. Given less
geographically versatile political figures from those states, name the state on a 10-5 basis:
1. (10 pts,) John P. Altgeld, Carol Mosely-Braun, Harold Washington, Paul Simon
(5 pts.) Richard Daley Jr., Adlai Stevenson
Answer: Illinois
1. (10 pts,) Thomas Hart Benton, Stuart Symington, Christopher Bond, Thomas Pendergast
(5 pts.) Harry Truman
Answer: Missouri
1. (10 pts,) Paul Wellstone, Hubert Humphrey
(5 pts.) Jesse Ventura
Answer: Minnesota
14.
Passover is one of the most important holidays of the Jewish year. Answer these questions on it FTPE:
In Hebrew, Passover is called this.
Answer: Pesach
This family celebration and meal occurs on the first evening of Passover.
Answer: Seder
During the Seder, the tale of the Ten Plagues of Egypt is recounted from this book ofthe Bible.
Answer: Exodus
15.
It developed from a risque type of dance first performed in 1603 by a female dance group in Kyoto.
Now only men are permitted to take roles in this popular form of traditional Japanese theater. For fifteen points
each:
This is the traditional Japanese type of puppet theater.
Answer: bunraku (accept: joruri)
This is a type of drama with vivid costumes and lively, sometimes violent, action.
Answer: kabuki
16.
Answer these related questions about an element, 5-10-15.
5 - This is element number 15.
Answer: phosphorus
10 - This colorful allotrope of phosphorus, which can be ignited by friction, is used as the striking surface of
matchbooks.
Answer: red phosphorus
15 - Another common allotrope of phosphorus, white phosphorus, is a molecular solid with four molecules of
phosphorus positioned in this molecular arrangement.
Answer: tetrahedral
17.
The poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge once identified the 3 works ofliterature that he believed had the best
plots. You may not agree, but can you name these two for 15 points.
The 1610 play by Ben Jonson about a dabbler in the occult sciences
Answer: The Alchemist
The ancient Greek play is the first part of a trilogy about a mythical ruler, and was written by Sophocles
Answer: Oedipus Rex or Oedipus The King

18.
FTP each, name the states of which these are the highest points.
Granite Peak
Answer: Montana
Mt. Elbert
Answer: Colorado
Harney Peak
Answer: South Dakota
19.
Answer the following questions about South African history FTP each.
This tribe, the largest in South Africa, created a small imperial state in the early 19th century under its chief
Shaka.
Answer: Zulu
This is the name, meaning "farmer," that refers to semi-migratory Dutch settlers who tended to favor expansion
into northeastern areas of South Africa.
Answer: Boers (do not accept: Afrikaners)
A small Boer force inflicted huge damages on Zulu warriors under Dingane, Shaka's successor, at this 1838
battle. The battle's name comes from the discoloration of a nearby river caused by the one-sided massacre.
Answer: Blood River
20.
Answer the following questions about a famous boxing rivalry that had six installments for 15 pts each.
Born Walker Smith, this welterweight, middleweight, and light heavyweight champ had a career record of 17319-6 against the likes of Gene Fullmer, Randy Turpin, and Bobo Olson from 1940-65. He is widely considered
the greatest fighter, pound-for-pound, of all time.
Answer: Sugar Ray Robinson
This middleweight, nicknamed the "Raging Bull," won only one of his six bouts against Sugar Ray Robinson.
The last fight, won by Robinson in 13 rounds, is immortalized in a Martin Scorsese/Robert DeNiro film.
Answer: Jake LaMotta
21.
Name these battles of the War of 1812 FTP each.
This Sept. 10, 1813 battle saw Oliver Hazard Perry defeat British forces; his famous message was "We have
met the enemy and they are ours."
Answer: Battle of Lake Erie
This September 13-14, 1814 battle against the defenses of Baltimore was witnessed by Francis Scott Key.
Answer: Battle of Fort McHenry
American forces defeated British forces in Canada in this 1813 battle which also saw the death of Tecumseh.
Answer: Battle of the Thames
22.
When it is twelve o'clock in New York, what time is it, for five points each, in each of the following
cities? Assume standard time.
A. 12:00
a) Detroit
b) EI Paso
A. 10:00
c) Fairbanks
A. 8:00
d) Frankfort, KY
A. 12:00
e) Calgary
A. 10:00
f) Los Angeles
A. 9:00

