2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND 2: (US TO 1815 HISTORY)

1. This battle took place at its location due to the burning of Stoddert's Bridge and the Eastern Branch
Bridge, but Tobias Stansbury's orders to destroy a bridge leading from Lowndes Hill were ignored. A
monument at this battle's site honors Joshua Barney, who was shot in the leg while his Marines were the
only part of the losing side to hold their ground. Robert Ross commanded the winning side, and James
Madison is said to have briefly commanded one battery before William Winder ordered a disorganized
militia retreat that turned into this battle's namesake "races." For the point, name this 1814 British victory
that paved the way for the burning of Washington, D.C.
ANSWER: Battle of Bladensburg
003-12-58-20101

2. The first building in this city was designed by Cryn Fredericks. Settlement of this city was encouraged
by the Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions. William Kieft formed the council of twelve men, a governing
body in this city. This city's site was explored by a man from its founding nation in the ship Half Moon.
Richard Nicolls negotiated this city's cession to the English, after which its first mayor was Thomas Willett.
It was the capital of a colony located northeast of New Sweden. Its notable leaders included Peter Minuit,
who purchased its site for goods worth 60 guilders, and the peg-legged Peter Stuyvesant. For the point,
name this capital of New Netherland that grew into New York City.
ANSWER: New Amsterdam [or Nieuw-Amsterdam; prompt on New York City]
132-12-58-20102

3. This ship had copper fastenings fashioned for it by Paul Revere and was one of the six frigates designed
by Joshua Humphreys for the United States Navy. During one war, this vessel served as the flagship for
Commodore Edward Preble. This ship was later captained by Isaac Hull, under whose command it defeated
the British ship Guerriere during the War of 1812. The lines, "The harpies of the shore shall pluck the
eagle of the sea," appear in a poem written about this ship by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., in 1830, which
advocated for this ship's preservation. For the point, name this frigate known as "Old Ironsides" and named
for a certain legal document.
ANSWER: USS Constitution [or "Old Ironsides" before it is read]
014-12-58-20103

4. This man published his political views in a newspaper called the Independent Advertiser. After his
father's death, this man faced several lawsuits over the collapse of a land bank. At a town meeting, this man
wrote a resolution attempting to convince the captain of the Dartmouth not to unload his cargo. This man
was among the first to attack taxation without representation in his writing against the Sugar Act. This man
authored a circular letter asking other colonies to resist the Townshend Acts and was a driving force behind
the creation of committees of correspondence. For the point, name this Sons of Liberty member and cousin
of the second President of the United States.
ANSWER: Samuel Adams [prompt on Adams]
105-12-58-20104
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 1 of 10

5. Home to a feature known as Woodhenge, many objects found at this site bear a characteristic circle and
cross motif typical of the culture to which it belonged. Its Grand Plaza was surrounded by a palisade, which
also enclosed a structure named after the monks that inhabited it after it was abandoned in the fourteenth
century. A large complex of mounds, it is the largest site associated with the Mississippian Culture of
Native Americans. For the point, name this archaeological site found near St. Louis in Illinois.
ANSWER: Cahokia
040-12-58-20105

6. One account of this man's life was written by shopkeeper "Consider Tiffany," who said this figure was
captured by Robert Rogers. The most famous stories about him were spread by General William Hull. This
man's most famous saying may actually be a quotation from Joseph Addison's play Cato. The uncle of
orator Edward Everett, he worked as a schoolteacher in New London, Connecticut. This man volunteered
for his most notable action during the Battle of Long Island and he was interrogated by General William
Howe before his execution. For the point, name this Revolutionary War soldier who, before being hung by
the British, purportedly said "I only regret that I have but one life to give for my country."
ANSWER: Nathan Hale
052-12-58-20106

7. Many of the sick at this location were treated at Yellow Springs under the care of the hospital director
Bodo Otto. In the spring, Christopher Ludwig arrived here to ensure men would get their daily pound of
bread. Men came to this location after the Battle of White Marsh. Conditions improved here after
Nathanael Greene took over as quartermaster. One figure arrived at this site with a letter of introduction
from Benjamin Franklin. That man was the Prussian Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben, who carried out a
training program here. This location was where 2,500 soldiers died during a brutal winter. For the point,
name this military camp where the Continental Army spent the winter of 1777-1778.
ANSWER: Valley Forge
052-12-58-20107

8. In response to this legislation, the Loyal Nine organized processions that devolved into rioting. In
another response to this act, a boot with a green sole was placed in a tree next to an effigy of Andrew
Oliver. Ebenezer McIntosh led a mob that took axes to Governor Thomas Hutchinson's house in response
to it. Its eventual repeal was matched with the Declaratory Act. A "Declaration of Rights and Grievances"
was issued responding to it by a namesake "congress" featuring delegates from nine colonies. This act was
meant to provide funds that England had lost during the Seven Years' War, but provoked indignation in the
colonies. For the point, name this act that imposed a tax on paper goods.
ANSWER: Stamp Act of 1765
080-12-58-20108

9. During the Battle of Trenton, this man's company prevented Lord Cornwallis' troops from crossing the
Raritan River. This man defended Loyalists sued under the Trespass Act. This man signed the Constitution
as an individual rather than as a representative of his state. This cabinet member made a deal with the
Secretary of State in order to get the taxation and assumption of debt he called for passed, though he
advised British officials to beware of Jefferson's attachment to France. He argued for the development of
industry in his Report on Manufactures. This man wrote the majority of the Federalist Papers. For the point,
name this first US Secretary of the Treasury, who was killed in a duel by Aaron Burr.
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton
105-12-58-20109

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 2 of 10

10. This battle was fought largely along the Maumee River; at its end, one side retreated to a fort but was
refused entry by the British. This battle was the culmination of a conflict that saw forces under Arthur St.
Clair massacred. Prior to this battle, a group partially led by Little Turtle decided not to attack Fort
Recovery, since the opposing commander "never sleeps." A confederacy dominated by Buckongahelas and
Blue Jacket was defeated at this battle, which led to the Treaty of Greenville granting much of Ohio to the
United States. For the point, name this 1794 victory for "Mad" Anthony Wayne over a Native American
force that tried to defend themselves behind a group of dislodged trees.
ANSWER: Battle of Fallen Timbers
064-12-58-20110

11. This man tells the title entity of one work, "if nothing once, you nothing lose, / for when you die you
are the same." That work by this man lamenting "the frail duration of a flower" is "The Wild
Honey-suckle". The speaker of another poem by this man observes a place where the inhabitants "do not
lie, but here they sit" while still "in habit for the chase array’d." This author recorded an experience during
which he nearly died after spending six weeks on a British prison ship. For the point, name this "poet of the
American Revolution" who also wrote "The Indian Burying Ground".
ANSWER: Philip Freneau
105-12-58-20111

12. One supporter of this treaty defended its signer in articles under the pseudonym Camillus. It established
a commission that defined one border at the St. Croix River and called for one side to withdraw troops from
forts in the Northwest Territory. Another section of this treaty allowed Native Americans to freely travel
and trade with the U.S. and British Canada. The Monroe-Pinckney Treaty of 1806 was a failed attempt to
renew this treaty, which created a split between Federalists and Republicans and helped settle differences
leftover from the 1783 Treaty of Paris. For the point, name this 1794 treaty that normalized trade between
the U.S. and Great Britain, named for the first U.S. Chief Justice.
ANSWER: Jay's Treaty [or Treaty of London of 1794]
064-12-58-20112

13. This individual was killed by Indians in Kieft's War. One of this figure's followers, Mary Dyer, was
later hanged as one of the Boston martyrs. This figure believed in a "covenant of grace" and thought that
only John Cotton and John Wheelwright were qualified to minister in her community, while arguing that
other ministers preached a "covenant of works." This woman was tried in 1637 by a court led by John
Winthrop on the charge of "traducing the ministers," after which she was banished to Rhode Island. For the
point, identify this Puritan woman exiled from the Massachusetts Bay Colony for her religious convictions
in the Antinomian controversy.
ANSWER: Anne Hutchinson
126-12-58-20113

14. This artist showed Cupid holding a lion, horse, and eagle bound in his Omnia Vincit Amor. Anticipating
the Romantic movement, he showed two dead doves lying next to a decapitated snake in a work wherein
the crowned title character, holding lightning in each hand, leads a train of monsters against cowering
humans. This second head of the Royal Academy was one of the first history painters to portray his
subjects in contemporary, rather than classical, dress. The artist of Death on a Pale Horse, he showed an
Indian sitting in contemplation as British soldiers assist the title general at the Battle of the Plains of
Abraham. For the point, name this artist of The Death of General Wolfe.
ANSWER: Benjamin West
080-12-58-20114

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 3 of 10

15. This man is the namesake of three failed states: one that would have joined Lincoln and Matagorda as
states carved out of Texas, one that attempted to secede from California and Oregon in 1941, and one that
eventually became the Colorado Territory instead. He is the namesake of the rock at the top of the Stone
Steps in Harpers Ferry. An Alabama county named after him overtook Orange County for the biggest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history. The oldest building of the Library of Congress is named after this
man, who sold his book collection to start the library. A National Expansion Monument named after him
contains the Gateway Arch. For the point, give this namesake of the capital of Missouri.
ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson
003-12-58-20115

16. One song about this battle states "tis not often you see a hunter from Kentucky," despite the fact that the
Kentucky militiamen fled from an assault led by Colonel Thornton. After this battle, Admiral Cochrane
captured Fort Bowyer and one side laid siege to Fort St. Philip. Following this battle, over 200 ex-slaves
were taken to Bermuda by General Lambert. Much of this battle was fought on the Chalmette plantation
with the aid of the Laffite brothers. Prior to this battle, a treaty negotiated by Castlereagh (castle-ray) was
signed that ended the war of which this battle was a part. For the point, name this victory for Andrew
Jackson and last major engagement of the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans
149-12-58-20116

17. This work begins by citing Deuteronomy 32:35, noting that “Their foot shall slide in due time” and
continues the theme by noting in Psalms 73:18 “Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst
them down into destruction.” The author of this work goes on to say that “There is nothing that keeps
wicked men, at any one moment, out of hell, but the mere pleasure of God.” Containing a list of ten
considerations of the, it was first delivered to the congregation at Enfield, Massachusetts in July 1741, and
it expresses the weight of sin, the wrath of God and the unexpectedness of the moment of judgment. For the
point, name this sermon from the “Great Awakening” written by Jonathan Edwards.
ANSWER: “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God”
147-12-58-20117

18. One secondary cause of this event was the proposal to build nine expensive frontier forts at taxpayer
expense. A primary cause was a squabble arising from the theft of Thomas Mathew's hogs. In response to
this event, the crown sent Herbert Jeffreys with 1000 soldiers to take control. A "Declaration of the People"
was issued by the leader of this event, whose sudden death from dysentery ended its momentum. The leader
of this event burned Jamestown and attacked the innocent Pamunkey tribe in response to Governor William
Berkeley's nonviolent stance towards Native Americans. For the point, name this uprising of poor whites
and slaves in seventeenth century Virginia.
ANSWER: Bacon's Rebellion
080-12-58-20118

19. After one of this general's victories, he sent his aide James Wilkinson to tell Congress, but Wilkinson
instead played up his own heroism. At one battle, this man got into a shouting match with Benedict Arnold
and relieved him of command. He was used as a stalking horse to replace George Washington by the
Conway Cabal. Known as "Granny," this man avoided court-martial but was blasted for his strategic errors
in the loss at the Battle of Camden, which ended his time commanding Continental forces in the South. At
one victory, this man's troops fought at Bemis Heights and Freeman's Farm against John Burgoyne in
upstate New York. For the point, name this American general who won the Battle of Saratoga.
ANSWER: Horatio Lloyd Gates
052-12-58-20119

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 4 of 10

20. This man's son had an affair with Theresa Bagioli, after which he was shot by jealous representative
and insanity-defense-pioneer Daniel Sickles. This man was sent to Fort Mitchell to mediate a dispute
between Alabama governor John Gayle and the federal government. This brother-in-law of Roger Taney
prosecuted Richard Lawrence, the would-be assassin of Andrew Jackson. This man, along with John
Skinner, attempted to negotiate the release of Dr. William Beanes, but the captain of the HMS Tonnant
refused to allow him to leave, meaning that he could do nothing but watch the Battle of Baltimore. For the
point, name this man who was inspired by the bombing of Fort McHenry to write "The Star-Spangled
Banner."
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key
048-12-58-20120

21. This event was triggered by the passage of a law requiring men to carry firearms to church on Sundays
called the Security Act. This event included a battle at the Edisto River, where most of the participants
were killed. Lieutenant Governor William Bull wrote an eyewitness account of this event in a letter to the
Royal Council. The participants in this event, led by a man named Jemmy, probably intended to flee to
Saint Augustine to obtain their freedom from the Spanish colonists in Florida. This uprising prompted the
passage of the restrictive Negro Act of 1740. For the point, name this 1739 slave rebellion named for a
river in South Carolina.
ANSWER: Stono Rebellion
014-12-58-20121

22. This man negotiated the Articles of Peace and Commerce with a group led by Mary Musgrove of the
Yamacraw tribe. In his later career, this man was court martialed for not thoroughly pursuing a Jacobite
force following a skirmish at Shap Fell during the 1745 uprising. This man successfully repelled a Spanish
invasion at the Battle of Bloody Marsh and earlier led an unsuccessful siege of St. Augustine during the
War of Jenkins' Ear. Earlier, this man led a commission that investigated the horrible condition of debtor
prisons, leading him to establish a new colony centered at Savannah. For the point, name this British
general and reformer who founded the colony of Georgia.
ANSWER: James Oglethorpe
064-12-58-20122

23. This man killed one of his crewmen, William Moore, with a bucket for telling him to attack a Dutch
ship. Much of this man's crew was impressed into the navy after, rather than saluting a warship, his crew
collectively mooned it. Sailing on the Adventure Galley, this man captured the Armenian Ship Quedagh
Merchant, which actually had an English captain. Because of that scandal, this man's sponsor, the colonial
Governor Bellomont, betrayed him to the English authorities who hanged him. For the point, name this late
seventeenth century Scottish pirate, whose buried treasure is the subject of "The Gold Bug."
ANSWER: William Kidd
080-12-58-20123

24. In a historical scene painted by this man, a commander on one side refuses to take a surrendering
officer's sword and instead directs him to his tent. This man painted a work in which the dying Spanish
officer Don Jose de Barboza is aided by a group of British officers following his failed sortie on the
Gibraltar garrison. In another work, a group of men in coonskin hats stand in front of a mortally wounded
Richard Montgomery. In one work by this man, a group including Roger Sherman, John Adams, and
Thomas Jefferson stand at a table in front of a seated John Hancock. That painting can be found on the two
dollar bill. For the point, name this contemporary of Gilbert Stuart whose paintings include Declaration of
Independence.
ANSWER: John Trumbull
064-12-58-20124
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 5 of 10

25. During this battle, a series of assaults by Mordecai Gist's troops near the Old Stone House led to the
repulse of a flanking maneuver. Prior to this battle, one side skirted the Jamaica Pass by taking the
Rockaway Foot Path after bribing an innkeeper. The forces of William Howe decided not to pursue their
enemies through marshy grounds, instead resorting to dig trenches and prepare for a siege. George
Washington, realizing he was trapped on the Brooklyn Heights, decided to evacuate his army across the
East River during a nighttime bout of fog. This battle was the largest of the Revolutionary War. For the
point, identify this 1776 battle named for an island that led to the British capture of New York City.
ANSWER: Battle of Long Island [or Battle of Brooklyn Heights before read]
040-12-58-20125

26. This American location was briefly the home of mining expert Joachim Gans. Simon Fernandez,
possibly on the orders of Sir Francis Walsingham, effectively marooned settlers at this place. Residents of
this location attacked Aquascogoc (ah-qua-sco-gock) for stealing a silver cup, leading to bad blood with the
natives. The original inhabitants here accepted a 1586 offer by Sir Francis Drake to return to England. This
was the location where John White's granddaughter, Virginia Dare, was born. Founded by Sir Walter
Raleigh, this colony was found in 1590 to contain only the word "Croatoan" carved into a post. For the
point, name this colony that mysteriously disappeared from its namesake North Carolina island.
ANSWER: Roanoke Colony
052-12-58-20126

27. Fighting alongside Casimir Pulaski, this man was wounded at Savannah during the Revolutionary War.
He was replaced by Andrew Ellicot in his most important position. After the war, he designed the Bald
Eagle insignia of the Society of the Cincinnati. I. M. Pei designed a “plaza” named for this man, which
included the now demolished Forrestal Building. He was employed by the 1791 Residence Act and
proposed that north-south streets be named after numbers, east south streets be named after letters, and
diagonal streets be named after states of the union. His plan for a “grand avenue” became the National
Mall. For the point, name this Frenchman who created the original plan for Washington D.C.
ANSWER: Pierre Charles L'Enfant
015-12-58-20127

28. This figure was responsible for "a voice in the darkness, a knock at the door, / And a word that shall
echo for evermore!" In the poem in which he appears, this man's friend climbs the tower of the Old North
Church, and he crosses the bridge into Medford town at twelve o'clock. Although "hardly a man is now
alive / who remembers that famous day and year," this man participated in an event "on the eighteenth of
April, eighteen-seventy-five" in which he waited for lights in the belfry arch, "one if by land, two if by
sea." For the point, identify this New England silversmith who loudly warned the people of Lexington and
Concord that the British were coming in a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
ANSWER: Paul Revere [or "Paul Revere's Ride"; or "The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere"]
126-12-58-20128

29. Several participants in this meeting were accused traitors called "blue lights." One attendee,
Massachusetts Governor Caleb Strong, went on a secret mission to cede the state of Maine. Theodore
Dwight was the secretary of this meeting, which was the subject of William Charles' "LEAP OR NO
LEAP" political cartoon. George Cabot presided over this meeting, which was attended by the strongly
pro-secession Essex Junto. Attendees considered disallowing the election of consecutive Presidents from
the same state, as well as ending the three-fifths compromise. For the point, name this meeting of the
Federalist Party during the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Hartford Convention
079-12-58-20129

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 6 of 10

30. Some members of this immigrant group went back to their homeland as "newlanders" to convince their
countrymen to emigrate. Members of this immigrant group came to the colonies as most of the better-off
indentured servants called "redemptioners." This immigrant group made up about a third of the population
of Pennsylvania. One member of this immigrant group was defended in court by Andrew Hamilton after he
was accused of libeling Governor William Cosby. For the point, John Peter Zenger was a member of what
colonial immigrant group, most of whom came from the Rhineland?
ANSWER: German-American immigrants
080-12-58-20130

31. This leader garnered support after the New Madrid Earthquake and his death may have come at the
hands of William Whitley or Richard Mentor Johnson. By making his forces appear larger than they were,
he contributed to William Hull's surrender of Fort Detroit. He traveled to the Vicennes house of William
Henry Harrison to demand a treaty signed at Fort Wayne be rescinded. This leader convinced the Red
Sticks to support him, and he was supported by his brother, the religious leader Tenskwatawa. For the
point, name this leader of the Shawnee who fought the U.S. in the War of 1812 and died during the Battle
of the Thames.
ANSWER: Tecumseh
088-12-58-20131

32. The first portion of this work discusses the outward aspects of a love which is “twofold, outward and
inward,” and presents a series of answers to questions including, “What rule must we observe and walk by
in cause of community of peril?” and “What rule must we observe in forgiving?” This work begins by
elaborating three reasons why God “hath so disposed of the condition of mankind, as in all times some
must be rich, some poor.” This speech famously declares that “the eyes of all people are upon us,”
exhorting its original listeners, a group of New England colonists, to “consider that we shall be as a city
upon a hill.” For the point, name this speech by John Winthrop.
ANSWER: “A Model of Christian Charity” [or “City upon a Hill” until it is read]
014-12-58-20132

33. This man entered into a bitter land dispute with Joseph Plumb Martin, and William Bingham bought a
tract of land from him in Maine. He ordered Josiah Harmar to lead an expedition against Little Turtle
during the Northwest Indian War. This man owned a bookstore in Boston before joining the Revolutionary
War cause and he originated the idea of the Society of the Cincinnati. In his highest post, this man
established the Springfield Armory. He used oxen to transport 60 tons of captured British artillery to
Boston. For the point, name this first United States Secretary of War, the namesake of a Kentucky fort.
ANSWER: Henry Knox
048-12-58-20133

34. This text promotes the establishment of "institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge." According
to this text, "religion and morality are indispensable supports" of political prosperity. After arguing that the
"alternate domination of one faction over another…is frightful despotism," it admits that political parties
may work well under monarchs. It was published in the American Daily Advertiser, and it is read aloud
every February in the Senate. It wonders why we would "entangle our peace and prosperity in the toils of
European ambition" as part of its argument against foreign alliances. For the point, name this final speech
written by the first President.
ANSWER: George Washington's Farewell Address
079-12-58-20134

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 7 of 10

35. This man's father attributed authorship of the pamphlet "Common Sense" to Samuel Adams. He
married a daughter of Postmaster General Samuel Osgood after his first wife, a daughter of George Clinton,
died. After his ship, the Embuscade, was blown off course, he landed in Charleston before going to
Philadelphia. Alexander Hamilton noted eleven improprieties of this man in "Notes Concerning the
Conduct of the French Minister." For the point, name this French ambassador who, in violation of the
Neutrality Proclamation, commissioned four American privateers against Britain.
ANSWER: Citizen Genêt [or Edmond-Charles Genêt]
003-12-58-20135

36. This artist portrayed George Augustus Eliott on horseback pointing to the left as a Spanish ship burns in
the background in his massive canvas, The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar, September 1782.
His Head of a Negro was one of the first realistic portraits of a black man. In another of his paintings, the
title figure dangles a gold chain which the title pet holds to its mouth. This painter of Boy with a Squirrel
also depicted Havana harbor in a work in which two men reach out to the nude title figure as a third man
thrusts a spear at the title attacking animal. For the point, name this American painter of Watson and the
Shark.
ANSWER: John Singleton Copley
014-12-58-20136

37. Ferdinand Kürnberger satirized one of this man's works as a “confession of faith” for Americans. The
narrator in one work by him recounts hearing a sermon by Father Abraham that constantly quotes the
narrator's own words. That essay is “The Way to Wealth.” Max Weber compared this man's conception of
earning money to Jacob Fugger's, using the philosophy behind his work as an example of the Protestant
ethic. Letters written by this man were originally published in the New-England Courant, operated by his
brother James, and were supposedly from the widow Silence Dogood. Another work published annually
contained astronomical information and aphorisms such as “one today is worth two tomorrow.” For the
point, name this author of Poor Richard's Almanack.
ANSWER: Benjamin Franklin
121-12-58-20137

38. After his most famous action, this man travelled to England with his crony Kenelm Cheseldyne to
defend himself. This man was scandalized by his association with Josias Fendall, with whom he plotted at
the house of his co-conspirator William Blackiston. Blackiston succeeded this man as governor of one
colony. Virginia's governor Francis Nicholson refused to recognize the government of this man. In the
aftermath of his rebellion, he was treated with greater lenience than his historical counterpart in New York,
Jacob Leisler. For the point, name this man who responded to the Glorious Revolution by overthrowing the
colonial government of Maryland.
ANSWER: John Coode
014-12-58-20138

39. One speech by this man predicted "upbraidings" by those present if certain "injunctions" were violated.
Another speech described an idea that was "deeply, perhaps finally, staked on the experiment entrusted to
the hands of the American people." After another speech, this man attempted to read a letter but had to put
on his glasses, announcing "I have not only grown gray but almost blind in the service of my country." That
speech quelled the Newburgh Conspiracy. This man set a precedent after he took the oath of office from
Robert Livingston by deciding to give a speech. For the point, name this man who delivered the first
inaugural address in 1789 before becoming the first President.
ANSWER: George Washington
019-12-58-20139

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 8 of 10

40. A political cartoon made in response to this event shows a "Civic Feast" occurring on the right, while in
the center a five-headed monster speaks to Americans on the left. Discussion of responses to Jay’s Treaty
was on the table when the main action of this event occurred. The Treaty of Mortefontaine settled the war
stemming from this incident. Jean Conrad Hottinguer, Pierre Bellamy, and Lucien Hauteval were the
"namesakes" of this event, and were received by Charles Pinckney, Elbridge Gerry, and John Marshall. The
demand for a loan and a personal bribe to Talleyrand led to this event. For the point, name this alphabetical
scandal involving three French diplomats during the administration of John Adams.
ANSWER: XYZ Affair
127-12-58-20140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 9 of 10

Extra Questions

41. One member of this group gave a sermon during which he stabbed a hollowed out Bible full of berry
juice, claiming slaveholders defiled the Bible with their actions. Besides Benjamin Lay, other abolitionist
members included an author of Some Considerations and a posthumously published journal named John
Woolman. Mary Dyer was one of the three "Boston martyrs" hanged in Massachusetts for practicing this
faith. Roger Williams attacked this faith for allowing women to preach and for their use of "thee" and
"thou" with all people, and saw their claims of an "inner light" as evidence of Satanic influence. For the
point, name this faith practiced by the founders of Pennsylvania.
ANSWER: Quakers [or Society of Friends]
121-12-58-20141

42. This colony was founded partly due to the failure of the Newfoundland's Avalon colony. An army
under Governor William Stone was defeated during the Puritan uprisings here at the Battle of the Severn. A
dispute over the 40th parallel caused some trouble between this colony and its northern neighbor, resulting
in the Cresap's War. George II resolved the dispute by sending two surveyors, Mason and Dixon, to
demarcate a line fifteen miles south of Philadelphia. In 1634, the Ark and the Dove brought the first
colonists to this Province after Charles I granted its charter, hoping to provide a place for Catholics in the
New World. For the point, name the state founded by George Calvert, 1st Lord Baltimore.
ANSWER: Maryland
147-12-58-20142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 2: (US to 1815 History)

Page 10 of 10

