2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 5

BEE ROUND 5
1. An opera centering on this ruler begins with an argument between Fortune, Virtue, and Love about
which has the greatest influence on history. Tchaikovsky disliked Anton Rubinstein's opera about this man,
which ends with Saccus stabbing him shortly before the arrival of Vindex. Monteverdi wrote an opera
about the coronation of this man's mistress Poppea. His rise to power is chronicled in Handel's Agrippina,
which depicts his mother's murder of Claudius. For the point, identify this Roman emperor, operas about
whom usually include a scene where Rome burns.
ANSWER: Nerone
233-13-94-23101

2. During this event, a man denied having read The Exorcist and was also asked by Joe Biden if he
believed that the government had property rights. Prior to this event, Florynce Kennedy remarked that her
group was going to "bork" a certain man, who remarked that he was the victim of a "high-tech lynching for
uppity blacks." During it, Professor Anita Hill testified that she had been sexually harassed. For the point,
name these contentious hearings which ultimately resulted in the narrow confirmation of the second
African-American Supreme Court justice.
ANSWER: Clarence Thomas Supreme Court nomination hearings
052-13-94-23102

3. Members of this religion fought against Imperial Russian troops in the Battles of Dargo and Ghunib
under the leadership of Shamil. Members of this religion from the Ingush area sparked the Beslan hostage
tragedy in 2004. This religion was dominant in the Caucasus and Dagestan when Russia absorbed those
areas over the resistance of local leaders such as Hadji Murad. For the point, identify this religion also
practiced by Aslan Maskhadov-led separatists in Chechnya as well as the former Soviet republics of
Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
ANSWER: Sunni Islam [or Muslims]
019-13-94-23103

4. A man who held this position had earlier made a Christian film with Francis Schaeffer called Whatever
Happened to the Human Race? A woman who held this position in the Clinton administration was
dismissed shortly after saying masturbation should be taught. It was held by Joycelyn Elders and C. Everett
Koop. In 1964, this position was held by Rear Admiral Dr. Luther Leonidas Terry, who concluded that
smoking may be hazardous to one's health. For the point, name this position, the head of the U.S. Public
Health Service Commissioned Corps.
ANSWER: Surgeon General of the United States
052-13-94-23104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 1 of 9

5. During this conflict, the Supreme Court's ruling on the case Mahon v. Justice led to the death of
Cottontop Mounts. The New Year's Massacre occurred during this conflict, which originated when Devil
Anse and his Logan Wildcats murdered Asa Harmon. In this conflict's most gruesome episode, three boys
were tied to pawpaw bushes and shot repeatedly. Fought around the Tug River between 1863 and 1891, it
led to the death of twelve people. For the point, name this feud between a Kentucky and a West Virginia
family.
ANSWER: Hatfield-McCoy feud [or the conflict between the Hatfields and McCoys etc.; order not
important, but do not accept or prompt if only one answer is given]
190-13-94-23105

6. C.J. Hambro helped organize the evacuation of this country's national gold reserves while invading
forces were delayed at Drobak Sound. Operation Freshman and Operation Gunnerside targeted a facility
producing heavy water in this country. This country’s resistance movement used the H7 monogram,
referring to the name of its king. British troops eventually captured this country in Operation Archery. Its
king Haakon VII escaped and was replaced by a man whose name is synonymous with treason. For the
point, name this country that collaborated with the Nazis under Vidkun Quisling.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Norway [or Kongeriket Norge]
232-13-94-23106

7. Every year, the mayor of a neighboring town rides to this city in order to celebrate a heroic messenger
who brought news of a 1690 massacre. This city is the longest continually-chartered city in the United
States. After being defeated at Saratoga, John Burgoyne was held captive for several days in this city's
Schuyler Mansion. Seven of the thirteen colonies sent delegates to a meeting in this city in 1754. For the
point, name this New York city, the site of a Congress where people discussed Benjamin Franklin's Plan of
Union.
ANSWER: Albany
020-13-94-23107

8. This historian posited that "Whoever considers the past and the present will readily observe that all
cities and all peoples are and ever have been animated by the same desires and the same passions" in
explaining the relevance of his Discourses on Livy. He called for the expulsion of German and French
"barbarians" from Italy in the last chapter of a book which repeatedly references Cesare (CHAY-zuh-ray)
Borgia. For the point, name this political philosopher who claimed that it is better to be feared than loved in
his manual The Prince.
ANSWER: Niccolo Machiavelli
019-13-94-23108

9. William Penn Sr. was the first Englishman to popularize the use of this commodity. Mount Vernon's
namesake, Edward Vernon, added lime to this substance, which led Englishmen to be called "limeys."
Lachlan Macquarie was appointed Governor of New South Wales after William Bligh was overthrown for
outlawing this commodity. This substance was given out in response to the order "splice the mainbrace." In
the triangle trade, this good was produced in New England from sugarcane grown in the Caribbean. For the
point, name this commodity which was diluted to make grog.
ANSWER: rum [or grog until it is read]
190-13-94-23109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 2 of 9

10. In 1972, sixteen people from this country, including Nando Parado, survived a plane crash in the Andes
by cannibalizing their dead friends. In 2010, this country imprisoned its former military dictator, Jose
Maria Bordaberry. The current president of this country helped found a leftist guerrilla movement here, the
Tupamaros. In 2013, this country became the second Latin American nation to legalize gay marriage and
the first to legalize marijuana. For the point, name this South American nation led by Jose Mujica, who
models his policies after those of its northern neighbor, Brazil.
ANSWER: Uruguay
080-13-94-23110

11. A scientist with this surname used aniline dyes to discover chromatin and chromosomes. Kevin Brown
discounted the myth that Winston Churchill's father paid for the schooling of another man with this
surname. That scientist with this surname was assisted by Merlin Price in finding a compound later
mass-produced by Florey and Chain. That scientist with this surname, who had earlier discovered
lysozyme, discovered a beta-lactam by analyzing fungal contamination in staphylococcal cultures. For the
point, give this surname shared by the founder of cytogenetics and the discoverer of penicillin.
ANSWER: Fleming [or Flemming; or Walter Flemming; or Alexander Fleming]
048-13-94-23111

12. This character is helped in court by Isannah, a sickly blond girl who moves to London under Lavinia's
care. This man displays the rising eye crest on the surface of a cup to prove that he's the nephew of
Jonathan Lyte. Hal Stalmaster played this friend of Rab and Cilla, a former silversmith's apprentice who is
told by Dr. Joseph Warren that his hand isn't injured for good. For the point, name this Massachusetts boy
who becomes a messenger for the Sons of Liberty before the revolution in a children's novel by Esther
Forbes and 1957 Disney film.
ANSWER: Johnny Tremain [or Johnny Tremain]
104-13-94-23112

13. This artist's depiction of the "exploitation" of his country features a man in armor about to gouge the
eyes of a slave while several others carry logs while being whipped. This man created the Detroit Industry
murals at the Detroit Institute of Arts. Another mural by this man was recreated as Man, Controller of the
Universe after the original version at Rockefeller Center was ordered destroyed due to its depiction of
Lenin and a Soviet May Day celebration. For the point, name this Mexican painter of Man at the
Crossroads.
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
141-13-94-23113

14. This subject of a popular biography by Adrienne Mayor was related to the Seleucid kings through his
mother, Laodice (lay-AH-diss-ee). This man had to seek refuge with the king of Armenia after losing at
Cyzicus to Lucullus. He leveraged popular hatred of tax farmers into a massacre of eighty thousand
Romans in the territories around his kingdom. Finally defeated by Pompey, he failed to poison himself at
the end of his life due to the immense immunity he had already built up. For the point, name this king of
Pontus who fought a series of namesake wars against Rome.
ANSWER: Mithridates VI Eupator
080-13-94-23114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 3 of 9

15. In a decision about this practice, the word "Mohammedism" was changed to "Islam" after a concerned
letter was sent to John Paul Stevens. This issue became prominent in Wallace v Jaffree, Lee v. Weisman,
and a case in which the State Board of Regents was found to have violated the Establishment Clause.
Jewish families of New Hyde Park took the most famous case prohibiting this action to court. For the point,
name this action which the Engel v. Vitale decision found unconstitutional because it violated the religious
freedom of non-Christians.
ANSWER: teacher-led public school prayer
020-13-94-23115

16. This group assisted a force under John Stark to defeat Friedrich Baum. A poet and spokesperson for
this group used the catchphrase "setting the hills on fire," and a member of this group, Seth Warner,
captained the rear guard at the Battle of Hubbardton. This group's earliest members included Remember
Baker and the founder's brother Ira, and it was based out of the Catamount Tavern. This group, which was
victorious at the Battle of Bennington, helped Benedict Arnold capture Fort Ticonderoga. For the point,
name this militia based in modern-day Vermont, led by Ethan Allen.
ANSWER: Green Mountain Boys
048-13-94-23116

17. A man with this name signed a bill compensating Lower Canadians for losses in the Rebellions of 1837
while Governor-General and ordered the destruction of the Old Summer Palace during the Opium Wars.
While serving as an ambassador to the Ottoman Empire, a person with this name received a firman and
persuaded a governor to interpret its terms broadly. That man repaid his debts by selling his namesake
objects to the British Museum. For the point, name this diplomat who pilfered several "marbles" from the
Parthenon.
ANSWER: Earl of Elgin [or Lord Elgin]
020-13-94-23117

18. This group's insignia was a wide open eye with the caption "We never sleep." A member of this
organization rebounded from the loss of his liquor store during the Great Chicago Fire and posed as James
McKenna to infiltrate the Molly Maguires. The Scotsman who founded this organization boasted that he
personally foiled a plot to assassinate Abraham Lincoln. Men from this organization arrived on barges at
the behest of Henry Clay Frick to a factory in Homestead. For the point, name this private detective agency
in the U.S. which notoriously broke strikes.
ANSWER: Pinkerton Government Services [or Pinkerton National Detective Agency; or the Pinkertons,
etc.]
020-13-94-23118

19. These teams played against each other in two different AFC Championship games held in the calendar
year 1976, which each had the same result as the 1973 championship game. In 1972, these teams faced off
in a playoff game that ended when Frenchy Fuqua was hit by Jack Tatum, causing a pass to bounce into the
hands of Franco Harris. For the point, name these powers of the 1970s NFL who played in the "Immaculate
Reception" game, and were quarterbacked by Ken Stabler and Terry Bradshaw at the time.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh Steelers and Oakland Raiders [or Pittsburgh in place of "Steelers"; or Oakland in
place of "Raiders"; do not accept or prompt on "Los Angeles" or "Los Angeles Raiders" as all events
referred to in the question happened during the Raiders' first tenure in Oakland; all acceptable answers may
be given in either order, but do not prompt if only one team is named]
019-13-94-23119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 4 of 9

20. Joseph Williams studied the success of Sears in using these items before sending sixty thousand of these
to customers without prior notice. The two largest companies that provide service for these in the U.S. had
a "duality" agreement found to violate antitrust laws. Frank McNamara founded the first company to deal
in the "universal" type of these items, the Diners Club, and BankAmericard was the first version of one
issued by a bank that later became Visa. For the point, name these plastic items that people use to buy
things.
ANSWER: credit card [or charge card]
121-13-94-23120

21. On feast days, Jews from this city's ghetto were stripped naked, armed with nooses on their necks, and
forced to race for the amusement of Christians. Arnold of Brescia became the intellectual leader of a
commune in this city. A crowd once exhumed the body of Formosus and put it on trial in this city. Clement
VII used a secret corridor in this city in order to take refuge in the Castel Sant'Angelo when the marauding
forces of Charles V paid him a visit in 1527. For the point, identify this city, whose population dropped
during the Avignon period of the Papacy.
ANSWER: Rome
020-13-94-23121

22. This leader ran with Salvador Laurel and was in office during the sinking of the MV Dona Paz, the
greatest peacetime maritime disaster in history. Ronaldo Galman was killed at the same time as this
leader's spouse. This leader ordered America out of the Clark Air Base, which only occurred after the
eruption of Mount Pinatubo. She rose to power after the assassination of her husband Benigno and led the
People Power Revolution in 1986. For the point, name this woman who succeeded Ferdinand Marcos as
president of the Philippines.
ANSWER: Corazon "Corey" Aquino
192-13-94-23122

23. The COSTAR instrument was added to this device. Perkin-Elmer was contracted to build a component
of it, and this object was discovered to have been assembled using a defective null corrector. A device
named for James Webb is set to succeed it, and data collected by it includes its namesake Deep Field,
Ultra-Deep Field, and Extreme Deep Field. This instrument was used to make accurate measurements of
Cephid variables in the Virgo cluster. For the point, name this gigantic space-borne telescope named for an
American astronomer.
ANSWER: Hubble Space Telescope
048-13-94-23123

24. This ruler passed the Edict on Idle Institutions, which confiscated about a third of all monasteries to the
Imperial treasury. This monarch passed a blanket maximum of thirty percent on the total tax obligation of
any peasant, and sought to minimize forced serf labor with the Robot Patent. This ruler gave only
Catholicism the privilege of public worship but instituted full religious equality in other areas in the Edict
of Toleration. For the point, name this reforming Emperor of Austria who continued the work begun by his
mother, Maria Theresa.
ANSWER: Joseph II [prompt on Joseph]
019-13-94-23124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 5 of 9

25. The protagonist of this story describes a "flabby, weak-eyed devil" who has replaced the devils of
violence and lust. Later, the protagonist of this book meets a Russian dressed like a harlequin who raves
about the eloquence of the sick man he has come to meet. This story's frame narrative is set aboard a boat
called the Nellie. In this story, Marlow narrates his journey up the Congo River to meet the ivory trader Mr.
Kurtz, whose last words are, "The horror! The horror!" For the point, name this novella attacking
imperialist ventures in Africa, written by Joseph Conrad.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
014-13-94-23125

26. A country involved in this war fulfilled a promise to "shock the world by the depth of its ingratitude." A
small corps commanded by Alfonso La Marmora joined this war and proved crucial to the Battle of the
Chernaya. Stratford Canning’s support for a French violation of the Straits Convention and a
Catholic-Orthodox monks' quarrel in Bethlehem increased tensions before this war. After this war, its loser
freed serfs and tried to abrogate the terms of the 1856 Paris Congress. For the point, name this war in which
Russia lost the siege of Sevastopol on a namesake peninsula in the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Crimean War
153-13-94-23126

27. James Wilson was the only Founding Father of note who supported this idea. Joseph Bristow came up
with a resolution implementing this idea that did not include a "race rider." This idea gained traction after
the William A. Clark scandal in Montana. Shortly after the Omaha Platform mentioned this idea, it was
implemented in Oregon. For the point, identify this idea that was passed into law through the Seventeenth
Amendment, which enabled the public in each state to vote for its two six-year term-serving legislators.
ANSWER: direct election of Senators [or Seventeenth Amendment until it is read]
020-13-94-23127

28. In the "silent trade," merchants placed several objects on the ground, then blew on trumpets and beat
drums until the other party placed an equivalent amount of this substance. This substance provided the
nickname of Sultan Ahmad al-Mansur, who undertook a military campaign to control its trade. Eighty
camels, each bearing three hundred pounds of this resource, joined Mansa Musa on his famous hajj. At
Audaghost and Kumbi Saleh, this substance was exchanged for salt. For the point, name this valuable
resource that was plentiful in the Mali empire.
ANSWER: gold
020-13-94-23128

29. The paintings on the walls of the Tomb of the Diver depict one of these events, which were sometimes
followed by the "komos." Hetairai were allowed to attend these events, though not women in general. Poets
like Theognis and Anacreon were recited during these events, which included the competitive passing of
the kylix. Agathon's victory at the Dionysia is the occasion for one of these events where Alcibiades
(al-sub-EYE-uh-deez) barges in to praise Socrates's sexual continence. For the point, name this form of
ancient Greek drinking party documented in a Platonic dialogue about the nature of love.
ANSWER: symposia [or symposion; or symposium]
080-13-94-23129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 6 of 9

30. This object is used in the Ubarr Ceremony, which is depicted in a 1500-year-old rock painting in
Arnhem Land. It is often used alongside the clapstick, and in 2008, Harper Collins apologized for
suggesting that girls learn to play this instrument, which is a taboo. This instrument is played with the
"circular breathing" technique. It usually uses a beeswax mouthpiece on top of a termite-hollowed
eucalyptus branch. For the point, identify this drone-producing traditional musical instrument of Australian
Aborigines.
ANSWER: didgeridoo
019-13-94-23130

31. Late in life, this biologist joined JD Bernal's team and discovered that the tobacco mosaic virus has
single-stranded RNA. This scientist's assistant Raymond Gosling took Photo 51, a diffraction pattern
shaped like an X. While employed at King's College, Maurice Wilkins stole this biologist's X-ray
diffraction images of a B-form helix. She later died of ovarian cancer and never won a Nobel Prize. For the
point, name this crystallographer whose work was appropriated by Watson and Crick in their "double
helix" model of DNA.
ANSWER: Rosalind Franklin
190-13-94-23131

32. The Keraterm concentration camp was set up during this war. American F-16s shot down six jets near
Banja Luka during this conflict, which also led to the destruction of the Stari Most Bridge. Operations
Deny Flight and Deliberate Force helped end this conflict. After the VRS under Ratko Mladic seized
Dutchbat during this war, they murdered more than eight thousand Muslims outside Srebenica
(suh-reh-breh-NEETZ-yuh). The Dayton Accords, signed in December 1995, ended this war. For the point,
name this ethnic conflict fought in the Balkans.
ANSWER: Bosnian War [prompt on Yugoslav War; prompt on dissolution of Yugoslavia, etc.]
190-13-94-23132

33. Minor Keith started growing this crop to pay off debts incurred from building a railroad and eventually
merged his company with one founded by Andrew Preston. These items started being shipped in cardboard
boxes after disease wiped out most of the Gros Michel variety, which was replaced by the more fragile
Cavendish. Samuel Zemurray helped Manuel Bonilla return to power to protect this crop. Jorge Gaitan
attacked General Cortes Vargas's workers on a plantation growing this item at the behest of the United Fruit
Company. For the point, name this crop sold by Chiquita International.
ANSWER: bananas
121-13-94-23133

34. This ethnicity was coyly targeted in a poem reading "The light breeze, however delicate, does not blow
on me." Troops of this ethnicity won the Battle of Shanhai Pass, ending the brief Shun Dynasty. Companies
of these people were required to contribute three hundred men in the "Eight Banner" administrative system.
Nurhaci created the alphabet of this ethnic group, who were descended from the Jurchens. They set up their
ruling dynasty in 1644. For the point, name this ethnic group that established the Qing (CHING) Dynasty,
who originally hailed from an area northeast of China.
ANSWER: Manchus [or Jurchens until it is read]
020-13-94-23134

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 7 of 9

35. This man attempted to create a system of universal education with his General-Landschul-Reglement.
His Testament Politique advocated mercantilism, and he issued an order prohibiting subjects from taking
over three hundred thalers from their home territories. He led his country into a conflict called the Potato
War that was ended by the Treaty of Teschen. This monarch took control of Silesia during the War of the
Austrian Succession. For the point, name this king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, an enlightened despot
who made Prussia Europe's greatest military power.
ANSWER: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; prompt on Frederick]
030-13-94-23135

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 8 of 9

Extra Question

36. This was the first Presidential election year in which Duff Green's influential United States Telegraph
endorsed a candidate. Frederick Jackson Turner claimed it "began the era of the popular hero." Charles
Hammond produced "Coffin Handbills" for this election that accused the winning candidate of excessive
violence and being the son of a prostitute. Its other candidate was attacked for his purchase of a billiards
table and for the previous election's "Corrupt Bargain." For the point, name this election that elected
Andrew Jackson to his first term.
ANSWER: United States Presidential election of 1828
121-13-94-23136

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 9 of 9

