2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND 6: (US 1933-PRESENT HISTORY)

1. This man's attempt to run for mayor of New York on the "Existentialist" ticket was torpedoed after he
stabbed his wife so that his pent-up rage wouldn't give him cancer. He defined hipsters as "philosophical
psychopaths" in his essay, "The White Negro." He recounted his arrest during a march on the Pentagon in
another of his works. In a nonfiction novel, this man described the execution of serial killer Gary Gilmore,
while in another of his novels, the totalitarian Sergeant Croft allows Lieutenant Hearn to be killed in
fighting on a Pacific Island during World War II. For the point, name this counter-cultural author of The
Executioner's Song and The Naked and the Dead.
ANSWER: Norman Mailer
080-12-58-24101

2. One accomplishment of this goal caused controversy due to the presence of unauthorized Sieger covers.
The Fleming and Lundin committees were formed to investigate methods to accomplish this goal. In a
speech at Rice Stadium, John F. Kennedy asked "Why choose this as our goal? ... Why does Rice play
Texas?" Wernher von Braun helped develop the three-stage Saturn V rocket for this purpose. In a 1961
speech, JFK proposed committing to achieving this goal "before the decade is out." It was first achieved by
the "Eagle" module in the Sea of Tranquility and included a "small step" by Neil Armstrong. For the point,
identify this goal of the Apollo program that involves Earth's only satellite.
ANSWER: manned moon landing [or landing humans on the Moon; accept clear equivalents]
066-12-58-24102

3. In Alabama v. Garrett, the Supreme Court ruled that state workers cannot sue a state for damages if it
violates this law. As a district court judge, Sonia Sotomayor cited this law in finding in favor of a dyslexic
woman who had failed the New York bar exam five times in Bartlett v. New York State Board of Law
Examiners. In Sutton v. United Airlines, the Supreme Court held that women not hired by United were not
covered by this act because their vision problems were correctable. This law was signed by President
George H.W. Bush in 1990. For the point, name this law that provides civil rights protection to individuals
with physical and mental impairments.
ANSWER: Americans with Disabilities Act [or ADA]
030-12-58-24103

4. Prior to this case, the precedent set by Powell v. Alabama largely restricted the result of this case to
capital cases. Hugo Black delivered the decision in this case, which overturned Betts v. Brady. Abe Fortas
was assigned to make the case of the defense in the Supreme Court. The defendant in this case appealed to
the higher courts from prison, and his situation was dramatized in a book titled for his "trumpet." This case
involved a Florida man who had been accused of robbing a pool hall. For the point, name this 1963
Supreme Court case that guaranteed the right to counsel for those who cannot afford an attorney under the
provisions of the Sixth Amendment.
ANSWER: Gideon v. Wainwright
127-12-58-24104
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 1 of 10

5. One novel inspired by this incident ends with a fifteen-page flipbook in reverse and features a quest to
visit every person surnamed Black in a phonebook. In a movie about this event, the narrator broadcasts a
piece of legislation through the speaker of an ice cream truck; that movie contains an extended sequence in
which a man keeps reading "The Pet Goat." Oskar Schell's father dies in this event in Extremely Loud and
Incredibly Close. Don DeLillo's Falling Man interprets a famous Richard Drew shot of a man up-side down
mid-air during this event as that of a performance artist suspended by tightrope. For the point, name this
event, the subject of a namesake Michael Moore documentary about the "[Fahrenheit] at which freedom
burns."
ANSWER: 9/11 attacks [or September 11, 2001 attacks; or 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center; or
anything that means the destruction of the Twin Towers; prompt on attack on the Twin Towers]
020-12-58-24105

6. During one campaign, this man stated the only four letter words that a hippy did not know were work
and soap. He radically changed his views following an earlier defeat to John Patterson; later, he defeated
Albert Brewer in what many consider to be the one of the dirtiest campaigns in American history. Curtis
LeMay was this man's running mate in the 1968 election in which he became the last third party candidate
to win electoral votes. He was injured by assassin Arthur Bremer in 1972, an incident which caused him to
renounce his previously racist views. For the point, name this man who said "segregation now, segregation
tomorrow, segregation forever" while governor of Alabama during the 1960's.
ANSWER: George Corley Wallace
064-12-58-24106

7. Executive Order 13535 promised to uphold the Stupak-Pitts Amendment, which placed restrictions on
this action. The court case Webster v. RHS upheld a state law about this practice. Hodgson v. Minnesota
and Bellotti v. Baird dealt with notification laws regarding it. The Mexico City Policy bans funding for this
action, which is also the subject of the Hyde Amendment. One law regulating this activity was upheld in
Gonzales v. Carhart; that law placed restrictions on the dilation and extraction procedure. For the point,
identify this procedure, the right to which was upheld as an extension of the right to privacy in Roe v.
Wade.
ANSWER: abortion
048-12-58-24107

8. Vikram Sarabhi was responsible for creating one of these programs in India, which was recently the
subject of a corruption scandal involving the Antrix corporation. Ilan Ramon is a member of the Israeli
program of this type, which is based out of Palmachim. The Augustine Committee recently reviewed the
internal workings of another agency of this type, which grew out of Project Vanguard. The Vega and the
Ariane are used by another agency of this type. Another one of these programs, which is based in
Baikanour, used the Energia-Buran and Soyuz. A competition between two agencies of this type began
with one of them launching Sputnik 1. For the point, name these organizations which include the Japanese
JAXA, the European ESA, and the United States’ NASA.
ANSWER: Space programs [accept equivalents]
048-12-58-24108

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 2 of 10

9. In 1860, several large fires in this state, started at matchbook storehouses, were interpreted as acts of
sabotage by slaves. A scheme to cheaply acquire cotton farms and mortgage nonexistent tanks of ammonia
in this state led to the trial of the politically connected Billy Sol Estes. The group "Democrats for Nixon"
was led by a former governor of this state, who had earlier been wounded forty minutes before policeman
J.D. Tippit was killed in this state. Both of those shootings were perpetrated by the man who acted from
this state's "school book depository" overlooking Dealey Plaza. For the point, name this state where John
Connally was wounded during the fatal shooting of John F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Texas
019-12-58-24109

10. The Gates Commission recommended against the use of this practice, and an effort to extend it was
filibustered by Mike Gravel. One set of cases that upheld this practice cited Emerich Vatel's Law of
Nations and included Arver v. U.S. and Grahl v U.S. A form of protest against this action was the subject of
U.S. v. O'Brien. Men could be deferred from this process if they received a 4-F classification. Canada was a
common escape for those dodging this practice during the Vietnam War. For the point, name this practice
from which conscientious objectors are exempt, in which citizens are involuntarily pressed into joining the
army.
ANSWER: military draft [or conscription; or selective service]
048-12-58-24110

11. This politician held his nose and made a thumbs-down gesture during the introduction of the "court
packing plan" in the Senate. Like James Farley, he conducted an unsuccessful challenge for the Democratic
presidential nomination in 1940. After becoming the House Minority Leader in 1929, he was elected
Speaker of the House in 1931. After the third ballot at the 1932 Democratic National Convention, he
released his delegates from California and his native Texas to guarantee the nomination of the frontrunner
over Al Smith. For the point, name this man known as "Cactus Jack" who served as Franklin Roosevelt's
first Vice President.
ANSWER: John Nance Garner IV
014-12-58-24111

12. Edie Sedgwick gained fame starring in films directed by this man including Poor Little Rich Girl. Two
giant packages can be seen in his work titled Brillo Boxes. While collaborating with Jean-Michel Basquiat,
he showed Jesus in a red and blue tunic in his version of The Last Supper. This artist's assistant, Gerard
Malanga performed at this man's presentation of The Velvet Underground called Exploding Plastic
Inevitable. This man worked in a New York City studio called The Factory and coined the expression 15
minutes of fame. For the point, name this pop artist of the mid to late 20th century whose works include
portraits of Marilyn Monroe and Mao Zedong and paintings of Campbell's soup cans.
ANSWER: Andy Warhol
064-12-58-24112

13. Harlan's dissenting opinion in this case used Robert Jackson's metaphor of a temple that falls with too
many added floors. Dickerson v. U.S. upheld this decision. Unlike the similarly themed Massiah v. U.S.,
this case is not based on the Sixth Amendment. This case began with Alvin Moore's defense of a man
convicted of raping an 18-year-old woman. The result of Escobedo v. Illinois was extended by this case.
Earl Warren delivered its decision that the Fifth Amendment's self-incrimination clause meant that a
confession was only good in court if the suspect knew of his right to an attorney. For the point, name this
1966 case that gave rise to namesake rights of the accused.
ANSWER: Miranda v. Arizona
127-12-58-24113

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 3 of 10

14. This speech mentions meeting a woman from Pennsylvania who felt completely removed from power,
and also talked about how people implored the speaker to discuss "blood and sweat and tears." It was
compiled after a ten day meeting at Camp David with preachers, teachers, and governors. Written by
Hendrik Hertzberg, this work stated, "our neck is stretched over the fence and OPEC has the knife." This
speech equated energy conservation with patriotism. For the point, name this ineffective, poorly received
speech that discusses a "crisis of confidence" gripping America, given in 1979 by Jimmy Carter.
ANSWER: "Malaise" Speech [or "Crisis of Confidence" before mention]
048-12-58-24114

15. This author wrote the essay "Mortality and Mercy in Vienna." Herbert Stencil tries to find the titular
entity of one work, and Reverend Cherrycoke figures in another novel. One character contemplates the
"heat death of his culture" in this author's short story "Entropy." In one of his works, the protagonist tries to
discover the mystery of Trystero. That novel includes a staging of The Courier's Tragedy and the antics of
Dr. Hilarius. In addition to V. and Mason & Dixon, he wrote a novel in which Tyrone Slothrop deals with
V2 rockets during World War II. For the point, name this American postmodern author who wrote about
Oedipa Maas in The Crying of Lot 49 and also penned Gravity's Rainbow.
ANSWER: Thomas Pynchon
127-12-58-24115

16. After this event happened, a service at St. Patrick's Cathedral featured a man quoting a participant's line
of "I dream things that never were and say why not." A photo of this event shows a man's head cradled by
busboy Juan Romero. Andrew West was heard at this event saying "Get the gun, Rafer, get the gun!" After
it, a crowd including George Plimpton and Rosey Grier disarmed one participant. It occurred at the
Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles shortly after the target won the California Democratic primary. For the
point, name this June 1968 event in which Sirhan Sirhan killed the brother of a previously assassinated
president.
ANSWER: assassination of Robert Kennedy [or assassination of RFK; or assassination of R. Kennedy
; or assassination of Bobby Kennedy; accept synonyms for "assassination"; prompt on assassination of
Kennedy]
052-12-58-24116

17. The first act of one opera by this composer ends with "The Promise of Living." That work based on Let
Us Now Praise Famous Men features such characters as Martin, Laurie, and Top, and is called The Tender
Land. His orchestral works include El Salon Mexico and Outdoor Overture, and he called for a narrator in
the third movement of his Lincoln Portrait. One work by this man was incorporated into the last movement
of his third symphony, but is also performed on its own; that work is Fanfare for the Common Man. For the
point, name this composer who included the movements "Buckaroo Holiday" and "Hoedown" in his Rodeo,
and quoted "Simple Gifts" in Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
142-12-58-24117

18. Writings about the period of these entities include the pamphlet "The Time of the Toad" and Lillian
Hellman's Scoundrel Times. Rabbi Schultz threatened boycotts of sponsoring companies' products if
programs did not comply with these. American Business Consultants, the group behind Counterattack,
published one called Red Channels. They were ended when John F. Kennedy crossed American Legion
picket lines to see Spartacus and Donald Trumbo was revealed to be the scriptwriter of Exodus. The first
came in 1947, when ten people refused to testify before the HUAC. For the point, name these catalogues of
people with Communist leanings that usually led to their unemployment.
ANSWER: entertainment industry Communist blacklists [or the Hollywood blacklists]
066-12-58-24118
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 4 of 10

19. One speech supporting this man claimed that "there is no such thing as a left or right. There's only an up
or down." That speech supporting this man appeared on the TV program Rendezvous with Destiny, and is
often called "A Time for Choosing." This man's "movement" was compared to the anti-Masonic movement
and nativism in Richard Hofstadter's essay "The Paranoid Style in American Politics." In an ad directed
against this man, the announcer says "These are the stakes!" after showing a mushroom cloud. That ad
begins with a little girl counting flower petals. For the point, name this Arizona Republican who lost to
Lyndon Johnson in the 1964 presidential election.
ANSWER: Barry Goldwater
121-12-58-24119

20. Jones and Laughlin Steel brought this act to the Supreme Court; the court subsequently declared it
constitutional under the Commerce Clause. The man who sponsored this bill was a New York senator who
later sponsored a bill with Henry Steagall that provided low income housing. The board created by this act
came into recent conflict with Boeing when they attempted to relocate to South Carolina. This act declared
wildcat strikes illegal. For the point, name this 1935 piece of legislation that protected the right of workers
in the private sector to join a union and go on strike.
ANSWER: Wagner Act [or National Labor Relations Act; or NLRA]
064-12-58-24120

21. This man joined his uncle Robert Lansing to represent the U.S. at the Versailles Peace Conference. He
had previously been a lawyer for United Fruit Company, and, when Guatemalan president Jacobo Arbenz
Guzman threatened to seize lands belonging to United Fruit, the CIA worked with this politician to plan
Operation PBSUCCESS to overthrow Arbenz. This man's philosophy of "brinksmanship" advocated letting
international relations reach the point of near-catastrophe. For the point, name this Secretary of State under
Eisenhower whose brother Allen directed the CIA.
ANSWER: John Foster Dulles [prompt on Dulles]
079-12-58-24121

22. Lucianne Goldberg was one person who helped bring to light the circumstances that led to this trial.
This event involved one charge of perjury and one of obstruction of justice, and the defendant was
acquitted on both since it requires a two-thirds majority for conviction. The defendant said, "it depends on
what the meaning of 'is' is." Linda Tripp's recording of phone conversations provided evidence used during
this trial. This trial came about from the investigations of Ken Starr. This trial arose from the Paula Jones
lawsuit and the Monica Lewinsky scandal. For the point, name this event that saw formal charges brought
against the 42nd President.
ANSWER: impeachment of Bill Clinton
127-12-58-24122

23. The McCone Commission investigated this event, whose participants were angered by the passage of
Proposition 14. This event began when Marquette Frye was pulled over on suspicions of drunk driving.
Thirty-four people were killed during this event, during which Police Chief William Parker called in the
California National Guard. This five-day period of violence devastated a district damaged years later by the
Rodney King riots. For the point, name these 1965 race riots that began in a namesake neighborhood of Los
Angeles.
ANSWER: Watts Riots
014-12-58-24123

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 5 of 10

24. A 1968 Supreme Court case originating in this state upheld the "stop and frisk" procedure. The "Private
Choice Test" arose from a case upholding this state's school voucher system. Besides Zelman v.
Simmons-Harris and Terry v. this state, its criminal syndicalism statue was overturned in a case that set the
standard of "imminent lawless action" for dangerous speech. Another case in this state featured Potter
Stewart stating "I know it when I see it" about hard-core pornography. Another case from this state started
with the police seizing a trunk of pornography and created the exclusionary rule. For the point, name this
state, the defendant in the Brandenberg, Jacobellis, and Mapp cases.
ANSWER: Ohio
048-12-58-24124

25. This man succeeded Leonard Wood as the Governor-General of the Philippines. He chaired the Geneva
Conference on Disarmament in another post, in which he also chaired the U.S. delegation to the London
Naval Conference. As Secretary of War, he opposed the implementation of the Morgenthau Plan and
insisted on a judicial process that became the Nuremberg Trials. One policy set by this man was applied to
the Baltic states by Sumner Welles, and was issued in response to the Mukden Incident. For the point, name
this Secretary of War during World War II whose namesake doctrine refused to recognize Japanese
holdings in Manchuria.
ANSWER: Henry Lewis Stimson
048-12-58-24125

26. A 2002 tariff on this product caused the WTO to threaten sanctions against the U.S. One corporation
named for this product was headed by Elbert Gary and merged with a company headed by Charles M.
Schwab. During the Korean War, the Office of Defense Mobilization disallowed a price increase for this
product. The AA was a union representing another group of workers that manufactured this. During a strike
of workers in this industry, William McCleary refused to deputize a group of Pinkerton detectives, leading
to the strikers burning a series of barges. That strike was at a plant headed by Henry Clay Frick in
Homestead, Pennsylvania. For the point, name this industry whose big names include Andrew Carnegie.
ANSWER: steel
048-12-58-24126

27. One member of this man's cabinet resigned after he was found complicit in the Wedtech scandal, and
another two were discovered to have pirated products from Inslaw, Inc. His Interior Secretary resigned after
Samuel Pierce was discovered to be rigging low-income housing bids for lobbyists. The Savings and Loan
Crisis occurred under this President's watch. Another scandal of his administration was investigated by the
Tower Commission and involved a violation of the Boland Amendment. Oliver North, John Poindexter,
and Caspar Weinberger were charged during this man's presidency with funneling aid to a Nicaraguan
paramilitary group. For the point, name this President whose terms saw the Iran-Contra scandal.
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan
048-12-58-24127

28. This man claimed to "know where the holes are" in U.S. intelligence on the Soviets in a 1982
Washington Post expose of his "Secret Files" and was later revealed to be Donald Graves. This person was
the byline of a 1969 pro-cannabis essay revealed to have been written by Carl Sagan. Another man using
this byline published the "The Sources of Soviet Conduct" in Foreign Affairs in 1947. For the point, give
this pseudonym used by George Kennan, which generally refers to any identity that wishes to remain
secret.
ANSWER: Mr. X [or Donald Graves before it is read]
003-12-58-24128

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 6 of 10

29. The myth of this activity can be traced to an overzealous New York Post editor tasked with making a
headline for a Lindsy van Gelder article, although John Katz claimed that it did briefly happen before
public safety commissioner Marco Floriani put a stop to it. This activity is alleged to have happened in a
"Freedom Trash Can" set up by Robin Morgan during a 1968 protest in Atlantic City that also crowned a
sheep "Miss America." For the point, name this protest action symbolically undertaken by the women's
liberation movement by setting on fire female undergarments.
ANSWER: bra burning [or other equivalents mentioning brassieres being set on fire]
003-12-58-24129

30. A rainstorm enables one of the slaves of this novel to escape from a chain gang and eventually find his
way to Baby Suggs’ house at 124 Bluestone Road in Cincinnati. Occurring over two timelines, readers see
how the past gets worse in this novel when a widow enlists her brother-in-law, known by the slaves as the
schoolteacher, to help run Mr. Garner’s Sweet Home Plantation. Halle, the main character’s husband, goes
insane after watching her be violated from a barn loft. Paul D recalls being forced to wear an iron bit in the
past while talking with Denver’s mother. For the point, name the Toni Morrison work about Sethe and her
rough choice to kill her eldest daughter, whose headstone bears the title of the novel.
ANSWER: Beloved
147-12-58-24130

31. During the Republican primaries in this election, one candidate promised his running mate would be
moderate Richard Schweiker. The Democratic candidate defeated Mo Udall and Scoop Jackson for the
nomination. The winning candidate in this election gave a Playboy interview in which he talked about
"lusting" in his heart. During one debate in this election, the Republican nominee said "there is no Soviet
domination of Eastern Europe" and ran with Bob Dole. The losing candidate was hurt by his pardoning of
Richard Nixon. For the point, identify this presidential election in which Jimmy Carter defeated Gerald
Ford during the bicentennial year.
ANSWER: Election of 1976
052-12-58-24131

32. The explosion of one of these vessels caused the Port Chicago Disaster. Long after these entities were
built, it was discovered that they were subject to brittle fracture. Groups that raised two million dollars or
more in war bonds were allowed to give a name to one of these objects. The first one of these ships built
was named after Patrick Henry. Nicknamed "the ugly ducklings," they were slow and unwieldy,
necessitating the creation of Victory Ships. For the point, name these cheap ships mass-produced by the
United States during World War II.
ANSWER: Liberty Ships [prompt on merchant ships or ships]
080-12-58-24132

33. In an F-sharp minor section in one aria in this work, the title character says that "the rats begin to chew
the sheets." The title character also asked "Who are our friends? Who are our enemies?" earlier in that
"News Aria." Another aria in this work is called "This is prophetic!" In this work's first-act finale, soloists
are interrupted by parallel major chords as the chorus shouts "Cheers!" Musical material from this opera is
related to that of its composer's orchestral piece The Chairman Dances. The title character exclaims that he
made history when he shook hands with Chou Enlai. For the point, name this opera by John Adams, in
which Mao Tse-Tung is visited by the title U.S. President.
ANSWER: Nixon in China
142-12-58-24133

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 7 of 10

34. France was not involved in this event, but Warren Christopher ended it by negotiating the Algiers
Accords. It occurred after one figure was allowed to enter the United States to get treated at the Mayo
Clinic. Operation Eagle Claw was a failed attempt to end it. The TV show Nightline was created to report
on this event. This event was set in motion when a group called Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's
Line occupied a building on November 4, 1979, an action supported by the Ayatollah Khomeini. For the
point, name this event that saw 52 Americans trapped for over a year at a Tehran embassy.
ANSWER: Iran hostage crisis [accept equivalents for "hostage"]
052-12-58-24134

35. A coded message in one of these documents is believed to spell out "FNY" based on genetic code
translations of highlighted A's and T's. One of these documents intentionally contained the misspelled word
"penicillin." One of these documents was impounded in Sterling, Virginia for over a month before its
discovery. They listed a nonexistent "4th Grade Greenville School" in Franklin Park, New Jersey as a
return address. Bruce Ivins, the creator of RMR-1029, is believed to have sent these letters to Patrick
Leahy, Tom Daschle, and five major media outlets in an act of bioterrorism. For the point, name this set of
letters sent in September and October 2001, all of which contained a deadly bacteria.
ANSWER: anthrax letters [or Amerithrax letters; or obvious equivalents mentioning anthrax]
003-12-58-24135

36. One person failed to become part of this group after ignoring instructions to stop reading "Instant Pain
Relief." One member of this group repeatedly answered "No comment" in a Dan Rather interview. These
people were reported to be "on strike" after wearing black to protest the reassignment of three deputies.
Tracy Hampton left this group after announcing, "I can’t take it anymore." One of these people, Tracy
Kennedy, was chastised for staring "out into space" by Robert Shapiro. This group was sequestered for nine
months. For the point, name this group of people, twelve of whom ultimately decided that a former football
player was not guilty of killing his wife and her friend Ron Goldman in a 1995 trial.
ANSWER: jury in the Orenthal James Simpson criminal trial [or obvious equivalents mentioning a jury in
the O.J. Simpson case; prompt on answers mentioning the O.J. Simpson trial that do not mention a jury]
003-12-58-24136

37. This man hosted both the original and, fourteen years later, remake of a television show that re-enacted
historical events, entitled You Are There. He lends his name to Swedish and Dutch words for his
best-known profession. He came up with the idea for Jimmy Carter's "Dial-a-President" program, and
facilitated the Camp David Accords with side-by-side interviews with Begin and Sadat. After this man
returned from Vietnam, he pronounced the war a "stalemate," leading to an apocryphal remark by Lyndon
Johnson that if he had lost this man, he had lost middle America. For the point, name this anchor of the
CBS Evening News who concluded his newscasts with the signature line, "and that's the way it is."
ANSWER: Walter Leland Cronkite, Jr.
003-12-58-24137

38. George Martin was assigned to head the newly created OSRA after this event. This event led to a 10
million dollar penalty being levied against Morton Thiokol. Donald Kutnya, Joseph Sutter, and Alton Keel
were among the members of the committee that investigated this event, which was headed by William P.
Rogers. A cup of ice water was used to demonstrate the misunderstanding of the safety factor by Richard
Feynman during the inquiry into this event, which resulted in the death of Greg Jarvis, Ellison Onizuka,
and the schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe. For the point, name this 1986 explosion of a space shuttle.
ANSWER: Challenger disaster [accept reasonable equivalents]
048-12-58-24138

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 8 of 10

39. A pickpocket in this film warns visitors of “vultures everywhere.” In one scene in this film, men
singing around a piano are drowned out by a rendition of “La Marseillaise.” A character played by Sidney
Greenstreet, Signor Ferrari, deduces the location of a set of stolen documents in this film. One character is
revealed to have run guns to Ethiopia during the Italian invasion; that character was later abandoned by his
lover at a train station in Paris. In its climax, the freedom fighter Victor Laszlo and his wife Ilsa Lund flee
to America with the help of the café owner Rick Blaine. For the point, name this 1942 film starring
Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman, set in a German-occupied Moroccan city.
ANSWER: Casablanca
132-12-58-24139

40. From papers left by this man's aide Richard Sutherland, Carol Petillo discovered the "Executive Order
#1" from a foreign government that awarded this man $500,000 for his work. In one position he held, this
man commissioned a document whose Article 9 outlawed armed forces and the right to make war. That
document was the Japanese Constitution, which was written while this man was the Supreme Commander
of Allied Powers in Tokyo. For the point, name this general who oversaw the Japanese surrender in World
War II and who in the Battle of Leyte made good on his promise to return to the Philippines.
ANSWER: Douglas MacArthur
121-12-58-24140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 9 of 10

Extra Questions

41. This document was written at the urging of economist Alexander Sachs, who had heard of a similar
missive directed to the Queen Mother of Belgium. Old accusations from the Women Patriot Corporation
prevented the person who wrote this document from contributing to its implementation. It notes that certain
products of Czechoslovakian mines are no longer being sold, and that the work of Joliot and Fermi
indicates the possibility of "new radium-like elements." It recommends securing a supply of uranium for
the U.S., and coordinating information among government departments about chain reactions. For the
point, identify this 1939 epistle from a noted pacifist which warned the President about the need to develop
an atomic weapon.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein’s letter to Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or the Einstein-Szilard letter; or
Einstein’s atomic bomb letter; or obvious equivalents to any]
019-12-58-24141

42. The collision of the ships Mogami and Miguma during this battle occurred as a result of the sighting of
the submarine Tambor. One leader in this battle moved his command to the ship Astoria after he abandoned
his old command, which was later sunk by a submarine. That old command absorbed two attacks, leading
the other side to believe that they had sunk two carriers when in fact they had only damaged the Yorktown.
For the point, name this 1942 naval battle in which the Japanese lost four carriers and failed to take the
namesake Pacific island.
ANSWER: Battle of Midway
040-12-58-24142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 6: (US 1933-Present History)

Page 10 of 10

