2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND 4: (US 1816-1932 HISTORY)

1. This poem’s author once wrote that its “water-dripping song” contained its only good lines. This poem
references the Earl of Leicester’s (LES-turz) courting of Elizabeth I in a segment concluding with the
lament, “Weialala leia wallala leialala" (way-uh-la-la lay-uh wall-uh-la lay-uh-la-la). This poem juxtaposes
Saint Augustine’s line “To Carthage then I came” with the Buddha’s line “Burning burning burning
burning” just prior to reflecting on Phlebas (FLEE-bus) the Phoenician. The Sanskrit words for “give,”
“sympathize,” and “control” appear in this poem’s final section, “What the Thunder Said.” This poem
begins by declaring, “April is the cruelest month.” For the point, name this modernist poem by T. S. Eliot.
ANSWER: “The Waste Land”
014-12-58-22101

2. This man sued Thurber and White for patent infringement and later developed a large plant in Hartford
along the Connecticut River. He developed underwater mines for the U.S. navy amid growing tensions with
Britain in the 1840s but had his invention dismissed since it promoted unfair warfare. Another of his
inventions had a single action firing mechanism and saw one of the earliest uses of the percussion cap. He
named one of his most popular weapons after the location of his manufacturing plant in New Jersey; that
weapon saw one of this earliest uses of interchangeable parts and the assembly line. For the point, name
this inventor of the early eighteenth century best known for mass producing the revolver.
ANSWER: Samuel Colt
064-12-58-22102

3. The term "Algerism" referred to soldiers eating low-quality beef products in this conflict. Immediately
prior to it, a letter was published calling the president "weak and catering to the rabble," which was written
by a foreign minister. A cartoon about this conflict featured two men dressed as the comic strip character
The Yellow Kid and pushing against a pillar labeled "WAR." This conflict was enflamed by the "yellow
journalism" of Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst. For the point, name this conflict that began in
1898 shortly after the sinking of the USS Maine.
ANSWER: Spanish-American War
052-12-58-22103

4. Richard Lyons was lauded for his handling of this event. During it, an arrest order for George Eustice, Jr.
was issued. George Trenholm paid ten thousand dollars to facilitate the central action of this event, during
which James Marchand was ordered to pursue the Nashville. During this event, Charles Sumner was alerted
by Anti Corn Law League members that one side was making war preparations. D.M. Fairfax from the
USS San Jacinto, commanded by Charles Wilks, apprehended James Mason and John Slidell during this
affair, who wanted to negotiate diplomatic recognition. For the point, name this incident during which the
Confederacy attempted to send envoys to Europe on the namesake ship.
ANSWER: Trent Affair [accept Mason and Slidell affair before their names are mentioned]
048-12-58-22104

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 1 of 10

5. This party received funding from publisher Frank Munsey and a partner of J.P. Morgan, George Perkins.
At its convention, a nominee said "We stand at Armageddon and we battle for the Lord!" This party
nominated Hiram Johnson for Vice President and staged a convention after its nominee was edged out of
another party's convention by chairman Elihu (EL-uh-hyoo) Root. It endorsed "New Nationalism," a
federal income tax, and women's suffrage. After its nominee was shot by John Schrank, that politician said
he was as "strong as a Bull Moose," giving this party its nickname. For the point, name this political party
that nominated Theodore Roosevelt for the presidency as a third party candidate in 1912.
ANSWER: Progressive Party [or Bull Moose until mentioned]
052-12-58-22105

6. This author penned the lines "There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star" and that "our
lives are frittered away by detail" in one of his works. This author's first biographer was his friend the poet
Ellery Channing, and one of this man's work contains chapters such as "Higher Laws" and "Economy." He
wrote about the need to "simplify, simplify" in his most famous work. In another work, he wrote "that
government is best which governs least." That most famous work was written after this man moved to quiet
woods near Concord, Massachusetts because he wished to "live deliberately." For the point, identify this
Transcendentalist author and friend of Emerson who wrote Civil Disobedience and Walden.
ANSWER: Henry David Thoreau
126-12-58-22106

7. The novel The Leopard's Spots by Thomas Dixon depicts the horrors of this period, which was labeled a
failure by the Dunning School of historiography. During it, paramilitary groups like the Red Shirts engaged
in such violence as the Colfax Massacre. Historian Eric Foner has labeled this period an incomplete project
stopped too soon. The original plan for this period was in the Wade-Davis Bill, and much of its legislation
was planned by Thaddeus Stevens. It effectively ended after the Force Acts were rendered toothless thanks
to the compromise allowing Rutherford B. Hayes to win the presidency, which required him to remove
troops. For the point, name this period from 1865 to 1877 in the South.
ANSWER: Reconstruction
052-12-58-22107

8. Thomas M'Clintock was chair during the evening of the second day of this meeting, which was planned
in the home of Jane Hunt. Amy Post was one the many radical Quakers who formed a large bloc at this
event. Frederick Douglass attended this event, and he argued for the right to vote to be included in the final
declaration. One document produced here was based on the form of the Declaration of Independence. That
document, the Declaration of Sentiments, was the brainchild of Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
For the point, name this 1848 meeting of women's rights activists in the namesake city in New York.
ANSWER: Seneca Falls Convention
127-12-58-22108

9. In one scene in this film, a character asks “You like that slapping business?” before telling his mother he
will take her to Coney Island to ride the “shoot-the-chute.” One of the key promoters of this film, Sam
Warner, died the day before it made its debut, ensuring that his brothers could not attend the premiere. In
this film’s most famous scene, Jack Robin performs “Dirty Hands, Dirty Face” and then “Toot, Toot,
Tootsie” after telling the crowd “You ain’t heard nothin’ yet.” It climaxes with Jakie Rabinowitz
performing the “Kol Nidre” after previously declining to become a cantor to instead pursue a career as a
performer. For the point, name this 1927 first feature-length movie to feature synchronized dialogue, a
famous “talkie” starring Al Jolson.
ANSWER: The Jazz Singer
052-12-58-22109

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 2 of 10

10. An account of this event was written by John G. Burnett, who said that future generations would
condemn it but he had "no choice in the matter." Berry's Ferry made ten thousand dollars extorting this
event's participants. The policy leading to this event was called "an instrument of perfidity" in a letter
written by Ralph Waldo Emerson. This event was triggered by a treaty drafted by John F. Schermerhorn
and signed by John Ridge and Stand Watie called the Treaty of New Echota. Winfield Scott and a force of
7000 soldiers were sent by Martin Van Buren to instigate this event, whose terminus was in Oklahoma. For
the point, name this event in which thousands of Cherokees were forcibly relocated.
ANSWER: Trail of Tears [accept Cherokee removal before “Cherokee”, prompt on Indian removal]
048-12-58-22110

11. Article 11 of this treaty set up a commission by which the United States would pay up to 5 million
dollars to settle grievances against a foreign government. Much of this treaty fixed the Sabine and Red
Rivers as part of the western borders of the Louisiana Purchase. This treaty was negotiated following a
series of raids by Andrew Jackson escalated into the First Seminole War. One side that negotiated this
treaty was eager to cede their possessions following the Peninsular War. For the point, name this 1819
treaty between Spain and the U.S. that transferred control of Florida.
ANSWER: Adams-Onis Treaty
064-12-58-22111

12. Tensions from this act helped lead to the Rock Springs Massacre. Earlier, the Page Act tried to achieve
this act's goal. This act effectively reversed the terms of the Burlingame Treaty and was only repealed by
the Magnuson Act of 1943, although its full effects did not end until a 1965 act abolished the National
Origins Formula. Labor unions such as the Knights of Labor supported this act hoping to increase
depressed wages. The fear created by this legislation was a main cause of Japan making the Gentlemen's
Agreement with the U.S. For the point, name this 1882 act that suspended immigration into the U.S. from
an Asian nation.
ANSWER: Chinese Exclusion Act
064-12-58-22112

13. Although this man was fired from the night shift at Western Union in Louisville, through it he met
Franklin Leonard Pope, whose mentorship helped him develop a stock ticker and earned his first patent for
an electric vote recorder. It was his work on the Brockton Operation utilizing a three-wire system that truly
revolutionized how electric power was distributed even though he and his promoters advocated the more
profitable two-wire system in New York. A long-standing feud with Nicola Tesla over utilizing direct
instead of alternating current cost the United States years of infrastructure development. For the point,
name the Wizard of Menlo Park known for developing a long-lasting incandescent light bulb.
ANSWER: Thomas Alva Edison
147-12-58-22113

14. One mayor of this city, "Handsome Gene" Schmitz, formed the committee of fifty to deal with one
crisis, but was charged with extortion the next year. In this city, Angelo Rossi declared a state of
emergency after Bloody Thursday; that incident occurred during a Longshoremen's strike. One resident of
this city ordered Winfield Scott to dissolve Congress and called himself Emperor Norton. The UN Charter
was signed in this city, as was the treaty ending hostilities between the U.S. and Japan. Another event in
this city's history saw refugees forced to set up tents in its Golden Gate Park. For the point, name this city,
where a 1906 earthquake was caused by a huge rupture in the San Andreas Fault.
ANSWER: San Francisco
048-12-58-22114

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 3 of 10

15. In 1890, one man with this surname proposed a namesake bill that would have empowered the federal
government to enforce fair congressional elections for southern black voters. Another man with this
surname received Cable 243 after the Xa Loi Pagoda Raids and promised U.S. support for a coup against
Ngo Dinh Diem (NOH DIN DYEM) as ambassador to South Vietnam. While chairing the Foreign
Relations Committee, a Senator with this name introduced a series of "reservations" to guarantee American
sovereignty against the decisions of an international body. For the point, give the last name of the
isolationist Senator who opposed United States' entry into the League of Nations.
ANSWER: Lodge [or Henry Cabot Lodge, Sr.; or Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.]
080-12-58-22115

16. This man argued against Lyman Trumbull during a motion on building a memorial for Roger Taney. He
represented Sarah Roberts in a court case against Boston's public school system. One speech given by this
man compared two of his opponents to Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, but that one of them was defending
"the harlot, slavery." That speech attacked Stephen Douglas and Andrew Butler's Kansas-Nebraska Act.
For the point, name this Senator from Massachusetts whose "Crime Against Kansas" speech led to a caning
from Preston Brooks.
ANSWER: Charles Sumner
048-12-58-22116

17. This crime led to the suicide of Violet Sharp. A figure named "Jafsie" helped in this crime, during
which a note signed with two interlocked blue circles around a red circle was found. The investigators were
led on a chase all over Manhattan in one instance, where they were led to a non-existent boat called the
Nellie. It was called "the biggest story since the Resurrection" by H.L. Mencken. After a two-year
investigation, Bruno Hauptmann was charged and executed. It occurred near Hopewell, New Jersey when
nursemaid Betty Gow discovered her charge was missing. For the point, name this event in which the son
of a famous aviator was kidnapped.
ANSWER: Lindbergh baby kidnapping [accept Charles Augustus Lindbergh, Jr. being taken or other
equivalent answers]
048-12-58-22117

18. This event popularized the belly dance, or "hootchy-kootchy," through the performances of Farida
Spyropolous. During this event, Frederick Jackson Turner put forth his "Frontier Thesis." Serial killer
Henry Holmes drew many away from this event to a hotel he called the "Murder Castle." This event, which
was planned by Daniel Burnham, is credited with giving rise to the "City Beautiful" movement. Relics
commemorating this event include Daniel Chester French's Statue of the Republic, which stands in Jackson
Park. It was meant to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the discovery of America. For the point, name this
1893 fair in Chicago.
ANSWER: Chicago World's Fair [or the World's Columbian Exposition]
080-12-58-22118

19. This man, who instigated a three-week Senate filibuster of the Glass-Steagall Act, worked with the
"Old Regulars" to increase gasoline taxes. He was elected to his state's railroad commission because he was
strongly anti-Standard Oil, a position that led him into a brawl inside his own state legislature on "Bloody
Monday." Minister Gerald L.K. Smith worked closely with this author of My First Days in the White House
. After this man attempted to oust Judge Henry Pavey, Pavey’s son-in-law Carl Weiss assassinated this
cofounder of the Share Our Wealth movement. For the point, name this corrupt Louisiana Senator
nicknamed "Kingfisher."
ANSWER: Huey Pierce Long, Jr.
079-12-58-22119

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 4 of 10

20. This bill contained an amendment that allowed reciprocity provisions to be negotiated by the President
without the approval of Congress. This bill had a provision to exclude tin plates seven years after its
passage, and it did not apply to sugar or coffee. Its namesake was defeated by Thomas B. Reed for Speaker
of the House and was known as the "Napoleon of Protection." It increased the average duty from 38 percent
to 50 percent, and was passed by the help of Southern Democrats in exchange for votes on the Sherman
Silver Purchase Act. This tariff was replaced four years later with the Wilson-Gorman Tariff. For the point,
name this tariff passed in 1890 and named for a future President.
ANSWER: McKinley tariff
048-12-58-22120

21. In September of 1905, this man joined Jack London, Upton Sinclair, and Florence Kelley to form the
Intercollegiate Socialist Society. This man gave up work as the General Attorney for Chicago North &
Western Railway over his feelings concerning the Pullman Strike. He later defended Bill Haywood when
he was on trial for the murder of former Idaho governor Frank Steunenberg. Following his defense of the
MacNamara Brothers for their bombing of the Los Angeles Times building, he was barred from practicing
law in California. For the point, name this lawyer famous for his defenses of the thrill killers Leopold and
Loeb, as well as John T. Scopes.
ANSWER: Clarence Seward Darrow
147-12-58-22121

22. The only real engagement of this event occurred when forces of Henry Ford defeated those of Joaquin
Torre at the Battle of Olompali. At the end of this event, a group of naval vessels commanded by Robert
Stockton arrived; Stockton then dispatched Kit Carson to Washington to inform them of his conquest. The
commander of one side during this event was briefly kept prisoner at Sutter's Fort. Mariano Vallejo and
John C. Fremont both encouraged this event that came to a complete end following the arrival of Stephen
Kearny. This revolt was declared shortly before news of the Mexican-American War arrived in the region.
For the point, name this 1846 revolt against Mexico that inspired the flag of California.
ANSWER: Bear Flag Revolt [prompt on Mexican-American War before it is read]
064-12-58-22122

23. Though an American, this artist went to Europe to study with Jean-Leon Gerome, and was influenced
by the canvases of Ribera and Velazquez that he saw in the Prado. In works like The Fairman Rogers
Four-in-Hand, he depicted the horse's gait accurately thanks to his study of the photography of Eadweard
Muybridge. This artist celebrated a champion rower in Max Schmitt in a Single Scull, and created another
work showing his naked students climbing and standing on a rock in the title Swimming Hole. In his most
noted painting, he showed a woman recoiling and holding her hands in front of her face as the title doctor
holds a scalpel, supervising a surgery. For the point, name this realist artist of The Gross Clinic.
ANSWER: Thomas Eakins
080-12-58-22123

24. During a trial, this man stated that "while there is a soul in prison, I am not free." The May Day Riots of
1919 broke out from demonstrations protesting this man's imprisonment due to his violation of the
Espionage Act. He won over three percent of the popular vote while in prison. Emil Seidel was this man's
running mate in the 1912 election, and he led the American Railway Union during the Pullman Strike. He
ran for President in 1904, 1908, 1912, and 1920 on the Socialist Party ticket. For the point, name this
founding member of the Industrial Workers of the World.
ANSWER: Eugene Victor Debs
127-12-58-22124

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 5 of 10

25. This man's defeat of Samuel Sturgis at the Battle of Brice's Cross Roads exemplified his use of quick
cavalry maneuvers that earned him the sobriquet "wizard of the saddle." While commanding an army with
James R. Chalmers, he defeated a garrison commanded by Lionel F. Booth and massacred hundreds of
black Union soldiers at the Battle of Fort Pillow. He was sworn into service to a certain organization at the
Maxwell House Hotel, for whom he commanded a group of dragoons that harassed southern Republicans
and black voters. For the point, name this confederate general and first Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan.
ANSWER: Nathan Bedford Forrest
048-12-58-22125

26. This man was adopted by the Cherokee John Jolly, who gave him the name "The Raven." This man was
accused of being part of Robert Rose and John van Fossen's ration supplying scheme by William Stanberry,
whom this man then beat with a cane. This man sent a militia to quell the Regulator-Moderator war in
another position. In one battle, this man fought alongside Thomas J. Rusk in a one-hour battle in which
they ambushed the opposing army during an afternoon nap; that was the Battle of San Jacinto, where this
man defeated Santa Anna. For the point, name this first president of the Republic of Texas.
ANSWER: Samuel Houston
048-12-58-22126

27. Audience members were reportedly sick after seeing a scene in one of this man's films in which Lillian
Gish tries to escape in a closet from her abusive father. Cheng Huan comes to England to spread Buddhism
and meets Lucy Burrows in that film, Broken Blossoms. In another of his films, Gish plays “Eternal
Motherhood,” who is seen rocking a cradle in between shorter stories, including one about the St.
Bartholomew's Day Massacre and another about Christ's Crucifixion. Woodrow Wilson claimed another
work by this man “was like writing history with lightning.” That film, based on a Thomas Dixon play,
paints a favorable portrait of the rise of the Ku Klux Klan during Reconstruction. For the point, name this
director of Intolerance and Birth of a Nation.
ANSWER: David Llewelyn Griffith
121-12-58-22127

28. This president was nicknamed "Old Public Functionary." His Secretary of War, John B. Floyd, was
indicted for conspiracy and fraud. He sent the army to install Alfred Cumming as Brigham Young's
replacement in the Utah War. While serving as a minister to Britain, this man signed the Ostend Manifesto
recommending the purchase of Cuba. The Crittenden Compromise failed during his presidency, and he
reluctantly endorsed his Vice President, John Breckinridge, for President. Late in his term, he sent the Star
of the West steamer to reinforce Major Robert Anderson at a fort located in Charleston harbor. For the
point, name this bachelor President during the beginning of the Fort Sumter crisis.
ANSWER: James Buchanan, Jr.
052-12-58-22128

29. A group including Charles Curtis and John Sarsfield led the namesake “raiders” of this location, who
were apprehended by a group called the Regulators and tried by Peter McCullough. Father Peter Whelan,
the "Angel" of this location, once purchased thousands of pounds of flour for the occupants. Among the
occupants of this location was Felix de la Baume, a descendent of the Marquis de Lafayette. Dorence
Atwater created a record of this place, whose commander was represented by Louis Schade in trial.
MacKinlay Kantor wrote a novel about this location, which was commanded by Henry Wirz. This facility
was created in February 1864 due to an increase in POWs. For the point, name this Confederate prison
camp.
ANSWER: Andersonville prison [or Camp Sumter]
048-12-58-22129

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 6 of 10

30. Pink Anderson and Floyd Council are exemplars of the Piedmont style of this form. Bessie Smith is
considered to be the “Empress” of this form, and John Lee Hooker developed a distinct Texas style of it.
Howlin' Wolf was a pioneer in the shift of this form from the acoustic Delta style to the electric Chicago
style. W.C. Handy composed pieces in this form named for St. Louis and Memphis. One composer of this
type of music wrote such standards as “Sweet Home Chicago” and “Hellhound on My Trail.” That
musician in this form was a man who supposedly sold his soul to the devil for guitar skills, Robert Johnson.
For the point, name this type of music that often focuses on melancholy themes whose performers include
B.B. King.
ANSWER: blues
030-12-58-22130

31. Thomas C. Platt helped many Republicans get elected to this position. One man won this post in 1825
on the People's Party ticket, and that man had previously won this position in 1820 by defeating Daniel D.
Tompkins, a member of the Bucktail Democrats. That man in this position also worked closely with
Senator Gouverneur Morris to commission a major construction project. One holder of this post, Horatio
Seymour, took a reconciliatory attitude with rioters in 1863. One Democrat to hold this position was the
first Catholic Presidential nominee of a major party. For the point, name this position held by Al Smith and
DeWitt Clinton, the latter of whom sponsored the Erie Canal for his state.
ANSWER: Governor of New York
079-12-58-22131

32. An editor of the Omaha World-Herald, this man spent a lot of time, as did Mark Twain, on the
Chatauqua circuit and founded the weekly newspaper, the Commoner. He was twice elected to Congress in
1890 and 1892 before failing to win a Senate seat in Nebraska despite being known as the "boy orator of
the Platte." This man became the second presidential candidate for a party that had earlier adopted the
Omaha Platform. He eventually helped to orchestrate Woodrow Wilson's nomination in 1912, for which
Wilson appointed him Secretary of State. He resigned after Wilson's reaction to the sinking of the
Lusitania. For the point, name this candidate who lost to McKinley in 1896 and 1900.
ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan
147-12-58-22132

33. One of this man’s paintings features disproportionately large hills and a cartoonish, winding road down
which a black horse charges. The title character of a work by this artist of Woman With Plants and The
Midnight Ride of Paul Revere lifts a red curtain and points at a young boy holding a hatchet who has a
grown George Washington's face. This artist of Parson Weems' Fable depicted another woman wearing a
cameo and stitched blouse, modeled by his sister Nan, standing in front of a house whose upper window
gives that work its name. For the point, name this Regionalist artist of American Gothic.
ANSWER: Grant Wood
105-12-58-22133

34. During these events, one participant claimed that "Public sentiment is everything. With public
sentiment, nothing can fail". Another participant said that it would be impossible to obtain uniformity in
local laws. The main theme of these events contrasted the idea of popular sovereignty with national policy,
using the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 as an example of national sovereignty. These events took place in
such towns as Quincy, Alton, and Freeport; it was at Freeport that one side was forced to give his opinion
on the Dred Scott case. For the point, name this series of seven debates in 1858 between two politicians
campaigning to be senator from Illinois.
ANSWER: Lincoln-Douglas debates
064-12-58-22134

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 7 of 10

35. The construction of this railroad was documented by photographer Alfred A. Hart. Lewis Metzler
Clement was the engineer in charge of building forty miles of snow sheds to protect it from winter
blizzards. The Contract and Finance Company was created to fund its construction; that company was
started by Huntington, Stanford, Hopkins, and Crocker, collectively known as the "Big Four." Its
construction made extensive use of Chinese immigrant labor. This railroad had to traverse the Sierra
Nevadas and started in Sacramento. For the point, identify this railroad that, with the driving in of the
"Golden Spike" at Promontory Summit, formed the first transcontinental railway with the Union Pacific.
ANSWER: Central Pacific Railroad [prompt on the first transcontintental railroad until read]
066-12-58-22135

36. "Honest John" Kelly, who once brandished a tomahawk and looked for this man, failed to hinder his
campaign. Four million dollars from this man's fortune was given to maintain a free reading room, which
eventually became the New York Public Library. After taking second place to this man in a primary
election, Thomas Hendricks became his running mate. This man sent an undercover engineer to expose the
fraudulent Canal Ring. He leveraged his position as Democratic State Committee chairman to bust the
Tweed Ring's shady dealings. This man won the popular vote, but disputed results led to the victory of his
opponent. For the point, name this loser of the election of 1876.
ANSWER: Samuel Jones Tilden
020-12-58-22136

37. One event that led to a government in this state was the death of Ewing Young. In the Election of 1876,
an elector from this state turned out to be ineligible because he was a postmaster. In 1864, several tribes in
this state were relocated to the Klamath Reservation. This state and the surrounding region were opened to
joint settlement by the Convention of 1818, but conflicts arising from that document were settled by a
treaty signed during Polk's administration. For the point, name this state whose territory was the subject of
a 1840s border dispute between the U.S. and Great Britain settled by a boundary at the 49th parallel.
ANSWER: Oregon
001-12-58-22137

38. Two of these works were given after the laying of the cornerstone and after the completion of the
Bunker Hill Monument. One of these works calls the government "made for the people, made by the
people, and answerable to the people." These works include the "Second Reply to Hayne", in which the
speaker proclaimed "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!" For the point, name these
orations, including the "Seventh of March" one endorsing the Compromise of 1850, delivered by a
Massachusetts Senator.
ANSWER: speeches of Daniel Webster [or synonyms for speeches like orations or addresses]
020-12-58-22138

39. After the Confederates earned victory at the Battle of Mesilla, they claimed this territory. Some of the
battles fought here during the Civil War include Stanwix Station and the Battle of Picacho Pass, the
westernmost battle of the Civil War. The United States established Prescott as its territorial capital in 1863.
Eight years before the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment, women were granted suffrage here. William
Howard Taft required this state to remove the recall provision of its constitution before signing its
statehood bill on February 14, 1912. For the point, name the 48th state admitted to the union, whose
territory was partly defined by the Gadsden Purchase.
ANSWER: Arizona
147-12-58-22139

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 8 of 10

40. This religion's first revival was led by Wodziwob while its second was described in Caspar Edson's
"Messiah Letter." Despite not being a Christian religion, one of its prophets claimed to have received
stigmata. Followers of this religion performed a ritual in which men and women formed a circle,
interlocked fingers, and moved clockwise while singing. Namesake shirts were believed to stop bullets by
one group of its followers, who believed it prophesied the destruction of white men. For the point, Wovoka
was the major prophet of what Plains Indian religion, many of whose followers were massacred at
Wounded Knee?
ANSWER: Ghost Dance Religion
003-12-58-22140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 9 of 10

Extra Questions

41. A cholera outbreak in this city led to support for Ellis Chesbrough's plan for a sewage system, which
required buildings in this city be raised several feet with hydraulic jacks. Chesbrough also oversaw the
deepening of canals that allowed this city to reverse the flow of its river in 1900. Samuel Insull's holding
company pyramid was based on the public utility company that supplied this city's electricity. A plan
proposing boulevard streets and public access to the lake was drafted for this city's Merchants Club by
Daniel Burnham. Potter Palmer invested heavily rebuilding this city's business district after it suffered a fire
in 1871. For the point, name this largest city in Illinois.
ANSWER: Chicago
121-12-58-22141

42. This author criticized American higher education in The Goose-Step, which joined The Profits of
Religion and Money Writes! in a series of six screeds against the permeation of capitalism in American
institutions. This one time Californoa gubernatorial candidate wrote about World War I in World’s End,
one of his twelve novels charting the adventures of Lanny Budd. The protagonist of his most famous novel
meets Jack Duane in prison and watches his wife Ona die after giving birth to her second child. That novel
helped get the Pure Food and Drug Act passed because of its searing look at the meatpacking industry. For
the point, name this Socialist muckraking author of The Jungle.
ANSWER: Upton Sinclair
015-12-58-22142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 4: (US 1816-1932 History)

Page 10 of 10

