2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 3

BEE ROUND 3
1. Shot-putter Ralph Rose refused to dip the American flag to this man in the Olympic parade. This man's
appendix surgery, which was conducted by Sir Frederick Treves, popularized that procedure. He died while
attempting to resolve a constitutional crisis over Prime Minister Asquith's People's Budget of 1910, and he
was known as the "Uncle of Europe," though he did not have good relations with his nephew Kaiser
Wilhelm II. For the point, name this British king, the father of George V, who named the era following the
death of his mother, Queen Victoria.
ANSWER: Edward VII [prompt on Edward]
030-13-94-21101

2. The Poland Committee censured James Brooks for involvement with this company. Charles Dana owned
the paper that first attacked it, calling it "the King of Frauds." Thomas Durant tried to kill this company by
switching his contract over to L.B. Boomer, leading Durant to be ousted from it by Oliver and Oakes
Ames. As a Massachusetts Representative, Oakes Ames sold stock in this company at a discounted value to
his fellow Congressmen. For the point, name this construction company that used profits from its business
with the Union Pacific to bribe Congressmen during the Grant administration.
ANSWER: Credit Mobilier of America
121-13-94-21102

3. The 1833 Treaty of Hunkiar Iskelesi agreed to close this body of water to non-bordering countries.
Access to this sea was the subject of the Straits Question, and a port on this city was besieged by Lord
Raglan before its fortifications were destroyed by evacuating Russian forces. An agreement at a port on this
body of water agreed to hold post-war trial of war criminals before an international court. The Bosporus
Strait links it with the Sea of Marmara. For the point, name this body of water which surrounds the
Crimean Peninsula and whose port cities include Sevastopol and Yalta.
ANSWER: Black Sea
030-13-94-21103

4. This artist included Hendrick Vroom's depictions of the defeat of the Spanish Armada above a collapsed
Englishman in his The Death of the Earl of Chatham. One of his paintings features a seated man clutching
a teapot near some engraving tools. This artist inaccurately depicted a British Army officer being shot to
death in his The Death of Major Peirson, and he completed a portrait of Paul Revere. His most famous
painting features Morro Castle in the background, and is set in Havana Harbor. For the point, identify this
American-born artist of Watson and the Shark.
ANSWER: John Singleton Copley
189-13-94-21104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 1 of 8

5. Under this king's orders, an army called "the Hundred Thousand Sons" invaded a neighboring country
to end the Liberal Triennium. During his reign, the Chamber of Deputies was nicknamed "the Unobtainable
Chamber" for its domination by the ultra-royalists and executed Marshal Ney for treason. This king's
successor, Charles X, was deposed by the July Revolution, ending the Bourbon Restoration. This man was
himself briefly deposed after a rival returned from Elba. For the point, name this French king whose reign
was interrupted by Napoleon's Hundred Days.
ANSWER: Louis XVIII [prompt on Louis]
232-13-94-21105

6. This man corrected Ptolemy's overestimate of the size of the Mediterranean in his book The Image of the
Earth. One of his books includes the first recorded table of tangents. Robert of Chester translated into Latin
a book by this man that discussed the methods of reduction and balancing. That book was commissioned by
al-Mamun and includes several examples related to inheritance. For the point, name this Persian who
worked in Baghdad's House of Wisdom, developed algebra, and lends his name to the word "algorithm."
ANSWER: Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi
048-13-94-21106

7. A speech of this type claimed that America had "no right, no desire, and no intention to impose our
government on anyone else." Lisa Beamer, Sima Samar, and Dikeme Mutombo served as "Skutniks" at
these events. Another of these speeches discusses the "depths of our enemies' hatred," which is evident in
"videos where they laugh about the loss of innocent life." Another of these speeches listed Iran, Iraq, and
North Korea as an "axis of evil." For the point, name these annual speeches given from 2002 to 2008 to
joint sessions of Congress.
ANSWER: George W. Bush's state of the union addresses [prompt on partial answer]
192-13-94-21107

8. Colonel Thomas Dunbar assumed control of this man's forces following his death, and he was buried at
the rallying point of Great Meadows. A vanguard unit under his command discovered the Cumberland
Narrows, which was later developed into the National Road. This man was the first British general to set
foot in the American colonies, and he lost the Battle of Monongahela while on a march to Fort Duquesne.
For the point, name this British commander of the French and Indian War who died after being ambushed
during his unsuccessful namesake expedition that included George Washington.
ANSWER: Edward Braddock
030-13-94-21108

9. Richard Grenville sold Buckland Abbey to this man, who arranged for the execution of Thomas Doughty.
This man served under his cousin John Hawkins in both his first slave raid and the expedition which caused
his death, and he burned thirty ships during a raid on Cadiz. He completed the second circumnavigation of
the globe, but probably did not reach his namesake passage. He participated in the defeat of the Spanish
Armada and made many raids on Spanish colonies while leading the Golden Hind. For the point, name this
English explorer and privateer.
ANSWER: Sir Francis Drake
140-13-94-21109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 2 of 8

10. In Athens, Tennessee, these people organized a Non-Partisan League that ousted the corrupt Paul
Cantrell and Pat Mansfield in the McMinn County War. They were allowed to join the so-called "52-20
club," which gave them twenty dollars a week for a year. They were given zero down-payment loans for
homes and money for college tuition, leading to the growth of suburbia, in a 1944 bill administered by
Omar Bradley. For the point, name these people whose so-called "Bill of Rights" was more officially called
the Servicemen's Readjustment Act.
ANSWER: World War II Veterans [or GIs]
080-13-94-21110

11. During this war, dozens of Englishmen were killed when the British ship Kowshing was torpedoed.
During the Triple Intervention, Russia, Germany, and France amended the treaty ending this war. This war
was sparked when one side violated the Convention of Tientsin by sending in troops to help end the
Tonghak Revolt. This war was ended by the conquest of the Pescadores Islands, and its largest naval battle
occurred on the Yalu River in 1894. For the point, name this war ended by the Treaty of Shimonoseki,
fought in the 1890s between two East Asian rivals.
ANSWER: First Sino-Japanese War
190-13-94-21111

12. This person's father Celtillus was executed for fomenting rebellion, and he was opposed by his uncle
Gobanitio. During their last battle, this man's nemesis used the techniques of circumvallation and
contravallation to repel reinforcements led by king Commius of the Atrebates (at-reb-AH-teez). He repelled
an attack on Gergovia, the capital of the Arverni tribe, but was eventually defeated near the Jura (YUR-uh)
Mountains, at the hilltop fort of Alesia. For the point, name this man who led a confederation of Gauls
against Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Vercingetorix
232-13-94-21112

13. A component of this substance was produced from the waste generated by sugar beet refining. The
developer of this substance was first interrogated by Sigmund Freud's grandson, Walter. The Leuchter
report claimed that this substance wasn't used due to the lack of residue found; that report was
commissioned for the trial of Ernest Zundel. It consists of prussic acid, a stabilizer, and ethyl bromoacetate,
and was developed by Tesch and Stabenow with help from IG Farben. For the point, name this pesticide
that was used in Nazi extermination camps.
ANSWER: Zyklon B
048-13-94-21113

14. A member of this family was the first head of the Interstate-Commerce Railway Assocation, a
short-lived rate-setting pool. A member of this family was president of the Union Pacific in between terms
of Jay Gould. That man's father from this family was Martin van Buren's Free Soil running mate and tried
to keep Great Britain neutral as ambassador during the Civil War. Another member of this family was a
historian who did not mention his wife's suicide in his autobiography. For the point, name this family that
included Charles Francis Senior and Junior and a man who wrote The Education of himself.
ANSWER: Adams
121-13-94-21114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 3 of 8

15. In 2010, this country extradited arms dealer Viktor Bout to the United States. This country has been
rocked by political brawls between the UDD and PAD, political factions respectively garbed in red and
yellow shirts. This country entered a political crisis in November thanks to a proposed amnesty bill that
would allow its deposed premier to return from exile in Dubai; that premier is the current premier's brother,
Thaksin. For the point, name this southeast Asian country where, at the end of 2013, protesters demanded
the resignation of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.
ANSWER: Thailand
080-13-94-21115

16. The acclaimed TV documentary Death on the Rock investigated the deaths of three members of this
organization in Gibraltar. This organization undertook the "Long War" strategy and favored the Armalite
assault rifle, which they received en masse from deals with Muammar Gaddafi. When the Special Category
Status was withdrawn from prisoners from this organization, they conducted a hunger strike led by Bobby
Sands. They carried out the Brighton Hotel Bombing and the killing of Lord Mountbatten. For the point,
name this terrorist organization that seeks a united Ireland.
ANSWER: Provisional Irish Republican Army [or PIRA; or Provos; or Oglaigh na hEireann]
020-13-94-21116

17. Elisha King Root became president of this man's namesake company following his death, and he got the
idea for one of his inventions by observing the action of the wheel of the brig Corvo while on a voyage to
Calcutta. A telegraph business operated by this man used the first underwater cable, and he designed the
first remote controlled explosive with his electrically discharged naval mine. His greatest invention was
said to have "won the West" and was nicknamed "The Peacemaker." For the point, name this firearms
manufacturer who popularized the revolver.
ANSWER: Samuel Colt
030-13-94-21117

18. This priest showed his independence from Catholic interests when he ordered troops to ally with the
Protestant canton of Grisons in a dispute over the Valtellina valley. Near the end of his career, he survived
a conspiracy organized by the Duke of Cinq-Mars. This man participated in a tense confrontation with
Marie de Medici in 1630, after which it was falsely reported to his opponents that he had been dismissed,
giving the incident the name "Day of the Dupes." For the point, name this "red eminence," a Cardinal who
was the longtime advisor to Louis XIII.
ANSWER: Cardinal de Richelieu [or Armand-Jean du Plessis]
019-13-94-21118

19. A general during this time period was fatally enraged by seeing the scar from an arrow wound in the
mirror. The wooden ox was invented by a man from this time period, who captured a rebel leader seven
times during his Southern Campaign. Several important players during this time period met twelve years
before it began at Red Cliffs. The "Little Conqueror" Sun Ce and strategist Zhuge Liang were prominent in
this time period, whose precipitating cause was the Yellow Turban Rebellion. For the point, name this
Chinese period following the Han Dynasty, in which Wei, Shu, and Wu duked it out.
ANSWER: Three Kingdoms Period [or Sanguo]
020-13-94-21119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 4 of 8

20. A character in this story alludes to contemporary Malthusian theories when he says that if the poor are
going to die, they had better do it and decrease the excess population. The protagonist of this story sees the
allegorical images of Ignorance and Want under another character's robe after recalling his apprenticeship
with Mr. Fezziwig. The main action of this story begins with a visit from the protagonist's deceased
business partner, Jacob Marley. For the point, name this novella by Charles Dickens featuring Bob Cratchit
and Ebenezer Scrooge.
ANSWER: A Christmas Carol
014-13-94-21120

21. At the Democratic convention in this Presidential election year, the Chicago Department of Sanitation
head started the "voice from the sewers" chant in favor of the nominee. The Democratic nominee's running
mate in this year gave the "Century of the Common Man" speech. Charles Lindbergh wins this election in
the book The Plot Against America. Its winning candidate defeated a Wall Street industrialist who had
never run for public office. For the point, name this Presidential election in which Franklin Roosevelt
defeated Wendell Willkie to win an unprecedented third term.
ANSWER: United States Presidential election of 1940
052-13-94-21121

22. Suetonius claims that this man coined the phrase "money does not smell" after instituting a urine tax.
While this ruler was laying siege to Yodfat, forty-one men killed each other, and the lone survivor was
spared when he prophesized that this man would become emperor. This patron of Josephus and suppressor
of the Jewish Revolt also helped conquer Britain during the reign of Claudius. After the deaths of Galba
and Otho, this man deposed Vitellius to end the Year of the Four Emperors. For the point, name this
Roman emperor who founded the Flavian dynasty.
ANSWER: Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Caesar Vespasianus Augustus]
232-13-94-21122

23. A musical describes children in this modern-day country as "the dust of life, conceived in hell and born
in strife." In another show, the song "Three-Five-Zero-Zero" shows deaths in this country during the "space
walk" sequence, and Claude Bukowski dies here. Unlike the earlier Les Miserables, Boublil and
Schonberg's second hit is set in this non-Japanese country, which Chris Scott leaves in an on-stage
helicopter, leaving Kim behind, in an adaptation of Madame Butterfly. For the point, name this country
central to the Broadway musicals Hair and Miss Saigon.
ANSWER: Vietnam [or Socialist Republic of Vietnam; or South Vietnam]
104-13-94-21123

24. A revolt during this man's rule was supported by his brother Prince Chichibu. The Korean activist Lee
Bong-chang tried to assassinate this emperor with a hand grenade. After the Battle of Saipan, this man
encouraged all citizens of his country to commit suicide rather than be taken prisoner. A recording he made
was targeted in an abortive coup known as the Kyujo Incident. Shigeru Yoshida was a frequent prime
minister during his reign. For the point, name this father of Akihito, who was emperor of Japan during
World War II.
ANSWER: Hirohito [or the Showa Emperor]
186-13-94-21124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 5 of 8

25. Michel Foucault wrote a column about this event for an Italian newspaper just before his death. More
than four hundred people burned to death in the Cinema Rex movie theater during this event, and
eighty-eight protesters at Zhaleh Square were massacred during its Black Friday. Shortly after this event, its
instigator formulated the "guardianship of the jurist." It overthrew the Pahlavi Dynasty and sent the Shah
into exile. For the point, name this 1979 event that brought Ayatollah Khomeini to power.
ANSWER: 1979 Iranian Revolution [or Islamic Revolution in Iran]
190-13-94-21125

26. This man hung a large number of golden shields to annoy a crowd according to Philo of Alexandria,
and was recalled after ordering a massacre at Tirithana, according to Josephus. A half-preserved stele
found in Caesarea Maritima in 1961 confirmed that this man had the real-life rank of prefect. This leader
who notably asked "What is truth?", the only mere human named in the Nicene Creed, released Barabbas
and hung a sign reading "King of the Jews" over a victim. For the point, name this Roman administrator of
Judaea who washed his hands of guilt over Jesus's execution.
ANSWER: Pontius Pilate [or Pontius Pilatus; or Pontios Pilatos]
104-13-94-21126

27. This man's failure to win the Prix de Rome after three tries resulted in the resignation of Theodore
Dubois. Jacques Charlot, Jean Gruppi, and Jean Dreyfus are among the dedicatees of a piece by this man
named for a seventeenth century harpsichordist and dedicated to soldiers who died in World War I. This
composer of The Tomb of Couperin created a piece for the Ballets Russes which told of the love between a
goatherd and shepherdess and a piece with a snare drum ostinato based on a Spanish dance. For the point,
name this French composer of Daphnis et Chloe and Bolero.
ANSWER: Maurice Ravel
030-13-94-21127

28. Mary Burton accused John Ury of being a disguised Jesuit priest and planning an event of this type in
New York in 1741. Lieutenant Governor William Bull narrowly escaped an event of this type, which
involved a group attempting to travel to St. Augustine, Florida. That event of this type was named for the
Stono River. One of these events included a plan to capture Governor James Monroe, was foiled by a
thunderstorm, and resulted in the execution of twenty-six individuals, whose masters were reimbursed by
the state of Virginia. For the point, name this kind of revolt led by Gabriel Prosser.
ANSWER: slave revolt [or equivalents]
030-13-94-21128

29. This man translated Thucydides (thoo-SID-uh-deez) into English as a calculated anti-democratic
statement. He engaged in a war of letters with Rene Descartes after publishing sixteen objections to the
Mediations on First Philosophy. He wrote a history of the English Civil War entitled Behemoth as a
companion piece to a book calling the Pope a representative of "the Kingdom of Darkness." For the point,
name this philosopher who held that exiting an anarchic state of nature required accepting absolute and
Protestant rule in his Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes
019-13-94-21129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 6 of 8

30. The speaker in this event was encouraged by Elizabeth Glaser and relayed information from Michael
Mellman. During this event, a man promised to go on "bugging you guys like I always have." As a result of
this event, a player on the following year's Olympic team received standing ovations despite his knee
injury. The speaker during this event cautioned that "you only thought it could happen to other people," and
noted that his wife Cookie was fine. For the point, name this November 1991 event in which a Lakers
player announced his retirement and his positive test for a certain virus.
ANSWER: Magic Johnson's HIV announcement [or Magic Johnson saying he's going to retire from
the Lakers; prompt on Magic Johnson's press conference; do not accept or prompt on "Magic Johnson
reveals that he has AIDS"]
020-13-94-21130

31. In December 2013, the group Ansar Beit al-Maqdis claimed that this larger organization was not in
fact responsible for the suicide-bombing of a police station. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi was blamed for labeling
this organization a terrorist group. This organization, founded by Hassan al-Banna and strengthened by the
writings of Sayyid Qutb, sponsored the Freedom and Justice Party, which lost power in 2013. For the point,
name this group which once propelled Mohammed Morsi to the presidency of Egypt.
ANSWER: Muslim Brotherhood [or Society of the Muslim Brothers; or al-Ikhwan al-Muslimun]
019-13-94-21131

32. This god received sacrifices of human hearts from the "eagle's vase." This god's animal depiction was
carried by priests during the legendary migration from Aztlan. In the year of Eight Reed, or 1487, an
enormous temple to this god was dedicated on the spot where an eagle eating a snake sat on a rock. This
god was believed to have led his followers to the spot where Tenochtitlan was founded. For the point,
identify this Aztec god of war who took the form of a hummingbird.
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli
019-13-94-21132

33. This province, home to the Dolaucothi gold mines, was the base for Magnus Maximus's attempted
usurpation of the Roman Empire. In this region, King Calgacus declared "They make a desert and call it
peace" just before losing the Battle of Mons Graupius to Agricola. After King Prasutagas in this region left
half his wealth to Nero, the Iceni tribe rebelled in 60 CE under the leadership of Queen Boudicca. For the
point, name this Roman province, an island separated from Gaul by a narrow channel.
ANSWER: Roman Britain [or Britannia]
080-13-94-21133

34. "Palleschi" (pah-LESH-ee) were supporters of this family, which was once led by Piero the Gouty.
After a member of this family was killed, his body was rolled into a carpet and buried in the cemetery of
San Lorenzo. That member of this family, Alessandro, was assassinated by his cousin Lorenzino. This
family included the adopted Giulio, who became Pope Clement VII. For the point, name this Florentine
family whose members included Cosimo and Lorenzo the Magnificent.
ANSWER: House of Medici [or de Medici family; or the Medicis]
186-13-94-21134

35. One person with this status was the daughter of Oxyartes, a nobleman defeated by soldiers who climbed
up to his fortress with flax ropes rather than wings. Stateira and Parysatis were two of these people, though
Memnon of Rhodes's widow Barsine did not become one. The first of these people become one after the
Battle of the Sogdian Rock, and was a Bactrian princess named Roxana. For the point, identify this group
of women taken as the consorts of a Macedonian conqueror.
ANSWER: wives of Alexander the Great [or wives of Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on partial
answer]
080-13-94-21135
2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 7 of 8

Extra Question

36. This woman wrote The Book of Cookery and The Book of Sweetmeats. She was distraught by the
sudden epileptic fit which claimed the life of her daughter Patsy. This woman made a futile attempt to win
back her escaped maid Oney Judge, and she entertained the wives of the officers encamped at Valley
Forge. This first wife of George Custis freed the slaves at Mount Vernon after her husband's death. For the
point, name this inaugural First Lady of the United States.
ANSWER: Martha Washington [prompt on Washington]
020-13-94-21136

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 8 of 8

