2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 4

BEE ROUND 4
1. A military defeat of this person was commemorated in an orchestral piece that was premiered at a
charity concert for wounded soldiers, along with its composer's seventh symphony. A song commemorating
the "battle and defeat" of this person is part of the Hary Janos (HAH-ree YAY-nosh) Suite. Ferdinand Ries
related that a composer tore the title page of another of his pieces in half to omit a mention of this person.
For the point, name this person to whom Beethoven originally dedicated his Eroica Symphony before he
was crowned Emperor of France.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I; prompt on Bonaparte]
020-13-94-22101

2. In November 2013, an interview between this man and Eugenio Scalfari of La Repubblica was taken
down from a website when it was found to contain inaccuracies. A statement this man made in May 2013
was quickly refuted by Thomas Rosica in an article for ZENIT. This man caused a stir in March 2013 at the
Casal del Marmo detention center when two young women and ten young men had their feet washed by
him. For the point, name this Argentinian man who in March of 2013 became the first Jesuit to hold a title
relinquished weeks earlier by Benedict XVI.
ANSWER: Pope Francis I [or Jorge Mario Bergoglio]
023-13-94-22102

3. Comedian Eddie Cantor's show was taken off the air after Cantor denounced this man, who was not
Henry Ford. The Attorney General sought to revoke the mailing privileges of this man's newspaper, Social
Justice, which in 1938 reprinted all of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. He was the head of Royal Oak,
Michigan's National Shrine of the Little Flower Church. For the point, name this anti-Semitic Catholic
priest who broadcast populist messages throughout the 1930s.
ANSWER: Charles Edward Coughlin
052-13-94-22103

4. After losing a war, this city could not pay its soldiers, which led to it fighting the Mercenary War. A
general for this city captured Saguntum and broke a treaty by taking his forces across the Ebro River. This
city lost a war in which Sicily was defended by its general from the Barcid family. The legendary founder
of this city was the queen Elissa, who left Tyre to rule this city and was also called Dido. For the point,
name this city in northern Africa that was the capital of an empire that lost all three Punic Wars to Rome,
including one in which its forces were led by Hannibal.
ANSWER: Carthage [or Carthago; or Kart-hadasht]
023-13-94-22104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 1 of 9

5. These people developed a marriage ritual in which a bride's family received a quantity of silver, which
was acquired from traders in exchange for cultivated opium. These people speak a namesake Miao-Yao
language, and about ten percent of them have emigrated, mainly to the United States. These people became
Communists in Thailand but opposed the Communist government of Laos, leading to their persecution. For
the point, identify this upland population of Southeast Asia, which has engaged in massive resettlement in
Sacramento and St. Paul.
ANSWER: Hmong
019-13-94-22105

6. These buildings are protected by streamer-decorated straw ropes that can be up to three meters thick.
These buildings are protected by paired statues of dogs and lions. These structures typically contain
sanctuaries called "honden." A controversial building of this type honors soldiers who died in battle,
including some dubbed war criminals by the IMTFE. The "Grand" one of these buldings at Ise (EE-say) is
rebuilt every twenty years. Gates leading to these structures are called "torii." For the point, identify these
temples that are home to "kami" according to Shintoism.
ANSWER: Shinto shrines [or jinja]
080-13-94-22106

7. The twelfth-century traveler Benjamin of Tudela gave a demographic count of these people. Sultan
Bayezid II allowed thousands of these people to settle across the Ottoman Empire. Though Muhammad
initially set up cordial relations with the Banu Nadir and Banu Qaynuqa tribes of these people, they took
opposite sides at the Battle of the Trench. Mellahs were walled quarters of these people in Morocco, many
of whom fled to the Islamic world when expelled from Spain. For the point, name these people who, along
with Christians, were favorably treated as "people of the book."
ANSWER: Jews
020-13-94-22107

8. One of this director's films begins with the inspection of meat full of maggots, which becomes cause for
rebellion. His first feature film, Strike, demonstrated many of the theories of montage he developed. He
filmed Teutonic Knights wearing modern German helmets in the Battle on the Ice, which was the climax of
his historical epic Alexander Nevsky. His most famous film includes a sequence in which civilians are
massacred on the Odessa steps by Tsarist soldiers. For the point, name this Soviet director of Battleship
Potemkin.
ANSWER: Sergei Eisenstein
014-13-94-22108

9. After this event, Ambassador John Winant "danced around the room" with a prime minister. A
participant in this event was killed by locals in the Niihau (NEE-ee-how) Incident. It was investigated by a
commission led by Supreme Court Justice Owen Roberts. Shortly after this event, Walter Short and Rear
Admiral Husband Kimmel were relieved of their commands. It was the subject of the book At Dawn We
Slept and the film Tora! Tora! Tora! For the point, name this attack on a Hawaiian naval base that took
place on December 7, 1941.
ANSWER: attack on Pearl Harbor
052-13-94-22109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 2 of 9

10. These people launched the Five Shilling Rebellion under Manie Maritz in 1914. Around six hundred
families of these people settled the towns of Comodoro Rivadavia and Sarmiento in Chubut, Argentina.
Piet Retief, a leader of these people, was massacred by King Dingane (din-GAH-nay) in 1838. They dealt a
serious defeat to the British in 1881 at Majuba Hill. Andries Pretorius, leading these people, lost the Battle
of Blood River. Members of this group went on the Great Trek and diverged from the Cape Dutch. For the
point, name these Afrikaners who fought two wars with the British.
ANSWER: Boers [or Voortrekkers; prompt on Afrikaners until it is read]
190-13-94-22110

11. The Black-Red-Gold Coalition was a political block during this regime's existence. A leader of this
government, Joseph Wirth, negotiated the Treaty of Rapallo. The Spartacist Revolt occurred during the rule
of this government, and Owen Young was the namesake of a plan dealing with its finances. This
government was ended by the passage of the Enabling Act. This government was in power during a period
of hyperinflation. For the point, Paul von Hindenburg was the president of what government of Germany
that lasted from the end of World War I until 1933?
ANSWER: Weimar Republic
030-13-94-22111

12. This sport was used as a metaphor for colonialism in CLR James's Beyond a Boundary. A term from
this sport was the original codename for the Allied operation to combat German V-Weapons. That term,
"bodyline," was a controversial tactic used by a team whose actions were rebuked by players such as Don
Bradman, who might be responsible for the Adelaide Leak. A biennial five-match series, The Ashes, is held
between British and Australian teams in this sport, in which players can score centuries. For the point,
name this bat and ball sport popular in the British Commonwealth.
ANSWER: Test Cricket
153-13-94-22112

13. This man is probably responsible for public funds used to help poor children known as the alimenta,
and he oversaw the construction of a road on the King's Highway. This husband of Pompeia Plotina
commanded the building of the Segovia aqueduct and public baths on the Esquiline Hill. This man
supposedly wept upon reaching the Persian Gulf because he was too old to invade India. For the point,
name this Spanish-born Roman emperor who was succeeded by Hadrian and built a namesake column.
ANSWER: Trajan [or Caesar Divi Nervae Filius Nerva Trajanus Optimus Augustus]
030-13-94-22113

14. Gillo Pontecorvo directed a movie about this conflict that was shown in military academies in
Argentina and the USA. Harkis (HAR-keez) fought on the losing side of this war and were prevented from
fleeing at its end as the Pied-Noirs (peed-NWAR) had done earlier. Raoul Salan led the Secret Army
Organization that terrorized its own country to try to prolong this war. Charles de Gaulle reached an
agreement with rebel forces fighting this war in the Evian Accords. For the point, name this war fought
between the French and FLN in a North African department.
ANSWER: Algerian War of Independence [or equivalents]
121-13-94-22114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 3 of 9

15. A character from this modern-day country's history was a court jester who once tricked noblemen into
being branded by hot irons. The first residential university in the world was built in this country, which was
visited by the Chinese scholars Faxian (FAH-shee-ahn) and Xuanzang (SHWAN-zong). An emperor from
this country built a sculpture of four lions standing back-to-back, and was reportedly so distraught by a
violent war that he became a pacifist. For the point, name this modern-day country where the Mauryan
emperor Ashoka embraced the native religion of Buddhism.
ANSWER: Republic of India [or Bharat Ganrajya]
020-13-94-22115

16. James Callender supported one of these two men while calling the other a "hideous hermaphroditical
character which has neither the force and firmness of a man, nor the gentleness and sensibility of a
woman." The last words of one of these men was the factually inaccurate statement that the other one
"survives." These men died only hours apart on the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of
Independence on July 4, 1826. For the point, name these two Founding Fathers who served four years
together as President and Vice-President before the divisive Election of 1800.
ANSWER: John Adams and Thomas Jefferson [order not important, but do not accept or prompt if only
one answer is given; prompt on Adams; do not accept "John Quincy Adams"]
023-13-94-22116

17. Herbert Butterfield wrote a book on this kind of "interpretation of history," which refers to the view of
past as a steady march of positive progress towards the present. Cobham's Cubs were a faction within a
group known by this term, and included one of their last great leaders, William Pitt the Elder. This group
took its name from a Scottish insult for people who stole sheep. For the point, identify this group which
virtually monopolized Parliament for decades starting with the ministry of Robert Walpole, and opposed
the country gentlemen known as Tories.
ANSWER: "Whig" [or Whig Party, etc.]
019-13-94-22117

18. The Officers of the Night were formed to put an end to this practice, which was philosophically
defended in a tongue-in-cheek treatise titled Alcibiades (al-sub-EYE-uh-deez) the Schoolboy. In German
law, the infamous Paragraph 175 concerns this practice. Journalist Maximilian Harden accused royalty of
being involved in this practice in the Eulenberg Affair. In English law, it was called "buggery," though a
less euphemistic term was used in accusing Leonardo da Vinci. For the point, identify this practice that was
often called "sodomy" in Medieval Europe.
ANSWER: homosexual sex [or sodomy until it is read; sex acts between men; or gay sex, etc]
020-13-94-22118

19. This philosopher held that every type of government was animated by either virtue, honor, or fear. He
preceded Edward Gibbon by writing Reflections on the Causes of the Grandeur and Declension of the
Romans, and he included the allegory of the Troglodytes in a satire about Persian visitors to Paris. He drew
on the Tory leader Viscount Bolingbroke to explain that a republic can only be maintained by a tripartite
separation of powers. For the point, name this French philosopher who influenced the U.S. Constitution
with his The Spirit of the Laws.
ANSWER: Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron de La Brède et de Montesquieu [or Charles-Louis de
Secondat]
019-13-94-22119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 4 of 9

20. This politician's brother and rival Murtaza was killed in a police shootout in 1996. This politician
accused former spymaster Hamid Gul of a 2007 bombing. Her father Zulfikar was executed during the
regime of Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, and a power-sharing deal with Pervez Musharraf resulted in her return
following an eight year exile. Her widower Asif Ali Zardari succeeded her as leader of the PPP and became
president in 2008. For the point, name this two-time prime minister of Pakistan who was assassinated in
2007.
ANSWER: Benazir Bhutto
030-13-94-22120

21. This man's political enemy Henri Rouchefort claimed that his accidental death from a poorly ventilated
stove was a guilt-ridden suicide. A novel by this author follows an actress who stars in The Blonde Venus
and enthralls Georges Hugon. In another novel, he wrote about a coalminers' strike led by Etienne Lantier.
This man's cycle of novels Les Rougon-Macquart includes Nana and Germinal. For the point, name this
naturalist French novelist who attacked the anti-Semitism of the French government in his open letter
responding to the Dreyfus Affair, entitled "J'accuse."
ANSWER: Emile Zola
014-13-94-22121

22. This facility's first president was Frank Jewett, and a precursor to this facility was developed after its
founder won the Volta Prize. At this location, the discovery that electrons behave like a wave was made by
Davisson and Germer, and Penzias and Wilson found the cosmic microwave background. This facility,
which was spun off into Lucent Technologies after being owned by AT&T, developed the transistor, solar
cell, and gas laser. For the point, name this facility located in Murray Hill, New Jersey, named for the
inventor of the telephone.
ANSWER: Bell Laboratories
048-13-94-22122

23. A group of these people was commanded by Cortlandt Skinner and was known as "Skinner's Greens."
Several black members of this group settled in Birchtown, Nova Scotia. Virginia's law allowing the seizure
of these people's property was the subject of the Supreme Court case Martin v. Hunter's Lessee. Patrick
Ferguson recruited a group of them to win the Battle of King's Mountain. The perception that there were
many more of these people in the south led Cornwallis to focus his efforts there. For the point, name these
people, colonists who served the British during the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: loyalists [or Tories; or royalists]
048-13-94-22123

24. This crop's "land" titles a 2011 book by Barry Estabrook about the horrors of its industry. Growers of
this crop in Immokalee formed the Fair Food Program to improve their conditions, as the Justice
Department brought Thirteenth Amendment cases against farms of this crop in the 1990s for running slave
rings in Florida. For tariffs' sake, the Supreme Court case Nix v. Hedden classified these items as vegetables
and not fruit. For the point, name this crop whose growers ran strikes against Taco Bell in the early 2000s,
which is processed into liquid form by Heinz and Campbell's.
ANSWER: tomatoes
104-13-94-22124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 5 of 9

25. This person was the first president of a group of suffragists who split with Elizabeth Cady Stanton over
the Fifteenth Amendment, the American Women Suffrage Association. He argued for the compatibility of
Darwinism and Christianity in a book of lectures, Evolution and Religion. His affair with Elizabeth Tilton
was publicized by Victoria Woodhull after he attacked her for preaching free love. This man supported
abolitionists in Kansas with rifles that were called his "Bibles." For the point, name this preacher whose
sister Harriet married Calvin Stowe and wrote Uncle Tom's Cabin.
ANSWER: Henry Ward Beecher [do not accept or prompt on "Stowe"]
121-13-94-22125

26. This country is home to a large indigenous Protestant movement called La Luz del Mundo. This country
was the subject of the Papal bull Iniquis Afflictisque, which denounced the suppression of Catholicism here
that led to the Cristero War. The Lerdo Law confiscated Church lands in this country. There are over a
million Mormons in this country, which was the birthplace of Mitt Romney's father George. For the point,
identify this country where anticlericalism was practiced by the PRI and by reformist nineteenth-century
leaders such as Benito Juarez.
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
019-13-94-22126

27. In this TV movie, a girl objects to the playing of Fur Elise on the grounds that Beethoven's face never
adorned bubblegum cards. The title event of this film is described as "a big commercial racket" run by "a
big eastern syndicate." The title character of this movie screams, "I killed it!" after putting an ornamental
ball atop a scrawny tree he picked over an aluminum counterfeit. In this movie, Linus dramatically reads
from the second chapter of the Gospel of Luke before he announces the "true meaning" of the title holiday.
For the point, name this Peanuts holiday special.
ANSWER: A Charlie Brown Christmas
080-13-94-22127

28. This man's doctoral dissertation was published as the book A World Restored, and he quipped that it's
"too bad both sides can't lose" the Iran-Iraq war. During the Halloween Massacre, this man was replaced
by Brent Snowcroft. He met Cesar Augusto Guzzetti during Argentina's Dirty War and gave tacit approval,
and he called for supporting Pakistan during the Bangladeshi Liberation War. This man advocated the
policy of detente (day-TONT) and negotiated the Paris Peace Accords with Le Duc Tho. For the point,
name this proponent of realpolitik and secretary of state under Nixon.
ANSWER: Henry Kissinger
048-13-94-22128

29. This country is believed to have tested hydrogen bombs in Operation Canopus. A pair of scientists from
this country characterized a model of prokaryotic gene expression called the lac operon. A team of
scientists working in this country isolated what they called LAV from a patient suffering from AIDS.
Another scientist working in this country used electrometer readings of pitchblende to posit the existence of
an element that turned out to be thorium and discovered polonium and radium. For the point, name this
country where Polish scientists Marie and Pierre Curie made their discoveries.
ANSWER: France
048-13-94-22129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 6 of 9

30. The lawyer William Lindsay Scruggs authored a pamphlet subtitled for this policy "on trial" in his
quest to get the Schomburgk Line recognized. James Blaine supported an extension to this policy called
"Big Brother." It was applied to forcible debt collection by Luis Maria Drago. The Clark Memorandum
controverted several claims made in the 1904 State of the Union address pertaining to this policy, which
were termed the "Roosevelt Corollary." For the point, name this policy in which the U.S. promised to
intervene whenever European powers meddled in North or South American affairs.
ANSWER: Monroe Doctrine [prompt on Roosevelt Corollary until it is read]
020-13-94-22130

31. This man irked James Madison by enthusiastically supporting the War of 1812 but voting against all
conscription and funding measures for the war. This Speaker of the House for almost the entire Jefferson
administration was chairing the Foreign Relations Committee when he notoriously voted against his own
1810 proposal to restore trade with Britain and France. For the point, name this irascible North Carolina
Congressman whose "Bill Number 2" ended the Non-Intercourse era.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Macon
019-13-94-22131

32. This ruler put down the rebellion of the prince Nayan. This author of a poem about ascending
Longevity Hill established his capital at the city of Dadu, and his dynasty's forces won the Battle of Yamen,
after which Prime Minister Lu Xiufu (SHOO-foo) killed himself. He entertained the Italian traveler Marco
Polo in the 1260s. This monarch's 1281 invasion was foiled by the divine wind called "kamikaze," which
prevented him from taking Japan. For the point, name this Mongol leader, a grandson of Genghis and
founder of the Yuan (WON) Dynasty.
ANSWER: Kublai Khan
052-13-94-22132

33. This country's monarchs were buried in a city whose name means "seat of the white castle." A king of
this country was originally educated as a bishop, and gained the epithet "the book-lover". The Battle of
Breadfield was a major victory for this country's Black Army, a mercenary group created by Matthias
Corvinus. This country suffered an interregnum in which the House of Anjou replaced the dynasty that
included its first king, Saint Stephen. For the point, name this country that was once ruled by the Arpad
Dynasty, whose people are called Magyars.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag until "Magyars" is read]
232-13-94-22133

34. Alfredo Costa assassinated this country's king in 1908. England violated the Treaty of Windsor by
forcing this country out of territory it claimed on the Pink Map at the Congress of Berlin. On May 28,
1926, a coup d'etat in this country led by General Gomes de Costa overthrew its first republic and ushered
in a corporatist, right-wing dictatorship that only ended in 1974. This country's Estado Novo was led by
Antonio Salazar for thirty-six years. For the point, name this European country which owned the African
territories of Mozambique and Angola.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic]
190-13-94-22134

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 7 of 9

35. The national literacy program Reading is Fundamental was launched by this man's wife. Project Dye
Marker established his namesake "line." After the failed Krulak-Mendenhall mission, this man and
Maxwell Taylor met with Ngo Dinh Diem during a ten-day expedition of their own. This man served as
president of the World Bank for thirteen years. This "Whiz Kid" was the first president of Ford Motor
Company not named Ford. He resigned his highest political office in frustration over Vietnam. For the
point, name this longest-serving Secretary of Defense, who held the office under JFK and LBJ.
ANSWER: Robert McNamara
190-13-94-22135

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 8 of 9

Extra Question

36. The leaders of an underground state in this country were executed after the Trial of the Sixteen. A party
in this country attempted to achieve power using the forged "Three Times Yes" referendum. It's not
Hungary, but a 1956 uprising in this country at the Cegielski factory was suppressed. The ORMO
paramilitary attacked student protestors in this country during the rule of Secretary Gomulka. This country
was invaded following the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. For the point, name this country which Nazis
occupied to begin World War II.
ANSWER: Poland
048-13-94-22136

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 9 of 9

