2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND FINALS (ALL PERIODS AND REGIONS)

1. Nikola Tesla's Wardenclyffe Tower was initially funded by this man, but the project turned out to be a
failure. Discussion of how to stop the collapse of Moore and Schley took place at this man's library. George
Perkins was a partner in this man's company. He gained control of the Albany and Susquehanna Railroad
from Gould and Fisk. During the Panic of 1893, Grover Cleveland had to borrow from this man in order to
maintain the gold standard. His intervention helped end the Panic of 1907. He oversaw the 1892 merger
that created General Electric, and he also orchestrated the combination of companies such as Carnegie Steel
into U.S. Steel. For the point, name this American banker.
ANSWER: John Pierpont Morgan
127-12-58-25101

2. The identity of one of these people was discovered when he pointed out that a wealthy merchant owed
him 500 gold coins, instead of the 2 that he gave in offering. A more famous one tipped his arrows in gold
to repay the families of those he killed and summoned five people to his tent, emerging with a bloody
sword each time. Those five servants of the last of these people were the original Khalsa. The first of these
figures irreverently slept with his feet toward the Kaaba and remarked "there is no Hindu, there is no
Muslim." The fifth, Arjan Dev, compiled the Adi Granth, which is revered as the final, living one. For the
point, name these people, including Gobind Singh and Nanak, who were the ten historical leaders of the
Sikh faith.
ANSWER: Sikh gurus
020-12-58-25102

3. In one work by this poet, he claims that his relationship with Cupid is similar to Chiron's relationship
with Achilles, and that poem addresses women in its final section after providing seduction advice to men
in the earlier sections. Another of his long poems describes Pythagoras and Julius Caesar in its final book.
This author wrote his Letters from the Black Sea after he was banished to the area in 8 C.E. by Emperor
Augustus. This poet wrote a fifteen-book poem containing such well-known stories as those of Baucis and
Philemon, who are turned into trees, and Arachne, who is transformed into a spider. For the point, name
this Roman poet of Ars Amatoria and Metamorphoses.
ANSWER: Ovid [or Publius Ovidius Naso]
064-12-58-25103

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 1 of 38

4. The Prince of Conti attacked this work for mocking the catechism in his Traite de la Comedie et des
Spectacles. Climene and Lysidas attack this play in a dialogue with Uranie, Elise, and Dorante in a critique
of it written by its author. This play includes an attack on Thomas Corneille when the protagonist changes
his name to Monsieur de la Souche. In this play, Chrysalde opposes the protagonist, who becomes the
confidant of Horace, the son of Oronte. This play ends with the daughter of Enrique marrying Horace
despite being raised in seclusion and taught to read the The Maxims of Marriage. For the point, name this
play in which Arnolphe raises his ward Agnes to be ignorant in hopes of marrying her, written by Moliere.
ANSWER: The School for Wives [or L'ecole des Femmes]
124-12-58-25104

5. Close-ups of a photograph from this event make up a short film by Jean-Luc Godard. Annie Leibovitz's
Bloody Bicycle was taken during this event. A production of Beckett's Waiting for Godot was put on during
this event by Susan Sontag. Mortar impacts in concrete created during this event resemble roses and were
filled with red resin. One of its most poignant images was taken by Mark H. Milstein of the "Romeo and
Juliet" of the city at the center of this event. That couple was gunned down on Vrbanja bridge in Sniper
Alley and was Bosko Brckic and Admira Ismic. For the point, identify this event that occurred from 1992
to 1995 at the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ANSWER: Siege of Sarajevo [prompt on Bosnian War or War in Bosnia and Herzegovina before
"capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina" is read]
066-12-58-25105

6. One member of this group emerged as a powerful force in the Poughkeepsie Convention and perished in
the Jamaica neighborhood of New York City during a yellow fever epidemic. Judge William West's armed
march with supporters of this position almost sparked a civil war in Rhode Island. The pen-name Sydney
was taken by Robert Yates, a member of this group whose colleagues included Centinel, John DeWitt, and
Cato. Brutus was a pseudonym taken by a member of this group who wanted a Bill of Rights right away.
This sentiment was expressed when Patrick Henry "smelt a rat in Philadelphia" and boycotted the
Constitutional Convention. For the point, name this group that opposed the ratification of the Constitution.
ANSWER: anti-Federalists [or anti-Federalism]
020-12-58-25106

7. In this country, a 1932 coup was led by a group known as the Promoters. One ruler of this country
created a paramilitary organization called the Wild Tiger Corps and forbade the chewing of betel. Thon
Buri established the Chakri Dynasty in this country. Anna Harriette Leonowens tutored the children of one
of this nation's rulers, Mongkut. For the point, name this country that was never ruled by European powers,
a Southeast Asian nation led by several kings named Rama.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand [or Ratcha Anachak Thai; or Prathet Thai]
030-12-58-25107

8. Troops under acting-commander Captain DePeyster were killed in this battle despite cries of surrender.
Prior to this battle, an ultimatum to surrender or be executed rallied the Over-Mountain Men led by Isaac
Shelby and John Sevier. The only Briton to fight in this battle was most famous for inventing a rifle that
was one of the earliest practical breechloaders, and that British soldier in this battle was nicknamed the
bulldog. That British commander, Patrick Ferguson, was killed in this battle. For the point, name this 1780
battle of the Revolutionary War in South Carolina fought at a namesake spur of the Blue Ridge that
changed the tide of the American Revolution in the South.
ANSWER: Battle of Kings Mountain
030-12-58-25108

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 2 of 38

9. This man ordered Captain Frederick Benteen to prevent escapees at one battle in which Major Marcus
Reno was supposed to lead the charge. Alfred Terry briefly replaced this man who was victorious at
Washita River. General Crook failed to come to this man's aid after being stopped at Rosebud Creek. Philip
Sheridan gave this man the Appomatox surrender table. This military leader finished last in his class at
West Point. This leader told his men to shoot their horses to be used as a wall of protection in one battle,
and the only survivor of that battle was the horse Comanche. For the point, name this leader of the Seventh
Cavalry whose last stand was at the Battle of Little Bighorn.
ANSWER: George Armstrong Custer
124-12-58-25109

10. This novel's protagonist finds his wife waiting outside a cave for the return of Chielo, who has carried
their favorite daughter to meet Agbala. At a funeral, the protagonist's gun explodes, accidentally killing the
son of an elder, after which he and his family are exiled for seven years. The protagonist's defeat of "The
Cat" in a wrestling match precedes his marriage to Ekwefi. Fearing to appear weak like his father Unoka,
this novel's protagonist ritually kills his foster son Ikemefuna, who was originally given in recompense for
the murder of an Umofian woman. That protagonist hangs himself after murdering a messenger from the
British colonizers. For the point, name this novel about Okonkwo written by Chinua Achebe.
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
088-12-58-25110

11. Richard Weaver claims to have done this to four U.S. presidents without authorization. John Foster
Dulles apocryphally refused Zhou Enlai’s attempt to perform this action at the 1954 Geneva Conference.
Astronauts Thomas Stafford and Alexey Leonov were the first to perform this action in space. Theodore
Roosevelt performed this action 8,513 times on January 1, 1907, which was a world record until Bill
Richardson broke it in 2002. One of these events occurred on the White House lawn after the signing of the
Oslo Accords. In a photo of that event, Bill Clinton stands, arms outstretched, as Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser
Arafat perform this action. For the point, name this common form of business-like greeting.
ANSWER: shaking hands [accept word forms like handshake]
132-12-58-25111

12. This man wrote about the Jivaro in The Jealous Potter. The engineer and the bricoleur form a central
opposition of one of this thinker’s works. The Naked Man and The Origin of Table Manners form the last
two volumes of one of his collections. He examined some facial-wear of Native Americans in The Way of
the Masks. He criticized the idea of totemism in The Savage Mind. The dichotomy between nature and
culture is found in The Raw and the Cooked, part of his collection of works, Mythologiques. He discusses
his travels in Brazil in one work. His alliance theory is a central part of his book Elementary Structures of
Kinship. For the point, name this French structural anthropologist who wrote Tristes Tropiques.
ANSWER: Claude Levi-Strauss
127-12-58-25112

13. A Spanish lady in this novel walks up to strangers and repeats the French phrase "Tous-les-Deux,"
referring to her two dead sons. The main character of this novel once felt a homoerotic attraction to
Pribislav Hippe, mirroring the advances of the "Asiatic-flabby" Russian temptress Madame Claudia
Chauchat. In this novel, the protagonist abandons his shipbuilding career to visit "the flatlands," where his
cousin Joachim Ziemssen is staying. This novel includes such characters as Mynheer Peeperkorn, the Jesuit
Leo Naphtha, and the humanist Lodovico Settembrini, whom the protagonist meets while suffering from
tuberculosis. For the point, name this novel about Hans Castorp's stay in a Swiss sanatorium, written by
Thomas Mann.
ANSWER: The Magic Mountain [or Der Zauberberg]
020-12-58-25113
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 3 of 38

14. This man worked to restore St. Damian’s cathedral, along with two others, by begging for stones
around his hometown and Porziuncola in Umbria. While en route to fight the Perugians in 1204, this man
had a vision that led him eventually to take up a life of poverty, which was strengthened by a pilgrimage to
Rome. His Three Companions, Angelus Tancredia, a cavalier; Leo, his confessor and secretary; and
Rufinus, a cousin of St. Clare, wrote of his life. Among his accomplishments are the cofounding of the
Order of St. Clare and two orders bearing his name. For the point, name this popular Catholic Saint and
first to bear the stigmata who was canonized two years after his death by Gregory IX in 1228.
ANSWER: Saint Francis of Assisi
147-12-58-25114

15. In this film, one character’s mention of “the angel of death” in a prayer coincides with a brief cut to the
title character. One character in this film produces a machine gun and ammo belt from his bag of golf clubs
after explaining his fear of fluoridated water to Group Captain Lionel Mandrake. In one of the last scenes
of this film, the title character rises from his wheelchair, exclaiming, “Mein Führer, I can walk!” In this
film, the Soviet Union’s fear of a “doomsday gap” parodies the U.S. conception of the “missile gap”
during the Cold War. For the point, name this Stanley Kubrick comedy about the initiation of a nuclear
holocaust.
ANSWER: Dr. Strangelove
014-12-58-25115

16. This act's perpetrator wrote the play Richard McBeef. During this act, Liviu Librescu, a Holocaust
survivor, was fatally wounded while barricading a door. As A. Ishmael, this act's perpetrator mailed a
package to NBC News that included a picture of himself holding a Glock 19 and Walther P22 in each hand.
It mostly took place in Norris Hall, home to the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics. This
act prompted a reevaluation of the mental health care system of universities. For the point, name this school
shooting that was carried out by Seung-Hui Cho at a southwest Virginia university.
ANSWER: 2007 Virginia Tech massacre [or 2007 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
massacre; accept clear equivalents for "massacre" such as "shooting"]
066-12-58-25116

17. In this battle, a contingent outnumbered four-to-one under Joachim Murat was able to repel a clumsy
initial attack, and this battle saw the death of Jozef Poniatowski after confused troops in retreat blew up the
lone bridge across the Elster. The winning side in this battle received reinforcements on October 17 from
Count von Bennigsen and Jean Bernadotte. The day prior, the loser repelled the attacks of forces from the
south under Karl Philipp Schwarzenberg and from the north under Gebhard von Blücher. For the point,
name this 1813 battle in which Napoleon was defeated by a coalition of Swedish, Russian, Prussian, and
Austrian forces at a city in Saxony.
ANSWER: Battle of Leipzig [or Battle of the Nations]
014-12-58-25117

18. This poet described "a new creation rushing on my sight" in a poem about the paintings of Scipio
Moorhead, addressed as "S. M." This poet noted, "Once I redemption neither sought nor knew" in a poem
referencing a certain "diabolic dye." That poem concludes, "Remember, Christians, Negroes, black as Cain,
may be refined and join th' angelic train." This poet instructed the title figure to "proceed, great chief, with
virtue on thy side" in "To His Excellency George Washington." That poem was included in her collection
Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral along with "On Being Brought from Africa to America."
For the point, identify this black female poet of Colonial America.
ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley
066-12-58-25118

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 4 of 38

19. The Franciscan monk Odoric of Pordenone visited this dynasty and wrote an account of his travels. The
shortest-reigning emperor of this dynasty was Richinbal. Another ruler of this dynasty, Tugh Temur,
abdicated in favor of his brother Kusala. This dynasty was victorious at the Battle of Yamen, where it
crushed its predecessor dynasty. This dynasty's capital was at Daidu (DYE-do), and near the end of this
dynasty, its northern capital, Karakorum, was sacked. For the point, identify this Chinese dynasty that
lasted from 1271 to 1368, and which was founded by the Mongols under Kublai Khan.
ANSWER: Yuan Dynasty
126-12-58-25119

20. While serving as commander of the Moravian troops, this man stole their treasure chest and delivered it
to Vienna. This man, along with Torquato Conti, defeated Ernst Mansfeld at the Battle of Dessau Bridge.
This man led the occupation forces that forced the Capitulation of Franzburg. Following his defeat of
Christian IV at Wolgast, this man forced Denmark to sign the Peace of Lubcek. For his actions this man
was award the Duchies of Mecklenburg. Following plans to desert his employer, a regiment led by Colonel
Butler, along with Walter Leslie and John Gordon killed this man’s captains Terzky and Kinsky. After
those deaths, this man was killed by Walter Devereux. This man lost the battle in which Gustavus
Adolphus died. For the point, name this Czech soldier who fought for Ferdinand II in the Thirty Years’
War.
ANSWER: Albrecht von Wallenstein
149-12-58-25120

21. According to Priscus, the superstitious beliefs of this leader led him to abandon one campaign after
recalling the previous fate of Alaric. Peace was temporarily achieved with this man and his brother Bleda
following a meeting at Margus. Succeeded by his son Ellac, he lost one battle at the Catalaunian Plains
after his retreat at the siege of Aurelianum. This man was temporarily repulsed after he was defeated by a
force of Visigoths under Theodoric I and Romans under Flavius Aetius at the Battle of Chalons. He later
continued his military campaign, where he persuaded to leave Italy following a 452 CE meeting with Pope
Leo I. For the point, name this "scourge of God" who led the Huns in the 5th century.
ANSWER: Attila the Hun
064-12-58-25121

22. William Wemms led the 29th regiment during this event to assist Hugh White. Edward Garrick
instigated this event by accusing John Goldfinch of neglecting to pay his bill while working at the Customs
House. Matthew Killroy was convicted of manslaughter in this event where Samuel Gray and James
Caldwell were killed after participants shouted "Fire and be damned." Robert Treat Paine and Samuel
Quincy prosecuted the trial that followed this event, for which Captain Thomas Preston was acquitted and
defended by John Adams. Paul Revere engraved a scene of this even in which Crispus Attucks died. For
the point, name this event in which British soldiers on King Street killed men in Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Boston Massacre [or The Bloody Massacre in King Street or State Street Massacre]
124-12-58-25122

23. This was the first conflict in which aircraft deployed mustard gas. The leader of one side of this war
decided not to take Melilla. The colonial power's crushing loss at the Battle of Annual resulted in an
investigation into the affair by Juan Picasso Gonzalez. This conflict was preceded by the Treaty of Fez,
after which General Damaso Berenguer sought greater conquests. This war saw the creation of the Spanish
Legion, which was led by Francisco Franco. Abd el-Krim led the native forces in this conflict. For the
point, name this 1920 to 1926 war fought between Spain and Berbers from the namesake region of
Northern Morocco.
ANSWER: Rif War [or Second Moroccan War]
127-12-58-25123

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 5 of 38

24. Simeon DeWitt designed this city's early grid plan, which named all the streets after birds and
mammals. This city got its name from the ducal title of James II of England. Its first settlement was Fort
Orange on Castle Island, which is sometimes called Westerlo Island. Its early City Hall, the Stadt Huys,
was used as a prison during the Revolutionary War. This city was the starting point of the Erie Canal. A
"Plan of Union" named for this city proposed joining the American colonies during the French and Indian
War. That plan was proposed at a 1754 "Congress" which met in this city. For the point, name this city that
replaced New York City as the capital of its state in 1797.
ANSWER: Albany
015-12-58-25124

25. Theodelind introduced Roman Catholicism to these people, who formally converted from Arianism
during the reign of Rothari. A ten year rule of the dukes followed the reign of Cleph, a king of these people.
Their king Alboin who defeated the Gepids in alliance with the Avids. Desiderius was a king of these
people, whose royal palace was located at Pavia. Pope Adrian I asked for help defeating these people, who
had taken Ravenna from the Byzantine empire. The Diet of Roncaglia and the Peace of Constance were
signed with these people by Frederick Barbarossa. For the point, name this Germanic tribe of northern
Italy, the namesake of a "league" that opposed the papacy.
ANSWER: Lombards
124-12-58-25125

26. The speaker of this address claims that if given the choice by God, he would be happy if he could live
"just a few short years in the second half of the twentieth century." This speech points out that "the
American Negro collectively is richer than most nations of the world" in urging boycotts of products such
as Coca-Cola. This speech praises James Lawson and Ralph Jackson for their work in the ongoing
sanitation workers strike. Towards its end, the speaker says that he has seen the Promised Land and is
content, even if he does not reach it with the rest of his audience. For the point, name this speech delivered
in Memphis by Martin Luther King one day before he was assassinated.
ANSWER: "I've Been to the Mountaintop"
121-12-58-25126

27. This event was followed by meetings at Troppau and Laibach. Edmund Burke espoused the ideas of
this event that was the subject of Henry Kissinger's dissertation. This event's goals were legitimacy for
monarchs, compensation, and balance despite one participant's suggestion of seeking Justice, Christian
charity, and peace through the Holy Alliance. This event condemned the slave trade and ratified the
kingdom of the Netherlands under the House of Orange. Arthur Wellesley replaced Lord Castlereagh at this
event whose other participants included Alexander I of Russia and Talleyrand representing France. For the
point, name this meeting which convened in 1815 to return boundaries to the pre-Napoleonic era.
ANSWER: Congress of Vienna
124-12-58-25127

28. Julius Hoffman presided over the trial that dealt with this group of people, one of whom allegedly said
that the judge should try LSD after he handed down the verdict. One member of this group wanted to delay
their trial so that his lawyer, Charles Garry, could represent him. Ramsey Clark was against the prosecution
of this group, but his successor as attorney general, John Mitchell, decided to go ahead with the indictment.
They were charged with crossing state lines to incite a riot, and they included Tom Hayden, Abbie
Hoffman, and Bobby Seale. For the point, name this group of people who were charged following civil
unrest at the Democratic National Convention of 1968, which was held in an Illinois city.
ANSWER: Chicago Eight [or Chicago Seven]
040-12-58-25128

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 6 of 38

29. A speech attributed to representatives of this city claims “right...is only in question between equals in
power, while the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.” That speech was delivered
before inhabitants of an island being threatened with destruction, Melos. In another speech given by a
leader of this city, the speaker passes on the “theme too familiar” of its military victories to focus instead of
why it is “the school of Hellas.” That speech claims this city “does not copy the laws of neighboring
states” but “favors the many instead of the few.” Pericles delivered that speech to honor those killed in the
Peloponnesian War. For the point, name this city-state, the primary opponent of Sparta.
ANSWER: Athens
121-12-58-25129

30. Immediately after this battle, a group of 47 nobles were executed in the “Day of Blood”. One side’s
forces were commanded by Christian of Arnhaldt, while another commander here was eventually killed at
the siege of Nove Zamkey, the Count of Boquoy. This battle, which Rene Descartes participated in, was the
final event in a campaign that began when Emperor Matthias’ delegates Slavata of Chulm and Borzita of
Maurice were thrown out of a window by Jindrich Thurn. After this battle, Elizabeth Stuart and her
husband ran away, earning that ruler the name “Winter King”. For the point, name this 1620 battle in
which Count Tilly put down a Bohemian revolt on behalf of Frederick V at a site just outside Prague.
ANSWER: Battle of White Mountain
048-12-58-25130

31. A coal mine complex of this institution in Essen was designated a UNESCO World Heritage site. One
of its architects was the Danish diplomat Count von Bernstorff, and the Convention of Gastein stipulated
the admission of two duchies into this institution. Chlodwig Karl Viktor's proposal to renew this institution
provoked opposition from Bavarian nationalists, resulting in his ouster as minister president. This
institution gained support due to works such as The National System of Political Economy by Friedrich
List. This institution's tariffs were used as a bargaining chip against Austria, and by 1867, most of
present-day Germany was a member of this institution. For the point, name this Prussian customs union
that was instrumental in the unification of Germany.
ANSWER: Zollverein
030-12-58-25131

32. Although he’s not Henry Percy, this king’s wife feuded with John Fisher and employed Matthew
Parker. This king sent Charles Brandon to end one rebellion that was supported by Reginald Pole, which
was led by Robert Aske and was known as the Pilgrimage of Grace. Because this man was busy laying
siege to Tournai, this man’s wife defeated an invasion by James IV of Scotland at the Battle of Flodden
Field, This man was made “the only supreme head on earth” of one entity by the First Act of Supremacy.
At the behest of Thomas Cromwell, this man dissolved the English monasteries, an action that followed
this man’s divorce from Catherine of Aragon. For the point, name this English king known for having
many wives.
ANSWER: Henry VIII
149-12-58-25132

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 7 of 38

33. This leader imposed military rule after Penruddock's Uprising. He worked with Henry Ireton to oust the
Eleven Members and prosecuted John Lilburne. This victor at Preston negotiated with the Marquis of
Argyll to remove the Engagers. The Spanish were defeated at the Battle of the Dunes by this ally of the
French who oversaw massacres at Drogheda and Wexford. This leader forcibly ended the Rump Parliament
and installed the Barebones Parliament. Prince Rupert and Lord Goring were defeated at Marston Moor by
this cavalry leader who routed Langdale's Northern Horses at Naseby while serving under Thomas Fairfax.
For the point, name this leader of the New Model Army who declared himself Lord Protector of England
after the death of Charles I.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell
124-12-58-25133

34. This man's court overturned Adkins v. Children's Hospital by upholding a minimum wage for women in
West Coast Hotel v. Parrish. He wrote that peonage laws violated the Thirteenth Amendment in the
majority opinion of Bailey v. Alabama. This man led the American contingent at the Washington Naval
Conference as Coolidge's Secretary of State. This man lost in the 1916 election. He wrote the majority
opinion when the court unanimously decided that the National Industrial Recovery Act's "codes of fair
competition" were unconstitutional in the "sick chicken" case. For the point, name this Supreme Court
Chief Justice of the 1930s.
ANSWER: Charles Evans Hughes
079-12-58-25134

35. This character speaks the line, "Seems, madam? Nay, it is; I know not 'seems,'" in response to the
question, "Why seems it so particular with thee?" This character also claims to know the difference
"between a hawk and a handsaw when the wind is southerly." In another speech, he notes that "what
dreams may come, when we have shuffled off this mortal coil, must give us pause." In the play in which he
appears, sealed orders demanding this character's death are given to Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. After
his ill-fated fencing match with Laertes, this character forces Claudius to drink poison before dying
himself. For the point, identify this character from a Shakespearean tragedy, a prince of Denmark.
ANSWER: Hamlet
126-12-58-25135

36. During this conflict, a list of 10 commandments was published in the Kangura newspaper. One group
intervened in it during Operation Turquoise, and another group was prevented from doing so by PDD-25.
This conflict began the year after the signing of the Arusha Declaration. Romeo Dallaire's UNAMIR force
established a safe zone during it. This event ended with Paul Kagame's RPF taking over the city of Kigali.
It began after a missile hit a Dassault Falcon carrying Juvenal Habyarimana and Cyprien Ntarymira. It was
partly fueled by RTLM radio broadcasts inciting ordinary civilians to kill. For the point, name this conflict
in which the Hutu conducted mass killings of Tutsis in an East African nation.
ANSWER: Rwandan Genocide [do not accept "Rwandan Civil War"]
048-12-58-25136

37. Thomas Pope wrote a treatise on the architecture of these structures. The Whipple bowstring was one
method of reinforcing these structures. A well-known designer of these structures designed a "Permanent"
one for Philadelphia that was modified by Adam Traquair and Owen Biddle and was Timothy Palmer.
Thomas Paine designed one of these structures for Philadelphia and, like Abraham Darby, believed they
should be constructed of iron. Ithiel Town was a notable designer of their covered type, which sometimes
employed the Burr truss arch. James Finley constructed the first suspension one. For the point, identify
these structures that span waterways.
ANSWER: bridge
066-12-58-25137

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 8 of 38

38. One of these sites located in Southside Park denied entrance to Al Bright, a black member of the
Youngstown, Ohio Little League baseball team that won the 1951 city championship, when his team went
there to celebrate. The use of these locations was the subject of a lawsuit by SPLC founder Morris Dees on
behalf of Vincent and Edward Smith, in which Judge Frank Johnson ruled that the YMCA must end its
practice of segregation in these locations. Many cities filled these locations with dirt to stop them from
being integrated. For the point, identify these public places which were often kept unofficially segregated
by whites beating blacks who entered and dunking them under the water.
ANSWER: municipal swimming pools
066-12-58-25138

39. Pre-colonial powers in this country and its western neighbor included the Wehali kingdom. This
country's western border was determined by the Hague Treaty of 1916. Mari Alkatiri, a member of this
country's Fretilin party, resigned as Prime Minister during a 2006 conflict that started over discrimination
in the military. In 2008, soldiers invaded the homes of its President and Prime Minister, leading to the
injury of Jose Ramos-Horta. After Portugal withdrew from this nation in 1975, it was rapidly annexed by
its neighbor, a result that was reversed after a 1999 independence referendum. For the point, name this
nation that shares an island with Indonesia, from which it achieved independence in 2002.
ANSWER: East Timor [or Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste; or Republika Demokratika Timor
Lorosa'e; or Republica Democratica de Timor-Leste]
132-12-58-25139

40. One early attempt by the U.S. to forge a relationship with this man's government was the David
Barrett-led Dixie Mission. His poetry includes one work titled after the ninth day of September. His death
was possibly accelerated by the actions of his last wife after he suffered a heart attack. The book White
Snow, Red Blood describes the attempts by his military forces to siege Changchun. This leader nearly lost
power after the Conference of the Seven Thousand. It's speculated that he attempted to drive out rivals with
the Hundred Flowers Campaign. This man attempted to regain support with the Cultural Revolution. For
the point, name this Communist leader of China quoted in The Little Red Book.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-tung]
088-12-58-25140

41. Thomas Arundel led proceedings against a group of this man’s followers. The first martyr among this
man’s followers was William Sawtrey. One group of this man’s followers were defeated by Henry V in an
uprising led by Sir John Oldcastle. This man’s works were censured by William Courtenay, and his
strongest political ally was John of Gaunt. With the assistance of Nicholas of Hereford, this man published
a namesake bible. This man attempted to replace the doctrine of predestination with the doctrine of
remanence. This man argued that, since the church was sinful, it should give up its worldly possessions and
subsist in poverty. For the point, name this man, the “morning star of the Reformation,” an English
religious reformer whose views were promoted by the Lollards.
ANSWER: John Wycliffe
030-12-58-25141

42. The unreliable Vladimir Sakharov provided accounts of this man's apartment, which was furnished with
gifts from either Janos Kadar or Josep Tito. In an attempt to suppress moonshine production, this man
allowed production of cheap vodka colloquially named after him. He invited Samantha Smith to stay at a
summer camp in his country after receiving a letter about world peace. This longtime KGB head also
served as ambassador to Hungary in the mid-1950's. He was followed in his highest post by Konstantin
Chernenko. For the point, name this allegedly jazz-loving Soviet leader who succeeded Leonid Brezhnev.
ANSWER: Yuri Vladimirovich Andropov
003-12-58-25142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 9 of 38

43. A victory by Gideon Pillow and Malibran cut off the water supply to this city, which then endured a
twenty day siege because the attacking forces believed that Fort Ulua could not be taken immediately by
force. That siege was followed by the Battle of Cerro Gordo and was preceded by a landing at Collado
Beach. During the Tampico Affair, U.S. forces occupied this city for a period of half a year. This city was
the jumping point for the American plan to occupy Mexico City, and it was captured in one of the first U.S.
examples of an amphibious assault. For the point, name this Mexican port city where Hernan Cortez landed
and which has a name meaning "True Cross."
ANSWER: Veracruz
040-12-58-25143

44. She was the niece of Abbot Fulbert, the Canon of Notre Dame, and was first schooled at the Covenant
of Saint Mary in Argenteuil, where she would later become Prioress. She would also go on to become the
Abbess of Paraclete in 1129 after being tutored by a scholar and teacher from the Notre Dame University.
Her relationship with that teacher resulted in the birth of a son and the castration of the father, which then
resulted in her taking the veil, though Josephine Bonaparte ordered that their remains be reinterred together
at Pere Lachaise cemetery centuries later. For the point, name this twelfth-century famous for her secret
marriage to and extensive epistolary relationship with Peter Abelard.
ANSWER: Heloise
147-12-58-25144

45. This man's autobiography praised the poet Nava'i, who may have also influenced this man to write his
autobiography in Chagatai. He allied with Husayn Bayqarah against Muhammad Shaybani. After his most
impressive victory, this man allegedly refused a large diamond offered to him by his son. This leader was
made a ruler of Farghana in his early career and later captured but was forced to give up Samarkand.
Humayan succeeded this man, who in 1526 defeated the Lodi Empire at the First Battle of Panipat as part
of his establishment of a Muslim empire in India. For the point, name this founder of the Mughal dynasty.
ANSWER: Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babur
064-12-58-25145

46. In one game played by this specific team, its left fielder hit three triples and its right fielder carried his
bat around the bases after hitting a home run, dragging a small boy across home plate who was clinging on
to it. This team relied on Wilcy Moore as its closer, and its starting pitchers included first-time twenty
game winner Waite Hoyt. Near the end of this team’s season, its right fielder shouted "Sixty, count 'em,
sixty!" after homering off Tom Zachary. This Miller Huggins-managed team swept the Pirates in the World
Series. Mark Koenig, Bob Meusel, Tony Lazzeri, and Earle Combs comprised its famed "murderer's row"
along with Lou Gehrig and Babe Ruth. For the point, name this team, often called the greatest baseball
team of all time.
ANSWER: the 1927 New York Yankees [prompt on partial answer; prompt on New York if given without
“Yankees”]
019-12-58-25146

47. In one story from this scripture, a disembodied head spits in the hand of a virgin princess, causing her to
become pregnant. In another story, two men burn pine cones to pass through the House of Cold, but one of
them is decapitated by Camazotz, the Ruler of Bats. This scripture states that the first four men were made
from yellow and white maize. It was translated into French by Brasseur de Bourbourg, who identified its
authors with the Atlanteans, though its first translation was into Spanish by Francisco Ximenez. This
scripture tells of the "Hero Twins," Hunahpu and Xbalanque, who play the "ball game" against the lords of
the underworld, Xibalba. For the point, name this sacred book of the Quiche Maya.
ANSWER: Popol Vuh
003-12-58-25147

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 10 of 38

48. The epilogue to one play by this author implores the audience to "write the happy ending of the play!"
In that play by this man, the main character invents a male cousin named Shui Ta and the water seller
Wong finds housing for three gods with the title prostitute, Shen Te. This man advocated the use of
"distancing effects" to discourage emotional identification in the audience as part of his theory of the "epic
theatre." Another of his plays ends with Judge Azdak using the title entity to determine that custody of the
boy Michael should be awarded to Grusha. For the point, identify this modernist German playwright who
wrote The Good Woman of Setzuan and The Caucasian Chalk Circle.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht [or Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht]
066-12-58-25148

49. The only part of this song which is commonly sung today is the part that states "unity and justice and
freedom are the pledge of fortune." Its second stanza exalts the women, loyalty, wine, and song of its
namesake place. This song was written in exile on the island of Heligoland. Its first verse refers to an area
extending from the Meuse to the Memel and from the Etsch to the Belt. It used a melody from Joseph
Hadyn's string quartet in C major, to which words were added by Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben. A
1922 decree of President Ebert gave this song official status in the Weimar Republic. For the point, name
this song whose expansionist overtones have led to much of it being cut when it is performed today as the
German national anthem.
ANSWER: “Deutschland uber Alles” [or “Das Lied der Deutschen”; or “Das Deutschlandlied”; or “
Germany Before All Others”; or “Germany Above All Others”; prompt on German national anthem or
equivalents before it is read]
019-12-58-25149

50. Augustin-Leon Guillaume declared that he would make this country's nationalists eat straw after being
appointed Resident General, succeeding Alphonse Juin. After this country gained independence, Mehdi
Ben Barka founded the National Union of Popular Forces, or UNFP, to oppose the conservative Istiqlal
Party. One of this country's territorial claims is rejected by the Polisario Front. After being ruled for almost
forty years by Hassan II, this country is currently ruled by Hassan's son, Mohammed VI. For the point,
name this African country which once fought with Mauritania over the disputed territory of Western
Sahara.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Morocco [or Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah]
014-12-58-25150

51. Roads called sacbes connected cities in this civilization whose manmade wells were called chaltunes.
This civilization's writing system is preserved in the Grolier Codex and its symbol for zero was a shell.
Kings in this civilization's ahau rulership were called kuhul ajaw. This civilization's Emperor Pacal was
buried in the Temple of Inscriptions at Palenque (pah-LENG-kay). Copan and Uxmal (oos-MAHL) were
cities in this civilization, whose coastal centers included Tulum. Climate change has been implicated in this
civilization's abandonment of Tikal and Teotihuacan (TAY-aw-tee-wah-KAHN). For the point, name this
Yucatan Peninsula civilization that replaced the Olmecs.
ANSWER: Mayans
124-12-58-25151

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 11 of 38

52. The element of surprise in this battle was lost when a plane piloted by Lt. Swain arrived thirty minutes
prior to the first wave, launched off the coast of Cephalonia, that was led by Kenneth Williamson and
Norman Scarlet. This battle, codenamed Operation Judgement, was part of Operation MB8.This battle was
to take place on Trafalgar Day as planned by the captain of the HMS Furious, Lumley Lyster. Forces in this
battle were led by Admiral Cunningham and Inigo Campioni. During this battle, Swordfish, using aerial
torpedoes in shallow water, from the HMS Eagle and HMS Illustrious damaged the Caio Duilio and sunk
the Conte de Cavour. This battle served as a model for the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor a year later. For
the point, name this British-Italian naval battle, the first time all-aircraft ship-to-ship fighting was used.
ANSWER: Battle of Taranto
149-12-58-25152

53. Ovid claimed this woman's sister Anna was the Anna Perenna worshipped during the New Year.
Trogus Pompeius wrote that this woman escaped marriage to Hiarbus by building a pyre to honor her first
husband and then throwing herself into it. In several Greek accounts, this woman fled the city of her birth
after her brother Pygmalion murdered her husband, Acerbas. This woman cut the hide of an ox into long
strips when she was told she could have all the land an ox hide could cover. In another work, Cupid
disguises himself as Ascanius to approach that woman and make her fall in love with Venus's son, so that
that man would not fulfill his destiny of founding Rome. For the point, name this Carthaginian queen
abandoned by Aeneas.
ANSWER: Dido [or Elissa; or Elisshat]
121-12-58-25153

54. This city once contained Saint Olaf’s Church, and this city was occupied in 1611 by troops under Jacob
de la Gardie. Soldiers from this city defeated the army of Prince-Bishop Hermann of Dorpat in one battle.
In 1019, this city was granted a charter of self-government by Yaroslav I. One leader of this city defeated
Sweden in 1240 in the Battle of the Neva River, where he earned his epithet. That leader of this city later
defeated the Teutonic Knights in a battle fought on the frozen Lake Peipus. This city, which was once led
by Alexander Nevsky, lies on the Volkhov River. For the point, name this northwestern Russian city which
is not to be confused with Nizhniy.
ANSWER: Velikiy Novgorod
014-12-58-25154

55. Like the later Italian Vajont dam disaster, the failure of the Saint Francis Dam used by this city killed
many people by literally blowing their clothes and skin off. The mayor of this city, Fred Eaton, as well as a
syndicate led by Harrison Gray Otis and Moses Sherman, speculated in land related to the building of an
aqueduct from Owens Valley to this city. Both that aqueduct and the Saint Francis Dam were designed by
William Mullholland, an engineer for this city. In 1871, a massacre of Chinese immigrants occurred in this
city's Chinatown. The La Brea Tar Pits are found in this city. For the point, identify this California city that
annexed Hollywood due to water supply concerns.
ANSWER: Los Angeles [or L.A.]
066-12-58-25155

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 12 of 38

56. This author wrote about the journey of Simon Bolivar down the Magdalena River in his novel The
General in His Labyrinth. In another of his novels, three thousand employees on Mr. Brown's banana
plantation are massacred, and their deaths are covered up. This author also created a character who makes
tiny golden fish and whose seventeen sons' Ash Wednesday crosses do not wash off until they are
murdered. This author created Colonel Aureliano Buendia in that novel, which, along with some of his
other works, is set in the fictional town of Macondo. For the point, identify this Colombian author of Love
in the Time of Cholera and One Hundred Days of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
126-12-58-25156

57. One depiction of this person shows a group of people in a circle pointing fingers at the next person in
the circle, culminating in this person with a guilty look on his face. Another depiction of this person
portrays him standing next to a dresser on which in written "In Counting there is Strength." A third
depiction of this person shows his thumb crushing the countryside; that work asks the residents of New
Jersey what they are going to do about this person. He is usually shown with a large belly, as in a cartoon
where his head is replaced by a bag of money called "The Brains." For the point, name this subject of many
Thomas Nast works, a "Boss" of Tammany Hall.
ANSWER: Boss Tweed [or William Tweed]
040-12-58-25157

58. Indebted workers in this country led the Merthy Uprising. Toll gates in this country were destroyed by
the Rebecca Riots. Offa's Dyke formed the boundary of this country and its neighbor where the Marcher
Lords were set up. The 'black pagan' Horme was killed by Rhodri the Great, a king of this country. The
Battle of Montgomery was fought in this country whose patron saint is David. The Treaty of Aberconwy
ended this nation's first war of independence, the second of which was ended by the Statute of Rhuddlan. A
three year strike was staged at this country's Penrhyn Slate Quarry. For the point, name this country with
capital at Cardiff, currently ruled by Prince Charles.
ANSWER: Wales
124-12-58-25158

59. This pathogen uses a protein called gp120 to bind to CD4 molecules. Individuals with abnormal
variations in the human leukocyte antigen G gene have a greater resistance to this virus. This pathogen
interacts with chemokine receptors to fuse with host cells. The replication of this pathogen encourages
mutations, making it hard to treat. The simian variety of this pathogen may have been transmitted to
humans through chimpanzee meat. The first reports on diseases caused by this pathogen were published by
the Centers for Disease Control in 1981. Those reports discussed outbreaks of a rare form of pneumonia
and Kaposi's sarcoma, both caused by the progression of this virus. For the point, name this retrovirus that
causes AIDS.
ANSWER: Human Immunodeficiency Virus
105-12-58-25159

60. Theodore Mommsen won a Nobel Prize on the strength of his history of this city. It was forced to cede
the 1908 Summer Olympics to London because of a volcanic eruption. A 2004 treaty signed in this city
established the European Constitution, and a 2002 treaty here established the International Criminal Court.
During the Years of Lead, the Red Brigades kidnapped Aldo Moro in this city. A 1957 treaty signed in this
city was amended by the Treaty of Maastricht and established the European Economic Community. During
World War II, the close connection between this city and Berlin was known as the Pact of Steel. For the
point, name this city on the Tiber, the site of the Vatican City and the capital of Italy.
ANSWER: Rome
015-12-58-25160
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 13 of 38

61. The perpetrator of this act had previously stayed in Kingman, Arizona with Michael Fortier and asked
him to participate in it. This act occurred exactly two years after the end of the Waco siege and was in
retaliation for that and the Ruby Ridge incident. Its perpetrator later expressed regret because of the
presence of a daycare. Because his was vehicle missing a license plate, its perpetrator was already in jail for
carrying a concealed weapon without a permit. That perpetrator was assisted by Terry Nichols and parked a
Ryder truck that contained an ammonium nitrate bomb in front of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal building.
For the point, identify this act of domestic terrorism performed by Timothy McVeigh.
ANSWER: 1995 Oklahoma City bombing [accept the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal
building before "Alfred P. Murrah" is read]
066-12-58-25161

62. This man's fall was hastened by a speech that included the line "I know that it is as difficult for an
antiquated policy as for an old man to detach himself from the idea of a long life." That speech was
delivered to the Hungarian Diet by Lajos Kossuth. Friedrich Gentz was this man's confidential adviser. His
chief rival was Anton von Kolowrat. After the Battle of Wagram, this man succeeded Count Stadion in his
most notable post. This man used the assassination, by Karl Sand, of August von Kotzebue as a pretext to
eliminate the Burschenschaften as part of the Carlsbad Decrees. For the point, name this early-to-mid 19th
century foreign minister of the Austrian empire.
ANSWER: Prince Klemens Wenzels von Metternich
066-12-58-25162

63. During a brief stay in Great Britain, this man decided to use a military strategy called the Maitland
Plan. He defeated the forces of Governor Mariano Osorio in one battle that saw him take revenge for his
previous loss at the Second Battle of Cancha Rayada. He joined the Lautaro Lodge during his service in the
Peninsular War and later commanded the Army of the North upon his return to his homeland. This man
was victorious alongside Bernardo O'Higgins at the Battle of Chacabuco after he successfully crossed the
Andes into Chile. This man unexpectedly moved to France after giving up his leadership of Peru. For the
point, name this independence leader in the southern part of South America.
ANSWER: Jose de San Martin
064-12-58-25163

64. During this time period, the right to review decisions of state courts was decided in Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee. Benjamin Russell coined the name of this time period in the Columbian Centinel. Stephen Decatur
ended the Barbary pirate raids during this time period, which also saw John C. Calhoun's transportation
plan enacted. Rufus King lost in a landslide at the start of this period that was ended by Tallmadge's
proposal and disagreement over the Missouri Crisis. This time period was defined by one-party rule under a
Democratic-Republican president. For the point, name this happy phrase given to the time following the
War of 1812 that coincided with Monroe's terms as president.
ANSWER: "Era of Good Feelings"
124-12-58-25164

65. This object was hidden in a food pouch previously filled with "roasted grain, fig cakes, bread and
cheese." Its original owner was discovered dead by Bagoas. This object was hung from a parapet
immediately prior to the lifting of the siege of Bethulia. After seeing this object, Achior the Ammonite
agreed to become circumcised, and Uzziah proclaimed that its acquisition "will never be forgotten by those
who tell of the might of God." The widow of Manasseh obtained this object after its original owner
attempted to seduce her, but ended up passed-out drunk. For the point, what body part was severed from the
neck of a general of Nebuchadnezzar by Judith?
ANSWER: the head of Holofernes
003-12-58-25165

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 14 of 38

66. In one portrait of this man, the table leg features several tied reeds engraved in it, while four eagles are
perched at the top. In that same portrait of this man, a rainbow is located in the upper right hand corner,
while the earliest known portrait of this man features him with a white sash across his body as he sticks his
yellow gloved hand into his jacket. Another painting of this man has him resting on a cannon, while a
British flag lies on the ground off to his left. Those two paintings of this man are by Charles Peale. Another
painting of this man features him standing on a boat that is navigating through ice as it crosses the title
river. This man is depicted in Gilbert Stuart’s Landsdowne portrait, as well as an Emanuel Leutze painting
of this man Crossing the Delaware For the point, name these paintings of the United States’ first president.
ANSWER: George Washington
149-12-58-25166

67. This painter depicted a socialite dressed as a vestal virgin reclining on a sofa and looking over her right
shoulder in his Portrait of Madame Recamier. He depicted another of his contemporaries holding a letter in
one hand and a quill in the other as his arm hangs limply to the ground. That man is shown sitting in his
bathtub after being stabbed by Charlotte Corday. In another of this man’s paintings, a man in red holds up
three swords for his three sons, who are swearing to fight for Rome against the Curiatii from Alba Longa.
For the point, name this French neoclassical painter of The Death of Marat and Oath of the Horatii.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
014-12-58-25167

68. One king of this name defeated Rollo but was forced to flee when Odo was crowned. Savonarola
believed that one king of this name was sent to deliver Florence but he actually just instigated the Italian
Wars and was defeated by the League of Venice. A king of this name failed to persuade Gregory XI to
remain in Avignon. The 'Fat' king of this name was the youngest son of Louis the German, who was the
brother of the 'Bald' king of this name. Another king of this name was the father of Louis the Spider-King
and was crowned after the Siege of Orleans was lifted. The Holy Roman Emperor of this name succeeded
Maximilian I and was the son of Joanna the Mad who fought the Protestant Reformation. For the point,
give this name of the two kings who ruled before and after the Cromwell interregnum.
ANSWER: Charles
124-12-58-25168

69. Poenius Posthumus fell on his own sword for failing to arrive at a battle to fight this leader. This leader
wore a torque to symbolize willingness to die and released a hare from a tunic before battles. Petillius
Cerialis and the Legio IX were defeated by this leader's forces after marching from Longthorpe. After the
destruction of a temple on Mona, the Trinovantes allied with this leader whose statue was commissioned by
Prince Albert. Decianus Catus ordered this leader's daughters to be publicly raped after the death of
Prasutagus the king of the Iceni. This leader's forces destroyed Camulodunum, Verulamium, and
Londinium before being defeated by Seutonius Paulinus. For the point, name this female Celtic warrior
who led a rebellion in Britain against Roman rule.
ANSWER: Boudicca [or Boudica or Boadicea or similar sounding spellings]
124-12-58-25169

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 15 of 38

70. In the 19th century, Julius Vogel argued for the independence of this island. A disastrous 2011
earthquake killed 185 people near its town of Lyttleton. Sites like Gabriel's Gully and the Tuapeka River
were central to the Central Otago Gold Rush on this island. This island’s north is indented by Golden Bay,
which was originally called Murderers Bay after early European explorers were given a cold welcome. It
contains the Fox and Franz Josef Glaciers near its Southern Alps. This island is separated from its smaller
but less populous northern neighbor by the Cook Strait. Known as Te Wai Pounamu in Maori, this island’s
largest city is Christchurch. For the point, name this larger of the main New Zealand islands.
ANSWER: South Island
015-12-58-25170

71. This war commenced following the complete breakdown of the Aburi Accord. Prior to this conflict, a
junta led by Aguiyi-Ironsi was overthrown in a coup led by Murtala Mohammed, one of this war's heroes.
It saw the creation of the short-lived Republic of Benin. After witnessing the treatment of civilians in this
conflict, French physician Bernard Kouchner created Doctors Without Borders. The breakaway region at
the center of this conflict had its capital at Enugu, controlled the city of Port Harcourt, and had its eastern
border with Cameroon. This war was sparked in part by a large scale massacre of the Igbo people. For the
point, name this 1967 to 1970 conflict involving a separatist region of Nigeria.
ANSWER: Nigerian-Biafran War [or Nigerian Civil War before "Nigeria" is read]
064-12-58-25171

72. Ronald Haeberle famously photographed one event during this war. This war saw Operation Medina
and the death of John Paul Vann at the Battle of Kontum. Vann had earlier sought out the press to rail
against his superiors after his experiences at the Battle of Ap Bac during this war. After the failure of the
Strategic Hamlet Program in this war, Operation Rolling Thunder was overseen by General William C.
Westmoreland. The winning side in this war broke a proposed seven-day ceasefire during the Lunar New
Year by launching the Tet Offensive in 1968. For the point, name this war in which the United States
intervened in a Southeast Asian country.
ANSWER: Vietnam War
014-12-58-25172

73. This program was the subject of an open letter to The Wall Street Journal signed by Kurt Gottfried,
Henry Kendall, and Hans Bethe. Subdivisions of this program included Brilliant Eyes and Brilliant Pebbles,
and this program was headed by General James Abrahamson. This program was reintegrated into the
BMDO under Bill Clinton in 1993. Proposed in 1983 by Ronald Reagan, this program outlined the
establishment of laser battle stations on earth and in space. For the point, name this program intended to
protect the United States from Soviet nuclear weapons which was derisively nicknamed after a popular
George Lucas film.
ANSWER: Strategic Defense Initiative [or Star Wars; or SDI]
014-12-58-25173

74. During one rebellion, this man relieved a garrison commanded by Quintus Cicero that was located in
Nervii territory. In addition to quelling Ambriorix’s revolt, this man defeated Cassivellaunus and made
Mandubracius head of England. In one war, forces under this man won the Battle of the Arar as well as the
Battle of Bibracte against the Helvetti. The forces of the two men who plotted this man’s assassination lost
at the Battle of Philippi. This man, along with Crassus and Pompey, formed the firstTriumvarate. This man
detailed his victory at the battle of Alesia in his Commentaries on the Gallic War, which also described his
defeat of Vercingetorix. This man was killed on the Ides of March by a group led by Brutus. For the point,
name this Roman leader who famously crossed the Rubicon with troops.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar
149-12-58-25174

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 16 of 38

75. This ruler's Prime Minister took cyanide before execution by firing squad to preserve his dignity.
Abd-el-Krim was defeated by forces commanded by this leader in Morocco. Francois Darlan served as this
man's Prime Minister for a short time and he appointed Paul Baudouin as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Joseph Darnand was the head of this man's secret police force Milice. This leader replaced Robert Nivelle
as Commander-In-Chief after a series of mutinies. Joseph Joffre sent this man to Verdun, where he was
victorious despite his disagreement about military strategy with Ferdinand Foch. This successor of Paul
Reynaud was appointed by Albert Lebrun and changed his country's motto to "Work, Family, Fatherland"
with his Prime Minister Pierre Laval. For the point, name this head of the Vichy France.
ANSWER: Henri-Philippe Petain
124-12-58-25175

76. The person who signed this document said that it was targeted at "frauds, speculations, and
monopolies" generated by easy credit at state banks. This document exempted lots less than 320 acres in
size through December 15 of the year of its issue, and was the third in a series of related directives which
had previously regulated payments of less than ten dollars. This document, issued by Treasury Secretary
Levi Woodbury, was repealed by a joint resolution of Congress following its deflationary effect and
contribution to the Panic of 1837. For the point, name this order of the Jackson administration that required
that public lands be purchased only in gold or silver.
ANSWER: Specie Circular
019-12-58-25176

77. The possibility of this event caused the first application of the preamble to the most recent Statute of
Westminster. Two witnesses to this event were "Fruity" Metcalfe and Herman Rogers. Horace Wilson
moved to prevent John Reith from broadcasting a speech attempting to justify it. One person who took part
in this event was alleged to have had affairs with Guy Trundle and Joachim von Ribbentrop. The people
involved in this event were sent to the Bahamas during World War II to prevent a Fascist coup. This event
took place at the Château de Condé six months after one of its participants abdicated as King of England.
For the point, name this event in which George VI's brother married an American divorcee.
ANSWER: marriage of Edward VIII to Wallis Warfield Simpson [or obvious equivalents; or marriage
of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor; accept Simpson or Spencer in place of Warfield; accept any answer
involving both Edward VIII and Wallis Warfield Simpson after "married"; prompt on answers involving
only one party; prompt on abdication of Edward VIII until "abdicated" is read]
003-12-58-25177

78. This man was supposedly named after a soldier his father Yesugei defeated. Ch'ang-ch'un visited this
man and wrote a famous travelogue of his journey. With the help of Toghril, he defeated the Merkit clan,
who had kidnapped his wife Bortë. This man took his final title after his defeat of Jamuka. One of the
primary chronicles says he learned of the "importance of towns" in his war against the Khwarezm
(kwah-REZ-im) Empire. This ruler learned from a Naiman minister the Uigher (wee-goor) script that he
decreed to be used for his language. This man's successor Ögedai finished the conquest of the Jin Dynasty
this man had started. For the point, name this founder of the Mongol Empire.
ANSWER: Genghis Khan [or Temujin]
121-12-58-25178

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 17 of 38

79. He's not Thomas Jefferson, but this man authored a 1798 document resolving the power of the federal
government comes from the compact agreed upon by the states, and states are duty bound to "arrest the
progress of the evil" if it exceeds that compact. Besides the Virginia Resolution, he wrote an essay claiming
government is the "greatest of all reflections on human nature" and that "if men were angels, no
government would be necessary." Besides Federalist 51, he wrote the Federalist Paper promoting the new
Constitution promotes its ability to break up the violence of factions, Federalist 10. For the point, name this
Framer who wrote the Federalist Papers with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay.
ANSWER: James Madison
121-12-58-25179

80. Daniel Ford's Remains was an account of this group, whose members included Robert Neale and Tex
Hill. One member of this group later presided over the Charles Manson murder trial and was named Chuck
Older. Its commander butted heads with Joseph Stilwell. This group faced off against "Nates," "Anns," and
"Lilies" in several battles. This group, which was subdivided into the "Adam & Eves" and "Hell's Angels"
and commanded by Claire Chennault. This group painted shark faces on their craft and were responsible for
protecting the Burma Road supply line, Kunming, and Rangoon for Chiang Kai-shek's forces. For the point,
name this group of American pilots that fought for the Chinese Army during WWII.
ANSWER: Flying Tigers [or 1st American Volunteer Group; or 1st AVG]
048-12-58-25180

81. This man composed songs such as "Nearer to Thee" and "Touch the Hymn of His Garment" as a
member of the Soul Stirrers. He sang with Lou Rawls as a member of the Teenage Kings of Harmony and
helped Rawls make the transition from gospel to pop music. He founded the publishing company Kags
Music and the record label Sar/Derby. One song by this man asks the title character to "draw back your
bow" and another of his songs was quoted by President Obama in his inaugural address and is a seminal
work of the civil rights movement. For the point, name this pioneer of soul music who sang "Cupid" and "A
Change is Gonna Come" and whose other hits included "Chain Gang" and "Wonderful World.
ANSWER: Sam Cooke
030-12-58-25181

82. Ben Milam's volunteer troops defeated Cos before this battle, which was preceded by the Battle of
Bexar where Colonel James Neill took command. Captain Westover was left in charge at Goliad so that
Colonel Fannin could march towards this battle. Henry Smith sent one man to investigate the area around
this battle. The commander in this battle swore to "never surrender or retreat" and responded to a call for
surrender with a cannonball. Volunteers from Gonzales were among defendants in this siege. William
Travis drew a line in the sand before this battle, in which David Crockett and Jim Bowie died. For the
point, name this battle over the namesake San Antonio mission that fell to Santa Anna's forces.
ANSWER: Alamo [or Mission San Antonio de Valero]
124-12-58-25182

83. As a prosecutor, this man never had a conviction reversed. Abe Fortas was suggested as a replacement
for this man, who himself replaced Fred Vinson. The John Birch Society made bumper stickers calling to
impeach this man, whom George Wallace said "couldn't try a chicken thief." Goodwin Knight replaced this
man as the only governor to run unopposed after serving three terms as governor of California. This second
vice presidential running mate of Thomas Dewey was appointed as the fourteenth Chief Justice by
Eisenhower. This man chaired the commission that investigated the JFK assassination. For the point, name
this Chief Justice who led a liberal and activist period in the Supreme Court.
ANSWER: Earl Warren
124-12-58-25183

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 18 of 38

84. During one victory for this empire, Shimr was asked "Have you done your prayers today?" The Turgesh
Khaganate defeated this empire at the Day of Thirst and the Battle of the Defile. This empire's government
was divided into six Diwans. The first ruler of this empire fought the Battle of Siffin against the fourth
Rashidun Caliph. Forces of this empire defeated the Banu Hashim clan at one battle, where Yazid I
defeated Husain ibn Ali. This empire won the Battle of Karbala. Its first leader was Muawiyah I
(moo-AH-we-yuh). The Foundation Stone is at the heart of one shrine built by this caliphate called the
Dome of the Rock. For the point, name this Islamic caliphate from the seventh and eighth centuries.
ANSWER: Umayyad Caliphate
149-12-58-25184

85. The German adventurer Theodor, Baron Neuhof declared himself king of this place. The end result of
this place’s namesake crisis resulted in the fall of the prime ministry of the Duke of Grafton in 1770. Great
Britain briefly claimed sovereignty of this place per the Treaty of Bastia. During World War II, this place
was known as the “U.S.S. [this place]” due to the large presence of U.S. aircraft here, and its namesake
republic fell following the Battle of Punto Novo. James Boswell wrote a noted Account of [this place], and
it was led to independence by Pasquale Paoli. For the point, name this large Mediterranean island which
was the birthplace of the victor of the Battle of Austerlitz and the loser of the Battle of Waterloo.
ANSWER: Corsica
030-12-58-25185

86. This act's controversial Chapter 11 provides for international arbitration in the case of disputes between
investors and states even if the local options for resolution have not been exhausted. That chapter has
allowed recent lawsuits to be filed by pharmaceutical companies such as Apotex and Chemtura. This act's
Chapter 19 has been used to implement a 5-man panel to resolve a softwood lumber argument between two
of the involved countries. The passage of this act was a key issue in the elections that brought Kim
Campbell and Jean Chretien to power in Canada. It was passed under the term of Bill Clinton in the U.S.
For the point, name this 1994 trade agreement.
ANSWER: NAFTA [or North American Free Trade Agreement]
040-12-58-25186

87. In one campaign speech, this politician denounced the cabinet’s five-week period of inactivity,
lamenting the previous fourteen years of depression and quoting Theodor Körner: “Now, people, rise up,
and storm, break loose!” Years later, he delivered the “Sportpalast” speech advocating total war. This
founder and editor of the magazine Der Angriff also oversaw the activities of UFA in his most significant
post. In 1945, he poisoned his six children before committing suicide with his wife Magda, and he was
named Chancellor of the Third Reich in Hitler’s will. For the point, name this Nazi Minister of Public
Enlightenment and Propaganda.
ANSWER: Paul Joseph Goebbels
014-12-58-25187

88. Speechwriter Richard Goodwin named this program, which was developed in part by Bill Moyers. John
Gardner engineered most aspects of this program, which included the Wilderness Act. This program
banned literacy tests and included the Elementary and Secondary Education Act as well as Head Start. This
idea was described as 'not a safe harbor' or 'a final objective' but rather as a challenge at the University of
Michigan Commencement Address. The Economic Opportunity Act was part of the 'War on Poverty'
aspect of this program, which included the Job Corps, Medicare, and VISTA. For the point, name this
series of reforms passed by Lyndon Johnson.
ANSWER: Great Society
124-12-58-25188

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 19 of 38

89. This man was the brother-in-law of Percy Hobart, a military theorist whose so-called funnies, such as
the innovative "crab" and "crocodile" tanks, were used in an operation that this man helped plan. From
1948 to 1951, this man served as the chairman of the permanent defense organization of the Western
European Union. This man issued the "Neptune" Initial Join Plan, the first proposed outline for a notable
military operation. This man lost the so-called "Race to Messina" to George Patton while commanding the
8th Army in the conquest of Sicily. For the point, name this British field marshal who defeated Rommel at
the Battle of El-Alamein and who commanded all ground forces during the initial landing at Normandy.
ANSWER: Bernard Law Montgomery
030-12-58-25189

90. One group in this war was the Law Menders led by William McIntosh. This war was partially caused
by settlement along Federal Road. One commander in this war sent John Coffee to capture the village of
Tallushatchee; that commander later faced enlistment problems after the Battle of Talladega. This war was
ended by the Treaty of Fort Jackson. In one of the earliest battles in this war, forces under Colonel James
Caller ambushed a group under Peter McQueen at Burnt Corn Creek. In retaliation for that ambush, one
side in this war massacred frontiersmen at Fort Mims. Its final battle was at Horseshoe Bend. For the point,
name this war in which Andrew Jackson defeated the Red Sticks of a namesake Indian tribe.
ANSWER: Creek Civil War [accept Red Stick War before read]
066-12-58-25190

91. The ban on female performers in this art form was lifted in 1912. The first performance of this art form
was in 1790 at the emperor's birthday celebration. One cross-dressing performer of it portrayed the
"Flower-Shattering Diva" and was the subject of the film Forever Enthralled. Instruments used in its
orchestra include a gong that rises in pitch each time it is struck and a one-headed drum on a wooden
tripod. It uses two main types of melodies known as xipi and erhuang. All except eight "model" works in
this form were banned during the Cultural Revolution. This art form is known for performers' elaborate
costumes and makeup. For the point, Mei Lan-Fang performed in what kind of Chinese musical theater?
ANSWER: Peking opera [or Beijing opera; or jingxi; or ching-hsi; or opera of the capital; prompt on
Chinese opera; prompt on Chinese theater]
003-12-58-25191

92. One man who attempted this action was made into a pair of shoes after his death and was "Big Nose"
George Parrot. This action was first committed in peacetime by a gang that was hunted down by the
Jackson County Vigilance Committee and based in Seymour, Indiana. That gang was started by the four
Reno brothers. The group who did it once near Folsom, New Mexico used Robbers Roost as a hideout and
was Butch Cassidy's Wild Bunch. The first time the James-Younger gang committed this action, they
dressed as Ku Klux Klan members and demanded valuables from passengers. For the point, identify this
type of theft, contrasted with bank or stagecoach robbery, that can be carried out by derailing a certain
vehicle.
ANSWER: train robbery [prompt on armed robbery]
066-12-58-25192

93. The subject of this case was avoided in the earlier case of Colegrove v. Green, which stated that this
case's subject was a "political thicket." Felix Frankfurter issued his last major opinion in this case, a
sixty-four page dissent in which he stated that this case was a political controversy that was not subject to
the Supreme Court's jurisdiction. This case served as precedent for the case of Reynolds v. Sims, which held
that "acres or trees" were not represented in legislatures. William Brennan's decision for the court in this
case established the "one person, one vote" doctrine. For the point, name this case in which the Tennessee
legislature was required to reapportion by population.
ANSWER: Baker v. Carr [or Carr v. Baker]
030-12-58-25193
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 20 of 38

94. One queen of this empire was Sammuramat, who may have been the inspiration for Semiramis. This
empire defeated Damascus under Shalmaneser III, whose exploits are found on the Black Obelisk. This
empire, which was among the first to fully utilize iron weapons, became a bureaucracy under the reforms of
Tiglath-Pileser III. This empire conquered Egypt during the rule of Esarhaddon. Civil war that led to this
empire's downfall broke out after the death of his successor Ashurbanipal, who built the world's first
library. This empire had its capital at Assur, but it was later moved to Nineveh. For the point, name this
Mesopotamian empire that ruled from the tenth to seventh centuries BCE.
ANSWER: Neo-Assyrian empire [or Assyria]
140-12-58-25194

95. The First Republic of this country was led by the French-appointed Philibert Tsiranana beginning in
1960, though displeasure with his neo-colonial style of rule saw Gabriel Ramanantsoa’s appointment to
President and Prime Minister in 1972. Ramanantsoa’s replacement, Richard Ratsimandravba, was
assassinated six days after entering office. The Second Republic of this country was run by Didier
Ratsiraka. Once ruled by the murderous Queen Ranavalona I, this country is now led by Andry Rajoelina.
For the point, name this former French colony, a very ecologically unique island located on the east of the
Mozambique Channel.
ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar [or Republique de Madagascar; or Repoblikan'i Madagasikara]
147-12-58-25195

96. A leader of this place's Nationalist Party, Albizu Campos, alleged that Cornelius Rhoads injected
people from here with cancer cells. The La Ley de la Mordoza, or Gag Law, made it a crime to be in
possession of this place's flag. A series of armed insurrections here in 1950 included the Utuado and Jayuya
Uprisings. Residents of this place attempted to assassinate Harry Truman at the Blair House. In 1937, its
government committed the Palm Sunday massacre of nationalists who were holding a peaceful march in
Ponce. In 1961, the U.S. Army officially stopped occupying El Morro Castle in its capital, San Juan. For
the point, name this island of the United States that is a common possibility for the 51st state.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
066-12-58-25196

97. During this country's military regime, a common joke was that its two parties were the "Yes" party and
the "Yes, Sir" party. It launched several failed attempts to control its inflation, including the Cruzado Plan,
before the introduction of the real (HEY-ow). This country's capital was built by its president Juscelino
Kubitschek (zoos-uh-LEE-no koo-bah-SHECK). A more recent president of this country launched a
program to combat hunger called Fome Zero, part of which was the welfare program, Bolsa Familia. That
president was succeeded by its current president, Dilma Rousseff (JILL-mah WHO-seff). For the point,
name this country once led by Lula da Silva, a former Portuguese colony in Latin America.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]
080-12-58-25197

98. In one Punch cartoon, this man is dressed in a turban, while the subtitle is “New crowns for old ones!”
One of this man’s ministries passed an act that compelled slum owners to sell to councils as well as an act
that decriminalized picketing. That first act was designed by Richard Cross, who served as the Home
Secretary in this man’s second ministry. This man was the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Who? Who?
Ministry, which was led by this man’s friend the Earl of Derby. Often depicted with a large nose in
political cartoons, this man passed the Royal Titles Act, which made Queen Victoria the Empress of India.
For the point, name this Jewish prime minister of England who feuded with William Gladstone.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli
149-12-58-25198

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 21 of 38

99. The hill Mamayev Kurgan changed hands multiple times during this battle and contains a memorial to
it today. One side attempted to counteract other’s firepower by staying as close to them as possible, a
strategy called “hugging” the enemy. Vasily Zaytsev was a sniper who killed 225 enemy soldiers during
this battle. One heavily armed fortification in this battle was known as “Pavlov’s House.” Operation
Uranus resulted in the encirclement of one side in this battle. Friedrich Paulus surrendered at the end of this
battle, which resulted in the complete destruction of the German Sixth Army. For the point, name this battle
of World War II, a 1942-43 fight for control of a city in southern Russia.
ANSWER: Battle of Stalingrad
132-12-58-25199

100. Along with its income tax, this country issued the tithe-like "Tax in Kind," which required farmers to
give ten percent of their produce and livestock to the government. This country's president was forced to
stand atop a wagon and throw coins down at rioting women in an attempt to stop the Bread Riots. This
country was targeted by the first and second Confiscation Acts. Its central government frequently
squabbled with independent governors like Joseph Brown and Pendleton Murrah. To engage in trade, this
country had to rely on its blockade runners. For the point, name this country that also lost the battles of
Vicksburg and Gettysburg after seceding from the Union.
ANSWER: Confederate States of America [or CSA; or the Confederacy; prompt on America; prompt
on the South; do not accept or prompt on the United States of America]
080-12-58-251100

101. The Pomo tribe, which was native to this state, became known for their skills in artistic basket making.
One group of tribes in this state practiced the Kusku dance ritual, while another group practiced a World
Renewal ceremony. This state's Kumeyaay tribe participated in an uprising against colonial rule. A
devastating 1806 epidemic here was worsened by the Spanish practice of separating children from their
parents. That practice was established as a result of Junipero Serra's efforts to found a series of Spanish
missions in this state. For the point, name this state that was home to a soapstone quarry in Catalina Island,
as well as missions in San Diego and San Francisco.
ANSWER: California
040-12-58-251101

102. All 55,000 of the Nasjonal Samling in Norway were tried for performing this action. The Chetniks and
Ustaše were purged from Yugoslavia for performing it. The Arrow Cross Party was able to put Ferenc
Szálasi in power by performing this action, for which it was later outlawed. In France, the punishment for
this was normally “national degradation,” which prevented the accused from holding certain jobs, and mass
trials for it were held during the “épuration légale.” Albert Camus protested the French government's
execution of Robert Brasillach for advocating this action, and it was committed on a larger scale by Pierre
Laval, Philippe Pétain, and other members of the Vichy regime in France. For the point, name this action,
the opposite of resistance.
ANSWER: Nazi Collaboration [or Axis Collaboration; or obvious equivalents; prompt on treason]
121-12-58-251102

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 22 of 38

103. A blue cockade was used a symbol during this event whose namesake was indicted on libel against
Marie Antoinette and later arrested after he converted to Orthodox Judaism. James Malo appealed for
government aid during this event but still saw his house burned down in Moorfields. After undergoing
years of renovation, Newgate Prison was badly damaged during this event. The radical and populist
politician John Wilkes lost popularity after leading troops during this event. These riots were named after a
controversial politician who led the fight to repeal the 1778 Catholic Relief Act and took place during the
American Revolution. For the point, name these 1780 anti-Catholic riots in Great Britain.
ANSWER: Gordon Riots
064-12-58-251103

104. In one Judge cartoon, a “new” version of one character in this work is played by a revolutionary
holding a pink ribbon that says “ILOILO” as he wears braids that spell out “Aguinaldo.” One minor
character in this novel who was taken to the West Indies, Madam de Thoux, is the sister of a man who
fights Tom Loker. The main character in this novel forgives his killers Quimbo and Sambo as he dies. One
man in this novel is convinced that ghosts live in a garret by Cassy and Emmeline. One character in this
work is “tamed” by Miss Ophelia St. Clare and is called Topsy. This work’s title character is killed on the
Legree plantation. For the point, name this anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
ANSWER: Uncle Tom’s Cabin
149-12-58-251104

105. In the lead up to this conflict, the King Hiero II crushed the Mamertines; Hiero would later change
sides in this conflict after initially allying with Hanno. This war was ended with the Treaty of Lutatius
following the Battle of Aegates Islands. Early battles in this conflict include a naval victory at Mylae and
the capture of Agrigentum. During the height of this conflict, one side narrowly avoided total defeat after
they hired the Spartan mercenary Xanthippus who led them to victory at the Battle of Tunis. Clashes at
Messina and Syracuse occurred in the buildup to this conflict. For the point, name this conflict fought in the
middle of the third century BCE which saw Sicily change hands, the first of three conflicts fought between
Carthage and Rome.
ANSWER: First Punic War [prompt on Punic War]
064-12-58-251105

106. Participants in this event kidnapped the apprentices of Theodore Sedgwick in their underclothes.
Caleb Strong defended instigators of this event, including Jason Parmenter, who were sentenced to hang
but were paraded at the gallows and forgiven. Participants in this event wore a sprig of hemlock in their
hats and were shot by William Shepard. Benjamin Lincoln led troops funded by Governor James Bowdoin
during this event. In his support of the Virginia Plan, James Madison said this event was a warning.
Insurgents in this event attacked the Springfield arsenal. For the point, name this uprising of Massachusetts
farmers that demonstrated the need for a strong central government.
ANSWER: Shays' Rebellion
124-12-58-251106

107. One side in this election accused their opponent of sending his Vice President to England to procure
four mistresses to split between them. James Bayard led colleagues in casting the final ballots for this
election's eventual winner. In the inaugural address delivered by this election's winner, he said "difference
of opinion is not a difference of principle" and, though he and his colleagues had been called by different
names, claimed "We are all Republicans, we are all Federalists." That man and his running mate had both
tied for first place with 73 electoral votes, a problem resolved by the Twelfth Amendment. For the point,
name this electoin that saw Thomas Jefferson defeat John Adams.
ANSWER: Election of 1800 [or Revolution of 1800; or obvious equivalents]
121-12-58-251107
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 23 of 38

108. This man allegedly won one battle when his opponent's war elephants panicked after this man sent a
horde of burning camels at them; that paved the way for his sack of Delhi. This ruler captured Bayezid I
following the Battle of Ankara. A curse placed on this man's tomb at Gur-i-Mir allegedly prompted the
Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union following its 1941 excavation. This man took a title meaning
"son-in-law" as well as the title Amir, but never took the title Khan. This man ordered his troops to each
bring back two human heads during his 1401 sack of Baghdad. For the point, name this fourteenth century
Mongol conqueror of Turkish origin who notably limped.
ANSWER: Timur the Lame [or Tamerlane; or Amir Timur; or Timur-e Lang]
003-12-58-251108

109. In metallurgy, this company is the namesake of a process for a continuous smelting-converting
operation that uses three stationary furnaces in series. This company is the parent of Nikon cameras and the
Kirin Brewery Company. This company’s NYK Line is one of the world’s largest shipping companies.
DaimlerChrysler owned this company’s motor corporation in the early 2000s. It was founded by Yataro
Iwasaki, and Jiro Horikoshi was the chief engineer for aircraft made by this company, which included the
J2M Raiden and the A7M2 Reppu. Its zaibatsu was broken up by occupation authorities and it was
reorganized into a keiretsu. For the point, name this large Japanese company that manufactured Japan’s
zero aircraft during World War II.
ANSWER: Mitsubishi Group
030-12-58-251109

110. One of his accomplishments includes presiding over the opening of Latin America's first nuclear
power plant, the Atucha I, in 1974. The creation of the AIPE strengthened his country's economy and
established a government monopoly to control exports. This leader's philosophy was between capitalism
and socialism, something he called Justicialismo though it now often bears his name. Elected to the
presidency three times, he only served one complete term before being exiled from 1955-1973 by the
Revolucion Libertadora junta. For the point, name this Argentine leader whose wives Isabel Martinez and
Eva Duarte also played major political roles.
ANSWER: Juan Domingo Peron
147-12-58-251110

111. One prime minister of this government mandated the thirty-six hour work week by signing the
Matignon Agreement. Another prime minister of this government claimed that the “Nazi Aim is Slavery.”
Lord Curzon claimed that one leader of this country was a “horrid little man,” following his negotiation to
end this government’s occupation of the Ruhr. A third prime minister of this government names an
international treaty banning the use of wars of aggression along with Kellogg. This government’s third
president was MacMahon, while it was first led by a man who put down the Second Paris Commune. At
one point led by Adolphe Thiers, this government was also led by “the Tiger.” For the point, name this
republic that was created after the Franco-Prussian War and was led by Clemenceau
ANSWER: Third French Republic [or Third French Republic at the end; or La Troisieme Republique;
prompt on “France” or “French Republic”]
149-12-58-251111

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 24 of 38

112. In one account, this hero lives with the relatives of the woman he intends to court for a year before he
sees her. In that story, the Burgundians welcome this man to Worms after he is recognized by his eventual
murderer. This man became mostly invulnerable to weapons by killing a dragon and bathing in its blood,
though in one account he is killed by a spear to the back thrown by Hagen. This hero uses the cloak of
invisibility he stole from the dwarf Alberich to help Gunther win his bride, though in another telling it is
this man who is supposed to marry Brynhild. This hero's story is told in both the Nibelungenlied and the
Volsung Saga. For the point, name this hero of Germanic mythology.
ANSWER: Siegfried [or Sigurd]
105-12-58-251112

113. An important social worker during this war was the "Angel of Love," Emily Hobhouse. The
Bloemfontein Conference was an attempt to prevent this war. The first self-powered machine gun, the
Maxim gun, was used in this war and known for its "pom-pom" sound. The losing side in this war featured
generals such as Jacobus Hercules de la Rey and won victories at Magersfontein and Stormberg during the
Black Week. Ended by the Peace of Vereeniging, this war ended in the defeat of a country defeated at the
Siege of Mafeking and led by Paul Kruger. In this war, Britain defeated the Orange Free State and the
Transvaal Republic. For the point, name this 1899-1902 war fought in South Africa and named for an
ethnic group.
ANSWER: Second Boer War [or Anglo-Boer War; accept South African War before "South Africa" is
read]
014-12-58-251113

114. In response to these laws, one man wrote to James Warren that "the people receive this cruel edict
with abhorrence and indignation." One cartoon about these laws depicts Lord Sandwhich peering up an
Indian woman's skirt as tea is poured down her throat. One of these laws allowed governors to move the
trial of an official to another area if that official could not receive a fair trial and was called the "Murder
Act." The last of these acts promoted tolerance in a province and expanded the boundaries of Quebec.
Another of these acts closed the port of Boston until the East India Co. had been repaid for damages caused
by the Boston Tea Party. For the point, name these acts nicknamed for their cruelty.
ANSWER: Intolerable Acts [or Coercive acts_]
149-12-58-251114

115. The city of Ossossane was the largest settlement of these peoples. The mission of La Concepcion was
founded by members of this Native American tribe, whose chief Orontony led an unsuccessful insurrection
that was foiled by the intelligence gathering operations of Longueuil. Their chief Anahotaha was killed in
an ambush after a series of conflicts with the Iroquois. Many members of this tribe starved on what was
known as Christian Island. They were encountered by Samuel de Champlain and subsequently dealt with
French missionaries. For the point, name this tribe comprised of the Wyandot people who lived in southern
Canada and around the Great Lakes, one of which today bears their name.
ANSWER: Huron [accept Wyandot or Wendat before read]
040-12-58-251115

116. The Samu Incident led to this war, whose aftermath included the implementation of the "land for
peace" doctrine as part of U.N. Security Council Resolution 242. The War of Attrition resulted after one
side in this war asserted that there would be no peace, recognition, or negotiations with the enemy in the
"Three No's" of the Khartoum Resolution. This war began with an airstrike called Operation Focus after
one of the belligerents blockaded the Straits of Tiran. The IDF proceeded to capture the Golan Heights and
the Sinai Peninsula. For the point, name this 1967 war between Israel and the United Arab Republic that
lasted less than a week.
ANSWER: Six-Day War [or June War; or Third Arab-Israeli War; prompt on Arab-Israeli War]
079-12-58-251116
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 25 of 38

117. This war began with the Battle of Taipale. A puppet government called the Terijoki Government
headed by Otto Wille Kuusinan was established in the losing country of this war. The treaty that ended this
war ceded the Ribachi Peninsula and Hanko Cape to the winner. In this war, Hjalmar Siilasvuo led one side
at the battles of Raate Road and Suomussalmi. This war ended when one side breached the Mannerheim
Line and took the isthmus of Karelia, leading to the Moscow Peace Treaty. For the point, name this war,
which, like the later Continuation War, was fought between the Soviet Union and Sweden during World
War II.
ANSWER: Winter War
140-12-58-251117

118. She wrote about her turn away from the Bolshevik revolution in My Disillusionment in Russia. Her
autobiography is entitled Living My Life. This woman founded the magazine Mother Earth, which spread
information about birth control. Leon Czolgosz (CHOL-gosh) claimed that this person was a large
influence on him. The Haymarket Affair was instrumental in shaping her political views. She was the lover
of fellow anarchist Alexander Berkman. Her plan to assassinate Henry Clay Frick failed and instead led to
Berkman's imprisonment. For the point, name this Lithuanian-born American anarchist who was active at
the turn of the century.
ANSWER: Emma Goldman
127-12-58-251118

119. During this battle, one side’s cavalry was commanded by the former leader of the X Legion, which
served the victor at this battle. After one sides’ cavalry charge in this battle was repulsed by Labienus’, the
victor unveiled his hidden forth line. This battle occurred after one side trapped the other in Thessaly.
Following this battle, the loser’s head was sent to the victor by Ptolemy XIII. Prior to this battle, one side,
who had camped at Dyrrhachium, exploited a weakness in the victor’s wall, forcing them into a full retreat
only to quit their pursuit.. One side in this battle was fighting for the Populares, while the other represented
the Optimates. For the point, name this decisive victory over Pompey the Great by Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Battle of Pharsalus
149-12-58-251119

120. Following his overreaction to his nephew’s response to the Ordinatio Imperii, this man publicly
atoned for his mistreatment of Bernard of Italy, whom he had blinded, a process that ended up killing the
King of the Lombards. Only three years old when he was appointed king of Aquitaine, he became
co-emperor with his father thirty-two years later, and united the Carolingian Empire under the banner of
Christianity. Despite a brief interruption to his rule following the ambush in 833 by the supporters of his
three older sons, Pippin, Lothair and Louis the German, at the Field of Lies in Alsace after the birth of his
fourth son, Charles, he continued his rule until his death in 840. For the point, name this son and successor
of Charlemagne.
ANSWER: Louis I [or Louis the Pious or Louis the Fair or Louis the Debonaire]
147-12-58-251120

121. This man skinned the treasurer Hugh Cressingham and used his skin as a belt. This victor at Loudoun
Hill and Ayr fought alongside William Douglas to defeat William Ormesby. This leader, based in Ettrick
Forest, killed the sheriff of Lanark William Heselrig. John de Menteith betrayed this man to Sir Peter
Mallorie, who declared him a traitor, after which he was hung, drawn, and quartered and had his limbs
were sent in four directions. Andrew Murray stayed loyal to this man after the Treaty of Irvine and fought
alongside him, as described by Blind Harry, in the Battle of Stirling Bridge. This loser at Falkirk was
knighted by Robert the Bruce. For the point, name this guardian of Scotland.
ANSWER: William Wallace
124-12-58-251121
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 26 of 38

122. One ruler of this kingdom re-established the House of Nobles, reintroducing a bicameral legislature.
Another king of this place introduced the "free eating period" which eliminated most previous taboos. The
first ruler of this kingdom pardoned a man who had once hit him on the head, instituting the Law of the
Splintered Paddle, after unifying this kingdom at the Battle of the Leaping Mullet Fish. The final monarch
of this kingdom was the subject of the Morgan and Blount reports, lost power under the Bayonet
Constitution, and was succeeded by the creation of a republic led by Sanford Dole. For the point, name this
kingdom ruled by Kamehameha and Liliuokalani before it became the fiftieth state.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Hawaii
019-12-58-251122

123. This man unusually declared a sed festival in the third rather than thirtieth year of his reign. This man
sent gold-plated statues instead of solid gold ones to Tushratta as a bride-price. He is depicted with
exaggerated hips and thin arms, leading to speculation that he was a hermaphrodite or suffered from
Marfan syndrome. This son of Tiye was succeeded by Smenkhare. Information about the reign of this
pharaoh and his father come from the Amarna letters, which were discovered at a city that he founded to
replace Thebes as the center of worship. For the point, name this husband of Nefertiti and father of
Tutankhamen who instituted monotheistic aten worship.
ANSWER: Akhenaton [or Akhnaton; or Amenhotep IV; or Amenophis IV; prompt on Amenhotep;
prompt on Amenophis]
003-12-58-251123

124. This nation attempted to launch the Bright Star 2 satellite. Operation Paul Bunyan was launched in
response to soldiers from this nation killing Bonifas and Barnett in the Axe Murder Incident. This
government unknowingly took a propaganda photo of several sailors giving the finger a few days after
capturing the Lloyd-M-Bucher commanded USS Pueblo. Security Council Resolution 1718 condemned
this nation, which pulled out of the six-party talks in 2009 before using information from the AQ Khan
network to build and test a second nuclear weapon. For the point, name this nation separated from its
neighbor by the DMZ and led by Kim Jong-Un.
ANSWER: North Korea [or the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; or DPRK; or Choson
-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk]
048-12-58-251124

125. This man terminated a Ptolemy's kingship of Cyprus to avenge the small size of a ransom that king
had paid pirates for this man. This man escaped capital punishment with the help of a bribed jury after he
was tried for sexual immortality for disguising himself as a woman to infiltrate the secret festival of the
Bona Dea. This man had himself illegally adopted by a plebeian in order to become a tribune, after which
he changed his patrician name but did not take his adopted father's. This man passed a law authorizing exile
for anyone who executed a Roman citizen without trial to target an enemy whose home he burned down.
For the point, name this enemy of Cicero who was murdered in the street by supporters of his rival, Milo.
ANSWER: Publius Clodius Pulcher
105-12-58-251125

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 27 of 38

126. Allen True designed a color scheme that was first used in the construction of this structure, and his
crafting of Native American inspired artistic motifs in its design was overseen by Gordon Kaufmann, who
incorporated art deco elements into its towers and clocks. A Memorial Bridge named after Mike
O'Callaghan and Pat Tillman recently opened to divert traffic from near this structure. Arthur Powell Davis
spearheaded the effort to gain funding for its construction, which was originally supposed to occur at Black
Canyon. Lake Mead was created by its completion. For the point, name this dam that provides power to
much of the American Southwest, found of the Colorado River.
ANSWER: Hoover Dam
040-12-58-251126

127. Raphael Tracy broke his leg during this event, whose location was set at a meeting in Barcelona. Juan
Scasso designed a building known as the Centenario for this event, and Abel LaFleur created a golden
statue of Nike for it. A group of American participants in this event was derisively known as the
"shot-putters." Its Romanian participants were personally selected by King Carol II. Following this event, a
group of Argentineans threw rocks at the Uruguayan embassy. This event was the brainchild of Jules Rimet
and featured thirteen teams. For the point, name this initial instance of an international soccer tournament
that takes place every four years.
ANSWER: 1930 World Cup [or the first World Cup; prompt on World Cup]
003-12-58-251127

128. In Philip Roth’s novel American Pastoral, Swede Levov views himself as a modern day version of
this figure. This man was a follower of the Swedenborgian Church of New Jerusalem. A poem about this
figure describes him as “Master and ruler of the unicorn-ramping forest” and as “Calling the catamounts by
name.” That poem “In Praise of” this man is by Vachel Lindsay. The Single A Fort Wayne TinCaps are
named in this man’s honor, in reference to his legendary headgear. This man was also known for wearing a
coffee sack over his shoulders with holes cut out for his arms. For the point, name this American folk hero
who earned his nickname by supplying nursery stock of a certain fruit tree throughout the Midwest.
ANSWER: John Chapman [or Johnny Appleseed]
030-12-58-251128

129. This author wrote “let Greeks be Greeks, and women what they are” in “The Prologue.” She wrote
about “a common thing, yet oh, inevitable” in “Before the Birth of One of Her Children.” She reflected on
the destruction of her home, noting, “my hope and treasure lies above,” in the poem “Verses upon the
Burning of Our House," and she condemned the title “ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain” in “The
Author to Her Book.” She wrote the line, “if ever two were one, then surely we,” in "To My Dear and
Loving Husband." For the point, name this poet whose father governed the Massachusetts Bay Colony and
whose poems were collected in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung up in America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet
127-12-58-251129

130. A World War II recruitment poster featuring this man shows him declaring America would win
"because we're on God's side." In a 29 month-long period, he defended his title 13 times against a group of
challenges including John Henry Lewis and Buddy Baer, a group which was nicknamed the "Bum of the
Month Club." His final fight ended when Rocky Marciano knocked him out of the ring. He lost his first
fight against Max Schmeling when his tendency to drop his left hand after jabs was exploited, but this
fighter later successfully defended his heavyweight title against Schmeling in a fight where Schmeling only
threw two punches. For the point, name this African-American boxer nicknamed "The Brown Bomber."
ANSWER: Joe Louis or Joseph Louis Barrow
088-12-58-251130

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 28 of 38

131. This event's perpetrators were told to bring a dictator the hairs from a certain man's beard. Jose
Basulto posed as a student from Boston College during it. J. William Fulbright called this event a
"hypocrisy" and Chester A. Bowles told Dean Rusk it violated the Act of Bogota. This event was led by
Jose Miro Cardona and supported by Luis Somoza. The Maropa and Houston were sunk during this attack,
in which Brigade 2506 landed 80 miles from the Escambray Mountains in a swamp. B-26s from World
War II were repainted for it, whose failure led to Operation Mongoose and the sacking of Bissell and
Dulles. For the point, name this event in which Cuban exiles launched a disastrous attack on Cuba.
ANSWER: Bay of Pigs Invasion
124-12-58-251131

132. This man's treatise that focused on the similarities between the Greek and Roman churches was
influential at the Second Council of Lyons, even though he himself died while on route to that gathering.
He distinguished between man's knowledge of God and God's knowledge of himself in one work, which
may be have been written at the bequest of Raymond of Penafort. His best known work posited five ways
in which to think about God, including that he is simple and that he is one, as justification for a logical
proof of God's existence. For the point, name this author of the Summa Contra Gentiles and Summa
Theologica, a Catholic saint.
ANSWER: Thomas Aquinas
040-12-58-251132

133. A person notable for being this kind of leader committed suicide by suffocating in hot ashes after
drowning suspected murderers of Merenre II at a banquet. The titulary of the first confirmed leader of this
type unusually contains the suffix -t; that person built the religious center Shedet. Another of these people
was the last ruler of the Nineteenth Dynasty and was overthrown by Setnakhte. Those people were
Sobeknefru and Tausert. A more famous one led a military campaign to the Land of Punt and wore a fake
beard. The last of these leaders hid in a carpet to meet Caesar and had a relationship with Mark Antony. For
the point, name these rulers, including Hatshepsut and Cleopatra, who shared a gender.
ANSWER: female pharaohs [or female rulers of Egypt; or women pharaohs; prompt on pharaohs; prompt
on rulers of Egypt]
124-12-58-251133

134. One of this country's colonies was acquired by an organization begun by the "Man with Blood on his
Hands," Karl Peters. An uprising in one of this country's colonies was led by a man who claimed to be
possessed by the snake spirit Hongo. That uprising was led by the spirit medium Bokero and was the Maji
Maji uprising. Another uprising in one of this country's colonies was led by Samuel and resulted in the
Herero being pushed into the Kalahari Desert. One meeting held in this country mandated that, if effective
control were established, Belgium would be given control over Katanga. This country lost its East and
West colonies following World War I. For the point, what country hosted the Berlin Conference?
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; or German Empire; or
Deutsches Reich]
149-12-58-251134

135. This man led the troops that captured Fort George during the War of 1812. He was dispatched to
negotiate with James Douglas during the Pig War. In a different conflict, he became embroiled in
controversy after finding himself unable to commute the sentence of deserters who had joined the Saint
Patrick's Batallion. During the Mexican-American War, he served as the military overseer of Mexico City.
He was nominated by the Whigs to run against Franklin Pierce in 1852. He devised the Anaconda Plan
before the Civil War. For the point, name this American general known as "Old Fuss and Feathers."
ANSWER: Winfield Scott
040-12-58-251135

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 29 of 38

136. The perpetrators of this event lost at the Siege of Van. The Malta Tribunals were set up to bring the
masterminds of this action to justice. The Shabin-Karahisar uprising was an attempt to resist this event. In
its early phases, Mehmed Talaat had several intellectuals removed from the capital on Red Sunday. The
Hamidian massacres and the later Adana massacres can be viewed as precursors to this action. The Tehcir
Law created a legal precedent for the deportation of the group targeted during this event. Article 301 can
punish individuals for discussing this. For the point, name this 1915 to 1923 killing of a certain ethnicity
within the Ottoman Empire.
ANSWER: Armenian Genocide
127-12-58-251136

137. Mourt's Relation was based on the writings of Edward Winslow and this man. This man recounted the
death of William Button in his time living with 'Saints' and 'Strangers' under the command of Christopher
Jones. This man married Alice Carpenter Southworth after the drowning of his first wife. The Fortune and
Little James arrived shortly after his man who had been a member of Pastor John Robinson's congregation
in Leiden. Massasoit, the leader of the Wampanoags, helped this man get established. This leader made a
copy of the Mayflower Compact and wrote Of Plymouth Plantation. For the point, name this governor of
Plymouth Colony who hosted the first Thanksgiving.
ANSWER: William Bradford
124-12-58-251137

138. The case Chamberlain v. Feldman concerned one of this man's stories about John Gray, "A Murder, a
Mystery, and a Marriage." He also wrote a story in which Burgess refuses to read the Richards' piece of
advice to win a sack of gold left by a stranger. The dog Andrew Jackson and title animal Dan'l Webster are
owned by Jim Smiley in another short story by this author. The Duke and the Dauphin claim to be brothers
of Peter Wilks and put on a play called "The Royal Nonesuch" in a novel by this author about a boy who
floats down the Mississippi river with the escaped slave Jim. For the point, name this American author of
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
124-12-58-251138

139. This man split with the other members of the Council of Five Elders after the death of his predecessor.
He fought the Battle of Azukizaka to squash the Ikko-ikki. After he subdued them, the Imagawa clan was
placed in the service of his clan. He was forced to withdraw after the Battle of Komaki, which also took
place near Nagakute. The Siege of Osaka consolidated his supremacy over a rival clan. His rise to power
came after a battle in which the forces of Western clans under Toyotomi Hideyori were defeated. The
victor at the Battle of Sekigahara, for 10 points, name this Japanese founder of a shogunate that lasted from
1600 until 1868.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Ieyasu
127-12-58-251139

140. One leader of this movement used his newspaper The Jeffersonian to accuse Leo Frank of murder and
call for his lynching. Richard Hofstadter argued this movement was fundamentally anti-Semitic and nativist
in his book The Age of Reform. Ignatius Donnelly wrote the preamble to a declaration this movement
issued that called for nationalization of railroads and telegraphs, and a graduated income tax. The Omaha
Platform was issued at its first national convention in 1892, when it nominated James Weaver for
presidential candidate. In 1896 it supported the Democratic nominee for president, and in 1904 and 1908
ran Tom Watson as its candidate. For the point, name this agrarian reform movement.
ANSWER: Populists [or People's Party]
121-12-58-251140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 30 of 38

141. This man’s son, Leka I, attempted an armed uprising to no avail in 1997 after a referendum to restore
the monarchy failed following years of communist rule by Enver Hoxha. Notorious for surviving numerous
assassination attempts, he went into exile twice, one of them occurring before he became Prime Minister in
1924. As president, he ceded Sveti Naum to Yugoslavia in thanks for their help during his first exile. As a
Muslim, he was sworn in on both a Bible and Quran in an effort to unify his country. His rule was disrupted
by Mussolini’s forces two days after Leka’s birth in April 1939 when the country was declared a
protectorate of Italy under Victor Emmanuel III. For the point, name the first president and last king of
Albania.
ANSWER: King Zog
147-12-58-251141

142. A photograph showing Vladimír Clementis standing next to the leader of this organization was
famously retouched to remove Clementis after he fell from grace. Klement Gottwald was a member of this
organization who encouraged his country to voluntarily reject the Marshall Plan. It organized the coup that
made Gottwald president and established the “Ninth of May” Constitution. Rudolf Slánský was a member
of this organization accused of Zionism in a 1951 show trial. Slánský and others were rehabilitated by
Antonín Novotný, who was replaced as this group's leader by a man who promised “socialism with a
human face” and initiated reforms that led to a 1968 Soviet invasion. For the point, name this political
party of Alexander Dub?ek.
ANSWER: Communist Party of Czechoslovakia [or Czechoslovak Communist Party]
121-12-58-251142

143. This effect was first discovered in gaps between Rühmkorff coils. Elster and Geitel extended the study
of this effect to amalgams and hydrides of alkali metals. Alexander Stoletov found a direct relationship
between the magnitude of this effect and incident intensity, while Philip von Lenard found that its
magnitude increased linearly with frequency above a threshold. This effect was discovered by Heinrich
Hertz and explained in a paper "On a heuristic viewpoint concerning the production and transformation of
light." For the point, name this discharge of electrons when a metallic surface is exposed to light, explained
in one of three Annalen der Physik papers published in 1905 by Albert Einstein.
ANSWER: photoelectric effect
003-12-58-251143

144. One of this man's descendents who served in a similar position was Hamilton Fish. In 1645, he was
chosen to replace Willem Kieft, shortly after which he got into a border dispute with Theophilus Easton of
the New Haven colony. His farm, the Bouwerij, provided the name for The Bowery. This man was director
of the Dutch West India Company's Curacao colony from 1642-1644, where an attack left him permanently
injured. Projects initiated by this man include a canal that became Broad Street, and later Broadway, as
well as a fortification that became Wall Street. For the point, name the one-legged Director-General of New
Netherland from 1647-1664 who turned New York City over to the English.
ANSWER: Peter Stuyvesant
147-12-58-251144

145. A Leon Felipe work connects these figures to the Francisco de Goya painting Volaverunt. A 1783
painting by Henri Fuseli shows these figures wearing hooded cloaks and pointing towards the left of the
canvas. In one appearance, in which one of them claims that they will see each other "when the battle's lost
and won," they claim in unison that "fair is foul, and foul is fair." In contrast to the normal iambic
pentameter, these characters speek in rhyming trochaic couplets. For the point, name these characters who
chant the lines, "double, double toil and trouble, fire burn, and cauldron bubble," some servants of Hecate
that appear in Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth.
ANSWER: the Three Witches [or the Weird Sisters]
040-12-58-251145
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 31 of 38

146. This document claims that "We are the serfs of the system" because the same labor that feeds the
Treasury is no longer able to realize the profits of its work. It asserts that "irresponsible power is
inconsistent with liberty" before outlining a distinction between government and sovereignty. It claims that
the founders knew that the selfish would triumph over social feelings. This work questions how it can be
right that manufacturers cannot be expected to compete with European interests without a 45 percent
protective tariff. For the point, name this essay that outlines how the Tariff of Abominations hurts the
economy of the South, a work supporting nullification by John C. Calhoun.
ANSWER: South Carolina Exposition and Protest
040-12-58-251146

147. While serving as Associate Attorney General, this man defended the detention of a group of Haitian
refugees who had entered the U.S. illegally. He defeated Ruth Messinger in an election that featured
historically low turnout despite this man's high approval rating. He helped Bernard Kerik's rising career
through a series of appointments. This man advocated a crime fighting strategy based on James Wilson's
broken windows theory after defeating David Dinkins in a 1993 election. He had lost to Dinkins four years
earlier for a post that was previously held by Ed Koch. For the point, name this two-time mayor of New
York City, formerly a potential Republican candidate for the presidency in 2008.
ANSWER: Rudy Giuliani [or Rudolph William Louis Giuliani]
040-12-58-251147

148. This man took an arrow to the knee at the siege of Dambach shortly after forces under his command
defeated the Swiss Confederacy at the Battle of St. Jakob an der Birs. He granted refuge to Warwick the
Kingmaker, and he was himself granted refuge from his father by Philip the Good. This ruler succeeded to
the throne over his brother Charles, Duke of Berry. He was opposed by the League of the Public Weal,
which was joined by the rival with whom he fought the Burgundian Wars. This enemy of Charles the Bold
succeeded his father Charles VII in 1461. For the point, name this King of France known as the “universal
spider” for his diplomatic intrigues.
ANSWER: Louis XI [prompt on Louis]
014-12-58-251148

149. The Liberty Bell cracked during this man's presidency. This man appointed Levi Woodbury and
Robert Cooper Grier as Associate Justices to the Supreme Court. James G. Birney captured votes that this
man's opponent needed in one election. He promised to seek only one term with George M. Dallas. Martin
van Buren supported this man nicknamed "Young Hickory." This man extended the Canadian boundary
along the 49th parallel to meet the ideals of Manifest Destiny and the slogan "Fifty-four Forty or Fight."
This President sent Zachary Taylor to Texas, sparking the Mexican-American War. For the point, name this
dark horse candidate who pledged westward expansion in his successful 1844 presidential campaign.
ANSWER: James Knox Polk
124-12-58-251149

150. The longest serving holder of this post was Mike Mansfield of Montana. One holder of this position
brokered the Good Friday Agreement and issued a report about the use of performance enhancing drugs in
baseball. That holder of this position was George Mitchell of Maine. While serving in this position, Bill
Frist challenged the diagnosis that Teri Schiavo was in a persistent vegetative state. Trent Lott was forced
to resign from this position following controversial remarks at Strom Thurmond's one hundredth birthday
party. Bob Dole resigned from this position to run for president against Bill Clinton in 1996. For the point,
name this member of the Senate who leads the party with the most seats.
ANSWER: Majority Leader of the United States Senate [or Democratic Leader in the Senate before
"Bill Frist" is read]
030-12-58-251150
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 32 of 38

151. Early in his reign, this ruler quelled insurrections led by Bardas Skleros and Bardas Phocas. This man
attempted unsuccessfully to arrange a marriage between Otto III and his niece Zoe. His troops won the
Battle of Spercheios over a man this ruler had previously lost to at the Battle of the Gates of Trajan. This
son of Romanus II founded the Varangian Guard. After one battle, he supposedly blinded ninety-nine of
every hundred men of the enemy army, a sight which caused his enemy Samuel to die of shock. That battle
was fought at Kleidion, where this ruler earned his nickname. For the point, name this Byzantine Emperor
known as “the Bulgar-Slayer.”
ANSWER: Basil II [or Basil the Bulgar-Slayer before it is read; or Basil Bulgaroctonus; prompt on
Basil]
014-12-58-251151

152. After vitalizing his nation’s navy, he sent Jens Munk on a futile search for the Northwest Passage.
After signing the Second Treaty of Bromsebro, his country could no longer collect their Sound Dues from a
neighboring state. His forces met a crushing defeat at the hands of Catholics at the Battle of Lutter. He
managed to get the better deal over Gustavus Adolphus in the Treaty of Knared, which ended the Kalmar
War, a victory for Norway and his country, which were effectively combined at the time. His loss in the
Torstenson War ended “dominium maris baltici” for his nation. The Treaty of Lubcek ended his role in the
Thirty Years’ War. For the point, name this king of Denmark, the fourth of his name
ANSWER: Christian IV [prompt on partial answer before “fourth”]
127-12-58-251152

153. Mossad missed their chance to abduct this man, whom some claim is responsible for the high twin
birthrate in Candido Godoi. Before this man fled to South America, he injected dyes to change eye color,
vivisected pregnant women, and killed thousands of twins. For the point, name this Nazi "Angel of Death"
notorious for his human experimentation.
ANSWER: Josef Rudolf Mengele [or Angel of Death before mention; or Todesengel before mention of
"Angel of Death"]
020-12-58-251153

154. Under the reforms of Baron vom Stein, Prussia accomplished this with the October Edict of 1807.
Another example of this action included the creation of a class of people called batraks and led to the
Bezdna Uprising. The accomplishing of that particular feat was in part thanks to the efforts of Nikolay
Milyutin, who set up zemstvos in the aftermath of this action and was coupled with “redemption
payments.” Completed by such men as Tsar Alexander II, for 10 points, name this action, the freeing of a
class of peasants.
ANSWER: emancipating the serfs [accept reasonable equivalents]
141-12-58-251154

155. This court case hinged on the issuing of a writ of mandamus, which was demanded when the Secretary
of State withheld a commission for a "midnight appointment" made by John Adams. The decision in this
case ruled the Judiciary Act of 1789 to be unconstitutional. For the point, name this case in which John
Marshall established the principle of judicial review.
ANSWER: Marbury v. Madison
014-12-58-251155

156. This country's last prime minister before becoming fully independent was Benedicto Kiwanuka. This
country has internally displaced people from its Gulu district into "protected camps." Those camps are in
response to an Acholi-led group here. For the point, name this African country that has seen violence
perpetrated by Joseph Kony's Lord's Resistance Army.
ANSWER: Republic of Uganda
141-12-58-251156
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 33 of 38

157. The translation of this book was outlawed in the De haeretico comburendo. A preface by Thomas
Cranmer appeared in the “Great” translation of this book. The Geneva version of this book was largely
based on the William Tyndale translation. A famous English translation of this book is known as the King
James’ version. For the point, name this book that consists of the New and Old Testament.
ANSWER: Bible [accept Vulgate Bible]
149-12-58-251157

158. One legal document concerning this corporation describes a person known as "VV," who received
$3400 in rewards from this website. It was charged with inflating its userbase by a factor of twelve into 66
million, in an indictment that asked New Zealand to extradite this website's founder Kim Dotcom. For the
point, name this now-closed file-sharing website.
ANSWER: Megaupload.com
019-12-58-251158

159. This author described a little girl who refuses to admit two deceased siblings are gone in "We Are
Seven." This man called poetry the "spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings" and also wrote about
revisiting the banks of the Wye with his sister Dorothy in his poem "Tintern Abbey." For the point, name
this British Romantic poet who collaborated with Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
105-12-58-251159

160. In one battle, this man placed Numidians on his flanks to maximize the effect of a double envelopment
destroying the army of Lucius Aemilius Paullus and Gaius Terentius Varro. This victor at the Battle of
Cannae was later defeated at Zama by Scipio Africanus, ending the Second Punic War. For the point, name
this Carthaginian general who marched elephants over the Alps.
ANSWER: Hannibal Barca [prompt on Barca]
014-12-58-251160

161. Evidence suggests that this place was built by a lost Jewish tribe known as the Lemba. The founders of
this place abandoned it to form the Monomotapa Empire to its north. Eight soapstone birds were found at
this city, which Europeans could not believe was built by blacks. For the point, name this ruin found in a
namesake modern-day African country.
ANSWER: Great Zimbabwe [do not accept or prompt on "Zimbabwe" by itself]
003-12-58-251161

162. This President signed into law the unprecedentedly high Dingley Tariff, and he appointed John Hay as
Secretary of State. His presidency saw the acquisition of Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines in the
Spanish-American War. For the point, name this President whose assassination by Leon Czolgosz resulted
in the succession of Theodore Roosevelt.
ANSWER: William McKinley, Jr.
014-12-58-251162

163. Manuel de Falla composed a notable concerto for a chamber ensemble and this instrument. One
composer for this instrument had his works cataloged by Ralph Kirkpatrick. That composer created 555
sonatas for this instrument and is Domenico Scarlatti. Wanda Landowska repopularized this instrument and
was the first to record a piece composed for it to cure Count Kaiserling's insomnia, Bach's Goldberg
Variations. For the point, identify this instrument that makes sound by plucking a string when a key is
struck, contrasted with a piano.
ANSWER: harpsichord [prompt on keyboard]
066-12-58-251163

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 34 of 38

164. One account of this event claims that Rube Kroh wrestled a ball away from a fan. That ball had been
hit to Solly Hofman by Al Bridwell. The central figure of this event was substituting for Fred Tenney, and
Christy Mathewson attempted to stop him. This event ultimately gave the Cubs the 1908 National League
title. Johnny Evers persuaded the umpire to rule it a force-out. For the point, name this event in which a
Giants player failed to touch second base after a game-winning hit, immortalized as his namesake "Boner."
ANSWER: Fred Merkle's Boner [or Fred Merkle's Bonehead Play; or equivalent answers stating that
Fred Merkle did something stupid on the baseball field]
003-12-58-251164

165. The Soviet Union supported both this country and its western neighbor in the Ogaden War. Ali Mahdi
Muhammad and Mohamed Farrah Aidid were leaders of a coup d'etat in this country that ended the 22-year
rule of Siad Barre. Humanitarian aid in this country was the goal of Operation Restore Hope. This country's
nominal government, the Transitional Federal Government, controls little more than Puntland in its
northeast. For the point, name this effectively failed state on the Horn of Africa, a pirate haven.
ANSWER: Somalia [or Jamhuuriyada Demuqraadiga Soomaaliyeed]
132-12-58-251165

166. Prophesies said that this action would occur if a fire on the hill of Slane was not put out by King
Loguire. Miliucc killed himself when his slave returned instead of undergoing this action whose
participants were kidnapped by Coroticus. Muirchu recorded this action from Armagh. Palladius was sent
by Pope Celestine to complete this action which was accomplished by St. Columba in Dal Riata. One man
accomplished this by using clovers to symbolize the Trinity and driving out the snakes. For the point, name
this accomplishment of St. Patrick.
ANSWER: converting Ireland to Christianity [or equivalents like Christianizing Ireland]
124-12-58-251166

167. One criterion for this concept came from a case regarding a magazine sold by Samuel Roth. One test
regarding this concept asks whether content has literary or scientific value. That test comes from Miller v.
California, which held that community standards determine the status of this speech that does not receive
First Amendment protection. For the point, give this term that refers to profanity, explicit content, or other
indecent material.
ANSWER: obscenity [prompt on pornography before "one test"]
132-12-58-251167

168. This state is the site of the world’s largest barometer, which was built by Bert Bolle and sits in its
town of Denmark. It is bisected by a massive Rabbit Proof Fence, which inspired a Doris Garimara book
about the Stolen Generation. Mount Meharry is located in this state’s barren Pilbara region, which is far
north of its coastal towns of Bunbury and Mandurah. It borders the Northern Territory and South Australia
to its east. For the point, name this Australian state with capital at Perth.
ANSWER: Western Australia
015-12-58-251168

169. James White was involved in a plot to place this state under the rule of Spain. William Cage was
succeeded by Joseph Hardin as Speaker of the House for this state. Prior to this state's dissolution, it was
governed by the leader of the Overmountain Men, John Sevier. This state seceded from North Carolina
after it failed to gain recognition from Congress. For the point, name this brief-lived autonomous state
which became the eastern portion of what is now Tennessee.
ANSWER: State of Franklin
014-12-58-251169

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 35 of 38

170. This man was forced to watch the beheading of Hans Hermann von Katte during his imprisonment in
the fortress of Küstrin by his father. His control over one territory was solidified by the Treaty of Dresden.
He won a strategic victory in the War of Bavarian Succession, checking the expansion attempted by Joseph
II. Earlier, he won Silesia from Maria Theresa. For the point, name this “enlightened monarch” who turned
Prussia into the strongest military power in Europe.
ANSWER: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; prompt on Frederick]
014-12-58-251170

171. This work states that slaves love their servitude just as Ulysses’ companions loved their brutishness
when claiming that cowardice is why slavery still exists. This work claims that as soon as a child’s need
for his father ends, the natural bond of “the most ancient of all societies, and the only natural one,” or the
family ceases. Total alienation by all participants from any natural right is necessary for this work’s title
construct to succeed. This work states that “man was/is born free, and everywhere he is in chains,” as well
as stating that the general will is never wrong. For the point, name this work that attempts to determine if
there is any legitimate form of rule, written by Rousseau.
ANSWER: On the Social Contract or Principles of Political Right
149-12-58-251171

172. This man preached against fasting and clerical celibacy at Oetenbach. With his friend Leo Jud, this
man pushed for the removal of images from churches, the reforming of theological seminaries, and the
publication of vernacular Bibles. This man wrote about the importance of water baptism as a sign of the
covenant in response to controversy in Zurich. In the city of Bern, this man declared that there is no biblical
support for purgatory or the physical presence of Christ in bread and wine, an issue over which he could
not agree with real presence supporter Martin Luther at the Marburg Colloquy. For the point, name this
Swiss Protestant reformer.
ANSWER: Huldrych Zwingli
105-12-58-251172

173. Tatikios helped besiege one city in this conflict whose leader Arsland was fighting the Danishmend
Emir but later ambushed the victors at Dorylaeum. Godfrey's forces attacked the Imperial Palace at
Blachernae during this conflict which saw Peter the Hermit lead an informal army. The cry of "Dieu li volt"
in a speech at Clermont sparked this conflict whose commanders included Raymond of St. Gilles,
Bohemond, and Bishop Adhemar who was killed at the siege of Antioch. The Siege of Nicaea occurred
during this conflict that ended with a sack of Jerusalem. For the point, name this conflict that began when
Pope Urban II offered Papal Indulgences.
ANSWER: First Crusade
124-12-58-251173

174. Wu Guoguang resigned from his post due to the government's handling of this event. The EU arms
embargo on the country where this action took place was instituted as a result of that country's actions
during it. Jeff Widener took a picture that has become symbolic of this event. Because of his support of this
event, Zhao Ziyang was placed under house arrest. Hu Yaobang's death led to its start. The April 26
Editorial outlined the government's position on this action. On June 9, Deng Xiaoping (DUHNG
shou-PING) denounced this movement. One image of this event shows the "Tank Man" standing in front of
a line of tanks. For the point, name these 1989 protests in the namesake location in Beijing.
ANSWER: Tiananmen Square Protests [or June 4th incident; or 6/4]
127-12-58-251174

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 36 of 38

175. J. Edgar Hoover described this organization as "the greatest threat to the internal security of the
country." COINTELPRO distributed a coloring book to discredit this organization. Its founder was arrested
for killing John Frey. Part of this organization's platform was a demand for "land, bread, housing,
education, clothing, justice and peace;" that platform was the the Ten-Point Program. It was founded in
Oakland to protect African-American neighborhoods from police brutality by Bobby Seale and Huey P.
Newton. For the point, identify this militant black nationalist organization that drew heavily from the ideas
of Malcolm X.
ANSWER: Black Panthers [or BPP; or Black Panther Party for Self-Defense]
066-12-58-251175

176. One army in this nation was led by a figure nicknamed "Blowtorch Bob." Several people from this
nation were forced out of a neighboring country after the FENAGH Corporation agitated for a land-reform
law. One incident in this nation was exposed by Raymond Bonner and Alma Guillermoprieto, who were
shown mass graves created after the El Mozote Massacre. Six Jesuit priests were gunned down here during
its civil war, during which bishop Oscar Carmona was killed. That war was ended by the 1992 Chapultepec
Accords and saw the FMLN disarm. This country also went to war against a western neighbor after a 1970
FIFA World Cup qualifying match. For the point, name this nation that fought Honduras in the Soccer War.
ANSWER: Republic of El Salvador [or Republica de El Salvador]
048-12-58-251176

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 37 of 38

Extra Questions

177. This man was fired from his leadership position in the CTBTO after he supported the Anti-Ballistic
Missile Treaty despite the United States' disapproval. He came under fire for refusing to respond to the
2009 post-election violence in Iran. He appointed Asha-Rose Migiro as his deputy. He ran against Shashi
Tharoor for his position, and that man currently serves under him. Some have criticized him for favoritism,
since he has appointed others from his own country, such as Choi Young-jin, to high positions. He is the
first Asian to hold his current office since U Thant. For the point, name this South Korean who succeeded
Kofi Annan to become the current Secretary General of the United Nations.
ANSWER: Ban Ki-moon
127-12-58-251177

178. A war that occurred within this war was stopped by the Washington Agreement. During one episode
in this conflict, Commander Karremans was repeatedly denied U.N. air support. That episode saw the
genocide of almost 8000 men in a U.N. designated safe area, which was carried out by Ratko Mladic and
was the worst mass killing in Europe since World War II. This war was ended by the Dayton Accords. One
side in this conflict was backed by Slobodan Milosevic. For the point, identify this Balkans conflict which
included the Srebenica massacre and which was started by Serbs in the wake of the break-up of
Yugoslavia.
ANSWER: Bosnian War [or the War in Bosnia and Herzegovina; prompt on Yugoslavian Civil Wars]
066-12-58-251178

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round Finals (All Periods and Regions)

Page 38 of 38

