2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 1

BEE ROUND 1
1. This band behind the 1999 album Looking Forward sang "I feel like I owe it to someone" and coined the
phrase "let my freak flag fly" in the pro-hippie anthem "Almost Cut My Hair." Three members of this group
sang about "purple berries" after a nuclear apocalypse in "Wooden Ships." A song on their album Deja Vu,
which claims "we are stardust, we are golden," is called "Woodstock." With a Canadian, they sang "Tin
soldiers and Nixon's coming" in response to a 1970 shooting. For the point, name this rock group who
protested the Kent State shootings in the song "Ohio."
ANSWER: Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young [or Crosby, Stills, and Nash]
104-13-94-19101

2. JEDI and Chewco were two holding companies formed by this corporation. Sherron Watkins tried to
alert this company's CEO of irregularities. This corporation was the subject of the documentary The
Smartest Guys in the Room, and Andrew Fastow was its Chief Financial Officer. This company's founder
Kenneth Lay died while on trial, and the scandal surrounding this company resulted in the collapse of the
accounting firm Arthur Andersen. For the point, name this Houston energy trading company that was
brought down by a massive accounting scandal in 2001.
ANSWER: Enron Corporation
030-13-94-19102

3. Journalist Walter Duranty notoriously denied that this event occurred. An eyewitness account of this
event appears in Arthur Koestler's part of The God That Failed. Robert Conquest's book Harvest of Sorrow
brought worldwide attention to this event, in which the inept twenty-five thousanders replaced the kulaks at
the kolkhozes. On its seventy-fifth anniversary, Viktor Yuschenko attempted to garner worldwide
recognition of this event. For the point, identify this 1930s event, also known as the Holodomor, a
man-made catastrophe that killed millions in the bread-basket of the USSR.
ANSWER: Ukrainian famine [or equivalents; or Ukrainian genocide; or the Holodomor until it is read]
020-13-94-19103

4. This man succeeded Dave Beck, and the McClellan Committee's investigations into his activities were
the subject of the book The Enemy Within by this man's critic Robert Kennedy. The 1964 master-freight
agreement brought most North American truckers under his organization's purview. The Machus Red Fox
restaurant was the last place this man was seen alive, and a search for his remains in Oakland Township,
Michigan in 2013 did not shed light on the mystery surrounding this man. For the point, name this leader of
the Teamsters who disappeared in 1975.
ANSWER: James Riddle "Jimmy" Hoffa
030-13-94-19104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 1 of 8

5. The newly opened London Shard and Gaius Cestius's tomb are examples of these structures. The
winning general at a battle fought within sight of some of these structures encouraged his men by saying
"forty centuries look down upon you." That battle was fought in a country where a stepped structure of this
kind at Saqqara was built by Imhotep. For the point, name this type of building that was used as the main
entrance to the Louvre by I.M. Pei and as a tomb by Khufu at Giza.
ANSWER: pyramids
153-13-94-19105

6. Relations between these two countries soured when one of them bombed the other's embassy in Belgrade
during the Kosovo war. An incident between these two countries was set off by one offering asylum to a
figure who gave a speech to his alma mater about democratization. Max Frankel won a Pulitzer for
reporting on a summit between these two countries. These two countries engaged in "ping-pong
diplomacy" after the leader of one of them visited the other. For the point, name these two countries whose
leaders, Richard Nixon and Mao Zedong, met in 1972.
ANSWER: The United States and The People’s Republic of China [order not important, but do not accept
or prompt if only one answer is given]
048-13-94-19106

7. Annemarie Selinko wrote a mock autobiography of a woman who nearly became one of these people
before changing her name to Desiderata. One of these people was injured by an "infernal machine" that
exploded in the rue Saint-Nicaise. One of these people eloped with Count Adam Albert von Neippberg to
Parma, and another was said to be loved but not respected. These women included Marie Louise of Austria,
and a Martinique-born woman who kept the surname "de Beauharnais." For the point, name these women,
such as Josephine, who put up with an egocentric French Emperor.
ANSWER: Napoleon's wives [or obvious equivalents]
020-13-94-19107

8. This belief system was praised as moving beyond the "rag of superstition" by Flinders Petrie. This
system led to James Henry Breasted proclaiming its founder to be "the first individual in history." This
belief system was described as leading to neglect in state affairs in the Amarna Letters, and it is linked to
Judaism in Freud's Moses and Monotheism. It was abandoned by Tutankhamen. For the point, name this
religious belief pushed by Pharaoh Amenhotep IV, which represented a shift to monotheism and is
symbolized by Amenhotep's adopted name.
ANSWER: Atenism [or the Amarna heresy until "Amarna" is read; or worship of Aten; prompt on
worship of the sun, etc.; prompt on monotheism, etc.]
052-13-94-19108

9. Enemies of this man kidnapped William O. Jenkins to show how ineffectual his government was. Under
his presidency, his country adopted a constitution whose article 27 made the state the original owner of all
land and resources, allowing redistribution in the form of ejidos (eh-HEE-dohs). This Constitutionalist
leader was asked to resign by the Convention of Aguascalientes, which he refused unless Emiliano Zapata
and Pancho Villa were exiled. For the point, name this Mexican president from 1914 until the end of the
Mexican Revolution.
ANSWER: Venustiano Carranza de la Garza
121-13-94-19109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 2 of 8

10. TIME magazine drew criticism for a front-cover picture of this man captioned "An American Tragedy."
Kato Kaelin testified against this man, as did Mark Fuhrman, who was subsequently convicted for perjury.
This man claimed that he was "Absolutely, one hundred percent, not guilty." Christopher Darden requested
that this man try on a bloody glove, which prompted Johnnie Cochran to say, "If it doesn't fit, you must
acquit." For the point, name this man who was acquitted in 1997 for the murder of Ronald Goldman and his
ex-wife Nicole.
ANSWER: Orenthal James "O.J." Simpson
190-13-94-19110

11. This set of laws resulted in Thomas Hutchinson being replaced as governor. A law in this group was
criticized as the "Murder Act" for allowing soldiers charged with overreaching their power to have their
trials moved. An act that permitted free practice of Catholicism and expanded the range of Quebec was
passed alongside this set of laws, which assigned a royally appointed governor to Massachusetts and closed
Boston Harbor. For the point, name this set of acts passed by Britain that imposed sanctions on the
American Colonies following the Boston Tea Party.
ANSWER: Intolerable Acts [or Coercive Acts]
140-13-94-19111

12. In September 2013, Thomas Frieden announced that these organisms would be classified as "urgent,"
"serious," or "concerning." CRE is classified as an "urgent" one. A class of these organisms has developed
the mecA gene in a common example of microevolution. Another class of these organisms has evolved
beta-lactamases. Many hospital infections are caused by MRSA, one of these bacteria of species
Staphylococcus aureus. For the point, give the term used to refer to bacteria that are immune to drugs like
ampicillin or penicillin.
ANSWER: superbugs [or antibiotic-resistant bacteria; prompt on MRSA until it is read; prompt on
Staphylococcus aureus until it is read]
190-13-94-19112

13. One side in this battle attempted to conceal their numbers behind the Wolf Mountains. One side of this
battle fell back from Medicine Trail Coulee to Calhoun Hill on Battle Ridge. Captain Frederick Benteen led
troops down the side of a river in this battle, in which the strategic edge was lost following Major Marcus
Reno's retreat. Gall is credited with luring one side in this battle into an indefensible position. For the point,
name this 1876 battle in which a force of Northern Plains Indians led by Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse
wiped out the 7th Cavalry of George Armstrong Custer.
ANSWER: Little Bighorn [or Custer's Last Stand until "Custer" is read]
030-13-94-19113

14. The Green Guide was written after several people died in this kind of building in Ibrox. The Black and
Tans massacred a group of people at one of these buildings named Croke in 1920. The Taylor inquiry
investigated the destruction of one of these buildings in Hillsborough. An uncompleted "German" example
of one of these buildings was inspired by one of these known as the Kallimarmaro in Athens, and was
designed by Albert Speer to hold the Nuremberg Rallies. For the point, name these buildings which include
one named for the suburb of Wembley in London.
ANSWER: stadium [or soccer stadium, soccer pitch, etc. until "Kallimarmaro" is read]
048-13-94-19114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 3 of 8

15. One of these events was made possible after a civil war started by the Confederation of Bar. One of
these events was precipitated by the adoption of the May 3 Constitution, which led to Russian intervention
at the request of the Confederation of Targowica. The last of these events followed an unsuccessful
uprising led by Tadeusz Kosciuszko. These events occurred over a twenty-three year period between 1772
and 1795. For the point, name these three events by which Austria, Prussia, and Russia made agreements
that eventually wiped an Eastern European state off the map.
ANSWER: partitions of Poland
023-13-94-19115

16. This man regained his throne in the Rout of Winchester after being captured at the Battle of Lincoln.
He was advised by Waleran de Beaumont, and he once gained freedom by being exchanged for the Earl of
Gloucester (GLOSS-ter). His forces were opposed by Thurstan of York at the Battle of the Standard. This
man's accession to power was aided by William Adelin's death in the White Ship disaster. His civil war
against Empress Matilda was called the Anarchy, and he was eventually succeeded by Matilda's son, Henry
II. For the point, name this English king from the house of Blois (BLWAH).
ANSWER: Stephen of Blois
192-13-94-19116

17. This opera's lead female character has a dream that she relates to the villain in the aria "Einsam in
truben Tagen." That woman in this opera asks the title character the forbidden questions of his name and
origin following the bridal chorus that is now excerpted as "Here Comes the Bride" at weddings. This opera
made such an appeal to King Ludwig II that he named Neuschwanstein (noysh-VON-shtein) Castle after a
character from it. For the point, name this opera by Richard Wagner about a "Swan-knight."
ANSWER: Lohengrin
140-13-94-19117

18. Henry Jaffa compared a speech by this man to "a speech within a drama" in A New Birth of Freedom.
Garry Wills won the Pulitzer Prize for a book on that speech, which Wills compares to Classical funeral
orations. He delivered "Dedicatory Remarks" at an event following Edward Everett's oration. He
emphasized the word "people" three times in a sentence asking that a form of government "shall not perish
from the earth," and opened that speech with the line "four score and seven years ago." For the point, name
this President who delivered the Gettysburg Address.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
121-13-94-19118

19. This man's reign called for "aggiornamento," and he issued the first encyclical that addressed all men
of good will rather than just Catholics. This man said, "Let us say what we are for rather than what we are
against" in issuing that encyclical, Pacem in Terris. He once introduced himself to Jewish visitors by
stating, "I am Joseph your brother," and he convened a meeting that called for the use of vernacular
languages in place of Latin for mass. For the point, name this Pope who reigned from 1958 to 1963 and
convened Vatican II.
ANSWER: John XXIII [or Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli; prompt on John]
030-13-94-19119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 4 of 8

20. Hantaro Nagaoka proposed a model of this structure based on Saturn's rings. A static, cubical model
of this structure was introduced by G.N. Lewis. An early twentieth-century model of this structure satisfied
the Rydberg formula and used quantized radii. Another model of this structure had corpuscles randomly
arranged in a positively-charged sea, was formulated by J.J. Thomson, and was named for a plum pudding.
The current model of this structure includes wavefunctions called orbitals. For the point, name this basic
unit of matter.
ANSWER: atoms
190-13-94-19120

21. The army of this country had a popular marching song in which the narrator sees a flower that shares a
name with his beloved Erika. A song from this country is "the rotten bones are trembling." A song used by
this country whose official name was "The Flag on High" was named in honor of Horst Wessel, a member
of a paramilitary group that wore brown shirts. For the point, name this country whose songs included the
Panzerlied of the Wehrmacht and the anthem of the Hitler Youth.
ANSWER: Nazi Germany
153-13-94-19121

22. Henry Carey supported the use of these objects in letters to Schuyler Colfax. Their use was declared
unconstitutional in Hepburn v. Griswold, but that decision was overturned in Knox v. Lee. Supporters of
these objects tried to overturn the Resumption Act of 1875. The Ohio Idea suggested using them to repay
war bonds, and earned proponent George Pendleton the ire of August Belmont and other bankers. James
Weaver was nominated by a party supporting the use of these before he ran with the Populists. For the
point, name these dollars not backed by gold.
ANSWER: greenbacks [or fiat money; or paper money; or United States Note]
121-13-94-19122

23. This man briefly earned money by writing testimonials for Darby's Prophylactic Fluid. He and Robert
Toombs led the Southern Whigs' support for Zachary Taylor before Taylor announced his position on the
Compromise of 1850. Lincoln refused to see this man after the Union victory at Gettysburg, and he was
one of three representatives to discuss peace on the steamboat River Queen. He claimed his government
was founded "upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man" in his Cornerstone Speech.
For the point, name this vice-president of the Confederacy.
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton Stephens
121-13-94-19123

24. The definitive biography of this man was written by Ernest Jones, who helped establish him in London
after he fled from the Nazis. Early in his career, he used a woman codenamed "Dora" and the example of
"Irma's Injection" to support his theories. His daughter Anna expanded on one of his concepts in the treatise
The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defense. His first major book was The Interpretation of Dreams. For the
point, name this Austrian psychologist and founder of psychoanalysis who formulated five stages of
psychosexual development.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
014-13-94-19124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 5 of 8

25. Prior to the 2011-2012 season, this college team brawled with the Bayi Rockets during a goodwill trip
to China. Behind star Sleepy Floyd, this team ended Syracuse's fifty-seven-game home winning streak in
1980. Congressman Henry Hyde played for this team, which lost to number eight seed Villanova in the
biggest upset in a national title game. This team is currently coached by John Thompson III, and its famous
alumni include Patrick Ewing and Roy Hibbert. For the point, name this college basketball team that plays
in Washington D.C. and is known as the Hoyas.
ANSWER: Georgetown University [or Hoyas until it is read]
052-13-94-19125

26. Edward Dmytryk cooperated with this group, which alienated Dmytryk from Lester Cole, Samuel
Ornitz, and Ring Lardner, Jr. Edwin Willis was the last chairman of this group, and its immediate
predecessor was chaired by Martin Dees. It was renamed the Internal Security Committee before being
disbanded in 1975. This group investigated the Hollywood Ten, and Richard Nixon first gained national
prominence while investigating Alger Hiss as a member of this group. For the point, name this
Congressional committee that investigated alleged Communist operations in the United States.
ANSWER: House Un-American Activities Committee [or HUAC; or Internal Security Committee
until it is read]
030-13-94-19126

27. This structure is the site of the two bronze Winged Figures of the Republic by sculptor Oskar J.W.
Hansen. J.G. Tierney died while scouting the eventual site of this structure, whose construction workers
originally lived in Ragtown before the building of Boulder City. Frank Crowe oversaw construction of this
structure in Black Canyon for the Six Companies. A picture of Joe Kine was the model for a monument at
this structure depicting a high scaler. For the point, name this structure on the border of Arizona and
Nevada that created Lake Mead on the Colorado River.
ANSWER: Hoover Dam [or Boulder Dam until it is read]
023-13-94-19127

28. Benjamin Williams was honored for valor during this battle, which took place in the state Williams
later became governor of. John Macleod repelled the 1st Maryland regiment after being attacked in the
woods by William Washington's forces during this battle. As it began, Banastre Tarleton fought Light
Horse Harry Lee near the New Garden Meeting house. This battle slowed British advancement in the South
and was thus a Pyrrhic victory by Cornwallis over Nathanael Greene. For the point, name this
Revolutionary War battle fought near Greensboro, North Carolina.
ANSWER: Battle of Guilford Court House
192-13-94-19128

29. This man wrote a poem inspired by the execution of Charles Thomas Wooldridge. A letter he wrote was
published by Robert Ross and was intended for Alfred Douglas. A poem he wrote protesting the treatment
of prisoners included the line "Yet each man kills the thing he loves." This writer spent two years in jail,
during which time he wrote De Profundis. For the point, name this Irish writer who got in trouble at the end
of the nineteenth century because of his homosexuality, and who earlier wrote The Picture of Dorian Gray.
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde [or Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde]
023-13-94-19129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 6 of 8

30. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, Leonard Bernstein conducted a performance of this symphony,
replacing one of the words in the text it is set to with "freedom." The second movement of this symphony is
in the form of a scherzo-trio-scherzo and begins with a descending dotted quarter-eighth-quarter rhythm in
the strings. At its premiere, the composer of this symphony had to be turned around by a singer to see the
standing ovation. For the point, name the final symphony by Beethoven, which uses text from Schiller's
"Ode to Joy."
ANSWER: Beethoven's Ninth Symphony [or the Choral Symphony; or Symphony No. 9, etc.]
140-13-94-19130

31. The Sherley Amendments were added to this act after U.S. v. Johnson. This act was introduced by
Weldon Heyburn and was advocated for by Harvey Washington Wiley. An attempt to enforce this act
resulted in a case in which the defendant was "40 Barrels and 20 Kegs of Coca-Cola." This act required that
alcohol and morphine be listed on ingredients labels. For the point, name this act that banned traffic in
adulterated medicine, inspired by Upton Sinclair's The Jungle.
ANSWER: Pure Food and Drug Act
048-13-94-19131

32. A character in this series has a dog named Tatlo and a horse named Steps High; another disdainfully
calls weaving a "sitting-down kinds of thing." The historically earliest title character of this franchise is a
Nez Perce named Kaya. Former teacher Pleasant T. Rowland devised this collection, whose focal
characters include the fugitive slave Addy Walker. Another of its products, Felicity Merriman, comes
dressed in an outfit from colonial Virginia. For the point, name this Mattel franchise in which historical
fiction novels are tied in with eighteen-inch dolls.
ANSWER: American Girl
104-13-94-19132

33. The HMS Lively spotted one of these constructions being designed by Richard Gridley under William
Prescott's supervision. Two of these constructions, labeled "9" and "10," were taken at the end of a line of
them near a Virginia river by French and American columns to clinch the battle of Yorktown. For the point,
name this type of defense built on Breed's Hill in 1775, a walled fort on high ground which the British built
quickly during American Revolution battles.
ANSWER: redoubts [or forts; or garrisons]
104-13-94-19133

34. An early creation using this technology was Charles Hulsmeyer's telemobiloscope. Chain Home used
this technology to direct RAF resistance to the Luftwaffe during the Battle of Britain. This technology at
the center of the Battle of the Beams uses the difference in wavelengths caused by the Doppler effect. For
the point, name this technology that is able to detect and give the range of objects using radio waves.
ANSWER: radar [or Radio Detection and Ranging]
153-13-94-19134

35. John Gaddis wrote a 2011 biography of the architect of this policy. This policy was advocated in a
report written by George Elsey and Clark Clifford, and it was developed by a group called the "Wise Men."
A committee chaired by Paul Nitze authored a document supporting this policy, called NSC-68. An early
application of this idea was the Truman Doctrine, and the Long Telegram and the X Article were written to
advocate this doctrine by George Kennan. For the point, name this Cold War-era policy of preventing the
spread of communism.
ANSWER: containment
232-13-94-19135

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 7 of 8

Extra Question

36. Jesse Hawley gave detailed explanations on how to construct this project while in debtor's prison.
Canvass White and James Geddes were among the amateurs who learned how to lay out this project while
setting its route. The construction of this route was heavily supported by DeWitt Clinton, leading to its
nickname of "Clinton's Ditch." Completed in 1825, this waterway allowed for the development of
agriculture in the Midwest. For the point, name this project in New York, which linked the Hudson River to
the waterways of the midwest.
ANSWER: Erie Canal
140-13-94-19136

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 8 of 8

