2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND 5: (NON-US 1933-PRESENT HISTORY)

1. Operation Opera successfully destroyed one of these facilities. Another one of these facilities was
damaged by a fire in the Windscale disaster. The Kemeny Commission report details an incident at one of
these in the United States, and Israel destroyed one at Osirak. Another one of these facilities was damaged
by a magnitude 9.0 earthquake in 2011, and another one of these near Pripyat, Ukraine exploded in 1986,
sending fallout for hundreds of miles. For the point, identify these facilities including Fukushima and
Chernobyl, which use enriched uranium to generate power.
ANSWER: nuclear plants [or nuclear reactors or nuclear stations]
048-12-58-23101

2. One theory about the origin of the name of this movement claims it was an anagram of a phrase meaning
"get out, get out." The onset of this event saw governor Philip Mitchell replaced by Evelyn Baring; Baring
later ordered Operation Jock Scott, which led to the trial of the Kapenguria Six. The Swynnerton
agricultural plan was implemented during this event as a means to erode traditional tribal farming methods.
This event led to the 1960 Lancaster House Conferences and was effectively squashed following the 1956
capture of Dedan Kimathi. It involved members of the Kikuyu ethnic group rising up against British
colonial officials. For the point, name this 1950s rebellion in Kenya.
ANSWER: Mau Mau Revolt [accept equivalents for revolt]
064-12-58-23102

3. One propaganda poster for this effort encouraged people to "beat the drums of" it ever louder, and
another depicts a man using a peanut as a canoe. One part of this effort was the Four Pests campaign, which
encouraged sparrow killing. One minister during this program was ousted after speaking out against it at a
conference, an incident compared to a certain opera character being "dismissed from office." One official
claimed that due to this effort, his country would overtake Britain within 15 years. As a part of this effort,
peasants were encouraged to create backyard furnaces for steel production. For the point, name this
modernization effort in China that led to a massive famine.
ANSWER: Great Leap Forward [or dayuejin]
048-12-58-23103

4. Several early twentieth-century works for this instrument were dedicated to Georges Barrere. In the
second movement of Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra, the players of this instrument are introduced right
after the clarinets and play a melody in parallel fifths. One of the few transposing instruments pitched in G
is the alto version of this instrument. Edgar Varese wrote Density 21.5 for this instrument to commemorate
the making of the first platinum one. One work depicting fictional players of this instrument includes the
movements "Krishna" and "Pan." For the point, name this woodwind instrument which is featured in Peter
and the Wolf as the bird.
ANSWER: flute
142-12-58-23104

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 1 of 10

5. An April 21 coup in this country was called a "rape of democracy," to which the CIA chief here replied
"How can you rape a whore?" That coup triggered a junta here from 1967-1974, known as the regime of the
Colonels. During World War II, this country suffered a "triple occupation" and, next to Poland and
Lithuania, lost the greatest proportion - 80 percent - of its Jewish population. One of its leaders replied
"No" to an ultimatum made by Benito Mussolini, who later invaded it. After its three year civil war, this
country, like Turkey, was targeted for aid by the Truman Doctrine. For the point, name this financially
troubled European country formerly led by George Papandreou.
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Elliniki Dimokratia]
020-12-58-23105

6. One activist for this cause wrote the essay “I Have No Enemies” to be read at his trial, while another
edited the Freezing Point news journal. One protest for it resulted in an official stating the “Five Nos” and
banning the sale of Jasmine flowers. It was called the Fifth Modernization on a big-character poster on its
namesake “wall”. The June Fourth movement supported for this cause, several supporters of which signed
a document modeled after one written during the Prague Spring, called Charter 08. One activist of this
cause was prevented from receiving the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize. For the point, name this cause whose
activists include Wen Xiaobo, the call for an elected government in an Asian nation.
ANSWER: Democracy in China [accept equivalents that mention “China” and “democracy”, accept
Charter 08 before mention]
048-12-58-23106

7. With Mikheil Saakashvili, this man signed the Borjomi Declaration to create the Community of
Democratic Choice. In one election, this man was supported by the Pora! group. This politician’s
predecessor was discredited by a scandal in which Oleksander Moroz released a series of audio cassettes
detailing arms sales to Iraq and plans to kidnap a journalist. This president asked the European Union to
intervene in a dispute between Naftogaz and Gazprom which cut off natural gas to this country. This
successor to Leonid Kuchma and victim of digoxin poisoning won a contested election against Victor
Yanukovych in which his supporters wore orange ribbons. For the point, name this president of Ukraine
until 2010.
ANSWER: Viktor Andriyovych Yushchenko
048-12-58-23107

8. This leader had Juvenal Habyarimana's remains placed in a mausoleum. He promoted the use of the
abacost as a style of dress. This leader was in control when his country fought Angola during the Shaba
invasions. This man caused Moise Tshombe to flee the country to Spain. The transformation of the Force
Publique into the ANC army helped bring him to power. He overthrew Joseph Kasa-Vubu, and Laurent
Kabila overthrew him. His anti-Communist stance gave him CIA support against Patrice Lumumba. For the
point, name this 1965 to 1997 President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
ANSWER: Mobutu Sese Seko Koko Ngbendu Wa Za Banga [or Joseph-Desire Mobutu]
127-12-58-23108

9. This man hired Erica Powell as his private secretary, and when someone suggested he listen to music to
relax he simply listened to the "Hallelujah" chorus on repeat. This man was imprisoned in the James Fort
for three years for organizing the Convention People's Party. He work with J.B. Danquah to declare
independence for his nation in the "Motion of Destiny." Operation Cold Chop was directed against this
man, who grew unpopular as he drove his country into debt to finance the Akosombo Dam. With Tito,
Sukarno, Nehru, and Nasser, this man created the Non-Aligned Movement. After a coup, he fled to Guinea,
and a memorial to him was erected in Accra. For the point, name this first prime minister of Ghana.
ANSWER: Kwame Nkrumah
048-12-58-23109

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 2 of 10

10. One character in this work is nicknamed “Rip Van Winkle” because of his twenty years in solitary
confinement after a brief stint as “State Secretary for the Enlightenment of the People” somewhere in
southeast Europe. The protagonist's fate is revealed by the porter Wassilij's daughter reading him the article
about his trial in this work's final section, “The Grammatical Fiction.” Gletkin convinces the protagonist to
confess to plotting to poison Number One, telling him it will be his last service to the Party. For the point,
name this novel about the imprisonment and interrogation of the Old Bolshevik Rubashov, a work by
Arthur Koestler.
ANSWER: Darkness at Noon
121-12-58-23110

11. A bomb sent in a failed attempt to assassinate this man in 1952 has been linked to Irgun and Menachem
Begin, and was a reaction to an agreement this man signed in Luxembourg with Moshe Sharett. This man's
government fell when his defense minister arrested the editors of the Spiegel for a supposedly treasonous
article. This man signed a Treaty of Friendship with de Gaulle. Nicknamed "The Old Man," he presided
over an "economic miracle" wrought by his economics minister and successor, Ludwig Erhard. For the
point, name this Christian Democratic chancellor who helped rebuild Germany after World War II.
ANSWER: Konrad Adenauer
080-12-58-23111

12. After being denounced as a dictator, this man ordered the attempted car bombing of Venezuela's
Romulo Betancourt in revenge. This man formed a baseball team known as Los Dragones, which employed
stars like Satchel Paige. He was opposed by the "Butterflies," who were the Mirabal sisters. This man was
assassinated in 1961 when his car was ambushed. Soldiers of this man killed those who could not
pronounce a word for "parsley." In 1959, he welcomed the fleeing Fulgencio Batista. He massacred
thousands of neighboring Haitians in 1937. For the point, name this strongman of the Dominican Republic
from 1930 until 1961.
ANSWER: Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molian
052-12-58-23112

13. In one event in this city, Andre Spitzer, while wearing a white tank top, was clubbed with an assault
rifle and pulled away from a window. Because of events here, waiter Ahmed Bouchiki was accidentally
killed in Lillehammer. Shortly after an agreement signed here, President Edvard Benes resigned. After
events in this city, Operations Spring of Youth and Wrath of God were put into motion. Seventeen total
people died here after Black September staged a kidnapping, which was later avenged by the Israeli
Mossad. This city was where an agreement permitted Germany to annex the Sudetenland in
Czechoslovakia. For the point, name this German city, the site of a 1972 hostage crisis at the Olympics and
a 1938 agreement appeasing Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: Munich
052-12-58-23113

14. One eyewitness account of this incident claims that the object in question was passed in a napkin, while
another claims that that object was picked up along with a watch. Although John Diefenbaker took credit
for provoking this incident, it actually occurred during a speech denouncing Lorenzo Sumulong as a "toady
of American imperialism," and not, as is sometimes reported, immediately before Harold MacMillan asked
for a translation. Only a doctored photograph of this event survives, leading to theories that the object in
question was borrowed from Andrei Gromyko. For the point, name this October 13, 1960 incident at the
UN in which Nikita Khrushchev pounded the lectern with an article of clothing.
ANSWER: Nikita Khrushchev banging his shoe [or obvious equivalents mentioning his shoe]
003-12-58-23114

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 3 of 10

15. Operation Wooden Leg forced this group out of one headquarters. This group sent an advisory
delegation to the Madrid conference. In retaliation for the death of its chief of operations, this organization
hijacked a bus and conducted the Costal Road Massacre. The Cairo agreement allowed this organization to
relocate after its expulsion from Jordan during "Black September." This organization recognized their
rival's right to exist in the Oslo Accords. Its largest wing lost a 2007 election to Hamas. For the point, name
this organization once headed by Yasser Arafat and currently led by Mahmoud Abbas, a political group in
Palestine.
ANSWER: PLO [or Palestine Liberation Organization; or Fatah]
048-12-58-23115

16. The PRON was created to counter the influence of this group, and Donald Tusk founded its student
affiliate, the NZS. One sub-group of this entity was known for spraying pictures of dwarves on propaganda
posters and wearing elf hats during protests; that group was the Orange Alternative. A group of four
astronomers at the University of Torun managed to hijack state television to broadcast the logo of this
group. This group was created after the MKS gave a list of 21 demands to the ruling political party, and it
participated in the Round Table Talks with the government of Jaruselski, who had earlier attempted to
suppress them in 1982. For the point, name this group founded at the Gdansk shipyards by Lech Walesa in
Poland, an anti-communist trade union.
ANSWER: Solidarity [or Solidarnosc]
048-12-58-23116

17. Bettino Craxi was a socialist who was one of these. Amintore Fanfani and Giovanni Giolitti held this
post five times. The Historic Compromise was ended by the death of one of these. One man to hold this
position was kidnapped and killed by the Red Brigades. The murder of Giacomo Matteoti marred one man's
tenure in this position. Mario Monti is the current holder of this post. The first man to hold this office was
Camillo Cavour. One man who held this post was charged with sex with a minor, the nightclub dancer
Karima El Mahroug. For the point, name this political position previously held by men such as Aldo Moro,
Benito Mussolini, and Silvio Berlusconi.
ANSWER: Prime Minister of Italy
127-12-58-23117

18. In one of this man's historical works, a woman in an orange shirt passes a man in a crowd of people
dressed in blue overalls a gun. In another work by this artist of In the Arsenal, a Christ-like child is being
vaccinated by a doctor and nurse posed as Joseph and Mary. That work this man painted for the Ford Motor
Company is called Detroit Industry. A commissioned work by this man that included depictions of the
interior of cells was destroyed when Nelson Rockefeller objected to a portrait of Lenin. This artist later
repainted that work centered around a hand holding a globe, Man at the Crossroads, as Man, Controller of
the Universe. For the point, name this Mexican muralist, the husband of Frida Kahlo.
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
105-12-58-23118

19. The Cat and Mouse Act was passed in response to several instances of this action by people like Marion
Dunlop, and Alice Paul started one instance of this action at the Occoquan workhouse. The Jan Lokpal bill
was reintroduced after Anna Hazare undertook this action in order to bring attention to corruption. Another
one of these took place afterchamber pots were overturned in Her Majesty’s Prison Maze by a group of
IRA members. For the point, name this action performed by Bobby Sands in protest, which resulted in his
death from starvation.
ANSWER: hunger strikes
048-12-58-23119

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 4 of 10

20. In one film, this country is represented allegorically by a character who becomes the mistress of Karl
Oswald and kills herself in a gas explosion at the moment of this country’s 1954 World Cup victory. One
filmmaker from this country depicted a raft overrun with monkeys as it floats down the Amazon River in a
film about a mad conquistador who defies the orders of Gonzalo Pizarro. Those aforementioned films, The
Marriage of Maria Braun and Aguirre, the Wrath of God, were directed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder and
Werner Herzog. For the point, name this country assembled from the Allied occupation zones after World
War II.
ANSWER: West Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany; or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; prompt
on Germany]
014-12-58-23120

21. This man recalled his prep school days in the autobiographical essay “Such, Such Were the Joys.” In
1937, he published his investigations into the living conditions of Lancashire coal miners under the title
The Road to Wigan Pier. He criticized the prevalent usage of ugly English in his essay Politics and the
English Language. This author reflected on the problems of colonialism in a work in which an English
police officer in Burma is called in to shoot an elephant. One of this man’s novels includes the characters
Immanuel Goldstein and Winston Smith and introduced the concepts of “newspeak,” “thought police,” and
“big brother.” For the point, name this English author of 1984.
ANSWER: George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
015-12-58-23121

22. In the late 60's, this country was the site of a counterculture movement in literature and music called
"La Onda." In the 20's, many of its artists were sponsored by culture minister Jose Vasconcelos. Political
turmoil in this country was the subject of The Underdogs, a novel by Mariano Azuela. Another author from
this country inspired Gabriel Garcia Marquez with his early magical realist novel, Pedro Paramo. This
home to Juan Rulfo was the site of Ambrose Bierce's disappearance, which became the subject of The Old
Gringo; that novel was written by an author from this country who documented the title tycoon's reflections
on his deathbed in The Death of Artemio Cruz. For the point, name this home of Carlos Fuentes.
ANSWER: Mexico
080-12-58-23122

23. This treaty was lampooned David Low’s Rendezvous political cartoon. This agreement’s second
article forbids aiding “third powers”, and in another section one signatory declared its “complete
uninterestedness” in Bessarabia. On the 50th anniversary of its signing a group of two million people
formed a human chain in the Baltic states. One section of it was modified in a credit agreement the next
year, and it was violated by Operation Barbarossa. Its secret protocol divided up Poland, which was
invaded by both sides the next month. For the point, name this short-lived treaty signed between the Soviet
Union and Nazi Germany, a non-aggression pact named for two foreign ministers.
ANSWER: Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact [accept things like "German-Soviet non-aggression pact" before
"Soviet"]
048-12-58-23123

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 5 of 10

24. At a summit in Brussels, this man insisted that “ultra-liberalism is the communism of our age.” During
this man’s presidency, he retracted an unpopular First Employment Contract that had sparked mass labor
protests. In 2003, he said that “wearing a veil” was a “sort of aggression” and his Security Commission
recommended removing it from classrooms. During this man’s presidency, riots broke out after the
electrocution-related deaths of two teenagers of African origin. He became president after serving as prime
minister in the “cohabitation” government of Francois Mitterrand. He defeated the National Front
candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen to win reelection in 2002. For the point, name this President of France, who
was succeeded by Nicolas Sarkozy.
ANSWER: Jacques Rene Chirac
052-12-58-23124

25. One song on this album compares “cool cherry cream” and “nice apple tart” to the title delicacy. In
another song, the title animals are “clutching forks and knives to eat their bacon,” which Charles Manson
believed to refer to an impending race war. In addition to “Savoy Truffle” and “Piggies,” this album
included a song telling the title woman that the day is “beautiful and so are you,” “Dear Prudence.”
Another song states that “the Ukraine girls really knock me out” and references a Chuck Berry song about
America. For the point, name this 1968 double album which includes “Back in the U.S.S.R.” and other
Lennon-McCartney collaborations, often known by the color of its nearly blank album cover.
ANSWER: The Beatles [or The White Album]
132-12-58-23125

26. The story of a black American soldier held captive just before the end of World War II is found in this
author’s short story Prize Stock. One of his works details the life of an unreliable narrator who wears
cellophane goggles while he awaits death from what he perceives to be liver cancer. In another work,
fifteen boys from a reform school are abandoned and barricaded in a rural village afflicted with the plague.
Besides The Day He Himself Shall Wipe My Tears Away and Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids, other works of
his include Agwhee the Sky Monster and A Personal Matter and The Silent Cry. For the point, name the
1994 Nobel Literature Prize winner whose mentally handicapped son Hikari has heavily influenced his
work.
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe
147-12-58-23126

27. Polish participation in this battle included the 302 “Ponznanski” and 303 “Kosciusko” groups, and one
side launched its attach after issuing Directive 17. Keith Park commanded the No 11 group during this
battle, phases of which included “Eagle Attack” and the Channel battles. One side was commanded by
Hugh Dowding. The winning of this battle signaled the abandonment of Operation Sea Lion by one side,
and at the end of this battle one leader stated that “never in the field of human conflict was so much owed
by so many to so few”, referring to the RAF. During this battle, one side launched the Blitz, a sustained
76-day bombing campaign over London. For the point, name this battle in which the Luftwaffe was
repulsed from the skies above the UK.
ANSWER: Battle of Britain
048-12-58-23127

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 6 of 10

28. During the 1970s, a faction of this group known as the Provos waged a campaign called the Long War.
Eamon de Valera led a faction of this group that was theoretically responsible to the government of Cathal
Brugha. This group was fought in the 1920s by a regiment known as the Black and Tans and sparked a
slaughter of civilians after assassinating fourteen officials. During World War I, this group obtained
support and weapons from Germany with the help of Roger Casement. Seven members of this group,
including Bobby Sands, died in 1981 when Margaret Thatcher made no response to their hunger strike. For
the point, name this military group once led by Michael Collins that seeks independence from the United
Kingdom.
ANSWER: the IRA [or Irish Republican Army; do not accept or prompt on "Sinn Fein"]
105-12-58-23128

29. One orchestral work by this composer of Nobilissima Visione includes a scherzo that begins with the
woodwinds playing a scherzo from another composer's incidental music to Turandot; in that work, this man
subjected themes by Carl Maria von Weber to "symphonic metamorphoses." This author of The Craft of
Musical Composition wrote an opera, often viewed as a protest of the Nazis, whose title character paints the
Isenheim Altarpiece. For the point, name this composer of Mathis der Maler and Ludus tonalis.
ANSWER: Paul Hindemith
142-12-58-23129

30. This politician campaigned with the slogan "Let Us Face the Future" and gained support after his
opponent suggested his party would need a gestapo to enact their policies. The widespread welfare
programs enacted under this man had previously been drawn out in the Beveridge Report. This man's
Minister of Health, Aneurin Bevan, established the National Health Service in 1946. This man's tenure as
prime minister saw independence granted to Pakistan, Israel and India. For the point, name this Labour
party politician who came to power in 1945 following the rule of Winston Churchill.
ANSWER: Clement Richard Atlee
064-12-58-23130

31. Amendments to this document require a referendum after the assent of two-thirds of both houses of the
legislature, and its thirteenth article states that all people should be respected as individuals. Article 9 of
this document prevents the creation of armed forces, though it allowed the creation of a Self-Defense
Force. This document incorporated some ideas from the Potsdam declaration and specifically made the role
of Emperor ceremonial. For the point, name this document passed in 1947, two years after its nation
surrendered in World War II.
ANSWER: Constitution of Japan [or equivalent answers]
048-12-58-23131

32. This president said "reform, yes, but chaos, no," although he used a pun for “chaos” that also meant
“defecate in bed.” During his presidency, the text On the Poverty of Student Life was published,
anticipating the “Movement of March 22.” This leader vetoed Britain’s 1963 application to join the
European Economic Community. While visiting Montreal, he caused a stir by saying “Long live free
Quebec!” This man resigned the presidency shortly after the wildcat general strike in May 1968. He was
president during the Evian Accords which ended his country’s war with Algeria. For the point, name this
first president of the French Fifth Republic, a former leader of the Free French in World War II.
ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle
052-12-58-23132

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 7 of 10

33. A photo taken in this country shows politician "Billy" Ford being brutally beaten with a metal pipe by
the Dignity Battalions. One of its leaders died when his DeHavilland Twin Otter plane crashed in 1981.
Operation Nifty Package captured one leader of this country, who had been replaced by Guillermo Endara
after Operation Just Cause. Besides Omar Torrijos, one of this country's leaders hid in a Vatican embassy
that was bombarded with blaring music by bands like The Clash. That leader was sentenced for drug
trafficking during a 1992 trial in Miami. The United States invaded this country to depose Manuel Noriega.
For the point, name this Central American country that owns an important canal.
ANSWER: Republic of Panama [or Republica de Panama]
052-12-58-23133

34. This employer of the bodyguard "Black Angel" created a modernized civil service called the DASP.
This founder of the center-right PSD allowed the United States to build a series of military bases in Natal.
He came to power after General Dutra seized power in the wake of a fake communist plot called the Cohen
Plan. This man banned a fascist Catholic group called the Integralists, and his forces attempted to
assassinate UDN leader Carlos Lacerda on the Rua Tonelero. This man, who came to power in the
Constitutionalist Revolution, shot himself in the chest after a military coup. For the point, name this leader
of the Estado Novo in Brazil.
ANSWER: Getulio Dorneles Vargas
048-12-58-23134

35. This group launched a White Terror after an incident where an angry mob attacked some Tobacco
Monopoly agents in the 228 Massacre. One of its leaders was captured by a Manchurian warlord in the
Xi'an incident. Yuan Shikai was deposed by this organization. Its founder espoused welfare, democracy,
and nationalism as the "Three Principles of the People." Opponents of this party gained the support of the
peasantry after undertaking an 8000 mile retreat from this group on the Long March. For the point, name
this group headed by Sun Yat-Sen and Chiang Kai-Shek, the nationalist rivals of Communist Party in the
Chinese Civil War.
ANSWER: Kuomintang [or KMT; or Chinese Nationalist Party before mention]
048-12-58-23135

36. This poet used the image of “towels and shirts from which slow dirty tears are falling” in his poem
beginning, “It so happens I am sick of being a man.” This poet of “Walking Around” also wrote the lines,
“Like a jar you housed the infinite tenderness, and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.” That poem
by this man features the repeated phrase, “It is the hour of departure,” and begins, “The memory of you
emerges from the night around me.” As a communist, this writer campaigned in his native country in
support of Salvador Allende. For the point, name this Nobel Prize-winning Chilean poet of Twenty Love
Poems and a Song of Despair.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda [or Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]
014-12-58-23136

37. This leader authorized the deadly bombing of a Greenpeace ship called the Rainbow Warrior, and this
man issued a list of “110 Propositions” for his country. This leader, who instituted a thirty-nine hour
workweek, outlawed the death penalty with the Badinter Act. With West Germany’s Helmut Kohl, he
strongly encouraged the ratification of Maastricht Treaty to establish the European Union. He previously
served in the Vichy Government, and in the mid-1980s, he co-led “cohabitation governments” with his
political opponent Jacques Chirac. For the point, name this President of France from 1981 to 1995, a
Socialist.
ANSWER: Francois Mitterand
079-12-58-23137

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 8 of 10

38. Karl Radek betrayed this man’s supporter Yakov Blumkin. This man’s followers infiltrated the French
Socialist Party in the “French Turn,” a form of “entryism.” This author of The Revolution Betrayed
suppressed the Kronstadt Rebellion and negotiated the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk for Russia. This man’s main
rival advanced the theory of “socialism in one country,” while this founder of the Fourth International
favored the Marxist theory of “permanent revolution.” He had an affair with Frida Kahlo before being
assassinated with an icepick while exiled in Mexico. For the point, name this Bolshevik who was forced out
of the Politburo by Stalin.
ANSWER: Leon Trotsky
079-12-58-23138

39. The Bread Riots occurred in this man's country after he opened the economy to public investment in his
"Infitah" policy. This man was known as the "Hero of the Crossing" after his country worked with a
northeastern neighbor in carrying out Operation Badr. He was killed at a parade at a moment when the
crowd was distracted by Air Force Mirage jets flying overhead. Along with Syria, his country carried out
the sneak attack to begin the Yom Kippur War. This man won the Nobel Peace Prize after signing a treaty
with Menachem Begin. For the point, name this Egyptian leader who was assassinated after representing
his country at the Camp David Accords.
ANSWER: Muhammad Anwar El Sadat
052-12-58-23139

40. This group managed to combat the influence of the TELO in one conflict. This group killed 600 police
officers in Eastern Province in one instance, and also killed several people at Kent and Dollar Farms. The
Black July pogrom occurred immediately after this group ambushed the Four Four Bravo patrol in one
attack. Members of this group's Black division carry cyanide capsules around their necks, and one of its
most deadly actions was using a rigged lorrie to bomb the Central Bank. One member of this group used an
explosive belt to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi. For the point, name this separatist army led by Velupillai
Prabhakaran in Sri Lanka.
ANSWER: Tamil Tigers [or Liberation Tigers of Tamil Elam; or LTTE]
048-12-58-23140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 9 of 10

Extra Questions

41. This leader was upset by an unexpected sit-in conducted by the Falun Gong, who assembled outside the
Zhongnanhai overnight. He subsequently wrote a memo against the Falun Gong during the aftermath of the
U.S. bombing of his country's embassy in Belgrade. This leader was named mayor of Shanghai in 1985,
and he succeeded Zhao Ziyang as General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party. This man also
obtained the position of Chairman of the party's Central Military Commission, succeeding Deng Xiaoping
(DUHNG shou-PING). For the point, name this Chinese politician who preceded Hu Jintao as President of
China.
ANSWER: Jiang Zemin [or Chiang Tse-min]
014-12-58-23141

42. This country’s presidential candidate Alexander Kazulin was arrested at a demonstration in 2006.
During World War II, this country saw fighting near Borisov and Vitebsk. Along with Ukraine, this country
was partitioned in 1921 by the Treaty of Riga. Vyachaslau Kebich was defeated in this country’s
presidential election following the adoption of a new constitution in 1994, three years after this country
declared independence. Since that election, this country has been ruled by the dictatorial president
Alexander Lukashenko. For the point, name this former Soviet republic with a name meaning “White
Russia.”
ANSWER: Republic of Belarus [or Respublika Belarus]
014-12-58-23142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 5: (Non-US 1933-Present History)

Page 10 of 10

