2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Finals

BEE FINALS
1. Two men employed by this scientist, Jack Phillips and Harold Bride, were aboard the Titanic, though
only the latter survived. A company named for this man was embroiled in an insider trading scandal
involving Rufus Isaacs and Herbert Samuel, members of H.H. Asquith's cabinet. He shared the Nobel Prize
with Karl Ferdinand Braun, and one of his first tests was aboard the SS Philadelphia, which managed a
range of about two thousand miles for medium-wave transmissions. For the point, name this Italian
inventor of the radio.
ANSWER: Guglielmo Marconi
048-13-94-25101

2. A person with this surname died while piloting a plane and performing a loop over his office. Another
person with this last name was embroiled in an arms-dealing scandal with the business Ottavio Quattrochi
and was killed by a woman with an RDX-laden belt. This last name is held by "Sonia," an Italian-born
Catholic who declined to become prime minister in 2004. A person with this last name declared "The
Emergency" and split the Congress Party into two factions. For the point, name this last name shared by
Sanjay, Rajiv, and Indira, the latter of whom served as prime ministers of India.
ANSWER: Gandhi
048-13-94-25102

3. This man depicted an artist painting a dog's portrait with his family in satire of a dog tax. Following his
father's commitment to Charenton asylum, this painter was forced to serve as a messenger boy for bailiffs,
an experience which influenced his portrayals of courtroom scenes. This man was placed in jail for his
portrayal of baskets of money going into the mouth of Louis Philippe in his Gargantua. For the point, name
this French painter of caricatures and of a poor family riding in The Third Class Carriage.
ANSWER: Honore Daumier
030-13-94-25103

4. A major site of these people went into decline following a conquest by the king of Quiriguá. These
people's ritual of having the king draw a barbed cord through his body to produce symbolic blood is
depicted on the Yaxchilan Lintels. Their cities included Copan, the location of the Pyramid of the
Magicians at Uxmal, and another containing the Sacred Cenote, the Skull Platform, El Castillo, and the
Great Ball Court. For the point, identify this culture that built Chichen Itza, and recorded its mythology of
the Hero Twins in the Popul Vuh.
ANSWER: Quiche Mayans
019-13-94-25104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 1 of 34

5. This organization stifled dissent by turning off the gaslights when discussion became heated. Fernando
Wood created a group named for Mozart after losing this group's support. Dissenters from this organization
were named for the matches they brought to get around the lights problem as the Locofocos. Thomas Nast
attacked this organization in cartoons representing it as a tiger. George Washington Plunkitt distinguished
between this group's "honest graft" and "dishonest graft." For the point, name this New York political
machine once run by Boss Tweed.
ANSWER: Tammany Hall [or Society of Saint Tammany]
121-13-94-25105

6. The Butt Report found that a branch of this organization was widely inaccurate, and this organization
was instructed to dehouse people. Wild Boar tactics and the Kammhuber Line were used to defend against
this organization, which used Halifaxes and Lancasters. One branch of this organization primarily operated
at night and targeted large areas under the command of "Bomber" Harris. For the point, name this air force
that the USAAF joined in the strategic bombing of Nazi Germany.
ANSWER: Royal Air Force [or RAF; prompt on British air force; prompt on British armed forces]
153-13-94-25106

7. In October 2013, this program aired an interview with Dylan Davies which led to Lara Logan taking a
leave of absence. In 2004, this program used documents provided by Bill Burkett to criticize George W.
Bush's time in the National Guard, but the lack of authentication on the papers led Dan Rather to resign
from CBS, which still broadcasts this program. For the point, name this TV newsmagazine which was
attacked for failing to verify comments about the Benghazi incident, and still features Morley Safer and Ed
Bradley after Andy Rooney's death.
ANSWER: 60 Minutes
019-13-94-25107

8. Lao Ai attempted to replace this emperor with his half-brother, and Gao Jianli and Jing Ke attempted to
assassinate this man. This emperor ordered Shi Lu to design the Lingqu Canal. This man's advisor Li Si
and his chief eunuch Zhao Gao convinced his son Fusu and the general Meng Tian to commit suicide. After
eliminating the "Hundred Schools of Thought," this emperor ordered the burning of books. For the point,
name this first emperor of the Qin (CHIN) Dynasty who was buried with his Terracotta Army.
ANSWER: Qin Shi Huangdi [or Qin Shi Huang; or Ch'in Shih Huang; or Zhao Zheng; or Chao Cheng]
186-13-94-25108

9. A song by the Drive-By Truckers discusses the "misunderstood glory" of this band. This band stated that
"Handguns are made for killing, They ain't no good for nothing else" in "Mr. Saturday Night Special." This
band scored a hit with a rendition of J.J. Cale's "Call Me the Breeze." One of this band's songs was a
response to a song that described "crosses burning fast," Neil Young's "Southern Man." Another song by
this band begins by asking, "If I leave here tomorrow/Would you still remember me?" For the point, name
this southern rock band of "Free Bird" and "Sweet Home Alabama."
ANSWER: Lynyrd Skynyrd
030-13-94-25109

10. This patron of Alessandro Scarlatti corresponded with Athanasius Kircher and left a huge library to
Cardinal Decio Azzolino. This ruler ordered the execution of Gian Rinaldo Monaldeschi in the
Fontainebleau Palace. This monarch abdicated after a public conversion to Catholicism and settled in Rome
in the mid seventeenth century. Axel Oxenstierna served as regent in this monarch's early years. This queen
was distinctly unimpressed by the philosophy of Rene Descartes, who died at her court. For the point, name
this daughter of Gustavus Adolphus, a queen of Sweden.
ANSWER: Queen Christina of Sweden
080-13-94-25110
2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 2 of 34

11. Jonathan Russell and James Bayard were two members of a five-man delegation sent to negotiate this
treaty with William Adams, Henry Goulburn, and Lord Gambier. After originally demanding uti possidetis,
a negotiator at this treaty relented, allowing the other side to boast "Not one inch of territory ceded or lost."
This status quo antebellum treaty did nothing to address the causes of the war it ended, including the Orders
in Council and impressment. For the point, name this treaty that was signed two weeks before the Battle of
New Orleans and ended the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Treaty of Ghent
023-13-94-25111

12. A treaty between these two houses allowed one of them to retain the Three Bishoprics, though that
house still had to give up territory due to its loss at Saint-Quentin. These two houses signed the Ladies'
Peace of Cambrai and the Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis. One of these houses ransomed its king from the
other in the Treaty of Madrid. Through the first half of the sixteenth century, these two houses fought the
intermittent Italian Wars,. For the point, name these oft-conflicting French and Austrian royal families.
ANSWER: Houses of Valois and Habsburg [order not important, but do not accept or prompt if only one
answer is given]
080-13-94-25112

13. This country fought the Ottomans at two Battles of Cecora, the first of which resulted from its
intervention in the Magnate Wars. This country's nobles participated in the "Sarmatian" culture, which
included the "Golden Liberty" that allowed any noble to block government action. In the 1650s, this
country was occupied by Sweden in The Deluge, a century after it signed the Union of Lublin creating a
single state with Lithuania. For the point, identify this country which fought a namesake succession war in
the 1730s, deposing Stanislaw Leszczynski (luh-SHIN-skee).
ANSWER: Kingdom of Poland
019-13-94-25113

14. The Great Republic, the largest clipper ship ever built, was designed in this city by Donald McKay. In
1821, the English Classical School in this city became the first public high school. This city's "Great
Mayor" was Josiah Quincy. The elite of this city were called its Brahmins by Oliver Wendell Holmes, who
lived in this city's neighborhood of Beacon Hill. For the point, name this city that, in the second half of the
nineteenth century, had its Southie neighborhood become the home of many Irish immigrants.
ANSWER: Boston
023-13-94-25114

15. A monument for this event consists of a dark circular pool of water with a triangular stone in the
middle. The Szczurowa (strew-AH-vuh) massacre in Poland was a component of this event, for which the
only apology came from Romanian president Traian Basescu. Martin Bormann encouraged this event,
changing the mind of Heinrich Himmler, who wanted to save pure-blooded individuals. This event is often
called the Porajmos, meaning "destruction" or "death." For the point, name this event in which hundreds of
thousands of a traditionally nomadic people were killed by Nazi Germans.
ANSWER: Roma Holocaust [or the killing of Romas by Nazis or similar answers; or Porajmos until it is
read; or gypsy in place of Roma in any answer, such as the Gypsy Holocaust; prompt on the Holocaust]
020-13-94-25115

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 3 of 34

16. This philosopher held that the mind progressed through five prior stages before reaching "absolute
knowledge." He inspired groups of followers known as "Left," "Young," or "Right." This philosopher
suggested that certain "great men" could be considered "concrete universal" instantiations of the
"weltgeist." His belief that a metaphysical process of "dialectic" created ongoing "synthesis" of opposing
tendencies greatly influenced Marxism. For the point, name this German thinker who wrote The Philosophy
of Right.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
019-13-94-25116

17. The Khabuli Bagh garden was built at this city to commemorate a battle, and this city is likely identical
to the "Dharmakshetra" referred to in the opening of the Bhagavadgita. Ibrahim Gardi was captured and
executed at this location during a fight with the forces of Ahmad Shah Durrani. This site of a defeat for
Sadashivrao Bhau was where Hemu lost a battle to Bayram Khan. The first battle at this location led to the
death of Ibrahim Lodi. For the point, name this city where, in battles that took place thirty years apart,
Babur and Akbar respectively established and restored the Mughal Empire.
ANSWER: Battles of Panipat
023-13-94-25117

18. This city's tomb of Queen Pu'abi contained a bull-head-decorated lyre that may be the earliest-known
musical instrument. This location of the Ram-in-a-Thicket was home to the oldest surviving law code. The
"Royal Game" of this city was discovered during its excavation by Sir Leonard Woolley. A shrine to Nanna
topped the famous ziggurat of this city. In the Bible, it is referred to by the epithet "of the Chaldees," and is
the "native land" that a patriarch leaves with his father Terah. For the point, name this Sumerian city state
which the Book of Genesis names as the birthplace of Abraham.
ANSWER: Ur
080-13-94-25118

19. This man stuffed envelopes with hair, sand, and poppy seeds to determine that the British government
was reading his letters, causing a huge privacy uproar. While exiled in Switzerland in the 1830s, this man
devised the idea of the "European National States," a unification of the continent. He led the formation of
the final "Roman Republic" and was one of the triumvirs that led it after the forced exile of Pius IX. This
man led failed republican uprisings in Mantua and Milan and lost influence by resisting Count Cavour's
efforts. For the point, name this founder of the Young Italy movement.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Mazzini
140-13-94-25119

20. This event was the subject of the book Operation Overflight, whose author was criticized for not using
his "suicide capsule" or his self-destruct charge. After this event, Rudolf Abel was exchanged for Francis
Gary Powers. This event effectively ended the Four Power Paris Summit featuring Dwight Eisenhower and
Nikita Khrushchev, and the American government claimed for a time that an object involved in it was a
weather research craft. For the point, name this 1960 crisis that began when a United States spy plane was
shot down over the Soviet Union.
ANSWER: U-2 incident
052-13-94-25120

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 4 of 34

21. Mars Hill was the site of a border between these two modern-day countries, whose border was partly
set using Jared Sparks's discovery of a "red-line" map. The republic of Madawaska was created out of land
from these two modern-day countries. Thomas Barclay asked William I of the Netherlands to intervene in
another dispute between these countries, which was settled by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty. For the point,
name these two countries whose boundary was partly settled after the Aroostook War over the border
between Maine and New Brunswick.
ANSWER: Canada and the United States of America [order not important, but do not accept or prompt if
only one answer is given]
048-13-94-25121

22. This speech refers to an Andrew Marvell poem by stating "He nothing common did or mean." This
speech warns that "perverted science" can lead to the "abyss of a new Dark Age." It states that "we have a
Navy," which people often forget, and that "what General Weygand has called the Battle of France is over."
It notes that if the British Empire lasts for a thousand years, history will refer to current events as the title
time. For the point, identify this Winston Churchill speech on the eve of the Battle of Britain.
ANSWER: "This was their finest hour"
048-13-94-25122

23. This person was approached by offering a type of cake called a "pelanos," after which she bathed in the
Castalian spring and drank from Cassotis. This person could not be contacted during the winter, because
her patron was in the land of the Hyperboreans. This person chewed on laurel leaves and inhaled the gases
produced by burning olive branches on the seventh day of the month. This office's occupant was known as
"Pythia" and used a trance state to transmit political fates. For the point, name this Greek devotee of Apollo
who cryptically predicted the future.
ANSWER: the Delphic Oracle [or Pythia until it is read; or Oracle at Delphi' prompt on Oracle]
019-13-94-25123

24. This man's children gave his decorations to Donald Kincaid, and his granddaughter controversially
used the term "warrior race." He was portrayed on a propaganda poster thanking people for wasting food.
He was promoted to his highest post partly for his denunciation of the February 26th incident as a member
of the Control Faction. This man interpreted the Hull note as an ultimatum. He attempted to commit suicide
before he was tried by the Far East Tribunal. For the point, name this Prime Minister of Japan during World
War II.
ANSWER: Hideki Tojo
048-13-94-25124

25. A peace effort in this war ended when an Mi-8 helicopter was shot down. A series of video
documentaries about this conflict were made by Chingiz Mustafayev. An early event in this war was the
Black January pogrom, and this conflict was ended by a treaty that gave the Lachin corridor special status,
the Bishkek protocol. This conflict was accelerated by the weapons vacuum left by the fall of the USSR,
and occurred between countries led by Levon Ter-Petrosyan and Heydar Aliyev. For the point, name this
1991 to 1994 conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over a disputed region.
ANSWER: Nagorno-Karabakh war
048-13-94-25125

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 5 of 34

26. During the Second Punic War, a temple was built to Cybele (SIB-uh-lee) on this hill according to a
prophecy by the Sibyls. In modern times, it is the site of the Farnese (far-NAY-zee) Gardens. The Lupercal,
where Romulus was suckled by a wolf, was at the foot of this hill, which looked down on the Circus
Maximus and the Roman Forum and contained Cicero's house. For the point, name this central hill of
Rome, the location of the residences of several emperors and the origin of the word "palace."
ANSWER: Palatine Hill [or mons Palatinus]
080-13-94-25126

27. This kingdom's foundation epic described a marriage to the hunchback Sogolon that produced a child
who could only walk using the branch of a baobab tree. The constitution of this kingdom was created by a
grand assembly called the Gbara. The ruler of this kingdom possessed a set of lands called the Twelve
Doors. This kingdom was founded after a rooster's spur was used to defeat a Susu chieftain. It was founded
after the Battle of Kirina and ruled by the Keita Dynasty. For the point, name this West African kingdom
ruled by Sundiata and Mansa Musa that succeeded Ghana.
ANSWER: Mali Kingdom
080-13-94-25127

28. The only coup d'etat in American history occurred in this state in 1898, when the Red Shirts started
massacring blacks and sympathetic whites. The largest Confederate surrender during the Civil War
occurred at Bennett Place in this state. Zebulon Vance led this state during the Civil War and frequently
feuded with Jefferson Davis. Braxton Bragg hailed from this state, which got its nickname because troops
from this state refused to flee during battle. For the point, name this state where the Wright brothers flew a
plane at Kitty Hawk.
ANSWER: North Carolina
190-13-94-25128

29. This power's wars provoked the Engelbrekt Rebellion by endangering its iron industry; afterwards, the
riksrads elected its new king. Its ruler defeated Albert of Mecklenburg to increase its power. This power
was created by Margaret I, who served as regent for her son Erik of Pomerania, and lasted until Gustav I
Vasa declared independence in 1523. It formed as a counterbalance to the influence of the Hanseatic
League. For the point, name this early modern Scandinavian power formed from the joined territories of
Denmark, Norway, and Sweden.
ANSWER: the Kalmar Union [prompt on Denmark until "created" is read]
080-13-94-25129

30. This company moved its headquarters to the Renaissance Center in 1977. Roger B. Smith was the CEO
of this company who acquired EDS from Ross Perot and was criticized in a Michael Moore documentary.
During his nomination, the Secretary of Defense under Eisenhower defended his work for this company by
stating that what was good for this company was good for the U.S. Alfred P. Sloan was a CEO of this
company, one of whose products was the subject of Ralph Nader's Unsafe at any Speed. For the point,
name this company, whose products included the Chevrolet Corvair.
ANSWER: General Motors [or GM]
048-13-94-25130

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 6 of 34

31. A game about this country's parliamentary elections features a circular board and "Shadow Cabinet"
cards. A game from, but not set, here, has a rotating "governor" token and lets people trade crops for
doubloons. The game Puerto Rico was designed here, as was a game where flipped-over tiles let players
build the town of Carcassonne, and another in which ore and wheat can be produced by hexes. For the
point, name this country whose complex board games includes Settlers of Catan, and which starts off with
forces in Kiel at the center of each game of Diplomacy.
ANSWER: Germany [or West Germany; or Deutschland]
104-13-94-25131

32. This religion is the subject of the Qissa-i Sanjan, an epic about the resettlement of some of its members.
This religion answered challenges from Islam in the Denkard, and is the smallest of the three other
religions given "dhimmi" status in Islam. This religion was the official faith of the Sassanid empire, and its
god Zurvan was worshipped by the Iranians who were conquered by early Islam. For the point, identify this
religion to which Magi belonged, which venerates Ahura Mazda in the Avesta and is a dualistic influence
on Abrahamic faiths.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism [or Zoroastrians; or Parsis]
019-13-94-25132

33. At the end of one of this author's stories, a man is revealed to have been cheating at a game of
high-five. One of his stories helped pioneer American naturalism with its depiction of the title "Girl of the
Streets." This author of "The Blue Hotel" and Maggie wrote a novel in which “the tattered man” and Jim
Conklin are among the characters encountered by Henry Fleming, who flees from his first battle in the
Civil War before receiving the title wound. For the point, name this American novelist of The Red Badge of
Courage.
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
014-13-94-25133

34. John E. Cook's fact-finding before this event allowed Osborne Anderson to take Frederick the Great's
sword and Lafayette's pistols away from Lewis Washington. The first person killed in this event was the
porter Hayward Shepherd. This event ended when Israel Greene successfully led a group of Marines
following failed negotiations by JEB Stuart. This event was intended to acquire arms for a large revolt by
slaves throughout the South. For the point, name this 1859 event in which a group of abolitionists took a
federal armory in Virginia under the direction of John Brown.
ANSWER: raid on Harpers Ferry [or equivalent answers mentioning Harpers Ferry; prompt on John
Brown's raid, etc.]
023-13-94-25134

35. A baby in a cradle in a painting of this event by Jennie Brownscombe could be a depiction of Peregrine
White. An account of this event described how many participants wrote their friends "not feigned but true
reports." Another account of this event describes how it was preceded by a governor sending out "four men
on fowling," and that a group of ninety men came who killed five deer included Massasoit and other
members of the Wampanoag tribe. For the point, name this 1621 harvest festival celebrated by the Pilgrims
that likely did not include eating a roast turkey.
ANSWER: First Thanksgiving
023-13-94-25135

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 7 of 34

36. In June 2013, this country de-licensed eighty percent of tobacco outlets and nationalized the rest, in an
effort billed as a crackdown on teen smoking which became a corruption scandal. This country's president
resigned in 2012 after his PhD was revoked for plagiarism. In 2013, this country was boycotted by native
son pianist Andreas Schiff after it erected a statue to controversial World War II leader Miklos Horthy
(meek-LOWSH HOR-tee). For the point, identify this country where Victor Orban's ruling Fidesz
(FEE-dess) party has been accused of far-right sympathies.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag]
019-13-94-25136

37. This man described the founding of Harvard and cataloged all of its graduates in his Magnalia Christi
Americana. Robert Calef publicly feuded with this man, who received backlash after taking an idea from
the slave Onesimus and encouraging people in his city to receive the smallpox vaccine. He argued that
"spectral evidence" was admissible in court in his book The Wonders of the Invisible World, a viewpoint
later strongly rejected by his son Increase. For the point, name this Puritan minister who remained
remorseless for his role in the Salem witch trials.
ANSWER: Cotton Mather
020-13-94-25137

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 8 of 34

2nd Fourth

1. Balthasar Hubmaier introduced this group's faith into Moravia. Michael Sattler organized this group's
seven article Schleitheim Confession. A radical splinter sect of these people instituted polygamy in the
"second Jerusalem" before their leaders' corpses were hung from St. Lambert's Church in steel cages; that
group of these people took over Munster under the leadership of John of Leiden. Menno Simons helped
delineate this group's faith and later became the namesake of the Mennonites. For the point, name these
Protestants who initiated members of their faith as adults rather than infants.
ANSWER: Anabaptists [prompt on Mennonites or other specific sects of Anabaptists]
080-13-94-25101

2. This man was killed by an arrow to his liver while advancing on the gates of Ctesiphon during his
invasion of Persia. This man relented in his attempt to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem upon hearing
reports of balls of fire erupting from its foundation. Constantius gave the empire to this man on his
deathbed, and this member of the cult of the Unconquered Sun wrote an anti-Christian tract entitled Against
the Galileans. For the point, name this Roman emperor whose title reflects the fact that he converted to
paganism in 361 CE.
ANSWER: Julian the Apostate
030-13-94-25102

3. Due to threats from Alfonso V of Aragon, this city briefly became part of a French-controlled Duchy
ruled by John of Anjou. The Fugger bankruptcy led to the ascendency of this city's bankers after they
became the primary recipients of Spanish bullion. Napoleon renamed this city the Ligurian Republic, and
the admiral Andrea Doria hailed from this city, which controlled Corsica for over four centuries. For the
point, name this city on the northwest coast of Italy, the longtime commercial and political rival of Venice
and the birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
ANSWER: Republic of Genoa
141-13-94-25103

4. This man was sued by Morarji Desai for libelous statements in his book The Price of Power. This man
accused Nicholas Davies of tipping off the Israeli embassy about Mordechai Vanunu in his The Samson
Option. He alleged the existence of the "Copper Green" torture program, and he wrote an article based on a
document found in George Latimer's office, which accused William Calley of killing hundreds of "Oriental
human beings." For the point, name this reporter who won the 1970 Pulitzer for exposing the My Lai
Massacre.
ANSWER: Seymour Hersh
048-13-94-25104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 9 of 34

5. Twelve people were killed by soldiers at St. George's Field while rallying in support of this man, whose
followers formed the Society for the Protection of the Bill of Rights. The supporters of the campaign for this
man "and liberty" were marginalized after the Gordon Riots. This man fled to France after being charged
with sedition by Parliament over an anti-monarchy editorial in his newspaper The North Briton. For the
point, name this member of the Hellfire Club who was repeatedly refused his seat by Parliament in the
1760s, causing a democratic crisis.
ANSWER: John Wilkes
019-13-94-25105

6. Based on New York election results, Lee Benson argued political divisions in the system named for this
man were "ethnocultural" rather than economic. Richard Hofstadter viewed him as a promoter of liberal
capitalism in The American Political Tradition and argued that he was more an aristocrat than
frontiersman. That view was a reaction against Arthur Schlesinger's thesis that this man led a movement
opposed to moneyed interests represented by Nicholas Biddle. For the point, what President names an
"age" of expanded democratic access and was nicknamed "Old Hickory?"
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
121-13-94-25106

7. This man moved past the polyphonic style of music practiced by his rival, the "Twenty-Four Violins." He
wrote an opera in which a magician attempts to summon the Goddess of Hate to hide her love for the
knight Renaud. The king disinvited this man from conducting that opera, Armide, due to his irreligious
lifestyle, and this inventor of the tragédie en musique soon thereafter died from smashing his foot with a
staff. For the point, name this Italian-born chief musician of the French baroque, who worked at the court
of Louis XIV.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lully [or Giovanni Battista Lulli]
019-13-94-25107

8. This event was partly motivated by an unpleasant order proclaimed by General Evelyn Barker, warning
servicemen not to fraternize with civilians. Sir John Shaw was blamed for not coordinating evacuations in
response to this event, a reply to widespread arrests on Black Saturday. The perpetrators of this event
concealed explosives in milk cans. Menachem Begin ordered Irgun to carry out this event, which targeted
the British administrative headquarters in Palestine. For the point, name this 1946 bombing of a Jerusalem
edifice named for a biblical monarch.
ANSWER: King David Hotel bombing [or King David Hotel attack, etc.]
020-13-94-25108

9. A chief of surgery at this school was assisted by Vivien Thomas and Helen Taussig in developing a
namesake shunt to cure the Tetralogy of Fallot. This school was the model for the modern research-focused
university under President Daniel Gilman. A surgeon working here, who pioneered the technique for
separating conjoined twins joined at the head, aroused controversy for comments made at the National
Prayer Breakfast and is Ben Carson. For the point, identify this university located in Baltimore, named for a
Quaker businessman.
ANSWER: Johns Hopkins University [or JHU; do not accept "John Hopkins"]
048-13-94-25109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 10 of 34

10. After this event, Max Pruss was given the last rites but survived, with critics claiming his neglect
caused it to take place. A.A. Hoehling accused Eric Spehl, a rigger, of causing this event through sabotage.
Various scientists have proposed this event was caused by lightning or static sparks, while conspiracy
theorists have claimed Hitler ordered it to punish an anti-Nazi head of a company. Herbert Morrison
famously screamed "Oh, the humanity!" when watching it. For the point, name this May 6, 1937 disaster in
which a zeppelin caught fire in New Jersey.
ANSWER: Hindenburg disaster
052-13-94-25110

11. This man's portrait of the Duke of Wellington was stolen from the National Gallery in London in 1961.
A blindfolded man is tied to a pole in this artist's It Could Not Be Helped, one of eighty-two prints he made
depicting the Disasters of War. In a parody of Velazquez's Las Meninas, this artist painted the lifeless, ugly
family of Charles IV. A man wearing yellow pants confronts a firing squad in another painting he made of
the atrocities committed by Napoleon's troops. For the point, name this Spanish painter of The Third of
May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco de Goya
190-13-94-25111

12. An event in this city resulted in the arrest of American attorney Brandon Mayfield. That event in this
city resulted in the creation of the Forest of Remembrance and rumors of postponed elections circulated by
director Pedro Almodovar. An event that killed 191 people here occurred just three days before Jose Maria
Aznar's Partido Popular was defeated. A terrorist attack against this city’s Cercanias (ser-cah-NEE-ahs)
system was blamed on both al-Qaeda and the Basque separatist group ETA. For the point, name this
Spanish city hit by train bombings on March 11, 2004.
ANSWER: Madrid
052-13-94-25112

13. Samuel Woodward ran one of the first publicly funded instances of this kind of place in Worcester.
Thomas Kirkbride's oft-copied design for these places emphasized natural light and privacy. As head of one
of these places, Henry Cotton controversially suggested pulling the teeth of people inside. Dorothea Dix
lobbied to expand public support for them. Nellie Bly went undercover for ten days in one of these places
on Blackwell's Island, where she found unsanitary living conditions and harsh treatment by doctors. For the
point, name these places that contained insane people.
ANSWER: mental asylums [or lunatic asylums]
121-13-94-25113

14. A supporter of this amendment said he accepted "so imperfect a proposition" because he lived "among
men and not among angels." An early attempt to apply this amendment was defeated in Minor v.
Happersett. It was used by the Supreme Court in cases such as Gitlow v. New York to incorporate the Bill
of Rights to states. Rufus Peckham argued that this amendment protected the right of contract in Lochner v.
New York. For the point, name this amendment which guarantees due process and equal protection.
ANSWER: Fourteenth Amendment
121-13-94-25114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 11 of 34

15. Members of this group could become part of a commando unit called the serdengecti, or "head riskers."
Many members of this group revolted in 1826 and were killed during this group's disbanding in the
Auspicious Incident. Members of this group were recruited for centuries by the devsirme
(dev-SHEERM-uh) system, which took young Christian slaves and converted them to Islam. After trying to
curb this group's power, Osman II was strangled to death on the orders of these troops. For the point, name
this elite military unit of the Ottoman Empire.
ANSWER: Janissaries [or Janissary; or Yeniceriler]
023-13-94-25115

16. This man ruthlessly enforced the Crimes Act in Ireland, leading to his nickname "Bloody." He
succeeded Lord Salisbury as prime minister, under whom foreign secretary Lord Landsdowne responded to
the Dogger Bank incident and organized the Entente Cordiale. A document created by this man was
incorporated into the Treaty of Sevres (SEV-ruh) and issued while he was foreign minister under David
Lloyd George. For the point, name this politician, who promised the Jews a homeland in Palestine in his
namesake declaration.
ANSWER: Arthur James Balfour
048-13-94-25116

17. In this city, a group of former Black Panthers were accused of murdering officer John V. Young. The
Joe Boys conducted the Golden Dragon Massacre in this city. A punk singer ran for mayor of this city on a
platform of forcing businessmen to dress as clowns. A mayor of this city, who oversaw a skyscraper
building craze pejoratively called "Manhattanization," was Diane Feinstein. Another mayor of this city,
George Moscone, was assassinated by Dan White, who also killed Supervisor Harvey Milk. For the point,
name this city, whose Haight-Ashbury neighborhood was the home of the Summer of Love.
ANSWER: San Francisco
048-13-94-25117

18. One of this artist's paintings is a fresco of an equestrian statue on which only the trappings of the horse
are colored. This painter of Funerary Monument to Sir John Hawkwood depicted a fanged green monster
with spotted wings drooling blood as he is lanced in the head in his Saint George and the Dragon. He is
most famous for making innovative use of perspective in three depictions of a battle between Florence and
Siena. For the point, name this Italian artist of three large paintings of the Battle of San Romano.
ANSWER: Paolo Uccello
014-13-94-25118

19. This player was the first coaching success story for Pavel Slozil, who made her practice four hours a
day. This player's rivalries included three Grand Slam final matchups with Gabriela Sabatini and six with
Monica Seles. She spent over seven years without dropping below number one on the WTA rankings, a
record. In 1988, this player became the only person to win the "Golden Slam," picking up all four majors
and the Olympic title in the same year. For the point, name this women's tennis great, a German native who
retired in 1999.
ANSWER: Stefanie Maria "Steffi" Graf
019-13-94-25119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 12 of 34

20. This city was the location of the Frostbitten Convention that ended the Toledo War, and the 1970s
"five-dollar pot law" was passed here. When this city was founded by Elisha Rumsey and John Allen, it
was named for the fact that the two men's wives shared a first name. This home to the Gerald Ford Library
was where the Students for a Democratic Society first met, Lyndon Johnson announced the "Great
Society," and John F. Kennedy announced the Peace Corps. For the point, name this city where Presidents
frequently speak at the University of Michigan.
ANSWER: Ann Arbor
019-13-94-25120

21. Federico Capasso built one of these devices based on a quantum cascade, and John Madey developed
one that uses a wiggler to create a standing wave of charged particles, called the "free electron" variety.
Gordon Gould fought for decades to get a patent on these devices. They were originally posited in a paper
that defined the A and B coefficients, which are the probabilities of an electron transitioning between states
and emitting a photon in the process. For the point, name these devices, originally posited by Albert
Einstein, that emit coherent beams of light.
ANSWER: lasers
048-13-94-25121

22. This writer claimed to be the son of a freedman because his father was briefly enslaved during the
Social War. In the essay "What is Enlightenment?," Kant borrowed this author's phrase "Sapere aude"
(sah-PAY-ray OW-day). He praised the capture of Sextus Pompeius and Octavian's victory at Actium in his
Epodes (EHP-ohdz). Augustus had him compose the "Carmen Saeculare," and he was gifted a Sabine farm
by his patron, Maecenas. This man coined the phrase "in medias res" in his treatise on writing, Ars Poetica.
For the point, name this Roman poet of many odes.
ANSWER: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
232-13-94-25122

23. This leader chose his wife after looking at four photographs, but was asked to make a second selection
because his first choice was too poor. The Articles of Favorable Treatment were made to protect this man,
although they were later revised, causing him to be forced out of his home. Following Japanese occupation
of parts of his country, this man was made the Kangde Emperor of Manchukuo. Earlier, he ruled as a child
for four years until the Xinhai (SHIN-hai) Revolution forced him to abdicate. For the point, name this final
emperor of the Qing (CHING) dynasty and China.
ANSWER: Aisin-Goro Puyi [or the Xuantong Emperor; or Kangde Emperor until it is read]
140-13-94-25123

24. This speech recalls a letter expressing happiness that the speaker didn't sneeze. The final line of this
speech echoes the opening of the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," and this speech lists Accra and
Johannesburg as places where the masses are rising up. This speech was given in response to a sanitation
strike, and was delivered at the Mason Temple in Memphis. The day after it was given, the speaker was
attacked by James Earl Ray. For the point, name this last speech given by Martin Luther King, Jr.
ANSWER: "I've been to the mountaintop"
048-13-94-25124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 13 of 34

25. A politician who fled to this country after his ouster was assassinated in Operation Reptile. A leader of
this country granted a passport to Josef Mengele in 1962, and it was also the home of South America's first
Nazi Party under the regime of Higinio Morinigo. Another dictator of this country renamed Ciudad Del
Este after himself and imprisoned Martin Almada, who later discovered the "Archives of Terror." That
leader developed this country's economy by building the Itaipu Dam. For the point, name this country ruled
for much of the late twentieth century by Alfredo Stroessner.
ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay [or Republica del Paraguay]
048-13-94-25125

26. A nobleman from this empire named Gondophares founded a possibly Christian kingdom in Taxila.
This empire habitually put its princes on the throne of Armenia according to the custom of its king
Vologaeses. This empire was ruled by the Arsacids, and its soldiers had gold poured down the throat of a
general whose army was defeated by horse archers employing this empire's namesake "shot." For the point,
name this Iranian kingdom that killed Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae and thereafter served as the perpetual
nemesis of the Roman empire.
ANSWER: Parthian Empire [prompt on Iran; prompt on Persia]
080-13-94-25126

27. A member of this group, Patrick Dolan, took off his clothes and ran into the woods before dying. Its
leader and namesake partnered with James Reed. Some members of this group were known as the "Forlorn
Hope" because they put on snowshoes and tried to find their own way to Bear Valley. This group made the
poor decision to take Hastings Cutoff, which caused them to become trapped near Truckee Lake in the
Sierra Nevada Mountains. For the point, name this group of western pioneers who had to resort to
cannibalism after becoming snowbound in 1846.
ANSWER: Donner Party [or Donner-Reed Party]
052-13-94-25127

28. During this period, Henry Clay Pate was taken prisoner after showing a flag of truce in the Battle of
Black Jack. Charles Hamilton led a group that killed five men in this period's Marais des Cygnes
(muh-REE duh SEEN) massacre. This period included the passage of the Lecompton Constitution and a
failed attempt to find Dutch Henry before the Pottawatomie Massacre, which was a response to the sacking
of Lawrence. For the point, name this period before the Civil War in which Border Ruffians from Missouri
battled with anti-slavery forces over the fate of a neighboring state.
ANSWER: Bleeding Kansas [or Bloody Kansas; prompt on Border War]
023-13-94-25128

29. This Senator denounced the "untold millions" who "are storming our gates for admission." One of this
man's bills was vetoed by Harry Truman, who remarked "we want to stretch out a helping hand" to refugees
from Western Europe. This man names a bill which required the American Communist Party to register
with the Attorney General. This diehard anti-Communist is the namesake of a 1950 Internal Security Act
and co-names a restrictive immigration bill with Francis Walter. For the point, name this Nevada Senator,
the namesake of the Las Vegas airport.
ANSWER: Patrick McCarran
052-13-94-25129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 14 of 34

30. This British mathematician co-names a theorem stating that the normal order of the number of distinct
prime factors of "n" is approximately "log of log of n." This mathematician recounted a story in which he
complained that 1729 was a boring number, and he claimed that math is a "young man's game" in his A
Mathematician's Apology. He is the first namesake of a biological equation stating p-squared plus 2pq plus
q-squared equals 1. For the point, identify this mathematician who "discovered" Ramanujan and formulated
a genetic principle independent of Wilhelm Weinberg.
ANSWER: Godfrey Harold Hardy
233-13-94-25130

31. After this man died, his longtime secretary Helen Gandy was told to begin destroying files. He was
succeeded for one day by his protege Clyde Tolson, who was also rumored to be this man's lover. This man
led an institution that carried out the covert COINTELPRO program to harass the Black Panthers and civil
rights leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr. The agency he founded was credited with the capture of such
men as Machine Gun Kelly and John Dillinger. For the point, name this controversial first Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
ANSWER: John Edgar Hoover
052-13-94-25131

32. Third baseman Gary Gaetti (guy-ET-ee) was playing for this team when he started two triple plays in
one game. In 1987, Frank Viola and Jeff Reardon pitched for this team in their Game 7 World Series
clincher against the Cardinals. Hall of Famer Bert Blyleven spent the most years of his career with this
team. In 1991, this team's first baseman Kent Hrbek pulled Ron Gant off first base, and Kirby Puckett hit a
walkoff homer, helping them beat the Atlanta Braves in a matchup of "worst-to-first" teams. For the point,
name this baseball team which formerly played in the Metrodome.
ANSWER: Minnesota Twins [or Minnesota Twins]
019-13-94-25132

33. This battle was decided with the timely arrival of William Washington's cavalry, and it is a rare
example of a double envelopment. Andrew Pickens's militia and John Eager Howard's Continental soldiers
participated in this battle, in which one side mocked calls for mercy by noting the opposing commander's
lack of quarter at the Battle of Camden. For the point, name this 1781 battle of the Revolutionary War in
which forces under Daniel Morgan defeated Banastre Tarleton's British troops in the namesake South
Carolina grazing grounds.
ANSWER: Battle of Cowpens
030-13-94-25133

34. Plutarch wrote that this man constructed a secret underground bunker for himself and shaved half his
head to avoid going outside. This man was snubbed while negotiating the Peace of Philocrates
(fill-AH-cruh-teez) after a war in which he failed to convince Athens to protect Olynthus. This enemy of
the prostitute Neaera was offered a crown for his service by Ctesiphon, whom this man defended from
Aeschines (ICE-kuh-neez) in "On the Crown." Cicero's denunciations of Mark Antony were named after
this man's invectives against Philip II. For the point, name this caustic ancient Athenian orator.
ANSWER: Demosthenes
080-13-94-25134

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 15 of 34

35. A proponent of this idea who invented a debating tactic called his "gallop" is Duane Gish. A proponent
of this idea has a son named Eric who promotes presuppositionalism, is in jail for tax evasion, and is named
Kent Hovind. Ken Ham is the head of an organization that promotes this idea. Proponents of this idea often
use a chronology proposed by James Ussher, which begins at 4004 BC. Proponents of this idea believe that
"kinds" are fixed and in the literal truth of Genesis 1. For the point, name this idea that God created the
earth six thousand years ago.
ANSWER: young earth creationism [or creation science; or intelligent design; or other equivalents]
048-13-94-25135

36. Tirzah was an early capital of this kingdom. The Mesha Stele frequently refers to this polity's House of
Omri. This kingdom secured peace with its southern neighbor when Athaliah married the neighboring King
Jehoram. The first and last capitals of this kingdom were Shechem and Samaria. This kingdom consisted of
the Ten Lost Tribes, who accepted Rehoboam as their first leader. The Assyrian captivity's end in 722 BCE
led to the destruction of this kingdom, though its southern neighbor, Judah, held out longer. For the point,
name this ancient Jewish kingdom.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Israel [or Kingdom of Samaria until it is read; prompt on Northern Kingdom]
190-13-94-25136

37. This political situation is criticized in Canada by the "Story of Mouseland," which is often used to rally
support for the New Democrats. Malta has one of the most rigid examples of this situation in the world,
despite using single transferable vote. This situation will always emerge when first-past-the-post voting
districts are used, according to Duverger's Law. For the point, identify this democratic political
phenomenon which exists when only a more leftist and more rightist group attract significant support, to
the exclusion of further alternatives.
ANSWER: two-party systems [or descriptive answers such as "there are only two parties who get votes";
prompt on "third parties don't win" or similar logically associated answers]
019-13-94-25137

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 16 of 34

3rd Fourth

1. After a disaster at one of these locations in 1942, Erich Lindemann wrote an early paper on
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Another tragedy occurred at an unlicensed one of these places known as
"Happy Land" that was frequented by young Hondurans. As a result of an event at one of these
establishments in the 2000s, a group temporarily refused to play the song "Desert Moon." The deadliest
incident at one of these places in American history was at Boston's Cocoanut Grove. For the point, name
these places whose incendiary disasters included a 2003 inferno caused by pyrotechnics started during a
performance by the band Great White.
ANSWER: nightclubs
052-13-94-25101

2. A holder of this position refused to commute the sentence of "Tooky" Amirault, who was convicted as
part of the day care sex abuse hysteria. A holder of this position signed a bill creating a furlough program
that allowed Willie Horton out of jail. Another person in this office pressured William Bulger to resign as
president of the state university. Another holder of this position sometimes names a program creating a
"free care pool" that was largely the basis for Obamacare. For the point, name this position held by Michael
Dukakis and Mitt Romney.
ANSWER: Governor of Massachusetts [prompt on partial answer]
048-13-94-25102

3. Because most of the invading army had been commanded by this ruler's father, they all switched to his
side when Augustus Severus tried to oust him by invading Rome. That father of this man helped Diocletian
brutally pacify the Rhine frontier. He married Valeria Maximilla despite her father Galerius' hatred for him.
This man drowned while fleeing with his army across the river Tiber in the aftermath of the Battle of
Milvian Bridge. For the point, identify this western emperor of the Tetrarchy who was defeated in 312 by
Constantine.
ANSWER: Marcus Aurelius Valerius Maxentius Augustus
233-13-94-25103

4. The Treaty of Ouchy confirmed the results of this military action, which began after the Committee of
Union and Progress concluded talks with Prime Minister Giovanni Giolitti. It occurred simultaneously
with the occupation of the Dodecanese Islands. The first use of airplanes in warfare happened during this
event, which transferred the Fezzan, Cyrenaica, and Tripolitana provinces from the Ottoman Empire. For
the point, name this action resulting in the colonial acquisition of a North African country by a Southern
European one.
ANSWER: Italy's invasion of Libya [or sItaly acquiring Libya, etc; or the Italo-Turkish War]
020-13-94-25104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 17 of 34

5. A rite conducted each year by this group was infiltrated in 62 BCE by Publius Clodius Pulcher. This
group was responsible for preparing a salted flour for use in all public animal sacrifices. The Campus
Sceleratus was used to bury alive any members of this group who broke their vows. This group, that
prepared the mola salsa and conducted the rites of the Bona Dea, had its members selected from noble
families between the ages of six and ten by the pontifex maximus. For the point, name these Roman women
who tended a sacred fire and spent thirty years in complete chastity.
ANSWER: Vestal Virgins [prompt on Roman women]
023-13-94-25105

6. This practice was popularized in the United States by John Franklin Gray. A consortium dedicated to
this practice was founded in Nuremberg during the Nazi regime, where it briefly gained support through
men such as Rudolf Hess. This medical practice was founded by Samuel Hahnemann, who described
miasms as the cause of problems in the body. Using this practice, one administers a highly dilute dose of a
substance that causes a disease in order to cure it. For the point, name this pseudoscientific alternative
medicine practice based on the maxim of "like cures like."
ANSWER: homeopathy
140-13-94-25106

7. Robert-Francois Damiens attempted to assassinate this king, who added Lorraine to his kingdom in the
War of the Polish Succession. Scottish economist John Law increased the paper money supply during this
king's reign, then brought problems with the Mississippi Bubble. This man was proclaimed king at age five,
which necessitated regents and advisors such as the Duke of Orleans and Cardinal Fleury to assist him. His
mistresses included Madame de Pompadour. For the point, name this French king, the last one to die a
natural death before the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis]
140-13-94-25107

8. This event was planned by members of the Northern and Southern societies, as well as the Union of
Salvation led by Pavel Pestel, who was arrested a day before this event. Support for this uprising failed
when its leader, Prince Trubetzkoy, decided not to show up. This uprising occurred during a succession
crisis when Constantine supported giving his brother Nicholas I the throne. For the point, name this revolt
following the death of Tsar Alexander I, which took place during the namesake month in 1825.
ANSWER: Decembrist Revolt
140-13-94-25108

9. This man outlined his political views in his Reflections of a Radical Moderate. While on the U.S.
delegation to Nasser's funeral, this man secretly met with Anwar Sadat to discuss a peace process. He is
one of only two people to have held four different cabinet positions. This man was the first person
dismissed in a series of events that ended with Robert Bork firing Archibald Cox, called the Saturday Night
Massacre. For the point, name this Attorney General who resigned during the Watergate scandal.
ANSWER: Elliot Lee Richardson
048-13-94-25109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 18 of 34

10. The Orthagorids of Sicyon divided these people into three tribes called the "donkey men," "pig men,"
and "swine men." Aristophanes's Lysistrata mocks the dialect of these people, who, in myth, were led by
the Sons of Heracles in an invasion that annihilated the Mycenean civilization. Cities populated by this
ethnic group often sported buildings with columns of their namesake order, a baseless shaft topped by a
plain capital consisting of a square on top of a circle. For the point, name this ancient Greek ethnic group
that dominated Sparta in opposition to the Ionian-dominated Athens.
ANSWER: Dorians [or Doric Greeks or other word forms; prompt on Greeks or similar answers; prompt
on Spartans]
080-13-94-25110

11. This cause was greatly popularized by Charles Villiers's annual Parliamentary motions in its favor. An
early advocate of this cause was Thomas Tooke, whose Merchants' Petition was denied by Lord Liverpool.
The Economist was founded in part to accomplish this goal, which John Bright and Richard Cobden
founded a "League" to promote. This goal was finally achieved in the wake of the Irish Potato Famine by
Robert Peel. For the point, identify this animating cause of the British free trade movement, which removed
protective tariffs on grain.
ANSWER: repeal of the Corn Laws [or equivalents; prompt on free trade, tariff repeal, or other more
general answers]
019-13-94-25111

12. Though this family was influential in creating the Republican Party, one of its members was the
Democratic running mate of Horatio Seymour. A person from this family recommended the Union and
Confederacy unite under the goal of removing Maximilian I from Mexico and previously was a member of
the Kitchen Cabinet as editor of the Washington Globe. John C. Fremont withdrew as a Presidential
candidate in 1864 in exchange for a member of this family resigning as Postmaster General. For the point,
name this Maryland political family which included Francis Preston and Montgomery.
ANSWER: Blairs
121-13-94-25112

13. This building was the last place where the "korban" ritual was practiced. It used only a curtain, and not
a wall, to separate the Kodesh Hakodashim, which was entered only once a year. A ritual involving a
remnant of this building is to write a prayer on a piece of paper, which is then rolled up and put into a crack
in the stone. The only remaining part of this building is the Western, or "Wailing," wall, following its
destruction by Romans in 70 CE. For the point, identify this center of post-exile Judaism, which itself
replaced a building constructed by Solomon.
ANSWER: the Second Jewish Temple [prompt on Jewish Temple; do not accept "First Temple" or
"Solomon's Temple"]
019-13-94-25113

14. This author wrote a play in which it is revealed that Margaret Anderson abandoned her husband Luke
in order to pursue a religious life. This author of The Amen Corner and "Sonny's Blues," wrote an essay
collection that criticized the Nation of Islam, stating that black and white Americans need each other for
mutual survival. He wrote a semi-autobiographical novel about John Grimes's religious epiphany at the
Temple of the Fire Baptized. For the point, name this African-American author of The Fire Next Time and
Go Tell It on the Mountain.
ANSWER: James Baldwin
030-13-94-25114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 19 of 34

15. This band remembered Soviet-era planned famines with the lyric "All have said their prayers, invade
their nightmares." This band showed Marines hit by a suicide bomb in the Afghan desert in a 2008 music
video. This band behind "Harvester of Sorrow" and "The Day That Never Comes" was inspired by the
World War I movie Johnny Got his Gun to pen the lyric "Landmine has taken my sight" in their song
"One," from And Justice for All. For the point, name this pioneering thrash metal band whose self-titled
Black Album leads off with "Enter Sandman."
ANSWER: Metallica
104-13-94-25115

16. In a song by this man, the singer asks "remember me to Herald Square and "Give my regards to
Broadway." A song by him appears in his first hit musical Little Johnny Jones. Another of this man's songs
states that "any tune like 'Yankee Doodle' simply sets me off my noodle" and "ev'ry heart beats true 'neath
the Red, White and Blue." This man wrote a song during World War I that begins "Johnny, get your gun,
get your gun, get your gun." For the point, name this American songwriter of "You're a Grand Old Flag"
and "Over There."
ANSWER: George Michael Cohan
140-13-94-25116

17. German swashbuckler Theodore von Neuhof briefly became king of this region by pretending to have
unnamed "connections" in European courts. Lord Nelson captured this region for the British, and took a
wound that blinded him in one eye, at the Battle of Calvi. It briefly became an independent constitutional
republic under Pasquale Paoli, who cracked down on its rampant vendettas. Its most famous resident came
to prominence partly by using a "whiff of grapeshot" to disperse the 13 Vendemiaire uprising. For the
point, name this Mediterranean island and birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte.
ANSWER: Corsica
080-13-94-25117

18. This artist positioned an urn overflowing with water beneath an orange tree and myrtle in a painting
that shows John the Baptist handing Christ an apple. This artist of the Holy Family on the Steps created
series on the Seven Sacraments and Four Seasons, and he did two paintings about the Athenian statesman
Phocion. This artist depicted four muscular classical shepherds contorting their backs to inspect a grave in a
painting about death. For the point, name this French pioneer of Neoclassicism who painted A Dance to the
Music of Time and Et in Arcadia Ego.
ANSWER: Nicolas Poussin
080-13-94-25118

19. During this event, Guy Mollet proposed that France and Britain form a union or that France become
part of the Commonwealth. This event was precipitated in part by a large arms deal with Czechoslovakia,
which led the U.S. and Britain to withdraw an offer of financial aid. This event led to the resignation of
prime minister Anthony Eden and the re-opening of the Straits of Tiran to Israel, whose invasion of the
country that precipitated this event was supported by France and Britain. For the point, name this 1956
crisis that started after Gamel Abdel Nasser nationalized an Egyptian canal.
ANSWER: Suez Crisis
023-13-94-25119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 20 of 34

20. This city's army first made use of a predecessor to the catapult, the gastraphetes, in the siege of Motya.
Plato's Seventh Letter details a failed attempt to change the government of this city. A civil war in this city
ended after its metropolis, Corinth, sent over Timoleon. Marcus Claudius Marcellus besieged this city
during the Second Punic War, legendarily facing the death ray of Archimedes. Dionysius I was a tyrant of
this city, which Athens unsuccessfully besieged during a failed Peloponnesian War expedition. For the
point, name this powerful Greek city-state on Sicily.
ANSWER: Syracuse
080-13-94-25120

21. According to Polydore Vergil, this man perished at sea while commanding five ships that left from
Bristol, which is also the current location of a replica of his ship, the Matthew. The body of water
separating Newfoundland and Nova Scotia is this man's namesake strait. This man's son Sebastian was
commissioned by England to find a Northeast Passage to the White Sea. This man convinced Henry VII to
fund a 1497 voyage, where he was the first European to discover the coastline of North America. For the
point, name this Italian explorer who was sent by England to search for a Northwest Passage.
ANSWER: John Cabot [or Giovanni Caboto]
239-13-94-25121

22. After this action was performed by another person, Daniel Walker received a letter of commendation.
Cubs outfielder Rick Monday prevented this action during a 1976 game. It was performed by a
Revolutionary Communist Youth Brigade member to protest the Republican convention in Dallas. The
Supreme Court case Texas v. Johnson ruled that this action was protected speech, even though a dissent
said it destroyed a symbol regarded with "mystical reverence." For the point, name this action in which
arson is committed against an American symbol.
ANSWER: burning the American flag [prompt on desecrating the flag, etc.]
052-13-94-25122

23. This country's national sport is a variation on baseball in which "vertical pitching" is used. Following
the Miracle on Ice win against the USSR, the U.S. defeated this country to clinch the gold medal in hockey
at the 1980 Olympics. This country holds the annual world championship in the sport of wife-carrying and
is the homeland of the oldest player in the NHL in 2014, Teemu Selanne (seh-LAH-nee), as well as a
nine-time gold-medal winning Olympic distance runner known as its "Flying" native. For the point, name
this homeland of Paavo Nurmi.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomi; or Suomen tasavalta; or Republiken Finland]
019-13-94-25123

24. On Christmas, these people believe that they receive gifts from Olentzero, a Santa figure from among
their Jentilak group of giants. These people sought further devolution in their homeland under the failed
Ibarretxe (ee-BAH-ruh-chay) Plan. The world's oldest transport bridge, the Puente Colgante, is found in a
territory controlled by these people, whose capital is Vitoria-Gasteiz. In their territory, the Nervion River
runs past a titanium-clad building designed by Frank Gehry. For the point, name this group whose
"autonomous region" includes Bilbao in northern Spain.
ANSWER: Basques
019-13-94-25124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 21 of 34

25. This prosecutor of the general Laches (LAH-kayz) took the credit for Demosthenes's capture of a corps
of elite hoplites on an island near Pylos. Diodotus (DYE-uh-DOH-tuss) argued against this man's proposal
to massacre the inhabitants of Mytilene (MIT-uh-LEE-nee). He led an attempt to retake Amphipolis
(am-FIP-uh-liss) from Sparta, but died there along with Brasidas. This wealthy merchant was represented
as a tanner in The Knights. For the point, name this Athenian demagogue during the Peloponnesian War
who was much derided by Aristophanes.
ANSWER: Cleon
080-13-94-25125

26. When threatened, Nicias and Alcibiades (al-sub-EYE-uh-deez) worked together to use this practice in
their own favor. The last person affected by this practice was Hyperbolos. The use of this practice was
decided on every year between midwinter and early spring, and Philochorus and Plutarch may have
disagreed on whether or not there was a six thousand vote quorum for this practice. This practice required
citizens to write names on shards of pottery to cast their votes. For the point, name this Athenian practice
intended to preempt someone from becoming too powerful by exiling them for ten years.
ANSWER: ostracism [or word forms]
023-13-94-25126

27. The Republican convention during this election was the first to be broadcast on television. During this
election, the Biemiller proposal for civil rights was supported by Hubert Humphrey at the Democratic
convention. A candidate in this election resigned as editor of The New Republic to run and was targeted in
the South for his refusal to speak to segregated audiences while running as a Progressive. The Chicago
Daily Tribune falsely printed that the challenger in this election had defeated the incumbent. For the point,
name this election where Harry Truman defeated Thomas Dewey.
ANSWER: United States Presidential election of 1948
186-13-94-25127

28. A massacre in this country was reported by Alma Guilleromoprieto and Raymond Bonner, but denied
by the Reagan administration. The founder of this country's ARENA party is believed to be responsible for
the assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero. The FMLN became a political party after signing the
Chapultepec Accords, which ended this country's twelve-year civil war. It launched an attack on its western
neighbor on the same day a team from here won a FIFA qualifying round game. For the point, name this
country that fought Honduras in the Soccer War.
ANSWER: Republic of El Salvador [or Republica de El Salvador]
048-13-94-25128

29. Alexandre Exquemelin recounts how one of these people named Francois l'Olonnais made a point by
consuming a human heart. The Ridolfi Plot was foiled by another of these individuals, a fan of the slave
trade named John Hawkins. These people could receive "letters of marque" from a friendly government.
Rare female ones included Mary Read and Anne Bonny, who traveled with "Calico Jack." These people
founded bases in Nassau and Jamaica that they used to raid the "Spanish Main." For the point, identify
these marauders employed by England to harass the Spanish navy.
ANSWER: pirates [or privateers]
080-13-94-25129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 22 of 34

30. The winners of this war alienated potential allies with their brutal sack of Acragas. Xanthippus the
mercenary defeated a Roman commander in this war, the general Marcus Regulus Attilius, whose landing
at Clupea came to nothing. During this war, Gaius Duilius won the Battle of Mylae by employing a spiked
bridge for boarding enemy ships, the "corvus." This war began with a dispute between Messana and
Syracuse, in which Carthage intervened, prompting Rome to intervene and take over Sicily. For the point,
identify this first of three wars between Rome and Carthage.
ANSWER: the First Punic War [or the First Carthaginian War; prompt on partial answer]
080-13-94-25130

31. The article "Out of Control" by Cecilia Farber expounded this idea, which was also promoted by the
publishers of Continuum magazine. A proponent of this idea had a daughter, Eliza Jane Scovill, who died at
age three. The Durban declaration was drafted to oppose this idea. Several proponents of this view,
including Harvey Bialy, were placed on a commission by Thabo Mbeki. Proponents of this view often
believe in the Duesberg hypothesis, which states that the relevant condition is caused by recreational drug
use. For the point, name this idea that HIV does not cause an immune disease.
ANSWER: AIDS denialism [or equivalents]
048-13-94-25131

32. This organization has four working groups dedicated to solving the Singapore Issues. It is still
addressing issues in a round of talks initiated by Mike Moore in 2001 in the Qatari city of Doha. Its latest
meeting was held in December 2013 at Bali, which resulted in a breakthrough deal. The Marrakech
Agreement created this organization in 1995 to replace the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. For
the point, name this organization that promotes the liberalization of the global exchange of capital, goods,
and services.
ANSWER: World Trade Organization [or WTO]
153-13-94-25132

33. A member of this family distinguished himself by using the Galante style during his time in London,
which gave him the nickname "The English" one. A member of this family used the "sensitive" style and
founded many modern piano techniques in his manual The True Art of Playing Keyboard Instruments. For
the point, name this family including Carl Philipp Emmanuel and Johann Christian, both sons of the
composer of the Mass in B Minor and the Brandenburg Concertos, Johann Sebastian.
ANSWER: Bach family [or the Bachs, etc.]
019-13-94-25133

34. This man's government took out a loan to purchase the Khedive of Egypt's shares of the Suez Canal
without notifying Parliament in advance. This man dubbed the process of rising to the Prime Ministry
"climbing to the top of a greasy pole." His government passed the Royal Titles Act, bestowing the title
"Empress of India" on Victoria. For the point, name this novelist and politician, the longtime leader of the
Conservative Party and only person of Jewish ancestry to become Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli [or Earl of Beaconsfield]
019-13-94-25134

35. Jack London's essay "Two Thousand Stiffs" details London's time with a Western offshoot of this group
led by Charles Kelley. The founder of this group wrote the magazine The Cause and the Cure, which
outlined the Initiative and Referendum for roads and a currency based on non-interest bonds. This
movement was led by a man who named his daughter Legal Tender and called it the "Commonwealth of
Christ," and it assembled in response to the Panic of 1893 in Massillon, Ohio. For the point, name this
group of unemployed workers that marched on Washington.
ANSWER: Coxey's Army [or Kelley's Army until it is read; or Commonwealth of Christ until it is read]
048-13-94-25135
2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 23 of 34

36. Upon coming to power, this man issued a Decree on Peace and a Decree on Land. This man argued
that a small, elite group must incite a revolution among the lower classes in his pamphlet What Is To Be
Done? This man was shot and nearly killed by Fanya Kaplan shortly after his order establishing the Cheka
and instituting a short-lived abolition of the monetary system. He was shipped from exile in Switzerland
back to Russia in a sealed train, where he wrote his April Theses. For the point, name the first ruler of the
Soviet Union.
ANSWER: Vladimir Ilyich Lenin [or Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov]
140-13-94-25136

37. Nineteenth-century "palaces" for selling this substance were the ancestor of the modern bar. This
comestible was blamed for causing crime in Henry Fielding's An Inquiry Into the Late Increase in Robbers,
which inspired William Hogarth to depict the virtuous "Beer Street" juxtaposed with the evil "Lane" of this
substance. In 1736, one of several attempts to regulate and tax this substance led to namesake London riots.
This substance was adulterated with turpentine when juniper was too expensive. For the point, name this
popular spirit of England.
ANSWER: gin [prompt on alcohol, etc.]
019-13-94-25137

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 24 of 34

4th Fourth

38. Miguel Barbachano alternated between support for this region's independence and its union with a
neighbor. Its major export was a plant used in producing ropes and twines, henequen (HEN-uh-kwen).
After defeating the Yaqui Indians in Sonora, Porfirio Diaz sent many to work on plantations here. A fifty
year "Caste War" went on in this region between the Spanish-descended criollos (cree-OH-yohs) and the
native Mayans. Campeche (cahm-PAY-chay) and Quintana Roo were split into separate states in an attempt
to make it more manageable. For the point, name this Mexican peninsular state.
ANSWER: Yucatan
121-13-94-25138

39. In this city, Jean Charles de Menezes was shot as part of Operation Kratos. An embassy in this city
was besieged for six days by a group seeking the liberation of Khuzestan. A resident of this city who led
the now-banned Islamist group Al-Muhajiron is Anjem Choudhury. A pair of Nigerian immigrants hacked
Lee Rigby to death in this city, which was also the site of an attack carried out by Germaine Lindsay and
Muhammad Siddique Kahn, which used plastic explosives and occurred on July 7. For the point, name this
city, whose Underground was the site of a terrorist bombing in 2005.
ANSWER: London
048-13-94-25139

40. A scientist with this last name was a crystallographer who discovered the structure of vitamin B12. A
man with this last name studied action potentials in squid giant axons with Andrew Huxley. Besides
Dorothy Crowfoot and Alan Lloyd, another man with this surname names a disease characterized by CD30
and CD15 positive Reed-Sternberg cells, that is characterized by a mixed infiltrate of blood cells. For the
point, give this surname possessed by an English physician who names a type of lymphoma.
ANSWER: Hodgkin [do not accept "Hodgkin's"]
048-13-94-25140

41. After disability pensions were ended for miners in the Jiu Valley, this man's security forces arrested
several thousand striking miners. This man published a letter from Salvador Dali satirically praising him
for receiving a presidential scepter. To make up for a low birth rate in his country, this author of the July
Theses issued Decree 770, outlawing abortion. His attempted eviction of pastor Laszlo Tokes resulted in
massive demonstrations in Timisoara which led to his execution alongside his wife Elena. For the point,
name this longtime Communist dictator of Romania.
ANSWER: Nicolae Ceausescu
141-13-94-25141

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 25 of 34

42. At this event, a breakaway faction from another party called "North Americans" were angry about
William Dayton being chosen over Nathaniel Banks and the Catholicism of the Presidential nominee's
father. Four-fifths of the platform decided here concerned slavery, though it also supported internal
improvements and the nativism of former Know-Nothings. The man nominated for President at this
convention was nicknamed "Pathfinder" and was famous for his invasion of California. For the point, name
this convention that nominated John C. Fremont and was the first for its party.
ANSWER: 1856 Republican National Convention [or 1856 RNC; prompt on partial answer]
121-13-94-25142

43. This action was preceded by "Freedom of Movement Drills" called Operation Sand Flea, and four
people based in Fort Clayton were attacked before it. Public support for this action was bolstered by a
video showing Billy Ford being beaten by a metal pipe by a member of the Dignity Battalions. The El
Chorillo (cho-REE-yoh) neighborhood was burned during this event. The target of this event took refuge in
the Vatican Embassy and was driven out by loud rock music before being indicted on drug charges. For the
point, name this 1989 military operation which sought to overthrow Manuel Noriega.
ANSWER: US invasion of Panama [or Operation Just Cause; or capture of Noriega or similar answers
until it is read]
048-13-94-25143

44. This man died in a theater on the island of Aegina after a welcoming crowd threw so many garments
onto him that he suffocated. This man was credited with establishing a council of fifty-one judges called the
Ephetae, which was only used in cases involving bloodshed. The theft of vegetables was treated the same
as committing sacrilege or murder by this man’s law code, according to a section of Plutarch's Life of
Solon. For the point, name this Athenian lawgiver who was said to have written in blood instead of ink
because of how harsh his laws were.
ANSWER: Dracon
023-13-94-25144

45. Messenger, the ancestor of all American Standardbred horses, was owned by a member of this family
named Henry. The pregnant Madeleine Force survived, but her husband from this family died, aboard the
Titanic. Wilson Price Hunt led an expedition to the mouth of the Columbia River financed by a member of
this family. That member of this family started the American Fur Company and was originally from the
German town of Walldorf. For the point, name this family that once had the richest man in America in
businessman John Jacob.
ANSWER: Astor
023-13-94-25145

46. An emperor of this dynasty killed the "Six Martyred Ministers" and abolished a group of scholars
called the Hall of Worthies. Victims of literati purges in this dynasty often composed death poems. A set of
reforms in this dynasty included the "short-hair order" and was passed after the assassination of empress
Myeongseong. A fleet of turtle ships from this dynasty under Admiral Yi sun-sin defeated a Japanese
invasion, and this dynasty also developed the Hangul script. For the point, name this "Hermit Kingdom," a
dynasty that ruled Korea for six hundred years.
ANSWER: Joseon dynasty
048-13-94-25146

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 26 of 34

47. A monarch of these people accidentally resigned from the kingship by getting tonsured on what he
thought was his deathbed. Chindasuinth allegedly weakened the power of their nobility by executing seven
hundred aristocrats. These people defeated the Suevi under Leovigild, who strengthened the Arians by
exiling the Catholic bishop Masona. The filioque (fill-ee-AH-kwuh) entered the Nicene Creed after the
Third Council of Toledo was organized by the first Catholic king of these people, Reccared. For the point,
name this Germanic people who founded a kingdom in Spain.
ANSWER: Visigoths [prompt on Goths; do not accept "Ostrogoths"]
121-13-94-25147

48. One of the last Western states to perform this action was Greece, which did it in 1923. This process was
mandated in Catholic states by the bull Inter gravissimas. Britain's performance of this action in 1752 led to
the chant "give us our eleven days." Sweden forgot to complete an initial attempt at this process due to the
Great Northern War, leading to a hasty backtracking on it in 1712 that resulted in the creation of "February
30th." For the point, identify this process of modernizing the observance of leap years and abandoning the
Julian calendar.
ANSWER: adopting the Gregorian calendar [or equivalents; prompt on less specific answers such as
calendar reform]
019-13-94-25148

49. The popularity of this song led to a rise in orders for "A four of fish and finger pie." This song uses the
word "mac" to describe a raincoat that a banker "never wears in the pouring rain." The author of this song
invited David Mason to play its piccolo trumpet solo. The title location of this song is repeatedly described
as "in my ears and in my eyes." Released as a B-side along with "Strawberry Fields Forever," it describes a
place where "all the people that come and go stop and say hello." For the point, name this Beatles song
about the street where John Lennon grew up.
ANSWER: "Penny Lane"
080-13-94-25149

50. A group called the "Royal Seven" performed this action in Durham. A leader of these events wrote the
play Brother President and was Clara Luper, who led this activity in Oklahoma City. This action was
carried out at a Woolworth's by four students, including Franklin McCain and Joseph McNeil, starting a
chain of similar events that were led by the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. For the point,
name this form of nonviolent protest that occurred in Greensboro in 1960 as part of the civil rights
movement.
ANSWER: sit-ins
140-13-94-25150

51. Chinese state factory 66 manufactured a variety of this object, and the forty-three-meter minarets of a
building containing Saddam Hussein's Blood Koran are in the shape of them. They were found in
shipments to Salvador Allende (eye-EN-day) in the Cuban Packages Scandal. The creator of this item was
inspired by his wounding at the Battle of Bryansk. This object appears on the flag of an organization led by
Hassan Nasrallah, named Hezbollah, and is crossed with a hoe in the flag of Mozambique. For the point,
name this ubiquitous small arm created by Mikhail Kalashnikov.
ANSWER: AK-47 [or Kalashnikov until it is read]
048-13-94-25151

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 27 of 34

52. This man is the most usually identified patron of the Morgan Bible. This king was subjected to mos
Teutonicus, where his corpse's flesh was boiled, making it easier to transport his remains back home. He
married Margaret of Provence in order to contain the power of Count Raymond VII of Toulouse. This
king's capture of Damietta during the Seventh Crusade is documented in Jean de Joinville's famous
chronicle. During this man's reign, Gothic architecture spread throughout Europe. For the point, identify
this only French king to be canonized.
ANSWER: Louis IX [or Saint Louis; prompt on Louis]
020-13-94-25152

53. The third edition of this pamphlet included an argument against pacifism in an "Address to the
Quakers." The introduction to the third edition of this pamphlet included the quote "time makes more
converts than reason." Robert Bell published this pamphlet, which included a byline saying it was "written
by an Englishman." Benjamin Rush helped edit this forty-eight page pamphlet and suggested changing the
title from Plain Truth. For the point, name this pamphlet published in 1776 that argued for the colonies'
independence from Britain and was written by Thomas Paine.
ANSWER: Common Sense
023-13-94-25153

54. This company developed the T4 prototype high-beta fusion reactor. The first female American Indian
engineer, Mary G. Ross, helped found a facility owned by this company. Franz Joseph Strauss received
several bribes from this company. A facility owned by this company located in Palmdale, California, is
called the Skunk Works. This company was responsible for developing the Polaris and Trident
submarine-launched missiles, and another of its products was nicknamed the Dragon Lady. For the point,
name this company whose products include the U-2 spy plane and the F-16 fighter jet.
ANSWER: Lockheed-Martin
048-13-94-25154

55. This event was the subject of "A Study of Journalism, Diplomacy, Propaganda, and History" by Herbert
Southworth. The Times reporter George Steer wrote an important account of this event, whose official
target was a bridge leading into the Renteria suburb. The Ucenta Arms Factory was spared during this
attack. Officially known as Operation Rugen, this attack was carried out by the Aviazione Legionaria and
an offshoot of the Luftwaffe known as the Condor Legion. For the point, name this bombing of a Basque
town during the Spanish Civil War, the subject of a Picasso painting.
ANSWER: bombing of Guernica
048-13-94-25155

56. Samuel Crozer and Daniel Coker helped create this colony after traveling on the Elizabeth with Samuel
Bacon. This colony's chief city on Cape Mesurado was forced to fit a design created by its first leader, Eli
Ayres. Thomas Buchanan and Jehudi Ashmun were both leaders of this colony, who worked for an
organization started by Robert Finley called the American Colonization Society. Joseph J. Roberts was the
first black governor of this colony, which named its capital after James Monroe. For the point, name this
colony in Africa that was created for freed black slaves from America.
ANSWER: Republic of Liberia
023-13-94-25156

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 28 of 34

57. Pope Innocent XII speaks the tenth book of this poet's epic narrative about a murder trial in Rome. The
speaker of one of his poems notes, "a burr had been a treasure trove," while crossing a wasteland in search
of the title structure. This poet of The Ring and the Book also wrote a poem narrated by the Duke of
Ferrara, who inadvertently reveals he murdered his wife, who had a heart "too soon made glad." For the
point, name this Victorian poet of dramatic monologues such as "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came"
and "My Last Duchess."
ANSWER: Robert Browning
014-13-94-25157

58. Alexander Balas was a pretender to the throne of this empire, whose coinage often depicted anchors
with bulging centers. Rome reduced this empire's possessions in the Treaty of Apamea after mowing down
its phalanx at the Battle of Magnesia. The founder of this empire teamed up with Lysimachus to win the
Battle of Ipsus and named himself "Nicator." A ruler of this empire with the epithet Epiphanes initiated the
persecution of the Jews that sparked the Maccabean Revolt. For the point, name this Hellenistic kingdom
consisting of most of the Asian territory conquered by Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: the Seleucid Kingdom/empire
080-13-94-25158

59. The freedom of religion component of the Bill of Rights was influenced by the petition citizens made to
this man on behalf of Quakers, the Flushing Remonstrance. This leader dispatched a fleet down the
Delaware River to seize control of New Sweden, though just nine years later he was the victim of a similar
expedition which came to enforce Charles II's transfer of land to James. As a result of an injury he
sustained during the attack on Saint-Martin island, this man used a peg leg. For the point, name this last
Dutch Governor of New Netherland.
ANSWER: Peter Stuyvesant
020-13-94-25159

60. In 2002, this school's team was the subject of the first-ever dedicated website calling for the firing of a
coach. This team never won a conference title from its founding in 1906 until 1991. Just five years later,
receiver Reidel Anthony and rusher Fred Taylor complemented Heisman-winning quarterback Danny
Wuerffel on this team's first national title squad, which defeated their in-state rival in the Sugar Bowl. For
the point, name this team coached by Steve Spurrier in the 1990s, which won two more titles with Urban
Meyer and Tim Tebow in the 2000s.
ANSWER: University of Florida [or UF; or Florida Gators; do not accept or prompt on "Florida State"]
019-13-94-25160

61. This publication frequently relied on allegorical stories by characters such as the aggressive Bully
Dawson, the old-fashioned Sir Roger de Coverly, the merchant Andrew Freeport, and the rake Will
Honeycomb. It was regularly read by one in ten Londoners after it first appeared in 1710, replacing its
co-creator's prior publication, The Tatler. For the point, name this periodical authored largely by Joseph
Addison and Richard Steele, which satirically promoted the new middle-class values of the English
merchant class.
ANSWER: The Spectator
019-13-94-25161

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 29 of 34

62. Frances Wright was enthralled by the Nashoba Colony in this country. After Wright's book inspired
Frances Trollope to come here, Trollope wrote a scathing travelogue attacking this country's manners and
hypocrisy. Another visitor to this place warned of a conformist "tyranny of the majority" here, but praised
its egalitarianism and separation of church and state. Gustave de Beaumont visited this country to study its
prison system. For the point, name this country whose democracy Alexis de Tocqueville wrote about.
ANSWER: United States of America [or USA.; or United States of America]
121-13-94-25162

63. A senator from this state gave a "speech heard round the world" upon his conversion from isolationism
to internationalism. Another legislator from this state repeatedly introduced a bill for single-payer
healthcare and published a report about election irregularities in Ohio in 2004. This state's governor once
called in the National Guard to stop the 12th Street riot, and the Battle of the Overpass was a labor standoff
in this state. For the point, name this state, home to Arthur Vandenberg, John Conyers, and George
Romney.
ANSWER: Michigan
048-13-94-25163

64. A namesake 1986 Authorization and Reauthorization Act expanded this law to create a research
program. This law authorizes "removal" and "remedial" actions and holds PRPs potentially liable. It targets
areas listed on the National Priorities List, which are rated by the HRS. Officially known as CLERCA, this
law was partly inspired by Kentucky's Valley of the Drums and the Love Canal disaster. For the point,
name this 1980 act, which gives authority to federal agencies to clean up chemical spills and hazardous
waste.
ANSWER: Superfund [or CLERCA until it is read; or Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act]
048-13-94-25164

65. The largest metal drinking vessel in the ancient world was found in this region in the grave of the
wealthy "Lady of Vix." Saint Martin established monasticism in this region, the starting point of Vindex's
revolt. The city of Lugdunum served as a capital of this region, whose further part was called "long-haired,"
or "comata." The Aquitani and the Belgae inhabited two of the "three parts" of this region according to a
history of the wars over this region by Julius Caesar. For the point, name this region of the ancient world
roughly equivalent to present-day France.
ANSWER: Gaul [or Burgundy until "Vindex" is read]
080-13-94-25165

66. The assistant surgeon William Brydon was the only survivor of a long retreat from the capital of this
modern-day country. Rulers in this country were often chosen at mass meetings known as "loya jirga."
Lord Elphinstone's army was massacred during the first of three British wars against this country, Its
modern form was founded by Ahmad Shah Durrani, who came in possession of the Koh-i-Noor diamond
and the Mughal peacock throne. For the point, name this country where the Anglo-Russian "Great Game"
was played out over control of cities such as Herat and Kandahar.
ANSWER: Afghanistan
020-13-94-25166

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 30 of 34

67. This man's hostility to the Jews of Alexandria was the target of Philo Judaeus's tract On the Embassy to
Gaius. His proposal to place a statue of himself in the Temple of Jerusalem was successfully delayed by the
Syrian governor Petronius. His sister Agrippina the Younger was exiled for taking part in a conspiracy
against him. Tiberius stated "I am nursing a viper in Rome's bosom," regarding this man. For the point,
name this Roman emperor whose nickname of "Little Boots" was given to him by the soldiers of his father
Germanicus and who was fond of his horse Incitatus.
ANSWER: Caligula
030-13-94-25167

68. The Alma massacre was perpetrated by a leader of this tribe named Victorio. A leader of this people
was taken hostage for killing the son of John Ward. Conflict against this people in the Verde Valley was
overseen by George Crook. Another leader of this people was imprisoned at Fort Sill for attempting to
avenge Cochise (coh-CHEEZ), and surrendered in Skeleton Canyon to Nelson Miles before selling pictures
of himself kneeling and holding a rifle at fairs. For the point, name this Southwestern tribe led by
Geronimo, whose name now graces the AH-64 attack heliocopter.
ANSWER: Apache tribe [or Chiricahua Apache]
104-13-94-25168

69. This empire claimed to have reached an agreement with Alexander Izvolsky of Russia, according to its
own foreign minister Alois Lexa von Aehrenthal. This empire gave up the Sandzak region following an
agreement with the Ottoman Empire. This empire's territories included regions called Cisleithania and
Transleithania. This empire was governed by separate prime ministers after its creation by the Ausgleich
(OWS-glike) of 1867 was negotiated by Franz Joseph. For the point, name this European empire under
Hapsburg rule that existed until the end of World War I as a dual monarchy.
ANSWER: Austria-Hungary [or Austro-Hungarian Empire; or Oesterreich-Ungarn; or
Oesterreichisch-Ungarisches Reich; or Dual Monarchy or Doppelmonarchie until it is read; do not
accept "Austria"]
023-13-94-25169

70. After the capture of Fowltown during one of these conflicts, forty-three people under the command of
Richard W. Scott were massacred. Fort Gadsden, also known as the Negro Fort, was destroyed during one
of these wars. The Treaty of Moultrie Creek attempted to avoid these wars, and the Treaty of Payne's
Landing was signed in an interbellum between two of them. John Quincy Adams defended Andrew
Jackson's capture of Pensacola in the first of these wars. For the point, name these wars involving Chief
Osceola and other Native Americans in Florida.
ANSWER: Seminole Wars
190-13-94-25170

71. Forty-seven inhabitants of these places were tried for sorcery by Juan Francisco Trevino. One of these
places was wiped out in the Acoma massacre commanded by Don Juan de Onate (ahn-YAH-tay). The
revolt of Pope (poh-PAY) was headquartered in one of these locales, which often contained an
underground storage room called a kiva. Pedro de Peralta attacked many of these settlements, which were
organized into "roomblocks." For the point, name these settlements whose inhabitants were converted by
Franciscans in New Mexico, where dwellings atop mesas were made of adobe.
ANSWER: pueblos
104-13-94-25171

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 31 of 34

72. An incident in this city resulted in the death of Nermin Hannay and Kenneth T. Ford. This city was
defended by a flak tower near a zoo. A street in this city was renamed in honor of a June 17th uprising of
construction workers. Libyan intelligence was responsible for the bombing of this city's La Belle
discotheque. A group of tanks faced off in this city's Checkpoint Charlie, which was a crossing between
two halves of this city that were reunited in 1992. For the point, name this city, the namesake of a large
barrier dividing East and West Germany.
ANSWER: Berlin [or West Berlin]
048-13-94-25172

73. One of these events, observed in 1987 by Ian Shelton, was the source of approximately twenty neutrinos
detected at various sites. Johannes Kepler wrote about observing this kind of event over the course of 1604.
Brian Schmidt and Adam Reiss's observation of several "high-Z" types of them determined that the
expansion of the universe is accelerating. One of these events, observed by Chinese and Arabic scientists in
1054, resulted in the formation of the first object in the Messier catalog, the Crab Nebula. For the point,
name these astronomical events in which a star explodes.
ANSWER: supernova [or any specific type of supernova; prompt on nova]
048-13-94-25173

74. George IV had to divorce his first wife, Maria Fitzherbert, because she belonged to this group. The
rights of this group were put at stake in the legal case Godden v. Hales. Inmates of Newgate Prison were
broken out on the authority of "King Mob" during riots against these people led by George Gordon. Popular
sentiment rose against this group after some of them, including Everard Digby and Robert Catesby, helped
plan the assassination of James I by having Guy Fawkes blow up Parliament. For the point, identify this
religious minority in England denounced for believing in Papal supremacy.
ANSWER: English Catholics
080-13-94-25174

75. This culture's stone statues have been found as far southeast as the Etowah site, where their
characteristic shell tempering is seen in pottery. In some areas, these inventors of an athletic game called
"chunkey" succeeded the Hopewell culture. The Natchez people descend from this hierarchical, chief-based
culture, which built a circle of cedar posts dubbed "Woodhenge," and rectangular earthen pyramids such as
Monk's Mound, at an Illinois site. For the point, name this pre-Columbian American Indian culture which
built the Cahokia mounds by a namesake river.
ANSWER: Mississippian culture [do not accept "Cahokia"]
104-13-94-25175

76. This economist showed that asymmetric information about one's own health distorts the insurance
market in the paper "Uncertainty and the Welfare Economics of Medical Care." He provided a theoretical
framework for how economics drives technological change in his "endogenous growth theory." He listed
unanimity, uniqueness of group rank, and nondictatorship among the five the goals of a social preference
ordering that can never all be satisfied at the same time. For the point, name this welfare economist who
developed the Impossibility Theorem.
ANSWER: Kenneth Arrow
019-13-94-25176

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 32 of 34

77. Before coming to power, this leader started to abolish slavery so his country could join the League of
Nations in 1923, but the process was not completed until 1942. This politician was deposed in 1974 by a
military junta called the Derg, which allegedly put his bones underneath a toilet. This man made an appeal
to the League of Nations in 1936 after he was forced into exile following an invasion that started the
Second Italo-Abyssinian War. For the point, name this messiah of Rastafarianism who was the last ruling
emperor of Ethiopia.
ANSWER: Haile Selassie I [or Tafari Makonnen until "Rastafarianism" is read]
023-13-94-25177

78. This organization tried to distance itself from the more extreme Synarchists and was supported by the
business-friendly Monterrey Group. This party, founded by Manuel Morin, grew when supporters of Juan
Almazan left his organization after his loss to Manuel Avila Camacho. This party's "Alliance for Change"
coalition nominated a former Coca-Cola executive whose electoral victory ended over seventy years of a
single party controlling the presidency. For the point, name this longtime rival to the PRI which first won
the Mexican presidency with Vicente Fox.
ANSWER: PAN [or Partido Accion Nacional; or National Action Party]
121-13-94-25178

79. Xenophon (ZEE-nuhf-on) claimed that this ruler was the first to create a postal system. The victory of
this man's forces at the Battle of Thymbra allowed him to conquer the Lydian Empire. This ruler gives his
name to a "Cylinder" that describes how he defeated Nabonidus and has been called the first declaration of
human rights. This man, who was succeeded by his son Cambyses II, defeated the Median empire and
captured Babylon in 538 BCE, ending the Babylonian Captivity of the Jews. For the point, name this
ancient Persian who was the founder of the Achaemenid Empire.
ANSWER: Cyrus the Great [or Cyrus II; prompt on Cyrus]
023-13-94-25179

80. Lydia Eccles and Chris Korda started a campaign to run this man for President. He posited that leftists
participated in social movements because they lacked power and that the industrial revolution had taken
away human freedom in his pamphlet Universal Society and Its Future. This man entered Harvard at
sixteen and became a professor at twenty-five, before living off the grid in Montana. Among his targets
were American Airlines Flight 444 and David Gerlenter at Yale. For the point, name this serial killer, who
mailed explosives to professors.
ANSWER: Theodore Kaczynski [or the Unabomber]
048-13-94-25180

81. The speech announcing this program focused on the replacement of material requisitions with a tax.
Two years into this program, a graph showing rising industrial prices versus falling agricultural prices was
circulated, leading to the name "scissors crisis" for the phenomenon of farmers declining to sell their
produce. This program was denounced in the article "Year of the Great Turn," and itself replaced the
radical War Communism. For the point, name this 1921 initiative of Vladimir Lenin which re-introduced a
market economy to resolve a burgeoning Soviet famine.
ANSWER: the New Economic Policy [or NEP; or Novaya Ekonomicheskaya Politika]
019-13-94-25181

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 33 of 34

82. A part of this period began in Logan County with the work of James McGready. During this period,
Alexander and Thomas Campbell and Barton Stone were responsible for the Stone-Campbell Movement.
Barton Stone was also the host of this movement's gathering at the Cane Ridge Meeting House. In upstate
New York, this period saw the creation of the Burned-Over District through the preaching of Charles
Grandison Finney. For the point, name this period that lasted from the end of the eighteenth century into
the 1830s and consisted of widespread Protestant revivalism.
ANSWER: Second Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening]
023-13-94-25182

83. This man proposed the "divorce bill" that would separate government revenues entirely from banks in
an independent Treasury system. Charles Ogle attacked this man's "royal lifestyle" in the Gold Spoon
Oration. He was a prominent member of the Barnburner faction of the Albany Regency, which he helped
found. A financial panic was widely blamed on him because of his enforcement of the Specie Circular. He
resigned as Secretary of State after the Petticoat Affair, but became Vice-President shortly thereafter. For
the point, name this "Little Magician" who succeeded Andrew Jackson as President.
ANSWER: Martin van Buren
121-13-94-25183

84. American sportscaster William Sears was the last living member of this religion's Hands of the Cause,
which formerly governed it following the death of Shogi Effendi. Queen Marie of Romania converted to this
religion, which is now governed by the Universal House of Justice. This religion was founded by a disciple
of "the gate," or the Bab (BOB), and is considered a heresy by Shia Islam due to its claims of a
post-Muhammad prophet. For the point, identify this tolerance-preaching religion, now centered in Haifa,
Israel following persecution in Iran.
ANSWER: Bahai
019-13-94-25184

85. Henry Green and Pelatiah Fordham met with crewmembers of this ship before it was captured by the
Washington. Most of the people on this ship had previously been on the Tecora, a story that emerged after
James Covey was recruited by Josiah Gibbs to act as an interpreter. Lewis Tappan convinced John Quincy
Adams to argue in front of the Supreme Court for the people found on this ship, who included Cinque. For
the point, name this Spanish schooner that left Cuba in 1839 and ended up in the United States after the
slaves onboard took control.
ANSWER: Amistad
023-13-94-25185

86. On this holiday, celebrants are challenged to say a series of ten names without taking a breath. The
king "Ahaseurus" (AH-hosh-VAY-ros) who divorces Vashti in the story of this holiday is sometimes
believed to be identical to the historical Xerxes (ZERK-seez). The story behind this holiday is contained in
a book excluded from the Bible proper for not mentioning the name of God, the megillot of Esther. For the
point, identify this Jewish holiday which remembers Mordechai's saving the Jews of Persia from being
killed by Haman.
ANSWER: Purim
019-13-94-25186

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 34 of 34

