2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 6

BEE ROUND 6
1. This man designed the riding saddle still used by the U.S. Army cavalry. He was nominated over Thomas
Seymour, but reached out to Seymour's faction of the party by choosing George Pendleton as his running
mate. He angered members of his party by repudiating the "peace plank" drafted by Clement
Vallandigham, a leader of the Copperheads. This man was removed from command after he failed to
pursue Confederate forces defeated at Antietam. For the point, name this Union general who was fired by
Lincoln and ran against him as the Democratic nominee in 1864.
ANSWER: George Brinton McClellan
121-13-94-24101

2. In Italy, this artist labored on a never-finished frieze depicting the Race of the Riderless Horse.
Thunderclouds roll in the background of his painting of a helmeted cavalry officer stumbling around with a
cane while guiding his horse. This artist depicted Napoleonic warfare in The Wounded Cuirassier and The
Charging Chasseur. Another painting by him implicitly criticizes Charles X, since it depicts an incident in
which an incompetent captain jettisoned the lower classes aboard his ship. For the point, name this French
Romantic painter of The Raft of the Medusa.
ANSWER: Theodore Gericault
080-13-94-24102

3. An 1873 debate over whether to perform this action was known as the Seikanron. An event of this type
in the 1590s was ended by the Council of Five Elders after the Siege of Jinju sparked Chinese intervention,
ending Hideyoshi Toyotomi's plans to use this action as a base for conquering the Ming Dynasty. In 1231,
the first of six Mongol instances of this action occurred, subjugating the Goryeo Dynasty. For the point,
identify this historical action in which Japan or China used military force to occupy another East Asian
country.
ANSWER: invading Korea [or occupying Korea or going to war with Korea, etc; prompt on partial
answer]
019-13-94-24103

4. This event was made worse by the widespread use of "jetties" atop tenement buildings. John Evelyn and
Robert Hooke both proposed building a new orthogonal street system after this event. This disaster
immediately followed the events described in Daniel Defoe's Journal of the Plague Year and is itself
described in the diary of Samuel Pepys (PEEPS). After this event, Christopher Wren rebuilt St. Paul's and
many other buildings. For the point, name this 1666 disaster which began in a bakery and destroyed most
of the seat of British government.
ANSWER: Great Fire of London [prompt on partial answer]
019-13-94-24104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 1 of 9

5. During periods of mourning, a dark one of these objects called a pulla was worn. A bleached white one
of these objects is the root for the word "candidate" because it was only worn by those running for public
office. Prostitutes were required by law to wear this article of clothing, which no other women were
allowed to wear. A specially-trained slave called a "vestiplicus" was employed by some men to help create
the "sinus" and "umbo" when putting on this piece of clothing. For the point, name this piece of clothing
worn over tunics by freeborn Romans, which they wore loosely and in folds.
ANSWER: togas
023-13-94-24105

6. During the reign of this emperor, the freedmen Narcissus and Pallas rose to positions of power. This
emperor's expansionary policies included the annexation of Mauretania and Judea. This emperor made
Camulodonum into a colony and executed his wife Messalina for marrying the consul Silius. This husband
of Agrippina the Younger was made emperor when the Praetorian Guard found him shuddering in the wake
of Caligula's murder. For the point, name this Julio-Claudian emperor famous for his stutter.
ANSWER: Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
080-13-94-24106

7. A skirmish at Kishm Island in this body of water killed the namesake of Canada's largest island, William
Baffin. Antonio Correia conquered an island here that was known for its pearls. On its shores, a region once
called the "pirate coast" became known as the Trucial States when it was united by a Perpetual Maritime
Truce with Britain. After departing from Socotra, Afonso de Albuquerque conquered an island in this sea in
1507. Britain helped recapture this body of water's island of Hormuz for the Safavid Empire. For the point,
name this gulf between Iran and Arabia.
ANSWER: Persian Gulf [or Arabian Gulf]
232-13-94-24107

8. At one point in this event, a speaker listed such groups as "the Order of Ahepa" and "Hadassah." A
speech here welcomed a "kinder, gentler nation." At the end of this event, a speaker gave the "thousand
points of light" speech, which featured the ill-fated promise, "read my lips: no new taxes." In a surprise
announcement during this event's second day, the relatively unknown Dan Quayle was named as the
running mate. For the point, name this event in which George H.W. Bush was nominated for President for
the first time.
ANSWER: 1988 Republican National Convention [or 1988 RNC; prompt on partial answer]
052-13-94-24108

9. The architectural firm Burnham & Root designed a "Temple" for the Chicago chapter of this
organization. Articles published by this organization often featured stories involving Ned and his Uncle
Jack. Children of members of this organization under the age of six often took part in "white ribbon
ceremonies." The Union Signal is the main publication of this organization, whose first president, Annie
Wittenmeyer, was followed by a woman who urged members to "do everything," named Frances Willard.
For the point, name this prohibitionist group with only female members.
ANSWER: Women's Christian Temperance Union [or WCTU]
020-13-94-24109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 2 of 9

10. This man lost his wife and three daughters in a fire at their house in the Presidio. He was once
promoted over 862 senior officers, due in part to his pacification of the Moros during his command of Fort
McKinley in the Mount Bagsak campaign. The leader of the Punitive Expedition, he gained his nickname
while leading the Buffalo Soldiers in the Tenth Cavalry, and he led an expedition to capture Pancho Villa in
1916. For the point, identify this commander, nicknamed "Black Jack," who led the American
Expeditionary Force during World War I.
ANSWER: John Joseph Pershing
030-13-94-24110

11. The phrase "Swords into Ploughshares" was banned in this country, where an economic system
introduced by Evsi Libermann led to the leader of the FDJ dancing the twist. 1953 worker uprisings in this
country responded to the increased productivity quotas of the "New Course" system. Its secret police, led
by Erich Mielke, employed nearly three percent of its population. The awful Trabant automobile was
produced in this country, which was led by Walter Ulbricht and Erich Honecker for much of its existence.
For the point, name this country, home to the Stasi, which built the Berlin Wall.
ANSWER: East Germany [or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or Deutsche Demokratische
Republik; or DDR; do not accept or prompt on "Germany"]
141-13-94-24111

12. A speaker at this institution claimed there is a "time when the operation of the machine becomes so
odious that you can't take part." The "bodies upon the gears" speech was given at Sproul Hall at this
institution. Clark Kerr was dismissed from its presidency because he was perceived as too soft in handling
protests here led by students such as Mario Savio. The 1960s Free Speech Movement series of protests was
centered at this university, which Governor Ronald Reagan promised to "clean up." For the point, name this
oldest and flagship institution within the University of California system.
ANSWER: University of California, Berkeley [or UC-Berkeley; prompt on University of California]
052-13-94-24112

13. This leader's son Pufang became a major advocate for disabled peoples' rights after being
defenestrated with his family watching. This man's status fell after he was accused of conspiracy by the
Gang of Four. Sharing power with the Eight Elders, he reaffirmed his economic policies during a "southern
tour." This man rose to power by weakening support for Hua Goufeng (WA gwo-FUNG). For the point,
name this man who led the People's Republic of China towards a market economy in the years after Mao
Zedong's death.
ANSWER: Deng Xiaoping
192-13-94-24113

14. In 2013, five rural counties in this state voted to secede in the 51st State Initiative. In 1992, a
referendum in this state limited its government's ability to raise taxes with the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.
James Dobson founded Focus on the Family in this state, which is represented in the Senate by Michael
Bennet and Mark Udall. In 2012, this state was the location of the Aurora shooting during a screening of
The Dark Knight Rises. For the point, name this state governed by John Hickenlooper that legalized
marijuana in the 2012 elections.
ANSWER: Colorado
080-13-94-24114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 3 of 9

15. This empire assigned tax collection to kurakas and kamayuqs. This empire's native name,
"Tawantinsuyu," comes from its organization as four quarters called suyus, each of which was divided into
provinces called wamani. The second-in-command of this civilization was its chief priest, the Willaq Umu.
Reviving this empire was the goal of the executed rebel Tupac Amaru. This people celebrated their sun god
on the winter solstice with the Inti Raymi festival. For the point, identify this South American civilization
whose leaders included Huascar (WOSS-car) and Atahualpa.
ANSWER: Inca people/empire
233-13-94-24115

16. This action was challenged by Helen Chenoweth-Hage's House Joint Resolution 77, which insisted it
would lead to the construction of Chinese missile bases. A September 1977 treaty promised that this action
would be completed on December 31, 1999, and Jimmy Carter's support for it was challenged by the Strom
Thurmond observation that "we bought and we paid for it and we should keep it." For the point, name this
action guaranteed by the Torrijos-Carter Treaties, in which the United States gave up control of a waterway
to a Central American country.
ANSWER: the United States giving up the Panama Canal to Panama [or equivalents; or the
Torrijos-Carter Treaties until it is read]
052-13-94-24116

17. This poet depicted the impact on the poor of the war with Revolutionary France in his poem Adventures
on Salisbury Plain. In another poem, he describes himself as a lover of "all the mighty world of eye, and
ear, both what they half create, and what perceive." That poem wishes for his sister Dorothy that her mind
"shall be a mansion for all lovely forms." This poet helped inaugurate Romanticism by collaborating with
Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads. For the point, name this English poet of The Prelude and
"Tintern Abbey."
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
014-13-94-24117

18. These people spoke the Ramasi language and developed from seven Muslim tribes into Hindu devotees
who used a ritual involving a handkerchief. These people were suppressed by William Sleeman, at the
same time as the practice of suttee, during the governorship of William Bentinck in the 1830s. These
highwaymen strangled and robbed their victims for a sacrifice to Kali, making travel in India dangerous.
For the point, identify this criminal cult whose name became a general term for a violent or lawbreaking
person.
ANSWER: thugs [or thuggees]
019-13-94-24118

19. A king with this name arranged the marriage of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert and was nicknamed
the "Nestor of Europe." Another ruler with this name was the first non-Muslim allowed to tour the Dome of
the Rock since the Crusades and instituted a conscription policy of one son per family in 1909. A territory
controlled by a king with this name was the subject of the Casement Report, which described the abuses of
the Force Publique. For the point, give this name shared by the first two modern kings of Belgium, the
second of whom was given private control of the Congo Free State.
ANSWER: Leopold I of Belgium [or Leopold II; or Leopold George Christiaan Frederik; or Leopold
Lodewijk Filips Maria Victor]
023-13-94-24119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 4 of 9

20. A person involved in this effort was also responsible for introducing myxoma virus to curb the
Australian rabbit population and was Frank Fenner. The unit in charge of this goal was headed by Donald
Henderson, and Karel Raska developed surveillance methods as part of this program. This effort succeeded
after teams aided Rahima Banu and Ali Maow Maalin, who were the last people to fall victim to variola
major and minor, respectively. For the point, name this international public health initiative, the only
instance in which a disease has been eliminated.
ANSWER: eradicating smallpox [or equivalents]
048-13-94-24120

21. This man proposed a guaranteed minimum income program called Demogrant. George Meany's
distaste for this man led the AFL-CIO to endorse neither candidate in an election he ran in. He said "This
chamber reeks of blood" before the voting for a bill he sponsored with Mark Hatfield to begin American
withdrawal from Vietnam. He removed Tom Eagleton from his ticket after people learned Eagleton had
undergone electro-shock therapy, and he lost every state but Massachusetts to Richard Nixon. For the point,
name this 1972 Democratic Presidential candidate.
ANSWER: George McGovern
121-13-94-24121

22. This territory was granted three votes as part of an agreement that gave it a constitution in 1911.
People from a region within this territory were insulted with the name "Wackes," the use of which by
Guenter von Forstner led to the Zabern Affair. This territory was ruled as a Reichsland after it was ceded
by the Treaty of Frankfurt. This territory included Moselle, which was one of the German-speaking
sections given up following the Franco-Prussian War. For the point, name this territory made up of two
northeastern regions in France that changed hands four times between 1870 and 1945.
ANSWER: Alsace-Lorraine [or Elsass-Lothringen; reversal of the names is OK, but do not accept or
prompt on partial answer]
023-13-94-24122

23. Henry Ford's book My Life and Work cites this industry as the first to introduce the assembly line. Dial
soap was first developed by a company in this industry. A company founded by Gustavus Swift in this
industry pioneered the use of railroad cars called "reefers." Philip Armour, operating out of the Union Stock
Yards, was a robber baron in this industry. A description of this industry inspired the quote, "I aimed at the
public's heart and hit it in the stomach." For the point, name this industry targeted by Upton Sinclair’s The
Jungle.
ANSWER: meatpacking industry [or meatpacking industry]
190-13-94-24123

24. This man worked with the producers of the show Medical Center to create a fake episode used to study
the effects of television on antisocial behavior. This researcher was inspired by debates around the trial of
Adolf Eichmann to set up an apparatus that included switches marked "XXX" and was described as part of
a project on learning to "teachers" who were actually the subjects of the study. For the point, name this
psychologist who found that people were willing to deliver fatal electric shocks in the "obedience to
authority" experiment.
ANSWER: Stanley Milgram
019-13-94-24124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 5 of 9

25. Brendan Shanahan is the all-time leader in a stat named for this man, with seventeen instances of
scoring a goal, recording an assist, and getting into a fight in the same game. This player came out of
retirement to join the Houston Aeros of the World Hockey Association in 1977, where he played with two
of his sons on two championship teams; he ultimately played thirty-three full seasons as a starting
professional hockey player. For the point, name this four-time Stanley Cup winner with the Red Wings,
whose many scoring records were broken by Wayne Gretzky.
ANSWER: Gordon "Gordie" Howe
019-13-94-24125

26. This American network first aired a cartoon featuring the Grassy Knoll restaurant and a crisis hotline
run by replicas of Abe Lincoln and Gandhi, Clone High. Buggles and the snarky Daria Morgendorrfer were
broadcast by this network, whose cultural impact was satirized in the Dire Straits song "Money for
Nothing." This network once featured personalities called "VJs," and marketed itself as spawning a
namesake "generation" with lower attention spans. For the point, name this Viacom television channel
launched in 1981, the first network dedicated to music videos.
ANSWER: MTV [or Music Television]
104-13-94-24126

27. Russell Alger served as Secretary of War under this President, who employed the first Presidential
personal secretaries, John Addison Porter and George Cortelyou. John Sherman resigned as Secretary of
State to this President and was replaced by William Day. This man's first Vice-President, Garret Hobart,
died in office. His successful "front-porch campaign" was managed by Mark Hanna and ushered in the
Fourth Party System. For the point, name this Republican who defeated William Jennings Bryan twice in
Presidential elections, the first in 1896.
ANSWER: William McKinley
190-13-94-24127

28. Archbishop Veniamin was killed in a cathedral after preaching against this movement. This movement
was defeated at Tatishchevo by Alexander Bibikov before it succeeded in capturing Saratov and burning
Kazan. It was put down during a siege of modern-day Volgograd by Alexander Suvorov. Bashkir Muslims
and Yaik Cossacks joined this event, which decreed the abolition of serfdom and believed that its namesake
leader was the assassinated Peter III. For the point, name this 1773 to 1774 uprising against Catherine the
Great.
ANSWER: Pugachev's rebellion
019-13-94-24128

29. These measures seek to reduce the possibility of so-called "U-turn transactions." Thirteen Democratic
senators, including Chuck Schumer, signed an open letter supporting these measures, purportedly to assist
the P5+1. Bob Menendez and Mark Kirk sponsored legislation adding measures of this type, which the
White House claims would increase the chances of war. These measures have caused a four-fifths
devaluation of the rial currency. For the point, identify these punitive economic measures passed in order to
force a Middle Eastern country to give up its nuclear program.
ANSWER: United States economic sanctions against Iran [prompt on partial answer]
080-13-94-24129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 6 of 9

30. A man from this country brought Durer's rhinoceros to his king and captured Hormuz despite being
outnumbered fifty-fold. An explorer from this country christened his discovery the Island of the True Cross
and was relieved of command of the "Revenge Fleet" following the massacre of his crew by the Zamorin of
Calicut. That man from this country blew off course and landed in an area east of the dividing line in the
Treaty of Tordesillas. For the point, name this European power whose explorer Pedro Cabral discovered
Brazil.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Portugal and the Algarves
020-13-94-24130

31. This man was called the Antichrist by Ian Paisley during a speech he gave to the European Parliament.
A visit by this leader to Chile prompted Pinochet to hold open elections the next year. This man was
targeted as part of the Bojinka Plot while he presided over the 1995 World Youth Day in Manila. For
healing a Sister Marie Simon-Pierre of Parkinson’s Disease, he was beatified. In 1992, he issued an
apology following a thirteen-year investigation of the trial of Galileo. For the point, name this Polish pope
who served from 1978 until 2005.
ANSWER: John Paul II [or Karol Jozef Wojtyla; prompt on John Paul; do not accept or prompt on
"John" or "Paul" alone]
190-13-94-24131

32. This man's brief rule at a young age ended when Candarli Halil engineered the return of his father to
the throne. This ruler was supported against Candarli Halil by his advisor Zaganos in continuing a siege.
That successful siege included an agreement between this man and the Genoese living in Galata. This son
of Murad II was the first Ottoman to take the title "Caesar," and he employed the Hungarian engineer
Urban to create a massive cannon. For the point, name this sultan who earned his nickname in 1453 by
defeating the Byzantine Empire and capturing Constantinople.
ANSWER: Mehmed II [or Mehmed the Conqueror; or Mehmed Fatih; prompt on Mehmed]
023-13-94-24132

33. This state became home to French exiles who started the Vine and Olive Colony. A Senator from this
state for nearly thirty years was short-lived Vice-President William Rufus King. Early politics in this state
were dominated by the Georgia Faction. A city in this state served as the first capital of the Confederacy,
and this state lost control of its major port following the Union victory at the Battle of Mobile Bay. For the
point, name this state in the South where quick growth and industrialization led to the nicknames the Magic
City and the Pittsburgh of the South for Birmingham.
ANSWER: Alabama
023-13-94-24133

34. At this group's first meeting, Osvaldo Dorticos Torrado spoke out against apartheid. This group's
purpose was set out in the Havana Declaration during its conference in 1979, which was when Ne Win
withdrew Burma from this group. The only European member currently in this group is Belarus, although it
was originally started at a 1961 conference in Belgrade. Tito was a founder of this organization along with
Kwame Nkrumah and Sukarno. For the point, name this group that was originally for developing countries
not allied with the US or USSR.
ANSWER: Non-Aligned Movement [or NAM]
023-13-94-24134

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 7 of 9

35. This man was removed from a college faculty post after advocating harvesting the organs of executed
prisoners. This man was the most prominent client of attorney Geoffrey Fieger, who used the fame gained
by defending this man to run against John Engler as the 1998 Democratic nominee for governor of
Michigan. This inventor of the "Thanatron" and "Mercitron" was depicted on a 1998 episode of 60 Minutes
with ALS sufferer Thomas Youk, which led to his conviction for second-degree murder. For the point,
name this advocate of physician-assisted suicide.
ANSWER: Jacob "Jack" Kevorkian
019-13-94-24135

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 8 of 9

Extra Question

36. This person published a newspaper that was funded by George Train and David Melliss, but went into
debt and ended after being bought by Laura Curtis Bullard. This activist successfully pushed for the
University of Rochester to admit women. This person refused to pay a hundred dollar fine for voting in the
election of 1872, an action she used the Fourteenth Amendment to justify. The publisher of the newspaper
The Revolution, she was a founder of the National Woman Suffrage Association. For the point, name this
collaborator with Elizabeth Cady Stanton in the women's suffrage movement.
ANSWER: Susan Brownell Anthony
140-13-94-24136

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 9 of 9

