2014 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 2

BEE ROUND 2
1. A ruler of this country built a palace modeled after Sans Souci and shot himself with a silver bullet.
Sonthonax issued a decree of emancipation in this country in reaction to a rebellion led by Dutty
Bouckman. In the nineteenth century, this country was ruled by the autocrats Faustin I and Henri
Christophe. The Leclerc Expedition failed to take over this country, where an ethnic cleansing campaign by
Jean-Jacques Dessalines (dess-uh-LEEN) eliminated much of the white population. For the point, name this
location of a successful slave revolt under Toussaint L'Ouverture (too-SAHN loo-vert-UR).
ANSWER: Haiti [or Saint-Domingue]
080-13-94-20101

2. A holder of this position engineered the exile of Cicero and was caught trying to seduce Caesar's wife in
the Bona Dea scandal. This office was held by both Milo and Clodius, and another holder of this title
passed the Lex Sempronia land reform. Both that holder of this office and his brother were assassinated by
Optimate mobs. For the point, name this position within Roman society which could veto Senate legislation
and which enjoyed immunity from personal violation, the appointed defenders of the class in opposition to
the patricians.
ANSWER: Tribune of the Plebians
141-13-94-20102

3. This man was nicknamed "The Elder," as he was seventy-three when he assumed office. John F. Kennedy
dismissed this man by stating "he is too old and I am too young for us to understand each other." His
defense minister was accused of accepting ten million dollar from Lockheed and was forced to resign after
he was found to have ordered the arrest of Der Spiegel journalists. This man told his aides "this is our
breakthrough" before agreeing to the Schuman Declaration. For the point, name this Christian Democratic
leader of West Germany from 1949 to 1963.
ANSWER: Konrad Adenauer
121-13-94-20103

4. The first line of a song dedicated to one of these organizations is "negras tormentas agitan nos aires
(EYE-race)." A song about these organizations was dedicated to the CNT, whose power was contested in
the 1937 Barcelona May Days. Ralph Chaplin wrote a song about these organizations that claimed, "there
can be no power greater anywhere beneath the sun;" that song was "Solidarity Forever." 10 points, name
these organizations exemplified by the Wobblies and Teamsters, which are meant to empower workers.
ANSWER: trade unions [or labor unions; or amalgamation; or anarchist party until "Chaplin" is read]
153-13-94-20104

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 1 of 8

5. This movement was given Spanish support in its "Little Rising" that was defeated by Joseph Wightman at
the Battle of Glen Shiel. The Earl of Mar led this movement after the Battle of Sheriffmuir. This
movement's forces won the Battle of Prestonpans, and its followers supported the "king over the water."
Rebellions started by this movement included the Fifteen and the Forty-Five, the latter of which was ended
at the Battle of Culloden. For the point, name this movement that supported the Old Pretender and Young
Pretender in an effort to restore Stuart rule to England.
ANSWER: Jacobitism [or Jacobites]
023-13-94-20105

6. This man was the subject of the Thomas Nast cartoon "Great Expectations," in which he is portrayed as
a rat emerging from Liberal Mountain. This man published Margaret Fuller's Woman in the Nineteenth
Century and the letters of Karl Marx from Europe. He signed the bail bond of Jefferson Davis in 1867, and
he was institutionalized following an election defeat. For the point, name this founder of the New York
Tribune who ran against Ulysses S. Grant in the 1872 Presidential election as a Liberal Republican and
apocryphally said, "Go west, young man."
ANSWER: Horace Greeley
030-13-94-20106

7. The leader of this movement expressed his artistic philosophy in The Art Spirit. A painter in this
movement depicted a defeated man's upside down face as he is being pinned to a mat in The Wrestlers. A
member of this group, John Sloan, depicted McSorley's Bar, and another member of this group depicted a
boxing match in Stag at Sharkey's. For the point, name this early twentieth century group of American
artists that depicted urban life and included Robert Henri, George Luks, and George Bellows.
ANSWER: The Eight [or the Ashcan School]
030-13-94-20107

8. This man's final wife was the daughter of Gaspard de Coligny, and an earlier wife was impregnated by
the father of Peter Paul Rubens. After failing in his efforts on land, this man financed the Sea Beggars.
This leader wrote a "Justification against the False Blame of his Calumniators" for not appearing in front of
the Council of Troubles. Balthasar Gerard assassinated this leader after a bounty was put out by Philip II.
For the point, name this stadholder from the House of Orange who was a leader during the early years of
the revolt against Spain in the Netherlands.
ANSWER: William I [or William the Silent; or Willem de Zwijger; prompt on William of Orange]
023-13-94-20108

9. In a skirmish at this battle, a foraging party led by Banastre Tarleton clashed with Lauzun's Legion. The
losing commander at this battle sent Charles O'Hara to surrender his sword. The losing army marched away
from this battle playing "The World Turned Upside Down" on their fifes. Tench Tlighman reported the
victory at this battle to Congress, and Lord North proclaimed "Oh God, it's all over" when told of this
battle's result. For the point, name this battle where Charles Cornwallis surrendered to George Washington.
ANSWER: Battle of Yorktown [or Siege of Yorktown]
186-13-94-20109

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 2 of 8

10. Disagreement over a bill retroactively approving funding for this war led the National Liberal Party to
split from the Progress Party. In its aftermath, the victor reconstituted its customs parliament so that
delegates were chosen by popular vote. This war began after one side allegedly ignored the Gastein
Convention by asking for a resolution on governance of Holstein. An army organized by Helmuth von
Moltke decisively defeated Ludwig von Benedek's forces to end this war at the Battle of Koniggratz. For
the point, name this brief 1866 war that left Prussia the dominant German state.
ANSWER: Austro-Prussian War [or Seven Weeks War; prompt on German Unification War or
equivalents]
121-13-94-20110

11. The song "No Motherland Without You" was dedicated to this man. In 1994, his government signed the
Agreed Framework with the U.S. He had a heart attack after learning that a hydroelectric dam in Huichon
sprung a leak. With a southern neighbor, he implemented the Sunshine Policy. This man insisted that his
nation adopt "Socialism of Our Style," an amendment to his father's policy of juche (JOO-chay). This
"Eternal Father" authorized a widely condemned nuclear test in 2006. For the point, name this leader of
North Korea who died in 2011.
ANSWER: Kim Jong-il [prompt on Kim]
190-13-94-20111

12. Under George Patton, this man served as the head of the II Corps during the North African campaign.
This man advised against widening the Korean War into China, stating that it would result in "the wrong
war, at the wrong place, at the wrong time, and with the wrong enemy." He was the last man to achieve the
rank of General of the Army, and this head of the Veterans Administration following World War II was
known as the "Soldier's General." For the point, name this commander of the Twelfth Army Group during
World War II who, in 1949, became the first chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
ANSWER: Omar Bradley
030-13-94-20112

13. An adoptee of these people, Henry Spelman, wrote on their customs for European audiences. A
prisoner of these people was taken to their central town of Werowocomoco after being kidnapped in their
land along the Chickahominy river. Local leaders called weroance led this group, which, when led by
Opechancanough (OH-puh-CHAN-kah-nuff), fought against Thomas Dale's settlement at Henricus and a
place supplied by Thomas West. Its constituent tribes included the Mattaponi and Pamunkey. For the point,
name this Native American confederacy which attacked Jamestown.
ANSWER: Powhatan Confederacy [prompt on Pamunkey; prompt on Mattaponi; prompt on Algonquin]
104-13-94-20113

14. The synods of Toulouse and Tarragona strictly controlled this action after it was limited by Innocent III
in response to the Cathar heresy. Ulfias's carrying out of this task resulted in our primary source of
knowledge about the Gothic language, the Codex Argenteus. While in exile at Wartburg Castle, Martin
Luther did this with respect to German. This action created the Greek Septuagint and the Latin Vulgate. For
the point, name this task completed by St. Jerome, the process of writing the holy book of Christianity into
another language.
ANSWER: translating the Bible
141-13-94-20114

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 3 of 8

15. The Jelling stones boast of Gorm the Sleepy's work against this religious belief, which was first
opposed by people such as Queen Thyra and Harald Klak. This belief was not suppressed until Eric
Good-Harvest and Blot-Sweyn were defeated by Inge, who destroyed the shrines at Uppsala, a former
center of this belief. King Olaf and the apostle Ansgar acquired sainthood for suppressing this belief, which
survived in remote areas until the time of Sigurd the Crusader. For the point, what was this belief system in
which Freya, Odin, and Thor were venerated?
ANSWER: Norse paganism [or descriptive answers such as "the pre-Christian religion of Scandinavia";
or Norse mythology, etc.; or worship of Thor until it is read; prompt on answers like "Viking religion"]
019-13-94-20115

16. A proposed device of this kind was to be directed by Roy Schwitters; that project was located near
Waxahachie, Texas but was cancelled in 1993. The November Revolution was partly due to Burton
Richter's work at one of these devices at Stanford. These devices use a standard of five-sigma for
discovery, and one of these devices found a resonance at 126 electron-volts that correspond to the Higgs
boson. For the point, name these devices that include the Tevatron at Fermilab and CERN's LHC, which
smash particles together at very high speeds.
ANSWER: particle collider [or particle accelerator; or particle detector]
048-13-94-20116

17. Pretty Boy Floyd was suspected of participating in a shootout in this city that left four policemen dead,
the Union Station Massacre. This city's post-Civil War growth was sparked by the opening of Octave
Chanute's Hannibal Bridge, and it is the location of the National World War I Museum. This city was the
target of several raids by William Quantrill, and it was led by the Pendergast machine in the first half of the
twentieth century. For the point, name this city, where namesake forms of jazz and barbecue were
developed, which is not located in the state that shares its name.
ANSWER: Kansas City, Missouri
030-13-94-20117

18. Kathleen Horvath shockingly upset this player at the French Open in 1983, and Helena Sukova's
victory over her at the Australian Open the following year ended a record seventy-four-match win streak.
In 2004, this woman won a match at Wimbledon at the age of forty-seven. She achieved a career Grand
Slam in both mixed doubles and women's doubles, partnering with Leander Paes (PIE-ess) and Pam
Shriver. This woman, who owned a career 43-37 edge over her American rival, abandoned her Czech
citizenship in 1975. For the point, name this longtime rival of Chris Evert.
ANSWER: Martina Navratilova
190-13-94-20118

19. At this university, the 2012 course "Introduction to Congress" led to a scandal in which deans' e-mails
were read by investigators. Several December 2013 exams were postponed at this university after "partisan
taunting" researcher Eldo Kim e-mailed a bomb threat. This university defeated New Mexico to win its
first-ever NCAA basketball tournament game in 2013, a feat which was overshadowed by the stripping of
four NAQT quizbowl championships due to the cheating of Andy Watkins. For the point, identify this
scandal-plagued university that, like MIT, is located in Cambridge.
ANSWER: Harvard University
019-13-94-20119

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 4 of 8

20. Hannibal named himself, Alexander the Great and this man as the three greatest commanders in
history. This man launched an unsuccessful siege of the Carthaginian city of Lilybaeum following a
campaign spurred by a request for aid from Tarentum. During that campaign, this man introduced the
elephant to Italian warfare and won victories at Heraclea and Asculum against the Romans which cost him
many of his best troops, causing him to remark "One more such victory, and we shall be undone." For the
point, name this Hellenistic general who gives his name to a very costly victory.
ANSWER: Pyrrhus of Epirus
141-13-94-20120

21. CIA Battalion 316 tortured and murdered hundreds of this country's citizens in the 1980s. Xiomara
(sho-MAH-ruh) Castro, wife of this country's former president, lost its 2013 presidential election. The
destruction of this country's banana crop by Hurricane Fifi caused the suicide of financier Eli Black. Pepe
Lobo became president of this country in 2010 after a 2009 coup overthrew Manuel Zelaya. A 2013 U.N.
report announced that it once again has the world’s highest crime rate. For the point, name this Central
American country which has frequently feuded with its southern neighbor, Nicaragua.
ANSWER: Republic of Honduras
190-13-94-20121

22. A member of this art movement wrote the "color-tone drama" The Yellow Sound. Letters float in the
foreground of Cyclist, a painting from this movement by Natalia Gonchorova. Brown looms in the far right
of a painting mourning the defeat of nature by industry in The Fate of the Animals by Franz Marc, one of
several members of this movement who died during World War I. For the point, name this German
Expressionist movement which took its name from a Wassily Kandinsky painting.
ANSWER: The Blue Rider [or Der Blaue Reiter]
230-13-94-20122

23. This crop was first introduced on St. Simons and Cumberland Islands by Franciscan monks in 1571.
The shipment of this food in baskets, rather than on pulverized charcoal, helped Raphael Moses sell it
outside the South. A promoter of this food, Prosper Berckmans, ran a "nursery" which developed the
Chinese Cling type of this food and is now the site of the Masters golf tournament. Planter Samuel Rumph
named a commercially-successful type of this foodstuff for his wife, Elberta. For the point, name this fruit
notably grown on orchards in Georgia.
ANSWER: Georgia peaches
104-13-94-20123

24. The Aryan Nations compound in this state's town of Hayden Lake was confiscated by an SPLC lawsuit.
This state's governor Frank Steunenberg was assassinated during a labor dispute in 1905, leading Clarence
Darrow to defend Big Bill Haywood from conspiracy charges. This state was where white supremacist
Randy Weaver was killed in the Ruby Ridge incident, and it was the home of leading anti-League of
Nations advocate Senator William Borah. For the point, what is this state, the second-most-Mormon by
percentage after Utah, where mining was replaced by potato cultivation as an economic center?
ANSWER: Idaho
019-13-94-20124

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 5 of 8

25. The Polypay and Targhee varieties of these creatures were bred in a research station named for them
near Dubois, Idaho. A group of six thousand of these animals were killed by leaked VX gas at Dugway
proving ground. The JSRV retrovirus killed another one of these animals born at the Roslin institute. Louis
Pasteur tested his anthrax inoculation procedure on these animals. Wilmut and Campbell used somatic cell
nuclear transfer to create one of these animals, which was the first mammal to be cloned. For the point,
name these animals which include Dolly.
ANSWER: sheep
048-13-94-20125

26. A participant in this event was mocked as an "umbrella politician" because all he brought was a hat
and an umbrella. The resulting agreement from this conference heavily resembled the Godesberg proposal.
Edvard Benes (BEN-esh) resigned a week after this event. The Vienna Award resulting from this event was
vigorously protested by Edouard Daladier. After it, the British Prime Minister proclaimed "peace for our
time." For the point, name this September 1938 conference in which Neville Chamberlain agreed to
appeasement, giving Hitler the Sudetenland.
ANSWER: Munich Agreement [or Munich Conference]
190-13-94-20126

27. This team's only Final Four appearance was in 1962 under coach Bones McKinney. In 2007, this
team's incumbent coach died while jogging around the campus. This team, the last coached by Skip
Prosser, won the ACC in 1995 and 1996 behind the play of a Virgin Islands native who replaced Rodney
Rogers. For the point, name this alma mater of Josh Howard and Chris Paul, which enjoyed the play of Tim
Duncan at Lawrence Joel Coliseum in Winston-Salem.
ANSWER: Wake Forest University [or Demon Deacons]
019-13-94-20127

28. This man's trademark greeting was "Hi ya, fella," and his Presidential aspirations were hampered by
his marriage to divorcee Happy Murphy. This man is the namesake of a set of stern drug laws, and he
refused to visit Attica State Prison during the 1971 riot. He is the namesake of a former liberal wing of the
Republican Party. This man lost the 1964 Republican nomination to Barry Goldwater, and he was dropped
from the Republican ticket in the 1976 election. For the point, name this New York governor who served as
Gerald Ford's Vice-President.
ANSWER: Nelson Rockefeller
030-13-94-20128

29. This character imagines himself as a "blue promontory" and tells his servant "The rack dislimns, and
makes it indistinct, as water is in water." This man converses with the servant Eros and states, "Now let it
work. Mischief, thou art afoot." In another set of lines delivered by this character, he discusses the
"ambitious" quality of a recently deceased politician while repeating, "And Brutus is an honourable man."
For the point, identify this character who, in Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, begins a speech with the line,
"Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears."
ANSWER: Mark Antony
189-13-94-20129

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 6 of 8

30. The O'Boyle mask and La Mojarra (mo-HAH-rah) stela were created by a vestige of this civilization
and were found at a location whose name translates as "hill of the altars." The name of this civilization
literally means "rubber people," since they extracted latex from native trees to produce rubber. The were
(WAIR)-jaguar is a common motif in this civilization's art. Capitals of this civilization include Tres
Zapotes (zah-POH-tays), La Venta, and San Lorenzo. For the point, name this civilization which produced
several colossal stone heads and is the oldest known Mesoamerican civilization.
ANSWER: Olmec civilization [or the epi-Olmec civilization; or the Olmecs]
190-13-94-20130

31. The last king of this era shared power with Herihor and Smendes I in the Wehem Mesut period. During
this time, the Red Chapel was built at Karnak. Tiye started a conspiracy against a king of this era who won
the Battle of the Delta, Ramses III. Another king from this time was buried in a tomb found by Howard
Carter in 1922. For the point, name this era which included the reigns of Ahmose I and Tutankhamun and
was the last grouping of kingdoms in Egypt.
ANSWER: New Kingdom of Egypt [or Twentieth Dynasty until "Red Chapel" is read]
186-13-94-20131

32. The main character of this poem descends a cliff on the back of the winged monster Geryon into an
area divided into ten bolgia. In an episode from this poem, the protagonist encounters the historical lovers
Paolo and Francesca da Rimini, who are blown about in an icy whirlwind. This poem's protagonist is
guided by Virgil. For the point, name this three-part epic, consisting of the Paradiso, the Purgatorio, and
the Inferno, written by Dante Alighieri (ah-lig-YEH-ree).
ANSWER: The Divine Comedy [or La Divina Commedia; or Inferno until "three-part" is read]
014-13-94-20132

33. This country's longtime president changed his name in 2007 as part of a mandatory process of
de-Slavization. The Youth Party and Group 24 oppose the man who has controlled this country since 1992,
Emomalii Rahmon. This country works jointly with Uzbekistan to remove border minefields and is
currently disputing the Isfara Valley with Kyrgyzstan. For the point, name this country where public
monuments honoring Ismoil Somony include a gold arch in Dushanbe.
ANSWER: Republic of Tajikstan [or Jumhurii Tojikiston]
019-13-94-20133

34. This man was the only composer of prominence to respond to the Nazis' request for new music to A
Midsummer Night's Dream. "Cour d'amours" and "In Taberna" are the third and second sections of a
composition by this man, which was followed in a trilogy by Trionfi di Afrodite and Catulli Carmina. For
the point, name this German composer whose piece "O Fortuna" opens his cantata Carmina Burana.
ANSWER: Carl Orff
014-13-94-20134

35. In 1996, Ward Connerly was the face of one of these efforts, which banned affirmative action, the same
year that one of them legalized medical marijuana. A 1978 example of this process, also known as the
Briggs Initiative, attempted to ban homosexuals from working as teachers and was defeated when both
Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan denounced it. For the point, identify these direct democracy questions in
California which, in 2008, briefly banned gay marriage.
ANSWER: California ballot Propositions [prompt on referendum or other descriptive answers; or laws
that banned affirmative action or similar answers until it is read]
019-13-94-20135

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 7 of 8

Extra Question

36. A politician discussing people of this ethnicity bemoaned the existence of "hyphenated-Americans," and
the American Protective League harassed them. Meyer v. Nebraska overturned a law banning the teaching
of this ethnicity's language. Another law required newspapers published by this ethnicity to provide English
translations of their content. For the point, give this ethnicity, whose members were harassed during World
War I.
ANSWER: German-Americans [or obvious equivalents]
187-13-94-20136

2014 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 8 of 8

