2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND 1: (EARLY NON-US HISTORY)

1. This man's claim to the throne was enabled by Richard II’s Letters Patent in 1397, legitimizing the
offspring of Katherine Swynford. Thus the claim from his mother, Lady Margaret Beauford, who was the
great-granddaughter of John of Gaunt, was accepted even though the Portuguese and Spanish royal families
had better claims. To help end the War of the Roses, he married Elizabeth of York, Edward IV’s daughter.
For the point, name this first Tudor monarch who gained command of England after defeating Richard III
at the Battle of Bosworth Field.
ANSWER: Henry VII [prompt on Henry]
147-12-58-19101

2. This emperor sent Pliny the Younger to investigate corruption among the administrators of Bithynia.
This man renovated the road that connected Bostra to the Red Sea, the King's Highway. Parthia's decision
over the new king of Armenia provoked this man to sack Ctesiphon. This man was unable to conceive a
child with his wife, Pompeia Plotina. He also commissioned a large bridge near the Iron Gates while
fighting in the Danube region. Under his reign, the Roman Empire expanded as far eastward as the Persian
Gulf, thereby reaching its farthest extent in 117 CE. For the point, identify this second of the Five Good
Emperors who commemorated his victory in the Dacian War by building a namesake column in Rome.
ANSWER: Trajan [or Marcus Ulpius Traianus]
064-12-58-19102

3. The exclave of Llivia (YIV-ee-uh) was created as a result of a treaty named for this geographic entity,
which also pledged a payment to Philip IV's daughter that went unfulfilled and led to the War of the
Devolution. After Philip V succeeded to the throne, another king said that this geographical entity no
longer existed. While retreating from a pass in this mountain chain during a poetic depiction of the Battle of
Roncesvalles (ron-suh-VAHL), Roland is set upon and killed by Basques. For the point, name this
mountain chain, in which Andorra is found, and which separates Spain from France.
ANSWER: the Pyrenees Mountains
019-12-58-19103

4. These people created figurines with "baby faces" and sculptures with almond eyes and an angry
expression that have been termed "were-jaguars." (wair jaguars) The still-undeciphered writing system used
by this people has been found on the O'Boyle Mask and the Cascajal (CAHS-kuh-YALL) Block. Their
cities included La Venta and Tres Zapotes (TRAYS ZAH-poh-TAYS). They received their name because
they could take latex from trees to make rubber. For the point, name this Mesoamerican, pre-Columbian
civilization known for creating lots of giant stone heads.
ANSWER: Olmecs [or rubber people before "rubber" is read]
080-12-58-19104

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 1 of 10

5. In 1933 Lawrence Tanner and William Wright examined bones that they claimed belonged to these
people. Much of Dominic Mancini's account of them comes from conversations with John Augustine, their
physician; another primary source about them is the Croyland Chronicle. Robert Stillington challenged the
legitimacy of their claim to the throne, alleging that their father's marriage to Elizabeth Woodville was
bigamous. Most modern historians believe that the Duke of Gloucester smothered them after ascending to
the throne as Richard III. For the point, Richard Duke of York and his elder brother, Edward V, are known
by what collective term denoting the place in which they were kept prisoner?
ANSWER: princes in the tower [or princes imprisoned in the Tower of London; or sons of Edward IV;
or Edward V and Richard Duke of York until mentioned]
003-12-58-19105

6. During this battle, one side's auxiliary forces were commanded by T. Titus, whose opposite number was
P. Candidius. It took place east of the Gulf of Ambracia, in an area where the winning commander chose to
commemorate his victory by founding the city of Nicopolis. The tide of this battle began to turn following a
series of flanking maneuvers when one side's commander Lucius Arruntius attacked a gap in the enemy's
line. During it, one side's left flank was commanded by Marcus Agrippa and the other side put faith in their
quinqueremes. Towards the end of this battle, two commanders on the losing side fled to Egypt where they
committed suicide. For the point, name this 31 BCE naval loss for Mark Antony and Cleopatra.
ANSWER: Battle of Actium
064-12-58-19106

7. One commander guaranteed victory at this battle within five days if the men would send away their
prostitutes and confess their sins; that guarantee followed a successful attack on Fort St. Loup. The first
major fighting in this engagement was the Battle of Herrings. An early mortal wound to the Earl of
Salisbury left English command to William Pole, the Earl of Suffolk. Jean Dunois, Comte de Longueville,
headed the city garrison during this siege, which was unsuccessful due to the relief force officially
commanded by the Duc d'Alencon. For the point, name this 1428-1429 battle in which the English besieged
a city on the Loire (lwah) River but were driven off by a relief force under Joan of Arc.
ANSWER: Siege of Orléans [or Battle of Orléans]
003-12-58-19107

8. Matthew Paris said that "hell is too good for a horrible person" like this man. This man's illegitimate
daughter Joan was the ancestor of the Tudors. After refusing to accept the papal appointment of Stephen
Langton, this ruler was excommunicated. This monarch was responsible for the murder of Arthur of
Brittany, leading to his nickname Softsword (soft sword). After just six months, this man was deemed unfit
to rule Ireland and called home by his brother from whom he tried to steal the crown. This youngest son of
Eleanor of Aquitaine and Henry II was given the monicker Lackland because his brother Richard I
inherited everything. For the point, name this king whose barons forced him to sign the Magna Carta in
1215.
ANSWER: King John
124-12-58-19108

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 2 of 10

9. This emperor appointed Piso the governor of Syria, although Piso was later suspected of poisoning this
man’s heir. He originally appointed his grandson Gemellus as co-heir and his only son was named Drusus.
One story states that this man was smothered by the prefect of his Praetorian Guard, Macro. According to
Suetonius, he set up “the old goat’s garden” and a villa to engage in orgies on an island. This ruler adopted
his nephew Germanicus, who had succeeded at avenging a loss during the reign of this man’s predecessor
at Teutoburg Forest. During his reign, Sejanus held the consulship while this emperor spent most of his
time on the island of Capri. For the point, name this Roman emperor, the stepson and successor of
Augustus.
ANSWER: Tiberius Julius Caesar
052-12-58-19109

10. This period saw the rise of Nichiren, or Lotus Hokke (HOK-kay), Buddhism. The Jokyu disturbance
saw an end to the fighting between the Imperial army in Kyoto and the Hojo regents of this bakufu. The
promulgation of Japan's first legal code, the Joei (JOE-ay) Shikimoku, which stressed Confucian values,
helped establish peace and prosperity during this period, though it was tested when Mongols attempted to
invade but were turned away because of weather. The financial strain of defending against the Mongols
weakened this shogunate and enabled emperor Go-Daigo (GO DYE-go) to restore imperial power. For the
point, name the period of Japanese history lasting from 1192 to 1333 established by Minamoto Yoritomo.
ANSWER: Kamakura Period [or Kamakura Shogunate; or Kamakura bakufu]
147-12-58-19110

11. The “Mother of the Mountains” is a seal impression from this people which depicts a goddess at one of
their peak sanctuaries. They established the colony Akritori on the island of Thera, where a massive
volcanic explosion in the second millennium BCE destroyed the colony and may have inspired the legend
of Atlantis. Common motifs found among this people's artwork include the double ax and snake goddess.
Frescoes from this people's most famous site show bull leaping. Michael Ventris showed one script of this
people was actually Mycenaean, but the earlier hieroglyphics and Linear A still remain undeciphered. For
the point, name this civilization with complexes at Phaistos and Knossos, named for a legendary Cretan
king.
ANSWER: Minoans [prompt on Cretans]
121-12-58-19111

12. Historians who chronicled this military campaign include the German monk Gunther of Pairis and the
French knights Robert de Clari and Geoffrey of Villehardouin (vee har DWANN). In this campaign, the
King of Hungary, Emeric I, was defeated by Otto IV and Doge Enrico Dandolo at the Siege of Zara.
During this campaign, the blind Isaac II was temporarily elevated to the throne along with his son, serving
as co-Emperors to replace the usurper Alexios III Angelos. Ultimately, Baldwin I was made ruler of the
new Latin Empire created from territory captured from the Byzantines. For the point, name this crusade
which ended with the 1204 capture of Constantinople.
ANSWER: Fourth Crusade [or Fourth Crusade after “crusade” is read]
014-12-58-19112

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 3 of 10

13. One person with this name had boasted that in the province of Hispania Citerior, he had conquered
more towns than he had spent days. That person routed the sleeping army of Antiochus at the second Battle
of Thermopylae. Another man with this name failed to convict one of the nobles who got him his
tribuneship, L. Licinius Murena, of bribery. This name was used in a panegyric by Cicero, to which Caesar
wrote an "anti"-response. The second major figure of this name killed himself by tearing out his sutures at
Utica. His great-grandfather coined the phrase "the war feeds itself" and urged his countrymen to fight the
Third Punic War. For the point, name these figures, the elder of whom ended every speech with "Carthage
must be destroyed."
ANSWER: Cato [accept Cato the Elder; accept Cato the Younger]
020-12-58-19113

14. Records of these events in the Americas include a petroglyph created by the Anasazi in Chaco Canyon,
as well as a set of Bolivian inscriptions discovered by George Michanowsky. Richard Stothers has argued
that one was recorded in Rome by Herodian in 185 CE. Frank Winkler has commented on the ability of
people to read during one of these events that occurred in 1006. One that occurred in 1054 was visible for
23 days during the daytime, becoming four times brighter than Venus. That one, which was observed by
both Chinese and Arab scientists, created the Crab Nebula. For the point, name these events described by
ancient astronomers as “guest stars,” which we now know to be stellar explosions.
ANSWER: supernovae [or supernovas]
132-12-58-19114

15. This group stayed in Dacia until the encroachment of the Huns forced one of their leaders, Fritigern, to
ask Roman emperor Valens to settle on the south bank of the Danube. An ensuing famine and unhelpful
Rome led them to openly revolt. The 378 Battle of Adrianople saw them kill Valens and the army he
brought with him. This group dominated Western Europe in the 5th through 7th centuries, ruling most of
Iberia and Gaul in a kingdom centered at Toulouse. Following Emperor Theodosius’s death, this tribe’s
relations with Rome worsened, as events like Honorius’s execution of Stilicho in 406 eventually led to
their capture and sacking of Rome in 410. For the point, name this East Germanic tribe famously led by
Alaric I.
ANSWER: Visigoths [prompt on Goths]
147-12-58-19115

16. The best-known archaeological sites containing these objects were studied by Madeleine Colani and
local culture holds that those objects were left behind by Thao Hung. Our knowledge of the ancient Sa
Huynh culture comes almost entirely from these objects. One of these items was discovered in Manunggul
Cave in the Philippines and depicts a boatman and a figure with hands crossing the chest. Many of these
objects can be found in the Xiang Khouang Plateau alongside unexploded bombs dropped during the
Vietnam War. Ancient Egyptian "canopic" ones held mummies' organs. For the point, ancient cultures
often buried cremated dead in what pieces of pottery that can be found in a "Plain" in Laos?
ANSWER: jars [or burial jars; or burial urns; prompt on answers that are reasonably close to "jars"]
003-12-58-19116

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 4 of 10

17. One of these structures commemorates its dedicatee extending his life by three months and is called “of
Complete Victory.” Another commemorates that figure's death and is called “of Parinirvana.” At the center
of these is often a wooden pole covered in gems, the “tree of life.” The plan of these structures can be
drawn as a circle inscribed in a square, the mandala form. Examples of these structures in Sri Lanka are
bell-shaped and called “dagaba.” One of these at Sanchi is called the “Great” one and is the oldest standing
stone structure in its country. That example was commissioned by Asoka, who built thousands of these
after his conversion. For the point, name this type of structure that contains Buddhist relics.
ANSWER: stupa [prompt on caitya]
121-12-58-19117

18. This man controversially dissolved his marriage to Ingeborg of Denmark after one day and appealed to
have his children by Agnes de Meran declared legitimate. He captured Renaud, Count of Boulogne, and
Ferdinand, Count of Flanders, at a 1214 battle where he defeated the alliance of Holy Roman Emperor Otto
IV and King John. This victor at the Battle of Bouvines was briefly excommunicated by Pope Innocent III.
For the point, name this King of France from 1180 to 1223 who, along with Richard I and Frederick
Barbarossa, was one of the three kings that took part in the Third Crusade.
ANSWER: Philip II of France [or Philip Augustus; prompt on Philip]
003-12-58-19118

19. William of Tudela wrote the first half of a chanson de geste about this conflict. Another main primary
source for it is a chronicle written by Peter of Vaux (voe) de Cernay. Peter II of Aragon was killed in this
conflict just a little over a year after his success in the battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. Participants in this
conflict were supposedly given the instruction “Kill them all. God will know his own,” though sustained
attacks were difficult due to only forty days of fighting being necessary for a papal indulgence. This
conflict was first declared after the death of Peter of Castelnau, possibly by Raymond of Toulouse, and in
its early stages, one side was led by Simon of Montfort. For the point, name this crusade against the
Cathars in southern France.
ANSWER: Albigensian Crusade [accept crusade against Cathars or war against Cathars and
synonymous phrases before "Cathars" are mentioned]
121-12-58-19119

20. One battle during this ruler's reign saw the defeat of Totila and his Goths at the battle of Taginae. Other
battles during this man's reign, like the Battle of the Volturnus and the Battle of Mons Lactarius, were won
by his eunuch general Narses. This ruler's reign was chronicled by the historian Procopius. One of this
emperor's jurists, Tribonian, was temporarily removed from office during the Nika Riots. For the point,
identify this Byzantine emperor married to Theodora who rewrote the Roman law code and had the Hagia
Sophia built.
ANSWER: Justinian I [or Justinian the Great]
126-12-58-19120

21. A queen of this kingdom lost the Battle of Sepulveda to her husband, a king of a neighboring polity
nicknamed "the Battler." The daughter of another ruler of this kingdom acquired Languedoc for France;
that woman, Blanche, served as regent for her son Louis IX. One king of this polity was twice overthrown
by his half-brother Henry of Trastamara; another instituted the Siete Partidas law code and was known as
"the Wise." Those kings were Pedro I and Alfonso X. This kingdom was occasionally merged with its
western neighbor, Leon. For the point, name this Andalusia polity that, when its queen Isabella I married
Ferdinand II, merged with Aragon to form the Kingdom of Spain.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Castile-Leon [or Crown of Castile; do not accept or prompt on "Spain"]
003-12-58-19121

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 5 of 10

22. This structure contains several marble jars brought in for the purpose of lustration; it also contains the
Marble Door and the Loge of the Empress. This building was one of the first to use four concave
pendentives to sustain its weight. The dome of this structure had 40 windows beneath it, creating the
appearance that the dome was floating. It was built by Anthemius of Tralles and Isidore of Miletus after the
damage caused by the Nika Riots moved Justinian to sponsor it. For the point, name this church and
mosque of "holy wisdom," found in present-day Istanbul.
ANSWER: the Hagia Sophia
080-12-58-19122

23. In this city, a temple to Jupiter became a church of St. John the Baptist, and then the oldest stone
mosque in the world, reconstructed by al-Walid. This base of Nur al-Din was the home to a Kurdish quarter
based around Mount Qasyun (KAH-see-uhn). This city is the namesake of swords with distinctive watering
made from the 1.8 percent carbon alloy known as this city's steel. Artisans were deported from this city in
1401 when it was sacked by Tamerlane. For the point, name this capital of the Umayyad Dynasty, from
which Hafez and Bashar Assad ruled modern Syria.
ANSWER: Damascus [or Dimashq]
019-12-58-19123

24. One document compiled by this ruler's son Edward the Elder, the Burghal Hidage, provides a list of
fortified towns. This ruler translated Boethius' Consolation of Philosophy, and one biography of this ruler
was written by the Welsh monk Asser. This ruler supposedly rallied his troops at "Egbert's Stone" before
going on to be victorious at the Battle of Edington over the forces of the Sane Guthrum, who was then
baptized and accepted as Alfred's adoptive son. For the point, identify this 9th century English monarch, a
King of Wessex who defended his kingdom from Viking attacks and is known as "the great."
ANSWER: Alfred the Great
126-12-58-19124

25. Antonio de Madalena is considered one of the first westerners to visit this structure. Unlike other
similar structures, this one points to the west and has reliefs in counterclockwise order. Located near Siem
Reap (SEEM REEP), it has a cruciform terrace outside its main gate. One of the most famous decorations
in it is a large relief showing a group of devas and asuras using Vasuki to churn the ocean of milk under the
direction of Vishnu. This structure is surrounded by a large moat; in its center stand five towers designed to
resemble Mount Meru. This complex was built in the twelfth century on the orders of Suryavarman II of
the Khmer Empire. For the point, name this large temple complex in Cambodia.
ANSWER: Angkor Wat
064-12-58-19125

26. The earliest surviving poem in this language was written in the Book of Aneirin, and elegizes warriors
called the Gododdin (go-DOH-dhin). In another work originally written in this language, one character
teaches a bird to understand speech in order to get help from her brother, and Efnisien (ev-NEE-shen)
destroys a magic cauldron that reanimates dead warriors. Another section of that work in this language sees
two characters get Math to declare war by stealing another figure's magic pigs. That work in this language
was translated into English by Charlotte Guest, and features such characters as Branwen, Gwydion, and
Pryderi (pruh-DEH-ri). For the point, the four branches of the Mabinogi were written in what Celtic
language, also known as Cymraeg?
ANSWER: Welsh [accept Cymraeg early]
142-12-58-19126

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 6 of 10

27. One character in this work is told that pea soup and roast ox have been prepared in honor of his return,
after listening to a hymn to Iacchus. That character begins this work by asking permission to tell a joke and
complaining about having to carry his master's baggage, and is named Xanthias. The title characters boast
that they are beloved of Apollo and the Muses after this work's protagonist tells them to go to hell while he
is rowing with Charon. This work sees Dionysus go to the underworld to bring back Euripides, but he ends
up deciding to revive Aeschylus instead at the end of this work. For the point, name this play by
Aristophanes, in which "Brek-ek-ek-ex, ko-ax, ko-ax" is recited by the title amphibians.
ANSWER: The Frogs [or Batrakhoi]
142-12-58-19127

28. Erwin Panofksy argued that this painting also served as a contract. Its painter's signature identifies him
as both the artist and witness. Though it takes place during daylight, a single candle is lit in the chandelier
in this painting, which Panofsky claimed showed the ceremonial aspect of the scene taking place. For many
years, one of the figures was believed to be Jeanne de Cename, though more recent research suggests she
may be Constanza Trenta. A terrier is at the foot of that figure, who is wearing a green dress and holding
the hand of the other figure, with the palms facing the viewer. On the wall behind them is a convex mirror
and a note which says “[the artist] has been here.” For the point, name this portrait of the title couple, a
work of Jan van Eyck.
ANSWER: Arnolfini Wedding [or Arnolfini Marriage; or Arnolfini Portrait]
121-12-58-19128

29. To help fund an army that reached over half a million men under his rule, this Roman Emperor issued
the Edict of Maximum Prices to fix prices and wages in an attempt to control inflation. He divided those
troops into border-guarding limitanei and mobile comitantenses. Despite growing up poor in Dalmatia, he
rose through the military and led the Roman forces in Moesia in the AD 270s. Under his predecessors
Carus and Numerian, he was commander of the protectores domestici, the imperial bodyguard. At the
Battle of Margus in 285 he defeated Carinus and cemented his position as Emperor, ending the Imperial
Crisis. For the point, name the Roman emperor known for persecuting Christians and establishing the
Tetrarchy.
ANSWER: Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus
147-12-58-19129

30. One story about this king relates that a Dean of St. Paul's collapsed and died in fear of his presence. The
Hundred Rolls were produced during the reign of this King. Pirates employed by this man kidnapped
Eleanor de Montfort; after the Battle of Evesham, Eleanor's father was mutilated by the forces of this king.
After the death of Margaret, the Maid of Norway, this king chose the successor to the throne of Scotland in
what was known as the Great Cause. As a prince, he sailed to Acre as part of the Ninth Crusade. This king
removed the Jewish population from his country by issuing the 1290 Edict of Expulsion. For the point,
name this English king who faced a rebellion for Scottish independence lead by Robert the Bruce.
ANSWER: Edward I of England [or Edward Longshanks]
088-12-58-19130

31. The western cities of this civilization were located on the intermittent Ghaggar-Hakra River. Evidence
for its technical advancement includes an ivory scale discovered in Lothal, as well as the perfect 1:2:4 ratio
of the sides of its bricks. This civilization was followed by the Cemetery H civilization. The first European
to discover its remains was Charles Masson in 1827. A later site contains a Great Bath and has a name
translated as "Mound of the Dead." An attempt to explain its decline was the largely-discredited Aryan
invasion hypothesis. Its cities included Mohenjo-daro and Harappa. For the point, name this ancient South
Asian civilization that lived around the main river of Pakistan.
ANSWER: Indus River Valley civilization [or Harappan civilization before it is mentioned]
132-12-58-19131
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 7 of 10

32. In this location, the Temple of the Warriors stands in front of a colonnade called the Court of the
Thousand Columns. This location also contains the misnamed "Nunnery" and "Church." It contains a
structure whose four stairwells, combined with the platform on top, contain 365 steps, representing the days
of the year. Another structure at this site was named "the snail" for its spiral staircase and functioned as an
observatory. Besides La Caracol, this site contains a huge step temple called "El Castillo" that served as a
temple to Kukulcan. For the point, name this ancient Mayan site located in Mexico's Yucatan peninsula.
ANSWER: Chichen Itza
080-12-58-19132

33. One emperor of this dynasty, Wenzong, led a disastrous attempt to assassinate the eunuchs after
interpreting the sweet dew on his grass as a favorable sign. At the Battle of Baekgang, this dynasty allied
with the Silla Kingdom of Korea to defeat the Baekje Kingdom and their ally, the Yamatos of Japan. The
usurper Taizong, or Li Shimin, modernized its political infrastructure. One of its rulers took the concubine
Yang Guifei (GWEE-fay), sparking a rebellion led by a Sogdian-Turkic general. Empress Wu's Zhou
Dynasty followed this dynasty in the 700s CE. Preceded by the Sui (SWAY) dynasty, this is, for 10 points,
what Chinese dynasty during which An Lushan and Li Po lived?
ANSWER: Tang Dynasty
079-12-58-19133

34. This man fought the battles of Paraitacene and Gabiene against the Greek Eumenes, whom he executed
after bribing the Silver Shields. He organized the League of Islanders and issued a manifesto demanding
freedom for the Greek city-states. On this man’s orders, his son used a massive siege tower called the
Helepolis in a failed attempt to conquer Rhodes. This father of Demetrius the Besieger had control over
Asia Minor, but because he sought to conquer the rest of Alexander’s empire, he was defeated by the
combined forces of Lysimachus and Seleucus at Ipsus. For the point, name this Diadoch, whose epithet
indicates that he lacked a visual organ.
ANSWER: Antigonus the One-Eyed [or Antigonos Monophthalmos; or Antigonus I]
080-12-58-19134

35. Among the possible origins of this man was the visit of an Indian patriarch to Rome during the rule of
Pope Callixtus II, although more substantial stories of his origin are found in the Narrative of Eliseus and
the Chronicle of Otto. According to Marco Polo, this man was the foster father of Genghis Khan who died
at the hands of his son. In 1177, Pope Alexander III supposedly wrote a letter to this man hoping he would
become an ally in fighting Muslim forces. One motivation for the voyages of Bartolomeu Dias was finding
this man, who in the late the fifteenth century was believed to rule somewhere in Ethiopia. For the point,
name this legendary man who was supposedly a Christian king ruling in Africa.
ANSWER: Prester John
064-12-58-19135

36. One ruler of this empire set up the Academy of Gondishapur. Its last king was named Yazdegerd III,
who lost the battle of al-Qadisiyyah (KAH-duh-SEE-yah) to the Rashidun Caliphate. This empire was
founded by Ardashir I, who overthrew the Arsacids (ARE-suh-sids), and its first golden age occurred under
Shapur II the Great. Justinian set up an "eternal peace" with its leader Khosrau I ("CAUSE"-"row") that did
not last a decade. For the point, name this empire that ruled Persia from 224 to 651, succeeded the
Parthians, and frequently fought the Byzantines.
ANSWER: Sassanid Empire [or Eranshahr; or Eran; prompt on Persian Empire until "Persia" is read]
052-12-58-19136

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 8 of 10

37. The addressee of one work by this man is offered a perfume that will make him wish he were "all
nose," in return for coming to dinner at the speaker's house but bringing all the food and entertainment
himself. He identifies a friend who "thought [his] nonsense was worth something" as the dedicatee of his
"charming new little book" in his Poem 1; another addressee of several of his works is asked to "give me a
thousand kisses, then a hundred, then a thousand more, than another hundred." He wrote invectives against
political figures like Julius Caesar, and wrote many of his works in hendecasyllabic meter. For the point,
name this Roman author who elegized a pet sparrow and addressed some love poems to Lesbia.
ANSWER: Gaius Valerius Catullus
142-12-58-19137

38. These people's first ruler, Aybak, was assassinated by his social-climbing wife Shajar ad-Durr.
According to legend, only one of these people survived the Massacre of the Citadel by leaping from the
Citadel on horseback. After the Ayyubids defeated Louis IX at the Battle of Al Mansurah, the Bahri
dynasty of this people took power by assassinating the Ayyubid leader Turanshah. Their leader Baibars
(BYE-bars) defeated Hulagu Khan's forces at the Battle of Ain Jalut (ine jah-LOOT). Muhammad Ali
wiped them out in 1811. For the point, name these Turkic slaves who ruled Egypt from 1250 to 1517.
ANSWER: Mamluks [or Mamelukes]
079-12-58-19138

39. Peithon's troubles in the Punjab enabled this empire's expansion and capture of Taxila. This empire's
founder obtained the throne of Magadha and established Patna as its capital. It was granted the territories of
Gandara and Arachosia in a peace treaty with Seleucus, which resulted in the unification of the Indus and
Ganges. Later rulers of this empire included Bindusara and a man who united most of the Indian
subcontinent except for the southernmost part before converting to Buddhism. Despite this empire's decline
after Ashoka's death, his embrace of Buddhism influenced future rulers of the region. For the point, name
this Indian empire founded in 321 BCE by Chandragupta.
ANSWER: Mauryan Empire
147-12-58-19139

40. In one of this people's myths, two ancestral figures known as the Wati Kutjara castrated the moon.
These people believed that people at whom sharpened bones were pointed were cursed to die. They
extracted a sticky resin from the spinifex plant, communicated via message sticks, and continue to make
notable bark paintings. The bunyip and Rainbow Serpent prominently figure in the mythology of these
people, whose creation stories take place during the "Dreamtime." They invented the didgeridoo and the
boomerang. For the point, name these indigenous people of Australia.
ANSWER: Australian aborigines [or native Australians until "Australia"; or indigenous Australians
until "Australia"; prompt on rough equivalents]
003-12-58-19140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 9 of 10

Extra Questions

41. This woman helped spread the maritime laws of her time via the Rolls of Oleron. The mercenary
Mercadier was murdered while visiting this woman; earlier, her vassal Geoffrey de Rancon was accused of
causing a massacre. While away from her second husband, who had adopted Rosamund Clifford as a
mistress, it's believed she established "the Court of Love" in Poitiers. She helped launch the Second
Crusade from the burial site of Mary Magdalene. After the annulment of her marriage to Louis VII, she was
wed to Henry II. For the point, name this woman who was, at different times, the Queen of France and
England.
ANSWER: Eleanor of Aquitaine
088-12-58-19141

42. The person holding this position supervised a group known for wearing conical hats called apexes, the
flamines. Numa Pompilius was credited with creating this position, and Marcus Aurelius gave his
co-emperor Lucius Verus the same status and powers as himself except for this title. After being removed
from the Triumvirate, Marcus Lepidus was allowed to retain this position. This figure's wife oversaw the
ceremonies during the celebration of the goddess Bona Dea. Gratian removed this position from his title in
a sign of deference to Christianity, and Pope Leo the Great assumed this title. For the point, name this high
priest in ancient Roman religion who selected the Vestal Virgins.
ANSWER: pontifex maximus
030-12-58-19142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 1: (Early Non-US History)

Page 10 of 10

