2012 National History Bee National Championships
Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

2012 NATIONAL HISTORY BEE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
ROUND 3: (NON-US HISTORY 1492-1932)

1. The people who performed this action were part of a group called "those of March 1;" they later tried to
recreate their success as part of a group called "the second first of March." The left-wing terrorist group
that committed this action was later tried in the Trial of the Fourteen. Ignacy Hrynieweickei
(her-IN-ee-VECK-ee) delivered its fatal blow after an initial bomb only killed a Cossack bodyguard. This
action followed a failed attempt to set off a bomb at the Winter Palace. It was committed by members of
the People's Will as a certain ruler was heading to a military roll call in St. Petersburg. For the point, name
this 1881 event which saw the death of the Russian czar who had earlier emancipated the serfs.
ANSWER: assassination of Alexander II [or equivalents mentioning people killing Alexander II; prompt
on answers that give Alexander without a number]
064-12-58-21101

2. It's not an American title, but one man with this title appointed Matthew Maury the Commissioner of
Immigration. The last holder of this title was defeated despite a daring hussar charge by Felix Salm-Salm.
That man with this title set up the New Virginia Colony in his country to welcome in ex-Confederates. This
position was first held by the leader of the Army of the Three Guarantees, who issued the Plan of Iguala.
One man with this title was defeated after losing the support of Napoleon III. The last man to hold this title
lived at Chapultepec Castle and was executed by Benito Juarez. For the point, name this title held by
Agustin de Iturbide (ee-tur-BEE-day) and the Austrian Maximilian I.
ANSWER: Emperor of Mexico [or ruler of Mexico; do not accept "President of Mexico"]
052-12-58-21102

3. At this battle, the Frenchman Monsieur Sinfray fought for the losers, who were gunned down on the first
rainy night after forgetting to cover their gunpowder. Prior to this battle, the Treaty of Alinagar allowed the
victors to trade duty-free in a certain province with permits called dastak. The Irishman Eyre Coote and the
factory owner William Watts fought for this battle’s victors, who convinced Mir Jafar to defect to their
side. The raid on Fort William and the Black Hole of Calcutta preceded this battle, a defeat for Siraj
ad-Daula, the Nawab of Bengal. For the point, name this 1757 victory for Robert Clive and the British East
India Company.
ANSWER: Battle of Plassey
079-12-58-21103

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 1 of 10

4. After studying abroad in Germany for two years, this character dreams about reuniting with his love,
who transforms into the worm-ridden corpse of his mother. This man anachronistically quotes the poem
"Mutability" before climbing a mountain to gaze upon Mont Blanc. He becomes engrossed in the works of
Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus before M. Kempe chides him not to read outdated works. He describes the
murders of his friend, Henry Clerval, and his wife, Elizabeth Lavenza, to Captain Robert Walton before
dying in the Arctic. For the point, name this obsessive scientist who creates a monster out of cadavers in a
Gothic novel by Mary Shelley.
ANSWER: Dr. Victor Frankenstein
080-12-58-21104

5. This ruler’s bravery in battle earned him the position of corporal in the 1st Regiment of the French
Zouaves, in which capacity his absence at every roll call was excused due to his duties as king of his own
country. This ruler came to power after his country’s loss at the Battle of Novara caused the abdication of
his father, Charles Albert. While allied with France, he won the Battle of Magenta and the Battle of
Solferino over Austria. Succeeded by Umberto I, this king angered Pope Pius IX with his occupation of
Rome as his new capital, and he appointed Camillo Cavour as his Prime Minister. For the point, name this
king of Sardinia-Piedmont who became the first king of a unified Italy.
ANSWER: Victor Emmanuel II [prompt on Victor Emmanuel]
014-12-58-21105

6. Francois Guizot (gwee-ZOH) served as prime minister under this man’s reign. He was involved in a
treasonous act of General Dumouriez (doo-moh-ree-AY). Nicolas Soult (SOO) served three times as as
Prime Minister under this man, who fled his country under the name “Mr. Smith” as the Second Republic
was established. That fall from power came about with the February Revolution. He came to power during
the Three Glorious Days, which replaced Charles X with this Duke of Orleans turned “citizen king.”
Honore Daumier (oh-NOR DOW-mee-ey) created a notable cartoon of this man turning into a pear. For the
point, name this king of France from 1830 to 1848.
ANSWER: Louis-Philippe I [do not prompt on "Louis" by itself; do not accept or prompt on "Louis
Napoleon"]
127-12-58-21106

7. An eyewitness account of this event described how one participant asked another "does my hair trouble
you?". The central figure of this event requested thick underclothes so that he would not appear to shiver.
Conspiracy theories suggest that Richard Brandon, who refused to partake in it, was actually the one
responsible for it. This event was followed by the creation of a Council of State, with those involved being
punished by Charles II for regicide. For the point, name this 1649 event following a trial at the High Court
of Justice, which basically ended the English Civil War.
ANSWER: execution of Charles I [or beheading of Charles I; or killing of Charles I; prompt on
answers that give Charles without a number]
020-12-58-21107

8. The first person who tried to renovate this structure was Bernardo Rossellino, whose work was later
picked up by Giuliano da Sangallo. Giacomo della Porta completed this building’s dome. The interior of
this building contains a statue of St. Longinus as well as Bernini’s “baldacchino” and Michelangelo’s Pieta.
In 1989, the opening of a similar building in Yamoussoukro (yah-moo-SOO-kro), Ivory Coast ended this
structure’s longtime status as the world’s largest Christian church. This building’s facade was added by
Carlo Maderno, six years before Paul V proclaimed it complete. For the point, name this basilica in the
Vatican from which the Pope delivers addresses.
ANSWER: New St. Peter’s Basilica
019-12-58-21108
2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 2 of 10

9. Graham John Bower wrote a secret history of this event, whose failure prompted the Shona people to
declare the first Chimurenga campaign. Members of the Reform Committee, including the American John
Jays Hammond, were sentenced to death for planning this event. To preserve his job as Colonial Secretary,
James Chamberlain worked with Governor Hercules Robinson to prevent this event, which was a reaction
to the closing of fords called "drifts" on a certain river. At Doornkop hill, Piet Cronje ("Pete" KROHN-yah)
defeated the losers, who wanted to overthrow Paul Kruger. For the point, name this 1895 attempt by Cecil
Rhodes to take over the Transvaal.
ANSWER: Jameson Raid
079-12-58-21109

10. During the early part of his reign, this ruler grappled with the Saltykov family, who were related to his
mother. This ruler signed the Treaty of Stolbovo with Sweden. This ruler's children with his second wife,
Eudoxia, included his successor, Alexis. The hero Ivan Susanin legendarily diverted murderous Polish
diplomats away from the monastery where this man was hiding. His father Filaret was given the title of
Patriarch. The Zemsky Sobor elected him in 1613, ending the Time of Troubles. For the point, name this
first Romanov tsar.
ANSWER: Michael Romanov [or Mikhail Romanov]
079-12-58-21110

11. This most recent Prime Minister to die in office served as Secretary at War from 1809 through 1828. As
Foreign Secretary for most of the 1830s and 1840s, he oversaw Britain’s foreign policy regarding the
Belgian and French revolutions of the time. In response to Don Pacifico’s treatment in Greece, in 1850, he
ordered some of the British Navy to blockade Piraeus. During his first stint as Prime Minister, he oversaw
the end of the Crimean War and the start of the Second Opium War. For the point, name the British Prime
Minister whose second term saw the passage of the Offences against the Person Act and the Companies Act
of 1862 while he oversaw Great Britain from 1859 to 1865.
ANSWER: Lord Palmerston [or John Henry Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston]
147-12-58-21111

12. This author wrote one book about a pair of clerks who attempt to tend a farm; in another book, he
writes about a saint who is questioned by his former disciple Hilarion. This author of Bouvard and
Pecuchet (peck-oo-SHAY) and The Temptation of St. Anthony wrote about an aspiring lawyer who falls in
love with a woman who drops a ball of yarn while on a ship; that lawyer, Frederic Moreau (more-OH), later
pursues a relationship with Rosanette in the novel A Sentimental Education. This author also wrote a novel
about a woman who had affairs with Leon Dupuis and Rodolphe Boulanger (BOO-lon-zhay); that woman,
Emma, is married to a doctor named Charles. For the point, name this French novelist, best known for
writing Madame Bovary.
ANSWER: Gustave Flaubert
088-12-58-21112

13. This man befriended Luis Frois, who wrote a history of this man's nation. In one battle, he arranged his
riflemen into three lines to compensate for reload time. In another, he placed a large group of banners at a
temple to fool the opposing side and had his troops attack from a forest in the north after a rainstorm. After
botching a peace agreement, this victor at Nagashino and Okehazama was forced to commit suicide by one
of his generals at Honno-ji; that general was Akechi Mitsuhide. This powerful daimyo lived during the
Warring States period, and his army was taken over by his sandal-bearer, Toyotomi Hideyoshi. For the
point, identify this first of the three great unifiers of Japan.
ANSWER: Oda Nobunaga
048-12-58-21113

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 3 of 10

14. One officer involved in this conflict, Guido Starhemberg, worked with James Stanhope to win the
battles of Almenar and Saragossa. Another leader in this conflict, the Duc de Villars, was ordered to protect
the fortress of Mons, but was defeated at the battle of Malplaquet (MAL-plah-kay). Notable military
leaders who fought in this war included Eugene of Savoy and the Duke of Marlborough, and this war was
concluded by the Treaty of Utrecht. For the point, identify this war fought over the possible unification of
France and the namesake country under a Bourbon ruler.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
126-12-58-21114

15. One of this artist’s works depicts a triangular composition of three blind men ineptly drawing swords
on one another. This creator of a huge series of works called Random Sketches created series showing
waterfalls and “unusual views of bridges.” He depicted a morning glow that colors a mountain red in a
work called "South Wind, Clear Sky." He notoriously depicted a woman being ravished by two octopi in
his Dream of the Fisherman's Wife. His most famous individual work shows small boats being drawn up
into a giant blue wave. For the point, name this Japanese artist of ukiyo-e like the 36 Views of Mount Fuji.
ANSWER: Katsushika Hokusai
080-12-58-21115

16. In one opera by this composer, the second title character sings the aria "Hush, ye pretty warbling quire;"
later in that work, the singer of the aria "O ruddier than the cherry" kills the first title character with a
boulder. This composer of Acis and Galatea opened another work with the title character praising the shade
of his favorite plane tree in the aria "Ombra mai fu." Besides Xerxes, his works include one featuring the
chorus "See, the conquering hero comes." Another of his works was re-orchestrated by Mozart to include
trombones, and includes the arias "Every valley" and "I know that my Redeemer liveth." For the point,
name this composer of Judas Maccabaeus and the Messiah.
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich Handel [or George Frideric Handel]
142-12-58-21116

17. One ruler with this surname established a meridian west of the one established by the Treaty of
Tordesillas (tor-deh-SEE-yoss) with the bull Inter Caetera, one of his Bulls of Donation. Another man with
this surname, who was made the Duke of Valentinois by Louis XII, quelled revolts in the Romagna region.
The former man with this surname had a rival named Giuliano della Rovere who encouraged Charles VIII
of France to invade Naples. That man also hosted an orgy called the Banquet of Chestnuts. The latter man,
Lucrezia’s brother, is discussed in The Prince. For the point, give this Italian-Spanish surname of Cesare’s
father, Pope Alexander VI.
ANSWER: Borgias
079-12-58-21117

18. Two leaders of this movement spat on and whipped the naval officer von Dezin for refusing to
participate in a duel. Those leaders of this movement also published the literary periodical The Polar Star.
This movement, led by Alexander Bestuzhev and Kondraty Ryleyev, instigated the rebellion of the
Chernigov regiment, and this movement was abandoned by the proposed dictator, Prince Sergei
Trubetskoy. This movement involved three thousand soldiers unsuccessfully rebelling in St. Petersburg in
support of the ascension of Constantine to the throne over Nicholas I. For the point, name this 1825
Russian uprising named for the month in which it took place, the final month of the year.
ANSWER: Decembrist Uprising [or Decembrist Revolt; or Dekabrist Uprising; or Dekabrist Revolt]
014-12-58-21118

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 4 of 10

19. This country's Svecoman movement advocated the use of the language of its minority elite. Works from
this country not in that language include Heath Cobblers and Seven Brothers, by this country's national
author, Aleksis Kivi. In one work from this country, the virgin Marjatta (mar-YAH-ta) conceives after
eating a berry, another character is challenged to build a boat without using his hands, and a third is sent to
the underworld to shoot a swan. That work was compiled by Elias Lonnrot (LOEHN-root) in this country,
and chronicles a journey to the Northland undertaken by Ilmarinen, Lemminkainen, and Vainamoinen in
order to steal the Sampo. For the point, name this country whose national epic is the Kalevala.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomi; or Suomen tasavalta; or Republiken Finland]
142-12-58-21119

20. In the American theater of this war, William Phips led an expedition that sacked Port Royal during its
invasion of Acadia. This war began while Leopold I was busy dealing with the Ottomans at Mohacs
(MOE-hotch), giving the French an opening to invade the Rhineland. During this conflict, an attempt to
restore King James II was ended at the Battle of the Boyne. This war, ended by the Treaty of Ryswick, had
a North American theater called King William’s War, and served as a prelude to the War of the Spanish
Succession. For the point, name this 1688-1697 conflict, in which Louis XIV’s ambitions were thwarted by
the namesake coalition.
ANSWER: The War of the League of Augsburg [or the War of the Grand Alliance; or the Nine Years’
War; or King William’s War before it is read]
080-12-58-21120

21. One work written during this dynasty was the "Tea Manual," which explains methods of tea preparation
and was written by a son of the Hongwu Emperor. One rebellion that took place during this dynasty was
the Tumu Crisis. During this dynasty, the general Cao Qin (SAO CHIN) rebelled. This dynasty was
overthrown by Li Zicheng, leader of the short-lived Shun Dynasty. During this dynasty, the Muslim eunuch
Zheng He (ZHUNG HUH) sailed with the Golden Fleet. The Forbidden City was constructed during this
dynasty. For the point, identify this Chinese dynasty that ruled from 1368 to 1644 and is well-known for its
namesake porcelain vases.
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty
126-12-58-21121

22. This man employed the artist Pierre Puget to decorate ships. He crafted the Code Noir, which dealt with
slave conditions and restrictions on the practice of religion. He instigated the building of the Observatoire
de Paris, and he founded the Academie Royale d'Architecture and the Academie des Inscriptions et
Belles-Lettres. This man gained power by exposing the irregular finances of Nicolas Fouquet (foo-KAY),
and he worked to reform the assessment of the taille (TIE) tax and supported a favorable balance of trade
for France. For the point, name this financial adviser to Louis XIV who advocated mercantilism.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Colbert
030-12-58-21122

23. One country joined this war after Atanasio Aguirre's relinquishing of power. The Battle of Riachuelo
was a naval turning point in this war. The split between the Colorado and Blanco parties helped lead to this
conflict. Jose Diaz lost to Bartolome Mitre at the Battle of Tuyuti during this conflict. Mato Grosso was
invaded by Francisco Solano Lopez during the initial stages of this war. This war cost the defeated nation
most of its male population. For the point, name this war in which Paraguay was defeated by the namesake
coalition of Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay.
ANSWER: War of the Triple Alliance [or Paraguayan War; or Guerra de la Triple Alianza; or Guerra da
Triplice Alianca]
127-12-58-21123

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 5 of 10

24. The Plan of Ayala accused this man of having reneged on his promises to address "the agrarian
question" and recognized Pascual Orozco as the true head of the Revolution. This man ran as an
anti-reelection candidate after the success of his book, The Presidential Succession of 1910. Victoriano
Huerta joined Félix Díaz to overthrow this man after the "Ten Tragic Days." This man's promises for
democratic elections and return to the Constitution of 1857 were outlined in his Plan of San Luis Potosí.
For the point, name this leader of the Mexican Revolution and first elected president after Porfirio Diaz.
ANSWER: Francisco Ignacio Madero González
121-12-58-21124

25. The first dreikaiserbund dissolved over shared apprehension of this movement. One attempt to bring
together people with this common goal came to a tragic end when a stray bullet killed the wife of Field
Marshall Alfred, Prince of Windischgratz. Frantisek Palacky oversaw an 1848 Congress that brought
together leaders of this movement, including one pre-anarchist Mikhail Bakunin. This movement alienated
its Polish arm due to the latter's closer cultural ties with northern Europe. This movement failed due to its
solicitation of Russia as an aide to unite various Muslim and Orthodox Christian populations. For the point,
name this nationalistic movement that contributed to the Balkan crisis that led to World War I.
ANSWER: pan-Slavism [or word forms, like pan-Slavic; or the union of all Slavic peoples prompt on
Balkan nationalism]
020-12-58-21125

26. Much of the reporting on this event was done by Daily Express writer Henry V. Morton. This event was
overseen by Pierre Lacau, who later forbid wives from entering a certain structure. Shortly after this event,
Marie Corelli wrote a letter to the paper warning of “secret poisons enclosed in boxes” as described in an
ancient text. When asked if he saw anything, the central figure in this event said, “Yes. Wonderful things.”
Several months after it, Lord Carnarvon died of blood poisoning, leading to Arthur Conan Doyle’s
speculation that “elementals” were at work. For the point, name this November 1922 event in which
Howard Carter discovered a certain pharaoh’s tomb in the Valley of the Kings.
ANSWER: discovery of King Tut's tomb [or discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb; or obvious equivalents
mentioning Tutankhamun]
052-12-58-21126

27. This ruler inadvertently triggered a massacre by throwing on the ground a prayer book handed to him
by Friar Vicente de Valverde, irritated because he heard nothing when he held the book to his ear. This
ruler agreed to convert to Christianity so that he would be executed by strangulation rather than being
burned alive. Prior to that, an entire room was filled with gold to ransom the life of this ruler. This younger
son of Huayna Capac proved victorious in a civil war for control of the empire over his older brother
Huascar, whom he later executed. This ruler's death came at the hands of the conquistadors under Francisco
Pizarro. For the point, name this final emperor of the Inca.
ANSWER: Atahualpa
014-12-58-21127

28. This man agreed to abide by the "coronation laws" during a sham ceremony conducted by Theophilus
Shepstone. He was briefly restored after the publication of Florence Dixie's In the Land of Misfortune.
Bartle Frere demanded that this man pay reparations of six hundred cattle and disband his army after a
"border incident" in which sons of Sihayo committed kidnapping and murder in Natal. His brother
Dabumalanzi ignored his orders not to attack Rorke's Drift on the heels of his victory at Isandlwana. For the
point, name this nephew of Shaka and last great king of the Zulu.
ANSWER: Cetshwayo kaMpande [or Cetewayo]
003-12-58-21128

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 6 of 10

29. The first of these conflicts was fought by a faction that succeeded the Importants, which included the
powerful Madame de Longueville. For barely one year, the Peace of Ruiel led to a peaceful interlude
between the second and the first, which began with the Day of the Barricades. Named for a sling which
mobsters used to smash windows and divided into one "of the parlements" and one "of the nobles," these
conflicts happened during a war with Spain. Nobles opposed Anne of Austria and Cardinal Mazarin in, for
10 points, what set of two French civil wars during Louis XIV's reign?
ANSWER: Frondes [or First Fronde; or Second Fronde; or Fronde of the Princes; or Fronde of the
Parlements]
020-12-58-21129

30. On the night before this battle, when a commander went amongst his soldiers to observe their behavior,
they lit their straw bedding to guide him back to his tent. The victor at this battle killed many retreating
forces by having his soldiers shoot the ice they fled over. That commander deliberately abandoned a
plateau before this battle, allowing Nicolas Soult to charge up the plateau and destroy the enemy's center;
that plateau was the Pratzen Heights. The losers at this battle were forced to sign the Treaty of Pressburg,
which created the Confederation of the Rhine. For the point, name this 1805 battle in the modern-day
Czech Republic, where Napoleon defeated Francis II and Alexander I.
ANSWER: Battle of Austerlitz [or the Battle of the Three Emperors]
080-12-58-21130

31. A decisive point in this battle occurred when Dabormida's right flank was attacked by a force led by
Ras Makonnen. Seven years prior to this battle, the Treaty of Wichale was signed, but one side presented
an alternate version of the treaty afterwards. Taking place in the region of Tigray, this battle began with a
night attack by the losers, which ended in that army becoming disorganized, dealing Oreste Baratieri a huge
defeat. For the point, name this 1896 battle in which Emperor Menelik II kept Ethiopia independent by
defeating the Italians.
ANSWER: Battle of Adowa [or Battle of Adwa]
140-12-58-21131

32. During this event, Charles Leclerc died of yellow fever, and it began with Dutty Boukman engaging in
a religious ceremony later dubbed satanic. Early in this event, Commissioner Sonthonax tried to placate
dissidents by freeing slaves, a decision approved by Robespierre's National Convention. It ended with the
creation of a republic under future dictator Jean-Jacques Dessalines. Napoleon Bonaparte sent a force to
stop this event, whose leaders included Toussaint L'Ouverture. For the point, name this 1791 to 1804 event
that created a free republic out of a former French colony in the Caribbean.
ANSWER: Haitian Revolution [or Saint-Domingue Revolution; or equivalents implying Haitian
independence; or equivalents implying the creation of the Republic of Haiti]
052-12-58-21132

33. This work opens with a prelude in which a director and a clown try to get the poet to write the play. The
author of this work first encountered its central myth through puppet theater. The rise of the middle class
can be seen in this work in depictions of ordinary people taking part in Easter celebrations. In this work, the
soldier Valentin is stabbed by the title character, who refrains from poisoning himself when he hears church
bells. Part one of this work originally ended, "she is judged" before the author added, "she is saved." In this
play, Martha helps the title character begin his disastrous relationship with Gretchen. For the point, name
this play by Goethe that revisits a German legend about a man who makes a bet with Mephistopheles.
ANSWER: Faust
105-12-58-21133

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 7 of 10

34. In one fictional engagement from this war, Roberto Della Griva loses his father in Umberto Eco's The
Island of the Day Before. Both Thomas de Quincey's Klosterheim and Lord Byron's Werner were based on
Harriet Lee's Kruitzner, a tale set during this war. Don Rodrigo attempts to keep Renzo and Lucia from
marrying against the backdrop of this war in Alessandro Manzoni's The Betrothed, which also depicts a
plague outbreak in Milan during this war. Anna Fierling loses her children Kattrin, Eilif, and Swiss Cheese
during this war in Bertolt Brecht's Mother Courage and her Children. For the point, name this war, one of
whose generals was the title subject of Friedrich Schiller's play Wallenstein.
ANSWER: Thirty Years' War
003-12-58-21134

35. This legislation was modified by Knatchbull's Act, Gilbert's Act, and the Sturges-Bourne Act. Edwin
Chadwick headed the commission to implement this legislation. It required each parish to elect two
"Overseers" each Easter, and distinguished between "outdoor" and "indoor" relief. Another modification to
this legislation created the Speenhamland System. This legislation was responsible for creating the dismal
workhouses. For the point, name this set of pieces of legislation in England meant to provide relief to the
impoverished.
ANSWER: the Poor Laws [or the Elizabeth Poor Law; or the Poor Law Amendment Act]
080-12-58-21135

36. The Bayreuth (bye-ROYT) Dragoons were victorious at one battle in this conflict which saw Hans
Joachim von Zieten reroute his cavalry. It included the battles of Hohenfriedberg and Mollwitz
(MOLL-vitz) along with the last battle in which a British monarch personally led troops, Dettingen. A
Caribbean theater of this conflict was sparked after Spanish sailors cut off the namesake part of a British
merchant captain. North American phases of this conflict include the War of Jenkins' Ear and King
George's War. It was sparked by a violation of Salic Law following the ascension of Maria Theresa to the
throne. For the point, name this 1740-1748 European conflict ended by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
ANSWER: War of Austrian Succession
064-12-58-21136

37. This government planned to invade Ireland after Wolfe Tone’s revolution. Roger Ducos and the
Vicomte de Barras were prominent members of it. Francois-Noel Babeuf condemned it for issuing mandats
to replace assignats. The Battle of the Nile and the XYZ Affair occurred during its regime, and it ended the
War of the First Coalition by signing the Treaty of Campo Formio. The Council of Five Hundred and the
Council of Elders comprised this government, which met its downfall after Abbe Sieyes instigated the coup
of 18 Brumaire. Napoleon’s Consulate succeeded, for 10 points, what five-member French government
that ruled from 1795 to 1799?
ANSWER: Executive Directory [or Directoire Executil]
079-12-58-21137

38. This author wrote a collection that contains such lines as "thou hast thy seat in the inmost shrine of my
heart" and "light, my light, the world-filling light". In one play by this man, a sickly child living with his
uncle dreams of receiving correspondence from the title building. In another play, a woman named Nandini
breaks the mechanical lifestyle of a robotically efficient king and his workers. Those plays by this man are
The Post Office and The Red Oleanders. This man wrote the national anthem Jana Gana Mana along with
a series of poems, prefaced by William Butler Yeats, whose title translates as "song offerings". For the
point, name this Indian author of Gitanjali.
ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore
064-12-58-21138

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 8 of 10

39. One side in this war’s bloodiest battle used the Dreyse needle gun. This war overlapped with the Third
War of Italian Independence, during which Giuseppe Garibaldi and the Hunters of the Alps defeated one of
the losers at Bezzecca. The breakdown of negotiations at the Gastein Convention led to this war, which
began with the defeat of the Venetian Army at Custoza. This war was ended by the Treaty of Prague, which
formed the North German Confederation. The victor annexed Nassau and Schleswig-Holstein. For the
point, name this war between two German polities that contributed to German unification and lasted
slightly less than two months.
ANSWER: Austro-Prussian War [or Seven Weeks’ War]
079-12-58-21139

40. This work's first-act finale features one section with three dance meters going at the same time, one of
which is used to distract Masetto. Elsewhere in this work that also features the "Champagne Aria,"
trombones accompany a conversation with a statue, and the title character tries to convince Anna and
Ottavio that Elvira is crazy. This work also sees the title character and Zerlina sing "La ci darem la mano."
For the point, the Commendatore takes the title character down to hell at the end of which Mozart opera, in
which Leporello sings the "Catalogue Aria" about the title character's many conquests?
ANSWER: Il dissoluto punito, ossia il Don Giovanni [The Libertine Punished, or Don Giovanni]
142-12-58-21140

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 9 of 10

Extra Questions

41. Thomas Edward Bowdich, a visitor to this empire, wrote a book titled Mission from Cape Coast Castle
to it. This empire fought the Ga-Fante War against the Fanti, Akim, and Akwapim. This empire was
founded by a man who defeated Denkyira with the sole purpose of obtaining a woman from that state,
leading to the Battle of Feyiase. This empire was defeated by the British after an act by Frederick Hodgson
was considered to be sacrilege. This empire's first ruler was Osei-tutu, who owned the Golden Stool. For
the point, name this empire that lasted from the seventeenth to nineteenth centuries in Ghana.
ANSWER: Ashanti Empire
140-12-58-21141

42. A drawing by this man displays a man in red and white striped underwear who “shouldn’t swim like a
dolphin.” A different work by this man shows a child in blue being helped up a set of stairs by a laundry
woman. Another drawing by this man displays buildings labeled “Photgraphie” being photographed by a
man in a hot air balloon that says “Nadar.” This man depicted a revolutionary clothed in newspapers about
to jump off a bridge. In one cartoon, this man depicted peasants filling baskets with bread that are then
walked up a ramp into the mouth of Gargantua, who resembles Louis-Philippe. This man showed a child
sleeping while a mother carries a baby in her lap in one painting. For the point, name this French artist of
The Third Class Carriage.
ANSWER: Honore Daumier
149-12-58-21142

2012 National History Bee National Championships

Round 3: (Non-US History 1492-1932)

Page 10 of 10

