2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 1

BEE ROUND 1
1. Members of this group killed 146 civilians at the holy site of Anuradhapura, and naval commander
Clancy Fernando was also killed by this organization. The IPKF broke this group’s control of Jaffna in
1987, and this group targeted half of the commercial airliners from its country of origin in 2001. It was
founded by Vellupillai Prabhakaran and sought the establishment of a state called Eelam. For the point,
name this guerrilla organization that killed Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi in a suicide bombing and
sought to create an independent state for an ethnic group in Sri Lanka.
ANSWER: Tamil Tigers [or Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam; or LTTE]
030-12-72-19101

2. The failure of this legislation was the subject of the Supreme Court case Idaho v. Freeman. Congressman
Robert Andrews tried to pass this law by appealing to the “three-state strategy” argument. A “STOP"
movement against this legislation was spearheaded by Phyllis Schlafly. Written by Alice Paul, it finally
passed Congress in 1972, but failed to receive the proper number of state ratifications, possibly due to
smear campaigns saying it would lead to unisex bathrooms. For the point, name this proposed amendment
designed to guarantee gender equality.
ANSWER: Equal Rights Amendment [or ERA]
052-12-72-19102

3. One ruler of this empire is depicted on the archer, battle-axe, and tiger coins. An important account of
this empire was made by the Chinese traveler (fah shee-AHN) Fa Xian. This empire disintegrated after
repeated attacks by the White Huns. Samudra ruled this empire between two emperors of the same name;
the second of those emperors included Kalidasa in his court and oversaw a flourishing of Sanskrit literature.
For the point, name this empire that ruled India from 320 to 550 AD.
ANSWER: Gupta Empire [or Gupta Dynasty]
020-12-72-19103

4. The actions of Deputy Inspector Seymour Pine helped spark this event, at which the folk singer Dave
Van Ronk was arrested. The namesake establishment of this event was owned by the Genovese crime
family. The only photograph taken of this event shows homeless denizens of Christopher Park resisting
police. It was sparked by the enforcement of a law that made it illegal to not wear at least three articles of
gender-appropriate clothinge. For the point, name these riots that took place at the namesake New York
City bar that helped lead to the birth of the gay rights movement.
ANSWER: Stonewall riots
030-12-72-19104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 1 of 8 © HSAPQ

5. This man's government never finished building the Federal Legislative Palace, which became the
Monument to the Revolution instead. This man claimed he would not seek re-election now that his country
was ready for democracy in an interview for Pearson Magazine conducted by James Creelman. Positivist
advisers to this man like Ramón Corral were called “científicos.” The Anti-Reelection Party was created in
opposition to this man, whose removal was the key part of the Plan of San Luis Potosí. For the point, name
this long-serving president of Mexico, removed in the revolution.
ANSWER: Porfirio Díaz Mori
121-12-72-19105

6. One supporter of this movement was Stanislaus Hosius, who helped this movement succeed in Poland.
Pamphlets by Francis de Sales allegedly reclaimed over 70,000 people for this movement in Geneva. One
meeting that took place during this period reaffirmed the right of granting indulgences. This period
received support from a group founded by Ignatius of Loyola. For the point, name this period in which the
Jesuits and the Council of Trent fought against the rise of Protestantism during the sixteenth century.
ANSWER: Counter-Reformation [or Catholic Reformation; or Catholic Revival]
023-12-72-19106

7. The Tigurine were defeated at this conflict’s Battle of Arar, and the Suebi, under Ariovistus, were
defeated in the Battle of the (VOHJ) Vosges during it. The winning commander of this conflict built two
bridges over the Rhine River during it. It ended after Roman forces captured Alesia, and immediately after
this conflict, the winning commander crossed the Rubicon River to reach Italy. For the point, name this set
of conflicts which ended after (ver-sin-GET-or-ix) Vercingetorix was defeated by Julius Caesar,
completing the Roman conquest of what is now France.
ANSWER: Gallic Wars [accept equivalents for wars such as "campaigns"]
192-12-72-19107

8. This leader was given a sash after he ordered his troops to march in circles by a gap in the woods to
exaggerate his numbers and convince William Hull to surrender Detroit. This leader said, “Here is a man!”
when presenting Sir Isaac Brock to his troops. In order to safely reach Burlington Heights, Henry Procter
abandoned this leader to die fighting the forces of William Henry Harrison at the Battle of Moraviantown.
For the point, name this Shawnee chief who led an American Indian confederacy during the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Tecumseh
153-12-72-19108

9. This ruler ordered the execution of (mar-KAY-zay) Marchese Gian Rinaldo Monaldeschi, which ended
her ambitions to rule Naples with French help. This ruler founded the Arcadian Academy in Rome, a city
that she entered via the Piazza del Popolo. This ruler’s plan to be succeeded by Charles X Gustav upset
Axel Oxenstierna. This ruler had the regalia removed in Uppsala Castle. For the point, name this heir of
Gustavus Adolphus who converted to Roman Catholicism and abdicated as Swedish Queen Regnant.
ANSWER: Christina, Queen of Sweden [or Kristina Augusta; or Christina Alexandra]
153-12-72-19109

10. This man participated in a coalition with the first English Foreign Secretary to form a new government,
which was succeeded by one under Pitt the Younger; that foreign secretary was Charles Fox. As prime
minister, this man diffused the Falklands Crisis with Spain. He also instituted a series of lotteries to raise
revenue, and avoid raising land taxes, in the wake of the Seven Years War. This man would only accept
halving the tax on surplus tea, rather than eliminating it, resulting in the Boston Tea Party. For the point,
identify this British prime minister during the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Lord Frederick North
066-12-72-19110

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 2 of 8 © HSAPQ

11. This man won a 1930 term as Governor of Pennsylvania despite opposition from William Vare’s
Philadelphia "machine." This person infuriated his superior after he wrote an open letter to Senator
Dolliver, praising General Land Office chief Louis Glavis, who had accused the Guggenheims of wielding
influence in coal field claims. This man was dismissed from office by William Howard Taft because of his
opposition to Taft’s Secretary of the Interior, Richard Ballinger. For the point, name this first Chief of the
U.S. Forest Service, noted for espousing the conservation ethic.
ANSWER: Gifford Pinchot
052-12-72-19111

12. Jim Guy Tucker was arrested for fraud in connection to this scandal, whose early investigators
included Madison Guaranty. Robert Fiske was appointed to investigate this scandal, which involved tax
returns that had been managed by Vincent Foster before his suicide. David Hale accused one person
involved with it of pressuring him to make a loan to Jim and Susan McDougal in order to aid constructions
near Little Rock. For the point, name this scandal arising out of the real estate investments made by Hillary
and Bill Clinton while the latter served as Governor of Arkansas.
ANSWER: Whitewater scandal
192-12-72-19112

13. The most famous landmark in this city was once a Church of St. Vincent. The administrative divisions
of a kingdom named after this city became the warring "taifas." Every single ruler from this city was the
son of a concubine slave. Some 400,000 volumes were housed in a library built by another ruler from this
city, Al-Hakam II. Alternating tan and yellow blocks comprise the arches of the most famous building in
this city, which was renovated by Abd ar-Rahman I during his exile from Damascus. For the point, name
this capital of a branch of the Umayyad Caliphate, a city in southern Spain.
ANSWER: Cordoba
020-12-72-19113

14. During the Civil War, a colony at this location was created by John Foster and consisted of
"contraband of war." The Freedmen's Colony was located at the north of this place. The first settlement of
this location was led by Richard Grenville; a resettlement was led by John White, whose granddaughter,
Virginia Dare, was the first English child born in the New World. One of the few remnants of one colony at
this location was the word "CROATOAN" carved into a tree. For the point, name this location of a failed
colony organized by Sir Walter Raleigh, an island off North Carolina.
ANSWER: Roanoke Island [prompt on Outer Banks]
066-12-72-19114

15. This man calculated the number of grains of sand needed to fill the universe in the book The Sand
Reckoner. He proved that the area of a parabola is 4/3 times the inscribed triangle using an early form of
integration known as the method of exhaustion. He may be most famous, however, for anecdotally solving
king Hiero II's request to determine the purity of a gold crown without damaging it. For the point, name this
Greek mathematician who discovered that an object displaces its own volume in water and then supposedly
ran naked through the streets shouting “Eureka!”
ANSWER: Archimedes of Syracuse
201-12-72-19115

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 3 of 8 © HSAPQ

16. This man was once run down by a car driven by Rikishi. He is not Mongo McMichael, but this man was
once married to Debra Marshall, who accused him of domestic abuse. This man once attacked Santino
Marella for mocking his movie The Condemned. His entrance features the sound of glass breaking, and he
celebrates victories by chugging beer in the ring. This athlete’s finishing move is called the “Stunner,” and
he once fired a toy gun at Vince McMahon that read “Bang! 3:16,” a reference to one of his catch phrases.
For the point, name this wrestler known as “Stone Cold.”
ANSWER: Steve Austin [or Steven James Anderson; or Steven James Williams; or Stone Cold until it is
read]
052-12-72-19116

17. A Cincinnati judge with this surname dissented in a case involving Bible-reading in schools and served
as Secretary of War and Attorney General in the Grant administration. A Senator with this surname
opposed the Nuremberg Trials, was the first chair of the Republican Policy Committee, and was nicknamed
"Mr. Republican." A Chief Justice with this surname declared the Tenure of Office Act unconstitutional in
Myers v. United States and served from 1921 to 1930. For the point, give the name of that Chief Justice
who also advocated "Dollar Diplomacy" as President, and who was notably obese.
ANSWER: Taft [or Alphonso Taft; or Robert Alphonso Taft; or William Howard Taft]
080-12-72-19117

18. This was the last major structure to be surveyed by John L. Savage. This structure sits atop two major
seismic fault lines and receives the vast majority of forty million tons of sediment, greatly altering
biodiversity. A population of the critically endangered Siberian Crane is suffering because of this structure,
which also contributed to the extinction of the Baiji dolphin. This structure is fully operational apart from
one ship lift, and it is second only to the Itaipu Dam in electricity generation. For the point, name this dam
on the Yangtze River in China.
ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam [or Changjiang Sanxia Daba]
020-12-72-19118

19. This country was aided by the Thunderbolt Army Group, which was sent by the same country that gave
it the Goeben and Breslau. This country was forced to sign the Armistice of Mudros after the disastrous
war years under the Committee of Union and Progress led by Talat and Enver. This country’s partition at
the Treaty of Sevres was ended by its hero at Anzac Cove, Mustafa Kemal. For the point, name this Central
Power country that failed to seize the Suez Canal and carried out a genocide of Armenians.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire [or Turkey]
153-12-72-19119

20. This country adopted a more militant stance after Winston Field lost a leadership post. Official
opposition in this country was from the United African National Council led by Abel Muzorewa. For most
of its existence, it fought the Second (shim-uh-RAIN-guh) Chimurenga with the Patriotic Front co-led by
Joshua Nkomo, following British refusal to recognize its Unilateral Declaration of Independence. Ian Smith
was the longtime prime minister of, for 10 points, what erstwhile white-dominated country, which
eventually negotiated with the ZANU of Robert (moo-GAH-bay) Mugabe and became Zimbabwe?
ANSWER: Rhodesia [or Southern Rhodesia; prompt on Zimbabwe until it is read]
019-12-72-19120

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 4 of 8 © HSAPQ

21. Meganeuda are fossils from this time period, during which the amniote egg was first developed.
Organisms that thrived on high atmospheric oxygen levels during this era included footlong dragonflies,
tree-sized ferns, and the first reptiles. A rainforest collapse caused an extinction event in its Pennsylvanian
sub-period, after its Mississippian sub-period. For the point, name this geologic era succeeding the
Devonian that ended around 300 million years ago, whose plant life is the source of today’s coal deposits.
ANSWER: Carboniferous era
104-12-72-19121

22. This family’s coat of arms is a fist holding five arrows that represents their London, Paris, Vienna,
Naples, and Frankfurt branches. The bi-daily fixing of the price of gold is done on the premises of an
organization started by a branch of this family, a member of which was the addressee of the Balfour
Declaration. Nathan Mayer of this family built a fortune running British bullion in the Napoleonic Wars,
during which this family was freed from the Frankfurt Ghetto. For the point, name this Jewish banking
family.
ANSWER: Rothschild Family [or House of Rothschild]
153-12-72-19122

23. This composer used the melody of the hymn "O Sacred Head, Now Wounded" in the final chorus of his
Christmas Oratorio. One of this composer's collections ends with the incomplete Contrapunctus XIV, and
he discussed Lieschen's addiction to caffeine in his "Coffee Cantata." Another work by this man was first
recorded by Wanda Landowska and was written to relieve Count Kaiserling of his insomnia. In another
work, he pairs 24 preludes and fugues in every major and minor key. For the point, name this German
Baroque composer of The Goldberg Variations and The Well-Tempered Clavier.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
201-12-72-19123

24. This man edited the only textbook of his country's history available during his rule, the Short Course,
for which he wrote a chapter on "Dialectical and Historical Materialism." This man received information
through the Red Orchestra spy ring. Before his death, he was planning to launch a campaign against Jews
based on the spurious Doctors' Plot. His secret police, led by Lavrenty Beria, was the NKVD. This man,
whose name meant "Man of Steel," caused a famine called the Holodomor with his Five-Year Plans. For
the point, name this brutal dictator of the Soviet Union.
ANSWER: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Dzhugashvili]
080-12-72-19124

25. This monarch established a Lyceum at (TSAR-sko-yay) Tsarskoye Selo. Advisors to this monarch
included the mystic Barbara von Krudener and Mikhail Speransky. This monarch, who succeeded Paul I,
declared himself the Grand Duke of Finland two years after losing at Friedland. This man met Napoleon on
the Neman River to join the Continental System by signing the Treaty of Tilsit, which he later broke. This
founder of the Holy Alliance was succeeded by Nicholas I. For the point, name this tsar who led Russia at
the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: Alexander I of Russia [prompt on Alexander]
149-12-72-19125

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 5 of 8 © HSAPQ

26. This activity inspired the Sharps company to manufacture the “50-90.” Visitors flocked to Fort Hays to
perform this action aboard moving trains. This industry was eclipsed by cattle-rearing in its hub at Dodge
City. Bill Comstock was hired to perform this activity for the Kansas Pacific Railroad. Grant vetoed a bill
to end this activity, though many possible victims were protected by Yellowstone National Park. General
Sheridan argued for doing this to destroy the Native Americans. For the point, name this short-lived
sporting activity which gave showman Bill Cody his nickname.
ANSWER: hunting buffalo [or clear equivalents involving the killing of a bison; accept shooting buffalo ;
prompt partial answer]
104-12-72-19126

27. One writer in this language created an actor who thinks he is a Holy Roman Emperor and a father of
three sons by three different mothers. Though it was not used by Shakespeare, this is the language of the
plays Henry IV and Liola. This language was used in a book featuring the fictional nation of Cimmeria and
stories about (KUFK) Qfwfq, called Cosmicomics. This is the original language of If on a winter's night a
traveler and Six Characters in Search of an Author. For the point, identify the native tongue of Luigi
Pirandello and Italo Calvino.
ANSWER: Italiano
191-12-72-19127

28. This man sparked a controversy when he married the fiancé of Hugh of (loo-zin-YON) Lusignan,
Isabella of (on-goo-LEM) Angouleme. Under this king, Hubert Walker established the Charter Roll. A
document signed by this man claimed that no scutage could be levied without the approval of the great
council. This king was excommunicated by Pope Innocent III when he refused to appoint Stephen Langton
as Archbishop of Canterbury. The youngest son of Eleanor of Aquitaine and Henry II, this king succeeded
his brother Richard I. For the point, name this English king who signed the Magna Carta.
ANSWER: John Lackland [or John Softsword]
149-12-72-19128

29. This man's ideas were revived in popularity in the 1970s by Paul Erlich. This author proposed the use
of land-based profits for capital re-investment in The Nature of Rent, and wrote his best-known work as a
response to William Godwin and the Marquis de (con-dor-SAY) Condorcet. That work by him predicts
future conditions of war and famine because the population is growing at a geometric rate while the food
supply only grows at an arithmetic rate. For the point, name this English economist and author of “An
Essay on the Principle of Population.”
ANSWER: Thomas Robert Malthus
192-12-72-19129

30. This man’s supporters included Gerald Smith, a reverend who hailed him as a superman, and John
Sparks Patton, a major proponent of free textbooks for all schoolchildren. This leader was the subject of an
attempted impeachment by Cecil Morgan. He appointed Alvin King as his lieutenant governor after ousting
his rival, Paul Cyr. This man was assassinated by the son-in-law of Benjamin Henry Pavy, Carl Weiss, in
1935. He used the slogan “Every man a king” in support of his Share Our Wealth program. For the point,
name this Depression-era politician from Louisiana known as the Kingfish.
ANSWER: Huey Pierce Long, Jr.
192-12-72-19130

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 6 of 8 © HSAPQ

31. In July 2012, the governor of this state was criticized for stating that, with the enforcement of the
Affordable Care Act, the IRS will be “the new Gestapo.” The current governor of this state is Paul LePage.
A senator from this state announced plans to caucus with the Democrats and, along with Vermont's Bernie
Sanders, is an independent; that is Angus King. King replaced this state's former senator Olympia Snowe.
For the point, name this state which, along with Nebraska, does not have a traditional winner-take-all
system for distributing its votes in the electoral college.
ANSWER: Maine
030-12-72-19131

32. Either this man or (al-sib-EYE-uh-deez) Alcibiades is the sword-wielding character chatting with
Socrates in the top-left of The School of Athens. Depictions of this man often show him with the "horn of
Ammon." This man, whose personal sculptor was Lysippus, is the primary subject of a floor mosaic in the
House of the Faun in Pompeii. A painting of one of his victories shows both the sun and the moon in a
swirling sky and depicts a huge inscription floating in the air; that painting was the masterpiece of Albrecht
Altdorfer. For the point, name this conqueror depicted in Altdorfer's The Battle of Issus.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on Alexander]
080-12-72-19132

33. One Supreme Court case in which this state was a party ruled that testifying by CCTV doesn’t violate
the confrontation clause of the Sixth Amendment. A court case from this state set a nearly century-long
precedent of not incorporating Constitutional rights against state governments. This state attempted to tax
all banknotes from other states in another case, and in that case John Marshall outlined the doctrine of
implied powers. For the point, name this state, the origin of the McCulloch case and Barron v. Baltimore.
ANSWER: Maryland
048-12-72-19133

34. This man had to engage in diplomacy after landing at the neutral port of Texel following the Battle of
Flamborough Head. This man became the master of the brig John after he sailed it to port following the
death of its captain and first mate. This man was asked by Richard Pearson, “Have you struck?” during a
battle with the Countess of Scarborough and Serapis. This Scotsman commanded the Bonhomme Richard.
For the point, name this Revolutionary War naval commander who, in one fight, declared, “I have not yet
begun to fight!”
ANSWER: John Paul Jones [or John Paul]
023-12-72-19134

35. The first advertisement for this product featured a man dancing out of his apartment while listening to
"Take California" by the Propellerheads. "Gimme That" by The Resource played in an advertisement
where a new version of this product was advertised with a hand holding it against a black background. That
version of this product was called "impossibly small," while the original was described as "a thousand
songs in your pocket." For the point, dancing silhouettes against bright backgrounds are the "people" used
to advertise what Apple portable music player?
ANSWER: iPod [or iPod nano; or iPod shuffle]
023-12-72-19135

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 7 of 8 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

36. Preparation for this event occurred in Operation MINCEMEAT, an Ian Fleming-devised scheme in
which the corpse of Bill Martin was thrown into the sea with fake plans. This campaign included the Battle
of Troina and forced General Hube to evacuate his forces. Codenamed Operation Husky, this was the first
action in Winston Churchill's "soft underbelly" strategy. During this campaign, George Patton landed in hot
water for slapping two subordinates. For the point, name this World War II campaign, a precursor to the
invasion of Italy, in which Patton and Bernard Montgomery raced to capture Messina.
ANSWER: Allied Invasion of Sicily [or Operation Husky until it is read]
080-12-72-19136

37. This man formed a friendship with Roy Ratcliff, who baptized him. Along with Jesse Anderson, this man
was bludgeoned to death by a metal bar by Christopher Scarver. John Balcerzak was fired after returning
Konerak Sinthasomphone to this man’s house. This man, who resided in Apartment 213, believed that he
could create zombies by injecting acid into the frontal lobes, and upon his arrest officers found an altar of
skulls in his apartment. For the point, name this blond serial killer from Milwaukee who partially ate his
victims.
ANSWER: Jeffrey Dahmer
048-12-72-19137

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 1

Page 8 of 8 © HSAPQ

