2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 4

BEE ROUND 4
1. One technology for performing this action was developed by Ernst Fehrer; that is the “friction” or
“Dref” method. The components of one device for performing this action were maintained by doffers.
Thorpe developed a ring frame for performing this action. Samuel Crompton developed a “mule” for
performing this action, which was an improvement on Richard Arkwright’s water-powered device for it.
For the point, name this action performed by James Hargreaves’ “jenny,” an important step in the
manufacturing of textiles.
ANSWER: spinning cotton [accept things like making thread, etc]
048-12-72-22101

2. Samuel Du Pont led a "strategy board" for this policy, which initially relied on the revenue cutter service
for enforcement. One part of this policy was the purchase of old whaling vessels, which were filled with
rocks and sunk, called the “Stone Fleet.” The SS Tristram Shandy, the SS Fingal, and the Sumter, under
Raphael Semmes, were among the vessels that tried to “run” past this cordon. For the point, identify this
naval effort, part of the Anaconda Plan, which sought to weaken the Confederacy by closing all Southern
seaports during the Civil War.
ANSWER: the Union blockade of the Confederacy [accept Anaconda Plan before it is read]
019-12-72-22102

3. These people engage in a coming-of-age ceremony for girls called "kinaalda," part of their ritual
"blessingway." Kit Carson attempted to confine a group of these people to the Bosque Redondo, an action
opposed by both warfare and diplomacy under their leader Bullet or Manuelito. Philip Johnston had the
idea to use a system in which a translated word from this people’s language corresponded to one English
letter in order to create an unbreakable World War II code. For the point, name these people who inhabit an
enormous nation that overlaps three states in the Southwestern U.S.
ANSWER: Navajo [or Diné]
019-12-72-22103

4. A pact signed in this country created the CENTO organization, and an uprising in this nation was called
“The Leap” and was organized by this country’s Communist party. A coup in this country overthrew
Abdul Karim Quasim, who himself had previously overthrown the Hashemite monarchy here. Forces from
this nation carried out the Halabja massacre, in which chemical weapons were used against Kurds. During
another conflict here, several prisoners were maltreated at Abu Ghraib. For the point, name this country
once ruled by Saddam Hussein.
ANSWER: Iraq
048-12-72-22104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 1 of 8 © HSAPQ

5. This man joined economist Irving Fisher to found the eugenicist Race Betterment Foundation. In his
book Plain Facts About Sexual Life, he advocated applying phenol to reproductive organs to discourage
sexual urges. He was disfellowshipped by Ellen White for pantheist ideas in his book The Living Temple,
which he sold to fund the rebuilding of the Battle Creek Sanitarium. One of his patients there, Charles
William Post, became his rival when he stole a recipe from a safe. For the point, name this
anti-masturbation campaigner who co-founded a company to market corn flakes.
ANSWER: John Harvey Kellogg
019-12-72-22105

6. This man's late rule was undermined by his wife Praxedis of Kiev's abandonment of him. Adalbert was
guardian and tutor during this man's minority. The latter part of this man's reign saw a revolt against him by
his sons Conrad and his namesake. An argument that began during this man's reign was settled by his son at
the Concordat of Worms. This man supposedly walked barefoot in the snow to a castle after being
excommunicated. For the point, name this Holy Roman emperor who made the trip to Canossa to visit Pope
Gregory VII during the Investiture Controversy.
ANSWER: Henry IV [prompt on Henry]
030-12-72-22106

7. A conflict disrupting this period was instigated by Yamana Sozen. Cultural developments during this
period included the tea ceremony and Noh drama, and this period saw the construction of the Silver
Pavilion and Golden Pavilion. This period followed the failed Kemmu restoration. The third ruler during
this period, Yoshimitsu, established stability that lasted until the eruption of the Onin War, which began the
Sengoku period. For the point, name this period in Japanese history that preceded the Tokugawa shogunate.
ANSWER: Ashikaga period [or Ashikaga shogunate; or Muromachi period]
014-12-72-22107

8. This group left behind mercury-laden laxatives invented by Dr. Benjamin Rush. This group could not
prevent the death of Sergeant Charles Floyd, whose burial site was renamed "Floyd's Bluff." Shortly after
constructing Fort Mandan, this group encountered Touissant (shar-buh-NO) Charbonneau, a
French-Canadian fur trapper. This group discovered more than 200 new animal and plant species and was
aided by Charbonneau's wife, the Shoshone woman (sack-uh-juh-WEE-uh) Sacagawea. For the point, name
this group that Thomas Jefferson sent on a transcontinental expedition.
ANSWER: Lewis and Clark Expedition [accept Corps of Discovery before it is mentioned]
020-12-72-22108

9. One coach of this nationality quit an American national team after being suspended for ordering
Canadian equipment to be sabotaged before a finals race. At Salt Lake City, Apolo Ohno’s cross-tracking
protest cost this country a 1500 meter gold. This most successful Olympic short-track speed skating
country is home to the first female figure skater to win the Four Continents, Grand Prix, Worlds, and
Olympics after getting gold at Vancouver 2010. For the point, name this home country of Jae Su Chun and
Kim Yuna.
ANSWER: South Korea [or Republic of Korea; or ROK; prompt on Korea; do not accept “North
Korea” or “Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”]
153-12-72-22109

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 2 of 8 © HSAPQ

10. During this dynasty, Zhang Sixun designed and built a groundbreaking astronomical clock tower. This
dynasty fought wars with the northern Western Xia dynasty and the Liao dynasty, against whom they allied
with the Jurchens. It undertook a series of economic reforms under Wang Anshi, and notable philosophers
from this dynasty included Cheng Yi and Zhu Xi. The first dynasty to issue paper money, it was founded
by Emperor Taizu. For the point, name this Chinese dynasty with Northern and Southern periods that was
followed by the Yuan Dynasty.
ANSWER: Song Dynasty
201-12-72-22110

11. A leader of this event declared that "If we are wrong, God Almighty is wrong" in a speech at the Holt
Street Baptist Church. This event achieved success with the Supreme Court decision Browder v. Gayle.
This event was planned by the Women's Political Council under the leadership of Jo Ann Robinson, who
decided not to make her stand on the arrest of Claudette Colvin. The MIA organized a large-scale
carpooling system to ensure the success of, for 10 points, what protest, a watershed in the Civil Rights
Movement that began when Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat?
ANSWER: the Montgomery Bus Boycott
080-12-72-22111

12. This author of A Trip to Cuba co-published the abolitionist newspaper The Commonwealth and
attempted to start a peace movement with her "Appeal to Womanhood Throughout the World." This
longtime editor of the Lucy Stone-owned Woman's Journal was the first female member of the American
Academy of Arts and Letters. She is likely best known for a poem which mentions that "he is trampling out
the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored" and was set to the tune of "John Brown's Body." For the
point, name this writer of “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”
ANSWER: Julia Ward Howe
019-12-72-22112

13. In the "Sistema de Castas," this term was applied to people with at least seven-eighths Spanish blood
that were born in the New World, as contrasted with "peninsulares." This term is applied to vernacular
languages that are believed to arise from pidgins. This term is applied to an ethnic group that is related to
the group formed when Acadians were forcibly relocated by the British, the Cajuns. For the point, identify
this term applied to descendants of the colonial settlers of French Louisiana.
ANSWER: creole [or criollo]
066-12-72-22113

14. During this battle, an attack across the Nebel River divided the forces of Ferdinand de Marsin from the
rest of army. TOne of the winning commanders in this battle had previously taken Schellenberg Fortress
and was granted the royal manor of Woodstock for his victory here. This battle resulted in knocking
Bavaria out of the war, and the losing commander was the Comte de Tallard. For the point, name this 1704
victory for the Duke of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy in the War of the Spanish Succession.
ANSWER: Battle of Blenheim
030-12-72-22114

15. This city’s public swimming pools were desegregated due to the efforts of Betty Hill. George Holliday
recorded an incident in this city. Korean residents of this city defended their shops with machine guns
during another period of unrest in this city, during which one figure pleaded “Can’t we all just get along?”
after an incident of police brutality in its South Central area. For the point, name this city in which riots
occurred after the beating of Rodney King.
ANSWER: Los Angeles
048-12-72-22115

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 3 of 8 © HSAPQ

16. This author described ants between dogs and foxes in size which are employed in digging up gold. This
author described how Queen Tomyris of the Massagetae satisfied an opponent's bloodlust by stuffing his
head in a wineskin filled with blood. He described how the Oracle told Croesus that a great empire would
be destroyed. A different Muse names each section of his major work, which covers the Ionian Revolt, the
Battle of Thermopylae, and other incidents from the Persian Wars. For the point, name this author of the
Histories, the Greek father of history.
ANSWER: Herodotus
020-12-72-22116

17. One facility in this nation conducted the CDF and D-Zero experiments, which discovered the top quark.
One scientific facility in this nation discovered that the number of solar neutrinos was less than half of the
expected value. The world’s first nuclear reactor was developed in this nation. Another group of scientists
working in this nation conducted the “Trinity” test; that group of scientists included Enrico Fermi and J.
Robert Oppenheimer. For the point, name this nation home to the Tevatron at Fermilab and the Los Alamos
National Laboratory.
ANSWER: United States of America
048-12-72-22117

18. One of this country’s dynasties built rock-hewn churches in a capital city that was named for Lalibela;
that dynasty was the Zagwe. An anti-Islamic treaty between this country and Queen Victoria’s Great
Britain was proposed in a lost letter of Tewodros II of this country. Mengistu’s Derg led this country
against an eastern neighbor in the Ogaden War. Francesco Crispi lost power after this country’s forces,
under Menelik II, beat Italy at the Battle of Adowa. For the point, name this African country once ruled by
Haile Selassie.
ANSWER: Ethiopian Empire [or Abyssinia]
153-12-72-22118

19. One senator from this state, along with Wayne Morse of Oregon, voted against the Gulf of Tonkin
resolution. A Senator from this state read the contents of the Pentagon Papers into the public record. This
state was represented by Senators Ernest Guerning and Mike Gravel. While campaigning for Nick Begich,
Hale Boggs died in a plane crash in this state. Another Senator from this state believed the Internet to be a
series of tubes; that is Ted Stevens, who also spearheaded the creation of an oil pipeline across this state.
For the point, name this state, once governed by Sarah Palin.
ANSWER: Alaska
048-12-72-22119

20. One battle at this site created the Langemarck myth that students attacked in the fog singing
“Deutschland, Deutschland Uber Alles.” The Yser sluices were opened to flood the attacker’s path during
this site’s first battle. The Australians took Polygon Wood and the Canadians took Passchendaele Ridge at
the last battle of this ending point of the Race to the Sea. The second battle here saw the first major use of
poison gas on the Western Front. For the point, name this Belgian city that formed a First World War
salient.
ANSWER: Ypres Salient [or Wipers; or Ieper; accept First, Second, or Third Ypres; accept
Passchendaele before mention; prompt on Flanders or Belgium]
153-12-72-22120

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 4 of 8 © HSAPQ

21. This ruler’s forces killed Hadji Murad. This ruler had an Official Nationality policy and created the
Third Section of His Imperial Majesty’s Own Chancellery under Alexander von Benckendorff. This
monarch briefly swore fealty to his more popular older brother Constantine and was forced to suppress the
liberal revolts of the Chernigov Regiment and Pavel Pestel. For the point, name this reactionary tsar, whom
the Decembrists failed to stop from succeeding Alexander I.
ANSWER: Nicholas I of Russia [prompt on Nicholas]
153-12-72-22121

22. This author edited Telling Tales, a collection benefiting an AIDS charity. Characters created by this
author include the mechanic Abdu, an illegal immigrant, and Kim Capran, who takes the name Hillela. One
work by this author of A Sport of Nature and The Pickup sees the title servant hide Maureen Smales and her
family during a civil war, which erupts following the violent overthrow of apartheid. For the point, name
this South African author of July’s People.
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer
191-12-72-22122

23. Several parties of this ideology met during the Montreux International Conference, which was
organized by the CAUR. One party of this ideology triggered the passage of the Public Order Act after their
members were stopped from marching in the Battle of Cable Street. Another party of this type reorganized
their nation’s legislature using the Acerbo law, and came to power after their leader forced Victor
Emmanuel III from power. For the point, name this political ideology that espouses corporatist
totalitarianism and was subscribed to by the leader of the March on Rome, Benito Mussolini.
ANSWER: fascist parties
048-12-72-22123

24. This man's commencement address at the Union School in New London dealt with the question of
higher education for women. This man planned an half-successful attack on the frigate Phoenix shortly
after his regiment waded the water to New York. Consider Tiffany wrote that this man was spotted at a
tavern by the Queen's Rangers, was soon after questioned by William Howe, and was then taken to
Artillery Park, where he was hanged. For the point, name this spy for the Continental Army whose
purported last words were "I only regret that I have but one life to give for my country."
ANSWER: Nathan Hale
020-12-72-22124

25. During this man's reign, towns were allowed to elect their own municipal leaders, subordinate to the
ratusha of the capital city. He divided his country into eight administrative units called guberny, though he
later replaced this system with one of fifty provinces. This man forced the former regent Sophia
Alekseyevna to join a convent after her support of a failed streltsy revolt, and created a Senate to replace
the boyar council. He worked as a ship carpenter in Saardam during his Great Embassy to the West, where
he decided his country must modernize. For the point, name this tsar.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I; or Pyotr I Romanov; prompt on Peter]
121-12-72-22125

26. Due to a rules misinterpretation, one tournament for this activity in 1942 ended with a first-place tie
between Isaac Kashdan and Samuel Reshevsky. A noted match in this activity was held in 1858, during a
performance of Norma, and ended with the team of Count Isouard and the Duke of Brunswick losing to
Paul Morphy. This activity was played in Reykjavik in 1972, where Boris Spassky lost the world title to
Bobby Fischer. For the point, name this activity which can include the Sicilian Defense and whose current
world champion is Viswanathan Anand.
ANSWER: chess
019-12-72-22126
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 5 of 8 © HSAPQ

27. Members of this group, which was led by Erich Mielke, removed fabric from seat cushions used during
interrogations to create “smell samples.” It is discovered that a member of this organization known as
HGW XX/7 is the dedicatee of a book called Sonata for a Good Man at the end of the film The Lives of
Others. Documents created by this organization were released to the public following reunification. This
organization’s headquarters in Lichtenberg, a borough of Berlin, is now a museum. For the point, name the
state security force of East Germany.
ANSWER: Stasi [or Ministry for State Security; or Staatssicherheit]
149-12-72-22127

28. The Pyrgi Tablets show Phoenician and this people’s language. One person of this ethnicity, Plautia
Urgulanilla, married the emperor Claudius, who is the last recorded speaker of their language. These people
were led by Lars Porsena in a war which produced such heroes as Horatius Cocles and Mucius Scaevola.
Kings of this ethnicity, who built the Cloaca Maxima, included Servius Tullius, but these people were
removed as kings of Rome following the rape of Lucretia. For the point, name this Italian group, including
Tarquinius Superbus, which was supplanted by the Romans in central Italy.
ANSWER: Etruscans
019-12-72-22128

29. This country is home to Russia's Tartus naval base. A recent conflict in this country was sparked by the
arrest of fifteen children for writing a slogan on the wall of their school in Daraa. The photographer Remi
Ochlik and the reporter Marie Colvin were killed in this country's city of Homs. This country is currently
ruled by the Ba'ath party, which is controlled by the Alawites, a minor branch of Shia Islam. The most
important ongoing battle in this country is the Battle of Aleppo. For the point, identify this country ruled by
Bashar al-Assad, which is currently in a civil war.
ANSWER: Syria
066-12-72-22129

30. The Americans protested the seizure of two islands off of Newfoundland belonging to this government.
This government’s police detained members of a minority group in the Winter Velodrome. This
government’s armistice army was disbanded after Case Anton, but it kept its hated Milice. This
government’s territory of Syria was taken by an invasion that saw Foreign Legionnaires fight Foreign
Legionnaires. For the point, name this collaborationist regime of Philippe Petain based in a namesake
Southern French town.
ANSWER: Vichy France [prompt on France and descriptions of Vichy France such as Collaborationist
France, Petainist France, Nazi-allied France, etc.]
153-12-72-22130

31. These structures often had two doors, one for men and one for women. The Handsome Lake Cult, also
called the religion of this structure, emphasized the transformation of these structures into churches which
melded Christianity and traditional Seneca beliefs. The self-name for the Iroquois, Hodenosaunee, means
"people of" this structure, which the Iroquois built using elm bark and saplings. For the point, identify this
structure, characteristic of northeastern Indian settlements, and named for the fact that it could extend as
many as four hundred meters along one axis.
ANSWER: longhouses
019-12-72-22131

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 6 of 8 © HSAPQ

32. The female leader of the Cofitachequi gave this man supplies during his best-known expedition. A
voyage of this man was delayed when Havana, a city once governed by this leader, was burned down by
the French. On an earlier voyage, this man taught Atahualpa how to play chess while helping Francisco
Pizarro conquer the Incas. Luis de Moscoso took over this man's expedition after he perished of a tropical
fever near Natchez, and his body was dumped in the Mississippi, a river which he claimed to be the first
European to spot. For the point, name this Spanish conquistador of the American Southeast.
ANSWER: Hernando de Soto
190-12-72-22132

33. The main belligerents in this war supported opposing sides in the War of the Two Peters. The last battle
of this war involved a charge of Breton cavalry that routed the forces of John Talbot, Earl of Shrewbury,
who perished at that battle near (cass-TEE-un) Castillon in Gascony. King John the Blind of Bohemia died
in this conflict, in which King John II was captured by Edward the Black Prince, the son of Edward III. For
the point, Crecy, (PWAH-tee-ey) Poitiers, and the Relief of Orleans by Joan of Arc were engagements in
what long Anglo-French war?
ANSWER: Hundred Years’ War [prompt on Anglo-French War]
153-12-72-22133

34. This event led to the appointment of John W. Magaw to one position. During this event, Ruth Riddle
walked out carrying a copy of the “Manuscript on the Seven Seals.” The group targeted by this event
carried hellfire devices. This event occurred after David Aguilera obtained a search warrant for the Mount
Carmel Compound, which was the residence of David Koresh and his Branch Davidian Cult. For the point,
name this incident in which members of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms stormed a Texas
compound.
ANSWER: Siege of Waco [or siege of the Branch Davidian compound until it is read; or reasonable
equivalents]
048-12-72-22134

35. In one ritual in this religion, water is spit into one's hand before letting it wash over the handle of the
dipper used to scoop the water. Rituals in this religion often use a wand attached with zig-zag-shaped paper
streamers. This religion's "state" form was suppressed after 1945. Structures literally called "bird perches"
serve as gates to this religion's shrines. Those gates are known as torii in this religion, which also worships
spirits called kami. For the point, name this indigenous Japanese religion.
ANSWER: Shintoism [accept kami-no-michi]
201-12-72-22135

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 7 of 8 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

36. These people came to be after the replacement of the "house of assignation" and "restaurant serving"
policies. A fund was set up to compensate these people from 1994 to 2007, when the prime minister denied
that they existed. These people operated in namesake stations and saw 30 to 40 men a day. The existence of
these people, often of Dutch, Australian, Filipino, Korean, or Chinese ancestry, is often censored in
Japanese textbooks. For the point, give this euphemism for women forced to become prostitutes to Japanese
soldiers before and during the Second World War.
ANSWER: comfort women [or jugun-ianfu; or weian fu; or wianbu; prompt on any part of Japanese
military prostitutes or Japanese military sex slaves until the giveaway]
020-12-72-22136

37. On the far right of this painting, a man looks directly at the viewer as he wears a gray hat with a white
feather. One of the central figures in this historical painting wears black and gold armor, adorned by a pink
sash. This work, which was meant to form part of the Hall of Realms in Buen Retiro, depicts several men
holding up lances as Justin of Nassau hands a key to Ambrogio Spinola. For the point, identify this painting
depicting Spinola's conquest of a Dutch city, a work by Diego Velazquez.
ANSWER: The Surrender of Breda [or La rendición de Breda; or Las Lanzas or The Lances before
“lances” is mentioned]
189-12-72-22137

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 4

Page 8 of 8 © HSAPQ

