2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 2

BEE ROUND 2
1. These people were expected to give up the apophora, a portion of their harvest. Nabis removed many of
legal restrictions on them. Young men armed with only a knife were expected to kill any of these people
they found in the krypteia ritual. The mother of the general Lysander may have been one of these, making
Lysander a mothax. Thucydides described an uprising of them after a 464 BC earthquake. Many of them
were freed after Epaminondas' victory at the Battle of Leuctra. This class of people first emerged with the
conquest of Messenia. For the point, name this Spartan slave class.
ANSWER: helots [prompt on Messenians]
121-12-72-20101

2. An unpublished New Yorker cover about this event depicted one participant ghoulishly smiling and
wearing a top hat as he rode in a car next to a dour opponent. During this event, one man said “the money
changers have fled from their high seats” and that he would ask for “broad Executive power to wage a war
against the emergency.” The last event of its kind to be held on March 4 instead of January 20, it featured
one man saying “the only thing we have to fear is…fear itself.” For the point, name this event in which a
Democrat officially succeeded Herbert Hoover as president.
ANSWER: first inauguration of Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or first inauguration of FDR; or 1933
presidential inauguration; or inagural or inaugural address in place of "inauguration" in any answer]
052-12-72-20102

3. This monarch earned the ire of Pope John XV by replacing the appointed archbishop, Arnulf, with
Gebert of (OR-ee-yak) Aurillac after Arnulf was captured by Charles of Lorraine. This man was made king
following Adalberon’s support for him at a conference in Senlis. This hubsand of Adelaide was the
grandson of Henry the Fowler through his mother, (hed-VEE-guh) Hedwige of Saxony. Succeeded by his
son Robert II, this king’s territory only covered the extent of the Ile-de-France. For the point, name this
man who took the title “King of the Franks,” the founder of a namesake French dynasty.
ANSWER: Hugh Capet [prompt on Capet]
192-12-72-20103

4. This two-word term describes a group of documents that includes the one that created the extended
Railway Zone, the Twenty One Demands. One document described by this two-word term prompted the
Triple Intervention; that one also resulted in the cession of the Pescadores Islands. The very first one of
these was signed following a blockade of the Pearl River and concluded the First Opium War. These
documents established the spheres of influence for Russia, Germany, and other countries. For the point,
identify these accords, such as Nanjing and Shimonoseki, named for their unfairness to China.
ANSWER: unequal treaties [or bu-pingden tiaoyue]
020-12-72-20104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. This religion’s catechism is known as the at-Ta’lim, or “instruction,” and its central doctrines are
called the hikmah. Only a fraction of this religion’s adherents attain the elite status of being uqqal, or
“knowers,” gaining full access to its ceremonies and services. This religion originated with Hamzah ibn
‘Ali and his disciple Muhammad ad-Darazi. This religion allows the Shi’a practice of taqiyah, concealing
one’s faith in times of persecution. For the point, name this religion, a secretive Islamic sect concentrated
in Syria and Lebanon.
ANSWER: Druze
014-12-72-20105

6. One group from this present-day country, known as Chorny Kot, or Black Cat, was trained by Nazis and
airdropped in order to infiltrate Red Army ranks. This current country was the primary site of Operation
Bagration in World War II, and its first chairman after becoming a republic was Stansislav Shuskevich.
This nation contains the site of the signing of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, and it has been led since 1994 by
a man derisively called the last dictator in Europe. For the point, name this former Soviet Republic that is
currently led by Alexander Lukashenko from its capital of Minsk.
ANSWER: Republic of Belarus
192-12-72-20106

7. This organization tacitly endorsed “Kale Borroka,” a set of violent youth gangs. This rival group of the
GAL in a non-Argentine “dirty war” disguised three members as electricians to kill a sitting prime minister
in Operation Ogre. It uses an axe enveloped by a snake as its symbol. This group, currently bound by the
last of five ceasefires since 2011, emerged in 1959 and used car bombings to oppose the Castilian-only
language policies of Francisco Franco. For the point, name this militant group seeking Basque
independence.
ANSWER: ETA [or Euskadi Ta Askatasuna; or Basque Fatherland and Liberty]
104-12-72-20107

8. One political cartoon about this law by Alexander Anderson features an open-mouthed man holding a
barrel labeled “Superfine” on its bottom as another man shouts “Damn it, how he nicks ‘em.” This law
could be circumvented by posting bonds and getting clearance papers, and its name was reversed in a
depiction of it as a “Snapping-Turtle.” This law’s replacement, which specifically targeted Britain and
France, was called the Non-Intercourse Act. For the point, name this law signed by Thomas Jefferson by
which all maritime trade to other countries was halted.
ANSWER: Embargo Act of 1807
104-12-72-20108

9. This man claimed he had sublet his apartment to writer George Crosley. Dean Acheson quoted Jesus
when saying “I do not intend to turn my back on” this man. His wife Priscilla reportedly aided this man in
retyping various documents on his Woodstock model typewriter. Evidence against him included the
“Pumpkin Papers.” Accused by Whittaker Chambers, he was investigated by a subcommittee led by
Richard Nixon and was eventually convicted of perjury. For the point, name this State Department official
accused of being a Communist spy.
ANSWER: Alger Hiss
052-12-72-20109

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. A speech given during this election claimed “It is the issue of 1776 all over again.” A candidate in this
election ran with two different vice presidential candidates, Thomas Watson and Arthur Sewall. One
candidate in this election ran a “front porch” campaign organized by Mark Hanna. A candidate in this
election proclaimed “You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold.” For the point, in what
presidential election did William Jennings Bryan first lose to William McKinley?
ANSWER: presidential election of 1896
149-12-72-20110

11. The most important work of Mathieu d'Arras is located in this city; that work is the Gothic St. Vitus's
Cathedral. John of Nepomuk drowned in this city after being thrown from a bridge that now links the Old
Town to the Lesser Town and spans the Moldau. It's sometimes called the "city of a hundred spires" due its
many church towers. This city contains the oldest university in central Europe, Charles University. Both
that bridge and that university are named for Holy Roman Emperor Charles IV. For the point, identify this
capital of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: Prague
066-12-72-20111

12. This was the only Cabinet position held by future Bush Chief of Staff Andrew Card. Another person to
hold it was sued by South Dakota in a case involving the legal drinking age. The only Democrat in the
George W. Bush Cabinet, Norman Mineta, held this post, and it was also held in the Reagan Cabinet by
Elizabeth Dole. While holding this post, Mineta reportedly said “Bring all the planes down” on September
11, 2001. For the point, name this Cabinet position currently held by Ray LaHood, which oversees the
Federal Highway Administration.
ANSWER: United States Secretary of Transportation
052-12-72-20112

13. One ruler from this group of people was succeeded by Khamudi and was named Apepi. These people
made their last stand at the city of Sharuhen. Seqenenre Tao's failed revolt against these people was
continued by his sons, Kamose and Ahmose I, who besieged them at Avaris and finally expelled them from
the country. They introduced the compound bow and the horse-drawn chariot. For the point, name these
Semetic mixed people who Josephus called "shepherd kings" and who initiated the Second Intermediate
Period of Egypt.
ANSWER: Hyksos
201-12-72-20113

14. One city in this civilization created statues of the "priest-king" and the "dancing girl," the latter of
which is an early example of the use of the lost-wax method. This civilization made use of seals carved into
steatite, or soapstone. One of the earliest public water tanks was this civilization's Great Bath. This
civilization gradually fell apart by 1700 BCE. This civilization had a significant urban culture through its
major cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro. For the point, name this early civilization named for the valley
it inhabited along a river running through Pakistan and India.
ANSWER: Indus Valley Civilization [prompt on Harappan Civilization until it is read; prompt on
Mohenjo-Daro until it is read]
023-12-72-20114

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. During this crisis, Istvan Tisza briefly opposed his empire’s policy and Sergey Sazonov told a minister
to cut his phone line after Plan XIX’s authorization. The Willy-Nicky Letters tried to stop this crisis.
Bethman Hollweg spoke of a “scrap of paper” and Hoyos got the “blank check” guarantee during this
crisis. The Great Powers’ general mobilization and the Schlieffen Plan’s launch occurred at the end of this
crisis. For the point, name this crisis that started the First World War, which occurred the month after Franz
Ferdinand’s assassination.
ANSWER: July Crisis [prompt on outbreak of First World War, assassination of Franz Ferdinand,
and equivalents until they are read]
153-12-72-20115

16. The victorious army at this battle was almost discovered by a sentry, but was able to pass as an enemy
supply convoy due to the presence of a fluent French speaker. In an attempt to reverse the outcome of this
battle, Francois de Levis attacked Saint-Foy. This battle was the next target after the fall of Louisbourg, and
was first attempted in the unsuccessful skirmish at Beauport. It involved a force of four thousand men
scaling cliffs up from the St. Lawrence River. Louis de Montcalm and James Wolfe were both killed in, for
10 points, what 1759 battle which led to the end of French Canada?
ANSWER: Battle of Quebec [or Battle of the Plains of Abraham]
019-12-72-20116

17. One drawing by this artist depicts a mustachioed man wrapping his arms around another robed figure,
as a woman brandishes a dagger next to them. A paiting by this artist depicts an Egyptian military class in
an engagement with rioting citizens. In addition to creating the Disasters of War series and The Charge of
the Mamelukes, this artist created a depiction of men in black hats pointing their muskets at a man with
raised arms. For the point, identify this Spanish artist who painted The Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes
189-12-72-20117

18. One member of this family went to Baltimore to marry an American named Betsy Pattersen. A member
of this family served as Theodore Roosevelt's Attorney General. A foreign ruler from this family took
advantage of the Civil War to violate the Monroe Doctrine and install Maximilian as Emperor of Mexico.
Another member of this family sold his land in the United States for less than three cents an acre in the
Louisiana Purchase. For the point, name this family that originated in Corsica and included a diminutive
Emperor of the French.
ANSWER: Bonaparte
080-12-72-20118

19. This man had his first son, Martin, legitimized by Pope Clement VII. One of this man’s translators was
Geronimo Aguilar. Knowledge of this man’s expedition comes from his letters to Charles V and the
writings of Bernal Diaz. His expedition, which escaped during La Noche Triste, was aided by his mistress
and translator, La Malinche. Lake Texcoco was the site of a city captured by him, known as Tenochtitlan.
For the point, name the man who captured Montezuma and defeated the Aztec empire.
ANSWER: Hernan Cortes
149-12-72-20119

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. During the 2012 election in this state, one man recorded his attempts to vote for Kathleen Kane and
Barack Obama as an electronic voting machine kept selecting their opponents. Fox News spent time during
the 2012 election showing footage of Jerry Jackson, a member of the New Black Panther Party who stood
outside a polling station in this state. In June of 2012, Mike Turzai claimed that a voter ID law was "going
to allow Governor Romney to win" this swing state. For the point, name this Mid-Atlantic state with 20
electoral votes, won by Obama with support in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
023-12-72-20120

21. One writer from this country created Magnus Eisengrim in the Deptford Trilogy. An author from this
nation collected short stories in Runaway and Too Much Happiness. Another author from this nation, the
home of Robertson Davies, explored science fiction themes in The Blind Assassin and Oryx and Crake.
One novel from this country depicts the dystopian Republic of Gilead, the home of Offred. For the point,
the literature of what country includes Alice Munro and the author of The Handmaid’s Tale, Margaret
Atwood?
ANSWER: Canada
191-12-72-20121

22. This man defeated the king of Aragon, Sancho Ramirez, at the Battle of Morella while he was serving
the king of Zaragoza. This man defeated Berenguer Ramon II at the Battle of Tebar. This man had Ibn
Jahhaf burned alive after Jahhaf took over a city led by this man’s tributary, al-Qadir. This man conquered
Valencia, and his capturing of his great rival Garcia Ordonez led in part to his exile by Alfonso VI. For the
point, name this Castilian general who fought for both Muslim and Christian leaders in Spain during the
eleventh century.
ANSWER: El Cid Campeador [or Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar]
023-12-72-20122

23. Seventeen of the brightest of the students of this man, including Carl Peter Thurnburg and Daniel
Solander, were designated by him as his "apostles." This scientist mapped each of the four temperaments to
a different race of mankind. He maintained a large collection of objects from natural history in Uppsala,
where he served as university rector. His Species Plantarum expanded on his magnum opus, whose tenth
edition inaugurated the practice of binomial nomenclature. For the point, name this author of the Systema
Naturae, a Swede who pioneered modern taxonomy.
ANSWER: Carl Nilsson Linnaeus [or Carolus Linnaeus; or Carolus a Linne; or Carl von Linne]
020-12-72-20123

24. Christopher Riley and Paolo Nespoli created a film re-creating this event, and Adlai Stevenson hoped
that this event would lead to a renewal of the U.N. This event was called a “victory for peace” by Nehru.
This event occurred on April 12, 1961 and began at a facility in Baikonour, with the activation of the
Vostok 1. John F. Kennedy called it an “outstanding technical achievement” and a few months after this
event, the Apollo program was created. For the point, name this event which resulted in a cosmonaut
experiencing zero gravity for around 100 minutes.
ANSWER: Yuri Gagarin’s spaceflight [or the launch of Vostok 1 or obvious equivalents to either;
prompt on first man in space or similar answers]
048-12-72-20124

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. One figure from this myth system is a king who levitates and is cursed for breaking a bishop's bell. One
deity from this mythology possessed a magic harp that put the seasons in correct order and succeeded
Nuada as the leader of the Tuatha Dé Danann. In this myth system, the husband of Emer killed his friend
Ferdiad and defended his land from Queen (MEYV) Medb in the Cattle Raid of Cooley. Another figure
from this mythology sucked his burned thumb to gain the wisdom of the Salmon of Knowledge. For the
point, name this mythology including (coo KULL-en) Cu Chulainn and Finn McCool.
ANSWER: Irish mythology [or Celtic mythology; do not accept "Welsh mythology"]
201-12-72-20125

26. This man ordered the beatings of opposition leaders Billy Ford and Guillermo Endara by his personal
goon squad, the Dignity Battalions. At a mass conducted by nuncio Jose Sebastian Laboa, this man cried at
a homily about the thief on the cross, before surrendering himself to Operation Nifty Package, which
endlessly played songs by The Clash and Van Halen at him. He sought refuge with the Vatican emissary
after being deposed in Operation Just Cause, which targeted his cooperation with the drug trade. For the
point, name this dictator of Panama who was overthrown by the U.S. in 1989.
ANSWER: Manuel Antonio Noriega Morena
019-12-72-20126

27. Primo Visconti called this place "the largest lead mine in the world." A captured cannon from the Hotel
de Ville was brought to this place by a mob of angry merchant women who protested the scarcity and high
price of bread. The most famous inhabitant of this place hired Mansart and Le Vau to add the Salons of
Mars and Hercules and the Hall of Mirrors to it, and found clever ways to force nobles to live here for the
better part of a year. For the point, name this chateau twelve miles west of Paris where Louis XIV moved
his court.
ANSWER: Palace of Versailles [or Chateau de Versailles]
020-12-72-20127

28. In one point-and-click game titled for this character, the player can place a chicken on a piece of
vellum or repair lead pipes while accompanied by Ivan Idea. Lynne Thigpen played The Chief on a
television series named for this character. This woman can “take you for a ride on a slow boat to China”
according to a theme song by Rockapella. This leader of V.I.L.E. was once an agent of ACME, which
seeks to catch her. For the point, name this thief from several educational TV shows and games, a red-clad
woman who steals landmarks from around the world and across time.
ANSWER: Carmen Sandiego [or Carmen Sandiego]
104-12-72-20128

29. Diane Arbus photographed a boy holding a toy grenade in this location. Emma Stebbins built a
fountain topped by an angel at this place. Yellow fabric was hung from vinyl frames here in Christo's The
Gates. The Ramble is a wooded area containing here Belvedere Castle and across a lake from Bethesda
Terrace. All bridges here were designed by Calvert (VOE) Vaux, who was also the co-creator of the more
general plan for this place, the Greensward Plan, along with its landscape designer, Frederick Law
Olmsted. For the point, name this large green space in Manhattan.
ANSWER: Central Park [prompt on New York City]
121-12-72-20129

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. This project was first announced to a letter to Amy Post. Defending this project, its creator said "I still
see before me a life of toil and trials..., but, justice must be done, the truth must be told...I will not be
silent." This Rochester-based publication, whose motto was "Right is of no Sex - Truth is of no Color - God
is the Father of us all, and we are all brethren," was fused with the Liberty Party Paper. For the point, name
this anti-slavery newspaper edited by Frederic Douglass, named after an object that helped runaway slaves
to navigate.
ANSWER: The North Star
020-12-72-20130

31. Thomas Woodward was convinced to release his slaves after a traveling preacher from this religious
group named John Woolman visited him. This was the religion of the general who played a successful
defense at the Battle of Eutaw Springs and won the Battle of Guilford Courthouse. That man, Nathanael
Greene, was nicknamed the “Fighting” member of this religion. Another member of this religion signed a
number of treaties with the Lenni Lenape while establishing a colony. For the point, name this religion that
was powerful in a colony founded by William Penn.
ANSWER: Quakers [or Society of Friends; prompt on Christians]
023-12-72-20131

32. The Board of Trade in London suggested a colonial council with a single delegate from each colony in
response to this event. James DeLancey served as chairman of this event. Originally conceived as a
meeting to discuss relations with the Iroquois, the main product of this event suggested a “grand council”
of the colonies led by a president-general. That plan made at this event was drawn up by Thomas
Hutchinson and Benjamin Franklin, and illustrated by the cartoon “Join, or Die.” For the point, name this
1754 meeting between seven colonies that drafted a namesake Plan of Union.
ANSWER: Albany Congress [or Albany Conference; or Albany Plan of Union]
192-12-72-20132

33. One bill signed by this President, who was advised by Edward House, was discussed by A. Piat Andrew
at a conference on Jekyll Island. A law signed by this man was overturned in Hammer v. Dagenhart. This
president created the U.S. central banking system when he signed the Federal Reserve Act. This formulator
of the New Freedom platform called for the creation of an independent Polish state along and the freedom
of the seas in his Fourteen Points. For the point, name this President who led the U.S. into World War I.
ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson
149-12-72-20133

34. This country was briefly led by the Sampson government following a failed attempt at assassinating a
leader who had earlier been exiled to the Seychelles. One incident in this country began when EOKA
leader George Grivas deployed a battalion across what is now the Attila Line. This country was invaded in
1974 by troops opposed to a coup that overthrew Archbishop Makarios and sought to implement “enosis,”
the political union of this country with Greece. For the point, name this Mediterranean island whose
northern portion is now a largely unrecognized “Turkish Republic.”
ANSWER: Republic of Cyprus [or Kipriaki Dhimokratia; or Kibris Cumhuriyeti]
019-12-72-20134

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. After being pinned under his horse at the Battle of Contreras, this President was tied to his saddle
throughout the Battle of Churubusco. This president appointed the first Catholic to the cabinet, and federal
troops were used by this president to return Anthony Burns to his master. This president approved ten
million dollars for Mexican land in the Gadsden Purchase. The Ostend Manifesto was issued during this
president’s term, which also saw the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act. For the point, what president
defeated Winfield Scott in the 1852 presidential election?
ANSWER: Franklin Pierce
149-12-72-20135

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

36. During Pontiac’s Rebellion, the Ojibwe used this activity as a ruse to massacre the garrison of the
British-held Fort Michilimackinac. This activity was named by the Jesuit priest Father Jean de Brebeuf. A
team which was denied in their attempt to use tribal passports to enter Britain, the Iroquois Nationals, play
in this sport, that has inter, box, and field varieties. The main tool in this sport can use rocket or Canadian
mesh to carry the ball. For the point, name this North American sport that uses a stick with mesh to score
goals that was developed from an aboriginal field game.
ANSWER: lacrosse
153-12-72-20136

37. Before this treaty, a general said he fought a “comical war” of putting soldiers on trains to the next
station. That quip from the Ober Ost leader was from a campaign to force one party to this treaty to
negotiate after walking out saying, “no war, no peace.” By this treaty, Max Hoffman gave Kars to the
Ottomans and took the Baltic states and Ukraine from the defeated country. This “shameful peace” was
signed by the Congress of Soviets. For the point, name this 1918 treaty that took Russia out of the First
World War.
ANSWER: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
153-12-72-20137

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 2

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

