2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Finals

BEE FINALS
1. A still-existing unit called the Black Watch was originally created to police this region. This region's
inhabitants were removed by the Duke of Sutherland to make room for sheep raising in a set of namesake
"Clearances." A family in this region was subjected to the Glencoe Massacre for refusing to support
William and Mary. The Duke of Cumberland was nicknamed "Butcher" for his brutal pacification of this
region. For the point, name this region of Scotland traditionally ruled by Scottish clans.
ANSWER: Scottish Highlands [prompt on Scotland]
080-12-72-25101

2. In the Middle Ages, these objects were created in T and O renderings. Muhammad al-Idrisi constructed
one of these objects for Roger of Sicily, now called the Tabula Rogeriana. The eighth book of Ptolemy's
Guide to Geography contains instructions on how to create one of these objects. Diego Ribero's Padron
Real was one of these objects undertaken after Magellan's journey revealed the extent of the Pacific Ocean.
The most common method of creating these objects today utilizes the Mercator projection. For the point,
name these visual representations of the entire Earth.
ANSWER: map of the world [prompt on maps]
066-12-72-25102

3. An eight year old suggested one of these activities, organized by her mother Clara Luper. Bernice Fisher
was hailed as the "godmother" of this activity. Z. Alexander Looby, a lawyer defending those arrested for
doing this action, had his home bombed. The "Royal Seven" took part in this action in Durham, and three
years later this action happened at Walgreens and Woolworth's in Nashville and Greensboro, respectively.
For the point, name this form of civil rights protest in which people remained in an eatery after being
refused service.
ANSWER: sit-in
020-12-72-25103

4. With Donald Fraser, this man chaired a commission that abolished proxy voting and the unit rule in his
party’s nomination system. This man initially defended his running mate after revelations that the ticket
partner had received electroshock therapy, though Thomas Eagleton was eventually replaced by Sargent
Shriver during that campaign. This man’s primary issues in his campaign were a $1000 tax credit to every
American and withdrawal from Vietnam. For the point, name this senator from South Dakota who was
defeated by Nixon in the 1972 presidential election.
ANSWER: George McGovern
048-12-72-25104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 1 of 28 © HSAPQ

5. A radio station founded by this group was bought by Wayne State University for $1. One leader of this
organization convinced LBJ to impose a 25% tax on West German imports as part of the Chicken War.
While posing for a picture near the River Rouge complex, two leaders of this group were attacked by Harry
Bennett’s security forces in the Battle of the Overpass. This group organized a sit-down strike in Flint,
Michigan, and was headed by Walter Reuther. For the point, name this union which held strikes against
GM and Ford.
ANSWER: United Auto Workers [or UAW]
048-12-72-25105

6. After supporting the rise of Byzantine emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos, this city lost the Battles of
Settepozzi and Trapani. One of this city’s Black Sea colonies was besieged in 1346 by Tartars, who flung
the corpses of victims of the Black Death into Caffa. This city, home to the Grimaldi family, lost the War
of the Chioggia. At the Battle of Meloria, this city beat Pisa, its rival in the Tyrrhenian Sea. For the point,
name this Italian maritime republic, famed for its mercenary units of crossbowmen, its rivalry with Venice,
and being the home of Columbus.
ANSWER: Most Serene Republic of Genoa
153-12-72-25106

7. The first meeting of this body, in a rather inauspicious start, had someone die due to the heat and
humidity and was headed by George Yeardley. In one speech to this body, a speaker noted that "Caesar had
his Brutus, Charles the First his Cromwell" before responding to a critic with "if this be treason, make the
most of it." That speaker to this group was Patrick Henry. A governor and this body were threatened at
gunpoint during Bacon's Rebellion. For the point, identify this first representative assembly in the colonies,
started in Virginia in 1619.
ANSWER: Virginia House of Burgesses
066-12-72-25107

8. An outnumbered unit asked to surrender in this film replies, "We haven’t the proper facilities to take you
all prisoner." In this film, the evacuation of forces under Sean Connery’s character, Roy Urquhart, is
decided upon in a scene in which various generals leave a balcony after naming hindrances such as "the fog
in England," "the single road," and (NIZH-meg-un) "Nijmegen." For the point, name this 1977 Richard
Attenborough-directed epic film whose name is a quotation about Allied overextension during Operation
Market Garden.
ANSWER: A Bridge Too Far
153-12-72-25108

9. This man approved Copsi, Cospatrick, and Robert de Comines for the same earlship during a year-long
span in which Osulf also usurped that earlship. In one military victory, this man’s army fired arrows uphill
to wound fyrdmen and break a shield-wall set up by housecarls on Senlac Hill. This king reacted to
competing claims by Edgar Atheling with the destructive Harrying of the North, whose effects are recorded
in his census-like (DOOMS-day) Domesday Book. For the point, name this leader who defeated Harold
Godwinson at Hastings to establish Norman rule in England.
ANSWER: William I of England [or William the Conqueror; or William the Bastard; or Guillaume I;
prompt on partial answer]
104-12-72-25109

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 2 of 28 © HSAPQ

10. One section of this work posited that planets and comets move through ether that has a resistance six
hundred thousand times less than water. The fourth edition of this book ended with a series of 31 questions
called “Queries”, which included hypotheses about chemical affinity and the origin of the universe. This
book’s author published it after the death of Robert Hooke, who disagreed with its corpuscular theory. This
book also showed that color is related to angle of refraction. For the point, name this treatise about light by
Isaac Newton.
ANSWER: Opticks
048-12-72-25110

11. This man’s house arrest led to the 15 Khordad movement. One dictum of this man led to the death of
Hitoshi Igarashi, and this man ordered the killing of several thousand political prisoners, most of which
were members of the PMOI. This man was exiled to Turkey and France after opposing the secularization
policies of a prior regime. This man issued an edict against the author of The Satanic Verses. For the point,
name this leader who took control of a revolution against the Pahlavi dynasty in 1979 and became the first
Supreme Leader of Iran.
ANSWER: Ayatollah Ruhollah Mostafavi Musavi Khomeini
048-12-72-25111

12. In one song on this album, the singer notes, “Your favorite record’s on the turntable; I drop the needle
and pray,” to which the background singers repeat, “Turn it up.” The final song on this album was
originally written about the decline of Asbury Park, New Jersey. The title track of this album instructs the
speaker to “come on up” for the title event and “lay your hands in mine.” Tracks on this album include
“Mary’s Place,” “Lonesome Day,” and “My City of Ruins.” For the point, name this Bruce Springsteen
album written in response to the September 11 attacks.
ANSWER: The Rising
014-12-72-25112

13. The writing of this phrase is usually credited to Peter Robinson. This line was followed by a promise to
understand “the fear of war and the pain of division.” It was called “provocative and war-mongering” by
Tass, and then-deputy national security advisor Colin Powell opposed this line as undiplomatic. It ended a
paragraph that said "if you seek peace, if you seek prosperity" and was delivered in June 1987 at the
Brandenburg Gate. For the point, quote this phrase from a Ronald Reagan speech, which challenged the
USSR to allow the reunification of Germany.
ANSWER: “Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!”
019-12-72-25113

14. This man described the rape of the maid Rosa in one short story. This man's views on Zionism were
explored in critic Dan Miron's essay "Sadness in Palestine?!," and in one story he explained the
stop-and-start construction of a historical edifice as symbolic of an Asian country's history. This author of
"The Great Wall of China" put the parable “Before the Law” into the mouth of a priest, who encounters K,
a man who has been struggling against a mysterious court. For the point, name this author of “"A Country
Doctor," The Trial, and "The Metamorphosis."
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
191-12-72-25114

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 3 of 28 © HSAPQ

15. This composer wrote an opera with a libretto by Thomas Betterton in which the title character fulfills a
prophecy by killing a man whose name means “boar” and becomes emperor. The most famous work by
this composer of Dioclesian is indebted to John Blow’s Venus and Adonis. One of his operas features the
aria “When I am laid in earth,” commonly known as a title queen’s “lament.” For the point, name this
English Baroque composer of the semi-opera The Fairy-Queen and one of the first English operas, Dido
and Aeneas.
ANSWER: Henry Purcell
014-12-72-25115

16. Before the Belgian Congress was forced by Britain into choosing Leopold I of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, this
ruler’s son received an offer of the throne. This ruler’s Legitimist opponents supported the “miracle child”
Henri, Duke of Bordeaux, the grandson of his predecessor. Giuseppe Mario Fieschi used the "infernal
machine" in a failed attempt to assassinate this successor to Charles X, who was called “the bourgeois
monarch”. He was from the junior branch of the Bourbons, the House of Orleans. For the point, name this
ruler during the July Monarchy, the Citizen King of the French.
ANSWER: Louis-Phillipe I
153-12-72-25116

17. This man’s 1964 speech against the nomination of Nikolai Nuzhdin to the Academy of Sciences
prompted a movement that discredited the pseudogenetic policies of Trofim Lysenko. This man's essay
“Reflections on Progress, Peaceful Coexistence, and Freedom” was published in samizdats and the New
York Times. He went on a hunger strike during the arrest of his wife and fellow activist Elena Bonner. For
the point, name this physicist who names a human rights prize awarded by the European Parliament and
was known as the father of the Soviet hydrogen bomb.
ANSWER: Andrey Dmitriyevich Sakharov
030-12-72-25117

18. Following this event, the indentured servant Aaron Briggs claimed to have seen one of its instigators.
The false witness Daniel Vaughan testified after this event in a commission led by Darius Sessions.
Planned at the Sabin Tavern, this event came a few years after a similar incident involving the HMS
Liberty. William Dudingston commanded the main vessel involved in this event, which chased the Hannah
before crashing near Warwick and being burned by a crew led by Abraham Whipple and John Brown. For
the point, name this 1772 burning of a customs ship in Rhode Island.
ANSWER: Gaspee affair [accept anything that mentions the burning or destruction of the Gaspee]
192-12-72-25118

19. One inspiration for this movement was the fall of Salvatierra. Participants in this movement met at the
Lendit fair at Saint-Denis and believed that Jesus ordered them to deliver letters to Philip II. Nicholas of
Cologne proclaimed that the Mediterranean would part for them; when that did not occur, many
participants settled in Genoa or were sold into slavery. It declared its intention to recover a relic lost at the
Battle of Hattin. For the point, name this group which met in summer 1212 on an unofficial attempt to
recover the True Cross, and was named for the youth of its participants.
ANSWER: the Children’s Crusade
019-12-72-25119

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 4 of 28 © HSAPQ

20. This process began in some U.S. departments as early as the 1893 Mendenhall Order and was required
by the original constitution of Utah. A mismanaged example of this process led to the "Gimli Glider"
incident, in which an Air Canada flight successfully landed after running out of fuel over Manitoba.
Another bungled implementation of this process caused the 1999 destruction of the Mars Climate Orbiter.
A 1975 act mandated that this process occur, but was revoked by Ronald Reagan in 1982. For the point,
identify this process of changing inch and pound measurements to meters and kilograms.
ANSWER: metrication [or converting to the metric system]
019-12-72-25120

21. A man with a sign around his neck that says “CIVET” is the title figure in this artist's painting
Skeletons Fighting over the Body of a Hanged Man. This man's most famous work resulted in his being
banished from a group of artists known as Les Vingt. He protested experimentation on animals in his The
Vile Vivisectors. He depicted the atheist reformer Emile Littre dressed as a bishop holding a drum major's
baton near a sign that reads “Vive la Sociale.” For the point, name this Belgian artist who painted Christ's
Entry Into Brussels.
ANSWER: James Ensor
030-12-72-25121

22. This man was the subject of a centennial opera by Harry Somers, and in his most notable action, he
allied with the Cree chief Poundmaker. In one event, this two-time MP from (pro-ven-SHAY) Provencher
led the seizure of Fort Garry in an attempt to keep William McDougall away. Remembering his execution
of Thomas Scott during that incident, the government at Regina sentenced him to death in 1885. For the
point, name this leader of the Red River Rebellion and North West Rebellion, who attempted to preserve
Métis (meh-TEE) interests against the federal government of Canada.
ANSWER: Louis Riel
019-12-72-25122

23. In 2005, a UCLA group achieved this process by combining a cool crystal with a tungsten needle to
produce an electric field in its "pyroelectric" form. Mark Oliphant was the first person to carry out this
process, which was reportedly accomplished by Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann. The Big Bang
nucleosynthesis consisted of many iterations of this process creating the lightest isotopes and elements.
This process occurs in the Sun's core. For the point, name this reaction in which two atomic nuclei join
together, the opposite of fission.
ANSWER: nuclear fusion [accept cold fusion at any point]
020-12-72-25123

24. The Olympics that took place in this city were the first during which athletes were drug tested. This city
was the location at which Dick Fosbury took a gold medal by using the Fosbury Flop in the high jump. In
1991, Mike Powell broke a record set in this city when Bob Beamon unexpectedly broke the long jump
world record by nearly two feet. Peter Norman joined in a protest gesture in this city after it experienced
the Tlatelolco massacre. For the point, name this host of the 1968 Summer Olympics, during which John
Carlos and Tommie Smith made a black power salute during a medal ceremony.
ANSWER: Mexico City
023-12-72-25124

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 5 of 28 © HSAPQ

25. This polity’s second ruler, Christopher of Bavaria, came to power after the Engelbrekt Rebellion. This
political entity was effectively ended by the election of a new king at Strängnäs. Margaret I planned a
congress of three Rigsraads that approved a draft document making Erik of Pomerania this polity’s king. It
broke up after Gustav I Vasa crowned himself after gaining support following the Stockholm Bloodbath.
For the point, name this personal union of Scandinavian kingdoms that split into Denmark, Norway and
Sweden.
ANSWER: the Kalmar Union
153-12-72-25125

26. One group that surrendered during this event ended up being massacred at Satichaura Ghat and
Bibighar following the Siege of Kanpur. One potential cause of this event were the policies enacted by Lord
Dalhousie. The Doctrine of Lapse led the adopted son of Baji Rao II to take part in this event, in which
Hugh Wheeler was killed by the forces of Nana Sahib. Colin Campbell and Hugh Rose fought against this
rebellion after it started in Meerut.It started in part because of the coating on Enfield rifle cartridges. For
the point, name this rebellion of namesake soldiers in India in 1857.
ANSWER: Sepoy Rebellion [or Indian Mutiny of 1857 before “India”]
023-12-72-25126

27. This man’s short stories included an account of a lynching, “A Party Down at the Square.” This man
penned the essay collection Shadow and Act, and created characters like Dr. Bledsoe and the minister
Alonzo Hickman. Hickman raises the child Bliss, who takes on the identity of Adam Sunraider and
becomes a racist Senator, in this man’s unfinished Juneteenth This man’s most famous novel opens with
the “Battle Royale” and features Mr. Norton and the black-empowerment Brotherhood. For the point, name
this author of Invisible Man.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Ellison
191-12-72-25127

28. This man gained statewide attention for blocking national pro-civil rights broadcasts with his own
anti-civil rights commentaries on WRAL-TV. With Dan Burton, this man names a law that strengthened the
United State embargo on Cuba. This man used the controversial slogan “He's One of Us” to defeat Nick
Galifianakis in a 1972 senate race, and he also defeated Harvey Gantt in two racially charged elections. For
the point, name this man who was nicknamed “Senator No,” a longtime conservative senator from North
Carolina.
ANSWER: Jesse Helms
030-12-72-25128

29. This organization selected a leader who, along with Martin Bernard, was a surviving founder of the
Society of the Seasons. Against orders, Saxon army corps allowed many defeated followers of this
organization to escape through their lines. Adolphe Thiers ordered Patrice MacMahon to launch an assault
on this organization, led by Louis Blanqui, that culminated the massacre at the Federalist Wall during the
“Bloody Week”. For the point, name this revolutionary government that arose after the Franco-Prussian
War and was suppressed in 1871.
ANSWER: Second Paris Commune [or Paris Communards; prompt on Commune or Communards]
153-12-72-25129

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 6 of 28 © HSAPQ

30. A schism in this organization led to the foundation of its “yellow” version by Daniel DeLeon. This
group's leader David Coates coined its motto, “an injury to one is an injury to all.” A song promising “pie
in the sky” was written by its member Joe Hill; that song parodied the Salvation Army bands that were sent
to drown out this group's protests. Members chanted the slogan “no gods, no masters” at the Lawrence
textile strike, which was overseen by one of this group's founders, “Big Bill” Heywood. For the point,
name this labor union whose members were nicknamed “Wobblies.”
ANSWER: International Workers of the World [or IWW; or Wobblies until it is read]
121-12-72-25130

31. The protocol for this meeting was found in the files of one Martin Luther of the Finance Ministry. At
this meeting, Theresienstadt was proposed as a possible destination for those with prior military service. At
this event, the idea of transporting a certain group to Madagascar was deemed impractical. Notes here were
taken by Adolf Eichmann, and Heinrich Himmler was given responsibility to implement the project agreed
to at this conference. For the point, name this 1942 conference chaired by Reinhard Heydrich at which the
logistics of the Holocaust were planned.
ANSWER: Wannsee Conference
030-12-72-25131

32. In the 1920s, one of these items, widely available in rural areas, was called Poverty. Popular examples
of these items included the union-oriented Labor, the juvenile Truth for Young Pioneers, and one designed
for military consumption, known as Red Star. The most notable of these items had a name meaning "Truth"
and was the organ of the state, as opposed to the party-focused Izvestia which became popular under Alexei
Adzhubei’s editorship. For the point, identify these regularly issued mass media, which included Pravda.
ANSWER: Soviet newspapers [or Russian-language newspapers]
019-12-72-25132

33. The losing commander of this campaign needlessly sent James Longstreet hundreds of miles away to
fight Ambrose Burnside. During this battle, William Hazen's seizure of Brown's Ferry allowed the Union to
set up a supply line called the "Cracker Line." George Thomas was ordered to seize rifle pits at the bottom
of a hill during this siege and ended up capturing Missionary Ridge. After this battle, Braxton Bragg
resigned, and U.S. Grant was appointed head of the Union Army. For the point, name this 1863 siege of a
city in Tennessee to which William Rosecrans retreated after Chickamauga.
ANSWER: Chattanooga Campaign [or Battle of Chattanooga]
080-12-72-25133

34. The "Great Fifth" holder of this title suppressed the Karmapa and led an embassy to meet emperor
Shunzhi. During the eighteenth century, this office ruled side-by-side with the "amban," a position created
after Lhabzang Khan overthrew a licentious holder of this office. The holder of this title is the leader of the
(gay-LUGS-pah) Dgelugspa order, or the Yellow Hats, and ruled from Potala Palace before the current one
set up a government-in-exile in Dharmsala, India. For the point, Tenzin Gyatso currently occupies what
title, the leader of Tibetan Buddhism?
ANSWER: the Dalai Lama
019-12-72-25134

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 7 of 28 © HSAPQ

35. The carvings at Yazilikaya reveal that this empire’s pantheon was Hurrianized during the 13th century
BCE. Hugo Winckler’s excavations at Bogazkoy found the ruins of this empire’s capital. This empire’s
Edict of Telipinus governed imperial succession, and its last ruler was Suppilulimas. This empire’s fall
may have been due to the Sea Peoples, and its capital was moved to Dattassa from Hattusa. For the point,
name this Anatolian empire known for its chariots, whose ruler Muwatallis led it against Egyptian forces at
the Battle of Kadesh.
ANSWER: Hittite Empire
030-12-72-25135

36. A cardinal and archbishop in this city from the Borromeo family led its Catholic counter-reforms. This
home of the “Five Days” uprising against Field Marshal Radetzky was run for a time by Gian Galeazzo,
whose family renamed the Porta Giovia palace. This city’s bishops built a fortified castle at Legnano,
where it helped defeat Frederick Barbarossa. Its dukes included the dark-skinned Ludovico il Moro and his
father Francesco. For the point, name this home of Saint Ambrose, a city in Lombardy ruled by the
Visconti and Sforza families.
ANSWER: Milano
104-12-72-25136

37. A man using the fake identity of "Guss Magisono" bought the sawed-off shotguns which precipitated
this incident. At the start of this incident, marshall Willam Degan was killed, along with a golden retriever
named Striker and the fourteen-year-old Samuel. This incident also involved non-family-member Kevin
Harris and the centrally accused man’s wife Vicki, who was killed in what FBI director Louis Freeh later
called an “overreaction.” For the point, identify this 1992 confrontation with Randy Weaver’s white
supremacist family in Idaho, a frequent inspiration for militia groups.
ANSWER: Ruby Ridge incident
019-12-72-25137

38. Until 2007, this man was far less known than his wife, a Major General and popular folk singer in the
musical troupe of his country’s army. This “princeling” is the core of his country’s Fifth Generation of
Leadership. On 15 November 2012, after the 18th National Congress, this man became the chairman of the
Central Military Commission and the General Secretary of the CCP. For the point, name this politician who
has to work with Premier Li (catch-YONG) Keqiang in his role as the current President of the People’s
Republic of China.
ANSWER: Xi Jinping
153-12-72-25138

39. This country’s weapon makers designed a cheaper variant of the 20 mm Oerlikon anti-air gun. The
Peking Plan ordered some of this country’s navy to flee to the United Kingdom. It had a collaborationist
Navy Blue police force that was infiltrated by its Home Army, the military wing of its Underground State.
Its namesake corridor was by Danzig, and General Sikorski once led its government-in-exile. For the point,
name this country invaded on September 1, 1939 in the first action of World War II in Europe.
ANSWER: Second Republic of Poland
153-12-72-25139

40. A famous map of this settlement was drafted by Jacques Cortelyou and is the Castello Plan. This
settlement was found near Fort Orange and Wiltwyck. In 1979, a dig revealed the location of the first town
hall of this settlement, the Stadt Huys, and unearthed such artifacts as Delft pottery. This settlement was
located on what is now Manhattan Island. For the point, name this North American settlement in New York
that was named for a city in the homeland of the Dutch who settled it.
ANSWER: New Amsterdam
066-12-72-25140
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 8 of 28 © HSAPQ

41. Eric Foner published an article on this legislation "revisited," linking it to the start of the Civil War.
Part of the wording of this legislation was lifted from the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. This legislation
was actually written by Jacob Brinkerhoff and was first proposed as an amendment to the 1846 army
appropriations bill. For the point, identify this proviso, attached to many bills in the House of
Representatives. that would have prohibited slavery in any territory acquired from Mexico in the
Mexican-American War.
ANSWER: Wilmot Proviso
066-12-72-25141

42. One cause of this conflict was the difficulty of convicting men under the 1884 Maverick Law. One
instigator of this conflict was George Dunning. The instigators of this conflict made a fatal mistake in
taking a detour to capture Nate Champion, instead of heading immediately to Buffalo. It was ended after
President Benjamin Harrison sent in three troops of the Sixth Cavalry, and it took place in a county that is
the confluence of three forks of the Powder Creek. For the point, identify this subject of the notorious flop
film Heaven's Gate, an 1892 Wyoming range war.
ANSWER: Johnson County War [or the War on Powder Creek until "Powder Creek" is read]
066-12-72-25142

43. One leader of this country proposed the "income-doubling plan," leading to the "Golden Sixties." After
speculation greatly inflated real-estate prices between 1986 and 1991 in this country, it experienced a
catastrophic liquidity trap throughout the 90s. This country established the Self-Defense Forces to protects
its own borders, because it was not permitted a conventional army as specified by the 1947 Constitution,
heavily influenced by Douglas MacArthur. For the point, name this country that was occupied for seven
years following its surrender to the Allies in August 1945.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]
020-12-72-25143

44. Kate Rockwell became famous for her "flame dance" during this event, and Soapy Smith conned its
participants by setting up a telegraph office with no telegraph line. Participants in this event could travel up
the White Pass, which became known as "Dead Horse Trail." The ports of Skagway and Dyea became
"boomtowns" during this event, whose participants, "stampeders," spent their earnings in Dawson City.
Beginning with a discovery on Bonanza Creek, its participants included Jack London. For the point, name
this mass migration of prospectors to the Yukon territory.
ANSWER: the Klondike Gold Rush
080-12-72-25144

45. The 1976 Montreal Olympics were boycotted by 28 African nations after this team made a South
African tour. Like many other teams from its nation, this team uses a silver fern, but is the most successful,
having a win rate over 75%. This team adopted a kapa o pango routine that ended with a finger drawn
across the throat, but still uses the ka mate, which has a lot of thigh slapping. Before their games, this
national team performs a haka. For the point, name this New Zealand rugby union team named for their
uniforms’ shade.
ANSWER: All Blacks [or New Zealand rugby union team until it is read]
153-12-72-25145

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 9 of 28 © HSAPQ

46. This man's paternal grandfather Thomas was described in Oliver Wendell Holmes's "The Last Leaf" as
participating in the Boston Tea Party. His maternal grandfather Peter Gansevoort, who won acclaim at the
Siege of Fort Stanwix, is described sitting for a Gilbert Stuart portrait in this man's novel Pierre. This
author said that his "life began" when he served on the Acushnet, which visited the South Sea islands
depicted in his Omoo and Typee. For the point, name this author who used his experiences on that whaling
vessel to write Moby-Dick.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
121-12-72-25146

47. A gang of murderers called the Shankill Butchers operated in this city. This city is the location of the
company that built the Titanic, Harland and Wolff. This city suffered more casualties than any other
besides London from German bombings during "the Blitz." Flags being lowered in this city to
commemorate the death of John XXIII led to protests organized by Ian Paisley. This city's Protestant
majority clashed with its Catholic minority in riots during "the Troubles." For the point, name this capital
of Northern Ireland.
ANSWER: Belfast
080-12-72-25147

48. A king with this regal name dealt with the revolt of Lydia, which was led by Pissuthnes. A king with
this name avenged the deaths of two princes named Artaxerxes by executing Bagoas. One king with this
name defeated an impersonator of Smerdis in order to take power, recorded that and other feats in the
Behistun Inscription, and built the palaces of Persepolis. That king, known as “the Great,” was succeeded
by Xerxes I. The third king of this name was defeated by Alexander the Great. For the point, name this
name given to three Achaemenid kings of the Persian Empire.
ANSWER: Darius
140-12-72-25148

49. One report on this location concluded that John L Stevens had been involved in a conspiracy to
overthrow its last leader. Walter Murray Gibson forced one ruler of this location to sign the so-called
Bayonet Constitution. The USS Boston assisted Sanford Dole in his coup against the last monarch of this
location. President McKinley ordered the annexation of this location in 1898; later, its statehood was tied to
Alaska's. For the point, identify this location once ruled by Queen Lili'uokalani, the last state to be admitted
to the US.
ANSWER: Hawaii
066-12-72-25149

50. A version of this field originated from the “circle method”, or yenri, of Seki Kowa. A satirical work
addressed to Edmund Halley was sharply critical of this field; that work is The Analyst by George
Berkeley. One creator of this field referred to it as the method of fluents and fluxions, and another thinker
developed this field as the study of infinitesimals. For the point, name this branch of mathematics,
independently discovered by Gottfried Leibniz and Isaac Newton, whose operations include differentiation
and integration.
ANSWER: infinitesimal calculus [accept more specific answers, prompt on mathematics]
048-12-72-25150

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 10 of 28 © HSAPQ

51. One man with this surname was nicknamed “Magnus Apollo” and was opposed by a faction whose
deerskin hats led to them being called the Bucktails. Jesse Hawley lobbied for a man of this surname's most
famous public works project, which was derisively nicknamed his “ditch.” As the Federalist candidate, a
man of this surnam lost the presidency to James Madison in 1812. Another man with this surname served
as vice president for Thomas Jefferson and Madison. For the point, name this surname shared by governors
of New York George and DeWitt.
ANSWER: Clinton [or DeWitt Clinton before “Another man with this surname”]
121-12-72-25151

52. Article 36 of the statute for this body allows for parties to make this body's decisions compulsory
through the "optional clause." This body twice in the 1970s offered advisory opinions that supported the
right of self-determination in Namibia and Western Sahara. The first case this body heard was the 1949
Corfu Channel Case, in which the United Kingdom sought compensation from Albania. In 2007, this body
returned judgment on the Bosnian Genocide Case. For the point, name this judicial branch of the United
Nations that operates out of The Hague.
ANSWER: International Court of Justice [or ICJ; or World Court; or Cour Internationale de Justice]
023-12-72-25152

53. This project seemingly violated a 1967 treaty sponsored by the UK, the Soviet Union, and the US.
Components of this project included the paired Brilliant Eyes and Brilliant Pebbles programs. This project,
which was renamed BMDO in 1993, was announced in an address asking for help "rendering" certain
objects "impotent and obsolete." This project toyed with the idea of a hypervelocity rail gun and a chemical
laser. It was intended as a shift from Mutually Assured Destruction. For the point, name this never-realized
project, mockingly termed "Star Wars," to destroy incoming nukes from space.
ANSWER: Strategic Defense Initiative [or SDI; or Star Wars until it is read]
020-12-72-25153

54. With Alexander Yersin, one scientist from this country discovered the causative agent of plague, and
with von Behring that scientist developed serum therapy for tetanus. A chemical plant in this country is
responsible for poisoning several residents with methylmercury. Another scientist from this nation named
the causative agent of dysentery. A pair of scientists from this country used pulse-chase experiments to
show that DNA replication on the lagging strand occurs via namesake short “fragments”. For the point,
name this country, the home to the discoverer of Okazaki fragments.
ANSWER: Japan
048-12-72-25154

55. This country nominally aligned itself with Communism to assure its survival in the YYA treaty. Despite
her adviser leaking confidential documents to the Centre Party leader, the first female president of this
country was in office from 2000 to 2012. Another president of this country, as Field Marshall, ordered the
construction of a defensive fortification line. The leadership of Carl Mannerheim and the ambushes
conducted by country's ski troopers saved it from being overrun during the Winter War. For the point, name
this Baltic nation that was invaded by the Soviet Union in 1939.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomi; or Suomen tasavalta; or Republiken Finland]
020-12-72-25155

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 11 of 28 © HSAPQ

56. This pirate once used a fireship to blow up Admiral Campo's blockade and effect his escape from Lake
Maracaibo. This man used a human shield of nuns and friars to bring ladders up to Fort Santiago during his
capture of Porto Bello. Charles II had this man arrested for violating the Treaty of Madrid in his attack on
Panama City. Variously with or without support from the crown, he conducted a series of raids on the
Spanish Main from a base at Port Royal. For the point, identify this pirate of the Caribbean who now names
a brand of rum.
ANSWER: Captain Henry Morgan
080-12-72-25156

57. After a speech in support of this event, a riot broke out in Blue Island. This event was opposed by the
General Managers' Association. Richard Olney issued an injunction against the people involved in this
event. Grover Cleveland broke up this strike for interfering with the distribution of U.S. mail. This strike
resulted in the dissolution of the American Railway Union. For the point, identify this 1894 strike against
the manufacturer and operator of sleeping cars.
ANSWER: Pullman Strike
066-12-72-25157

58. During this President's adminstration, John L. Lewis ended forty years as leader of the United Mine
Workers. This man appointed pipefitters union head Martin Durkin as Secretary of Labor, creating the
“nine millionaires and a plumber” cabinet. He signed a law mandating secret-ballot elections for union
leadership, the Landrum-Griffin Act. During this President's term, the AFL merged with the CIO. For the
point, name this President whose farewell address warned against the “military-industrial complex.”
ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower
019-12-72-25158

59. Thucydides writes that King Minos built his empire by dealing with these people, whom the Aetolian
League was accused of supporting. The Lex Gabinia authorized a campaign against these people,
accomplished in three months rather than three years. These people supplied the slaves for the market at
Delos. Julius Caesar legendarily crucified thirty of them who had captured him; those, like many of these
people, were based in "Rough Cilicia." For the point, name these sailing marauders of the ancient world
who probably didn't say "Arrrrrrr!"
ANSWER: Ancient Mediterranean Pirates [or Piratae; or corsairs]
080-12-72-25159

60. Swiss architect Domenico Trezzini designed many of the buildings of this city, such as the Twelve
Collegia. Bartolomeo Rastrelli designed a massive palace in this city. A 1500-ton boulder was dragged
over ice and on barges to this city; that boulder, the Thunder Stone, became the pedestal for a statue of this
city's founder. Planned to be a "window on the west," this city contains the Bronze Horseman and was built
during the Great Northern War. For the point, name this Russian city founded in 1703 on the River Neva
and named for the Russian tsar.
ANSWER: St. Petersburg, Russia
080-12-72-25160

61. This man’s troops blew up bridges along the Neretva river during a civil war, and he later arrested his
wartime companion Milovan Djilas for dissent. This leader’s troops fired at surrendering troops in
Bleiburg, and he displaced the royal claims of Peter II. His foreign relations triggered the “Informbiro” era
in his country. This opponent of the Chetniks and the (oos-TOSH-ey) Ustase led his country’s namesake
“Partisans” during World War II. For the point, name this leader whose break with Stalin allowed him to
kickstart the Non-Aligned Movement, the dictator of Yugoslavia.
ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]
104-12-72-25161
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 12 of 28 © HSAPQ

62. The namesake people of this region issued a post-Roman law code under Gundobad. This place's upper
or “Transjurane” portion was reunited with the lower part by Holy Roman Emperor Conrad II. This area
came under Habsburg control after Mary of this region married Maximilian of Austria. This power base of
the League of the Public Weal was defeated at Nancy when its leader, Charles the Bold, died in battle
against France’s Louis XI, the “Spider-King”. For the point, name this now-French region known for its
historic vineyards.
ANSWER: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]
104-12-72-25162

63. This city was the site of the Battle of Liberty Place, where the White League attempted to force
Governor William Pitt Kellogg to resign in favor of John McEnery. This city legalized prostitution in its
"Storyville" district. During the Civil War, its military governor issued "General Order No. 28," according
to which Union soldiers could treat women as prostitutes. Benjamin Butler governed this city, where
Homer Plessy of Plessy v. Ferguson fame boarded a segregated train car. For the point, name this city
whose "krewes" have historically put on a rowdy Mardi Gras.
ANSWER: New Orleans, Louisiana
080-12-72-25163

64. This man's father, Dennis, founded the Napoleon Seminar at West Point, where he taught almost every
major civil war general. This man published the article "The Persian Gulf and International Relations,"
where he coined the term "Middle East." This author's major work helped inspire Jackie Fisher and Alfred
von Tirpitz to enter the pre-World War I arms race; that book argued that Britain's rise from 1660 to 1783
was due to its military and commercial fleets. For the point, name this author of The Influence of Sea Power
Upon History.
ANSWER: Alfred Thayer Mahan
080-12-72-25164

65. One president of this country had policies that were referred to as “Mzee Rukhsa” or “Everything
goes.” This country's leader Ali Hassan Mwinyi succeeded its first president, who was called Baba wa
Taifa. This nation’s first leader promulgated a socialist agenda called ujamaa in the Arusha Declaration.
That man joined his party, TANU, with the Afro-Shirazi Party, and was named Julius (nuh-RARE-ee)
Nyerere. For the point, name this African country which formed in 1964 out of the unification of
Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
ANSWER: United Republic of Tanzania
192-12-72-25165

66. Adomnán was the leader of one of these organizations and wrote a biography of the founder of one of
them, Columba. One of these institutions located at Armagh claimed supremacy over all others in Ireland,
due to its affiliation with Saint Patrick. Odo initiated a reform movement in these institutions centered at a
particularly powerful one in Cluny. They often ran by the motto “ora et labora,” which originated from the
Rule of St. Benedict. For the point, name these complexes which house monks.
ANSWER: monasteries [or abbeys]
121-12-72-25166

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 13 of 28 © HSAPQ

67. One section of this composition considers the tale of two lovers who "sat on a park bench, with their
bodies touching, holding hands in the moonlight." A poem by Christopher Knowles is included in its "I
Feel the Earth Move" section. Many portions of this work include the repetitions of syllables and numbers,
and it includes five interludes known as knee plays. This minimalist work, along with Satyagraha and
Akhnaten, forms its composer's Portrait Trilogy. For the point, identify this opera by Philip Glass which is
named for a physicist.
ANSWER: Einstein on the Beach
189-12-72-25167

68. This man’s election to Parliament was aided by the withdrawals from the race of Austin Currie and
Noel Maguire. This man was the subject of the first feature film directed by Steve McQueen, in which he
was portrayed by Michael Fassbender. This man was responsible for the eventual acceptance of the “five
demands” after the failure of the “blanket” and “no wash” protests. His most famous action began on
March 1, 1981, in the Maze Prison. For the point, name this IRA officer who died after sixty-six days
leading an ultimately successful hunger strike.
ANSWER: Bobby Sands
014-12-72-25168

69. Joshua Slocum was the first person to accomplish this action alone. George Anson accomplished this
feat as part of a strategy to spite the Spanish during the War of Jenkins' Ear. Possible Genoan spy Antonio
Pigafetta documented an attempt to do this. The Battle of Mactan occurred during a performance of this
action; the Trinidad and Victoria completed that expedition, whose leader was killed by Lapu-Lapu in the
Philippines. For the point, name this feat performed by Ferdinand Magellan's expedition, which sailed out
from Spain and came back the other way.
ANSWER: circumnavigating the globe [or sailing around the world]
080-12-72-25169

70. At one point, the speaker of this text says, “I made all things to all men, that I might by all means save
some.” The narrator of this book explains what “suffereth long, and is kind,” and “is not puffed up.” In this
text, the speaker recalls, “When I was a child, I spake as a child…but when I became a man, I put away
childish things.” The speaker claims that “now we see through a glass, darkly,” and states that “now
abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.” For the point, name this
Pauline epistle, the first of two addressed to a Greek city.
ANSWER: First Corinthians [prompt on Corinthians; prompt on The Bible or The New Testament until
"Pauline epistle" is read]
014-12-72-25170

71. In September 2012, two thousand names were removed from a blacklist of people expelled from this
country. Several Muslim citizens of this country died in two separate capsized boat accidents in November
2012, as they were fleeing ethnic violence in the state of Rakhine. The Rohingya people hail from this
country, and, in 2012, President Obama became the first sitting President to visit here. This country
reinstated the National League for Democracy in 2012, and a Nobel Peace Prize winner was elected into its
legislature. For the point, name this Asian country led by Thein Sein.
ANSWER: Burma [or Myanmar]
190-12-72-25171

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 14 of 28 © HSAPQ

72. During this period, one leader said that the Ministry of Public Health should be called the Ministry of
Urban Gentlemen’s Health. The January Storm was during this period that featured the start of the “Down
to the Countryside” movement and the dictum “Bombard the Headquarters.” A mass mobilization of
students to fight revisionism and the “Four Olds” began this period, in which “capitalist roaders” and the
Gang of Four were purged. For the point, name this 1966 to 1976 period involving Red Guards inspired by
Mao Zedong.
ANSWER: Great Proletariat Cultural Revolution [or Wenhua Dageming, Wenge; or Wenhua Takeming,
or Wente]
153-12-72-25172

73. One movement founded by this man first met at the home of Mary B. Talbert. This person used the term
"talented tenth" to describe his theory that if one cultivated the talents of the best and brightest
African-Americans, they would advance the interests of all African-Americans. This person proposed that
"the problem of the Twentieth Century is the problem of the color-line" in his seminal essay collection The
Souls of Black Folk. This man organized a meeting at Niagara Falls. For the point, identify this co-founder
of the NAACP and critic of Booker T. Washington.
ANSWER: William Edward Burghardt "W. E. B." Du Bois
066-12-72-25173

74. During this period, General William Wright ordered the baths of Stenay to be taken. In this period
spearheaded by the Canadian Corps, which seized the Canal du Nord and reached Mons, the AEF attacked
at Saint-Mihiel. It began with the breakthrough at Amiens, “the black day of the German Army”. For the
point, name this offensive ended by the 11 November armistice that was roughly equal in duration as the
time between Napoleon leaving Elba to Waterloo.
ANSWER: Hundred Days’ Offensive [or Canada’s Hundred Days; or Meuse-Argonne Offensive]
153-12-72-25174

75. This organization was targeted by Operation Grapes of Wrath. This group contributed 12 members of
parliament to the Free Patriotic Movement’s March 8th Alliance. This group’s flag contains a globe, book,
sword, and a hand seizing an AK-47. Hassan Nasrallah is the current head of this organization, which along
with the IJO was responsible for the 1983 bombing of a U.S. Marine Corps barracks. It was formed after a
1982 Israeli invasion and was trained by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards. For the point, name this Islamic
terrorist group operating in Lebanon.
ANSWER: Hizbollah
048-12-72-25175

76. In the movie Children of Men, Theo is driven by a work of this artist as he enters the Battersea Power
Station; that work by this artist shows two policemen kissing. In a film, this artist starts out as the subject of
a documentary by Thierry Guetta before this artist takes control and Guetta becomes Mr. Brainwash. In
2005, this artist protested the building of the West Bank barrier by creating nine paintings on the
Palestinian side. For the point, name this British graffiti artist who directed Exit Through the Gift Shop and
who chooses to remain known only by his pseudonym.
ANSWER: Banksy
023-12-72-25176

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 15 of 28 © HSAPQ

77. This philosophy’s principles included “showing nothing,” or (WOO-shan) wuxian, and
“accountability,” or (SHING-ming) xingming. The slogan “ru biao fa li” suggests that this philosophy
survived as the “interior” principle. A chief writer of this philosophy, who died when Li Si made him drink
poison, originally studied under the Confucian (SHUN-zee) Xunzi. This philosophy was expounded by Han
Fezi and was prominent during the (CHIN) Qin dynasty. For the point, identify this Chinese philosophy
that advocated governing a state through clear, strict laws and absolute obedience to the ruler.
ANSWER: legalism
019-12-72-25177

78. Ellis Chesbrough's plans for a sewer system here required raising many of the buildings several feet
above their foundation with hydraulic pumps. The first futures contracts were sold in this city's Board of
Trade in 1864. The southern branch of the river running through this city was nicknamed “Bubbly Creek”
from the bubbles caused by the waste dumped by the Union Stock Yards. This city's engineers reversed the
flow of that river so that it would go downstate instead of into Lake Michigan. For the point, name this city
which dyes that river green every St. Patrick's Day.
ANSWER: Chicago, Illinois
121-12-72-25178

79. At this site, a tubercular war veteran issued a raspy command to his men to disperse. Jonathon
Harrington was injured at this site, but managed to crawl back to his own home and die on his doorstep. At
this site, John Parker said "Stand your ground; don't fire unless fired upon, but if they mean to have a war,
let it begin here." John Pitcairn's army engaged in a skirmish at this site, whose inhabitants were ready
thanks to the midnight ride of Paul Revere. For the point, name this site where the first shot of the
Revolutionary War was fired on the same day as the Battle of Concord.
ANSWER: Lexington
020-12-72-25179

80. Notable arias written by this composer include “Non piu mesta,” which is sung by Angelina in his
adaptation of the Cinderella story La Cenerentola. In an opera by this man, the boastful aria “Largo al
factotum” is sung by the man who helps Count Almaviva woo Rosina. In addition to writing the famous
baritone role of Figaro, he composed a famous overture for his adaptation of a Friedrich Schiller play about
a pseudo-historical Swiss marksman. For the point, name this Italian opera composer of William Tell and
The Barber of Seville.
ANSWER: Giaochino Rossini
014-12-72-25180

81. This man’s health minister called women “birth-giving machines.” His first term ended after his first
Agriculture Minister committed suicide and his second was accused of corruption. This man was succeeded
as prime minister by Yasuo Fukuda and came to power after when he succeeded Junichiro Koizumi. This
man regained the chairmanship of the Liberal Democratic Party in September 2012. For the point, name
this man who beat Yoshihiko Noda in December 2012 and became the current Prime Minister of Japan.
ANSWER: Shinzo Abe
153-12-72-25181

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 16 of 28 © HSAPQ

82. This man won the Battle of Zapote Bridge before rising to power in the Tejeros Convention, which was
held in Cavite, a province where he based many of his operations. This leader agreed to one peace treaty in
the Pact of Biak-na-Bato and ordered the assassination of Antonio Luna. His forces fought at the Battle of
Tirad Pass years before he lost a political race to Manuel Quezon, despite spending much of his life
combating American and Spanish colonial powers as leader of the Katipunan Movement with Andres
Bonifacio. For the point, name this revolutionary leader from the Philippines.
ANSWER: Emilio Aguinaldo y Famy
192-12-72-25182

83. This king locked the Seven Bishops in the Tower of London after they refused his order for the
Declaration of Indulgence to be read. During this king's reign, Judge Jeffries conducted the "Bloody
Assizes," which disposed of the participants in the Duke of Monmouth's Rebellion. The colony of New
York was named after this Duke of York, who pressured Parliament to repeal the Test and Corporation
Acts. This Catholic convert pushed for religious toleration in England, leading to his overthrow. For the
point, name this English king, overthrown in the Glorious Revolution.
ANSWER: James II of England [or James VII of Scotland]
080-12-72-25183

84. The biennial nature of this series and the locations of the two teams means that the breaks between
consecutive series alternate between 18 and 30 months. The 2013 edition of this series will still use Lord’s,
which has been used since 1882. Ivo Bligh set out to “reclaim" this series and received an urn whose
crystal replicas have become this series’ trophies. For the point, name this five match test cricket series
between England and Australia named for a saying that the body of English cricket had been cremated.
ANSWER: The Ashes
153-12-72-25184

85. The manager of one team during this event, Eddie Mathews, was fired a few months later, and had been
a teammate of the player who performed it. Outfielder Bill Buckner jumped at the wall during this feat, but
the ball ended up in the possession of pitcher Tom House. During this event, Vin Scully noted “a black
man is getting a standing ovation in the Deep South.” The pitcher during this event was the Dodgers’ Al
Downing, and it took place at Fulton County Stadium. For the point, name this April 8, 1974, event in
which an Atlanta Brave broke a baseball record held by Babe Ruth.
ANSWER: Hank Aaron hitting home run 715 [or Hank Aaron becoming career home run leader; or
Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth’s home run record; or equivalents]
052-12-72-25185

86. Some of these people formed an anti-Nazi group called the Kreisau Circle. These people were often
owners of rye farms, and their refusal to stop exporting their product led to the increased use of the Haber
process to produce fertilizer for domestic wheat farming. These people formed an interest group to lobby
against Leo von Caprivi's free-trade policies, the Agrarian League. The Reichstag’s Conservative Party
represented the interests of this class. For the point, give this term for the large landowners who dominated
Imperial German politics.
ANSWER: Junkers (YUNK-ers, though accept phonetic English pronounciations)
019-12-72-25186

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 17 of 28 © HSAPQ

87. A Greek mercenary named Memnon from this island started a campaign to capture the Greek islands
from Alexander the Great before dying of illness. Cicero and Julius Caesar went to this island to study
rhetoric. Demetrius Poliorcetes besieged this island-city in 305 BC, building a gigantic siege tower called
the Helepolis. A poet from this island named Apollonius wrote the Argonautika. The aforementioned siege
engine was melted down and used to make a gigantic statue of Helios. For the point, name this Greek island
whose "Colossus" is one of the Seven Wonders of the World.
ANSWER: Rhodes
080-12-72-25187

88. One person from this city proved that segments joining three pairs of collinear points intersect at
collinear points. A person from this city proved a concurrency condition for a transversal intersecting a
triangle. This home of Pappus and the mathematician Menelaus was also where a woman was stripped and
killed by a Christian mob for advising governor Orestes; that was Hypatia. One resident of this city
described the parallel postulates in his 13-book Elements. For the point, name this city, the home of the
geometer Euclid and a large ancient library.
ANSWER: Alexandria
048-12-72-25188

89. The Dendra Panoply is an intact instance of this culture's body armor, made of overlapping plates.
Nobles in this culture were buried with enormous wealth in beehive-shaped tombs called tholoi. Because
this culture's walls were made of gigantic stones not sealed by mortar, they have been termed "Cyclopean."
Michael Ventris helped decipher this civilization's language, Linear B. Troy discoverer Heinrich
Schliemann identified a funeral mask from this culture as belonging to Agamemnon. For the point, name
this Bronze Age Greek culture.
ANSWER: Mycenean Greece
080-12-72-25189

90. The first method of performing this action involved treatment with dimethyl sulfide and hydrazine and
was developed by Maxam and Gilbert. An automated method of performing this action was developed by
Leroy Hood, which combined capillary electrophoresis with the chain termination method of Frederick
Sanger. The “shotgun” method of performing this action was developed by Celera, a company founded by
Craig Venter. For the point, name this biological technique, which was used extensively in the Human
Genome Project.
ANSWER: sequencing DNA
048-12-72-25190

91. This event led to the cancellation of the construction of the Forked River facility. The commission
investigating this event was headed by the then-president of Dartmouth, John Kemeny, who found Babcock
and Wilcox partly responsible. Governor Dick Thornburgh ordered a 20-mile-radius evacuation in response
to this event, which occurred due to a failure of a pilot-operated relief valve in the Unit 2 reactor. For the
point, identify this 1979 event in which a nuclear plant in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania experienced a
meltdown.
ANSWER: Three Mile Island meltdown
048-12-72-25191

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 18 of 28 © HSAPQ

92. This man suggested that "Abu Bakar" and "Abdul the Bloody" were inside men responsible for a
hostage situation at a theater. This man discussed the Anna Politkovskaya assassination case with his
acquaintance Mario Scaramella over a plate of sushi shortly before his mysterious conversion to Islam.
This co-author of Blowing Up Russia: Terror from Within worked with MI6 and MI5 during his asylum in
London, and he may have died due to his expose of the role secret services played in bringing Putin to
power. For the point, name this man who was poisoned with polonium-210 in 2006.
ANSWER: Alexander Valterovich Litvinenko
020-12-72-25192

93. Photos of this event depict Robert Wanko holding an Uzi, and one participant in it was leaving an
AFL-CIO luncheon at the Hilton Hotel. The target of this event quoted Jack Dempsey in saying “Honey, I
forgot to duck” and later told a doctor “I hope you’re all Republicans.” After this event, Secretary of State
Alexander Haig said “I am in control here.” It was perpetrated by a man obsessed with Jodie Foster. For
the point, identify this March 30, 1981, event in which James Brady was crippled as John Hinckley Jr. tried
to kill a recently inaugurated president.
ANSWER: Ronald Reagan assassination attempt [or obvious equivalents, but attempt or some other
indication that it was not a successful assassination must be included]
052-12-72-25193

94. During this war, one country signed the Convention of Klosterzeven, but later had an Annus Mirabilis
with naval victories at Lagos and Quiberon Bay. In this war, a country had a joint victory at Minden with
an ally that had been won at Leuthen and Rossbach. The Miracle of the House of Brandenburg occurred in
this war when Elizabeth of Russia died. Prussia signed the Treaty of Hubertsburg during this war, after
Britain broke their alliance by ending its conflict with Spain and France at the Treaty of Paris. For the
point, name this war lasting from 1756 to 1763.
ANSWER: Seven Years’ War [prompt on French and Indian Wars; prompt on Third Silesian War]
153-12-72-25194

95. The photographs taken by Pierre Paris helped reveal the water system used by this empire. One of this
empire’s rulers built the Ta Prohm and Bayon Temple and defeated the Champa kingdom. Irrigation
allowed for the originators of this empire to spread beyond the waters of the lake Tonle Sap, and its
location allowed for a fusion of both Hindu and Buddhist doctrines. A famous ruler of this empire was
Jayavarman VII, while Suryavarman II built the most famous architectural site left behind by this empire,
Angkor Wat. For the point, name this empire that ruled in present-day Cambodia.
ANSWER: Khmer empire
140-12-72-25195

96. One piece by this composer, the twelfth in his Opus 10, was apocryphally inspired by a failed uprising
in his home country. This man wrote four unconventionally dark and expansive scherzos, the most
performed of which is the second in B-flat minor. He perfected a melodically intricate form invented by
John Field. His most recognizable pieces include a technical exercise played almost entirely on the black
keys, the “Raindrop” Prelude, and the “Minute” Waltz. For the point, name this Polish composer of many
etudes, mazurkas, and polonaises for the piano.
ANSWER: Frederic Chopin
014-12-72-25196

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 19 of 28 © HSAPQ

97. This man's campaign manager was a woman he called “Mrs. M,” Belle Moskowitz. This person and
William McAdoo were the initial favorites for a nominating convention that ended up choosing John Davis
as a compromise. At that convention, Franklin Roosevelt called him the “happy warrior of the political
battlefield” in a nominating speech. His theme song was “Sidewalks of New York” for a campaign where
he was hurt by his opposition to Prohibition and his Roman Catholicism. For the point, name this 1928
Democratic presidential candidate.
ANSWER: Alfred Emanuel Smith
121-12-72-25197

98. In a painting by this man, a demon that is grasping yellow streaks of light rides a white horse that is
leaping over a brown horse. This teacher of Charles Peale and Gilbert Stuart depicted a crouching Native
American in one painting. That painting by this man also features a man in blue pressing a white towel to
the stomach of a dying commander. This artist of Death on a Pale Horse painted the death of a general at
the Battle of Quebec. For the point, name this early American painter of the Death of General Wolfe.
ANSWER: Benjamin West
149-12-72-25198

99. An early attempt by the U.S. to avoid participating in this movement was called “constructive
engagement.” A failed attempt to avoid this action was the Sullivan Principles, developed by a Baptist
preacher on the board of General Motors who later called for this action instead. Steven Van Zandt
organized the recording of a song stating “I ain’t gonna play Sun City” as part of this action, which the
band Queen ignored. In 1986, U.S. participation in this movement was mandated by a law passed over
Reagan’s veto. For the point, identify this attempt to exert economic pressure against apartheid.
ANSWER: the 1980s boycott of South Africa [or divestment from South Africa or sanctions against
South Africa, etc.]
019-12-72-25199

100. As military governor of this island, Leonard Wood improved its sanitary conditions, helping reduce
the incidence of yellow fever. The United States promised not to annex this island in an amendment to a
joint resolution proposed by Henry M. Teller. A communication to William L. Marcy that advocated
seizing this island is known as the Ostend Manifesto. That amendment was eventually superseded by one
that allowed the US to lease or buy lands for the purpose of establishing naval bases, the Platt Amendment.
For the point, name this location of the Guantanamo Bay naval base.
ANSWER: Cuba
066-12-72-251100

101. This man expressed his pacifist views in “A Letter to a Hindu,” and developed these in a Christian
framework in his The Kingdom of God is Within You. This man’s characters include the Levins, and their
sister-in-law Dolly, whose husband, Stiva, has been having an affair with their governess. That conflict
provides the opening line to one of his novels, “Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is
unhappy in its own way.” For the point, name this Russian author of Anna Karenina.
ANSWER: Leo Nikolayevich Tolstoy
191-12-72-251101

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 20 of 28 © HSAPQ

102. This man convinced the editorial board of Mathematische Annalen to dissolve and start over in order
to remove L.E.J. Brouwer, who attacked this man's basis theorem for being non-constructive. Kurt Gödel's
incompleteness proofs showed the impossibility for this man's research program to find a provably
consistent and finite set of axioms for all mathematics. He claimed that “in mathematics there is no
'ignorabimus'” at a 1900 conference where he discussed the continuum hypothesis and Riemann
hypothesis. For the point, name this German mathematician who presented 23 namesake unsolved
problems.
ANSWER: David Hilbert
121-12-72-251102

103. This man married Eleonore Kaunitz, making his father-in-law a former chancellor, and lost influence
to Anton Graf von Kolowrat. The Academic Legion opposed this man. This opponent of South American
independence movements ended the Burschenschaften. He reacted to playwright August von Kotzebue’s
murder by Carl Sand with his Carlsbad Decrees, suppressing students who favored unification in the
German Confederation he set up. For the point, name this foreign minister forced to resign in 1848, an
Austrian prince who presided over the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: Prince Klemens Wenzel Furst von Metternich [or Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar, Fürst
Von Metternich-winneburg-beilstein]
104-12-72-251103

104. The country’s Prime Minister during a 1984 constitutional crisis, David Lange, made it a
nuclear-free zone. This country’s General Freyberg was the Allied commander during the Fall of Crete and
refused to attack Monte Cassino unless it was bombed. Greenpeace’s Rainbow Warrior was blown up in its
largest city. The Treaty of Waitangi was signed in this country. For the point, name this country that fought
the Musket Wars and Land Wars with its indigenous Maori people.
ANSWER: New Zealand [or Aotearoa]
153-12-72-251104

105. One court case involving this company and i4i ruled that “clear and convincing evidence” is required
to invalidate a patent. In one trial, this company was testified to have used a strategy of “embrace, extend,
and extinguish”, and was compared to “gangland killers” by the judge. In that trial, this company was
criticized for licensing deals with OEMs, and the lead prosecutor was Joel Klein. Thomas Penfield Jackson
ruled that this company’s control of the operating systems market constituted a monopoly. For the point,
name this corporation founded by Bill Gates.
ANSWER: Microsoft
048-12-72-251105

106. This man successfully pleaded with Marquis de Lafayette for the right to lead a night attack on a
British redoubt at the Battle of Yorktown. In one work, he wrote that “A constitution is, in fact, and must be
regarded by the judges, as a fundamental law,” expounding an early conception of judicial review. He
wrote the Report on Manufactures, outlining economic policies vehemently opposed by his colleague,
Thomas Jefferson. For the point, name this author of the majority of the Federalist Papers and first
Secretary of the Treasury who was killed in a duel by Aaron Burr.
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton
014-12-72-251106

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 21 of 28 © HSAPQ

107. The perpetrator of this action was foiled because he used a rickety wooden folding chair for his perch
and his arm was deflected by a woman. The perpetrator of this action explained himself by noting "I want
to make it fifty-fifty since my stomach hurt." This action resulted in the death of Chicago Mayor Anton
Cermak. It was perpetrated by an Italian anarchist and took place after its subject finished a speech at
Bayfront Park, in Miami. For the point, identify this action in which Giuseppe Zangara tried to kill the
person who defeated Herbert Hoover in the 1932 election.
ANSWER: attempted assassination of President-elect Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or attempted
assassination of President-elect FDR; prompt on partial answer to make it clear that it was not a successful
assassination and to distinguish from Theodore Roosevelt]
066-12-72-251107

108. Isias Afewerki replaced one word in this phrase with “belligerence” to describe his nation’s relations
with Yemen. This group was said to contribute to a “grave and growing danger”, and David Frum stated
that this group was originally supposed to have “hatred” in its name. A speech by John Bolton added Cuba,
Libya, and Syria to this group, which initially included Iraq, Iran, and North Korea. For the point, name this
phrase first introduced in George W. Bush’s 2002 State of the Union Address to identify a set of nations
that support terrorism.
ANSWER: "Axis of Evil"
048-12-72-251108

109. In this war, the Army of the East was commanded by the once-glorious Charles Denis Bourbaki, who
failed to besiege Belfort. Despite possessing a breech-loading rifle that was superior to the enemy needle
gun, the losing side of this war was hampered by poor coordination of railways. Krupp shells were used to
devastating effect at this war's largest battle, Gravelotte. The Ems Dispatch sparked this war, which ended
soon after the decisive Battle of Sedan, whose peace terms resulted in the ceding of Alsace and Lorraine.
For the point, name this 1870-71 war.
ANSWER: Franco-Prussian War [or Franco-German War]
020-12-72-251109

110. These people fought a great war with Athens after Theseus kidnapped their leader. A leader of these
people owned a girdle that was retrieved for Admeta, the daughter of king Eurystheus. (THUR-sit-eez)
Thersites was killed for mocking Achilles after Achilles killed a leader of these people. Achilles fell in love
with the leader of these people post-mortem. Hippolyta and Penthesilea led this group, who removed their
right breast to improve their archery. For the point, identify this race of female warriors from Greek
mythology.
ANSWER: Amazons [or antianeirai; or androktones]
066-12-72-251110

111. This plan was similar to the earlier Godesberg proposal. One supporter of this agreement was foreign
secretary Georges-Eitenne Bonnet, who was in the ministry of another of its supporters, Edouard Daladier.
A critic of it stated, “You chose dishonor and you will have war,” and this plan resulted in Edvard Benes
losing office. One of its architects claimed that this agreement represented “peace for our time.” For the
point, name this agreement engineered by British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, in which Nazi
Germany was allowed to annex the Sudetenland as a means of appeasement.
ANSWER: Munich Pact
030-12-72-251111

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 22 of 28 © HSAPQ

112. Chapter 11 of this book contains a “table of chords”, which uses base-60 numerals. Manuel
Comnenus gave a copy of this book to Henry Aristippus, though it was popularized via Gerard of
Cremona’s Latin translation of an Arabic copy by Sahl ibn Bishr. This book is the only extant source for
the trigonometry of Hipparchus, and one section of this book defines deferents as paths traced out by the
center of an epicycle. Its first chapter discusses the theories of Aristotle. For the point, name this book
which posits a geocentric universe, written by Ptolemy.
ANSWER: The Almagest
048-12-72-251112

113. One incident in this state was triggered by the arrest of Dick Rowland for the assault of Sarah Page,
and saw the destruction of the Greenwood District. An incident in this state was investigated by Special
Agent Weldon Kennedy. 3 “Gates of Time” and a field of 186 chairs commemorates that event here, in
which several bags of ammonium nitrate fertilizer were used to destroy the Alfred P. Murrah federal
building. For the point, name this state, the site of a bombing carried out by Terry Nichols and Timothy
McVeigh.
ANSWER: Oklahoma
048-12-72-251113

114. In the 4th century C.E, the three kingdoms of this region, Nobatia, Makouria, and Alwa, were
converted to Christianity by the work of Byzantine missionaries, including Julian. One ruler of this area,
Piankhy, conquered land to its north after the surrender of King Orsokon. Napata was a religious center for
this region, and Meroe was used as its administrative capital. After being conquered by Egypt in the 17th
century B.C., this region’s inhabitants began the 25th dynasty by conquering Egypt. For the point, name
this region of present-day northern Sudan.
ANSWER: Nubia
140-12-72-251114

115. A derogatory term for this group's leaders was "Pfeffersäcke," meaning “pepper sacks.” Klaus
Störtebeker fought agains this organization as captain of the Likedeelers. Edward IV signed the Treaty of
Utrecht with this group, which gave it ownership of the Steelyard, its London headquarters. This group was
able to reduce transport costs when it started using the Umlandfahrt, a route through Skagerrak that avoided
the need for land travel between Hamburg and this group's most powerful member, Lübeck. For the point,
name this medieval Baltic merchant confederation.
ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa; or Hanse]
121-12-72-251115

116. A museum devoted to this industry was established at the place where James "Grey Eyes" Bordeaux
practiced it in Chadron, Nebraska. Practitioners of this occupation provided “point blankets” to their
business associates. William Ashley’s innovation of the rendezvous consolidated much of this industry’s
annual activity, and it was briefly controlled in the Pacific Northwest by John Jacob Astor. For the point,
identify this economic activity which was the original pursuit of the Hudson’s Bay Company and the cause
of many beaver deaths in colonial North America.
ANSWER: the fur trade
019-12-72-251116

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 23 of 28 © HSAPQ

117. One modern version of this activity is called ulama; in that type, all participants wear a traditional
loincloth. Fray Diego Duran described a rash of gambling over this activity in his history of the New
World. It was done in an I-shaped land clearing where people were forbidden from using their hands. In
some instances, this activity required the construction of circular stone hoops. The Olmecs pioneered the
use of its central rubber object. For the point, name this Mesoamerican activity of religious importance, a
long-lived and violent team sport.
ANSWER: sacred Mesoamerican ball game [or juego de pelota; or ollamaliztli ; or tlachtly; or
pok-ta-pok; accept any equivalent involving a game being played with a ball or a specific ethnic group]
104-12-72-251117

118. Banking firms in this city collapsed after Edward III declared himself insolvent and refused to repay
his loans. Bocca degli Abati killed this city's standard-bearer while serving in its army at the battle of
Montaperi. Michele di Lando was put in charge here by revolting clothworkers called the Ciompi, who
were upset they were not represented in the Arte della Lana. War with the republic of Lucca led to Cosimo
the Elder becoming gran maestro here, and Cosimo's descendants ruled this city for the next four hundred
years. For the point, name this city-state ruled by the Medici.
ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze]
121-12-72-251118

119. The logistical work done by Edward A. Guilbert during this incident was an early example of
e-commerce, and it was prompted in part by one party's refusal to let Ernst Reuter take office. Gail
Halverson earned the nickname of “The Candy Bomber” during this event, which was organized by Lucius
Clay. The C-47 Goonybird was the primary vehicle used to carry out this event. This event was codenamed
Operation Viddles and resulted in the delivery of approximately 1.7 million tons of food. For the point,
name this endeavor by to circumvent the Soviet Union's blockade of a German city.
ANSWER: Berlin Airlift
030-12-72-251119

120. A mentally impaired head of state during this period once rolled up a prepared speech meant to be
delivered to the legislature and used it as a telescope. One government of this period failed to add a racial
equality clause to the Versailles treaty and terminated an alliance with Great Britain. During this period,
Tsingtao was taken from Germany and the Great Kanto earthquake occurred. For the point, name this early
20th century Japanese period in which democracy flourished, and which corresponded with the reign of its
namesake emperor.
ANSWER: Taisho era
153-12-72-251120

121. Mircea Eliade defined myth as an account of this process. Charles Long divided this process into type
like ex nihilo and earth-diver. This process is described in the Babylonian Enuma elish and Hesiod's
Theogony; in the former, Apsu and Tiamat are responsible for it, while in the latter, the starting point of this
process is Chaos. In Egyptian mythology, this process occurs after the sun rises for the first time. In many
mythologies, this process occurs when a cosmic egg "hatches." For the point, identify this mythological
process that explains how the world began.
ANSWER: creation [or cosmogenesis]
066-12-72-251121

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 24 of 28 © HSAPQ

122. This man was fired from his job at the Wall Street corporation Bache & Company for growing his hair
out in protest to the American invasion of Cambodia. This person controversially allowed Peoples Temple
volunteers to aid his campaign against Art Agnos. Along with the mayor he served, George Moscone, he
was assassinated by Dan White, a disgruntled former politician. This man gained the moniker “The Mayor
of Castro Street” after moving to California. For the point, name this man whose election as supervisor in
San Francisco marked him as the first openly gay elected public official.
ANSWER: Harvey Bernard Milk
192-12-72-251122

123. This year’s Olympics marked the first time the host failed to win a gold and the last time the Games
were directed by Baron Coubertin, who gave medals to George Mallory’s failed Mt. Everest expedition.
The Olympic motto and an Olympic village were first used in this year, which also involved the first
athletes from Ireland. Chariots of Fire is about two British runners in this year. For the point, name this
year in which Paris held its second games and (shah-moh-NEE) Chamonix held the first Winter Games.
ANSWER: 1924
153-12-72-251123

124. This composer titled one of his masses for Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily. When this composer's
country went to war against France, he wrote the Mass in Time of War. The compositions in his
revolutionary Opus 20 are known as the “Sun” Quartets. One of his symphonies derives its nickname from
a sudden loud chord in its C major second movement. That symphony, one of his “London” Symphonies,
is the “Surprise.” For the point, name this Austrian composer known as the “Father of the String Quartet”
and “Father of the Symphony.”
ANSWER: Franz Joseph Haydn
014-12-72-251124

125. One leader of this country was married to a woman called Dona Encarnacion, who ran the violent
group nicknamed the Mazorca. This country's years under a dictator were described in a biography of Juan
Facundo Quiroga, which was written by this country's future president Domingo Faustino Sarmiento. This
country spent nearly twenty years under the rule of the caudillo Juan Manuel de Rosas. For the point, name
this country whose history is "haunted" by the shadow of the "gaucho," who roamed its Pampas.
ANSWER: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]
023-12-72-251125

126. This country’s delegate at the Congress of Vienna, the Marquis of Labrador, was so unpopular
because of demands for this country’s historic Italian lands that the others abandoned him on a balloon
trip. The “Hundred Thousand Sons of St. Louis” intervened in this country where Maria Christina ruled as
regent and fought the Carlists. Ferdinand VII, “the Desired”, was succeeded as king of this nation by
Joseph Bonaparte. For the point, name this primary site of the Peninsular War against Napoleon, which
once controlled its fellow Iberian state Portugal.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de Espana]
153-12-72-251126

127. This group was responsible for destroying a number of Chicago police cars after the murder of Black
Panther leader Fred Hampton. One leader of this group, John Jacobs, organized its Days of Rage around
the slogan "bring the war home." In 1970, this group broke Timothy Leary out of prison. This group
received its name from a Bob Dylan lyric about not needing a certain figure "to know which way the wind
blows." For the point, name this radical splinter group from the Students for a Democratic Society that
protested the Vietnam War by committing a number of bombings in the US in the 1970s.
ANSWER: Weathermen [or Weather Underground Organization]
023-12-72-251127
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 25 of 28 © HSAPQ

128. Pierre-Simon Laplace began his 1774 memoirs with a version of this statement. Fisher praised this
idea's original formulator for not making it public, leaving it to Richard Price to publish. Harold Jeffreys
revived interest in it, and offered it as an alternative to confidence intervals and other frequentist
approaches. For the point, name this statement of probability that relates a posterior probability to a prior
and likelihood function, named for an English mathematician.
ANSWER: Bayes' theorem [or Bayes' law]
121-12-72-251128

129. In this country, an ex-actor and comedian founded the Five-Star Movement in 2010 to combat
government corruption. An ex-leader of this country vowed in December 2012 not to run for the People of
Freedom party leadership in 2013. The current president of the European Central Bank hails from this
country. The president of this country in 2012 served as European Commissioner for a decade and was
invited to form a government after the resignation of his predecessor over various scandals. For the point,
name this country whose debt crisis was handled by technocrat Mario Monti.
ANSWER: Italy
190-12-72-251129

130. This person was the inspiration of a seven-star, Fairy-type fusion Yu-gi-oh! monster card used by
Serenity Wheeler to defeat the Perfect Machine King. This person was the inspiration for a 2009 PSP game
in which this character leaves the village of Domremy with Liane and Roger and attacks both humans and
demons of the English army. In Civilization III, this person leads a civilization that has its Musketman unit
replaced by a Musketeer. For the point, name this French heroine known as the Maid of Orleans.
ANSWER: Saint Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d’Arc; prompt on Joan]
153-12-72-251130

131. This case was extended to a federal statue one year later in U.S. v. Eichmann, and Stevens’s dissent in
it drew a distinction between disagreeable ideas and disagreeable conduct. The defendant in this case was
a member of the Revolutionary Communist Youth Brigade and was arrested after chanting “Either one
means World War III.” Brennan’s decision in this case stated that an act must have elements of
communication in order to fall under the First Amendment. For the point, name this 1989 Supreme Court
case which upheld the legality of flag burning.
ANSWER: Texas v. Johnson
048-12-72-251131

132. The speaker of this passage instructs those at the altar with unresolved conflicts to “first be reconciled
to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.” Discussing adultery, the speaker of this section states, “If
thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee.” Early, its speaker claims, “Ye are the light of the
world,” and “Ye are the salt of the earth.” Central to the Gospel of Matthew, this passage includes such
teachings as “Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth,” one of the Beatitudes. For the point,
identify this oration delivered by Jesus.
ANSWER: the Sermon on the Mount
014-12-72-251132

133. Some opponents of this man, including the journal-writing James Morrison, were captured by Edward
Edwards and the Pandora. This man arrested John Macarthur while serving as governor of New South
Wales, sparking the Rum Rebellion. While serving under James Cook aboard the Resolution, this man met
James Banks, who suggested the use of breadfruit as a food for slaves. This man stopped at the island of
Tofua and ultimately landed at Tahiti after being put on a twenty-foot boat by Fletcher Christian. For the
point, name this mutiny target, the captain of the HMS Bounty.
ANSWER: William Bligh
019-12-72-251133
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 26 of 28 © HSAPQ

134. The Noel Coward film In Which We Serve was based on this man’s command of the HMS Kelly.
Thomas McMahon was convicted of murdering this man a few hours before the massacre of 18 British
troops near Warrenpoint. He oversaw the retaking of Burma as the head of the South East Asia Command
during World War II, and he unsuccessfully tried to avoid partition in another post. For the point, name this
relative of Elizabeth II who served as the last viceroy of India and who was assassinated by a bomb planted
on his boat by the Provisional IRA in 1979.
ANSWER: Louis Mountbatten
030-12-72-251134

135. William Moultrie introduced this man to Lachlan McIntosh, whom this man hoped would lead an
expedition into Florida. George Rogers Clark supported this man's endeavors and offered to lead a force of
800 to attack New Orleans on his behalf. Both those plans were canceled after George Washington asked
for this man to be recalled. He refitted the Little Sarah as La Petite Démocrate, breaking his pledge to stop
commissioning privateers at American ports. For the point, name this first minister to the United States of
the French Republic, the namesake of a diplomatic scandal.
ANSWER: Citizen Edmond-Charles Genet
121-12-72-251135

136. A river of this name has its volume greatly increase at its junction with the Pelley River at Fort
Selkirk, and a prominent tributary of this river is the Tanana River. The Gwich’in peoples are a prominent
First Nation group in a polity of this name. The river of this name has a tributary named the Porcupine
River, and empties into the Norton Sound. Kluane National Park and Reserve is located in the polity with
this name that includes the St. Elias Mountains. That polity of this name is the location of Mount Logan.
For the point, name this Canadian river that also names a territory that has its capital at Whitehorse.
ANSWER: Yukon
030-12-72-251136

137. This person was the first President of the Woman's Peace Party and served as chairman of the
International Congress of Women held at The Hague. One of this person's efforts served the neighborhood
around Greektown, Maxwell and Halsted Streets. London's Toynbee Hall was the inspiration for that first
settlement house in America, which she founded with Ellen Gates Starr. This person was the first American
woman to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. For the point, identify this female cofounder of the Hull
House in Chicago.
ANSWER: Jane Addams
066-12-72-251137

138. This event began shortly after Senator Thomas Hardwick’s housekeeper was maimed in an attack by
followers of Luigi Galleani. This event was eventually opposed by Acting Secretary of Labor Louis F. Post.
One writer noted the “sad irony” that this event’s namesake was a Quaker. Targets of it were placed on a
ship dubbed the “Soviet Ark” and included Emma Goldman. This event started after a series of letter
bombings were carried out by Italian radicals. For the point, name these 1919 to 1920 push to arrest and
deport anarchists, led by the namesake Attorney General.
ANSWER: Palmer Raids [prompt on First Red Scare]
052-12-72-251138

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 27 of 28 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

139. Cultures that live on this island include the Arapesh, Biwat and Iatmul. The isolation of cultures on
this island has given rise to an art tradition characterized by "hooked" or "beaked" style of elongated noses
on masks and sculptures. The Sepik River cultures are found on this island, where over eight hundred
languages are spoken. The German colony of Kaiser-Wilhelmsland was once located on this island, which
contains the province formerly known as Irian Jaya. For the point, name this island divided between
Indonesia and an independent Papuan state.
ANSWER: New Guinea
066-12-72-251139

140. Lucy Wright and Joseph Meacham led this group. This group was heavily influenced by the
Camisards, and it underwent a spiritual revival called the Era of Manifestations. The first community for
this group was established in New Lebanon. Their numbers have been reduced greatly in size in part due to
this group's shunning of parenthood, and this sect is noted for its distinctive furniture style and for hymns
such as “Simple Gifts.” For the point, name this sect founded by Mother Ann Lee that gained its most
widely used name from their charismatic worship practices.
ANSWER: Shakers [or United Society of Belivers in Christ's Second Appearing; prompt on “Millenial
Church”]
030-12-72-251140

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Finals

Page 28 of 28 © HSAPQ

