2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 6

BEE ROUND 6
1. This man had a jealous vendetta against Melvin Purvis. This man’s “Personal File” was destroyed by
his secretary Helen Gandy after his death, and this man referred to his deputy Clyde Tolson as his
“alter-ego.” He created the “Top Hoodlum Program” after the Apalachin meeting confirmed the existence
of the American Mafia, and he also created COINTELPRO. This man discovered that Martin Luther King
Jr. had extramarital affairs, and had a habit of targeting communists and civil rights leaders. For the point,
name this alleged transvestite and first director of the FBI.
ANSWER: John Edgar Hoover
048-12-72-24101

2. This dynasty built a mosque called "the moonlit," al-Aqmar. This dynasty founded a new capital known
as "the triumphant" near the old city of al-Fustat. One ruler from this dynasty ordered a massacre of dogs,
prohibited shellfish, and mysteriously disappeared out on a walk; that "Mad Caliph" is considered an
incarnation of the divine by the Druze. This Ismail'i dynasty was the first breakaway faction to refuse
recognition to the caliph in Baghdad. For the point, name this Islamic dynasty that built the city of Cairo
and was named for the daughter of Ali.
ANSWER: Fatimid Dynasty
080-12-72-24102

3. This composer celebrated the 400th anniversary of printing with Festgesang, known as the “Gutenberg
cantata.” This man's Symphony No. 2 in B-Flat Major, is known as the “Lobgesang.” Ferdinand David
helped him prepare his Opus 64, a violin concerto in E Minor. His visit to Fingal’s Cave in Scotland
inspired his concert overture The (HEB-reh-deez) Hebrides. For the point, name this German composer of
incidental music to A Midsummer Night’s Dream, including a famous wedding march.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn
014-12-72-24103

4. This man secretly ordered Operation Olive Leaves without the approval of the cabinet. This man insisted
on investigating a false flag operation that resulted in the Lavon Affair, which led to a falling-out with one
of his subordinates. This man founded the Rafi party after breaking away from the Mapai Party. In one
position, this man was succeeded by Levi Eshkol. He united groups including the Haganah and Irgun into
the IDF during his country's 1948 war of independence. For the point, name this advocate of Zionism and
first Prime Minister of Israel.
ANSWER: David Ben-Gurion
048-12-72-24104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 1 of 8 © HSAPQ

5. According to Plutarch, one man with this name accidentally killed Cyrus the Younger for Artaxerxes II.
A king with this name married the Seleucid Laodice VI. One king of this name, who was supposedly
immune to poison, married off his daughter Cleopatra to Tigranes the Great. Pharnaces II rebelled against
that king with this name. That king of this name was opposed by Sulla and Lucius Lucullus. Several kings
with this name ruled Pontus. For the point, gives this name of kings who engaged in a series of namesake
wars with Rome.
ANSWER: Mithridates
149-12-72-24105

6. These two countries’ navies used ironclad ramming to great effect at Lissa. These two countries that
joined Great Britain in the 1887 Mediterranean Agreement fought eleven battles on the Isonzo in World
War I before Otto von Below broke through at Caporetto. The Russian advance to the Carpathians and the
1915 Treaty of London’s promise to return irredenta lands opened an Eastern Alpine front between them.
For the point, name these two countries that fought near Venice.
ANSWER: Austria-Hungary and the Kingdom of Italy [both answers required, order not important, for
Austria-Hungary, prompt on Austria; do not accept “Hungary”]
153-12-72-24106

7. Arvind Kejriwal accused this company of helping Indian industrialists hide "black money" in their
Geneva branch and "openly and brazenly running a hawala racket." The current CEO of this company is
Stuart Gulliver. According to the US Senate, this company operated a "pervasively polluted" culture that
allowed this bank to be used as a conduit for "drug kingpins and rogue nations." For the point, identify this
British-based bank that was forced to pay a record 1.9 billion dollar fine in a 2012 scandal.
ANSWER: HSBC Holding plc
066-12-72-24107

8. This act was modified by the Kincaid Amendment. Daniel Freeman was the first person to take advantage
of this act. A "Southern" version of this act was passed in 1866. This act was ended by the FLPMA of
1976, except for Alaska, to which it was extended until 1986. This act required the building of a 12-by-14
dwelling, but failed to specify whether it the measurements were in feet or inches. The Canadian Dominion
Lands Act was modeled on this act. For the point, identify this act which, for a small filing fee and five
years residence, allowed settlers to obtain 160 acres of free land.
ANSWER: Homestead Act of 1862
066-12-72-24108

9. The black drop effect made it difficult to determine exactly when these events began. Jeremiah Horrocks
was the first person to observe one of these events. Captain Cook was sent to observe one of these in Tahiti.
Simon Newcomb calculated the astronomical unit as about 149 million kilometers after estimating the solar
parallax based on observations of these events. One of these happened June 5 and 6 of 2012, and the next
will be in 2117. For the point, name these astronomical events where the second planet can be seen moving
across the face of the sun.
ANSWER: transit of Venus [this is a specific term so don't accept anything that uses the word "eclipse" or
other defined terms, but prompt on descriptive answers such as "Venus passing in front of the sun" until
read]
121-12-72-24109

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 2 of 8 © HSAPQ

10. A photograph of one victim in this event revealed that he had nail bombs in his pockets. Soldier F's
inaccurate testimony about this event was contradicted by the evidence gathered by Lord Widgery. This
event was preceded by several marchers riding in a coal truck in the Bogside, where the First Battalion of
the Parachute Regiment made its move. The Saville Inquiry announced findings about this event in 2010,
leading David Cameron to issue a formal apology for it. For the point, name this 1972 massacre of civil
rights protesters in Northern Ireland.
ANSWER: Bloody Sunday of 1972 [or Bogside Massacre before mention of "Bogside"; or Domhnach
na Fola]
020-12-72-24110

11. One leader of this group got into a brawl with Al Sharpton on the Morton Downey Jr. Show. One of
this organization’s efforts was organized to test the enforcement of Boynton v. Virginia, and Bernice
Fisher was inspired to help found this organization by the book War Without Violence. Edgar Ray Killen
was convicted of killing three members of this organization in Philadelphia, Mississippi. This organization
organized the Freedom Rides. For the point, name this James Farmer-founded civil rights organization
ANSWER: CORE [or Congress of Racial Equality]
048-12-72-24111

12. This treaty was a result of the Battle of Fontenoy. The war which led to this treaty was chronicled in a
book by Nithard about the “dissensions of” the participants. A predecessor to this agreement was the first
document written in Old French, the Oaths of Strassbourg. It divided the former empire into “Media,”
“Orientalis,” and “Occidentalis” areas. It was signed after an alliance between Charles the Bald and Louis
the German made gains against Lothar I. For the point, name this 843 treaty which partitioned France and
was signed at the future site of a World War I battle.
ANSWER: Treaty of Verdun
019-12-72-24112

13. This act was amended by a law which said that citizenship would not be instituted until the end of the
twenty-five year trust period that this act provided for; that amendment was the Burke Act. This law
distributed 160 acres to each head of household and 80 acres to each unmarried adult, with the remaining
land going up for public sale. Some believed that private ownership would "civilize" the people it affected.
It was also known as the General Allotment Act. For the point, identify this act that ended the system of
communal ownership of land for Native Americans.
ANSWER: Dawes Severalty Act of 1887 [or Dawes General Allotment Act of 1887; or General
Allotment Act of 1887 until it is read]
066-12-72-24113

14. Victory at this battle was popular was commemorated by the square-dance tune "The Eighth of
January." This battle actually occurred at Chalmette, downstream of the city for which it is named. A key
force in this battle was the Baratarian pirates; the losers of this battle had tried to buy the help of their
leader, Jean (la-FEET) Lafitte, who joined the eventual victor. This battle occurred after the signing of the
Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812. For the point, name this 1815 Andrew Jackson victory, a
defense of a Louisiana city.
ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans
066-12-72-24114

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 3 of 8 © HSAPQ

15. Some native opponents of this industry worshiped an earthly manifestation of Ebisu, one of the Seven
Gods of Fortune. This industry soared soon after Douglas MacArthur suggested it as a means to alleviate
starvation. This industry thrives because of a scientific research provision of an agreement that otherwise
called for a global moratorium in 1986. The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society combats this industry in
regions surrounding Antarctica. For the point, name this industry that thrives in Japan, the slaughter of
large marine mammals for food.
ANSWER: Japanese whaling industry [or Japanese whale industry]
020-12-72-24115

16. Due to the blacklist, screenwriters Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson could not be awarded an Oscar
for this movie. One character in this film is introduced as his men walk in, whistling the “Colonel Bogey
March.” After being finally released from an iron box called “the oven,” Colonel Nicholson zealously
leads his men in a construction project to prove British superiority, only to destroy this film’s title object
during a commando raid. For the point, name this film about prisoners of war forced to build the title
structure for their Japanese captors during World War II.
ANSWER: The Bridge on the River Kwai
052-12-72-24116

17. Oppressed Huguenots who emigrated to this city founded the first Huguenot church in America. This
city had the largest Jewish population in early 19th-century North America. The largest American defeat in
the Revolutionary War came when Henry Clinton captured this city from Benjamin Lincoln. In 1718,
Blackbeard blockaded this city and forced it to give him medical supplies. This major exporter of rice and
indigo was where Denmark Vesey's rebellion was stopped and was home to a military academy called the
Citadel. For the point, name this port in South Carolina.
ANSWER: Charleston, South Carolina
080-12-72-24117

18. This man attacked as “the most false and dangerous of all political errors” the proposition that “all
men are born free and equal” in his Oregon Bill speech. This man's last speech, which was read to
Congress by James Mason, argued that the "nearly perfect equilibrium" between the North and the South
had been destroyed, and attacked the Compromise of 1850. In another of his writings, this man attacked the
Tariff of 1828 and defended the states' right to nullify federal law. For the point, name this senator from
South Carolina and author of the South Carolina Exposition and Protest.
ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun
121-12-72-24118

19. A wooden patron of sick children, Il Bambino, is housed on this hill at the church of Santa Maria
d’Aracoeli. Petrarch received a laurel crown on this hill, where the Senate met for the first time each year at
the temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus. The equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius is surrounded by three
palaces on this hill. Sixtus IV returned a horde of ancient artwork to this hill’s Palace of the Conservators,
and the Dying Gaul and the bronze she-wolf statue are found at its namesake museum. For the point,
identify this Roman hill named for its function as a government center.
ANSWER: the Capitoline Hill [or Mons Capitolinus; or Campidoglio]
019-12-72-24119

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 4 of 8 © HSAPQ

20. This type of system was used by the defending side of Operation Pedestal. American failure to
implement this system led to the Second Happy Time. This system used SC and HX designations. ASDIC,
hedgehog launchers, and Flower-class corvettes were key to this system. During the First and Second
World Wars, this system beat unrestricted submarine warfare. For the point, name this system during the
Battle of the Atlantic in which naval warships protected merchantmen from German U-boats.
ANSWER: World War II Atlantic Ocean convoy system of the Allies
153-12-72-24120

21. The last words of one leader of this country was "God does not die!" before being assassinated by
machete upon exiting the National Cathedral. The first president of this country was Juan José Flores and
its later leaders included Gabriel Garcia Moreno. Eloy Alfaro led this country's 1895 Liberal Revolution. In
1832, this country set up the convict colony of Floreana after annexing the Galpagos Islands. For the point,
name this country currently led by Rafael Correa, in whose London embassy Julian Assange lives as an
asylum-seeker.
ANSWER: Ecuador
201-12-72-24121

22. One set of cells in this organ are named for a Nazi chief of anatomy at Leipzig; those are Clara cells.
The first human-to-human transplant of this organ was performed by James Hardy, and Ibn al-Nafis
described the circulation to this organ. Phillip Drinker invented a device to replace the function of this
organ. Doll, Winder, and Hill performed the first major cohort study on a disease of these organs, which
they succeeded in linking to smoking. For the point, name these organs, which Galen believed were
responsible for cooling the body by exchanging air.
ANSWER: lung
048-12-72-24122

23. One type of this project is the Snowy Mountains Scheme of Australia. The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance
and the Belo Monte projects of this type are under construction. Krasnoyarskaya and the James Bay Project
are examples of this type of project. The Suez Crisis began when the canal was seized by Nasser to provide
funds for one of these projects at Aswan. For the point, name these engineering projects that place
power-generating stations on rivers.
ANSWER: conventional hydroelectricity dam
153-12-72-24123

24. The left side of one force in this battle was commanded by Agostino Barbarigo. An advance into one
side's line during this battle was countered when reserves were brought in by Alvaro de Bazan. Bazan's
help during this battle also made possible the capture of the Sultana, whose commander's head was
displayed on a pike. This battle fought near the Gulf of Patras was a victory for Don John of Austria, and
Miguel Cervantes suffered a debilitating arm injury while fighting for the Holy Leage here. For the point,
name this 1571 naval battle involving Ali Pasha's Turkish fleet.
ANSWER: Battle of Lepanto
023-12-72-24124

25. Members of this church were the leaders of a campaign for the Criminal Law Amendment Act, which
cracked down on child prostitution. One leader of this denomination advocated women preachers in the
pamphlet Female Ministry. The Volunteers of America broke away from this group, which was founded by
several people expelled from the New Connection Methodists in 1865. The founder of this group wrote In
Darkest England, and the Way Out. For the point, name this William Booth-founded church which is
organized with military ranks and rings bells over kettles in December.
ANSWER: the Salvation Army
019-12-72-24125
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 5 of 8 © HSAPQ

26. One of these people was Rodrigo Lopez, Queen Elizabeth's physician, who was hanged for a supposed
plot to poison her. People of this type on the island of Majorca were called chuetas. The doctrine of
limpieza de sangre revived persecution of these people, who were occasionally named after the word for
"swine" or "pig," marrano. Like moriscos, who had Muslim blood, they were suppressed by the Inquisition.
For the point, name these descendants of Spanish Jews who had adopted Christianity.
ANSWER: conversos [or marranos before it is read; prompt on New Christians; or converted Spanish
Jews before "Jews" is read; prompt on Spanish Jews]
080-12-72-24126

27. On Star Trek: The Next Generation, Lieutenant Barclay creates a hologram of this person after
encountering a Cytherean probe. Alan Lightman wrote a book about this person’s dreams, and John
Milford plays him in another work. This man travels back in time and prevents Hitler from coming to
power in Command and Conquer: Red Alert. Emmett Brown’s dog has this name, and a famous picture of
this man shows him sticking out his tongue. For the point, name this scientist, whose equation "E equals m
c squared" often appears in popular culture.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
048-12-72-24127

28. Augustus reportedly called this man "Pompeianus" to make fun of his Republican sentiments. This
author recounted how a barbarian chief shouted "Woe to the conquered!" before throwing his sword onto
some fixed weights. Niccolo Machiavelli used this historian's work to analyze the government of a
Republic in his "Discourses on" this author. This Golden Age writer is the major source for the kings of
Rome and the early Republic. For the point, name this Roman historian best known for his 142 book
history of Rome since its founding, (ob OOR-bay con-DEE-tuh) Ab Urbe Condita.
ANSWER: Livy [or Titus Livius Patavinus]
080-12-72-24128

29. A member of this family submitted the resolution declaring the colonies independent to the Continental
Congress. A member of this family ambushed John Pyle's Loyalists by pretending to be Banastre Tarleton,
eulogized George Washington as "first in war, first in peace, first in the hearts of his countrymen," and
commanded the militia against the Whiskey Rebellion. For the point, name this Virginian family to which
"Lighthorse Harry" belonged and which also included the commander of the Army of Northern Virginia in
the Civil War.
ANSWER: Lee Family
080-12-72-24129

30. Elizabeth Flynn was voted off the board of this organization, but added back posthumously. Ira Glasser
expanded this organization to all fifty states, and it was founded by Crystal Eastman, Walter Nelles, and
Roger Baldwin. It was heavily criticized for failing to help Paul Robeson get a passport. This organization
defended John T. Scopes in one of its early efforts, and their other clients included a group of Nazis who
marched in Skokie, Illinois and victims of the Patriot Act. For the point, name this non-profit organization
of lawyers that defends individual rights.
ANSWER: American Civil Liberties Union [or ACLU]
048-12-72-24130

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 6 of 8 © HSAPQ

31. This thinker's appendix La Géométrie is generally credited with introducing analytic geometry. This
thinker argued that whatever one perceives "clearly and distinctly" is true. He stated that to determine
whether we can know anything with certainty, we first have to doubt everything we know. This thinker
developed the modern form of mind-body dualism and developed a coordinate system named for him. For
the point, name this author of Meditations on First Philosophy and The Discourse on Method who said "I
think, therefore I am."
ANSWER: René Descartes
066-12-72-24131

32. This man claimed “for revolting barbarity and shameless hypocrisy, America reigns without a rival” in
a speech delivered at Corinthian Hall in Rochester. During this man's lifetime, his most popular speech
defined “men of work” to be the title “Self-Made Men.” In “What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?,” he
argued that slavery was not only immoral but unconstitutional, disagreeing with his editor William Lloyd
Garrison. He called his two-hour fight with Edward Covey a “turning point” in his career. For the point,
name this abolitionist who escaped from slavery in Maryland.
ANSWER: Frederick Douglass
121-12-72-24132

33. During this conflict, General Walton Walker was killed in a traffic accident. One commander in this
war gained his nickname from his habit of wearing old hand grenades on his uniform. This conflict saw
battles at Pork Chop Hill and dogfighting in “MiG Alley”, and one side’s commander was replaced by
Matthew Ridgeway. This conflict initially saw the allies pushed to the Pusan Perimeter until a landing at
Inchon by UN forces under Douglas MacArthur. For the point, name this conflict that was ended by the
creation of a demilitarized zone at the 38th parallel.
ANSWER: Korean War
048-12-72-24133

34. In Sweden, proponents of this cause mocked an inane suggestion by Hjalmar Hammerskjold. The Cat
and Mouse Act targeted supporters of this cause by freeing them from prison during their hunger strikes.
John Stuart Mill used his position as MP to bring early support to this cause. During World War I, militant
activists of this cause halted their activity, as ordered by Sylvia and Emmeline Pankhurst. For the point,
name this goal that was achieved in 1918 in the UK, greatly increasing the number of people who could
elect members of Parliament.
ANSWER: women's suffrage [or women's right to vote; do not accept or prompt on "universal suffrage"]
020-12-72-24134

35. One character in this novel dies from a venomous snake bite while traveling with her son. A father in
this novel contemplates drowning himself in a river after living a luxurious life with the courtesan Kamala,
at the instruction of Kamaswami. The protagonist of this work achieves Enlightenment after working with
Vasudeva, which he explains to his friend Govinda by means of a stone. For the point, name this Hermann
Hesse retelling of the story of the Buddha.
ANSWER: Siddhartha
191-12-72-24135

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 7 of 8 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

36. One important witness to this event was Christopher Look, who observed the central figure going to
Dike Road. James Boyle sentenced the instigator of this event to two months in prison. A prepared
statement after this event asked whether "some awful curse" hung over him and his family. This event,
which occurred after two people left a party in Edgartown, resulted in the death of one of the “boiler-room
girls”, Mary Jo Kopechne. This event led to its instigator declining to run for president in 1972 and 1976.
For the point, name this event in which Ted Kennedy drove his car off a bridge.
ANSWER: Chappaquiddick incident
048-12-72-24136

37. The holder of this post ran around a circuit four times with a tail strapped to his cloak in a ceremony
conducted after the thirtieth year of his rule and then every three years after. The Sed Festival celebrated
the holder of this rank, who was also symbolized by a snake called the uraeus. Manetho's history gives a
list of these people, who belonged to thirty-one different dynasties. This ruler wore a combined red and
white crown. For the point, give this title for the ruler of Upper and Lower Egypt.
ANSWER: Pharaoh of Egypt
080-12-72-24137

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 6

Page 8 of 8 © HSAPQ

