2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 5

BEE ROUND 5
1. Under this man’s regime, the music of the nueva canción and instruments such as the charango were
banned. An opponent of this man, Eduardo Frei, was poisoned while undergoing hernia surgery in 1981.
He was succeeded by Patricio Alywin in 1990 after allowing free elections in 1990. His government’s
economic policy was heavily influenced by economists from the University of Chicago. For the point,
name this Chilean dictator who overthrew the government of Salvador (eye-EN-day) Allende in 1973.
ANSWER: Augusto Pinochet Ugarte
030-12-72-23101

2. This man was accompanied by a slave named Estevanico on his best-known expedition, during which he
was forced to trade sea shells for pelts with Native Americans. This man rescued the three other survivors
of his best-known expedition from the island of Malhado. He eventually made it across the Gulf of Mexico
down to Mexico City after his Narvaez expedition collapsed. Much of the story known about this man
comes from his memoir Naufragios, meaning "shipwrecks." For the point, name this unfortunate Spanish
explorer whose name literally means "Cow's Head" in Spanish.
ANSWER: Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
190-12-72-23102

3. A 1930 coup prevented Hipolito Yrigoyen's government from carrying out this action. The United States
sought assurance in the Bucareli Treaty that Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution would not lead to this
action, which Lazaro Cardenas did anyway in 1938. That resulted in the creation of PEMEX. The Abadan
Crisis occurred after Mohammad Mosaddegh's government performed this action, angering a British owned
company and being one reason for Mosaddegh's replacement by the Shah. For the point, name this action of
putting an energy industry under state control.
ANSWER: nationalize petroleum industry [or nationalizing oil industry; or obvious equivalents]
121-12-72-23103

4. At a battle named for this island, the Maryland 400 were led by Mordecai Gist. Troops led by John
Sullivan at a battle on this island were attacked by von Heister’s Hessians, who advanced up Battle Pass.
During a battle on this island, British troops used Jamaica Pass to maneuver through the Heights of Guan.
William Howe and Charles Cornwallis invaded this island from Staten Island during the Revolutionary
War. Both LaGuardia Airport and JFK International were built on this island. For the point, name this
island that contains Queens and Brooklyn.
ANSWER: Long Island
149-12-72-23104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 1 of 8 © HSAPQ

5. This man killed a prostitute after she referred to him by his childhood nickname “baby." This man wrote
the autobiography Revolutionary Suicide, and he created the Oakland Community School and the Free
Breakfast for Children Program. While attending Merritt College, this man adopted the ideology of
“revolutionary humanism.” With Bobby Seale, he wrote a 10-point platform and created an organization
whose members wore black berets and carried shotguns. For the point, name this radical who founded the
Black Panther Party.
ANSWER: Huey Percy Newton
048-12-72-23105

6. One policy of this type, which allowed the noblesse de robe to reserve the right to transfer their judicial
offices to others, was introduced by the duc de Sully and was called the paulette. The National Assembly
ended one of these laws, called the gabelle, which resulted in salt smuggling. French non-nobles were all
subject to one of these policies called the taille, and in Ottoman Eastern Europe non-Muslim “People of the
Book” were subject to a type of this called jizya. For the point, name these revenue-raising duties.
ANSWER: taxes [accept paulette until “Another” is read]
104-12-72-23106

7. Certificates for the purchase of this substance were allowed by the Thomas Amendment of the AAA. The
Wheeler-King amendment would have given the president unlimited power to use this substance.
COMEX’s rule 7 about this substance was passed after the Hunt brothers attempted to corner the market on
it. Its price ratio was originally set at 16 to 1. John Sherman names an act requiring the government to
purchase this substance. For the point, name this good, which was championed as an alternative material of
coinage by proponents of its “free” variety.
ANSWER: silver
048-12-72-23107

8. The protagonist of Vsevolod Pudovkin’s film Storm over Asia wears an amulet that makes his British
captors think he is a descendant of this historical figure. According to tradition, this man was born holding
a clot of blood, and his ancestor was a gray wolf. During his rise to power, he defeated several coalitions
formed by Jamuka. After campaigning against the Khwarezmid dynasty and the Western Xia dynasty, he
was succeeded by his third son, Ogedei. For the point, name this conqueror who founded the Mongol
Empire.
ANSWER: Genghis Khan [or Temujin]
014-12-72-23108

9. This idea received support from the author of the Basilikon Doron and the French bishop
Jacques-Benigne Bossuet. One proponent of this theory wrote the work The True Law of Free Monarchies
to explain it. Another proponent of this idea wrote a work describing how the ideas of statecraft could be
drawn from the very words of the Holy Scriptures. One basis for this theory came from passages in Romans
13. For the point, name this political theory that James I and Louis XIV used to support their rule as being
god-given.
ANSWER: divine right of kings [accept word forms; prompt on absolute monarchy]
023-12-72-23109

10. Two members of this country’s intelligence service were captured by the SD in the Venlo Incident. This
country’s intelligence organization discovered the identity of a spy codenamed “Homer” via the VENONA
project. One incident in this country was the assassination of a Bulgarian dissident by a ricin-containing
pellet fired from an umbrella. Kim Philby was accused of espionage against this country as a member of the
Cambridge Five. For the point, name this country whose own intelligence organization is called MI-6.
ANSWER: United Kingdom [or Great Britain; prompt on England]
048-12-72-23110
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 2 of 8 © HSAPQ

11. One member of this group, actually named Samuel Bryant, wrote a series of 24 newspaper articles
under the pen name "Centinel." "Cato" and "Brutus" were pen names used by Robert Yates and George
Clinton in a series of essays for this group. A member of this political group claimed "I smell a rat" as the
reason that he didn't attend a certain meeting. Virginians like George Mason, Richard Henry Lee, and
Patrick Henry were members of this political group which sought to add a Bill of Rights to the
Constitution. For the point, name this group of people who opposed constitutional ratification.
ANSWER: anti-Federalists
190-12-72-23111

12. This company’s first CEO was recruited from the National Cash Register Company by Charles Ranlett
Flint. George Lauer developed the Universal Product Code while working for this company, where John
Backus developed FORTRAN for its 704 machines. One device created by this company, whose first CEO
was Thomas Watson, was developed to fold proteins, while another defeated Garry Kasparov in a series of
chess matches. For the point, name this company that developed the Blue Gene and Deep Blue
supercomputers, as well as the PowerPC architecture.
ANSWER: IBM [or International Business Machines]
048-12-72-23112

13. A leader of this faction once pretended to converse with a decapitated head by having an actor poke his
head up through a hole in the floor. This group's leader was known as the "Old Man of the Mountain." This
group killed Conrad of Montferrat. Hulagu Khan overran their fortresses, such as one on a high cliff called
the "Eagle's Nest," Alamut. Hassan i-Sabbah founded this organization, whose inductees had sex with
beautiful houris in a simulated garden of paradise. For the point, name this Islamic order whose name came
to denote any hired killers.
ANSWER: the Assassins [or Hashshashin]
080-12-72-23113

14. This mtyhical figure spurned the fountain nymph Oenone, who refused to heal him after he was
mortally wounded by Philoctetes. This mythical character was chosen as arbiter after Eris threw the golden
apple of discord among the banqueters celebrating the marriage of Peleus and Thetis. He had to decide
which of Hera, Athena and Aphrodite were "the fairest," eventually choosing Aphrodite in return for the
hand of the most beautiful woman. For the point, identify this prince of Troy who absconded with the
queen of Sparta, Helen., and shot the arrow that mortally wounded Achilles.
ANSWER: Paris
066-12-72-23114

15. In that painting about this war, four of the title characters are in the custody of a dapper man dressed
in all black, wielding a saber. A correspondent during this war painted that image, Prisoners from the
Front. A soldier guarding an arsenal and graphic images of corpses were among the photographs
documenting this war, taken by Mathew Brady. Clark Gable tells Vivien Leigh "Frankly, my dear, I don't
give a damn" in a film set during and after this war, based on a Margaret Mitchell novel. For the point,
name this conflict that takes place at the beginning of Gone with the Wind.
ANSWER: American Civil War [or War Between the States; accept, rather disapprovingly, the War of
Northern Aggression]
020-12-72-23115

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 3 of 8 © HSAPQ

16. A DC law about this practice was ruled insufficiently vague to be struck down in United States v.
Vuitch. Both Hodgson v. Minnesota and the Ayotte case dealt with minors’ access to this practice. A law
requiring a 24 hour waiting period for this practice was upheld in Casey. Harry Blackmun wrote an
important opinion in one court case about this practice, in which he outlined the trimester framework. For
the point, name this practice made legal by a court case in which Norma McCorvey was the plaintiff, called
Roe v. Wade.
ANSWER: abortion
048-12-72-23116

17. One side at a battle here was deceived by Dudley Clarke as part of Operation Bertram. Bernard
Freyberg led the 2nd New Zealand Division as part of Operation Supercharge in the second battle of this
location. The first battle of this name led to Claude Auchinleck’s replacement as head of the British Eighth
Army. A battle at this location led to the defeat of the “Desert Fox’s” Afrika Korps. For the point, what site
in Egypt was the location of Bernard Montgomery’s first decisive defeat of Erwin Rommel?
ANSWER: El Alamein
149-12-72-23117

18. Harold Ickes suggested naming this structure, which was originally to be constructed at Black Canyon,
after Hiram Johnson. This arch-gravity structure is made up of columns interspersed with pipes that carry
cooling water to prevent concrete cracking. Like the Grand Coulee, this structure was designed by John
Savage. Bypassed by the Mike O’Callaghan-Pat Tillman Memorial Bridge, this structure holds back Lake
Meade on the Arizona-Colorado border. For the point, name this dam on the Colorado River, which was
renamed for the president when its construction was started.
ANSWER: Hoover Dam [or Boulder Dam]
187-12-72-23118

19. This war began soon after thousands of people chanted "freedom or death!" at the Agia Lavra
monastery. The British, who were initially loath to join this war, participated soon after George Canning
became foreign secretary. After winning the third siege of one location in this war, the Turks displayed
thousands of severed heads on the walls. Admiral Codrington's fleet won the decisive Battle of Navarino in
this war, in which, at Missolonghi, the poet Byron died. For the point, name this 1821-32 war fought to
create a new kingdom in the Balkan peninsula.
ANSWER: War of Greek Independence [or Greek Revolution]
020-12-72-23119

20. Due to one part of these events, the Video Privacy Protection Act was passed following the release of a
certain man’s video rental history. One person central to these proceedings had fired Archibald Cox while
holding the position of solicitor general. Joe Biden presided over these hearings, one opponent of which
stated that the person concerned’s “America” would be one full of segregated lunch counters and
back-alley abortions due to his originalist views. For the point, name this series of Senate hearings which
rejected one of Reagan’s Supreme Court nominees.
ANSWER: Robert Bork nomination hearings [or obvious equivalents]
048-12-72-23120

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 4 of 8 © HSAPQ

21. Several friars in this region were shown dried peas and were asked to pronounce the name; those who
could not say "ciciri" were killed. One war over this region happened because of a king's plan to overthrow
Michael VIII Paleologus; that war expanded after Pedro III of Aragon sent a fleet to aid several rebels in
this region soon after bells rang to announce an evening service on Easter. Later, Naples was included in a
kingdom named for "two" of this place. For the point, name this island which in 1282 experienced the
"vespers" rebellion in the city of Palermo.
ANSWER: Sicily [or Sicilia]
020-12-72-23121

22. This party is currently lead by Khaled Meshaal. The military wing of this party is the Qassam Brigades,
whose leader, Ahmed Jabari, was killed in a November 2012 airstrike. The region this party controls
contains an extensive network of underground tunnels to the Sinai Peninsula. In an eight-day 2012 conflict,
this party was responsible for firing rockets that were intercepted by the Iron Dome system on their way to
Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. It wrested control of the Gaza Strip from Fatah, which governs the West Bank, in
2007. For the point, identify this militant Palestinian political party.
ANSWER: Hamas
066-12-72-23122

23. The speaker of this address was working against the Half-Way Covenant, the brainchild of his
grandfather, Solomon Stoddard. This speech first considers the verse "their foot shall slide in due time."
This speech compares the title people to a "spider, or other loathsome insect" being held over a fire. It tells
its addressees to "awake and fly from the Wrath to come." This address claims that nothing but the
"pleasure of GOD" keeps wicked men out of hell. This speech was given in Enfield, Connecticut, in 1741.
For the point, identify this Great Awakening sermon given by Jonathan Edwards.
ANSWER: "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God"
066-12-72-23123

24. In this novel, an old man describes the railroad as a return to man’s nomadic past; that character was
unjustly imprisoned for murdering his uncle. This novel includes the photographer Holgrave, who almost
hypnotizes Phoebe. This novel is set in Salem, Massachusetts and is often read as an allegory for the
ancestral guilt felt by its author over his family's participation in the Salem Witch Trials. At its start,
Phoebe comes to stay with Hepzibah in the title structure, the cause of a feud between the Maule and
Pyncheon families. For the point, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel.
ANSWER: The House of the Seven Gables
191-12-72-23124

25. This man and his brother both suffered from deuteranopia, which led to his theory that colorblindness
was caused by discoloration of the eye’s fluid. This man classified substances into binary, ternary, and so
on in his New System of Chemical Philosophy. He published a table of atomic weights, which helped
explain his observations that the ratio of masses of elements in a compound form small whole numbers. For
the point, name this British scientist who developed the law of multiple proportions and the law of partial
pressures.
ANSWER: John Dalton
048-12-72-23125

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 5 of 8 © HSAPQ

26. These people use the fontomfrom and atumpan styles of talking drum. They observe both matrilineality
in village organization and patrilineal-based ntoro groupings for ritual purposes. They arose as a regional
force following their war with Denkyera and the founding of their capital at Kumasi. In their last war over
the Elmina slave-trading castle, they were defeated by Garnet Wolsely and incorporated into the Gold
Coast colony. They are currently ruled by Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II, who sits on the Golden Stool. For
the point, name this West African people, residents of modern Ghana.
ANSWER: Ashanti [or Asante]
019-12-72-23126

27. This man was elected to one position after defeating W. Averell Harriman. This man concurred with
Russell Oswald’s decision to quell unrest in response to the death of George Jackson; that event, in which
this man ordered state police to intervene, was the Attica Prison riot. This man lent his name to a severe set
of drug laws and a moderate faction of the Republican Party. For the point, name this governor of New
York who died while in a compromising position with his secretary after serving as vice president under
Gerald Ford.
ANSWER: Nelson Rockefeller
048-12-72-23127

28. Expeditions to this place were launched after a sighting by Bjarni Herijulfsson. The accounts of
Thorvald prompted Thorfinn Karlsefni to travel to this place. This area was discovered following visits to
Heulluland and Markland. A possible location for this place is at the village of L'Anse aux Meadows.
Freydis, the daughter of Erik the Red, made an ill fated trip here in 1013. For the point, name this area
believed to be in present-day Newfoundland that was visited by Leif Ericksson around 1000 CE.
ANSWER: Vinland [prompt on Newfoundland until it is read]
030-12-72-23128

29. The “Master of" this sport "to the Stars” ran the Falcon Studio and was Ralph Faulkner. Mariel
Zagunis won gold for the USA in this sport in two Olympics. The entire body is a target when epees are
used in this sport, while only the torso is a target area when foils are used. This activity evolved out of
rapier dueling, although its sabre form was influenced by cavalry swords. For the point, name this Olympic
sport in which points are typically awarded when you stab or slash your opponent with a blunted weapon.
ANSWER: Olympic fencing
149-12-72-23129

30. One of these artworks sits across a river confluence from Mount Emei and is known as the "Leshan
Giant" one. The 420-foot Spring Temple one of these artworks was built in response to the March 2001
destruction of two of them at Bamiyan by the Taliban. These artworks generally display elongated fingers
and toes, large earlobes, and a long neck symbolizing the disconnect between body and mind. Many of
them depict a “laughing” figure with a large, exposed belly. For the point, identify these works which
depict figures such as Siddhartha Gautama.
ANSWER: statues of a Buddha [or Buddharupa]
019-12-72-23130

31. The drafter of this law claimed its origins were when “God created man, and placed before him good
and evil, and left him free to choose for himself” after an opponent suggested Lewis Cass was the real
creator. The “Appeal to the Independent Democrats” attacked this act and was written by Salmon Chase
and Joshua Giddings. It was written after David Atchinson offered only conditional support for a northern
transcontinental railroad. For the point, name this 1854 law which repealed the Missouri Compromise by
leaving the decision of slavery up to the inhabitants of the namesake territories.
ANSWER: Kansas-Nebraska Act
121-12-72-23131
2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 6 of 8 © HSAPQ

32. One character in this opera becomes jealous when she realizes the blue eyes in a picture of Mary
Magdalene belong to another woman. The title character of this opera bemoans her and her lover’s fate in
the aria "Vissi d'arte." That lover in this opera responds with "Vittoria" when news of Napoleon's
unexpected victory at the Battle of Marengo reaches Rome. The title character of this opera is deceived by
Baron Scarpia into thinking he will fake the execution of the artist Cavaradossi. For the point, name this
opera about a famous singer by Giacomo Puccini.
ANSWER: Tosca
023-12-72-23132

33. In 1993, five people of this ethnicity were killed by arsonists in Solingen. This ethnicity is highly
concentrated in the Marxloh and Neukolln neighborhoods of Duisburg and Berlin, respectively. Eight
people of this ethnicity were killed in the “döner murders,” so named because of the association between
these people and döner kebab stands. (REH-jep) Recep Erdogan drew criticism when he told a group of
these people in 2008 that assimilation was a “crime against humanity.” For the point, name this ethnic
group that makes up a majority of Muslims in Germany.
ANSWER: Turkish-Germans [or Turks; or Deutsch-Türken; or Almanya Türkleri; or obvious
equivalents]
121-12-72-23133

34. The names of some generals during this war were slightly changed to provide the names of the admiral
and vice admiral of the UED expeditionary fleet in the campaign of Starcraft: Brood War. In a Civilization
2 scenario depicting this war, Krasnoyarsk and Tobruk were objectives and Stockholm was considered a
neutral city. The first game in the Black Ops storyline by Treyarch is set in this war, as were the first three
Call of Duty games and all but the last two Medal of Honor games. For the point, name this war featured in
Battlefield: 1942.
ANSWER: World War II [or Second World War, etc.]
153-12-72-23134

35. Key assistants to this man included Castus, Oenomaus, and Crixus. This man defeated two consuls,
Gellius Publicola and Lentulus Clodianus. This commander led the slaughter of Claudius Glaber's forces
after his own men rappelled down a cliff using vines. This man led a group of seventy escapees from Capua
who hid on Mount Vesuvius before attracting about ninety thousand followers. Six thousand of his
followers were crucified after his army was finally defeated by Crassus. For the point, name this
commander in the Third Servile War, a former gladiator who led an army of revolting slaves.
ANSWER: Spartacus
019-12-72-23135

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 7 of 8 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

36. Peaks in this landmass’ namesake range include Mount Anderson, Mount Constance, and The
Brothers. The Quinault Rainforest is located in Grays Harbor County on this landmass. Arthur Dodwell
and Theodor Rixon mapped it for logging purposes in 1898, ending its status as the last unexplored place in
the continental U.S. Including the cities of Sequim, Forks, and Port Angeles, it is bordered on the north by
the Strait of Juan de Fuca. For the point, name this peninsula across the Puget Sound from Seattle, the
northwesternmost portion of the contiguous 48 states.
ANSWER: Olympic Peninsula
201-12-72-23136

37. The use of this object was welcomed by Charles Henri Sanson, who considered it cheaper and less
physically taxing than older methods. Antoine Louis is credited as this object's designer, and its namesake
was criticized for making a statement about death coming in the “twinkling of an eye.” Created after the
“breaking wheel” was banned, its use came to an end in 1981 when Francois Mitterrand ended capital
punishment in France. For the point, name this instrument of execution involving decapitation which was
frequently used during the Reign of Terror.
ANSWER: guillotine
052-12-72-23137

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 5

Page 8 of 8 © HSAPQ

