2013 National History Bee National Championships
Bee Round 3

BEE ROUND 3
1. One character in this film uses a cigarette lighter as a camera, capturing the main female character
crashing a guitar on a security guard’s head. In this movie, Mr. Hennessy tricks the protagonist into saying
he went to a news conference that has actually been cancelled. It ends after Irving gives Ann an envelope
full of pictures. A notable scene in this movie sees the male lead, a reporter named Joe Bradley pretending
he has lost his hand in the Mouth of Truth, scaring a princess. For the point, name this 1953 film starring
Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn, set in the Italian capital.
ANSWER: Roman Holiday
192-12-72-21101

2. The Bangorian controversy erupted after Benjamin Hoadly declared this institution had no Biblical
basis. The nonjuring schism occurred when some of its members refused to take an oath recognizing
William as the new king. The Declaration of Indulgence removed requirements for government officials to
swear to uphold this institution, but was declared void after the Glorious Revolution. Its original head was
made so by the Act of Supremacy, passed after that man's failure to receive an annulment. For the point,
name this Protestant church whose first head was King Henry VIII.
ANSWER: Church of England [or Anglican Church; do not accept or prompt on "Episcopalianism", etc.]
121-12-72-21102

3. This thinker described the modest wigwam of the chief of the Sioux in an article for the Pall Mall Gazette
. Along with Henry Clay Frick, this man played a significant role in restoration efforts after the Johnstown
Flood. This man got his start as a secretary and telegraph operator and, in a move negotiated by Charles
Schwab, was bought out by J.P. Morgan in 1901. This entrepreneur came up with the "Gospel of Wealth"
and got rich by adapting the Bessemer process. For the point, name this Scottish industrialist who made his
fortune with steel.
ANSWER: Andrew Carnegie
020-12-72-21103

4. During one of this man's triumphs, elephants pulling his chariot could not fit through the gates. This
commander sent some men to support forces fighting Quintus Caecilius Metellus Creticus. The Manilian
Law let this man lead the final campaign against (mith-rid-AT-eez) Mithridates VI. The hesitation of this
victor at Dyrrhachium eventually led to his beheading in Alexandria, after which his head was presented to
a former colleague in the First Triumvirate. For the point, name this Optimates-backed general who lost at
Pharsalus to Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]
153-12-72-21104

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. This man, who beat William Stanbery with a hickory cane, was included in Profiles in Courage for
refusing to support the Confederacy. This man was supposedly known as “the Raven” by Cherokees.
Emily West and the “twin sisters” helped him win a battle. This man was succeeded by an advocate for
independence named Mirabeau Lamar in one post. A victory by this man led to the signing of the Treaty of
Velasco by Santa Anna. For the point, name this victor at San Jacinto who won an election against Stephen
Austin to become the first President of the Republic of Texas.
ANSWER: Sam Houston
149-12-72-21105

6. This man was the only non-priest who contributed to the 1948 Report on Doctrine for the Church of
England. This writer incluedd the essay “Tradition and the Individual Talent,” published in his The Sacred
Wood. In one poem, this man described what he saw “At the first turning of the second stair,” and that
poem begins, “Because I do not hope to turn again.” In another poem, this man described “the mermaids
singing, each to each,” and wrote, “Let us go then, you and I.” For the point, identify this author of “Ash
Wednesday” and “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock.”
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot
191-12-72-21106

7. One woman in this film runs back into a burning house after seeing her husband because she is ashamed
of losing her honor. A girl in this movie named Shino dresses up as a boy and carries on an affair with one
member of the title group. This film’s antagonists are repelled by a wall of spears, and it ends by noting
that the farmers have won. It opens with Kanbei recruiting Gorobei and Kikuchiyo among a group of
people hired to protect a village of farmers from murderous bandits. For the point, name this film directed
by Akira Kurosawa about the title group of Japanese warriors.
ANSWER: The Seven Samurai [or Shichinin no Samura]
192-12-72-21107

8. Near the end of this event, the city of (MOE) Meaux was burned to the ground. One confrontation during
this event took place at Mello, where Guillaume Cale was captured by Charles the Bad of Navarre. Etienne
Marcel, the Mayor of Paris, was killed for supporting it, and it began in response to high taxes and the
capture of John the Good at the Battle of (PWAH-tee-ey) Poitiers. For the point, name this 1358 peasant
uprising in France during the Hundred Years’ War, taking its name from its leader’s nickname Jacques
Bonhomme.
ANSWER: Jacquerie peasant revolt
192-12-72-21108

9. This man’s studies in Germany were source material for his The Nature of Mass Poverty, while he
blamed high tariffs for the title event in The Great Crash, 1929. He discussed the “concept of
countervailing power” in American Capitalism, and this author of The New Industrial State coined the term
“conventional wisdom” in a work advocating spending for the public sector to remedy the income disparity
prevalent after World War II. For the point, name this economist who wrote The Affluent Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith
192-12-72-21109

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. Judge Joseph Rutherford and other members of the Watch Tower society were targeted under this act,
but charges were dropped. Daniel Ellsberg was charged with a felony under this act for publishing the
Pentagon Papers. Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. opined that "shouting fire in a crowded theater" constitutes a
"clear and present danger" in upholding the restrictions on free speech posed by this act and its amendment,
the Sedition Act. For the point, name this act upheld in Schenck v US, which punished covert operations
against the US.
ANSWER: Espionage Act [accept Sedition Act until mentioned]
020-12-72-21110

11. In 1982, Michael Fagan broke into this person’s bedroom just to talk. In a 1977 photograph, Pierre
Trudeau was seen pirouetting behind this leader. This person sued a newspaper in 1992 for publishing her
Christmas address early. That year also saw Mark Phillips divorce this woman’s daughter, Anne, and Sarah
Ferguson divorce this leader’s son, the Duke of York. For the point, name this monarch who celebrated her
Diamond Jubilee in 2012, the current Queen of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Elizabeth II
052-12-72-21111

12. One of the creators of this ideology has espoused the “wedge strategy” as a way to attract Catholics
and Jews. The “father" of this movement is Phillip E. Johnson. Created in the wake of a similar ideology
being banned in Edwards v. Aguillard, it is espoused in the book Of Pandas and People. Dover v.
Kitzmiller ruled that this ideology was not science. For the point, name this controversial ideology which
challenges the notion that living things were created through undirected processes, a supposedly less
religious version of creationism.
ANSWER: intelligent design [prompt on creationism]
052-12-72-21112

13. This man used the example of a diorama in a law court to explain his picture theory of representation.
Elizabeth Anscombe was one of this man's literary executors and wrote an introduction to his first work, in
which she attacked the positivist interpretation adopted by the Vienna Circle. That work, the only one
published during his lifetime, was written mostly while he was in an Italian prisoner-of-war camp, and
begins “The world is everything that is the case.” For the point, name this Austrian philosopher, the author
of Tractatus Logic-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Ludwig Wittgenstein
121-12-72-21113

14. It has been rumored that a prime minister of this country was really a Chinese spy who escaped from
this country on a Chinese submarine while scuba diving. A Prime Minister of this country stated “All the
way with LBJ” and disappeared at sea while swimming. This country has been led by Harold Holt and
Gough Whitlam. John Howard refused to apologize for the “Stolen Generations” in this country that was
originally established as a British penal colony. For the point, name this “land down under” that removed
aboriginal children from their families.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
149-12-72-21114

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. This event successfully completed the task that the Otsu Scandal had sought to carry out. Its victims
included the maid Anna Demidova. A doctor named Eugene Botkin died in this event, whose victims were
canonized in 2000. A grave near Koptyaki Road held this event’s victims, one of whom Anna Anderson
falsely claimed to be. Yakov Yurovsky directed this operation, which was ordered by Lenin in an attempt
to lower the morale of the Whites. For the point, name this event that occurred in Ekaterinberg on July 17,
1918, which killed the already-overthrown Russian royal family.
ANSWER: the shooting of the Romanovs [or anything mentioning the execution or death of Nicholas II
and his family]
192-12-72-21115

16. This man gave John Milton lessons in Dutch and published the first study of American Indian
languages, A Key Into the Language of America. This man's friendly relations with the Narragansetts aided
the English in the Pequot War. He welcomed the Antinomians to form a colony near him, behind their
leader Anne Hutchinson, after he founded the Providence Plantations. For the point, name this proponent of
the separation of church and state whose exile from Massachusetts Bay Colony led him to establish what
eventually became Rhode Island.
ANSWER: Roger Williams
192-12-72-21116

17. Bernhard von Bulow’s “granite speech” opposed an alliance with this country. Allying with this
country was the ultimate foreign policy goal of Leo von Caprivi’s New Course. Maria Theresa’s unease
with an alliance with this country led to the 1756 Diplomatic Revolution, in which Prussia became its ally.
After the end of “splendid isolation”, Russia allied with this country in 1907, while France did so in the
1904 entente cordiale. For the point, name this country that was an attractive ally due to the maritime
power of its Royal Navy.
ANSWER: United Kingdom [or UK; or Great Britain; prompt on England]
153-12-72-21117

18. While on the faculty of this university, both Arthur and Roger Kornberg won Nobel Prizes for analyzing
the mechanism of transcription. While at this university, Beadle and Tatum developed the one gene-one
enzyme hypothesis. One experiment conducted at this university showed that people with “normal”
personalities could suffer from deindividuation. While working on this university’s Digital Library Project,
Larry Page and Sergei Brin developed the PageRank algorithm for their future company, Google. For the
point, name this university where Philip Zimbardo conducted the prison experiment.
ANSWER: Stanford University
048-12-72-21118

19. The codename for this event was derived from the room in Dover Castle where Bertrand Ramsey
planned it. This operation was preceded by the siege of (LEEL) Lille, and was carried out under the orders
of Lord Gort. This event caused the French Navy to lose the Bourrasque and the Royal Navy to lose the
Grafton and Grenade. It was also known as Operation Dynamo, and Winston Churchill coined this event’s
popular nickname in his “We shall fight on the beaches” speech. For the point, name this mass evacuation
of troops from the French coast during 1940.
ANSWER: Miracle of Dunkirk [or Dunkirk evacuation, or Operation Dynamo before mention]
192-12-72-21119

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. This event was the basis for Indra Sinha's novel Animal’s People. The 2004 Goldman Environmental
Prize was awarded in part to Rashida Bee for her efforts after this disaster. In 2009, an arrest warrant was
issued for Warren Anderson for his role in this event. Two years after this disaster, a Group for Information
and Action was formed. A plant for creating Sevin pesticide was responsible for this event when it leaked
forty tons of methyl isocyanate. For the point, name this 1984 gas leak disaster at a Union Carbide plant
that killed thousands in a city in Madhya Pradesh, India.
ANSWER: Bhopal disaster
023-12-72-21120

21. Benjamin Laney was originally slated to run for this party’s nomination, but stayed in his hotel room
during their convention in Boutwell Auditorium. Fielding Wright served as this party’s vice-presidential
candidate in an election in which it won 39 electoral votes, hoping to draw support away from Harry
Truman. The nominee for this party gave a notable speech in which he stated that “there’s not enough
troops in the army” to stop segregation in the south. For the point, name this political party which
nominated Strom Thurmond for president in 1948.
ANSWER: Dixiecrat party [or States' Rights Democratic Party]
048-12-72-21121

22. One holder of this position coined the term “Watergate Seven” and later served as a judge on the
People’s Court for two years. A holder of this position used the slogan “How am I doin'?” In one election
for this position, incumbent David Dinkins was defeated after being accused of being indifferent to Jews
affected by the Crown Heights Riot. Another holder of this position was elected over Bill Thompson to a
third term, and has attempted to ban trans fats and large sodas. For the point, name this position currently
occupied by Michael Bloomberg.
ANSWER: Mayor of New York City
048-12-72-21122

23. During a visit to this site, FDR ordered the removal of whites-only signs from the washrooms, making
this place the only desegregated site in its city for a time. At a protest held at this place, George Harris was
photographed placing a flower in a soldier’s gun. A fourth-floor women’s bathroom at this site was
bombed by the Weather Underground. One edifice at this site consists of a series of 184 illuminated
benches, one for each victim of UA Flight 77. For the point, name this building, part of which was
destroyed on September 11, 2001 along with the World Trade Center.
ANSWER: the Pentagon
048-12-72-21123

24. A 2012 election in this country led to the formation of a coalition government with the Syriza Party in
the minority and Pasok and New Democracy forming the majority. During elections in June 2012 in this
country, the far-right Golden Dawn party won seven percent of the vote. In February of 2012, a member of
the German cabinet called this country a "bottomless pit." In November of 2011, this country's prime
minister George Papandreou resigned. For the point, name this European country whose debt crisis has led
some to speculate that it may "grexit" the euro and revert to the drachma.
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Ellas; or Ellada; or Elliniki Dimokratia]
023-12-72-21124

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. Clerics who opposed this event were involved in a vote known as the “Shame of Gaeta.” This event led
to the fall of Wilhelm Milkas. A meeting at (BERK-tess-gah-den) Berchtesgaden attempted to prevent this
event. This event, sometimes called the "war of flowers," caused the resignation of Kurt Schuschnigg.
Following this event, Arthur Seyss-Inquart was instituted as the governor of Ostmark. This event was a
major step in Hitler’s plans to create a Pan-German empire. For the point, name this 1938 event in which
Nazi Germany took over Austria.
ANSWER: Anschluss Osterreichs
192-12-72-21125

26. Unable to pronounce the name "Petruchio Pandolfo," this man once said "Madame, I am Pondolfio
Pet-Pedolfio Pat-Pantuchio Ped-dammit! Who am I?" This man's brother Edwin once saved a young
Robert Todd Lincoln from an oncoming train. This co-conspirator of George Atzerodt and Lewis Powell
was killed by Boston Corbett at Garrett's Tobacco Barn. This man made his way to a performance of Our
American Cousin, where he leaped on stage shouting "Sic semper tyrannis!" at Ford's Theater. For the
point, name this assassin of Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: John Wilkes Booth
020-12-72-21126

27. A precedent for the establishment of these areas was set by a bill introduced by John Conness. Two of
these areas are connected by the John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Memorial Parkway. The Hetch Hetchy Valley can
be be found in ones of these areas. The creation of more of these areas was one of the initial goals of the
John Muir-founded Sierra Club. The first of these areas to be created contains a supervolcano and the
iconic geyser, Old Faithful. For the point, identify these areas set aside for preservation by the federal
government, which include Yosemite and Yellowstone.
ANSWER: national parks
066-12-72-21127

28. In an early example of international disaster relief, several men from this group were dispatched to
Messina after a 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck. Hunter's Point was reopened specifically for this group.
The president who sent out this group spoke at Hampton Roads on the occasion of its return. Alfred Thayer
Mahan's theories led to the mobilization of this unit, which traveled to San Francisco and then
circumnavigated the globe. For the point, name this group of battleships intended by Theodore Roosevelt to
showcase America's naval power.
ANSWER: Great White Fleet
020-12-72-21128

29. James Chalmers wrote a pamphlet supporting these people's views called Plain Truth. New York
rewrote its state constitution to allow for a bill of attainder against these people, who included Parker
Wickham and William Tryon. Guy Carleton decreed these people and their descendents could put at the
end of their names the initials “U.E.,” standing for “Unity of the Empire.” Carleton also oversaw the
evacuation of many of these people into Canada as troops pulled out of New York. For the point, name this
group in the American colonies that wished to remain subjects of Great Britain.
ANSWER: Loyalists [or Tories; or Royalists; prompt on anything indicating people loyal to the British
government]
121-12-72-21129

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. This man arrested Werner of Strasbourg during a dispute against Conrad II. This man’s son Saint
Emeric was killed during a boar hunt. He was succeeded by Andrew I, one of many kings to wear his
namesake "crown." This man came to power after winning a battle near Veszprem against his uncle
Koppany, the brother of his father Geza. This man married Giselle of Bavaria This member of the Arpad
dynasty was coronated by Pope Sylvester II on Christmas Day, 1000 CE. For the point, name this first king
of Hungary.
ANSWER: Stephen I of Hungary
048-12-72-21130

31. It’s not HC CSKA, but four of the six members of the IIHF Centennial All-Star team were once on this
team. This team surrendered a series-winning goal to Paul Henderson during the 1972 Summit Series. From
their first Olympics in 1956 to their last in 1988, this team won seven of the nine gold medals awarded.
This team had players such as goalie Vladimir Tretiak and forward Valeri Kharlamov. For the point, name
this that dominant Cold War national team that lost to the 1980 American Olympic team during the Miracle
on Ice.
ANSWER: Soviet Union national ice hockey team [accept equivalents for Soviet Union such as Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and USSR; prompt on partial answer; do not accept or prompt on "Russian"
hockey team]
153-12-72-21131

32. This politician was depicted on the cover of Newsweek in 1979 with his then-girlfriend, Linda Ronstadt.
Francis Ford Coppola filmed a thirty-minute campaign spot for this man in 1980. This man’s father won a
1962 election that prompted Richard Nixon’s infamous “last press conference.” In 1992, he said he would
consider Jesse Jackson as a running mate, ending any chance he could catch Bill Clinton in the primaries.
He won his current post in 2010 after defeating Meg Whitman to succeed Arnold Schwarzenegger. For the
point, name this current Governor of California.
ANSWER: Edmund Gerald “Jerry” Brown Jr.
052-12-72-21132

33. One opera by this man begins with Vitellia ordering Sesto to act against the Roman emperor Tito. Part
of the first movement of a symphony by this man contains his “Voi siete un po tondo.” This composer of
La clemenza di Tito wrote another opera in which a character representing Maria Theresa sings the “Der
Holle Rache” aria. That character is the Queen of the Night. This man’s last symphony ends with a
five-theme canon and is in C-major. For the point, name this Austrian composer of The Magic Flute and
the Jupiter symphony.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
149-12-72-21133

34. Warren's Shaft was a tunnel from this city to a nearby spring and may have been built by its first
inhabitants, the Jebusites. Aristobulus II was replaced as leader in this city by his brother Hyrcanus after
accusing Pompey of extortion. Crassus took a “beam of solid gold” from the Holy of Holies, part of a
building located in this city. The Hasmonean dynasty ruled its kingdom from this city after the Maccabees
revolted against the Seleucid Empire, and were succeeded by the Herodians. For the point, name this city
which contained a Jewish temple destroyed in 70 CE.
ANSWER: Jerusalem
121-12-72-21134

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. One structure in this city was captured by Juhayman al-Otaibi in 1979, leading to a non-Iranian
hostage situation that was defused with the help of France's GIGN. A crystal dome in this city has a rock
bearing a single imprint of a foot. During the Umrah, visitors to this city travel back and forth seven times.
The Zamzam well is found in this city, as is a black cube built by Abraham and Ishmael that is
circumambulated by visitors. For the point, name this city that contains the Kaaba and is visited by pilgrims
during the Hajj.
ANSWER: Mecca
020-12-72-21135

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

Extra Questions

36. In the early 1320s, the French Pastoureaux engaged in these actions. In 1819, one of these events
began in Wurzburg, and was known as the Hep Hep Riots. Several of these events were later perpetrated by
the Black Hundreds. One of these events in Odessa prompted Leo Pinkser to write Auto-Emancipation. A
notable example of one of these events was orchestrated by Heinrich Muller and Joseph Goebbels and was
named for the amount of broken glass produced. For the point, Kristallnacht is an example of what
European practice, in which Christian mobs attacked Jews and their property?
ANSWER: pogroms
019-12-72-21136

37. The League of Nations granted this status to one of the Aland Islands. Two regions described by this
adjective exist in Portugal: the Azores and Madeira. The highest level of territorial organization in Spain
consists of communities described by this adjective. In China, regions described by this adjective have a
high population of a minority group, like Uyghurs or Tibetans. There are five of those Chinese regions,
which are grouped with provinces and municipalities. For the point, identify this adjective that describes a
region or country having a degree of self-government.
ANSWER: autonomous
066-12-72-21137

2013 National History Bee National Championships

Bee Round 3

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

