2012 NHBB Set A
Bee Round 2

BEE ROUND 2
1. After this leader unsuccessfully sent Gennady to assist the Monastery of St. Catherine in Sinai, he had
Vasily Poznyakov lead an embassy in Egypt. After this leader abdicated for a year, Simeon Bekbulatovich
held power in his place, and this leader created the Zemsky Sobor, which was his country's first parliament.
This leader assembled a guard known as the oprichniki and killed his son with a flagpole. For the point,
identify this first tsar of Russia.
ANSWER: Ivan IV Vasilyevich [prompt on just Ivan; accept Ivan the Terrible; or Ivan Grozny]
189-12-66-12101

2. Publicist Samuel Brannan became a millionaire after setting up supply stores in reaction to this event.
The Bridge Gulch Massacre affected Native Americans that lived at the site of this event, which began in
Coloma. This event was set off by James Marshall and led to Levi Strauss becoming a wealthy pants
manufacturer. Some participants in this event were known as “forty-niners”. For the point, name this event
set off by the discovery of a precious metal at Sutter’s Mill, near Sacramento.
ANSWER: California Gold Rush
117-12-66-12102

3. The Milepost Agreement provided for a temporary extension of this program, and the battle around PQ
17 occurred during an implementation of it. One speech made an analogy between this program and putting
out a fire with a garden hose. This program resulted in loans that were finally repaid in full in 2006. This
program replaced "cash and carry," and it gave nearly $50 billion to Britain and the USSR. For the point,
name this program that provided military aid to American allies during World War II.
ANSWER: Lend-Lease
187-12-66-12103

4. This painting was based on a real incident blamed on Hugues Duroy de Chaumareys (shah-muh-RAY),
which killed a prospective administrator of Senegal. One pensive figure in this painting has a red cloth over
his gray curls and uses a bandaged arm to hold one of several corpses. It shocked the Paris Salon of 1819,
and two of its figures stand and sit on a barrel, waving rags at a dot on the horizon. For the point, name this
Theodore (ger-uh-COH) Gericault painting showing survivors of a shipwreck.
ANSWER: The Raft of the Medusa [or Le radeau de la Meduse]
104-12-66-12104

5. This ethnic group was ruled by the kingdom of (tig-RAH-nace) Tigranes the Great. These peoples were
assigned to the Labor Batallions under the command of Enver Pasha, presaging the later death marches
they underwent in the Syrian Desert. The first Christian state in the world consisted of this ethnic group.
They are the primary population in Nagorno-Karabakh, which is disputed with Azerbaijan. For the point,
name this ethnic group, the subject of a genocide that the Turkish government denies.
ANSWER: Armenians
020-12-66-12105

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 1 of 7

6. The possible creators of this song, Minerva and Wallace Willis, worked at the Spencer Academy for
Choctaw Boys in Oklahoma. This song's lyrics claim "I'm sometimes up and sometimes down," "but still
my soul feels heavenly bound." The earliest recording of this song was a 1909 performance by the Fisk
Jubilee Singers. For the point, name this African-American spiritual song that describes a vehicle "coming
for to carry me home."
ANSWER: "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot"
023-12-66-12106

7. This country's last king, Zahir Shah, was overthrown by Mohammed Daoud Khan, who was himself
killed in a 1978 coup. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-e Islami party refused to sign an agreement on this
country's future in 1992, leading to a civil war in this country that ultimately pitted the United Islamic Front
under Ahmad Shah Massoud against the Taliban. For the point, name this country in which the Taliban
regime was overthrown in 2001.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan]
003-12-66-12107

8. One set of these events was dubbed Operation Crossroads. A Japanese fishing boat, Lucky Dragon No 5,
was destroyed by one of these events called Castle Bravo, which was conducted on the Bikini Atoll. The
CTBT bans the staging of these events, the first of which occurred at the White Sands Proving Ground and
was dubbed “Trinity”, which used the same basic design as Fat Man. For the point, name these events in
which certain weapons of mass destruction are detonated.
ANSWER: nuclear tests [or atomic tests or hydrogen bomb tests or thermonuclear tests; accept
clear-knowledge equivalents]
048-12-66-12108

9. In one study, this psychologist had participants identify which of two beakers of different compositions
had more water in order to demonstrate conservation. This psychologist expounded upon frameworks
known as "schemas," and included object permanence in his most famous theory. This man included the
pre-operational and concrete-operational stages in the aforementioned construct, which begins with a
sensorimotor stage. For the point, identify this Swiss psychologist who developed his namesake four stages
of cognitive development in children.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
189-12-66-12109

10. One territorial dispute between this nation and a southern neighbor was settled at the Battle of the
Paracel Islands. This nation maintains control over the Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands, and it also
disputes a thin strip of land adjacent the Line of Actual Control, called Aksai Chin, with India. This nation
also maintains control of East Turkestan, which has a large population of (WEE-gurz) Uighurs. For the
point, name this nation which has nominal control over Macau and Hong Kong.
ANSWER: People’s Republic of China
048-12-66-12110

11. This man wrote the lyrics for the Kurt Weill opera Street Scene. He created a comedic character who
appeared in several of his Chicago Defender columns named Jesse B. Semple. One of his poems notes that
"America never was America to me." A figure in one of his poems states that he “....can’t be satisfied--/I
ain’t happy no mo’/And I wish that I had died.” For the point, name this poet of “The Weary Blues” who
asked about the fate of a dream deferred.
ANSWER: Langston Hughes
030-12-66-12111

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 2 of 7

12. The title characters of "Skipper Ireson's Ride" and "My Kinsman, Major Molineux" both undergo this
fate. This action was performed on local tax agents, precipitating the Whiskey Rebellion. Because a "pitch"
variety of the title substance was used, burns did not always happen; nevertheless, this was frequently done
to humiliate loyalists during the American Revolution. For the point, name this form of mob justice whose
victims resembled chickens.
ANSWER: being tarred and feathered [or word forms; both tar and feather needed to receive points]
020-12-66-12112

13. This institution gained power using buildings called kontors, or "counting houses." This organization
was forced to close an area called the Steelyard by Elizabeth I. This group maintained the Old Salt Route to
carry salt into its so-called "jewel," its central city of Lubeck. At its height in 1368, this alliance's member
cities sacked Copenhagen. For the point, name this organization along Europe's Baltic coast that was an
alliance of city guilds and merchants engaged in protected trade.
ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa]
104-12-66-12113

14. This empire commissioned a treatise dividing the day into ninety minute segments that is often
compared to The Prince. These winners of the Kalinga War supplanted the Nanda dynasty. One leader of
this empire converted to Jainism after defeating Seleucus I during Alexander's invasion. That leader of this
empire's grandson issued lion edicts and became a pacifist after becoming a Buddhist. For the point, name
this Indian empire ruled by Ashoka and its founder, Chandragupta.
ANSWER: Mauryan Empire
104-12-66-12114

15. The khanate that is now this country was defeated in gruesome fashion by the Byzantine emperor Basil
II. This country’s independence was declared in the Treaty of San Stefano in 1878, after which it was ruled
by tsars such as Ferdinand. In ancient times, this present-day country, along with parts of Greece and
Turkey, comprised the land of Thrace. This country fought Serbia in the Second Balkan War, and was one
of the losing Central Powers in World War I. For the point, name this Balkan nation with capital at Sofia.
ANSWER: Bulgaria
141-12-66-12115

16. One film by this title uses ceiling beams and strikes on a bowling scoresheet to create a visual "x"
symbol for murder. In another film by this name, the protagonist kills Manny after finding his sister Gina
half-naked in his room. In that film, the protagonist snorts cocaine off of his desk and fires an M16 rifle
while shouting, "Say hello to my little friend!" For the point, give the common name of a gangster film
inspired by Al Capone and a Brian de Palma film about Tony Montana.
ANSWER: Scarface [or Scarface: The Shame of a Nation]
080-12-66-12116

17. The Cahokia Mounds are a characteristic example of the Native American "culture" named for this
body of water. Pinckney's Treaty granted the US navigation rights on this body of water; earlier, Hernando
de Soto died on the banks of this river after being the first European to cross it. The Treaty of Paris of 1783
set the western border of the US at this river. For the point, name this river on which St. Louis and New
Orleans were founded.
ANSWER: Mississippi River
190-12-66-12117

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 3 of 7

18. One policy promulgated by this decision was overturned in a case involving a Missouri law forbidding
state funds go to counseling, called Webster v RHS. The plaintiff in this case was represented by Sarah
Weddington, and it was decided alongside Doe v. Bolton. Harry Blackmun’s opinion in this case created
distinctions based on trimesters. For the point, name this 1973 Supreme Court case that stated the right to
privacy extended to abortion.
ANSWER: Roe vs. Wade [accept either or both underlined portion]
048-12-66-12118

19. A British one of these objects was dubbed the Beagle 2. Viking 1 and 2 were the first devices of this
kind to succeed at their mission, and a pair of them named Spirit and Opportunity was launched in 2004.
The most recent one of these devices successfully transmitted from Aeolis Paulis in 2012, and was named
Curiosity. For the point, name these devices which may be used to image Olympus Mons and are small
robots sent to the fourth planet from the sun.
ANSWER: Mars landers [or Mars probes; or Mars orbiters; or equivalents mentioning Mars and some
kind of spacecraft]
048-12-66-12119

20. This man used the ships Adventure and Resolution when he made the first successful high latitude west
to east circumnavigation near Antarctica. On another voyage, this explorer traveled with the Swedish
botanist Daniel Solander and the English scientist Joseph Banks. That journey of this explorer included a
trip through the Great Barrier Reef and the discovery of Botany Bay. For the point, name this British
explorer who traveled to Australia and New Zealand.
ANSWER: James Cook
023-12-66-12120

21. This nation circumvented the Foreign Enlistment Act by adding armaments to British-built ships at sea.
James Bulloch was in charge of building this nation's navy. Diplomats working for this nation included
James Mason and John Slidell, neither of whom obtained official recognition for this nation despite British
and French dependence on its cotton. For the point, name this defunct nation whose former capitals include
Montgomery and Richmond.
ANSWER: Confederacy [or Confederate States of America; or CSA]
131-12-66-12121

22. The case Cohen v California upheld the right of a man to speak unkind words about this policy. From
1964, rallies were held to burn cards calling for this action. Initially, only Amish and Quakers could avoid
this action by signing up as conscientious objectors. The Selective Service Act facilitated this policy, which
became extremely unpopular during the Vietnam War. For the point, name this policy in which civilians
were conscripted into fighting for the US Army.
ANSWER: draft [or conscription before it is read; or Selective Service before it is read]
020-12-66-12122

23. One empire of this ethnic group expanded under the rule of Tugrul and employed warriors called ghazi.
This ethnic group dominated the Sultanate of Rum and won a battle against Romanos IV Diogenes when
Alp Arslan prevailed at Manzikert, near Lake Van. One rebel bey of this ethnicity was named Osman I. For
the point, name these once-nomadic Middle Eastern people whose Seljuk dynasty was replaced by their
Ottoman Empire.
ANSWER: Turks [or Turkish people; accept Seljuk Turks until "Osman" is read]
104-12-66-12123

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 4 of 7

24. This man ensured that his rivals Ephialtes and Cimon were ostracized. This man chose not to marry the
madam Aspasia of Miletus because her children would not be citizens of his polity. This son of Xanthippus
was responsible for the construction of the Acropolis. Thucydides called him the "first citizen of Athens"
and recorded this man's funeral oration. For the point, name this fifth century BCE statesman who led
Athens during its "Golden Age."
ANSWER: Pericles
131-12-66-12124

25. After one event in this city, Congressman Mike Rogers said he was disappointed the president did not
postpone a fundraiser. Susan Rice appeared on five different Sunday talk shows on the same day to insist
events in this city were “a spontaneous reaction.” This city was where Chris Stevens was killed in an attack
initially blamed on protests over the movie Innocence of Muslims. For the point, name this city in Libya,
the site of a September 11, 2012, attack that killed an U.S. Ambassador.
ANSWER: Benghazi [or Cairo until "killed" is read]
052-12-66-12125

26. This state controls Johnson’s Island, a Union prisoner-of-war camp, in its north. Its northwest was
home to the Great Black Swamp, which it drained for farmland, and still houses the delta of the Maumee
River. Connecticut ceded the Western Reserve to what became this state. In 1968, its heavily-polluted
Cuyahoga river caught fire. Its people are often known for a poisonous nut that grows in this state on the
buckeye tree. For the point, name this state containing Dayton, Akron, and Cleveland.
ANSWER: Ohio
104-12-66-12126

27. The leader of this event was later defended in court by Thomas Ruffin Gray. After the ringleader was
hanged, his namesake confessions were published. That leader of this event was inspired by seeing a solar
eclipse and by the recent action of Denmark Vesey. Afterwards, the Virginia General Assembly passed
legislation making it unlawful to teach literacy to slaves. For the point, name this August 1831 slave
rebellion in Virginia, which killed over 50 whites.
ANSWER: Nat Turner’s Rebellion [or Southampton Insurrection]
052-12-66-12127

28. Jack Kearns accused one athlete in this sport of using plaster of Paris to injure Jess Willard in 1919. Joe
Louis was the top ranked participant in this sport for over eleven years and was its first well-known black
athlete. One athlete known for this sport was stripped of a title for draft evasion and ceased to be known as
Cassius Clay after converting to Islam. For the point, name this sport whose famous athletes include
George Foreman, Mike Tyson, and Muhammad Ali.
ANSWER: boxing
131-12-66-12128

29. Reportedly, a flock of seagulls once saved this group by eating the crickets that were destroying their
crops. A force of these people led by John D. Lee assisted the Paiute in committing the Mountain Meadows
Massacre. After its first leader was murdered alongside his brother Hyrum, this sect was led by Brigham
Young. For the point, name this religious sect that practiced polygamy in Utah according to the ideas of
Joseph Smith.
ANSWER: Mormons [or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints; or LDS Church]
080-12-66-12129

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 5 of 7

30. This book alleges that pacifism is “the deadliest sin” because it requires the submission of the dominant
race and extols education as the path to forging a great soldier. This book analyzes the idea of creating a
greater living space for its author’s people, and it explores the author’s past in Vienna and his eventual
conciliation with anti-Semitic propaganda. Written in prison following the author’s arrest at the Beer Hall
Putsch, for 10 points, name this autobiography of Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: Mein Kampf
117-12-66-12130

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 6 of 7

Extra Questions

31. One religious sect in this country teaches that aliens arrived on Earth in 1900 and accuses its
government of harvesting their organs. An early scholar from here asked whether he dreamed of a butterfly
or vice versa. The divinatory Book of Changes is among its religious Classics, which include a text
stressing the five relationships and filial piety, known as the Analects. For the point, name this home
country of the repressed Falun Gong and Confucius.
ANSWER: China [or People’s Republic of China; or Zhongguo]
104-12-66-12131

32. Gouveneur Morris delivered the "Curse of Heaven" speech against this agreement, which was first
proposed by James Wilson on the Committee of Detail. Section Two of the Fourteenth Amendment
overruled this agreement, which was a direct result of the Connecticut Compromise. For the point, name
this compromise at the Constitutional Convention which counted each slave as a fraction of a person for
representation.
ANSWER: Three-Fifths Compromise
190-12-66-12132

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 2

Page 7 of 7

