2012 NHBB Set A
Bee Round 3

BEE ROUND 3
1. Forces under Anthony Wayne were defeated at Paoli Tavern during a British campaign to capture this
city. General George Clinton abandoned control of this city after replacing William Howe, and other battles
fought for control of it were the Battle of the Clouds and the Battle of Brandywine. For the point, name this
largest city in the colonies during the American Revolution.
ANSWER: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
194-12-66-13101

2. This nation's Operation Drive Out Rubbish displaced thousands from their homes, and in 1999 its
ZANU-PF party began taking farms from whites. That party in this country was preceded by a government
under Ian Smith. Morgan Tsvangirai nominally shares power in this country where a 2008 cholera outbreak
began. This nation was once called Rhodesia. For the point, name this African country led by dictator
Robert Mugabe, who in 2009 abandoned its currency due to hyperinflation.
ANSWER: Republic of Zimbabwe
104-12-66-13102

3. Two nations who signed this treaty argued over a duty on softwood lumber, and this agreement’s chapter
11 outlines dispute settlements under this agreement. It triggered the uprising of the EZLN in one signatory
nation, and Ross Perot stated that it would create a “giant sucking sound”. This agreement was signed by
Carlos Salinas, Brian Mulroney, and George HW Bush. For the point, name this free trade agreement
between the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
ANSWER: NAFTA
048-12-66-13103

4. This country's expansionist king Faustin I was overthrown by Fabre Geffard. A non-German palace of
Sans Souci was built in this country by a man who dubbed himself King Henry I. Forces in this present-day
nation under Charles Leclerc were decimated by a yellow fever epidemic, which allowed Henri Christophe
and Jean-Jacques Dessalines to lead this country to independence. For the point, name this country in the
West Indies in which a slave revolt occured under the leadership of Toussaint Louverture.
ANSWER: Haiti [prompt on Saint-Domingue]
030-12-66-13104

5. One work by this composer was re-scored for full orchestra, with string instruments replacing oboes and
bassoons. Another work by this composer consists of three suites, the first of which contains a 3/2 D Major
"alla Hornpipe." The former work by him commemorated the signing of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. The
other work was premiered by several musicians on barges along the River Thames. For the point, name this
composer of Music for the Royal Fireworks and Water Music.
ANSWER: George Frideric Handel
020-12-66-13105

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 1 of 7

6. At the beginning of this work, a character who works at Tellson’s Bank replies to one message with the
words “Recalled for Life.” Often referred to as “the Golden Thread,” Lucie marries a member of the
Evremonde family in this work. The aristocrat Charles Darnay and the lawyer Syndey Carton are characters
in this work that opens with the line “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.” For the point,
what Dickens work takes place in London and France during the French Revolution?
ANSWER: A Tale of Two Cities
149-12-66-13106

7. Christopher Jones captained this vessel. Elizabeth Hopkins's son Oceanus was born on this ship's
best-known voyage, which was delayed due to an alleged leak on the Speedwell. Among the passengers on
this ship were John Alden and Myles Standish; although its original destination was Virginia, it landed near
Cape Cod in 1620. For the point, name this ship on which the Pilgrims sailed to the New World.
ANSWER: The Mayflower
190-12-66-13107

8. One foundation of this group came from an agreement negotiated by Lord Lansdowne and Paul Cambon.
This group's formation began with a secret pact agreed to after the failure of the Reinsurance Treaty; that
pact came about in response to the Triple Alliance. This group realized one of its opponents' fears of a
"two-front" threat by uniting France and Russia. For the point, name this group formed by the Entente
Cordiale and other agreements that fought in World War I against the Central Powers.
ANSWER: Allies [or Allied Powers; or Triple Entente; accept Entente Powers until "Entente" and then
prompt]
023-12-66-13108

9. This man believed that so-called “crises” tended to occur on “critical days”. Students in his academy on
Kos compiled his namesake Corpus of sixty books, which contains a large number of case histories. One
work by this man states that the speaker will apply dietic measures wherever possible, not cut for stone,
praise Apollo and Asclepius, and do no harm. For the point, name this Ancient Greek physician, the
namesake of an Oath.
ANSWER: Hippocrates
048-12-66-13109

10. One of these people was struck by lightning while praying to Jupiter to intercede during a plague.
Another of them bought three of the Sibylline Books for the price of all nine and was overthrown after his
son raped Lucretia. The first of these people was deified as Quirinus, organized the rape of the Sabine
women, and was, according to legend, suckled by a she-wolf. For the point, name this group that included
Tullus Hostilius, Tarquin the Proud, and Romulus, who all ruled a growing Italian city.
ANSWER: kings of Rome
080-12-66-13110

11. This event led to the partial closure of Interstate 90, and its site was owned by the Burlington Northern
Railroad. Among the people killed in this event was Harry Randall Truman, who owned a lodge at Spirit
Lake. Governor Dixy Lee Ray declared a state of emergency in response to it. Much of the damage from
this event was caused by mudslides, and 57 people died from pyroclastic flow. For the point, name this
deadliest volcanic eruption in US history, taking place in Washington.
ANSWER: Eruption of Mount Saint Helens [equivalents, they’re ok]
048-12-66-13111

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 2 of 7

12. In August 2012, Blizzard Entertainment shut down access to its servers by people in this country. The
Stuxnet worm was intended for the Natanz facility in this country. This country was home to the Green
Revolution protests. The current president of this country, who has called for Israel to be "wiped off the
map," is subservient to Ayatollah Khamenei. For the point, name this country whose president, Mahmoud
Ahmedinejad, does not compromise on its nuclear program.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran]
020-12-66-13112

13. This country was founded after an Anglo-Dutch Treaty in 1824 by Stamford Raffles. Pranks targeting
its Mass Rapid Transit subway doors led to its standing ban on chewing gum. The People’s Action Party
has restricted speech in this country since the administration of Lee Kuan Yeuw, who allowed duty-free
trade in its ports. For the point, name this small, economically prosperous city-state on an island which split
off from Malaysia.
ANSWER: Republic of Singapore [or Republic Singapura]
104-12-66-13113

14. One king of this name was the adopted son of Queen Margaret and served as the first king of the
Kalmar Union before becoming Duke of Pomerania. A different man of this name slew the sons of his
neighbor Thorgest, for which he was exiled for three years; that man of this name established the first
permanent settlement on Greenland. For the point, give this name of an Icelandic explorer nicknamed "the
Red," whose son Leif was the first European to discover North America.
ANSWER: Eric [or Eric of Pomerania; or Eric the Red]
080-12-66-13114

15. This organization was founded after the promulgation of the 21 demands of MKS, and its supporters
were often attacked by ZOMO. This organization secured a 6-year presidential term as part of the April
Novelization, during the Round Table Talks with its opponent, Jaruzelski. This organization was started in
the Gdansk shipyards by electrician Lech Walesa. For the point, name this trade union which was
responsible for bringing down communism in Poland.
ANSWER: Solidarity
048-12-66-13115

16. During this governmental period, the person who supervised financial affairs was the Quaestor. The end
of this period was marked by the struggle between the populares and the optimates. Near the end of this
period, leaders frequently used "proscriptions." One disturbance during this period was led by Spartacus
and put down by the consul Crassus. This period of history ended with the ascension of Caesar’s adopted
son, Octavian. For the point, what period of Roman history preceded the Empire?
ANSWER: Roman Republic
149-12-66-13116

17. Archbishop Ansgar's missions to northern Europe were based in this city, whose Reeperbahn nightclubs
hosted many important concerts due to its direct transport links to Liverpool. In this city, the Alster River is
dammed to form two lakes, the Aussenalster and the Binnenalster. This city, whose alliance with Lubeck
was the nucleus for the Hanseatic League, is located on the Elbe River. For the point, name this
second-largest city in Germany, which lends its name to a beef patty sandwich.
ANSWER: Hamburg, Germany
080-12-66-13117

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 3 of 7

18. In 1858, this person allegedly told Bernadette Soubirous to gather water from a spring which
miraculously appeared in front of her. Castilian roses were found at the site of the first recognized
apparition of this figure, this time to the peasant boy Juan Diego. Those appearances were at Lourdes and
Guadalupe, respectively. For the point, name this religious figure, eleven of whose apparitions are
recognized by the Catholic Church, the mother of Jesus.
ANSWER: Mary [or the Blessed Virgin Mary]
131-12-66-13118

19. In a 1998 film, this character revises a work about “Ethel the Pirate’s Daughter” after receiving advice
from Ned Alleyn and has an affair with the Gwyneth Paltrow-played Viola. In a recent film, this historical
figure extorts money from Edward de Vere and is accused of murdering Christopher Marlowe by Ben
Jonson. For the point, name this British author, whom the film Anonymous accuses of taking credit for the
plays of the Earl of Oxford, such as Henry V.
ANSWER: William Shakespeare
052-12-66-13119

20. The storming of Chapultepec castle by Gideon Pillow was a key battle in this conflict, after which one
side received over 500,000 square miles of land. Battles at Monterey and Buena Vista were led by Zachary
Taylor, and Winfield Scott led an amphibious invasion of Veracruz during this conflict. For the point, name
this conflict, a war lasting from 1846 to 1847 that was ended by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
ANSWER: Mexican-American War [or Mexican War]
194-12-66-13120

21. This dynasty renamed its country's powerful censoring agency from the Yushitai to the Duchayuan.
This dynasty's first emperor won prominence during the Red Turban Rebellion. The Yong-le emperor
succeeded that man, the Hong-wu emperor, and moved the capital to Beijing. It was established after the
fall of the Yuan Dynsasty, and its capital was in the Forbidden City. For the point, name this Chinese
Dynasty famed for their porcelain vases.
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty [or Empire of the Great Ming; or Ming Chao]
186-12-66-13121

22. This people created a characteristic type of black pottery that they often made in the shapes of animals,
called bucchero, as well as the "Sarcophagus of the Spouses." Their art sometimes depicted a blue Charon
guiding the dead to the afterlife. One of their sculptors, Vulca, may have created the Apollo of Veii, but
they probably did not sculpt the bronze Capitoline Wolf. For the point, name this Italian civilization whose
art and culture influenced the Romans.
ANSWER: the Etruscan Civilization [or Tyrrhenians]
080-12-66-13122

23. One ruler with this name dismissed the so-called “Ministry of All the Talents” and reigned during the
murder of Spencer Perceval. It was the name of the British king who fought the Battle of Dettingen, the last
time a British king led his army in battle. This was also the name of the first British monarch from the
House of Hanover. The third English ruler with this name suffered from a mental illness. For the point,
what royal name was held by the British monarch at the time of the American Revolution?
ANSWER: George
052-12-66-13123

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 4 of 7

24. Reparations for this policy where carried out by an act sponsored by Alan K Simpson and Norman
Mineta. The agency overseeing this policy was headed by Dillon S. Meyer and Milton Eisenhower. This
policy, which was carried out in places like Tule Lake and Manzanar, was supported in a Supreme Court
case that upheld Executive Order 9066, Korematsu v. US. For the point, name this wartime policy in which
persons with descent from a certain Axis Power nation were relocated to camps.
ANSWER: Japanese internment [accept equivalents]
048-12-66-13124

25. After this man’s death from chronic nephritis, Leos Janacek played the organ at his funeral. He was
inspired by Johann Karl Nestler during his time at the University of Olomouc, and his work was
popularized by William Bateson. His work at the Abbey of St. Thomas in Brno helped him devise the Law
of Segregation and Law of Independent Assortment. He recorded traits like height and seed color. For the
point, name this monk, whose work with pea plants led to the founding of modern genetics.
ANSWER: Gregor Mendel
048-12-66-13125

26. This player recorded 15 blocks in a 1993 triple-double against the New Jersey Nets, and this player got
into an altercation with Charles Barkley in 1999 after Barkley threw a ball at this player. Following this
player's most famous stint, he played in succession for the Heat, Suns, and Cavaliers. This player originally
drafted by the Orlando Magic is perhaps better known for bringing down backboards several times
following dunks. For the point, identify this former teammate of Kobe Bryant, a large center who won three
championships with the Lakers.
ANSWER: Shaquille O’Neal [accept Shaq; prompt on other nicknames, like The Diesel or The Big
Aristotle]
189-12-66-13126

27. One person engaged in this occupation formed the Republic of Baja California after conquering La Paz
and also created the Republic of Sonora. This was the name given to men such as William Walker and
Narisco Lopez who engaged in unauthorized military expeditions in foreign countries. This term also
applies to an act that can only occur in the Senate, the longest of which was given by Strom Thurmond. For
the point, name this type of speech where the speaker talks as long as possible.
ANSWER: filibuster [or filibustering]
149-12-66-13127

28. This man wrote a report on French activity in the Ohio Valley for Robert Dinwiddle, and he killed the
French commander Jumonville in one of the early battles of the French and Indian War. Shortly thereafter,
he surrendered to the French at Fort Necessity. While commanding a different army, he was victorious after
the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown. For the point, name this commander of the Continental Army
during the American Revolution.
ANSWER: George Washington
121-12-66-13128

29. One of these places grew after Irnerius obtained a copy of the Corpus Juris Civilis in Bologna. At these
places, the trivium was imparted before the quadrivium, and the Four Books of Sentences were commonly
referenced. Robert Sorbon sponsored one of these in Paris, which boomed after Latin versions of Aristotle
became available to their lay audiences. For the point, name these institutions whose early medieval
examples included Oxford.
ANSWER: universities [or university; or universitas et studentium; or universitates; or studium
generale; prompt on colleges]
104-12-66-13129
2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 5 of 7

30. This man’s government was embroiled in the “cash for honours” scandal over the awarding of life
peerages. In his first term, this man’s government signed the Good Friday agreement, ending the Troubles
and decommissioning the IRA. This advocate of the “Third Way” followed his American counterpart into a
controversial invasion of Iraq. For the point, name this Labour Party PM succeeded by Gordon Brown, who
led Britain in the early stages of the War on Terror.
ANSWER: Anthony “Tony” Blair
048-12-66-13130

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 6 of 7

Extra Questions

31. This monument's construction was funded by a $100,000 fundraising drive by the New York World.
Eduoard de Laboulaye pushed for the creation of this monument, which was placed inside Fort Wood on
Bedloe's Island. This artwork's head was displayed independently at the 1878 Paris World's Fair. For the
point, name this statue sculpted by Frederic Bartholdi meant to represent the guiding principles of the
United States, which was given as a gift from France
ANSWER: Statue of Liberty [or Liberty Enlightening the World]
131-12-66-13131

32. This nation has a longstanding alliance with England via the Treaty of Windsor. This country’s
personal union with its neighbor via Philip II led to the Dutch conquest of its Indian Ocean monopoly.
Pedro Cabral claimed Brazil for this nation for which Vasco da Gama sailed. For the point, name this
Iberian nation and early leader in the Age of Discovery that signed the Treaty of Tordesillas with
neighboring Spain.
ANSWER: Portugal
153-12-66-13132

2012 NHBB Set A

Bee Round 3

Page 7 of 7

