NHB Regional Bee A JV
Round 1

NHB REGIONAL BEE A JV
1. John Dollond disproved this man's assumption that the refractive and dispersive properties of a substance
are related. Another of his theories was initially discarded because his calculations used an inaccurate value
for the radius of the Earth. He demonstrated that white light was made up of many component colors, and,
like Charles Coulomb, developed an inverse square law. Voltaire started the legend that, for the point, what
man was inspired to develop a law of universal gravitation after an apple fell on his head?
ANSWER: Isaac Newton
003-11-61-01101

2. The protagonist of this opera escapes from her captor after singing Seguidilla. After the song “La cloche
a sonné” the protagonist of this opera sings “L’amore est un oiseau rebelle” and throws a flower at her
future lover who works with Zuniga. The orchestra plays the fate motive as playing cards foretell the title
character’s doom. The title character of this opera is stabbed by Don Alfonso at Escamillo’s bull fight. For
the point, name this work that contains the Habanera, an opera about a gypsy by Georges Bizet.
ANSWER: Carmen
124-11-61-01102

3. This leader protested when doctors were required to be licensed in Macao where he worked with Dr.
James Contlie who persuaded Salisbury to release this man from prison. This leader cut his queue and hid
in Japan under the name Nakayama. Mikhail Borodin advised this leader after he allied with the Soviet
Union. He organized the Kuomintang and declared himself “generalissimo” after a series of victories by
his general Chiang Kai-shek. For the point, name this leader of the Chinese revolution against the Manchu
dynasty.
ANSWER: Sun Yat-sen
124-11-61-01103

4. This artist painted the Virgin flanked by the two Marys and disciples with raised hands in Descent of the
Holy Spirit. A green-clad figure supports Christ’s head while a woman in purple holds his pierced hand in
this artist’s Pieta. He eliminated streets and widened the ravine of the Tajo in Toledo in a Storm. This
figure painted himself raising his hand to the left of St. Augustine and St. Stephen in Burial of Count Orgaz
. For the point, name this Spanish painter nicknamed for his home country on the island of Crete.
ANSWER: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopolos]
124-11-61-01104

5. During World War II, this man was made Governor of the Bahamas because Winston Churchill felt that
his sympathies towards the Germans were softening public opinion. That occurred after he was made Duke
of Windsor. Jerome Bannigan received a year's prison sentence after he drew a gun in this man's company.
As monarch, he feuded with Stanley Baldwin over whether he could hold the throne and still marry the
woman that he loved, which caused his abdication. For the point, name this predecessor of George VI who
wed Wallis Simpson.
ANSWER: Edward VIII
040-11-61-01105

NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 1 of 7

6. This ruler defended his lands by the creation of fortified towns, a list of which was kept in the Burghal
Hidage. The monk Asser wrote a biography of this ruler. This ruler saw his enemy Guthrum convert to
Christianity after defeating him at the Battle of Edington. This ruler captured and restored London while
fighting against Danes, but later he brokered the Treaty of Wedmore, allowing them to keep land known as
the Danelaw. For the point, name this only English monarch to be called “the Great.”
ANSWER: Alfred the Great
140-11-61-01106

7. This man defeated Neustrians and Frisians under King Chilperic II at the Battle of Ambleve. He served
as Mayor of the Palace under some of the final Merovingian monarchs. This man defeated Abd er Rahman
at a battle near Poitiers. He was the father of Pepin the Short and earned the nickname "Hammer" for
halting the Muslim invasion of Europe at the 732 Battle of Tours. For the point, name this grandfather of
Charlemagne.
ANSWER: Charles Martel [or Charles the Hammer; prompt on Charles]
015-11-61-01107

8. This man forced the Austrian to accept the Gastein Convention in which this man’s native land and
Austria split their conquests from a dual war. Following Austria’s violation of Gastein Convention, this
man placed Helmuth von Molke as head of his nation’s General Staff. This man set up a secret fund known
as Reptilienfonds as well as initiating the Kulturkampf that saw the prosecution of Roman Catholics in
German states controlled by him. For the point, name this "Iron Chancellor" of Prussia.
ANSWER: Iron Chancellor Otto von Bismark
135-11-61-01108

9. Many of this ruler's supporters were murdered by the streltsy when he was forced to co-rule with his
feeble-minded brother under the regency of his sister Sophia. During the Grand Embassy, this man learned
shipbuilding in the Netherlands. In one war, this man's forces were crushed at Narva before recovering to
decisively win at Poltava. Victory in the Great Northern War allowed this man to build his "Window to the
West." For the point, name this modernizing tsar of Russia who built St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I of Russia; or Pyotr Veliky; or Pyotr Alekseyevich; prompt on
Peter]
023-11-61-01109

10. This monarch faced the rebellion of Hugh O'Neill in Ireland in what came to be known as the Nine
Years' War. This ruler aided the Dutch against the Spanish via the Treaty of Nonsuch. The target of the
Ridolfi Plot and the Babington Plot, this monarch's so-called "spymaster" who foiled those attempts was
Francis Walsingham. This monarch rallied troops at Tilbury as part of the defense against the Spanish
Armada. For the point, name this queen of Britain, a daughter of Anne Boleyn.
ANSWER: Elizabeth I
040-11-61-01110

11. This man employed Jehuda Cresques, a Catalan Jew, and gave orders to Gil Eanes. This leader of the
Order of Christ maintained a villa at Sagres. At age 21, this third son of Philippa of Lancaster went with his
father, John I of the Aviz dynasty, to capture the Moroccan city of Ceuta. He underwrote the development
of the caravel, and sent ships past Cape Bojador, to Cape Verde, and out to the Azores. For the point, name
this Portuguese prince who sponsored many early explorations.
ANSWER: Prince Henry the Navigator [or Infante Henrique o Navegador]
104-11-61-01111

NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 2 of 7

12. Following the marriage of this man to Margaret, his mother in-law Catherine de' Medici is believed to
have instigated the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre. This king, originally a ruler of Navarre, is believed
to have said "Paris is well worth a mass" after converting to Catholicism. For the point, name this French
king who in 1598 granted religious freedom to Protestants by issuing the Edict of Nantes.
ANSWER: Henry IV
064-11-61-01112

13. This conflict included the siege of Avaricum, which had been exempted from a scorched-earth policy
over the objections of Vercingetorix (ver-sin-GEH-tor-iks). This conflict's climactic battle took place at
Alesia (ah-LEE-see-uh). Aulus Hirtius is thought to have written the eighth of the Commentaries on this
conflict, with the first seven written by the victorious commander, Julius Caesar. For the point, name this
series of wars from 58 to 50 B.C., in which the Romans took control of France by defeating the namesake
people.
ANSWER: Gallic Wars [prompt on Wars against the Gauls]
003-11-61-01113

14. A survey conducted during this ruler's reign is known as the Domesday Book. This leader relied on his
half-brother Odo during his rule. This ruler's wife commissioned the Bayeux Tapestry to depict this leader's
most notable victory, a 1066 battle at which he defeated Harold Godwinson. For the point, identify this
ruler who won the Battle of Hastings to become the first Norman King of England.
ANSWER: William the Conqueror [or William I; prompt on "William"]
126-11-61-01114

15. The runup to this conflict saw the execution of Raynald of Chatillon and the exile of Guy of Lusignan.
The treasure of one ruler in this conflict was seized by Isaac Comnenus of Cyprus after a storm off the
coast of Sicily. One leader in this conflict was the founder of the Ayyubid dynasty. Another ruler who
drowned in the Saleph river was Frederick Barbarossa. Battles in this war included the Battle of Arsuf and
the Siege of Acre. For the point, name this conflict during which Philip II of France and Richard the
Lionheart attempted to retake Jerusalem from Saladin.
ANSWER: Third Crusade
132-11-61-01115

16. This group experienced tensions after one member made the Donations of Alexandria, and they divided
their spoils in the Treaty of Brundisium (brun-dee-see-um). They received legal power under the Lex Titia
and fought the pirate Sextus Pompeius (POM-pey-us). This group ordered the execution of Marcus Cicero
and won the Battle of Philippi over Brutus and Cassius. The two main members of this group fought at the
Battle of Actium, with the loser killing himself alongside his lover Cleopatra. For the point, name this
group which consisted of Lepidus, Octavius, and Mark Antony.
ANSWER: Second Triumvirate
052-11-61-01116

17. One figure who stood to benefit from this battle was Hippias, a deposed leader of one side, and an
initial attack by that side was delayed by 2 years due to a storm wiping out the initial invading fleet.
Callimachus cast a deciding vote to begin this battle, and the opposing general at this battle was Datis. This
battle was a victory for Miltiades. For the point, name this battle that saw Athens defeat Persia in 490 BC,
which was supposedly followed by a courier named Phidippides running 26 miles.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
120-11-61-01117

NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 3 of 7

18. Copper has long been mined from this island’s Troodos Mountains. A temple to a goddess of love was
contained on this island’s city of Paphos. This island's capital is currently divided by a Green Line, which
separates the part of this country that sought "enosis" from the unrecognized northern republic. After
Sardinia and Sicily, this island is the third-largest Mediterranean island. For the point, name this island
which is divided into Turkish and Greek sections.
ANSWER: Cyprus [or Kipros; or Kibris]
130-11-61-01118

19. He used the phrase “sigh of the oppressed creature” to describe religion in his critique of Hegel’s
Philosophy of Right, and in comparing Napoleon to Napoleon III, he claimed “History repeats itself first as
tragedy, then as farce”. An 1848 collaboration of his opens by claiming “A specter is haunting Europe” and
notes that all hitherto existing history is the history of class struggles. For the point, name this dialectical
materialist who worked with Friedrich Engels on The Communist Manifesto.
ANSWER: Karl Marx
104-11-61-01119

20. This government's first leader made a secret deal with Wilhelm Groener to deal with communists. Karl
Liebknecht and Rosa Luxembourg attempted a Marxist revolution during this period. That Spartacist
rebellion was ended by this government with the help of the Freikorps. Its first president was Friedrich
Ebert, who was succeeded by Paul von Hindenburg. The Enabling Act caused the end of this government.
For the point, name this German government lasting from the end of World War I to the rise of the Nazis.
ANSWER: Weimar Republic
127-11-61-01120

21. An attempt at reconciliation during this war was called “Love Day,” and one battle in this war saw
Jasper of Wales soundly defeated after a “vision of three suns.” It included the Battle of Mortimer's Cross
and the Battle of Barnet, where a man known as the “Kingmaker” was killed after launching his namesake
rebellion. That man, the Earl of Warwick, was defeated by Edward IV, whose younger brother Richard III
was killed at the final battle of this conflict. For the point, name these 15th century wars in England
between the Houses of York and Lancaster.
ANSWER: The Wars of the Roses
136-11-61-01121

22. This ruler's educational reforms led to the use of his namesake "minuscule script," and were influenced
by Alcuin of York. After ending his alliance with Desiderius, he gave military aid to Pope Adrian I and
became king of the Lombards. This king's army was defeated by the Basques at the Battle of Roncesvalles,
which was described in the Song of Roland. For the point, name this Frankish king and emperor, the son of
Pepin the Short and the namesake of the Carolingian dynasty.
ANSWER: Charlemagne
142-11-61-01122

23. One ruler of this empire created a religion whose members were handpicked and could never exceed
19. That faith was Din-i Ilahi, or “Divine Faith.” That emperor also established ties with the Rajputs and
abolished the tax on non-Muslims, which was reinstated by his great-grandson Aurangzeb. Another ruler of
this empire defeated Ibrahim Lodi at the first battle of Panipat. That first emperor was Babur, whose
grandson was Akbar . For the point, name this Muslim dynasty that ruled India from the 16th to 19th
century.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire [or Mughal dynasty; or Akbar the Great before “Another ruler”]
121-11-61-01123
NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 4 of 7

24. This event was described by Isidore of Kiev, who barely survived it. One man involved in this event
was Giovanni Giustinani who worked as an engineer for the losing side, which relied on fortresses such as
the Rumeli Hisari. A man named Orban built a massive cannon for use in this event, which was followed
by 3 full days of pillaging. A massive chain stretched across the Golden Horn was intended to help stop this
event, which ended the Palaeologus dynasty. For the point, name this 1453 siege of the Byzantine capital
by Mehmet II’s Ottomans.
ANSWER: Fall of Constantinople [accept Siege of Constantinople or reasonable equivalents]
141-11-61-01124

25. One king of this state conquered Amphipolis to obtain the gold of Mount Pangaion and established the
League of Corinth, which he headed. This state used an incredibly long pike called the sarissa to defeat the
Sacred Band at the Battle of Chaeronea, through which this northern state gained hegemony over Greece.
Its most famous ruler defeated Darius III at the battles of Issus and Gaugamela, thereby conquering the
Persian Empire. For 10 points, name this state ruled by Philip II and Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Macedon [or Macedonia]
080-11-61-01125

26. A church council in this city banned the singing of Christmas carols. A massive foreign exchange
market could be found in an enclave of this city called the “Comtat Venaissin” (KOM-ta VEN-ay-sah).
Besides these branches of the Alberti and Medici banks, this city was home to a massive Gothic palace
constructed on orders of Benedict XII. Clement V chose to move his court to this city, although Gregory XI
finally moved out to end the “Babylonian Captivity.” For the point, name this French city which was the
home of the papacy during the 1300’s.
ANSWER: Avignon
052-11-61-01126

27. During World War II, this country was led by the Arrow Cross Party, and during that same conflict,
Operation Panzerfaust was launched in order to keep this country from surrendering to the Soviets.
Between the world wars, this country was led by the communist Bela Kun and admiral Miklos Horthy. One
revolution in this country secured power for Imre Nagy (NAJ) before Soviet tanks arrived. For the point,
name this country whose 1956 revolution came thirty-eight years after its union with Austria ended.
ANSWER: Hungary
141-11-61-01127

28. In one of this man's plays, the protagonist asks Theseus to bury him in Athens. That character curses a
pair of brothers to kill each other in battle, even though they are his sons. This writer wrote a play in which
the title woman is sentenced to death for burying her deceased brother Polynices. That play continues a
story begun in a play exposing a king who married Jocasta, his mother. For the point, name this Greek
playwright who wrote Antigone and Oedipus Rex.
ANSWER: Sophocles
002-11-61-01128

NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 5 of 7

29. This man supported Fructuoso Rivera against the Blancos and the Federales. During the revolutions of
1848, this man won the battles of Luino and Morazzone but was exiled after losing his capital to the
French. This man who had offered military support to Pope Pius IX conquered Messina as part of an 1860
campaign. This man mistrusted the Count of Cavour, but this leader of the Expedition of a Thousand
supported the rule of Victor Emmanuel II. For the point, name this man who led the Redshirts during the
Risorgimento.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
105-11-61-01129

30. A man who claimed descent from one ruler of this empire killed Antonio de Arriaga at the start of a
rebellion in Tungasuca. One ruler of this empire was captured by forces that landed at Tumbes and was
served by the generals Quisquis and Chalcuchima. That leader tried to fill a room with gold as a ransom
when he was caught in Cajamarca after he had fought in a civil war against Huascar. For the point, name
this empire ruled by Atahualpa and conquered by Francisco Pizarro, which ruled from Cuzco in Peru.
ANSWER: Incan Empire [or Tiwantinsuyu]
023-11-61-01130

NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 6 of 7

Extra Questions

31. This man divided one work into concepts that can be understood through natural reason and concepts
that require Christian revelation. This author of Summa Contra Gentiles also wrote a work that includes
five proofs of the existence of God. For the point, name this student of Albertus Magnus, a medieval
Scholastic theologian who wrote Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Saint Thomas Aquinas [or San Tommaso d’Aquino; prompt on Doctor Angelicus]
105-11-61-01131

32. One ruler of this empire established the devaraja cult, or god-king cult, while another ruler was advised
by his guru Divakarapandita. The Sukhothai and Ayutthaya Kingdoms together conquered this empire
founded by Jayavarman II. This empire’s religious reformer Suryavarman II ordered the construction of the
temple Angkor Wat. For the point, name this ancient empire that inspired a namesake rouge led by
communists in Cambodia.
ANSWER: Khmer Empire
130-11-61-01132

NHB Regional Bee A JV

Round 1

Page 7 of 7

