NHB Regional Bee A
Round 2

NHB REGIONAL BEE A
1. This man was depicted as the Cowardly Lion from The Wizard of Oz during his 1900 campaign for
president. Tom Watson was the Populist pick to run with this man in 1896, but Arthur Sewall appeared on
his Democratic ballot. This man argued for the prosecution in the Scopes Trial and spoke against the
Coinage Act, saying that “they shall not crucify mankind upon” the title object. For the point, name this
American politician who vocally opposed the gold standard in his “Cross of Gold” speech.
ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan
134-11-40-02101

2. One battle during this conflict saw Samuel Appleton drive off attackers who had burned down most of
the buildings in Springfield. Another battle during this conflict ended when Josiah Winslow’s militia
overran an Indian fort and was known as the Great Swamp Battle. This war ended when Benjamin Church
killed the opposing side’s leader. For the point, name this war, which was fought between colonists and
Native Americans led by a namesake Wampanoag chief.
ANSWER: King Philip’s War [or Metacomet’s War; accept Metacomet’s Rebellion]
140-11-40-02102

3. This man opposed the New York political machine by appointing Wheeler Hazard Peckham to the
Supreme Court. One movement during his term opposed the national roads program and was stopped on
the grass of the Capitol. This man stopped another protest with federal troops because it was blocking the
mail. Those events, Coxey’s Army and the Pullman Strike, were responses to the Panic of 1873 during his
term. For the point, name this only Democratic president between 1860 and 1912, who served two
nonconsecutive terms.
ANSWER: Grover Cleveland
132-11-40-02103

4. In a cartoon by Grant Hamilton, this character feeds a snake while a home burns in the background. In
another cartoon, he attempts to teach a "New Class in the Art of Self-Government." Another image of this
man served as the cover of the July 6, 1916 issue of Leslie's Weekly. In that image created by James
Montgomery Flagg, this man points at the viewer and claims, "I Want You" to join the army. For the point,
name this avuncular personification of the United States.
ANSWER: Uncle Sam
003-11-40-02104

5. This man is the subject of the lyric, "The conflict that he heralded he looks down from heaven to view."
An earlier line in the same song about this man says that "Kansas knows his valor," and the chorus notes
that his body "lies mouldering in the grave." The music from that song about this man was later used in
"The Battle Hymn of the Republic". For the point, name this subject of a Civil War song, whose death by
hanging is described shortly after a reference to his raid on Harpers Ferry.
ANSWER: John Brown
019-11-40-02105

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 1 of 7

6. Nathaniel Ward wrote this colony's first legal code, its “Body of Liberties.” Its original capital was
Charlestown, where this colony's General Court decided to enfranchise freemen. Solomon Stoddard
introduced a method to extend partial church membership to this colony's inhabitants, the “Halfway
Covenant.” One governor gave a speech claiming it was a “city on a hill.” This colony exiled Roger
Williams and Anne Hutchinson. For the point, name this colony which merged with Plymouth in 1691 and
contained Boston.
ANSWER: Massachusetts Bay Colony [prompt on Massachusetts; do not accept “Plymouth Colony”]
121-11-40-02106

7. This faith’s Richmond Declaration controversially emphasized scripture, and it experienced two schisms
led by Elias Hicks and John Wilbur. They gather informally to set rules at Yearly Meetings, and hold more
common “meetings for worship” where everyone sits silently until someone is moved to speak. They
believe each person experiences God through an Inner Light, and were founded in England by George Fox.
For the point, name this pacifist Christian denomination whose many American colonists included William
Penn.
ANSWER: Quakers [or Religious Society of Friends; prompt Christians or Christianity until “Yearly
Meetings” is read]
104-11-40-02107

8. This movement appeared on a platform for the first time in Gerrit Smith's 1848 campaign. Leser v
Garnett failed to reverse the success of this movement. In England, this movement was led by the
"cat-and-mouse" campaigner Emmaline Pankhurst. An annual convention promoting it was founded by
Lucy Stone. Wyoming enjoyed the success of this movement for fifty years before the rest of the nation.
The Nineteenth Amendment was achieved by, for the point, what movement for giving women the right to
vote?
ANSWER: women's suffrage [or giving women the right to vote or phrases that mean the same thing;
prompt on universal suffrage; prompt on giving everyone the right to vote or phrases that mean the same
thing]
020-11-40-02108

9. After they allied with the leader of this event against the Susquehannock, the Occaneechi were amongst
the first victims of this. John Ingram took charge after this event's leader died of dysentery. During this
event, its namesake had his followers attack the Pamunkey tribe, despite their friendly relations with the
British. It was prompted by Governor Berkeley's refusal to attack the surrounding Native Americans. For
the point, name this 1676 revolt in the colony of Virginia.
ANSWER: Bacon's Rebellion
127-11-40-02109

10. A 1655 attack on land that would become part of this state was called the Peach Tree War. Originally
granted to George Carteret and Lord Berkeley of Stratton by James II, this colony was divided into West
and East sections by the Keith line from 1674 to 1702. This state’s Constitutional Convention delegation,
which included Richard Stockton, proposed a plan giving one vote to each state, in opposition to the
Virginia Plan. For the point, name this state in which the Revolutionary War battles of Trenton and
Princeton occurred.
ANSWER: New Jersey
132-11-40-02110

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 2 of 7

11. This city's park system was laid out by Daniel Burnham. This city's Jackson Park neighborhood was
built up for an event that featured the World's Parliament of Religions, the 1893 World's Columbian
Exposition, during which its "white city" was constructed. It was built on the site of Fort Dearborn. This
city's water tower serves as an unofficial memorial to an 1871 fire that was blamed on Mrs. O'Leary's cow.
For the point, name this largest city in Illinois.
ANSWER: Chicago
003-11-40-02111

12. This politician used his Peoria speech to explain his opposition to the Kansas-Nebraska Act, and, with
the help of Allan Pinkerton, he survived the Baltimore plot against his life. During his tenure in office, John
Slidell and James Mason were detained from the ~Trent~ before they could travel to Europe. He was
opposed by a political group known as the Copperheads, and he was shot during a performance of Our
American Cousin at the Ford's Theatre. For the point, name this American President who was assassinated
by John Wilkes Booth.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
088-11-40-02112

13. John Alden and Hezekiah Usher escaped this event whose first casualty was Bridget Bishop. Samuel
Willard was an opponent of this event that occurred during the governorship of Sir William Phips. William
Stroughton was the judge in the court of Oyer and Terminer during this event. This event began when the
Puritan Reverend Samuel Parris’s daughter became afflicted with fits and accused Sarah Good, Sarah
Osborne, and Tituba. For the point, name these trials that sought to remove Devil worshippers from
Massachussetts.
ANSWER: Salem Witch Trials
124-11-40-02113

14. One of these events was caused by Waitstill Avery's replacement of the book "Bacon's Abridgment"
with a piece of actual bacon. Another one caused the death of Charles Dickinson. One of these events
involving James Shields and Abraham Lincoln was called off at the last minute. One of these events in
Weehawken, New Jersey resulted in Aaron Burr being indicted for the murder of Alexander Hamilton. For
the point, name these fights between two gentlemen, usually over one's affront to the other's honor.
ANSWER: duels [or duels fought by Andrew Jackson until "Shields"]
003-11-40-02114

15. During this conflict, a ceasefire caused by an alleged sighting of a white flag led to Abraham
Kirkpatrick killing James McFarlane at Bower Hill. This conflict began due to opposition towards John
Neville who eventually received military aid from Light-horse Harry Lee. Alexander Hamilton’s
twenty-five percent excise tax ultimately led to this rebellion. For the point, name this 1794 western
Pennsylvanian rebellion against a certain liquor tax.
ANSWER: Whiskey Rebellion
130-11-40-02115

16. Alexander Wylly convened a meeting against the Stamp Act in this colony that saw the formation of the
Amicable Society in response to the Townshend Acts. This colony's island of Saint Simons was the site of
the Battle of Bloody Marsh during the War of Jenkins' Ear. It was originally founded as a haven for debtors
by James Oglethorpe. For the point, name this colony that became a state in 1777 and that includes the
cities of Savannah and Atlanta.
ANSWER: Georgia
040-11-40-02116

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 3 of 7

17. This man ruled to overturn a monopoly granted by New York on steamship travel. This man was
succeeded in his most famous office by Roger Taney [TAW-“knee”]. Cases that this man presided over
included one in which he ruled that states could not tax the federal government and one in which the
doctrine of judicial review was created. Those cases were McCulloch v. Maryland and Marbury v.
Madison. For the point, name this fourth Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court.
ANSWER: John Marshall
137-11-40-02117

18. During this man's presidency, a committee chaired by Lee Overman investigated opposition to the
Underwood tariff, and a second Overman Committee investigated the "radical activities" of left-leaning
organizations. The second of those occurred during a "Red Scare" during which this man's Attorney
General, A. Mitchell Palmer, organized a series of raids to arrest and deport "radicals." For the point, name
this President who, despite being re-elected on the slogan "he kept us out of war," entered the U.S. into
World War I.
ANSWER: (Thomas) Woodrow Wilson
003-11-40-02118

19. This event was investigated by a Senate committee led by Montana Senator Thomas J. Walsh. This
scandal led to the resignation of Edwin Denby as Secretary of the Navy after he had transferred control of
some land to the Department of the Interior. Buena Vista Hills and Elk Hills were given in leases to
Edward Doheny and Harry Sinclair in this scandal after they gave large cash gifts to Albert Fall. For the
point, name this scandal that saw the secret leasing of federal oil reserves during the Harding
administration.
ANSWER: Teapot Dome Scandal
023-11-40-02119

20. This man traveled with Stephen Hempstead before being dropped off by the Schuyler at Oyster Bay,
where he later mistook a frigate for the return of the Schuyler. This man traveled around New York City
claiming to be a Dutch schoolmaster looking for work. William Cunningham was responsible for this
man’s hanging, which occurred after his shoes were searched. John Montresor recorded the final words of,
for the point, which American spy who said “I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country?”
ANSWER: Nathan Hale
023-11-40-02120

21. This man argued for vocational education and the “go slow” approach to race relations. This man
delivered a speech in which he advised Southerners to “cast down your bucket where you are.” That
speech, delivered at the 1895 Atlanta Exhibition, was strongly criticized by this man’s primary rival,
W.E.B. Du Bois. For the point, name this African-American race leader, the founder of the Tuskegee
Institute and the author of Up From Slavery.
ANSWER: Booker Taliaferro Washington
137-11-40-02121

22. This phrase was first coined by Benjamin Russell in the Columbian Centinel. One political conflict
during this period was the argument over internal improvements from the Cumberland Road Bill. The
dissolution of the Federalist Party following the Hartford Convention led to this period. Fighting following
the Panic of 1819 and the Missouri Compromise ended this time period. For the point, name this collegial
era from 1817 to 1825 that saw reduced partisanship during the presidency of James Monroe.
ANSWER: Era of Good Feelings
135-11-40-02122

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 4 of 7

23. This man led a flotilla that drove back Guy Carleton at the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain.
This man’s service is commemorated by a statue of a single boot. He abandoned his contact, John Andre,
to be hanged after giving up West Point. This man led a campaign to capture Quebec along with Richard
Montgomery. Furious at being continually passed over for promotion, this man left the Continental Army.
For the point, name this treacherous general of the American Revolution.
ANSWER: Benedict Arnold
080-11-40-02123

24. This man wrote that "It is error alone which needs the support of government" in a statute for religious
freedom in his state. In a letter to the Danbury Baptist Association, he argued that because religion "is a
matter which lies solely between man and his God," there should be a "wall of separation" between church
and state. He also drafted a document claiming that "all men are created equal." For the point, name this
Virginian credited with writing the Declaration of Independence.
ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson
003-11-40-02124

25. Gouvernor Morris denounced this clause in his "Curse of Heaven" speech. John Dickinson's proposal to
replace the words "other Persons" in this clause was opposed by its originator, James Madison, on the
grounds that it was wrong "to admit in the Constitution the idea that there could be property in men." For
the point, Article 1, Section 2 of the Constitution used to include what clause that, for taxation and
representation purposes, counted slaves as the namesake fraction of a free man?
ANSWER: three-fifths compromise [prompt on Article 1, Section 2 before it is read]
003-11-40-02125

26. One of these speeches notes that "We can not continue these brilliant successes in the future, unless we
continue to learn from the past." Another of these speeches claims that "The Nation asks for action, and
action now," and asserts that "the only thing we have to fear is fear itself." A third asks for the nation to
"strive to finish the work we are in" "with malice towards none, with charity for all." For the point, name
these speeches given by Presidents upon their ascendancy to office.
ANSWER: Presidential inaugural addresses
003-11-40-02126

27. In one poem by this author, the speaker describes feeling “zero at the bone” after encountering a snake.
In another poem, the speaker feels “a plank in reason, broke” and “finished knowing, then.” In addition to
writing “A Narrow Fellow in the Grass” and “I Felt a Funeral in My Brain,” this poet described a trip in a
carriage that "held but just ourselves and immortality.” For the point, name this reclusive female American
poet of works such as “Because I Could Not Stop for Death.”
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
140-11-40-02127

28. This man was inspired by his holiday in Havana to write his Cuban Overture. His brother Ira often
contributed lyrics to his pieces. This man included the sound of taxi horns in An American in Paris, and
wrote the songs "It Ain't Necessarily So" and "Summertime" for an opera set in Catfish Row. This
composer used a jazz-like clarinet glissando to open his Rhapsody in Blue. For the point, name this
American composer of Porgy and Bess.
ANSWER: George Gershwin
015-11-40-02128

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 5 of 7

29. This man is normally credited with creating the first true milling machine. Katherine Greene probably
came up with the idea of replacing the wooden pegs in this man's most famous invention with wire hooks.
This man took over ten years to deliver the 10,000 muskets he had promised to make for the US
government in two years time. Those muskets were supposed to make use of interchangeable parts, which
this man is usually incorrectly credited with inventing. For the point, name this American inventor of the
cotton gin.
ANSWER: Eli Whitney
066-11-40-02129

30. The Blount Report, which was later repudiated by the Morgan Report, criticized the takeover of this
territory by the Committee of Safety and marines from the U.S.S. Boston. The United States gained control
of this territory through the Newlands Resolution. The Reciprocity Treaty of 1875 established American
sugar-trading rights in this territory. The Bayonet Constitution of 1887 in this territory overthrew king
Kalakaua. For the point, name this island territory and future state whose last native queen was Liliuokalani
[lily-o-ka-law-nee].
ANSWER: Hawaii
123-11-40-02130

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 6 of 7

Extra Questions

31. This man led a surprise night attack to capture a British position on the Hudson River in the Battle of
Stony Point. He was picked to command the “Legion of the United States” after another man’s disastrous
loss at the Battle of the Wabash. This man negotiated the Treaty of Greenville after defeating Chief Blue
Jacket near present-day Toledo in a battle that took its name from trees that had been blown down by a
storm. For the point, name this victor at the Battle of Fallen Timbers, a general nicknamed “Mad.”
ANSWER: "Mad" Anthony Wayne
052-11-40-02131

32. During this battle, the Comte de Grasse prevented a relief effort by Thomas Graves by defeating him at
the Battle of the Chesapeake. This battle’s victors had marched down from New York to besiege a general
retreating from North Carolina after the Battle of Guilford Courthouse. The defeated force’s band played
“The World Turned Upside Down” while surrendering at this battle. For the point, name this defeat for
Lord Cornwallis which ended the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Battle of Yorktown [or Siege of Yorktown; or Battle of the Chesapeake before it is read]
080-11-40-02132

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 2

Page 7 of 7

