NHB Regional Bee A
Round 3

NHB REGIONAL BEE A
1. The H Blocks is a prison in this region. This region was also the site of the 1998 Omagh bombing. U.S.
Senator George Mitchell helped negotiate the Good Friday Agreement meant to bring stability to this
region. Composed of six of the nine counties in Ulster, it experienced a wave of violence in the later part of
the twentieth century that partially ended after a ceasefire from the provisional IRA. For the point, name
this country in the United Kingdom with capital at Belfast.
ANSWER: Northern Ireland
064-11-40-03101

2. This work is housed in the Museo Reina Sofia in Madrid. Three figures in this mural have daggers
instead of tongues. The tail of one of those figures, a bull, looks like a flame with rising smoke. A light
bulb in an evil eye in this work hangs over a horse's head. That horse stands over a dead soldier wielding a
broken sword in a hand from which a flower blooms. For the point, name the Pablo Picasso painting
depicting the firebombing of the title Basque city during the Spanish Civil War.
ANSWER: Guernica
147-11-40-03102

3. The suppression of the Home Army's revolt in this country's capital during World War II led to this
country coming under Soviet control. Nazi Germany's invasion of this country without Soviet resistance
was enabled by the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. This country's president in the 1980s had been a leader of the
trade union Solidarity; that man’s name was Lech Walesa. For the point, the 1955 mutual-defense treaty
between the Soviet Union and its satellites takes its name from what country’s capital?
ANSWER: Republic of Poland [ or Rzeczpospolita Polska]
142-11-40-03103

4. On one holiday with this name, women washed their faces with dew in the morning. Grover Cleveland
attempted to reduce the popularity of railworkers' unions by declaring that the United States would not
participate in another holiday of this name, which was begun in 1889 by the Second International. This
holiday was a major public festival in Communist countries, and is the equivalent of Labor Day in much of
Europe. For the point, identify this holiday whose ancient version involved pagan fertility rituals such as
dancing around a namesake pole.
ANSWER: May Day
019-11-40-03104

5. This man’s son defeated Ron Carey in a union election. Richard Nixon commuted this man’s 13-year
sentence for jury tampering, fraud, and conspiracy. He organized the first national freight-hauling
agreement. He was reportedly supposed to meet Anthony Provenzano and Anthony Giacalone at a
restaurant near Detroit. A search for his remains on a farm in Michigan in 2006 yielded no results. For the
point, name this one-time president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters who disappeared in
1975.
ANSWER: James Riddle “Jimmy” Hoffa
027-11-40-03105

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 1 of 7

6. This leader unsuccessfully offered up his country as the site of the Lockerbie bombers’ trial. After
leading the Spear of the Nation movement, he was convicted for treason at the Rivonia trial. This author of
the autobiography Long Walk to Freedom was imprisoned for twenty-seven years on Robben Island before
his release by F.W. de Klerk in 1990. For the point, name this man who ended apartheid after being elected
the first black President of South Africa.
ANSWER: Nelson Mandela
079-11-40-03106

7. This country contains Cross River National Park, after which a critically endangered subspecies of
western lowland gorilla is named. In this country, riots in Kaduna occurred after that state instituted Sharia
Law. Languages spoken in this southernmost African member of OPEC include Yorlish, a hybrid of
Yoruba and English. One of this country's ethnic groups, the Igbo, attempted to set up the breakaway state
of Biafra. For the point, name this country, the most populous in Africa.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria
003-11-40-03107

8. This site is the birthplace of the May Fourth Movement protesting the Treaty of Versailles. In 1976,
another protest here was caused by police removal of wreaths at the Monument to the People's Heroes.
"Market Leninism" was introduced after another incident here, which occurred almost two months after the
death of Hu Yaobang (HOO yow-BAHNG) and saw an unidentified man stand in front of a tank. For the
point, that June 4, 1989 incident took place in what large public square in Beijing, China?
ANSWER: Tiananmen Square [or Tiananmen Guangchang]
003-11-40-03108

9. Forces loyal to this man have included the Khamis Brigade, led by his youngest son. This man’s
political ideology, known as the Third International Theory, was promoted in The Green Book. In June
2011, television transmitters owned by this man’s government were destroyed in a campaign authorized by
UN Security Council Resolution 1973. In February 2011, this man’s interior minister, Abdul Fatah Younis,
resigned and joined his country’s National Transitional Council. For the point, name this longtime ruler of
Libya.
ANSWER: Muammar Muhammad al-Gaddafi
132-11-40-03109

10. This Supreme Court case was extended to the District of Columbia by Bolling v. Sharpe. Having
switched from his initial liberal position due to attacks from his party’s right-wing, Orval Faubus fought
this case’s “naked judicial power” in accordance with the Southern Manifesto. This case struck down
Plessy v. Ferguson’s “separate but equal” ruling. For the point, name this 1954 Supreme Court case that
prohibited racial segregation in public schools.
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka
130-11-40-03110

11. This President signed the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. He gave financial aid to Latin American
countries to promote literacy and democracy as part of the Alliance for Progress. This Pulitzer
Prize-winning author of Profiles in Courage also launched the failed Bay of Pigs invasion to overthrow
Fidel Castro at the onset of the Cuban Missile Crisis. For the point, name this Catholic President who was
assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald in 1963.
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald Kennedy [or John F. Kennedy; or JFK]
079-11-40-03111

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 2 of 7

12. This country rebuilt much of its industry during the “economic miracle” brought about by Ludwig
Erhard. One city in this country was the object of a massive operation organized by Curtis LeMay to bring
food past a blockade. This country’s first chancellor was Konrad Adenauer, who established its capital at
Bonn. For the point, name this country that existed from 1945-1990, whose Eastern neighbor belonged to
the Soviet bloc.
ANSWER: West Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany; or Westdeutschland; prompt on
Germany]
080-11-40-03112

13. This Assistant Director of the Office of Civilian Defense wrote a twenty-six year column, "My Day,"
that included rare interviews with Nikita Khrushchev. As a delegate to the United Nations, this politician
pushed through the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To protest the exclusion of Marian Anderson
from Constitution Hall, she resigned from the Daughters of the American Revolution. For the point, name
this politician that revolutionized the role of First Lady during her husband Franklin's terms as president.
ANSWER: (Anna) Eleanor Roosevelt [prompt on Roosevelt]
003-11-40-03113

14. One of this man's Presidential campaigns used the unofficial slogan "the peasants are coming with
pitchforks" and was hampered after he received a congratulatory letter from Vladimir Zhirinovsky. His
keynote address at the 1992 Republican National Convention is known as the "culture war" speech. This
man allegedly received over three thousand accidental votes for President due to the "butterfly ballot" used
in Palm Beach County. For the point, name this conservative commentator and 2000 Reform Party
candidate.
ANSWER: Patrick Joseph Buchanan
003-11-40-03114

15. This man once stated that his country had lost a battle, but not the war, and a party started by this man
later became the UDR. This leader’s actions led to the Empty Chair Crisis, and this man’s first Prime
Minister was Michel Debre. This man gave a radio speech known as the Appeal of June 18. This man was
succeeded as President by Georges Pompidou, and he led the Free French and the Fifth Republic. For the
point, name this French president.
ANSWER: Charles de Gaulle
120-11-40-03115

16. Leaks by Mehdi Hashemi eventually led to the uncovering of this event. Brent Scowcroft and Edmund
Muskie were part of a committee that investigated this event, the Tower Commission. This event violated
the Boland amendment. Caspar Weinberger was convicted as a part of it, but rulings on John Poindexter
and Oliver North were overturned. The primary beneficiary of this scandal was a group of rebels fighting
the Sandinistas. For the point, name this scandal involving profits from arms in a Middle Eastern country.
ANSWER: Iran-Contra affair
127-11-40-03116

17. He was unsuccessfully opposed by the Anti-Party Group and he ruled while the exchange of Rudolf
Abel for Gary Powers occurred. This politician promoted the failed Virgin Lands Campaign and declared
"we will bury you" in one speech. It was reported that during a speech by a representative of the Philippines
at the U.N., this man banged his shoe on a table in protest. For the point, name this leader of the U.S.S.R.
who took part in the Kitchen Debate with Richard Nixon and succeeded Joseph Stalin.
ANSWER: Nikita (Sergeyevich) Khrushchev
088-11-40-03117

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 3 of 7

18. This owner of the "Eagle's Nest" argued that his nation required "lebensraum." A bomb exploded in his
headquarters in East Prussia in the failed Valkyrie plot to assassinate him, which this man used as a
pretense to convince Erwin Rommel to kill himself. He became chancellor under Hindenburg, and killed
himself with his wife Eva Braun when the Soviets invaded Berlin. For the point, name this dictator of Nazi
Germany.
ANSWER: Adolf Hitler
027-11-40-03118

19. The aftermath of this event saw the self-immolation of Jan Palach. One side in this event justified their
military action by invoking the Brezhnev Doctrine. Prior to this event, Alexander Dubcek proclaimed
“socialism with a human face”; Dubcek would be replaced afterwards by Gustav Hasek. This event is also
the backdrop for Milan Kundera’s The Unbearable Lightness of Being. For the point, name this 1968
period of reform that ended following a Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague Spring
064-11-40-03119

20. In one story by this author, Ike McCaslin finds that he is unable to shoot the title animal. This author of
“The Bear” also created the Snopes family in his novel The Hamlet. In one of his novels, a Harvard student
who has incestuous fantasies about his sister Caddy drowns himself. In another, Cash builds a coffin for the
family matriarch Addie Bundren. For the point, name this Southern author of such stream-of-consciousness
works as As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury.
ANSWER: William Cuthbert Faulkner
014-11-40-03120

21. One early leader of this movement was Leonard Howell, whose arrest helped frame the lack of
leadership in its structure. Philosophically, this belief system follows from Marcus Garvey's
"back-to-Africa" movement and gained steam upon the coronation of Haile Selassie in Ethiopia. It focuses
on a rejection of Babylon and western civilization in favor of an African Zion. For the point, what religious
movement originated in Jamaica in the 1930s and includes in its practices the spiritual use of cannabis?
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
147-11-40-03121

22. This man warns against the desire to unite with God in his work Seven Sermons to the Dead. This man
also described a concept, exemplified by a similar-looking beetle appearing as a patient described a dream
about a scarab, called "synchronicity." He proposed the mind's "animus" and "anima" as part of a larger
theory in which this promoter of "introversion" and "extraversion" described archetypes. For the point,
name this Freudian psychologist who proposed the "collective unconscious."
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung
105-11-40-03122

23. The editor of The New Republic was the Progressive Party nominee for this election, running against
the man that succeeded him as Vice-President. Strom Thurmond took three states during this election,
which ultimately led to the Democrats holding the White House. The Republican candidate at this election
was the governor of New York at the time of the election. For the point, name this election that saw
Truman defeat Dewey, the opposite of what was printed in the Chicago Daily Tribune.
ANSWER: Election of 1948
135-11-40-03123

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 4 of 7

24. Protestors responded to this leader’s “Silent Majority” speech with Moratorium Day. This leader gave
his “Checkers Speech” just after Eisenhower chose him as a running mate. This president defeated Hubert
Humphrey with his running mate Spiro Agnew. The draft was ended during his presidency. This president
was forced to turn over the White House Tapes after his government broke into the headquarters of the
Democratic National Convention at Watergate. For the point, name this only American president to resign
from office.
ANSWER: Richard Milhous Nixon
124-11-40-03124

25. This man admitted to committing "adultery in my heart many times" in a Playboy interview just before
his election. This president signed the SALT II nuclear limitation treaty with Brezhnev and created the
Department of Education. During his administration, members of the Iranian embassy were taken as
hostages. For the point, name this Democratic successor to Gerald Ford who also served as Governor of
Georgia.
ANSWER: James "Jimmy" Earl Carter, Jr.
015-11-40-03125

26. This five-word phrase described Ernie Calverley's half-court buzzer beater to tie a 1946 NIT game, and
Gene Sarazen's double eagle on the fifteenth hole at Augusta National in 1935. It also described the home
run that plated Clint Hartung and Whitey Lockman to give the New York Giants the 1951 NL pennant.
That home run was hit off of Ralph Branca by Bobby Thomson. For the point, give this five-word phrase
also used by Ralph Waldo Emerson to describe the first shot fired in the American Revolution.
ANSWER: Shot Heard 'Round the World
003-11-40-03126

27. Otto Skorzeny led a rescue mission of this man in the Gran Sasso Raid. In his early rule he consolidated
political power with the Acerbo Law and he ordered the assassination of critic Giacomo Matteoti. This man
signed the Lateran Treaty with the Vatican. Earlier, he and his paramilitary black shirts marched on Rome
in 1922. For the point, name this fascist dictator of Italy during World War II.
ANSWER: Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini
064-11-40-03127

28. This scandal bred the phrase “vast right wing conspiracy.” One of the principal figures in this scandal
had her telephone conversations secretly recorded by Linda Tripp, who also encouraged that figure to save
a dirty blue dress. Those tapes were eventually given to prosecutor Ken Starr, who was already
investigating the other principal figure in this scandal for the Whitewater scandal. For the point, name this
sex scandal involving a White House intern and President Bill Clinton.
ANSWER: Monica Lewinsky scandal
137-11-40-03128

29. This event occurred in concordance with a treaty signed by Hafizullah Amin (hah-fee-ZOO-lah
ah-MEEN), who was executed shortly after this event. In response to this event, the United States recalled
Ambassador Thomas Watson and suspended SALT I talks, then boycotted the Summer Olympics. An
American-funded alliance of Muslim rebels, known as the mujahideen (moo-jah-hih-DEEN), formed to
fight this first post-World War II deployment of Soviet troops outside the Communist Bloc. For the point,
name this 1979 Soviet invasion of a Central Asian country.
ANSWER: Soviet invasion of Afghanistan [or Soviet occupation of Afghanistan; or other obvious
equivalents mentioning Soviets in Afghanistan; or invasion of Afghanistan after "Soviet"; prompt on
Afghan War; prompt on answers that confuse "Soviet" with Russian]
003-11-40-03129

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 5 of 7

30. Under this man’s leadership, the bicameral Congress of People’s Deputies was created via
amendments to a 1977 Constitution. This man signed the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty with
the United States, and he succeeded Konstantin Chernenko in his highest position. In that position, he
fended off a hard-liner coup in 1991. For the point, name this final leader of the Soviet Union.
ANSWER: Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev
014-11-40-03130

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 6 of 7

Extra Questions

31. One of these by Karlheinz Stockhausen requires musicians to play aboard flying helicopters. Steve
Reich’s Different Trains includes a tape recorder in a minimalist one of these, and Alban Berg’s Lyric Suite
is a six-movement one using the twelve-tone technique. A contemporary group named for Kronos plays
new ones, and the fourth movement of Bartok’s fourth one is played entirely by plucking. For the point,
name this type of piece for an ensemble of two violins, a viola, and a cello.
ANSWER: string quartets
104-11-40-03131

32. Founders of this entity include Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf. Advancements in the administration of this
entity are submitted to the IETF as Requests for Comments. The naming space of this entity is administered
by ICANN, and protocols used to control parts of it include the Transmission Control Protocol.
Predecessors to this system include the French-developed CYCLADES and a system funded by DARPA
called ARPANET. For the point, name this international network of computers which allows access to the
World Wide Web.
ANSWER: The Internet
088-11-40-03132

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 3

Page 7 of 7

