NHB Regional Bee A
Round 4

NHB REGIONAL BEE A
1. The first part of this battle was fought at Freeman's Farm. Later fighting as part of this battle was fought
at Bemis Heights and led to the defeat of a General who had waited for eighteen days before this battle to
allow his lengthy baggage train to meet his forces. News of this battle led Louis XVI to negotiate a French
alliance with the victorious colonists. For the point, name this 1777 battle in upstate New York.
ANSWER: Battle of Saratoga
002-11-40-04101

2. This country saw its lifespan extended by the political defeat of Lavrenty Beria. Playwright Bertolt
Brecht spent his last years in this country. This country's parliament was called the People's Chamber, and
Walter Ulbricht led its most powerful party, the SED. This country whose secret police was called the Stasi
was also led by Erich Honecker. This country merged with its neighbor in 1990. For the point, name this
former Communist nation that built a wall around its capital of East Berlin.
ANSWER: East Germany [accept German Democratic Republic; or Ostdeutschland; or Deutsche D
emokratische Republik]
105-11-40-04102

3. The solo trumpet in the second of these works is written in the highest register of the clarino. The
composer removes the ripieno in the fifth of these works in favor of three solo instrements: flute, violin,
and harpsichord. The third of these compositions is the shortest and calls for strings only. All of these
compositions call for a different combination of instruments. For the point, name this set of six concertos
composed by Johann Sebastian Bach dedicated to the Margraf Christian Ludwig of their namesake city.
ANSWER: Brandenburg Concertos [or Brandenburgisch Konzerte]
124-11-40-04103

4. The Battles of Wavre and Ligny were two battles that preceded this battle. One commander at this battle
formed up his men on Mont Saint-Jean ridge to prevent access to Belgium. The French commander at this
battle sent his younger brother Jerome to attack the farm house of Hougoumont which anchored the British
right flank. The turn of this battle was when the Prussian army arrived to relieve the faltering British
soldiers under the Duke of Wellington. For the point, name this final defeat for Napoleon.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo
135-11-40-04104

5. United Nations intervention in this conflict was led by Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh and was intended to
enforce the Arusha (ah-ROO-shah) Accords. This conflict began after Juvenal Habyarimana's
(HAHB-yah-ree-MAH-nah) plane was shot down, and Belgium pulled out of this conflict after ten of its
Blue Helmets were killed. The Interahamwe (IN-ter-ah-HAHM-way) committed most of the worst
atrocities in this war. For the point, name this mid-1990s attempt by extremist Hutus to exterminate the
Tutsi minority in a central African country.
ANSWER: Rwandan genocide [prompt on Rwandan Civil War]
003-11-40-04105

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 1 of 11

6. This man studied Social Anthropology at Cambridge as well as deep ecology at the University of
Minnesota and he served as an MEP for East Midlands. He ran against Chris Huhne after the resignation of
Menzies Campbell to lead his party. He currently represents Sheffield Hallam and some of his many
current positions include Minister for Constitutional and Political Reform and Lord President of the
Council. For the point, name this leader of the Liberal Democrats and Deputy Prime Minister of the United
Kingdom.
ANSWER: Nick Clegg
138-11-40-04106

7. This legislation started a New York riot culminating in an attack on the house of Cadwallader Colden. In
response to this legislation, a namesake “Congress” assembled in New York and released a “Declaration of
Rights and Grievances. It was proposed by George Grenville to help pay for the costs of the Seven Years’
War, but led to angry cries of “No taxation without representation!” For the point, name this British Act
which taxed printed paper in the colonies, fueling the discontent that led to the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Stamp Act
080-11-40-04107

8. One leader with this surname bought contracts from the Bofors company and refused to withdraw
peacekeeping forces from his nation's southern neighbor. Another leader with this surname ruled during a
period called "The Emergency." That leader ordered Operation Blue Star, a raid on the Golden Temple in
Amritsar, and was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards. For the point, give this surname of Prime Ministers
Rajiv and Indira.
ANSWER: Gandhi
020-11-40-04108

9. One work by this thinker tells the story of Gyges, who performs immoral acts after finding a ring of
invisibility. The characters discuss the nature of piety in a work by this man called Euthyphro, and he also
wrote about his teacher refusing to be broken out of prison by Crito. In another work by this philosopher,
one character explains a scenario where prisoners look at shadows projected on a wall. For the point, name
this student of Socrates who wrote about the allegory of the cave in The Republic.
ANSWER: Plato
142-11-40-04109

10. This man's government improved the conditions of the lower classes with the Artisans' Dwellings Act
and the Factory Act. Upon succeeding Lord Derby, this man noted that he had "climbed to the top of the
greasy pole." This prime minister gave his monarch the title of "Empress of India." This author of the novel
Vivien Grey led the Conservative Party against his rival, William Gladstone. For the point, name this
Jewish prime minister, the favorite of Queen Victoria.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli
080-11-40-04110

11. This person was captured by Sir Samuel Argall and released in exchange for seven prisoners. Also
called Matoaka, this person was Christianized with the name “Rebecca.” She eventually died of a lung
disease after marrying John Rolf. This princess of the Powhatan tribe is alleged to have stopped a certain
leader from having his head crushed by a stone. For the point, name this Indian princess who saved the life
of John Smith.
ANSWER: Pocahontas [or Matoaka before it is read; or Rebecca before it is read]
080-11-40-04111

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 2 of 11

12. Part of this program was ruled unconstitutional in the case Schechter v. United States, and that
organization was symbolized with a blue eagle. This program began with a series of reforms passed in its
administrator's "First Hundred Days." Other agencies under this program included the Civilian
Conservation Corps and the Tennessee Valley Authority. For the point, name this program started by FDR
in an attempt to alleviate the pains of the Great Depression.
ANSWER: New Deal [or NRA before "Hundred Days" is read]
002-11-40-04112

13. Benjamin Curtis's seventy-page dissent in this case used the laws of six states under the Articles of
Confederation as a counterexample to one of the majority opinion's arguments. The majority opinion for
this case argued that the plaintiff had no standing because he was not a citizen; it then argued that the Fifth
Amendment prohibited Congress from creating free territory, and therefore the Missouri Compromise was
unconstitutional. For the point, name this 1857 case in which a slave unsuccessfully sued for his freedom.
ANSWER: Scott v. Sandford [or Sandford v. Scott; or Dred Scott Decision]
003-11-40-04113

14. During his first major publication, he introduced his namesake coordinates and proved that near the
time-line, space behaves like a Euclidean one. This man was one of the first people to classify beta decay
and the weak force. While at the Los Alamos site of the Manhattan Project, this man came up with initial
calculations for creating a thermonuclear weapon composed of tritium. For the point, name this physicist
who worked at the University of Chicago to creating the first sustained nuclear reaction, after emigrating
from Italy.
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi
135-11-40-04114

15. Former Bush solicitors general Paul Clement and Ted Olson are on opposite sides of hearings over this
law. On March 16, 2011, Jerrold Nadler and Dianne Feinstein of New York introduced bills to formally
repeal this law. Its second section limits the scope of the Full Faith and Credit clause. In February, Attorney
General Eric Holder announced that the Justice Department will no longer defend it in court. For the point,
name this 1996 federal law which defines marriage as between one man and one woman.
ANSWER: Defense of Marriage Act [or DOMA]
104-11-40-04115

16. This man was expelled from Harvard for sending his professors chamber pots inscribed with their
names. He lost to Charles Evans Hughes in the 1906 race for governor of New York. He had a lengthy
affair with actress Marion Davies, some of whose movies he produced, and built a giant castle in San
Simeon, California. He was known for telling Frederick Remington “You supply the pictures, I’ll supply
the war.” For the point, name this owner of the New York Journal, the basis of Citizen Kane.
ANSWER: William Randolph Hearst
080-11-40-04116

17. Clyde Sellers paid a ten dollar fine after this man was arrested for loitering and chose jail time over the
fine. In Stride Toward Freedom, this pastor at the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church described his leadership
of the Montgomery Bus Boycott. He donated the money that came with the 1964 Nobel Peace Prize to the
cause of civil rights. For the point, name this civil rights leader who at a march on Washington, D.C.,
claimed, "I Have a Dream."
ANSWER: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or Michael Luther King, Jr.; prompt on MLK]
003-11-40-04117

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 3 of 11

18. Senator George Pendleton proposed an “idea” named for this state that supported using greenbacks to
redeem Civil War bonds. This state was the plaintiff in a case that decided that pornography found in the
defendant’s house without a warrant was inadmissible evidence; that case was Mapp v. (this state). This
state was the first formed according to the Northwest Ordinance. Most of Warren Harding’s cabinet came
from this state. For the point, name this state that contains Cincinnati.
ANSWER: Ohio
080-11-40-04118

19. Michael Servetus exchanged many letters with this man, who later had him arrested. This man’s
doctrine of unconditional election is often contrasted with that of Jacobus Arminius. This theologian
arranged one of his writings to follow the structure of the Apostle’s Creed. He fled from France to
Switzerland to avoid persecution and took refuge in Geneva. For the point, name this theologian who
founded a branch of Christianity that emphasized predestination.
ANSWER: John Calvin [or Jean Cauvin]
134-11-40-04119

20. A cartoon satirizing this policy depicts a snapping turtle with its name spelled backwards. Loopholes in
its enforcement were closed by the First Supplementary Act. Macon's Bill No. 2 was the last attempt to
enforce this policy, enacted after the Chesapeake was attacked and four sailors impressed. The act that
bears its name was replaced with the Non-Intercourse Act, which attempted to harm the economies of
Britain and France. For the point, name this policy enforced by Thomas Jefferson, which stopped foreign
trade.
ANSWER: United States embargo [or Embargo Act of 1807; accept Nonintercourse Act of 1809]
020-11-40-04120

21. This artist painted the last Assyrian king looking calmly on as his harem is slaughtered in Death of
Sardanapalus. He painted a scene of Turkic atrocities against the Greeks in his painting of The Massacre at
Chios. One of his paintings includes a depiction of a boy holding a pistol in each hand. That painting by
this man was based on the July Revolution and depicted the bare-breasted title character waving the French
flag. For the point, name this artist of Liberty Leading the People.
ANSWER: Eugene Delacroix
015-11-40-04121

22. One member of this philosophical school criticized the Cartesian method in his article, “Some
Consequences of of Four Incapacities.” That man also created this school's “maxim” in “How to Make our
Ideas Clear.” Another member of this school described the sometimes competing desires to find truth and
to avoid error in his lectures, “The Will to Believe.” For the point, name this school of thought that
includes Charles Peirce, which claims an idea's validity depends on its practicality.
ANSWER: pragmatism [do not accept “pragmaticism”]
121-11-40-04122

23. Upon this politician's death, a government decree mandated that men wear black ties forever. This
politician's body was lost for seventeen years before being moved to Recoleta Cemetery. This onetime
president of a radio performers' union declined a 1951 nomination for vice president due to cancer. In 1949
she founded a women's party specifically to support her husband. This heroine of the descamisados created
her own foundation to help working class Argentines. For the point, name this near-mythic wife of Juan
Peron.
ANSWER: Maria Eva Duarte de Peron [or Evita Peron; prompt on Peron]
003-11-40-04123

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 4 of 11

24. One person with this status lied to Xerxes about the fealty of Themistocles, giving the Greeks the edge
at the Battle of Salamis. One group of these individuals could be killed during the crypteia without
repercussion and were exempt from the agoge, the educational regimen of Sparta. Solon ended the
conferring of this status on people who didn't pay their debts. Spartan ones were known as helots. Only the
poorest Athenian citizens could not afford one. For the point, name these unfree individuals in Ancient
Greece.
ANSWER: Greek slaves [accept helots before mention]
020-11-40-04124

25. This modern day country was where the problem of finding a circular altar equal in area to a square
altar originated. A mathematician from this country developed a formula for finding the area from the sides
of any quadrilateral inscribed in a circle. That mathematician also set down the first explicit form of the
quadratic equation. A mathematician from the Kerala school in this country first discovered a version of the
mean value theorem. For the point, name this modern day country where zero was first used as a number,
by Brahmagupta.
ANSWER: India
066-11-40-04125

26. Prince Geza ruled this people; his successor, Stephen I, was canonized by Pope Gregory VII. Their later
kings included Matthias Corvinus, the son of John Hunyadi. This people lost the battle of Lechfeld to Holy
Roman Emperor Otto the Great, turning back their raids into Europe from the Carpathian basin. For the
point, name this ethnicity eventually ruled by Austria, which settled in a Central European country and took
over the cities of Buda and Pest.
ANSWER: Magyars [or ethnic Hungarians]
104-11-40-04126

27. This action was approved by a joint resolution proposed by George McDuffie and Charles Ingersoll.
Stephen Douglas defended this action from Robert Winthrop's charges that it was the policy of an
"accidental President." After it was initially blocked, it became part of the 1844 Democratic Party platform.
Debate over whether this action applied to territory between the Nueces River and Rio Grande led to the
Mexican War. For the point, name this 1845 action in which a breakaway Mexican state was added to the
Union.
ANSWER: annexation of Texas [or admission of Texas to the Union; or obvious equivalents mentioning
Texas joining the United States]
003-11-40-04127

28. This body of water was shaken by the New Madrid earthquake, and an indigenous culture along it built
the Cahokia mounds. Sieur d’Iberville tried to find its end a decade after Sieur de la Salle sailed down it,
claimed it for France, and failed to relocate it. Pinckney’s treaty gave the US navigation rights along this
river, while the siege of Vicksburg included boats going across it. For the point, name this river whose delta
includes the city of New Orleans, and which runs west of a Southern state named for it.
ANSWER: Mississippi River
104-11-40-04128

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 5 of 11

29. This man’s mistress Manuela Saenz had him jump out a window to flee from assassins. His Decree of
War to the Death advised civilians on his side to kill enemy civilians midway through his Admirable
Campaign. This General-in-Chief at Boyacá and victor at Carabobo met with José de San Martín at the
Guayaquil conference, while his lieutenant Antonio José de Sucre won the battle of Ayacucho in what’s
now Peru. For the point, name this Libertador whose victories in Venezuela and Colombia aided South
American independence.
ANSWER: Simón Bolívar [or Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar y Palacios Ponte y
Blanco]
104-11-40-04129

30. During the Revolutionary War, this state was governed by the Assembly of Freemen. General Ross
captured Washington, D.C., during the War of 1812 following the Battle of Bladensburg in this state. This
state's namesake Toleration Act was revoked by William Claiborne. Alexander Hamilton organized a
convention in this state's capital to discuss the Articles of Confederation. This state was originally founded
by Lord Calvert. For the point, the "Star Spangled-Banner" was written following the Battle of Fort
McHenry, located in what state's Baltimore Harbor?
ANSWER: Maryland
149-11-40-04130

31. South Kasai once attempted to secede from this nation. Moise Tshombe was an early politician in this
nation who led a secession movement in its southeast region of Katanga; that movement led to the death of
UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold. Patrice Lumumba led this nation shortly after independence but
was assassinated in a CIA backed coup and replaced with the dictator Joseph Mobutu. For the point, name
this central African nation formerly known as Zaire that gained independence from Belgium in 1960.
ANSWER: Democratic Republic of the Congo [or DRC; or Congo-Kinshasa; or Republique
Democratique du Congo; or RDC; accept Zaire before mentioned; prompt on Congo; do not accept
"Republic of the Congo"; do not accept "Congo-Brazzaville"]
064-11-40-04131

32. One member of this group bought a dog named Seaman, after which he named Seaman’s Creek. This
group hired the Frenchman Toussaint Charbonneau to act as an interpreter. They were known as the “Corps
of Discovery.” They frequently sent magpies, plants, and dogs in boxes back to Washington. Sent out after
the Louisiana Purchase, they had frequent encounters with the Shoshone, including the famous Sacagawea.
For the point, name this exploratory expedition sent by Thomas Jefferson and commanded by two pioneers.
ANSWER: The Meriwether Lewis and William Clark Expedition [or equivalents]
080-11-40-04132

33. This project was targeted by Operation Kadesh. In 1875, Benjamin Disraeli purchased almost half the
shares in this project after taking out a four million pound loan from the Rothschilds. Its construction was
bankrolled by the Frenchman Ferdinand de Lesseps, while Canadian Prime Minister Lester Pearson helped
resolve a military crisis after an attempt to nationalize it in 1956. For the point, name this waterway built to
connect the Mediterranean to the Red Sea by cutting through Egypt.
ANSWER: Suez Canal
104-11-40-04133

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 6 of 11

34. Joseph Zito and Gaspar Mortillalo were able to save many lives at this event. As of 2011, six of the
victims remain unidentified and were buried in the Cemetery of the Evergreens, while twenty-two of the
victims were buried by the Hebrew Free Burial Association. Both Max Blanck and Isaac Harris, the owners
of the title locale, were convicted of second degree manslaughter. Many people were unable to escape this
disaster because the doors to the stairwells and exits were locked. For the point, name this event which
caused the deaths of 146 garment workers in New York City.
ANSWER: Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire
136-11-40-04134

35. An attempt to conclude this battle ended when the Italian 8th Army was defeated, threatening Erich von
Manstein’s flank. The turning point at this battle came with the launching of Operation Uranus, which
encircled the attackers in this battle. An attempt to supply those attackers by air was only able to provide
them with starvation rations and the promotion of Friedrich Paulus to Field Marshal was unable to prevent
him from surrendering the 9th Army the next day. For the point, name this 1942-43 battle, the siege of a
Russian city considered a major turning point of World War II.
ANSWER: Battle of Stalingrad
141-11-40-04135

36. Early incidents during this event occurred at Uxbridge. It was eventually put down by Benjamin
Lincoln and caused George Washington to come out of retirement. It was effectively ended after one side
was defeated at the Springfield Armory. The Constitutional Convention was called after this event which
helped expose the weaknesses of the Articles of Convention. For the point, name this 1786-1787 rebellion
in western Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Shays' Rebellion
064-11-40-04136

37. This Supreme Court case overturned a District Court ruling that James Hallford had standing to sue.
William Rehnquist's dissent argued that the Court could not rule an entire law invalid if only the part
applying to the plaintiff was unconstitutional. Harry Blackmun's majority opinion in this case included a
definition of the word "person" and the position of the American Medical Association on the procedure
criminalized by a Texas statute. For the point, name this 1973 case that legalized first-trimester abortions.
ANSWER: Roe v. Wade [or Wade v. Roe]
003-11-40-04137

38. Sir Henry McMahon wrote letters encouraging a revolt against this empire. It lost the Battles of Aqaba
and Beersheba as part of a campaign led by Edmund Allenby and T.E. Lawrence. Known as the “Sick Man
of Europe,” this empire was opposed by the Arab Revolt during World War I. Once led by Abdul Hamid II,
its sultanate was abolished after an independence war won by Mustafa Kemal Pasha. For the point, name
this empire abolished in the 1920’s and replaced by the Republic of Turkey.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire
052-11-40-04138

39. After this pitcher was ejected in one game, Ernie Shore came in and threw nine perfect innings. Whitey
Ford broke this player’s record for consecutive scoreless innings in the World Series. He was thrown out
during a steal attempt to end one Series, and he hit the first home run in All-Star game history. During the
1932 World Series, he supposedly “called his shot” before homering. A longstanding curse was associated
with this man being sold by the Boston Red Sox to the New York Yankees. For the point, name this
baseball slugger who was nicknamed the “Bambino.”
ANSWER: George Herman “Babe” Ruth Jr.
052-11-40-04139

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 7 of 11

40. One contributor to the severity of this event was a Poor Law provision that removed relief entitlements
from landowners known as the “Gregory clause.” One official who dealt with this event was Sir Charles
Trevelyan, a member of John Russell’s administration, and Robert Peel attempted to deal with it by
repealing the Corn Laws. This event led to the immigration of more than a million and the deaths of
another million. For the point, name this event caused by blight of a certain crop in the Emerald Isle.
ANSWER: Irish Potato Famine [accept Great Famine or Great Hunger or An Gorta Mor]
120-11-40-04140

41. One of this ruler’s enemies was eventually replaced by Athanagild, and that ruler, Agila, was defeated
by Liberius, who had served in his father's court. Another of this man’s generals was victorious at the
battle of Taginae, and that general helped suppress an uprising where Hypatius was named emperor. This
ruler closed Plato’s academy, and his general Narses was rivals with another general who saw success in
North Africa. For the point, name this Byzantine emperor who quashed the Nika Revolts and employed
Belisarius.
ANSWER: Justinian I [accept Justinian the Great; prompt on Justinian]
120-11-40-04141

42. This movement publishes a newspaper entitled The Final Call, and one leader of this movement
claimed to be the reincarnation of Noble Drew Ali. Another member of this movement renounced many of
its teaching after traveling to Mecca and was assassinated by gunmen linked to rival Louis Farrakhan. For
the point, name this movement which combines Islamic teachings with black nationalism and whose
adherents included Malcolm X.
ANSWER: Nation of Islam
014-11-40-04142

43. William Seliger testified to others' involvement in this event. Michael Schwab, Samuel Fielden, and
Oscar Neebe were pardoned for their roles in this event by John Altgeld, noting that the bomb that killed
Officer Mathias Degan was probably "thrown by someone seeking personal revenge." This event occurred
just after a series of speeches protesting police action during a strike at the McCormick Reaper Works. For
the point, name this 1886 labor rally in Chicago that turned into a full-scale riot.
ANSWER: Haymarket Square Riot [or Haymarket Square Protest; or Haymarket Square Rally; or
obvious equivalents mentioning Haymarket Square]
003-11-40-04143

44. One massacre during a festival in this city was ordered by Pedro de Alvarado. This city was surrounded
by a ring of floating gardens called "chinampas." Much travel in this non-Venice city was done by boat in
canals due to its location in the water of Lake Texcoco. A pyramidal temple in its center had two shrines at
its top for Tlaloc and Huitzilopochtli (WEET-see-lo-POTCH-lee). For the point, name this home to the
palace of Montezuma and capital city of the Aztec Empire, over whose ruins Mexico City was built.
ANSWER: Tenochtitlan, Mexico [do not accept “Teotihuacan”; do not accept “Mexico City”]
104-11-40-04144

45. John Breckenridge was the last person to hold this Cabinet post in the Confederacy. Simon Cameron
was replaced in this position after advocating employing abandoned slaves in the Union Army. Jefferson
Davis held this position under Franklin Pierce. Andrew Johnson's attempt to remove Edwin Stanton from
this position led to his impeachment. For the point, name this original Cabinet position that ceased to exist
when its department was merged with that of the Navy to create the Department of Defense.
ANSWER: Secretary of War
003-11-40-04145

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 8 of 11

46. This organization influenced the media to portray it favorably in Operation Mockingbird. Roscoe
Hillenkoetter was this organization's first director, and Richard Helms the first employee to be appointed its
head. Under Frank Wisner, this organization paid to produce a movie based on Animal Farm. Allen Dulles
resigned as its director after the failure of the Bay of Pigs Invasion. For the point, name this successor to
the Office of Strategic Services, which collects and analyzes foreign intelligence.
ANSWER: CIA [or Central Intelligence Agency]
003-11-40-04146

47. One literary response to this man’s death describes the title flower “and star and bird, twined with the
chant of my soul” and relates how “the great star early droop’d in the western sky in the night.” This man
is also the subject of a poem which declares “For you bouquets and ribboned wreaths –for you the shores
a-crowding.” That poem instructs its addressee to “rise up and hear the bells,” but he has “fallen cold and
dead.” For the point, name this President addressed by Walt Whitman in “O Captain! My Captain!”
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
014-11-40-04147

48. This president wrote The Naval War of 1812 and The Winning of the West. This president passed the
first pure food and drug law and oversaw the construction of the Panama Canal. He helped to end the
Russo-Japanese War. This president charged up San Juan Hill with his Rough Riders. He failed to be
elected as the nominee of the Bull Moose Party despite his successful two terms following the assassination
of McKinley. For the point, name this president, the uncle of FDR and namesake of a cuddly bear.
ANSWER: Theodore (Teddy) Roosevelt
124-11-40-04148

49. The NBA record for highest free-thrown percentage in a season is held by a man from this country.
Players on one soccer team from this country include Esteban Granero and Marcelo Vieira. One tennis
player from this country lost to Robin Soderling in the fourth round of the 2009 French Open. The first
time the Olympics saw NBA players, it was held in this country and featured Karl Malone and Michael
Jordan on the 1992 “Dream Team.” For the point, identify this home of Pau Gasol, Rafael Nadal, and lots
of bullfighters.
ANSWER: Spain
138-11-40-04149

50. In the foreground of one of this man's paintings, the title woman in armor with a bag of scrap metal
leads a group of women into the Hellmouth as a city in the background burns. That painting is Dulle Griet,
or Mad Meg. This artist painted men overlooking a frozen pond with skaters in his Hunters in the Snow,
and in another landscape a farmer plows in the foreground as the title figure falls in the water behind him.
For the point, name this Flemish artist of Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.
ANSWER: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
121-11-40-04150

51. With John of Gaunt, this man’s father led the siege of Limoges, and this man exiled Thomas de
Beauchamp. This king was turned on by Henry Percy, who failed to prevent a successful usurpation of him,
and this man took the throne at age 10 because of his father Edward the Black Prince’s early death. This
man had to deal with rebels like Jack Straw and Wat Tyler early in his reign. For the point, name this last
Plantagenet king who repelled the Peasant’s Rebellion and was deposed by Henry IV.
ANSWER: Richard II of England
120-11-40-04151

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 9 of 11

52. This man outlawed all trade unions in his nation, replacing them with the Vertical Syndicate. He fought
to hold onto his country's colonial possessions in the Forgotten War, though he eventually ceded Ifni to
Mohammed V and gave Equitorial Guinea its independence. In his rise to power, he received the aid of
neighboring leader Antonio Salazar. For the point, name this Falange Party leader, a 20th Century dictator
of Spain.
ANSWER: Francisco Franco
040-11-40-04152

53. Max Weber wrote a book about the agrarian history of this city, which was protected by the Servian
Wall. Its religious landmarks include the Church of the Gesu, the model for many churches worldwide.
Monte Mario is the highest point of this city, which is located in the Lazio province on the Tiber River. It
rests on seven hills, such as the Capitoline and Palatine. For the point, name this Italian city legendarily
founded by Remus and Romulus.
ANSWER: Rome [or Roma]
079-11-40-04153

54. This work's author died of typhus along with her sister Margot at Belsen. This work's first publication
omitted passages involving the author's emerging sexuality which were included in the first English
translations at the request of the author's father, Otto. It details the lives of Mr. Dussel, the van Daans and
the author's family as they hold out above Otto's office until their betrayal. For the point, name this
published journal of a preteen Jewish girl who hid from the Nazis during World War II.
ANSWER: The Diary of Anne Frank [or The Diary of a Young Girl; or Het Achterhuis; or The Annex]
147-11-40-04154

55. This battle’s victors marched to it a month after besieging Harfleur. The Treaty of Troyes was signed
after this battle, in which a row of sharpened wooden stakes planted in the mud protected against cavalry
charge so that Thomas Erpingham’s longbowmen could fire. Charles d’Albret was killed commanding the
losing side of this battle, which took place on Saint Crispin’s Day. For the point, name this 1415 victory of
Henry V of England over the French.
ANSWER: Battle of Agincourt
104-11-40-04155

56. Kimpo airfield was taken during one action in this conflict. “MiG Alley” during this war saw many
dogfights between MiG 15s and F-86 Sabres. Walton Walker commanded the Eighth Army during this
conflict and established the Pusan Perimeter. Peng Dehuai led Chinese forces across the Yalu river to
intervene in this war after Communist forces were driven back following the landing at Inchon by Douglas
MacArthur. For the point, name this conflict that ended with the Demilitarized Zone established between
the two combatants.
ANSWER: Korean War
123-11-40-04156

57. The second measure of one of this man’s preludes introduced a chord consisting of F, B, D-sharp, and
G-sharp. This advocate of a total synthesis of the arts, or Gesamtkunstwerk, railed against Giacomo
Meyerbeer in an essay on “Jewishness in Music.” He oversaw the building of the Bayreuth Festival
Theatre. This composer of Tannhauser began a series of music dramas with Alberich stealing treasure from
the Rhine maidens. For the point, name this German whose four-opera Ring cycle includes the “Ride of the
Valkyries.”
ANSWER: Wilhelm Richard Wagner
104-11-40-04157

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 10 of 11

58. This woman won 54 lawsuits against newspapers that claimed she had stolen a black man’s pants to
afford cocaine. She was adopted by Sitting Bull, who nicknamed her “Watanya Cicilla.” Free theatre
tickets filled with holes were named after this woman, who knocked the ashes off of Kaiser Wilhelm’s
cigarette during a tour of Europe. She was known for being able to hit a playing card five times before it hit
the ground. For the point, name this star of Buffalo Bill’s Wild West show, a famous female sharpshooter.
ANSWER: Annie Oakley [or Anne Butler]
080-11-40-04158

59. Alvin O. King replaced this man in one post after this man left for the Senate. This man authored My
First Days in the White House in anticipation of victory in the 1936 election. This man promoted his Share
Our Wealth program with the slogan "Every Man a King." For the point, identify this politician nicknamed
the "Kingfish" from Louisiana.
ANSWER: Huey Pierce Long
141-11-40-04159

60. A plot to replace this man with Michel de Marillac (mee-SHELL deh MAH-reel-ack) was foiled on the
"Day of Dupes," the climax of his personal conflict with Marie de Medici. He directed the siege of La
Rochelle (lah roh-SHELL) and sent a representative to negotiate the first treaty between France and Russia.
This onetime Bishop of Lucon (loo-SOHN) outlawed dueling and entered France into the Thirty Years'
War as Chief Minister. For the point, name this advisor who, at his death bed, advised Louis XIII to name
as his successor Cardinal Mazarin.
ANSWER: Armand-Jean du Plessis, Cardinal and Duke of Richelieu [prompt on The Red Eminence]
003-11-40-04160

NHB Regional Bee A

Round 4

Page 11 of 11

