BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

Tossups:
1. This relation is only valid if the interacting entities are homogeneously distributed in the medium and do
not scatter the incoming radiation, which must come in via parallel and preferably monochromatic rays. It
describes the adsorption of light as it relates to the properties of the media in showing that the
transmissivity of light depends logarithmically on the product of the adsorption coefficient of the substance
and the path length of the light. FTP, expressing what equation in terms of absorbance yields an equation
that shows that absorbance is proportional to concentration, where concentration is the adsorption
coefficient divided by the molar absorptivity?
ANSWER: Beer-Lambert-Bouguer Law
2. The White Tower is exemplary of these peoples’ architecture. Kind David I was instrumental in
introducing the culture of these people into Scotland. A group of these peoples were instrumental in
founding Kievan Rus, under the name of Varangians. Roger II ruled Sicily as one of these people, after his
uncle Robert Guiscard had conquered it from the Saracens. But perhaps the most famous conquest of these
peoples was chronicled in the Bayeux Tapestry. FTP, identify these people from a namesake region of
northern France, who conquered England under the leadership of William the Conqueror.
ANSWER: Normans
3. In one play by this author, Morose marries the titular “silent woman” only to discover that she is in fact a
nagging shrew and not even actually a woman. In another play. Littlewit tries to outwit the Puritan Zeal-ofthe-Land Busy to try and steal his wife Dame Purecraft at the title celebration in Smithfield. Besides those
plays, Epicoene and Bartholomew Fair, he wrote one in which the titular Venetian gentleman fakes being
on his deathbed to dupe characters such as Corbaccio and Corvino into competing to become his heir, and
one in which Jeremy pretends to be Captain Face, who can turn base metal into gold. FTP, who is English
Renaissance playwright of Volpone and The Alchemist?
ANSWER: Ben Jonson
4. The beginnings of this act were introduced by its namesake formulator during a speech at Harvard
University, and the first nations benefitted by this program were Greece and Turkey. Although US foreign
officials tried to extend the benefits from this program to the Soviet Bloc, Joseph Stalin rejected the offer,
dismissing the supposed generosity of the US government as a surreptitious method of destabilizing his
regime. For ten points, name this “plan” to facilitate the economic recovery of post-World War II Europe,
the brainchild of Harry Truman’s Secretary of State.
ANSWER: Marshall Plan
5. This man was a star for the Iowa Barnstormers and the Amsterdam Admirals but before that he played
for the University of Northern Iowa. He met his wife and offered to adopt her Down’s Syndrome baby
while stocking shelves in a grocery store for $5.50 an hour. Once he got to the NFL he served as the backup
to Trent Green, Eli Manning, and Matt Leinart, but after getting the chance to start, he racked up over 4,000
passing yards, 41 touchdown passes, jump-started an offense known as The Greatest Show on Turf” and
led the St. Louis Rams to a Super Bowl Victory. Nine years later, he led the Arizona Cardinals to Super
Bowl where they lost to the Steelers. FTP, name this recently retired quarterback.
ANSWER: Kurt Warner
6. Opening with a seemingly harmless meeting between the title figure and his naïve, overly emotional
neighbor, this novel describes how the sister of the neighbor’s fiancée quickly falls in love with the title
character, who brusquely rejects her advances. The protagonist then thoughtlessly flirts with his neighbor’s
fiancée, Olga Larina, which prompts a challenge to a duel by the neighbor, Alexander Lensky. For ten
points, the titular aristocratic dandy dallies with Tatyanaand later murders Lensky in which influential
novel of the Russian Romantic movement written by Alexander Pushkin?
ANSWER: Eugene Onegin
7. These are often conjugated to the surfaces of nanoparticles for targeted drug delivery. Complementary
Determining Regions are central to their binding power, which can be consolidated through production of
scFv’s, and they consist of a tetramer of light and heavy chains. They can use their Fc region to activate

1

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

opsonization or the Membrane Attack Center through the complement system, and they rely upon VDJ
recombination to produce a virtually unlimited variety of binding sites. This specificity makes them useful
in tests like the Western blot. FTP, name these proteins of the immune system, the product of B cells.
ANSWER: Antibodies or Immunoglobulins
8. The modern day name of this river comes from Greek, but in the countries where it actually flows
through, it has been called “great river” or simply “the river”. From 8000 BC to 1000 BC, this river had a
third tributary, named Yellow, that followed through eastern Chad. The two sources for this river are
Rwanda and Ethiopia, and these two tributaries meet at Khartoum. Following construction of the Aswan
High Dam in 1970, this river has ceased to be used for irrigation, but it is still an important source of
transportation. FTP, name this longest river in the world, which flows by the Pyramids and the Sphnix.
ANSWER: Nile River
9. One painting of this subject is located in the refectory of Sant’Apollonia and was painted by Andrea del
Castagno. That painting depicts one of the subjects in an isolated position from the others. Another
painting of this event does not depict the figures occupying the middle of the canvas, as is usual. That
work is also noted for its general mannerist style and the supernatural figure that surrounds the central
figure with light on the lefthand side. Veronese’s Feast in the House of Levi was actually a depiction of
this event, but he was force to change the title. The most famous painting of this subject features a
vanishing point in the exact center of the painting through three windows behind the thirteen figures. FTP,
identify the shared name of these paintings by Castagno, Tintoretto, and Leonardo da Vinci, which depict
the last meal of Christ before his Crucifixion.
ANSWER: Last Suppers
10. Although he pleaded for toleration from the Catholic Church, this man was not hesitant to use violence,
executing the heretic Michael Servetus for his views. Even more than Luther, he shaped the beliefs of the
Puritans, which led Weber to hold him responsible for the development of Capitalism. After his death, this
man’s Huguenot community in Geneva was led by Zwingli. This leader of the Protestant Reformation in
France was most famous for his Institutes of the Christian Religion. For ten points, name this second most
important Protestant theologian who believed in predestination.
ANSWER: John Calvin
11. This dynasty famously if briefly ruled the city founded according to legend by Perseus, which city
would later give its name to the period of post-Minoan, pre-Dark Age Ancient Greek history. Its less
notable members included Hippodamia and Thyestes, respectively mother and brother of this dynasty's
namesake. Hippodamia's name alludes to the second, non-cannibalized death of the peninsula-naming
father of this dynasty's namesake. In Frank Herbert's Dune, the House, often opposed to House Harkonnen,
that is led by Leto and Paul is said to be descended from this cursed dynasty. That fictional house is
Atreides. FTP, name this house, whose members included Tantalus, Pelops, Menelaus, Agamemnon, and
its namesake.
ANSWER: House of Atreus (prompt on Atreus; accept Atreides before mention)
12. This hormone's release is limited by atrial natriuretic peptide, while its action can be opposed by
compounds like spironolactone and amphenone. Its overproduction is known as Conn's syndrome, while its
underproduction is associated with Addison's disease. It acts on the kidneys as part of the renin-angiotensin
system, while its release from the zona glomerulosa to act on the collecting ducts and distal tubule results in
higher blood pressure and increased excretion of potassium ions. FTP, name the mineralocorticoid
produced by the adrenal glands to promote increased sodium ion and water reabsorption.
ANSWER: aldosterone
13. He is based on a deity from the Rig Veda associated with Varuna, as well a Zoroastrian deity who
presided over contracts. His red cap signified these Eastern origins, and although he was worshipped
underground, he was combined with the sun-god Helios and called “Sol Invictus”. His cult was popular in
the military, and initiates had to pass through seven ranks complete with trials before they became full
worshippers. This god was depicted with the universe lining his cape, and was said to have been born from

2

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

solid stone. For ten points, name this central deity of a Roman mystery cult with a strong influence on
Christianity, who was born on December 25 and was frequently depicted sacrificing a bull on an altar.
ANSWER: Mithras
14. This relation, which was formulated by analyzing the spectra of galaxies, is currently believed to be
caused by dark energy and is a variation of Doppler shift in the context of special relativity. Fainter, older
galaxies were noted to have their spectrum shifted further to lower wavelengths, a result which supported
the predictions of the Friedmann equations and indicated that other galaxies were moving away from our
galaxy. A more interesting observation showed that not only were galaxies in all regions of the sky moving
away from the Milky Way, but they were also moving away from each other. FTP, what is this law which
explains the expansion of the universe which gets its name from its famous astronomer formulator and a
namesake constant and space telescope?
Answer: Hubble’s Law
15. Late in life, this composer revised his second symphony so that its final chord contained 11 of the 12
notes of the chromatic scale. The spontaneous singing of the hymn "In the Sweet Bye and Bye" in response
to the sinking of the Lusitania inspired his From Hanover Square North. His fourth symphony features a
"Comedy" movement based on Hawthorne's "The Celestial Railroad." The second movement of another
piece, based on the composer's earlier Country Band March, is "Putnam's Camp," and that piece's first
movement depicts Saint-Gaudens' monument to Colonel Robert Shaw. In another piece a string quartet and
woodwind quartet accompany the inquisitive solo trumpet. For 10 points, identify this composer of Three
Places in New England and The Unanswered Question.
ANSWER: Charles Ives
16. A lead up to this event was the so-called humiliation of Olmutz. Karl Blind was a leading figure in the
push for this to occur. World War I was officially ended in the same location in which this event formally
occurred. An earlier attempt to accomplish this by the Frankfurt parliament would have been a
Kleindeutsch solution, was thwarted by Frederick William IV. The final phase of this event began when
the Ems dispatch was doctored by a certain chancellor and then sent to Napoleon III. Earlier, that same
chancellor had provoked the Seven Weeks war with Austria over the territories of Schleswig and Holstein.
Using techniques like Realpolitik and the “Blood and Iron” speech, Otto Von Bismark managed to, FTP,
accomplish what event by 1871?
ANSWER: Unification of Germany
17. The Wall Street Journal recently reported on this man’s new novel, a book it compared to the Iliad. As
a child, he became blind in one eye following a fishing accident; this reportedly led him to focus his field
observations on insects instead of birds or mammals because of his ability to observe them. He won a
Pulitzer in 1979 for the book On Human Nature and a second Pulitzer in 1991 for The Ants, but he is still
best known for a controversial book, Sociobiology, which compared human societies to those of other
animals. FTP, name this evolutionary biologist, a proponent of Biophilia.
ANSWER: E.O. Wilson
18. The narrator of this novel believes the place where he lives runs a fog machine and calls society’s
means of keeping people in line “The Combine”. And later reveals he is not really deaf by voting to watch
the World Series in a group meeting. One character in this novel has a neurotic obsession with cleanliness,
George Sorenson. And other characters include the articulate, closeted homosexual, Harding, and the
stuttering, mother-dominated Billy Bibbit. Chief Bromden narrates the tale of patients of the psychiatric
ward in, FTP, what novel in which con man Randle McMurphy fights the tyrannical rule of Nurse Ratched
by Ken Kesey?
ANSWER: One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
19. This conflict lasted over two hundred years and is described in Macchiavelli's Discourses, although
some recent scholarship suggests it might never have happened and simply been an invented projection by
later writers of the problems of their own time. It stemmed from the unequal class-based distribution of
political, religious, and military power and saw numerous attempts by the disenfranchised to correct those
imbalances, frequently through the creation of new offices. This conflict was punctuated by secessions in

3

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

which the populous lower class left the city and refuse to engage in its wars, for example with the Volsci,
Aequi, and Latins. The creation of tribunes, whose bodies were sacrosanct and some of whom had military
imperium, the opening of the consulate to the lower class, and the granting of full binding legislative
authority to the lower class's assembly through the Lex Hortensia were instrumental in defusing this
conflict. FTP, name this competition between Ancient Roman socio-political castes.
ANSWER: Struggle (or Conflict) of the Orders or Struggle/Conflict between the Plebeians
and Patricians or equivalents including the words Plebeian and Patrician
20. A pair of historical novels by this author follows first the titular colonel of the English army in the time
of Queen Anne and later his two grandsons George and Henry Warrington, who take opposite sides in the
American Revolution, The History of Henry Esmond and The Virginians. And he wrote about a picaresque
about an Irishman named Redmond Barry, who tries to wile his way into the English Aristocracy in The
Luck of Barry Lyndon. But his most popular work is a “Novel Without A Hero”, whose protagonist include
the virtuous Amanda Sedley and the manipulative Becky Sharp. FTP, this is what English novelist of
Vanity Fair?
ANSWER: William Thackeray
21. A symbol in this novel is that of a blossoming pear tree, which represents the beauty and harmony of
nature. The frame narrative of the novel sees the protagonist tell her tale to Phoeby Watson after returning
from Eatonville. One character in this novel became the mayor and was married to the protagonist before
his dictatorial nature and eventual death causes her to fall in love with a man she plays checkers with,
whose real name is Vergible Woods. However, the latter character ends up succumbing to a bite from a
rabid dog he defended her from during a hurricane in the Everglades. FTP, Logan Killicks, Jody Starks, and
Tea Cake are the three husbands of Janie Mae Crawford in what novel by Zora Neale Hurston?
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God

Bonuses:
1. For e to the x, this is equal to 1 plus x plus x squared over 2 plus x cubed over 6, etc, etc. FTPE:
[10] Identify these polynomials which give an approximation for a differentiable function. When they are
centered around x = 0, they are sometimes named for McClaurin.
ANSWER: Taylor series
[10] Proving Taylor’s theorem requires this other theorem, which states that integration and differentiation
are opposites
ANSWER: fundamental theorem of calculus
[10] This type of integration is more general than Riemann integration, and only requires a definition of its
namesake measure in order to exist.
ANSWER: Lesbesgue integration
2. This novel centers on the life of Tomas, a successful surgeon who keeps several mistresses, and his
faithful yet unhappy wife, Tereza, as they navigate through various philosophical dilemmas and the dangers
of living in a Communist regime. FTPE:
[10] Identify this novel.
ANSWER: The Unbearable Lightness of Being
[10] Name the author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, a notable Communist dissident who also has
written The Joke and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
[10] Milan Kundera hails from this country, whose other authors include Karel Capek and Vaclav Havel.
ANSWER: Czech Republic (accept Czechoslovakia)
3. Identify the following terms related to chords in tonal music, for 10 points each.
[10] This is a three-note chord consisting of two stacked thirds. Depending on whether the thirds are major
or minor, it may be major, minor, augmented, or diminished.
ANSWER: triad

4

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

[10] This is the term for a chord built on the fifth scale degree. A half cadence ends on this type of chord,
while an authentic cadence goes from one to a tonic chord.
ANSWER: dominant
[10] Dominant chords may be preceded by this type of chord named for the characteristic interval between
two of its notes. Subtypes include the German, Italian, and French varieties.
ANSWER: augmented sixth chords
4. Stuff about the US home front during World War II, FTPE:
[10] This fictional, quasi-masculine figure famously portrayed by Norman Rockwell on the cover of the
Saturday Evening Post was designed to encourage female participation in the war effort.
ANSWER: Rosie the Riveter
[10] This nationalist cartoon created by Walt Disney portrayed Donald Duck as a German factory worker
egged on by Hirohito, Goebbels, and Goering figures to endlessly produce artillery shells in deplorable
conditions. Donald realizes it’s all a dream, however, and wakes up to the sweet sight of the American flag
in his room.
ANSWER: Der Fuhrer’s Face
[10] This Supreme Court decision upheld the legality of Executive Order 9066, which enacted the forced
internment of Japanese Americans.
ANSWER: Korematsu v. United States
5. Answer these questions about the boundary science between physics and chemistry, FTPE:
[10] This a modification of classical physics where microscopic systems are explained by a series of
postulates which restrict particles to certain discrete states.
Answer: quantization
[10] Quantization explains this phenomenon in which the transition of a particular discrete energy level of
an atom to another lower energy state produces a photon of a particular energy and wavelength. This
phenomenon generates namesake lines.
Answer: atomic spectra
[10] Quantum mechanics also explains this effect proposed by Einstein where an absorption of a photon of
a frequency higher than the threshold frequency is able to release an electron from a metallic surface.
Answer: photoelectric effect
6. Answer these questions about cellular junctions FTPE:
[10] These cell wall-transcending structures are found between plant and algal cells. Along with
desmotubules, they allow for the transport of molecules between adjacent cells.
ANSWER: plasmodesmata
[10] The animal cell equivalent to plasmodesmata, these consist of two connexons and also allow for the
free transport of molecules between adjacent cells.
ANSWER: gap junction
[10] Gap junctions are one of three membrane junctions found at these double membrane entities found
between cardiac muscle cells. They allow for the synchronous contraction of the heart.
ANSWER: intercalated discs
7. Identify some emperors from Chinese history FTPE:
[10] This man unified China and burned a great number of Confucian books. In 1974 some farmers near
Xi’an discovered his Terracotta army.
ANSWER: Qin Shi Huang Di
[10] This Qing emperor doubled the size of China by invading Tibet, Taiwan and Outer Mongolia. He ruled
for 61 years; his grandson Qianlong was in power for 64.
ANSWER: Kangxi
[10] This last Qing emperor was forced to undergo self-criticisms by the Communists. The Japanese
convinced him to become the puppet emperor of Manchuko during WWII, and Bertolucci’s The Last
Emperor is about him.
ANSWER: Puyi
8. Identify some Indian authors, FTPE:

5

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

[10] This Indian-American author won the Pulitzer Prize in 2000 for a collection that includes such stories
as “This Blessed House”, “A Temporary Matter”, and the titular story “The Interpreter of Maladies”.
ANSWER: Jhumpa Lahiri
[10] This Indian poet wrote the lyrics to the national anthems of Bangladesh and India, but is more famous
for his poetry collection Gitanjali and for being the first Non-European to win the Nobel Prize for
Literature.
ANSWER: Rabindrath Tagore
[10] This literary family has produced two of the most famous living Indian authors. The mother, Anita,
wrote Fire on the Mountain and In Custody, and the daughter Kiran, wrote The Inheritance of Loss.
ANSWER: Desai(s)
9. Name some military leaders of the ancient Near East FTPE:
[10] This man inherited the Macedonian empire of Phillip II and named a number of cities after himself. He
also sacked Thebes and was famous for solving intractable problems, like the Gordian knot, with a sword.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great
[10] Alexander defeated this Persian king, who fled the battlefields at Gaugamela and Issus. He was killed
by his satrap Bessus and his guard, Nabarzanes.
ANSWER: Darius III
[10] A man by this name founded a kingdom in Egypt after Alexander’s death. Many rulers sharing this
name ruled Egypt for centuries afterwards.
ANSWER: Ptolemy
10. Identify characters and motifs from James Joyce’s Ulysses FTPE:
[5, 5] The first letter of Ulysses, “S,” stands for Stephen. The first letter of the second and third major units
are “M” and “P,” respectively. For five points per part, name the characters “M” and “P” stand for.
ANSWER: Molly Bloom and Leopold Bloom (accept either underlined part, as well as “Poldy”)
[10] In the Cyclops chapter this man is an ultranationalist sports enthusiast. He throws a bread tin at Bloom,
in the manner of Polyphemus.
ANSWER: The Citizen
[10] This man, barely a friend to Stephen, describes his name as “two dactyls.” The work opens by
describing him as “stately, plump.” He later locks Stephen out of the Martello Tower for the day.
ANSWER: Buck Mulligan (Accept either or both)
11. This work chronicles the lives of Charles Ryder, a student at Oxford University, his friend Sebastian
Flyte, a fellow student at Oxford, and Charles’ lover Julia, Sebastian’s younger sister, as they eventually
fall into depression and melancholy. FTPE:
[10] Name this novel satirizing both Catholicism and the fall of the British nobility.
ANSWER: Brideshead Revisited
[10] Name the author of Brideshead Revisited, a social commentator whose vivid prose and biting humor
manifest itself in such works as the Sword of Honor trilogy, Decline and Fall, and The Loved One.
ANSWER: Evelyn Waugh
[10] This notable English author frequently clashed with Waugh, claiming that Waugh was "about as good
a novelist as one can be while holding untenable opinions.” His essays include “Politics and the English
Literature” and “Shooting an Elephant”.
ANSWER: George Orwell
12. Answer some questions about the most populous muslim country in the world, FTPE:
[10] Name this country, which has its capital at Jakarta.
ANSWER: Indonesia
[10] Indonesia adopted a neutral stance during the Cold War under this man, its first President. He also
helped the nation achieve its independence from the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Sukarno
[10] Sukarno was overthrown by this general, who then struck a pro-American stance. He lost popularity
after mishandling the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
ANSWER: Suharto

6

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

13. Name some important political figures from the Enlightenment, FTPE:
[10] This Russian monarch was one of the foremost proponents of the doctrine of “enlightened
absolutism,” although she later became much more conservative later in her lifetime as she continued to
enforce such autocratic measures as military conscription for serfs.
ANSWER: Catherine II of Russia (accept Catherine the Great)
[10] This Holy Roman Emperor was also an “enlightened despot,” most notably making large strides
towards adopting religious toleration and attempting to modernize the Catholic Church. He is known for his
quote, “Everything for the people, nothing by the people.”
ANSWER: Joseph II of Austria
[10] This Elector of Brandenburg formed a sometimes stormy relationship with Voltaire, initiating some
reforms towards religious toleration and patronizing the arts, but made sure that he kept absolute control
over his land.
ANSWER: Frederick II of Prussia (accept Frederick the Great)
14. For ten points each, name these deities associated with smithing or the forge:
[10] This is the Roman god of fire and smithing, who forged Jupiter’s lightning bolts.
ANSWER: Vulcan or Mulciber
[10] This smith from the Kalevala and creator of the Sampo is the brother of Vainamoinen.
ANSWER: Ilmarinen
[10] This deity from Haitian Voodoo is based on Yoruba deity of the same name. He presides over
smithing, fire, politics, and warfare.
ANSWER: Ogoun
15. Answer some questions about the most inspirational songs of ALL TIME.
[10] This song by Eminem won the 2002 Oscar for Best Original Song and loosely chronicles a young
rapper’s rise to greatness. It asks listeners to act as though they had “One shot, one opportunity, to seize
everything they ever wanted”
ANSWER: Lose Yourself
[10] Even more inspirational (if possible) is this song from Rocky III, that discusses the “thrill of the fight”
felt by “a man and his will to survive.”
ANSWER: The Eye of the Tiger
[10] Although the band admits to digitally speeding up their music in the studio, that doesn’t make this
Dragonforce song featured on Guitar Hero III any less epic. It takes place “On a Cold Winter Morning” and
repeatedly exhorts the listener to “carry on” through the titular substances.
ANSWER: Through the Fire and the Flames
16. Name the following monastic orders for ten points each:
[10] Founded by St. Ignatius of Loyola during the Counter-Reformation, this missionary order spread
Christianity to China and Japan through members such as Matteo Ricci and St. Francis Xavier.
ANSWER: Society of Jesus or Jesuit Order
[10] Named after its original abbey of Cîteaux, this order was founded in the 12 th century as a reaction to
perceived laxity in Cluniac monasteries. Its most famous member was St. Bernard of Clairvaux.
ANSWER: Cistercian Order or White Monks
[10] Founded in 1209, this monastic order is named after a Saint from Assisi famous for preaching to the
birds.
ANSWER: Franciscan Order
17. Answer some questions about authors who were inspired by the trial of Sacco and Vanzetti, FTPE:
[10] This Southern author wrote about Sacco and Vanzetti in her The Never Ending Wrong. But she is more
famous for writing Pale Horse, Pale Rider and Ship of Fools.
ANSWER: Katherine Anne Porter
[10] This American playwright dramatized the Sacco and Vanzetti case in his verse drama in Winterset. He
is not to be confused with the author of Winesburg, Ohio, who has a different first name.
ANSWER: Maxwell Anderson
[10] Though this American writer did not write a fiction work about the Sacco and Vanzetti trial, he
campaigned publicly for them. His novels include Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy.

7

BHSAT XIX

Packet 12

ANSWER: Theodore Dreiser
18. FTPE, answer this set of related physics questions.
[10] This subatomic particle has an electric charge of -1.602 x 10^-19 coulomb and an intrinsic angular
momentum of ½.
ANSWER: electron
[10] This experiment measured the charge of an electron using droplets of oil suspended between two metal
electrodes. The oil droplets were kept steady by the canceling out of gravitational and electrical field
forces.
ANSWER: Millikan oil drop experiment
[10] This doubly eponymous experiment showed that electrons and atoms have intrinsic quantized angular
momentum and demonstrated that measurements of quantum mechanical systems can affect their
properties.
ANSWER: Stern-Gerlach experiment
19. Identify the following classic works written by economists, for 10 points each.
[10] The notion of the invisible hand, a metaphor for the self-regulation of the market, was introduced in
this 1776 book by Adam Smith.
ANSWER: The Wealth of Nations
[10] "The Propensity to Consume" and "The Inducement to Invest" are two sections of this book by John
Maynard Keynes, which in part inspired the New Deal.
ANSWER: The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money
[10] Friedrich von Hayek wrote this exposition of a libertarian political philosophy, arguing that central
planning inevitably leads to the title condition.
ANSWER: The Road to Serfdom
20. One of this man's paintings is entitled Full Fathom Five, and he was married to the artist Lee Krasner.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this painter nicknamed "Jack the Dripper," known for entire canvases composed of paint
drippings.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollock
[10] Jackson Pollock is associated with this movement, often associated with action painting, whose name
was first applied to American painters by Robert Coates. It was supported by the critic Clement Greenberg.
ANSWER: abstract expresionism
[10] Another painter sometimes associated with abstract expressionism was this Latvian-born American
painter, known for Color Field paintings, including Four Red and No. 6 (Violet, Green, and Red)
ANSWER: Mark Rothko
21. From the given clues, identify the following rivers FTPE:
[10] Also known as the “Golden Sand River,” this longest river of Asia flows from the Kunlun Mountains
in Qinghai province to the East China Sea. Chongming Island is found at its mouth.
ANSWER: Yangtze River or Chang Jiang
[10] This river forms part of the eastern border between Russia and China. Formed from the confluence of
the Shilka and Argun Rivers, it travels for more than a thousand miles before emptying in the Tartar Strait.
ANSWER: Amur River
[10] This river of southern China rises in Yunnan province before flowing past the cities of Guangzhou and
Hong Kong.
ANSWER: West River or Xi Jiang

8

