BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

Tossups:
1. One battle at this site featured a victory by the mercenary Nicholas Graf of Salm over Grand Vizier
Ibrahim Pasha, came three years after the decisive Ottoman victory at Mohacs that finished the independent
Kingdom of Hungary. A second battle at this city featured the defeat of Kara Mustafa Pasha at the hands of
the Holy League after a great charge led by the Winged Hussars--the largest cavalry charge in history-under the Polish king Jan III Sobieski. Attacked in 1529 by Suleiman the Magnificent and again in 1683,
FTP name this central European Hapsburg capital that dominated trade routes from the eastern
Mediterranean to western Europe.
ANSWER: Vienna (or Wien)
2. One hack for this video game allows players to unlock Billy Mays as a costume for one character and the
final boss for the single-player game is a Blue humanoid called Tabuu, the embodiment of "Subspace."
New stages added to this game include New Pork City, Pictochat, and Frigate Orpheon, but it retains
classic stages from previous versions like Jungle Japes, Big Blue, and Final Destination. This title saw the
addition of third-party characters like Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog to the classic Nintendo lineup
of characters like Fox, Link, Samus, and Kirby. FTP name this Nintendo Wii title that features an all-star
cast of characters trying to knock each other off of cliffs, the third iteration of the Super Smash
Brothers series.
ANSWER: Super Smash Brothers Brawl
3. This dimensionless quantity is of tremendous utility in all forms of chemistry because it assists analysis
of dipoles and bond polarity and can be calculated on one of several scales, including ones by Sanderson,
Allen, Allred-Rochow, Mulliken, and Pauling. This quantity is not, strictly speaking, a property of free
atoms, but rather of atoms in molecules, where it is affected in particular by oxidation state. Its free
element analogue is electron affinity. This quantity increases going up and to the right in the periodic table,
peaking with fluorine, whose value of this quantity is 4.0. FTP, name this quantity that reflects the ability
of atoms to attract electron density.
ANSWER: electronegativity
4. He designed the First Unitarian Meeting House in Wisconsin, along with the Price Tower in Bartlesville,
Oklahoma. His Usonian houses were designed to be practical for middle class clients. A structure of his in
Japan was one of the few to survive a 1923 earthquake. Along with the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo, this
architect designed a residence for his friend Edgar J. Kauffmann in Pennsylvania, dubbed Fallingwater. A
disciple of Louis Sullivan, one of this man’s last projects was the Guggenheim museum in New York.
FTP, identify this American architect associated with Chicago, who designed numerous Robie and Prairie
houses.
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd Wright
5. At the end of one scene in this work the title character declares, “Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a
glass, / That I may see my shadow as I pass.” Anne Neville marries the title character, despite his having
killing her husband and his father. And other characters he dispatches include King Edward and the Duke
of Clarence. Opening with the lines: “Now is the winter of our discontent, / Made glorious summer by this
son of York.” FTP name this Shakespearean tragedy about a king who would give his “kingdom for a
horse” as he dies on Bosworth Field.
ANSWER: Richard III
6. As a young man he fought in the Netherlands for the Spaniards against the Dutch Revolt. This man was
recruited by Robert Catesby to carry out the action he is most memorable for. His target was a monarch
who had earlier been targeted by the Bye and Main Plots. This man prepared barrels of gunpowder in an
undercroft beneath Westminster in preparation for detonating them during the State Opening of Parliament
on 5 November 1605. FTP, name this would-be assassin of James I of England whose participation in the
Gunpowder Plot is remembered in annual celebrations and V for Vendetta.
ANSWER: Guy Fawkes (or Guido Fawkes)

1

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

7. In Siberian mythology, the creator-god Kutkh took the form of one of these creatures, and Brahma was
incarnated as one of them. In China, one of these is a solar deity thought to inhabit the sun, and they are
messengers of the sun-god Helios in Greek myth. The Morrigan often took the shape of this creature in
Celtic myth, while both the aborigines and the indigenous tribes of the American Pacific Northwest claim
that this creature brought fire to mankind. Claude Lévi-Strauss claims that together with the coyote, this
creature is seen as a bridge with the afterlife due to its role as a scavenger, and according to the Quran, they
taught men how to bury the dead. For ten points, name these birds exemplified in Norse myth by Odin’s
servants Huginn and Muninn.
ANSWER: Ravens
8. Carolus Linnaeus’ original taxonomy of living organisms divided this group of animals into two
categories: worms and insects. However, as this group encompasses 95% of the kingdom Animalia, more
divisions including Rotifera, Nemertea, Cnidaria, and Arthropoda having since been created. Members of
this group have only one copy of the Hox genes and are found in all animal subpylums except the Craniata
subpylum of Chordata. FTP, name this category of animals that have no backbone.
ANSWER: invertebrates
9. An ancient sect of this religion worshiped a creator deity named Zurvan and had a strong effect on
Manichaeism. The head deity of this religion is aided by beings called Yazatas, the greatest of which are
the Amesha Spentas. According to its scripture, the Avesta, these beings oppose the evil daevas, who help
the god of darkness, Angra Mainyu. Although its adherents in Iran are persecuted today, this faith is kept
alive by the Parsis of India, and it is still strongly associated with fire worship. For ten points, name this
ancient Persian religion which worships Ahura Mazda and is named after its prophet, Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism or Mazdaism
10. Christina Rossetti wrote a poem set during this event called “The Round Tower at Jhansi.” Rani
Lakshmibai, the queen of Jhansi, became a symbol of this event, died during the battle for Gwalior Fort.
Disputes between soldiers and their commanders over the pork or beef fat used to grease rifle cartridges
may have helped initiate this conflict. FTP, name this Indian rebellion against the British Raj, which started
in 1857.
ANSWER: Sepoy Rebellion (accept First Indian War for Independence, Great Rebellion,
Indian Mutiny, or Rebellion of 1857 or equivalents)
11. One novel by this author that contains elements of a murder mystery, sees the African-American Lucas
Beauchamp accused of murdering local white man, Vinson Gowrie. Besides writing Intruder in the Dust,
he also introduced Horace Benbow and Temple Drake in Sanctuary and the enigmatic Joe Christmas in
Light in August. But he is most famous for a novel that chronicles the Bundren family’s attempt to bury
their matriarch in Jefferson and one that portrays the fall of the Compson family through the eyes of the
suicidal Quentin and the mentally challenged Benjy. FTP, this is what Southern writer of As I Lay Dying
and The Sound and the Fury?
ANSWER: William Faulkner
12. The equation of motion of these systems can be solved from a second order homogenous differential
equation, and they can be used to characterize more complicated systems through Fourier analysis. One
example is an LC circuit, which consists of an inductor and a capacitor. Unlike the damped and driven
varieties of these, the motion of these is always perfectly periodic, and in LC circuits the angular frequency
is given by one over the square root of the inductance times the capacitance. FTP, name these systems in
which energy is conserved and whose motion can be described in terms of a sine function, such as a
pendulum or spring.
ANSWER: simple harmonic oscillators (accept equivalents of oscillator, prompt on “harmonic
oscillator,” accept “damped harmonic oscillator” before “LC”)
13. Near the beginning of this poem, the narrator tries to see far enough to where an object “bent in the
undergrowth”. And in the final stanza of this poem, the narrator remarks that “ages and ages hence”, he will

2

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

be “telling this with a sigh”, and that the decision he took “made all the difference”. The chosen option was
described as “having perhaps the better claim, / Because it was grassy and wanted wear”, therefore making
it the one “less traveled by”. FTP, this is what poem by Robert Frost that begins: “Two roads diverged in a
yellow wood”?
ANSWER: “The Road Not Taken” [DO NOT accept “The Road Less Traveled”]
14. One theorem named for this man can be rewritten to give a theorem of Gibbs that gives the number of
degrees of freedom of a mixture of different phases. With Lagrange, this man gives his name to the central
equation of the calculus of variations. He lends his name to the formula that states that e to the i times pi
equals negative 1. He also names a modification of Fermat’s Little Theorem which uses his Totient
function, which gives the number of integers less than and coprime to the given input integer. He created
the field of graph theory by solving the Bridges of Koningsberg problem. FTP, name this Swiss
mathematician.
ANSWER: Leonard Euler
15. This movement reached its peak during a meeting chaired over by Frances Willard, leader of the
WCTU. That meeting, held in Omaha, Nebraska, became this party’s platform. In this party’s most
successful year at the ballot box, James B Weaver won over a million votes and four states. Emerging out
of the Farmer’s alliance, one of this party’s goals was realized with the passage of the seventeenth
amendment. This party was short lived, though, in large part thanks to the Cross of Gold speech. Merging
with William Jennings Bryan and the Democrats for the election of 1896, FTP, identify this party that
advocated free silver, direct election of senators, the abolition of national banks, and government control of
railroads.
ANSWER: Populist Party
16. This author wrote about the strained marriage of Janine and Marcel in “The Adulterous Woman”,
which appears with such stories as “The Silent Men” and “The Growing Stone” in his collection, The Exile
Kingdom. One novel by this author sees Father Paneloux blame the citizens of Oran for an epidemic that
his struck them, while another contains the trial of a man who shot “The Arab” which focuses on the fact
that he did not cry at his mother’s funeral, Meursault. FTP, this is what author of The Plague and The
Stranger, a French-Algerian Existentialist?
ANSWER: Albert Camus
17. The movements "Manny's Gym" and "Hail, Bop," appear in John Adams's composition in this genre,
entitled "Century Rolls." Bartók didn't live to orchestrate the last seventeen bars of his third of these. One
by Ravel opens with a whip crack and is often known as the one "in G." The middle movement of
Beethoven's fourth essay in this genre is often associated with Orpheus and the Furies. Mozart's ninth is an
E-flat major work known as the "Jeunehomme," while another of these E-flat is Beethoven's fifth and last.
A famous one in C minor opens with a series of bell-like tolls in the solo part. For 10 points, identify this
type of piece, examples of which include Rachmaninoff's second in C minor and Beethoven's "Emperor,"
written for orchestra and a certain keyboard instrument.
ANSWER: piano concertos (prompt on concerto)
18. Proteins targeted to this organelle contain a series of serine-lysine-leucine residues known as the SLK
sequence. Defects in its ability to process phytanic acid results in Refsum disease, while mutations to its
PTSR receptors lead to Zellweger syndrome. Containing a core with urate oxidase, this organelle is
responsible for plasmalogen synthesis as well as the beta oxidation of fatty acids to acetyl CoA, though it is
better known for its detoxification abilities, a fact which explains its prevalence in liver parenchyma cells.
Also known as a glyoxysome in germinating seeds, FTP, name this organelle that decomposes hydrogen
peroxide via catalase activity.
ANSWER: peroxisomes
19. The Tower commission was appointed to investigate what had occurred during this event. One of the
actions that occurred during this event had earlier been outlawed by the Boland amendment. One of the
main participants in this event now runs a show called War Stories on Fox News. One of the results of this
event was the consensus that the president seemed not to have a frim grasp on what was going on in his

3

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

administration, especially in the defense department headed by Caspar Weinberger, which may be why he
was nicknamed the “Teflon” president. George H. W. Bush pardoned many officials involved in, FTP,
what affair which saw the U. S. trade arms to for Iranian hostages and then use the proceeds from those
sells to support a namesake insurgency group in Nicaragua?
ANSWER: Iran-Contra affair
20. Rousseau famously wrote about a variation of this idea with his analysis of the Stag Hunt. Weak and
Strong versions of this exist, and Cournot analyzed a variant of this concept in his model of duopoly, which
gives the amount that both firms will choose to produce if they take into account the other’s actions. Many
of these can exist for a given model, and determining one of these is often found using a payoff matrix.
FTP, identify this concept from game theory, which gives the solution to a game in which no player can
improve himself by changing his strategy unilaterally, given what the other players are doing.
ANSWER: Nash Equilibirum
21. The narrator of this novel believes the place where he lives runs a fog machine and calls society’s
means of keeping people in line “The Combine”. And later reveals he is not really deaf by voting to watch
the World Series in a group meeting. One character in this novel has a neurotic obsession with cleanliness,
George Sorenson. And other characters include the articulate, closeted homosexual, Harding, and the
stuttering, mother-dominated Billy Bibbit. Chief Bromden narrates the tale of patients of the psychiatric
ward in, FTP, what novel in which con man Randle McMurphy fights the tyrannical rule of Nurse Ratched
by Ken Kesey?
ANSWER: One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest

Bonuses:
1. Answer these movie mashup questions with a musical twist from the description FTPE:
[10] The composer of the Well-tempered Clavier and the Goldberg Variations travels to the past with Doc
Brown in a Delorean to make his parents fall in love again.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach to the Future
[10] Ofelia enters the titular maze constructed by the Polish composer of numerous Etudes, Mazurkas, and
Nocturnes and encounters a giant toad and a monster with eyes in his hands during the Spanish Civil War.
ANSWER: Chopin’s Labyrinth
[10] Billy Crystal argues with the Meg Ryan-played Austrian Kapellmeister under Joseph II and
dramaticized rival of Mozart about whether or not men and women can be "just friends" in this Rob
Reiner romantic comedy.
ANSWER: When Harry Met Salieri
2. Answer this set of questions about a taxonomic class. FTPE:
[10] This class of joint-legged animals contains members who all have eight legs. Like other arthropods,
they have an exoskeleton.
ANSWER: arachnids
[10] Arachnids have this organ which aids in the process of gas exchange.
ANSWER: book lungs
[10]Arachnids use this copper-based pigment in their circulatory system to transport oxygen.
ANSWER: hemocyanin
When Madame de Renal reveals information that would prevent the protagonist from being able to marry
Mathiled, the protagonist shoots her, FTPE:
[10] Julien Sorel is the protagonist of what so-called “Chronicle of the 19th Century”?
ANSWER: The Red and the Black or La Rouge et le Noir
[10] This French novelist wrote The Red and the Black.
ANSWER: Stendahl or Marie-Henri Beyel
[10] After years of adventuring, Fabrice del Dongo retires to the titular monastery at the end of this novel
by Stendahl.

4

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

ANSWER: The Charterhouse of Parma
3. FTPE, name some Mesopotamian city-states.
[10] This major city-state was a political center of Mesopotamia at least twice, once under Hammurabi and
a thousand years later under Nebuchadnezzar.
ANSWER: Babylon (do not accept Babylonia, which is the name of the region, not the city)
[10] This city-state gives its name to the period around the end of the fourth millennium BC, and its rulers
included Lugalzagezi and Gilgamesh.
ANSWER: Uruk (not Ur)

[10] This Assyrian capital was located on the northern part of the Tigris.
ANSWER: Nineveh
4. Name some US states from their capitals. (5 each, 30 for all 5)
[5] Springfield
ANSWER: Illinois
[5] Carson City
ANSWER: Nevada
[5] Bismarck
ANSWER: North Dakota
[5] Columbia
ANSWER: South Carolina
[5] Olympia
ANSWER: Washington
5. This man wrote a lesser known Haywain triptych, FTPE:
[10] Identify this painter of the temptation of St. Anthony
ANSWER: Hieronymus Bosch
[10] Easily the most famous work of Bosch, this triptych shows an ideal Eden on the left side, a veritable
orgy of people and animals and depicts a grisly hell on the right
ANSWER: the Garden of Earthly Delights
[10] Bosch painted two triptych’s with this title, both depicting the bad things that will happen at a certain
point in the future. Michaelangelo painted a famous Fresco of this event in the Sistine Chapel above the
Tomb of Julius II, which depicts Jesus performing the titular act
ANSWER: The Last Judgment
6. Characters in this novel include the letter-writing Marquesa de Montemayor and a stage actress known as
La Perichole, FTPE:
[10] This is what novel in which Brother Juniper tries to chronicle the lives of the five people who died
when the titular structure collapsed.
ANSWER: The Bridge of San Luis Rey
[10] The Bridge of San Luis Rey is by this author who wrote about the Antrobus family in The Skin of Our
Teeth.
ANSWER: Thornton Wilder
[10] Thornton Wilder’s best-known work is this play in which the Stage Manager details the lives of the
inhabitants of Grover’s Corners, focusing on George Gibbs and Emily Webb.
ANSWER: Our Town
7. Name these bulwarks of organized labor, FTPE:
[10] Formed in 1869, this labor organization was by far the most inclusive of any of its contemporaries,
accepting women and blacks into their membership, but later ran into trouble when disputes arose between
skilled craft unionists and unskilled industrial workers.
ANSWER: Knights of Labor
[10] Breaking off from the Knights of Labor, this much more conservative labor organization dealt almost
exclusively with skilled workers and was led by the president of the Cigar Makers’ International Union,
Samuel Gompers.

5

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

ANSWER: American Federation of Labor
[10] Derived from the Latin word for “grain,” this fraternal group of farmers successfully helped to achieve
regulation of the railroads and grain warehouses, as evidenced by the decision in their favor in the Supreme
Court case Munn v. Illinois.
ANSWER: The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry
8. Kernels are central to these programs, which in general are responsible for arranging communications
between the application layer and the hardware layer. FTPE:
[10] Identify these programs, examples of which include Linux and Windows 7.
ANSWER: operating system
[10] These constructs are abstract interfaces that are used by software programs to both communicate with
each other and communicate with the OS.
ANSWER: API or Application Process Interface
[10] These constructs, which are contained within and are subsets of processes, can run concurrently and
share memories. Modern processors can run more than one of these at once.
ANSWER: thread
9. FTPE, answer some questions about a type of chemical system and its properties.
[10] These types of mixtures, which can be found in solid, liquid, and gas varieties, consist of a dispersion
medium in which a dispersed phase is homogenously spread out. Emulsions and sols are two types of these
mixtures.
ANSWER: colloids
[10] Some colloids appear translucent because of this effect, which describes the scattering of light by
colloidal particles.
ANSWER: Tyndall effect
[10] Colloidal particles can come out of the dispersion medium suspension through this process in which
flakes of the dispersed phase form.
ANSWER: flocculation
10. FTPE, answer some questions about 18th-century Spain.
[10] Charles II was the last Spanish ruler of this originally-Austrian royal family, whose scions including
Charles V / Carlos I and Philip II dominated Europe in the 16th century.
ANSWER: House of Habsburg
[10] At the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 that ended the War of the Spanish Succession, Louis XIV's France
was kept from expanding too much but his candidate, Philip V, of this family was allowed to remain King
of Spain on the condition that he renounce for himself and his descendants any claim on the French throne.
ANSWER: House of Bourbon
[10] The major intellectual movement of the 18th century gave its name to these benevolent autocrats who
embraced some of its ideals. The ranks of this type of ruler include Joseph II, Catherine the Great,
Frederick II, and Charles III of Spain.
ANSWER: Enlightened Despots or Enlightened Absolutists or equivalents
11. The poet’s use of the name “Moloch” is thought to come from the character Moloch in Fritz Lang’s
Metropolis, FTPE:
[10] Name this 1956 poem that opens with the lines “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by
madness”.
ANSWER: “Howl”
[10] Howl is by this Beat poet, who wrote Kaddish about the death of his mother, Naomi.
ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg
[10] This Beat poet’s company City Light Books published Ginsberg’s “Howl”. The most well-known
collection of his own poetry is A Coney Island of the Mind.
ANSWER: Lawrence Ferlinghetti
12. Name the following Caribbean religions, for ten points each:

6

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

[10] Haiti is the home of this blend of Catholicism and West African religion, which believes that deities
called loas, including Baron Samedi and Papa Legba, mediate between the worlds of the living and the
dead.
ANSWER: Voodoo
[10] This Cuban religion is related to Haitian Voodoo. It worships deities called orishas and is known for
its practice of animal sacrifice.
ANSWER: Santería
[10] This religion originated in Ethiopia but is now popular in Jamaica. It worships Emperor Haile Selassie
as an incarnation of God, or Jah. Its adherents smoke ganja and frequently sing reggae music.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
13. FTPE, answer some questions about a certain structure that can form from surfactant molecules.
[10] This class of spherical structures can self-assemble in aqueous solutions by having the hydrophilic
ends of the participating molecules orient themselves on the outside surface in contact with water.
ANSWER: micelles
[10] This type of biological compound can form micelles because they possess hydrophilic heads and
hydrophobic tails. They are often found in a namesake bilayer in cells.
ANSWER: phospholipids
[10] If the system’s temperature is below this, micelles cannot form, even if the critical micelle
concentration is reached.
ANSWER: Kraft temperature
14. President Lula da Silva, one of the most popular leaders in the world, leads this country. FTPE:
[10] Name this South American nation, which Goldman Sachs grouped with Russia, India, and China.
ANSWER: Brazil
[10] This man is generally supposed the first man to discover Brazil; he claimed it for Portugal.
ANSWER: Pedro Cabral
[10] Getulio Vargas established this authoritarian regime in Brazil. It was modeled after a similar plan put
forth by Antonio Salazar in Portugal.
ANSWER: Estado Novo or New State
15. Answer these questions about spiders in mythology, for ten points each:
[10] This Lydian girl challenged Minerva to a weaving contest and was transformed into a spider as
punishment for her hubris.
ANSWER: Arachne
[10] This Ashanti trickster deity takes the form of a spider and is the son of Nyame, the sky god.
ANSWER: Anansi
[10] This Lakota deity is also a trickster, and is the child of the creator god Inyan.
ANSWER: Inktomi
16. Answer the following about fiction set in Ancient Rome, FTPE:
[10] The reigns of Augustus, Tiberius, and Caligula are narrated through the eyes of the titular stuttering,
soon-to-be emperor in this novel by Robert Graves.
ANSWER: I, Claudius
[10] This American writer of Myra Breckenridge later disowned his screenplay for a film about the life of
Caligula and did uncredited script work on Ben-Hur, and he’s also known for his debates with William S.
Buckley.
ANSWER: Gore Vidal
[10] Quo Vadis is a historical novel by Henryk Sienkewicz, the first Nobel Laureate in Literature from this
country.
ANSWER: Poland
17. Show your knowledge about the 1836 Texas Revolution, FTPE.
[10] President of Mexico intermittently on seven occasions throughout 22 years, this general led Mexican
forces in several battles against such American luminaries as Sam Houston and Davy Crockett.

7

BHSAT XIX

Packet 5

ANSWER: Antonio López de Santa Anna
[10] Possibly the most culturally significant event of the Texas Revolution, “remembering” the events
taking place at this fortress led Texan rebels to vilify Santa Anna for his supposed cruelty.
ANSWER: Alamo
[10] This decisive battle of the Texas Revolution led to Texan independence and the ultimate defeat of
Santa Anna by Sam Houston, whose Texan army suffered only nine deaths, as compared with the 630
deaths suffered by the Mexican army.
ANSWER: Battle of San Jacinto
18. Answer these related physics bonus questions FTPE:
[10] This phenomenon occurs with electromagnetic radiation as well as with matter like electrons. It comes
in varieties like the Fraunhofer and Fresnel ones.
ANSWER: diffraction
[10] This scientist explored the double-slit variation of diffraction to demonstrate how light acts as both a
wave and particle. He is also known for characterizing elasticity and a namesake modulus as well as a
theory on capillary action along with Laplace.
ANSWER: Thomas Young
[10] This form of electromagnetic radiation has a wavelength in the range of 10 to 0.01 nanometers and
frequencies in the range of 30 petahertz to 30 exahertz, and can penetrate solid objects quite well.
ANSWER: x-rays
19. Answer some questions about Gothic Literature, FTPE:
[10] Emily St. Aubert is imprisoned in the titular castle in this Gothic novel by Ann Radcliffe.
ANSWER: Mysteries of Udolpho
[10] Catherine Morland expects the titular estate to be like Udolpho in this novel, but is disappointed by its
tameness in this novel by Jane Austen that satirizes the Gothic novel fad.
ANSWER: Northanger Abbey
[10] Perhaps the most famous Gothic novel of all time in which solicitor Jonathan Harker is summoned to
the title character’s castle, and is eventually followed there by his fiancée Nina and Professor Van Helsing.
ANSWER: Dracula
20. Robert Schumann once praised the "heavenly length" of this composer's ninth symphony, now
nicknamed the "Great." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Austrian composer of the song cycles Die Winterreise and Die schöne Müllerin, as well
as a chamber work inspired by his song "Die Forelle," the Trout Quintet.
ANSWER: Franz Schubert
[10] Schubert's best-known symphony may be this two-movement work in B minor. Its first movement has
a famous second subject in G major, which was used in the film Minority Report.
ANSWER: The Unfinished Symphony (or Symphony No. 8 or D. 759)
[10] Schubert's Opus 1 is this song with text by Goethe. In it the singer must inhabit several personas,
including a father, a son, and the title character, who tries to lure the boy away from his father during a
nighttime ride.
ANSWER: "Der Erlkönig" (or "The Erlking")
21. Answer some related questions FTPE:
[10] This website currently comes in 240 languages, though most of its content is written in English. It is
arguably the best general reference source on the Internet, but for research papers, it should not be one’s
only cited source.
ANSWER: Wikipedia: The Free Encyclopedia
[10] Wikipedia was founded by Larry Sanger and this man, who has publicly stated that he was the sole
founder in disputing Sanger’s claims.
ANSWER: Jimmy Donal “Jimbo” Wales
[10] This related website posts documents, and in some cases, videos, which allege corporate or
government misconduct and corruption.
ANSWER: WikiLeaks

8

