BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

Tossups:
1. This king only rose to the throne after his three elder brothers ruled in succession. He made a treaty with
his enemy Guthrum to secure his kingdom from the harrying of the Great Heathen Army. Before that
treaty, Guthrum had made him flee to the marshes, but this king was able to maintain the loyalty of his
people and a system of ealdormen and thegns that could muster the fyrds so that this king could deal a
decisive defeat to Guthrum at the Battle of Ethandun. This king is often held to be the father of the English
navy. The son of Æthelwulf, he succeeded his brother Æthelræd in 871 and was in turn succeeded by his
son Edward the Elder. FTP, name this king of Wessex, the first and only native English king to be known
as „the Great.‟
ANSWER: Alfred the Great
2. In this novel, the protagonist runs away after beating Noah Claypole in a fight and aquires a job where he
is told he will be making handkerchiefs. In another episode, a character overhears two men agreeing to
throw a ring and necklace that belonged to the protagonist's mother off a bridge. That character, Nancy, is
later beaten to death by Bill Sykes. The protagonist donates part of his inheritance to his half-brother
Monks, and finally is adopted by Mr. Brownlow. FTP, name this novel, featuring the Artful Dodger and
Fagin, by Charles Dickins about an orphan who iconically asks for more gruel.
ANSWER: Oliver Twist
3. A positive response to the Paul-Bunnell heterophile antibody test indicates infection by this virus, and
the Miller-Hutt-Fletcher process is one way it can target cells. Marmoset cell immortality is a result of this
virus which can be responsible for both inhibition of the IL-10 receptor and promotion of autoimmune
disease states through polyclonal B cell expansion. FTP, name this B-cell infecting virus linked to
conditions like nasopharyngeal carcinoma, oral hairy leukoplakia, Burkitt‟s lymphoma, Hodgkin‟s
Disease, and mononucleosis.
ANSWER: Epstein-Barr virus
4. This polity was one of the very few pre-colonial realms to span three continents, joining the ranks of
Rome and the Umayyad Caliphate. The father of this empire was originally the ruler of a Ghazi emirate
but built this empire from the ashes of the Seljuks and was named Osman. This empire declined after its
apogee in the sixteenth century, and by the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was known as the “sick
old man of Europe.” This empire inherited the Seljuk war with the Byzantines but succeeded where the
Seljuks had failed, when Mehmet II conquered Constantinople in 1453. FTPE name this empire that
reached its height under Suleiman the Magnificent.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire (prompt on Ottomans)
5. He appears in only one scene in his third film, a funeral scene for the Queen of his home planet, while in
his second film appearence, this character initiates a vote to grant Chancellor Palpatine "emergency
powers" precipitating the rise of the Galactic Empire. This character is originally saved from being crushed
by a Trade Federation tank, leading him to convince Boss Nass to help the protagonists escape from Theed.
FTP name this bumbling Gungan who first appeared in "The Phantom Menace" widely criticized by critics
for being too comical and childish.
ANSWER: Jar-Jar Binks
6. The second stanza describes a creature with “gaze blank and pitiless as the sun” whose “twenty centuries
of stony sleep were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle”. While the first stanza describes how “mere
anarchy is loosed upon the world” when “the falcon cannot hear the falconer”, and “the best lack all
conviction while the worst are full of passionate intensity”. FTP, the phrases “Slouching towards
Bethlehem” and “things fall apart” originate in what poem by William Butler Yeats that describes an event
foretold by the Book of Revelation?
ANSWER: “The Second Coming”
7. This man was a Fabian socialist and put forth a five-year plan in 1951. During WWII he refused to fight
the Japanese and later helped organize the Bandung Conference. Later he was a leader of the Non-Aligned
movement but was nevertheless forced to fight a war with China. He eventually made a deal with

1

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

Muhammad Ali Jinnah on Partition. FTP name this man, the leader of the Congress Party and the first
Prime Minister of India.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru
8. One of his works while in the Employ of Maximilian I was entitled The Triumphal Arch. This man
sketched a Rhinoceros which was the first seen in Europe since Roman times. This man made many
journeys to Italy, painting some of the first landscapes along the way. His Young Hare was a pioneering
work in watercolors, while one of his more famous works depicts a Knight marching along with two other,
sinister figures, Death and the Devil. Perhaps his most famous work depicts a sad faced angel with an
hourglass above his head about to write something. FTP, identify this leading figure of the Northern
Renaissance, famous for woodcuts like Melancholia I.
ANSWER: Albrecht Durer
9. One of this man‟s victories in the early years of his reign came against the Shardana pirates, who would
become one of the “Sea Peoples” that wreaked havoc across the eastern Mediterranean in the reign of the
next king with this king‟s name. This king did everything on a large scale: he fought Muwatalli of the
Hittites near the Orontes River at Kadesh in the largest chariot battle in history; was the longest-reigning
pharaoh; and fathered nearly one hundred children. FTP name this great Egyptian pharaoh of the
nineteenth dynasty, known to the Greeks and Shelley as Ozymandias.
ANSWER: Ramses II
10. Contemporary historians blame this author for perpetuating the myth that title explorer sought to prove
that the earth is not flat in his The Life of Voyages of Christopher Columbus, which he wrote while Minister
to Spain, a time that also saw him write his Tales of the Alhambra. In one short story by this author, the title
character naps under a tree after a game of nine-pins only to wake up twenty years later, while in another
story the Headless Horseman pursues Ichabod Crane. FTP, this is what early 19th Century American author
whose The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon contained the stories “Rip Van Winkle” and “The Legend of
Sleepy Hollow”?
ANSWER: Washington Irving
11. This concept qualitatively expresses an intuition about the phenomena described quantitatively by a
certain set of equations, and it can be used to predict that increasing temperature will increase the yield of
an endothermic reaction or that decreasing pressure will push a reaction toward the side with fewer moles
of gaseous products. FTP, name this principle that states that a chemical system at equilibrium will
respond in opposition to disturbances to that equilibrium.
ANSWER: Le Chatelier’s Principle or Principle of Le Chatelier
12. A collection of this man‟s courses on the origins of socialism were published after this man‟s death by
Marcel Mauss. His Rules of the Sociological method was an attempt to found a method which would
guarantee sociology‟s truly scientific character. Later this man analyzed how religion contributes to the
maintenance of social order in his The Elementary Forms of Religious Life. In perhaps his most famous
work, this author of the Division of Labor in Society classified the titular phenomenon into four types,
egoistic, altruistic, anomic, and fatalistic. FTP, identify this pioneering French sociologist, the author of
Suicide.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim
13. Most Christian chroniclers and historians through the 19th century, including Edward Gibbon, thought
this battle of macrohistorical importance, many modern historians, however, believe that the Muslim army
under Abdul al-Rahman was nothing more than raiding party returning from profitable plunder at the
monastery of St. Martin in southwest France. Tactically, this battle was notable in that the Franks used
only well-disciplined infantry, rather than the knightly cavalry that was being developed at the time and
would later characterize the medieval French army. Marking the highwater mark of Islamic expamsion
into Europe, FTP, name this 732 battle that paved the way for the Carolingian empire and was won by
Charles Martel.
ANSWER: Battle of Tours (or Poitier)

2

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

14. It was famously refuted by Hilary Putnam and G. E. Moore, while Zhuangzi‟s butterfly dream is
considered an Eastern equivalent of this movement. George Berkeley claimed that his immaterialism way
the only method of avoiding this philosophy, and al-Ghazali claimed that faith was necessary to avoid this
in his The Incoherence of the Philosophers. David Hume‟s discussion of the problem of induction led him
to be branded an adherent of this philosophy, and the first of Descartes‟ Meditations on First Philosophy
presents both the Evil Genius and Dream arguments for this view. In the ancient world, this philosophy was
associated with the middle period of Plato‟s Academy, but was more famously exhibited by a school that
took its name from Pyrrho of Elis. For ten points, name this philosophical school of Sextus Empiricus
which claimed that all knowledge can be called into doubt.
ANSWER: skepticism
15. The so-called "threefold chord," presented in this opera's overture, appears again near the beginning of
Act II, signifying that the choir deems the lead tenor worthy. In one quintet, a character sings "Hm, hm,
hm, hm" because his mouth has been padlocked for claiming to have saved the tenor's life. When the tenor
is unable to respond to his lover, she believes he is no longer in love with her and sings the aria "Ach, ich
fühl's." A glockenspiel, representing a set of bells, accompanies the aria "Ein Mädchen oder Weibchen,"
and another character reaches high F in both of her arias, the second of which is the revenge aria "Der Hölle
Rache," in which she urges her daughter to kill Sarastro. Featuring the Queen of the Night, Pamina,
Tamino, and Papageno, for 10 points, identify this German opera by Mozart.
ANSWER: Die Zauberflöte (or The Magic Flute)
16. The ISIS facility, at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in Oxfordshire, United Kingdom, is a source for
muons and these particles. Its antiparticle was discovered by Bruce Cork, and the R-process and S-process
are different ways in which they can be captured by a nucleus. These particles, when free, undergo beta
decay with a mean lifetime of about 15 minutes. Made up of one up quark and two down quarks, it was
discovered by James Chadwick. FTP, identify this particle whose number differs in different isotopes of the
same element, a subatomic particle with zero charge.
ANSWER: neutrons
17. He is revered as a saint in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, and his wife is traditionally held to be
named Claudia Procula. Other traditions hold that he was born in Scotland and committed suicide in Gaul.
He famously asked, “What is truth?” when Jesus Christ informed him of his mission, and repeatedly asked
Jesus whether he believed himself to be King of the Jews. Although only Luke records his attempt to hand
Jesus over to Herod for judgment, all four gospels make it clear that he did not find Jesus guilty of the
accusations made by the Sanhedrin. For ten points, name the Roman governor of Judea who washed his
hands of Jesus Christ‟s crucifixion.
ANSWER: Pontius Pilate
18. One novel by this author focuses on the trial of war criminal John Demjanjuk and hunting down an
imposter using the author‟s name, while another imagines what would have happened had Charles
Lindberg become president. Besides Operation Shylock and The Plot Against America, another novel by
this author tells the story of a professor who was fired for racism, though he is secretly black passing for
white, Coleman Silk. While, the title character of his most famous novel has girlfriends nicknamed The
Pilgrim, The Pumpkin, and The Monkey. This is, FTP, what author of The Human Stain, American
Pastoral, and Portnoy’s Complaint.
ANSWER: Philip Roth
19. They do not exhibit secondary growth of their stems, and their vascular tissue is not arranged in
concentric rings but rather in the scattered atactostele formation. Vascular bundles in their stems feature a
covering of parenchyma but no pith, and their pollen contains only one furrow. Roots are adventitious and
can develop from buds other than the apical meristem shoot, while their stomata are arranged parallel to the
long axis of leaves, all of which feature parallel venation. FTP, name the angiosperm class of plants that
contains flower segments arranged in multiples of threes and only one seed leaf.
ANSWER: monocots or monocotyledons

3

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

20. One novel by this author was originally published under the name of its protagonist, Emil Sinclair,
while another describes the efforts of the students of the Waldzell in Castalia to become Magister Ludi. In
addition to Demian and The Glass Bead Game, he also wrote a book in which Harry Haller reads a
pamphlet which helps him release the spirit of the titular animal within him, after which he stabs Hermione
in the Magic Theatre and another in which the title character journeys with his companion Govinda to seek
out enlightenment. FTP, this is what German-Swiss author of Steppenwolf and Siddhartha?
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
21. This inertial force, described by a 19th-century French engineer and mathematician in 1835, often aids
the formation of jet streams and western boundary currents. It is also responsible for Rossby and Kelvin
waves as well as other types of waves found in the ocean and atmosphere. This effect is often naively used
to suggest that toilets flush in different directions, depending on whether they are in the northern or
southern hemisphere. FTP, name the effect responsible for counterclockwise movement of cyclones in the
northern hemisphere and clockwise movement in the southern hemisphere.
ANSWER: Coriolis effect

Bonuses:
1. Answer the following about astronomical systems, FTPE:
[10] This structure is formed by diffuse material in orbital motion around a central body. If a white dwarf
draws too much mass from this structure, it may explode in a supernova.
Answer: accretion disc
[10] White dwarf supernovas sometimes arise in this type of system where another celestial body is in close
enough proximity to “spill” some of its mass into a disc surrounding the white dwarf.
Answer: binary star system or binary system
[10] Also sometimes found in the center of an accretion disk, this celestial body is the remnant of a massive
star super nova. They can have a radius of up to 12 kilometers.
Answer: neutron star
2. FTPE, name some Christian heresies.
[10] This first great heresy held that the Son was not unbegotten but rather proceeded from and was
subordinate to the Father, and that similarly the Father working through the Son created the Holy Spirit,
which was in turn subordinate to the Son. Despite that, all three parts of the Trinity existed before Time.
In any case, this heresy and its promulgator and namesake were condemned at the First Council of Nicaea,
but that didn't stop many early Germanic converts from adopting it.
ANSWER: arianism
[10] This dyophysite heresy was condemned at the Council of Chalcedon in 451, for emphasizing the
distinction and disunity between the human and divine natures of Jesus.
ANSWER: nestorianism
[10] This early second-millennium heresy was heavily dualist and believed that the material world was
evil. It therefore rejected the doctrine of the crucifixion and disdained sexual reproduction and the eating of
meat (except fish, which as everyone knows do not reproduce but rather spontaneously generate in
water). This sect based in Languedoc in southern France was wiped out by an early 13th-century crusade.
ANSWER: Cathars or Catharism or Albigensians or Albigensianism
3. Answer these bonuses about vector addition FTPE:
[10] Given an isosceles triangle with legs of length 2, what is the range of values for the length of the third
leg?
ANSWER: (0, 4)
[10] Name the theorem which states that the norm of the sum of two vectors must be less than or equal to
the sum of the norms of the two vectors.
ANSWER: triangle inequality
[10] The triangle inequality theorem can be derived from this doubly eponymous theorem which states that
the norm of a product of two vectors is less than or equal to the product of the norms of the two vectors.
ANSWER: Cauchy-Schwartz inequality

4

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

4. Stuff about the Roaring Twenties, FTPE:
[10] This idealistic, isolationist multinational agreement renounced the use of war as “an instrument of
national policy,” and reflected the supposedly peaceable atmosphere of the times.
ANSWER: Kellogg-Briand Pact (accept the Pact of Paris)
[10] This Wisconsin senator and fiery opponent of trade unions, trusts, the League of Nations, and US
involvement in foreign wars ran on the Progressive Party ticket in 1924, winning 17% of the popular vote.
ANSWER: Robert La Follette Sr.
[10] This aloof Republican president during the Roaring Twenties, in contrast to La Follette, was a strong
supporter of laissez-faire economic policy. He was known for his saying, “The business of the American
people is business.”
ANSWER: Calvin Coolidge
5. Answer some questions about European relations with the New World FTPE:
[10] This civilization was the largest empire of the Pre-Columbian Americas and occupied much of
present-day Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina, and Chile.
ANSWER: Inca Empire
[10] The Incas fought a disastrous battle with this Spanish conquistador at Cajamarca in 1532.
ANSWER: Francisco Pizarro
[10] Pizarro captured this last Incan emperor at Cajamarca. His supporters complied with a king‟s ransom,
but Pizarro had him garroted anyway.
ANSWER: Atahualpa
6. Answer these questions about thermodynamics, FTPE:
[10] This is a measurement of the “useful” or process-initiating work in a system. It is equal to the
enthalpy minus the temperature times entropy.
ANSWER: Gibb’s free energy
[10] Gibb‟s free energy can be used to characterize this quantity, which dictates to what extent a reaction or
process will proceed towards the reactants or products at constant pressure and temperature.
ANSWER: spontaneity
[10] This thermodynamic potential is equal to the maximum amount of work extractable from a
thermodynamic process in which temperature and volume are held constant. It is defined as the internal
energy of the system minus the temperature times the entropy.
ANSWER: Helmholtz free energy
7. The ending of this work in its fifty-fourth chapter is famously abrupt, ending in mid-sentence, FTPE:
[10] This is what 11th century novel about the romantic adventures of the titular emperor‟s son, whose
amorous exploits include his forbidden love for his stepmother, Lady Fujitsbo.
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji
[10] The Tale of Genji was written by this Heian-period Japanese author, one of the world‟s earliest
novelists.
ANSWER: Lady Murasaki Shikibu
[10] This rival of Lady Murasaki was the other leading literary figure of the Heian period, best known for
her diary-like collection of observations about court life, The Pillow Book.
ANSWER: Sei Shonagon
8. One character in this work is attempting to write a work entitled, “The Key to All Mythologies”, FTPE:
[10] That character Edward Casaubon marries Dorothea Brooke, the protagonist of this “Study of
Provincial Life” set in the titular Midlands town.
ANSWER: Middlemarch
[10] Middlemarch is the magnum opus of this Victorian British author who wrote about Arthur
Donnithome, Hetty Sorel, and the titular character, in her first novel, Adam Bede.
ANSWER: George Eliot or Mary Anne Evans
[10] The titular character of this George Eliot novel is a weaver who comes to Raveloe after being accused
of stealing church funds in his previous town of Lantern Yard, and whose life is changed by the orphan
Eppie.

5

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

ANSWER: Silas Marner
9. FTPE, name some people involved in the decline of the Carolingian empire.
[10] This man, the son of Charlemagne, was the last to rule Charlemagne's unified Frankish kingdom. This
man's lands were divided among his three sons at the Treaty of Verdun of 843.
ANSWER: Louis the Pious
[10] This man was the eldest son of Louis the Pious and received the title of Emperor. He also got northern
Italy and a territory running all the way to the Netherlands, including Lorraine, which was named for him.
That territory did not long survive the wars between its neighbors, East and West Frankia.
ANSWER: Lothair
[10] This son of Louis the Pious and half-brother of Lothair and Louis the German received the territory of
West Frankia, and he is often considered the first King of France. His nickname may be an ironic comment
on his hairiness, or perhaps on his childhood lack of a sub-kingdom.
ANSWER: Charles the Bald (or Charles I)
10. Identify the following French composers active in the twentieth century, for 10 points each.
[10] He collaborated with Jean Cocteau and Pablo Picasso on the ballet Parade and also wrote "Three
Pieces in the Shape of a Pear," but today he may be best remembered for his set of three Gymnopedies for
piano.
ANSWER: Erik Satie
[10] This member of Les Six was influenced by Brazilian music in such pieces as Saudades do Brasil and
Le boeuf sur le toit, and he also wrote the jazzy ballet La création du monde, or The Creation of the World.
ANSWER: Darius Milhaud
[10] This devout Catholic used the ondes Martenot in his Turangalila-Symphonie. Another piece, which
uses the instruments which were available to him in a Nazi prisoner of war camp, is the Quartet for the End
of Time.
ANSWER: Olivier Messiaen
11. Name these early modern rationalist philosophers, for ten points each:
[10] This French founder of modern philosophy claimed to be able to rationally deduce the existence of
God and the soul from his own existence. The statement “I think, therefore I am” is found in his Discourse
on Method.
ANSWER: René Descartes
[10] This German rationalist is famous for his Monadology and the philosophy of optimism. He was
parodied by Voltaire in Candide and discovered Calculus at roughly the same time as Newton.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
[10] This Jewish rationalist from Portugal was famous for his pantheism. His treatise Ethics denies mindbody dualism and tries to rationally derive ethical maxims.
ANSWER: Baruch Spinoza
12. FTPE, answer these related molecular biology questions.
[10] This term refers to the general biological process through which cells communicate with each other
and within themselves. The involve namesake pathways and cascades through which stimuli are amplified
and translated into cellular responses.
ANSWER: signal transduction
[10] This class of proteins is involved in many secondary messenger cascades and is the namesake of a
class of coupled receptors on cell surfaces that can activate signal transduction pathways. When activated
by the binding of a ligand, GDP is exchanged for GTP.
ANSWER: G proteins or guanine nucleotide-binding proteins
[10] This secondary messenger is produced from ATP when a G protein associates with adenylyl cyclase. It
promotes downstream effects by interacting with protein kinase A.
ANSWER: cyclic AMP or cyclic adenosine monophosphate
13. Answer some questions about World War II literature, FTPE:
[10] This American author chronicled his experiences in World War II in novels such as From Here to
Eternity, The Thin Red Line, and Whistle.

6

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

ANSWER: James Jones
[10] This Romanian-Jewish author wrote about his experiences during the Holocaust in a trilogy whose
books are titled Night, Day, and Dawn.
ANSWER: Elie Weisel
[10] This novel by John Hersey focuses on the lives of six individuals in the aftermath of the atomic
bombing of Japan, which expanded on an article he had previously written for The New Yorker.
ANSWER: Hiroshima
14. Name these Jewish holidays, for ten points each:
[10] This holiday on the 14th of Adar celebrates the events of the book of Esther. Traditions include
scorning the Persian vizier Hamam, wearing costumes, and copious amounts of drinking.
ANSWER: Purim
[10] This holiday beginning on the 15th of Tishrei celebrates the structures in which the Israelites lived after
their exile from Egypt. It is celebrated by constructing and living in the huts from which the holiday gets its
name.
ANSWER: Sukkot
[10] This holiday commemorates the destruction of the First and Second Temples in Jerusalem, both of
which were destroyed on the namesake date.
ANSWER: Tisha B’Av or Ninth of Av
15. Characters in this novel include Colonel Munro, the commanding officer of Fort William Henry, and
the villainous Huron chief, Magua, FTPE:
[10] Uncas is the title character of what novel set during the Seven Years War?
ANSWER: The Last of the Mohicans
[10] The Last of the Mohicans is the second novel in the Leatherstocking Tales pentalogy of this 19th
century American writer.
ANSWER: James Fenimoore Cooper
[10] This character is the titular character of the first Leatherstocking Tales novel, The Deerslayer, and the
protagonist of the pentalogy.
ANSWER: Nathaniel “Natty” Bumpo [accept either]
16. Name some catalysts for reform in Japanese history, FTPE:
[10] This American naval officer visited Japan in 1854 and negotiated the Treaty of Kanagawa.
ANSWER: Commodore Matthew Perry
[10] This Japanese emperor oversaw the creation of the Diet and the modernization of Japan after the end
of the Tokugawa Shogunate.
ANSWER: Meiji
[10] This man became Prime Minister after his Democratic Party of Japan defeated the Liberal Democrats
in 2009. He may be less powerful than another man in his party, Ichiro Ozawa.
ANSWER: Yukio Hatoyama
17. After seeing a viral youtube video of a three-year old crying over him, he surprised her by visiting her
home, FTPE
[10] Name this 16 year old Candian pop star with hits like "One Less Lonely Girl" "One Time" and "Love
Me"
ANSWER: Justin Bieber
[10] This CD, Justin's debut album, featured all of the above singles, as well as "Favorite Girl"
ANSWER: My World
[10] On Justin Bieber's most recently released single, "Baby" he trades verses with this rapper, who starred
in Crash and has hits of his own like "Stand Up" "Southern Hospiatlity" and "Runaway Love"
ANSWER: Ludacris
18. The one-eyed tailor Petrovich is the maker of the title article, FTPE:
[10] The poor government clerk Akaky Akievich Baschmachkin saves up to by the titular article of
clothing only to have it stolen from him in a mugging in what short story?
ANSWER: The Overcoat

7

BHSAT XIX

Packet 7

[10] The Overcoat is by this Ukranian author who wrote about Chichikhov‟s scheme to make money off
deceased serfs in Dead Souls.
ANSWER: Nikolai Gogol
[10] The townsfolk bribe and kowtow to the civil servant Khlestakov in this Gogol play, only to discover in
the end that he is not the titular official that they were expecting.
ANSWER: The Inspector General or The Government Inspector
19. China is bordered by 14 different countries. Answer questions about its neighbours FTPE.
[10] Located across the Yalu River from China, James Bond was imprisoned after a botched mission in this
country at the beginning of the movie Die Another Day. More recently, Bill Clinton visited its capital,
Pyongyang, last summer.
ANSWER: North Korea
[10] In 1979, China briefly invaded this southern neighbour, as punishment for its invasion of Cambodia.
However, this country is more famously remembered for defeating the US in a bloody war, invoking a
famous picture of a helicopter taking off from the American Embassy in Saigon.
ANSWER: Vietnam
[10] This land-locked neighbour, surrounded entirely by China and Russia, was actually part of China until
1923. You might know it for camels, yurts and capital Ulan Bataar.
ANSWER: Mongolia
20. Answer these questions regarding fluid dynamics FTPE:
[10] This term provides a measure of a fluid‟s internal resistance to flow and can also be considered a
measure of the fluid‟s resistance to a shear or tensile stress.
ANSWER: viscosity
[10] The stress-strain rate curve for such a fluid passes through the origin and is linear. The slope of the line
is known as the viscosity.
ANSWER: Newtonian fluid
[10] A fluid with constant density can be assumed to have this property, which means that the equation of
continuity for the fluid can be simplified to show that the divergence of the velocity is zero.
ANSWER: incompressible
21. Identify a common sculptural theme throughout western art, FTPE:
[10] Perhaps the most famous of these sculptures was Michaelangelo‟s, instead of depicting the titular
figure standing above the defeated Goliath, shows him carrying a sling over his shoulder preparing for the
battle to come
ANSWER: David
[10] An earlier statue of David, the first freestanding nude since antiquity, was sculpted by this man who
also sculpted the Gattemalata and a sculpture of St. George.
ANSWER: Donatello
[10] Yet another David was commissioned by the Medici from this man who showed David triumphantly
posing over the head of the slain Goliath. This man also made an equestrian statue of Bartolemeo Colleoni
and was notably the teacher of Leonardo Da Vinci
ANSWER: Andrew del Verrocchio

8

