BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

Tossups:
1. This organ’s fundic and cardiac regions contain foveolar cells which secrete mucus, while intrinsic
factor, which is necessary for vitamin B12 absorption, is released by its parietal cells. Blood supplied
through the left and right gastro-omental arteries allows its enteroendocrine cells to produce somatostatin,
cholecystokinin, and gastrin and its chief cells to secrete rennin and pepsinogen. Its rugae folds increase
surface area, thus allowing for improved digestion in the region between its pyloric and esophageal
sphincters. FTP, name this hydrochloric acid-producing organ which digests food into chime.
ANSWER: stomach
2. This website was founded by Andrew Ternovski, and celebrities said to visit it include Ashton Kutcher,
Paris Hilton, and the Jonas Brothers. Ben Folds streamed part of a concert in Charlotte, NC over this
website, and a user known only as Merton performs piano improvisations for his partners on this site.
Commentators have noted its similarity to sites like Omegle.com while both praising and criticizing the
closeness between partners it offers. FTP, name this website that randomly pairs users with others in a
videochat, named after a game in which players put a single round in a revolver, hold the gun next to their
head, and pull the trigger.
ANSWER: www.Chatroulette.com
3. Rosso Fiorentino brought this movement to Fontainebleu, France, where he helped to found a French
equivalent of this artistic style. The Salt Cellar of Francis I is a sculptural example of this style, as is
Perseus with the Head of Medusa by Benvenuto Cellini. Another painting representing this style depicts
the Burial of the Count of Orgaz, while a painting by Bronzino, Venus, Cupid, Folly, and Time is a key
painting in this artistic style. Some of Michaelangelo’s late works can be said to be in this style. This style
was perhaps most concentrated in Venice, where the painters of works like Sacred and Profane love and the
Finding of the Body of St. Mark worked. FTP, identify this style perhaps best exemplified by Painters like
Titian, Tintoretto, and Parmigianino, which followed the Renaissance and features exaggerated human
forms.
ANSWER: Mannerism
4. It was first discovered in 1797 by a French pharmacist who produced the oxide of this element by
mixing crocoites with hydrochloric acid, and he was later able to retrieve the metallic element by heating
its oxide. Its +3 oxidation state is the most common, and can be obtained by dissolving its elemental form
in hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid, though it also comes in +4, +5, and +6 varieties. Trace amounts of
this element replace aluminum in corundum to form rubies, and it is mixed with iron to form stainless steel
alloys. FTP, what is this transition metal with atomic number 24 which is known for the bright colors of its
compounds and complexes?
Answer: chromium
5. A Sub-Sub Librarian and a Late Consumptive Usher supply an Etymology and a series of Extracts which
preface this work. One character in it declares that a ship was his “Yale College” and his “Harvard.”
Another character in this work discovers he can no longer enjoy a pipe and casts it overboard. While other
characters in this novel include the harpooners Daggoo, Tashtego, and the cannibal, Queequeg, and the first
mate, Starbuck. FTP, name this novel, which begins “Call Me Ishmael,” and was written by Herman
Melville.
ANSWER: Moby-Dick
6. He wrote a part-song in which men and women sing in the keys of G and A-flat, respectively. That piece
sets the "choric song" from Tennyson's "The Lotos-Eaters" and is called "There is Sweet Music." "The
Swimmer" and "Where Corals Lie" appear in an orchestral song cycle of his, and the Angel of the Agony
appears in an oratorio with text by Cardinal Newman. In addition to Sea Pictures and The Dream of
Gerontius, he wrote a piece famously recorded by Jacqueline du Pré, his cello concerto in E minor. Another
piece contains sections called "C.A.E." and "Ysobel," as well as one inspired by Beethoven's Pathetique
Sonata, "Nimrod." For 10 points, identify this composer who depicted his friends in his Enigma Variations
and wrote Pomp and Circumstance.
ANSWER: Edward Elgar

1

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

7. One notable volume in this collection of treatises offers advice on how best to prevent “tyranny of the
majority,” thereby ensuring that “factions” cannot harm the best interests of society or force their views on
dissenting citizens. Written under the pseudonym of Publius, in homage to the Roman consul Publius
Valerius Publicola, other articles argue for the creation of a strong chief executive at the helm of
government as well as for the exclusion of a Bill of Rights from any potential framework of government.
For ten points, name this collection of documents written by John Jay, James Madison, and Alexander
Hamilton to persuade residents of New York to ratify the United States Constitution.
ANSWER: Federalist Papers (accept The Federalist)
8. One character in this play, ignores his servant’s reports of his wife’s bad fever and headache to inquire
about the health of another guest of his house, only to respond “poor fellow” no matter how positive the
news. Later, that character forbids his daughter Marianne from marrying Valère and disinherits his son
Damis for accusations against the title character, and continues to refuse to believe the title character’s
treachery until he witnesses him attempt to seduce his wife, Elmire. FTP, Orgon’s family is plagued by the
titular religious hypocrite in what play by Molière?
ANSWER: Tartuffe
9. One part of this conflict was Able Archer 83, which was believed to conceal a first strike. Joseph
Mobutu and Patrice Lumumba became combatants in this conflict, and when Mobutu won he was granted
parachuting lessons at Fort Bragg. Quemoy, Matsu, Khe Sanh, Inchon, Prague, and Berlin became hotspots
in this conflict. FTP, name this conflict, which cooled during détente and ended with the dissolution of the
Soviet Union.
ANSWER: The Cold War
10. This property can be used to create circuits that filter out a particular frequency from a complex signal.
Its namesake reactance is given by two pi times the signal frequency times this, and it is positive because
the phase of the voltage leads the phase of the current. For a single loop of wire, this is given by phi over I,
where phi is the magnetic flux through the loop and i is the current. FTP, name this property, commonly
measured in henries, whereby a changing current induces an electromotive force that opposes the change in
the current.
ANSWER: inductance
11. He decried a scientific approach to history in his On the Uses and Disadvantages of History for Life, an
essay included in his early volume, Untimely Meditations. He was strongly influenced by the theories of
Heraclitus, but blamed Socrates for the decline of Athenian drama in The Birth of Tragedy. His theory of
eternal recurrence posited that the universe went through cycles of existence, a view praised in The Gay
Science and Ecce Homo. More famous were his claim that Christianity warped classical definitions of good
and bad and his call for a “transvaluation of all values”, which were included in On the Genealogy of
Morality. This 19th century German thinker’s Beyond Good and Evil elaborates on his most famous ideas
of the Will to Power and the Übermensch. For ten points, name this philosopher who wrote that “God is
dead” in Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Friedrich Nietzsche
12. A Harvard University varsity football player, this politician later earned some preliminary geopolitical
experience when he traveled to Palestine firsthand in order to analyze tensions between Israeli settlers in
the region and Palestinian Arabs. Upon returning to the US, and after talking tough with such influential
figures as Jimmy Hoffa and Joseph McCarthy, he became one of the then-president’s closest advisers and a
leader in the fight against organized crime and the mafia. Appointed Attorney General during the
president’s tenure and winning a Massachusetts Senate race after the president died, for ten points, name
this icon of modern American liberalism, a Democratic candidate for the 1968 presidential election, the
target of assassin Sirhan Sirhan, and the younger brother of John Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: Robert Francis Kennedy (accept RFK)

2

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

13. This man grew up as an orphan in the house of his uncle and married Khadija, a widow who owned a
caravan. Eight additional wives survived him, including his favorite wife A’isha. After this man’s death,
A’isha contested the claim of one of his sons, Ali, to become caliph. FTP, name this man, who is said to
have received revelations from the angel Gabriel, and who in 622 traveled to Medina from Mecca.
ANSWER: Muhummad
14. The Morley-Vine-Matthews hypothesis predicted that this phenomenon would result in symmetric
patterns in rocks at certain locations, providing the first strong support for this notion. These patterns record
the reversals of the earth's magnetic field. First proposed by Harry Hess, it describes a process that can
occur at a triple junction or a divergent boundary. FTP, identify this now widely-accepted theory that helps
explain continental drift, a process in which new oceanic crust is formed at mid-ocean ridges.
ANSWER: seafloor spreading
15. Short stories by this author include one in which a nightingale impales itself on a rose to make it red
and one in which the titular statue asks a swallow to dismantle him and spread his pieces those in need,
both collected in The Happy Prince and Other Tales. This author’s time in prison produced two notable
works: a letter to his lover Lord Alfred Douglas, titled De Profundis, and a poem containing the immortal
line “each man kills the thing he loves”, “The Ballad of Reading Gaol”. His most popular play sees Jack
Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff both claim to have the titular first name in order to woo Gwendolyn and
Cecily. FTP, this is what Irish author of An Ideal Husband and The Importance of Being Earnest?
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde
16. Many Sufis consider themselves to be above this concept. It determines whether food is halal or
hareem, and requires ablution after impure acts. There are four main madh’habs, or schools of thought
concerning this concept, which is interpreted by ulama and applied by qadi. An opinion made by ulama
pertaining to this concept is called a fatwa, and it is taught in certain madrasas along with general Islamic
knowledge. Although an important source of it is ijtihad, or logical reasoning, the most important sources
are hadith, or records of the deeds of the prophet, and the text of the Quran. For ten points, name this
system of Islamic law which pertains to all aspects of Muslim life.
ANSWER: Sharia (prompt on Islamic law)
17. This author reported about an The Everyman’s Opera troupe’s attempt to stage Gershwin’s Porgy and
Bess in the U.S.S.R. in his The Muses Are Heard and wrote about Joel Harrison Knox, who is sent to live
with his grotesque relatives at Skully’s Landing, in Other Voices, Other Rooms. He was the basis for Dill in
a novel written by his longtime friend Harper Lee, To Kill a Mockingbird. His two popular works are a true
crime story about the Clutter family murder in Kansas and a novella about society girl Holly Golightly.
FTP, this is what American author of In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany’s.
ANSWER: Truman Capote
18. This state is estimated to have been continually populated for nearly three thousand years, and the first
European settlers were the Dutch and the Swedes. Its present Governor is Republican but both its Senators
are Democrats, and one of them is the only Senator to have returned to the Senate after retirement. The
main airport in this state is the second-largest hub for Continental Airlines, and its largest city is home to
the Prudential Center. The fifth-smallest state in the US, Elizabeth and Edison are amongst the bigger cities
in this state. FTP, name this north-eastern state, adjacent to New York City, that is home to Newark Airport
and the Nets.
ANSWER: New Jersey
19. The Judy algorithm can be used to define a very fast version of these data structures by combining them
with features of a hash, and a Vlist combines them with linked lists. Indexing in these structures occurs in
big omega of 1 time and have zero wasted space, while resizable ones are referred to as dynamic. Slicing is
a method for removing a part of these data structures and putting them into a smaller one, and these
structures can be declared by declaring a series of dimensions after the name of a variable. Usually used
with for loops and to implement tables, for 10 points, identify these matrix-like data structures, a group of
variables with the same name but different indices.
ANSWER: array

3

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

20. The protagonist of this novel has a breakdown at his eighteenth wedding anniversary because a
barbershop quartet brings back painful associations. Minor characters in this novel include Ronald Weary,
whose death will be avenged by Paul Lazzarro. The protagonist has an amorous relationship with Montana
Wildhack in a zoo on the planet of the Tralfamadorians, and enjoys the novels of Kilgore Trout. The
protagonist and his soldier-comrades are in the titular German camp during the firebombing of Dresden.
Death is always accompanied by the phrase “so it goes” in, FTP, what novel in which Billy Pilgrim
becomes “unstuck in time” by Kurt Vonnegut?
ANSWER: Slaughterhouse Five
21. This man became a Knight of the Order of the Garter in 1929, though this title was revoked in 1942 and
restored in 1971. He was nearly assassinated by the hand grenade of Lee Bong-Chang, an independence
activist, in 1932, and survived two military coups. The second of these took place after he assented to the
Potsdam Declaration. FTP, name this man, a Japanese emperor who was forced to admit that he was not a
living god after WWII.
ANSWER: Hirohito or Emperor Showa

Bonuses:
1. FTPE, answer these questions about XXL's "Freshman Class of Rap."
[10] This Canadian rapper starred as Jimmy Brooks on Degrassi: the Next Generation, but is now signed to
Lil’ Wayne’s Young Money label. He hit the charts this year with songs like “Forever” and “Best I Ever
Had.”
ANSWER: Drake
[10] This rapper, who also goes by Bobby Ray, drew comparisons to Andre 3000 with his song "Nothin' on
You" which featured Bruno Mars, since both are from Atlanta and employ a characteristic drawl
ANSWER: B.o.B
[10] The only white member of the Freshman Class rose to mainstream prominence with his smash hit "I
Love College" followed up by "Lark On My Go-Kart"
ANSWER: Asher Roth
2. Some of his students who broke with him included Carl Jung and Alfred Adler, FTPE.
[10] Identify this Austrian psychologist who is famous for his sexual stages of development, including an
oral and phallic stage.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
[10] In this work, Freud lays out the importance of a certain unconscious state that we experience when
asleep and how to tell what those states mean
ANSWER: the Interpretation of Dreams
[10] Freud was a notable proponent of this drug, using it for his entire life, a powerful stimulant which also
has anesthetic properties and is notably illegal.
ANSWER: Cocaine
3. European control of Africa quickly fragmented after World War II, FTPE:
[10] This country, formerly ruled by the British, was the first sub-saharan African nation to gain its
independence in 1957. It was formerly known as the Gold Coast and Kwame Nkrumah was a leader of the
Pan-Africanism and non-aligned movements
ANSWER: Ghana
[10] This is the capital of Ghana
ANSWER: Accra
[10] This state, formerly known as Rhodesia, formerly led by Ian Smith, declared its independence in 1965,
but changed its name after 1980. It recently suffered a cholera epidemic under the rule of Robert Mugabe
ANSWER: Zimbabwe
4. FTPE, name some famous Vikings.
[10] Under this turn-of-the-millennium prince of Novgorod and Kiev, known as "the Wise," Kievan 'Rus

4

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

achieved its zenith.
ANSWER: Yaroslav I the Wise
[10] This Norwegian king ruled between his victory at the 1016 Battle of Nesjar and his death at the 1030
Battle of Stiklestad. He finished converting Norway to Christianity and became its patron saint.
ANSWER: St. Olaf II Haraldson (at least one of those three identifiers--canonization status,
regnal number, or patronym--is necessary and may be prompted for)..
[10] This son of Swein Forkbeard expanded his father's North Sea empire as king of England and
Denmark. He was one of only two English kings to be called "the Great."
ANSWER: Knut (or Canute) I of England or II of Denmark the Great Sweinson (again, need at
least one of these identifiers)
5. FTPE, answer these related questions about a certain type of cellular division.
[10] This is the process through which haploid gametes are formed. Each final resulting daughter cell
contains only half the number of chromosomes as the mother cell.
ANSWER: meiosis
[10] These “discard” entities are produced as a primary oocyte matures through meiosis. Three of them are
produced alongside the ovum, which functions as the egg cell in sexual reproduction.
ANSWER: polar bodies
[10] If an organism loses the ability to form gametes through meiosis, it can still reproduce via this form of
asexual reproduction. While advantageous if mates are scarce, this process does result in less genetic
variability.
ANSWER: parthenogenesis
6. After returning from a tupperware party, the protagonist discovers she has been appointed executor of a
will that leads her to investigate the secret Tristero Organization, FTPE:
[10] This is what novel, whose protagonist is Oedipa Maas?
ANSWER: The Crying of Lot 49
[10] This author of the The Crying of Lot 49 and V is famed for his anonymity, as well as his sometimes
incomprehensible plots, fantastic characters, and attention to pop culture in his writing
ANSWER: Thomas Pynchon
[10] This other Thomas Pynchon work chronicles Lt. Slothrop's adventures across Europe in an attempt to
uncover the secrets behind the German V-2 Rockets.
ANSWER: Gravity’s Rainbow
7. The protagonist rejects the playwright Michaelis's marriage proposal in this novel, and she has an affair
with the gamekeeper of Wragby Hall. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this novel centering on Oliver Mellors and Connie, notorious in its day for its sexual
explicitness.
ANSWER: Lady Chatterley's Lover
[10] Lady Chatterley's Lover was written by this British author, who also wrote the short stories "The
Odour of Chrysanthemums" and "The Rocking Horse Winner."
ANSWER: D(avid) H(erbert) Lawrence
[10] Clara Dawes and Miriam are two romantic interests of the protagonist of this Lawrence novel, Paul
Morel.
ANSWER: Sons and Lovers
8. I have a pair of dice. FTPE:
[10] What is the probability that I roll two sixes?
ANSWER: 1/36
[10] What is the probability that I roll two of the same number?
ANSWER: 1/6
[10] I give one dice to my friend, and we take turns rolling until we roll the same number, with me going
first. On average, how many rolls will this take?
ANSWER: 12 (1/6 probability of matching on any pair of rolls)
9. He is known for his aphorisms “God is in the Details” and “Less is More.” FTPE:

5

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

[10] Identify this pioneer of the International style of architecture, famous for designing the Barcelona
Pavilion, The Farnsworth House, and for co-designing the Seagram building.
ANSWER: Mies van der Rohe
[10] From 1930-33 Mies can der Rohe served as the last director of this German school that popularized
modern architecture and that was founded by Walter Gropius
ANSWER: the Bauhaus
[10] This American architect designed the Seagram building with Mies van der Rohe.
ANSWER: Philip Johnson
10. Characters in this work include the three Rheinmaidens, from whom Alberich steals the title treasure of
the first part. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this series of four operas, chronicling the exploits of Wotan, Brünnhilde, and Siegfried, who
slays the dragon Fafner in the third opera.
ANSWER: The Ring of the Nibelung (or Der Ring des Nibelungen or the Ring Cycle)
[10] This German composer known for his use of leitmotifs wrote the libretto and music for the Ring cycle.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[10] Wagner's only comic opera is this story of Hans Sachs and the young Walther von Stolzing, who
attempts to become a member of the title guild in order to win the hand of Eva.
ANSWER: Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg (or The Mastersingers of Nuremberg)
11. FTPE, answer some questions about intermolecular interactions.
[10] This set of forces describes the attractive or repulsive interactions between non-ionic molecules.
ANSWER: van der Waals forces
[10] Van der Waals forces involve electrostatic interactions between molecules, which are possible because
these entities are present. They can be permanent, but many of them are induced by other ones that are
present.
ANSWER: dipoles
[10] This subset of the van der Waals forces refers to interactions that arise due to transient and temporary
dipoles that form in the interacting molecules.
ANSWER: London dispersion forces
12. This conflict is sometimes known as the first truly world-wide conflict. FTPE:
[10] It saw victories for Prussia at the battle of Kunersdorf, which would have lost the war if not for the
fortunate death of Elizabeth I of Russia.
ANSWER: the Seven Years’ War
[10] The Seven years war went by this name in North America, which saw Braddock and Washington lose
the battle of Fort Necessity
ANSWER: French and Indian War
[10] This treaty ended the Seven Years war, and was signed in the same place as a ton of other treaties.
ANSWER: Treaty of Paris
13. Rome’s transition from a republic to empire was a turbulent one. Answer some questions about that
transition FTPE:
[10] The first signs of the republic’s disintegration were the social wars between these two men, one of
whom put down Jugurtha in the Numidian war and reformed the Roman army, and another who dispatched
Mithriadates of Pontus before returning and proclaiming himself dictator of Rome for a short time. Name
either of these men for ten points.
ANSWER: Marius or Sulla
[10] The disintegration of the Republic was nearly complete when Julius Caesar defeated Pompey at this
battle which was later chronicled by Lucan in a namesake poem
ANSWER: Pharsalus
[10] This other member of the First Triumvirate, along with Caesar and Pompey, was said to be one of the
wealthiest men who ever lived. He died at the battle of Carrhae while campaigning in Syria against the
Parthians
ANSWER: Crassus

6

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

14. FTPE, name these concepts related to energy.
[10] In gases, this type of energy is proportional to temperature. For objects, it is given by one half m v
squared.
ANSWER: kinetic energy
[10] This is the dot product of force with displacement.
ANSWER: work
[10] This is given by the dot product of force with velocity. In circuits, this is given by voltage times
current.
ANSWER: power
15. The play opens with The Valet leading one of the three protagonists into the room where he will spend
eternity, FTPE:
[10] This is what play in which Joseph, Ines, and Estelle are trapped together and decide that “Hell is other
people”?
ANSWER: No Exit or Huis Clos
[10] No Exit is by this French Existentialist who adapted the Oresteia myth for his The Flies.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
[10] Antoine Bouville suffers from the titular “sweetish sickness” while living in Bouville in this Sartre
novel.
ANSWER: Nausea
16. Name these prominent Scholastic philosophers for ten points each:
[10] The most famous Scholastic was this Dominican priest whose Summa Theologiae synthesized
Christian theology with Aristotelian logic.
ANSWER: St. Thomas Aquinas
[10] This English Franciscan friar wrote the Summa Logicae, but is more famous for a namesake rule of
parsimony, which claims that the simplest explanation of a phenomenon is often the best.
ANSWER: William of Ockham
[10] This French scholar was known for his tract on biblical contradictions entitled Sic et Non, but was
more famous for his castration following a failed love affair with the nun Heloise.
ANSWER: Peter Abelard
17. The protagonist of this play refuses to believe Tiresias, who says that he is the cause of the plague in
Thebes, FTPE:
[10] This is what play that ends with title character putting out his eyes with Jocasta’s dress pins, after she
commits suicide.
ANSWER: Oedipus Rex or Oedipus Tyrannos
[10] Oedipus Rex is the first play in the Oedipus Cycle of this Athenian dramatist.
ANSWER: Sophocles
[10] This final play of the Oedipus trilogy concerns the titular daughter of Oedipus’ attempts to give her
brother, Polyneices, a proper burial against the wishes of Creon.
ANSWER: Antigone
18. Answer the following questions about a sect of Buddhism, for ten points each:
[10] This sect of Buddhism, whose branches include Rinzai and Soto, has its roots in the Flower Sermon,
and seeks to shock its adherents into enlightenment. It is heavily influenced by Daoism, and is most popular
in China and Japan.
ANSWER: Zen or Chan Buddhism
[10] Zen Buddhism is concerned with analyzing these paradoxical statements, collections of which include
the Blue Cliff Record and The Gateless Gate. An example of these is the question, “What is the sound of
one hand clapping?”
ANSWER: koans
[10] Zen Buddhism is itself a part of this branch of Buddhism, the “Greater Vehicle” to salvation. It is
contrasted with Theravada and Vajrayana Buddhism.
ANSWER: Mahayana

7

BHSAT XIX

Packet 3

19. Identify the following masterworks of English poetry for ten points each if you can recognize it from
the first line, and for five points if you need the name of the poet:
[10] “The sea is calm tonight / The tide is full, the moon lies fair / Upon the straits;”
[5] Matthew Arnold
ANSWER: “Dover Beach”
[10] “Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness, / Thou foster-child of Silence and slow Time”
[5] John Keats
ANSWER: “Ode on a Grecian Urn”
[10] “Had we but world enough, and time, / This coyness, lady, were no crime”
[5] Andrew Marvell
ANSWER: “To His Coy Mistress”
20. Name these amendments that were part of the original Bill of Rights, FTPE:
[10] This amendment guarantees due process of law and ensures that no one should have to testify against
one’s self. It also stipulates that one can’t be tried twice for the same crime.
ANSWER: 5th Amendment
[10] This amendment protects against search and seizure without “probable cause,” and requires that search
warrants be firmly supported by an unbiased judiciary.
ANSWER: 4th Amendment
[10] This amendment prohibits “cruel and unusual punishment,” as well as the imposition of “excessive
bail” and “excessive fines.”
ANSWER: 8th Amendment
21. Answer these questions about the most important star in your life, FTPE:
[10] The Maunder minimum of these in the 17 th century is thought to have caused a period of cooling
known as the Little Ice Age.
Answer: sunspots
[10] These create the heliosphere, a vast bubble that surrounds the solar system. This phenomenon is also
responsible for the aurorae and the plasma tails of comets pointing away from the Sun.
Answer: solar wind
[10] This method of fusion is favored in small stars, such as our Sun. The Sun and other small stars use this
cycle to convert hydrogen to helium, while the primary alternative for more massive stars is the CNO cycle.
Answer: proton-proton cycle

8

