BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

Tossups:
1. This author first novel follows the titular Dutch trader in Borneo who marries Captain Lingard‟s adopted Malay
daughter, in order to inherit her wealth, Almayer’s Folly. In another novel by this author, set in the fictional town of
Sulaco, the titular Italian miner is entrusted with Senor Gould‟s silver, Nostromo. The mentally disabled Stevie
reveals that it was Verloc who bombed the Greenwich Observatory in this author‟s The Secret Agent. But he is most
well-known for a novel at the end of which Marlowe lies about Kurtz‟s last words, which were actually “The horror,
the horror”. FTP, this is what Polish-born British novelist of Heart of Darkness?
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad
2. The "Preghiera" movement of one of this man's orchestral suites is based on Liszt's À la Chapelle Sixtine, a
transcription of Allegri's Miserere and Mozart's Ave verum corpus. That suite is commonly known as Mozartiana.
He included a "Pezzo elegiaco" in his piano trio in A minor. A G-minor barcarolle is the "June" movement from his
collection of twelve piano pieces The Seasons, and he also wrote Variations on a Rococo Theme for cello and
orchestra. Another piece features a waltz-like movement in 5/4. That piece, in B minor, is his sixth and last
symphony. In a ballet by this composer, a series of ethnic dances includes a famous Trepak, and that ballet also
features the Sugar Plum Fairy. For 10 points, identify this composer of the "Pathetique" Symphony and The
Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
3. These can be analyzed by the Burgi-Dunitz approach and are the reason for the unique negative slope of the solidliquid line on water‟s phase diagram. Dihydrogen oxide has two lone pairs and two free protons per molecule so it
can form two of these, while ammonia can only form one because although it has three protons it only has a single
lone pair. These are re-formed by RAD51 and 52 in a process called annealing, and three of these are formed
between cytosine and guanine and two between adenine and thymine. These consist of a proton stuck in a pickle
between two highly-electronegative atoms, namely nitrogen, fluorine, or oxygen. FTP, name this particularly strong
intra- or more commonly intermolecular bond that shares its name with the lightest element.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonds
4. During the last Census in 2000, this city was found to have the thirty-third largest population in the US, but since
then, it has suffered from large population decline. The present mayor is Frank G. Jackson, and the current Music
Director of the city's orchestra is Franz Welser-Most. This city is located on the banks of Lake Eire, and the
Cuyahoga River flows through it. Most famously, this city houses the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. FTP, name this
second largest city of Ohio, home of the Indians, the Browns and Lebron James.
ANSWER: Cleveland
5. One of this man‟s early works, the Mond Crucifixion is largely in the style of his teacher, Perugino. He depicted
the author of the Book of the Courtier in his portrait Baldassare Castiglione. His last project was an uncompleted
Transfiguration of Christ at his death in 1520. He was a favorite painter of the pope, as evinced by his commission
to paint a portrait of Julius II. He most famous paintings were painted in the Vatican Stanza Della Signatura.
Along with his Galatea and Madonna of the Meadow, he is most famous for a painting in which he depicts a
brooding Michaelangelo as Heraclitus and himself in the right hand corner. Those figures are off to the sides of the
central pair, the authors of The Nichomachean ethics and The Republic. That painting is the School of Athens. FTP,
identify this Italian painter, who, along with Leonardo da Vinci and Michaelangelo, makes up the trio of the High
Renaissance.
ANSWER: Raphael
6. The reader is informed that twelve cubed is 1,728 in this novel. In Part IV of this work the author is accosted by
an amorous teenage Yahoo before he is rescued by some reasonable horses. In Part I of this work, the author is
pleased with himself when he puts out a fire in a palace by peeing on it, though the Empress is horrified and he is
soon forced to flee to Blefuscu. FTP, name this novel by Jonathan Swift, which features the six-inch tall residents of
Lilliput.
ANSWER: Gulliver’s Travels

1

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

7. Fluctuations in these landmasses have been caused in part by periodic changes in heat received by the Sun.
During the Pleistocene Epoch, these covered 30 percent of the world‟s land area. They primarily erode the terrain
through abrasion and plucking, and fields of drumlins and eskers are formed by these entities. Apart from the
oceans, they are the largest reservoir of total water and store about three-fourths of all fresh water in the world.
Arêtes, horns, cirques, and moraines are also shaped by these landmasses. FTP, name these perennial masses of ice
which move over land.
ANSWER: glaciers
8. William Wordsworth wrote a sonnet to this man in which he declared this man to be a “miserable Chieftain.” He
fought the British, expelled commissioner Sonthonax and invaded Santo Domingo but was betrayed by Henri
Christophe and Jean-Jacques Desalines and captured by General Leclerc in 1802. He died in French captivity but his
successors declared independence a year later. FTP, name this Haitian revolutionary.
ANSWER: Toussaint L’ouverture
9. This general—often called the greatest strategist-tactician of all time—succeeded to command of an army after
his father died and his brother-in-law, who bore the same name as this man‟s brother, was assassinated. Two of this
general‟s early victories were at Trebia and Lake Trasimene, and his only real defeat at Zama. FTP name this son of
Hamilcar and brother of Hasdrubal, a Carthaginian general who won the Battle of Cannae after marching his entire
army, including war elephants, over the Alps.
ANSWER: Hannibal (it‟s unclear whether Barca was his father‟s nickname or a family name, but give the
benefit of the doubt to answers of Hannibal Barca)
10. Beginning with the passage of the Elkins Act and the Antiquities Act, this campaign was touted by its formulator
as a moderate solution between plutocratic government control while simultaneously protecting against the excesses
of organized labor. Acts passed later in this campaign include the Meat Inspection Act and the Pure Food and Drug
Act of 1906. For ten points, name this “four-sided” domestic program designed to shield the American middle class
against the excesses of a trust-run economy, the brainchild of President Theodore Roosevelt.
ANSWER: Square Deal
11. The first one of these to be discovered was found in a triple star system. Sirius‟s companion, Sirius B, was the
next to be identified. Known to sometimes explode in Type Ia supernovas by carbon detonation, these stars are
believed to be the “corpses” of low mass stars which expand to red giants and undergo the triple-alpha process. The
“black” variation of this star has been proposed but the idea has since been discarded because even one of these
formed at the beginning of the universe would still radiate at temperatures of several thousand Kelvins. FTP, name
this dense class of stars composed of electron-degenerate matter with a comparable mass of the Sun and the volume
of the Earth.
ANSWER: white dwarf
12. One character in this play exclaims “one day we were born, one day we shall die, the same day” when asked
when he went blind. And a repeated line in this play is “nothing to be done”. The play is set on a country road,
where there is tree that has miraculously grown leaves in Act II, and which two characters discuss hanging
themselves from, only they haven‟t any rope. One character in this play delivers a long nonsense speech when
commanded to “speak” by a character that whips him and calls him “hog”; they are Lucky and Pozzo. The
protagonists munch carrots, argue, and exchange hats in, FTP, what play in which Vladimir and Estragon try to bide
time before the arrival of the title figure by Samuel Beckett?
ANSWER: Waiting for Godot or En Attendant Godot
13. Citing Freddie Mercury as an influence, this singer took her name from a Queen song released on the album The
Works. She sang the hook for Wale's (wa-LAYS) song "Chillin'" and a recording from her "Cherrytree Hill Sessions
EP" was sampled by Kanye West for the Kid Cudi track "Make Her Say." More famous songs by this artist include
one where she name-drops classic Alfred Hitchcock films like "Psycho" "Vertigo" and "Rear Window" as well as
another about a girl who loses her keys and phone while wondering "How'd I turn my shirt inside out?" FTP name
this artist who's debut album The Fame features the songs "Lovegame" "Papparazzi" "Just Dance" and "Poker Face."
ANSWER: Lady Gaga

2

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

14. One character in this novel claims another has flies in eyes and another has screaming nightmares and keeps
trying to photograph nude women. Besides Appleby, Hungry Joe, and Orr, another character holds titles such as
Mayor of Palermo, has cornered the market on Egyptian cotton but can only dispose of it by covering it in chocolate
and feeding it to people, and later bombs his own men to make a profit for “The Syndicate”. That character is Milo
Minderbinder. The titular stipulation say that a pilot can only be grounded if he‟s insane but asking to be grounded
proves your sanity in, FTP, what novel in which B-25 bombardier Yossarian tries to stay alive by Joseph Heller?
ANSWER: Catch-22
15. They are experienced between two plates in the Casimir effect, and one form is responsible for the breakdown of
nucleons into hadrons and leptons. Perturbation theory was applied to the effect of one of these to predict the orbits
of the planets, while one class of them only allows for the inter-conversion of energy between its kinetic and
potential forms. Kaluza-Klein theory suggests that all of them fictitious, though there is more consensus that the
centrifugal variety qualifies as such. Occurring in tension, friction, and normal varieties as well as strong and weak
forms is FTP, this concept in physics that causes acceleration, examples of which include gravity.
ANSWER: forces
16. Appointed editor in 1828 of the National Philanthropist, a Boston-area newspaper which was the first in the
United States to advocate government enforcement of temperance, this political figure took up his primary cause
after flirting with (and subsequently completely rejecting) the American Colonization Society, an organization
whose mission was to encourage free blacks to emigrate to West Africa. Often resorting to such radical techniques
as burning the US Constitution while denouncing it as a “Covenent from Hell” for its compromises made on slavery,
for ten points, name this ardent supporter of immediate abolitionism, the founder of The Liberator.
ANSWER: William Lloyd Garrison
17. It lists 20 miracles performed by Christ, and is the only source to mention Mary Magdalene before the
crucifixion. This text begins with a dedication to Theophilus, and it is the only source to detail the parentage of John
the Baptist. Although the author of this text was a gentile, it is thought to draw on the Gospel of the Hebrews, yet the
majority of scholars agree that it was based on another synoptic gospel with reference to the Q document. This
gospel is the only one to include the parables of the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan, and its author also
penned the book of Acts. For ten points, name this longest of the four canonical gospels, which follows Mark and
precedes John.
ANSWER: Gospel according to Luke
18.This organelle typically constitutes more than half of the membrane content found in the cell and is responsible
for making both the COPII and mannose-6-phosphate modifications. Its association with the outer membrane of the
nuclear envelope allows for improved rates of signaling, though it is better known for its role in gluconeogenesis and
steroid, glycoprotein, and lipids synthesis. This organelle, composed of an interconnected network of tubules and
cisternae, can detoxify poisonous substances through its smooth variety. FTP, name this organelle which contains
ribosomes in its rough type.
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum
19. This son of Farbauti and Laufey often takes the shape of a salmon or a mare. He was responsible for the
abduction of Idunn by the giant Thiassi, but returned her to the Aesir in the guise of a falcon. He also once borrowed
Freya‟s feather cloak in order to learn the location of the stolen Mjolnir, and later helped retrieve it from the giant
Thrym disguised as Freya‟s handmaid. At the court of Utgard-Loki, he lost an eating contest to fire, and though he
mated with the stallion Svadilfari in order to produce Sleipnir, he is better known for his offspring with Angrboda,
the youngest of which rules the realm of the dead. For ten points, name this Norse god who will kill Heimdall at
Ragnarok and who brought about Hoder‟s murder of Baldur, the father of Fenrir.
ANSWER: Loki
20. This man established the ascendancy of the dynasty that included Chlodio and Childeric, and according to
legend was founded by the son of a sea-monster. Before fighting at Tolbiac, this man's wife made him swear that if
he won he would convert to Catholicism. After his decisive victory there over the Alamanni, he kept his promise
and he and his people were baptized Catholic. FTP, name this turn-of-the-fifth-century Merovingian king and

3

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

unifier of the Franks, some of whose achievements were undone when he split his estates among his sons.
ANSWER: Clovis I or Chlodovech I
21. In work by this author, the narrator is alerted by a servant named Jupiter that his master has begun chasing the
treasure of Captain Kidd after being bitten by the titular insect. This author also wrote about a member of a family
whose crest shows a snake biting the heel of a foot crushing it and whose motto is "No one punishes me with
Impunity". Aside from short stories like "The Gold Bug" and "The Cask of Amontillado", this author also wrote
poems, such as one set in "a kingdom by the sea" that suggests that angels caused the death of the title character, and
another that twice mentions "Night's Plutonian Shore" before invoking the name of the speaker's lost love Lenore.
FTP, name this American author of “Annabel Lee” and “The Raven”?
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe

Bonuses:
1. Identify the following Scandinavian composers, for 10 points each.
[10] He drew on his nation's mythology in such works as Kullervo and The Swan of Tuonela, and he also composed
the nationalistic tone poem Finlandia.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius
[10] He paid homage to the playwright Ludvig Holberg in his From Holberg's Time, and his incidental music to
Peer Gynt includes "In the Hall of the Mountain King."
ANSWER: Edvard Grieg
[10] Two sets of timpani at opposite ends of the orchestra feature in his fourth symphony, "The Inextinguishable."
This Dane also composed a symphony based on the four temperaments.
ANSWER: Carl Nielsen
2. He distinguished three kinds of authority: charismatic, traditional, and legal. FTPE:
[10] Identify this German sociologist who studied the sociology of Hinduism and Buddhism and wrote Politics as a
Vocation and Science as a Vocation
ANSWER: Max Weber
[10] Weber‟s most famous work, in it he analyzes how one of the namesake entities influenced the growth of the
modern economic system beginning after the Reformation
ANSWER: The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism
[10] Weber is also famous for widely using this term, which commonly denotes an organizational hierarchy that
performs a certain task through the use of many people, each of them occupying a link in the chain. Many people
think we have too much of this in America, where the governmental kind is quite large
ANSWER: Bureaucracy
3. FTPE, Answer these questions about a recently released update to a classic video game series:
[5,5] F5PE Players continue their quest to be "The Best There Ever Was" and "Catch 'em All" in these two most
recent additions to the Pokemon franchise, released for Nintendo DS.
ANSWER: Pokemon HeartGold and SoulSilver
[10] HeartGold and SoulSilver begin on this continent, with such landmarks as Sprout Tower, Goldenrod City, and
the Whirl Islands. Players can later travel to Kanto, the other major continent of the game.
ANSWER: Johto
[10] In HeartGold and SoulSilver, as well as in the original Gold and Silver released for the Game Boy Color, the
protagonist stops a plot by Team Rocket in Azalea town
who is harvesting these pokemon body parts to sell as delicacies. Players can later buy one in Mahogany town for
9800 dollars.
ANSWER: Slowpoke Tails
4. This Phenomenon was given its name by Joseph Tracy in a namesake 1842 book. FTPE:
[10] Identify this evangelical movement which many have seen as a precursor to the American Revolution.
ANSWER: Great Awakening

4

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

[10] This author of Freedom of the Will and Original Sin is the chief religious thinker associated with the Great
Awakening
ANSWER: Jonathan Edwards
[10] This friend of Edwards ignited the Great Awakening with his fiery preaching
ANSWER: George Whitefield
5. Answer some questions about paintings with something in common, FTPE
[10] This mannerist work by Parmigianino features an enormous baby Jesus sitting in the lap of the titular oddly
proportioned figure.
ANSWER: Madonna of the Long Neck
[10] There are two versions of this Da Vinci work, one in the National Gallery in London and one in the Louvre. It
shows John the Baptist and Jesus as babies along with the title figure. They are often cited as prime examples of Da
Vinci‟s sfumato technique.
ANSWER: Madonna of the Rocks (accept Virgin of the Rocks)
[10] This Raphael work also features Madonna and child versions of John the Baptist and Jesus. John presents Jesus
with the titular animal as a symbol of his forecoming violent death.
ANSWER: Madonna of the Goldfinch (accept Madonna del Cardellino)
6. Identify these sisters from Louise May Alcott‟s Little Women, FTPE:
[10] "It's dreadful to be poor" proclaims this eldest sister, the family beauty who overcomes her vanity and
eventually marries John Brooke
Answer: Meg March
[10] The main protagonist of the novel, this tomboy cuts off her hair to finance a trip to see her father, marries
Professor Fritz Bhaer, and starts a school for boys
Answer: Josephine March
[10] This quiet third sister of the March family contracts Scarlet Fever in the first half of the novel, but the fever
miraculously breaks when her family rushes home to nurse her. In the second half of the novel, she gets tuberculosis
and dies.
Answer: Beth March
7. The villain of this novel uses a cattle-bolt gun to kill his victims, leaving behind no bullets, FTPE:
[10] This is what novel in which Anton Chiggurh pursues Llewyllen Moss, who stole $2.4 million from a drug deal
gone wrong.
ANSWER: No Country for Old Men
[10] The Wall Street Journal recently called this man, the author of the novels No Country for Old Men and The
Road, which were both adapted by the Coen Brothers, Hollywood‟s favorite cowboy.
ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy
[10] Yale‟s own Harold Bloom claims that this novel is McCarthy‟s masterpiece. It features a nameless protagonist
called “the kid” and Judge Holden, who names his rifle “et in arcadia ego”.
ANSWER: Blood Meridian
8. Identify these Shakespeare comedies, for 10 points each.
[10] Featuring the song "O mistress mine," and beginning "If music be the food of love, play on," this play centers
on Viola, who dresses as the boy Cesario and falls in love with her employer, the Duke Orsino.
ANSWER: Twelfth Night
[10] Don John tries to ruin the wedding of Claudio and Hero in this play also featuring Beatrice, Benedick, and the
constable Dogberry.
ANSWER: Much Ado About Nothing
[10] The melancholy Jaques speaks the "All the world's a stage" speech in this play that follows Rosalind in the
Forest of Arden and features the fool Touchstone.
ANSWER: As You Like It
9. Answer these physics questions about objects flying through the air FTPE:
[10] This conceptual sketch or representation can be used to analyze all the forces acting on an object and assist in
solving for unknown forces or equations of motion relevant to that object.

5

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

ANSWER: free body diagram
[10] This force acts in the opposite direction of the velocity of an object, thereby opposing motion.
ANSWER: drag
[10] This is observed for an object when the downward gravitational force is equivalent to the drag force, resulting
in a net force of zero and no increase in the velocity.
ANSWER: terminal velocity
10. Alexei Vronsky makes a disastrous bet on a horse in this novel, and by the end, Kitty has married Konstantin
Levin, FTPE:
[10] This is what incredibly long novel whose protagonist commits suicide at the end of Part 7 by throwing herself
under a train.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
[10] Anna Karenina is by this author who wrote about the effects of Napoleon‟s invasion of Russia in his magnum
opus, War and Peace.
ANSWER: Leo Tolstoy
[10] The title event occurs because of a fall the title character took while hanging a curtain. He receives no sympathy
from his wife Praskovya, but is comforted by the help of the simple servant, Gerasim.
ANSWER: The Death of Ivan Ilyich
11. He steals the peaches of Immortality from Xi WangMu and wine from the Jade
Emperor, FTPE:
[10] Name this Chinese hero, a perennial prankster and protagonist in Chinese Opera.
ANSWER: Sun WuKong or The Monkey King
[10] Sun WuKong is the main character in this Chinese epic, which sees him travel with the monk Xuan Zang to
collect to Buddhist Sutras from the titular place
ANSWER: Journey to the West
[10] This other Chinese epic is set during the late Han dynasty and features the conflict between the Shu, Wu, and
Wei families with characters like Lu Bu, Cao Cao, and Guan Yu
ANSWER: Romance of the Three Kingdoms
12. Identify these methods relating to mathematical proof, FTPE:
[10] This method proves a particular proposition for a base case, and then shows that if it holds true for a value n,
that it also holds for n+1.
ANSWER: induction
[10] This special form of induction not only assumes that the previous case is true, but that all cases smaller than
n+1 is true.
ANSWER: strong or complete induction
[10] The first formulation of induction was given by this Jansenist French mathematician, the author of the
Provinicial Letters and namesake of a triangle of numbers.
ANSWER: Blaise Pascal
13. It saw George Washington, fresh off a recent victory in the same state, attack a British garrison headed by
Charles Mawhood. FTPE:
[10] Identify this revolutionary war battle that was fought near the location of an Ivy League school that is not Yale.
ANSWER: Princeton
[10] Washington‟s victory at Princeton followed this victory of his a week earlier, in which he lead the main body of
the continental army against contingent of Hessians at a location near Assunpink Creek.
ANSWER: battle of Trenton
The battle of Trenton saw Washington take this famous action, which was immortalilized in a painting by Immanuel
Leutze.
ANSWER: Washington‟s crossing of the Delaware river (accept equivalents)
14. FTPE, name some current European leaders.
[10] This Russian succeeded Vladimir Putin in 2008 as third president of the Russian Federation.
ANSWER:Dmitri Medvyedev

6

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

[10] The party of this right-of-center French president did poorly in regional elections this month.
ANSWER:Nicholas Sarkozy
[10] Sarkozy is co-prince of this tiny Pyrenees nation with the Bishop of Urgell.
ANSWER:Andorra
15. FTPE, name some things about Swedish history.
[10] This is the name given to the series of personal unions between the monarchies of Scandinavia in the late
medieval period.
ANSWER: The Union of Kalmar or Kalmar Union
[10] This king was a powerful force in the Thirty Years‟ War and catapulted Sweden from a backwater into one of
the great powers of Europe.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus or Gustaf II Adolf or Gustav Adolf the Great
[10] This Enlightenment king led Sweden into the Great Northern War with Russia and the end of the Swedish
Empire.
ANSWER: Charles XII
16. Answer these questions about an organelle found in most eukaryotes, FTPE:
[10] This double-membrane organelle is a cell's primary source for producing adenosine triphosphate. Its origins are
described by the endosymbiotic theory.
ANSWER: mitochondria
[10] Mitochondria contain these compartments surrounded and formed by the inner membrane.
ANSWER: cristae
[10] ATP synthase is powered by a proton gradient, which is created by a series of enzymes found in the inner
membrane of mitochondria. That process ends with oxygen as the final acceptor.
ANSWER: electron transport chain
17. C.A.R. Hoare invented this algorithm, which has an average runtime of O(n log n). FTPE:
[10] Identify this algorithm, which divides a list into two halves at a pivot point and reorders it so that values below
the pivot and values greater than the pivot are separated. Its named for its speed.
ANSWER: quicksort
[10] Quicksort uses this technique, in which a function calls itself. In math, this referrs to a sequence whose terms
are defined by previous terms.
ANSWER: recursion
[10] Quicksort is this type of algorithm, which in general takes a problem and breaks it up into smaller subproblems.
ANSWER: divide-and-conquer algorithm
18. Giant snakes tend to get a bad rap in mythology. For ten points each, name these serpents slain by certain gods:
[10] Apollo slew this monstrous serpent with his arrows and founded the Delphic oracle at the site of his victory.
ANSWER: Python
[10] In Egyptian myth, this is the eternal enemy of Ra, a gigantic serpent that tries to devour the sun barge.
ANSWER: Apep or Apophis
[10] This eight-headed serpent in Japanese myth is slain by Susanoo, who finds the Kusanagi sword in its tail
ANSWER: Yamata no Orochi (prompt on Orochi)
19. FTPE, answer some questions about nomadic peoples.
[10] This probably Turkic-speaking people was unified by the Scourge of God and pushed Germanic tribes into the
decaying Roman Empire before being defeated at the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains in 451.
ANSWER: Huns
[10] A connection between the Huns and this Mongolian people has been postulated but scant evidence found to
support it. This people harassed the Qin and Han dynasties, and the Great Wall was begun to keep them out.
ANSWER: Xiongnu
[10] This people speaks a Finno-Ugric language and invaded Europe from the east in the ninth century. The „H‟ at
the beginning of their common name may be a borrowing from the word “Huns.”
ANSWER: Magyars or Hungarians

7

BHSAT XIX

Packet 1

20. For ten points each, name these American Indian tribes.
[10] This tribe is notable for producing such strong leaders as Osceola and for serving as the bane of Andrew
Jackson‟s existence during their namesake wars in the early 18 th century. The majority of the tribe now reside in
South Florida.
ANSWER: Seminole
[10] According to popular tradition, this confederation of tribes was formed by Hiawatha and Denganawida, or the
Great Peacemaker. It was originally comprised of the Mohawk, Seneca, Oneida, Cayuga, and the Onandaga tribes,
but later expanded to include the Tuscarora tribe.
ANSWER:Iroquois League (accept any variants on Confederacy, Confederation, as long as it includes
Iroquois)
[10] Initially breaking off from the Shoshone people after acquiring horses, these primarily nomadic peoples lived
around the Platte River in Wyoming. Their most famous chief may have been Quanah Parker, the head of the last
free band of this tribe before their forced relocation to Fort Sill, Oklahoma.
ANSWER:Comanche
21. Name the following apostles of Jesus, for ten points each:
[10] This tax collector, also known as Levi, was the fifth man to be called on by Jesus to be an apostle.
ANSWER: Matthew
[10] This apostle was the brother of Simon Peter. He was crucified on a diagonal cross.
ANSWER: Andrew
[10] This was the apostle chosen to replace Judas Iscariot after the crucifixion.
ANSWER: Matthias

8

