BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

Tossups:
1. Skeletons of users of this implement have been identified by deformed shoulder and arm bones on one
side of their body, misshapen by the tremendous force--up to 900 Newtons--required to properly operate
this implement. Its users had to train from childhood, but with an experienced operator it was vastly more
efficient and accurate than its crank-operated or crude gunpowder Early Renaissance contemporaries. FTP,
name this tall weapon used to especially great effect against bogged-down heavy cavalry by the Welsh and
English, notably in 1415 at Agincourt.
ANSWER: longbow
2. A brief movement entitled "Purgatorio" appears in a work by this composer completed by Deryck
Cooke, his tenth symphony. His fifth symphony begins with a funeral march in C-sharp minor and contains
a famous Adagietto movement, A finch asks the singer, "Isn't it a fine world?" in the song "Ging heut
Morgen übers Feld," which is quoted extensively in his first symphony. That song comes from the cycle
Songs of a Wayfarer, and the symphony is nicknamed the "Titan." His second symphony, in C minor, uses
texts by Klopstock, and his eighth symphony sets the Latin hymn "Veni Creator Spiritus" and is nicknamed
for its large performing forces. For 10 points, identify this composer of the "Resurrection" Symphony and
the Symphony of a Thousand.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
3. Anselmo tests the fidelity of his wife Camilla in an interpolated novella appearing in this novel “The
Man Who Was Recklessly Curious”. And minor episodes in this novel include the love triangle between
Ferdinand and Cardenio, for the hand of Lucinda. The protagonist wears a wash-basin that he stole from a
barber, believing it to be the helmet of Mambrino. More famous episodes from this novel involve the
protagonist mistaking a flock of sheep for an army and a windmill for a giant. FTP, the title character
dreams of Dulcinea and is accompanied on his adventures by Sancho Panza in what novel by Miguel de
Cervantes?
ANSWER: Don Quixote
4. In one scene in this play, the protagonist is terrified by a blind Mexican woman, selling tin flowers. A
polka called the “Varsouviana” plays during a speech in which the protagonist recounts telling her husband
that he disgusted her, which lead to his suicide. And the protagonist also reminisces about her former
suitor, Shep Huntleigh, and her former estate, Belle Rêve. After beating his wife for interrupting his poker
game, one character begs forgiveness by bellowing her name in the street. FTP, while staying with her
sister Stella, Blanche Dubois clashes with the animalistic Stanley Kowalski in what play by Tennessee
Williams?
ANSWER: A Streetcar Named Desire
5. This man’s Metaphysics focuses on separating essential from accidental properties of objects, while his
Physics lists four types of causes and five elements of matter. . He is called “the master of those who
know” in Dante’s Inferno, and Bertrand Russell claimed that every intellectual advance must begin with by
attacking this philosopher. This man’s Politics stressed balance between democratic and oligarchic
governments, while his Poetics emphasize the importance of catharsis. He wrote extremely detailed works
on zoology, but is better known for his theory of a tripartite soul. He is most famous, however, for his
ethical theories, which claim that the goal of human existence eudaimonia, which is achieved by living a
life of virtue. For ten points, name this author of the Nichomachean Ethics who founded the Lyceum in
Athens, and was the student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Aristotle
6. Although the center of her cult was at Philae, temples to her existed as far afield as Pompeii and Rome.
Together with her sister, she was depicted as a winged deity on sarcophagi, though unlike her sister, this
goddess wore a headdress in the shape of a throne. Skilled in magic, she once harpooned her husband’s
nemesis in the form of a hippopotamus, and reassembled her husband’s body except for his phallus, which
was eaten by the oxyrhynchus fish. Her sister Nephthys disguised herself as this deity in order to sleep with
her husband rather than Set, a union that produced the god Anubis. For ten points, name this Egyptian
goddess of motherhood and fertility, the mother of Horus and the wife of Osiris.

1

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

ANSWER: Isis
7. Since they are impossible to isolate, they are very difficult to study; femtochemical IR spectroscopy,
however, can provide a useful approximation of their structure. These are identified by the coordinates of
the saddle points of the potential energy surface and hypothesized in arrow-pushing reaction mechanism
diagrams. Although they are absent in phase transitions, the instability and high energy of these
configurations gives plots of potential energy versus reaction coordinates their characteristic hill-shaped
appearance. E to the power of the opposite of the energy of these minus the energy of the products divided
by the universal gas constant times the absolute temperature gives the rate constant, and that energy is
known as the Arrhenius or activation energy. Also known as activated complexes, FTP name this highenergy molecular configuration found between reactants and products—and between those and chemical
intermediates.
ANSWER: transition states (accept activated complexes before named)
8. One poem by this author lists a series of conditionals that if fulfilled will allow the addressee to “be a
man, my son!”, while another speaks of the titular race’s obligation to fight “the savage wars of peace”.
Besides poems “If—“ and “The White Man’s Burden”, he is also know for novels such as one that follows
the son of a railroad tycoon, Harvey Cheyne, called Captains Courageous. But he is perhaps best
remembered for children’s stories, such as a collection that explains “How the Leopard Got His Spots”, the
Just-So Stories. FTP, this is what Anglo-Indian author who wrote about the panther Bagheera, the bear
Baloo, and the man-cub Mowgli in The Jungle Book?
ANSWER: Rudyard Kipling
9. This molecule is degraded into D-O-P-A-C before conversion to homovanillic acid. Utilized mostly by
neurons localized to the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, the ventral tegmental area of the midbrain,
and the substantia nigra, it is also produced in the medulla of the adrenal glands. This catecholamine, which
is often associated with the pleasure and reward systems of the brain, is a precursor to norepinephrine, and
it can be converted from l-tyrosine via intermediary formation of l-dihydroxyphenylalanine. FTP, name this
neurotransmitter whose precursor compound L-DOPA has found use in the treatment of Parkinson’s
disease.
ANSWER: dopamine
10. The Wilhelmy plate method can be used to measure this quantity, and another method involves a
platinum ring and is named for du Noüy. The Eötvös rule predicts the value of this quantity given density,
molar mass, and critical temperature. Type II pneumocytes are responsible for reducing this quantity in
alveoli, helping gas exchange. Detergents lower this quantity that is responsible for capillary action and the
formation of a meniscus. FTP, identify this quantity that results from the attractions between liquid
molecules and allows for water striders to walk on water.
ANSWER: surface tension
11. Feature films produced by this group include Interstella 5555 and Electroma and their first album was
presented by the fictional radio station WDPK 83.7 FM. That album featured tracks like "Phoenix" and
"Rollin' and Scratchin'" but more famous songs include "Da Funk." and "Around the World." Their second
album was criticized for the synth-pop sound of tracks like "One More Time" but this group still won two
Grammy's in 2007 for their live album "Alive 2007" FTP name this French Electronic Duo, who's song
"Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger" was famously sampled by Kanye West.
ANSWER: Daft Punk
12. This man served in the Continental Congress after studying law under Thomas Jefferson. After a short
stint as ambassador to France, this man became governor of Virginia in 1799. This man had the possibly
unique position of being both secretary of state and of war under James Madison for about 3 months. The
Seminole wars occurred during this man’s presidency, as well as the purchase of Florida from Spain.
Possibly the only questionable decision this man made was approving of the Missouri compromise. A
leading proponent of the back to Africa movement, the capital of Liberia was named after this man. FTP,

2

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

identify this president of the United States whose most famous namesake doctrine was actually proposed by
his secretary of state, John Quincy Adams.
ANSWER: James Monroe
13. In one episode in this novel, a government worker assigned to survey one of the protagonists dies
warning that protagonist of a government plot. At Cherryl Brooks' wedding, another character, a student of
Hugh Akston, delivers a speech on "the root of money." That character, Francisco D'anconia owns the
world's largest copper empire, but bankrupts himself along with other "looters" and "moochers." FTP,
Dagny Taggert and Hank Rearden attempt to save America's industrial infrastructure in what objectivist
novel, written by Ayn Rand and featuring John Galt.
ANSWER: Atlas Shrugged
14. This poet detailed aspects of farming such as raising livestock and beekeeping in one work, while
another collection is a set of ten pastoral poems modeled on the Idylls of Theocritus; those are his Georgics
and his Eclogues. In his famous appearance outside of his own work, this author guides the narrator
through hell in Dante’s Inferno. While the namesake character of his famous work battles with Turnus,
flees burning Troy with Anchises on his back, and has an affair in Carthage with Dido. FTP, this is what
Roman poet who wrote about the founding of Rome in the Aeneid?
ANSWER: Publius Vergilius Maro
15. One way to derive this is by applying the general boundary conditions of Maxwell’s equations. Another
way to derive this law uses Fermat’s principle of least time. In birefringent materials, the ordinary ray
obeys this law, while the extraordinary ray does not because this law only holds for isotropic media. This
law states that sine theta one over sine theta two is equal to v one over v two, where v is the local velocity
of light. FTP, name this law that describes the refraction of light at the boundary of two media.
ANSWER: Snell's law (accept also Descartes's law and the Snell–Descartes law; prompt on the
law of refraction before mention)
16. One famous response to this piece of legislation was drawn up by William Harper. Another reaction to
this piece of legislation saw Robert Hayne attempt to unite southern interests with those of the west. A
force bill was passed through by Andrew Jackson in the hopes of quieting some of the furor induced by this
piece of legislation. The most forceful response to this, the South Carolina Exposition and Protest, was
written by Jackson’s own vice president. The controversy caused by this piece of legislation was not
dispelled until an 1833 compromise tariff was passed with the help of Henry Clay. FTP, identify this
suitably named tariff, which sparked a nullification crisis headed by John C. Calhoun.
ANSWER: Tariff of Abominations, or of 1828
17. This conflict began with the Massacre of Vassy and included battles at Saint-Denis and Ivry. It
featured involvement by the Habsburgs and Tudors, for whom it was a sort of proxy war. This conflict
climaxed in the so-called "War of the Three Henries" between the the identically-named rulers of Guise,
France, and Navarre, but Henry of Guise was executed and Henry of France assassinated by a friar,
meaning the last Henry standing was Henry of Navarre of the House of Bourbon. This conflict ended with
the Edict of Nantes and its most famous episode was the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre. FTP, give the
straightforward name of this 16th-century conflict between Catholics and Huguenots, whose victor, Henry
IV, remarked "Paris is well worth a mass."
ANSWER: French Wars of Religion Accept War of the Three Henries early
18. Each Christmas, a large Christmas tree in London's Trafalgar Square is a gift from this country, as
thanks for assistance during the Second World War. Its current ruling monarch is King Harald V and its
currency is the krone. One of the least densely-populated countries in the world, it is home to only 4.8
million people. Despite this small size, it is given the honor of picking the Nobel Peace Prize winner each
year. Famous people from this country include writers Henrik Ibsen and Roald Dahl, and the composer
Edvard Grieg. FTP, name this northern European country, with capital at Oslo.
ANSWER: Norway

3

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

19. This sculpture was originally commissioned by the Musee des Arts Decoratifs. A copy of this sculpture
is located in front of the philosophy hall at Columbia University. The original was later moved in front of
the Pantheon. Unlike the Monument to Balzac created by the same sculptor, this statue was originally titled
the Poet. It was originally meant to represent Dante contemplating his Divine Comedy in front of the Gates
of Hell, also by the same sculptor as this work. Depicting a man in an anatomically impossible pose
because of wrist strain, FTP, name this work of Rodin which depicts a man in deep thought.
ANSWER: The Thinker
20. This conflict started after an ultimatum issued by the lieutenant governor of Natal returned no answer
and Lord Chelmsford commenced an invasion. Chelmsford was defeated by a numerically and tactically
superior force at Isandlwana, but the British successfully defended at Rorke’s Drift and broke the forces
under their adversary Cetshwayo at Ulundi. FTP, name this war, which the British waged against a South
African empire.
ANSWER: Anglo-Zulu War
21. Their existence can be confirmed through techniques such as astrometry, radial velocity, and pulsar
timing. The Kepler mission seeks to find one variety of these, which are defined as objects with true masses
below the limiting mass for the thermonuclear fusion of deuterium. The discovery of Eris forced a
redefinition of these celestial bodies, and satellites orbiting them will eventually break apart if they are
within the Roche limit. FTP, what is this group of objects to which Pluto no longer belongs.
ANSWER: planets

Bonuses:
1. FTPE, name some things about the Persian Wars.
[10] After this 490 BCE victory in the war against Darius the Great, Pheidippides made a speedy and
exhausting trip to tell the Athenians the result.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
[10] This narrow passage, whose name translates to "Gates of Fire," was where three hundred Spartans held
off the thousand nations of the Persian empire for three days before being betrayed by Ephialtes.
ANSWER: Thermopylae
[10] This king led the Spartans at Thermopylae. In the movie 300, he is best known for responding to a
Persian envoy's remark, "this is madness!" by yelling "Madness! THIS IS SPARTA!"
ANSWER: Leonidas I
2. FTPE, name some movie tropes.
[10] When the minions of villains have remarkably, sometimes impossibly, poor aim that allows the heroes
to escape unscathed, they are said to have trained at this group’s Marksmanship Academy, in reference to
the Star Wars bad guys who, although they are apparently renowned throughout the galaxy for their
precision, rarely seem to hit anything.
ANSWER: Imperial Stormtroopers
[10] This term refers to characters whose only function is to die and their deaths frequently highlight the
danger of the mission while preserving the lives of the main characters. This term comes from the
distinctive uniform worn by security officers in the original Star Trek, where they would often accompany
Kirk and Spock to a planet only to die within a few minutes.
ANSWER: Redshirts
[10] This law states that a single solitary ninja will be a mighty warrior, while if the ninjas come in a large
group they will be a bunch of easily taken-down redshirts.
ANSWER: The Inverse Ninja Law or the Law of Conservation of Ninjitsu
3. FTPE, name these concepts related to rotational physics.
[10] This is the rotational equivalent of mass, given by ∫ r2 dm (the integral of r squared d m).
ANSWER: moment of inertia
[10] This is equivalent to dL/dt, or the time rate of change of angular momentum. It is measured in Newton
meters.

4

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

ANSWER: torque
[10] This is the operator used to calculate torque from the length of the lever arm and the applied force. It is
zero for two parallel vectors.
ANSWER: cross product
4. Cyril Fielding is friends with the protagonist of this novel in the beginning, but by the end, cultural
difference have caused them to drift apart, FTPE:
[10] This is what novel in which Dr. Aziz is accused of sexually assaulting Adela in the Marabar Caves.
ANSWER: A Passage to India
[10] A Passage to India is by this British author, who also wrote A Room with a View and Howard’s End.
ANSWER: E.M. Forster
[10] Lilia Herriton falls in love with Italy and a particular Italian while traveling through Tuscany with
Caroline Abbot in this novel, which takes its name from a line in Alexander Pope’s An Essay on Criticism.
ANSWER: Where Angels Fear to Tread
5. Answer some related questions about acids and bases FTPE:
[10] This definition of acids and bases improved upon the Arrhenius formulation in describing acids as
compounds that donate hydrogen ions and bases as those that accept them.
ANSWER: Brønsted-Lowry acid-base theory
[10] Unlike the Lewis definition, Brønsted-Lowry acid-base theory does not describe this type of reaction
in which water and a salt forms from the reaction of a base and acid.
ANSWER: neutralization reactions
[10] This property describes compounds like zinc oxide, aluminum hydroxide, and hydronium ion that can
act as either a base or acid. Compounds with this property can donate or accept protons.
ANSWER: amphoterism
6. Name these concepts from economics FTPE:
[10] This state exists when a seller has full or near full control over the market for a given good. This gives
the seller an opportunity to raise prices on buyers beyond what would be achieved through perfect
competition.
ANSWER: monopoly
[10] These groups are often formed when oligopoly seller power exists. Competing firms in an industry
actively collude with each other to raise prices and avoid price decreases that would otherwise arise from
competition with one another.
ANSWER: cartels
[10] This state opposite that of a monopoly exists when there is only one buyer of a given good or service.
Single-payer healthcare systems are one example of this state.
ANSWER: monopsony
7. Roger Fry coined the term for this period of art in 1910 to describe the development of art since after
Manet, FTPE:
[10] Identify this period of art, whose name indicates that it followed a certain period of art that included
such luminaries as Monet and Pissaro. Practitioners during this period included Paul Cezanne and Henri
Rousseau.
ANSWER: Post-Impressionism
[10] A leading post-impressionist, this man abandoned his job as a stockbroker in Paris and moved to
Tahiti, where he pioneered the Primativist style and painted such things Where do we Come From? What
are we? Where are we Going?
ANSWER: Paul Gauguin
[10] This man’s reputation has risen substantially since his death. Identify this painter of such emotional
works such as portrait of Pere Tanguy, Bedroom in Arles, and the Night Café, a pioneer of expressionism.
ANSWER: Vincent Van Gogh
8. FTPE, name some modern British capital-C Conservatives.
[10]This Epping M.P. succeeded Neville Chamberlain and, offering nothing but "blood, toil, tears, and
sweat," led the British to victory in the Second World War.

5

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

ANSWER: Winston Churchill
[10] This Finchley M.P., known as the "Iron Lady" or occasionally "Attila the Hen," was prime minister
during the Falklands War and liberalized the British market.
ANSWER: Margaret Thatcher
[10] This Witney M.P. is the current (2010) leader of the Conservative opposition and hopes to lead his
party to victory over Prime Minister Gordon Brown's Labour.
ANSWER: David Cameron
9. In the frame narrative of this work sees the narrator and his friends exchanging ghost stories on
Christmas Eve, FTPE:
[10] This is what novella in which the unnamed Governess suspects that the ghost of her predecessor and
her predecessor’s lover are haunting the house, where she takes care of Flora and Miles.
ANSWER: The Turn of the Screw
[10] The Turn of the Screw is by this American author, who also wrote The Wings of the Dove and The
Golden Bowl.
ANSWER: Henry James
[10] Lord Warburton, Caspar Goodwood, and Gilbert Osmond are among those pursuing Isabel Archer in
this Henry James, often considered his masterwork.
ANSWER: The Portrait of a Lady
10. Answer the following related questions about types of rock FTPE:
[10] This type of rock is normally produced from the rapid cooling and depressurization of frothy lava that
has been ejected by a violent volcano explosion. Given its high porosity and prevalence of bubbles, it is
very light and has low density.
ANSWER: pumice
[10] This class of rocks can be classified as intrusive and felsic and most often consists of silicon dioxide
and aluminum oxide. Along with marble, it is a common building material.
ANSWER: granite
[10] Both pumice and granite are members of this class of rocks which describes those that are formed
from the cooling of magma either above or below the Earth’s surface. Unlike metamorphic rocks, these are
not formed under intense heat or pressure.
ANSWER: igneous rocks
11. This play ends with its protagonist shouting “I will not capitulate”, FTPE:
[10] This is what play, in which Bérenger is the only member of a provincial French town not to turn into
the titular animal?
ANSWER: Rhinoceros
[10] Rhinoceros is by this Franco-Romanian absurdist playwright.
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco
[10] One character notes that the title character “always wears her hair in the same style” in this Ionesco
play about the Smiths and Martins.
ANSWER: The Bald Soprano or La Cantatrice Chauve
12. Notable figures and groups from the Watergate scandal, FTPE:
[10] This organization funded by the Nixon administration laundered money and utilized illegal slush funds
to fund the Watergate burglars, among other shady activities.
ANSWER: Committee to Re-elect the President (also accept CREEP)
[10] This false name was given to the secret informant of Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward, later
revealed to be senior FBI agent W. Mark Felt Sr.
ANSWER: Deep Throat
[10] This man was the chief operative for the White House Plumbers and took control of planning the
Watergate break-in along with E. Howard Hunt.
ANSWER: G. Gordon Liddy

6

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

13. Izanagi and Izanami were the first man and woman in Shinto myth. For ten points, answer some
questions about their descendants:
[10] When Izanagi washed his face, this god of storms and the sea was born from his nose. He angered his
sister, the sun goddess Amaterasu, forcing her to hide in a cave.
ANSWER: Susanoo
[10] This moon deity was born from Izanagi’s left eye. Like Susanoo, he was known to feud with
Amaterasu.
ANSWER: Tsukuyomi
[10] According to the Kojiki, one descendant of Amaterasu was this first emperor of Japan
ANSWER: Jimmu Emperor
14. The most important skill to learn in college is pretending to understand what the following thinkers
mean. For ten points each, name some nigh-incomprehensible French postmodernist philosophers:
[10] This thinker is known for his theories of biopower and the modern state as a panopticon. His bestknown works include The Birth of the Clinic, Discipline and Punish, and The History of Sexuality.
ANSWER: Michel Foucault
[10] This man was influential in literary criticism and known as the founder of deconstruction. His bestknown works include On Grammatology and Limited Inc.
ANSWER: Jacques Derrida
[10] This philosopher is famous for the ideas of hyperreality and the interchangeability of signs. He wrote
Simulacra and Simulation and claimed that The Gulf War Did Not Take Place.
ANSWER: Jean Baudrillard
15. Stuff about Lyndon Johnson’s social and economic program, The Great Society, FTPE:
[10] This landmark act prohibited racial discrimination in public facilities and employment, effectively
ending the prevalence of Jim Crow laws and segregation.
ANSWER: Civil Rights Act of 1964
[10] This piece of legislation created Medicare and Medicaid, providing federal healthcare for the elderly
and for poor Americans.
ANSWER: Social Security Act of 1965
[10] This consumer advocacy book by Ralph Nader prompted Johnson to modernize the automobile
industry, exposing how car manufacturers rarely enforced the use of such safety features as seat belts or
airbags.
ANSWER: Unsafe At Any Speed
16. A chord named for one piece by this composer consists of superimposed C major and F-sharp major
chords. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of that ballet about a puppet, Petrushka, as well as the riot-inducing The Rite of
Spring.
ANSWER: Igor Stravinsky
[10] Stravinsky's first ballet was this piece that features an "Infernal Dance." In it, the title creature tells
Prince Ivan how to kill Kashchei the Immortal.
ANSWER: The Firebird
[10] Stravinsky's neoclassical period saw the composition of this piece whose three movements draw texts
from the titular book of the Hebrew Bible.
ANSWER: Symphony of Psalms
17. Answer these related questions about a certain taxonomic group FTPE:
[10]The name of this phylum derives from Latin for soft, and it contains cuttlefish, clams, and snails.
ANSWER: mollusks
[10] Most mollusks have a calcium carbonate hardened plate called this:
ANSWER: mantle
[10] Most mollusks have this chitinous tongue which helps scrape bacteria and algae off rocks.
ANSWER: radula

7

BHSAT XIX

Packet 6

18. Answer some questions about mice in literature, FTPE:
[10] This author wrote the longest running play in history, The Mousetrap, which is based on her short
story “Three Blind Mice”, and is still in its original run which started in 1952.
ANSWER: Agatha Christie
[10] Charlie Gordon narrates this novel by Daniel Keyes which chronicles his rise in IQ from mentally
retarded to genius in an experiment he participates in along with the titular mouse.
ANSWER: Flowers for Algernon
[10] This artist and writer won a special Pulitzer Prize for his allegorical graphic novel, Maus, which
depicted the events of the Holocaust.
ANSWER: Art Spiegelman
19. Answer these bonuses about an interesting ecological system:
[10] Located in California in the Sierra Madre mountain range, this lake has a pH of 10, making it one of
the few basic lakes in the world:
ANSWER: Lake Mono
[10]Migratory birds feed on the Lake Mono brine shrimp, which feed on the planktonic algae in the lake.
The migratory birds may thus be described as what type of species in the Lake Mono food web, specific to
the degrees of separation between the birds and the producers?
ANSWER: secondary consumer
[10] As the migratory birds are only present for several months of the year, this ecosystem may be an
example of an ecosystem that lacks this species that caps the population density.
ANSWER: keystone predator
20. Identify some Ernest Hemingway short stories, FTPE:
[10] At the end of this story, Robert Wilson asks the title character’s wife Margaret “Why didn’t you
poison him?” instead of shooting him for the cowardice of running away from a lion.
ANSWER: “The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber”
[10] The American tries to convince Jig to have an abortion, which he only refers to as just letting the air
in, in this Hemingway short story.
ANSWER: “Hills Like White Elephants”
[10] Nick Adams goes with his father to the title location to witness a birth, in this opening story of the
collection of In Our Time.
ANSWER: “Indian Camp”
21. 5-10-5-5-5, answer some questions about the last century of imperial czarist Russia.
[5] This 1825 uprising tried to replace Nicholas I with his more liberal and modernizing brother
Constantine.
ANSWER: Decembrist uprising/revolt/rebellion
[10] After efforts to expel them failed, Jews—whose existence outside the feudal order and rising middleclass prominence caused problems for the czars—were required to live in eastern Europe and the far west
of Russia, a region termed this.
ANSWER: Pale of Settlement
[5] The czars encouraged this type of anti-Jewish riot as a safe (for the czars) way of discharging
discontent.
ANSWER: pogroms
[5] This final Russian czar came to the imperial throne in 1894 after the untimely death of his conservative
father, Alexander III.
ANSWER: Nicholas II
[5] The last czarina of Russia was this princess of Hesse and granddaughter of Queen Victoria. She is best
remembered for relying on Grigori Rasputin to treat her hemophiliac son Alexei.
ANSWER: Czarina or Czaritsa Alexandra or Alix of Hesse

8

