TOSSUPS - ROUND 4
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC
Questions mostly by Chris Borglum, Valencia Community College
1.
In March, 1943, he was transferred to Greece to create the illusion of an attack there to draw the Allies
from France. After the deception's success, Hitler appointed him commander of the Channel defenses, but he
was shot and wounded by a strafing plane. Less than six months later, he was forced to take poison after being
implicated in the plot against Hitler's life. FTP who was this commander of the Afrika Korps, nicknamed the
"Desert Fox"?
Answer: Erwin Rommel
2.
Comprising over 500,000 square acres, its name translates to "Land of Trembling Earth." The building
of a road connecting Cowhouse Island with U.S. Route 1 south of Waycross helped lead to its designation as a
state park in 1946. What is this Georgia park, FTP, where Pogo and his pals are reputed to live?
Answer: Okefenokee Swamp
3.
Alternately called Caisson's Disease or Tunnel Disease, it causes severe pain in the muscles and joints
of the arms and legs and can cause shock or even death. Those recovering from it usually have to spend days in
an oxygen chamber. Name this disease, FTP, caused by the enlargement of nitrogen bubbles in blood and
tissue, usually resulting from a diver's overly rapid return to the water's surface.
Answer: Bends
4.
He courted Thetis but dumped her when he learned that she would bear a son greater than his father. He
gave Minos a beautiful white bull to sacrifice to him, but when Minos kept the bull, this Olympian made
Minos's wife Pasiphae fall in love with it, leading to the Minotaur. FTP name this greedy owner of the Trident
and god of the sea.
Answer: Poseidon
5.
Although he was better known in his time for his monographs on the constituents of London soil and the
varieties of tobacco ash, he considered his best work to be The Practical Book ofBee Culture. Ever modest, he
turned down Queen Victoria's offer of knighthood for his detective work. FTP name this character whose
adventures appeared in The Strand in stories written by Arthur Conan Doyle.
Answer: Sherlock Holmes
6.
For ten real math points, find the solution for (X-1-ii (read: the quantity x minus one plus I all
squared).
Answer: X2-2X+2
7.
He hails from Kiln, Mississippi, and played his college ball at nearby Southern Miss. The Falcons
drafted him, kept him on the bench for a year or so, and then cut him - a move they certainly regret. He's
kicked an addiction to prescription painkillers and appeared on film as Cameron Diaz's old boyfriend. FTP
name this quarterback for the Green Bay Packers.
Answer: Brett Favre [pronounced Farve, but accept anything close enough - ifhe can't pronounce it
right, why should we?]
8.
A member of the Wampanoag tribe, he was captured early in his life and sold as a slave in Spain. He
eventually escaped and went to England, where he learned the language. He returned to New England in 1619
as a pilot for an English sea captain and was saddened to find his tribe destroyed by a plague. FTP who was this
man who forged a friendship with the pilgrims at Plymouth Colony and helped them survive by teaching them
how to fish and grow corn?
Answer: Squanto

9.
It was observed by Philip Lenard, but its discovery was attributed to Heinrich Hertz in 1887. The most
favorite experiment involved metal and a bright spot light. When the light hit the metal base, the metal released
a charge. FTP, what is this effect that Albert Einstein explained in a 1905 paper?
Answer: photoelectric effect
10.
Characteristics of this form's classical version include the use of the supernatural, descriptions of
warfare, statement of purpose, beginning in media res, and invocation ofthe muse. The adventurous plot often
deals with the founding of a race or nation, such as in the Mahabharata and the Nibelungenlied. FTP, name this
poetic genre epitomized by the Odyssey.
Answer: epic
11.
He made over 150 films, beginning with the Oscar-winning "The Silent World" in 1956. After a nearfatal auto accident dashed his hopes of becoming an aviator, he took up swimming to strengthen his broken
arms, leading to his life-long love of the sea. This love led to his co-invention of the aqua-lung in 1943. FTP
name this captain of the Calypso and renowned French Oceanographer.
Answer: Jacques Cousteau
12.
Unity, self-determination, collective work and responsibility, cooperative economics, purpose,
creativity, and faith are the seven principles of it, each of which is represented by a candle in the Kinara. This
non-denominational holiday was introduced in 1966 as a ritual to welcome the first harvests to the home.
Celebrated from December 26 through New Year's Day, FTP what is this African-American festival?
Answer: Kwanzaa
13.
It gained its name from a popular song-and-dance routine premiered in Louisville in 1828 by Thomas
Rice, the most notable figure of the early minstrel shows. As a legal term, it came to refer to a series of statues
enacted after 1877 (the end of Reconstruction) that imposed varying degrees of segregation. FTP, identify this
two-word term for racially motivated laws.
Answer: Jim Crow
14.
His name literally means "flat-head," and his hope of establishing the rule of
a philosopher-king in Syracuse fell flat---but his immortal literary works including The Laws, Theatetus, and
Criton are still the bedrock of a liberal education. FTP identify this Greek master of the dialogue form, whose
works include the Phaedo and The Republic.
Answer: Plato
15.
On his mother's side, this poet was a descendant of Gannibal, an Abyssinian general who served under
Peter the Great. His long poem Ruslan and L\ldmila first brought him attention in 1820. Killed in a duel, FTP
name this father of Russian literature best known for his tragedy Boris Godunov and novel Eugene Onegin.
Answer: Aleksandr Pushkin
16.
He had bad luck on his right side, losing the sight in his right eye at the Battle of Calvi and losing his
right arm at Santa Cruz in 1794. He had a better year in 1798, destroying the French fleet at Aboukir Bay near
Egypt. FTP name this admiral who led the British fleet to victory at Trafalgar in 1805.
Answer: Horatio Nelson
17.
Active during the late 15th and early 16th century, he was a Roman Catholic painter like his father and
grandfather before him. He designed several stained glass windows of his local church, but he is best known
for his striking paintings. They incorporated astrology, alchemy, folklore, witchcraft, and an overriding
preoccupation with man's sinful nature. FTP name this Dutch painter known for "The Seven Deadly Sins" and
"The Garden of Earthly Delights."
Answer:
Hieronymus Bosch

18.
This former video store clerk played a deacon in Little Nicky and George Clooney's wacko brother in
From Dusk Till Dawn. The forthcoming Kill Bill will be only the 4th feature film he's directed, not counting
one segment ofthe 1995 flop Four Rooms. FTP name this Hollywood bad boy, frequent employer of
Chattanooga's Samuel L. Jackson and director of Jacky Brown, Reservoir Dogs, and Pulp Fiction.
Answer: Quentin Tarantino
19.
Its chief naturally occurring ore is pitchblende, from which it is extracted by an ion-exchange process.
Discovered by Klaproth in 1789, it has three natural isotopes: 238,234, and 235. FTP what is this white
metallic element with number 92, the main power source of nuclear reactors?
Answer: uranium
20.
The narrator, annoyed by his pal Stradlater's whistling, among other things, runs away from Pency Prep.
early in this novel. Burdened by his unrequited passion for Jane Gallagher and brotherly love for his sister
Phoebe, the narrator ends up at his former teacher's house, but thinks Mr. Antolini makes a pass at him. FTP
Holden Caulfield is the narrator of what novel by J. D. Salinger?
Answer: Catcher in the Rye
21.
Born in Waxhaw, South Carolina, he was the only president to have served in both the American
Revolutionary War and the War of 1812. Famous for participating in duels, he had lived many years with a
bullet lodged near his heart. FTP, name this i h President of the United States whose nickname is "Old
Hickory."
Answer: Andrew Jackson
22.
This organization, founded in 1912, has five distinct levels of membership. During the 1930s, it
conducted various fund raisers to support its activities but by 1936 it had negotiated its first contract with a
commercial baker. For ten points, name this organization that is best known for its annual Cookie Sale.
Answer: Girl Scouts of the United States of America
23.
His early plays, like Cowboy and Operation Sidewinder are often set in the American West and contain
surrealistic critiques of American materialism. His best known play, Buried Child, won the Drama Pulitzer in
1978, though he's better known to most as an actor. FTP who is this companion of Jessica Lange who played
Chuck Yeager in The Right Stuff?
Answer: Sam Shepard

BONI - ROUND 4

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
Alright Captain, let's see how well you know your teammates. I'll name a category, and you nominate
one of your teammates to answer a 5-point question in it with no consultation. Each player on your team must
go once, so you need to designate yourself for one question. Choose carefully, as you'll get a ten-point bonus
for getting all four correct. The categories are physics, American history, literature, and mathematics.
Physics: How many "flavors" of quark exist?
Answer: 6
American history: What U.S. president was nicknamed "Little Hickory" and "The Red Fox of Kinderhook"?
Answer: Martin van Buren
Literature: What Nobel Prize winner wrote The Song of Solomon and Tar Baby?
Answer: Toni Morrison
Math: What figure's volume is given by the formula V=1/3BH?
Answer: pyramid
2.
Answer the following about milestones in space exploration FSNOP.
5pts. Who was the first human to make a spaceflight and return alive?
Answer: Yuri Gagarin
5pts. Who was the first American to orbit the Earth?
Answer: John Glenn
1Opts. What was the name and number of the mission which first landed on the Moon?
Answer: Apollo 11
10 pts. Excluding the unnumbered Apollo-Soyuz joint mission, what was the number of the last Apollo
mission?
Answer: Apollo 17
3.
So you think you know about Arthurian legend, huh? Identify the following works about it FTPE.
Marion Zimmer Bradley's book about the women of Arthurian legend.
Answer: The Mists of Avalon
Alfred Lord Tennysons cycle of poems about Arthur.
Answer: Idylls of the King
Thomas Malory's indispensable collection of Arthurian tales.
Answer: Le Morte d' Arthur
4.
Answer the following questions concerning Willliam the Conqueror for ten points each.
Before crossing the Channel, William was duke of what duchy in northern France?
Answer: Normandy
William's forces defeated the English armies under Harold II at what 1066 battle?
Answer: Battle of Hastings
As William I, King of England, he ordered what economic survey of the English people to be taken?
Answer: Domesday (DOOMS-day) Book
5.
Name the Americans painter from a lesser-known work for 10 points or a better-known work for 5 pts.
10) Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket
5) Arrangement in Black and White: Portrait of the Artist's Mother
Answer: James McNeill Whistler
10) The Helga Paintings
5) Christina's World
Answer: Andrew Wyeth
10) The Birthplace of Herbert Hoover, 1931
5) American Gothic
Answer: Grant Wood

6.
Identify these tools you'd use in chemistry lab FFPE and a bonus five for getting them all.
A narrow glass tube used to deliver small amounts of liquid.
Answer: pipette
A device used to separate liquids of different densities by spinning them.
Answer: centrifuge
A small gas burner used for heating substances.
Answer: Bunsen burner
A small club-shaped tool used to crush or grind solids.
Answer: pestle
A flat-bottomed conical container for liquids.
Answer: Ehrlenmeyer Flask
7.
Name the author from works 30-20-10.
30 Down and Out in Paris and London
20 Burmese Days; How to Cook an Elephant
10 Animal Farm
Answer: George Orwell (acc. Eric Arthur Blair from some stinkin' showoff)
8. If you like baseball trivia, this bonus is for you; if not, too bad. Answer the following FSNOP.
5pts. Who holds the record for most home runs in a career with 754?
Answer: Hank Aaron
10pts Who has the record for most career pitching victories with 511 ?
Answer: Denton True "Cy" Young
15pts. Who played in 3,562 games in his career, more than anyone else?
Answer: Pete Rose
9.
FTPE, given an unsuccessful assassin, name the president they tried to kill.
Squeaky Fromme
Answer: Gerald Ford
John Hinckley, Jr.
Answer: Ronald Reagan
Richard Lawrence.
Answer: Andrew Jackson
10.
FTPE given a brief description identify the molecule. If you need a more general clue, you'll get five.
1.
10) With a functional group ofNH2 on one end and a carboxylic acid group (COOH) on the other the
simplest one is glycine.
5) The body only classifies 20 ofthem as "essential" and they are the basis of proteins.
Amino Acids
Answer:
2.
10) Having the general formula C(n)H(n+2)O(n), they can be used to store energy, metabolized for
quick energy, or can be used to provide structure in plants.
5) The most common forms of them include glucose and sucrose.
Carbohydrates
Answer:
3.
10) These chemicals are characterized by a "backbone" of four linked carbon rings linked to a
hydrocarbon chain, While not true lipids, they are grouped with lipids because they too are insoluble in water.
5) Examples include cholesterol as well as such hormones as testosterone and estrogen.
Steroids
Answer:

11.
Name these places of worship FTPE.
Once the central church of the Eastern Orthodox Church, this Istanbul landmark is now a mosque.
Answer: Hagia Sophia
Coronation church ofthe English monarchs, it's also home to "Poet's Corner."
Answer: Westminster Abbey
This mosque stands atop Temple Mount in Jerusalem.
Answer: Dome of the Rock
12.
Name the opera from a plot description for 15 pts., from the composer for 10, or from a more modern
adaptation for 5 pts ..
15) It centers around two starving artists in a garret apartment, one of whom falls madly in love with a
terminally ill woman. The opera follows their tragic love affair which is tormented by their poverty and ends
with the woman's death (as do most operas).
10) Giacomo Puccini
5) The Broadway musical Rent
Answer:
La Boheme
15) Another tragic love story, this is one of a poor native girl who falls in love with a foreigner. They marry,
she waits for him as he goes back to his home country, but when she seeks him out again she finds that he has
remarried and forgotten about her. She of course then commits suicide to finish the tragedy.
10) Giacomo Puccini (yes, again)
5) The Broadway musical Miss Saigon
Answer:
Madame (or Madama) Butterfly
13.
Name these supporting figures from The Simpsons FTPE.
His short film, "Man Hit in Groin by Football," was Homer's favorite at the Springfield Film Festival.
Answer: Hans Moleman
This suave actor won't appear anymore, unfortunately, as Phil Hartman is no longer with us.
Answer: Troy McClure
Lisa found she couldn't change this bully' S behavior by dating him. Ha-ha!
Answer: Nelson Muntz
14.
Given a description, name the pioneer in the fight for women's rights FTPE.
With Lucretia Mott, she helped organize the Seneca Falls Convention of 1848.
Answer: Elizabeth Cady Stanton
This British woman was the first medical doctor in England.
Answer: Elizabeth Blackwell
This woman was the first to run for president, doing so in 1872 on the Liberty Party ticket.
Answer: Victoria Woodhull
15.
Name the ancient Greek writer from a description FTPE.
Called "The Tenth Muse," her love lyrics were often written about women.
Answer: Sappho
He wrote The Persians and the 4-play cycle The Oresteia.
Answer: Aeschylus
This author is best known for his History of the Peloponnesian War.
Answer: Thucydides

16.
Name these bodies of water FTPE.
This strait separates the Chinese mainland from Taiwan.
Answer: Formosa Strait
This sea separates Sweden and Finland from Lithuania, Latvia and Poland.
Answer: Baltic Sea
The Red Sea empties into this gulf which separates Somalia from Yemen.
Answer: Gulf of Aden
17.
Given a description, name the part of your car's electrical system FTPE.
This magnetic device exerts force when current flows through the coil.
Answer: solenoid
This is the AC generator that supplies power to the car's electrical system.
Answer: alternator
This device directs high voltage from the coil to the appropriate spark plugs in turn.
Answer: distributor
18.
Give these terms about sexual mores from anthropology from a description FTP each.
This is the practice of marrying someone outside one's own social group, i.e. marrying someone from a
different clan.
Answer: exogamy
This is tracing descent through the female line. For example, a child would take its mother's surname.
Answer: matrilineal (accept: cognatic lineage or uterine lineage)
This is general term for the marriage of more than two people, either one man to several women or vice versa.
Answer: polygamy
19.
For ten points per answer, name these alliances.
Germany, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire during World War r.
Answer: Central Powers
The 20th century alliance between Argentina, Brazil, and Chile.
Answer: ABC alliance or ABC Powers (accept reasonable equivalents)
The 1815 entente formed by Great Britain, Russia, Austria and Prussia to regulate European politics after the
fall of Napoleon.
Answer: Quadruple Alliance
20.
FTP each, answer these questions about mathematical advancements.
He developed the coordinate plane while watching a fly crawl on the ceiling.
Answer: Rene Descartes
Not only had he memorized The Aeneid, but he also first used i to represent the square root of negative one.
Answer: Leonhard Euler
"In the best of all possible worlds", he would receive sole credit for discovering calculus.
Answer: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (or Leibnitz)
21.
Identify the Nobel Prize winner of 1998, 1999, or 2000 who wrote the following novels FTPE.
The Tin Drum
A. Gunter Grass
Blindness
A. Jose Saramago
Soul Mountain
A. Gao Xingjian (zing-zhang, I figure)

22.
Answer the following about a recent fractious election, FTP each.
Phillippe Seguin and Bertrand Delanoe were struggling to become mayor of this major city.
Answer: Paris
Delanoe wants to become the 1st member of this party to be Paris' mayor since the Commune of Paris in 1871.
Answer: Socialist
Seguin was the hand-picked successor to this former mayor of Paris, who is currently the President of France.
Answer: Jacques Chirac

