2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
First Quarter

6

1. This study described how a president changed from a policy of "limited-risk gamble" to "broad
commitment." Anthony Russo helped photocopy this study, which was earlier given to Clark Clifford after
being commissioned by Robert McNamara. These documents were given to reporter Neil Sheehan of The
New York Times by Daniel Ellsberg in 1971. For 10 points, name this Department of Defense study about
U.S. involvement in Indochina that was leaked to the press during the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Pentagon Papers [or United States-Viet Nam Relations, 1945-1967: A Study Prepared by the
Department of Defense]
023-13-94-06101

2. In a novel from this country, the marriage of Opala Goldfield is one of the many narratives described by
a cat. An author from this country used double suicides of lovers in several of his plays and wrote about the
military career of the general Coxinga (co-SHING-guh). Society in this country during the early eleventh
century is described in literature such as The Pillow Book and The Tale of Genji. For 10 points, name this
home to Sei Shonagon and Lady Murasaki.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon]
140-13-94-06102

3. A Supreme Court case involving this right arose after "Heed Their Rising Voices" was run and led to the
creation of the standard of "actual malice." Near v. Minnesota protected this right from prior restraint. Jerry
Falwell lost a case centered on this right after a parody of Falwell appeared in an issue of Hustler
magazine. For 10 points, name this right granted by the First Amendment that allows for mostly open
expression by members of the so-called "fourth branch of government."
ANSWER: freedom of the press [prompt on freedom of expression; prompt on freedom of speech;
prompt on First Amendment]
023-13-94-06103

4. The more commonly performed version of this opera is a later revision that added offstage monks in the
Cell Scene. Controversy over this opera led to the rejection of its composer's later Khovanshchina
(KHA-von-SHEE-nuh). This opera ends with the singing of "Flow, flow, bitter tears" after a Duma meeting
is interrupted by the Pretender Dmitri, who wants to lead a march on Moscow. For 10 points, name this
opera which was adapted from a Pushkin play about a tsar by Modest Mussorgsky.
ANSWER: Boris Godunov
233-13-94-06104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 1 of 10

5. This civilization built cities at Gournia and Cydonia and went through multiple Palace Periods. The
collapse of this civilization may have been caused by a volcanic eruption on the island of Thera. One of the
palaces built by this civilization has a fresco depicting bull-leaping. This civilization used a written
language called Linear A. For 10 points, name this ancient civilization that Arthur Evans rediscovered
during excavations of Knossos on Crete.
ANSWER: Minoan civilization
023-13-94-06105

6. Operation Dynamo was nicknamed for the dynamo room in the castle of this city, the terminus of all
three routes of the Dunkirk evacuation. The Third Anglo-Dutch War began as a result of a secret treaty
between Louis XIV and Charles II signed here. During World War II, this city was devastated by
Wehrmacht bombardment from guns placed at Calais, which sits directly across it on the English Channel.
For 10 points, name this English coastal city famed for its white cliffs.
ANSWER: Dover
020-13-94-06106

7. This man explained how the nineteenth century was responsible for an "implantation of perversions" and
developed the "repressive hypothesis." This author of The History of Sexuality also described three
epistemes (EP-iss-teemz) in his book The Order of Things. This philosopher wrote a book that used
Bentham's Panopticon to describe power relations. For 10 points, name this French philosopher who looked
at the role of prisons in society in Discipline and Punish.
ANSWER: Paul-Michel Foucault
023-13-94-06107

8. Ammunition Hill was captured during this ear, which began after the second U.N. Emergency Force,
which acted as a barrier between two of the belligerents, was forced to leave. It began with the destruction
of three countries' air forces in Operation Focus. This war led to the capture of the West Bank and Sinai
Peninsula. For 10 points, name this brief war fought between a coalition of Syria, Jordan, and Egypt against
Israel in 1967.
ANSWER: Six-Day War [or the 1967 Arab-Israeli War; or the June War; prompt on partial answer]
140-13-94-06108

9. This man opposed the repeal of the Lex Oppia, which restricted female adornment. This man broke the
influence of the Scipios, and he limited the size of banquets with the Lex Orchia. His Origines was the first
history of Rome written in Latin. Latin literature referred to this man as "unshorn" to emphasize the hardy
traditions of the Romans. For 10 points, name this Roman censor who ended his speeches with the
admonition, "Carthage must be destroyed."
ANSWER: Cato the Elder [or Cato the Censor until it is read; prompt on Marcus Porcius Cato]
030-13-94-06109

10. Jaume Ferran i Clua's vaccine for this disease was the first vaccine against a bacterial agent. The first
person to observe the causative agent of this disease was Filippo Pacini. An outbreak of this disease in 1854
was traced to a water pump on Broad Street by John Snow. In the past, ships used a yellow quarantine flag
if someone onboard had this disease. For 10 points, name this infectious disease that causes watery
diarrhea.
ANSWER: cholera
140-13-94-06110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 2 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Second Quarter

1. Film producer Thomas Ince was killed on this man's yacht, possibly by him. He had had an affair with
Marion Davies, whose acting career he promoted. This man "stole" from his rival the contract of Richard
Outcault, the creator of The Yellow Kid. He was the inspiration for the title character of the film Citizen
Kane. For 10 points, name this newspaper publisher who led his New York Journal in a fight with the New
York World of Joseph Pulitzer.
ANSWER: William Randolph Hearst
BONUS: Hearst reportedly told what artist of The Bronco Buster that if he provided the pictures, Hearst
would provide a war in Cuba?
ANSWER: Frederic Sackrider Remington
052-13-94-06101

2. The Hongwu Emperor made this city the capital, but his successor moved the capital to Beijing. A treaty
named for this city ended the First Opium War. This city served as the capital of Chiang Kai-shek's
nationalist government prior to its fall to the Communists in 1949. It was previously the site of the
massacre of approximately 300,000 civilians. For 10 points, name this port on the Yangtze River that was
the site of a "rape" at the hands of Japanese soldiers in 1937.
ANSWER: Nanking [or Nanjing; or Nan-Ching]
BONUS: What nationalist party was led by Chiang Kai-shek and which is still a major force in Taiwanese
politics?
ANSWER: Kuomintang [or KMT]
030-13-94-06102

3. This man used the ships St. Gabriel, St. Peter, and St. Paul on an expedition which included Gerhard
Muller, the founder of ethnography. Martin Spangberg joined this man on that expedition, when he
discovered the Mount Saint Elias volcano. Eventually, this explorer died of scurvy in the Commander
Islands on his second Kamchatka expedition, during which he sighted the coast of Alaska. For 10 points,
name this explorer, for whom the sea separating Russia from Alaska is named.
ANSWER: Vitus Bering
BONUS: Russian traders were principally interested in acquiring the fur from what animals in the Pacific
Northwest, which led to the extinction of several species?
ANSWER: sea otters
190-13-94-06103

4. This artist depicted three members of the Farnese (far-NAY-zee) family in his portrait of Paul III's
grandsons. An armored emperor charges out of the woods on a black horse in his portrait of Charles V at
the Battle of Muhlberg. Duke Guidobaldo della Rovere commissioned a painting from this artist that shows
a woman reclining on her bed, dropping pink flowers from her right hand, while a maid rummages through
a chest in the background. For 10 points, name this Venetian painter of the Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecelli]
BONUS: What other Venetian painter created the Feast in the House of Levi and Wedding at Cana?
ANSWER: Paolo Veronese
080-13-94-06104
2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 3 of 10

5. William Burns led the American representatives at the end of this event, who included Eric Heiden,
Bonnie Blair, and Caitlin Cahow. Other people who represented the U.S. at this event included Rob Nabors
and Janet Napolitano. Barack Obama pointedly did not attend this event, instead sending Caitlin Cahow
and several other openly gay athletes. For 10 points, identify this event which took place from February 7
to February 23 of 2014 in Sochi, Russia.
ANSWER: the Winter Olympics [or the XXII Olympic Winter Games, etc.]
BONUS: The Olympic delegation also included what 1988 gold medalist figure skater, who announced he
was gay after being named to the group?
ANSWER: Brian Boitano [or Brian Anthony Boitano]
019-13-94-06105

6. The only surviving writings of this man are his Commentary on the Phainomena (FYE-no-MEE-nuh) of
Eudoxus and Aratus. Ptolemy's Almagest is a source for much of what we know of this scientist, who may
have invented trigonometry. This ancient scientist used numerical data to measure the Earth's precession
and predict the orbits of the Sun and Moon. For 10 points, name this ancient Greek astronomer who
invented the system for classifying stars by magnitude.
ANSWER: Hipparchus of Nicaea
BONUS: What other thinker from ancient Greece was the first to measure the circumference of the Earth?
ANSWER: Eratosthenes of Cyrene
140-13-94-06106

7. Conspiracy theorists say lookalike James William Boyd was killed instead of this man. This man said
"tell my mother I died for my country" after he was killed by Boston Corbett while hiding in a tobacco
barn. That occurred twelve days after he was treated by Dr. Samuel Mudd. Those injuries came when he
shouted "Sic semper tyrannis!" at Ford's Theater. For 10 points, name this actor who killed Abraham
Lincoln.
ANSWER: John Wilkes Booth
BONUS: What boarding house owner was the first woman executed by the U.S. government, for her
supposed collaboration with Booth?
ANSWER: Mary Surratt
052-13-94-06107

8. Ben Chifley coined this party's slogan "light on the hill." Penny Wong served in two cabinets of this
party, and a leader of this party was removed from power by John Kerr in a constitutional crisis called "the
Dismissal." A member of this party apologized for the Stolen Generations. For 10 points, name this
left-of-center political party whose members include Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard.
ANSWER: Labor Party of Australia [or Australian Labor Party; or ALP; prompt on Labor Party]
BONUS: During the 1975 Constitutional Crisis, John Kerr was serving in what position, which represents
the Queen in Australia, Canada, and thirteen other Commonwealth countries?
ANSWER: Governor-General [do not prompt on partial answers]
048-13-94-06108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 4 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Third Quarter

ITALIAN ART
What term from Italian art refers to...
1. A method of plaster painting with "buon" and "secco" varieties?
ANSWER: fresco
2. A kind of paint made from egg yolks, often used in frescoes?
ANSWER: tempera
3. The first word of the title of a fresco by Ambrogio Lorenzetti depicting Good and Bad Government,
which indicates its content as a coded series of allusions?
ANSWER: allegory
4. An art style with sharp contrasts between light and dark, used by Caravaggio?
ANSWER: chiaroscuro
5. An art movement, popular after World War I, that depicted speed and technology?
ANSWER: Futurism
6. A borderless style named from the Italian word for "smoke" and used in the Mona Lisa?
ANSWER: sfumato
7. A feature that Andrea Mantegna painted on the ceiling of the Camera degli Sposi?
ANSWER: oculus [prompt on hole; prompt on skylight]
8. A kind of humanoid figure, several of which surround that ceiling feature?
ANSWER: putti [or cherubim]
132-13-94-0610-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 5 of 10

TWENTIETH CENTURY NEW YORK
In the post-World War II history of New York City…
1. What complex with Twin Towers featured the world's tallest building until the creation of the Sears
Tower?
ANSWER: World Trade Center [or WTC]
2. What Republican mayor of the 1990s extended his term after the 9/11 attacks?
ANSWER: Rudolph "Rudy" Giuliani
3. What train station under Madison Square Garden had its original location torn down in 1963?
ANSWER: Pennsylvania Station
4. What recreational location was the subject of the highly publicized 1989 rape of a female jogger?
ANSWER: Central Park
5. What team won the "Miracle" 1969 World Series and played home games at Shea Stadium?
ANSWER: New York Mets
6. What President was represented as telling New York to "drop dead" after rejecting a federal bailout?
ANSWER: Gerald Rudolph Ford Jr. [or Leslie Lynch King Jr.]
7. What female author of The Death and Life of Great American Cities opposed urban renewal plans?
ANSWER: Jane Jacobs
8. What urban planner and master builder of New York planned the Verrazano Narrows Bridge and Staten
Island Expressway?
ANSWER: Robert Moses
052-13-94-0610-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 6 of 10

THE HOUSE OF LORDS
The British House of Lords …
1. Last acquired a new non-royal hereditary peerage in 1984, under what Prime Minister?
ANSWER: Margaret Hilda Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Roberts]
2. Attempted to block what "Great" 1832 act overhauling the electoral system?
ANSWER: Great Reform Bill [or First Reform Bill]
3. Was threatened by what king into supporting the act, before he was succeeded by his niece Victoria?
ANSWER: William IV [prompt on William]
4. Lost its judicial functions to what new body in 2005?
ANSWER: Supreme Court of the United Kingdom
5. Lost many of its veto powers when it opposed the "People's Budget" of what Welsh-born PM in 1911?
ANSWER: David Lloyd George [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
6. Was defended against further reform by what right-wing MP who denounced immigrants in the "Rivers
of Blood" speech?
ANSWER: Enoch Powell
7. Is comprised of "Lords Temporal" and what other group, which sits based on holding Church of England
offices?
ANSWER: Lords Spiritual
8. Last provided a Prime Minister who did not resign his noble title in what successor of Disraeli, who
became PM in 1885?
ANSWER: Lord Salisbury [or Marquess of Salisbury; or Robert Arthur Talbot Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd
Marquess of Salisbury]
019-13-94-0610-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 7 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Fourth Quarter

1. A king with this name killed his brother Huehue Zaca for beating his drum too loudly, and a later
person with this name was the father of the wealthy Dona Isabel. According to Bernal Diaz, a ruler
with this name was stoned by his own (+) people after the massacre in the Main Temple. The first
king with this name succeeded (*) Itzcoatl and aligned his empire with Tlacopan and Texcoco. A later
monarch with this name mythically believed a Spaniard was the god Quetzalcoatl. For 10 points, give this
name of two Aztec kings, including one captured by conquistador Hernan Cortes.
ANSWER: Moctezuma [or Montezuma]
052-13-94-06101

2. At a speech in Sweden, this man said Swedish meatballs reminded him of Bjorn Borg before
erroneously claiming Japan had nuclear weapons. This leader released the black box tapes of the
downed Korean Air Lines Flight 007. His vice president, Aleksandr (+) Rutskoy, referred to his
financial "shock therapy" policies as "economic genocide." In 1993, the parliament impeached this
man, but he pushed through a new constitution giving him power to dissolve the (*) Duma. For 10
points, name this man who in 1991 became the first president of the Russian Federation.
ANSWER: Boris Yeltsin
052-13-94-06102

3. Towards the end of this decade, the pitcher's mound was lowered from fifteen to ten inches
following an offensively deprived season in which Bob Gibson had an ERA of 1.12. Near the start of
this decade, the World Series ended at (+) Forbes Field when Bill Mazeroski homered for the Pirates.
This decade also included Mickey Mantle and Roger (*) Maris's joint pursuit of the single-season home
run record, which ended with Maris's 61st homer. For 10 points, identify this decade of baseball history in
which Sandy Koufax threw four no-hitters and the first expansion teams since 1901 were added to the
majors.
ANSWER: the 1960s
019-13-94-06103

4. This man was the Secretary of War who sentenced serial killer Carl Panzram to military prison; in
revenge, Panzram burglarized this man's Connecticut mansion and used a .45 pistol owned by him in
several subsequent murders. This man was the first president of the pacifist League to Enforce
Peace, and he later replaced Edward Douglass (+) White in a post that allowed him to write the
opinions in the Olmstead and Myers (*) cases. He was succeeded by Charles Evans Hughes as Chief
Justice. For 10 points, name this loser of the 1912 election to Woodrow Wilson and successor to Theodore
Roosevelt as President.
ANSWER: William Howard Taft
019-13-94-06104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 8 of 10

5. During this event, John Condon placed an advertisement in the paper saying "Money is Ready.
Jafsie" as part of a fruitless effort to solve it. The police investigating this event were aided by "Wild
Bill" Donovan and H. Norman (+) Schwarzkopf Sr., and a crucial clue for it was pieces of a ladder in
a bush nearby a window. This event, which took place in (*) New Jersey, led to the execution of
carpenter Bruno Hauptmann and the passage of the Federal Kidnapping Act. For 10 points, name this 1932
event in which a famous flier's child was abducted and murdered.
ANSWER: Lindbergh baby kidnapping
052-13-94-06105

6. At one point, this character poses as his own son, a redbearded Australian man. In films, this man
has such sidekicks as Otis and Eve Teschmacher, and his schemes include the creation of (+) Nuclear
Man and an attempt at jacking up real estate prices by sinking California. During his time as
President, he rebuilds an earthquake-shattered Gotham City. In an origin story, this youthful
scientist loses his (*) hair thanks to an accident that he blames on the protector of Smallville. For 10 points,
name this bald villain, the arch-enemy of Superman.
ANSWER: Alexander Joseph "Lex" Luthor [or Alex; or Alexander; or Lex; do not accept "Alexander
Luthor Jr."]
052-13-94-06106

7. On the same site of the Burr/Hamilton duel, this man fought a non-fatal duel with John Heath and
almost fought one against longtime rival Jesse Elliott. During a battle, this man used as his flagship
the (+) Lawrence, which was named for his friend who said "don't give up the ship." After his most
notable victory, he reported to William Henry Harrison that "we have (*) met the enemy and they are
ours." This man's younger brother helped open American trade with Japan and was named Matthew. For 10
points, name this naval hero and victor at the Battle of Lake Erie.
ANSWER: Oliver Hazard Perry [prompt on Perry]
052-13-94-06107

8. This king ordered his son-in-law to quell a revolt in Babylon, which culminated in the destruction
of a statue of Marduk. Construction projects begun by this man include the Gate of all Nations and
the Hall of a Hundred Columns. This king was killed by the commander of his royal bodyguard, (+)
Artabanus. After his first attempt to build two pontoon bridges failed, he ordered the sea to be (*)
whipped three hundred times. His forces were defeated at Plataea, though they won at Thermopylae. For 10
points, name this Persian king who continued the war against the Greeks begun by his father Darius.
ANSWER: Xerxes the Great [or Xerxes I; prompt on Xerxes]
020-13-94-06108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 9 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
This politician reacted to a rumor that he had syphilis by arranging for physicians from twenty-two
insurance companies to inspect him. Embarrassment over the Newport sex scandal led this man to
resign as Assistant Secretary of the (+) Navy. This man gave Al Smith the nickname "Happy
Warrior" at the 1928 Democratic National Convention, This losing Vice-Presidential candidate in (*)
1920 achieved better success in a campaign when he began meeting with the Brain Trust. For 10 points,
name this polio-inflicted politician who served four terms as President.
ANSWER: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
020-13-94-0610-1

BONUS: What ancient kingdom, which Julius Caesar was derisively called the "queen" of, was willed to
Rome on the death of its last king, Nicomedes IV, sparking the Third Mithridatic War when Pontus claimed
it?
ANSWER: Bithynia
019-13-94-0610-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 10 of 10

