2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
First Quarter

6

1. This project's founder said he wished he could have talked to Billy Lucas for just five minutes. Barack
Obama's contribution to this project involved him saying "We've got to dispel this myth that bullying is just
a normal rite of passage." This project was founded shortly after the suicide of a Rutgers student who had
been unwittingly filmed named Tyler Clementi. For 10 points, name this Internet-based project founded by
Dan Savage in which adults attempt to encourage gay teenagers.
ANSWER: It Gets Better
052-12-72-06101

2. Early in its existence, this religious school split into the Jetavana, Abhayagiri, and Mahavihara.
According to this school, all people should try to become a self-enlightened and non-altruistic figure called
an arhat, and this school does not recognize the bodhisattvas. This school's central scripture is the Pali
Canon. For 10 points, name this "Way of the Elders," a major branch of Buddhism prominent in Southeast
Asia and contrasted with the "Great Vehicle," Mahayana.
ANSWER: Theravada [prompt on Buddhism]
014-12-72-06102

3. This image was used in the Constitutional Courant without the permission of its creator, who later drew
an image of Britannia with her limbs cut off. It was compressed to fit into the masthead of the
Massachusetts Spy by Paul Revere, and it was originally published during the French and Indian War. For
10 points, name this political cartoon by Benjamin Franklin depicting a snake cut into several pieces, which
called for unity among the colonies.
ANSWER: Join, or Die
048-12-72-06103

4. This speech described a "lonely island of poverty" in a "vast ocean of material prosperity" and said its
audience came to "cash a check," refusing to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. Its speaker
mentioned a "table of brotherhood," exhorted eight places such as Lookout Mountain to "let freedom ring,"
and ended with a spiritual quote, "Great God a-mighty we are free at last." For 10 points, name this speech
given at the Lincoln Memorial by Martin Luther King, Jr.
ANSWER: Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech
104-12-72-06104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. A laid off waiter named James Parker tried to stop this event. The man responsible for it was found with
a newspaper clipping about (guy-TAH-no BRESH-ee) Gaetano Bresci, the killer of King Umberto I of
Italy. That man was praised by anarchists such as Emma Goldman for this event, which occurred at the
1901 Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, New York. For 10 points, name this event perpetrated by Leon
Czolgosz (CHEWL-gawsh) that led to Theodore Roosevelt becoming president.
ANSWER: assassination of William McKinley [or obvious equivalents such as shooting McKinley]
121-12-72-06105

6. People practiced with these objects in places known as "Butts," earning reprieve from murder charges if
they killed someone accidently. These objects were used with bodkins and swallowtails. Several users of
this weapon arranged in V-formation to devastating effect at the Battle of (pwa-tee-AY) Poitiers. Before
being replaced by matchlock firearms, these weapons, usually made of yew wood, pierced the plate armor
of French knights at battles such as (ah-zhen-COUR) Agincourt. For 10 points, name this weapon that took
more skill to use than a crossbow.
ANSWER: English or Welsh longbows [prompt on bows; prompt on bows and arrows]
020-12-72-06106

7. This king's Wantage Code is credited by some scholars as instituting the first jury. This man's loss to
Olag Trygvasson at the Battle of Maldon was memorialized in a namesake English poem. Coming to power
after the murder of his brother, Edward the Martyr, he ordered the killing of Danes in the St. Brice's Day
Massacre. Sweyn Forkbeard overthrew this father of Edmund Ironsides and Edward the Confessor. For 10
points, name this English king whose mistranslated epithet suggests a lack of preparation.
ANSWER: Aethelred the Unready [or Ethelred II; or Aethelred Unraed; prompt on Aethelred]
192-12-72-06107

8. Prior to this event, one leader fled for Wiley's Tavern. Paul Jennings recounts saving valuables during
this event in his slave memoir. Admiral George Cockburn and General Robert Ross oversaw this sack,
which followed the Battle of Bladensburg. One family was forced to move into John Tayloe's Octagon
House following this event. For 10 points, name this event in which a presidential portrait was saved by
First Lady Dolley Madison as the White House went down.
ANSWER: burning of Washington, District of Columbia [accept equivalent answers such as destruction
of D.C. by the British in 1814; accept burning of the White House before "White House"]
104-12-72-06108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Second Quarter

1. Alexander Lebed ran against this leader after commanding troops for this leader's army. This man
returned the black box from the shot-down Korean Airlines Flight 007. On Yegor Gaidar's advice, his
country abandoned price controls. He gave a speech atop a tank in front of his country's White House
during the August coup, and in a constitutional crisis, he established the State Duma in 1993. For 10 points,
name this first president of an independent Russia.
ANSWER: Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin
BONUS: Yeltsin privatized what national fossil fuel company of Russia, currently chaired by former Prime
Minister Viktor Zubkov?
ANSWER: Gazprom JSC [or Gazprom OAO]
104-12-72-06101

2. This man developed the concepts of prima pratica and seconda pratica in a response to Giovanni Artusi.
During his lifetime, most of this man's work came from writing intermedi for plays like L'idropica. In his
aria "Possente spirto," the work's protagonist lulls his opponent to sleep. Alessandro Striggio wrote the
libretto to that work, whose protagonist cannot save his wife from the underworld but finds her likeness in
the stars. For 10 points, name this seventeenth-century Italian composer of one of the first operas, Orfeo.
ANSWER: Claudio Monteverdi
BONUS: Artusi attacked the dissonance in this type of work composed by Monteverdi. These polyphonic
works were usually unaccompanied voices and, unlike motets, were secular.
ANSWER: madrigals
121-12-72-06102

3. In one myth, this god emerged from an egg laid by a cosmic goose. This god was merged with the ram
Khnum, who may have helped to build this god's Mesektet, one of his two boats. This father of Maat
battled each night against the serpent god Apep. Starting in the Fifth Dynasty, "son of" this god became a
title for pharaohs. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god worshipped at Heliopolis as god of the sun and
creation.
ANSWER: Ra [or Re; or Pra]
BONUS: This falcon-headed god was believed to be reincarnated as pharaohs in the Old Kingdom, with
deceased pharaohs becoming identified with this god's father Osiris.
ANSWER: Horus [or Har; or Heru]
023-12-72-06103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. This man is dressed in a black suit and stands next to an army officer in a picture taken by Gaetano
(fie-LAH-chay) Faillace. During this man's reign, a successful attempt on the life of a former finance
minister led to the discovery of the (IN-oo-ay) Inoue-led League of Blood. An attempt to oust this man was
led by Captain Ando and occurred on February 26th. This man announced his country's unconditional
surrender in his Jewel Voice Broadcast, an act that partially led to him never being tried as a war criminal.
For 10 points, name this Emperor of Japan during World War II.
ANSWER: Michinomiya Hirohito [or Showa]
BONUS: Hirohito accepted the terms of what declaration that laid out the terms for Japanese surrender in
his Jewel Voice Broadcast?
ANSWER: Potsdam Declaration [or Proclamation Defining Terms for Japanese Surrender]
149-12-72-06104

5. In one musical set in this country, the title character admits "Well there never was a hat!" in a song
performed after his mistress leaves him for the baker. That work is Sunday in the Park with George. "The
Music of the Night" is sung to Christine in one musical set here, and in another, Fantine remembers when
"the world was a song, and the song was exciting" in "I Dreamed a Dream." For 10 points, name this
country that is the setting for Phantom of the Opera and Les Miserables.
ANSWER: France
BONUS: Sunday in the Park with George was composed by this man, whose first major work was as the
lyricist for West Side Story. Other musicals by this man include Follies and Sweeney Todd.
ANSWER: Stephen Joshua Sondheim
121-12-72-06105

6. During one of these conflicts, Edmund P. Gaines faced off against a colony of escaped slaves led by
Garson during the Battle of Negro Fort. The second of these conflicts began with the murder of Wiley
Thompson on the same day as the Dade massacre, both of which signified a refusal to abide by the Treaty
of Payne's Landing. That second of these conflicts, which cost the American government $30,000,000, was
a bloody guerrilla war in the swamp lasting from 1835 to 1842. For 10 points, name these wars fought
against a Florida Native American tribe.
ANSWER: Seminole Wars
BONUS: What Seminole leader, captured by a dirty trick of Thomas Jesup, helped spark the Second
Seminole War?
ANSWER: Osceola [or Billy Powell]
080-12-72-06106

7. This man was president when the APLA carried out the Saint James Church massacre. This man's wife,
Marike, was found murdered in 2001. While he was president, a march at the capital's St. George's
Cathedral was led by Mayor Gordon Oliver and Desmond Tutu. Replacing P.W. Botha as president, this
man lifted a ban on the African National Congress. For 10 points, name this last State President of
apartheid-era South Africa, who shared a Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela.
ANSWER: Frederik Willem de Klerk
BONUS: What series of student-led protests in South Africa protested against the use of Afrikaans as a
language in schools and began on June 16, 1976?
ANSWER: Soweto Uprising
052-12-72-06107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. This school's leading scorer is Don MacLean, while another of its players lost the NBA record for most
three-point shots to Ray Allen. Jim Harrick coached them to a championship in 1995, while its
longest-tenured coach took his position after coaching at Minnesota. That coach of this school won seven
straight championships from 1967 to 1973 while coaching Bill Walton and Lew Alcindor. For 10 points,
name this school in the Pac-12, formerly coached by John Wooden, which has won more men's basketball
championships than any other university.
ANSWER: UCLA Bruins [or University of California, Los Angeles Bruins; or UCLA Bruins]
BONUS: Behind John Wooden, this man is tied for second among championships won by college
basketball coaches with Mike Krzyzewski (shu-SHEV-skee). This coach names the arena where the
Kentucky Wildcats play home games.
ANSWER: Adolph Frederick Rupp
192-12-72-06108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Third Quarter

EMANCIPATION WORLDWIDE
In what country, empire, or colony was the end of slavery…
1. Argued for by William Wilberforce in the House of Commons?
ANSWER: England [or United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; or Great Britain; or the UK; or
the British West Indies; prompt on West Indies]
2. Done via the Thirteenth Amendment?
ANSWER: United States of America [or USA; or America]
3. Secured by the Golden Law of king Pedro II?
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]
4. Done by its predecessor state, New Granada, which in turn succeeded its "Gran" ancestor?
ANSWER: Republic of Colombia [or Republica de Colombia]
5. Demanded by the British after this African island's Arab traders lost a 45-minute war?
ANSWER: Zanzibar
6. Cause for the largest importation of Indian laborers to a Caribbean island?
ANSWER: Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
7. Delayed even after the Ten Years' War and the Grito de Yara?
ANSWER: Republic of Cuba [or Republica de Cuba]
8. Only effected in 1981, making this West African country the last to abolish slavery?
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Mauritania [or Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah]
104-12-72-0610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

HISTORY OF SOUTH DAKOTA
Name the…...
1. City that got its name from fur trader Choteau and is now the capital.
ANSWER: Pierre [accept (PEER) or (PEE-air)
2. 1803 transaction that gave control of most of South Dakota to the US.
ANSWER: Louisiana Purchase
3. City that holds an annual Motorcycle Rally in August.
ANSWER: Sturgis
4. 1890 massacre in which many Sioux were killed by US cavalry troops.
ANSWER: Wounded Knee Massacre
5. Indian Reservation in which that 1890 massacre occurred.
ANSWER: Pine Ridge Indian Reservation
6. 1930s agricultural disaster that devastated crops across the Midwest.
ANSWER: Dust Bowl
7. Group whose members Russell Means and Dennis Banks launched a 1973 protest.
ANSWER: AIM [or American Indian Movement]
8. Mountain range home to an 1870s gold rush around French Creek as well as Mount Rushmore.
ANSWER: Black Hills
040-12-72-0610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

1968 IN EUROPE
Name the following people, places, or groups in 1968:
1. French president who left the country in the wake of student protests and wildcat strikes.
ANSWER: Charles De Gaulle
2. City that had its university shut down for a month after marches against Francisco Franco.
ANSWER: Madrid
3. Soviet premier who ordered the invasion of Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Leonid Ilich Brezhnev
4. Country where Wladyslaw Gomulka consolidated power through an anti-Semitic political purge.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]
5. Country where student activist Rudi Dutschke was shot by Josef Bachmann.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; or FRG; or BRD; or West
Germany; or Westdeutschland]
6. Band that released the album A Saucerful of Secrets, the last contributed to by Syd Barrett.
ANSWER: Pink Floyd
7. Only Warsaw Pact country besides Albania to refuse to send troops to Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Romania
8. City that saw student-police fighting in the Battle of (VAH-lay JOO-lee-uh) Valle Giulia.
ANSWER: Rome
121-12-72-0610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Fourth Quarter

1. After four Jews cheated money out of Fulvia, a senator's wife, this emperor banished all the Jews
from Rome. During this emperor's reign, a class of professional informants called delatores began to
flourish. This emperor was (+) smothered to death by Macro. This emperor reassigned his nephew
Germanicus after the latter avenged the Roman loss at the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest. This
emperor allowed the head of his Praetorian Guard, (*) Sejanus, to take over power while he busied
himself with building torture chambers and engaging in pederasty on the island of Capri. For 10 points,
name this Roman emperor who succeeded Augustus.
ANSWER: Tiberius Julius Caesar Augustus
080-12-72-06101

2. The narrator of this work dates a woman named Leslie Lapidus and works creating jacket blurbs
for McGraw-Hill books. Another character turns out to be a schizophrenic and not a cellular
biologist. This novel is narrated by the novelist (+) Stingo, who ultimately discovers that Nathan
Landau and the title character have killed themselves. It is revealed that the title character (*)
sacrificed her daughter Eva instead of her son during their imprisonment in a concentration camp. For 10
points, name this William Styron novel about the terrible decision faced by the title woman.
ANSWER: Sophie's Choice
052-12-72-06102

3. This scientist proposed a "sea of molecular vortices" in which light propagates, beginning the
search for the luminiferous ether. This man discovered that the product of permittivity and
permeability is one over the speed of light squared, which led him to conclude that light was an (+)
electromagnetic wave, a conclusion Marconi would later use to develop the radio. He added a term
proportional to the time rate of change of (*) electric flux, called the displacement current, to Ampere's
Law, which he then grouped with Gauss's Laws and Faraday's Law. For 10 points, name this Scottish
physicist whose four equations describe electromagnetism.
ANSWER: James Clerk Maxwell
190-12-72-06103

4. In the 1960s, attempts were made to control the tidal bores on this river, known as "le mascaret."
This river rises in the Langres plateau, near Dijon, and its tributaries include the (+) Oise and Marne
Rivers. The Pont Neuf was constructed over this river. After flowing past Rouen, this river flows into
the English Channel near the port city of (*) Le Havre. Landmarks located near this river's course
include the Cathedral of Notre-Dame and the La Sainte-Chapelle, constructed by Louis IX. For 10 points,
name this river that flows past the Ile de la Cite in Paris.
ANSWER: Seine River
192-12-72-06104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. Russ Feingold was the only Senator to vote against this law, and a variant was introduced by
Dennis Kucinich and Ron Paul and named for Benjamin Franklin. Jim McDermott claimed no
Senator (+) read this law, which was read aloud by a man driving an ice-cream van around
Washington, D.C. The renewal of this law was promoted during the swearing in of Attorney General
(*) Alberto Gonzales. It was signed into law on October 26, 2001. For 10 points, name this controversial
law signed by George W. Bush ostensibly to prevent domestic terrorism.
ANSWER: USA Patriot Act [or Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001]
052-12-72-06105

6. One of these facilities, bisected by a 10-meter-high curved trench, was ordered by Ulug Beg and
stood next to the madrassa of Samarkand. The bulk of the information in the (+) Rudolphine tables
comes from another of these on the isle of Hven called Uraniborg. A third one in Flagstaff, Arizona,
was sponsored by (*) Percival Lowell, who made sure his initials began the name of a 1930 breakthrough
by its employee Clyde Tombaugh. For 10 points, name this type of facility built in the Baltic Sea by Tycho
Brahe, where a worker might discover Pluto.
ANSWER: observatories [or observatory; do not accept "telescope" at any point]
104-12-72-06106

7. This artist made a hundred prints called the Liber Studiorum to capture various landscapes. One
large object painted by this artist was controlled by Eliab Harvey, who let it be damaged by the (+)
Redoubtable. A work of his where body parts float in water was inspired by an account of the ship
Zong throwing 133 (*) people overboard. In another of his paintings, a sunset appears right of a large
smokestack on a sleek black tugboat, which takes a Napoleonic warship "to her last berth to be broken up."
For 10 points, name this British painter of The Slave Ship and The Fighting Temeraire.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
104-12-72-06107

8. Martin Luther used this phrase in the title of his second of three major pamphlets, in which he
argued the only real sacraments were baptism and the Eucharist. In a letter to a friend, Petrarch
may have first used this term to describe a (+) political regime. Catherine of Siena worked to end that
period, which led to the Western Schism, and during which the (*) French king had undue influence
over the church. For 10 points, name this term for both the period of the Avignon Papacy and another time
period ended by Cyrus the Great, which the Jews spent in exile from their homeland.
ANSWER: Babylonian Captivity [prompt on the Avignon Papacy until "Avignon"]
080-12-72-06108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 6
Extra Questions

This thirty second-long work features a "Lady in Red," who was named Jean Hill. Other figures in it
are the mysterious "Umbrella Man" and Clint Hill, who can be seen running desperately to a (+) car
to protect its occupants. During the grand jury hearing of Clay Shaw, this work was shown by Jim
Garrison for the first time in a public setting. It was created by a manufacturer of women's clothing
who was standing in (*) Dealey Plaza on November 22, 1963. For 10 points, name this motion picture
footage, the most complete film of the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Zapruder film [prompt on JFK shooting film or other such answers]
052-12-72-0610-1

This ruler is depicted moving into Anatolia in a tablet titled Epic of the King of the Battle. That man's
daughter, Enheduanna, wrote hymns such as the "Exaltation of (+) Inanna." Another monarch with
this name conquered Samaria and Israel and led the Neo-Assyrians. The most notable ruler with this
name was a former (*) cupbearer to the king of Kish, who killed that ruler and went on to conquer
Sumeria and the Fertile Crescent. For 10 points, give this name held by the founder of the Dynasty of
Akkad, a ruler known as the "great."
ANSWER: Sargon of Akkad [or Sargon the Great; or Sargon II]
052-12-72-0610-1

During this battle, General Roos and his force were captured after a bloody siege of redoubts. The
Zaporozhian Host was defeated to deny the losing side reinforcements here. Losing at this battle forced a
flight to Bendery by the traitorous Ivan Mazepa. After his forces surrendered soon after this battle, Charles
XII was forced to flee to the Ottoman territory. For 10 points, name this 1709 victory for Peter I’s Russians
over the Swedes in the decisive battle of the Great Northern War.
ANSWER: Battle of Poltava
BONUS: What 1721 treaty was the last peace treaty of the Great Northern War, giving Estonia and Livonia
to Russia?
ANSWER: Treaty of Nystad
052-12-72-0610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

6

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

