2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
First Quarter

15

1. Minor candidates in an election of this year included Francois Raspail and Alphonse de Lamartine,
whose speech opposing Jules Grevy made the election possible. In this year's election, the monarchist
faction abandoned support for (LOO-ee you-ZHEN cah-vine-YAHK) Louis-Eugene Cavaignac in favor of
a candidate who dissolved the presidency three years later. For 10 points, in what year did France elect
Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte as the first and only president of the Second Republic in the wake of
revolutions across Europe?
ANSWER: French presidential election of 1848
003-12-72-15101

2. One theory claims that the deaths of these figures were part of a plan by Henry Stafford to foment
rebellion. Under torture, James Tyrrell confessed to eliminating these figures. One of them was later
impersonated by Perkin Warbeck. These two people were the sons of Elizabeth Woodville, while their
older sister married Henry VII to reinforce his hold on the throne. For 10 points, give the term for these
sons of Edward IV, who were imprisoned and perhaps murdered by Richard III.
ANSWER: Princes in the Tower [or Edward V and Richard of Shrewsbury]
052-12-72-15102

3. Images in this poem include a “hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin” and the “ecstasy of fumbling.”
This poem was written as a criticism of Jessie Pope and others who perpetrated “the Old Lie.” This poem
describes a soldiers “drowning” “as under a green sea,” as the speaker watches from behind a gas mask.
For 10 points, name this Wilfred Owen World War I poem, which takes its title from Horace.
ANSWER: "Dulce et decorum est"
191-12-72-15103

4. A 1930 book about this system was published by Quincy Wright. This system was first proposed in a Jan
Smuts pamphlet, who compared its subjects to an inheritance and divided them into classes A, B and C.
This system was established by Article 22 of the Covenant of a certain body. This system was replaced by
the United Nations trusteeship system. For 10 points, identify this system in which the League of Nations
reallocated former German and Turkish colonies to its members.
ANSWER: League of Nations mandate system
066-12-72-15104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 1 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. This city was founded by a ruler of the Ectenes named (oh-GUY-jeez) Ogyges. Cassander had to rebuild
this city after it was destroyed by Alexander the Great. This city's power declined after its Pyrrhic victory at
the Battle of Mantineia, which resulted in the death of its commander, Epaminondas. This city defeated the
Spartans at the Battle of Leuctra after reforming its Boeotian (bee-OH-shun) League. For 10 points, name
this Greek city-state whose army included the elite Sacred Band.
ANSWER: Thebes [or Thiva]
023-12-72-15105

6. A leader of a marronage band from this colony was Makandal. A revolution in this colony was sparked
by a ceremony at Bois-Caimen that was led by Boukman. That aforementioned ceremony led Pat
Robertson to claim that inhabitants of this colony had sworn a pact with the devil. Grand blancs in this
colony were white plantation owners. This colony became the world’s largest sugar exporter after Spain
gave it to France. For 10 points, Toussaint L’Ouverture liberated what French colony located on
Hispanola?
ANSWER: Haiti [or Saint-Domingue]
149-12-72-15106

7. Many who held this title, though not the ex-slave Sakoura, claimed legitimacy by descent from the first
muezzin, Bilal. The man with this title could own gold nuggets, while his subjects could only have gold
dust. The first holder of this title won it by defeating the witch-king Sumanguru at the Battle of Kirina.
Another man with this title wrecked the gold market in Cairo by lavishly spending during his pilgrimage to
Mecca. For 10 points, name this title given to rulers of the Mali Empire, such as Sundiata and Musa.
ANSWER: mansa of the Mali Empire [accept emperor of Mali or king of Mali until "Mali" is read]
080-12-72-15107

8. Local orders of this group were called Kommendes and were led by Komturs. Members of this group
lost to King Jogaila and Grand Duke Vytautas, who led Polish-Lithuanian forces, at the Battle of Grunwald.
Idolized in Nazi propaganda, its Protestant branch is known as the Order of Saint John. Although they are
not the Knights Hospitaller, this group is led by a Grand Master and was established to protect pilgrims on
their way to the Holy Land. For 10 points, name this Germanic religious military order.
ANSWER: Teutonic Knights [Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem; or
Teutonic Order]
149-12-72-15108

9. This man refused to yield authority to Richard Ingoldsby. On the order of Henry Sloughter, he was
executed along with his son-in-law, Jacob Milborne. He declared himself lieutenant governor after
expelling Francis Nicholson, who had supported Edmund Andros in the Dominion of New England. For 10
points, name this German-born colonist who led a namesake rebellion against the English government in
New York at the time of the Glorious Revolution.
ANSWER: Jacob Leisler
014-12-72-15109

10. This leader was said to have coined the phrase "money does not stink" in reference to a urine tax he
implemented. This leader was the patron of a historian captured at the Siege of Yodfat during the First
Jewish-Roman War named Flavius Josephus. This leader's rival was killed at the Battle of Bedriacum,
paving the way for his ascension. Following Galba, Otho, and Vitellius's brief reigns, for 10 points, identify
this Roman emperor, the last in the Year of the Four Emperors.
ANSWER: Caesar Vespasianus Augustus [or Titus Flavius Vespasianus]
126-12-72-15110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 2 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Second Quarter

1. This man is credited with coining the term “planned economy.” He negotiated the release of fifteen
airmen captured by the Chinese during the Korean War. The Soviet Union demanded this man’s
resignation and proposed that his position be replaced with a three-person troika. He died prior to a
scheduled conference with Moise Tshombe. For 10 points, name this Swedish economist who served as the
second secretary general of the United Nations and who died in a 1961 plane crash while trying to mediate
the Congo crisis.
ANSWER: Dag Hammarskjöld
BONUS: What former secretary general of the United Nations was elected president of Austria in 1986
despite evidence that he had served in a German army unit that engaged in atrocities during World War II?
ANSWER: Kurt Waldheim
030-12-72-15101

2. During the "Great Darkness," a leader of this region had orphans falsely classified as "mentally ill" and
sent to asylums in order to obtain federal funding for their care. The slogans "things have to change" and
"masters of our own house" brought about the election of Jean Lesage, who led this place through the
"Quiet Revolution." This region's Labor Minister, Pierre Laporte, was murdered by a terrorist group here
whose actions occasioned the remark, "Just watch me." The October Crisis was caused by the FLQ, a
movement from, for 10 points, what French-speaking province of Canada?
ANSWER: Quebec
BONUS: Shortly after the 1995 referendum, Andre Dallaire attempted to assassinate this sitting Canadian
Prime Minister, a Quebec Liberal.
ANSWER: Joseph Jacques Jean Chretien
153-12-72-15102

3. In a non-canonical Gospel, this figure has a vision of his companions stoning him. Harvey Keitel
portrayed this figure in Martin Scorsese’s The Last Temptation of Christ. In Acts, this figure buys a field in
which he bursts open and his bowels fall out, and the spot of his death is known as the “place of blood.”
This figure kisses his master in the Garden of Gethsemane after accepting a bribe of thirty pieces of silver.
For 10 points, name this Apostle, the betrayer of Jesus.
ANSWER: Judas Iscariot
BONUS: After his betrayal by Judas, Jesus was led before what antagonistic High Priest of the Jews?
ANSWER: Caiaphas
014-12-72-15103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 3 of 12 © HSAPQ

4. Ranulf de Glanvill captured the occupant of this position and forced him to pledge fealty in the Treaty of
Falaise. Fourteen nobles called "the competitors" claimed this position after the death of the Maid of
Norway, and their claims to this position were adjudicated in the Great Cause. Another man in this position
had his legitimacy confirmed in a letter sent to Pope John XXII, the Declaration of Arbroath. That man was
inspired after seeing a spider spinning its web in a cave. For 10 points, name this position held by Robert
Bruce, the ruler of a country now in the UK.
ANSWER: King of Scotland [or King of Scots]
BONUS: The first Scottish interregnum ended with this selection of this ruler nicknamed "Toom Tabard"
to succeed Margaret the Maid of Norway.
ANSWER: John Balliol [accept Toom Tabard before mention]
153-12-72-15104

5. The leader of this region had the reign title of Kangde. The northern border of this state was the bone of
contention in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol. It was created following actions by the Kwantung Army that were
not approved by the civilian authorities under Prime Minister Reijiro. This state was established following
the Mukden Incident and was a member of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. The figurehead
leader of this state was the former emperor Henry Puyi. For 10 points, name this puppet state created by
Japan in 1932 in northeastern China.
ANSWER: Manchukuo [or Manzhouguo; prompt on "Manchuria"]
BONUS: What incident that led to the Second Sino-Japanese War was named for a landmark that itself was
named for a European explorer?
ANSWER: Marco Polo Bridge Incident [or Lugouqiao Incident]
030-12-72-15105

6. The finale of the 26th one of these works opens in B-flat in 6/8 time before moving to G flat major and
then to F major; that movement is called "The Return." Two of these works are titled "Waldstein" and "Les
Adieux," and the 23rd one of them, dedicated to Franz von Brunswick, is titled “Appassionata.” The 14th
one, dedicated to Giuletta Giucciardi, is subtitled "quasi una fantasia" and its name was inspired by Lake
Lucerne. For 10 points, identify these works by a certain composer for a particular instrument, which
include the "Pathetique" and "Moonlight" ones.
ANSWER: piano sonatas of Ludwig van Beethoven [prompt on partial answer]
BONUS: This difficult piano sonata, Beehoven's Opus 106, has a final movement marked Allegro risoluto.
Its name is derived from the German word for piano.
ANSWER: "Hammerklavier" Sonata [or Piano Sonata No. 29 in B-flat]
189-12-72-15106

7. In Adarand Constructors v. Pena, the Supreme Court ruled that these programs were unconstitutional
unless they fullfill a compelling government interest. Proposition 209 greatly curtailed these programs in
California. A predetermined point allocation type of one of these programs was struck down in Gratz v.
Bollinger, and Grutter v. Bollinger upheld these programs. For 10 points, Regents of the University of
California v. Bakke dealt with what type of government program to improve employment and educational
opportunities for women and minority groups.
ANSWER: Affirmative Action
BONUS: What university’s affirmative action programs for undergraduate and law school admissions were
ruled upon in the cases of Gratz v. Bollinger and Grutter v. Bollinger?
ANSWER: University of Michigan
030-12-72-15107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 4 of 12 © HSAPQ

8. The most famous object associated with this stronghold was made by Mary Pickersgill. The HMS
Erebus fired Congreve rockets at this fortification. It was bombarded by the British over a period of 25
hours in the War of 1812, during the Battle of Baltimore. The morning after that bombardment, an oversize
flag was raised above this fortification. For 10 points, identify this star-shaped fort, whose defense inspired
Francis Scott Key to pen what would become the "The Star-Spangled Banner."
ANSWER: Fort McHenry
BONUS: The bombardment of Fort McHenry also saw heavy use of this incendiary shell with three to five
openings by the HMS Volcano
ANSWER: carcass shell
066-12-72-15108

9. This artist was the first since antiquity to use cast shadows. In the central part of a painting by this artist,
a baby Jesus holds grapes and is surrounded by four angels; that painting is his Madonna and Child with
Angels, which was the centerpiece of his Pisa Altarpiece. This artist collaborated with Masolino da Panicale
on many occasions, and helped introduced perspective to Renaissance art, which he moved past the
International Gothic style. For 10 points, name this artist of The Tribute Money who decorated the
Brancacci Chapel.
ANSWER: Masaccio [or Tommaso Cassai]
BONUS: In this artist's Lives of the Most Eminent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects, he considers
Massacio the exemplar of the "period of adolescence."
ANSWER: Giorgio Vasari
066-12-72-15109

10. In one of this film’s scenes, a truck driver asks “Are you taking him in there sir?” before the
protagonist, dressed in all white, states “We’re thirsty” to an officer. This film was based on the life of the
author of Seven Pillars of Wisdom. This movie contains the Raid on Aqaba, which is led by the title
character. Alec Guinness played Prince Feisal in this David Lean directed film. For 10 points, in what
movie did Peter O’Toole play the title British officer who helped the Arab Revolt during World War I?
ANSWER: Lawrence of Arabia
BONUS: David, an android, watches a scene from Lawrence of Arabia in this 2012 Ridley Scott-directed
film.
ANSWER: Prometheus
149-12-72-15110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 5 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Third Quarter

RAILROADS
Identify...
1. ...the shell corporation for which Oakes Ames sold congressmen stocks and bonds.
ANSWER: Crédit Mobilier of America
2. ...the railroad company that created Crédit Mobilier and with the Central Pacific built the first
transcontinental railroad.
ANSWER: Union Pacific Railroad
3. ...the first common carrier line in the U.S., built to compete with the Erie Canal.
ANSWER: Baltimore and Ohio Railroad [or B & O]
4. … the Frank Norris novel about Californian wheat farmers battling the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad.
ANSWER: The Octopus
5. … the federal commission created to regulate railroads in 1887.
ANSWER: Interstate Commerce Commission [or ICC]
6. … the founder of the American Railway Union and Socialist candidate who supported the Pullman Strike.
ANSWER: Eugene Victor Debs
7. … the industrialist nicknamed “Commodore” who built Grand Central Depot.
ANSWER: Cornelius Vanderbilt
8. … the Supreme Court case that limited Illinois's ability to regulate railroads, leading to the Interstate
Commerce Act.
ANSWER: Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company v. Illinois
121-12-72-1510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 6 of 12 © HSAPQ

CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS
What Civil Rights leader in the United States...
1...was assassinated by James Earl Ray in 1968?
ANSWER: Martin Luther King, Jr.
2. ...founded the Rainbow Coalition and ran for president twice in the 80's?
ANSWER: Jesse Jackson
3. ...popularized the slogan (see seh PWEH-deh) "Si, se puede" and helped found the United Farm
Workers?
ANSWER: Cesar Chavez
4. ...led the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee and was closely associated with the Black
Panthers?
ANSWER: Stokely Carmichael [or Kwame Ture]
5. ...led the Brotherhood of the Sleeping Car Porters and planned the March on Washington?
ANSWER: Asa Philip Randolph
6. ...campaigned for James Meredith to be admitted to the University of Mississippi before being shot by
Byron de la Beckwith?
ANSWER: Medgar Evers
7. ...negotiated the end of the 1948 Palestine war?
ANSWER: Ralph Bunche
8. ...led the Poor People's Campaign as second head of the SCLC?
ANSWER: Ralph Abernathy
080-12-72-1510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 7 of 12 © HSAPQ

THE REIGN OF TERROR
Answer the following related to the Reign of Terror in France, for 10 points each.
1. "Incorruptible" tyrant who ordered a number of executions
ANSWER: Maximilien de Robespierre
2. Governmental body that ruled France during the Terror
ANSWER: the Committee of Public Safety
3. Radical faction that implemented the Terror, particularly against the rival Girondins
ANSWER: Jacobins [or the Jacobin club; or the Montagnards; or the Mountain]
4. City where Jean-Baptiste Carrier carried out mass drownings, also the site of an edict of religious
toleration for Huguenots
ANSWER: Nantes
5. Action named for a month of the Revolutionary Calendar that ended the Terror
ANSWER: the Thermidorian Reaction
6. Deist cult promoted during the Terror as the state religion
ANSWER: the Cult of the Supreme Being [or Culte de l'Être Suprême]
7. Paranoid law that allowed the arrest of anyone thought to be an "enemy of liberty"
ANSWER: the Law of Suspects [or Loi de Suspects]
8. Founder of the Cordeliers Club and French Revolutionary who was executed during the terror
ANSWER: Georges Danton
080-12-72-1510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 8 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Fourth Quarter

1. This criminal changed his last name after four gangsters slit his throat, stabbed him with an ice
pick, and left him for dead on the beach. This man took flak for forging an alliance with the Jewish
Meyer Lansky. This man struck a deal with (+) Salvatore Maranzano and had his boss Joe Masseria
killed, ending the (cah-STELL-eh-mah-RAY-zay) Castellammarese War. Thomas Dewey sent this
man to prison on questionably-evidenced claims that he was running a massive prostitution ring.
After taking over, he abolished the position of (*) capo di tutti capi and established "the Commission" as
the governing body for organized crime. For 10 points, name this Italian-American gangster nicknamed
"Lucky."
ANSWER: Salvatore "Lucky" Luciano [or Salvatore Lucania]
080-12-72-15101

2. One writer with this surname studied the Kitab al-manazir of Alhazen in order to write the optics
section of his Opus Majus. That scientist was known as (+) Doctor Mirabilis and shared his name
with a later thinker, who identified the tribe, marketplace, cave, and theatre as the “four (*)idols of
the mind” preventing understanding. The later man of this name explained "gradual ascent," his name for
inductive reasoning, in his Novum Organum. For 10 points, give this common surname of two philosophers
regarded as discoverers of the scientific method, Roger and Francis.
ANSWER: Bacon
019-12-72-15102

3. Xavier Bichat argued that this theory required two additional fundamental forces, sensibility and
contractility. Carl Driesch sought to prove this theory by chopping up sea urchin embryos. Louis
Pasteur embraced this theory after his studies of fermentation. Formalized by (+) Jakob Berzelius,
this theory took a hit with Adolph Kolbe's synthesis of acetic acid, 22 years after being dealt a major
blow by (*) Friedrich Wohler's synthesis of urea. For 10 points, name this debunked scientific theory
according to which organic materials possessed a special life force.
ANSWER: vitalism
080-12-72-15103

4. During the Second World War, this body of water was the site of Operation Cerberus, in which the
German ships (prinz OY-gen) Prinz Eugen, Scharnhorst, and Gneisenau made a (+) “dash” through
it. One strategist said, “Let the last man on the right brush [this body of water] with his sleeve” in his
(SHLEE-fen) Schlieffen Plan. The islands of (*) Sark, Guernsey and Jersey in this body of water were
the only Nazi-occupied parts of the United Kingdom. For 10 points, name this body of water crossed during
Operation Neptune during the 1944 invasion of Normandy.
ANSWER: English Channel [or La Manche; prompt on Channel]
153-12-72-15104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 9 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. This player was coached by Tim Gullikson, and, after Gullikson's death, Paul Annacone. This man
lost on Court Two at Wimbledon in 2002 to George Bastl, leading that court to be dubbed the
Graveyard of Champions. He won his final professional match that year in the (+) US Open final
over his longtime rival. This player, known for his jumping overhead smash and powerful serve, won
(*) fourteen Grand Slams, second only to Roger Federer in the Open Era. For 10 points, name this rival of
Andre Agassi, an American tennis player nicknamed "Pistol Pete."
ANSWER: Pete Sampras
190-12-72-15105

6. The SAARC grew from the efforts of this country's president Zia ur-Rahman, who was
assassinated in 1981. This country has been led by the (+) Awami League's Sheikh Hasina and her
father, Sheikh Mujib. This country seceded from another country after it won the Liberation War,
which occurred a year after it was hit by the (*) Bhola cyclone. Both of those events in this country led
in 1971 to George Harrison and Ravi Shankar organizing the "Concert for" this country. For 10 points,
name this Asian country that once was named East Pakistan and sits to India's east.
ANSWER: People's Republic of Bangladesh [or Gana Prajatantri Bangladesh]
023-12-72-15106

7. A particularly poetic passage in this speech rhymes the phrases "Fervently do we pray" and "may
speedily pass away." This speech declares that "the judgments of the lord are true and righteous
altogether," even if "every drop of blood drawn with the (+) lash, shall be paid by another drawn
with the sword." It was delivered shortly after the speaker's drunk vice president forgot Gideon
Welles' name during a humiliating public address. Called "a sacred effort" by Frederick (*)
Douglass, this speech ends with an appeal to "bind up the nation's wounds" "with malice towards none;
with charity for all." For 10 points, name this speech delivered by the 16th President, who subsequently
took the oath of office.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln's Second Inaugural Address
080-12-72-15107

8. During this war, Sequin captured the daughters of Abraham Swain in an attack on Wethersfield,
and Lieutenant Lion Gardiner's men were ambushed while clearing foliage outside of Fort Saybrook.
Incidents leading to this war include the murder of a drunken pirate named (+) John Stone and the
killing of John Oldham on Block Island. During this conflict, John Mason and a Mohegan named
Uncas led an expedition that set fire to an enemy village, killing 700 in the (*) Mystic River Massacre.
This war ended with the Treaty of Hartford and took place in Connecticut. For 10 points, name this
conflict, lasting from 1634-1638, that pitted the Massachussetts Bay and Plymouth colonies against a
namesake Native American tribe.
ANSWER: Pequot War
080-12-72-15108

9. A ship of this name was termed "The ship that dogged [Napoleon's] steps for more than twenty
years" and was the site of Napoleon's surrender after the Battle of Waterloo. The wife of Proteus, (+)
Stheneboea, ordered this man to be killed after he would not be seduced by her. This figure defeated
a monster that had devastated (*) Lycia and that had the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of
a dragon. For 10 points, name this hero from Greek mythology who used a bridle he received from Athena
to tame Pegasus and who slew the Chimera.
ANSWER: Bellerophon [or HMS Bellerophon]
030-12-72-15109

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 10 of 12 © HSAPQ

10. Two answers required. One of these countries burnt the other's fleet in Holmes' Bonfire, while
the other launched the Raid on the Medway as vengeance. A political upheaval in one of these
countries was officially supported by the other via the Treaty of (+) Nonsuch. Spain fought both these
countries, dispatching the Duke of Alva to govern one and the Duke of (*) Medina-Sidonia against
another. During the second of their three 17th-century wars, one of these countries lost the modern colony
of New York to the other. For 10 points, name these two countries where William III, husband of Mary,
held political power.
ANSWER: England and the Netherlands [or Great Britain and the United Provinces; accept Holland for
the Netherlands too, we're not pedants]
020-12-72-15110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 11 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Extra Questions

This man rose to prominence by gathering a crowd of 4000 protesters outside a police station to force
the police to call an ambulance for Johnson Hinton. In a speech in Cleveland's Cory Methodist
Church, this man remarked that, regardless of socioeconomic status, "you're going to catch hell just
like I am," and he stated that a certain (+) political object is to be kept in one's pocket if a target is
not within reach. Formerly known as (*) "Detroit Red," this man delivered the "Ballot or the Bullet"
speech. This man was ultimately assassinated in the Audubon Ballroom after his split with the Nation of
Islam. For 10 points, identify this Muslim member of the Civil Rights Movement often contrasted with
Martin Luther King.
ANSWER: Malcolm X [or El-Hajj Malik El Shabazz; or Malcolm Little]
189-12-72-1510-1

One member of this group was decried for participating in an event where couples showed up at a
museum hall and had sex next to a taxidermy display case with a stuffed bear. In misguided
solidarity with this group, a sculpture of (+) Christ on the cross was destroyed with a chainsaw by a
member of FEMEN. For their most famous act, they used the melody from Rachmaninov's All Night
Vigil, alluded to the (*) feces of the Lord, and urged the Virgin Mary to drive a certain leader away, all
while in an Orthodox Church. For 10 points, name this feminist group that was arrested for the Punk Prayer
Incident in protest of Vladimir Putin.
ANSWER: Pussy Riot
020-12-72-1510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 12 of 12 © HSAPQ

