2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
First Quarter

11

1. This man is the hero of the Ballad of Chevy Chase, which commemorates his defeat of the Scots under
James Douglas at the Battle of Otterburn. This man's father was the first Earl of Northumberland, who
supported the overthrow of Richard II. He was slain leading the losing side's forces at the Battle of
Shrewsbury after joining the rebellion of Owain Glendower. In a Shakespeare play, he is used as a foil to a
boy of he same age, Prince Hal. For 10 points, name this English knight slain in a rebellion against Henry
IV.
ANSWER: Henry "Hotspur" Percy [or Hotspur]
080-12-72-11101

2. This end of this period was marked by the Declaration of Sitges, which created a coalition government.
That declaration was signed by party leaders Alberto Lleras Camargo and Laureano Gomez, who had tried
to establish a fascist government seven years earlier. This period began with mass rioting after the 1948
assassination of the Liberal leader Jorge Eliecer Gaitan in downtown Bogota. For 10 points, name this
bloody period of civil war in Colombia.
ANSWER: La Violencia
014-12-72-11102

3. The openly pro-Nazi Silver Shirts were briefly active in this country, before being disbanded by police
when this country joined the Allies in World War II. Other Nazi-sympathizing groups in this country
included the Mothers' Movement, whose leaders were among those charged in the Great Sedition Trial of
1944, and a group of German immigrants to this country known as the Bund, which had a rally of twenty
thousand people at a sports arena in this country's largest city in 1939. For 10 points, name this country
whose most prominent pro-Nazi organization was named for putting this country "First" and was led by
men such as Charles Lindbergh.
ANSWER: United States of America [or USA; or America]
019-12-72-11103

4. One figure involved in this period assembled his forces at Tushino, from which that man besieged the
troops of Vasily Shuysky. Sigismund III of Poland tried to get his son Wladyslaw on the throne during this
period, during which a series of False Dmitris appeared. The deaths of Feodor I and his successor, Boris
Godunov, caused this period. For 10 points, name this unstable period after Rurikid rule in Russia, which
was ended in 1613 by the election of Michael Romanov.
ANSWER: Time of Troubles [or Smutnoye Vremya]
023-12-72-11104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 1 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. An offshoot of this movement was begun partly in Cane Ridge, Kentucky and was led by Alexander
Campbell and Barton Stone. This period saw the emergence of a group led by William Miller and the
creation of a “burned-over district” in New York due to Charles Finney. Seeing a rapid rise in the
membership of Baptist and Methodist churches, for 10 points, name this period of religious revival in the
United States, that took place after a similar movement in the 1730s.
ANSWER: Second Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening]
201-12-72-11105

6. Ancient river beds in this desert are called omuramba, many of which would have flowed into Lake
Makgadikgadi. After the Battle of Waterberg, Lothar von Trotha forced many Herero into the Omaheke
region, which is covered by this desert. Known as “dorsland” or “thirst land” in Afrikaans, this desert is
home to a swamp formed by the Okavango delta. Part of this desert, in which Bushmen can be found,
borders the Namib desert. For 10 points, name this large semi-arid savannah that spans Botswana, Namibia
and South Africa.
ANSWER: Kalahari desert
149-12-72-11106

7. In Spain, this substance was the primary export of merchants in the Mesta. Special treatment of this
substance could be used to make "worsted," named for the town of Worstead. Fullers treated this substance
with tenterhooks and tubs full of urine. In Florence, workers of this substance who lacked a guild launched
the (CHOM-pee) Ciompi Revolt. This substance was England's main export by the end of the seventeenth
century, at which time it had surpassed Flanders. For 10 points, name this substance sheared from sheep.
ANSWER: wool
080-12-72-11107

8. This empire was raided by warriors called jagas, and European powers attacked them using the
Imbangala warrior tribe to this empire’s south. Nzinga a Nkuwu and Mvemba a Nzinga were nobles in this
kingdom, which traded slaves to the island of Sao Tome. Its people converted to Catholicism under its ruler
Afonso I after contact with the Portuguese. For 10 points, name this southern African kingdom later
colonized by Portugal, on the west side of a namesake river.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Kongo
104-12-72-11108

9. The deliverer of this speech admits that he has taken Theodore Roosevelt's words about "the man in the
arena" to heart. It admits the necessity of building stronger bonds with the "100 million people in Arab
countries" who "now look on us as friends." It reflects on such achievements as "end[ing] America's
longest war" and "unlocking the doors... between the United States and the People's Republic of China."
Nine months before this speech, its speaker said "I'm not a crook." For 10 points, name this last speech by
Nixon.
ANSWER: Nixon's resignation speech [just resignation speech needed after Nixon is mentioned; prompt
on Nixon's last speech]
020-12-72-11109

10. A movie named for one of these places ends with Animal suggesting Price “just wanted to steal our
wire cutters.” The title location of Slaughterhouse-Five serves as one of these for Billy Pilgrim and his
colleagues. Hogan's Heroes is set in one of these locations run by Colonel Klink. The Richard
Attenborough played Roger Bartlett tries to organize an exit from one of them in the movie The Great
Escape. For 10 points, name these institutions that held captured Allied forces.
ANSWER: stalags [or German prisoner-of-war camps; or German POW camps; do not accept
“concentration camps”]
121-12-72-11110
2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 2 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Second Quarter

1. During this battle, a foraging party led by Banastre Tarleton encountered Lazun’s Legion and John
Mercer’s battalion. A diagonal column of smoke is in the background of a John Trumbull painting
depicting the aftermath of this battle. French troops at this battle were led by Comte de Rochambeau, who
was aided by the Marquis de Lafayette. This battle led to the signing of the Treaty of Paris. For 10 points,
Lord Cornwallis lost to George Washington at what last major battle of the American Revolutionary War?
ANSWER: Battle of Yorktown [or Siege of Yorktwon]
BONUS: Ships led by Comte de Grasse stopped Thomas Graves’ fleet from relieving Cornwallis at a battle
named for what large Virginian bay?
ANSWER: Battle of the Chesapeake
149-12-72-11101

2. This man’s financial troubles were not solved by his marriage to Countess Anne of Egmond-Buren.
Along with such future opponents as Antoine Perrenot de Granvelle, this leader negotiated the Treaty of
Cateau-Cambresis. Ultimately assassinated by Balthasar Gerard, this leader allied with his brother Count
Louis of Nassau in an uprising challenging the authority of the Duke of Alba. For 10 points, name this man
who led the Dutch revolt against Spain.
ANSWER: William the Silent [or William I; prompt on William; prompt on William of Orange]
BONUS: What duke was appointed governor-general of the Netherlands in 1578 and campaigned
successfully against the Dutch rebels?
ANSWER: Duke of Parma [or Alessandro Farnese]
014-12-72-11102

3. This period saw the practice of emperors abdicating the throne but maintaining power through a cloister
government, or insei, such as was done by Shirakawa. This period was dominated by the Fujiwara clan.
This period ended with fighting between the Minamoto and Taira clans in the Genpei War, which led to the
establishment of the Kamakura shogunate. For 10 points, name this period in Japanese history in which the
capital moved to Kyoto and art and literature flourished, and which followed the Nara period.
ANSWER: Heian period
BONUS: This Heian-period author wrote The Tale of Genji and served as a court lady to the empress
Jotomonin.
ANSWER: Murasaki Shikibu
023-12-72-11103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 3 of 12 © HSAPQ

4. This man’s seventh symphony is parodied in the fourth section of Bartok’s Concerto for Orchestra. That
symphony by this man quotes Lehar’s “You’ll Find me at the Maxim.” An opera by this man was based
on a work by Nikolay Leskov and is about Katherina Izmailova. Both of this man’s cello concertos were
premiered by Mstislav Rostropovich. He is most famous for his symphony that contains an “invasion
theme” and that is about a German siege during World War II. For 10 points, name this Soviet composer
behind the Leningrad Symphony.
ANSWER: Dmitri Shostakovich
BONUS: Shostakovich’s symphony of what number was subtitled a “response to justified criticism,” while
Beethoven’s contains a distinct “short-short-short-long” motif?
ANSWER: Symphony no. 5
149-12-72-11104

5. This compound was originally developed as a derivative of atoxyl by Sahachiro Hata, and a neo- version
of this compound differs from it by the addition of a methyl sulfoxide group. The monomer of this
substance contains an aminated phenol ring attached to an arsenic atom. Originally known as compound
606, this substance was developed to treat syphilis. For 10 points, name this early chemotherapeutic agent
developed by Paul Ehrlich.
ANSWER: Salvarsan [or arsphenamine or the magic bullet or compound 606 before mention]
BONUS: Paul Ehrlich also developed an antiserum against this disease, an outbreak of which in Alaska
prompted the heroics of Balto.
ANSWER: diphtheria [accept (dif-THEER-ee-uh) or (dip-THEER-ee-uh)]
048-12-72-11105

6. Carter Harrison was present at the peaceful gathering that preceded this event. In 1893, John Peter
Altgeld pardoned the surviving men who had been convicted as conspirators in this event. There had
originally been eight of those convicted conspirators, including August Spies. This event marked the
decline of the Knights of Labor, who were blamed for it. This event was precipitated by an unknown
demonstrator throwing a bomb at police. For 10 points, identify this riot that took place in a Chicago
square.
ANSWER: Haymarket Square riot [accept "affair" or "massacre" in place of "riot"]
BONUS: The demonstrators at the Haymarket Square rally were advocating for this length work day.
ANSWER: eight-hour work day
066-12-72-11106

7. As this novel opens, its main character presents his identification papers to an illiterate man, right before
he meets a gypsy named Rafael who spends his time capturing rabbits. In this work, the leader El Sordo is
beheaded, while another character works under the orders of General Golz. An elderly man named
Anselmo is killed towards its end. The protagonist of this work romances Maria and works with Pilar, the
wife of rebel leader Pablo. For 10 points, name this novel by Ernest Hemingway about Robert Jordan, who
blows up a bridge during the Spanish Civil War.
ANSWER: For Whom the Bell Tolls
BONUS: The title For Whom the Bell Tolls comes from this English poet's "Meditation XVII," which also
features the quote "no man is an island."
ANSWER: John Donne
192-12-72-11107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 4 of 12 © HSAPQ

8. A bejeweled sword was mishandled at this meeting by Marshal Voroshilov. An assassination plot at this
meeting was foiled, in part, by the work of Gevork Vartanian and was called Operation Long Jump. This
meeting resulted in the official recognition of the Yugoslav Partisans. This conference featured the
Tripartite Dinner meeting, the first of its kind as it was the first meeting to include Stalin, Churchill and
Roosevelt. For 10 points, identify this conference held at the Soviet embassy in the capital of Iran.
ANSWER: Tehran Conference [or Eureka]
BONUS: The Tehran Conference set a date of May 1944 for what operation that commenced with the
Normandy landings on D-Day?
ANSWER: Operation Overlord [prompt on Operation Neptune]
066-12-72-11108

9. This ruler consecrated his sister as Diva Drusilla, and he executed Naevius Sutorius Macro, the leader of
the Praetorian Guard who helped him to the throne. He was assassinated by Cornelius Sabinus and Cassius
Chaerea at the Palatine Games. He ordered the construction of a bridge of boats over the Bay of Naples,
and he ordered his soldiers to collect seashells as a substitute for invading Britain. For 10 points, name this
notably crazed Roman emperor who succeeded Tiberius.
ANSWER: Caligula
BONUS: Caligula famously appointed what horse of his to the Senate?
ANSWER: Incitatus
014-12-72-11109

10. People who assisted one of these figures could be known by the terms armiger or (eh-coo-YARE)
ecuyer. A young person in service to one of these figures was a (duh-mwah-SO) damoiseau. A person
became one of these figures through a ceremony called the accolade, which often involved that person's
shoulder being touched by the flat of a blade, also known as dubbing. For 10 points, name this title that
originally was held by horse-riding warriors in the Middle Ages and now allows someone to put Sir before
their name.
ANSWER: knights [accept word forms]
BONUS: A boy expecting to become a knight would often serve in this lowest role for about seven years
before becoming a squire and then a knight.
ANSWER: pages [accept word forms]
023-12-72-11110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 5 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Third Quarter

UNUSUAL BYNAMES OF THE MIDDLE AGES
In what country or empire did...
1. Wladyslaw the Elbow-high reunite the kingdom before being crowned at Krakow?
ANSWER: Poland
2. Ragnar Hairy-Pants receive a ransom from Charles the Bald to spare a city on the Seine?
ANSWER: France [or West Francia; or Francia Occidentalis]
3. Constantine the Dung-Named join the iconoclast movement?
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire [or Eastern Roman Empire; prompt on Roman Empire; prompt on
Turkey]
4. Ivan Moneybags expand the dominion of the Rurikid dynasty?
ANSWER: Russia [or Principality of Moscow]
5. Magnus the Barn-Locker rule as part of the Bjelbo Dynasty, preceding the Vasa Dynasty?
ANSWER: Sweden
6. Thomas the Albanian-Slayer reign in a revived version of the ancient kingdom that Pyrrhus of costly
victory fame ruled?
ANSWER: Epirus
7. Coloman the Possessor of Books seize the Crown of St. Stephen?
ANSWER: Hungary
8. Ivaylo the Cabbage lead a revolt when the ruling Asen Dynasty failed to act against Mongol incursions?
ANSWER: Bulgaria
019-12-72-1110-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 6 of 12 © HSAPQ

THAT ELECTORAL MESS IN 1824
Identify the...
1. Man who was ultimately elected the sixth President of the United States in 1824
ANSWER: John Quincy Adams
2. Man whose supporters alleged he lost due to a "corrupt bargain"
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
3. "Great Compromiser" who allegedly negotiated the "corrupt bargain" after finishing fourth
ANSWER: Henry Clay
4. Period of low partisanship under Monroe which ended with this election
ANSWER: "Era of Good Feelings"
5. Cabinet position allegedly promised by the election winner in the "corrupt bargain"
ANSWER: Secretary of State
6. Constitutional amendment that provided that the House of Representatives decide the election
ANSWER: Twelfth Amendment
7. Candidate who dropped out of the race to run, successfully, for Vice President
ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun
8. Future President who received all of Georgia's electoral votes for Vice President
ANSWER: Martin Van Buren
003-12-72-1110-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 7 of 12 © HSAPQ

THE HAN DYNASTY
Answer the following about China’s Han dynasty.
1. What trading network linking Europe and Asia developed after Han campaigns?
ANSWER: Silk Road
2. What philosophical system, named after the author of the Analects, became state-sanctioned?
ANSWER: Confucianism
3. What dynasty, which included the reign of Shi Huangdi, preceded it?
ANSWER: Qin dynasty [do not accept “Qing dynasty”]
4. What group of castrated court attendants, typified by Zheng Zhong, became more involved in court
affairs?
ANSWER: eunuchs
5. What period of turmoil and disunity, beginning with the establishment of Wei in 220, followed the
dynasty?
ANSWER: Three Kingdoms period
6. A group of peasants led what 184 revolt against Emperor Ling whose name comes from the distinctive
headgear worn by the discontent?
ANSWER: Yellow Turban rebellion
7. A temporary dynasty interrupting the Han was established by what usurper, who ruled from 9 to 23 AD?
ANSWER: Wang Mang [or Jujun]
8. What man, who later took the Emperor name Gaozu, rose from peasantry to become the first ruler of the
Han dynasty?
ANSWER: Liu Bang
192-12-72-1110-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 8 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Fourth Quarter

1. The principle established in this law was overturned in the case Johnson v. M'Intosh. This act
obliged governors to grant five thousand acres of land to field officers, and it also created the
territories of Grenada as well as East and West Florida. The Treaty of (+) Fort Stanwix was signed in
an attempt to evade the provisions of this legislation, which was passed as a result of Pontiac's
Rebellion. Daniel (*) Boone violated this law, passing over its namesake line through the Appalachians.
For 10 points, name this proclamation which stopped settlement in Native American lands, passed the year
in which the French and Indian War ended.
ANSWER: Royal Proclamation of 1763
190-12-72-11101

2. This leader once ran for president with the slogan, "I don't want to, but I've got no choice," and he
denied allegations that he was an informant codenamed "Bolek" in his autobiography, titled A Way
of Hope. This man promoted a (+) "war at the top," and lost a 1995 election to Aleksander
(KWAZ-nee-EV-skee) Kwasniewski. This man is best-known for heading a movement which was
opposed by (*) (VOY-check JAH-roo-ZEL-skee) Wojciech Jaruzelski; that movement began with
concerted efforts at the Gdansk Shipyards. For 10 points, identify this man who served as the president of
Poland from 1980 to 1985, and who was also the head of the free trade union which opposed Communism
in Poland, known as Solidarity.
ANSWER: Lech Walesa
189-12-72-11102

3. One of these speeches notes that a particular task will be taken up with "buoyancy and hope," and
another one humorously includes the phrase "I might have got here on my own." Another of these
entities makes note of "growing confidence and growing strength in the air," and mentions various
(+) terrains of combat. Another of these mentions General Weygand, and another declares, (*) "I
have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat." For 10 points, identify these orations including the
phrases "we shall fight them on the beaches" and "this was their finest hour," delivered by a two-time
British Prime Minister.
ANSWER: speeches by Winston Churchill [accept equivalents for speeches like orations]
189-12-72-11103

4. Chronicles of this country written by Buddhist monks include the Dipavamsa and Mahavamsa. An
early kingdom based in this country and named for a large city was the Anuradhapura Kingdom.
This country home to the (+) Buddha's Tooth relic was ruled by Dhatusena after he defeated a
Pandya invasion and restored (*) Sinhalese rule. This country was once known in Arabic as Serendib and
in English as Ceylon. For 10 points, name this Asian country that is located to the south of the Indian
Subcontinent in the Indian Ocean.
ANSWER: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka [or Shri Lanka Prajatantrika Samajavadi
Janarajaya; or Ilankai Jananayaka Choshalichak Kutiyarachu; or Ceylon before it is read]
023-12-72-11104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 9 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. Ismail Gaspirali inspired a religious reform movement in this empire named after the "new way,"
or Jadid. The term "rootless cosmopolitans" often referred to (+) Jews living in this empire.
Avvakum started a religious schism within this empire after changes to religious practice, such as
making the sign of the cross with three fingers instead of two, were introduced by (*) Nikon. Jews
living in this empire were forced to reside in the Pale of Settlement. For 10 points, name this country whose
Eastern Orthodox church is led by the Patriarch of Moscow.
ANSWER: Russian Empire [or the Soviet Union]
189-12-72-11105

6. An August 2012 article revealed that the central figure in this event claimed to have eaten
pepperoni pizza before this event. Following this event, the central individual stated, "I grew up in
front of these people, and now they are seeing me as an older, (+) young man." The central athlete in
this event claimed that he needed to turn it on after being down sixteen points, and snapped a
team-record streak of (*) 62 consecutive free-throws made. A franchise record set by Elgin Baylor was
broken during this event, in which the central athlete made 28 of 46 field goals. For 10 points, identify this
2006 event in which the Toronto Raptors witnessed a Lakers superstar pouring in a ton of points.
ANSWER: Kobe Bryant's 81 point game [accept either Kobe or Bryant in conjugation with a
specification of 81 points; accept the January 22, 2006 NBA game between the Los Angeles Lakers and
the Toronto Raptors]
189-12-72-11106

7. Plotinus claimed this entity was emanated from the Intellect and, with the Intellect and the One,
was one of the primary hypostases. Aristotle argued it had a nutritive, perceptive, and rational part
in his main (+) treatise on it. In the Phaedo, Socrates argues for the (*) immortality of this entity with
the cyclical argument and argument from recollection. Descartes believed it was located in the pineal gland.
Michel Foucault reversed a common expression by claiming that this entity was the cage of the body, rather
than the other way around. For 10 points, name this essence of living things.
ANSWER: the soul [or nous before “Descartes”]
121-12-72-11107

8. This man's brother received a $220,000 loan from the Libyan government and promoted a
namesake Billy Beer. Ted Kennedy ended a speech in support of this man with the line “the dream
shall never die,” just a few hours after Kennedy lost the party's (+) nomination to this man. In a
debate, this man concluded his discussion on nuclear control with a story about his (*) daughter Amy.
That same debate, he accused his opponent of planning to cut Medicare, prompting his opponent to reply
“There you go again.” For 10 points, name this Democratic president from Georgia, defeated by Ronald
Reagan in 1980.
ANSWER: James Earl “Jimmy” Carter
121-12-72-11108

9. His unfortunate use of a thick undercoat led the colors to drip and mingle in his lost fresco
depicting the Battle of Anghiari. A tiny jewel on a chain stretches across the forehead of a girl in his
portrait of the daughter of an ironmonger and he used a (+) juniper tree as a symoblic pun in his
portrait of Ginevra de' Benci. In perhaps his most famous work he depicted a road slicing through
red rocks and leading to a blue lake in the background of a woman who sits with a (*) thin veil and
sfumato around the eyes. For 10 points, name this Italian Renaissance painter of The Last Supper and the
Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]
201-12-72-11109

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 10 of 12 © HSAPQ

10. These people often carved miniature reliefs into coins in a form of art known as their "nickel." A
large triangle to the left of three smaller triangles indicates that one of these people should tell a sad
story, a symbol in their namesake (+) code. These people often ate a collaborative dish called
"mulligan stew," though they also longed for the place where (*) cigarettes grow on trees and hens lay
soft boiled eggs, the Big Rock Candy Mountain. For 10 points, name these Depression-era people who
carried bindles and rode the rails.
ANSWER: hobos [or tramps; prompt on bums; prompt on homeless people or other close concepts]
019-12-72-11110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 11 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Extra Questions

One of this country’s wars ended after the mediation of the Community of Sant’Egidio. This
country signed the Nkomati Accords with its southern neighbor. Samora Machel and Joaquim
Chissano were its first two presidents from its originally (+) Marxist governing party. The flag of this
country features an AK-47 crossed with a gardening hoe. This country beat Operation Gordian
Knot, and its civil war ended in 1992 with RENAMO’s defeat by (*) FRELIMO. This country won
independence after the 1975 Carnation Revolution. For 10 points, name this former Portuguese colony in
Southeastern Africa.
ANSWER: People’s Republic of Mozambique [or Republica Popular de Mocambique]
153-12-72-1110-1

This ruler captured Bavaria after he ousted its duke Tassilo, which then led this man to fight a series
of successful campaigns against the Avars. This ruler confirmed an agreement his father had made
earlier when this man met Pope (+) Adrian I. This man had the Palatine Chapel built in the city of
Aachen, to which this man brought the scholar (*) Alcuin of York. This ruler's biography was written by
Einhard, who described how this ruler was crowned by Pope Leo III. For 10 points, name this Frankish
king who became Emperor of the Romans on Christmas Day in 800 CE.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Charles I; or Charles the Great; or Charles le Grand; or Carolus Magnus
; or Karl der Grosse; prompt on Charles]
023-12-72-1110-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 12 of 12 © HSAPQ

