2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 16
First Quarter

16

1. One character in this work starts wearing civilian clothing at home after he is lectured for failing to
salute a major on the street. Joseph Behm dies quickly in this work, which one character blames on the
schoolmaster Kantorek. In this work, shrapnel kills Kat, whose body was being carried to safety by the
protagonist, Paul Baeumer (BOY-mair). For 10 points, name this novel written by Erich Maria Remarque
that describes the horror and hopelessness of trench warfare during World War I.
ANSWER: All Quiet on the Western Front [or Im Westen nichts Neues]
023-12-72-16101

2. This composer used medieval plagal cadences in the "Slav'sya" choral finale to an opera whose second
act is a ball where Polish soldiers dance to polonaises and (kra-KOVE-ee-acks) krakowiaks. In one of his
operas, the protagonist steals the beard of the evil wizard Chernomor to save a princess. He composed an
opera based on the legend of Ivan Susanin, who sacrificed himself to save Michael Romanov. For 10
points, name this father of Russian classical music who composed the operas Ruslan and Lyudmila and A
Life for the Tsar.
ANSWER: Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka
080-12-72-16102

3. In May 2012, a painting of this man by Brett Murray was vandalized at the Goodman Gallery with red
and black paint. That painting, The Spear, showed this man with his genitals exposed. Two months later,
Ayanda Mabulu's Weapon of Mass Destruction showed him in traditional Zulu dress, also with an exposed
penis. In November, he sacrificed twelve cattle for good fortune in ANC leadership elections. For 10
points, name this incumbent president of South Africa.
ANSWER: Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma
019-12-72-16103

4. An oyster breeder named Orata introduced the practice of building "hanging baths" in these structures. A
maritime theater, a pool, and an artificial grotto are components of another of these structures, located in
Tivoli. Frescoes depicting a woman's initiation into the cult of Dionysus are found in the one "of the
Mysteries" in Pompeii. The "maritima" and "rustica" buildings of this type were found by the seaside and
by the country. Hadrian basically moved his court to his private one. For 10 points, name these estates
favored by wealthy Romans.
ANSWER: Roman villas [prompt on Roman houses; prompt on Roman estates]
020-12-72-16104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. Lightning struck down the person who appended "is tyranny" to this phrase, James Otis, Junior. This
idea was defended by George Grenville, who argued that a "virtual" form of one of the central concepts
existed. Since 2000, this phrase has appeared on the standard District of Columbia license plates. Objection
to this was the impetus for the Boston Tea Party. For 10 points, identify this phrase that was prefixed with
"no" by colonists arguing that the Stamp and Tea Acts violated their rights.
ANSWER: "taxation without representation" [do not accept or prompt on "no taxation without
representation"]
066-12-72-16105

6. The Cleveland Indians were formerly named after one player at this position, Nap Lajoie. The second
highest batting average of all time is held by another player at this position, Rogers Hornsby, while the
1960 World Series was won by Bill Mazeroski, who played this position. Another player at this position
had his #42 retired throughout baseball after he broke the color line with the Dodgers in 1947. For 10
points, name this position played by Jackie Robinson, which shares the middle infield with the shortstop.
ANSWER: second baseman
192-12-72-16106

7. Upon depletion of this substance, calx is created. An experiment by Lornonosov led to the idea that this
substance had negative weight. This substance was originally called terra pinguis by Johann Behcer before
being renamed by Georg Stahl. Oxygen was originally believed to be air that had been depleted of this
substance. (lah-vwah-see-AY) Lavoisier disproved its existence. For 10 points, name this substance which
was believed to be released by combustion.
ANSWER: phlogiston
048-12-72-16107

8. This speech notes "There is no blinking at the fact that our people, our territory, and our interests are in
grave danger." It states that the United States was deliberately deceived with "false statements and
expressions of hope for continued peace." Immediately after this speech, Congress declared war on Japan,
who had, only one day earlier, attacked Pearl Harbor. For 10 points, identify this speech which begins
"Yesterday, December 7, 1941--a date that will live in" the titular phrase.
ANSWER: Day of Infamy Speech [or The Presidential Address to Congress of December 8, 1941]
066-12-72-16108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 16
Second Quarter

1. During a prolonged siege in this war, journalists like Margaret Moth were shot on a public boulevard
nicknamed "Snipers' Alley." A paramilitary group called the Scorpions active in this war perpetrated a
massacre in a "safe area" protected by the Dutch. This war was ended partly with the help of NATO's first
military intervention; its official end was negotiated in the Dayton Accords. For 10 points, name this brutal
conflict ensuing after the break-up of Yugoslavia, in which Serbs launched an ethnic cleansing campaign
against Muslims in the namesake country.
ANSWER: Bosnian War [or Bosnia War]
BONUS: Ratko Mladic was responsible for what aforementioned massacre of 8000 Bosniaks in a supposed
"safe area"?
ANSWER: Srebrenica Massacre
080-12-72-16101

2. This town was where flight attendant Helle Crafts was murdered in 1986 by her husband, who disposed
of the body in a wood chipper. In describing another event here, Dan Malloy noted “evil visited” the
community, referencing an event that involved 47-year-old Dawn Hochsprung. On December 14, 2012,
Adam Lanza entered Sandy Hook Elementary School in this town after killing his mother. For 10 points,
name this Connecticut town where 20 children were shot.
ANSWER: Newtown [or Sandy Hook until mentioned]
BONUS: What Secretary of Education thanked teachers and staff members who protected children from
harm during the shooting?
ANSWER: Arne Duncan
052-12-72-16102

3. Roger Casement was hung by the Treason Act passed during this man's reign, and he created the title
"Justice of the Peace" for certain judicial officers. John de Stratford was Archbishop of Canterbury during
this man's reign and his close friends included William Montagu. He was nearly captured at the Battle of
Stanhope Park by the Scots forces, but he would later capture their king David II. For 10 points, name this
English king, whose reign saw the Black Death and the start of the Hundred Years War.
ANSWER: Edward III
Edward III came to power after deposing what man who became de facto ruler of England after a
successful rebellion against Edward II?
ANSWER: Roger Mortimer [prompt on Mortimer]
201-12-72-16103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. This artist gained fame when the French government purchased his painting The Resurrection of
Lazarus. This man was taught by Thomas Eakins, who encouraged this artist to depict scenes of everyday
life, such as this man's painting of the title figures saying grace, The Thankful Poor. A Paul Lawrence
Dunbar poem inspired his depiction of an old man teaching a young boy on his lap how to play a stringed
instrument. For 10 points, name this African-American painter of The Banjo Lesson.
ANSWER: Henry Ossawa Tanner
BONUS: What Thomas Eakins painting depicts the title figure winning a rowing race in the Schuykill
River near the Girard Avenue Bridge?
ANSWER: Max Schmitt in a Single Scull [or The Champion Single Sculls]
030-12-72-16104

5. The Yantraraja was an Indian treatise on these things. One essay about these objects was written to the
author’s son Lewis; that essay was by Chaucer. Zhang Heng invented a 3D one of these devices called an
armillary sphere. These devices were used to find the qibla by Muslims, who added scales indicating the
azimuths on the horizon. For 10 points, name these devices used to predict the position of heavenly bodies,
useful for navigation and triangulation.
ANSWER: astrolabe
BONUS: A namesake “mechanism” from a shipwreck off this Greek island is one of the oldest extant
astronomical clocks.
ANSWER: Antikythera
048-12-72-16105

6. This navy was dispatched to Greece’s Ionian Islands to create the Septinsular Republic. After leaving
American service, John Paul Jones spent most of the 1780s serving in this navy. This navy accidentally
fired on British fishermen in the Dogger Bank Incident, and its Baltic Fleet then sailed eighteen thousand
miles to lose to Togo Heihachiro at Tshushima Strait. For 10 points, name this navy which lost a 1904 to
1905 war with Japan and then suffered the battleship Potemkin rebellion.
ANSWER: Imperial Russian Navy
BONUS. The navy continued to be a focus of discontent into the Soviet period, when what 1921 sailors’
rebellion, following the rejection of the Petropavlovsk demands, led to the establishment of the New
Economic Policy?
ANSWER: Kronstadt Rebellion
019-12-72-16106

7. In this religion, after a person dies, that person’s asha determines the manner in which their soul crosses
the Chinvat Bridge. This religion dictates that dead bodies be exposed to be eaten by birds in structures
called towers of silence. In this religion, the six “divine sparks” are among those who counter the Daevas
created by Ahriman. This religion venerates the Amesha Spentas under Ahura Mazda. For 10 points, name
this dualistic religion begun by its namesake Persian prophet.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism
BONUS: What name is given to Zoroastrian places of worship?
ANSWER: fire temples
014-12-72-16107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. Causes of this event were brought to the attention of the Securities and Exchange Commission via an
anonymous letter penned by a "concerned citizen." The third of four volumes of Scott Adams's anthology
Dilbert 2.0 is titled after this event, which was propelled by overreliance on initial public offerings. Alan
Greenspan characterized this event as being the product of "irrational exuberance." Though it took a hit,
Amazon came back stronger than ever after this event burst. For 10 points, name this 1997-2000 event
driven by companies rushing to capture an online market.
ANSWER: collapse of the dot-com bubble [or the tech bubble; or Internet bubble; or dot-com boom; or
Internet boom; or Information Technology boom; or Information Technology bubble; prompt on
1997-2000 bubble or related answers before mention]
BONUS: The dot-com bubble quickly spread beyond companies in this technology-heavy region of
California.
ANSWER: Silicon Valley
020-12-72-16108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 16
Third Quarter

BILL OF RIGHTS
What right, guaranteed in the Bill of Rights, was at issue in the court case...
1. Near v. Minnesota, which concerned the "Minnesota Gag Law" regarding newspapers?
ANSWER: freedom of the press [for this and all subsequent parts, accept obvious descriptions of the right;
prompt on First Amendment]
2. Duncan v. Louisiana, thus requiring the presence of a certain set of one's peers at a criminal trial?
ANSWER: trial by an impartial jury [prompt on Sixth Amendment]
3. McDonald v. Chicago, and was also the subject of the case D.C. vs. Heller?
ANSWER: right to bear arms [or Second Amendment]
4. Wolf v. Colorado, though that case held that illegally obtained evidence could still be included in trials?
ANSWER: protection from unreasonable searches and seizures [or probable cause searches; prompt on
Fourth Amendment]
5. Gitlow v. New York, the first case to incorporate an amendment against the states via the Due Process
clause?
ANSWER: freedom of speech [or freedom of the press; prompt on First Amendment]
6. Robinson v. California, a right also at the center of the case Furman v. Georgia?
ANSWER: protection from cruel and unusual punishment [prompt on Eighth Amendment]
7. De Jonge v. Oregon, along with freedom of speech, in ruling that a state law against "criminal
syndicalism" violated due process?
ANSWER: freedom of peaceable assembly [or right to assemble; prompt on First Amendment]
8. Benton v. Maryland, which overturned Palko v. Connecticut?
ANSWER: protection against double jeopardy [or right not to be tried for the same crime twice; prompt
on Fifth Amendment]
003-12-72-1610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA
1. Now-governing party of South Africa founded during apartheid
ANSWER: African National Congress [or the ANC]
2. First president of post-Apartheid South Africa
ANSWER: Nelson Mandela
3. Language deriving from Dutch in which "apartheid" is a word
ANSWER: Afrikaans
4. British PM who gave the "Wind of Change" speech in South Africa
ANSWER: Harold Macmillan
5. Term used to refer to people of mixed-race, with African and South Asian blood, who were affected by
apartheid
ANSWER: "Coloured"
6. American singer who recorded his album Graceland in South Africa
ANSWER: Paul Simon
7. Laws requiring non-whites to carry documentation when leaving their "homelands"
ANSWER: pass laws
8. Body that gave amnesty to perpetrators of violence during apartheid in exchange for confession of
crimes
ANSWER: Truth and Reconciliation Commission [or the TRC]
080-12-72-1610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

NASA MISSIONS
During which manned or unmanned NASA mission…
1. Did Neil Armstrong walk on the moon?
ANSWER: Apollo 11
2. Did schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe and all aboard die after the failure of an O-Ring?
ANSWER: Challenger disaster [accept STS-51-L]
3. Did James Lovell and Jack Swigart manage to return to earth after an oxygen tank exploded on the way
to the moon?
ANSWER: Apollo 13
5. Did an unmanned probe discover the rings of Jupiter and take the picture Pale Blue Dot on its way out of
the Solar System?
ANSWER: Voyager 1
4. Did Eugene Cernan become the last man to walk on the moon?
ANSWER: Apollo 17
5. Did a space probe carrying a golden plaque become the first man-made object to leave the solar system?
ANSWER: Pioneer 10
6. Did Virgil Grissom, Edward White, and Roger Chaffee die in a fire on the launchpad?
ANSWER: Apollo 1
7. Did a spaceship disintegrate on re-entry during mission STS-107, in 2003?
ANSWER: Columbia disaster
8. Did Edward Higgins White become the first American to walk in space?
ANSWER: Gemini IV
048-12-72-1610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 16
Fourth Quarter

1. A communist government in this country was supported by gun-toting young paramilitaries called
the Lenin Boys. This country had one of the (+) highest standards of living in the Soviet bloc because
it partially implemented free market policies with the New Economic Mechanism. This country's
water polo team fought the "blood in the water" match against the USSR's. (*) (YAH-noesh) Janos
Kadar led this country for thirty-two years after it attempted to withdraw from the Warsaw Pact under Imre
Nagy. For 10 points, name this country into which the USSR sent tanks to quell a 1956 revolution.
ANSWER: People's Republic of Hungary
080-12-72-16101

2. The case Flemming v. Nestor held that one does not have contractual rights in this program. This
program was set up in part as a response to ideas advocated by clubs organized by Dr. Francis (+)
Townshend, and a committee chaired by Frances Perkins resulted in the legislation that created it.
Automatic (*) COLAs were put into this program as a result of 1972 legislation, and this program’s
disability expansion occured in 1954. For 10 points, name this program signed into law by Franklin
Roosevelt in 1935 that established an old-age pension system in the United States.
ANSWER: Social Security
030-12-72-16102

3. After Dr. George Logan performed a similar action to this event, the Logan Act criminalized his
activities. One participant in it was a Swiss baron whose son founded the Credit Suisse Group. Pierre
Bellamy and Lucien Hauteval had their names (+) redacted in American dispatches about this event.
The American participants in it were Charles C. (*) Pinckney, Elbridge Gerry, and John Marshall, the
first of which said “no, no, not a sixpence!” For 10 points, name this 1797 event in which three agents of
Talleyrand demanded a bribe from three American diplomats, which strained French-American relations.
ANSWER: XYZ Affair [prompt on Quasi-War]
052-12-72-16103

4. This country hosted the QUADRANT and OCTAGON conferences of the Second World War,
after which it had the world’s third largest navy and fourth largest air force. Guy Simmonds led its
1st Army in clearing the Schledt Estuary to open (+) Antwerp. This country’s army raided (dee-EP)
Dieppe and reached further inland than any other unit after landing at (*) Juno Beach on D-Day. For
10 points, name this country whose then Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie-King helped its southern
neighbor retake Attu and Kiska.
ANSWER: Canada
153-12-72-16104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. The anthropologist Alfred M. Tozzer proposed that these people initiated three conquests to
subvert the culture of another group. Their name in one language is a synonym for "craftsmen of the
highest level." A legendary ruler of these people ended (+) human sacrifice and established the cult of
the serpent before migrating to Tlapallan. That man, Ce Acatl Topiltzin, was later conflated with
another culture's god, (*) Quetzalcoatl. With a capital at Tula-Hidalgo and once thought to have built
Teotihuacan, for 10 points, name this Mesoamerican culture often considered the predecessors of the
Aztecs.
ANSWER: Toltecs
201-12-72-16105

6. This organization hired Scipio Africanus Jones to defend 12 Arkansas farmers before the Supreme
Court in Moore v. Dempsey. This organization's membership quintupled when it was led by Walter
White. This organization, which formed in response to the (+) Springfield Riot, continues to publish
the periodical The Crisis. The (*) Scottsboro Boys were defended by this organization, which grew out of
the Niagara Movement, and which James Weldon Johnson once led. For 10 points, name this civil rights
organization founded in 1909 to fight for equality for African-Americans.
ANSWER: NAACP [or National Association for the Advancement of Colored People]
080-12-72-16106

7. This ruler defeated the rebellious Stoinegin and Nako at the “Battle on the Raxa,” which was
probably fought on the Recknitz river. During one victory, he was joined by his formerly rebellious
subject Conrad the Red, the Duke of Lorraine. This man’s greatest victory came against the harka
(BULL-choo) Bulcsu near (+) Augsburg, after which he went to Rome to meet Pope John XII. This
eldest son of Henry the Fowler defeated the (*) Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld. For 10 points, name
this German ruler who after being crowned in 962 became the first Holy Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Otto I [or Otto the Great]
052-12-72-16107

8. This council cordoned off Jews and Muslims by requiring them to wear special clothing and
forbidding them from appearing in public on Good Friday. With the decree Omnis Utriusque Sexus,
this council enjoined all Christians of age to confess once a year and take (+) communion at Easter.
Frederick II sent representatives to this council, which confirmed him as emperor. Including four
hundred bishops and seventy-one patriarchs, this council reaffirmed the power of the sacraments
and made official the doctrine of (*) transubstantiation. For 10 points, name this 1215 church council
convoked by Innocent III and taking place in a palace in Rome.
ANSWER: Fourth Lateran Council
080-12-72-16108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 16
Extra Questions

This figure was the object of criticism alongside Lin Biao during an anti-Zhou Enlai propaganda
campaign of Mao Zedong. This longtime politician for the State of Lu during the (+) Spring and
Autumn period once said that he would give up sufficient weapons and sufficient food before losing
the trust of the people. The basis of the (*) civil service examinations was this man’s philosophy with
concepts such as yi, li, and ren, which inspired Mencius. For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote
the Analects.
ANSWER: Confucius [or Kongfuzi; or Kongzi; or Kongqiu; or Zhongni]
153-12-72-1610-1

The Za Qu is the principle headstream of this river, which is referred to as the Lancang in China.
During heavy rains, this river forces the flow of the Sab River to reverse, creating an enormous lake
on the (+) Tonle Sap floodplain. Two tributaries of this river drain the Khorat Plateau, the Chi and
Mun. This river forms part of the border between Burma and (*) Laos, as well as between Laos and
Thailand. It breaks into a number of distributaries, such as the Bassac, at Phnom Penh. It drains into South
China Sea below Ho Chi Minh City. For 10 points, identify this river containing a bunch of un-exploded
ordinance from the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Mekong River [or Lancang River before it is read]
066-12-72-1610-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

16

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

