2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
First Quarter

11

1. This culture celebrated a ritual in which two men had to laugh after milk-dipped wool was used to wipe
blood off their foreheads, after which strips of goat and dog skin were used to whip women in the streets.
Another holiday in this culture featured a seven-day suspension of slave labor and the switching of slaves'
places with masters each December. For 10 points, Lupercalia and Saturnalia were holidays in what
culture, which celebrated public festivals in the Forum?
ANSWER: ancient Rome [or Roman civilization, Roman Republic, Roman Empire, etc.; do not accept or
prompt on "Greece"]
019-13-94-11101

2. A participant in this event stated that he visited a group of sixth graders in South Central Los Angeles
instead of going to Hollywood. The subject of this event borrowed his eyewear from Paul Begala, and was
told that his posse is even larger than M.C. Hammer's. The host of this event quipped that "it's nice to see a
Democrat blow something other than an election." For 10 points, name this 1992 event in which a
Presidential candidate played "Heartbreak Hotel" on the saxophone.
ANSWER: Bill Clinton's appearance on The Arsenio Hall Show [or Bill Clinton playing the saxophone
until it is read]
048-13-94-11102

3. Jacques Lafitte led the first government put together during this period. Politics during this time was
dominated by Francois Guizot (gee-ZOH) and other Doctrinaires. Riots during this time period began at the
funeral of Jean Lamarque, leading to the June Revolution. The beginning of this period saw the persecution
of Legitimists, who supported the former King Charles X. For 10 points, name this period of French history
that began with the ascension of King Louis-Philippe in the namesake month of 1830.
ANSWER: July Monarchy
140-13-94-11103

4. This man allegedly exclaimed "O holy simplicity" after a peasant woman threw wood onto a fire. This
man lobbied for the Decree of Kutna Hora, which led Charles University to become a base for his
teachings. Jerome of Prague was one of the main followers of this man, who was executed at the Council of
Constance. For 10 points, name this Czech reformer whose followers fought the Catholic Church in the
fifteenth century.
ANSWER: Jan Hus
190-13-94-11104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 1 of 12

5. This author created Paul and Rochelle Isaacson, fictionalizations of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, in his
novel The Book of Daniel. Another of his novels blends early twentieth-century historical figures into the
narrative of an unnamed family that adopts an abandoned black child. In that novel by him, Coalhouse
Walker plays the title style of music championed by Scott Joplin. For 10 points, name this American
novelist of Billy Bathgate and Ragtime.
ANSWER: E. L. Doctorow
014-13-94-11105

6. An event of this kind from the mid-third century is named for St. Cyprian. Lucius Verus died during
another of these occurrences named for Verus's co-ruler, Antoninus Pius. Thucydides (thoo-SID-uh-deez)
describes this kind of event immediately following a funeral oration praising democracy. An event of this
type killed Pericles in the early years of the Peloponnesian War. For 10 points, identify these events that
were massively fatal in antiquity thanks to the insufficiency of the Hippocratic corpus.
ANSWER: ancient plagues [or epidemics in ancient Greece and/or Rome]
080-13-94-11106

7. Anthony Trollope's first-hand observation of this industry inspired his novel An Old Man's Love. Jim
Taylor partnered up with Alfred Beit early in this industry's history. The most important site of this industry
was a tourist attraction nicknamed "The Big Hole." This industry began shortly after a chance discovery by
the teenager Erasmus Jacobs, and its biggest hub was the Northern Cape city of Kimberley. For 10 points,
name this industry monopolized by De Beers.
ANSWER: South African diamond mining industry [prompt on mining industry]
020-13-94-11107

8. State v. Buzzard approved an early law with this goal. Events at 101 California Street prompted another
of these laws. The death of William Gaynor led to the passage of one of the first laws with this goal, New
York's Sullivan Act. States with stricter versions of these laws have "may-issue" rather than "shall-issue"
permitting. A major supporter of these laws, Ronald Reagan's press secretary, lent his name to the Brady
Bill. For 10 points, name this legislative goal opposed by the NRA.
ANSWER: gun control [or firearms control; or gun restriction; or other synonyms; prompt on answers
only mentioning specific types of guns]
187-13-94-11108

9. In a film set during this war, Erich von Stroheim plays a crippled prison commandant who shoots de
Boeldieu, who sacrifices himself so Marechal and Rosenthal can escape. In another film set during this war,
Colonel Dax defends three men who are unfairly executed for desertion. For 10 points, name this war
represented in Jean Renoir's Grand Illusion and Stanley Kubrick’s Paths of Glory, which realistically
portrays trench warfare.
ANSWER: World War I
014-13-94-11109

10. This man's son killed his new general Yaya several years after the death of commander Kanfari Omar.
Shortly after returning from his hajj, this man defeated the Mossi and Air peoples. This ruler employed
al-Maghili to convert the Hausa kingdoms he conquered to Islam. He took power after the Battle of Anfao
and ascended to the throne when his cousin Sunni Baru refused to convert to Islam. For 10 points, identify
this Songhai emperor and successor to Sunni Ali.
ANSWER: Askia Muhammad I [or Askia the Great]
233-13-94-11110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 2 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Second Quarter

1. Arthur Balfour's nephew-in-law, Edgar Dugdale, published the first English translation of this book. The
author of this book consistently complains about two "twin evils." Bernard Stempfle edited this book,
though it was Max Amann who suggested that the title be changed from Four and Half Years Against Lies,
Stupidity, and Cowardice. This book was narrated to Rudolf Hess after its author was imprisoned in 1923.
For 10 points, name this tract of Nazism written by Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: Mein Kampf [or My Struggle]
BONUS: In Mein Kampf, Hitler introduced what expansionist ideology, which literally translates as "living
space?"
ANSWER: "lebensraum"
190-13-94-11101

2. This man once dissed Indiana for lacking a poet of the caliber of Robert Lowell. His tactics included
proposing an ill-thought-out diplomatic trip to Paris and a "war on hunger." Though hippies often shaved
their beards to appear "clean" for this candidate, he himself eventually refused to endorse Hubert
Humphrey when it became clear he wasn't going to win. For 10 points, name this Minnesota senator who
ran for the Democratic Presidential nomination on an anti-Vietnam War platform in 1968.
ANSWER: Eugene McCarthy
BONUS: McCarthy decided to run due to the influence of Wayne Morse, who, along with Ernest Gruening,
was the only Senator to do what in 1964, claiming "we have been misguidedly drawn" into a situation
"which is steadily being escalated?"
ANSWER: vote against the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution [or equivalent phrasings, but prompt on general
answers such as oppose the Vietnam War; the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution must be specified]
020-13-94-11102

3. This man is the namesake of an intercellular bacterium that causes nervous system infections and grows
in soft cheese and unpasteurized milk. This man published a series of six articles in The Lancet about
treating a boy with a bone fracture with no risk of suppuration. This man began the use of carbolic acid on
wounds and instruments, greatly decreasing his patients' complication rates. For 10 points, name this
British surgeon who promoted antiseptic surgery.
ANSWER: Joseph Lister
BONUS: Lister's work was preceded by what Hungarian physician, who discovered that hand-washing
decreased the incidence of childbirth-related infections?
ANSWER: Ignaz Semmelweis
048-13-94-11103

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 3 of 12

4. This practice could be cum manu if accompanied by eating a spelt cake in the confarreatio rite. More
commonly, it included the ritual of dextrarum iunctio. During these occurrences, the flammeum-wearing
participant recited the formula, "Ubi tu Gaius, ego Gaia." It was followed by the deductio, a procession in
which onlookers made raunchy jokes and sang for the god Hymen. For 10 points, identify this practice
which united Roman men and women as husband and wife.
ANSWER: Roman marriage [or Roman weddings]
BONUS: What emperor of Rome, who described his accomplishments in the Res Gestae, enforced harsher
marriage laws as part of a program of cultural renewal?
ANSWER: Caesar Augustus [or Gaius Octavius; or Octavianus; or Octavius Caesar]
080-13-94-11104

5. The founding of this city was planned in part by the Jewish astronomer Messahalla. This city was
captured in 813 CE by Al-Mamun after a civil war with his brother Al-Amin. Those combatants were both
sons of the man who established the House of Wisdom in this city. This city, founded in 762 CE by
Al-Mansur, was ruled by Harun al-Rashid and brutally sacked in 1258 by Hulagu (hoo-LAH-goo) Khan.
For 10 points, name this city that was the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate in Iraq.
ANSWER: Baghdad
BONUS: When Hulgau Khan sacked Baghdad, he allegedly built a pyramid of what objects taken from the
many scholars killed?
ANSWER: skulls
023-13-94-11105

6. In October 1923, a rebellion held this region as a separatist republic for two weeks. In March 1936,
troops entered this region, violating a demilitarization pact, as the first unchallenged aggression of the Nazi
army. This area was given to French occupation for five years in the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points,
name this area which currently forms a combined state of Germany with the former electorate of the
Palatinate, and is on both sides of a major river.
ANSWER: Rhineland [or Rhénanie]
BONUS: What other German state, found to the southwest of the Rhineland and home to the Völklingen
Ironworks, was jointly occupied by the UK and France after World War I?
ANSWER: Saarland
019-13-94-11106

7. This status was claimed in 1750s Poland by Jacob Frank. Nathan of Gaza and Samuel Primo became
devotees of a notorious aspirant to this status from Smyrna, Shabbetai Tzvi. A large percentage of the
Chabad (huh-BOD) sect believes that Menachem Mendel Schneerson did not die in 1994 but instead
became this person. For 10 points, identify this Jewish theological role, which Christians identify as having
already been fulfilled by Jesus.
ANSWER: Jewish messiah [or moshiach]
BONUS: Shabbetai Tzvi demonstrated that he was probably not the Jewish messiah by doing what action
in 1666, creating the Donmeh sect?
ANSWER: converting to Islam [prompt on partial answer; prompt on renouncing Judaism, etc.]
019-13-94-11107

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 4 of 12

8. Silas Wright authored an amended version of this law, going over the head of committee chairman Rollin
Mallary. A convention held in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania resulted in its passage. William McDuffie
popularized the Forty Bale theory in protest of this legislation. An opponent of this law toasted, "The
Union. Next to our liberty, the most dear" in response to remarks made by William Hayne. For 10 points,
name this centerpiece of the Nullification Crisis, a harsh tariff passed in 1828.
ANSWER: Tariff of Abominations [or Tariff of 1828 before it is read]
BONUS: What steadfast opponent of the Tariff advocated the doctrine of nullification in his pamphlet on
the matter, South Carolina Exposition and Protest?
ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun
190-13-94-11108

9. Some historians claim that Laurens Janszoon Coster invented an early version of this device using sand.
A later user of this device claimed to have acquired one after becoming fatigued copying the Recall of the
Histories of Troy. This device originally used a modified winemaking tool and punch-stamped metal
matrices to produce a forty-two-line Bible. For 10 points, name this item which used moveable type and
was invented in the 1440s by Johannes Gutenberg.
ANSWER: printing press [prompt on moveable type until it is read]
BONUS: The fatigued copyist who first used the printing press in English was what Bruges
(BROOJ)-based printer, who preserved many Middle English texts?
ANSWER: William Caxton
019-13-94-11109

10. An occupant of this office wrote the autobiography Present at the Creation. Another person was
nominated to this position after William Fulbright proved too controversial. A holder of this office resigned
after Operation Eagle Claw, and another used the idea of "ex injuria jus non oritur" to state that the U.S.
would not recognize the results of the invasion of Manchuria. For 10 points, name this position held by
Dean Acheson, Dean Rusk, Cyrus Vance, and Henry Stimson.
ANSWER: Secretary of State
BONUS: What historian and author of The Imperial Presidency wrote that Dean Rusk was the "Lowest
Common Denominator" when Kennedy selected him?
ANSWER: Arthur Meier Schlesinger Jr.
048-13-94-11110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 5 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Third Quarter

FRANCOIS MITTERAND
Francois Mitterand…
1. Was a president in the Fifth Republic of what Western European nation?
ANSWER: France
2. Was a member of what political party, also led by Francois Hollande?
ANSWER: Socialist Party
3. Formally apologized to what group on the anniversary of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes?
ANSWER: Huguenots [prompt on French Protestants]
4. Was forced to share governments with opposition member Chirac, an arrangement called what?
ANSWER: cohabitation
6. Controversially ordered the bombing of what Greenpeace vessel anchored in New Zealand?
ANSWER: Rainbow Warrior
7. Was co-prince of what non-France country, with Joan Marti Alanis (ah-LAHN-eece)?
ANSWER: Andorra
5. Succeeded what conservative as president of France?
ANSWER: Valery Guiscard d'Estaing
8. Advocated democratization of what general place in the La Baule speech, twenty years after Harold
MacMillan's "Winds of Change" speech announced independence in this area?
ANSWER: Sub-Saharan Africa
048-13-94-1110-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 6 of 12

KINGDOM OF HAWAII
In nineteenth century Hawaii, who or what was...
1. The U.S. President during whose administration the islands were annexed in 1898?
ANSWER: William McKinley
2. The last queen, who notoriously canceled her plans to attend the Golden Jubilee of Victoria?
ANSWER: Liliuokalani [or Lydia Lili'u Loloku Walania Wewehi Kamaka'eha; or Lydia K. Dominis]
3. The surname of Sanford, who sought to Westernize the islands, and his cousin James, who founded a
pineapple company?
ANSWER: Dole
4. The U.S. President who opened diplomatic relations with Hawaii in 1849, shortly before his death?
ANSWER: Zachary Taylor
5. The regnal name of five Hawaiian kings, one of whom outlawed human sacrifice?
ANSWER: Kamehameha
6. The document which set up a constitutional monarchy in Hawaii, so nicknamed because it was forced
upon the king?
ANSWER: Bayonet Constitution
7. The European power which sent fleets in 1839 and 1849 to guarantee toleration of Hawaiian Catholics?
ANSWER: France
8. The popular name of the 1893 House of Representatives report about the overthrow of the monarchy?
ANSWER: Blount Report
020-13-94-1110-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 7 of 12

1876
In 1876, who or what...
1. Patented the telephone?
ANSWER: Alexander Graham Bell
2. Published his "decimal" classification system for libraries?
ANSWER: Melvil Dewey [or Melville Louis Kossuth Dewey]
3. Sport's National League was established?
ANSWER: baseball
4. Occasion was the basis for an exposition held in Philadelphia where the telephone was first displayed to
the public?
ANSWER: Centennial of the signing of the Declaration of Independence [or 100 year anniversary of
independence, etc.]
5. Book including the characters Aunt Polly and Becky Thatcher was published?
ANSWER: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
6. Territory became the 38th state?
ANSWER: Colorado
7. Supreme Court decision allowed Illinois to regulate charges for using grain elevators?
ANSWER: Munn v. Illinois
8. Was shot by Jack McCall during a poker game?
ANSWER: James Butler "Wild Bill" Hickok
020-13-94-1110-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 8 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Fourth Quarter

1. Project NOAH claims that it announced this day two days in advance, but nobody listened. Yeb
Sano announced a hunger strike at the U.N. in this event's aftermath. Arnel Pineda announced
Journey's $350,000 (+) donation in response to this event, though controversy over the Spratly
Islands was blamed for China's flaky response to it. Tacloban City was completely (*) destroyed by
this event. In its aftermath, President Aquino declared martial law. For 10 points, name this strongest storm
to make landfall in history, which decimated the Philippines in November 2013.
ANSWER: Typhoon Haiyan [or Typhoon Yolanda; or Cylone Haiyan; or Cyclone Yolanda]
190-13-94-11101

2. A member of this family used the name "John Clarke" while living in France. Another member of
this family won the Battle of Dunbar alongside his commander in Scotland, George Monck. That
member of this family had his body exhumed and beheaded in 1661. This was the family of a man
known as (+) "Tumbledown Dick" and a man known as "Old Ironsides" who led the New (*) Model
Army on behalf of the Roundheads. For 10 points, name this family whose most famous member was the
Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England and victor of the English Civil War, Oliver.
ANSWER: Cromwell
052-13-94-11102

3. After being insulted by Charles Kennedy Crauford-Stuard, this woman protested the entry of
British ambassador Edward Grey into the U.S. She called for the replacement of Secretary of State
Robert Lansing with Bainbridge Colby. Her memoir My Memoir explains her first marriage to
Norman Galt and her courtship of the (+) President, whose first wife Ellen died in office. This woman
attempted to get the U.S. to approve membership in the (*) League of Nations after her husband
suffered a debilitating stroke. For 10 points, name this woman who ran the White House for her husband
Woodrow.
ANSWER: Edith Galt Wilson [or Edith Galt; prompt on Wilson]
190-13-94-11103

4. Chris Robinson created a 2009 short documentary about his family being "Bankrupt by" these
objects. The company that created these objects came out with one named Peace following a lawsuit
by the family of Jerry Garcia. Each of these (+) toys came with a poem about the toy, inside an
attached hang tag, which if removed could halve the value of the toy. Tags that said "Punchers" were
an early mistake on some versions of Pinchers the (*) lobster, one of the original nine of these toys. For
10 points, name these toys created by Ty Warner that were part of a collecting fad in the 1990s.
ANSWER: Beanie Babies
023-13-94-11104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 9 of 12

5. Benjamin Martin adopted the work of Chester Moor Hall and John Dollond to build an improved
version of this device. Ernst Abbe discovered the sine condition, a criterion necessary for improving
these things, and founded a company to manufacture them with Carl (+) Zeiss. Robert Hooke first
used the word "cell" to describe a biological unit in a book based on work with one of these objects.
(*) Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (LAY-von-hoke) was the first person to observe a single-celled organism
with this device. For 10 points, name this instrument used for viewing very small things.
ANSWER: light microscope [prompt on lens]
121-13-94-11105

6. This composer used trial transcripts in the song "A Gentleman's Honor," which appears in his
opera about the murder of Colonel Larkyns by a photographer. This composer of an opera about
Edward Muybridge wrote a series of operas that included the (+) "Hymn to the Sun" and five knee
plays in his "Portrait" trilogy. Those operas by this composer included texts taken from the Book of
the Dead and the (*) Bhagavad Gita. For 10 points, name this American opera composer of the historical
operas Satyagraha, Akhnaten, and Einstein on the Beach.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
023-13-94-11106

7. The Baltimore Stallions moved to this city in 1996 and revived the name of a former franchise
here. A baseball team in this city had a mascot with an exclamation point named Youppi!, and Jackie
Robinson played (+) minor league baseball for this non-Missouri city's Royals. In this city, Nadia
Comaneci (koh-mah-NEECH) became the first female gymnast to score a perfect 10 in an (*)
Olympic gymnastics event. A hockey team in this city has won twenty-four Stanley Cups. For 10 points,
name this city that is the home of the Canadiens and was once the home of the Expos.
ANSWER: Montreal
030-13-94-11107

8. During this man's administration, his country bombed a nuclear reactor feared to be
manufacturing atomic weapons in Operation Opera. He was the first leader of the Herut Party,
which grew out of the (+) Irgun militia he was a member of. Under him, the Herut and Liberal
parties formed a coalition that became his country's first non-Labor party to win elections in 1977.
This man withdrew forces from the Sinai Peninsula after signing the (*) Camp David Accords with
Anwar Sadat. For 10 points, name this Israeli prime minister and founder of the Likud Party.
ANSWER: Menachem Begin
121-13-94-11108

9. George Keith ostentatiously left this denomination, whose American martyrs included Mary Dyer.
This church banned slaveholding under the influence of Anthony Benezet. In 1827, the orthodox
branch of this religion broke off from its (+) "Hicksite" faction. Members of this denomination
emigrated to the U.S. partly due to a religious prohibition on bowing or tipping one's hat to
aristocrats. George (*) Fox was the founder of this religion, whose members established a "Holy
Experiment" with the blessing of Charles II. For 10 points, name this nonviolent religious group that
included William Penn.
ANSWER: Quakers
080-13-94-11109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 10 of 12

10. George Warren urged the government to buy large amounts of this substance while an adviser to
the President who implemented such a purchase through Executive Order 6102. Franklin Roosevelt's
plan to raise the price of this item angered delegates at the London (+) Economic Conference, who
saw such an action as destabilizing the exchange rate. In an executive order that also created a ten
percent import surcharge and froze prices and wages, Richard Nixon ended the (*) Bretton Woods
system by declaring the U.S. would no longer exchange this substance for dollars. For 10 points, name this
precious metal.
ANSWER: gold
121-13-94-11110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 11 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 11
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
Franciscus van den Enden and Pieter Plockhoy planned out a utopian community in what is now this
state. Zwaanendael was a Dutch colony here that was mostly destroyed by Nanticoke Indians. A
delegate from here rode seventy miles in one night to the (+) Continental Congress to break a tie
between Thomas McKean and George Read. It's not New York, but Peter Minuit built Fort
Christina at this first (*) Swedish colony in North America. For 10 points, name this state that was home
to Caesar Rodney and was the first to ratify the Constitution.
ANSWER: Delaware
121-13-94-1110-1

BONUS: Who commanded a medical corps during the Bambatha Rebellion and lobbied for equal political
rights for the Asian population during his twenty-one years as a lawyer in South Africa?
ANSWER: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
019-13-94-1110-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

11

Page 12 of 12

