2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
First Quarter

9

1. A baggage handler named Hayward Shepherd was the first casualty of this event. The organizer of this
event sent a separate party to capture the great-grandnephew of George Washington. The question "when
were the good and the brave ever in a majority?" was posed after this event in Henry David Thoreau's essay
titled "a plea for" its instigator. In response to it, James Buchanan sent a detachment of marines under
Robert E. Lee. For 10 points, name this 1859 John Brown attack on a federal arsenal in what is now West
Virginia.
ANSWER: John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry [accept attack or equivalent words for "raid"; or John
Brown's raid before "John Brown"]
020-12-72-09101

2. In September 2012, the company Gruenenthal apologized to those affected by this compound. The
problems of this compound were publicized by Widukind Lenz. Frances Kelsey was responsible for
delaying FDA approval of this drug in the US, which helped avert the many cases of phocomelia caused in
other countries, especially in Europe. For 10 points, what drug developed in the 1950s was used to alleviate
morning sickness before it was discovered to cause such birth defects as shortened limbs?
ANSWER: thalidomide
023-12-72-09102

3. In the early 1820s, this painter executed a series of portraits of the mentally ill. He depicted a cavalry
officer in Napoleon's army rearing on his horse in The Charging Chasseur. His most influential painting
includes a black man standing on a barrel and waving a red cloth in the upper right. That painting depicts
the survivors of a contemporary shipwreck off the coast of West Africa. For 10 points, name this French
Romantic painter of The Raft of the Medusa.
ANSWER: Jean Louis Andre Theodore Gericault
014-12-72-09103

4. This man was the target of the 1980 Petition of Fifty, which criticized his "indigenized" version of
Pancasila. This ruler overthrew a FRETILIN led government in East Timor. The Berkeley Mafia was
appointed by this leader of the Golkar Party to fix his country's economy as part of his "New Order."
Opposition against this leader was led by the daughter of his predecessor, Megawati Sukarnoputri. For 10
points, name this Indonesian dictator who usurped Sukarno.
ANSWER: Suharto
149-12-72-09104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 1 of 10 © HSAPQ

5. Demonstrations against this leader at an embassy in London resulted in the death of policewoman
Yvonne Fletcher. This ruler overthrew Idris I in 1969 and ruled according to the principles of The Green
Book. In 2003, this man agreed to pay compensation to families of victims in the Lockerbie bombing. For
10 points, name this man who died in 2011 after the National Transitional Council started a civil war to
overthrow this longtime ruler of Libya.
ANSWER: Muammar al-Qaddafi [or Muammar Gaddafi; or various alternate spellings]
023-12-72-09105

6. The day before this event, Jim Rhodes said its victims were "worse than the brownshirts" after LeRoy
Satrom asked him for help. Terry Strubbe's recording of this event was analyzed by Alan Canfora. This
event began outside Taylor Hall with the ringing of the Victory Bell. Mary Ann Vecchio was photographed
with Jeffrey Miller after this event, which began in response to the invasion of Cambodia. For 10 points,
name this May 4, 1970, event in which four student protesters were killed by National Guardsmen in Ohio .
ANSWER: Kent State Shootings [or synonyms for Shootings such as “Massacre”, etc.]
187-12-72-09106

7. This group was founded with seed money from beer magnate Joseph Coors. It attempted to show a
decline in American moral values by publishing William Bennett's "Index of Leading Cultural Indicators."
This group published a report in 1981 called Mandate for Leadership that was embraced by the Reagan
Administration. The current president of this group was labeled the Tea Party's "kingmaker" before
resigning as the junior Senator from South Carolina. For 10 points, name this conservative think tank that is
led by Jim DeMint.
ANSWER: The Heritage Foundation
030-12-72-09107

8. In one scene of this film, Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character follows a covered cart full of amputated legs.
The title character of this film unexpectedly shouts "COME OUT, YOU OLD RAT!" at a meeting before
telling a lengthy story about Ethan Allen's trip to England. In this film, Sally Field plays the title character's
wife, who mourns the death of their son William, and Tommy Lee Jones plays the radical leader Thaddeus
Stevens. For 10 points, name this Steven Spielberg film starring Daniel Day-Lewis as the the title president.
ANSWER: Lincoln
080-12-72-09108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 2 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Second Quarter

1. In one of these locations, librettist Peter Kien and composer Viktor Ullmann created the satirical opera
The Emperor of Atlantis. The second movement of Steve Reich's Different Trains describes trains heading
to these locations during World War II. Four concert orchestras were forced to play at the model one of
these sites at Theresienstadt (tah-RAY-see-en-SHTAHT). For 10 points, name these locations where many
Jews were sent and killed during the Holocaust, such as Auschwitz.
ANSWER: Nazi concentration camps [or Konzentrationslagern]
BONUS: In Ullmann's The Emperor of Atlantis, Emperor Overall represents Adolf Hitler, and the
Drummer represents this woman, his mistress and eventual wife.
ANSWER: Eva Braun
023-12-72-09101

2. One case argued by this man resulted in the Supreme Court ruling that states cannot interfere with the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce. Another case handled by this man resulted from the
board of trustees removing John Wheelock from the presidency of a certain college. In that case, he argued
that the Constitution prohibits states from altering the obligations of a contract. For 10 points, identify this
lawyer for Gibbons in his case against Ogden, and Dartmouth College in its case against Woodward.
ANSWER: Daniel Webster
BONUS: Daniel Webster's last stint as Secretary of State was for this president, who assumed the
presidency after the death of Zachary Taylor.
ANSWER: Millard Fillmore
066-12-72-09102

3. This conflict saw a bloody siege of Fort Canosa. The gunboat Gloucester took down the destroyer Pluton
in this war's largest naval battle. "You may fire when ready, Gridley," was said at the Battle of Manila Bay
by George Dewey in this war. This war included a charge up Kettle Hill in one battle by the Rough Riders,
and it was sparked by the sinking of the USS Maine. For 10 points, name this 1898 conflict between the US
and a European country.
ANSWER: Spanish-American War
BONUS: The Rough Riders took Kettle Hill during what battle of the Spanish-American War?
ANSWER: Battle of San Juan Hill
201-12-72-09103

4. Louis-Bertrand Castrel's work influenced one book about this phenomenon, which was expanded by
Arthur Schopenhauer, who explained it in terms of fractional mixtures. Ewald Hering's opponent-process
theory added to the ideas of Hermann von Helmholtz and Thomas Young, who suggested that specialized
cells distinguished the three types of this phenomenon. A lack of this faculty can be found in the Ishihara
test using numbers in a field. For 10 points, name this faculty that is mediated by cone cells in the eye.
ANSWER: color vision [or human perception of color, etc.; prompt on vision, sight, etc.]
BONUS: The 1810 Theory of Colors was written by what German intellectual figure, perhaps more known
for literary works such as The Sorrows of Young Werther?
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
019-12-72-09104
2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 3 of 10 © HSAPQ

5. One of these two people slew the other after the other mocked his low wall by jumping over it. One of
these two people also ordered the abduction of the Sabine women. A basket containing these two people
came to rest under a fig tree. As babies, Amulius had them put in that basket and thrown in the River Tiber.
These two people were sons of Rhea Silvia and the god Mars and suckled by a she-wolf. For 10 points,
identify these twin brothers who were the mythical founders of Rome.
ANSWER: Romulus and Remus [accept in either order]
BONUS: Romulus and Remus were supposedly descendants of the royal dynasty of what nearby city that
the Romans eventually destroyed?
ANSWER: Alba Longa
066-12-72-09105

6. This man sponsored the transformation of the bays of Piraeus into harbors. He worked to get
(uh-RIST-uh-deez) Aristides exiled and advocated that the proceeds of the silver mines of Sunium be
devoted to a branch of the military. In his greatest victory, this man convinced Xerxes that the Greek forces
intended to flee, thus baiting Persian forces into the first great naval battle in recorded history. For 10
points, name this Athenian politician who established Athens' sea power and was the victor at the Battle of
Salamis.
ANSWER: Themistocles
BONUS: What 480 BCE Persian victory prompted Greek forces fighting at the naval Battle of Artemisium
to withdraw?
ANSWER: Battle of Thermopylae
030-12-72-09106

7. One of this movement's leaders gained prominence by inventing a process to make acetone that solved
Britain's 1915 "Shell Crisis." Three members of this movement went to inspect East Africa after Joseph
Chamberlain's proposal of the Uganda Program. Theodor Herzl and (kime VEITZ-man) Chaim Weizmann
were early leaders of this movement. It achieved a success when the British government issued the Balfour
Declaration, and its support waxed with the increasing frequency of pogroms. For 10 points, name this
movement for the creation of a Jewish state.
ANSWER: Zionism [or the creation of a Jewish state before read; prompt on the creation of Israel or
other answers]
BONUS: What anti-Semitic forgery, purported to be the work of the First Zionist Congress, was published
by Sergei Nilus in Russia in 1905?
ANSWER: Protocols of the Elders of Zion [or Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion]
080-12-72-09107

8. One prominent figure in this event owned a plantation at Green Spring and was responsible for calling
the corrupt Long Assembly. This event grew out of a raid made on the farm of Thomas Mathews. The
leader of this rebellion issued a "Declaration of the People" and attacked friendly groups such as the
Occaneechee and Pamunkey tribes. For 10 points, name this 1676 rebellion that burned down Jamestown in
Virginia over the colony's Indian policy.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Bacon’s Rebellion
BONUS: This governor of Virginia used his plantation at Green Spring as an experimental agricultural site
before disagreements with Bacon caused the rebellion.
ANSWER: William Berkeley
023-12-72-09108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 4 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Third Quarter

HISTORY AT THE OLYMPICS
Give *either* the year or host city of the Summer Olympics at which...
1. Michael Phelps won eight gold medals.
ANSWER: 2008 or Beijing
2. Adolf Hitler refused to shake the hand of black American track champion Jesse Owens.
ANSWER: 1936 or Berlin
3. Eleven Israeli athletes were killed by Palestinian terrorists.
ANSWER: 1972 or Munich
4. The Soviet Union, in the process of breaking up, competed together as the "Unified Team."
ANSWER: 1992 or Barcelona
5. The Olympic Games were first held in modern times.
ANSWER: 1896 or Athens
6. Seven countries boycotted to protest the Suez Crisis.
ANSWER: 1956 or Melbourne
7. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan caused the US to lead a boycott of the games.
ANSWER: 1980 or Moscow
8. The US dominated most events due to the only Soviet boycott of the Games after their participation
began.
ANSWER: 1984 or Los Angeles
019-12-72-0910-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 5 of 10 © HSAPQ

GENEVA IN THE REFORMATION
Answer these questions about Geneva during the Protestant Reformation.
1. Theocratic author of Institutes of the Christian Religion who ruled Geneva
ANSWER: John Calvin [or Jean Cauvin]
2. Device revolutionized by Johannes Gutenberg essential to Geneva's success
ANSWER: printing press
3. Sacrament for which reformed Christians refused to use unleavened bread
ANSWER: Eucharist [or Holy Communion; or Lord's Supper]
4. Founder of Presbyterianism who studied in Geneva
ANSWER: John Knox
5. Language that the Bible was approved to be translated into in 1533
ANSWER: French [or Francais]
6. Set of 12 lay people established to do god's work alongside doctors, pastors, and deacons
ANSWER: elders
7. Spanish denier of the trinity who was burned at the stake in Geneva
ANSWER: Michael Servetus
8. The name for political divisions of Switzerland such as Fribourg and Solothurn that negotiated with
Geneva during the Reformation
ANSWER: cantons
080-12-72-0910-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 6 of 10 © HSAPQ

PRUSSIAN ARMY
The Prussian Army…
1. Became the core of this country's army when it formed in 1871.
ANSWER: Germany [or Deutschland; or German Empire; or Deutsches Reich]
2. Captured Silesia for what "Great" eighteenth-century monarch?
ANSWER: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; or Friedrich der Grosse]
3. Produced this author of On War, who said, "War is a continuation of politics by other means."
ANSWER: Carl Philipp Gottfried von Clausewitz
4. Awarded this black and white decoration.
ANSWER: Iron Cross [or Eisernes Kreuz]
5. Had this effective central planning body led at different times by two von Moltkes.
ANSWER: Prussian General Staff [or Great General Staff; or Grosser Generalstab]
6. Was defeated by Napoleon at these two battles of the Fourth Coalition.
ANSWER: Battles of Jena and Auerstedt
7. Defeated von Benedek's forces at this battle to end the Austro-Prussian war.
ANSWER: Battle of Koeniggraetz [or Battle of Sadowa]
8. Switched sides after this campaign when Yorck signed the Convention of Tauroggen.
ANSWER: Napoleon's invasion of Russia [or clear equivalents]
153-12-72-0910-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 7 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Fourth Quarter

1. The speaker of this poem describes "some heart once pregnant with celestial fire" and "hands that
the rod of empire might have swayed." Abraham Lincoln once said his early life could be succinctly
described by quoting this poem's line, "the short and simple (+) annals of the poor." The speaker of
this poem wonders if "some mute inglorious Milton" rests in the title location. Beginning "the (*)
curfew tolls the knell of parting day," for 10 points, name this poem that notes "the paths of glory lead but
to the grave" written by Thomas Gray.
ANSWER: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
196-12-72-09101

2. Mike Mansfield introduced the "two-track system" to avoid delays caused by this action.
Democratic members of the "Gang of 14" agreed not to do this except in "extraordinary
circumstances." For budget bills, this action can be avoided through (+) reconciliation. Rule 22
established the proportion of members necessary to stop this action, which was changed from
two-thirds to three-fifths in 1975. (*) Strom Thurmond holds the record for performing it, speaking for
over 24 hours in opposition to the Civil Rights Act of 1957. For 10 points, name this Senate tactic of
preventing legislation from being passed that is stopped by a vote for cloture.
ANSWER: filibuster
121-12-72-09102

3. The Landrum-Griffin Act required detailed financial reports to be prepared by these types of
organizations and contained a "bill of rights" for their members. John McClellan chaired a Senate
committee that investigated (+) "improper activities" in them, and those investigations brought
committee counsel Robert Kennedy to national attention. A 1947 law allowed these groups to be sued
for broken (*) contracts and required leaders to file affidavits declaring they were not Communists. That
law, which amended the earlier Wagner Act, was the Taft-Hartley Act. For 10 points, name these collective
bargaining organizations that include the UAW and AFL-CIO.
ANSWER: labor unions [or trade unions]
121-12-72-09103

4. This man bolstered the power of the intendants, and he arbitrated the Northern Peace by
negotiating the treaties of Oliva and Copenhagen. He ordered the construction of the College of the
Four Nations, and this man’s mansion is the present-day location of the (+) Bibliothèque Nationale.
This man rode between opposing armies at Casale and thwarted battle there by shouting “Peace,
peace!” He was accused by detractors of having a relationship with (*) Anne of Austria, and he was the
target of the Fronde. For 10 points, name this religious figure who served as an advisor during the early part
of the reign of Louis XIV.
ANSWER: Jules, Cardinal Mazarini [or Giulio Raimondo Mazzarino]
030-12-72-09104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 8 of 10 © HSAPQ

5. One ruler during this period issued the ill-conceived Edicts on Compassion for Living Things, which
made killing dogs a capital offense. Feudal lords in this period surrendered their family as hostages
and had (+) "alternate attendance" between the capital and their domains. "Dutch learning" became
popular during this period, though Portuguese missionaries were expelled and foreigners were not
allowed (*) in under the "locked country" policy. This period ensued after the "Warring States" era was
ended by the work of the three great unifiers and lasted until the mid-nineteenth century. For 10 points,
name this final shogunate in Japanese history.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate [or Edo Period]
080-12-72-09105

6. An apocryphal story says this man's real father was the wine merchant who later became his
adviser; he banished that merchant after discovering his part in the Lao Ai affair. Lu Beiwei was
replaced by (+) Li Si as his chancellor. This man exiled his son Fusu after Fusu disagreed with his
burning of (*) books and burying alive of 460 Confucian scholars. As king of one of the Seven Warring
States, this man defeated the other six and brought them under his rule. For 10 points, name this first
emperor of a unified China, whose mausoleum contains over 8,000 life-size terracotta soldiers.
ANSWER: Qin Shi Huangdi [or Zhao Zheng]
121-12-72-09106

7. One dubious account of this battle indicates that Moses Rose was the only soldier who refused to
demonstrate allegiance in trying times. George Kimble provided 32 men, known as the (+) Gonzalez
Rangers, at one point during this battle. A commander wrote "VICTORY OR DEATH" in a letter
preceding this battle; that man was William (*) Travis. This victory for Santa Anna resulted in the
deaths of knife-fighter James Bowie and frontiersman Davy Crockett. For 10 points, name this 1836 battle
in which the namesake mission in San Antonio was overrun by Mexican soldiers during the war for Texan
independence.
ANSWER: Battle of the Alamo
189-12-72-09107

8. A team from this collegiate conference went to an NCAA championship game under coach P.J.
Carlesimo. Another team from this conference won an NCAA championship with players like Ed
Pinckney and coach (+) Rollie Massimino. In 1985, this conference had three of the four Final Four
teams, including a team coached by John Thompson with center (*) Patrick Ewing. This conference is
set to add Houston and Memphis in 2013 after losing Syracuse and Pittsburgh to the ACC. For 10 points,
name this collegiate athletics conference that includes Connecticut and Georgetown.
ANSWER: Big East Conference
052-12-72-09108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 9 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Extra Questions

This leader made private schools locally funded in the Savary Bill, and decried Holocaust denial as a
criminal offense in the (GAY-so) Gayssot Act. After winning control of his party in the Epinay
Congress, he campaigned on the (+) 110 Propositions for France and abolished the death penalty via
the Badinter Act. His predecessor, Valery (*) (JEE-scar DAY-stahn) Giscard d'Estaing, called him a
"man of the past," and he temporarily managed a period of "cohabitation" with Jacques Chirac, who
succeeded him. For 10 points, name this longest-serving president of France, who was a member of the
Socialist Party.
ANSWER: Francois Maurice Marie Mitterrand
192-12-72-0910-1

This city's Old Arbat Avenue is lined with preserved historical buildings. Prospekt Mira and Park
Kultury are connected by the central 5 line on its Metro, which runs in a (+) circle. This city is
organized along the circular Boulevard Ring and Garden Ring. The Yauza river joins this city's
namesake river in its (*) Tagatsky district. Concrete skyscrapers called the Seven Sisters have dominated
its skyline since the Communist era. One church here is topped by nine onion domes of different colors.
For 10 points, name this city where Saint Basil's Cathedral abuts Red Square and the Kremlin.
ANSWER: Moscow [or Moskva]
104-12-72-0910-1

This country caused a war when one of its border sentries crossed into its southern neighbor in
search of a stray dog in 1925. The Zveno ran several coups in this country, which the battles of
Shipka and (+) Pleven helped liberate. It was forced to sign the Treaty of (NEW-yee) Neuilly under
Boris III. As a principality, its size was reduced by the (*) 1878 Congress of Berlin, revising the Treaty
of San Stefano by which it broke free due to the Russo-Turkish War. For 10 points, name this member of
the Central Powers, a Balkan nation that often fought neighboring Greece.
ANSWER: Republic of Bulgaria [or Republika Balgariya]
104-12-72-0910-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 10 of 10 © HSAPQ

