2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 13
First Quarter

13

1. This man wrote a pamphlet about his trial for libel against Francis Todd. This supporter of the “come
outer” doctrine co-edited a publication with Benjamin Lundy. He was saved from a lynching by Boston
Mayor Theodore Lyman, and the Georgia state legislature offered a five thousand dollar reward for the
arrest of this man. This co-editor of The Genius of Universal Emancipation supported secession with his
motto “No Union with slaveholders.” For 10 points, name this abolitionist who published the newspaper
The Liberator.
ANSWER: William Lloyd Garrison
030-12-72-13101

2. Mark Boda performed the Wall Street bombing in retaliation for the arrest of these people. Albert
Hamilton replaced the barrel on one of these people’s guns in court, and Anatole France’s "Appeal to the
American People" was on their behalf. One of them happened to look very similar to Joe Morelli. Webster
Thayer presided over their trial, and Celestino Madeiros, a member of Morelli’s gang, confessed to their
crime. For 10 points, name these two Italian anarchists, executed in 1927 for the Braintree murder, which
they may or may not have committed.
ANSWER: Ferdinando Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti
187-12-72-13102

3. While staying at the home of James Brydges, this composer wrote his eleven "Chandos" anthems. Corelli
inspired this composer to write his own set of twelve concerti grossi, which was published by his exclusive
printer John Walsh. This composer wrote the movements "La Paix" and "La Rejouissance" for a suite that
commemorated the signing of the Treaty of Aix-La-Chapelle. For 10 points, name this composer of Music
for the Royal Fireworks and the oratorio Messiah.
ANSWER: George Frederic Handel
004-12-72-13103

4. Before this event , a telegram was mistranslated as "Letter delivered. All right." Horace Porter would
refuse the instigators of this event, who later enlisted Abel Corbin to their cause. This event would occur
after the government sold $4 million worth of a certain substance that Jay Gould and James Fisk attempted
to corner the market for. For 10 points, name this event wherein gold prices plummeted on a certain day of
the week, a major scandal during the Grant administration.
ANSWER: Black Friday of 1869 [accept Fisk-Gould scandal before mentioned]
201-12-72-13104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 1 of 13 © HSAPQ

5. This leader was falsely rumored to be dead in a battle fought against a commander who was eventually
nicknamed "The Sword of God," and he was advised by a Persian named Salman to build a trench in
another battle. This leader signed the treaty of Hudaybiyyah with the powerful tribe of Quraysh. This
leader's wives included Ayesha and Khadija, and the khalifah who followed him was Abu Bakr, as opposed
to Ali. For 10 points, identify this leader who was forced to flee from Mecca to Medinah as he sought to
propagate the message of Islam.
ANSWER: Muhammad ibn Abdullah
189-12-72-13105

6. One part of this area was cordoned off to become the Umschlagplatz train station. This area was home to
fighters called the ZZW, which worked with Marek Edelman’s ZOB to stage an insurgency. The
Grossaktion targeted this area, where a mass suicide occurred in a bunker called Mila 18. Jurgen Stroop
burnt down this area block by block. For 10 points, name this neighborhood whose residents were deported
to Treblinka during and after a 1943 anti-Nazi revolt in the capital of Poland.
ANSWER: Warsaw ghetto [prompt Warsaw alone]
104-12-72-13106

7. In this colony, Chief Tom Blunt agreed to fight against Chief Hancock with Edward Hyde during the
Tuscarora War. William Hooper, John Penn, and Joseph Hewes were allowed to sign the Declaration of
Independence when this colony approved the Halifax Resolves. A future governor of this state, Benjamin
Williams, received decorations for fighting under Nathanael Greene in this state against General
Cornwallis. It was the site of Daniel Morgan's victory at the Battle of Cowpens. For 10 points, the Battle of
Guilford Court House was fought in what colony’s county of Greensboro?
ANSWER: Province of North Carolina
149-12-72-13107

8. This passage notes that "men can endure to hear others praised only so long as they can persuade
themselves of their own ability to equal the actions recounted." Its speaker claims that his people do good
"not from calculations of expediency, but in the confidence of liberality" and have habits "not of labour but
of ease" and courage "not of art but of nature." Followed by the description of a plague that brought about
"great licentiousness," this passage extols the virtues of democracy and celebrates those who died for it. For
10 points, name this passage from Thucydides, a speech given by Pericles to honor dead Athenians.
ANSWER: the Funeral Oration of Pericles [prompt on the History of the Peloponnesian War]
080-12-72-13108

9. In this country, an attempt to raise subsidies for education by Leo Collard led to the School Struggle.
Constitutional reform in this country led to the creation of a federal state when its government passed the
St. Michael’s Agreement. This country’s king (bow-DWAN) Baudouin submitted to the wishes of Patrice
Lumumba and granted independence to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This country has been ruled
by three different Leopolds. For 10 points, name this country that suffers from tension between its two
regions of Flanders and Wallonia.
ANSWER: Belgium
149-12-72-13109

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 2 of 13 © HSAPQ

10. During this event, one man stated that he had the "purpose of preventing bigots and ignoramuses" from
controlling one entity, and at one point during this trial, Dudley Field Malone stated, "There is never a duel
with the truth." This case resulted in a one hundred dollar fine for an individual found of violating the
Butler Act, and this Tennessee case pitted Clarence Darrow and William Jennings Bryan against one
another. For 10 points, identify this 1925 court case in which a high school biology teacher was found
guilty of teaching evolution in a state-funded school.
ANSWER: Scopes Monkey Trial [or Monkey Trial; or State of Tennessee v. John Thomas Scopes]
189-12-72-13110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 3 of 13 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 13
Second Quarter

1. The first score of this game was a touchdown pass caught by Boyd Dowler, and the first half ended with
a field goal kicked by Danny Villanueva. An insightful interview given after this game launched Don
Meredith’s broadcasting career. This game was won on the play "Brown right 31 wedge," where a
successful block of Jethro Pugh cleared the way for Bart Starr. The mouthpieces of the on-site marching
band froze to players’ lips in a wind chill that approached seventy below zero in, for 10 points, what
storied game between the Cowboys and Packers that determined the 1967 champion of the NFL?
ANSWER: the Ice Bowl [or the 1967 NFL Championship Game before it is read; do not accept any
answers containing the phrase “Super Bowl”]
BONUS. The Packers team that won the Ice Bowl went on to defeat this AFL champion in Super Bowl II,
less than a year after they were purchased by a group including Al Davis.
ANSWER: Oakland Raiders [or Oakland Raiders]
019-12-72-13101

2. Members of this religion can follow a mostly vegan diet called Ital, which is used to increase their livity.
Some members of this religion adapt a dialect known as Iyaric. This religion uses such terms as overstand
and downpression. This religion received its name from the original name of Haile Selassie. For 10 points,
name this religion that worships Jah and smokes ganja, which started in Jamaica and whose adherents often
wear dreadlocks.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
BONUS: This man had an important effect on the founding of Rastafarianism, though he was more
concerned with starting the Black Star Line to return black people to Africa.
ANSWER: Marcus Moziah Garvey
023-12-72-13102

3. This leader's forces killed Sam "Mosquito" Bockarie, a commander of RUF. This man returned to his
home country after escaping from a Massachusetts prison, where he served time for embezzling funds
while head of the General Services Agency. Opposed by the rebel groups LURD and MODEL, he gave Pat
Robertson the right to mine for diamonds in his country and sold arms during the Sierra Leone Civil War.
For 10 points, name this warlord and president of Liberia from 1997 to 2003.
ANSWER: Charles Ghankay Taylor
BONUS: What current president of Liberia and Nobel laureate lost the 1997 presidential election to
Taylor?
ANSWER: Ellen Johnson Sirleaf [or Ellen Johnson Sirleaf]
052-12-72-13103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 4 of 13 © HSAPQ

4. This route was marked by planting mustard seeds, which sprouted yellow flowers along its length. Its
path is currently marked by bells on shepherd’s crooks. Built as part of a campaign to establish dominion
by New Spain and expel Jesuits, it linked two pueblos, four presidios, and twenty-one missions. For 10
points, name this road from Sonoma to San Diego, which was built by Catholic missionaries in California
and was given a name in honor of the Spanish monarchy meaning “the royal road.”
ANSWER: El Camino Real [prompt on royal road before it is read]
BONUS. Identify the founder of the Mission San Diego and eight other missions along the Camino Real,
who is known as the "apostle of California."
ANSWER: Junipero Serra
019-12-72-13104

5. During one battle of this war, the defending side hid behind the "Ring of Iron," but lost upon heavy
artillery bombardment. A large supply of gold sent to Moscow during this war bought Russian aid; other
foreigners fought serving under the Abraham Lincoln and International Brigades. The Luftwaffe made its
debut in this war when the Condor Legion bombed Guernica. For 10 points, name this 1936 to 1939
conflict that led to the rule of Francisco Franco.
ANSWER: Spanish Civil War
BONUS: Miguel Primo de Rivera founded what fascist political organization that fought on the Nationalist
side during the war?
ANSWER: Falange Española de las Juntas de Ofensiva Nacional Sindicalista [or Spanish Phalanx of the
Assemblies of the National Syndicalist Offensive]
020-12-72-13105

6. A man who took the pseudonym “Tissot,” Gracchus Babeuf, was executed by this government for
leading the Conspiracy of the Equals. This government directed the creation of the Parthenopaean Republic
and signed the Treaty of San Ildefonso with Spain. Its members included Le Tourneur and Carnot, and it
was instituted by the Constitution of the Year III. For 10 points, name this government that ruled France
from 1795 to 1799 via a set of five governors, which preceded Napoleon’s Consulate.
ANSWER: Directory [or Directoire]
BONUS: The Directory put down the Royalist revolt in this region of the French countryside. This region’s
uprising was connected to the Chouannerie and included the Viree de Galarne operation.
ANSWER: War in the Vendee
192-12-72-13106

7. The protagonist of this work is pursued by the Black Cook, and takes a job at the Onion Cellar Club,
where people go to cry. Characters in this work include the asylum-keeper Bruno and the circus-master
Bebra, with whom the main character tours during World War II. The protagonist of this novel can shatter
glass with his voice, an allusion to Kristallnacht, and deals with the evils of the Nazi Party. For 10 points,
identify this Gunter Grass novel about the dwarf Oskar Matzerath.
ANSWER: The Tin Drum [or Die Blechtrommel]
BONUS: Oskar witnesses an attack on a post office run by this country, the modern location of Danzig.
ANSWER: Poland [or Polska]
191-12-72-13107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 5 of 13 © HSAPQ

8. In one account, these military-exempt people are said to spend twenty years learning poetic verses by
heart, and have yearly meetings among the Carnutes. Cathbad was one of these people, who created large
wooden effigies that they stuffed people inside of and then burned, according to Julius Caesar. Pliny
described a gathering where they used a sickle to cut mistletoe down from oak trees, which they held
sacred. For 10 points, name these priests of the Celtic peoples.
ANSWER: druids
BONUS: Druids presided over what Celtic holiday, a precursor to Halloween, in which the spirit world was
held to be especially close?
ANSWER: Samhain [accept (SAH-win), (SAH-vin), or more phonetic pronunciations]
104-12-72-13108

9. Among those who expressed support for his man were his friend, Joe Oliver, and his neighbor, Frank
Taaffe, and this man was first apprehended by Tim Smith and Randy Smith. After Craig Sonner and Hal
Uhrig withdrew from representing this man, Mark O'Mara took over this man's case, which significantly
involves the deceased son of Sabrina Fulton. This Sanford resident was allegedly told that he did not need
to pursue a hooded youth, but did so anyway. For 10 points, identify this Florida man who, in February
2012, fatally shot Trayvon Martin.
ANSWER: George Zimmerman
BONUS: George Zimmerman's case was heavily embroiled in discussions of this provision in Florida law.
This three-word phrase describes a law in which a person may be justified in using force in the face of a
threat.
ANSWER: stand your ground law(s)
189-12-72-13109

10. Many aims of this movement were codified in the 1892 Bases of Manresa. The supporters of this cause
prefer a yellow and red striped flag with either a red or blue triangle containing a white star. In response to
the Constitutional Court's decision to reinterpret a 2006 statute, over 1 million people took to the streets to
support this cause in July 2010. After the death by firing squad of (loo-EES com-PAN-iss) Lluis
Companys, supporters of this cause were forced to operate underground until 1975, when Franco died. For
10 points, name this cause that seeks, at the very least, autonomy of a region of Spain with capital
Barcelona.
ANSWER: Catalan independence [or Catalanism; or Catalan autonomy; or Catalan nationalism; or
Catalan seperatism ; accept any answer that replaces "Catalan" with "Catalonian"; prompt on
independence from Spain and the like]
BONUS: This other ethnic group, who speak an isolated language and live in Northern Spain, also seek
autonomy.
ANSWER: Basque [or vascos; or Euskaldunak]
020-12-72-13110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 6 of 13 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 13
Third Quarter

GREAT SOCIETY
Answer the following about the Great Society.
1. The Great Society was a set of domestic programs proposed by what president?
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson [prompt on Johnson, accept LBJ]
2. What act of the Great Society passed in 1964 ended racial segregation in schools?
ANSWER: Civil Rights Act [of 1964]
3. What act authorized its namesake program now known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program?
ANSWER: Food Stamp Act (of 1964) [or Food Stamp Program]
4. What act of 1965 outlawed tactics used to disenfranchise African Americans?
ANSWER: Voting Rights Act (of 1965)
5. What other act of 1965 created Medicare and Medicaid?
ANSWER: Social Security Act (of 1965)
6. What act defined its namesake term as "an area where the earth and community of life are untrammeled
by man"?
ANSWER: Wilderness Act
7. What act required products to provide information regarding the name and place of business of the
manufacturer, packer, or distributor?
ANSWER: Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
8. What program founded by Jule Sugarman provides education to low-income families?
ANSWER: Head Start
201-12-72-1310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 7 of 13 © HSAPQ

HISTORY OF IRELAND
In Ireland, in and around the 19th century, what...
1. ...crop suffered a blight, leading to the Great Famine?
ANSWER: the potato crop
2. ...conservative PM repealed the Corn Laws to help those suffering the famine?
ANSWER: Sir Robert Peel
3. ...comic author wrote plays like The Importance of Being Earnest?
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde
4. ...founder of Fianna Fail helped lead the Irish independence movement?
ANSWER: Eamon de Valera
5. ...police force, named for their uniform colors, attacked civilians in incidents like the Croke Park
Massacre?
ANSWER: the Black and Tans
6. ...1882 attacks carried out by the "Invincibles" killed Frederick Cavendish and Thomas Burke?
ANSWER: Phoenix Park Murders
7. ..."emancipator" and first Catholic MP fought for Catholic Emancipation?
ANSWER: Daniel O'Connell
8. ...founder of the Society of United Irishmen led a 1798 rebellion?
ANSWER: Theobold Wolfe Tone
080-12-72-1310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 8 of 13 © HSAPQ

MUSLIMS
Which Islamic historical figure...
1. Was the successor of Nasser as president of Egypt who negotiated the Camp David Accords with Israel?
ANSWER: Anwar Sadat
2. Was the fourth caliph, first convert to Islam, and first imam according to Shias?
ANSWER: Ali
3. Brought the Ottoman Empire to its apex during his reign from 1520 to 1566?
ANSWER: Suleiman I [or Suleiman the Magnificent; or Suleiman the Lawgiver; prompt on Suleiman]
4. Established the Mughal Empire?
ANSWER: Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babur
5. Led a revolt against the British in Sudan after styling himself after the final redeemer in Islam?
ANSWER: Mahdi [or Muhammad Ahmad bin Abd Allah; do not accept or prompt on "Muhammad"
alone]
6. Defected from the Ottoman Empire and proclaimed himself khedive of Egypt and Sudan?
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali Pasha al-Masud ibn Agha [or Muhammad Ali Basha; or Mehmet Ali; do not
accept or prompt on "Muhammad" alone]
7. Terrorized Mediterranean waters from his base in Algiers and took his name from the color of his facial
hair?
ANSWER: Hayreddin Barbarossa [or Khizr Reis; or Khair ad-Din]
8. Known as "The Thunderbolt" was captured by Tamerlane's forces at the Battle of Ankara?
ANSWER: Bayezid I
020-12-72-1310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 9 of 13 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 13
Fourth Quarter

1. The capture of the corregidor Antonio Arriaga on charges of cruelty in this present-day nation
sparked a (kuh-SEE-kay) cacique-led revolt here. A reformer of this country, Victor Haya de la
Torre founded the (+) Aprista movement in exile in 1924. This country’s independence was achieved
through the battles of Junin and (*) Ayacucho, and this present-day country was the location of the
revolt of Tupac Amaru II. In the 1990's, it was led by an ethnically Japanese president who combated the
Maoist Shining Path. For 10 points, name this Latin American country once led by Alberto Fujimori, the
home of the Incas.
ANSWER: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru]
030-12-72-13101

2. While serving in this post, future-Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan condemned a measure that
declared that “Zionism is racism.” Jeane Kirkpatrick presented audio obtained from the (+) Soviet
shooting of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 while serving in this position. Resolution 242 was drafted by
Arthur Goldberg in this capacity in response to the (*) Six-Day War, and Adlai Stevenson presented
evidence of Soviet bases in Cuba during the Missile Crisis while serving in this position. For 10 points,
name this diplomatic post held by individuals appointed by the president to advance American interests at
an international organization based in New York.
ANSWER: United States Ambassador to the United Nations [or United States Permanent
Representative to the United Nations]
030-12-72-13102

3. A treaty negotiated by Anson Burlingame encouraged emigration from this country to the United
States. Caleb Cushing negotiated a treaty that gave the U.S. “most favored nation” status in trade.
Denis (+) Kearney gave speaking tours attacking people from this place, and the Knights of Labor
incited a riot that killed 28 people from here in the Rock Springs massacre. Immigrants from this
country were often processed on (*) Angel Island and provided cheap labor for the Transcontinental
Railroad. For 10 points, name this Asian country whose emigrants were excluded from the United States in
an 1882 law.
ANSWER: China [or Qing Empire]
121-12-72-13103

4. Eric XIV's extensive campaign to accomplish this goal involved sending his brother John to throw
silver to the poor of London. Another nobleman was rumored to have killed Amy Robsart as part of
his plan to do this. The poem "On Monsieur's Departure" concerns (+) Francois, Duke of Alencon's
failure to accomplish this action. Thomas Seymour's scandalous attempt to do this led to his
execution; more reasonable candidates for this role included (*) Philip II of Spain and the Earl of
Leicester, Robert Dudley. For 10 points, name this never-accomplished feat, whose performer would have
become king in the court of a virgin queen.
ANSWER: marrying Elizabeth I [or becoming the king of Elizabeth I; prompt on sleeping with
Elizabeth I; prompt on becoming the king of England; do not accept or prompt on "killing Elizabeth I"]
192-12-72-13104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 10 of 13 © HSAPQ

5. John Needham offered experimental proof of this principle, but his conclusions were disputed by
Lazzaro Spallanzani. This idea was countered in an experiment which used a flask with a (+) bent
neck, and turned cloudy only when the flask was flipped upside-down. One of the first challenges to
this theory was made by Francesco Redi, who discovered that (*) maggots do not appear on meat
covered with a cloth. Louis Pasteur conclusively debunked this theory, which was replaced with the theory
of biogenesis. For 10 points, name this obsolete principle that living things can originate from non-living
starting material.
ANSWER: spontaneous generation
190-12-72-13105

6. The Boo Hag is a cultural icon among this people, who were the subjects of the Port Royal
Experiment. Members of this culture inhabit Saint Helena Island and speak a language called (+)
Geechee. One man named for this group was hanged in 1822 for assisting (*) Denmark Vesey. This
culture centered on rice cultivation, and many of its members hailed from Sierra Leone or Guinea. For 10
points, name this African-American ex-slave culture from coastal South Carolina.
ANSWER: gullah culture [or Geechee before mention; prompt on "slaves"]
190-12-72-13106

7. After this man's death, one leader stated, "we will not run to him for advice and seek solace from
him, and that is a terrible blow"; that speech memorializing this man begins with the phrase, "the
(+) light has gone out of our lives." This man's strike at the Yerwada Jail led to the signing of the
Poona Pact, and he was assassinated by a nationalist named (*) Naturam Godse. This man's trip from
Sabarmati to Dandi, called the Salt March, was based on his principle of "soul-force." For 10 points,
identify this satyagraha proponent, a pivotal, nonviolent activist in India's independence movement.
ANSWER: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi [accept Mahatma Gandhi]
189-12-72-13107

8. One member of this group wrote the children’s book The Story of Colors. That leader of this group
is known as “Delegate Zero” and traveled across the country in “The Other Campaign.” Its “Sixth
Declaration of the Lacandon Jungle” protested globalization. This group’s spokesman is the masked
(+) “Subcomandante Marcos,” and it went public the day NAFTA went into effect. Its beliefs
synthesize traditional (*) Mayan practices with Marxism. For 10 points, name this Mexican revolutionary
group based in Chiapas, whose name references a historic revolutionary.
ANSWER: Zapatista Army of National Liberation [or Zapatistas; or EZLN; or Ejercito Zapatista de
Liberacion Nacional]
052-12-72-13108

9. In this city, women working at the Bryant and May Factory launched a strike over the use of white
phosphorus in matches. Joseph Bazalgette designed a new sewer system for this city after the
introduction of flush toilets here led to the (+) "Great Stink;" sanitary conditions in this city also
caused an outbreak of cholera that was mapped by John Snow. The first rapid transit system was
created for this city. Joseph Paxton designed the (*) "Crystal Palace" for the Great Exhibition in this
city, which was policed by the Metropolitan Police Force, or "bobbies." For 10 points, name this largest
city of Victorian England.
ANSWER: London
080-12-72-13109

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 11 of 13 © HSAPQ

10. These structures are supported by pendentives. The foundation of these structures is called a
drum. A cross on top of a ball crowns the cupola of some of these structures. Eight white ribs frame
the largest brick one of these ever built. The (+) Hagia Sophia's collapsed after a 558 earthquake.
Buckminster Fuller developed a design for (*) geodesic types of these structures, and Brunelleschi
designed one for the Florence Cathedral. For 10 points, identify these architectural hemispherical
structures, which cap structures like St. Peter's Basilica and the Hagia Sophia.
ANSWER: dome [prompt on roof]
066-12-72-13110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 12 of 13 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 13
Extra Questions

This man realized that the silicate compound kieselguhr could be used in his best-known discovery.
This figure became head of the Bofors iron company in 1894 until his death. He read that he was a
(+) "merchant of death" in an erroneous obituary published in 1888. This inventor of (*) gelignite
and ballistite is better known for creating a safe way to package nitroglycerin. For 10 points, name this
Swedish inventor of dynamite, who used his personal fortune to fund some namesake prizes.
ANSWER: Alfred Nobel
190-12-72-1310-1

In one appearance, the founder of this group is a member of a Himalayan race ruled by Golobulus.
It’s not M.A.R.S., but in a 2009 film, the head of this group was named Dr. Rex Lewis and was
played by (+) Joseph Gordon-Levitt. The head of this group typically wears a hood or a silver mask
and allies himself with villains like Zartan, the Baroness, and (*) Destro. Its subordinates include the
Python Patrol members and the Vipers. For 10 points, name this serpent-themed terrorist organization
which combats G.I. Joe.
ANSWER: Cobra [or Cobra Command]
052-12-72-1310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

13

Page 13 of 13 © HSAPQ

