2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 12
First Quarter

12

1. This leader noted the unimportance of deaths due to exhaustion during the construction of a "tank ditch"
in describing "a page of glory in our history." This man assumed his most notable position after the
resignation of Erhard Heiden, and appointed Reinhard Heydrich as the chief executive of the SD. This man
was responsible for setting up the first concentration camp at Dachau. For 10 points, identify this man who
was actively involved in orchestrating the Holocaust, a Nazi leader of the SS.
ANSWER: Heinrich Himmler
189-13-94-12101

2. This myth system honors a legendary monarch who refused to enter his home three times during a
thirteen-year project to control flooding. This myth system believed that the companion of its moon
goddess is using a mortar and pestle to prepare the elixir of life; the name of that moon formation in this
myth system, the Jade Rabbit, was used in 2013 for a lunar explorer. For 10 points, identify this myth
system which remembers Yu the Great's carving of the Three Gorges.
ANSWER: Chinese mythology [or any answer mentioning the folk traditions of China; or Daoist
mythology]
019-13-94-12102

3. A part of this civil war included a fight for independence in an exclave after the Alvor Agreement was
reached. Following the death of president Agostinho Neto during this civil war, Jose Eduardo dos Santos
came to power. In this war, the Huambo-based FLNA and the Jonas Savimbi-led UNITA fought against the
Communist MPLA. For 10 points, name this civil war that lasted until 2002 after it started in 1975
following Portugal's withdrawal from a country on the west coast of Africa.
ANSWER: Angolan Civil War
023-13-94-12103

4. The P2 Masonic Lodge is believed to be partly responsible for the death of a holder of this position. A
person holding this position refused to extradite the Achille (ah-KEE-lay) Lauro hijackers to the United
States, and was later indicted as part of the "Bribesville" system uncovered by the "Clean Hands"
investigation. For 10 points, name this political position held Benedetto Craxi and by a man kidnapped by
the Red Brigades during the Years of Lead (LED), Aldo Moro.
ANSWER: Prime Minister of Italy [prompt on partial answer; do not accept "President of Italy"]
048-13-94-12104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 1 of 12

5. William Byrd named this area during a larger survey, and it contains Lake Drummond, the subject of a
poem by Thomas Moore. It is the setting and subtitle of the novel Dred by Harriet Beecher Stowe, about a
slave who escapes to this area, as many real-life slaves did. For 10 points, name this area, once partially
mapped by George Washington, which extends from Norfolk to Elizabeth City across the Virginia-North
Carolina border.
ANSWER: Great Dismal Swamp
019-13-94-12105

6. During a siege on this island, people were burned to death in a church by John Hewson and prisoners led
by Arthur Aston were murdered. A parliament for this territory could only be assembled with the approval
of the Privy Council according to Poyning's Law, which was named for a Lord Lieutenant of this island.
The sieges of Drogheda (DRAH-geh-duh) and Limerick were part of Oliver Cromwell's attempt to conquer
this island. For 10 points, name this Roman Catholic island long controlled by Britain.
ANSWER: Ireland
149-13-94-12106

7. Some translations of this novel do not fully translate the portions that were written not in the author’s
native language, but in French. This novel's narrative is interspersed with its author's theories about history
and individual greatness. The climax of this novel is a fictionalization of the Battle of Borodino. This novel
follows the fates of many members of the Rostov and Bezukhov families during the Napoleonic Wars. For
10 points, name this epic novel by Leo Tolstoy.
ANSWER: War and Peace [or Voyna i Mir]
014-13-94-12107

8. This event was investigated by Dartmouth College president John G. Kemeny. During this event,
Governor Dick Thornburgh ordered the evacuation of pregnant women and young children. It occurred
twelve days after the release of a film with a similar plot, The China Syndrome. This event led to about
forty thousand gallons of radioactive waste being released into the Susquehanna River. For 10 points, name
this March 1979 event, a partial nuclear meltdown at a reactor in Pennsylvania.
ANSWER: Three Mile Island accident
052-13-94-12108

9. This man got his start in politics as editor of the left-wing newspaper The Twentieth Century. He was
criticized by Joseph McCarthy for giving jobs to subversives expelled from the American civil service and
by Joseph Stalin for his endorsement of the Korean War, leading to his 1952 resignation, after which he
became county administrator of Oslo. For 10 points, name this predecessor of Dag Hammarskjold, the first
Secretary-General of the United Nations.
ANSWER: Trygve Lie
019-13-94-12109

10. This man's account of his spiritual growth can be found in his "Experiencia." He was impeached but
acquitted following the election of a militia officer. While onboard the Arbella, this man gave the sermon
"A Model of Christian Charity," in which he used the phrase "city upon a hill" to describe his future home.
Under his leadership, dissidents such as Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson were banished. For 10
points, name the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
ANSWER: John Winthrop
140-13-94-12110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 2 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 12
Second Quarter

1. The founder of this group owned a home in Bedford Hills, New York, called Stepping Stones. An early
leader in it was a nun called Sister Ignatia. This group was founded in 1935 by Dr. Bob Smith and Bill
Wilson, also known as "Bill W." Members occasionally refer to themselves as "friends of Bill," and its Big
Book requires participants to honor a Higher Power. For 10 points, name this group which uses the Twelve
Step program to help people become sober.
ANSWER: Alcoholics Anonymous [or AA]
BONUS: Early positive articles about AA were featured in what American magazine, for which Norman
Rockwell produced more than three hundred covers?
ANSWER: The Saturday Evening Post
052-13-94-12101

2. This incident included an attack led by the Fifteenth Hussars and Cheshire Volunteers. William Hulton
spurred this incident by ordering the arrest of Henry Hunt. It resulted directly in the passage of the Six Acts
and occurred at a sixty-thousand person gathering in support of election reform in 1819. For 10 points,
name this massacre in England in which hundreds of people were injured while peaceably assembled on St.
Peter's Fields.
ANSWER: Peterloo Massacre
BONUS: The Peterloo Massacre occurred in what English city, which grew quickly during the Industrial
Revolution because of its booming textile industry?
ANSWER: Manchester
023-13-94-12102

3. While working for this organization, Herbert Bayer designed a capital letter-free typeface used in its
promotions. Its other employees included the first head of Black Mountain College, Josef Albers, and
constructivist Laszlo Moholy-Nagy (MO-hole-ee-noyj). This institute employed Paul Klee (CLAY) and
Wassily Kandinsky until it closed under the defiant leadership of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. For 10
points, name this German school of design founded by Walter Gropius and closed by the Nazis in 1933.
ANSWER: the Bauhaus
BONUS: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe also designed what house near the Fox River in Illinois, whose facade
consists of panes of clear glass?
ANSWER: Farnsworth House
080-13-94-12103

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 3 of 12

4. The bill that enabled this program was officially titled "An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the
United States." This program was originally blocked by the Johnson Act of 1934 and the Neutrality Act of
1939. As a precursor to this program, fifty destroyers were built and given away several months before the
attack on Pearl Harbor. For 10 points, name this program which President Franklin D. Roosevelt used to
send war supplies to Britain while remaining neutral.
ANSWER: Lend-Lease program [or Lend-Lease act; or Lend-Lease bill]
BONUS: The Lend-Lease program was created through the effort of what advisor to FDR, who also started
and oversaw the WPA?
ANSWER: Harry Lloyd Hopkins
239-13-94-12104

5. This school's football team succeeded in the late 1990s with coach Hal Mumme's Air Raid offense and
quarterback Tim Couch. The school lost to a Don Haskins-coached squad in the 1966 NCAA tournament in
a game pitting this school's five white starters against Texas Western's five black starters. Nerlens Noel was
a recent star for this school, which plays in Rupp Arena. For 10 points, name this SEC school that has the
most all-time wins in college basketball and is coached by John Calipari.
ANSWER: University of Kentucky [or UK]
BONUS: "The Miners" is the nickname for what Texas university that was formerly known as Texas
Western?
ANSWER: University of Texas-El Paso [or UTEP]
030-13-94-12105

6. An etude by this composer featuring extensive left hand arpeggios was apocryphally inspired by the
failure of the November Uprising in his home country. He perfected a genre developed by John Field, the
nocturne, and wrote a short piece inaccurately nicknamed for the amount of time it takes to play it at the
proper speed. For 10 points, name this Polish pianist who composed the "Heroic" Polonaise and the
"Minute" waltz.
ANSWER: Frederic Chopin
BONUS: Chopin wrote over fifty short pieces in what genre, a kind of Polish folk dance?
ANSWER: mazurkas
014-13-94-12106

7. Future Little Bighorn survivor Charles Rudio escaped Devil's Island after conspiring to assassinate this
man with Felice Orsini. Francois-Vincent Raspail tried to overthrow this man, who was supported by
general Saint (SAHN) Arnoud. While in exile in England, this man met his mistress Harriet Howard. His
government fell after he was captured at the Battle of Sedan during the Franco-Prussian War. For 10 points,
name this Emperor of France from 1848 to 1871.
ANSWER: Napoleon III [or Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte; do not accept or prompt on "Napoleon"]
BONUS: Napoleon III hired Baron Haussmann to perform what general action, as part of which
Haussmann built the Parc Montsouris (park MOON-suh-REE) and Bois de Boulogne (bwah day
BOO-loin)?
ANSWER: renovation of Paris [or rebuilding of Paris; or redesigning of Paris; or other obvious
equivalents; prompt on partial answer]
186-13-94-12107

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 4 of 12

8. This program relied on an executable file called "Gameover Zeus." This program initially presented itself
as a "customer complaint" and then as a report on a problem with a deposited check, alongside a
countdown timer and a notice about destroying a "private key" unless MoneyPak or Bitcoin fees were paid.
For 10 points, name this "ransomware" which infected half a million Windows computers from September
to December of 2013.
ANSWER: Cryptolocker
BONUS: Cryptolocker reports were provided by the "Secureworks" arm of what Austin-based computer
manufacturer, which was reprivatized and purchased by its eponymous founder in 2013?
ANSWER: Dell, Inc.
019-13-94-12108

9. In 1914, Josephus Daniels issued an order banning members of this organization from consuming
alcohol, which is lifted only on designated situations known as "Beer Day." An influential
nineteenth-century leader of this organization bought and restored Monticello, after working to end this
institution's practice of flogging. For 10 points, name this organization, which employed Uriah Levy as a
commodore and won battles such as Manila Bay.
ANSWER: the United States Navy [or the American Navy; or the Navy of the USA, etc.; prompt on
partial answer; prompt on United States military, etc.]
BONUS: What commander of the Olympia was famously told "you may fire when you are ready" by
George Dewey to begin the Battle of Manila Bay?
ANSWER: Charles Vernon Gridley
019-13-94-12109

10. King Sancho the Fat visited Hasdai ibn Shaprut in this city to cure his obesity. During the reign of
Augustus, this city was the capital of Baetica, and the birthplace of Seneca the Younger. This city was
rebuilt by Abd al-Rahman I after its capture from the Visigoths. A Catholic cathedral in this city was
formerly a mosque called the Mezquita before the Reconquista converted it. For 10 points, name this
capital of an Ummayyad caliphate in the southern portion of the Iberian peninsula.
ANSWER: Cordoba [or Cordova]
BONUS: Muslims who converted to Christianity after La Reconquista were given what name?
ANSWER: "moriscos"
239-13-94-12110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 5 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 12
Third Quarter

CHARLES V
Holy Roman Emperor Charles V…
1. Was also known by what number as King of Spain?
ANSWER: Charles I
2. Led what Imperial dynasty?
ANSWER: Hapsburgs
3. Was succeeded as Emperor by a brother of what name, also held by two Emperors who ruled during
nearly all of the Thirty Years War?
ANSWER: Ferdinand
4. Abdicated his thrones and spent the last three years of his life in Yuste at what sort of place?
ANSWER: a monastery
5. Oversaw what 1555 agreement that established the principle of "cuius regio, eius religio" in the Empire?
ANSWER: Peace of Augsburg [or Diet of Augsburg]
6. Lost much of his Hungarian land to the Ottomans at what 1526 battle?
ANSWER: Battle of Mohacs (MO-hotch, or phonetic English pronunciations)
7. Took the King of France prisoner at what 1525 battle in Italy?
ANSWER: Battle of Pavia
8. Convened what 1550 colloquy between Las Casas and Sepulveda over treatment of Indians in the New
World colonies?
ANSWER: Valladolid debate
019-13-94-1210-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 6 of 12

WARRING STATES PERIOD
Who or what was the…
1. Author of the military textbook The Art of War?
ANSWER: Sun Tzu
2. River known as "China's sorrow" whose tributaries were diverted to destroy the walls of Wei?
ANSWER: Yellow River
3. Political philosophy advocated by Han Feizi, stressing the need for rules and order?
ANSWER: legalism
4. Period before the Warring States period, named for a chronicle from the state of Lu?
ANSWER: Spring and Autumn period
5. State and dynasty that rose after winning the Warring States and unifying China?
ANSWER: Qin (CHIN) [do not accept "Qing" (CHING)]
6. Ranged weapon that allowed the replacement of chariots with infantry during the Warring States?
ANSWER: crossbow [prompt on bow]
7. Writer of the Records of the Grand Historian during the Han Dynasty, which covers the Warring States
period?
ANSWER: Sima Qian (chee-AHN) [do not accept "Sima Guang"]
8. State commanded by King Dao, sharing its name with a later state that had a “contention” with the Han?
ANSWER: Chu
048-13-94-1210-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 7 of 12

GREEK RELIGION
Name the component of the religion of ancient Greece that was a...
1. Thunderbolt-wielding chief god of the Greek pantheon.
ANSWER: Zeus [or Jupiter]
2. Temple on the Athenian acropolis dedicated to Athena as virgin
ANSWER: the Parthenon
3. Sanctuary around Elis that hosted a famous set of games in honor of the gods every four years.
ANSWER: Olympia
4. Town in Attica that held a set of "mysteries" in honor of Demeter.
ANSWER: Eleusis [or the Eleusinian Mysteries]
5. Poem by Hesiod describing the genealogies of the Greek gods.
ANSWER: the Theogony
6. Strain of mystical philosophy represented by the writers Porphyry (POR-fuh-ree) and Plotinus
(ploh-TIE-nuss).
ANSWER: Neo-Platonism
7. Athenian festival that was the setting for performances of tragedies and comedies.
ANSWER: the Great Dionysia
8. Festival in which Spartan youths ritually killed helots.
ANSWER: Krypteia
080-13-94-1210-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 8 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 12
Fourth Quarter

1. A leader of a revolt in this country attacked the government as godless and promised the return of
King Sebastian. The Sisterhood of the Good Death is religious community here that has become
increasingly closer to a syncretic religion. Zelio de (+) Moraes founded Umbanda after an encounter
with the spirit of a slave in this country. A millenarian settlement led by Antonio the Counselor was
suppressed by the War of (*) Canudos in this country, which took place in its Bahia state. For 10 points,
name this country where samba schools operate in Portuguese.
ANSWER: Brazil
121-13-94-12101

2. The first major application of the Third Law of Thermodynamics was for the generation of this
compound, which was originally synthesized using calcium carbide in the cyanamide process. BASF
originally monopolized production of this substance by running an (+) exothermic reaction at seven
hundred degrees Celsius with an iron-based catalyst. Blockades of Chilean (*) nitrate deposits during
World War I forced the Germans to manufacture fertilizers with this compound using the Haber-Bosch
process. For 10 points, name this compound with formula NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia [or NH3]
190-13-94-12102

3. This man is said to have "made judges dependent on his Will alone." A deleted sentence accuses
this man of "prostituting his negative" for suppressing attempts to end the slave trade. A document
insulting this man insists, "Let facts be submitted to a candid world" and catalogs his sixteen (+)
crimes. This man's life is said to be a "history of repeated injuries and usurpations." Because this
man lacks the "consent of the governed," it is considered (*) "self-evident" that men may establish new
government in his place. For 10 points, name this king who was targeted by the Declaration of
Independence.
ANSWER: King George III [prompt on George]
190-13-94-12103

4. During this election year, campaign manager Will Hays used slogans such as "Let us be done with
wiggle and wobble" on the advice of ad man Albert (+) Lasker. One percent of the vote in this
election went to Parley Christensen of the Farmer-Labor Party. This first Presidential election in
which (*) women voted in every state ended when the victor won by the largest popular vote margin since
1820. For 10 points, name this election in which James Cox lost to a candidate promising a "return to
normalcy" after World War I, Warren Harding.
ANSWER: Election of 1920
080-13-94-12104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 9 of 12

5. The agreement ending this war allowed for two prisoner exchanges called "big switch" and "little
switch." In a battle from this war, Edward Almond led the "Chosin Few" in a retreat that Oliver
Smith called "advancing in a different direction." During this war, the (+) F-86 Sabre was
introduced to counter the Soviet air force in dogfights in (*) MiG Alley. For 10 points, name this war in
which a force trapped within the Pusan perimeter forced a breakout thanks to pressure applied by the
contemporaneous Incheon landings on an Asian peninsula.
ANSWER: Korean War
080-13-94-12105

6. Irving Langmuir's investigations into surface chemistry began when he discovered that a single
layer of hydrogen atoms deposited onto the surface of these objects. Walther Nernst pioneered an
early form of this invention using a (+) silicon carbide rod. Investigation of the blackening of these
objects led to the discovery of thermionic emission. Joseph (*) Swan's invention of this device pioneered
its use in London. In 1904, two Hungarian inventors popularized the use of tungsten filaments for these
objects. For 10 points, name this invention often credited to Thomas Edison.
ANSWER: incandescent light bulb
190-13-94-12106

7. A man holding this title once rolled his prepared speech into a cylinder and stared at the audience
through it, an incident blamed on his cerebral meningitis. Another man with this title was targeted
by anarchists in the High Treason Incident, was presented with the (+) Charter Oath at his
enthronement, and accepted the terms of a German-influenced Constitution requiring him to share
power with the (*) Diet. The reign of that man in this office saw a period of modernization termed his
"restoration." For 10 points, name this title held by Taisho and Meiji, ceremonial monarchs of Japan.
ANSWER: Japanese emperors [or emperors after "Japan" is read]
020-13-94-12107

8. This person lost a battle after a young boy named Santamaria bravely exposed himself to gunfire
to torch this man's hideout. This loser of the Battle of Rivas received support from C.K. Garrison
and Charles Morgan, two corrupt officials of the Accessory Transit Company. Franklin (+) Pierce
recognized the presidency of this man, whose plan to re-institute (*) slavery in his domains angered
northerners. He was captured by the British government for interfering with British affairs on the Mosquito
Coast. For 10 points, name this filibuster who launched three invasions of Central America.
ANSWER: William Walker
080-13-94-12108

9. A ten-episode miniseries created for this channel by Mark Burnett ran in 2013 with Burnett's wife
Roma Downey and model Diogo Morgado in key roles. Another show on this channel had the Seer
tell the main character he would have many sons and had a sacrificial ritual that nearly included the
monk (+) Athelstan. This channel, that created a series about The Bible, also created a show in which
Rollo wants the power of his explorer-brother (*) Ragnar Lothbrok. For 10 points, name this television
channel of Vikings that has come under fire in recent years for its many programs about aliens.
ANSWER: The History Channel
023-13-94-12109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 10 of 12

10. This subordinate of Braxton Bragg was partly responsible for the loss at Murfreesboro when he
failed to break through the Union left. During Jubal Early's raids around Washington, this man's
forces sacked Francis Blair's home in Silver Spring. He was nominated alongside Joseph (+) Lane by
a faction that refused to endorse Stephen Douglas. This Vice-President was charged with treason for
enlisting in the (*) Confederate Army while in office. For 10 points, name this James Buchanan running
mate who was nominated for President by southern Democrats during the election of 1860.
ANSWER: John Cabell Breckinridge
080-13-94-12110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 11 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 12
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
This man led Senate subcommittee hearings about misconduct at Industrial Bio-Test Labs. He
defeated Russell Long to become the youngest-ever Senate Majority Whip. This man received a
publicity boost when he delivered a (+) eulogy saying "Some men see things as they are and say why.
I dream things that never were and say why not." This "Lion of the Senate" is best known for
leaving a party he hosted for the (*) Boiler Room Girls with Mary Jo Kopechne (kuh-PECK-nee), who
died when his car crashed. For 10 points, name this long-time Massachusetts Senator who was involved in
the Chappaquiddick incident.
ANSWER: Ted Kennedy [or Edward Moore Kennedy; prompt on Kennedy]
020-13-94-1210-1

BONUS: What practice was found unconstitutional in the 1895 Supreme Court case Pollock v. Farmer's
Loan and Trust, necessitating a Constitutional amendment to legalize it?
ANSWER: federal collection of a direct income tax [prompt on taxation]
019-13-94-1210-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

12

Page 12 of 12

