2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 1
First Quarter

1

1. This state was the site of a 1923 massacre at Rosewood, which, like Eatonville, was an all-black town in
this state. During the Civil War, the Battle of Olustee was fought in this state. Katherine Harris was
formerly an elections official in this state, where the "Brooks Brothers riot" occurred. The U.S. acquired
this state in the Adams-Onis Treaty with Spain. For 10 points, name this state where "butterfly ballots" in
Palm Beach County delayed resolution of the 2000 Presidential election.
ANSWER: Florida
131-13-94-01101

2. The APRA was banned in this country during the rule of General Manuel Odria. Alan Garcia is so far the
only ARPA member to serve as this country's president. Forty people died in the Tarata Street bombing,
part of a guerrilla war fought in this country between a group founded by Abimael Guzman and the
government of Alberto Fujimori. For 10 points, name this South American country, home to U.N. Secretary
General Javier Perez de Cuellar (KWAY-arr) and the Shining Path.
ANSWER: Peru
121-13-94-01102

3. In 2012, this writer's son gained media attention for telling students that they "weren't special" in a high
school commencement address. His book The Greater Journey, describes the lives of nineteenth-century
Americans living in Paris. This man narrated Ken Burns's documentary The Civil War. For 10 points, name
this author of popular American history books such as Truman, The Path Between the Seas, and John
Adams.
ANSWER: David Gaub McCullough
242-13-94-01103

4. A Rookie of the Year for this team was future manager Mike Hargrove. The three World Series winning
Yankee teams of the 1990s beat this team in the first round each year. In 1971, the second version of the
Washington Senators moved and became this team, which was once owned by George W. Bush and more
recently by former ace pitcher Nolan Ryan. For 10 points, name this baseball team located in Arlington
whose name refers to a famous law enforcement agency.
ANSWER: Texas Rangers [or Texas Rangers]
052-13-94-01104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 1 of 11

5. At Harvard Law School, this man was intoxicated while playing Reverend Parris in a performance of
The Crucible. This onetime Solicitor General under Greg Abbott is a former clerk for William Rehnquist.
He was elected to the Senate following the retirement of Kay Bailey Hutchison, and he read from Green
Eggs and Ham during a speech prior to the 2013 federal government shutdown. For 10 points, name this
Texas politician, known for his fierce opposition to the Affordable Care Act.
ANSWER: Rafael Edward "Ted" Cruz
242-13-94-01105

6. William Dawes and Samuel Prescott assisted a member of the Mechanics in performing this action. Two
visitors at the house of Jonas Clack received a note from Dr. Joseph Warren during this action and fled into
the countryside. Just prior to this action, the sexton of the Old North Church climbed to the steeple and lit
two lanterns. For 10 points, identify this action taken by a Boston silversmith that warned the militia in
Lexington and Concord that the British were coming.
ANSWER: Paul Revere’s Ride [or the Midnight Ride; or obvious equivalents mentioning Paul Revere]
239-13-94-01106

7. The kingdom of Lanna, located in the north of this present-day country, was captured by the Thonburi
kingdom under King Taksin in 1775. The Revolution of 1932 was launched against this country's king
Prajadhipok, a member of the Chakri dynasty, which has included nine kings named Rama. This country
remained independent during European colonization and invited Anna Leonowens to educate the royal
court. For 10 points, name this country once known as Siam.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand [prompt on Siam]
190-13-94-01107

8. A man killed in this battle was long though to be the warrior buried with the "Treasure of Pouan." A
winning commander here told Thorismund, the son of a king slain at this battle, to return home to secure
his throne. That king may have been killed by the spear of Andag here and was named Theodoric I. This
battle is sometimes credited as the "last victory of Imperial Rome." For 10 points, name this 451 CE battle
that pitted Flavius Aetius and his Visigoth allies against Attila the Hun.
ANSWER: Battle of Chalons [or Battle of the Catalaunian Plains; Battle of the Catalaunian Fields; or
Battle of Maurica]
052-13-94-01108

9. This colony was initially established by such ships as the Elizabeth and Tiger, which carried Ralph Lane
and Richard Grenville. Another settlement of this colony was started by governor John White, who was
delayed in England by the Spanish Armada from returning to this colony for three years. Virginia Dare was
born in this colony, which was where a tree was carved with the word "Croatoan." For 10 points, name this
early English colony whose entire population disappeared.
ANSWER: Roanoke Colony
023-13-94-01109

10. This man's ascension marked the end of the influence of E.H. Crump on his state’s politics. This man
suggested creating a "radiation belt" using nuclear weapons to stop the Korean War. Along with Estes
Kefauver, another politician from his state, he refused to sign the Southern Manifesto. With Ross Bass,
George Smathers, and Ralph Yarborough, this Democrat supported the Voting Rights Act. For 10 points,
name this longtime senator from Tennessee, the father of the Vice-President under Bill Clinton.
ANSWER: Albert "Al" Gore, Sr. [prompt on Gore]
048-13-94-01110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 2 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 1
Second Quarter

1. In a speech, this physicist called the Michelson-Morley experiment and the ultraviolet catastrophe two
"dark clouds" over science. He designed a mirror galvanometer and mariner's compass. At a suggestion by
Samuel Morse, he worked with Wildman Wildhouse on the transatlantic telegraph cable. For 10 points,
name this physicist who formulated the first and second laws of thermodynamics and theorized absolute
zero, the base of his namesake absolute temperature scale.
ANSWER: William Thomson [or Lord Kelvin]
BONUS: Kelvin was employed for a time by what American founder of the Kodak company?
ANSWER: George Eastman
190-13-94-01101

2. Under King Burebista, these people expanded their kingdom from the original capital of Argedava.
Domitian sent an army to attack this people, leading to the death of Cornelius Fuscus. This group lost the
Second Battle of Tapae, leaving their king Decebalus unable to stop the sack of Sarmizegetusa
(SAHR-mee-zay-geh-TOO-suh). A war against these people is depicted on the spiraling frieze of a Roman
column. For 10 points, identify these people of modern-day Romania and were defeated by Trajan.
ANSWER: Dacians
BONUS: The Dacian ally Zyraxes (zai-RACK-seez) was attacked in 29 BCE by what proconsul of
Macedonia, who shares his name with his grandfather, a notoriously wealthy member of the First
Triumvirate?
ANSWER: Marcus Licinius Crassus
233-13-94-01102

3. A piece by this man was removed from the Salon de Independants because of its perceived obscenity.
The National League of Women of Gorj commissioned him to honor fallen World War I soldiers with the
pieces Gate of the Kiss, Table of Silence, and Endless Column. A sculpture by this artist was
controversially taxed when it entered the United States through customs. For 10 points, name this
Romanian sculptor who created the abstract Bird in Space.
ANSWER: Constantin Brancusi
BONUS: Brancusi's phallic-looking Princess X was modeled off of what woman, a member of a prominent
French family, who arranged for Sigmund Freud's escape from the Nazis and was one of the first
psychologists to study female sexuality?
ANSWER: Princess Marie Bonaparte
023-13-94-01103

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 3 of 11

4. This man's guardian Tyrker was so excited at an agricultural discovery that he began shouting in
incomprehensible German. This man converted to Christianity at the court of King Olaf I. Archaeological
remains at L'Anse aux Meadows (LONZ-oh-MED-oh) may be from one of his settlements. This man
named a territory he found for the presence of grapes. He was the son of an exiled brawler nicknamed "the
Red." For 10 points, name this eleventh-century Norseman thought to have discovered America.
ANSWER: Leif Ericson [or Leif Ericson]
BONUS: What name did Leif give to the grape-containing territory he found in North America?
ANSWER: Vinland
080-13-94-01104

5. Antoine de Gebelin concocted a fake history of these objects, which was debunked by Michael Dummett
in a 1980 book tracing them from their origin "to Salt Lake City." One of these objects depicts a
fourteenth-century method of executing traitors; another may symbolize the dispute between the
Franciscans and Dominicans, can take value of either zero or twenty-two, and is known as The Fool. For 10
points, name these objects, including the Hanged Man and High Priestess.
ANSWER: Italian tarot cards [or tarot decks; prompt on playing cards]
BONUS: According to de Gebelin, tarot was brought to France during what period, in which the papacy
was moved to Avignon?
ANSWER: Western Schism [or Babylonian Captivity; prompt on Great Schism]
003-13-94-01105

6. This material was allegedly brought to Japan by the Korean monk Don-cho. Holy Roman Emperor
Frederick II declared it invalid for use in legal documents. The invention of this material was once
attributed to the court official Cai Lun, although it was likely first created a few centuries before in China.
For 10 points, name this material that replaced bamboo and silk in China and papyrus in Egypt, and which
is still used as a material to write on today.
ANSWER: paper [do not accept "papyrus"]
BONUS: Paper also came to replace what writing material common in Europe and made from animal skins,
which was called vellum when made from calves?
ANSWER: parchment
023-13-94-01106

7. This man analyzed the gap between the northern and southern hemispheres in a namesake report for the
Independent Commission on International Development Issues. He replaced the Hallstein Doctrine, which
led to his winning the Nobel Peace Prize in 1971. Three years later, he resigned after Gunter Guillaume
(gee-YOHM) was found to be a spy. For 10 points, name this Social Democrat who led West Germany
during a period of rapprochement with the East known as Ostpolitik."
ANSWER: Willy Brandt [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]
BONUS: Guillaume worked as a spy for Markus Wolf, who ran the foreign operations of what organization
for nearly 30 years?
ANSWER: Stasi [or Ministry for State Security; or Ministerium fuer Staatsicherheit]
023-13-94-01107

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 4 of 11

8. A religious leader killed in this country was Lorenzo Ruiz, who was hung upside down in a pit until he
suffocated. One of the crucified "Twenty-Six Martyrs" of this country was Paulo Miki. The first Jesuit to
go here arrived in 1549 and was Francis Xavier. Catholics in this country were persecuted and became
known as the "Kakure Kirishitan." For 10 points, name this country where Christianity was re-introduced
after the Meiji Restoration.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon]
BONUS: Francis Xavier was a student of what Spaniard who founded the Jesuit Society?
ANSWER: Ignatius of Loyola
052-13-94-01108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 5 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 1
Third Quarter

PETER COOPER
Nineteenth-century American Peter Cooper...
1. Founded the Cooper Union, where what first Republican President gave a namesake speech?
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
2. Invented the recipe for what popular brand of refrigerated dessert sold as small boxes of powder?
ANSWER: Jell-O
3. Built the Tom Thumb, the first American locomotive powered by what technology?
ANSWER: steam locomotive
4. Was the father of a person who held what office, later occupied by Fiorello la Guardia and Ed Koch?
ANSWER: mayor of New York City [prompt on mayor]
5. Ran as the candidate of what third party, advocating paper money, in 1876?
ANSWER: Greenback Party
6. Was a founder of what company, which dominated the telegraph and telegram industries for decades?
ANSWER: Western Union [prompt on American Telegraph Company]
7. Made his fortune running a factory for milling what product, which he discovered the process of
puddling via anthracite coal?
ANSWER: iron
8. Sold his products to what railroad, the first open to public freight and passenger service?
ANSWER: the B&O [or Baltimore and Ohio]
019-13-94-0110-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 6 of 11

THE REPUBLIC OF TEXAS
What person, place, or event…
1. Was a President of Texas and names a major Texan city?
ANSWER: Samuel Houston
2. Led settlers to Texas and names its current capital?
ANSWER: Stephen Fuller Austin
3. Was a Mexican general who led several invasions of Texas?
ANSWER: Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna
4. Was the location of a massacre that caused the death of James Fannin?
ANSWER: Goliad
5. Was killed at the Alamo and names a type of knife?
ANSWER: James "Jim" Bowie
6. Was the practice which Mexico tried to end with the Guerrero decree, that persisted in Texas until
Juneteenth?
ANSWER: slavery
7. Was the name for the tactical retreat following the Battle of the Alamo?
ANSWER: Runaway Scrape
8. Were the treaties signed by Santa Anna to end the Texan Revolution?
ANSWER: Treaties of Velasco
140-13-94-0110-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 7 of 11

PACIFIC THEATER
Who or what was the…
1. 1942 battle in which American forces sunk four Japanese aircraft carriers off of a namesake atoll?
ANSWER: Battle of Midway
2. Admiral made Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet?
ANSWER: Chester William Nimitz
3. Commander of the Japanese Combined Fleet during the campaign?
ANSWER: Isoroku Yamamoto
4. Air raid launched from the USS Hornet that attacked Tokyo?
ANSWER: Doolittle raid
5. Largest naval battle of World War II and first appearance of kamikaze attacks, talking place off a
Philippine island?
ANSWER: Battle of Leyte Gulf
6. Papua New Guinea capital whose invasion by the Japanese was prevented by the Battle of the Coral Sea?
ANSWER: Port Moresby
7. Hypothetical action planned for in Operation Downfall that caused the manufacture of the still-used
stock of Purple Hearts?
ANSWER: amphibious invasion of Japan [or equivalents]
8. Admiral nicknamed "electric brain" who commanded the fleet at the Battle of the Philippine Sea?
ANSWER: Raymond Ames Spruance
048-13-94-0110-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 8 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 1
Fourth Quarter

1. This location was the subject of a 1921 article subtitled "a project in regional planning" by Benton
McKaye. Randall Lee Smith murdered two people at this multi-state location, which features eight
huts near the (+) White Mountains to provide lodging and meals. Governor Mark Sanford claimed to
be here while he was actually with his mistress. It runs about (*) 2200 miles from Springer Mountain to
Mount Katahdin, and the highest point on this location is Clingman's Dome. For 10 points, name this
famous hiking trail that extends from Georgia to Maine.
ANSWER: Appalachian National Scenic Trail
052-13-94-01101

2. This man's forces defeated the Sherden, a group of coastal pirates of possibly Greek origin. This
man entered into a dynastic marriage with the daughter of Hattusillis, and he was forced to
withdraw his army following a battle on the (+) Orontes River against Muwatallis. He completed a
funerary temple at Luxor for his father, (*) Set I. For 10 points, name this Egyptian king who fought the
Hittites at the Battle of Kadesh, was the husband of Nefertari, and oversaw the construction of the cliffside
statues of Abu Simbel.
ANSWER: Ramses II [or Ramses the Great; prompt on Ramses]
030-13-94-01102

3. The second president of this group was a Georgia congressman killed when Korean Air Lines
Flight 007 was shot down, and was named Larry McDonald. This group's founding members
included the inventor of the Sugar Daddy lollipop and the oil magnate that founded (+) Koch
(COKE) Industries. It was founded by Robert Welch Jr. and was named after an American Baptist
(*) missionary killed in China, who was the so-called "first American casualty of the Cold War." For 10
points, name this group founded in 1958, dedicated to fighting the Communist menace.
ANSWER: John Birch Society
052-13-94-01103

4. One half of this event was achieved by the Convention of Westminster, and the second half by two
Treaties of Versailles. It took place over the objections of Holy Roman Emperor Francis I, who was
overruled by his wife, Maria (+) Theresa, and Count Kaunitz, the architect of this plan. This event
directly led to the (*) Seven Years' War, whose opposing sides were drawn during it. For 10 points, give
the two-word term for the reconfiguring of Austro-English and Franco-Prussian alliances into
Franco-Austrian and Anglo-Prussian alliances in 1756.
ANSWER: Diplomatic Revolution of 1756 [or reversal of alliances until "alliances" is read; prompt on
reversal of alliances after "alliances" is read; prompt on descriptive answers; prompt on stately quadrille]
003-13-94-01104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 9 of 11

5. Richard Rorty saw this man as a link between the thought of Hegel and Darwin and claimed him
as a chief inspiration. His wife Alice served as the principal of a school he founded as a
"philosophical laboratory" at the University of Chicago. He visited (+) Mexico City as part of a
commission he headed that investigated the charges brought against Leon Trotsky by the Soviet
Union. He argued that theoretical (*) lessons should be paired with practical tasks in his book
Democracy and Education. For 10 points, name this American pragmatist.
ANSWER: John Dewey
121-13-94-01105

6. A law named for this man was ruled not applicable to the products of ONE, inc, in ONE vs. United
States, and Ira Craddock's suicide note condemned this man. This man arranged the arrest of the
Woodhull sisters after Victoria published an article about Henry Ward Beecher's (+) affair. The
Japanese Pessaries case prevented an application of a law named for this man, which was also used
to fine Margaret (*) Sanger for disseminating information about contraception. For 10 points, identify this
postal inspector whose namesake law forbade the shipping of obscene materials through the mail.
ANSWER: Anthony Comstock
048-13-94-01106

7. A patriotic song from this country is sung from such perspectives as a man who "paints the ghostly
gums," "Clancy on his horse," and "the daughter of a digger." Another patriotic song from this
country, inspired by its Great (+) Shearers Strike, shares it melody with a British recruitment
anthem from the War of the Spanish Succession, and is about a man who shoves a (*) jumbuck in his
tucker bag near the shade of a coolibah tree. For 10 points, name this country which is urged to "advance"
"fair" in its national anthem, but is better represented by "Waltzing Matilda."
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
019-13-94-01107

8. During this battle, Westphalian troops captured the village of Utitsa at the southern end of the
defensive lines. Defensive positions in this battle included the Raevski Redoubt and the (+) Bagration
Fleches. Before this battle, Barclay de Tolly was replaced as commander of the defending side by (*)
Kutuzov. The victor here refused to commit his Imperial Guard, allowing Alexander I's army to retreat and
regroup. For 10 points, name this bloody 1812 battle fought west of Moscow during the Napoleonic
invasion of Russia.
ANSWER: Battle of Borodino [or Battle of the Moscow River until it is read]
153-13-94-01108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 10 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 1
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
As a result of this event, the Project Independence initiative was announced. During this event, a
rationing system was set up between odd- and even- number license plate last digits, and the
Advertising Council promoted a slogan punning off the phrase "Don't be (+) foolish." Many citizens
were asked not to put up Christmas lights during this (*) crisis, which ended when a price reduction
was negotiated by Ahmed Zaki Yamani. It ushered in stagflation in the U.S. shortly after the Yom Kippur
War. For 10 points, name this 1973 economic crisis caused by an OPEC embargo.
ANSWER: 1973 oil crisis [or the Arab oil crisis; or the OPEC embargo; or the Arab oil embargo; or the
1973 energy crisis]
020-13-94-0110-1

BONUS: What groups of students carried out the principles of the Cultural Revolution and slavishly
obeyed Chairman Mao in the late 1960s?
ANSWER: The Red Guards
052-13-94-0110-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

1

Page 11 of 11

