2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
First Quarter

8

1. After a game between these two teams, Wes Fesler resigned over a 9 to 3 loss in the "Snow Bowl." A
coach noted he "couldn't go for three" in going for two points with his team already up 50 to 14 in a game
between these teams. For many years, these teams were coached by Bo Schembechler and Woody Hayes.
In 2006, these two teams were #1 and #2 when they played, with Lloyd Carr's team losing to Jim Tressel's.
For 10 points, name these two Big Ten football rivals.
ANSWER: University of Michigan and The Ohio State University [or Wolverines in place of
"Michigan"; prompt on UM; or Buckeyes or OSU in place of Ohio State; do not accept or prompt on
"Ohio"; all acceptable answers may be given in either order, but do not prompt if only one team is named]
052-13-94-08101

2. According to this text, a son can be freed from his father if the father sells him into slavery three
different times. This document gives a father the "power of life and death" over his son, especially if the
son is deformed. A board of ten "decemvirs" produced this text, which the Senate was forced to accept after
a plebeian secession. For 10 points, name this legislation that served as the core of the Roman constitution,
being originally written on a namesake number of bronze slabs.
ANSWER: the Law of the Twelve Tables
080-13-94-08102

3. This empire completely annihilated the Saka, who were Scythians ruling the Western Satraps. Its founder
consolidated power by marrying a Lichhavi princess. Attacks led by Mihirakula, a ruler of the Hephthalites,
spelled the end of this empire, whose zenith occurred under the rule of Samudra. Contemporaneous with
Rome, this empire fell to the White Huns. For 10 points, name this empire which included the "Golden
Age" of Indian culture and was founded by Chandra.
ANSWER: Gupta Empire
190-13-94-08103

4. This book discusses the "commodity to money to commodity chain" through which initial investment is
valorized. This tract discusses how the employer gains surplus-value by paying labor's exchange-value at
less than its use-value, thus exploiting the laborer. This book's author argues that we have forgotten money
and other means of exchange are a mental construct we created in its section on commodity fetishism. For
10 points, identify this "Critique of Political Economy," a book by Karl Marx about an economic system.
ANSWER: Das Kapital [or Capital, a Critique of Political Economy]
233-13-94-08104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 1 of 11

5. This composer used an unnamed European dictatorship to criticize suspicion of scientists in his opera
The Consul. He chose Charleston, South Carolina and Spoleto, Italy as the sites for simultaneous
performing arts series which he intended to unify European and American culture, the Festival of Two
Worlds. For 10 points, name this composer of a Christmas-themed opera that was the first ever written for
television, Amahl and the Night Visitors.
ANSWER: Gian Carlo Menotti
019-13-94-08105

6. This man sponsored an educational program called Love for One's Country,, and he controversially
stated that Korean comfort women were not coerced during World War II. He resigned following the
suicide of his agricultural minister in 2007. This successor to Noda Yoshihiko incited controversy by
visiting the Yasukuni Shrine, and his coalition partner New Komeito and his LDP gained a majority in the
Diet in July 2013. For 10 points name this man who is the current Japanese prime minister.
ANSWER: Shinzo Abe
030-13-94-08106

7. In one of this artist's paintings, a limp arm emerges from a pile of rubble on which the title
personification kneels with outturned palms. This artist of Greece Expiring on the Ruins of Missolonghi
depicted an Ottoman atrocity in The Massacre at Chios. He commemorated the July Revolution with a
painting in which a bare-breasted woman brandishes a tricolor. For 10 points, name this French Romantic
painter of Liberty Leading the People.
ANSWER: Eugene Delacroix
014-13-94-08107

8. In this non-Pennsylvania state, Ronald Reagan stated, "I believe in states' rights," at the Neshoba County
Fair near the town of Philadelphia, which was the location of the murder of Andrew Goodman, James
Chaney, and Michael Schwerner during the Freedom Summer. This state was the location of a 1994 trial in
which Byron De La Beckwith was found guilty of murdering Medgar Evers in 1963. For 10 points, name
this Southern state that was the location of the Battle of Vicksburg.
ANSWER: Mississippi
030-13-94-08108

9. A worker in this location, Aristophanes of Byzantium, is credited with inventing the asterisk. After
fleeing from Demetrius Poliorcetes, Athenian tyrant Demetrius of Phalerum inspired the creation of a
complex around this location. It was surrounded by the Mouseion, and its creation is credited to Ptolemy I
Soter. This location may have been destroyed either by Julius Caesar or Islamic armies. For 10 points,
identify this lost treasury of books and manuscripts in Hellenistic Egypt.
ANSWER: the Library of Alexandria [or the Bibliotheca Alexandrina]
080-13-94-08109

10. This event was celebrated with a Te Deum and a commemorative medal by Gregory XIII. It was
signalled by the ringing of the "Marie" bell and was sparked by the growing influence of Gaspard de
Coligny. Philip II supposedly laughed for the only time in his life upon hearing about this event, which
took place on the occasion of Marguerite of Valois's marriage to Henry of Navarre. For 10 points, name
this mass killing of Huguenots on the orders of Catherine de Medici.
ANSWER: St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre
030-13-94-08110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 2 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Second Quarter

1. This politician lost a 2002 Democratic primary race to Bill McBride for the governorship of Florida. This
official refused to endorse the merging of the FBI and the Drug Enforcement Administration, and she
achieved her highest post following the failed nominations of Kimba Wood and Zoe Baird. She ordered the
FBI raid on David Koresh's Branch Davidian compound in Waco. For 10 points, name this woman who
served as Bill Clinton's only attorney general.
ANSWER: Janet Reno
BONUS: Janet Reno apologized for a leak that led to the presumption of guilt of Richard Jewell for what
event that was perpetrated by Eric Robert Rudolph?
ANSWER: Centennial Olympic Park Bombing [or anything that indicates the bombing at the 1996
Summer Olympics in Atlanta]
030-13-94-08101

2. The Cobbold Commission drafted the proposal for the independence of this country, which engaged in
the "Konfrontasi" with its larger neighbor in the 1960s. Hundreds of ethnic Chinese were murdered in this
country on May 13, 1969. Mahathir Mohamad led this country from 1981 to 2003 and employed its current
opposition leader, Anwar Ibrahim. Singapore gained independence from this country in 1965. For 10
points, name this country which shares Borneo with Indonesia and Brunei.
ANSWER: Malaysia
BONUS: Malaysia got along much better with which president of Indonesia, who was in power from 1967
till 1998?
ANSWER: Suharto
190-13-94-08102

3. This man wrote about a historical plot against Andrea Doria in Genoa in his play Fiesco. His other
historically inspired plays include Maria Stuart and a trilogy depicting the Piccolomini family, centered on
the Thirty Years War general Albrecht von Wallenstein. The corrupt bailiff Gessler is killed at the end of
his epic play about a legendary Swiss marksman. For 10 points, name this German playwright of William
Tell.
ANSWER: Friedrich Schiller
BONUS: Schiller's play The Maid of Orleans depicts what historical person, whose death is a subplot in
Henry VI, Part 1?
ANSWER: Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d'Arc; or Saint Joan; prompt on partial answer]
014-13-94-08103

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 3 of 11

4. Refugees from this conflict founded the Empire of Nicaea. Fulk of Neuilly (noo-YEE) preached in favor
of this conflict, during which emperor Alexios V fled a battle. Alexios Angelos's plea for help regaining his
throne helped to change this conflict's course from Egypt. For 10 points, name this crusade called for by
Innocent III, which resulted in the establishment of the "Latin Empire" after participants sacked
Constantinople.
ANSWER: Fourth Crusade
BONUS: What blind Doge of Venice bribed the leaders of the Fourth Crusade to attack Constantinople?
ANSWER: Enrico Dandolo
186-13-94-08104

5. This man aroused controversy for his work with Thomas Francis, which involved infecting people with
influenza nasally. The Cutter Institute was contracted to manufacture one of his creations. One of this man's
inventions was contaminated by SV40, and another was partly funded by the March of Dimes Foundation
and eventually replaced by an attenuated formulation taken orally. For 10 points, name this scientist who
discovered the polio vaccine.
ANSWER: Jonas Salk
BONUS: What bitter rival of Jonas Salk developed the oral formulation of the polio vaccine?
ANSWER: Albert Sabin
048-13-94-08105

6. This man's Presidential ticket included the Catholic Vice-Presidential candidate William Miller and was
supported by the "A Time for Choosing" speech. This author of the best-selling book The Conscience of a
Conservative was nicknamed "Mr. Conservative." This politician was crushed in an election where he only
carried six states, including his home state of Arizona. For 10 points, name this Republican candidate who
lost to Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964.
ANSWER: Barry Morris Goldwater
BONUS: Johnson's campaign highlighted Goldwater's extremism by running what ad, in which the voice of
a child counting off petals switches to a countdown to the detonation of a bomb?
ANSWER: "Daisy Girl" [or "Peace, Little Girl"]
023-13-94-08106

7. While bishop of Umbria, this man urged the Pope to cooperate with Italian unification, earning long
disfavor. As Pope, he issued an encyclical that attacked the "higher critics" and discussed the study of holy
scripture. Another encyclical issued by this author of Providentissimus Deus supported the right of workers
to form unions, earning this man the nickname "working man's Pope." For 10 points, name this man who
issued the encyclical Rerum Novarum and succeeded Pius IX.
ANSWER: Leo XIII [or Vincenzo Gioacchino Raffaele Luigi Pecci; prompt on Leo]
BONUS: What doctrine, which has been invoked only twice since its definition at the First Vatican
Council, was propounded by the Ultramontanists during the nineteenth century?
ANSWER: Papal infallibility
245-13-94-08107

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 4 of 11

8. A man with this surname wrote The Secret Surrender about North Italy's switch to the Allies during
World War II. Another member of this family oversaw the formation of SEATO at the Manila Conference
and supported brinksmanship with the Soviet Union. An individual with this surname was the director of
the CIA who resigned following the Bay of Pigs invasion, and his brother was Dwight Eisenhower's
secretary of state. For 10 points, give the surname of the brothers Allen and John Foster.
ANSWER: Dulles [or Allen Dulles; or John Foster Dulles]
BONUS: Allen Dulles served under William Donovan in what intelligence agency that was the predecessor
of the CIA?
ANSWER: Office of Strategic Services [or O.S.S.]
030-13-94-08108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 5 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Third Quarter

JOHN PAUL II
In the life of Pope John Paul II, what was...
1. His country of birth?
ANSWER: Republic of Poland
2. The non-Christian religious group he spoke out in favor of at the Second Vatican Council?
ANSWER: Jews [or Jewish people, etc.]
3. The year of the Great Jubilee, which he celebrated as Pope?
ANSWER: 2000
4. His birth name?
ANSWER: Karol Jozef Wojtyla (voy-TEE-lah)
5. The Catholic prayer practice to which he added "Luminous" mysteries as a meditation topic?
ANSWER: praying a rosary
6. The group, whose duties include electing new Popes, of which he called six full meetings?
ANSWER: College of Cardinals [prompt on Cardinals]
7. His Turkish would-be assassin, whom he later visited?
ANSWER: Mehmet Ali Agca (AHJ-kuh)
8. Paul VI's encyclical concerning the Catholic Church's position on birth control, which he helped write?
ANSWER: Humanae Vitae
003-13-94-0810-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 6 of 11

HOTELS
In historical incidents that took place in hotels, who or what was the…
1. Country where hotel manager Paul Rusesabagina sheltered several Tutsis from a massacre in 1994?
ANSWER: Republic of Rwanda [or Republika y'u Rwanda]
2. President who survived being shot by John Hinckley outside a D.C. Hilton?
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan
3. Country where a 1923 earthquake left Frank Lloyd Wright's Imperial Hotel undamaged?
ANSWER: Japan
4. Nashville Presidential resort and coffee namesake where the Ku Klux Klan was founded?
ANSWER: Maxwell House Hotel
5. Three-word phrase describing the place at Chicago's Blackstone Hotel where Warren Harding was
nominated for President?
ANSWER: "smoke-filled room"
6. IMF head accused of assaulting a maid at the Manhattan Sofitel in 2011?
ANSWER: Dominique Strauss-Kahn [or DSK]
7. Palestinian activist who assassinated Robert F. Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel in 1968?
ANSWER: Sirhan Bishara Sirhan
8. City where, in 1981, a walkway fell on dancers in the worst American structural collapse disaster before
September 11?
ANSWER: Kansas City, Missouri
019-13-94-0810-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 7 of 11

IDI AMIN
Idi Amin...
1. Was president of what country from 1971 until 1979?
ANSWER: Republic of Uganda
2. Served in the army of what colonizing superpower in Kenya.?
ANSWER: Great Britain [or United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; or UK; prompt on
England]
3. Came to power in what kind of military event?
ANSWER: coup d'etat
4. Believed he was the "last king" of what European country?
ANSWER: Scotland
5. Expelled most people from his country with ethnic heritage from what continent?
ANSWER: Asia
6. Allowed a hijacked airplane to land at what airport?
ANSWER: Entebbe
7. Lost power after starting a war with what country?
ANSWER: United Republic of Tanzania [or Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania]
8. Succeeded what man as president, and was also followed by him after being deposed?
ANSWER: Apollo Milton Obote
023-13-94-0810-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 8 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Fourth Quarter

1. In 1956, mentally disabled children at this city's Willowbrook State School were lured into a
disturbing study by promises of hepatitis vaccinations, but were instead fed the feces of patients with
the disease. In 1962, elderly patients at the Jewish (+) Chronic Disease Hospital in this city were
injected with live cancer cells. Dr. Josephine Baker was instrumental in stopping a public health
crisis in this city by capturing (*) Typhoid Mary. For 10 points, name this city which had a high infant
mortality rate before Baker set up milk stations and trained midwives in slums like Hell's Kitchen.
ANSWER: New York City [or NYC]
020-13-94-08101

2. Brendan Koerner wrote a 2013 history of the "golden age" of this activity. Willie Horner and
Catherine Kerkow committed this crime with the idea that it would force Americans to confront the
horrors of the Vietnam War. Samuel (+) Byck tried to commit this crime as part of a larger plot to
kill Richard Nixon, and a man who successfully did this used the alias "Dan (*) Cooper." The first
person to do this in the United States used a steak knife and the threat 'If I don't see Havana in thirty
minutes, we all die." For 10 points, name this crime that may involve seizing control of a Boeing 727.
ANSWER: airplane hijacking [or skyjacking]
121-13-94-08102

3. Elaine Pagels's Beyond Belief is about a book attributed to this man. The Nasrani trace their
religious practices back to his missions. The apocryphal sayings gospel named for him claims to
contain the "hidden words that the living Jesus spoke." The Portuguese built a basilica for him in (+)
Madras, where they believed he was martyred. In the Gospel of John, this man is told "blessed are
those that have not (*) seen, and yet have believed" after touching the nail marks in Christ's hands. For 10
points, name this apostle who doubted the Resurrection.
ANSWER: Saint Thomas the Apostle [or Didymus; or Judas Thomas; do not prompt on "Judas"]
121-13-94-08103

4. John Smith Dye claimed agents of the slave power tried to kill this man by poisoning the lump
sugar he used for tea. He sent troops to bring Mormons in Utah under a territorial governor; the
Mountain (+) Meadows massacre occurred during that fighting. As Franklin Pierce's minister to
Great Britain, he drafted a (*) proposal for the United States to purchase and possibly invade Cuba, the
Ostend Manifesto. He defeated the first Republican candidate for president in the election to succeed
Pierce. For 10 points, name this President directly before Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: James Buchanan
121-13-94-08104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 9 of 11

5. Henry Howard Holmes operated a hotel that murdered dozens of people during this event. Little
Egypt performed at the "Street in Cairo" demonstration at this event, which also first brought Scott
Joplin to national attention. Frederick Jackson (+) Turner delivered the frontier thesis at this event.
Daniel Burnham and Frederick Law Olmstead designed the (*) White City for it. Thomas Edison lost a
competition with George Westinghouse over the supply of electricity for this event. For 10 points, name
this event which introduced the Ferris wheel and took place in 1893 in Chicago.
ANSWER: World's Columbian Exposition [or Chicago World's Fair; or 1893 World's Fair]
190-13-94-08105

6. During this war, Spanish ambassador Bernardino de Mendoza coordinated a public uprising. The
Duke of Epernon recruited a group called the "Forty-five" to assassinate an opponent in this war. A
participant in this war was slain by the fanatical monk Jacques (+) Clement at Saint-Cloud. The
winner of this conflict outlasted the Duke of Guise and said (*) "Paris is worth a mass" after converting
to Catholicism. That victor in this war hailed from Navarre and was a Huguenot. For 10 points, name this
final of the French Wars of Religion, fought between three men with the same first name.
ANSWER: War of the Three Henrys [prompt on French Wars of Religion]
052-13-94-08106

7. This composer included "Four Black Dragons" and a Reciter in a kabuki-inspired revue about
Matthew Perry's arrival in Japan. A Proprietor runs a carnival attraction in his show featuring the
deeds of Squeaky Fromme and Lee Harvey (+) Oswald. This composer of Pacific Overtures and
Assassins used an ensemble of three Proteans and adapted Plautus plays for a show where Senex's
slave (*) Pseudolus recites the intro song "Comedy Tonight." For 10 points, name this Broadway composer
who set A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum in ancient Rome.
ANSWER: Stephen Joshua Sondheim
104-13-94-08107

8. This man's scheme to destroy rails failed when the schoolmaster Thomas Curnow warned the crew
of an approaching train. The world's first feature-length film was about this man, whose associates
betrayed the police informer Aaron Sherritt and committed crimes in the vicinities of (+)
Stringybark Creek and Euroa. He justified his actions and bemoaned the treatment of Irish
Catholics in his Jerilderie Letter, and later wore his handmade suit of (*) armor in a final clash with
authorities at Glenrowan. For 10 points, name this bushranger, who led a gang of Australian outlaws.
ANSWER: Ned Kelly
020-13-94-08108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 10 of 11

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
An exchange system between these places was developed by John A. Dix and D. H. Hill. Hundreds of
people were being transported from one of these places aboard the doomed SS Sultana. "The (+)
Regulators" were formed to stop "Raiders" in one of these locations. MacKinlay (*) Kantor wrote a
novel about the most famous place of this kind. The Swiss-born Henry Wirz, who administered the most
famous of these locations, was tried by a military tribunal presided over by Lew Wallace. For 10 points,
name these places, such as Andersonville, where captured soldiers were held during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Civil War POW camps [or Civil War prisoner camps; or Civil War prisoner of war camps;
or anything alone the lines of Civil War military prisons; or answers indicating Union POW camps and
Confederate POW camps since the question encompasses both]
020-13-94-0810-1

BONUS: The Baths of Titus and the Coliseum were both built to obscure the ruins of what disgraced
emperor's Domus Aurea?
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [or Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus; do not accept
or prompt on "Caesar," "Augustus," etc.]
019-13-94-0810-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 11 of 11

