2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
First Quarter

15

1. George Cadwalader refused to release this man from Fort McHenry, and he was eventually indicted for
destroying bridges and telegraph wires under the order of Thomas Holliday Hicks. This man was a member
of the Maryland militia who was trying to recruit for the Confederate Army. He named his son "Roger
Taney" after the Justice who ordered him brought before the Court. For 10 points, name this namesake of
an "ex parte" Supreme Court case that ruled the President could not suspend habeas corpus.
ANSWER: John Merryman
048-13-94-15101

2. A man who tried to institute this form of government was murdered by the Alcmaeonid Megacles despite
being a suppliant to Athena. In Corinth, Cypselus and Periander practiced this form of government, which
was established in Athens by a lover of Solon who tricked the Athenians into giving him his own
bodyguard. For 10 points, name this form of ancient Greek government established in Athens by
Peisistratus, a strongman ruling by military force who overthrew a previous oligarchy.
ANSWER: tyranny [or tyrants; do not accept "oligarchy" or "monarchy"]
080-13-94-15102

3. Relations between these two countries were hurt by the plotting of Antoniotto Botta Adorno. In 1787,
both of these countries entered wars with the Ottomans. Troops from one of these countries helped put
down a revolt in the other that was led by Lajos Kossuth (lie-OASH KOH-shoot). These two countries
fought as allies at the Battle of Austerlitz and joined Prussia to establish the Holy Alliance. For 10 points,
name these two great powers with clashing ambitions in the Balkans.
ANSWER: Russian and Austrian Empires [or Rossiya and Osterreich; or Rossiyskaya Imperiya and
Kaisertum Osterreich; or Russia and the Habsburg Empire; or Russia and the Hapsburgs; do not accept
"Holy Roman Empire" or "Austria-Hungary"; accept any combination of valid names for the two empires
given in this answer line and in either order, but do not accept or prompt if only one answer is given]
153-13-94-15103

4. This man is the namesake of the first supercarrier, upon which a Zuni rocket accidentally discharged and
caused a fire that killed 134 soldiers. This man was replaced by Louis A. Johnson after a series of secret
meetings between him and Thomas Dewey became public. William C. Meninger diagnosed this man with
depression, and he copied an excerpt from Sophocles's Ajax before jumping out of a window. For 10 points,
name this first U.S. Secretary of Defense.
ANSWER: James Forrestal
048-13-94-15104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 1 of 12

5. This man's portraits of prisoners were used by the phrenologist Eliza Farnham to illustrate The Rationale
of Crime. He created the "Gallery of Illustrious Americans," which included Daniel Webster and Edgar
Allen Poe. Alexander Gardner and Timothy O'Sullivan were two employees of this man, for whom they
created A Harvest of Death and Home of a Rebel Sharpshooter, Gettysburg. For 10 points, name this man
who went bankrupt financing his Civil War photographs.
ANSWER: Mathew Brady
030-13-94-15105

6. During this year, the submarine H.L. Hunley sank itself and the USS Housatonic. At a battle in this year,
Gouverneur Warren's artillery set Saunders Field on fire and James Longstreet stopped W.S. Hancock at
Plank Road. In this year, Union troops exploded a bomb under Confederate lines in the Battle of the Crater
at Petersburg. For 10 points, identify this year where Lee faced off against Grant at Spotsylvania and the
Wilderness, after losing the previous year at Gettysburg.
ANSWER: 1864
239-13-94-15106

7. The Arzhang was an illustrated holy text in this religion. It was the original official religion of the
kingdom of Qocho (CHO-cho) and spread easily along the Silk Road, though it was banned by the Tang
Dynasty. Theodosius the Great also persecuted this religion, leading St. Augustine to convert from it. For
10 points, name this dualistic gnostic religion which rivaled early Christianity for influence in the ancient
world.
ANSWER: Manichaeism [or Manichaenism; do not accept "Mandaeism"]
190-13-94-15107

8. This battle started with the advance of Italian crossbowmen under Carlo Grimaldi. The victorious side in
this battle followed it with a siege of Calais. The blind John of Bohemia died during this battle, in which
Charles II of Alencon also died. This defeat for Philip VI of France was where the opposing commander's
son won his spurs. For 10 points, name this early battle during the Hundred Years' War that was a victory
for Edward III and the first major battle fought in by Edward the Black Prince.
ANSWER: Battle of Crecy
023-13-94-15108

9. In this country, Paolo Dall'Oglio accused the "Musalaha" movement of not actually existing and being a
puppet group for Agnes Mariam de la Croix, a nun who has embarked on a speaking tour in defense of this
country's government. The government of this country was implicated in an attack on Ghouta in August
2013 that led to threats of military action from the U.S. For 10 points, name this country where Russia
mediated limited disarmament of Bashar al-Assad.
ANSWER: Syrian Arab Republic [or Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as Suriyah]
019-13-94-15109

10. Elias Boudinot quoted James Madison's Federalist 44 in defending this institution's constitutionality
under the "necessary and proper" clause. Madison himself opposed it, citing the Tenth Amendment.
Stephen Girard bought most of its stock after its end. This institution was proposed in the Second Report on
Public Credit prepared by Alexander Hamilton. For 10 points, name this national bank whose charter was
allowed to expire in 1811.
ANSWER: First Bank of the United States [prompt on partial answer]
121-13-94-15110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 2 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Second Quarter

1. This law was described as "peaceful coercion" by the President who signed it. In a political cartoon
parodying this law, an animal tramples a paper license and attacks a man holding a "superfine" barrel. This
law was parodied as a snapping turtle, called an "Ograbme," and it alienated Northeastern Federalist
merchants. This law was replaced with the weaker Non-Intercourse Act. For 10 points, name this 1807 law
signed by Thomas Jefferson banning foreign trade.
ANSWER: Embargo Act of 1807
BONUS: The Embargo Act was partly motivated by the British Leopard's interdiction of what American
frigate in June 1807?
ANSWER: USS Chesapeake
190-13-94-15101

2. This man represented the Catholic counts of Westphalia at the Congress of Rastatt to indemnify princes
who lost land on the left bank of the Rhine to the French. Following August Kotzebue's assassination at the
hands of Karl Sand, this man supported the repressive Carlsbad Decrees. He was forced to resign as
minister of foreign affairs during the 1848 revolutions. For 10 points, name this Austrian statesman who
brought about the Concert of Europe by hosting the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: Klemens, Prince von Metternich
BONUS: Metternich served as an advisor to what last Holy Roman Emperor, who remained as emperor of
Austria until 1835?
ANSWER: Francis II of the Holy Roman Empire [or Franz II; or Francis I of Austria; or Franz I]
030-13-94-15102

3. A letter to this man first outlined the question of whether a blind person given sight could recognize
shapes previously known only through touch. This philosopher believed that property is originally acquired
through the "mixing of labor" with land. He elaborated on the blind man's "Molyneux problem" in his
Essay Concerning Human Understanding. For 10 points, name this British author who described a liberal
social contract in his Second Treatise of Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
BONUS: Locke's First Treatise of Government is an attack on what anti-liberal belief, which James I wrote
a tract defending?
ANSWER: the divine right of kings [prompt on absolute monarchy or anything else that sounds like it's
in favor of monarchs but doesn't say "divine right"]
019-13-94-15103

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 3 of 12

4. This author discussed the murder of Andriy at the hands of his father, a Cossack leader during the
Khmelnytsky (chum-EYE-ul-niss-kee) Uprising, in his novel Taras Bulba. He wrote a novel in which a
financial schemer tries to buy up the deceased serfs from landowners so as to mortgage them. In another of
his stories, he wrote about Akaky Akakievich, who saves up for the title garment and dies after being
robbed. For 10 points, name this Russian author of "The Nose" and "The Overcoat."
ANSWER: Nikolai Gogol
BONUS: What Gogol story is narrated by a clerk who loves his boss's daughter and becomes convinced
that he is the King of Spain?
ANSWER: "Diary of a Madman" [or "Zapiski Sumasshedshevo"]
014-13-94-15104

5. During this dynasty, Lelang was one of the four prefectures established after the defeat of Wiman
Joseon. Forces of this dynasty tried to ambush the Xiongnu (shong-NU) at Mayi. Zhang Jue (jong JWEH)
led a revolt against this dynasty's Emperor Ling, called the Yellow Turban Rebellion. This dynasty was
founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang. For 10 points, name this dynasty that gives its name to the majority
ethnic group in China.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty [or Han Ch'ao]
BONUS: The rule of the Han Dynasty was interrupted by the rule of the Xin (SHIN) Dynasty, which was
founded by what former regent and Confucian scholar who reintroduced the well-field system?
ANSWER: Wang Mang
186-13-94-15105

6. This phrase was mentioned as the motivation for why Americans "sweat and toil in the sand and the heat
and the sun." The first modern usage of this term was by Rajiv Gandhi in talks with Mikhail Gorbachev. It
was mentioned as the "fifth objective" along with the restoration of Kuwait and the maintenance of the
security and stability of the Middle East in a 1990 speech. For 10 points, give this term used by George
Bush Sr. to describe his outlook on the post-Cold War world.
ANSWER: new world order
BONUS: The "new world order" speech praised the efforts of what longtime Republican campaign
manager, who served for all but a few months of George Bush Sr.'s term as Secretary of State?
ANSWER: James Baker
020-13-94-15106

7. John Holliday wrote a biography of this man subtitled "the Unknown Story," and a more controversial
biography of him was written by his physician. This man was called "seventy percent wrong and thirty
percent right" on a big character poster pasted on the Democracy Wall. One of his efforts encouraged
government criticism and called for ideas to blossom like a hundred flowers, and another suggested that
people try to make steel in backyard furnaces. For 10 points, name this leader of China who oversaw the
Great Leap Forward.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong
BONUS: Li Zhisui's The Private Life of Chairman Mao, describes what woman, Mao's wife, as a severe
hypochondriac?
ANSWER: Jiang Qing (CHING)
048-13-94-15107

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 4 of 12

8. A Senator of this surname took his cousin Thomas's seat as Chief Justice of the Delaware Supreme
Court. A law named after an Alabama Senator with this surname was amended by the Hart-Scott-Rodino
Act and limits price discrimination and interlocking directorates. While Zachary Taylor's Secretary of State,
a man of this surname signed a Panama treaty with Henry Lytton Bulwer. For 10 points, give this surname
of the man who proposed a 1914 update to the Sherman Antitrust Act.
ANSWER: Clayton
BONUS: John Clayton was succeeded as Secretary of State by what former Senator, who had earlier
engaged in a notable debate with Robert Hayne?
ANSWER: Daniel Webster
233-13-94-15108

9. This event was blamed on a Masonic conspiracy by the encyclical Etsi Multa, which was issued the same
year that pathologist Rudolf Virchow coined the name for this event. An early part of this initiative was the
Pulpit Law, which banned criticizing the government in a sermon. This program was implemented by
Adalbert Falk and denounced by Pius IX. For 10 points, name this initiative of Otto von Bismarck to
weaken Catholicism in Germany.
ANSWER: the Kulturkampf
BONUS: The closure of seminaries and the takeover of religious instruction by the government were
accomplished by what 1873 laws decreed by Falk, which share their name with 1872 Russian laws
restricting the rights of Jews?
ANSWER: May Laws [or Maigesetze]
019-13-94-15109

10. These people comprised the "montonera" militia who fought for several caudillos (cow-DEE-ohz)
during nineteenth-century civil wars. These people wore the "chiripa" around their waist and the pleated
"bombachas" pants. The "shadow" they cast on history was denounced by Ricardo Guiraldes in Don
Segundo Sombra. For 10 points, name these people who used the three-ball "bolas" to wrangle cattle and
were Pampas-riding cowboys who played a large role in Argentine politics.
ANSWER: gauchos
BONUS: What national epic of Argentina, by Jose Hernandez, tells of a gaucho who provokes a series of
knife-fights to prove his honor?
ANSWER: The Gaucho Martín Fierro [or El Gaucho Martín Fierro]
019-13-94-15110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 5 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Third Quarter

DESEGREGATION
Who or what was the…
1. Supreme Court Case that desegregated schools?
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas
2. President who desegregated the U.S. military with Executive Order 9981?
ANSWER: Harry S. Truman
3. Governor who stood in the door of Foster Auditorium to stop integration of the University of Alabama?
ANSWER: George Wallace
4. City whose Central High School was forcibly integrated by the 101st Airborne Division?
ANSWER: Little Rock, Arkansas
5. Psychologists who conducted experiments with dolls who testified in Briggs v. Elliot?
ANSWER: Kenneth and Mamie Clark [or the Clarks, etc.]
6. Object with which lawyer Theodore Landsmark was menaced by Joseph Rakes in an iconic 1976 photo
of an anti-busing protest in Boston?
ANSWER: a flagpole [or the American flag]
7. Singer and actor who refused to play in front of segregated audiences, best known for his role in a West
End production of Othello and bringing Negro spirituals into the canon?
ANSWER: Paul Robeson
8. State whose busing program led to the Swann Supreme Court case ruling such efforts constitutional?
ANSWER: North Carolina
048-13-94-1510-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 6 of 12

NINETEENTH-CENTURY BRAZIL
In the nineteenth century...
1. The capital of Portugal was briefly moved to Brazil during what series of wars against a French
emperor?
ANSWER: Napoleonic Wars
2. The Cabanagem rebellion was fought in the basin of what river, now bridged at Manaus?
ANSWER: Amazon
3. The Golden Law abolished what practice, making Brazil the last Western Hemisphere country to do so?
ANSWER: slavery
4. What crop supplanted sugar as Brazil's most lucrative export?
ANSWER: coffee
5. What city was represented by "milk" in a political slogan, and is now the most populous in the Southern
Hemisphere?
ANSWER: Sao Paulo
6. What emperor declared the independence of Brazil from Portugal?
ANSWER: Pedro I [prompt on Pedro]
7. Brazil lost the Cisplatine War, ensuring the independence of what other South American state?
ANSWER: Oriental Republic of Uruguay [or Republica Oriental de Uruguay]
8. Brazilian forces killed what Paraguayan dictator in 1870 after he launced the disastrous War of the Triple
Alliance?
ANSWER: Francisco Solano Lopez
003-13-94-1510-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 7 of 12

POSTWAR GERMANY
After World War II, West Germany…
1. Benefitted from GDP growth known as what kind of "miracle," a phrase frequently applied to Spain at
the same time?
ANSWER: "economic miracle" [or Wirtschaftswunder]
2. Saw DaimlerAG rise to prominence in what industry through brands such as Mercedes?
ANSWER: automobile manufacture [or cars, etc.]
3. Became the home of Deutsch Telekom, which owns what fourth-place U.S. wireless carrier?
ANSWER: T-Mobile
4. Reunified with East Germany during what Christian Democrat Chancellor's sixteen-year term?
ANSWER: Helmut Kohl
5. Elected what Chancellor, who served from 1974 to 1982, as the last Social Democrat leader before
reunification?
ANSWER: Helmut Schmidt
6. Imprisoned Nazi war criminals at what Berlin site, which had only one remaining occupant, Rudolf
Hess, from 1966 to 1987?
ANSWER: Spandau Prison
7. Hosted a controversial 1985 visit by Ronald Reagan to what internment site for SS members?
ANSWER: Bitburg Military Cemetery
8. Was denounced for minimizing the Holocaust by what public intellectual, who coined the dictum
"writing poetry after Auschwitz is barbaric" and wrote The Authoritarian Personality?
ANSWER: Theodor Adorno
019-13-94-1510-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 8 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Fourth Quarter

1. This director cast himself as Tikon in a 1970 adaptation of Ilf and Petrov's The Twelve Chairs. In
another of his films, the title character and Dave Chappelle-played Achoo fight the goons of the
Sheriff of (+) Rottingham using a martial art called "Praying Mantis." His western featured Gene
Wilder play the Waco Kid, sidekick to (*) Bart, the black sheriff of Rock Ridge. In another movie he
directed, he played the roles of Moses and Louis XIV. For 10 points, name this director of Spaceballs, The
History of the World Part I, and Blazing Saddles.
ANSWER: Mel Brooks [or Melvin James Kaminsky]
141-13-94-15101

2. Ellen Woodward, the director of this agency's women's programs, protested that its employees
were only 13.5 percent female. This agency created a series of forty-eight state guidebooks. Incidents
in which employees of this agency tried to win votes for the Democratic Party prompted Carl (+)
Hatch to pass the Hatch Act. It spent about five percent of its money to fund artists, including in the
Federal (*) Writers Project that employed Saul Bellow and John Cheever. For 10 points, name this New
Deal agency that hired unemployed workers to build public projects.
ANSWER: the Works Progress Administration
080-13-94-15102

3. One agitator for this cause was nicknamed "the Bronze Titan." This cause allied itself with
emancipation after the emergence of the Ladder Conspiracy. This cause gained support after
Arsenio Martinez-Campos was replaced with a man whose "reconcentration" policy was so violent
that he was nicknamed (+) "Butcher Weyler." Ignacio Agramonte was a valiant general for this
cause, and the writer Jose (*) Marti was the public face of this movement, whose agitators rejoiced when
the USS Maine exploded. For 10 points, name this nationalist cause that was helped by the
Spanish-American War.
ANSWER: Cuban independence from Spain [accept related answers like Cuban autonomy or Cuban
self-rule]
020-13-94-15103

4. William McBride discovered that this compound was a teratogen which inactivates the protein
cereblon. Frances Oldham Kelsey crusaded against this substance. The Kefauver-Harris Amendment
in (+) 1962 was written in response to widespread use of this compound. It is an effective treatment
for multiple myeloma and leprosy. Only one (*) enantiomer of this compound is medically beneficial.
For 10 points, name this drug prescribed for women with morning sickness, which actually caused horrible
birth defects.
ANSWER: thalidomide [or Thalomid]
190-13-94-15104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 9 of 12

5. This piece is incorporated into the final movement of its composer's Third Symphony, which was
premiered by Serge Koussevitzky. It is scored for brass and percussion, and the text that inspired it
ends with the line, "Strong in the (+) strength of the Lord, we who fight in the people's cause will
never stop until that cause is won." This piece was commissioned by Eugene (*) Goossens, the
conductor of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, to foster patriotism during World War II, and it was
inspired by a speech by Henry Wallace. For 10 points, name this democratic composition by Aaron
Copland.
ANSWER: Fanfare for the Common Man
030-13-94-15105

6. Juan Escutia died at this battle after wrapping a flag around himself and jumping off a building.
John Quitman captured the Belen Gate during it, leading to the retreat of Andreas Terres. During it,
Robert E. Lee led troops down the (+) Veronica and San Cosme causeways. This battle was preceded
by the capture of Molino del Rey and was fought at a military (*) academy where the six "Boy Heroes"
died. This battle turned when Nicolas Bravo's garrison was defeated by Winfield Scott. For 10 points,
identify this September 1847 American victory at a castle outside Mexico City.
ANSWER: Battle of Chapultepec
233-13-94-15106

7. Solon's constitution gave these people the status of "yoked ones," or "zeugitae." These people
engaged in a mass shoving contest called the "othismos" and carried around a small "aspis."
Aristotle argued that their prominence gave rise to (+) oligarchical regimes, since they had to be
wealthy enough to afford a panoply. Epaminondas organized them into 150 (*) pairs of lovers called
the Sacred Band, and they worked together in a phalanx. For 10 points, name these spearmen who served in
ancient Greek armies.
ANSWER: hoplites [prompt on soldiers; prompt on spearmen]
080-13-94-15107

8. Throughout the 1970s, this athlete was the spokesman for the Mr. Coffee Company. His number
was retired by the Florida Marlins because he was the team president's favorite player. His brother
(+) Dom played the same position as he did, but for the rival Boston Red Sox. This player is
frequently mentioned in The (*) Old Man and the Sea and was the second husband of Marilyn Monroe.
The Simon and Garfunkel song "Mrs. Robinson" asks where this baseball player has gone. For 10 points,
name this New York Yankees center fielder who once had a fifty-six-game hitting streak.
ANSWER: Joseph "Joe" DiMaggio [or Giuseppe DiMaggio]
052-13-94-15108

9. Scientists in this country signed the controversial Manifesto of the 93. A biologist active in this
country created the side-chain theory of immunology and proposed a (+) "magic bullet" for treating
syphilis. A physicist from this country resolved the ultraviolet catastrophe, ushering in quantum
theory, with his law governing blackbody radiation. For discovering (*) X-rays, a physicist from here
was the first winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics. This country first synthesized a compound known in
Britain as "Hun stuff." For 10 points, name this country, the home of Max Planck.
ANSWER: Germany [or German Empire; or the German Reich; or Deutches Reich]
190-13-94-15109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 10 of 12

10. With the Duke di Modena, this man plotted with Queen Christina of Sweden to seize Naples from
Spain. He founded the College of the Four Nations, and his mansion became the (+) Bibliotheque
Nationale. He rode between two opposing armies in order to stop a battle at Monferrato. This man
made Jean-Baptiste (*) Colbert his personal assistant after Colbert kept this man abreast of news while he
sought refuge from the Fronde. For 10 points, name this French clergyman who served as regent during the
early reign of Louis XIV.
ANSWER: Jules, Cardinal Mazarin [or Giulio Raimondo Mazzarino; or Mazarini]
030-13-94-15110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 11 of 12

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 15
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
This event included "Black Saturday," when a B-59 narrowly decided not to respond to signal depth
charges. Anastas Mikoyan used a nonexistent law to solve the immediate aftermath of this incident,
which became more serious when Rudolf Anderson's (+) U-2 was shot down. After it ended, Dean
Rusk noted that "the other fellow just blinked." The agreement resolving this incident established a
teletype (*) "hotline" between Moscow and Washington. For 10 points, name this incident that arose due to
the presence of nuclear weapons on a Caribbean island.
ANSWER: the Cuban Missile Crisis
080-13-94-1510-1

BONUS: Though he later settled for the 49th parallel, James K. Polk fought the British to establish the
northern border of the Oregon Territory at what specific line of latitude mentioned in a campaign slogan?
ANSWER: 54 degrees, 40 minutes [or Fifty-Four Forty or Fight; prompt on 54]
190-13-94-1510-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

15

Page 12 of 12

