2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 14
First Quarter

14

1. This man's adoptive mother is the subject of the play "Rain on the Phoenix Tree" and the poem "A Song
of Everlasting Sorrow" and was blamed for allowing this man to gain power under the nose of emperor
(SHWAN-tsong) Xuanzong. This alleged lover of Yang Guifei was adopted by that woman after being
smuggled into the concubine quarters in a giant diaper. Approximately five percent of the world’s
population was killed in the 755 rebellion launched against the Tang Dynasty by, for 10 points, what Turkic
warlord?
ANSWER: An Lushan [or Xiongwu; do not accept “An Shi,” which is a combination of two names and
not any single person]
019-12-72-14101

2. This author covered Benito Mussolini's invasion of Abyssinia for the Daily Mail; that experience that
inspired his novel about William Boot's discovery of a Russian plot to take over Ishmaelia. This author
satirized the "Bright Young Things" of the 1920s in Vile Bodies. This author of Scoop wrote a novel
featuring the Flyte family, including Julia and Sebastian, who live at the title estate. For 10 points, name
this man, who created the painter Charles Ryder in Brideshead Revisited.
ANSWER: Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh
191-12-72-14102

3. Each work in this collection ends with a Latin and English versions of maxims like "Small things grow
great by concord." A set of works penned by the "Monitor," Arthur Lee, are often published alongside these
works. This collection denounces the American Board of Customs Commissioners in Boston and decries
the levying of taxes for revenue rather than trade regulation. The Townsend Acts lost public support
because of this work by a future delegate to the Constitutional Convention. For 10 points, name these
missives written by John Dickinson.
ANSWER: Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania
020-12-72-14103

4. Following this person's defeat, Julius Classicianus oversaw a lenient administration over this leader's
people. Present-day Watling Street is thought to be the site of this person's final defeat. The defeat of this
leader's revolt resulted in the reduction of the Iceni to a civitas. The will of this leader's husband Prasutagus
was supposed to provide for imperial protection. The absence of Suetonius Paulinus provided her with a
window to lead a revolt. For 10 points, name this queen who led the 60 CE East Anglia revolt against
Rome.
ANSWER: Boudicca [or Boadicea]
030-12-72-14104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 1 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. This man received a series of undeclared political contributions from the arms dealer Karlheinz
Schreiber; that revelation led to the suicide of his party's finance chief Wolfgang Hullen. His first bid for
his highest post resulted in a loss to Helmut Schmidt, and this man was defeated in 1998 by Gerhard
Schröder. For 10 points, name this Christian Democrat who served as the last chancellor of West Germany
and the first chancellor of reunified Germany.
ANSWER: Helmut Kohl
030-12-72-14105

6. The Seattle Seven received a settlement for $63.75 million shortly after this event, which occurred after a
RAYCAS Radar system had been broken for a year. Joseph Hazelwood is thought to have been drunk
during this event, which occurred on the Bligh Reef and damaged the Knight Islands. It led to legislation
requiring tankers to have double hulls, and the cargo involved in it was from Prudhoe Bay. For 10 points,
name this 1989 oil spill that occurred when a tanker ran aground in Prince William Sound, Alaska.
ANSWER: Exxon Valdez Oil Spill [or equivalents that include Exxon Valdez]
187-12-72-14106

7. This federal agency uses total maximum daily load in its implementation of the provisions of one act.
This agency was notably not established by an enabling act, but by an executive order of Richard Nixon.
This agency administers a cap-and-trade program for nitrogen oxides. It launched both the EnergyStar and
WaterSense programs. It is responsible for implementing the Clean Water and Clean Air acts. For 10
points, identify this agency whose primary role is to implement environmental laws.
ANSWER: United States EPA [or United States Environmental Protection Agency]
066-12-72-14107

8. The first book-length study of this group was written by Roger Daniels. The leader of this group later
published his experiences in a book entitled "The Whole Story of" this group narrated to William C. White.
William Hushka and Eric Carlson were two members of this group that died after being shot by cornered
policemen and Smedley Butler visited them to show his support. Camping in the Anacostia Flats and led by
Walter Waters, for 10 points, name this group of disgruntled World War I veterans forceably evicted by the
army led by Douglas Macarthur.
ANSWER: Bonus Army [accept Bonus Expeditionary Force]
201-12-72-14108

9. One character in this work is delayed in speaking by a bout of the hiccups. Pausanias distinguishes
between “Common” and “Celestial” variants of the central topic of this work, which is illustrated by
(ER-is-TAW-fuh-neez) Aristophanes with a myth about androgynous beings who were split up by Zeus. A
drunk (AL-sih-BYE-uh-deez) Alcibiades impedes upon the central procession of this work immediately
after Socrates presents Diotima’s analogy of a ladder for the central topic. For 10 points, name this Platonic
dialogue set at a party at which the guests discuss the nature of love.
ANSWER: Symposium
192-12-72-14109

10. A series of reforms named after this city divided a colony into reducciones and implemented a new mita
labor system; those reforms are named for the Viceroy of Peru known as Francisco of this city. The
Visigoths moved their capital to this city after converting to Catholicism. Before it moved to Valladolid,
this city served as the capital of the Crown of Castile. This city's high-quality steel competed with
Damascene steel and was used in the weaponry of Roman legions. For 10 points, name this Spanish city
with a well-preserved medieval quarter, not far from Madrid.
ANSWER: Toledo
149-12-72-14110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 2 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 14
Second Quarter

1. This country passed the Draft Constitution in 1932. In 1992, a period of unrest in this country was called
the Black May. A 2006 coup in this nation led to the downfall of Thaksin Shinawatra. This nation has been
ruled by several members of the House of Chakri. It was invaded in World War II in an attempt to control
the Malay Peninsula, and it was formerly called Siam by the British. For 10 points, name this country
which faced Japanese bombing raids in its capital of Bangkok.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand
BONUS: The fourth member of the Chakri Dynasty, who hired Anna Leonowens as his children's
governess and offered James Buchanan a herd of elephants, was known by what name, still borne by every
king of Thailand since the eighteenth century?
ANSWER: Rama
192-12-72-14101

2. Charles Erskine Scott Wood transcribed the most famous speech by this ruler, and was accused of
fabricating it due to a note to self in the margins. This successor of Tuekakas was assisted by Looking
Glass, who died during a lot retreat from this man’s Wallowa valley. He tried to lead his people to Canada,
pursued for over a thousand miles by Oliver O. Howard, a US general. For 10 points, name this Nez Perce
chief whose surrender declared “I will fight no more forever.”
ANSWER: Chief Joseph [or Hin-mah-too-yah-lat-kekt]
BONUS: Oliver O. Howard had previously run what Reconstruction-era agency which attempted to
provide services to blacks?
ANSWER: Freedman’s Bureau [or Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands]
104-12-72-14102

3. This school's first Final Four team was called the “Hardway Eight.” While Anderson Hunt was the Final
Four MVP during this team's championship year, the greatest NBA talents from here were Stacey Augmon
and Larry Johnson. This school won the Big West with an undefeated 1991 regular season, after blowing
out Duke by thirty points to win the NCAA title in 1990. For 10 points, name this college basketball
dynasty, coached by the controversial Jerry Tarkanian and known as the Runnin’ Rebels.
ANSWER: UNLV [or Runnin’ Rebels before it is read; or University of Nevada-Las Vegas; do not accept
or prompt on “Nevada” or “University of Nevada,” by itself, since in sports, that always refers to the main
campus in Reno]
BONUS. Larry Johnson went on to form a four-year dynamic duo in Charlotte with what defensive stalwart
from Georgetown, who was also the highest scorer in Miami Heat history prior to Dwyane Wade and
notably played five further years in the NBA after receiving a kidney transplant?
ANSWER: Alonzo Harding Mourning, Jr.
019-12-72-14103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 3 of 12 © HSAPQ

4. This man was indentured as William Bradford's apprentice for eight years, learning a business that was
run by his wife Anna during his ten months in prison. He was responsible for a series of attacks on
governor William Cosby, as a result of which Andrew Hamilton defended him in court. For 10 points,
name this German printer in colonial New York whose acquittal in a 1735 libel case marked a major
development for the freedom of the press.
ANSWER: John Peter Zenger
BONUS: The "actual malice" standard for libel was outlined in what 1964 Supreme Court case?
ANSWER: New York Times v. Sullivan [or New York Times Co. v. Sullivan]
014-12-72-14104

5. This man became prime minister on the strength of his party's manifesto, Let Us Face the Future. This
prime minister won an election during the Potsdam Conference and replaced his predecessor there. This
man's achievements included nationalizing the coal and steel industries, granting independence to India,
and creating the National Health Service. For 10 points, name this Prime Minister from the Labour Party
who replaced Winston Churchill near the end of World War II.
ANSWER: Clement Attlee
BONUS: Attlee belonged to what British socialist society, including members like George Bernard Shaw,
that was named for a Roman general?
ANSWER: Fabian Society
080-12-72-14105

6. This man took advantage of C-SPAN's policy of not filming the audience when he denounced ten
members of Congress who had sent a letter to the Sandinistas to an empty chamber. He became his party's
whip after attacking Speaker Jim Wright on ethics charges, forcing Wright to resign. The federal
government shut down in 1995 when this Speaker of the House and President Clinton could not agree on a
budget. For 10 points, name this Georgian politician who unsuccessfully ran for the Republican presidential
nomination in 2012.
ANSWER: Newt Gingrich [or Newton Leroy Gingrich]
BONUS: Gingrich became speaker after the “Republican Revolution” of this election year, where his party
gained a majority in the House for the first time since 1954.
ANSWER: 1994
121-12-72-14106

7. Eduard Kullmann attempted to assassinate the instigator of this campaign, while the document Etsi multa
traced its origins to Freemasonry. This policy’s name was coined by Rudolf Virchow, and its early
legislation included the Pulpit Act. Ending after Leo XIII rose to power, it included the institution of
state-controlled clergy education in the May Laws and the expulsion of the nation’s Franciscans. For 10
points, name this campaign promulgated by Otto von Bismarck, an attempt to diminish the power of the
Catholic Church within Prussia.
ANSWER: Kulturkampf [prompt on "culture struggle"]
BONUS: Leo XIII succeeded this man as pope upon his death in 1878. This pope presided over the First
Vatican Council and defined the concepts of papal infallibility and Immaculate Conception.
ANSWER: Pius IX [or Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti, prompt on "Pius"]
192-12-72-14107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 4 of 12 © HSAPQ

8. The dispute had to define the phrase “the mountains parallel to the coast.” The Hay-Herbert Treaty set
up an arbitration panel in which Lord Alverstone’s vote avoided deadlock. This dispute started between
Britain and Russia, but involved Canada after it gained British Columbia in 1871, and the United States
after 1867. For 10 points, name this dispute that set the boundary of the northernmost American state.
ANSWER: Alaska Boundary Dispute [accept dispute over Alaska’s boundary with British Colubmia or
dispute over the Alaskan-Canadian border; prompt on United States-Canada boundary dispute; do not
prompt or accept answers with “Beaufort Sea”]
BONUS: What secretary of war under Theodore Roosevelt and author of the Platt Amendment helped
negotiate the Hay-Herbert Treaty?
ANSWER: Elihu Root
153-12-72-14108

9. This man created a circle of intellectuals called the Invisible College, and he published a method of
analyzing ores via sinking them in water in his Medicina Hydrostatica. One construct developed by this
man is most accurate when the second virial coefficient is zero. With Robert Hooke, this man developed
the pneumatical engine to conduct a series of experiments on the spring of the air. For 10 points, name this
chemist whose law states that pressure and volume are inversely proportional.
ANSWER: Robert Boyle
BONUS: Robert Boyle wrote this book, written as a dialogue between Carneades and Elutherius, to
expound his idea that chemistry should be based on experiment and is superior to alchemy.
ANSWER: The Skeptical Chemist: or Chymico-Physical Doubts & Paradoxes
048-12-72-14109

10. Artifacts from this kingdom include the Telaga Batu, Talang Tuwo, and Kota Kapur inscriptions. Much
early information about this kingdom is provided by the records of the Buddhist monk Yijing. The decline
of this kingdom was marked by Chola’s capture of Palembang, and it was eventually supplanted by the rise
of Majapahit, a kingdom based in Java. For 10 points, name this commercial kingdom that prospered from
the 7th to 11th centuries and originated on Sumatra.
ANSWER: Srivijaya
BONUS: Srivijaya controlled what strait separating Sumatra from the Malay Peninsula?
ANSWER: Strait of Malacca
014-12-72-14110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 5 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 14
Third Quarter

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
Benjamin Franklin...
1. invented a new, low-smoke version of what ubiquitous household feature?
ANSWER: stove [or fireplace]
2. subscribed to what Enlightenment belief in a remote, nondenominational God?
ANSWER: deism
3. published what bestselling collection of miscellany every year from 1732 to 1758?
ANSWER: Poor Richard's Almanack
4. was appointed by the Continental Congress as the first holder of what erstwhile Cabinet position?
ANSWER: Postmaster General
5. invented a new version of what musical instrument, consisting of spinning crystal bowls?
ANSWER: glass harmonica
6. was the father of William Franklin, the Loyalist governor of what state?
ANSWER: New Jersey
7. worked to disperse what anti-Indian vigilante group that perpetrated the Conestoga Massacre?
ANSWER: the Paxton Boys
8. stole letters written by what Massachusetts governor and Boston Tea Party target?
ANSWER: Thomas Hutchinson
019-12-72-1410-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 6 of 12 © HSAPQ

THE SPANISH ARMADA
The Spanish Armada was…
1. Sheltered on the coast of County Mayo on what island?
ANSWER: Ireland
2. Sent by what Habsburg king of Spain?
ANSWER: Philip II Habsburg [or Felipe II]
3. launched from what Iberian port wrecked by a 1755 earthquake?
ANSWER: Lisbon [or Lisboa]
4. attacked by Drake in what Spanish harbor?
ANSWER: Cadiz
5. wrecked by the “Protestant” type of what phenomenon attributed to God while rounding Scotland?
ANSWER: wind [prompt thunderstorm and similar answers]
6. damaged in what battle in a Flemish harbor by “hell-burners”?
ANSWER: Battle of Gravelines
7. shrugged off by a royal speech in what Essex town?
ANSWER: Tilbury
8. was blessed by the fifth and last Pope of what name?
ANSWER: Sixtus
104-12-72-1410-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 7 of 12 © HSAPQ

TWENTIETH CENTURY BRAZIL
During the twentieth century, Brazil…
1. Moved its capital to what city designed by Lucio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer?
ANSWER: Brasilia
2. Moved its capital from what large city that had served as its colonial and first independent capital?
ANSWER: Cidade de Sao Sebastiao do Rio de Janeiro
3. First attempted a valorization program for what agricultural product, which Brazil is the world's largest
producer of?
ANSWER: coffee
4. Won three World Cups thanks in part to what forward, whose presence caused a two-day ceasefire in the
Biafran War when his team Santos played in Nigeria?
ANSWER: Pele [or Edson Arantes do Nascimento]
5. Underwent what type of event in 1964 that changed its political landscape for 20 years?
ANSWER: coup d'etat [or equivalents such as military takeover of the government]
6. Had its Workers' Party founded in part by what man who went on to run three times for president before
finally winning in 2002?
ANSWER: Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva [or Luiz Inacio da Silva]
7. Had an Estado Novo established under what president who committed suicide in 1954 while in office?
ANSWER: Getulio Dorneles Vargas
8. Underwent considerable industrial development under what president, who also chose to move the
capital?
ANSWER: Juscelino Kubitschek de Oliveira
023-12-72-1410-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 8 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 14
Fourth Quarter

1. This city is the namesake of a ship lost in 1941 when it was sunk by the German auxiliary cruiser
Komoran. This city named for the British Colonial Secretary who issued its charter has a daily paper
called the Morning Herald. The world's first private (+) lifesaving club was founded for its most
popular beach, also frequented by the Icebergs; that beach is (*) Bondi Beach. Arthur Phillip led the
First Fleet in choosing Port Jackson as the site to start this city now famous for its Harbour Bridge and a
white building designed by Jorn Utzon. For 10 points, name this capital of New South Wales and most
populous city of Australia, which has a famous opera house.
ANSWER: Sydney
153-12-72-14101

2. This king pioneered the use of “justices in eyre” and speedy trials in assize courts. Nicholas
Breakspear’s papal bull Laudabiliter granted this man license to invade (+) Ireland. This man’s
accession was guaranteed by the Treaty of Wallingford, which ended the Anarchy. His attempts to
try (*) “criminous clerks” within the priesthood in secular court, via the Constitutions of Clarendon,
angered church leadership. For 10 points, name this Plantagenet husband of Eleanor of Aquitaine, an
English king whose men murdered Archbishop Thomas a Becket.
ANSWER: Henry II of England [or Henry Curtmantle]
104-12-72-14102

3. One commander at this battle claimed that his death from wounds inflicted here could be
attributed to "missing frigates." As it began, the Alerte unsuccessfully attempted to divert the
Zealous, which attacked the (+) Guerrier. A supply of unused paint lead to the explosion of L'Orient,
killing Admiral de (BRUES) Brueys. This battle occurred after (*) Napoleon's landing in Aboukir Bay.
For 10 points, name this 1798 victory for the British under Horatio Nelson against a French fleet, fought
near an Egyptian river.
ANSWER: Battle of the Nile [or Battle of Aboukir Bay before it is mentioned]
192-12-72-14103

4. This man painted himself in a red hat next to portraits of his sons Orazio and Marco above
pictures of two dogs and a lion in his An Allegory of Prudence, and his teacher was (+) Giovanni
Bellini. A knight can be seen with an imprisoned man in a turban next to St. Francis of Assisi and the
title family in this man's (*) Pesaro Madonna. This man also created a painting that shows two maids
looking through a chest in the background as the title figure reclines on a couch next to a small dog. For 10
points, name this Venetian painter of the Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Veccellio]
030-12-72-14104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 9 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. An autobiography of a particularly famous author of this type was titled Save Me the Waltz. These
people were influenced by the (GAR-son) "garconne" look promoted by (+) Coco Chanel. They were
often enthusiastic attendees of "petting parties," where much foreplay abounded. Several stories
about these people were paired with those of "philosophers" in a collection by (*) F. Scott Fitzgerald.
These people danced the Charleston and wore shorter skirts than ever before. For 10 points, name these
sexually liberated, modern women who emerged in America during the 1920s.
ANSWER: flappers [prompt on women; prompt on girls; prompt on ladies; etc]
020-12-72-14105

6. A woman with this last name critiqued the Royal Academy's use of experimental devices like the
microscope in an early science fiction novel, The Blazing World. Another scientist in this family
discovered, before Coulomb, the inverse square relation for (+) electrostatic force, and dissolved
metal with acid to form "inflammable air." A scientist from this family put two large lead spheres
next to a torsion balance with two smaller lead spheres in an experiment to calculate the (*)
gravitational constant. For 10 points, give the last name of Henry, the English scientist who calculated the
weight of the earth.
ANSWER: Cavendish [or Margaret Cavendish; or Henry Cavendish]
080-12-72-14106

7. One side of this war used “Allahu Akbar” as a pronunciation test to see whether passersby were of
an enemy ethnicity. Bernard (COOCH-ner) Kouchner founded (+) Doctors without Borders in
response to this conflict, which started after Decree No. 8 and the Aburi accord were ignored by
Odumegwu Ojukwu. Ken Saro-Wiwa fought in this war, in which the (*) Hausa and Fulani of the north
opposed the southern Igbo, who tried to found their own oil-rich nation in 1967. For 10 points, name this
war ending when the secessionist Republic of Biafra surrendered to the government in Lagos.
ANSWER: Nigerian Civil War [or Nigerian-Biafran War before “Biafra” is read]
104-12-72-14107

8. Phineas Miller successfully sued several southern states on behalf of this man. This figure was
aided by the widow of a Revolutionary War general, Catherine Littlefield Greene, though he never
acknowledged her suggestions. Thomas Jefferson released this man from a contract to produce
thousands of (+) muskets for the Barbary Wars, which he eventually accomplished by inventing
interchangeable parts. This man's most famous invention was complemented by Hargreave's (*)
spinning jenny. For 10 points, name this inventor of the cotton gin.
ANSWER: Eli Whitney
190-12-72-14108

9. Two ships involved in this operation were known as Blagar and Barbara J, and following this
event, Maxwell Taylor compiled its primary report. Its overall plan was called Operation Pluto.
During this event, Brigade 2506 was defeated at (+) (hee-RONE) Giron Beach, and after this event,
Alan Dulles resigned. The failure of this operation was partially blamed on (*) insufficient support
from the CIA. For 10 points, name this failed operation taking place in April 1961, during which John F.
Kennedy attempted to invade Cuba by landing in the namesake body of water.
ANSWER: Bay of Pigs invasion [prompt on invasion of Cuba; accept other equivalents mentioning the
United States' attempt to invade the Bay of Pigs]
189-12-72-14109

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 10 of 12 © HSAPQ

10. One man with this papal name wrote the collection Illustrissimi, featuring letters addressed to
Dickens and Pinocchio. The death of a pope with this name may have been connected to the murder
of Roberto Calvi, a man known as (+) “God’s Banker.” This was the papal name of a man who
reigned just 33 days, dying in (*) 1978 and succeeded by a man who took the same name. For 10 points,
give this papal name held by two popes in the twentieth century, the second of which was once Archbishop
of Krakow, Poland.
ANSWER: John Paul
052-12-72-14110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 11 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 14
Extra Questions

This man composed Fugue in Four Keys, in which the keys were played simultaneously. James
Sinclair reconstructed a set of this man's pieces for theater orchestra entitled Four Ragtime Dances.
One composition by this man contains a flute obbligato in homage to Henry David (+) Thoreau's
desire to hear a flute over Walden Pond, and another of his works contains the piece “The
Housatonic at Stockbridge." (*) Central Park in the Dark is the second part of a diptych with his The
Unanswered Question. For 10 points, name this American composer of the Concord Sonata and Three
Places in New England.
ANSWER: Charles Ives
030-12-72-1410-1

This non-American leader visited Roswell Garst’s corn farm in Iowa, which inspired his agricultural
policies. His deputy chairmen included a personal mentor, (+) Lazar Kaganovich, who tried to
overthrow him. This leader oversaw the building of the Baikonur facility, and gave top-level orders
for grain belts across Central Asia via the (*) Virgin Lands campaign. At his country’s 20th Party
Congress, he coined the term “personality cult” in a still-unpublished address, his “secret speech”. For 10
points, name this Soviet First Secretary who denounced Stalin.
ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev
104-12-72-1410-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

14

Page 12 of 12 © HSAPQ

