2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 10
First Quarter

10

1. This emperor's scribe owned the Stoic philosopher Epictetus as a slave. A huge bronze statue of this ruler
was refashioned after his death into a statue of Sol Invictus, which was moved from this ruler's Domus
Aurea. This ruler was targeted by the Pisonian conspiracy, which resulted in the forced suicide of his
advisor Seneca the Younger. Near the end of this emperor's reign, the governor of Gaul, Vindex, rebelled.
For 10 points, identify this Roman emperor said to have fiddled while Rome burned.
ANSWER: Nero
126-12-72-10101

2. This event was sparked in part by speeches of Horatio Seymour regarding the constitutionality of this
event's namesake institution. This event included an attack of the Black Joke fire company that destroyed
the 9th District Office. This event was partly of a result of a $300 commutation fee that wealthy individuals
used to purchase a substitute for the namesake selection. For 10 points, name this 1863 event in which
protestors violently resisted being conscripted for military service during the Civil War in the namesake
Northern city.
ANSWER: New York Draft Riots
030-12-72-10102

3. A set of amendments to this piece of legislation passed in 1976 requires a "Notification and Report
Form," and is named for Hart, Scott, and Rodino. This piece of legislation was amended by the
Robinson-Patman act, and its seventh section deals with holding companies. This piece of legislation does
not regulate boycotts, strikes, picketing, and collective bargaining; thus, unlike its predecessor, it does not
affect the functions of unions. For 10 points, identify this act which revised its predecessor from 1890, a
1914 antitrust act from the Wilson administration.
ANSWER: Clayton Antitrust Act
189-12-72-10103

4. This event was won at the 1904 and 1906 Olympics by the "Milwaukee Meteor," Archie Hahn. At the
1968 Olympics, Jim Hines won the gold medal in this event while breaking a long-standing barrier. Carl
Lewis won this event at the 1988 Seoul Olympics after Ben Johnson's world record was revoked due to
doping charges. A faulty anemometer recorded winds of 0.0 meters per second at the time a heavily
wind-assisted Florence Griffith-Joyner set the women's world record in it. For 10 points, name this track
event in which Usain Bolt holds the world record of 9.58 seconds.
ANSWER: 100 Meters [or 100-meter dash; do not accept or prompt on "100-yard dash"]
080-12-72-10104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. Representatives of this organization who ran afoul of oppressive regimes include a supporter of
Solidarity, (YAIR-zhee pop-eel-YUSH-koe) Jerzy Popieluszko; an opponent of Tito, Aloysius Stepinac;
and a Hungarian torture victim, Josef (mind-SENT-ee) Mindszenty. Since it was the target of the "Red
Terror" effected by the Spanish Republic, it generally supported Francisco Franco. More notoriously, this
institution signed the Reichskonkordat with Nazi Germany and the Lateran Treaty with Mussolini. For 10
points, name this large institution that opposed communism under the leadership of John Paul II.
ANSWER: Roman Catholic Church [or Polish Catholic Church; etc]
080-12-72-10105

6. This man appointed Asaf Khan as the new governor of Mewar following his massacre of the Chitor
fortress. This ruler appointed an administrative "diwan" to assist each "subadar" or governor. He picked
nineteen people to follow his new “Divine Faith,” the Din-i-Ilahi. He made peace with many Hindu
kingdoms by marrying a Rajput princess, and this successor of Humayun frequently sponsored religious
debates. For 10 points, name this “great” sixteenth-century ruler of the Mughal empire in India.
ANSWER: Abu al-Fath Jalal al-Din Muhammad Akbar
019-12-72-10106

7. Gerald Chatham, the lead prosecutor in the trial over this event, was criticized for removing potential
jurors who knew the defendants. The father of this event’s victim was executed while serving in the Army,
a fact disclosed by John C. Stennis. In the trial following it, Mose Wright identified the white perpetrator,
and this event’s victim was found tied to a cotton gin fan. Jet magazine published photographs of the open
casket funeral of its victim. For 10 points, name this event that occurred in 1955 in Mississippi after a
certain black teenager whistled at a white woman.
ANSWER: murder of Emmett Till [or equivalents]
187-12-72-10107

8. This artist's The Gift consisted of a flatiron with tacks on the bottom. He used a technique he pioneered
to make the film Return to Reason. This artist created a metronome with an eye attached to the pendulum
called Object to Be Destroyed, which was destroyed by rioters. He was the first artist to use solarization for
aesthetic purposes, and he painted a female nude to resemble the namesake instrument in his (vee-oh-LON
duh ANG-ruh) Violin d'Ingres. This man used a technique in which he placed objects on light-sensitive
paper to make his namesake photograms. For 10 points, name this American Dadaist and Surrealist who
created rayographs.
ANSWER: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]
030-12-72-10108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 10
Second Quarter

1. With Aaron Klug, this scientist showed that all particles of tobacco mosaic virus were the same size, and
this scientist discovered that different types of coal have different pore sizes in a doctoral thesis. This
supervisor of Raymond Gosling took photo 51, which showed the paracrystalline B-form of a certain
substance; that work was done in Maurice Wilkins’ lab. For 10 points, name this scientist whose X-ray
diffraction pictures were used by Watson and Crick to develop the double-helix model of DNA.
ANSWER: Rosalind Elsie Franklin
BONUS: This computer scientist and rear admiral of the US Navy came up with the term “debugging”
after discovering a moth in one of her computers.
ANSWER: Grace Murray Hopper
048-12-72-10101

2. One group overseeing these commodities was replaced with a "Research Fund" for them after its
chartering treaty expired in 2002. That group, which regulated these things, was last led by Albert Coppe,
fifteen years after selecting (zhahn moe-NAY) Jean Monnet as its first president. That group regulating
these commodities was announced in the Schuman Declaration. For 10 points, a precursor to the European
Union was a “Community” formed by France and Germany to oversee what two resources?
ANSWER: coal and steel [prompt on partial answer]
BONUS. Alfred, the convicted war criminal and last leader of what family of German munitions
manufacturers, was required to divest himself of all coal and steel interests in order to rejoin the business
world after World War II?
ANSWER: Krupp family [or the Krupps]
019-12-72-10102

3. One leader of this institution wrote a message describing a “humane and a reasonable way to proceed,”
noting that “the only downside for us is if the message isn’t ‘heard’ and acted upon.” An investigation led
by Louis Freeh condemned the actions of this institution’s vice president Gary Schultz and president
Graham Spanier. One man who worked there was found guilty in June 2012 of 45 counts of sexual abuse.
For 10 points, name this Big Ten university which once employed Jerry Sandusky.
ANSWER: Pennsylvania State University [or Penn State]
BONUS: What former assistant coach at Penn State is now suing the university for defamation and
reportedly informed his superiors after seeing Sandusky abuse a child in the locker room?
ANSWER: Mike McQueary
052-12-72-10103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. This ballet was inspired by a namesake “saga” of the title character written by Walter Noble Burns. That
character’s mother dies in “Street in a Frontier Town,” which quotes the song “Come Wrangle Yer
Bronco.” Heavy percussion marks a gun battle in this ballet, and it opens with the image of pioneers
traveling in “The Open Prairie.” After stealing a gun during a game of cards, the title character is
eventually killed by Pat Garrett. For 10 points, name this ballet by Aaron Copland that dramatizes the life
of the young outlaw William Henry McCarty.
ANSWER: Billy the Kid
BONUS: Another Copland ballet, Appalachian Spring, which is about pioneers, was choreographed by this
American dancer.
ANSWER: Martha Graham
192-12-72-10104

5. Origen interpreted two breasts in this work as symbols of the Old and New Testament. In this book’s last
chapter, one character asks to “set me as a seal upon thine heart” and notes that “many waters cannot
quench love.” This work is the origin of the phrase “little foxes,” and its second chapter opens with one
character declaring that she is the Rose of Sharon to her lover. This book was famously read by Rabbi
Aqiba as an allegory for God’s love of Israel. For 10 points, name this book of the Old Testament that
depicts a love affair in notably erotic fashion.
ANSWER: Song of Songs [or Song of Solomon, or Canticle of Canticles]
BONUS: The eighth chapter of Song of Songs says that love is as strong as this entity. In First Corinthians,
this entity is asked “where is thy sting?”
ANSWER: death
192-12-72-10105

6. In 1984, the Forces of 25 April launched four mortar rounds at one of these buildings in Portugal. One of
these buildings in Pakistan was burned down in 1979 after claims that its owners had attacked Mecca. Two
of these buildings in Africa were bombed in 1998 and people in this type of building were seized in the
1979 Iranian Hostage Crisis. For 10 points, name this type of building found in most world capitals besides
Washington D.C.
ANSWER: United States embassy building [or American embassies; prompt on embassy, diplomatic
building, and equivalents]
BONUS: In the 1999 NATO campaign against Yugoslavia, the US Air Force accidentally bombed the
Belgrade embassy of this country.
ANSWER: People’s Republic of China [or Zhongguo; or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo]
153-12-72-10106

7. In his old age, this thinker legendarily drove thieving Nazis from his apartment by simply glaring at
them. He wrote about falling in love in terms of the depletion and refilling of self-esteem in his essay “On
Narcissism,” and his books include Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious. He explained
psychosexual development in terms of the Oedipus complex, which he introduced in The Interpretation of
Dreams. For 10 points, name this Austrian founder of psychoanalysis.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
BONUS: After his death, Freud’s work was carried on by what daughter of his, the author of The Ego and
the Mechanisms of Defense?
ANSWER: Anna Freud [prompt on Freud]
014-12-72-10107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. This poet wrote, “Shake your chains to earth like dew which in sleep had fallen on you, ye are many,
they are few,” in a poem responding to the Peterloo Massacre titled “The Masque of Anarchy.” This poet
wrote of an inscription reading, “Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!” in a sonnet about a statue of
Ramses II. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of “Ozymandias.”
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley
BONUS: Shelley asked, “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?” in an ode addressed to what entity
that he calls “thou breath of Autumn’s being”?
ANSWER: West Wind
014-12-72-10108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 10
Third Quarter

U.S. GOVERNORS
Which American governor or gubernatorial candidate...
1. Tried to sell Barack Obama's vacated Senate seat in 2008?
ANSWER: Rod Blagojevich
2. Ran unsuccessfully against Dwight Eisenhower for the presidency as the Democratic candidate?
ANSWER: Adlai Stevenson II
3. Physically blocked Vivian Jones and James Hood from entering a University of Alabama building in his
effort to stop desegregation?
ANSWER: George Wallace
4. Was governor of New York for most of the 1940s but failed in two Republican Presidential bids?
ANSWER: Thomas Dewey
5. Told reporters they wouldn't have him to “kick around any more” after losing to Jerry Brown in 1962?
ANSWER: Richard Nixon
6. Led the End Poverty in California movement while running for governor there in 1934?
ANSWER: Upton Sinclair
7. Served as Teddy Roosevelt's running mate in 1912?
ANSWER: Hiram Warren Johnson
8. Became famous in Georgia for closing his Pickrick Restaurant rather than serve black customers?
ANSWER: Lester Maddox
121-12-72-1010-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

ELECTION OF 1924
During the U.S. presidential election of 1924…
1. Which famously “silent” president won a full term in office?
ANSWER: John Calvin Coolidge Jr.
2. Which state’s governor of Al Smith campaigned for the Democratic nomination?
ANSWER: New York
3. Which man won the Vice Presidency and previously named a plan for World War I reparations?
ANSWER: Charles Gates Dawes
4. Which Progressive Wisconsin Senator ran a strong third party campaign?
ANSWER: Robert Marion La Follette Sr.
5. Which folksy humorist quipped during the election that he was not a member of an organized party, but a
Democrat?
ANSWER: William Penn Adair “Will” Rogers
6. Which obscure Democrat was the losing candidate and would go on to defend “separate but equal” in the
Brown v. Board case?
ANSWER: John William Davis
7. What group was the subject of vigorous floor debates at the Democratic convention and held a rally
opposite the convention to oppose Smith?
ANSWER: Ku Klux Klan [or KKK; or the Klan]
8. What former Treasury Secretary and son-in-law to Woodrow Wilson failed to earn the Democratic
nomination?
ANSWER: William Gibbs McAdoo Jr.
052-12-72-1010-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

POLAND AND WAR
Name these people, places, or things related to Poland's military history.
1. The current capital of Latvia at which Augustus the Strong lost a 1701 battle during the Great Northern
War.
ANSWER: Riga
2. The Russian tsar against whom Poland and various allies fought during the mid-sixteenth-century
Livonian War.
ANSWER: Ivan IV [or Ivan the Terrible; or Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]
3. The mostly-Polish region desired by Prussia at the start of the War of the Austrian Succession.
ANSWER: Silesia
4. The Polish king who relieved the 1683 Siege of Vienna.
ANSWER: Jan III [or John III; or Jan Sobieski; or John Sobieski; prompt on Jan; prompt on John]
5. The Polish river that lent its name to one of Napoleon's most powerful Polish legions.
ANSWER: Vistula River [or Legion of the Vistula]
6. "Winged" cavalry units that served as the elite of the Polish army until the 1700s.
ANSWER: Polish hussars [or winged _Hussars]
7. The 1940 Soviet massacre of over 20,000 Polish military officers.
ANSWER: Katyn Forest Massacre
8. Either of the aspirants to the throne in the War of the Polish Succession.
ANSWER: Stanislaw I Leszczynski [or Augustus III; or Stanislaw Leszczynski; or Frederick Augustus
II; prompt on Stanislaw; prompt on Augustus; prompt on Frederick Augustus]
003-12-72-1010-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 10
Fourth Quarter

1. This man succeeded Henry Middleton and Peyton Randolph in his highest political position. Only
this man's name is present on copies of the Dunlap broadside. He demanded a writ of assistance from
soldiers investigating shipments of (+) Madeira wine on his boat, called the Liberty. This man and
Samuel Adams were specifically not pardoned by Thomas Gage for their roles in the Boston Tea
Party. In his best-known position, he allegedly claimed, "There, I guess (*) King George will be able to
read that!" For 10 points, name this man who, as president of the Second Continental Congress, was the
first to sign the Declaration of Independence.
ANSWER: John Hancock
190-12-72-10101

2. The first non-Chinese paper mill in the world was constructed at this city soon after the secret of
paper-making was learned from two prisoners at the Battle of Talas River. It's not Agra, but a ruler
commemorated his wife by constructing the (+) Bibi-Khanym mosque here. In 1220, this city was
besieged by Genghis Khan, who killed all of its defenders and built a (*) pyramid of skulls -- an act that
would influence a later ruler of this city. This city, which was later eclipsed in importance by Bukhara, was
the capital of a Central Asian kingdom ruled by a handicapped man who wished to restore the Mongol
Empire. For 10 points, name this capital city of Tamerlane, located in modern Uzbekistan.
ANSWER: Samarkand
020-12-72-10102

3. In 1981, Dewey McLean proposed that the Deccan Traps were responsible for this event. The most
scientifically-accepted principle for this event is the Alvarez Hypothesis, which is supported by the
presence of (+) shocked quartz and a thin layer of iridium in clay. That explanation for this event
points to the creation of the (*) Chicxulub Crater on the Yucatan Peninsula. This event occurred at the
boundary between the Paleogene and Cretaceous Periods, about sixty-five million years ago. For 10 points,
name this event now blamed on an asteroid impact, which caused the death of species like plesiosaur and
tyrannosaurus.
ANSWER: extinction of the dinosaurs [accept same-knowledge equivalents; accept
Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction or K-T extinction before mention; prompt on "impact event" or "asteroid
impact"]
190-12-72-10103

4. Mary Rowlandson wrote a captivity narrative about her experiences during this war. This war was
triggered before one side's campaign plans were settled by the execution of three men for the murder
of John (+) Sassamon, an informer. In this war, the winner's gained an advantage by eventually
employing "Praying Indians," and the Narragansett were decimated in the (*) Great Swamp Fight.
For 10 points, name this war that erupted in 1675 between the New England colonists and the Wampanoag
leader Metacom, who was also known by a certain English name.
ANSWER: King Philip's War [accept Metacomet's War before read]
014-12-72-10104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. The military science academy of this organization was named for a general who shouted “axios”
while following Nero’s orders to commit suicide; that general was Corbulo. This organization used
the (+) Cole Protocol in a war in which many of its planets were glassed. This organization is a
branch of a larger one created by the 1945 Treaty of San Francisco. Its (*) ONI program created
Spartans that defeated the Covenant. For 10 points, name this military organization in the Halo series that
shares initials with the Security Council.
ANSWER: United Nations Space Command [or UNSC; or United Earth Government or UEG; prompt
on United Nations, UN, humanity and equivalents; do not accept “United Nations Security Council”]
153-12-72-10105

6. At one point in this battle, Louis Nolan pointed and said “There, my Lord, is your enemy,” before
becoming the first casualty in one maneuver. During it, Sir Colin Campbell’s 93d Highland
Regiment routed a charge in the (+) “Thin Red Line” action, while this battle’s most well-known
action began after (*) Lord Raglan issued an order to attack an artillery battery that was misinterpreted as
a frontal assault on a different battery. For 10 points, name this October 1854 battle in the Crimean War,
best known for the ill-fated British “Charge of the Light Brigade.”
ANSWER: Battle of Balaclava
052-12-72-10106

7. About 50,000 inhabitants of this region have Welsh descent because, in the 19th century, the Welsh
established a colony in its Chubut Valley. Ruben Carolini discovered a Giganotosaurus skeleton in
this region, which contains the city of (+) Ushuaia. Tourists attractions of this region include Torres
del Paine National Park and the Perito Moreno (*) Glacier. This region received its name when
Ferdinand Magellan exclaimed at the giant footprints its natives made in the snow. For 10 points, name this
region of southern Chile and Argentina.
ANSWER: Patagonia [prompt on Argentina]
080-12-72-10107

8. This initiative brought about a change in the name of the periodical Literarni Noviny to Literarni
Listy, and during the course of this event, (+) (YAHN PAH-lock) Jan Palach set himself on fire. This
movement included a document highlighting the ruination of "spiritual health and character"; that
work by Ludvik Vaculik was the (*) "Two Thousand Words" manifesto. Gustav Husak took power after
the end of this movement. This movement sought to bring about "socialism with a human face," and was
promoted by Alexander (DOOB-check) Dubcek until the Soviets brought it to a halt. For 10 points, identify
this period of liberal reform during 1968, which took place in Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague Spring
189-12-72-10108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 10
Extra Questions

Carl Kling's work on this virus helped lay the basis for curing it. This virus was the focus of the
Francis Field Trial, which involved nearly two (+) million participants. Nigeria, Afghanistan, and
Pakistan are the only countries where this disease is endemic. Albert (*) Sabin developed a vaccine for
this disease taken orally after the initial discovery of a vaccine in 1953 by Jonas Salk. For 10 points, name
this disease that led to the creation of the March of Dimes and affected many children in the early twentieth
century.
ANSWER: poliomyelitis [or infantile paralysis]
023-12-72-1010-1

Immediately before this conflict, one side chanted “six to one” during riots after the Night of the
Gliders. Near the end of this conflict, one side bombed the Mehola junction. The Madrid conference
was held during this conflict, which was intensified when a teenager threw a Molotov cocktail at a
soldier and was shot in return. During this conflict, the (+) UNLU coordinated action between
various groups, including the DFLP and the communist party. It occurred during the tenure of (*)
Yitzahk Shamir, and during this conflict Khaled Yassin founded Hamas. This conflict saw the first use of
suicide bombing by one side. For 10 points, name this uprising in Palestine that began in 1987.
ANSWER: First Intifada [prompt on Intifada; do not accept "Second Intifada"]
048-12-72-1010-1

John Rawlins issued Special Order No. 140 during this battle. John Walker failed to capture
Millikin's Bend during this battle, which began with assaults led by William Sherman and James
McPherson. Preceded by victories for the Union at (+) Port Gibson and Raymond, one turning point
at this battle was the capture of Port Hudson. John C. Pemberton surrendered on (*) Independence
Day to end this battle, just a day after the Union victory at Gettysburg. For 10 points, name this capture of a
namesake city by Ulysses S. Grant that gave the Union control of the Mississippi River.
ANSWER: Siege of Vicksburg [or Battle of Vicksburg]
192-12-72-1010-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

10

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

