2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 5
First Quarter

5

1. George Oenslager made this process more efficient by pioneering thiocarbanalide as an additive to it.
About half the world's zinc oxide is used as an additive for this process, whose product replaced oil-soaked
leather as a gap sealant. The use of sulfur to create linkages between polymers in this thermoset reaction
was developed by American Charles Goodyear, whose company uses it in making tires. For 10 points,
name this industrial process that hardens rubber.
ANSWER: vulcanization [accept word forms]
104-12-72-05101

2. Felix Mottl and Joseph Keilberth both collapsed and died while conducting this opera, which was written
after its composer was invited to Rio de Janeiro by Pedro II. It opens with the unresolved chord F-B-D
sharp-G sharp, now known as this opera's namesake chord. It ends with its second title character singing the
"Liebestod" over her lover's dead body. This opera premiered in 1865, and is set at the court of King Marke
in Cornwall. For 10 points, name this Richard Wagner opera about a pair of mythical lovers.
ANSWER: Tristan and Isolde
004-12-72-05102

3. At one battle in this campaign, (gar-nee-AY) Garnier de Nablus defied orders and led a charge of the
Hospitalliers. One leader in this conflict saved his fiancee, Berengeria of Navarre. Isaac II Angelus
attempted to impede another leader of this campaign, who drowned in the River Saleph. This campaign
earned success at the siege of (AH-kruh) Acre, in which Saracen forces were driven back. For 10 points,
name this campaign in which Philip Augustus, Frederick Barbarossa, and Richard the Lionheart attempted
to take Jerusalem back from Saladin.
ANSWER: Third Crusade
192-12-72-05103

4. This building was built on land owned by Count Athanasius (rah-CHIN-ski) Raczynski by Paul Wallot.
Future Bulgarian leader Georgi Dimitrov was acquitted in a trial regarding this building, which Norman
Foster restored in the 1990s. Over a million square feet of fabric was used to wrap this building by Christo
and Jeanne-Claude in 1995. A ramp spirals around this building's glass dome. For 10 points, name this
building burned in 1933 that currently houses the Bundestag in Berlin.
ANSWER: Plenarbereich Reichstagsgebaeude
023-12-72-05104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. According to tradition, this ruler was licked awake by a lion after he met Alexander the Great. After
converting to Jainism, this ruler fasted to death at Shravana Belgola during a famine. A political treatise
called the Arthashastra was written by this ruler’s adviser, Kautilya. Earlier, this ruler’s defeat of
Bhaddasala ended the rule of the Nanda dynasty. For 10 points, name this emperor who united most of
India and founded the Mauryan dynasty.
ANSWER: Chandragupta Maurya
014-12-72-05105

6. This movement was inspired by a vision of a gold-bearded man with a sword and a seal, as well as a
pamphlet called Benevolent Words to Inspire the World. This gender-segregated revolt was quashed in part
by Zeng Guofan, and its Hakka-ethniciy founder believed he was the brother of Jesus. For 10 points, name
this rebellion led by Hong (SHEE-oo-chew-AHN) Xiuquan that caused 20 million deaths in trying to form
a "Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace" in nineteenth-century China.
ANSWER: Taiping Rebellion [accept Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace before "Heavenly" is read]
104-12-72-05106

7. In Disraeli's Sibyl, Stephen Morley works in this profession. Lord Cooper employs William Boot in this
profession in Scoop, which was partially based on Evelyn Waugh's time spent in this profession. One of
these people wrote about Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. The
"new" style of this profession was championed by Tom Wolfe and Truman Capote. For 10 points, people of
what profession, which included William Safire, generally write articles for magazines and newspapers?
ANSWER: journalist [or word forms; or newspaper writers; prompt on “writer” or “author”]
149-12-72-05107

8. This song ends a cappella concerts by the Duke's Men of Yale. An unaccompanied deep voice sings
"people just liked it better that way" in its original recording by The Four Lads. It takes part of its melody
from "Puttin' on the Ritz" and explains that "even old New York was once New Amsterdam." The title
place's change is "nobody’s business but the Turks." For 10 points, name this song covered by They Might
Be Giants about the name change of Constantinople.
ANSWER: "Istanbul (Not Constantinople)"
104-12-72-05108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 5
Second Quarter

1. Dr. Robert Serber was unable to participate in this event because he had forgotten his parachute and was
not allowed on Big Stink. Immediately prior to it, a vehicle titled The Great Artiste dropped off a message
co-written by Luis Alvarez, which implored Professor Sagane to tell his government to surrender. For 10
points, name this event that occurred on August 9, 1945, which saw Bockscar drop “Fat Man” on a
Japanese city.
ANSWER: atomic bombing of Nagasaki [do not accept "atomic bombing of Hiroshima"]
BONUS: What man piloted the Enola Gay when it dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima?
ANSWER: Paul Warfield Tibbets, Jr.
052-12-72-05101

2. The founder of this colony was Ferdinando Gorges. The Gift of God and Mary and John brought the first
settlers to this state in 1607 at its Popham Colony. During the Revolutionary War, Loyalists planned to
seize New Ireland from this colony. The 1783 Treaty of Paris’s description of this state's northern border
along the Connecticut and St. Croix Rivers led to the Webster-Ashburton Treaty. For 10 points, name this
New England state that was a part of Massachusetts until it was admitted as a state with Missouri in the
Compromise of 1820.
ANSWER: Maine
BONUS: What conflict over the border between Maine and the Province of Canada was resolved by the
Webster-Ashburton Treaty?
ANSWER: Aroostook War [or the Pork and Beans War]
023-12-72-05102

3. According to some stories, this fate befell people who got drunk and discovered a shilling had been
dropped in their mug. This practice was supplemented with the passage of the Quota Act. Trinity House
issued documents called "protections" that defended people from this practice, though those had no effect
against its "hot" variant. "Landsmen" were sometimes victims of this practice, which was carried out by
namesake "gangs" patrolling ports. The Chesapeake-Leopard Affair resulted from, for 10 points, what
practice of conscripting sailors into the Royal Navy?
ANSWER: impressment [or the press; prompt on conscription; do not accept or prompt on "shanghaiing"
which is different]
BONUS: Name the practice similar to impressment, but carried out by crimps to supply labor to American
merchant marine ships.
ANSWER: Shanghaiing
080-12-72-05103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. A ruler from this country once invited to his court a holy man who ripped his own eyelids out to avoid
dozing off during his nine years of meditation. One sect that flourished in this country venerated Amitabha
and sought entrance into his namesake paradise. (YEEN-shee) Yinxi stopped a man in this country at the
(shee-AHN-goo) Xiangu pass and had him write a book about the "way." For 10 points, the Pure Land sect
was popular in what modern-day country where Buddhism coexisted with Taoism?
ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhongguo; or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo]
BONUS: Chinese Buddhists also venerated Avalokitesvara, an example of what beings who forgo personal
enlightenment to help others achieve it?
ANSWER: bodhisattva [or bodhisatta]
020-12-72-05104

5. This university was coached by Quinn Snyder in a 2002 trip to the Elite Eight that included Kareem
Rush. A defensive tackle for this school's football team named Sheldon Richardson claimed that the SEC
style is "old man football" prior to this school's 41-20 loss to Georgia in 2012. This school used to play the
Border War against Kansas prior to a 2012 conference switch. For 10 points, name this university located
in Columbia, a former Big 12 team whose mascot is Truman the Tiger.
ANSWER: University of Missouri [or Mizzou]
BONUS: What school was led to a 1977 national championship by Missouri alum Dan Devine and was
also coached by Ara Parseghian and (noot ROCK-nee) Knute Rockne?
ANSWER: University of Notre Dame
030-12-72-05105

6. A woman sits in front of an iron fence with a sleeping puppy in this artist's work The Railway. A trapeze
artist with green shoes dangles in the corner of his work depicting a woman standing before a mirror next to
bottles of beer. This artist of A Bar at the Folies- (bair-ZHAIR) Bergere painted a chemise-wearing woman
bathing in the background while a man holding a cane converses with his friend next to a nude woman. For
10 points, name this French painter of Luncheon on the Grass.
ANSWER: Eduoard Manet
BONUS: Manet also depicted six brown horses galloping towards the viewer in his painting of "The Races
at" this location.
ANSWER: Longchamp
201-12-72-05106

7. This politician's campaign was significantly hindered rather than helped by an M1 Abrams tank photo
op. This candidate was further harmed by the "Revolving Door" ad and his response to Bernard Shaw's
debate question about his stance on the death penalty if his wife Kitty were raped and murdered. For 10
points, name this politician who engineered the "Massachusetts Miracle" as governor but got rocked as the
Democratic candidate for President in 1988.
ANSWER: Michael Stanley Dukakis
BONUS: Dukakis was attacked in the "Weekend Passes" ad for allowing this murderer a weekend
furlough, during which he kidnapped and raped a woman.
ANSWER: William Horton
023-12-72-05107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. It's not Iran, but the Goldwater-Nichols Act was passed due to events in this country, which was led by
the New Jewel movement. This country’s Pearl Airstrip was bounded by mountains, prompting it to
expand Point Salines International Airport’s runways to a length that could accommodate Soviet bombers.
Paul Scoon took over from Hudson Austin in this country, in which 800 American medical students were
studying at St. George’s University. Operation Urgent Fury deposed the government of, for 10 points, what
Caribbean nation that was invaded by Ronald Reagan in 1983?
ANSWER: Grenada
BONUS: Reagan's invasion of Grenada began 2 days after suicide bombers from Islamic Jihad killed 220
Marines in what city?
ANSWER: Beirut
187-12-72-05108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 5
Third Quarter

GERMAN WAR CRIMES
After World War II, the 1945 to 1946 trials of 23 major Third Reich leaders…
1. Took place in what Bavarian city's Palace of Justice?
ANSWER: Nuremberg
2. Did not involve what Reich Minister of Propaganda, who committed suicide with his family?
ANSWER: Paul Joseph Goebbels
3. Condemned to death what commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe and one-time Hitler deputy?
ANSWER: Hermann Goering
4. Condemned to death what Nazi Foreign Minister who had signed a non-aggression pact with the
Soviets?
ANSWER: Joachim von Ribbentrop
5. Sentenced to life imprisonment what Nazi who had flown to Scotland in 1941 to personally negotiate a
peace treaty?
ANSWER: Walter Richard Rudolf Hess
6. Sentenced to ten years what Admiral who succeeded Hitler as President of Germany?
ANSWER: Karl Doenitz
7. Sentenced to twenty years what Nazi Minister of Armaments who wrote the autobiography Inside the
Third Reich?
ANSWER: Albert Speer
8. Involved what Supreme Court justice as chief US prosecutor?
ANSWER: Robert Houghwout Jackson
052-12-72-0510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

MARGARET THATCHER
Answer the following about Margaret Thatcher.
1. The party to which Thatcher belonged
ANSWER: Conservative and Unionist Party [or Tories]
2. The war Thatcher's Britain won against Argentina
ANSWER: Falklands War [or Falkland Islands War; or Malvinas War; or South Atlantic War]
3. The nickname given to Margaret Thatcher by the Soviets
ANSWER: Iron Lady
4. The organization that tried to kill Thatcher in the Brighton Hotel Bombing and also led a hunger strike in
the Maze Prison
ANSWER: Irish Republican Army [or IRA]
5. The industry whose workers, led by Arthur Scargill, launched a strike in 1984
ANSWER: coal mining [or coal mining; or miners]
6. The order Thatcher joined in 1995, the highest obtainable in Britain
ANSWER: The Most Noble Order of the Garter
7. Another nickname Thatcher obtained for cutting spending on public schools as Education Secretary
ANSWER: milk-snatcher
8. The disastrous human crush that killed 100 attendees of a soccer game in 1989
ANSWER: Hillsborough disaster
080-12-72-0510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

ROMAN NAVAL WARFARE
In ancient Roman times, military boats…
1. Fought the Battle of Lipari Islands during the first war between Rome and what Punic empire?
ANSWER: Carthage [or Carthago; or Kart-hadasht]
2. Fought mock battles in what large amphitheater built by Vespasian?
ANSWER: Colosseum [or the Flavian Amphitheater; or Amphitheatrum Flavium]
3. Were often what wooden ships with three rows of oars?
ANSWER: triremes
4. Had soldiers ordered by what rank of commander with several dozen followers?
ANSWER: centurions [or centuriones]
5. Fought what sort of enemy under Pompey's authority?
ANSWER: pirates [prompt on criminals, robbers, brigands etc; do not accept "buccaneers"]
6. Docked at what final capital of the Western Roman Empire?
ANSWER: Ravenna
7. Let what father-in-law of Tacitus, whose name means farmer in Latin, invade Britain?
ANSWER: Gnaeus Julius Agricola
8. Use what pulley-controlled plank to board enemy ships?
ANSWER: corvus [or corvi; or ravens]
104-12-72-0510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 5
Fourth Quarter

1. One disaster on this lake killed 1,000 people in 1996 and involved the sinking of a ship named the
Bukoba. The documentary Darwin's Nightmare documented how a particular kind of (+) perch
introduced to this lake destroyed many native species. This lake also deals with an invasive water
hyacinth thought to have entered through the Kagera River. John Hanning (*) Speke discovered this
lake on his own in 1858, and it was concluded to be the long sought after source of the Nile. For 10 points,
name this largest lake by area in Africa, which is named after a British queen.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria
052-12-72-05101

2. One criticism of this law was that violators would be tried in admiralty courts, even though this
law had nothing to do with maritime issues. After its repeal, this law was replaced by the (+)
Declaratory Act. Patrick Henry introduced seven resolutions against this act in the House of
Burgesses. The Sons of Liberty burned an effigy of Andrew Oliver to protest this law. In New York
City, a namesake first colonial (*) Congress formed to oppose it. For 10 points, name this act that raised a
tax on cards, newspapers, and other printed materials.
ANSWER: Stamp Act of 1765
190-12-72-05102

3. The severed head of a member of this family was combed and washed by a madwoman in the
Hereford marketplace after the Battle of Mortimer's Cross; that head belonged to a man who had a
love affair with Catherine of Valois. The uprisings of (+) Perkin Warbeck and Lambert Simnel
challenged this family's hold on the throne. The first king from this family was an Earl of Richmond
who made a landing at (*) Milford Haven with the support of the Welsh, benefited from the treachery of
the Stanleys, and defeated Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field. For 10 points, name this dynasty,
including Henry VII, that ruled England after the Wars of the Roses.
ANSWER: Tudor Dynasty [do not accept or prompt on "Lancastrians"]
080-12-72-05103

4. Three brothers in this city described simple machines and automata in a Book of Ingenious Devices
before conspiring against a polymath named Kindi. In this city, a (+) "Compendious Book" was
written about "completing" and "balancing," two mathematical operations for solving reduced
quadratic equations. Its ruler sent a (*) brass water clock to Charlemagne along with an elephant. For 10
points, name this home of the Banu Musa brothers and al-Khwarizmi, where the House of Wisdom
developed algebra and translated Aristotle into Arabic in modern-day Iraq.
ANSWER: Baghdad
104-12-72-05104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. Dewey Johnson, John Harvey, and George Holmes died in one of the eight of these objects used in
an operation hindered by a haboob. In addition to their use in Operation Eagle Claw, one of these
objects was where (+) Michael Durant was captured after he was protected by snipers Gary Gordon
and Randy Shughart. That one of these objects was called (*) Super Six-Four, and it was hit by fire
during an attempt to capture warlord Mohammed Farrah Aidid. The crash of two of these objects resulted
in the Battle of Mogadishu. For 10 points, name these military vehicles that are aircraft with horizontal
propellers.
ANSWER: helicopters [or Sea Stallions; or Black Hawks; or RH-53D; or UH-60]
153-12-72-05105

6. This man used one work to analyze how "we other Victorians" are repressed. One of his works
begins with a chapter analyzing how the painting Las Meninas is a critique of representation. This
man described the state regulation of subjects through what he called (+) "biopower." In one of his
works, this thinker used the ideas of Jeremy Bentham to argue that the (*) panopticon is the ultimate
prison in that it creates 'docile bodies." For 10 points, name this philosopher, the author of Madness and
Civilization and Discipline and Punish.
ANSWER: Paul Michel Foucault
052-12-72-05106

7. One man to hold this position directed a study that produced "Memorandum 200," suggesting
promoting population control to prevent civil unrest. While holding this position, Robert McFarlane
recommended selling weapons to (+) Iran to raise money for Contras. He was replaced in this role by
John Poindexter. Another man who held this position suggested giving aid to Afghans fighting the
Soviet invasion and frequently clashed with Cyrus Vance; that man was (*) Zbigniew Brzezinski.
From 1973 to 1975, this role was held concurrently with Secretary of State by Henry Kissinger. For 10
points, name this senior White House role once held by Condoleezza Rice.
ANSWER: National Security Advisor [or Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs]
121-12-72-05107

8. In China, this company made products called "Mei Foos" that it gave to peasants. It was not based
in Florida, but the founder of Palm Beach, Henry Flagler, was an original co-founder. A cartoon
mocking this company shows (+) Nelson Aldrich as a serpent fighting Teddy Roosevelt as an infant.
Ida B. (*) Tarbell wrote a muckraking history of this company, which, because of the Sherman Antitrust
Act, split into 33 companies, two of which became Exxon and Mobil. For 10 points, name this company
founded by John D. Rockefeller, at one point the largest refiner in the world.
ANSWER: Standard Oil Company
052-12-72-05108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 5
Extra Questions

In 1983, a mausoleum dedicated to this man was bombed by North Korean agents in an attempt to
assassinate Chun Doo-hwan. This man outlined his plan for government at a speech given in the
Sorrento Villa. This man, a member of the (+) Thirty Comrades, signed a treaty in London with
Clement Attlee guaranteeing his country's independence from the British. A group of thugs broke
into the Secretariat Building in order to assassinate this founder of the (*) Tatmadaw; U Saw was
hanged for his role in that action. For 10 points, name this general whose daughter, Suu Kyi, was long
imprisoned by the Burmese government for her pro-democracy stance.
ANSWER: Aung San
048-12-72-0510-1

This system may have influenced a similar one used by the Vai people in Liberia. According to one
legend, this system was developed after its creator was instructed to sign a piece of silver jewelry, so
he decided to invent (+) "talking leaves." That person who invented this system was also known as
George Gist. This invention was primarily used in the newspaper (*) The Phoenix and consisted of
eighty-six pictograms. For 10 points, name this system created by Sequoyah, a syllabary used by a group of
Native Americans who lived in Georgia.
ANSWER: Cherokee syllabary [or Cherokee alphabet; accept same-knowledge equivalents]
190-12-72-0510-1

In one election held in this country, voters were only allowed to vote for or against anti-fascist “unity lists”
of candidates. This country saw a temporary loosening of centralized government control of the economy
during the last years of Walter Ulbricht’s rule, which was largely undone by Erich Honecker. This
country’s government dissolved as a result of a treaty signed with Helmut Kohl. For 10 points, name this
Central European country that was merged with its western neighbor in a 1990 reunification.
ANSWER: East Germany [or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or Ostdeutschland; or Deutsche
Demokratische Republik; or DDR; prompt on Germany; prompt on Deutschland]
BONUS: What crossing point in the Berlin Wall was the site of a standoff between American and Soviet
tanks in the 1960's?
ANSWER: Checkpoint Charlie
014-12-72-0510-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

5

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

