2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 3
First Quarter

3

1. One tradition states that this man will slay Ad-Dajjal and that the Injeel was revealed to him. The mother
of this man shook a date-palm tree while she was pregnant with him. In Islamic tradition, this figure was
replaced by a young man who was ultimately crucified in his stead. In the Qur'an, this man while just an
infant says, "Peace will be on me on the day I will die and on the day I am raised alive again." For 10
points, name this prophet in Islam who was the son of Joseph and Mary.
ANSWER: Isa [or Jesus]
189-12-72-03101

2. In 2010 and 2012, this state's House of Representative elections saw Charles Djou lose to Colleen
Hanabusa. In 2012, this state's former governor Linda Lingle lost in a Senate election. This state elected
Tulsi Gabbard as a Representative, making her the first Hindu in Congress. In 2010, this state's Senator
became the President pro tempore of the Senate until his death in December of 2012. For 10 points, name
this non-contiguous state served by Mazie Hirono and Daniel Inouye (ih-NO-ay).
ANSWER: Hawaii
023-12-72-03102

3. (ghee-YOME de no-gar-AY) Guillaume de Nogaret had hundreds of these people arrested on Friday the
13th in a plot to destroy them, which was intended as a debt cancellation measure. This group refused to
merge with an order headed by (FULK duh vill-uh-RAY) Fulk de Villaret despite pressure from Pope
Clement V. Jacques de Molay, the last Grand Master of this order, was burnt at the stake in 1314 on the
orders of France's Philip IV, who suppressed this group. For 10 points, name this crusading order of knights
symbolized by a red cross on white.
ANSWER: Templars [or Knights Templar; or Poor Knights of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon]
104-12-72-03103

4. Richard King and Charles Sheridan tested this experiment's conclusions using a live puppy. This
experiment was run again in a run-down building in Bridgeport after it was originally conducted at Yale.
This experiment tested the "Germans are different" hypothesis in the wake of the Eichmann trial. Over
sixty percent of "teachers" in this experiment were willing to shock a "learner" at maximum voltage. For 10
points, name this experiment that tested obedience to authority figures.
ANSWER: Milgram obedience experiment [or obedience experiment before read]
023-12-72-03104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. In one of this man's operas, the protagonist's wife, Kitty, employs an Indian housemaid named
Pasqualita. In that opera by this man, the protagonist is inspired by a John Donne work to name a site
"Trinity." One of this composer's early works has a second act featuring an opera within an opera titled
"The Red Detachment of Women." This man produced an outtake of that opera called "The Chairman
Dances." For 10 points, name this American composer of Doctor Atomic and Nixon in China.
ANSWER: John Coolidge Adams
052-12-72-03105

6. About a month after its most famous use, this phrase was presented to troops at Camp As Sayliyah. Press
Secretary Dana Perino unsuccessfully tried to clarify this phrase, which was accompanied by the theme
song from The Greatest American Hero in Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11. A photo-op with pilots of
Lockheed S-3 Vikings accompanied the displaying of this phrase on the USS Abraham Lincoln on May 1,
2003. For 10 points, what phrase was displayed on a banner at the behest of George W. Bush, prematurely
declaring an end to the Iraq War?
ANSWER: "Mission Accomplished"
020-12-72-03106

7. This quarterback started and lost the first Monday Night Football episode. He was named MVP of a
game in which his team's defense intercepted Earl Morrall three times before giving up a touchdown to
Johnny Unitas. After guiding Alabama to a 1964 national title, this man guaranteed a win before leading his
team to victory over the Colts in Super Bowl III. For 10 points, name this legendary quarterback of the
New York Jets who was nicknamed "Broadway Joe."
ANSWER: Joseph William Namath
052-12-72-03107

8. This country was where John Gordon Mein was killed in the first assassination of a sitting US
ambassador. In 1980, the Spanish embassy in this country was burned in a police raid after it was occupied
by peasants, and indigenous rights in this country are fought for by Rigoberta Menchu. This country's
leader Jacobo Arbenz was overthrown in the CIA-led Operation PBSUCCESS to help the United Fruit
Company. For 10 points, name this Central American country that is having trouble with drug cartels
moving in from its northern border with Mexico.
ANSWER: Republic of Guatemala [or Republica de Guatemala]
052-12-72-03108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 3
Second Quarter

1. In anticipation of this mission's failure, William Safire wrote a speech about men dying for "truth and
understanding." Years later, one participant admitted he had forgotten to say the word "a" during a quote
that came after "I'm going to step off the LEM now." Michael Collins piloted a craft during this mission
while another man said he was making "one giant leap for mankind." For 10 points, name this spaceflight
that on July 20, 1969, landed Neil Armstrong on the moon.
ANSWER: Apollo 11 [accept first manned moon landing or equivalent answers; prompt on Apollo]
BONUS: What astronaut was the command module pilot of Apollo 8 and the commander of the ill-fated
Apollo 13 mission?
ANSWER: James Arthur Lovell Jr.
052-12-72-03101

2. This man discovered optical illusions such as light and dark "bands" on each side of a brightness
gradient. This positivist discovered the inner ear's vestibular system and denied that atoms existed until
1911. Distant objects like stars affect inertia according to his namesake principle, and his photos showed
that shock waves trail behind travelling bullets. For 10 points, name this German physicist whose namesake
number relates an object's speed to the speed of sound.
ANSWER: Ernst Mach
BONUS: What American Air Force pilot was the first human to verifiably break the sound barrier, doing so
in a Bell X-1 plane?
ANSWER: Chuck Yeager [or Charles Elwood Yeager]
104-12-72-03102

3. This prime minister introduced the "Cones Hotline" for people to call to find out about road construction.
This politician's party won the "soapbox election." During his ministry, the pound sterling was removed
from the ERM on Black Wednesday and his party revolted during Maastricht Treaty discussions. This
prime minister gained support for his handling of the Gulf War. For 10 points, name this Conservative
prime minister who succeeded Margaret Thatcher.
ANSWER: John Major
BONUS: What tabloid newspaper strongly supported Major and ran a 1992 headline saying that it was this
paper "wot won it," referring to the election?
ANSWER: The Sun
052-12-72-03103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. The leader of these journeys had a braid of hair and a pair of shoes buried in the city he administered.
Over 28,000 men took part in these journeys, which involved some ships that specialized as horse-carriers
and water tankers and others, over 400 feet long, that functioned as treasure ships. These seven voyages
made calls at ports like Calicut, Aden, and Mogadishu. On one of them, a giraffe was brought back to the
court of the Yongle Emperor. For 10 points, name these expeditions led by a eunuch admiral in service to
the Ming dynasty.
ANSWER: Zheng He's voyages [or Cheng Ho's voyages]
BONUS: There was a long gap between the sixth and seventh voyages because the Ming Dynasty diverted
money to fighting what invaders who had previously set up the Yuan Dynasty?
ANSWER: Mongols
020-12-72-03104

5. These people received belts from their mothers that were made with a thousand stitches sewn by a
thousand citizens. Often university students, they were responsible for hundreds of deaths on the USS
Bunker Hill, and they made their first appearance at the Battle of Leyte Gulf. After giving away all their
earthly possessions, they donned a headband bearing a red sun emblem, drank rice wine, and shouted
"banzai!" For 10 points, name these pilots in the Japanese air force who flew "flying coffins" on suicide
missions.
ANSWER: kamikaze pilots [prompt on Japanese pilots]
BONUS: Kamikaze pilots often flew what plane, manufactured by Mitsubishi, that became obsolete against
the Hellcats used by the Allies?
ANSWER: Mitsubishi A6M Zero [or Mitsubishi A6M Zero]
080-12-72-03105

6. This event may have been intended as retaliation for a bad business deal by Sam Ravel. During this
event, Herbert Slocum, who had intended to play polo in Deming that day, hurried back to Camp Furlong
to mount a counterattack. In retaliation for this event, an expedition led by John Pershing was undertaken in
a failed attempt to capture the man responsible for this event. For 10 points, name this 1916 event in which
Pancho Villa invaded a New Mexico town.
ANSWER: Pancho Villa's raid on Columbus, New Mexico [accept reasonable equivalents for raid;
prompt on answers mentioning Pancho Villa but not the city]
BONUS: The three-sided Mexican Civil War pitted the federal government against Pancho Villa and what
other rebel leader in the south of Mexico who issued the Plan of Ayala?
ANSWER: Emiliano Zapata
003-12-72-03106

7. One member of this family broke off a relationship with Royall Tyler to join her father in England. That
woman died after a horrific 1811 mastectomy. Besides "Nabby," another member of this family lived in a
home known as "Peacefield" in Quincy, Massachusetts. That woman once wrote a 1776 letter to her
husband requesting he "remember the ladies." For 10 points, name this family whose members included the
first couple to live in the White House, Abigail and John.
ANSWER: Adams [or Smith]
BONUS: Abigail Adams observed what battle in which Doctor Joseph Warren, president of the
Massachusetts Provincial Congress, was killed?
ANSWER: Battle of Bunker Hill [or Battle of Breed's Hill]
052-12-72-03107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. One group which investigated these events was given the questions "What happened? Why did it
happen? What can be done to prevent it from happening again and again?" That group investigating these
events was the Kerner Commission. These events were characteristic of the "long, hot summer" when they
happened on 12th Street in Detroit and in Newark. For 10 points, identify these events that began as clashes
between white police and the Black Power movement across the US in 1967.
ANSWER: 1967 urban riots
BONUS: The Kerner Commission was led by Otto Kerner, who at the time held what office, also held by
Adlai Stevenson, John Peter Altgeld, and the death penalty-suspending George Ryan?
ANSWER: Governor of Illinois [prompt on governor]
019-12-72-03108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 3
Third Quarter

SPANISH INQUISITION
Answer the following about the Spanish Inquisition.
1. The Inquisition was revived after what long period where the Iberian peninsula was taken back by
Christian kingdoms?
ANSWER: Reconquista
2. What neighboring country had an Inquisition established under John III?
ANSWER: Portugal
3. What king of Aragon established the Inquisition in 1478?
ANSWER: Ferdinand II [or Ferdinand the Catholic; or Ferdinand el Catolico; or Ferdinand V of
Castile; or Ferdinand III of Naples; prompt on Ferdinand]
4. What term referred to Jews that converted to Catholicism but supposedly still practiced Judaism
secretly?
ANSWER: marranos
5. What other term referred to Muslims who decided to convert to Christianity?
ANSWER: moriscos
6. What term referred to the public ceremony that those convicted underwent after the Inquisition had
decided their punishment?
ANSWER: auto-da-fé
7. The Spanish Inquisition was not abolished until what century, during which Spain was ruled by Isabella
II and fought the Carlist Wars?
ANSWER: nineteenth century [or 1800s]
8. What man served as the first grand inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition?
ANSWER: Tomas de Torquemada
201-12-72-0310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

LOCOMOTIVES
Answer the following about railroads and locomotives in Great Britain.
1. What time determined by the Royal Observatory became standard across Great Britain due to trains?
ANSWER: Greenwich Mean Time
2. What nineteenth-century queen often rode trains to see her subjects?
ANSWER: Alexandrina Victoria
3. What industry benefitted from railway mania because it provided fuel for steam engines?
ANSWER: coal industry
4. In 1830, what industrial port became the first English city connected by rail to another when a line was
built to Manchester?
ANSWER: Liverpool
5. What 1851 World's Fair-type event organized by Prince Albert was traveled to by rail?
ANSWER: Great Exhibition [or Crystal Palace Exhibition]
6. What painting by J.M.W. Turner depicts the Great Western Railway?
ANSWER: Rain, Steam, and Speed-The Great Western Railway
7. What man was the chief engineer on the Great Western Railway?
ANSWER: Isambard Kingdom Brunel
8. What locomotive designed by George Stephenson won the Rainhill Trials and became the template for
later trains?
ANSWER: Rocket
080-12-72-0310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

COLONIAL-NATIVE RELATIONS
Name the...…
1. Patuxet tribe member who taught the colonists agricultural methods.
ANSWER: Squanto [or Tisquantum]
2. Massachusetts site colonized by Puritans aboard the Mayflower.
ANSWER: Plymouth
3. Chief who was the father of Pocahontas.
ANSWER: Powhatan [or Wahunsenacawh]
4. Native American tribe that occupied much of present-day New Jersey.
ANSWER: Lenni Lenape [or Delaware; or Munsee]
5. Group of Native peoples who name a language family and allied along the Ottawa river under Charles
Parcharini.
ANSWER: Algonquin
6. Crop that composed the "three sisters" of crops along with beans and squash.
ANSWER: corn [or maize]
7. Massachusetts-based Native American confederacy that the colonists dealt with.
ANSWER: Wampanoag Confederacy
8. 1774 war fought between Virginia and the Shawnee and Mingo peoples.
ANSWER: Lord Dunmore's War
040-12-72-0310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 3
Fourth Quarter

1. This city was the site of a "day of rage" coinciding with National Police Day and supported in part
by the April 6 Youth Movement. In this city, stick-wielding supporters of the government attacked
and killed protesters while riding (+) camels in the "Battle of the Camels." In June 2009, Barack
Obama declared, "I have come here to seek a new beginning" in a speech given in this city's (*)
al-Azhar University. In 2011, this city's Tahrir Square was the focal point for protests against the
government of Hosni Mubarak. For 10 points, name this capital city from which Mohammad Morsi
governs Egypt.
ANSWER: Cairo
080-12-72-03101

2. Before rising to the throne, a failed marriage proposal between this ruler and the Infanta Maria
Anna was known as the Spanish Match. The Pacification of Berwick ended the first of a series of
religious conflicts this king fought with Scotland called the (+) Bishops' Wars. He faced discontent
after re-introducing the levying of ship money, and he was king over the (*) Long Parliament. This
king's forces were defeated in a conflict by the New Model Army of Oliver Cromwell. For 10 points, name
this English king who was convicted of treason and executed in 1649 after the English Civil War.
ANSWER: Charles I of England [prompt on Charles]
192-12-72-03102

3. A World War II recruiting poster featured this work with a caption about "government of the
people" not perishing from the earth. It shares its name with a photograph taken by Gordon Parks
that features cleaning woman Ella Watson. This work shows a structure owned by Charles Dibble, a
resident of Eldon, (+) Iowa. Behind the shoulder of the left figure in a painting with this title are
some flowerpots. This painting was of the artist's (*) sister and his dentist, who both stand in front of a
farmhouse. For 10 points, name this Grant Wood painting showing a farmer holding a pitchfork.
ANSWER: American Gothic
052-12-72-03103

4. The protagonist of this film lies when saying he is from New Haven and Paramus. One character in
this movie wears a bowler hat and is named "Dum-Dum" Dugan. The villain of this film is assisted
by Dr. (+) Arnim Zola and is first seen invading a Norwegian church. This movie ends with the
protagonist running into Times Square and musing "I had a date," referring to his love interest, (*)
Peggy Carter. In this movie's last scene, the title character awakens in the twenty-first century and is
offered a job by Nick Fury. For 10 points, name this film about the title Marvel superhero, who fights Nazis
during World War II.
ANSWER: Captain America: The First Avenger
052-12-72-03104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. This author wrote a non-fiction account of his journey to Nicaragua called The Jaguar Smile. One
of this man's novels is a retelling of (+) Pakistani history titled Shame, and another includes
Machiavelli and Akbar the Great as characters. One work by this author of The Enchantress of
Florence sees (*) telepathic powers received by Saleem Sinai thanks to the moment of his birth at India's
independence. For 10 points, name this author of Midnight's Children whose novel The Satanic Verses
prompted a death sentence from Ayatollah Khomeini.
ANSWER: Ahmed Salman Rushdie
191-12-72-03105

6. Artists like Adrian (de VREEZ) de Vries and Giuseppe Arcimboldo moved to this city when it was
a cultural center under Rudolf II, as did scientists such as (+) Tycho Brahe and Johannes Kepler.
The Premyslid and Luxembourg dynasties ruled from this city, near which the Catholic League won
a crushing victory over Frederick the Winter King at the Battle of White Mountain. This city was
where (*) angels, or more likely a pile of manure, saved two Catholic Regents and their secretary from a
70-foot fall. For 10 points, name this ancient capital of Bohemia that, during the early modern period, was
the site of two "defenestrations."
ANSWER: Prague
080-12-72-03106

7. In one of his final acts, this man negotiated the release of 170 hostages from Iraq during the
invasion of Kuwait. James Quilligan updated one work by this man, which stated that developing
nations remain poor because they traffic in intermediate goods; that was his namesake (+) Report on
the Third World. This politician resigned when it was discovered that his assistant, (*) Gunter
Guillaume, was a spy from a neighboring country. This mayor of West Berlin devised a new policy of
openness towards the Eastern Bloc. For 10 points, name this German chancellor who advocated Ostpolitik.
ANSWER: Willy Brandt [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]
048-12-72-03107

8. A successful invasion for one side during this war included an attack by Gideon Pillow on one
front as Joaquin Rangel stalled John Quitman's advance on another. This conflict was ended by a
treaty negotiated by (+) Nicholas Trist. One side in this conflict attempted to intercept David
Twiggs's force at the Battle of (*) Cerro Gordo. This war, which included Winfield Scott's amphibious
invasion of Veracruz, was ultimately ended by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. For 10 points, name this
war during the administration of James K. Polk, in which the United States fought with its southern
neighbor.
ANSWER: Mexican-American War
189-12-72-03108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 3
Extra Questions

This dynasty abolished the nobi system of slavery by adopting the Gabo Reform. During this dynasty,
reforming civil servants pushed for "practical learning" against overly-abstract Neo-Confucianism
with the (+) Silhak Movement. This kingdom's aristocracy was a de facto hereditary class of civil
servants called the yangban. This kingdom's greatest ruler, Sejong the Great, oversaw the creation of
a (*) 28-letter alphabet called hangul. Known as the "hermit kingdom" for its isolation, this state made use
of "turtle ships" and was ruled by the House of Yi. For 10 points, name this kingdom that dominated Korea
from 1392 until 1897.
ANSWER: Choson [or Joseon; or Yi Dynasty before "Yi" is read]
080-12-72-0310-1

A PM from this party negotiated the failed Meech Lake Accord and Charlottetown Accord. Joe
Clark restructured this party after years of leadership by (+) John Diefenbaker. In the nineteenth
century, revelations that this party had received over $100,000 dollars from Hugh Allan, whom it
then gave a charter to build a national railway, led to the (*) Pacific Scandal, which toppled its leader,
John Macdonald. For 10 points, name this party that dissolved in 2003 to join Stephen Harper's current
party, and which advocated a center-right viewpoint in the politics of America's northern neighbor.
ANSWER: Progressive Conservative Party of Canada [or Canadian Conservative Party; or
Liberal-Conservative Party; or Canadian Tories; prompt on partial answers]
080-12-72-0310-1

Scholarly debate exists over what caused the destruction of John Taylor’s pocket watch during this
event. In its aftermath, the Rigdonites and Strangites split off during a power struggle. The
instigators of this action were joined by the (+) Carthage Greys, and it included the death of the
victim’s brother Hyrum. It was promulgated by a mob angry at the perceived freedom of speech
violation against the (*) Nauvoo Expositor, and it resulted in a schism out of which many people followed
Brigham Young to Utah. For 10 points, name this event that occurred on June 27, 1844, in which a mob
fatally attacked the founder of the Church of Latter-Day Saints.
ANSWER: death of Joseph Smith, Jr. [or anything indicating an attack on Joseph Smith that led to his
death; do not accept "Joseph Smith"]
192-12-72-0310-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

3

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

