2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 4
First Quarter

4

1. This man instituted doctrines such as "mutual criticism" and instructed postmenopausal women to
introduce teenage boys to sex. His community also had a committee that determined whether requests for
intercourse would be granted. His settlement practiced "Bible Communism" and "Complex Marriage" but
later changed its focus to silverware manufacture under his son Pierrepont. For 10 points, name this
founder of the most notorious commune of the 1840s utopian movement, the Oneida Community.
ANSWER: John Humphrey Noyes
186-13-94-04101

2. This man's wife Sarah had a mental breakdown that required she be restrained in their home at
Scotchtown plantation. He declined to attend the Constitutional Convention because he claimed he "smelt a
rat." In a speech urging military action, he argued "Our chains are forged! Their clanking may be heard on
the plains of Boston!" For 10 points, name this Virginian who, according to his biographer William Wirt,
ended a speech with "Give me liberty or give me death!"
ANSWER: Patrick Henry
121-13-94-04102

3. This character often tells the speaker that he would "sooner live in hell." This man from Plumtree,
Tennessee dies the day after Christmas, but not before extracting a promise that is fulfilled when the
narrator spots the "Alice May" on the "marge of Lake Lebarge," lights the boiler, and sticks this man's
corpse in it. For 10 points, name this gold prospector whose cremation is told of in a Robert Service poem
that is a key part of the cultural heritage of the Yukon.
ANSWER: Sam McGee [or Sam McGee; or "The Cremation of Sam McGee"]
003-13-94-04103

4. This man was the first author on a 1949 paper that laid out the molecular basis for sickle cell anemia.
Valence bond theory depends on two concepts defined by this scientist: resonance and orbital
hybridization. This man forgot that phosphate groups were negatively charged in his triple helix model of
DNA. He also advocated fighting colds with mass doses of vitamin C. For 10 points, name this man who
won a Chemistry Nobel Prize for describing chemical bonding, and also won in Peace.
ANSWER: Linus Pauling
190-13-94-04104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 1 of 10

5. This man's singing of "Lord, Don't Stop the Carnival" against the backdrop of the 1968 Democratic
Convention was deleted by CBS from The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour. Fred Shuttlesworth and
Martin Luther King organized the Birmingham Campaign from this man's New York City apartment, and
he was the executor of King's estate. For 10 points, name this American folk singer and activist for
left-wing and unbuttoned-collar causes who cried "Day-O" in the "Banana Boat Song."
ANSWER: Harry Belafonte
030-13-94-04105

6. The RBMK model was mostly phased out after this event. Samosely are people who live illegally at the
site of this event. It lends its name to a red scar seen in patients who undergo surgery to correct thyroid
cancer. Glasnost was strongly intensified after this event, after it was revealed internationally by Swedish
officials. The city of Pripyat was evacuated in response to this event. For 10 points, name this 1986
explosion of a Ukrainian nuclear power plant.
ANSWER: Chernobyl disaster [or the explosion of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant]
190-13-94-04106

7. This thinker wrote that the bureaucratization of society would lead to a "polar night of icy darkness" in a
text notably translated by Talcott Parsons. This man argued that the state had a "monopoly on the legitimate
use of violence" in his Politics as a Vocation. In his most famous book, he argued that Calvinism helped
encourage people to accumulate wealth. For 10 points, name this German sociologist who wrote The
Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
ANSWER: Maximilian "Max" Weber
052-13-94-04107

8. Asher Durand first gained fame for engraving a depiction of this scene. Four crossed flags, captured in
battle, hang in the background of another depiction of this scene, which legendarily shows a man in the
foreground stepping on his compatriot's foot. The back of the two-dollar bill depicts this event, which John
Trumbull painted for the Capitol Rotunda. For 10 points, name this event which occurred on July 4, 1776.
ANSWER: the signing of the Declaration of Independence
190-13-94-04108

9. This king's country kept Livonia through the Truce of Altmark, which freed this man to enter into
another war. With Christian IV, this ruler lifted a siege of Stralsund. The forces of this man successfully
crossed the Lech River to win a battle, but this man advised by Axel Oxenstierna was killed a few months
later at the Battle of Luetzen. For 10 points, name this "Lion of the North" who invaded Germany during
the Thirty Years' War with his Protestant forces from Sweden.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf; prompt on partial answer]
023-13-94-04109

10. In 1905, this activity caused what the Chicago Tribune called a "death harvest." After nineteen deaths
and the injury of his son that year, Theodore Roosevelt threatened to ban this activity. Many early changes
in the rules of this sport as well as its scoring system were developed by longtime Yale coach Walter
Camp, who helped turn this game away from its roots in rugby. For 10 points, name this sport that also
developed a youth league in 1934 named for longtime college coach Pop Warner.
ANSWER: American football
023-13-94-04110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 2 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 4
Second Quarter

1. A faction of this party led by Abbot Lawrence and Edward Everett, that wished to protect the textile
industry, was known as its "Cotton" wing. This party's major organ in its last decades was the New York
Tribune of Horace Greeley. Its unsuccessful Presidential candidates included Hugh Lawson White and
Winfield Scott. The American System was backed by this party. For 10 points, name this party, including
Daniel Webster and Henry Clay, that opposed Andrew Jackson's Democrats.
ANSWER: Whig Party
BONUS: The Whigs were last relevant in what year's Presidential election, when Winfield Scott failed to
beat dark horse Franklin Pierce?
ANSWER: 1852
020-13-94-04101

2. In a battle of this war, the Scipion joined in a victory with Admiral Codrington's flagship, the Asia. This
war led to the creation of a monarchy under Otto of Bavaria. This war included the Battle of Navarino and
the Chios Massacre, and poet Lord Byron died fighting in it. For 10 points, name this 1821 to 1832 uprising
against the Ottoman Empire which resulted in the First Hellenic Republic becoming an independent
monarchy.
ANSWER: Greek War of Independence [or Greek Revolution]
BONUS: What British Foreign Secretary, who pressured the U.S. to issue the Monroe Doctrine, came to
office after Castlereagh's suicide and supported British intervention on behalf of the Greeks?
ANSWER: George Canning
052-13-94-04102

3. This man ended two foreign wars by signing the Peace of Stolbovo and Truce of Deulino. Legend holds
that an army hunting this person was led into a frozen forest by Ivan Susanin. Sigismund III imprisoned this
man's father, Filaret, who was named Patriarch of Moscow by the second False Dmitry. His election to the
throne ended a period of strife that included the rule of Boris Godunov. For 10 points, name this founder of
Russia's Romanov dynasty.
ANSWER: Michael I Romanov [or Mikhail Fyodorovich Romanov]
BONUS: What term refers to the chaotic period of the seventeenth century preceding Michael's rule?
ANSWER: Time of Troubles [or Smutnoye Vremya]
232-13-94-04103

4. This man was shot by the daughter of Baron Ashbourne, Violet Gibson. His wife donated her wedding
band during his "Gold for the Fatherland" initiative to stop a recession. This man and his mistress Clara
Petacci (peh-TAH-chee) were killed by partisans near Lake Como. This one-time leader of the Salo
Republic was given unlimited power by King Victor Emmanuel III after leading a 1922 march on Rome.
For 10 points, name this fascist leader of Italy during most of World War II.
ANSWER: Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini
BONUS: Mussolini used what Italian word as his nickname to signify his autocratic power over Italy?
ANSWER: "Il Duce"
052-13-94-04104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 3 of 10

5. One of this man's operas was retitled Katerina Izmaylova, and he also composed two Jazz Suites. His
Thirteenth Symphony was based on the Yevgeny Yevtushenko poem "Babi Yar." He used the subtitle
"reply to just criticism" for a symphony which put him back in Stalin's favor. He included the "Invasion
Theme" in another symphony, and he was denoucned after the premier of his opera Lady Macbeth of the
Mtsensk District. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of the Leningrad Symphony.
ANSWER: Dmitry Shostakovich
BONUS: The "invasion theme" was parodied in the Concerto for Orchestra by what Hungarian composer
of Duke Bluebeard's Castle?
ANSWER: Bela Bartok
030-13-94-04105

6. Howard Smith led hearings on alleged Communist infiltration in the agency created by this law, which
had no jurisdiction over the railroad industry or government employees. This law was declared
constitutional in a case brought against the Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation. This law was substantially
revised by the Taft-Hartley Act. For 10 points, name this 1935 act that established a right to collective
bargaining, named for a New York senator.
ANSWER: Wagner Act [or National Labor Relations Act of 1935]
BONUS: The Taft-Hartley Act outlawed what type of strike, where workers stop working not for their own
bargaining but out of solidarity with other workers?
ANSWER: secondary strike [or sympathy strike; or secondary boycott; or sympathy boycott]
121-13-94-04106

7. This city's parks were outlined in a plan led by James McMillan. While surveying the land that became
this city, Andrew Ellicott set up various milestones that still exist today, including some placed by
Benjamin Banneker. Its Fairlawn Park area was once known as Anacostia Flats and is where the Bonus
Army camped. The Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts is found in this city. For 10 points, name this
city on the Potomac River where the White House is.
ANSWER: Washington, D.C. [or the District of Columbia; or D.C.]
BONUS: What French architect designed the layout of the streets of Washington, D.C.?
ANSWER: Pierre Charles L'Enfant
052-13-94-04107

8. John Bartholomew Gough frequently made speeches supporting this movement. An advocate of this
movement published the newsletter The Smasher's Mail and liked to scare people with her trademark
hatchet. An organization that supported this movement developed pressure politics, or Wheelerism, to
advance its agenda. For 10 points, name this movement which was promoted by Carrie Nation and the
Anti-Saloon League.
ANSWER: temperance movement [or prohibition movement]
BONUS: Bootlegger Al Capone was eventually convicted of not violating the Volstead Act, but
committing what crime?
ANSWER: income tax evasion [or obvious equivalents]
239-13-94-04108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 4 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 4
Third Quarter

NATIVE AMERICAN OBJECTS
What item from Native American culture is or was a...
1. Portable, conical tent used by Plains Indians, not to be confused with a wigwam?
ANSWER: tipi [or tepee; or teepee]
2. Large wooden sculpture, often depicting multiple animals, created by indigenous inhabitants of the
Pacific Northwest?
ANSWER: totem pole
3. Hatchet-like object used either as a melee or thrown weapon?
ANSWER: tomahawk
4. Non-hockey stick used in a traditional Native American sport that evolved into a national sport of
Canada?
ANSWER: lacrosse stick
5. Communal living structure of the Iroquois named for its disproportionate dimensions?
ANSWER: longhouse
6. Doll used to represent a spirit from Hopi or Pueblo religions?
ANSWER: kachina doll
7. Woven or wooden object, including a protective frame, used for transporting babies?
ANSWER: cradleboard [or cradle board; or papoose]
8. Boat, larger than a kayak, often used by Alaska Natives on whaling expeditions?
ANSWER: umiaq [or umiak; or umiac; or oomiac; or oomiak; or umialak]
003-13-94-0410-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 5 of 10

RELIGIOUS EMPIRES
What was the predominant religion of...
1. The Ottoman Empire?
ANSWER: Sunni Islam [or Muslim]
2. The Tokugawa Shogunate, mixed with a form of Buddhism?
ANSWER: Shintoism
3. The Mughal Dynasty in India?
ANSWER: Sunni Islam [or Muslim]
4. Ethiopia, from the thirteenth century onward?
ANSWER: Orthodox Christianity
5. The Khazar Khanate and the Himyarite Kingdom of Yemen?
ANSWER: Judaism [or Jewish, etc.]
6. The Kingdom of Kongo in Africa?
ANSWER: Christianity [or Roman Catholicism]
7. The Khmer Empire?
ANSWER: Hinduism
8. The Kingdom of Kandy and other Sinhalese principalities?
ANSWER: Buddhism
020-13-94-0410-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 6 of 10

ESPIONAGE
Which person involved in espionage...
1. Is a former KGB agent and president of Russia?
ANSWER: Vladimir Putin
2. Was the author of Tamburlaine and Doctor Faustus who may also have been a spy for Queen Elizabeth's
court?
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
3. Was the State Department employee investigated by Richard Nixon based on the "pumpkin papers?"
ANSWER: Alger Hiss
4. Was the onetime Communist turned conservative activist who brought the "pumpkin papers" to light?
ANSWER: Whittaker Chambers
5. Directed the CIA when his brother John was secretary of state under Eisenhower?
ANSWER: Allen Dulles
6. Received reports from Belle Boyd on Union soldier chatter at a Front Royal hotel?
ANSWER: Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson
7. Gave information about atomic research to the Soviets while working as a physicist at Los Alamos?
ANSWER: Klaus Fuchs
8. Was the most successful member of the Cambridge Five spy ring, who also served as British intelligence
liaison to the US?
ANSWER: Kim Philby
121-13-94-0410-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 7 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 4
Fourth Quarter

1. A scandal named for this man was uncovered by a journalist who later found illegal arms sales to
Iran by Noricom. This person was investigated by the International Committee of Historians and was
accused of knowing about the execution of Yugoslav (+) Partisans and the deportations at
Thessaloniki while serving in (*) Army Group E. For 10 points, name this U.N. Secretary General and
President who was discovered to have lied about his membership in the Wehrmacht during his campaign
for President of Austria.
ANSWER: Kurt Waldheim
048-13-94-04101

2. On a March 2013 episode of This Week, George Stephanopoulos handed this man a copy of Human
Rights Watch. Irish bookmaker Paddy Power sponsored a 2014 tournament named for this man. This
American ignored a question about Merrill Newman during a November 2013 press conference, and,
even though he failed to secure the release of Kenneth (+) Bae, he did learn the name of
heir-apparent Ju Ae. This diplomat announced that he will coach a 2016 (*) Olympic team after he
holds a basketball tournament in Pyongyang. For 10 points, name this friend of Kim Jong-un and former
NBA star.
ANSWER: Dennis Rodman
190-13-94-04102

3. A ruler of this country promoted the reformist Seventeen-Article Constitution. Edward Morse
named a culture in this modern-day country for the cord-imprinted grooves in its (+) pottery. Hollow
sculptures mark the way to huge keyhole-shaped burial mounds for rulers of this country. The (*)
Nara Period was an era of the history of this country. Its indigenous people include the bear
sacrifice-practicing Ainu. For 10 points, name this country home to the Jomon, Yayoi, and Yamato
cultures, which was later ruled by a series of shogunates.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon]
080-13-94-04103

4. This man was hurt by the Tribune claiming to have decoded "cipher dispatches" that showed him
offering bribes. As New York governor, he broke the Canal Ring and opposed Boss Tweed as
chairman of the Democratic State Committee. This man lost a Presidential election with running
mate Thomas (+) Hendricks thanks to a compromise in which his opponent received disputed (*)
electoral votes in exchange for ending Reconstruction. For 10 points, name this Democratic politician who
lost to Rutherford Hayes in the election of 1876.
ANSWER: Samuel Jones Tilden
052-13-94-04104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 8 of 10

5. African Americans connected to this group were slain during the Thibodaux Massacre. Bishop
James Gibbons and its leader tried to placate Catholics by removing the words "The Holy and Noble
Order" from this organization's name. Founded by (+) Uriah Stephens, this group rose to
prominence under Grand Master Workman Terence Powderly. It was eventually supplanted by a
group specifically focused on craft (*) unions, the American Federation of Labor. For 10 points, name
this late 1800s union that lost much support after the Haymarket Riot.
ANSWER: Knights of Labor
052-13-94-04105

6. This book arose from a letter written by Olga Owens Huckins. A response to it was the text "The
Desolate Year." This book has a section called "A Fable for Tomorrow," which asks the reader to
imagine a "strange stillness." An ACC executive claimed it sought to "return to the (+) Dark Ages"
and ignore science. Inspired by a 1958 letter to the Boston Herald about the death of (*) birds, this
book has been criticized for ignoring the positive role its subject plays in fighting malaria. For 10 points,
name this anti-DDT book written by Rachel Carson.
ANSWER: Silent Spring
052-13-94-04106

7. During this battle, a man named Epizelus suddenly developed blindness without being physically
touched. The word "panic" originated in reference to the fear of the losing side at this battle. The
winning commanders here were (+) Miltiades (mil-TIE-uh-deez) and Callimachus, who died during
it while successfully fighting Darius's forces. Apocryphally, Pheidippides (fye-DIP-uh-deez) said (*)
"Joy to you, we've won" before dying of exhaustion after this battle. For 10 points, name this battle in the
Greco-Persian Wars, after which a messenger mythically ran for miles to Athens to announce victory.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
052-13-94-04107

8. Along with a Syrian governor, these two men met at the Luca Conference. One of these men wept
after seeing the head of the other, which was presented to him by an aide of King Ptolemy XIII.
Representing the (+) Populares (pah-pyoo-LAH-rayz) and the Optimates (ahp-tim-AH-tayz), these
two men fought each other at the Battle of Pharsalus, after the victor's earlier crossing of the (*)
Rubicon. These two men were previously part of an alliance with Marcus Crassus. For 10 points, name
these two members of the First Roman Triumvirate who fought a civil war in the last days of the Republic.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar and Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus in place of
"Pompey"; all acceptable answers may be given in either order, but do not prompt if only one answer is
given]
052-13-94-04108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 9 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 4
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
This man reportedly heard a Voice of America broadcast announcing his own impending handover
to the United Nations on the evening that he died. His army ended the five-year government of Lon
Nol, which opposed this man's alliance in GRUNK with the former king. He renamed his country to
"Democratic (+) Kampuchea" before launching an ill-advised invasion of Vietnam. Under his rule, a
former high school was converted into the (*) execution center Tuol Sleng S-21. For 10 points, name this
man who ordered the Khmer Rouge to commit the genocide of millions of Cambodians in the "killing
fields."
ANSWER: Pol Pot [or Saloth Sar]
239-13-94-0410-1

BONUS: In 1772, an anti-British mob led by Abraham Whipple and John Brown chased and burned what
revenue enforcement vessel off Rhode Island in a celebrated harbinger of the Revolutionary War?
ANSWER: HMS Gaspee
019-13-94-0410-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

4

Page 10 of 10

