2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 2
First Quarter

2

1. During this monarch’s reign, education reform was led by Gerhard van Swieten. This ruler's son
abolished this monarch’s Robot Patent, which implemented a labor rent. By signing the Treaty of Breslau,
this ruler lost control of Silesia. This ruler was succeeded by Joseph II and Leopold II. The ascension of
this woman violated Salic law, but was guaranteed by the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713. For 10 points, name
this queen who came to power after the War of Austrian Succession.
ANSWER: Maria Theresa [or Maria Theresia]
149-12-72-02101

2. Violating the rules of this activity brought a three-year prison sentence, one of many reforms to it
introduced in the Statutum Armorum. (zhef-WAH duh prew-YEE) Geoffroi de Preully is sometimes called
the inventor of a gathering at which this activity was practiced. This activity was later eclipsed by the less
exciting carrousel and itself superceded the destructive melee. Pointed weapons were prohibited at, for 10
points, what medieval contest between knights, who tried to knock each other off of horses?
ANSWER: jousting [or tournaments]
019-12-72-02102

3. During one speech at this event, the speaker foretold the arrival of “the Comforter” and states that he has
“overcome the world.” According to one source, this event was preceded with the washing of its
participants’ feet, while one action predicted at this event was later confirmed by the cry of a cock.
Maundy Thursday commemorates this event, which is re-enacted in the Eucharist. Judas Iscariot
prematurely left this event to betray its host. For 10 points, name this event in which Jesus shared a final
meal with his Apostles.
ANSWER: the Last Supper
192-12-72-02103

4. Cesar Cui decried this man's first symphony, suggesting that it depicted the ten biblical plagues. He
composed the a cappella Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom while he used a Konstantin Balmont translation of
an Edgar Allan Poe poem for his The Bells. He wrote four numbered piano concertos and a piece based on
the twenty-fourth of a certain Italian composer's Caprices. For 10 points, name this Russian pianist and
composer of Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilevich Rachmaninoff
192-12-72-02104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 1 of 10 © HSAPQ

5. This man claimed that, "if I owned Texas and Hell, I would rent Texas and live in Hell," while serving as
Military Director of the Southwest during Reconstruction. There is debate over whether this man actually
said that "the only good Indian is a dead Indian." This man succeeded William Tecumseh Sherman as
Commanding General of the U.S. Army. For 10 points, name this Union cavalry general who used
scorched-earth tactics to subdue the Shenandoah Valley during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Philip Henry Sheridan
003-12-72-02105

6. At one point during this event, a speaker noted “I can’t tell him to do that to himself” before describing
“a grin with a body behind it.” Held in Tampa, Florida, it featured a speaker noting his opponent “promised
to begin to slow the rise of the oceans and heal the planet.” This event’s most memorable sight was Clint
Eastwood talking to an empty chair that represented President Obama. For 10 points, name this 2012
gathering in which Mitt Romney was nominated for president.
ANSWER: 2012 Republican National Convention [or 2012 RNC; “2012” is not needed after said in
question]
052-12-72-02106

7. A group of six women including Kay MacNulty and Fran Bilas received little credit for helping to invent
this object, and it used several 6SN7 flip flops. Originally designed as part of Project PX by John Mauchly
and J Presper Eckert at UPenn, this device was used to simulate hydrogen bomb explosions and create
artillery tables. For 10 points, name this device consisting of over fifteen thousand vacuum tubes, the first
all-purpose digital computer.
ANSWER: ENIAC [or Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator]
048-12-72-02107

8. This man wrote a guide to the astrolabe for his son, and also wrote The Book of the Duchess. This man
wrote a story about Dorigen inspired by Boccaccio. This man’s characters include a rapist knight who must
answer Guinevere’s question, and (ARK-ee-tay) Arcite and Palamon, who compete for the love of Emily.
For 10 points, name this author, who joins the Knight and the Wife of Bath as a character in his own The
Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
191-12-72-02108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 2 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 2
Second Quarter

1. This man is the subject of the Michael Beschloss history Taking Charge, which transcribed his personal
recordings. His former assistant Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote a book titled for this man and the American
Dream. The 2012 book The Passage of Power continued Robert Caro’s critically praised four-volume
biography of this man. For 10 points, name this president, the subject of Master of the Senate, a work about
his time as a Senator from Texas.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ]
BONUS: Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote what acclaimed history of Abraham Lincoln and his relationship
with his Cabinet members?
ANSWER: Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln
052-12-72-02101

2. The Castillo de San Marcos, the central fort of this city, successfully withstood a siege by James Moore
during Queen Anne's War. A British garrison at Fort Mose, just two miles north of this city, was
annihilated during the besieging of this city during the War of Jenkin's Ear. Ponce de Leon is believed to
have first landed at what is now this city. For 10 points, identify this oldest continually occupied city in the
United States.
ANSWER: Saint Augustine
BONUS: Saint Augustine was attacked in 1586 by what English privateer?
ANSWER: Francis Drake
066-12-72-02102

3. This law provided for one representative in a state legislature per five thousand free males in a district,
up to a maximum of 25. This law outlawed slavery and involuntary servitude in its area of jurisdiction. Its
area of jurisdiction was to be carved into three to five states, which could be admitted when they reached a
population of sixty thousand. For 10 points, identify this law passed in 1787 that set rules for a territory
covering the modern Midwest.
ANSWER: Northwest Ordinance of 1787 [or Ordinance of 1787 before "1787" is read]
BONUS: The Northwest Ordinances were passed while what governing document was in effect?
ANSWER: Articles of Confederation
066-12-72-02103

4. This coach's football team once beat Cumberland College in a 222 to 0 game. This football coach led
Clemson to its first undefeated season and boasts the best winning percentage in school history, but is
better known for coaching Georgia Tech to its first championship in 1917. After dying in 1936, this man’s
group, the Downtown Athletic Club in Manhattan, named a trophy after him. For 10 points, identify this
namesake of the award given to college football’s most outstanding player.
ANSWER: John William Heisman
BONUS: The first Heisman winner, Jay Berwanger, played for what university, a former Big Ten member
coached by Amos Alonzo Stagg for over forty seasons?
ANSWER: University of Chicago Maroons [or Maroons]
052-12-72-02104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 3 of 10 © HSAPQ

5. This event punished the writer of the “Marburg speech,” which had called for a “second revolution.”
During it, Edmund Heines was discovered in bed with an eighteen year old, which was used to justify this
event as a crackdown on morals. It killed Edgar Jung and other supporters of Vice Chancellor Franz von
Papen. This event eliminated Ernst Rohm’s SA “brownshirt” faction. For 10 points, name this 1934 series
of purges that eliminated opponents of Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: Night of the Long Knives [or Operation Hummingbird; or Nacht der langen Messer]
BONUS: A British “Night of the Long Knives” occurred when seven members were dismissed in 1962 by
what Conservative Prime Minister, whose government was also rocked by the Profumo scandal?
ANSWER: Maurice Harold Macmillan
052-12-72-02105

6. The Rybinsk Reservoir is located on this river's northern course, and the Zhiguli Hydroelectric Station
creates its Samara Reservoir. The fortress Svyazhsk on this river helped Ivan the Terrible overthrow the
Khanate of Kazan. This river is connected to the Don river by a canal located near a city named for this
river. This river rises in the Valdai Hills and empties into the Caspian Sea. For 10 points, name this river in
Western Russia that is the longest in Europe.
ANSWER: Volga River
BONUS: The Volga flows past Nizhny Novgorod, which was renamed during Soviet rule for what author
of The Lower Depths?
ANSWER: Maxim Gorky [or Aleksey Maksimovich Peshkov]
030-12-72-02106

7. The son of the editor of Encyclopedia Hebraica, this man’s brother was killed while leading the Entebbe
raid. This man agreed to the Wye Memorandum with Yasser Arafat. He was succeeded as party leader by
Ariel Sharon in 1999 after his loss to Ehud Barak. In a 2012 address to the UN General Assembly, this man
used a cartoon bomb to illustrate levels of Iranian uranium enrichment that would be unacceptable to his
country. For 10 points, name this man who was again elected as prime minister of Israel in 2009.
ANSWER: Benjamin “Bibi” Netanyahu
BONUS: What right wing Israeli party is Benjamin Netanyahu a member of?
ANSWER: Likud Liberalim Leumi [or Unity-National Liberal]
030-12-72-02107

8. While in the Cabinet, this man’s “Open Communities” plan for fighting housing segregation was nixed
by his President. He lost a primary after saying that he got a pro-Vietnam War “brainwashing.” This man,
erroneously given credit for a convention walkout against Barry Goldwater, dealt with the 12th Street Riots
as governor of Michigan. For 10 points, name this past CEO of American Motors, the Mormon father of the
2012 Republican presidential nominee.
ANSWER: George Wilcken Romney [prompt on Romney]
BONUS: George Romney’s birth in Mexico may have run afoul of what article of the Constitution, which
contains the “natural-born citizen” requirement and describes the President’s powers?
ANSWER: Article II, Section 5 of the United States Constitution
104-12-72-02108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 4 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 2
Third Quarter

ENGLISH RESTORATION
During or prior to the English Restoration…
1. What house of Charles II was restored to the throne in 1660?
ANSWER: House of Stuart
2. What 1666 event destroyed the original St. Paul’s Cathedral?
ANSWER: Great Fire of London
3. What conservative faction, whose name now refers to the Conservative Party, clashed with the Whigs?
ANSWER: Tories
4. What fictional conspiracy involved an attempt to kill Charles II?
ANSWER: Popish Plot
5. What naval administrator kept a scrupulous diary of the period?
ANSWER: Samuel Pepys
6. What judge who names a purge of Parliament was posthumously condemned?
ANSWER: Thomas Pride
7. What Count Palatine of the Rhine and Royalist officer was brought back as an admiral?
ANSWER: Prince Rupert of the Rhine
8. What Lord Chancellor would lend his name to a legal code whose laws like the Act of Uniformity
strengthened the Anglican Church?
ANSWER: Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon [or Edward Hyde]
052-12-72-0210-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 5 of 10 © HSAPQ

THE DREYFUS AFFAIR
In the Dreyfus affair of turn-of-the-century France, name the...
1. Religion oppressed by anti-Semites to which Alfred Dreyfus belonged
ANSWER: Judaism [or Jewish]
2. Occupation of Alfred Dreyfus?
ANSWER: soldier [or artillery officer; or captain]
3. Author who wrote J'Accuse in defense of Dreyfus
ANSWER: Emile Zola
4. Politician nicknamed "the Tiger" who published J'Accuse and later led France during World War I
ANSWER: Georges Clemenceau
5. French government instituted in 1870 that was shaken by the affair
ANSWER: French Third Republic [or La Troisième République]
6. Island on which Dreyfus was imprisoned
ANSWER: Devil's Island
7. Real spy responsible for the treason of which Dreyfus was accused
ANSWER: Ferdinand Walsin Esterhazy
8. Corruption scandal involving bribes by Ferdinand de Lesseps that intensified French anti-Semitism
ANSWER: Panama Scandal [or Panama Canal Scandal; or Panama Affair]
080-12-72-0210-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 6 of 10 © HSAPQ

ANCIENT NEAR EAST LEADERS
Which leader...
1. Led the Israelites out of Egypt and received the Ten Commandments?
ANSWER: Moses
2. Was a legendary king of Uruk who fought the Bull of Heaven and tried to gain immortality?
ANSWER: Gilgamesh
3. Founded the Akkadian Dynasty?
ANSWER: Sargon I of Akkad
4. Was a rich Roman general crushed by the Parthians under Surena at Carrhae?
ANSWER: Marcus Licinius Crassus
5. Failed to take Jerusalem after his troops fell dead overnight, a story told in a Lord Byron poem about his
"Destruction"?
ANSWER: Sennacherib
6. Governed Galilee under his father Antipater before becoming King of Judea in the first century B.C.?
ANSWER: Herod the Great
7. Was known as "Soter" and founded a line of same-named Hellenistic pharaohs?
ANSWER: Ptolemy I
8. Rebelled against Rome as queen of Palmyra?
ANSWER: Zenobia
003-12-72-0210-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 7 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 2
Fourth Quarter

1. Louis Caldera resigned after staging a photo-op of this object in 2009 near New York City,
triggering a panic. Two predecessors to this object were called the Sacred Cow, used throughout the
1940s, and the Independence. This object was on Love Field when (+) Lyndon Baines Johnson took
his oath of office. In his last public appearance as President, Richard Nixon made a (*) "V for victory"
sign with both hands outside this object before entering it. Currently, two objects are designed to bear this
name, both VC-25s designed by Boeing. For 10 points, give this name, technically a radio call used for any
airplane carrying the US President.
ANSWER: Air Force One
104-12-72-02101

2. This event was chronicled in an Oscar-winning film by director Michael Wadleigh. Its opening
speaker was Satchidananda Saraswati, a self-proclaimed spiritual guru. Headlines describing this
event said participants were “Mired in a Sea of (+) Mud” and that traffic was “uptight.” This event
titles a song with the refrain “We are stardust, we are golden,” which was written by (*) Joni
Mitchell. Held at Max Yasgur’s dairy farm, it featured Joan Baez on the first day and ended with a
two-hour set by Jimi Hendrix. For 10 points, name this August 1969 rock festival in New York.
ANSWER: Woodstock Music & Art Fair
052-12-72-02102

3. After 133 ballots, the “Know-Nothing” Nathaniel P. Banks was chosen for this position in 1856.
From 1903 to 1911, it was held by the first man to be on the cover of Time magazine. In 1890, it was
held by a man known as (+) “Czar” who used aggressive roll call counting to thwart the disappearing
quorum. Two powerful men to hold this post also headed the Rules Committee and were named (*)
Thomas Reed and “Uncle Joe” Cannon. For 10 points, name this position more recently held by Dennis
Hastert and Nancy Pelosi, who could strongly control debate in one house of Congress.
ANSWER: Speaker of the House of Representatives
052-12-72-02103

4. This man resigned his highest post shortly after Britain’s loss at the Battle of Cartagena de Indias.
During this man’s ministry, a mob lynched a Captain of the Edinburgh City Guard who had ordered
troops to attack civilians. His ministry was opposed by the (+) “Patriot Whigs.” This man was Prime
Minister during the Porteous Riots and at the beginning of the War of Jenkins’ Ear. As First Lord of
the Treasury, he introduced measures to deal with the failure of the (*) South Sea Bubble. For 10
points, name this man regarded as the first Prime Minister of Great Britain, the father of Gothic author
Horace.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford
052-12-72-02104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 8 of 10 © HSAPQ

5. An attempt to sneak alcohol into this location during Christmastime led to the Eggnog Riot, and
Samuel Holden Parsons originally took command of this location. One early leader of this institution
was Sylvanus Thayer. It was built on the site fortified by (+) Tadeusz Kosciusko and connected to
Constitution Island by a gigantic chain. Benedict Arnold attempted to sell the (*) fortifications here to
the British. Attendees of this institution are referred to as cadets. For 10 points, name this New York
location, the site of the US Military Academy.
ANSWER: West Point [or United States Military Academy at West Point until it is read]
048-12-72-02105

6. One side at this battle couldn't secure reinforcements from an ally who would not march until the
full moon rose; luckily, they received 1000 hoplites from Plataea. This battle took place soon after the
Siege of Eretria, and one side was commanded by (+) Datis and Artaphernes. Despite crushing the
Ionian revolt, the (*) Persians lost this battle and thus retreated back to Asia. Marking the end of the first
Persian invasion of Greece, for 10 points, name this battle that supposedly saw (feye-DIP-uh-deez)
Pheidippides run 25 miles to tell Athens of the victory, lending its name to the modern sporting event.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
201-12-72-02106

7. This man wrote that states could serve as laboratories for “social and economic experiments” in
his dissent in New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann. He coined the phrase "sunlight is the best disinfectant"
in his book Other People’s Money and How the Bankers Use It. This man argued that it was morally
destructive for women to (+) work long hours in a document he compiled during the case (*) Muller v.
Oregon. For 10 points, name this Jewish Supreme Court Justice who lends his name to a type of legal
document that relies extensively on science rather than legal citations, his eponymous “brief”.
ANSWER: Louis Brandeis
048-12-72-02107

8. With Yugoslavia, a government led by this man negotiated the Treaty of Osmio, which partitioned
Trieste. This man defended Mariano Rumor during the Lockheed scandal, during which he was
accused of being a bribe recpient named “Antelope Cobbler”. This man entered the (+) “Historic
Compromise” power-sharing arrangement with the PCI. This man wrote several letters to Pope Paul
VI during his 55-day (*) captivity, which occurred during the Years of Lead. For 10 points, name this
Christian Democratic Prime Minister of Italy who was kidnapped and killed by the Red Brigades.
ANSWER: Aldo Moro
048-12-72-02108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 9 of 10 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 2
Extra Questions

One item used in this practice was the “fleam.” Benjamin Rush was an exponent of this practice as a
means of fighting “vascular overexcitement.” The red-and-white striped pole of a barbershop refers
to barbers performing this practice, which contributed to George Washington’s (+) death from
throat infection. Based on the idea that (*) humours had to remain in balance, this practice was promoted
by Galen as a way of controlling the “dominant humour.” For 10 points, name this now discredited practice
involving the removal of a bodily fluid in attempt to cure disease.
ANSWER: bloodletting [or phlebotomy; accept descriptions involving the idea of “removing blood”]
052-12-72-0210-1

The foreign minister Robert Schuman was a member of one of these parties, which in France was
called the Popular Republican Movement. The Italian party with this name dissolved after the
(MAH-nee poo-LEE-tay) “Mani pulite” investigation turned up evidence of widespread corruption.
That party was founded by (AHL-chee-day) Alcide De Gasperi. In West (+) Germany, one of these
parties united with a similar "Social Union" in Bavaria and was led by Konrad (*) Adenauer after
World War II. For 10 points, name this common name for right of center political parties, which nominally
advocate policies based on the teachings of the title religion.
ANSWER: Christian Democratic [or Christian Democracy; or Popular Republican Movement until
mentioned; or Mouvement Républicain Populaire until “Popular Republican Movement” is read; or
MRP until “Popular Republican Movement” is read]
121-12-72-0210-1

Words used for holdings in this type of system included casamentum and beneficium, whereas holdings
outside of this type of system were allodiums. In this system, a ceremony in which submission was given
was called homage and was given to a dominus. This system involved one person giving a fief to another
person in return for service. For 10 points, name this system common in Europe during the Middle Ages
that involved lords and vassals.
ANSWER: feudalism [accept word forms]
023-12-72-0210-1

Jabbar Gibson drove a school bus 7 hours during this event, which Robert Ricks warned people about. The
city of Gretna refused to help survivors of this event, which nearly destroyed the Chandeleur Islands. The
Danziger Bridge shootings occurred in its aftermath, and a "shelter of last resort" experienced chaos. After
this event, three "home" games were played by an NFL team at the Alamodome. For 10 points, name this
2005 hurricane that severely damaged New Orleans.
ANSWER: Hurricane Katrina
BONUS: Hurricane Katrina occurred during the tenure of this mayor of New Orleans, who said that
rebuilding would restore a "Chocolate city" after the hurricane.
ANSWER: Clarence Ray Nagin, Jr.
187-12-72-0210-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

2

Page 10 of 10 © HSAPQ

