2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 18
First Quarter

18

1. This action is commemorated by Evacuation Day. Its end was due to a "stupendous feat of logistics," the
"noble train of artillery." In that feat, during the winter, cannons from the recently seized Fort Ticonderoga
were transported to this action's location. Those cannons were deployed at Dorchester Heights, and, due to
the intervention of a snowstorm, forced General Howe to evacuate by sea. For 10 points, identify this siege
of a Massachusetts city.
ANSWER: Siege of Boston
066-12-72-18101

2. In an anecdote, these objects were first recognized when a pile of them was spared from grinding into
malaria medicine for an academy chancellor. The oldest use of the Heavenly Stems and Earthly Branches
calendar appears in their namesake script. Heat-induced cracking preceded use of these objects, which were
marked "auspicious" or "inauspicious." Found in Anyang, they are the main excavated remnant of the
Shang dynasty. For 10 points, name these turtle or ox scapulae used in divination.
ANSWER: oracle bones [or dragon bones; or jiagu; or long gu]
104-12-72-18102

3. This work oddly depicts Chinatown as a den of opium and immorality and claims Italians are "content to
live in a pig-sty." This work includes sections about stale-beer dives and downtown back-alleys. The title of
this work is a reference to a quote from Rabelais's Pantagruel. It influenced later muckraking journalism
and its author published a sequel entitled The Battle with the Slum. For 10 points, name this work
documenting the squalid living conditions in New York City tenements by Jacob Riis.
ANSWER: How the Other Half Lives: Studies Among the Tenements of New York
066-12-72-18103

4. In urban areas, practitioners of this religion are organized into congregations called sosyete. Priestesses
and priests of this religion are called mambos and houngans. This religion was formed by inhabitants of
colonial Saint-Domingue. In this religion, a figure met at a crossroads named Papa Legba acts as an
intermediary between humans and venerated spirits called loa, including Baron Samedi. For 10 points,
name this syncretic religion practiced in Haiti and erroneously associated with certain "dolls."
ANSWER: Voodoo [or Vodun]
014-12-72-18104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 1 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. This road crossed the Ohio River at a suspension bridge named for its original western terminus, which
is the oldest suspension bridge still in use in the US. This is the earliest road that is currently incorporated
into US Route 40. It was the second road to make use of macadam pavement in the US. For many years,
the western terminus of this road was at Vandalia, Illinois, and its original western terminus is now
Wheeling, West Virginia. For 10 points, name this first federal highway.
ANSWER: Cumberland Road [or National Road; accept reasonable equivalents for "road"]
066-12-72-18105

6. One portion of this speech mentions "Sundays at grandma's house" and the mutual exclusivity of having
dinner and watching a movie. This speech also includes mention of a father who worked as a pump
operator and was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, and draws a distinction between "making money" and
"making a difference in people's lives." The woman who delivered this speech stated that "being president
doesn't change who you are; it reveals you who are." For 10 points, identify this highly-praised speech
given on September 4th, 2012, by America's First Lady.
ANSWER: Michelle Obama's speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention [prompt on partial
answer]
189-12-72-18106

7. This group's work was demonstrated at Fort Meyer at the invitation of Frank Lahm. Amos Root
published several articles about this group's work at Huffman Prairie. They initially used data from Otto
Lilienthal, and their design also utilized George Cayley's cambered design. This group's most famous work
occurred at Kill Devil Hills, south of Kitty Hawk. For 10 points, name this pair of bicycle shop owners who
developed the first heavier-than-air flying machine.
ANSWER: Wright brothers [or Wilbur and Orville Wright]
048-12-72-18107

8. This man’s son, along with Plochl, developed a method using oxazolone and azlactone to synthesize
complex amino acids from glycine. This man names a rule stating that the ketone in a keto-enol
tautomerism is favored. While at the Munich Polytechnic School, this man designed an object that has a
narrow cylinder-shaped neck in order to stop spilling. For 10 points, name this German chemist who
developed a namesake conical flask.
ANSWER: Richard August Carl Emil Erlenmeyer
048-12-72-18108

9. On the right of a painting by this artist, the figure Chloris, who has a branch in her mouth, is being
abducted by Zephyr. On the left of that painting, Cupid takes aim at the three Graces. The pose of the
central figure in another painting by him is reminiscent of (prax-IT-uh-leez) Praxiteles's Aphrodite of
Cnidus. That painting by this Renaissance artist depicts a nude Roman goddess being blown to shore by
zephyrs while standing on a seashell. For 10 points, name this painter of La Primavera and The Birth of
Venus.
ANSWER: Sandro Botticelli [or Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi]
066-12-72-18109

10. Though it doesn't flow through New York City, this river has a hydroelectric plant named for Parks
Commissioner Robert Moses. This river used to flow over the now-destroyed Cave of the Winds. Henry
Pellatt built another hydroelectric station on this river to power his hometown of Toronto. Goat Island
separates the Horseshoe and Bridal Veil Falls, which are between two identically named towns in Ontario
and New York. For 10 points, name this river on the US-Canadian border that contains the most
voluminous waterfalls in the world.
ANSWER: Niagara River
121-12-72-18110
2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 2 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 18
Second Quarter

1. The inaugural version of this event was won by Aristides. A section in the stadium that holds this event
is called Millionaire's Row. This event is the first in a series that may have received its name from Charles
Hatton. A blanket of roses is traditionally draped upon the winner of this event, giving it its nickname: "The
Run for the Roses." The traditional drink at this event is the mint julep. For 10 points, name this horse race
held annually in Louisville at Churchill Downs.
ANSWER: Kentucky Derby
BONUS: This racehorse set record times at all three Triple Crown races, which still stand today.
ANSWER: Secretariat
066-12-72-18101

2. While serving as defense minister, this leader sent in his nation’s army to deal with the Menstad conflict,
which arose from a labor dispute. This man was held captive at Akershus Fortress towards the end of his
life. He faced a milk strike in his capital city in 1941, after he had allowed the exile of Haakon VII. This
leader was executed along with Ragnar Skancke for treason after he founded the fascist Nasjonal Samling
Party. For 10 points, name this Norwegian leader, a Nazi collaborator whose name is now a byword for
"traitor."
ANSWER: Vidkun Abraham Lauritz Jonsson Quisling
BONUS: Earlier in his life, Quisling had traveled with this Norwegian explorer, the namesake of the
League of Nation’s refugee office, whose namesake passport recognized stateless persons.
ANSWER: Fridtjof Nansen
192-12-72-18102

3. Before going to the Swan Tavern, Jack Jouett warned the inhabitants of this place of the arrival of British
troops. Isaac Granger worked in a nail factory here and wrote memoirs about his experiences. Slaves at this
residence lived in Mulberry Row. DNA tests in 1998 confirmed that the descendents of a slave who lived
here, Sally Hemings, were also related to the estate's owner, whose design was inspired by Andrea
Palladio's Four Books of Architecture. For 10 points, name this home of Thomas Jefferson.
ANSWER: Monticello
BONUS: Jefferson's grave at Monticello lists among his accomplishments founding this university. This
university was built within sight of Monticello and its central Rotunda was built in a similar Neoclassical
style.
ANSWER: University of Virginia [or UVA]
121-12-72-18103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 3 of 12 © HSAPQ

4. This object was twice recast by John Stow and John Pass, whose names appear on it. This object features
a quote from Leviticus 25:10 chosen by Isaac Norris. This object was originally placed in the steeple of the
State House, and John Nixon gave the first public reading of the Declaration of Independence after this
object was used to summon a crowd. For 10 points, name this object that, due to a two foot long crack, has
not in over 150 years been rung in Philadelphia.
ANSWER: Liberty Bell
BONUS: The Liberty Bell only received its current name in the 1830s, when members belonging to what
movement began to use it as a symbol?
ANSWER: abolitionism [or equivalent answers such as ending slavery]
023-12-72-18104

5. One work by this thinker focused on how the title concept arose from Adam's freedom to obey or
disobey God's command not to eat the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. This author of The Concept of
Anxiety contrasted the aesthetic and ethical modes of being. In another book, he theorized the “knight of
infinite resignation” in a discussion of Abraham’s sacrifice of Isaac. For 10 points, name this Danish
philosopher who wrote Either/Or and Fear and Trembling.
ANSWER: Soren Kierkegaard
BONUS: In what book did Kierkegaard write under the pseudonym Anti-Climacus and analyze existential
despair, which he equated with the title concept?
ANSWER: The Sickness unto Death [or Sygdommen til Doden]
014-12-72-18105

6. One composer of this surname commemorated the Austrian general who won the Battle of Novara in his
Radetzky March. Another composer of this surname wrote Farewell to St. Petersburg and Accelerations.
That composer worked with dance forms in such compositions as Tales from the Vienna Woods and On the
Beautiful Blue Danube. For 10 points, give this surname of the "Waltz King" who also shares his father's
first name, Johann.
ANSWER: Strauss
BONUS: Johann Strauss the Younger also composed many examples of what other kind of dance in two
four time, including the "Figaro" and "Tritsch-Tratsch" ones?
ANSWER: polka
014-12-72-18106

7. The native population of this state was the target of the 228 Incident. This state engaged in artillery duels
with its western neighbor over the islands of Matsu and Quemoy. Three Cold War crises broke out in its
namesake strait over islands held by this country's Kuomintang Party and claimed by a communist
neighbor. 10 points, name this de facto independent island state once ruled by Chiang Kai Shek that is
claimed by mainland China.
ANSWER: Taiwan [or Republic of China; or ROC; or Zhonghua Minguo]
BONUS: The reintegration of Taiwan would likely use this policy that gives special rights to Macau and
Hong Kong within the communist state.
ANSWER: one country, two systems [or yiguo, liangzhi]
153-12-72-18107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 4 of 12 © HSAPQ

8. The creator of this dynasty conquered Neustria and was known as being from Herstal. This dynasty lost
most of its remaining power after Arnulf of Carinthia defeated this dynasty's Charles the Fat. This dynasty
first had a king after the removal of Childeric III by Pippin the Short. For 10 points, name this Frankish
dynasty that also included the victor against Muslim invaders at the 732 CE Battle of Tours, Charles
Martel.
ANSWER: Carolingian dynasty
BONUS: This name common in the Carolingian dynasty was held by the older brother of Pippin the Short,
the youngest son of Pippin the Short, and the oldest son of Louis the German
ANSWER: Carloman [or Carloman of Bavaria]
023-12-72-18108

9. The main square of this city is (ma-REE-en-plahtz) Marienplatz, and the (FROW-en-keer-kuh)
Frauenkirche is in this city. In 1255, it became home to the Wittelsbach family, which included Holy
Roman Emperor Louis IV. This city is bisected by the Isar River. Mad King Ludwig brought Richard
Wagner to this city, saving him from destitution. It was home to the Beer Hall Putsch, and Oktoberfest is
held here. For 10 points, name this capital of the state of Bavaria.
ANSWER: Munich [or Muenchen]
BONUS: Munich lies just north of this mountain range that includes the Matterhorn and Mont Blanc.
ANSWER: Alps
066-12-72-18109

10. An animatronic version of this figure, carrying a Gatling gun, is a miniboss character in BioShock
Infinite. In Civilization V, this figure's unique unit is the B-17 and another unit that upgrades to the
rifleman. Robin Atkins Downes voices this character in Assassins Creed III, and an alternate downloadable
ending to that game sees this person assume a dictator position after winning the Revolutionary War. For
10 points, name this first President of the United States.
ANSWER: George Washington
BONUS: Washington also appears as a character in the third entry in this series, and in that game's
expansion The WarChiefs.
ANSWER: Age of Empires
048-12-72-18110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 5 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 18
Third Quarter

MEDIEVAL WOMEN
What woman from the Middle Ages was...
1. The queen of Castile who created Spain by marrying Ferdinand of Aragon?
ANSWER: Isabella I
2. The intrigue-generating wife of Byzantine Emperor Justinian?
ANSWER: Theodora
3. A legendary Chinese woman who went to battle during the Northern Wei dynasty?
ANSWER: Fa Mulan [or Hua Mulan]
4. Stopped by Stephen of Blois from becoming the first queen of England during the Anarchy?
ANSWER: Matilda [or Maud]
5. A Tang Dynasty ruler, the only empress of China?
ANSWER: Wu Zetian
6. A widow of Mohammed who led an army against Ali at the Battle of the Camel?
ANSWER: Aisha
7. The author who reacted to misogyny in The Romance of the Rose by writing The Book of the City of
Women?
ANSWER: Christine de Pizan
8. The saint who founded a namesake order of "poor" women that was the female counterpart to the
Franciscans?
ANSWER: Saint Clare of Assisi
019-12-72-1810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 6 of 12 © HSAPQ

EUROPEAN COMMUNIST MOVEMENTS
Answer the following about European communists.
1. They followed the ideas of this partner of Friedrich Engels.
ANSWER: Karl Heinrich Marx
2. This creator of the Red Army was exiled after Lenin's death by Stalin.
ANSWER: Leon Trotsky [or Lev Davidovich Bronshtein]
3. The (FRY-kohr) Freikorps beat this German communist uprising of 1919.
ANSWER: Spartacist Revolt [or Spatacus League; or Spartakusbund]
4. This Hungarian communist took power in 1919 before Admiral Horthy ousted him.
ANSWER: Bela Kun [or Kun Bela]
5. This was an alternative name for the Moscow-led Third International that lasted from 1919 to 1943.
ANSWER: Comintern [or Communist International]
6. This leader was named TIME's Man of the Decade for the 1980s.
ANSWER: Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev
7. This country was led by Todor Zhivkov for 45 years.
ANSWER: Republic of Bulgaria [or Republika Balgariya]
8. This country was inspired by China to threaten its activists with the "Tianenmen Option."
ANSWER: East Germany [or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or Ostdeutschland; or Deutsche
Demokratische Republik; or DDR]
153-12-72-1810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 7 of 12 © HSAPQ

HOLY ROMAN EMPERORS
What name, disregarding number, was held by the Holy Roman Emperor that…
1. Drowned in the Saleph River and was nicknamed for his red beard?
ANSWER: Frederick I [or Frederick Barbarossa]
2. Convened the Diet of Worms against Martin Luther?
ANSWER: Charles V
3. Issued the Pragmatic Sanction concerning his Austrian titles, but not those of the Holy Roman Empire?
ANSWER: Charles VI
4. Stood outside the castle of Canossa for three days at the height of the investiture controversy?
ANSWER: Henry IV
5. Kept the title following the 843 Treaty of Verdun with Louis the German and Charles the Bald?
ANSWER: Lothair I [or Lothar I]
6. Was the first of four emperors of the Salian Dynasty?
ANSWER: Conrad II
7. Inherited Sicily, founded the University of Naples, and lost the 1248 Battle of Parma?
ANSWER: Frederick II
8. Is the only Holy Roman Emperor other than Charlemagne to have been canonized?
ANSWER: Henry II
003-12-72-1810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 8 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 18
Fourth Quarter

1. Theodore Roosevelt served as head of the committee that was created from this act from 1889 to
1895. The first chairman of that committee was this act's author, Dorman Bridgeman (+) Eaton. This
act concerned the same subject as a 1978 act that created the OPM, FLRA, and MSPB. Sponsored by
an Ohio senator, this act was proposed after the (*) assassination of James Garfield by Charles Guiteau,
and it was signed into law by Chester A. Arthur. For 10 points, name this 1883 act that created the Civil
Service Commission, ensuring government jobs based on merit and not the "spoils system."
ANSWER: Pendleton Civil Service Act
192-12-72-18101

2. In one novel, this man gets a portrait of his son holding a globe-and-stick toy, and his troops make
a dog howl by shooting Platon. That novel argues how irrelevant it is that this man has a (+) cold on
August 24, since great men are not the causes of history. This man inspires one character to add the
letters in his name up to (*) 666 in a numerology scheme comparing this leader to the Antichrist. A shell
fired by his troops wounds Prince Andrei, much to Natasha Rostov's chagrin. For 10 points, name this
leader despised by Pierre Bezukhov who invades Russia in War and Peace.
ANSWER: Napoleon I Bonaparte
104-12-72-18102

3. The first group of them centered around Nicholas of Hereford, and their first martyr was William
Sawtrey. A statement of this group called transubstantiation a "feigned miracle" and is this group's
Twelve Conclusions. Thomas (+) Arundel started a campaign against this group. One of them
conspired to capture the king in Kent and was a model for the character Falstaff; that member of
this group was Sir John Oldcastle. Members of this group were responsible for the (*) translation of
the Bible into English, and they led a failed uprising against Henry V. For 10 points, name these English
followers of John Wycliffe whose name was derived from the Middle Dutch for "mumbler."
ANSWER: Lollards
030-12-72-18103

4. This position was held by a man whose son Joseph fell to his death from this position's official
residence. One man who held it was married to a woman named Varina and later lived at a place
named (+) Beauvoir. As opposed to a similar position, this post lasted for a six year term without
possibility of reelection. The second-in-command of a man who held this post was (*) Alexander
Stephens. Its only occupant was a Senator from Mississippi who appointed Robert E. Lee to head the Army
of Northern Virginia. For 10 points, name this position held from 1861 to 1865 by Jefferson Davis.
ANSWER: President of the Confederate States of America [or President of CSA, prompt on President]
052-12-72-18104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 9 of 12 © HSAPQ

5. Some banners captured during this battle were brought to the Birgu Parish Church where a "Te
Deum" was sung in thanksgiving. Philip II presented the victor of this battle with a dagger and a
gold jeweled sword, two treasures that were plundered by (+) Napoleon in 1798 during his attack on
the same site. The first phase of this battle ended when Fort St. Elmo was overrun by (*) Janissaries.
The defending side of this battle had earlier relocated from Rhodes and was led by Jean de la Valette, who
built a namesake city that became capital. For 10 points, name this 1565 siege where the Ottomans failed to
evict the Knights Hospitaller from a Mediterranean island.
ANSWER: Siege of Malta [or 1565 Battle of Malta]
020-12-72-18105

6. An early version of this theory was proposed by Frank Bursley Taylor, and this idea was opposed
by James D. Dana. Patrick Blackett's invention of the magnetometer led to a revival of interest in this
idea, as did (+) APWPs constructed by Runcorn and Irving. A theory used to support this idea was
provided evidence in 1963 when Vine and Morley noticed certain symmetric patterns of (*)
magnetization reversals. It is supported by the formation of oceanic crust at mid-ocean ridges or seafloor
spreading. For 10 points, name this idea, proposed in 1912 by Alfred Wegener, that certain large land
masses move relative to each other.
ANSWER: continental drift [or plate tectonics]
201-12-72-18106

7. During this event, pre-planning by WJTV allowed Bryan Norcross to stay on air and give updates.
A few days after this event hit her county, Kate Hale asked, "Where in the hell is the (+) cavalry on
this one?", which received the response, "Help is on the way," from George H.W. Bush. 39 people
died as a result of this event, with (*) Dade County being hit the worst. Winds likely faster than 160 miles
per hour during this storm broke the gauges at the National Hurricane Center. For 10 points, name this
hurricane that hit the Bahamas, Louisiana, and Florida in 1992, the costliest hurricane in the US before
Katrina.
ANSWER: Hurricane Andrew
023-12-72-18107

8. The Aldermaston Marches opposed this program, which also sparked intraparty dissent from the
Tribune Group. This program was first tested in Operation Hurricane. The delivery (+) missile Blue
Streak was an abandoned homegrown portion of this program, which included the tactical devices
Red Beard and WE.177. The most prominent part of this program today is the four (*)
Vanguard-class submarines armed with Trident missiles, one of which is always at sea. For 10 points,
identify this weapons program whose products can only be used against military targets if authorized by
David Cameron.
ANSWER: British nuclear weapons program [or obviously equivalent answers; accept United Kingdom,
UK, or English for "British"; accept thermonuclear or atomic for "nuclear"; prompt if weapons or an
obvious equivalent is not given to distinguish from the British nuclear power program]
019-12-72-18108

9. On the last day of one period of this kind, Jimmy Carter worked overnight, but ultimately failed to
secure the release of the American hostages in Iran. George W. Bush negotiated the future
withdrawal of all US forces in Iraq during one of these time periods, which typically see the issuance
of numerous (+) pardons. The Twentieth Amendment shortened this period of time, during which the
midnight judges were appointed, resulting in the (*) Marbury decision. For 10 points, name these time
periods between an election lost by an incumbent and the transition to power of the successor.
ANSWER: lame duck periods [prompt on "the end of a Presidential administration" or similar descriptive
answers]
020-12-72-18109
2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 10 of 12 © HSAPQ

10. The signers of this document were numbered by Thomas Prince and first listed in an account by
Nathaniel Morton. The earliest surviving text of this document comes from an account entitled
Mourt's Relation written by Edward (+) Winslow. This document drafted by William Brewster was
signed "in the presence of God" to form "a (*) civil body politic" by its forty-one signers, which
included William Bradford. For 10 points, name this document drawn up before the disembarkation at
Plymouth by the Pilgrims aboard the namesake ship.
ANSWER: Mayflower Compact
014-12-72-18110

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 11 of 12 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 18
Extra Questions

After the end of this battle, Nabarzenes and Bessus planned the overthrow of the losing commander,
who had retreated towards the Caspian Gates after failing to convince his mother, (+) Sisygambis, to
escape with him. The night before this battle, Parmenion suggested a surprise attack that would have
been disastrous since the opposition's army was all awake. The losing side's (*) chariots proved
ineffectual, and the winning side's commander exposed the right flank by leading his Companion Cavalry
towards it. For 10 points, name this 331 BCE battle in which Alexander the Great defeated Darius III,
leading to the end of the Persian Empire.
ANSWER: Battle of Gaugamela [or Battle of Arbela]
192-12-72-1810-1

In the 1970s, this company was revealed to have hired yakuza associate Yoshio Kodama to advocate
it in Japan, and to have given seven-figure bribes to the German Minister of (+) Defence and Prince
Bernhard of the Netherlands. Kelly Johnson managed a highly-independent subdivision of this
company named after a location in the comic strip Li'l Abner called (*) "Skunk Works." This company
worked with the CIA on a spy program that resulted in the capture of Gary Powers by the Soviet Union.
For 10 points, name this American company that developed the U-2 and the Polaris missile during the Cold
War before merging with Martin Marietta in 1995.
ANSWER: Lockheed Corporation [or Lockheed-Martin]
080-12-72-1810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

18

Page 12 of 12 © HSAPQ

