2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 7
First Quarter

7

1. Clepsydras were an early example of these machines that used flowing water. Lewis Mumford argued
these machines were developed based on the needs of monasteries and that they, not steam engines, were
the primary mover of the industrial revolution. John Harrison fought for years to claim a prize established
by Parliament for building a special type of these machines that could be used for calculating longitude. A
cesium beam is used in some of these of the atomic variety. For 10 points, name these timekeeping devices.
ANSWER: clocks [or obvious equivalents]
121-12-72-07101

2. This leader leans over the edge of a ship watching a former advisor leave in the political cartoon
Dropping the Pilot. This ruler caused the Tangier Crisis when he supported the independence of the sultan
in Morocco. This ruler fled to the Netherlands after he was forced to abdicate in 1918 because of the
outcome of World War I. For 10 points, name this man who forced the resignation of Otto von Bismarck
and served as the last German emperor.
ANSWER: Wilhelm II of Germany [or William II; or Friedrich Wilhelm Viktor Albert; prompt on
Wilhelm]
023-12-72-07102

3. This was the instrument played by Paul Desmond, who played in the Dave Brubeck Quartet and wrote
"Take Five." One artist on this instrument recorded a fourteen minute version of the song "My Favorite
Things." In 1992, "Heartbreak Hotel" was played on this instrument on The Arsenio Hall Show during an
appearance by Bill Clinton. For 10 points, name this prominent jazz instrument that was played by such
musicians as Coleman Hawkins, Charlie Parker, and John Coltrane.
ANSWER: saxophones
023-12-72-07103

4. This scientist was burned by the line "if I have seen a little further it is by standing on the shoulders of
giants" in his correspondence with Isaac Newton. After the Great Fire of London, this man worked as Chief
Surveyor in the rebuilding process. This man's detailed illustrations of small insects in his book
Micrographia accompanied his observation of cork using a microscope. For 10 points, name this English
scientist who first used the word "cell" and devised a namesake law describing displacement in springs.
ANSWER: Robert Hooke
080-12-72-07104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. This author created Fahmy, a would-be revolutionary who dies during a peace-time demonstration. This
ruler examined the impact of his country's "open door" economic policy known as the Infitah in a work
about the family of Muhtashimi Zayed. That work by this author set around a 1981 assassination is The
Day the Leader Was Killed. This author's most famous works center on the family of Al-Sayyed Ahmad in
the title city. For 10 points, name this Egyptian author of the Cairo Trilogy.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
191-12-72-07105

6. This ruler crushed the Elamites with the help of Larsa, but later killed their ruler Rim-Sin I. He turned on
his ally Zimrilim to sack the city of Mari, and crushed Eshnunna as well, uniting all of Mesopotamia under
his rule. He may be most famous however, for promulgating a set of 282 laws with harsh punishments. For
10 points, name this first ruler of the Babylonian Empire, whose namesake code was one of the first
recorded law codes in history.
ANSWER: Hammurabi of Babylon
201-12-72-07106

7. In order to prevent mail robberies during his presidency, this man assigned marines to mail trucks. This
President was accused of being the descendant of an African-American by William Chancellor. Edwin
Denby transferred land owned by the Navy under this President. During his administration, the Secretary of
the Interior, Albert Fall, was caught leasing oil fields to his friends. This Republican promised a "return to
normalcy." For 10 points, name this President whose administration was marred by the Teapot Dome
Scandal.
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel Harding
149-12-72-07107

8. Frank Barker received early reports of this event, which was conducted by Task Force Barker. Hugh
Thompson was honored years after this event for his role in stopping it and saving lives. Seymour Hersh
won the Pulitzer for exposing this event and its cover-up. Ernest Medina ordered this event be carried out,
but was acquitted of charges stemming from it, while William Calley was convicted of murder for ordering
it. For 10 points, name this massacre during the Vietnam War, in which US troops killed inhabitants of the
namesake village.
ANSWER: My Lai Massacre [or Son My Massacre]
187-12-72-07108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 7
Second Quarter

1. This conflict arose in part due to the unrecognized citizenship of the affranchis. An early phase of this
conflict included the uprising led by Vincent Oge. The disputed territory in this conflict was relinquished
by Spain in the Treaty of Basel. In this conflict, Charles Leclerc broke the terms of an armistice in order to
capture (too-sahn loo-vair-SHOOR) Toussaint L'Ouverture. For 10 points, name this slave revolt in which a
Caribbean nation gained its independence from Napoleonic France.
ANSWER: Haitian Revolution [accept equivalent answers such as Haitian War of Independence]
BONUS: Toussaint L'Ouverture was succeeded by what man, who continued to fight successfully against
the French along with Henry Christophe?
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Dessalines
014-12-72-07101

2. In The Fairly Odd Parents, Timmy gets help on a report by summoning this man, who turns out to be an
axe-wielding maniac. According to The Simpsons, this man won a fight against a pirate named "Hans
Sprungfeld," the true identity of Jebediah Springfield. This man appoints himself king and must be
overthrown in a piece of downloadable content for a recent game; a Native American named Connor saves
this man from the Templars in that game, Assassin's Creed III. For 10 points, name this President who, in
popular culture, is often shown chopping down a cherry tree.
ANSWER: George Washington
BONUS: David Morse played George Washington in what HBO miniseries about a founding father?
ANSWER: John Adams
080-12-72-07102

3. This athlete drove in the winning run in the "double no hitter" game won by Fred Toney while he was
playing for the Cincinnati Reds. Earlier, he scored a 97-yard touchdown against an Army football team that
included Dwight Eisenhower. This man attended Carlisle College and won the pentathlon and decathlon at
the 1912 Summer Olympics, but was forced to return his gold medals later. For 10 points, name this
multi-sport athlete who excelled in the early twentieth century, famed for his partial Native American
heritage.
ANSWER: Jim Thorpe [or James Francis Thorpe; or Wa-Tho-Huk]
BONUS: The 1912 Summer Olympics were held in this country, whose king Gustav V awarded Thorpe his
prize for the decathlon.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
192-12-72-07103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. A painting with a woman in a white dress and a black hat is doing this in the foreground in John Singer
Sargent's painting El Jaleo. One painting with four figures doing this in the foreground shows Apollo's
chariot in the background and the Hours holding a Zodiac while the title figure plays a lyre. That activity in
a painting by Nicholas (poo-SAH) Poussin is being conducted to the "music of time." For 10 points, people
taking classes for what activity were depicted in several paintings Edgar Degas.
ANSWER: dance [accept word variations]
BONUS: What Fauvist painter of a portrait of his wife with a green stripe on her face also painted two
works entitled The Dance in which five individuals hold hands in a circle?
ANSWER: Henri Emil Benoit Matisse
030-12-72-07104

5. One crew that attempted this action perished from lead poisoning after consuming too much canned
food. It's not finding the North-Eastern Passage, but Karl Weyprecht and Julius von Payer co-led an
Austro-Hungarian expedition to do this, leading to the discovery and naming of Franz Josef Land. Dispute
exists as to whether this goal was accomplished by Robert Byrd's plane journey or Henson and Peary's sled
expedition. For 10 points, name this goal attempted by several expeditions venturing into the Arctic Circle.
ANSWER: reaching the North Pole [accept all manner of synonyms; prompt on answers such as Arctic
expeditions until mentioned; do not accept "reaching the magnetic North Pole"]
BONUS: This explorer died while exploring the Antarctic in 1922, seven years after his ship Endurance
was crushed by pack ice on an earlier trip.
ANSWER: Ernest Henry Shackleton
020-12-72-07105

6. In this battle, Trafford Leigh-Mallory's use of ineffective experimental formations got him into a dispute
with Keith Park. During this battle, the failure of "Eagle Day" prompted the invading side to launch an
all-out attack on August 18, dubbed "The Hardest Day." Resulting in the postponement of Operation Sea
Lion, it prompted the observation that "Never was so much owed by so many to so few." For 10 points,
name this 1940 victory for the RAF over the Luftwaffe that prevented a Nazi invasion of England.
ANSWER: the Battle of Britain
BONUS: What period of strategic bombing of the UK followed the end of the Battle of Britain?
ANSWER: the Blitz
080-12-72-07106

7. This battle included a defense of (plahnce-NWAH) Plancenoit by the count of Lobau. Preceded by an
engagement at (KAT-reh BRAH) Quatre-Bras, its winners fortified the Le Haye Sainte farmhouse and the
Mont-Saint-Jean escarpment. The last engagement for the Garde Imperielle under (mee-chel NAY) Michel
Ney, its losers waited until noon to attack to let wet ground dry, allowing Gerhard von (BlOO-ker)
Blucher's Prussians to arrive. For 10 points, name this victory in Belgium for the Duke of Wellington
against Napoleon.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo
BONUS: Waterloo ended with a victory for what final alliance, which fought against Napoleon after his
return from Elba?
ANSWER: Seventh Coalition
104-12-72-07107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. This was the occupation of Edith Cavell, who stated that "Patriotism is not enough" and was shot by a
German firing squad. Another person in this occupation founded the British Hotel. Mary Seacole worked in
this occupation durning an event in which another woman with this job developed the polar area diagram
and worked at a facility in Scutari. That "Lady with the Lamp" did this job during the Crimean War. For 10
points, name this occupation revolutionized by Florence Nightingale.
ANSWER: army nurses [or nursing]
BONUS: What American nurse founded the American Red Cross in 1881?
ANSWER: Clara Barton
080-12-72-07108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 7
Third Quarter

PROHIBITION
Before, during, or after the period of Prohibition in the United States…
1. Alcohol manufacture was resumed after the ratification of what amendment in 1933?
ANSWER: Twenty-First Amendment
2. What establishments illegally sold liquor and were also known as "big toads" or "blind pigs?"
ANSWER: speakeasies
3. What notorious woman walked into saloons and used her hatchet to destroy liquor?
ANSWER: Carrie Nation [or Carrie Amelia Moore]
4. What female-led, anti-alcohol organization featured Frances Willard as a president?
ANSWER: Women's Christian Temperance Union [or WCTU]
5. What chemical company, which created nylon and Teflon, had its presidents support Prohibition's
repeal?
ANSWER: DuPont [or E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company]
6. What philanthropist wrote a 1932 letter to Nicholas Butler advocating Prohibition's repeal and had earlier
launched the historical restoration of Colonial Williamsburg?
ANSWER: John Davison Rockefeller, Jr.
7. What gangster's forces were hit by Al Capone's men in the St. Valentine's Day Massacre?
ANSWER: Bugs Moran [or George Moran]
8. What man led the "Untouchables" in supporting Prohibition in Chicago?
ANSWER: Eliot Ness
052-12-72-0710-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

GERMAN UNIFICATION
Name…
1. The chancellor who made it happen
ANSWER: Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck
2. The first Kaiser of a unified Germany
ANSWER: William I [or Wilhelm I]
3. The Prussian dynasty that ruled imperial Germany
ANSWER: House of Hohenzollern
4. The contentious pair of duchies south of Denmark
ANSWER: Schleswig-Holstein
5. The two things a Bismarck speech claimed to use in the process, rather than "speeches and majorities"
ANSWER: blood and iron [or Blut und Eisen]
6. The early customs union of many German states proposed by Friedrich List
ANSWER: Zollverein
7. The Prussian king who rejected an earlier unified crown from the Frankfurt Assembly in 1849
ANSWER: Frederick William IV [or Friedrich Wilhelm IV; prompt on Frederick William; prompt on
Friedrich Wilhelm]
8. The 1866 war also called the Seven Weeks' War that gave Prussia dominance in Germany
ANSWER: Austro-Prussian War
104-12-72-0710-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

SUPREME COURT JUSTICES
Which Supreme Court Justice...
1. Has served as Chief Justice since 2005?
ANSWER: John Glover Roberts, Jr.
2. As Chief Justice, administered the oath of office to both George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush?
ANSWER: William Hubbs Rehnquist [or William Donald Rehnquist]
3. Replaced Thurgood Marshall following controversial confirmation hearings involving a sexual
harassment charge?
ANSWER: Clarence Thomas
4. Was known as the "Great Dissenter" and cast the lone dissenting vote in Plessy v. Ferguson?
ANSWER: John Marshall Harlan I
5. Replaced Sandra Day O'Connor in 2006.
ANSWER: Samuel Anthony Alito, Jr.
6. Held that government-directed school prayer was unconstitutional in the majority opinion in Engel v.
Vitale?
ANSWER: Hugo La Fayette Black
7. Found a penumbra "right to privacy" in the majority opinion in Griswold v. Connecticut and was the
longest-serving justice?
ANSWER: William Orville Douglas
8. Became the first Hispanic justice in 2009?
ANSWER: Sonia Maria Sotomayor
003-12-72-0710-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 7
Fourth Quarter

1. This campaign was advised by a eunuch general with a gold prosthetic nose, named Tatikios.
During a siege on this campaign, starving knights were reinvigorated by Peter Bartholomew's
miraculous discovery of the Holy Lance. This campaign began after emissaries were sent to the
Council of (pee-uh-CHEN-zuh) Piacenza by (+) Alexius Comnenus, who wished to retake land from
the Seljuks. Peter the Hermit incited the poor to participate in this campaign, in which (*) Godfrey of
(bwee-YONE) Bouillon established the Kingdom of Jerusalem. This campaign was convoked at the
Council of Clermont by Urban II. For 10 points, name this campaign to retake the Holy Land, which
inspired many other subsequent attempts.
ANSWER: First Crusade [prompt on the Crusades; prompt on the People's Crusade]
080-12-72-07101

2. This thinker proposed a form of government in which each state has thirty delegates to the House
of Representatives. One of his works calls the Bible a "fabulous mythology" and is a defense of
Deism. He wrote another work criticizing (+) Edmund Burke's Reflections on the Revolutions in
France. In his best-known work, he called it absurd that an island could rule a (*) continent. This man
began a series with the quote, "These are the times that try men's souls." For 10 points, name this
revolutionary pamphleteer of The Rights of Man, The Crisis, and Common Sense.
ANSWER: Thomas Paine
190-12-72-07102

3. This man told his rebellious Cabinet that "by God, John Chambers shall be Governor of Iowa!"
Formerly the minister to Gran Colombia, this President was praised in the Gold Spoon Oration,
which attacked his Democratic opponent. He gave the (+) longest inaugural address in presidential
history, which forced him to stand for two hours in the rain. This President was elected to office after
his (*) "log cabin and hard cider" campaign stung Martin Van Buren. For 10 points, name this President
known as "Old Tippecanoe," who died after just thirty-two days in office.
ANSWER: William Henry Harrison [prompt on Harrison]
052-12-72-07103

4. One politician from this country stated in a November 2012 speech that this nation "will be the
next California of Asia"; that former athlete is the founder of this nation's PTI, or (+) "Movement
for Justice" party. In November 2012, eighteen people were killed after gunmen shot at a van near a
gas pump in its Balochistan province. This country's town of Mingora from the Swat District is the
hometown of (*) Malala Yousafzai, a teenage girl who was shot by Taliban gunmen after advocating for
educational and women's rights in this country. For 10 points, name this Asian country that faces drone
strikes from the United States, and whose president is Asif Ali Zardari.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or Jamhuryat Islami Pakistan]
189-12-72-07104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. Ward Churchill claimed that the US Army used these objects on the Great Plains in 1837. These
objects were used instead of the so-called "Spaniards' Method," which involved hunting dogs. They
were conclusively utilized at the siege of Fort Pitt during (+) Pontiac's War, a decision usually
attributed to Jeffrey Amherst. They enabled the British to successfully defeat the Delawares in war.
These objects were covered in (*) viral scabs and caused greater than eighty percent fatality rates to some
of the tribes to which they were distributed. For 10 points, name these notorious items which colonists
covered in a deadly disease to infect Native Americans.
ANSWER: smallpox blankets [accept same-knowledge equivalents]
190-12-72-07105

6. One emperor of this name sent his brother-in-law Christopher to rout the Paulicians under
(KREE-so-KYE-rus) Chrysocheirus and rose to power after murdering Caesar Bardas and Michael
III. Another emperor of this name gave his sister Anna in marriage to Vladimir of (+) Kiev, who
converted to Christianity, and used Russian soldiers to create the Varangian Guard. That ruler with
this name lost the Battle of the Gates of Trajan to Tsar Samuel, but got his revenge by (*) blinding 99
of every 100 enemy soldiers after winning the Battle of Kleidion. For 10 points, give this name of two
Byzantine emperors, one of whom was nicknamed "the Bulgar-Slayer."
ANSWER: Basil [or Basil the Bulgar-Slayer; or Basil Bulgaroctonus; or Basil the Macedonian]
080-12-72-07106

7. In line with this policy, a Law on Cooperatives was passed. In a 2010 New York Times op-ed about
this policy "Lost," its formulator suggested that a system "much worse than the disease" occurred
when this policy was replaced by so-called (+) "shock therapy." Initially, this policy granted
independence and political significance to some women's councils, though women were worse off
after it ended. A practical effect of this policy, similar to the (*) New Economic Policy of six decades
prior, was the opening of a solitary McDonald's in Moscow. For 10 points, name this policy of political and
economic restructuring spearheaded by Mikhail Gorbachev alongside glasnost.
ANSWER: perestroika [prompt on restructuring before read]
020-12-72-07107

8. One influential individual in this city's history was Virgil Blossom, and Harry Ashmore was a
moderate writer who opposed this city's governor. This city was the site of crowds chanting "Two,
four, six, eight, we ain't going to (+) integrate" in an event that led to the president stating, "Our
enemies are gloating over this incident and using it everywhere to misrepresent our whole nation."
The (*) 101st Airborne division was called into this city in order to protect nine individuals at Central High
School, against the wishes of Orval Faubus. For 10 points, identify this Arkansas city where nine black
students faced opposition as they sought to become integrated students in 1957.
ANSWER: Little Rock, Arkanas
189-12-72-07108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 7
Extra Questions

This event prompted Gregory XIII to issue a coin with the motto “Ugonottorum strages” and send a
Golden Rose to its instigators. It was preceded by the ringing of bells at (sahn-zhair-MAHN
loo-sair-WAH) Saint-Germain l'Auexerrois, and (+) Francis Walsingham was nearly killed during it.
This event violated the Peace of (sahn-zhair-MAHN-oh-LAY) Saint-Germain-en-Laye and occurred
a few days after the (*) marriage of Margaret of (VAL-wah) Valois to Henry III of Navarre. Gaspard de
(koh-lee-NEE) Coligny was its most prominent victim, and it was prompted by the orders of either Henry
of (GEEZ) Guise or the mother of Charles IX, Catherine de Medici. For 10 points, name this 1572 event, a
mass killing of Huguenots.
ANSWER: Saint Bartholomew's Day massacre [accept equivalents for "massacre"]
192-12-72-0710-1

Gregory X convoked the Second Council of Lyon to remedy this issue after sending an embassy to
Michael VIII. Though the Council of Florence nearly solved this issue, it failed after the death of
Joseph II. The failure of a delegation led by (+) Cardinal Humbert was one cause of this event, as
Humbert failed to resolve the dispute between Leo IX and Michael Caerularius. Differences over
whether to use unleavened or leavened bread in the Eucharist, and over whether to include the (*)
"filioque" clause in the creed, culminated in the mutual anathemas marking the beginning of this event. For
10 points, name this event, traditionally dated to 1054, that split the medieval church between Rome and
Constantinople.
ANSWER: East-West Schism of 1054 [or Great Schism; or equivalents such as split between Eastern
Orthodoxy and Catholicism; do not accept or prompt on the "Western Schism"]
080-12-72-0710-1

At Caesarea Philippi, this man said he believed his leader was "the Messiah, the Son of the Living God."
An inverted Latin cross is named for this man, reflecting the idea that he was crucified upside-down.
Weather vanes in the shape of roosters refer to a story in which this man denies Jesus three times before the
cock crows, as prophesied. His name comes from the Greek for "rock," as Jesus told this man he was the
foundation on which he would build his church. For 10 points, name this apostle and first Pope.
ANSWER: Saint Simon Peter
121-12-72-0710-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

7

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

