2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
First Quarter

8

1. With (FRAHN-yoh TUDGE-man) Franjo Tudjman, this leader agreed to partitions of his nation's
western neighbor in the (ka-ra-GEORGE-eh-vo) Karagjorgjevo Agreement. This leader's government fell
after the Bulldozer Revolution, and he attended the 1995 Dayton Conference in lieu of Radovan
(KAH-ruh-jitch) Karadzic. This successor to Ivan (STAM-boh-litch) Stambolic propagated ethnic
cleansing against the ethnic Albanians of his nation. For 10 points, name this president of Serbia who was
accused of war crimes due to actions in the Kosovo War.
ANSWER: Slobodan Milosevic
192-12-72-08101

2. This man dubbed himself the "Batavian Eratosthenes" in a 1617 book about taking measurements of the
Earth. That book by this scientist introduced the use of geodesic triangulation in surveying. Christian
(HOY-gens) Huygens's Dioptrica popularized this man's most notable discovery, which states that the ratio
of phase velocities determines the ratio of the sines of angles. For 10 points, name this Dutch scientist
whose namesake law gives the angle of light refracted through a boundary between substances.
ANSWER: Willebrord van Royen Snell [or Willebrod Snel van Royen; or Willebrordus Snellius]
019-12-72-08102

3. The leader of this group used the code name "Apis" and had previously led junior officers to assassinate
Queen Draga and King Alexander. This group's most notable action was coordinated by (duh-NEE-low
ILL-itch) Danilo Illic, and many of this group's members were tried at Salonika. Its most prominent recruit
killed Sophie, the Duchess of Hohenberg, and was named Gavrilo (PRIN-tzip) Princip. For 10 points, name
this nationalist Serbian group that was involved in the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.
ANSWER: Black Hand [or Unification or Death; or Ujedinjenje Ili Smrt]
052-12-72-08103

4. A man with this title refused to pray with a man because he knew that the man was focusing on a baby
horse. That holder of this title was protected by a cobra while herding cattle. Aurangzeb killed its ninth
holder, Tegh Bahadur. The first holder of this title claimed that there was "no Hindu" and "no Muslim."
This title is currently held by the Granth Sahib, which is a book. The first person to hold this title was
Nanak, and the last human was Gobind Singh. For 10 points, what title is given to the leader of the Sikhs?
ANSWER: guru
149-12-72-08104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 1 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. Pressure to unify the "Banner Party" and the "People's Party" factions of the PDPA preceded this
maneuver, which put Babrak Karmal in office. This military action began with the storming of Tajbeg
Palace. Operation Cyclone funded insurgents against this invasion with the aid of US Congressman Charlie
Wilson. For 10 points, name this invasion, after which détente ended and the Islamist mujahideen fought
Leonid Brezhnev's bordering superpower.
ANSWER: Soviet invasion of Afghanistan [accept any answer indicating that the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and Afghanistan are at war]
104-12-72-08105

6. During this event, Frederick Funston tried to dynamite the Monadanock building, and Mayor Eugene
Schmitz gave the "shoot-to-kill" order to prevent looting. The destruction of immigration records during
this event allowed many Chinese immigrants to claim citizenship, though it destroyed much of Chinatown.
Ninety percent of the damage from this event came from the fires in its aftermath, but it did spur new
research into plate tectonics. For 10 points, name this 1906 event along the San Andreas fault that
destroyed eighty percent of a California city.
ANSWER: Great San Francisco Earthquake of 1906
080-12-72-08106

7. In this conflict, eleven men from the town of Trading Post were shot in the (mur-duh-ZEEN) Marais des
Cygnes massacre, and a force of five thousand fraudulent voters was mobilized by David Atchison.
Migrants to this conflict took wooden crates of Sharps rifles called "Beecher's bibles." The Lecompton
Constitution was supported by "border ruffians" who sacked Lawrence in this conflict. For 10 points, name
this era of antebellum violence over slavery in a Midwest territory.
ANSWER: Bleeding Kansas [or Bloody Kansas; prompt on Border War]
104-12-72-08107

8. This author wrote about a man who abandons his Italian lover in Frankfurt for an older woman, in
Torrents of Spring. This man's short stories include that of a servant paralyzed by a mysterious disease and
one in which the narrator tries to evade what he thinks are bandits. This author of "Living Relic" and "The
Clatter of Wheels" wrote a work about the nihilist Bazarov clashing with Kirsanov's family. For 10 points,
name this Russian author of A Sportsman's Sketches and Fathers and Sons.
ANSWER: Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev
191-12-72-08108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 2 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Second Quarter

1. This city was the birthplace of the Anti-Corn Law League and of a school of laissez-faire capitalism led
by John Bright and Richard Cobden. Friedrich Engels used his study of the slums in this city to write The
Conditions of the Working Class in England. Along with Leeds, this city became enfranchised by the Great
Reform Act. This city's population nearly quadrupled between 1772 and 1800 as a result of its textile
industry, which led to its nickname of "Cottonopolis." For 10 points, name this English city that grew up
during the Industrial Revolution.
ANSWER: Manchester
BONUS: At what event, occurring outside of Manchester in 1819, did cavalry charge into a crowd
protesting for parliamentary reform?
ANSWER: Peterloo Massacre
080-12-72-08101

2. In one film from this series, ZZ Top appears as a band at a town festival and the main character avoids a
road race with Needles. This series' second movie sees Goldie Wilson III in a commercial for Wilson
Hover Conversion Systems; Wilson's grandfather was the mayor of Hill Valley in this series. The first
movie in this series sees an attempt to prevent the murder by Libyan terrorists of Doc Brown. For 10 points,
name this series of movies about the time-travelling antics of the Michael J. Fox-portrayed Marty McFly.
ANSWER: Back to the Future
BONUS: What short-lived model of car named for a former General Motors executive was used as the time
machine in the Back to the Future movies?
ANSWER: DeLorean DMC-12
030-12-72-08102

3. During this conflict, the Panzi Hospital treated endemic sexual violence, under the leadership of Dr.
Denis (moo-KWAY-gay) Mukwege. This conflict had a major phase in 2009, when rebel groups under
Laurent Nkunda were forced across the border. A coup led by Eddy Kapend led to the 2001 death of this
conflict's initial victor, Laurent Kabila. Negotiations in a neighboring country produced the Lusaka Accord,
which failed to end, for 10 points, what central African conflict initially targeting Mobutu Sese Seko?
ANSWER: Congolese Civil War [or Second Congo War; or Great War of Africa]
BONUS: The start of the Congo War was exacerbated by the involvement of what country, then and now
led by President Paul Kagame, which suffered its own civil war after the death of Juvenal Habyarimana?
ANSWER: Republic of Rwanda
019-12-72-08103

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 3 of 11 © HSAPQ

4. The top central figure in this wsits in front of a tapestry of a pelican, pecking its own chest to provide
food for its young. That figure has a crown on his head and at his feet and is wielding a rock crystal scepter.
In the bottom central panel of this work, the fountain of eternal life lies below an altar, on which stands a
sheep, being worshiped. This work was originally located in the (VEED) Vijd Chapel of the Saint Bavo
Cathedral. This polyptych depicts prophets and sybils at top and the Annunciation below when it is closed.
For 10 points, name this altarpiece created by Jan van Eyck.
ANSWER: Ghent Altarpiece [or Adoration of the Mystic Lamb]
BONUS: One ruler of this name called "the Good" was a patron of Flemish artists like Jan van Eyck and
Gilles (been-SHWAH) Binchois. A French king of this name was known as "the Fair."
ANSWER: Philip
066-12-72-08104

5. The auto kinetic phenomenon was used in one study of this term that involved subjects placed in a room
who observed a stationary light. The ambiguity and unanimity of a situation contribute to the incidences of
it. Muzafir Sharif conducted the first study of it. The lengths of different lines were judged in an
experiment on this that was conducted by Solomon Asch. It is contrasted with compliance, which is a
response to overt pressure. For 10 points, name this term that refers to the adaptation of behavior that
occurs in response to group pressure.
ANSWER: conformity
BONUS: What study conducted by Muzafer Sherif was named for an Oklahoma state park and involved
twelve-year old boys divided into the Rattlers and Eagles groups who were induced to compete and
cooperate in a demonstration of realistic conflict theory.
ANSWER: Robbers Cave Study
030-12-72-08105

6. In one speech, this man told a crowd how fortunate he had been to spend time with Miller Huggins and
Jacob Ruppert. This man was the first American League player to hit four consecutive home runs in one
game, and he was also the first baseball player to have his number retired. For 10 points, name this Iron
Horse of the Yankees who, on July 4, 1939, gave a speech claiming to be "the luckiest man on the face of
the earth" after he was diagnosed with ALS.
ANSWER: Lou Gehrig [or Henry Louis Gehrig; or Ludwig Heinrich Gehrig]
BONUS: Lou Gehrig was a member of this prolific Yankees batting group that terrorized pitchers during
the 1927 season.
ANSWER: Murderers' Row
023-12-72-08106

7. An early frontrunner in this year's Democratic primary released a book titled A Call to Economic Arms
and was Paul Tsongas. The election of Barbara Boxer, Carol Moseley Braun, and Dianne Feinstein to the
Senate in this year earned it the nickname "Year of the Woman." The "Murphy Brown" speech was made
by Vice President Dan Quayle in this election year. For 10 points, name this election in which Ross Perot
received nineteen percent of the vote and Bill Clinton defeated the incumbent, George H.W. Bush.
ANSWER: Election of 1992
BONUS: What commentator waged an unsuccessful campaign against George H.W. Bush in the 1992
Republican primary and gave the controversial "Culture War" speech at the Republican convention?
ANSWER: Patrick Buchanan
030-12-72-08107

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 4 of 11 © HSAPQ

8. These people were known as "al-Madjus" in their conflicts with the Islamic world. Brian Boru fought the
Battle of Clontarf against these people, who founded the Kingdom of Dublin. A legendary ruler of these
people was Rurik, whose descendants founded the state of Kievan Rus. Another of their leaders, Rollo, was
the first Duke of Normandy. These people destroyed the abbey on the island of Lindisfarne, and they often
made use of longships with dragon-shaped prows. For 10 points, name these medieval Norsemen who
conducted raids.
ANSWER: Vikings [or Norsemen; or Northmen; prompt on Normans; prompt on Russians; prompt on
Varangians]
BONUS: The Vikings ended the rule of what "painted" people over Scotland?
ANSWER: Picts
080-12-72-08108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 5 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Third Quarter

TURN-OF-THE-CENTURY NEWSPAPERS
In American newspapers near the turn of the twentieth century, who or what was the...
1. publisher of the New York World who endowed a series of American journalism and art prizes?
ANSWER: Joseph Pulitzer
2. rival New York Journal publisher and model for Citizen Kane?
ANSWER: William Randolph Hearst
3. colorfully-named practice of sensationalized journalism that tried to create news?
ANSWER: yellow journalism
4. reporter and artist who was told "you furnish the pictures, I'll furnish the war" in Cuba in 1897?
ANSWER: Frederic Remington
5. New York World reporter who spent "ten days in a mad-house" undercover and then went "around the
world in seventy-two days?"
ANSWER: Nellie Bly [or Elizabeth Jane Cochran]
6. Richard Outcalt single panel often called the first comic strip?
ANSWER: The Yellow Kid [or Hogan's Alley]
7. Chicago Tribune editorialist who denounced corporations in Wealth Against Commonwealth?
ANSWER: Henry Demarest Lloyd
8. conflict denounced by the New York Journal in the cartoon "Kill Everyone Over Ten?"
ANSWER: Philippine-American War [or US suppression of the insurrection in the Philipines, etc.]
019-12-72-0810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 6 of 11 © HSAPQ

SIXTIES SLOGANS
Give the missing words from these popular catchphrases of North American politics in the 1960s.
1. JFK: "Ask not what your country can do for you..."
ANSWER: "ask what you can do for your country"
2. Marshall McLuhan: "The medium is..."
ANSWER: "the message"
3. Timothy Leary: "Turn on, tune in..."
ANSWER: "drop out"
4. Vietnam protestors: "Hey, hey, LBJ, how many..."
ANSWER: "kids did you kill today?"
5. Barry Goldwater campaign: "In your heart, you..."
ANSWER: "know he's right"
6. LBJ response to Goldwater: "In your guts, you.."
ANSWER: "know he's nuts"
7. Pierre Trudeau, announcing the legalization of homosexuality in Canada: "There's no place for the state
in..."
ANSWER: "the bedrooms of the nation"
8. Barry Goldwater: "Extremism in the defense of liberty..."
ANSWER: "is no vice"
019-12-72-0810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 7 of 11 © HSAPQ

LINCOLN ADMINISTRATION
What person or position related to Lincoln's presidency...
1. Served as his second Vice President and eventual successor?
ANSWER: Andrew Johnson
2. Served as Secretary of State and purchased Alaska?
ANSWER: William Henry Seward
3. Was his second Secretary of War whose later removal was blocked by the Tenure of Office Act?
ANSWER: Edwin McMasters Stanton
4. Was Secretary of the Treasury before being named Chief Justice in 1864?
ANSWER: Salmon Portland Chase
5. Was held by Gideon Welles and was responsible for a branch of the military?
ANSWER: Secretary of the Navy
6. Was a native of Maine who served as his first Vice President?
ANSWER: Hannibal Hamlin
7. Was held by Montgomery Blair and lost its Cabinet status in 1971?
ANSWER: Postmaster General
8. Was held by Caleb Smith and John Usher?
ANSWER: Secretary of the Interior
192-12-72-0810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 8 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Fourth Quarter

1. In this state, Police Chief Lee Birk is leading an investigation into determining the murderer of a
ten-year-old girl from Arvada named Jessica Ridgeway. Residents in this state's capital bizarrely
reported an alleged UFO sighting in November 2012. Carey (+) Rottman posed with a celebrity after
he was hospitalized following one incident in this state. The aforementioned post-midnight shooting
was carried out by a man who (*) dyed his hair orange and used a smoke grenade before opening fire. For
10 points, identify this state where James Holmes opened fire at an Aurora showing of The Dark Knight
Rises, and where Amendment 64 legalized recreational marijuana use.
ANSWER: Colorado
189-12-72-08101

2. Most of Vivaldi's concertos are for this instrument, including one in which soloists are instructed
to play an octave higher than written, L'ottavina. 42 études ou caprices is a pedagogical work for this
instrument written by Rodolphe (+) Kreutzer. Jascha Heifetz was considered one of the most
technically proficient players, and another virtuoso wrote 24 (*) Caprices to showcase his skills. Bach's
Sonatas and Partitas for this instrument were popularized in the nineteenth century by Josef (YO-ahk-eem)
Joachim. For 10 points, name this instrument played by Niccolo Paganini, the smallest string instrument in
the orchestra.
ANSWER: violin
121-12-72-08102

3. This figure wrongly criticized Orazio Grassi, claiming that comets weren't real objects, in his
treatise on physics, The Assayer. This man lends his name to a non-relativistic transformation
between (+) inertial reference frames, his own form of relativity. This scientist provided a nonsense
explanation of tides at the end of (*) Dialogues Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, a tract that
forced him into house arrest by the Church. For 10 points, name this scientist who dropped balls off the
Leaning Tower of Pisa and supported Copernicus's heliocentric model of the Solar System.
ANSWER: Galileo Galilei
190-12-72-08103

4. Ronald Scobie was instructed to stamp out any potential coup as head of Allied forces in this
country. British troops under Scobie's command fired on protesters in Syntagma Square in its
capital. Resistance fighters called (+) andartes in this country fought the collaborationist Security
Battalions. The largest group of andartes was the ELAS. Great Britain was supposedly given ninety
percent of this country in the (*) "naughty document" Churchill signed with Stalin. It's not Yugoslavia,
but Stalin split with Tito in part due to Tito's support for the Communists in this country. For 10 points,
name this country whose civil war inspired the formulation of the Truman Doctrine.
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Ellas; or Ellada; or Elliniki Dimokratia]
121-12-72-08104

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 9 of 11 © HSAPQ

5. After the shipwreck of the Liefde, William Adams eventually gained this status; specifically,
Adams became one of the high-ranking ones called "bannermen." In peacetime, this class was paid a
stipend of food, and went into poverty as that food gradually lost value and had to be exchanged for
cash. This class was expected to (+) shave the tops of their heads and wear a topknot. Often patrons
of the tea ceremony, as well as arts like poetry and calligraphy, they were allowed to (*) kill any
commoner who showed them disrespect. These people had the privilege of wearing a long sword and a
short sword and were the retainers of daimyo. For 10 points, name these warriors of feudal Japan.
ANSWER: samurai [or hatamoto; or bannermen before it is read]
080-12-72-08105

6. The Long Finn Rebellion occurred in a territory of this nation, which also saw the governorship of
Johan Risingh. That colony belonging to this nation captured Fort Casimir but was forced to
surrender it under an assault by Peter (+) Stuyvesant. In addition to purchasing Manhattan for the
Dutch, Peter Minuit helped establish the territory of this European nation in the New World. This
nation's North American colony was mostly incorporated into Pennsylvania after it surrendered Fort
(*) Christina in the late seventeenth century. For 10 points, name this European nation that settled
Delaware in 1638 after its success in the Thirty Years' War under Gustavus Adolphus.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
190-12-72-08106

7. This location-specific geographic process ruined a large muskrat trapping industry in the town of
Muyank. This process has forced the Karakalpak people to switch to Islam Karimov's preferred
livelihood, cotton farming, in fields affected by (+) salt storms. An abandoned bioweapons lab is no
longer isolated on Rebirth Island due to this process. It began due to the Karakum canal and other
diversions of the (*) Syr Darya and Amu Darya rivers for Soviet irrigation projects. For 10 points, name
this ecological disaster affecting Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, the near total dry-up of an Asian sea.
ANSWER: shrinking of the Aral Sea [accept disappearance, dessication, or other close equivalents
implying that there is less water in the Aral Sea as time goes on rather than "shrinking"; do not accept or
prompt general answers such as "desertification" or "climate change"]
104-12-72-08107

8. This figure endorsed John Cotton's concept of the "covenant of grace" rather than the "covenant
of works" and was politically supported by Governor Henry Vane. This figure was eventually killed
during the Kieft War by a leader of the Mohegans as part of a war against the Narragansetts. This
leader of one side in the Antinomian Controversy was (+) pregnant during a trial when she claimed
that God had spoken directly to her. She served as a midwife and taught Sunday school classes
before she was forced to move to (*) Rhode Island. Mary Dyer supported this woman in her rivalry
against John Winthrop. For 10 points, name this woman who was banished from Massachusetts Bay
Colony for her religious views.
ANSWER: Anne Hutchinson
190-12-72-08108

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 10 of 11 © HSAPQ

2013 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 8
Extra Questions

A song associated with this group is "Will Ye No Come Back Again?" A member of this group,
Patrick Sarsfield, negotiated a surrender of this group at Limerick. Duncan Forbes persuaded the
Macdonalds and Macleods not to assist this group. The mathematician Colin Maclaurin organized a
defense of (+) Edinburgh against this group and was forced to flee to England upon that city's
capture. This group instigated the '15 and '45 and was defeated at (*) Culloden Moor. The Old
Pretender and Bonnie Prince Charlie were among the men that this group attempted to place on the throne.
For 10 points, name these supporters of James II and his descendants following the Glorious Revolution.
ANSWER: Jacobites
030-12-72-0810-1

While crown prince, this man discovered that Rusas had been deposed by the Cimmerians, which
prompted this man's father to invade Urartu. This man appointed Bel-ibni as a sub-king after
quelling an insurrection led by (+) Merodach-Baladan. This man restored a city by building a palace
known as Nonesuch. In the Bible, this man spared Jerusalem but received a large tribute from
Hezekiah. This man was succeeded by his son (*) Esarhaddon after being killed by one or more of his
other children. Lord Byron wrote a poem about the "Destruction of" this king. For 10 points, name this king
of Assyria who was the son of Sargon II and who made Nineveh his capital.
ANSWER: Sennacherib
030-12-72-0810-1

This event was partly triggered by the passage of Decree Law 353-73, which created an accelerated course
for captaincy. The Group of Nine came to power one year after this event during the "hot summer." The
signal to begin this event was its nation's entry into the Eurovision song contest being broadcast over the
radio. This event, which was carried out by low-ranking officers in the MFA, led to the ascent of Antonio
de Spinola. This event deposed Marcelo Caetano, the successor of Antonio Salazar. For 10 points, name
this 1974 revolution which overthrew the Estado Novo in Portugal, named for a flower.
ANSWER: Carnation Revolution
048-12-72-0810-1

2013 National History Bowl National Championships

8

Page 11 of 11 © HSAPQ

