2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
First Quarter

9

1. This city benefited when gold was discovered at nearby Bathurst. Its tourist destinations include Bondi
Beach, which is on its Pacific coastline. The Hawksberry River runs through this city, which is bounded to
the north by the Blue Mountains. It was settled after the HMS Endeavor¸ helmed by James Cook,
discovered and named Botany Bay. It has a famous Jorn (YORN) Utzon-designed opera house. For 10
points, name this capital of New South Wales, the most populous city in Australia.
ANSWER: Sydney, Australia
015-13-94-09101

2. Due to the possibility of this man assuming office, his superior proclaimed "No assassin in his right mind
would assassinate me." He was the first Republican to win election as Baltimore County Executive, and he
defeated George Mahoney to become Governor of Maryland. This man, who eventually had to pay back
250,000 dollars of bribes, was charged with tax evasion in 1973. For 10 points, identify this politician who
was replaced by Gerald Ford after resigning as Nixon's Vice-President.
ANSWER: Spiro Agnew
233-13-94-09102

3. The writer of this decision noted that the Tenth Amendment omits the word "expressly" to avoid
problems caused by the Articles of Confederation. In this case, Daniel Webster argued that, "An unlimited
power to tax involves, necessarily, a power to destroy," and the decision in this case affirmed the doctrine
of the implied powers of Congress. For 10 points, name this Supreme Court case written by John Marshall
which stated that a state did not have the right to tax the Bank of the United States.
ANSWER: McCulloch v. Maryland
030-13-94-09103

4. On May 9, 1970, Richard Nixon went to this location at 4:15 AM to monologue with student protesters.
It was defaced with green paint on July 26, 2013. Harold Ickes and Eleanor Roosevelt arranged for Marian
Anderson to perform here in 1939 after she could not use Constitution Hall. This location was where
Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech. For 10 points, name this Washington D.C.
monument built to honor the sixteenth President.
ANSWER: the Lincoln Memorial
052-13-94-09104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 1 of 10

5. Leander Perez unsuccessfully tried to keep this third party alive after its loss. It nominated Governor
Fielding Wright for Vice-President, and its Presidential candidate finished third, outpacing Henry Wallace.
This party formed when thirty-five delegates walked out of a convention to protest a civil rights plank in
the platform. For 10 points, name this segregationist party that nominated Strom Thurmond for President in
the 1948 election.
ANSWER: States’ Rights Democratic Party [or Dixiecrats]
052-13-94-09105

6. One of these events in 1948 in Ashgabat was covered up by the USSR and resulted in the death of
Saparmurat Niyazov's mother. One of these events occurring in 1999 in Izmit led to a form of diplomacy
named for this event, between Greece and Turkey. One of these events, which occurred on All Saints Day,
led to the rise of a form of architecture named for the Marquis de Pombal. For 10 points, name these events,
a particularly devastating one of which struck Lisbon in 1755.
ANSWER: earthquake
048-13-94-09106

7. A character in this novel is aided by the blackmailed auditor Byram White. The narrator of this book has
periods in which he becomes indifferent that he calls the Great Sleep and is writing a dissertation on Cass
Mastern. Sugar-Boy O'Sheean is the driver of this novel's main character, whose career was helped by a
disaster involving school children harmed by a shoddy fire escape. For 10 points, name this Robert Penn
Warren novel about Willie Stark, a politician based on Huey Long.
ANSWER: All the King's Men
030-13-94-09107

8. This ruler defeated the Knights Hospitaller to capture Smyrna, and his forces were also victorious
fighting against Bayezid I in the Battle of Ankara. This man rebelled against Ilyas Khoja and had his
former ally Amir Husayn executed. Tokhtamysh and the Golden Horde lost to this man, who established
his capital at Samarkand. For 10 points, name this ruler who attempted to restore the Mongol Empire and
acquired his nickname from arrow wounds he received in battle.
ANSWER: Timur the Lame [or Tamerlane; or Temurlenk; or Tamburlaine]
023-13-94-09108

9. One of this director's films juxtaposes the fall of the Babylonian Empire with the St. Bartholomew's Day
Massacre and two other storylines. That film, Intolerance, stars his favorite actress, Lilian Gish. His most
famous film is renowned for its first half, portraying the Civil War, but controversially depicted the Ku
Klux Klan in a positive light in its second half. For 10 points, name this influential American silent film
director of The Birth of a Nation.
ANSWER: D. W. Griffith
014-13-94-09109

10. This speech notes that the eighth commandment "reads simply and plainly, 'Thou shalt not steal,'"
without specifying rich or poor men. Its speaker, who was dedicated a Congressional office building,
invokes a man who refuses to look up at a crown, fixing his eyes down on "only on that which is vile and
debasing," from Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. For 10 points, name this Theodore Roosevelt speech which
gave the popular name to investigative journalists in the early twentieth century.
ANSWER: the muckraker speech [or word forms; or "The Man with the Muck-Rake"]
020-13-94-09110

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 2 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Second Quarter

1. The Aburi Accord failed to prevent this war. During Operation Tiger Claw in this conflict, a man known
as the Black Scorpion captured the port of Calabar. This war began at the Battle of Nsukka and ended with
the surrender of Philip Effiong to Jack Gowon. During this war, Olusegon Obasanjo captured Owerri, the
capital of the secessionist Igbo state and a famine affected a million people in 1967. For 10 points, name
this civil war in which Biafra attempted to secede.
ANSWER: Nigerian Civil War [or the Nigerian-Biafran War]
BONUS: What jihadist organization, which seeks to impose sharia on Nigeria's north, was designated as a
terrorist group by the US in November 2013?
ANSWER: Boko Haram [or the Congregation of the People of Tradition for Proselytism and Jihad]
190-13-94-09101

2. This man instructed his countrymen to fight so that "No Chinese will ever again dare look cross-eyed" at
them in his notorious Hun speech. This man's father, Frederick III, died from throat cancer after three
months in office. He dubbed the English "mad, mad, mad as March hares" in an interview with the Daily
Telegraph. The eldest grandson of Queen Victoria, he ceded most of his power to Hindenburg and
Ludendorff during World War I. For 10 points, name this final German Kaiser.
ANSWER: Wilhelm II [or William II; prompt on William; prompt on Wilhelm]
BONUS: Another diplomatic failure for Wilhelm occurred in 1905, when he publicly supported the sultan
of what country against French colonialism, but was humiliated at the Algeciras Conference?
ANSWER: Morocco
190-13-94-09102

3. This composer wrote the aria "Ombra mai fui," sung by the castrato lead of his opera Serse, which is
often known as his "Largo." In an oratorio, he included "I Know That My Redeemer Liveth." This
composer celebrated the end of the War of the Austrian Succession with his Music for the Royal Fireworks.
For 10 points, name this German-British composer of Messiah, which includes the "Hallelujah" Chorus.
ANSWER: George Frideric Handel
BONUS: What Handel composition consists of three orchestral suites written for a procession of George I
on the Thames?
ANSWER: Water Music
014-13-94-09103

4. A king of this name replaced a record of one of his victories that was created by Marduk-apal-iddina II
with a more favorable account and was the son of Tiglath-pileser III. Another king with this name was the
cupbearer to the ruler of Kish, gained power by defeating Lugalzaggisi, and was supposedly discovered as
an infant floating in a reed basket. For 10 points, give this name held by a king of Akkad who built one of
the world's first empires in Mesopotamia in the twenty-third century BCE.
ANSWER: Sargon [or Sargon of Akkad; or Sargon II; or Sargon I]
BONUS: What empire, whose chief god was named Ashur, was led by Sargon II from 721 to 705 BCE?
ANSWER: Assyrian Empire
030-13-94-09104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 3 of 10

5. Members of this religion formed the Shiromani Akali Dal party and supported the formation of an
independent state called Khalistan. A politician of this religion, Jarnail Bhindranwale
(BIN-drahn-WAH-lay), was the main target of Operation Metal and Operation Shop, two components of
the larger Operation Blue Star. Security personnel from this religion later assassinated Indira Ghandi. For
10 points, identify this Punjab-based religion which came into conflict in 1984 with the Indian government.
ANSWER: Sikhism
BONUS: The followers of Bhindranwale had occupied the Sikh Golden Temple in what city, also the site
of a 1919 massacre of anti-British protestors?
ANSWER: Amritsar
019-13-94-09105

6. This man announced "I will be your Moses!" after proclaiming liberty for all people in his state. He
shouted at a heckler "Why don't you hang Thad Stevens and Wendell Phillips?" in the middle of a speech in
Cleveland, after the heckler shouted "Hang Jeff Davis!" He lost political support after his disastrous "Swing
Around the Circle" speaking tour and was impeached by a Radical Republican-led Congress. For 10 points,
name this President who succeeded Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: Andrew Johnson
BONUS: Johnson was impeached for violating what law by trying to remove Edwin Stanton from his
Cabinet?
ANSWER: Tenure of Office Act
121-13-94-09106

7. In December 2013, this institution released a custom version of Tetris in which every completed level
reveals a security feature of a new denomination. This institution, which was formed by the 1998 Treaty of
Amsterdam, named an Italian economist and former Goldman Sachs employee to succeed Jean-Claude
Trichet (tree-SHAY) as its chairman in 2011. For 10 points, name this institution, led by Mario Draghi,
which sets interest rates and monetary policy regarding the Euro.
ANSWER: the European Central Bank [or ECB]
BONUS: The European Central Bank is headquartered in what city, the banking capital of Germany which
also hosts the largest stock exchange in mainland Europe?
ANSWER: Frankfurt-am-Main
019-13-94-09107

8. The only two days when the earliest of these people had increased freedom of movement were New
Year's Day and the day of the Bon festival. Gion is the most famous of the five historical "flower town"
districts where these people worked. The increasing popularity of these people eclipsed that of the oiran.
These people often performed "short songs" on the shamisen. For 10 points, identify these heavily
ornamented female entertainers from Japan.
ANSWER: geisha [or geiko; or geigi; or maiko; or geishas]
BONUS: The earliest precursor to the geisha tradition dates back to what period from 794 to 1185, the peak
of the imperial court, during which Japanese poetry and arts flourished?
ANSWER: Heian period
020-13-94-09108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 4 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Third Quarter

FRANCE IN THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
Who or what was the..
1. Marquis who surrounded the British at Yorktown?
ANSWER: Marquis de Lafayette [or Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de
Lafayette]
2. 1777 battle in New York that convinced France to join the war?
ANSWER: Battle of Saratoga
3. Brigadier-general who accompanied Washington from White Plains to Yorktown?
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste-Donatien de Vimeur, comte de Rochambeau
4. War debt collector who was chastised by Washington in 1793 for involving the U.S. in the French
Revolution?
ANSWER: Citizen Genet [or Edmond-Charles Genet; or Genest]
5. Comptroller under Louis XVI who advised against the war and introduced the reforming Six Acts?
ANSWER: Jacques Turgot
6. Early supplier of French guns and ammunition to the Americans, who also wrote the plays The Barber of
Seville and The Marriage of Figaro?
ANSWER: Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais
7. Admiral who joined with de Barras to defeat Thomas Graves off Yorktown?
ANSWER: count de Grasse [or François-Joseph-Paul, comte de Grasse]
8. Series of Indian wars whose second instance drew off British ships from America to defeat France and
Hyder Ali?
ANSWER: Mysore Wars [do not accept or prompt on "Carnatic Wars"]
019-13-94-0910-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 5 of 10

ELI WHITNEY
Eli Whitney...
1. Invented what device to improve the separation of cotton fibers from seeds?
ANSWER: cotton gin
2. Moved to which Southern colony in 1792?
ANSWER: Georgia
3. Caused cotton to replace what cash crop, which had earlier saved the Jamestown colony from extinction?
ANSWER: tobacco
4. Attended which university, whose graduates are sometimes called Elis?
ANSWER: Yale University
5. Married the cousin of what man, who was later tried for treason after conspiring with James Wilkinson?
ANSWER: Aaron Burr
6. Is credited with creating what system of making tools that can completely replace one another?
ANSWER: interchangeable parts [or interchangeable components]
7. Was ten years late in a federal contract to supply ten thousand of what items?
ANSWER: muskets [prompt on guns]
8. Was helped in his invention by Catherine Littlefield, the wife of what Revolutionary War general
nicknamed the "Savior of the South?"
ANSWER: Nathanael Greene
190-13-94-0910-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 6 of 10

BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS
Name the British Prime Minister who. . .
1. Led Britain through World War II.
ANSWER: Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill
2. Conceded the Sudetenland to Hitler at Munich.
ANSWER: Arthur Neville Chamberlain
3. Currently serves as the head of a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition.
ANSWER: David William Donald Cameron
4. Nationalized railroads and created the National Health Service.
ANSWER: Clement Richard Attlee
5. Represented Britain at the Paris Peace Conference as one of the "Big Four."
ANSWER: David Lloyd George
6. Succeeded Margaret Thatcher, and lost in a landslide to Tony Blair.
ANSWER: Sir John Major
7. Authorized Britain's first H-Bomb test and resigned following the Profumo Affair.
ANSWER: Maurice Harold Macmillan
8. Was a Labour PM who faced much criticism during the "Winter of Discontent."
ANSWER: Leonard James Callaghan
242-13-94-0910-13

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 7 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Fourth Quarter

1. This band included "Rambozo the Clown" and "Anarchy for Sale" on their last album, Bedtime
for Democracy. The lyric "die in organic poison gas" appears near the end of a song by this band
imagining a dystopian future under President Jerry (+) Brown. This band went on trial for the
graphic H.R. Giger poster contained in their album Frankenchrist. This band, fronted by (*) Jello
Biafra, criticized the politics of the early 80s in songs such as "California Uber Alles" and "Holiday in
Cambodia." For 10 points, identify this American punk band named after an assassinated President.
ANSWER: the Dead Kennedys
080-13-94-09101

2. One of the last bills this man proposed would have had the federal government provide enough
jobs to keep unemployment below three percent. That bill was authored by this man and Augustus
Hawkins and passed after his death. In the 1940s, he helped organize the merger of the Democratic
and (+) Farmer-Labor parties as mayor of Minneapolis. He was nominated for higher office on a
ticket with Edmund Muskie at a convention where anti-(*)war protesters were attacked by police in
Grant Park. For 10 points, name this Vice-President who lost the 1968 Presidential election to Richard
Nixon.
ANSWER: Hubert Humphrey
121-13-94-09102

3. A man of this non-political profession was forced to commit suicide by starvation after Sejanus
accused him of maiestas. Another of these men was the son-in-law of (+) Agricola, the Roman general
who conquered much of Britain. A man with this career was dismissed from his post as Hadrian's
secretary for an affair, and a late person of this kind was the Greek-born Cassius Dio. One of them
produced the (*) Ab Urbe Condita Libri, and another matched Greeks and Romans in his Parallel Lives.
For 10 points, name these people, such as Suetonius, Livy, and Tacitus, who chronicled Rome.
ANSWER: Roman historians [or Roman biographers]
020-13-94-09103

4. This scientist's ideas were partially adopted in what Robert Westman called the "Wittenberg
Interpretation." Erasmus Reinhold used the work of this scientist to develop the Prutenic Tables.
This scientist dedicated a book to Pope Paul III, and that book had a preface written by Andreas
Osiander claiming it was just a (+) hypothesis and did not need to be believed. Georg Joachim
Rheticus convinced this man to publish his On the (*) Revolutions of Heavenly Spheres. For 10 points,
name this Polish scientist who replaced Ptolemy's system with his heliocentric model of the universe.
ANSWER: Nicolaus Copernicus [or Mikolaj Kopernik]
023-13-94-09104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 8 of 10

5. In Brant Rock, Massachusetts, one of the earliest uses of this technology was made by Reginald
Fessenden. Another early use of this technology was "Little Hams" by Sybil Herrold, the wife of Doc
Herrold. This technology was used to broadly (+) transmit a message that a decision had been made
to avoid "the total extinction of human civilization." A President used this technology to say that
"the confidence of the people" is "more (*) important than gold." For 10 points, name this technology
used by Emperor Hirohito in the Jewel Voice Broadcast and by Franklin Roosevelt in his Fireside Chats.
ANSWER: radio
023-13-94-09105

6. The first holder of this post issued lifetime suspensions to Alex Groza and Ralph Beard and allied
with Syracuse Nationals owner Dan Biasone to introduce a pace-quickening rule change. A later
holder of this office upheld a protest over the "phantom buzzer" incident in 1969. This office's third
holder was the championship trophy namesake Larry (+) O'Brien, who introduced free agency after
a lawsuit by Oscar (*) Robertson. For 10 points, identify this office which is currently held by Adam
Silver and resolves disputes among owners of teams such as the Atlanta Hawks and New York Knicks.
ANSWER: Commissioner of the NBA [or any arrangement of words including Commissioner and NBA
or National Basketball Association]
019-13-94-09106

7. William Petty first explained this concept in relation to Dutch shipyards in the book Political
Arithmetic. The book that popularized this concept borrowed the idea from Volume 2 of Mandeville's
Fable of the Bees. This concept leads to (+) organic solidarity, but also anomie, according to Emile
Durkheim’s book titled for it "in (*) society." This principle is the topic of the first chapter of Adam
Smith’s Wealth of Nations, which explains it with the example of a pin factory. For 10 points, name this
principle by which individuals specialize to improve productivity.
ANSWER: division of labor [prompt on specialization or word forms until it is read]
190-13-94-09107

8. The second Battle of Fort McAllister took place near the end of this larger campaign, which began
with fighting at Griswoldville. Special Field Orders No. 120, given in advance of this campaign,
encouraged "bummers" to forage, and its Field Orders No. 15 coined the phrase (+) "forty acres and
a mule." Destroyed railroads during this campaign became known as "neckties." Because this
campaign ended on December 21, its leader presented 25,000 bales of cotton and the city of (*)
Savannah to Abraham Lincoln as a Christmas present. For 10 points, name this total war campaign led by
William T. Sherman.
ANSWER: William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea [or the Savannah campaign until it is read; or
Sherman's March until "Sherman" is read]
190-13-94-09108

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 9 of 10

2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Round 9
Extra Questions

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
This man's brother, Ned, was beheaded while on a hunting trip. This man's son was killed in the
Battle of Blue Licks, fought after the surrender at Yorktown, and he was supposedly a hunting
buddy of John James Audobon. Known as "Big (+) Turtle," this man dramatically rescued his
daughter Jemima from Indian captivity. While working for the Transylvania Company, he led
settlers from Fort Watauga to a namesake "borough" in present-day (*) Kentucky. For 10 points,
name this frontier hero who blazed the Wilderness Road through the Cumberland Gap.
ANSWER: Daniel Boone
052-13-94-0910-1

BONUS: Name the English politician who, after converting to evangelical Christianity, led the movement
to abolish the slave trade as MP for Yorkshire.
ANSWER: William Wilberforce
225-13-94-0910-1

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

9

Page 10 of 10

