Colonia Tournament #2
Round 2
First Period, 20 Tossups
1. This author, who is not Lillian Hellman, published works like Little Foxes under the name Christopher
Crowfield, but did not use a pseudonym for works such as Palmetto Leaves and The Minister's Wooing.
The sequel to this woman's most famous novel is titled "A Key" to its titular building. The beginning of
that novel sees Arthur and Emily Shelby sell Eliza's son, as well as the titular character. Famous for a novel
that features the evil Simon Legree, for 10 points, who is this American author of Uncle Tom's Cabin?
ANSWER: Harriet Beecher Stowe
081-10-34-02101

2. A powdered form of this element is extracted via the Wöhler process. This element’s oxide is usually
extracted from bauxite via the Bayer process, and occurs naturally as corundum. Industrially, the
Hall-Héroult process produces this most abundant metal in the Earth’s crust. For 10 points, name this
element with atomic number thirteen that is used to make soda cans.
ANSWER: aluminum [or aluminium; or Al]
079-10-34-02102

3. This phenomenon causes the formation of yardang ridges. The foehn and Chinook types of it are
observed on the downward slopes of mountains. Its speed can be measured by an anemometer
(ANN-uh-MOM-ett-er), but is usually given by the Beaufort scale. One specific type of it is the jet stream.
This phenomenon is often nonexistent in the doldrums. For 10 points, name this flow of gases that moves
kites by producing gusts and breezes.
ANSWER: winds
079-10-34-02103

4. A quantum analog of one formula named for this man is named for Ehrenfest (AIR-en-fest). Interference
patterns due to an air film between a lens and a glass are called this man's "rings." Another law named for
this man is also called the law of inertia, while a third law is often summarized as saying that for every
action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose three laws
of motion include the equation F equals m a.
ANSWER: Sir Isaac Newton
081-10-34-02104

5. Its eighth chapter discusses the injustices of Antiochus IV Epiphanes and its ninth chapter reinterprets
Jeremiah's prophecy. The Catholic version of this book includes the Song of the Three Young Men and the
Prayer of Azariah, and Hananiah and Mishael are friends of this book's title figure. The title figure
describes the meaning of a tree reduced to a stump and handwriting on the wall to Belshazzar. For 10
points, name this book of the Bible whose title figure is sent to the lion's den.
ANSWER: Daniel
030-10-34-02105

6. This animal, which is not flat like the rest of its class, has a coiled ileum in its small intestine to provide a
greater surface area for increased absorption of food called the spiral valve. This animal also has a series of
jelly-filled canals that function as electroreceptors in water called the Ampullae of Lorenzini. Lacking a
swim bladder and noted for regenerating their teeth, they must always swim to keep afloat. Related to
skates and rays, for 10 points, name this animal typified by the species cookiecutter, tiger, and great white,
a cartilaginous fish.
ANSWER: sharks
079-10-34-02106

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 1 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. In the wake of this battle, a pursuing group of victors were ambushed and killed near an area known as
The Malfosse. One side's troops consisted of a select number of Huscarls, or professional soldiers, while
the majority of their forces were peasantry called Fyrd. That side attempted to form a shield wall to hold off
the enemy's cavalry, but those forces, loyal to Harold Godwinson, were defeated by the Norman invaders
under William the Conqueror. For 10 points, name this 1066 battle fought in Britain.
ANSWER: Battle of Hastings
040-10-34-02107

8. In this opera's first act, a chorus of street children sing "Avec la garde montante." An officer in this opera
is seduced when a woman performs a seguidilla (seg-weh-DEE-ya) dance, leading to his arrest. Later, that
character encounters the same woman, to whom he sings the Flower Song, and engages in a sword fight
with a bullfighter. This opera, which opens at a cigarette factory in Seville, features a love triangle between
Escamillo, Don José, and the title woman, who sings the Habanera. For 10 points, name this Georges Bizet
opera about a Spanish gypsy.
ANSWER: Carmen
064-10-34-02108

9. At this play's end, one character blows out some candles to the narration of her sibling, who reveals that
he has moved away from his family. One pivotal scene sees a figurine of a unicorn lose its horn while a
"gentleman caller" named Jim is dancing with the emotionally backwards daughter of Amanda. That
woman, Laura, then laments how the unicorn looks just like all the other figurines that comprise the
namesake collection of animals. For 10 points, name this play by Tennessee Williams.
ANSWER: The Glass Menagerie
040-10-34-02109

10. This author published the novella The Monster, as well as a book about the brothers Jimmie and
Tommie, who are related to the titular "girl of the streets," Maggie. The most famous novel by this man
sees the death of Jim Conklin, and features characters as "Loud Soldier," "Tall Soldier," and "Young
Soldier," the last of whom is the protagonist, Henry Fleming. Henry survives a charge against a
Confederate line in the most famous novel of, for 10 points, what American author of The Red Badge of
Courage?
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
081-10-34-02110

11. This colony's eastern border was settled by the Treaty of Beaufort in the wake of the American
Revolution. Governed for a time by James Wright, during the War of Jenkins' Ear it was the site of the
Battle of Bloody Marsh. That battle was won by the man who obtained the charter for this colony as a relief
for debtors' prisons named James Oglethorpe. In the 1830s, many of its Cherokee Indian residents were
forcibly removed during the Trail of Tears. For 10 points, name this state, which during the Civil War saw
the siege of Atlanta.
ANSWER: Georgia
040-10-34-02111

12. This poet described a crucifix in the antlers of a deer returning to an innyard in “The Hunter in the
Snow,” which joins his “Landscape with the Fall of Icarus” as part of his Pictures from Breughel. In
another poem, he wrote, “forgive me, they were delicious, so sweet and so cold” regarding “the plums in
the icebox.” His masterpiece describes an object “glazed with rainwater beside the white chickens.” For 10
points, identify this American poet who wrote that “so much depends on a red wheelbarrow.”
ANSWER: William Carlos Williams
020-10-34-02112

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 2 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. One natural variety of this compound is found in blueberries, and is called anthocyanin
(AN-tho-SYE-uh-nin). Another example of this compound is named for its similarity in color to the
mineral malachite (MAL-uh-kite). Another one of these compounds is used as a color marker in gel
electrophoresis, while another can turn fuchsia when it is used. Bromophenol (BRO-me-FEE-nol) blue and
phenolphthalein (FEE-nol-THAY-leen) are examples of, for 10 points, what type of compound whose color
changes are used to determine the pH of a substance?
ANSWER: pH indicators
081-10-34-02113

14. In this author's work, An Image of Africa, he attacks the author of the Heart of Darkness, calling Joseph
Conrad "a bloody racist." He wrote a novel in which the priest Ezeulu clashes with T. K. Winterbottom,
Arrow of God. Another of this man's novels takes its title from the Yeats poem "The Second Coming," and
is about a yam farmer named Okonkwo who lives in Umuofia. For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of
Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Chinua Achebe
084-10-34-02114

15. This country's first king was the Bavarian prince Otto. Thousands of this country’s citizens were killed
in the Massacre of Chios (KEY-os). During this country’s war of independence, the Society of Friends was
led by Alexander Ypsilanti (ip-suh-LAN-tee), and that war ended with this country gaining independence
from the Ottoman Empire in 1830. This nation carries on a tradition of democracy begun in ancient times
by Solon and Cleisthenes (KLICE-thuh-nees). For 10 points, name this country that hosted the first modern
Olympics in 1896 in Athens.
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellas; or Hellinic Republic; or Ellada; or Elliniki Dimokratia]
079-10-34-02115

16. Often depicted as bearded man, either green or black in color and swathed like a mummy, this Egyptian
deity is credited with the introduction of agriculture. In myth he is drowned and dismembered, only to be
resurrected later by his wife. For 10 points, name this god, husband of Isis, an archetype of death and
rebirth, who became the Egyptian lord of the dead.
ANSWER: Osiris
045-10-34-02116

17. This man remains the only MLB player ever to hit the warehouse behind the right field wall at Oriole
Park, which he did during the 1993 Home Run Derby. This winner of a Gold Glove every year from 1990
to 1999 was the first pick of the 1987 draft by a team for whom he played the first decade of his career and
to whom he returned last year before his retirement this year. For 10 points, name this son of a former Reds
player who ended fifth on the all-time home run list, playing mostly for the Seattle Mariners.
ANSWER: Ken Griffey, Jr. (prompt on Griffey, do not accept Ken Griffey, Sr.)
081-10-34-02117

18. One genus of these organisms is Aspergillus. One type of these organisms called "fairy rings" possess
cells with more than one nucleus, called coenocytes, while these organisms more typically divided by septa
into different sections of cells called hyphae. These hyphae in turn create a connected network called a
mycelium. Often reproducing through spore dispersal are, for 10 points, what kingdom of organisms
exemplified by mushrooms?
ANSWER: fungi or fungus
081-10-34-02118

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 3 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. This thinker discussed the “oceanic feeling” in a book which chronicled the conflict between
individuality and society’s demand of conformity. This author of Civilization and Its Discontents discussed
his patient’s Irma’s imagined injection in one book. He postulated that people use repression to escape the
conflict between the id, ego, and superego. He claimed that males go through a stage when they fixate on
their mothers and resent their fathers, calling it the oedipal complex. For 10 points, name this Austrian
pioneer of psychoanalysis.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
015-10-34-02119

20. One political cartoon that satirized this legislation shows a procession of people including Mr.
Anti-Sejanus being led to a vault above which are two skulls on poles. In the wake of this act's passage,
Ebenezer MacIntosh led a group of people in an assault on the house of Thomas Hutchinson. This act also
led to the formation of Committees of Correspondence. Promulgated by George Grenville, it stipulated that
many written items be printed on a taxable type of paper with a certain insignia. For 10 points, name this
1765 Act.
ANSWER: Stamp Act
040-10-34-02120

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 4 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 2
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses
1. One of this composer’s works intersperses the words of the gospel with the lyrics of Picander, including
the aria “Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani.” This composer wrote six suites for unaccompanied cello in addition to
the St. Matthew Passion. He wrote six concertos as a job application for Margrave Christian Ludwig. The
composer of the Brandenburg Concertos, this man wrote a prelude and fugue in every major and minor key
in another work. For 10 points, name this Baroque composer of The Well-Tempered Clavier.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
080-10-34-02121

2. A double mutation of the gene Rb may lead to this phenomena occurring in the eye, and a regulator of a
process associated with this disease is PUMA, whose expression is induced by the protein p53. That protein
may initiate apoptosis, the programmed cell death whose absence is responsible for the proliferation of this
disease, and manifestations of this disease can be classified as either benign or malignant. For 10 points,
name this disease characterized by the growth of tumors.
ANSWER: cancer
081-10-34-02122

3. A soliloquy from this play features the main character lamenting “Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor
player.” One character in this play was born via C-section and camouflages his soldiers in tree limbs from
Birnam Wood, allowing him to exact revenge while fulfilling the prophecy of the three witches. The title
character’s wife sleepwalks, uttering “Out, out damned spot!” For 10 points, name this Shakespeare
tragedy in which the titular Thane of Cawdor murders King Duncan, often referred to as the “Scottish
Play.”
ANSWER: Macbeth
082-10-34-02123

4. This author wrote about a "bee among the heather bells" in a poem in which a "dweller in the land of
death" is described is "changed and careless too." That poem is "My Lady's Grave," which she wrote under
the pseudonym Ellis Bell. She is better known for a novel, partially narrated by Nelly Dean, which features
such families as the Lintons and the Earnshaws and also includes the foundling Heathcliff. For 10 points,
name this author of Wuthering Heights, the sister of Anne and Charlotte.
ANSWER: Emily Brontë [prompt on "Brontë"]
040-10-34-02124

5. This composer included movements inspired by Decoration Day and Thanksgiving in his Holiday
Symphony, while his fourth symphony contains a section that incorporates the Watchman hymn. Ragtime
influences can be seen in his composition Central Park in the Dark, a work which was grouped in the
collection Two Contemplations with his piece The Unanswered Question. This composer of the Concord
Sonata may be best known for a work that contains a movement named after "The Housatonic at
Stockbridge." For 10 points, name this American composer of Three Places in New England.
ANSWER: Charles Ives
040-10-34-02125

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 5 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. A minor character in this play can be summoned by a bell that does not always work, and does not have
eyelids. Near the end, a woman who drowned her illegitimate child attempts to stab another woman in the
Second Empire-style room in which the entire play takes place. For 10 points, Estelle and Ines are
characters in which existentialist play in which Joseph Garcin claims “Hell is other people,” by Jean-Paul
Sartre?
ANSWER: No Exit [or Huis Clos]
082-10-34-02126

7. This work sees a man named Calandrino tricked into thinking he is pregnant. Another part of this work
sees Friar Alberto pretend to be the archangel Gabriel so he can sleep with a woman. The term brigata
refers to the ten main characters of this work such as Pampinea and Dioneo, who lock themselves in a
cathedral and each tell a story a day for ten days to pass time during the Black Plague. For 10 points, name
this Renaissance short story collection by Italian author Giovanni Boccaccio.
ANSWER: The Decameron
079-10-34-02127

8. The Records of the Grand Historian was written during this dynasty. This dynasty's extent of control
was increased by the Emperor Wudi. This dynasty was temporarily overthrown by Wang Mang. Buddhism
first reached China during this dynasty. It was founded by Liu Bang. The Yellow Turban Rebellion was
directed against it. After this dynasty was the Three Kingdoms period and this dynasty succeeded the Qin.
For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty than began in 206 B.C. and ultimately ended in the third century
A.D.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
001-10-34-02128

9. The Dirac delta function is designed such that when it is subject to this procedure, the result is 1, and one
theorem that relates two types of this operation is called Green's theorem. Differential equations are often
solved by performing this type of operation, and an approximation of this operation is obtained by
performing a Riemann sum. For 10 points, name this operation that according to the Fundamental Theorem
of Calculus is the opposite of a derivative.
ANSWER: integral
081-10-34-02129

10. One policy pursued at one point in the history of this country was the New Course. The New Economic
System in this country was replaced by a policy abbreviated as the ESS, which was instituted under Walter
Ulbricht. One car produced in this country was the Trabant. This country was led for nearly twenty years
by Erich Honecker, who had earlier been in charge of the building of a barrier in this country's capital. For
10 points, name this no longer existent, socialist country whose capital was divided in 1961 by the creation
of the Berlin Wall.
ANSWER: East Germany [or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or Ostdeutschland; or Deutsche
Demokratische Republik; or DDR]
081-10-34-02130

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 6 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

1. Name these Latin American heads of state.
[5] This man overthrew Salvador Allende and became dictator of Chile
ANSWER: Augusto Pinochet
[10] This dictator of Brazil put down the Integralists and communists as head of the Estado Novo.
ANSWER: Getulio Vargas
[15] Jorge Pacheco and Juan Maria Bordaberry have been among the many dictators who ruled this nation,
which saw a civil war between the Colorados and Blancos end at the battle of Montevideo.
ANSWER: Uruguay
[20] This man, who earned the nickname Colonel Trunk after being stuffed into the trunk of a car, was the
dictator of Paraguay for 35 years until being ousted by Rodriguez.
ANSWER: Alfredo Stroessner
048-10-34-02101

2. In his early career, he translated Eugenie Grandet into Russian and wrote the novel The Insulted and the
Injured.
[5] First, for 5 points, who was this author of The Brothers Karamazov?
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky
[10] In this other Dostoyevsky novel, Raskolnikov is haunted by guilt after murdering the pawnbroker
Alonya Ivanovna.
ANSWER: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye]
[15] The good-hearted and epileptic Prince Myshkin attempts to donate money to a con man pretending to
be Roghozhin's son in this other Dostoyevsky novel.
ANSWER: The Idiot
[20] His illegitimate son with "stinking Lizaveta," Smerdyakov, ultimately proves to be the killer of what
patriarch of the brothers Dmitry, Ivan, and Alexei Karamazov?
ANSWER: Fyodor Karamazov
019-10-34-02102

3. Name these keyboard instruments.
[5] This instrument often heard in churches has pipe and reed varieties.
ANSWER: organs
[10] This portable instrument played by Lawrence Welk is operated by pressing keys while squeezing a
bellows.
ANSWER: accordion
[15] J.S. Bach wrote works like the Goldberg Variations for this predecessor of the clavichord.
ANSWER: harpsichord
[20] This electrical keyboard used tapes with prerecorded sounds and is featured in the intro of the Beatles’
“Strawberry Fields Forever.”
ANSWER: mellotron
015-10-34-02103

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 7 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Name these Revolutionary War battles.
[5] Cornwallis surrendered his army at this final battle.
ANSWER: Siege of Yorktown
[10] Washington surprised Hessian mercenaries on Christmas after crossing the Delaware at this battle.
ANSWER: Battle of Trenton
[15] The legendary Molly Pitcher fired some artillery pieces at this 1778 New Jersey battle between
Washington and Clinton.
ANSWER: Battle of Monmouth
[20] Sevier’s Overmountain Men defeated some British loyalists and killed Patrick Ferguson at this 1780
battle in the Carolinas.
ANSWER: Battle of King’s Mountain
015-10-34-02104

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 8 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 2
Four 10-Part Team Rounds

DOGS
HORSES
LIONS AND TIGERS AND BEARS
APES AND MONKEYS

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 9 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

DOGS
[10] What "dog star" is the brightest in the night sky?
ANSWER: Sirius
[10] What three-headed dog guards the entrance to Hades?
ANSWER: Cerberus
[10] Dynamism of a Dog on a Leash is a painting exemplary of what twentieth-century Italian art
movement?
ANSWER: Futurism
[10] What Russian scientist elucidated the concepts of conditioned and unconditioned responses while
studying dogs' digestive system?
ANSWER: Ivan Petrovich Pavlov
[10] What author of The Master and Margarita wrote Heart of a Dog?
ANSWER: Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov
[10] Whose dog Nevado died at the Battle of Carabobo?
ANSWER: Simon Jose Antonio de la Santisima Trinidad Bolivar y Palacios Ponte y Blanco
[10] What group of islands including Tenerife and Fuerteventura were named for the "dogs" Spanish
explorers saw there?
ANSWER: Canary Islands [or Islas Canarias; or Canaries]
[10] Golden retrievers are an oft-used example of what phenomenon in which the phenotype for one gene
masks that of another gene?
ANSWER: epistasis
[10] Who wrote about his cross-country journey with his poodle in Travels with Charley?
ANSWER: John Ernst Steinbeck
[10] What country first instituted the Dickin Medal to honor the bravery of dogs and other animals during
war?
ANSWER: United Kingdom [or Great Britain]
003-10-34-0210-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 10 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

HORSES
[10] What Roman Emperor allegedly made his horse Incitatus a senator?
ANSWER: Caligula [or Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
[10] What photographer first proved that, at some point during its run, all four of a horse's hooves were off
the ground?
ANSWER: Eadweard Muybridge
[10] Give any degree latitude in the horse latitudes.
ANSWER: accept anything between 30 and 35 degrees North or South latitude, inclusive
[10] What horse from Animal Farm adopts a motto, "I will work harder"?
ANSWER: Boxer
[10] What German hoax involved claims that a horse could do arithmetic by tapping its hooves?
ANSWER: Clever Hans
[10] The only known U.S. Army survivor of what battle was a horse named Comanche?
ANSWER: Battle of Little Bighorn
[10] Horses belong to what order of ungulates with an odd number of toes?
ANSWER: Perissodactyla
[10] What artist painted an impossible image of a possibly-obscured horse and rider as well as a man with
his face replaced by a green apple?
ANSWER: Rene Francois Ghislain Magritte
[10] What literary hero rode a horse named Veillantif, and had a horn named Oliphant and a sword named
Durendal?
ANSWER: Roland
[10] What Greek hero proposed the building of the Trojan Horse?
ANSWER: Odysseus
003-10-34-0210-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 11 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

LIONS AND TIGERS AND BEARS
[10] What is the alpha star in the constellation Leo?
ANSWER: Regulus
[10] Merlion Park is near Marina Bay in what city-state?
ANSWER: Republic of Singapore
[10] Who was known as the "lion of the Senate"?
ANSWER: Edward Moore Kennedy [or Ted Kennedy; prompt on Kennedy]
[10] What Post-Impressionist artist of The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope is better known for
The Sleeping Gypsy?
ANSWER: Henri Julien Felix Rousseau [prompt on Rousseau]
[10] Who wrote about an animal "burning bright" in "The Tyger"?
ANSWER: William Blake
[10] The Tamil Tigers were a secessionist guerrilla group in what country?
ANSWER: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
[10] What is the most wonderful thing about Tiggers?
ANSWER: "I'm the only one" [accept equivalents implying that there is only one Tigger]
[10] What author created Old Ben, the title animal of his short story The Bear?
ANSWER: William Cuthbert Faulkner
[10] Black bears are among the animals well-known for undergoing what state of long-term winter
inactivity?
ANSWER: hibernation
[10] What mother of Arcas was turned into a bear after Artemis discovered she had been seduced by Zeus?
ANSWER: Callisto
003-10-34-0210-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 12 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

APES AND MONKEYS
[10] What is the name of the Monkey King in Journey to the West?
ANSWER: Sun Wukong [or Sun Wukung]
[10] Monkey Bay is a port on what third-largest African lake, drained by the Shire River?
ANSWER: Lake Malawi [or Lake Nyasa]
[10] The "Monkey and the Hunter" thought experiment illustrates that the motion of an object under the
influence of gravity traces out what shape?
ANSWER: parabola
[10] What pointillist included a monkey on a leash in his painting A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La
Grande Jatte?
ANSWER: Georges Pierre Seurat
[10] Ham the Astrochimp was launched into space as part of what first U.S. manned space program?
ANSWER: Project Mercury
[10] What W.W. Jacobs short story concerns a talisman that grants the Whites three wishes, all of which
come true in unintended ways?
ANSWER: "The Monkey's Paw"
[10] Gorillas were named after a tribe supposedly discovered by Hanno the Navigator, an explorer from
what city-state that, according to Cato the Elder, must be destroyed?
ANSWER: Carthage
[10] The Rh factor, discovered in rhesus monkeys, is used in addition to the ABO classification for what
substance?
ANSWER: blood [or blood groups; or blood types]
[10] Mizaru, Kikazaru, and Iwazaru, the "three wise monkeys" of Japanese folklore, allegorically do not do
what three things?
ANSWER: see evil, hear evil, and speak evil [or see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil; accept
reasonable equivalents; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
[10] Who is the Minister of Science and Chief Protector of the Faith in Planet of the Apes?
ANSWER: Dr. Zaius
003-10-34-0210-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 13 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 2
12 20-Point Tossups
1. The Bloody Assizes were held during the rule of this king following a plot to overthrow him known as
the Monmouth Rebellion. This monarch issued the Declaration of Indulgence, which granted religious
toleration to Christians. That document led his critics to invite a foreign army led by William of Orange of
the Netherlands. Forces loyal to this man were defeated at the Battle of the Boyne, two years after he was
overthrown by William III and Mary II during the Glorious Revolution. For 20 points, name this English
king who succeeded Charles II.
ANSWER: James II of England [or James VII of Scotland; prompt on James]
064-10-34-02101

2. In 1982, the longtime head of this organization ascended to national leadership as "general secretary."
Predecessors of this organization included the Cheka, which was led by Feliks Dzerzhinsky (jur-ZIN-ski),
the OGPU, which carried out the "liquidation of the kulaks," and the NKVD, which orchestrated "purge
trials" and was led by Lavrenty Beria (lahv-REN-tee BEH-ree-uh). For 20 points, identify this organization
which spied on Western countries and suppressed internal dissent as the chief security apparatus of the
Soviet Union.
ANSWER: KGB [or Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti; or Committee for State Security]
019-10-34-02102

3. This man's victories included overcoming a surprise attack at the Battle of Marengo and defeating Tsar
Alexander I at the Battle of Austerlitz. This man devised the Continental System as a blockade against
Great Britain. The Peninsular War allowed this man to place his brother Joseph on the throne of Spain. This
man was sent to St. Helena after he returned to power during the "Hundred Days," which followed his
earlier exile to Elba. For 20 points, name this emperor.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon Bonaparte]
080-10-34-02103

4. This politician was nearly assassinated by the student Ferdinand Cohen-Blind. This politician initiated
the Kulturkampf against his country's Catholic Church. This man formed the League of the Three Emperors
and the Triple Alliance in order to ensure the balance of power in late nineteenth century Europe. He also
provoked the Franco-Prussian War and worked for Wilhelm I in engineering the unification of Germany.
For 20 points, name this German statesman nicknamed the "Iron Chancellor."
ANSWER: Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck
004-10-34-02104

5. This founder of the Republican People’s Party became a celebrity when his pocket watch saved him
from a flying piece of shrapnel at Gallipolli, where his defense against ANZAC forces earned him a
promotion to colonel. In a later role, his "Six Arrows" replaced Arabic letters with the Latin alphabet,
banned polygamy, and ordered the fez replaced with European-style hats, as part of his drive to secularize
the remnants of the Ottoman Empire. For 20 points, identify this man who was thus given a name meaning
"father of the Turks."
ANSWER: Ataturk [or Mustafa Kemal Pasha Ataturk; prompt on Mustafa]
019-10-34-02105

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 14 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This leader was targeted by Operation Verano, which ended after his forces won the Battle of Yaguajay
(yah-goo-AH-hay). In honor of the date of his failed attack on the Moncada Barracks, this man named his
revolutionary movement after the Twenty-Sixth of July. This leader overthrew Fulgencio Batista
(fool-HEN-see-oo buh-TEES-tuh) and was the target of the Bay of Pigs Invasion. For 20 points, name this
man became ill in 2006, leading him to transfer his duties to his younger brother Raúl.
ANSWER: Fidel Castro Ruz
079-10-34-02106

7. One work from this country written by José Hernández, Martín Fierro, is an example of its gaucho
literature. Molina and Valentín are imprisoned in another work from this country, Kiss of the Spider
Woman. One prolific author from this country wrote a story containing a point in space where one can see
everything and another story about a library that contains every possible work of a fixed length. Those
stories are "The Aleph" and "The Library of Babel." For 20 points, name this South American country,
home to Jorge Luis Borges.
ANSWER: República Argentina [or Argentine Republic]
001-10-34-02107

8. In the 1930’s, this man signed an agreement with Viceroy Lord Irwin. He renamed the lowly dalit class
the "children of god." Earlier in his career, this man worked as a lawyer fighting racism in British-ruled
South Africa. Time magazine reporter Margaret Bourke-White showed this man working at his spinning
wheel. In 1930, he led a demonstration to protest an unpopular British tax. For 20 points, name this
organizer of the Salt March.
ANSWER: Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi]
064-10-34-02108

9. One part of this modern day country agreed to outlaw slavery as part of the Sand River Convention.
Leander Starr Jameson led a raid in this country, which was ruled by the National Party from 1948 until
1994. The Sharpeville Massacre resulted from protests against this country’s pass laws, which were also a
factor in an uprising in its Soweto Township. For 20 points, name this country which has been led by the
ANC since 1993.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa [or RSA]
015-10-34-02109

10. This country organized a response to a plane hijacking called Operation Thunderbolt that successfully
released hostages in the Entebbe Raid. Another reaction by this country came in the Operation Wrath of
God, which was a response to Black September's actions at the Munich Olympics. This country launched a
highly successful attack in the Six-Day War and was itself attacked in the Yom Kippur War. For 20 points,
name this country in the Middle East that was created in 1948.
ANSWER: State of Israel [or Medinat Yisra'el]
023-10-34-02110

11. The Pendleton Act ended a debate in this group on the question of civil service reform that had divided
it into Half-Breeds and Stalwarts. One president of this party signed the McKinley Tariff and the Sherman
Antitrust Act. This party’s first presidential candidate was John C. Frémont, and it absorbed most of the
Free Soilers. It was the party of the President who was succeeded by Andrew Johnson and who issued the
Emancipation Proclamation. For 20 points, name this political party of Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: Republican Party [or Republicans; or Grand Old Party; or GOP]
079-10-34-02111

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 15 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. During the Mexican American War, this man discovered a hidden pass which was instrumental to
American victory at the battle of Cerro Gordo. He led the marines that defeated John Brown’s raid on
Harper’s Ferry. In another conflict, he was derisively called the “King of Spades,” but he won the Battle of
Cold Harbor by digging in. He also divided his army to defeat overwhelming odds at Chancellorsville,
losing his trusted general Stonewall Jackson in the process. For 20 points, name this commander of the
Confederate Army during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Robert Edward Lee
015-10-34-02112

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 16 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 2
Tiebreakers
1. One battle in this war was fought between forces commanded by Stephen Van Rensselaer and Isaac
Brock and was called the Battle of Queenston Heights. The bloodiest battle of this war saw participation by
Jacob Brown and Gordon Drummond, as well as Winfield Scott, and was Lundy's Lane. Another
engagement in this war saw the razing of Washington, D.C., including the burning of the White House.
This war was ended by the Treaty of Ghent. For 10 points, name this war that ended in 1815 and began in
its namesake year.
ANSWER: War of 1812
081-10-34-02131

2. This river's delta, located partially in the state of Para, sometimes includes the large island of Marajo.
Formed from the confluence of the Ucayali and Maranon rivers, cities along its banks include Manacapuru
and Obidos. Its navigability changes near the capital of Loreto and Maynas in Peru, the city of Iquitos, as
well as near the city of Manaus, where it receives one of its major tributaries, the Rio Negro. For 10 points,
name this river that flows through much of Brazil, a long South American waterway.
ANSWER: Amazon River
040-10-34-02132

3. This deity was caught in a compromising position with another deity's wife when he became trapped in
an invisible net. In another story, he was trapped in a bronze urn for a very long duration by two giants
named Otus and Ephialtes. The Stymphalian Birds were associated with this god who, with his lover
Aphrodite, sired the children Deimos and Phobos, who often accompanied him into combat. The god of
battle and war, for 10 points, name this Greek deity, whose Roman counterpart was Mars.
ANSWER: Ares
040-10-34-02133

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 2 Page 17 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

