Colonia Tournament #2
Round 6
First Period, 20 Tossups
1. This country's most popular puppet plays in the eighteenth century portrayed couples who performed
love suicides. This country's classic forms of poetry include tanka and renga, as well as a shorter form that
always includes a season word. The Heian court is the setting of this country's classic novel The Tale of
Genji. For 10 points, name this Asian country whose poets created the haiku.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon]
004-10-34-06101

2. In this novel, the protagonist commits crimes with Jack Duane and works for the corrupt Mike Scully.
Later, he goes to jail after attacking Phil Connor, who had slept with his wife Ona. The end of this novel
focuses on a socialist rally whose speaker chants, "Chicago will be ours!" The protagonist of this novel is a
Lithuanian immigrant named Jurgis Rudkus. And the outcry from this novel was largely responsible for the
1906 Pure Food and Drug Act. For 10 points, name this Upton Sinclair novel known for its graphic
depictions of Chicago slaughterhouses.
ANSWER: The Jungle
064-10-34-06102

3. At one point, this god had to kill someone who was protected from death at day and night, and both
inside and outside of houses, and did so by killing that enemy on a threshold at twilight. He performed that
feat in the form of Narasimha (NAH-rah-SIM-ha), a lion. This god also takes forms such as the fish Matsya
(MOTS-yah) and the heroes Rama and Krishna, which are some of his ten avatars. For 10 points, identify
this Hindu “preserver” god, who forms the Trimurti (treh-MORE-tee) with the creator Brahma and
destroyer Shiva.
ANSWER: Vishnu
019-10-34-06103

4. Entering this region is the ultimate goal of the Chikyu Hakken (CHEE-kew HAWK-ken) project. The
lowermost section of this region is known as the D double-prime layer. Its upper boundary is a
discontinuity commonly known as the Moho. Its upper section contains the asthenosphere and shares the
lithosphere with the region above it. For 10 points, name this layer of the Earth between the core and the
crust.
ANSWER: mantle
024-10-34-06104

5. While volunteering for Barry Goldwater in Arizona, this man urged the enforcement of "literacy test"
laws that prevented African-Americans from voting. Watergate figure John Dean wrote a book about how
this man's appointment by Richard Nixon to replace Hugo Black "redefined the Supreme Court." Fourteen
years after this lawyer joined the bench, the retirement of Warren Burger caused Ronald Reagan to elevate
him to Chief Justice. For 10 points, name this jurist who served in that post from 1986 until his 2005 death.
ANSWER: William Hubbs Rehnquist
019-10-34-06105

6. The central issue in this case involved whether the appellate could petition for a writ of mandamus. That
appellate in this case was one of the "Midnight Judges" whose appointment was withheld by the Secretary
of State. In writing the opinion to this 1803 court case, John Marshall found the Judiciary Act
unconstitutional, which established the practice of judicial review by the Supreme Court. For 10 points,
name this case that involved the future fourth President of the United States.
ANSWER: Marbury vs. Madison [accept in either order]
084-10-34-06106
Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 1 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. Ron Shelton made a documentary about this man entitled “[This man] Rides the Bus;” that documentary
covers this man’s year with the Birmingham Barons. Currently an owner of the Charlotte Bobcats, this
man scored 38 points in his “Flu game,” the fifth game of the finals series against the Utah Jazz. This
player took one season off of basketball to play minor league baseball and, in 2001, returned to play for the
Washington Wizards. For 10 points, name this legendary player who led the Chicago Bulls to six
championships.
ANSWER: Michael Jordan
080-10-34-06107

8. The Caps and the Hats were two political factions during this country’s Age of Liberty, which saw a
privy council lead by Arvid Horn control the monarchy. That time period followed a war in which this
country won battles at Gadebusch and Narva, but lost at Poltava. By the Treaty of Kiel, Denmark give this
country control of its western neighbor. This country’s House of Vasa included such rulers as Queen
Christina and another nicknamed the "Lion of the North," Gustavus Adolphus. For 10 points, name this
Scandinavian country with a capital city at Stockholm.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
083-10-34-06108

9. This city was legendarily founded by Queen Elissa after her exile from Tyre. After one defeat, its lands
were sowed with salt to prevent it from rising again. Cato the Elder ended each of his speeches in the senate
by demanding that this city be destroyed. This city's Magonid dynasty included several rulers named
Hasdrubal and Hanno, and its leader Hamilcar was surpassed by a son who crossed the Alps with elephants.
For 10 points, name this city led by Hannibal which rivaled Rome in the Punic Wars.
ANSWER: Carthage
015-10-34-06109

10. The equation for this shape in polar coordinates is R of theta equals A. A cycloid is the curve created by
the path of a point on one of these shapes moving in a straight line. Venn diagrams portray intersections of
these shapes, whose area equals pi times R squared. For 10 points, name this shape created by finding all
points in a plane of an equal distance from the center.
ANSWER: circles
004-10-34-06110

11. This author of the satirical abolitionist tract "Sidi Mehemet Ibrahim on The Slave Trade" used the
pseudonym "Silence Dogood" for a series of letters to the New England Courant. This man urged colonial
cooperation in a cartoon showing a divided snake with the caption "Join or Die," which supported his
Albany Plan of Union. With John Adams, this man revised Jefferson’s first draft of the Declaration of
Independence. For 10 points, name this Founding Father who published Poor Richard’s Almanack and flew
a kite in a lightning storm.
ANSWER: Benjamin Franklin
082-10-34-06111

12. One work by this composer may have been written for his love interest, Therese Malfatti, and is less
commonly known as his Bagatelle in A Minor. Another work by this composer received its nickname from
the poet Ludwig Rellstab, who was reminded by that piece of Lake Lucerne at night. A symphony by this
man ends with voices singing the words to a Schiller poem, and is nicknamed "Choral." For 10 points,
name this German composer of Für Elise and the Moonlight Sonata, whose ninth symphony is set to the
poem "Ode to Joy."
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
023-10-34-06112

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 2 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This work was the source of William Shakespeare and John Fletcher’s Two Noble Kinsmen. One
character in this work discusses her five marriages, the fifth to Jankyn. The final section of this work,
which features the Knight and Wife of Bath, is narrated by the Parson. This work’s Prologue describes how
the characters meet at the Tabard Inn en route to the titular pilgrimage site, and agree to engage in a
storytelling contest. For 10 points, name this Middle English collection of tales by Geoffrey Chaucer.
ANSWER: The Canterbury Tales (accept “The Knight’s Tale” before “her five marriages”)
082-10-34-06113

14. One song cycle by this composer sets poems such as "In Haven (Capri)," "Where Corals Lie," and "The
Swimmer" to music. That work is Sea Pictures. One of this composer's works is based on John Newman's
poem about the last moments of a man's life. Another of this composer's works includes an Allegro di
molto section "G.R.S." that depicts George Robertson Sinclair's bulldog swimming in the River Wye.
Those works are Dream of Gerontius and The Enigma Variations. For 10 points, name this composer of
Pomp and Circumstance.
ANSWER: Edward Elgar
030-10-34-06114

15. Sanderson developed the principle of the equalization of this quantity. Allred and Rochow developed a
scale for it, as did Robert Mulliken. Like the two measures that average to form this quantity via the
Mulliken scale, it increases from left to right on the periodic table and decreases from top to bottom. The
most commonly used scale, developed by Linus Pauling, assigns fluorine a value of four. For 10 points,
name this measure of an atom's ability to attract electrons.
ANSWER: electronegativity
024-10-34-06115

16. This writer imagined a conversation between God, Job, and Job’s wife in A Masque of Mercy. Mary
and Warren talk about the titular laborer, Silas, in a poem from this man’s collection North of Boston, “The
Death of the Hired Man.” He claimed that “if it had to perish twice / I think I know enough of hate” in
“Fire And Ice” and ended another poem with the repeated line “And miles to go before I sleep.” For 10
points, name this American poet of “Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
ANSWER: Robert Lee Frost
082-10-34-06116

17. Sallie Chisholm discovered one species in this clade that is responsible for 20% of all atmospheric
oxygen. Species of these that are acid fast can contain mycolic acid. The firmicutes phylum of these make
endospores. They can be classified as gram-positive or negative depending on their type of cell wall. Their
shape can be coccus or bacillus. They are infected by phages. They do not have nuclei and often contain
plasmids. For 10 points, name this domain of life that contains species like E. coli.
ANSWER: bacteria
001-10-34-06117

18. This man acted as an advisor to the Minister of War Diego Hidalgo. He first gained fame as a general
during the Rif War of 1920. This man consolidated the Carlists with a party founded by José Antonio
Primo de Rivera, the Falange (fah-LON-hay). This leader suppressed minority languages such as Catalan
and Basque after taking power in his country's civil war. This man was in power from 1939 until his 1975
death, after which power went back to a monarchy under Juan Carlos I. For 10 points, name this military
dictator of Spain.
ANSWER: Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teódulo Franco Bahamonde
024-10-34-06118

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 3 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. According to one source, this man becomes immortal after he is bathed in the river Numicus. This
character kills the leader of the Rutulians named Turnus. He courts a daughter of king Latinus named
Lavinia after using a golden bough to descend to the underworld. His embarkation from Carthage causes
Dido to throw herself on a funeral pyre. This character escapes from the ruins of Troy with his father
Anchises. For 10 points, name this protagonist of an epic by Vergil.
ANSWER: Aeneas
015-10-34-06119

20. The doctrine of this practice is derived from a conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus in John 3:5.
One figure famous for performing this practice called himself a “voice in the wilderness” and was
beheaded by Herod Antipas. A now-repudiated doctrine held that infants who died without undergoing this
went to limbo. It was practiced by a certain man named John near the River Jordan. For 10 points, name
this sacrament in which water washes away original sin.
ANSWER: Baptism
080-10-34-06120

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 4 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 6
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses
1. In Ovid’s Metamorphoses, the hero Caenus is killed when some of these creatures pile rocks and trees on
top of him. Another incident involving them occurred when one named Eurytion attempted to abduct
Hippodameia at her wedding, leading to a battle between these creatures and the Lapiths. Other members of
this race included Nessus, whose blood was used to kill Heracles, and the tutor of Jason and Achilles,
Chiron. For 10 points, name this mythological race of creatures who were half man and half horse.
ANSWER: centaurs
083-10-34-06121

2. Clozapine can cause a reduction in the number of these cells. They can be classified according to the
presence or absence of granules, and those that contain granules include basophils and neutrophils. One
class of these is lymphocytes, which may be natural killer cells, B cells, or T cells, which regulate the
immune system. For 10 points, name these cells of the immune system also known as leukocytes.
ANSWER: white blood cells [accept leukocytes before mention; accept neutrophils before "granules"]
024-10-34-06122

3. One important function of this organelle is the post-translational modification of protein cores to make
GAG complexes. This organelle can target molecules for the lysosomes by adding a
mannose-six-phosphate tag. This organelle, which is composed of stacked cisternae, has the primay
function of processing and packaging proteins and lipids. For 10 points, name this cell organelle named for
an Italian scientist.
ANSWER: Golgi apparatus [accept "body" or "complex" or equivalents for "apparatus"]
026-10-34-06123

4. The Joule-Thompson coefficient can be calculated by keeping this quantity constant and taking the
partial derivative of temperature with respect to pressure. The net change in this quantity for a reaction can
be calculated using Hess's Law. The change in Gibbs free energy can be calculated by subtracting the
temperature times the change in entropy from the change in this quantity. At constant pressure, a reaction is
exothermic when the change in this quantity is negative. For 10 points, name this thermodynamic quantity
that is represented by H.
ANSWER: enthalpy [prompt on H before mentioned]
001-10-34-06124

5. The correct form of this law includes a term proportional to the time derivative of the electric flux,
known as the displacement current, that was added to this law by James Maxwell. The coefficient of
proportionality in this law is known as the permeability of free space. If the current density is not constant,
this law does not hold and must be replaced by the Biot-Savart (BEE-oh suh-VAR) Law. For 10 points,
name this equation that states that the path integral of the magnetic field is proportional to the current
enclosed by the path, which is the only one of Maxwell’s Equations named after a French physicist.
ANSWER: Ampère’s Law
003-10-34-06125

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 5 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One painting by this name depicts Christ in the clouds at the upper center while the left side shows, in
progression, the expulsion of the Angels, the creation of Eve, and the tasting of the forbidden fruit. In
addition to naming that Hieronymus Bosch triptych, this name graces a painting that depicts the Flatford
Mill and a brown and white dog. That painting is named after a horse-drawn conveyance that is travelling
in the River Stour. For 10 points, name this painting by John Constable.
ANSWER: The Hay Wain
040-10-34-06126

7. In one work by this man, the slow Thomas is promised the title character's daughter because of his dad's
profession. In that work by this man, Béline is tricked by the servant Toinette and Cléante is allowed to
marry Angélique by Argan. In another work by this man, the title character becomes engaged to Mariane
and gains the deed to the house of Orgon through trickery, but is recognized at the end by the king. For 10
points, name this French playwright who wrote the dramas The Imaginary Invalid and Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
023-10-34-06127

8. This man’s association with the khlysty (KLEH-stee) religious group forced him to move to Kazan,
where he became friends with many clergy figures. He gained his most famous position by saving the life
of Anna Vyrubova, and his death came about when he was poisoned, shot, and then dumped into the Neva
River. Some speculate he may have used hypnotism to stop the bleeding sessions of Alexei, which helped
him gain influence over Alexei’s mother Alexandra. For 10 points, name this Russian mystic who served
the family of Nicholas II.
ANSWER: Grigory Yefimovich Rasputin [or Grigory Yefimovich Novykh]
083-10-34-06128

9. A recent upgrade to this specification added SuperSpeed mode. The connector types include type A and
B along with mini and micro connectors. Hubs for this allow a computer to connect to at most 127 devices.
Along with data, Power can be transfered to devices through this. Most computers made today have the 2.0
version of this, and 3.0 is starting to be deployed. For 10 points, name this type of communication port and
specification that is used to connect computers to peripherals such as printers, flash drives, and MP3
players.
ANSWER: USB [Universal Serial Bus]
001-10-34-06129

10. This author wrote of a place "Where the flying fishes play, and the dawn comes up like thunder out of
China 'cross the bay." Another poem notes that the qualifications for manhood include to "dream –and not
make dreams your master" and to "talk with crowds and keep [one's] virtue." The ending of another poems
tells the "finest man" the narrator knew that, "You're a better man than I am." For 10 points, name this
author of "Mandalay," "If," and "Gunga Din," who created the characters of Akela, Bagheera, and Mowgli
in The Jungle Book.
ANSWER: Rudyard Kipling
003-10-34-06130

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 6 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

1. This regime conducted mass murders that resulted in the "killing fields."
[5] Name this regime that ruled Cambodia from 1975 to 1979.
ANSWER: Khmer Rouge [or Khmer Kahom; or Communist Party of Campuchea]
[10] This notorious man led the Khmer Rouge from the position of Prime Minister during 1976-79.
ANSWER: Pol Pot [or Saroth Sar]
[15] The Khmer Rouge was ousted when this nation invaded Phnom Penh in 1979.
ANSWER: Vietnam [or Socialist Republic of Vietnam]
[20] For the first year of the Khmer Rouge's reign, this former king of Cambodia was the country's
symbolic leader. He was later reinstated as king and served until 2004 when his son took over.
ANSWER: Norodom Sihanouk
026-10-34-06101

2. Name some things about 17th century French literature.
[5] Many of the classical French dramas were performed at the court of this “Sun King.”
ANSWER: Louis XIV
[10] This French dramatist wrote about “the daughter of Minos and of Pasiphae” in his drama, Phaedra.
ANSWER: Jean Racine
[15] This Italian composer at the court of Louis XIV wrote incidental music for the comedies of Moliere.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lully
[20] In this early psychological by Madame de Lafayette, the title character struggles to stay loyal to her
husband despite her love for the Duke de Nemours.
ANSWER: The Princess of Cleves [or La Princesse de Cleves]
080-10-34-06102

3. Until 1963, the entirety of a Catholic mass was supposed to be in this language.
[5] Name this language spoken during the Roman Empire.
ANSWER: Latin
[10] Name the council that first permitted certain parts of the mass to be in the vernacular, among other
reforms.
ANSWER: Second Vatican Council [or Vatican II; prompt on Vatican]
[15] Name the Pope that presided over the council after the death of Pope John XXIII.
ANSWER: Paul VI [or Giovanni Battista Enrico Antonio Maria Montini; prompt on Paul]
[20] Name the document, issued along with Inter Mirifica on December 4, 1963, that permitted the use of
the vernacular in Catholic mass.
ANSWER: Sacrosanctum Concilium [or Constitution on the Sacred Liturgy]
003-10-34-06103

4. These objects can be classified as red giants or white dwarfs.
[5] Name these celestial balls of gas, which include the sun.
ANSWER: stars
[10] Stars produce energy via this process that joins together two atomic nuclei. It occurs via the
proton-proton chain or the CNO cycle.
ANSWER: thermonuclear fusion
[15] The H-R diagram classifies stars by plotting this property against temperature.
ANSWER: luminosity [or absolute magnitude]
[20] This track on the H-R diagram describes the stellar evolution of protostars with less than 0.5 solar
masses.
ANSWER: Hayashi track
003-10-34-06104

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 7 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 6
Four 10-Part Team Rounds

WISDOM AND ADVICE
BELLS
WHISTLES
PENNIES

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 8 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

WISDOM AND ADVICE
[10] People suffering from this disease sometimes exhibit “scanning speech”. This is an autoimmune
disease that attacks myelin.
ANSWER: Multiple sclerosis
[10] This deity took the name Mentor as an advisor to Telemachus in The Odyssey
ANSWER: Athena
[10] This Shakespearean character advises his son Laertes “to thine own self be true” before being stabbed
by Hamlet
ANSWER: Polonius
[10] This Soviet Leader gave a “Secret Speech” criticizing Joseph Stalin during the 20th party congress. He
also banged his shoe on a table during a meeting of the UN General Assembly.
ANSWER: Nikita Kruschev
[10] Lots of good advice, including the importance of filial piety, can be found in this main corpus of
Confucious’ work.
ANSWER: Analects or Lunyu
[10] Bird song has a component of this type of behavior, in which some kind of sign stimulus triggers a
stereotypical behavior.
ANSWER: Fixed action pattern
[10] This French painter painted a depiction of the Tennis Court oath, as well as several portraits of
Madame Recamier and Oath of the Horatii.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
[10] Actual human speech is used in Different Trains by Steve Reich, which is an example of this genre of
music. Other composers in this style include John Adams and Terry Riley.
ANSWER: Minimalism
[10] In this speech, Jesus stated “judge not, lest ye be judged” and “the meek shall inherit the earth”.
ANSWER: Sermon on the Mount
[10] The Marquis de Pombal was an advisor to this ruling family of Portugal, which succeeded the Aviz
dynasty.
ANSWER: Braganza
048-10-34-0610-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 9 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

BELLS
[10] This composer of Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini wrote The Bells after the Poe poem.
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninov
[10] Bell's palsy attacks the seventh of these nerves, which include the olfactory and vagus.
ANSWER: cranial nevers
[10] In addition to developing the telephone, Alexander Graham Bell worked extensively with these kinds
of communication systems, which include ASL and FSL.
ANSWER: sign languages
[10] Mathematician Eric Temple Bell wrote a book about the quest to prove this theorem about the sums of
exponentiated integers, which was completed by Andrew Wiles.
ANSWER: Fermat's last theorem
[10] Philadelphia's Liberty Bell cracked while tolling for the funeral of this former Chief Justice.
ANSWER: John Marshall
[10] John Bell ran for the short-lived Constitutional Union Party and, like the two Democratic candidates
John Breckenridge and Stephen Douglas, lost in the Presidential election of this year.
ANSWER: 1860
[10] Ken Bell, Joe Rosenthal, and Dorothea Lange were among the photographers who documented this
war, in which Rosenthal showed soldiers planting a flag on Mount Suribachi.
ANSWER: World War II
[10] Bell peppers have only mild amounts of this substance, whose higher concentrations in habaneros
gives those peppers their hot taste.
ANSWER: capsaicin
[10] Handheld bells and "prayer wheels" are features of religion in this place, where the Yellow Hat lamas
formerly ruled.
ANSWER: Tibet
[10] Twenty bell towers ring this complex in Moscow, located between Red Square and the Alexander
Garden.
ANSWER: the Kremlin
019-10-34-0610-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 10 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

WHISTLES
[10] This line "But let it whistle as it will, We'll keep our Christmas merry still" was written by this poet,
who also created novels such as Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
ANSWER: Walter Scott
[10] A musical instrument consisting of a series of whistle-pipes and often played at circuses is named for
what Greek muse of epic poetry?
ANSWER: Calliope
[10] What artist, who sued John Ruskin over a bad review, painted an "arrangement in grey and black" of
his mother?
ANSWER: James McNeill Whistler
[10] What composer of the musical Whistle Down the Wind also created Jesus Christ, Superstar and Cats?
ANSWER: Andrew Lloyd Webber
[10] One originator of the "whistle-stop campaign" was this Ohio kingmaker whose strategies put William
McKinley in the White House.
ANSWER: Mark Hanna
[10] A whistleblower played by Marlon Brando is shunned in this Elia Kazan-directed movie about a
corrupt union.
ANSWER: On the Waterfront
[10] Modern-day whistleblowers may wish to submit their material to WikiLeaks, an organization headed
by this acerbic Australian.
ANSWER: Julian Assange
[10] The drug haloperidol may suppress whistling and other involuntary muscle movements caused by
what neurological disorder that leads to tics and echolalia?
ANSWER: Tourette's syndrome
[10] Whistling "In the Hall of the Mountain King" gets a child-murderer played by Peter Lorre caught in
what Fritz Lang film named for a single letter chalked onto the criminal's coat?
ANSWER: M
[10] Whistling harmonics and quarter-tone clusters are among the techniques used to produce the eerie
sound in what Polish composer's Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima?
ANSWER: Krzysztof Penderecki
019-10-34-0610-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 11 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

PENNIES
[10] The "rage over a lost penny" is a rondo by what composer of the Hammerklavier and Appassionata
sonatas?
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
[10] The "Tenth Penny" tax and the cruelty of the Duke of Alba helped touch off the revolt that led to
independence for what present-day country from Spain?
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Holland; or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden]
[10] A penny-farthing is one type of what object, whose other varieties include the velocipede, the
fixed-gear, and the tandem?
ANSWER: a bicycle
[10] This star of the film Pennies from Heaven was known for singing "What a Wonderful World" and
playing his jazz trumpet with puffed cheeks.
ANSWER: Louis Armstrong
[10] The newspaper Penny Press was founded by this man, whose son merged his publishing empire with
that of Roy Howard in 1922.
ANSWER: Edward Willis Scripps
[10] Edward Penny's paintings were often inspired by the works of this author of Gulliver's Travels.
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
[10] Lizzie ""tossed them her penny" in what poem about sexualized fruit consumption written by Christina
Rossetti?
ANSWER: "Goblin Market"
[10] The pennycress is part of what plant family that also includes broccoli, cabbage, turnips, and the
source of a popular condiment?
ANSWER: mustards [or brassicaceae; or cruciferae]
[10] British children ask for "a penny for" the subject of what November 5 holiday, on which bonfires and
effigies are burned?
ANSWER: Guy Fakwes Day
[10] The "common penny" tax was instituted at what meeting that also condemned Martin Luther in 1521?
ANSWER: Diet of Worms
019-10-34-0610-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 12 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 6
12 20-Point Tossups
1. These structures may be governed by the theory of accelerating moment release, which would facilitate
efforts to predict their movement. You can measure the separation caused by these structures in terms of
both heave and throw. These structures are composed of both a hangingwall and a footwall. These
geological features come in dip-slip and strike-slip types. For 20 points, name these displacement-causing
fractures in rock.
ANSWER: faults [or fault lines]
026-10-34-06101

2. A self portrait of this artist wearing a cross on his black tunic and holding a palette can be seen in one of
his paintings. He included a cupid holding a mirror in his Rokeby Venus and painted the results of the siege
of a Dutch town in The Surrender of Breda. This artist painted a girl stepping on a dog and a dwarf in a
dress as the title attendants of the Infanta Margarita as court painter for Philip IV of Spain. For 20 points,
name this Spanish painter of Las Meninas.
ANSWER: Diego Velazquez
015-10-34-06102

3. Two figures, dressed in black and devoid of facial features, embrace in this painter's The Kiss, which
joins his Death in the Sick Room and The Vampire in his series The Frieze of Life. Another of his paintings
from that series was created during a time when the eruption of Krakatoa caused the northern European sky
to turn red, perhaps explaining the background of that painting, which depicts a bald figure clutching his
head. For 20 points, name this Norwegian painter.
ANSWER: Edvard Munch
019-10-34-06103

4. One of this artist’s paintings depicts Brutus sitting in the shadows as lictors bring his dead sons out to
him, while Hersilia, the wife of Romulus, separates two fighting men in his The Intervention of the Sabine
Women. Another painting by this man shows three brothers holding out their arms as their father holds
three swords, while another work shows a victim of Charlotte Corday lying in a bathtub. For 20 points,
name this French Neoclassical painter of The Oath of the Horatii and The Death of Marat.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
064-10-34-06104

5. The red-haired woman depicted in this painting also appears in its artist’s work Summertime and was
modeled on the artist’s wife Jo. This painting contains an advertisement for Phillies cigars and depicts
seven stools, one of which is occupied by a man in a fedora with his back towards the viewer. Supposedly
based on a restaurant in Greenwich Village, it also shows a worker in white looking up at a couple sitting at
the bar. For 20 points, name this Edward Hopper painting depicting three customers and a worker at a
late-night diner.
ANSWER: Nighthawks [do not accept “The Nighthawks”]
083-10-34-06105

6. This artist's direct influences included the theosophical revival meetings of Jiddu Krishnamurti and the
instruction of older painter Thomas Hart Benton. He was married to fellow painter Lee Krasner during the
time when he painted his iconic works Full Fathom Five and Lavender Mist. He called his technique
"action painting," which became a major subfield of the abstract expressionist movement. For 20 points,
name this painter who was known as "Jack the dripper" for his unorthodox methods.
ANSWER: Paul Jackson Pollock
019-10-34-06106
Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 13 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This painting’s companion piece, The Olive Trees, features a wispy, yellow cloud in the sky; both of
those pieces were created during the artist’s stay an asylum at Saint-Remy. A church steeple can be seen
near the center of this work, which also features a glowing yellow crescent moon in the upper right corner
and large, flamelike cypress trees in the foreground. For 20 points, name this painting featuring a swirling
deep blue sky dotted by the title celestial objects, which was created by Vincent Van Gogh.
ANSWER: The Starry Night [or De sterrennacht]
082-10-34-06107

8. On this instrument, one can play notes separated by a twelfth by hitting the register key. This instrument
is typically assembled from five parts, including the barrel and the bell. Aaron Copland wrote a concerto
for this instrument for Benny Goodman, and this instrument plays the opening solo glissando in George
Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue. For 20 points, name this woodwind staple of concert bands, a single reed
instrument with a pitch lower than the flute.
ANSWER: (B-flat) clarinet
003-10-34-06108

9. Sergei Prokofiev's Classical Symphony is in this key, as are Mozart's Haffner and Prague Symphonies.
Joseph Haydn's Miracle and Clock Symphonies are also in this key, which is the relative major of B Minor.
A guitar plays an "open" chord in this key by depressing the second fret on the first and third strings and
the third fret on the second string. A B flat instrument plays the root of this key to match a piano's C. For
20 points, name this major key with two sharps.
ANSWER: D major
003-10-34-06109

10. Derek Parfit’s "repugnant conclusion" argues against this school of thought by showing that it implies
the need to populate the earth with as many humans as physically possible. One of the originators of this
philosophy explained it using the “felicific calculus” in An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and
Legislation. It was later expanded upon in a namesake book of John Stuart Mill. For 20 points, name this
school of thought whose originator, Jeremy Bentham, explained it as advocating "the greatest good for the
greatest number."
ANSWER: utilitarianism
019-10-34-06110

11. In one story, the cloud nymph Nephele is created in the form of this goddess in order to trick Ixion. She
blinds Tiresias after he disagrees with her side of an argument. She curses Echo to a life of repeating the
words of others, and forces Leto to give birth on the floating island of Delos. She employs the
hundred-eyed giant Argus as a watchman and sends a gadfly to pursue Io around the world. She is often
depicted jealously punishing her husband’s love interests. For 20 points, name this wife of Zeus.
ANSWER: Hera [or Juno]
015-10-34-06111

12. According to one story, this man was carried up to the heavens during a storm, but not before
commanding the people to worship him as Quirinus. According to legend, he saw twelve vultures when his
brother only saw six, and he grew furious when his brother jumped over his wall. He killed Amulius and
restored his grandfather Numitor to the throne of Alba Longa. He was the son of Rhea Silvia and Mars, and
was fed by a she-wolf as a child. For 20 points, name this brother of Remus and founder of Rome.
ANSWER: Romulus
015-10-34-06112

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 14 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 6
Tiebreakers
1. In one story by this author, a man kills his wife when she stops him from killing the title animal, Pluto.
This author of “The Black Cat” also wrote a story in which Minister D hides the titular “purloined letter”
in plain sight. That story features the detective C. Auguste Dupin, who discovers that an orangutan is the
culprit in his story “The Murders in the Rue Morgue.” Another of his stories details Fortunato’s
imprisonment by Montresor. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Cask of Amontillado.”
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe
083-10-34-06131

2. Relics found near Gibraltar provide evidence to this species' Mousterian culture. Recent evidence
suggests this species may have cross-bred with homo sapiens. The first evidence of this species was
discovered in 1829 at Engis, and this species is named for a German valley where several early specimens
were discovered. This species had enlarged craniums and pronounced eyebrow ridges. For 10 points, name
this close relation of modern humankind that disappeared 25,000 years ago.
ANSWER: Neanderthals
002-10-34-06132

3. This man attempted to cast doubt on the guilt of Wayne Williams in the Atlanta child murder case in his
work The Evidence of Things Not Seen. His essays "Down at the Cross" and "My Dungeon Shook" make
up the book The Fire Next Time. This man also wrote a novel set in part at Harlem's Temple of the Fire
Baptized in which John Grimes experiences a religious conversion on his fourteenth birthday. For 10
points, name this African-American author of Go Tell it on the Mountain.
ANSWER: James Baldwin
030-10-34-06133

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 6 Page 15 of 15
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

