Colonia Tournament #2
Round 5
First Period, 20 Tossups
1. This principle explains why there is decreased solubility or ionization in a molecule through the common
ion effect. This principle does not apply after the introduction of a catalyst to a system. Stresses on a
system, such as a change in pressure, temperature, or concentration, cause the changes noted by this
principle. For 10 points, name this principle named for a Frenchman that describes how a chemical system
in equilibrium will respond to changes in order to establish a new equilibrium.
ANSWER: Le Chatelier's Principle [or Le Chatelier-Braun Principle]
023-10-34-05101

2. This figure added games in honor of Poseidon to the Isthmian Games, and this man got stuck in the
underworld after agreeing to help his friend Pirithous rescue Persephone. The son of Aegeus, this man
flung Sciron off a cliff. He also killed a man who hacked and racked people to fit into his bed; that man was
Procrustes. This man accomplished one of his tasks with the help of the daughter of Minos, Ariadne. For 10
points, name this Greek hero who slew the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
030-10-34-05102

3. The second part of this battle is also known as the Battle of Bemis Heights. The first part of this
engagement occurred at John Freeman's farm. Benedict Arnold suffered injuries to his leg at this battle.
John Burgoyne was the British commander here and Horatio Gates was the American commander at this
battle in New York. After this battle, France agreed to give military assistance to America. For 10 points,
name this fall of 1777 American victory in the Revolutionary War that was a major turning point in the
war.
ANSWER: Battle of Saratoga
001-10-34-05103

4. A coastline shares these shapes' property of having increasingly longer lengths when measured with
shorter and shorter rulers. Because of that property, when these shapes have a depth of infinity, they have
both an infinite perimeter and a finite area. Examples of these shapes include the Sierpinski gasket, the
Koch Snowflake, which is created by successively adding triangles to each side of an equilateral triangle,
and the Mandelbrot set. For 10 points, name these shapes which exhibit self-similarity on large scales.
ANSWER: fractals
004-10-34-05104

5. This quantity is thought to change as a result of the substitution and income effects according to the
Slutsky Identity, which relates its Marshallian and Hicksian types. Its namesake law is violated by Giffen
Goods, which unexpectedly exhibit it. It is expressed as a downward slope when graphed against price
since it usually decreases as price increases. Defined as the ability and willingness of people to buy a good,
for 10 points, name this quantity that, in a competitive market, must keep up with supply.
ANSWER: demand
079-10-34-05105

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 1 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This character meets an old man who derisively calls another man "Bilgewater" instead of
"Bridgewater." This character claims to be "George Jackson" while unwittingly inserting himself into a
feud between the Sheperdsons and the Grangerfords. This character misses a turn at Cairo (KAY-ro),
leading him and his traveling companion Jim down the Mississippi River on a raft. For 10 points, name this
character who witnesses a murder with his friend Tom Sawyer, a picaresque title character of a Mark
Twain novel.
ANSWER: Huckleberry Finn [accept either]
003-10-34-05106

7. This man wrote a play whose title character is a sorcerer whose liquor turns guests into monsters. In
addition to Comus, this man wrote "Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil" in an elegy written on the
drowning of Edward King, "Lycidas." In Book I of his most famous work, the palace of Pandemonium is
built and Beelzebub presents Satan's plan for revenge against God following their banishment from heaven.
For 10 points, name this English poet of Paradise Lost.
ANSWER: John Milton
030-10-34-05107

8. In one story, this god disguises himself as the farmhand Bolverk in a successful attempt to retrieve the
Mead of Poetry. This god sits atop the "high place" of Hlidskjalf, and that which he cannot see is recalled to
him by his two ever-circling ravens, Hugin and Munin. This god, who hung from the world tree on the
spear Gungnir to earn mastery of the runes, will be swallowed whole by the wolf Fenrir at Ragnarok. For
10 points, name this one-eyed chief god of the Norse pantheon.
ANSWER: Odin [or Wodinaz]
026-10-34-05108

9. This organ located in the sell turcica develops from a depression called Rathke’s pouch. Its anterior
section release two materials abbreviated LH and FSH. One material secreted by this organ sometimes
known as vasopressin regulates the body’s water retention while another material is released in females
during labor and breastfeeding. For 10 points, name this organ that secretes antidiuretic hormone, oxytocin,
and growth hormone, earning it the nickname the “master gland”.
ANSWER: pituitary gland
064-10-34-05109

10. This civilization used runners called chasquis (CHAHS-kees) who sent messages via strings of beads
called quipu (KEE-poo). The Aymara are one modern-day group that descends from these peoples. This
civilization built Machu Picchu. The last leader of this empire, Atahualpa (aht-ah-HWAHL-puh), was
overthrown by the conquistador Francisco Pizarro. For 10 points, name this pre-Columbian civilization that
was centered in Cuzco, which was located in modern-day Peru.
ANSWER: Inca Empire [or Incans]
026-10-34-05110

11. In plants, this element opposes the action of potassium to close stomata while in the body, the
sarcoplasmic reticulum stores and releases ions of this element. In the body this metal is typically found in
the form of hydroxyapatite and the parathyroid hormone increases concentration of it in the blood. This
element is also released into the blood through a process of resorption regulated by osteoclasts. In nature,
this metal is found in the minerals gypsum and limestone. For 10 points, name this alkaline earth metal
found in bones.
ANSWER: calcium
064-10-34-05111

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 2 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This piece was commissioned for the consecration ceremony of the new Cathedral of Christ the Savior.
The central conflict depicted in this composition is represented when the melody of the "Marseillaise"
(mar-say-EHZ) overtakes "God Preserve Thy People." After the final quoting of "God Save the Tsar,"
cannons are set off to celebrate the triumph of Russia's army over Napoleon's invasion force during the title
year of, for 10 points, what bombastic musical piece by Pyotr Tchaikovsky, that is often played at
American celebrations of July 4th?
ANSWER: The 1812 Overture [or The Year 1812: Festival Overture]
019-10-34-05112

13. In some bacterias, this process is carried out in molecules containing retinal similar to rhodopsin
("row"-DOP-sin). This process takes place in the mesophyll, the first part in the thylakoids and the second
part in the stroma. That second part of this process involves the creation of a glucose molecule during the
light-independent reaction, which includes the Calvin cycle. For 10 points, name this process by which
plants convert light energy into chemical energy using chlorophyll in chloroplasts.
ANSWER: photosynthesis
023-10-34-05113

14. Arguments for the winning side in this case were made by Linda Coffee and Sarah Weddington. Doe v.
Bolton was a companion to this case, which came to include the intervening of Dr. James Hallford. The
decision in this case was based in part on the precedent of the case Griswold v. Connecticut. The majority
decision in this case was written up by Harry Blackmun and supported the cause of Norma McCorvey. For
10 points, name this 1973 Supreme Court case that legalized abortions.
ANSWER: Roe v. Wade
023-10-34-05114

15. This country was known as the Kingdom of Alba for much of the Middle Ages. Its ancient alliance with
France was known as the "Auld Alliance." It was known as Caledonia to the Romans, and it was on the
losing side at the Battle of Culloden in the last of the Jacobite Rebellions. It won independence at the Battle
of Bannockburn under Robert the Bruce after an unsuccessful rebellion led by William Wallace. For 10
points, name this component of the United Kingdom found north of England with a capital at Edinburgh.
ANSWER: Scotland
015-10-34-05115

16. This city’s original NBA franchise moved in 1979 to Salt Lake City, and their current NBA franchise
moved in after the 2001-2002 season. This city is home to a stadium which has hosted, starting in 1978,
more Super Bowls than any other. That stadium is also known for the Sugar Bowl and for serving as a
makeshift shelter for many victims of Hurricane Katrina. For 10 points, name this city which is home to the
Hornets, and whose Louisiana Superdome hosts the NFL’s Saints.
ANSWER: New Orleans
082-10-34-05116

17. This author wrote a novella in which David Kepesh turns into the title body part. He included the short
story "The Conversion of the Jews" in his first book, Goodbye, Columbus. Nathan Zuckerman narrates his
novel The Human Stain. He also wrote a novel whose title character delivers a monologue about his sexual
exploits to his psychiatrist, Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this author of Portnoy's Complaint.
ANSWER: Philip Milton Roth
024-10-34-05117

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 3 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. Kendall notation allows one to characterize models based on actual instances of this structure.
Multilevel feedback scheduling uses these data structures. Double ended ones are possible while heaps and
their variants are typically used to implement priority ones. This data structure supports a front operation
and this data type is usually contrasted with a stack. For 10 points, name this data structure that is first in
first out and are exemplified by lines at grocery stores.
ANSWER: queue [prompt on FIFO]
001-10-34-05118

19. The process of dividing a region into areas of different risk and potential for these phenomena is called
microzonation ("MICRO"-"zone"-"nation"). These events are measured by the Mercalli intensity scale, and
generate Rayleigh and Love waves in addition to p and s waves. The location of origin for one of them is
called the hypocenter and the spot above it on the surface is called the epicenter. Their intensity can be
measured by the Richter scale. For 10 points, name these events in which the ground shakes.
ANSWER: earthquake
001-10-34-05119

20. This ruler had a summer residence in Potsdam built for him called Sanssouci Palace (san-SUE-see).
This monarch ushered in an era of modernization after winning the Silesian Wars and helping to oversee
the First Partition of Poland. This man disregarded the Pragmatic Sanction when he chose to initiate
fighting in the War of the Austrian Succession against Maria Theresa. For 10 points, name this enlightened
despot from the Hohenzollern line, a Prussian king who was succeeded by Frederick William II.
ANSWER: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II of Prussia; or Friedrich der Grosse; or Friedrich II; or
Old Fritz; or Alte Fritz; prompt on Frederick; prompt on Friedrich]
026-10-34-05120

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 4 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 5
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses
1. One of this man’s short stories centers on an apparatus that inscribes men’s bodies with the law they are
accused of breaking. This author of “In the Penal Colony” wrote a novel containing the “Parable of the
Man Before the Law”; in that novel, Joseph K. is executed despite committing no crime. One of this
author’s characters dies from an apple lodged in his back; that character, Gregor Samsa, discovers his
transformation into a disgusting insect. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Trial and “The
Metamorphosis.”
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
080-10-34-05121

2. This man wrote about a creature that “launch’d forth filament, filament, filament” in a poem about a
“noiseless patient spider.” He wrote “Flood-tide below me! I see you face to face!” in his “Crossing
Brooklyn Ferry.” He published a “deathbed edition” of his continually revised masterpiece, which includes
a poem beginning “I celebrate myself, and sing myself.” For 10 points, name this American poet who
included “Song of Myself” in his Leaves of Grass.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
015-10-34-05122

3. His first book criticized the rationality of Euripedes’ works, preferring the contrast between Apollonian
and Dionysian in Aeschylus and Sophocles. This writer critiqued Christianity as a slave morality in works
such as Beyond Good And Evil, and included a chapter entitled “Why I Write Such Good Books” in his
autobiography Ecce Homo. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who declared “God is dead” in
The Gay Science and imagined an “Ubermensch” in Also Sprach Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Freidrich Nietzsche
082-10-34-05123

4. This leader survived a crushing defeat at Dyrrhachium (deer-RAWK-ee-um) to win a civil war. He built
two concentric walls to besiege the city of Alesia, and wrote that "all of Gaul is divided into three parts"
after defeating Vercengetorix (vur-sin-GET-uh-riks) there. This husband of Calpurnia won the battle of
Pharsalus and made up the First Triumvirate with Crassus and Pompey. Like his lieutenant Mark Antony,
he fell in love with Cleopatra. For 10 points, name this Roman dictator who was killed by Brutus and
Cassius on the Ides of March.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar
015-10-34-05124

5. The main character of this play denies eating macaroons in the first act. The card that the syphilitic Dr.
Rank sends this work's protagonist is overshadowed by another letter, and Kristine Linde is a childhood
friend of the protagonis.. The bank employee Krogstad tries to blackmail the protagonist of this work
regarding her forging of a loan. This play ends with Torvald forgiving his wife and begging her to
reconsider her decision to leave the family. For 10 points, name this play about Nora Helmer, a work by
Henrik Ibsen.
ANSWER: A Doll's House
030-10-34-05125

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 5 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The monk Nennius described this man’s twelve battles, inspiring Geoffrey of Monmouth, who
popularized the exploits of this figure. This man is at the center of a series of twelve narrative poems by
Alfred Tennyson, Idylls of the King. In a Mark Twain novel, he employs a resident of Connecticut named
Hank Morgan. T. H. White is known for a four-part work about this man, whose “death” titles a work
written in prison by Thomas Mallory. For 10 points, name this legendary king who possesses a round table.
ANSWER: King Arthur
015-10-34-05126

7. This organ, which contains a region called the fundus, produces a glycoprotein used in vitamin B12
absorption called the intrinsic factor. It also contains G cells which stimulate production of a material
composed mainly of hydrochloric acid. This organ sends a material known as chyme from the pyloric
sphincter into the duodenum, the first portion of the small intestine. In cows, this organ is divided into four
compartments. For 10 points, name this main organ of the digestive system which breaks down food after
receiving it from the esophagus.
ANSWER: stomach
064-10-34-05127

8. He used parallel chords, or "planing", in a piano work inspired by the myth of Ys, his prelude "The
Sunken Cathedral". He parodied Clementi and Wagner in a set of piano pieces which opens with "Doctor
Gradus Ad Parnassum" and was written for his daughter. Another piano work by this composer ends with a
passepied, but is most famous for a D-flat major third movement inspired by a Verlaine poem. For 10
points, the Children's Corner suite was written by this French Impressionist whose Suite bergamesque
includes "Clair de lune".
ANSWER: Claude Debussy
082-10-34-05128

9. In one play by this author, the sight of the protagonist stoking a coal ship causes Mildred Douglas to
faint. In addition to that play about Yank, who dies in the hands of a zoo animal, this author wrote a trilogy
in which Orin, Adam Brant, and Lavinia act out themes similar to the Oresteia. This author of The Hairy
Ape wrote a play in which Mary's addiction to morphine paralyzes the Tyrone family. For 10 points, name
this American playwright of Mourning Becomes Electra and Long Day's Journey Into Night.
ANSWER: Eugene Gladstone O'Neill
026-10-34-05129

10. When this man told his family that he was running for president, his mother responded "President of
what?" This President initiated the SALT II talks and signed a treaty with Omar Torrijos (tor-REE-yos) that
returned the Canal Zone to Panama. Minutes after this President left office, the Iran hostage crisis ended.
This man was the main impulse behind Begin and Sadat signing the Camp David Accords. For 10 points,
name this Georgia peanut farmer who was elected president in 1976 after defeating the incumbent, Gerald
Ford.
ANSWER: Jimmy Carter [or James Earl Carter, Jr.]
026-10-34-05130

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 6 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

1. This religious practice is observed by most Chinese Buddhists, but is not common among Buddhists
elsewhere.
[5] For 5 points, what is this behavior, which is common among many Indian religious but not required by
Hinduism or Buddhism, and which involves refraining from the consumption of meat?
ANSWER: vegetarianism
[10] The only major world religion which requires vegetarianism of all its members is this Indian faith,
which was founded by Mahavira and observes the principle of "ahimsa" or total nonviolence.
ANSWER: Jainism
[15] In Jainism, there are twenty-four of these "bridge-building" prophets who bring revelation and conquer
evil, with Mahavira being the last one.
ANSWER: tirthankaras
[20] Tirthankara idols are worshipped by this sect of Jainism, which advocates monastic nudity and
opposes the Svetembara sect.
ANSWER: Digambara [or sky-clad Jains]
019-10-34-05101

2. Answer some questions about Norse mythology.
[5] The Norse gods live in this realm, which is connected to Midgard by the rainbow bridge Bifrost.
ANSWER: Asgard
[10] This wielder of Hofund guards the Bifrost with his incredible senses of sight and hearing.
ANSWER: Heimdall
[15] This wife of Thor once had her golden hair chopped off by Loki.
ANSWER: Sif
[20] Loki and Thor once tested their mettle by visiting the hall of their giant, who had Thor wrestle with
Death and Loki compete with Fire in an eating contest.
ANSWER: Utgard-Loki
080-10-34-05102

3. His introspective works include Reveries of a Solitary Walker and the 1782 Confessions.
[5] Identify this French philosopher, whose belief in the "general will" and human equality inspired many
of the principal men of the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] Rousseau's major work of political theory is this book, titled for a common theory on the origin of
government.
ANSWER: The Social Contract [or Du contrat social]
[15] The famous opening of the body of the first book of The Social Contract states that "man is born free,
and everywhere he is" this.
ANSWER: "in chains" [or "dans les fers"]
[20] This Rousseau book puts forth a model for childhood education and attracted controversy due to its
religious section narrated by a "Savoyard vicar" and the title character's relationship with the girl Sophie.
ANSWER: Emile
019-10-34-05103

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 7 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. This man gave the "House Divided" speech upon accepting the Republican nomination for Senator from
Illinois.
[5] Name this man who lost that 1858 election but, two years later, won the Presidential election.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
[10] Lincoln's opponent in the 1858 election was this incumbent Senator who also ran for President in
1860.
ANSWER: Stephen Arnold Douglas
[15] This "doctrine," best elucidated at its namesake debate, was Douglas's attempt to reconcile popular
sovereignty with the Dred Scott decision.
ANSWER: Freeport Doctrine
[20] The Chicago Press and Tribune declared Lincoln the winner of the debates after this seventh and last
one.
ANSWER: Alton
003-10-34-05104

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 8 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 5
Four 10-Part Team Rounds

RICE AND BEANS
AMERICANS
FIRE AND ICE
FANTASTIC BEASTS

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 9 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

RICE AND BEANS
[10] Rice University is located in this southern city.
ANSWER: Houston
[10] The Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion targeted the rulers of this dynasty, which was also targeted by the
mystic Zhang Jiao in the Yellow Turban Rebellion
ANSWER: Han dynasty
[10] _The Bean Eaters_ was written by this African American author, who wrote about a group who
“jazzed june” and will “die soon” in “We Real Cool”.
ANSWER: Gwendolyn Brooks
[10] Beans, like other legumes, perform this biological process which breaks a super-strong triple bond in
order to form ammonia.
ANSWER: Nitrogen fixation
[10] Golden rice has been genetically engineered to carry more of this vitamin, whose derivative is a
component of rhodopsin.
ANSWER: Vitamin A
[10] Elmer Rice is a playwright associated with this movement, whose abstract variety was promoted by
Helen Frankenthaler and the painter of The Moon Woman Cuts the Circle and Full Fathom Five.
ANSWER: Expressionist
[10] ‘Beantown’ is a nickname of this city, which was the site of the Charles River Bridge v Warren
Bridge case and a notable molasses disaster.
ANSWER: Boston
[10] This ancient Greek thinker believed eating beans was sinful. This man from Samos also showed that
the ratio of 2/3s was important to music.
ANSWER: Pythagoras
[10]Mr Bean is a comedic figure played by this British comedic actor, who also played Johnny English
ANSWER: Rowan Atkinson
[10]The Shinto god of rice, Inari, has animal messengers of this form. Exceptionally old ones in Shinto
myth can grow nine tails.
ANSWER: Fox
048-10-34-0510-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 10 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

AMERICANS
[10] What Serbian-born American championed AC current and feuded with Thomas Edison due to Edison's
championship of DC current?
ANSWER: Nikola Tesla
[10] The burning down of the Misistuck, known as the Mystic Massacre, occurred during this war between
a Northeast Indian tribe and the Massachusetts Bay and Plymouth colonies.
ANSWER: Pequot War
[10] Lynn Margulis was the foremost substantiator and supporter of this theory, which states that
mitochondria and chloroplasts developed from bacteria ingested by cells.
ANSWER: endosymbiotic theory
[10] What playwright wrote about the Salem Witch Trials in The Crucible?
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
[10] What philosopher founded and led the Transcendentalist movement.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
[10] This Father of American and Modern Anthropology founded the Columbia University Ph.D. program;
he also taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict.
ANSWER: Franz Boas
[10] What President of the United States was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction of justic by
the House of Representatives in 1998, but was acquitted by the Senate in 1999?
ANSWER: William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton [or William Jefferson Blythe III]
[10] Jane Addams and Ellen Gates Starr founded this settlement house in Chicago.
ANSWER: Hull House
[10] The author wrote about a seaman impressed aboard the HMS Bellipotent in Billy Budd.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
[10] What name was given to a brand of journalism, used extensively in New York City, that is short on
facts but long eye-catching headlines?
ANSWER: yellow journalism
066-10-34-0510-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 11 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

FIRE AND ICE
[10] What inhabitant of Seafoam Islands, an Ice-type Legendary bird, joined Zapdos and Moltres in the
original Pokemon games?
ANSWER: Articuno
[10] Snowball is driven out by Napoleon the pig in what allegorical George Orwell novel about Stalinism?
ANSWER: Animal Farm
[10] What seven-tongued Vedic god represents fire in old Hinduism?
ANSWER: Agni
[10] Tony Snow was press secretary for what 43rd president who attacked the Taliban to start the War on
Terror after 9/11?
ANSWER: George Walker Bush [accept Bush 43, Bush the Second, or other answers distinguishing him
from “George Herbert Walker Bush,” his father, but not “Bush Jr.”]
[10] Snow falls at the end of what collection’s short story “The Dead,” set by James Joyce in the namesake
city?
ANSWER: Dubliners [accept The Dead until the asterisk]
[10] In what ballet does Prince Ivan fights Kashchei the Immortal with a score by Stravinsky and the titular
incendiary creature to help him?
ANSWER: The Firebird [accept L’oiseau de feu; accept Zhar-ptitsa]
[10] What 20th century songwriter of “White Christmas” also wrote “There’s No Business Like Show
Business” and “God Bless America”?
ANSWER: Irving Berlin [accept Israel Isidore Baline]
[10] Who wrote the novels Snow and My Name is Red as a dissident in Turkey?
ANSWER: Orhan Pamuk
[10] An extra-long winter precedes what impending twilight of the gods from Norse mythology?
ANSWER: Ragnarök
[10] Fire Island is south of what island, itself south of a namesake “Sound” and home to the Hamptons,
Brooklyn, and Queens?
ANSWER: Long Island
104-10-34-0510-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 12 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

FANTASTIC BEASTS
[10] Sir Percival stabbed what serpent-headed target of knights of the Round Table?
ANSWER: the Questing Beast
[10] Macnair fails to execute what beast saved by the Time-Turner, a hippogriff friendly to Harry Potter?
ANSWER: Buckbeak [accept Witherwings]
[10] A seven-headed, ten-horned Beast appears with the Whore of Babylon in what Biblical book
predicting the end of the world?
ANSWER: Book of Revelation [accept Apocalypse of John or Apokalypsis]
[10] 2003 saw the death of what animal, who was “fantastic” for being the first cloned sheep?
ANSWER: Dolly the Sheep
[10] In what state did Francis Marion’s guerrilla tactics earn him the fantastic nickname “Swamp Fox”
before the battles of Camden and Cowpens?
ANSWER: _South Carolina
[10] The mythical “cinnamon bird” was described by what Greek who also described Xerxes in his role as
“Father of History”?
ANSWER: Herodotus
[10] What poet wrote of a beast with “lion body and the head of a man” in “The Second Coming” and
wrote “Easter, 1916” about his native Ireland?
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] What Canadian wrote of genetically mutated posthumans in Oryx and Crake and described a
woman-hating dystopia in The Handmaid’s Tale?
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor Atwood
[10] A lead-tipped arrow from Bellerophon killed what mythical Greek monster with lion, snake, and goat
parts?
ANSWER: the Chimera
[10] What Germanno-Norse hero slew the dragon Fafnir and went into a ring of fire to rescue the Valkyrie
Brynhild?
ANSWER: Sigurd [accept Sifrit or Siegfried]
104-10-34-0510-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 13 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 5
12 20-Point Tossups
1. These cells come in pyramidal and multipolar varieties. Protein synthesis in them takes place in Nissl
(NISS-uhl) bodies. One component of them is protected by a myelin (MY-uh-lin) sheath, which may be
formed of Schwann (SHVAHN) cells. They come in afferent and efferent types, which are also known as
sensory and motor, respectively. They consist of a soma, dendrites, and an axon, and transmit impulses
across synapses. For 20 points, name these cells of the nervous system.
ANSWER: neurons [accept nerve cells before "nervous"]
024-10-34-05101

2. This man composed a piece based on a Theodore Roosevelt speech in which Roosevelt preached the
virtues of strife. In addition to "The Strenuous Life," this man composed an opera whose title figure was
saved by Remus from being thrown into a wasp nest after protesting against her mother buying a "bag of
luck." That work was Treemonisha. Interest in his music was increased after several of his works, such as
"The Entertainer," were featured in the film The Sting. For 20 points, name this American composer, the
"King of Ragtime."
ANSWER: Scott Joplin
030-10-34-05102

3. Population inversion is achieved in diatomic nitrogen and in this molecule in order to produce infrared
light in the most commonly used form of laser industrially. In the body, a certain "anhydrase" enzyme
converts this molecule into an anion. The bond angles of this molecule are 180 degrees, thus making it the
textbook example of a molecule with linear geometry. At atmospheric pressure, it does not form a liquid,
instead undergoing deposition from its normal form into dry ice. For 20 points, identify this greenhouse
gas.
ANSWER: carbon dioxide [accept CO2 prior to mention]
020-10-34-05103

4. These species are formed from carbon in an intermediate step of E1 and SN1 reactions. Type A of these
species can be formed from alkali and alkaline earth metals. These species are created at the anode in an
electrochemical cell, and are most easily formed from elements with low ionization energies. These species
have an oxidation number equal to their positive charge. For 20 points, name these species that bind to
anions in ionic solutions, and which are positively charged ions.
ANSWER: cations [prompt on ions; accept carbocations before "Type A"; prompt on positively charged
ions or equivalents]
003-10-34-05104

5. The immense strain on cyclopropane (SY-clo-PRO-pain) is accounted for by the “banana” type of this
interaction. A delocalized “sea of electrons” is the defining feature of a type found in metals. Molecular
orbital theory was developed to fully understand this interaction, which involves the localization of charge
on one of two participating atoms in an ionic kind. For 20 points, identify this interaction between atoms
whose “single” and “double” varieties involve covalently sharing electrons.
ANSWER: chemical bonds
020-10-34-05105

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 14 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One extension of this law states that the efficiency of a Carnot cycle is equal to the difference in
temperature between the hot and cold reservoirs, divided by the temperature of the hot reservoir. One
variant of this law states that one can never achieve 100% efficiency, while another variant states that the
total entropy of the universe is increasing. For 20 points, name this law which most commonly states that
heat never spontaneously flows from a cold source to a hot source.
ANSWER: Second Law of Thermodynamics
064-10-34-05106

7. The Fermi form of this quantity results from charged particles interacting with moving magnetic clouds,
while Bremsstrahlung (BREM-"straw"-"lung") radiation results from charged particles with nonzero values
for it. The tangential velocity squared divided by the radius yields its centripetal form. The square of the
final velocity equals the square of final velocity plus twice the product of distance and this quantity. It is
measured in meters per second squared. For 20 points, name this rate of change of velocity.
ANSWER: acceleration
001-10-34-05107

8. One explanation of this developed by Bolzano includes using two Greek letters to define an error and a
distance. Known as the epsilon-delta definition of this function, L'Hopital's Rule gives a way to evaluate
this function using derivatives for certain expressions. Often used to evaluate functions from the right or
left side of an input, for 20 points, name this function that provides a value for an equation as it approaches
a particular point.
ANSWER: limit function
084-10-34-05108

9. This composer’s Clarinet Concerto was commissioned by Benny Goodman, while another of his works
opens and closes with the “Open Prairie” theme and depicts the capture of the titular outlaw. He set music
to the speeches of a certain President in his Lincoln Portrait and used timpani and a large brass ensemble
for his Fanfare for the Common Man. This composer of Billy the Kid also created such ballets as Rodeo
and one that includes the Shaker hymn “Simple Gifts.” For 20 points, name this American composer of
Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
083-10-34-05109

10. The seventh and final one of these compositions by Jean Sibelius is in the key of C minor, and consists
of only one movement. The fifth one composed by Gustav Mahler includes a fourth movement Adagietto.
Joseph Haydn composed over one hundred of them, causing him to become known as the "father" of this
musical form. Franz Schubert's final one is known as "the Great," while his eighth is nicknamed "the
Unfinished." For 20 points, name these musical works for a full orchestra.
ANSWER: symphony [or symphonies]
004-10-34-05110

11. Algorithms for completing this process include AES and DES, both of which use block cipher
algorithms. The asymmetric type of this process creates two components, on private and the other public, to
do this action.Output from machines that did this process made up the British ULTRA. One of those
machines was the Enigma machine. For 20 points, name this operation that uses keys to modify
information into unreadable and readable forms through the use of ciphers.
ANSWER: encryption [or cryptography]
023-10-34-05111

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 15 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. These devices are susceptible to a superparamagnetic limit. An important statistic of these devices is
their areal density. They come in 3.5 and 2.5 inch form factors. Their contents are divided into tracks,
cylinders, and sectors. A major component of their access time is seek time. These consist of platters over
which read/write heads move. Recently, some of these have been replaced by solid-state drives which use
flash memory. For 20 points, name these devices that store files on a computer and have capacities
measured in gigabytes and terabytes.
ANSWER: hard drive [or hard disk]
001-10-34-05112

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 16 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 5
Tiebreakers
1. The now-shrunken Lake Moeris was once connected by the Bahr Yussef canal into this river The farthest
reaches of this river are the infamously corpse-infested Akagera River and the Coptic-Church monastery
paradise of Lake Tana. The later is the source of a "Blue" namesake of this river, which possesses six
regions of rocky rapids known as Cataracts, the very first of which is at the sight of Aswan. For 10 points,
identify this river that flows through Upper and Lower Egypt.
ANSWER: Nile River
020-10-34-05131

2. The first generation of leptons consists of these particles and their respective neutrinos. The transitioning
of these particles is the basis for the Balmer series. The positron is the anti-particle of this particle, which
emits a photon when it drops in energy level. Robert Millikan determined their charge in the oil-drop
experiment. They were first discovered by J.J. Thomson and were the only particle in his "plum pudding"
model. For 10 points, name this negatively charged particle that orbits an atom’s nucleus.
ANSWER: electron
064-10-34-05132

3. In one opera written in this language, the title water nymph sings the “Hymn to the Moon.” In another
opera written in this language, the poacher Harasta kills the titular animal. This language of Rusalka was
used to write The Cunning Little Vixen, as well as the other operas of Leos Janacek ("YAHN"-uh-check).
This is also the language of operas such as The Brandenburgers of Bohemia and The Bartered Bride. For
10 points, name this language of nationalistic operas by Bedrich Smetana and Antonin Dvorak
(DVOR-zhak).
ANSWER: Czech [prompt on Slavic]
024-10-34-05133

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 5 Page 17 of 17
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

