Colonia Tournament #2
Round 3
First Period, 20 Tossups
1. The title character of this work entertains the idea of deceiving Andrew Hale into lending him money to
flee his home. One character claims that a ribbon in her hair is a "tribute to the unusual" at a dinner in
which a pickle dish is broken. At the end of this novel, which takes place in Starkfield, it is revealed that
the title character's wife Zeena has been caring for him and Mattie Silver ever since their sledding accident
twenty-four years earlier. For 10 points, name this novel about the title Massachusetts farmer by Edith
Wharton.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
030-10-34-03101

2. Among this man's inventions are an improved gyrocompass and, with Leo Szilard, a refrigerator that
cooled using only heat as an input. One formula attributed to this man states that energy equals Planck's
constant times the frequency of radiation. Another states that in the same reference frame, gravity and
acceleration are locally equal, and is known as the equivalence principle. A third formula states that rest
energy equals mass times the square of the speed of light. For 10 points, name this Swiss physicist who
explained the photoelectric effect, developed general relativity, and formulated the equation E equals m c
squared.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
003-10-34-03102

3. A group of these organizations are collected under the banner of the Change to Win Federation. The
largest of these in the United States is led by Dennis Van Roekel and opposes the policies of Michelle
Rhee. One of these organizations has the motto “Sí, se puede” and was founded by Cesar Chavez. One of
them was led by Samuel Gompers, and one of the first examples of these organizations was the Knights of
Labor. For 10 points, the the United Farm Workers and the AFL-CIO are examples of what organizations
which often agitate for better working conditions?
ANSWER: labor unions
015-10-34-03103

4. This man called the Second Council of Constantinople in order to resolve the Monophysite Controversy.
One of this ruler's reform efforts was overseen by Tribonian. The Secret History of Procopius is an account
of this man's reign. This ruler was opposed by the Blues and Greens in one rebellion. That revolt, the Nika
Riot, was suppressed by this man's general Belisarius. For 10 points, name this husband of Theodora, a
Byzantine emperor who oversaw the creation of his namesake legal code.
ANSWER: Justinian I
030-10-34-03104

5. The rate-limiting step in this pathway is catalyzed by phosphofructokinase
(FOSS-fo-FROOK-toe-KYE-nase) and, like the first step, requires a magnesium cofactor. The sixth step of
this pathway transfers a phosphate group to G3P and attaches a hydrogen to NAD+ (N-A-D-plus), while
the seventh step transfers that phosphate group to ADP, recouping two of the initial ATP inputs. The last
step of this pathway also creates ATP for a net of two ATP per input glucose molecule. For 10 points, name
this pathway that breaks down glucose.
ANSWER: glycolysis
003-10-34-03105

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 1 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One figure in this myth system is called Danu, while a goddess associated with horses is named Macha.
Another figure in this myth system is Goll mac Morna, who killed the father of a prominent figure who
burned his thumb while cooking the salmon of knowledge. That figure is from the Fenian cycle, while the
villain of the Ulster cycle is named Medb and led the Cattle Raid of Cooley. For 10 points, name this myth
system whose heroes include Fin MacCool and CuChulainn.
ANSWER: Irish myth
081-10-34-03106

7. The RAN protein is used for the transport of materials in and out of the pores of this organelle. Observed
with Hoechst and DAPI staining, this organelle, when found in tumors, contains Cajal bodies. Continuous
with the rough endoplasmic reticulum, this organelle is the site of histone proteins, as well as the
production of ribosomes and transcription of DNA. Not found in prokaryotes, for 10 points, name this
“control center” of the cell.
ANSWER: nucleus [or nuclei]
079-10-34-03107

8. These objects can develop large cracks called bergschrunds (BERG-shrunds), which can further lead to
the formation of cirques (SIRKS). The firn line separates the ablation and accumulation zones of these
objects. The movement of these masses is responsible for the creation of moraines and drumlins, which are
accumulations of till carried by these objects. These objects hold the majority of the world's fresh water.
For 10 points, name these large, flowing masses of ice.
ANSWER: glaciers
023-10-34-03108

9. Two atoms of this element are appended in the Birch Reduction. One isotope of this element replaces a
lighter isotope in a chloroform derivative used as a solvent in NMR. That isotope was discovered by Harold
Urey. A compound in which this element is combined with oxygen is broken down by the enzyme catalase
(CAT-uh-"lace"). Isotopes of this element include deuterium (doo-TAIR-ee-um) and tritium. Two of this
element fuse to create helium. For 10 points, name this lightest element.
ANSWER: hydrogen [or H]
081-10-34-03109

10. This author wrote a short story in which Dr. Rabin, the head of the title mental facility, dies of a stroke
after being institutionalized himself. This author of "Ward No. 6" wrote a play in which a man nicknamed
"Waffles" accompanies the title character, who angrily rejects Serebryakov's plan to move to Finland. In
another play by this author, the footman Firs is boarded up inside the title estate, which is sold by Madame
Ranevskaya. For 10 points, name this Russian playwright who wrote Uncle Vanya and The Cherry Orchard
.
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
026-10-34-03110

11. In one of this composer's ballets, the Lilac Fairy softens a curse placed by Carabosse, causing Princess
Aurora to sleep for a century. In another of his ballets, the evil Von Rothbart curses Odette to transform
into a swan every day, causing her to drown herself along with her lover Siegfried. A third of his ballets
contains the "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy," and begins with Herr Drosselmeyer giving the title toy to
Clara. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of The Sleeping Beauty, Swan Lake, and The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
040-10-34-03111

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 2 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. As part of a punishment, this character forces his children to read to the dying Mrs. Dubose for a
month. One argument made by this man focuses on how a left-handed person would be more likely to
produce a bruise on the right side of the face than a man with a shriveled left arm. At one point, this man’s
sister, Aunt Alexandra, stays at his house. He lives with his maid Calpurnia, and defends Tom Robinson on
charges of rape brought up by Mayella Ewell. For 10 points, name this father of Jem and Scout, a central
character in To Kill a Mockingbird.
ANSWER: Atticus Finch [prompt on “Finch”]
064-10-34-03112

13. One character in this novel is castrated after an incident arising from an unlocked gate. Another
character in this novel marries Herbert Head, which is one factor in her brother's decision to commit suicide
by jumping into the Charles River. Those characters are the mentally impaired Benjy, the promiscuous
Caddy, and the neurotic Quentin, all of whom are members of the Compson family. For 10 points, name
this novel by William Faulkner.
ANSWER: The Sound and the Fury
024-10-34-03113

14. This man’s return home was expedited when his lover murdered her brother Apsyrtus. Two of this
hero’s men, Zetes and Calais, drove the harpies away from Phineas. Sent from Iolchos by his conniving
uncle Pelias, this man arrived at Colchis, where Medea helped him obtain the golden fleece. This hero
sailed in a ship with a prophetic prow along with Greece’s greatest heroes. For 10 points, name this leader
of the Argonauts.
ANSWER: Jason
080-10-34-03114

15. Each part of these objects is examined once in a process called traversal. A specific type of these
objects is modified by the DSW Algorithm. Exemplified by scapegoat and red-black types, these objects,
when not completely sorted, are heaps. In the binary search type of these objects, the left side has nodes
with keys that are less than the keys on the right. For 10 points, name these data structures from computer
science that consist of root and leaf nodes.
ANSWER: trees
079-10-34-03115

16. This President defused the Newburgh Conspiracy and, in another post, was nearly replaced by Horatio
Gates due to the Conway Cabal. As President, he met with a French ambassador who tried to draw him into
war with Britain named Citizen Genêt (JUH-nay). His farewell address discouraged foreign alliances. The
signing of Jay’s Treaty and the Whiskey Rebellion occurred during the Presidency of this victor at Trenton
and Yorktown. For 10 points, name this man who appointed Alexander Hamilton as Secretary of the
Treasury as the first President.
ANSWER: George Washington
079-10-34-03116

17. The beginnings of this court case can be traced back to the efforts of George Rappelyea, who wished to
promote the mining industry in Dayton. Its defendant had violated the Butler Act. The defense attorney in
this case called the prosecutor up to the stand and questioned him about the validity of the Bible. Clarence
Darrow and William Jennings Bryan were the main figures of, for 10 points, what 1925 court case whose
defendant, a high school teacher, broke the law by teaching about evolution?
ANSWER: Scopes Monkey Trial [or The State of Tennessee v. Scopes]
083-10-34-03117

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 3 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. The ruling family during this period was symbolized by three hollyhock leaves. The golden age of this
period was the Genroku era. This period was established after its namesake founder won the Battle of
Sekigahara. During this period, which established its capital at Edo, only samurai were allowed to carry
swords. The country under this government was forced open by Matthew Perry and the Treaty of
Kanagawa. This period gave way to the Meiji Restoration in 1868. For 10 points, name this last shogunate
of Japan.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate [or Tokugawa Bakufu; or Edo Period before it is read]
080-10-34-03118

19. In RSA encryption, two of these numbers are multiplied together to create a public key. Proof of the
Riemann hypothesis would link the distribution of these numbers to solutions of the Riemann zeta function.
The Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic states that every positive integer greater than one is a unique
product of these numbers. For 10 points, name these numbers that are only divisible by themselves and one.
ANSWER: prime numbers
004-10-34-03119

20. One passage in this work exhorts the reader to “Drink! For you know not whence you came, nor why.”
An extended passage near the end of this work describes “loquacious vessels” of clay, one of whom
wonders “Who is the potter…and who the pot?” An oft-quoted verse in this poem warns that “The bird is on
the wing.” Famously translated by Edward Fitzgerald, this work describes “A Book of verses underneath
the bough / A jug of wine, a loaf of bread - and thou.” For 10 points, name this work of 101 quatrains,
written by the Farsi poet Omar Khayyam.
ANSWER: The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
080-10-34-03120

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 4 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 3
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses
1. This philosopher argued complex ideas, such as modes, substances, and relations, are created by
combining, comparing, or abstracting simple ideas. He claimed people have the natural right to objects they
mix their labor with in his book outlining a theory of government's based on the protection of private
property, his Second Treatise on Government. He distinguished between the primary and secondary
qualities of objects in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding. For 10 points, name this British
philosopher who argued that the mind was a tabula rasa, or blank slate.
ANSWER: John Locke
004-10-34-03121

2. This soldier worked with La Hire to rout John Fastolf at the Battle of Patay. This person met the Dauphin
Charles VII after lifting the siege at Orleans on the alleged instructions of Saint Michael, Saint Catherine,
and Saint Margaret. Eventually, this woman was captured by Burgundians and sold to the English, who
burned her for witchcraft and heresy. For 10 points, name this woman who was sainted in 1920, and who
served for a time as a successful French military leader during the Hundred Years War.
ANSWER: Joan of Arc [or the Maid of Orleans; or Jeanne D’Arc; prompt on Joan]
015-10-34-03122

3. Pieces within this opera include the trio “Zitti, zitti” and the aria “Una voce poco fa.” One character in
this opera pretends to be the student Lindoro in order to deceive Dr. Bartolo. The title character of this
opera repeatedly sings the phrase “della citta” in one aria. That title character aids Count Almaviva in
wooing Rosina and sings the aria “Largo al Factotum.” For 10 points, name this opera buffa about the
servant Figaro, composed by Gioacchino Rossini.
ANSWER: The Barber of Seville [or Il Barbiere di Siviglia]
080-10-34-03123

4. One character in this novel marries his true love after being disinherited for his earlier relationship with
Lucy Steele. Another character in this novel, Fanny, refuses to allow her brother to love her sister-in-law,
driving the latter to depart for the cottage of John Middleton. One of this novel’s protagonists enters into a
whirlwind romance with John Willoughby, who soon abandons her. This novel resolves with Colonel
Brandon and Edward Ferrars respectively marrying Elinor and Marianne Dashwood. For 10 points, name
this Jane Austen novel which contrasts Elinor’s good judgment with Marianne’s impulsiveness.
ANSWER: Sense and Sensibility
080-10-34-03124

5. The Coco River forms part of this country’s southern border, and it also contains Lake Yajoa
(yah-HO-ah) in its west. The port city of Amapala can be found on its access to the Pacific Ocean. The Bay
Islands are off its northern shore in the Caribbean Sea. In addition to containing the majority of the Gulf of
Fonseca, this country also borders Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala. For 10 points, name this Central
American country with its capital at Tegucigalpa (teh-GOO-CHEE-gul-pah).
ANSWER: Republic of Honduras
083-10-34-03125

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 5 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This composer set works by the poet Hermann Mueller in his song cycle Die schoene Muellerin and
another cycle that ends with a musical depiction of a hurdy-gurdy man. This composer of Winterreise also
wrote a "Little" and a "Great" C-major symphony. He used the song "Die Forelle" as the basis of his Piano
Quintet in A Major. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Trout Quintet who composed
hundreds of Lieder in addition to his eighth, "Unfinished" symphony.
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert
026-10-34-03126

7. This city was evacuated by William Berkeley when it was attacked and then burned to the ground during
Bacon's Rebellion. This settlement was started by colonists carried by three ships under Christopher
Newport. One settler in this colony developed a new form of tobacco and was named John Rolfe. This
settlement went through a Starving Time before relations with the Powhatan improved. For 10 points, name
this colony that was home for a time to Pocahontas and John Smith and served as the first permanent
English settlement in North America.
ANSWER: Jamestown Settlement [or Jamestown Colony]
023-10-34-03127

8. One of this man’s works, which features a character whose initials are HCE, begins and ends with two
halves of the same sentence, and introduced the word “quark” to the English language. Another of his
works begins with a “moocow” coming down the road to meet a “baby tuckoo.” That baby, Stephen
Dedalus, also appears in his massive novel about one day, 16 June 1904, in the life of Leopold Bloom. For
10 points, name this author of Finnegans Wake, A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man, and Ulysses.
ANSWER: James Augustine Aloysius Joyce
082-10-34-03128

9. In 1941, the British used this location as a rear guard stand while evacuating from Volos and Piraeus. A
battle here occurred five days after the victors landed at Anthela. This battle was won after the troops of
one side followed Ephialtes around the defenders' position, which was concentrated at the Middle Gate.
That maneuver ended a two-day assault by the Ten Thousand Immortals of Persia against a small force of
hoplites. For 10 points, name these "hot gates" that were the location of the last stand of the Spartan king
Leonidas.
ANSWER: Thermopylae
003-10-34-03129

10. A constant named for these substances appears in the Henderson-Hasselbalch (HOSS-el-bock)
equation. That constant, their namesake "dissociation constant," measures their strength in solution. Lewis
defined them as electron pair acceptors, while Bronsted and Lowry defined them as proton donors,
contrasting them with proton receivers, or bases. For 10 points, name these substances which have a pH of
less than seven.
ANSWER: acids
024-10-34-03130

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 6 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

1. Name these Greek gods.
[5] This twin brother of Artemis presided over healing, music, and the sun.
ANSWER: Apollo
[10] This wine god was the son of Zeus and Semele.
ANSWER: Dionysus
[15] This son of Aphrodite was the Greek analog of Cupid.
ANSWER: Eros
[20] This god of terror was the son of Ares and twin brother of Phobos.
ANSWER: Deimos
015-10-34-03101

2. Answer these questions about philosophers who questioned the existence of everything as we perceive it.
[5] This French author of Meditations on First Philosophy and Discourse on Method resolved his doubts
with the proposition “I think, therefore I am.” He also invented coordinate graphing.
ANSWER: René Descartes [accept Renatus Cartesius]
[10] This Irish bishop denied the existence of material objects outright, claiming only sense data exists. He
wrote that “To be is to be perceived,” and names a West Coast university.
ANSWER: George Berkeley, Bishop of Cloyne [BARK-lee]
[15] This pessimistic German claimed physical processes such as electricity or gravity arise from the will
of the Thing in Itself in his The World as Will and Representation
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
[20] This man dealt with the “brain in a vat” possibility in Reason, Truth, and History. His “The Meaning
of Meaning” proposed a world in which a substance exactly like water is named XYZ, the Twin Earth
thought experiment.
ANSWER: Hilary Putnam
104-10-34-03102

3. Name these British poets.
[5] This author of Hamlet also wrote sonnets like “Shall I compare thee to a Summer's day?”
ANSWER: William Shakespeare
[10] This poet included Gloriana and the Red Cross Knight in his The Faerie Queen.
ANSWER: Edmund Spenser
[15] This author of “The Flea” and “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning” wrote “No man is an island” in
his Meditation 17.
ANSWER: John Donne
[20] This poet wrote Crow and Tales from Ovid in addition to writing some Birthday Letters to his dead
wife.
ANSWER: Ted Hughes
015-10-34-03103

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 7 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Name these Romantic composers.
[5] This Polish piano virtuoso composed the Minute Waltz and the Nocturne in E-flat major.
ANSWER: Frederic Chopin
[10] This Hungarian pianist composed a number of Hungarian Rhapsodies and invented the symphonic
poem.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt [or Ferenc Liszt]
[15] Liszt was friends with this Italian violin virtuoso, who composed 24 caprices.
ANSWER: Niccolo Paganini
[20] This Frenchman's lesser-known works include a Grand Messe de Morts and a symphony with a
notable viola solo based on a Lord Byron poem.
ANSWER: Hector Berlioz
080-10-34-03104

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 8 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 3
Four 10-Part Team Rounds

GRAB-BAG
ROME
THE LETTER "F"
GERMANY

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 9 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

GRAB-BAG
[10] This namesake of a medieval chanson de geste wields Durandal and is killed at the Battle of
Roncevalles.
ANSWER: Roland
[10] The Reformatsky reaction couples one of these functional groups with an ester. These functional
groups are composed of a carbonyl group linked to two carbon chains.
ANSWER: aldehydes
[10] The newspaper Il Risorgimento was founded by this Italian politician, who later became the first
Italian prime minister.
ANSWER: Count of Cavour [or Camillo Benso]
[10] This Belgian surrealist painted The Treachery of Images and Time Transfixed.
ANSWER: Rene Magritte
[10] The squirrel Ratatosk resided on this “world-tree” of Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Yggdrassil
[10] This American realist wrote A Hazard of New Fortunes and The Rise of Silas Lapham.
ANSWER: William Dean Howells
[10] Rafael Alberti was a member of this Spanish literary group, which also included Federico Garcia
Lorca.
ANSWER: Generation of ‘98 [or Generacion del Noventaiocho]
[10] Robert Peel repealed these British tariffs, which protected grain prices on the isle.
ANSWER: Corn Laws
[10] What naturalist developed the concept of natural selection in his book On the Origin of Species?
ANSWER: Charles Darwin
[10] What American author of The Corrections wrote 2010's best selling Freedom?
ANSWER: Jonathan Franzen
080-10-34-0310-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 10 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

ROME
[10] This Roman orator thwarted the Catilinarian Conspiracy, in addition to writing Pro Archia and Pro
Caelio.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero
[10] This Neoclassical sculptor’s works include Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker and Paulina Borghese
as Venus Victrix.
ANSWER: Antonio Canova
[10] This Polish author wrote about Nero’s burning of Rome in _Quo Vadis_.
ANSWER: Henryk Sienkiewicz
[10] This man declared himself First Consul during the French Revolution, and, many years later, was
defeated at Waterloo.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon Bonaparte]
[10] This figure was the goddess of the hearth in the Greek pantheon.
ANSWER: Hestia
[10] Washington, Knox, Lafayette, and other Revolutionary War veterans formed this correspondence
group after the war.
ANSWER: Society of the Cincinnati
[10] Snorri Sturluson claimed that the Norse gods were descended from Priam in the preface to this work,
with a “Poetic” counterpart.
ANSWER: Prose Edda [or the Younger Edda
[10] Galen theorized that the functions of the body were regulated by four of these, including black bile and
blood.
ANSWER: humors
[10] What rival of Sulla was appointed consul seven times and reformed the Roman armies?
ANSWER: Gaius Marius
[10] How many hills was Rome built on?
ANSWER: seven
080-10-34-0310-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 11 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

THE LETTER "F"
[10] Peyton Farquhar is executed in this author’s “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.” He also wrote
“The Devil’s Dictionary.”
ANSWER: Ambrose Bierce
[10] Three False Dimitris arose during this problematic period in Russian history, which also saw the reign
of Boris Godunov.
ANSWER: Time of Troubles
[10] Le Fantome de l’Opera was written by this French author.
ANSWER: Gaston Leroux
[10] Umberto Boccioni and Giacomo Balla were part of this art movement, which emphasized the glory of
modern machinery, noise, and chaos.
ANSWER: Futurism
[10] This other Italian directed La Strada and 8 1/2.
ANSWER: Federico Fellini
[10] Buckyballs and carbon nanotubes are forms of these molecules, composed entirely of carbons.
ANSWER: fullerenes
[10] “O Fortuna” is the most famous section of this dramatic cantata by Carl Orff.
ANSWER: Carmina Burana
[10] Alecto is one of these winged beings, who punish the guilty in Greek mythology.
ANSWER: The Furies [or the Eumenides]
[10] What is the currently accepted model of cell membrane structure?
ANSWER: fluid mosaic model
[10] What anti-slavery president rose to the presidency after the death of Zachary Taylor?
ANSWER: Millard Fillmore
080-10-34-0310-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 12 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

GERMANY
[10] This early chancellor of West Germany promulgated the Hallstein Doctrine and rebuilt the country’s
economy with the help of Ludwig Erhard.
ANSWER: Konrad Adenauer
[10] This German author wrote novels such as The Magic Mountain and Buddenbrooks.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
[10] This Germanic epic tells the story of Sigurd and the Volsungs.
ANSWER: The Nibelunglied [or the Song of the Nibelungs]
[10] Adolf Hitler annexed Austria in this event, which means “the joining.”
ANSWER: Anschluss
[10] This German composed The Song of the Earth and the Resurrection Symphony.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
[10] German physicist Karl Schwarzchild names a “radius” that describes the event horizon of one of these
dark objects in space.
ANSWER: black holes
[10] This German Romantic artist painted Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog.
ANSWER: Caspar David Friedrich
[10] Germanic tribes under Arminius destroyed three Roman legions under Varus at this disastrous battle.
ANSWER: Battle of the Teutoburg Forest
[10] The German legislature meets in what Berlin building?
ANSWER: the Reichstag
[10] What city served as the capital of West Germany for most of the Cold War?
ANSWER: Bonn
080-10-34-0310-3

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 13 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 3
12 20-Point Tossups
1. This city is located near Sugarloaf Mountain and its attractions include the Roman style aqueduct Arcos
da Lapa and the Tijuca rainforest. Residents of this city are often called Cariocas, and it houses the Estadio
do Maracana, the largest arena on its continent. Beaches near this city include Ipanema and Copaccabana.
The Christ the Redeemer statue can be found in this city, which was the capital of its country until the
creation of the planned city of Brasilia. For 20 points, name this tourist hotspot.
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro
015-10-34-03101

2. The Batanes and Babuyan Islands are located in a strait north of this nation, whose center is governed by
the Visaya administrative region. Containing such rivers as the Pasig and Cagayan, its highest point, Mt.
Apo, is located on its second largest island. A better-known peak, however, is a volcano whose 1991
eruption was the second largest of the 20th century. Most its population lives on the islands of Mindinao
and Luzon, which contains the aforementioned Mount Pinatubo. For 20 points, name this Asian nation.
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines
083-10-34-03102

3. This man wrote a three volume epic poem about history from the Old Testament to the 19th century
entitled The Legend of the Centuries. In a play by this man, the tutor Ruy Gomez poisons Dona Sol and the
title bandit. That play by this man is Hernani. This man also wrote a novel that includes the innkeepers the
Thénardiers, who mistreat Cosette. That novel also focuses on Inspector Javert's pursuit of Jean Valjean.
For 20 points, name this French author.
ANSWER: Victor-Marie Connard Hugo
030-10-34-03103

4. A character in this novel wins 43,000 rubles playing faro; the loser is unable to marry his cousin Sonya,
and instead must save his fiancée Marya from an uprising of serfs. The lucky gambler, Nikolay Rostov,
also hits on Helene and survives the resultant duel with this novel’s protagonist, Pierre Bezhukov. Pierre
seeks glory by joining the fight against Napoleon in, for 20 points, what sprawling novel about the defense
of Russia by Leo Tolstoy?
ANSWER: War and Peace [or Voyna i Mir]
019-10-34-03104

5. In this work's longest chapter, which includes Thomas Carew's poem "The Pretensions of Poverty," its
author describes in great detail the cost and building supplies of his home. It notes that if someone is out of
step with his companions it is because he hears a "different drummer," and it describes the author's solitude
in radically reduced conditions. Subtitled "Life in the Woods," for 20 points, what is this work by Henry
David Thoreau named for the pond near which he stayed?
ANSWER: Walden
084-10-34-03105

6. The title of this play was allegedly discovered in the bathroom of a New York City bar. One character in
this play tells her husband, "if you existed, I'd divorce you," and makes fun of his failed attempts at writing
a novel and his inability to become the head of the history department. The other couple in this play
married due to a "hysterical pregnancy" and chooses not to have children, unlike the older couple who
merely pretends to have a son. For 20 points, name this Edward Albee play in which Martha responds, "I
am!" to the title question.
ANSWER: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
003-10-34-03106
Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 14 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. In one poem, this man wonders if the title figure seeks “the plashy brink” or “marge of river wide” and
concludes confidently that God will “lead” his “steps aright.” In that poem, this man asks the title bird
“Whither... thou dost thou pursue thy solitary way?” This poet opened another work by considering “him
who in the love of nature holds communion with her visible forms.” For 20 points, name this American
poet of “To a Waterfowl” who also wrote a “meditation on death” called “Thanatopsis.”
ANSWER: William Cullen Bryant
080-10-34-03107

8. This story describes a school which thieves might access easily but not be able to escape, an idea taken
“from the mystery of an eelpot” by architect Yost Van Houten. This story describes a figure’s dancing
attracting the attention of all the blacks at a party hosted by Old Baltus Van Tassel. After that party, the
protagonist is run out of town by the ghost of a Hessian, leaving Katrina to marry Brom Bones. For 20
points, identify this story from the Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon by Washington Irving.
ANSWER: “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow”
020-10-34-03108

9. This country’s sixteen regions were established in 2002 to follow natural watershed boundaries. In
addition, it administers several territories, including the Chatham Islands and Tokelau. Southeast of the
Tasman Sea, it was home to the extinct moa, who were hunted to extinction by its indigenous Maori
peoples. The Cook Strait separates the two main landmasses of this nation also home to the kiwi bird. For
20 points, name this Pacific nation with capital Wellington and largest city Auckland, which has a North
and South Island.
ANSWER: New Zealand
082-10-34-03109

10. After the main character in this work runs away from the Grinby and Murdstone warehouse, Betsy
Trotwood becomes his guardian. The title character of this work befriends Tommy Traddles and James
Steerforth at the boarding school he is sent to, Salem House. He also befriends Peggotty and Wilkins
Micawber. For 20 points, name this novel about a young boy who is despised by Uriah Heep.
ANSWER: The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of David Copperfield the
Younger of Blunderstone Rookery (which he never meant to publish on any account)
084-10-34-03110

11. The speaker of one of this man's poems says "I am not Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be" and asks
"Do I dare to eat a peach?" The phrase "Hurry up please it's time" is repeated in "A Game of Chess," the
second section of one of his poems. That poem, whose other sections include "What the Thunder Said" and
"The Burial of the Dead," begins "April is the cruellest month." For 20 points, name this poet.
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot
045-10-34-03111

12. The man who planned this event, Bayard Rustin, was kept behind the scenes of this event by Roy
Wilkins due to his homosexuality. At this event, UAW president Walter Reuther stated, "We cannot defend
freedom in Berlin so long as we deny freedom in Birmingham." Another speaker at this event stated that
America defaulted on a promissory note and the nation should not "overlook the urgency of the moment."
For 20 points, name this rally around the steps of the Lincoln Memorial at which Martin Luther King, Jr.,
gave his "I Have a Dream" speech.
ANSWER: The March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom [or 1963 March on Washington; or
reasonable equivalents such as King's March on Washington; prompt on I Have a Dream before
mentioned;]
030-10-34-03112

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 15 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Colonia Tournament #2
Round 3
Tiebreakers
1. In one play written by an author from this country, Crispin attempts to set up Leander and Sylvia. In
addition to being the homeland of the author of The Bonds of Interest, it is the homeland of the dramatist of
The Dog in the Manger and The Sheep Well. Jacinto Benavente (ha-SEEN-toe bay-nuh-VEN-tay) hails
from this country, as does the author of The Trickster of Seville, Tirso de Molina. For 10 points, name this
nation home to Lope (LOW-pay) de Vega and Federico García Lorca.
ANSWER: Spain
040-10-34-03131

2. One disease caused by the lack of one of these compounds comes in wet and dry forms. The autoimmune
deficiency of one of these compounds is called pernicious anemia. Pregnant women take supplements
containing the ninth of these compounds, which is called folic acid. For 10 points, name this class of
compounds that includes niacin and thiamine, a class of vitamins.
ANSWER: B vitamins [prompt on vitamins; or B complex vitamins]
026-10-34-03132

3. Some women in this novel snack on a husband’s gift of bonbons and observe a bilingual parrot. The
protagonist of this novel attends the races with Mrs. Highcamp and is moved to tears by Madame Reisz’s
performance of a Chopin impromptu. Adèle Ratignolle’s fidelity contrasts with this novel’s protagonist,
who cuckolds Léonce by carrying on an affair with Alcée. This book ends when the protagonist is rejected
by her true love, Robert Lebrun, and drowns herself. For 10 points, name this novel about Edna
Pontellier’s arousal, a work of Kate Chopin.
ANSWER: The Awakening
079-10-34-03133

Colonia Tournament #2 Round 3 Page 16 of 16
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

