VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 3
First Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. Taking derivatives of a quantity found in an equation named for this man gives the Christoffel
(kri-STAH-ful) symbols; that quantity is the metric tensor, which is multiplied by lambda in this man's
namesake field equations. He called the cosmological constant his greatest blunder, and one of his theories
predicted the precession of the perihelion of Mercury. For 10 points, name this scientist, who posited that
mass curves space in order to create gravity in his theory of general relativity.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
048-13-95-03101

2. The oldest fire-resistant building still standing in America is located in this city. Gian Carlo Menotti
established the Spoleto Festival in this city. This city is home to an array of vivid pastel-colored houses
known as Rainbow Row, and the Wando and Stono Rivers empty into its coast. A namesake tune by James
P. Johnson served as the basis for a wildly popular 1920s dance craze named for this city. For 10 points,
identify this coastal South Carolina city.
ANSWER: Charleston
020-13-95-03102

3. The blind King John of Bohemia fought in this conflict, and John's motto was adopted by the winner of
this war's Battle of Najera (nah-HER-uh). One side in this conflict lost most of its fleet in the Battle of
Sluys (SLOYZ), and the Black Prince won at Poitiers (PWAH-tee-eh) in this war. It began with Edward
III's claim on a throne occupied by the House of Valois (val-WAH). For 10 points, name this war during
which Joan of Arc was burned at the stake, which was waged for roughly a century.
ANSWER: Hundred Years War [or Guerre de Cent Ans]
141-13-95-03103

4. Aphakia (uh-FAY-key-uh) is an absence of this structure, which is often displaced in a type of ectopia
suffered by people with Marfan's syndrome. The hyaloid artery supplies this structure in infants, and its
fibers contain alpha, beta, and gamma-crystallin. This structure is held in place by the zonule fibers, which
attach to the ciliary muscle. It is responsible for accommodation when it is stretched and is clouded by
cataracts. For 10 points, name this structure that focuses light in the eye along with the cornea.
ANSWER: crystalline lens [prompt on eye]
048-13-95-03104

5. Examples of this poetic form include a poem that repeats the line “I learn by going where I have to go.”
In addition to Theodore Roethke’s “The Waking,” another example of this poetic form ends with the line,
“Rage, rage against the dying of the light.” This poetic form exemplified by Dylan Thomas’s “Do Not Go
Gentle Into That Good Night” consists of five tercets and one quatrain structured around two lines that act
as refrains. For 10 points, name this poetic form with a French name.
ANSWER: villanelle
134-13-95-03105

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 1 of 9

6. Diane and Mary save this character from starvation at the Moor House, and in return, this character
refuses to marry their brother and move to India. Mr. Brocklehurst abuses this character at the Lowood
Institute. She first comes to Thornfield Hall as a tutor for Adele Varens. This woman’s marriage is
interrupted by the revelation that Bertha Mason, a madwoman, lives in her employer’s attic. For 10 points,
name this woman who marries Mr. Rochester at the end of a novel by Charlotte Bronte.
ANSWER: Jane Eyre [or Jane Eyre]
190-13-95-03106

7. A song by Arthur Herzog and this singer notes that, "Them that's got shall get, Them that's not shall
lose." Frank O'Hara wrote a poem about the day this singer died. This singer received her nickname from
her frequent collaborator Lester Young. She sang about "Blood on the leaves and blood at the root" in a
song by Abel Meropool that she popularized. For 10 points, name this jazz singer who was nicknamed
"Lady Day," wrote Lady Sings the Blues, and sang the anti-lynching piece "Strange Fruit."
ANSWER: Billie Holiday [or Elinore Harris; prompt on Lady Day until it is read]
030-13-95-03107

8. In this symphony, the cellos and basses play a recitative-like passage unaccompanied. This symphony
was one of the earliest to have its slow movement come after its scherzo movement, which is 6/8 and in the
"Turkish style." Critics often note the resemblance in the finales of this symphony and Brahms's First. The
final word "Gotterfunken" is from a part its composer wrote to complement Schiller's "Ode to Joy" in the
fourth movement. For 10 points, name this symphony which uses voices, the last by Beethoven.
ANSWER: Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 in D minor, Op. 125 [or Beethoven's Ninth; or Choral
Symphony; accept 9 or ninth after the entire question has been read]
020-13-95-03108

9. One kind of this technique exposes the sample to a magnetic pulse and measures electron density on a
plot with chemical shift versus absorption strength. Another kind of it measures the relaxation of vibrations
within a molecule after excitation with light that has a wavelength longer than visible light. These
techniques gather information about a molecule through interaction with light energy. For 10 points,
identify this kind of laboratory technique which has NMR and infrared types.
ANSWER: spectroscopy [or NMR spectroscopy; or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy; or IR
spectroscopy; or infrared spectroscopy]
239-13-95-03109

10. In this play’s fourth scene, a character tells a story about a magician who escapes a locked coffin
without removing a nail. Another character in this play pretends that an inanimate object had an
“operation” to make him feel “less freakish.” In this play, Amanda, a Southern belle, persuades her
daughter to accept a visit by Jim O’Connor, but during the visit, Jim breaks a unicorn figurine. For 10
points, name this play about Tom and Laura Wingfield, written by Tennessee Williams.
ANSWER: The Glass Menagerie
190-13-95-03110

11. In 2012, this man ordered the bombing of a Sudanese arms factory. He has called Hassan Rouhani a
"wolf in sheep's clothing" at the U.N. He gave a wildly applauded speech to the U.S. Congress in 2011
where he refused to accept the pre-1967 borders for his country. His government now includes Tzipi Livni,
and his defense secretary is Ehud Barak of the Labor Party. For 10 points, name this Likud (lick-OOD)
Party leader and current Prime Minister of Israel.
ANSWER: Benjamin "Bibi" Netanyahu
027-13-95-03111

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 2 of 9

12. While riding in a taxi in this country, a character says “Isn’t it pretty to think so?” to his ex-lover. That
novel set in this country features the former Princeton boxing champion Robert Cohn and the wounded war
veteran Jake Barnes. In another novel, Robert Jordan goes to this country to blow up a bridge during a civil
war. For 10 points, name this country that is the setting of For Whom the Bell Tolls and The Sun Also Rises,
the latter of which prominently features bullfights.
ANSWER: Spain
052-13-95-03112

13. The Dvorak (div-ORE-ack) technique is used to measure the strength of these systems. A score of
twelve or higher on the Beaufort wind scale is given to these systems. Rain bands extend out from the
center of these systems. These systems rotate counter-clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere due to the
Coriolis effect. For 10 points, identify these large storms that tend to batter the Gulf Coast and Eastern
seaboard.
ANSWER: hurricanes [or tropical cyclones; or tropical storms; or tropical depressions; or typhoons;
prompt on thunderstorms]
239-13-95-03113

14. This man used the phrase "no controlling legal authority" to defend his attendance at a fundraiser at a
Buddhist temple. This politician's wife joined Susan Baker to found the Parents Music Resource Center. He
defeated Bill Bradley in the primaries of his Presidential campaign and picked Joe Lieberman as his
running mate. He won a Nobel Peace Prize for exploring global warming in his book and film An
Inconvenient Truth,. For 10 points, name this man who was Bill Clinton's Vice President.
ANSWER: Albert "Al" Gore Jr.
052-13-95-03114

15. Originally, ninety-two metopes (meh-TOH-payz) in this building depicted the Gigantomachy,
Amazonomachy, and Centauromachy. A festival procession focused on a robe called a peplos is depicted
on this building's namesake frieze. The British Museum now houses many marble sculptures stolen from
this building by Lord Elgin. For this building, Phidias sculpted a depiction of Athena, its dedicatee. For 10
points, name this temple on the Acropolis in Greece.
ANSWER: Parthenon
190-13-95-03115

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 3 of 9

VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 3
Directed Round

1A. What third party ran Jill Stein in 2012 and Ralph Nader in the 1996 and 2000 Presidential elections?
ANSWER: Green Party
1B. What pop star released the 2013 singles "Wrecking Ball" and "We Can't Stop"?
ANSWER: Miley Cyrus
2A. What Shakespeare character’s first soliloquy begins, “Oh, that this too, too solid flesh would melt,
thaw, and resolve itself into a dew”?
ANSWER: Hamlet
2B. Clara Peggotty, Mr. Micawber, and Mr. Murdstone appear in what autobiographical Charles Dickens
novel?
ANSWER: David Copperfield
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the sum of the roots of the equation x-squared minus
8x minus 20 equals 0?
ANSWER: 8
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If secant of x is positive, and tangent of x is negative, in what
quadrant does angle x lie?
ANSWER: Quadrant IV
4A. In Norse mythology, what eight-legged horse is ridden by Odin?
ANSWER: Sleipnir
4B. On Seinfeld, which of Elaine's bosses was inspired by a real-life clothing catalogue magnate and
played by John O'Hurley?
ANSWER: J. Peterman
5A. What is the infinitive form of the German verb meaning "to be" in English?
ANSWER: sein
5B. What sixth-century Pope, known as "the Great," is the namesake of a type of chant?
ANSWER: Gregory the Great [or Gregory I]
6A. What doctor, nicknamed the "Angel of Death", performed experiments on prisoners in Auschwitz?
ANSWER: Josef Mengele
6B. What professional golfer nicknamed "Lefty" won the British Open in 2013?
ANSWER: Phil Mickelson
7A. What city's Potala Palace was the home of the Dalai Lama before he fled to India?
ANSWER: Lhasa
7B. What man called "El Libertador" freed Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, and other South American
countries from Spanish rule?
ANSWER: Simon Bolivar
8A. What letter in biology is used to denote species which reproduce infrequently and live longer, and in
physics to denote the constant in Coulomb's law?
ANSWER: K
VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 4 of 9

8B. What Arthur Miller play depicts John Proctor’s moral quandaries during the Salem Witch Trials?
ANSWER: The Crucible
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the area of the quadrilateral formed by the points
(0,0), (2,0), (4,5), and (0,7)?
ANSWER: 19
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Each letter of the alphabet is written on ten balls, which are
thrown into a hat. Out of the 260 balls, how many must you take to be sure that you grab one on which is
written the first letter of your school's name?
ANSWER: 251
10A. What Czech novelist wrote about Tomas and Tereza in The Unbearable Lightness of Being?
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
10B. The number of atoms in a mole is equal to 6.02 times 10 to the power of what integer, also the
number of pairs of chromosomes in a human cell?
ANSWER: 23

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 5 of 9

VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 3
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. This system, which is alternatively named for Ronald Nyholm and Ronald Gillespie, fails to work for
compounds with ionic bonds. This system classifies sulfur hexafluoride as having an octahedral structure,
carbon dioxide as having a linear structure, and water as having a bent structure with a bond angle of 104.5.
For 10 points, identify this system which characterizes the spatial geometry of molecules based upon
electrostatic repulsion between the bonds of the molecule.
ANSWER: VSEPR theory [or valence shell electron pair repulsion theory]
239-13-95-03117

2. This man made a seemingly drunken visit to student protestors at the Lincoln Memorial, during which he
recommended visiting Prague. A tape produced by this man's secretary Rose Mary Woods contained an
eighteen-minute gap, and was released after John Sirica rejected his claims of executive privilege regarding
his audio system. For 10 points, name this President who was overheard discussing the coverup of an office
building burglary, part of the Watergate scandal that caused his resignation.
ANSWER: Richard Milhous Nixon
019-13-95-03118

3. One of these beings related the Five Treatises to Asanga. A sect believes that rebirth in the Pure Land is
guaranteed by reciting the name of one of these beings named Amitabha (ah-mee-TAH-buh). Twenty-eight
of these beings are listed in the Pali Canon. The most recent one of these discovered the Four Noble Truths
under the Bodhi tree. For 10 points, name these enlightened people who include Siddartha Gautama.
ANSWER: buddhas
237-13-95-03119

4. The line type of this operation is related to its double type by Green's theorem, which is a special case of
Stoke's theorem. Another form of this operation can be simplified by applying the divergence theorem, and
the Newton-Cotes formula and Simpson's rule approximate this operation. This operation can also be
approximated by trapezoids and Riemann sums. For 10 points, identify this operation which usually returns
the area under a curve, the opposite of differentiation.
ANSWER: integration [or antidifferentiation until "differentiation" is read]
234-13-95-03120

5. Towards the end of this novel, the protagonist kneels down in the middle of the street on his way to the
police station, where he had earlier been interrogated by Porfiry Petrovich. In this novel, Luzhin's
engagement with Dunya is broken off, and Marmeladov, the father of the prostitute Sonya, is killed in a
carriage accident. This novel's protagonist murders a pawnbroker and her sister. For 10 points, name this
novel about Raskolnikov written by Fyodor Dostoevsky.
ANSWER: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i Nakazaniye]
192-13-95-03121

6. A drunk one of these creatures named Eurytion (yur-IT-ee-ahn) tried to carry off the bride of Pirithous
(pee-rih-THOO-us), which resulted in a losing fight against the Lapiths. Another one of these creatures was
shot by a poisoned arrow when he tried to kidnap Deianira (DIE-uh-NAH-ruh). The teacher Chiron was
one of these creatures. For 10 points, name these creatures from Greek mythology that had the upper body
of a human but the four legs of a horse.
ANSWER: centaurs [or kentauros]
023-13-95-03122
VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 6 of 9

7. This character asks why he should play the Roman fool and die on his own sword shortly before being
killed. He notes that “tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow creeps in” a petty pace before comparing
life to a tale “told by an idiot, full of sound and fury.” After winning an early victory, he is promoted to
Thane of Cawdor, but is ultimately slain by an opponent “not of woman born" after murdering King
Duncan. For 10 points, name this title Scottish king of a Shakespeare tragedy.
ANSWER: Macbeth
052-13-95-03123

8. Along with fluid velocity and characteristic length, this quantity makes up the inertial forces used to
calculate Reynold’s number. The void ratio is necessary to finding the bulk type of this quantity. The
specific gravity is determined by comparing this quantity between a substance and a reference. Multiplying
this quantity by gravitational acceleration and volume gives the buoyant force on an object in a liquid. For
10 points, name this quantity symbolized rho that is defined as mass divided by volume.
ANSWER: density
140-13-95-03124

9. A brain-injured character in this novel frequently draws a T-shaped hammer on a slate, a summons for
the servant who attacked her. Bentley Drummle is the romantic rival of this novel's protagonist, who
thwarts the plans of Compeyson. This book begins in a swampy graveyard, where the protagonist brings
food and a file to the convict Abel Magwich, his eventual benefactor. For 10 points, name this novel in
which Estella rejects Pip, a bildungsroman by Charles Dickens.
ANSWER: Great Expectations
190-13-95-03125

10. This artist first attracted notice when sixteen of his paintings were shown at the Whitney Studio Club. A
secretary rushes to pick up dropped papers in this artist's Office at Night, which along with his image
featuring a single barber pole, Early Sunday Morning, captured the sense of urban isolation. In his most
famous painting, a sign for Phillies cigars is displayed on the exterior of a late-night diner serving three
people. For 10 points, name this American painter of Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
004-13-95-03126

11. The inversion of a cardioid with respect to its cusp is one of these curves. This curve is obtained when
using the parametrization x equals velocity times t times cosine of theta and y equals velocity times t times
sine of theta minus half gravity times t squared. That parametrization can be used for the trajectory of a
projectile. These curves have an eccentricity of one, and they are defined as a set of points equidistant from
a focus and a directrix. For 10 points, name this conic section which is the graph of a quadratic equation.
ANSWER: parabolas [or parabolae; prompt on quadratic curve]
237-13-95-03127

12. Michael Heseltine resigned from this person's government over the future of the Westland Company.
Patrick Magee used a time bomb to try to kill this person while she was staying in Brighton. This person
became Prime Minister after the Winter of Discontent. As Prime Minister, this woman privatized
Rolls-Royce, BP, and British Airways. For 10 points, name this "Iron Lady," Britain’s Conservative Prime
Minister from 1979 to 1990.
ANSWER: Margaret Thatcher
149-13-95-03128

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 7 of 9

13. This mountain range mythically takes its name from a woman who was eaten by wild beasts after
giving birth to a serpent. A gap in it was legendarily cut open by a hero with his sword Durendal. The
highest mountain in this range was the site of a Muslim victory at the Battle of Roncevaux Pass. Andorra is
located in this range, and the kingdoms of Aragon and Navarre extended on both sides of it. For 10 points,
name this mountain range that effectively separates France and Spain.
ANSWER: Pyrenees
052-13-95-03129

14. This man labeled his chief theory "genetic epistemology" and conducted experiments to test abilities
such as "conservation" using liquid in two glasses. He believed that the processes of assimilation and
accommodation construct knowledge as information is organized into schemes. According to his theory,
object permanence is developed during the sensorimotor stage. For 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist
who studied the development of reasoning in children.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
142-13-95-03130

15. In a 2000 Supreme Court case, this organization was allowed to expel New Jersey leader James Dale.
This organization, one of the few Congressionally chartered groups in America, expanded during the
conservationist era under the leadership of Daniel Carter Beard and Ernest Thompson. As of 2014, it has
retreated from a policy prohibiting gay members, but has not changed its stance on leaders. For 10 points,
name this organization which teaches outdoor skills and patriotism.
ANSWER: Boy Scouts of America
019-13-95-03131

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 8 of 9

VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 3
Tiebreaker Questions

1. An antagonist of this compound, metoclopromide, is used to treat nausea. Bromocriptine is an agonist for
one of its receptors, which inhibits prolactin release. The release of this compound from the ventral
tegmental area is important in the reward pathway. This molecule is released from the pars compacta of the
substantia nigra, whose degeneration causes a disease characterized by rigidity in Parkinson's disease. For
10 points, name this neurotransmitter formed by the decarboxylation of L-DOPA.
ANSWER: dopamine
048-13-95-03132

2. One of this author’s speakers promises that “the deepest secret nobody knows” is that he carries his
lover’s heart in his own heart. Another poem by this author ends with the refrain “sun moon stars rain.”
This poet drew upon his experiences as a World War I ambulance driver to write The Enormous Room. The
phrase “with up so floating many bells down” follows the first line of his poem “anyone lived in a pretty
how town.” For 10 points, name this American poet who avoided capitalization.
ANSWER: E. E. Cummings
190-13-95-03133

3. The natural log of the reaction quotient Q in this equation is multiplied by the negative of the gas
constant times temperature over the product of the Faraday constant and the number of moles transferred in
the redox reaction. When using this equation, the half reactions are identified and used with a table
containing standard cathode potentials. For 10 points, identify this equation key to electrochemistry that
relates the reduction potential of a cell to the concentration of its reactants.
ANSWER: Nernst equation
239-13-95-03134

4. This man owned a fake ID card with the name "Alek James Hidell." He married a teenager named
Marina after renouncing his citizenship and moving to the Soviet Union. This person was photographed
with a rifle and Marxist newspapers before killing police officer J.D. Tippit. He was lurking in a Book
Depository when he wounded Governor John Connally, and was later killed himself by nightclub owner
Jack Ruby. For 10 points, name this man who assassinated John F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Lee Harvey Oswald
052-13-95-03135

5. For a dielectric, the Clausius-Mossotti relation can be used to compare this quantity to the polarization
density. A non-conservative type of this quantity will form as a result of an induced emf according to
Faraday's Law. This quantity's flux is related to the permittivity of free space by Gauss's Law. For a point
charge, this quantity simply depends on the strength of the charge, and it has an inverse square relationship
with the radius. For 10 points, name this quantity symbolized E, the electric force per unit charge.
ANSWER: electric field [or E until it is read]
140-13-95-03136

What DNA base forms namesake dimers when exposed to UV light and is replaced by uracil in RNA?
ANSWER: thymine [or T; or thymidine]
This is a calculation question. If sine of x is three-fifths, what is the absolute value of the sine of 2x?
ANSWER: 24/25

VHSL Conferences 2014

3

Page 9 of 9

