VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 2
First Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. This author wrote that men and women require of each other “the lineaments of Gratified Desire.” This
author wrote about a plant "weary of time" in his poem “Ah! Sunflower!” The speaker asks the title
creature “Dost though know who made thee?” in his poem "The Lamb," which is contrasted with a poem
that asks, “What immortal hand or eye dare frame thy fearful symmetry?” For 10 points, name this poet
whose Songs of Innocence and of Experience includes "The Tyger."
ANSWER: William Blake
149-13-95-02101

2. The original owners of this team bought the rights to the song "Hail to the Redskins" in order to obtain a
pro franchise for their city. This pro team, the only one Don Meredith played for, snared numerous draft
picks by trading Herschel Walker to the Vikings. The only coaches to win college and pro national
championships both did so with this NFL team, after it fired longtime head coach Tom Landry. For 10
points, name this NFL team that won three Super Bowls behind quarterback Troy Aikman.
ANSWER: Dallas Cowboys [or Dallas Cowboys]
052-13-95-02102

3. This metal is required for matrix metalloproteinases to function. This element was oxidized and
dissolved in the original voltaic pile invented by Alessandro Volta, where it was combined with copper.
Since it is the first one to fill both a d subshell and a valence s subshell, it technically isn't a transition
metal. A thin layer of this element is laid over iron in the process of galvanization. This element is
combined with copper in brass. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 30 and symbol Zn.
ANSWER: zinc [or Zn before it is read]
190-13-95-02103

4. This event was followed by the six-hundred-year-old son of Lamech becoming part of the Rainbow
Covenant. Japheth, Ham, and Shem survived this event, the end of which was signified by a dove returning
with an olive leaf. During this event, a group landed on Ararat after their leader gathered seven pairs of
each clean animal and one pair of each unclean animal. For 10 points, name this Biblical event caused by
forty days and nights of rain, which killed everything not taken on the Ark by Noah.
ANSWER: Great Flood [or Biblical Deluge]
023-13-95-02104

5. One of this band's songs begins "All my life, I worshipped her, her golden voice, her beauty's beat" and
takes its title from Salman Rushdie's novel The Ground Beneath her Feet. Another song by this band asks
"How long must we sing this song...cause tonight, we can live as one." The Edge plays guitar for this band,
which was founded by drummer Larry Mullen. For 10 points, name this Irish band that recorded "Sunday,
Bloody Sunday" and "Vertigo" with singer Bono.
ANSWER: U2
080-13-95-02105

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 1 of 9

6. For a state variable, residuals are the difference between the variable's actual value and what the value
would be for one of these substances. Their internal energy is independent of pressure, and they have a
compressibility factor of 1. They have perfectly elastic collisions, negligible particle volume, and no
intermolecular attractive forces according to the kinetic theory, an assumption that requires low pressures
and high temperatures. For 10 points, name these substances that obey the equation PV = nRT.
ANSWER: ideal gases [prompt on gases]
190-13-95-02106

7. In a story by this author, salesman Manley Pointer carries whiskey and birth control in his hollowed-out
Bible. In that story by this writer, Hulga Hopewell has her artificial leg stolen. This author wrote about the
cat Pitty Sing causing a car accident for the Grandmother and her family. In that story by this woman, a
family traveling to Florida is massacred by a criminal called the Misfit. For 10 points, name this female
author of Southern Gothic stories like “A Good Man Is Hard to Find.”
ANSWER: Flannery O'Connor
052-13-95-02107

8. These structures can be described by their surface, volume, and asymmetry energies in the
Bethe-Weizsacker (BEET-uh VAYT-zahk-ehr) formula. Maria Goeppert-Mayer explained the "magic
number" phenomenon of these structures. They are held together by the exchange of virtual mesons, the
carriers of the residual strong force. Two of these structures in hydrogen are fused to form a helium one in
the sun. For 10 points, identify these atomic structures composed of neutrons and protons.
ANSWER: atomic nucleus
234-13-95-02108

9. In a novel set during this conflict, Robert Faehmel (FAY-mel) destroys St. Anthony's Abbey to clear a
field of fire. Robert's memories of this conflict are described by Heinrich Boll in Billiards at Half-Past
Nine. In a nonfiction book written during this conflict, the author says that she still believes "in spite of
everything, that people are truly good at heart." For 10 points, Anne Frank wrote her diary during what
conflict?
ANSWER: World War II
121-13-95-02109

10. This god became the first to be tried for murder after killing a man who attempted to violate his
daughter Alcippe (al-KIP-ee). This god became furious when his dragon was killed by Cadmus, who would
later marry his daughter Harmonia. This god rescued Thanatos from Sisyphus, and he was caught with
Aphrodite in a net created by Hephaestus (huh-FESS-tis). This god was stabbed by Diomedes
(die-OH-meh-deez) during the Trojan War. For 10 points, name this Greco-Roman god of war.
ANSWER: Ares [or Mars]
227-13-95-02110

11. This composer used "nested proportions" to determine structures meant to evoke the "rasa" of Indian
music. To produce his Music of Changes, he consulted star charts and the I Ching. He was a pioneer in
placing objects in between the strings and hammers of pianos to "prepare" them. His most famous piece
consists of the ambient sounds heard by the audience as the performer sits at the piano. For 10 points, name
this composer of 4'33" ("four minutes, thirty-three seconds").
ANSWER: John Milton Cage, Jr.
130-13-95-02111

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 2 of 9

12. A character created by this author climbs into a trash can when told to "hit the sack" in a play about
Hugo Pludek's career at the Liquidation Office. This author of The Memorandum and The Garden Party
was an early supporter of the Charter 77 movement, which brought him to political power following the
Velvet Revolution. For 10 points, name this absurdist playwright, who became the leader of the
anti-Communist opposition in Czechoslovakia and first president of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: Vaclav Havel
147-13-95-02112

13. This mountain range was mythically home to spirits called "apus." The highest mountain in this range
features the Polish glacier, and another mountain in it is farther from the center of Earth than any other
location on the planet's surface. This mountain range features such native animals as chinchillas and the
alpacas. It is home to mountains such as Chimborazo and Aconcagua. For 10 points, name this long
mountain range on the west coast of South America.
ANSWER: Andes [or Andean range]
052-13-95-02113

14. In describing this family, a narrator says, “if ever mortal painted an idea, that mortal was” a male
member of this family. That member compares “the death cry of the dragon” to the inhuman sounds of his
sister. A friend of this family reads the novel The Mad Tryst to one of its members. That member,
Roderick, buries his sister Madeline alive before their mansion collapses. For 10 points, name this family
whose house’s fall is described in an Edgar Allan Poe story.
ANSWER: Usher
052-13-95-02114

15. One over j times angular frequency times this quantity is a formula for impedance. This quantity equals
the derivative of charge with respect to potential. This quantity can be increased by adding barium titanate
or other dielectrics, and for two thin plates it is proportional to area and inversely proportional to their
separation. This quantity adds in parallel, unlike resistance and inductance. For 10 points, identify this
electrical quantity, measured in farads.
ANSWER: capacitance
234-13-95-02115

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 3 of 9

VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 2
Directed Round

1A. What Romanian dictator was served by the police force known as the Securitate
(SEH-coo-ree-TAH-tay) and was executed on Christmas Day 1989?
ANSWER: Nicolae Ceausescu (chow-CHESS-kyoo)
1B. Identify the Washington Irving short story in which Ichabod Crane is haunted by the Headless
Horseman.
ANSWER: "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"
2A. No two electrons that have the same value for what quantity can occupy the same orbital due to the
Pauli exclusion principle?
ANSWER: spin
2B. What Greek term denotes the use of excessive exaggeration as a figure of speech?
ANSWER: hyperbole
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the difference between the mean and the median of
the set of five numbers: 0, 2, 4, 6, and 13?
ANSWER: 1
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the product of all roots between negative pi to pi of
the equation 1 plus the sine of x equals cosine of x?
ANSWER: 0
4A. What first major battle of the Civil War pitted P.G.T. Beauregard against Irvin McDowell and gave
Stonewall Jackson his nickname?
ANSWER: Battle of First Bull Run [or First Manassas; prompt on partial answer]
4B. What Umberto Eco novel follows William of Baskerville’s investigation of a murder at a medieval
abbey?
ANSWER: The Name of the Rose
5A. Adam's Bridge lies between what island country and the continental mainland?
ANSWER: Sri Lanka
5B. What American painter caused scandal with his portrait of Virginie Gautreau called Madame X?
ANSWER: John Singer Sargent
6A. What phenomenon, a consequence of Le Chatlier's principle, occurs when NaCl (read out letters) is
added to a solution of PbCl2 (read out letters/numbers), causing the PbCl2 to precipitate?
ANSWER: common ion effect [or CIE]
6B. What daughter of Henry VIII was nicknamed "Gloriana" and became queen of England in 1558?
ANSWER: Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth]
7A. What Russian composer helped inaugurate musical modernism with his ballets Petrushka and The Rite
of Spring?
ANSWER: Igor Stravinsky

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 4 of 9

7B. What type of control flow statements includes the if-else construct and allows one to execute code
based on a boolean constraint?
ANSWER: conditional statements [or conditional expressions; or conditional constructs; or selection in
place of "conditional"]
8A. What American IT specialist fled to Hong Kong and then Russia after leaking details of the NSA
Prism spy program in 2013?
ANSWER: Edward Snowden
8B. What is the first-person singular pronoun in Mandarin Chinese?
ANSWER: wo
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the value of the tangent of fifteen degrees squared
minus the secant of fifteen degrees squared?
ANSWER: -1
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A quadratic polynomial P with real coefficients has the root 1
plus i. If the value of P at 1 is 3, what is the value of P at 0?
ANSWER: 6
10A. Name the artist who produced The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters and The Third of May 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes
10B. The value of an hexadecimal digit is multiplied by what number raised to some power to obtain its
decimal representation?
ANSWER: sixteen

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 5 of 9

VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 2
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. This lake is the site of Northerly Island, once the home to Meigs Field airport. It is traversed by the SS
Badger, which runs from Manitowoc to Ludington. This lake contains an island that was once a Mormon
kingdom run by James Strang. The Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore is located on this lake, which
contains Beaver Island and is the only Great Lake located entirely within the U.S. For 10 points, name this
lake that Chicago is found on, located to the west of its namesake state.
ANSWER: Lake Michigan
052-13-95-02117

2. This man wrote the lines "Everybody knows where you go when the sun goes down" and "I wasted my
time when I would try, try, try." Another song by this man describes a train "rollin' 'round the bend," heard
by a man who "shot a man in Reno, Just to watch him die." Those songs were sung by Joaquin Phoenix in a
biopic of this man's romance with June Carter. His signature song opens "I keep a close watch on this heart
of mine." For 10 points, name this country musician who wrote "I Walk the Line."
ANSWER: John R. "Johnny" Cash [or J.R. Cash]
020-13-95-02118

3. A complex found in this organelle has the Ycf4 (read out letters/numbers) domain and evolved from
green sulfur bacteria. Another enzyme found in this organelle transfers electrons between four manganese
atoms in the Kok ("KOHK") cycle. A membrane in this organelle contains centers called P700 and P680.
This organelle has lamellae (LUH-mell-ee) connecting grana (GRAH-nuh), which are stacks of thylakoids.
For 10 points, name this organelle that conducts photosynthesis in the plant.
ANSWER: chloroplasts [prompt on plastids]
048-13-95-02119

4. This president signed the Employment Act, which established the Council of Economic Advisors. His
seizure of steel mills was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court after he left office. He criticized the
"Do Nothing Congress" that was in session during his administration and passed the Taft-Hartley Act over
his veto. Universal health care was an unsuccessful part of his "Fair Deal." For 10 points, name this
President who succeeded Franklin Roosevelt.
ANSWER: Harry S. Truman
121-13-95-02120

5. A peptide derived from this virus with the sequence Y-P-Y-D-V-P-D-Y-A is commonly used for protein
purification. This virus requires the M2 channel for uncoating. It undergoes antigenic shift when its 8 RNA
strands shuffle, and it has neuraminidase (NUHR-am-in-uh-dayse) and hemagglutinin on its surface.
Oseltamivir is a treatment for this virus. For 10 points, name this virus that comes in swine, bird, and
Spanish varieties and causes a cold-like illness.
ANSWER: influenza virus [or flu virus]
048-13-95-02121

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 6 of 9

6. This language is most closely related to Khanty and Mansi, which are spoken along the Ob river in
Russia. It uses many Turkish words relating to horse riding. Its two difficult palatal stop consonants are
written "t-y" and "g-y." This language has over two dozen noun cases, and it follows vowel harmony. Like
Finnish and Estonian, this European language is part of the Finno-Ugric (OO-grik) family. For 10 points,
name this most-spoken non-Indo-European language of Europe, often heard in Budapest.
ANSWER: Hungarian [or Magyar]
021-13-95-02122

7. This author disguised herself as an Abyssinian nobleman touring a British flagship in the Dreadnought
Hoax. She fictionalized her relationship with fellow writer Vita Sackville-West in a novel about a
nobleman who lives hundreds of years and changes genders. One of her novels describes the suicide of
Septimus Smith along with the title woman's arrangements for her party. For 10 points, name this
twentieth-century British modernist and feminist who wrote Orlando and Mrs. Dalloway.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf
080-13-95-02123

8. Travertine is one kind of this rock deposited by mineral springs, while tufa is another kind found in
columns around Lake Mono. This rock consists primarily of aragonite (ah-RAH-guh-nite) and calcite.
Karst topographies are most commonly formed from dolomite or this rock, which reacts with acid to
release carbon dioxide. For 10 points, name this sedimentary rock consisting of calcium carbonate, often
from marine organisms.
ANSWER: limestone
237-13-95-02124

9. Chancellor Li Linfu led a series of purges during this dynasty. Buddhism was suppressed during the
Hu-chiang (hoo-CHONG) period of this dynasty, which fought against the Abbasid Caliphate at the Battle
of the Talas River. This dynasty was interrupted by the reign of Empress Wu Zetian. This dynasty defeated
An Lushan's rebellion, and it was the time of poets such as Li Po and Du Fu. For 10 points, name this
Chinese dynasty founded by Emperor Gaozu (gow-ZOO) that followed the Sui (SWEE) dynasty.
ANSWER: Tang dynasty
227-13-95-02125

10. A character in this novel reads a book called Kidney Troubles and Their Cure. The narrator of this
novel is working on an engineering project at Corbury Junction, and the main character unsuccessfully
attempts to procure a loan from Andrew Hale. Ultimately, the protagonist's hypochondriac wife Zeena
takes care of him following a "smash up." For 10 points, name this novel in which the title character and
Mattie Silver attempt suicide via sled crash, written by Edith Wharton.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
030-13-95-02126

11. The T locus in mice is responsible for a type of "drive" named for this process. In ciliates, the
micronucleus undergoes this process before fusing as part of conjugation. During this process, the
synaptonemal complex forms chiasmata. Nondisjunction during it can result in aneuploidy
(AN-uh-ploy-dee) in offspring, and it is divided into two halves, which allows it to create four haploid cells
from a single diploid precursor. For 10 points, name this type of cell division that occurs in sex cells.
ANSWER: meiosis [or crossing over; do not accept "mitosis"]
048-13-95-02127

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 7 of 9

12. The only remnant of this object is a key that prevented communication between the battery and
transmitter. Sent to measure the temperature of the upper atmosphere, it was designed and launched after
Object D took longer than expected to build. It was followed by a craft that flew the dog Laika into space.
Designed as a metal sphere with four antennae attached, its launch began the Space Race between the
Soviet Union and the United States. For 10 points, name this first object to be launched into Earth's orbit.
ANSWER: Sputnik 1 [or PS-1; prompt on Sputnik]
140-13-95-02128

13. This man encouraged his followers to "cast down your bucket where you are" and assured
conservatives that "in all things purely social we can be as separate as the five fingers." He used the
Hampton Institute as the model for the school he founded, the Tuskegee Institute. This man delivered the
Atlanta Compromise speech and wrote the autobiography Up From Slavery. For 10 points, name this early
twentieth century African-American educator who promoted job training over political action.
ANSWER: Booker Taliaferro Washington
131-13-95-02129

14. The killer in this event was slain in revenge by a being who grew to adulthood in a day after being
conceived by a giantess. After it happened, a being named Thokk refused to weep. The killer in this event
was the blind Hoder. The victim in this event was invulnerable to everything but mistletoe, thanks to the
efforts of his mother, Frigg. For 10 points, name this event in Norse mythology where a beloved son of
Odin is killed thanks to the machinations of Loki.
ANSWER: death of Baldr [or descriptive answers such as Baldr being killed by mistletoe, etc.; anything
that squares with the info in the question and mentions Baldr is right]
052-13-95-02130

15. In ANOVA, a capital X symbolizes the "grand" form of this quantity. Cumulative distribution functions
evaluated at this point equal 0.5, and this value will always have a Z-score of 0. An approximation for this
number is found at the center of a confidence interval. Standard error is calculated by squaring the
difference between this value and each element in the sample. It is defined as the sum of a sample divided
by the number of elements. For 10 points, name this value, the average of a sample of data.
ANSWER: mean [or sample mean; or population mean]
190-13-95-02131

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 8 of 9

VHSL Conferences 2014
Round 2
Tiebreaker Questions

1. This poet left his home country in the wake of scandal caused by his relationship with his half-sister
Augusta. He fictionalized his travels through Europe in the poem that made him famous overnight, the
four-canto Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage. This poet reimagined a Spanish legend as a man constantly
seduced by women, and he died fighting in the Greek War of Independence. For 10 points, name this
English Romantic poet of “She Walks in Beauty” who wrote the comical epic Don Juan.
ANSWER: Lord Byron
014-13-95-02132

2. After this event, a crash-landed pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A
fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event occurred. Over one thousand people
died in the explosion of the Arizona during this event. This event prompted Franklin Roosevelt to proclaim
that its date "will live in imfamy." For 10 points, name this event that occurred in Hawaii on December 7,
1941.
ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor [or obvious equivalents mentioning Pearl Harbor]
185-13-95-02133

3. The twenty-third chapter of this book jumps out of narrative to describe a gold rush at Odendaalsrust
(oh-den-DAHLS-rust). At a trial in this book, Matthew gets off scot-free, partly because his father John can
afford a good lawyer, unlike Mr. Carmichael, who takes the case pro bono. At this novel’s conclusion, the
protagonist prays atop a mountain near Ndotsheni (en-DOT-shen-ee). For killing James Jarvis, Absalom is
sentenced to death in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel about Stephen Kumalo by Alan Paton.
ANSWER: Cry, the Beloved Country
190-13-95-02134

4. The absolute maximum of the function x to the power one over x occurs when x equals this number. The
nontrivial solution to the differential equation y prime equals y always includes this number. It is the sum
of one over n factorial, as n goes from zero to infinity. As n goes to infinity, this number also equals one
plus one over n, raised to the n power. The natural logarithm of this number is one. For 10 points, name this
irrational number equal to about 2.718.
ANSWER: e [or Euler's number; or Euler's constant; do not accept "Euler-Mascheroni constant"]
190-13-95-02135

5. This city besieged Saguntum to break a peace. A politician who hated this city showed its proximity by
spreading fresh figs on the Senate floor, and added to the end of every speech that it "must be destroyed."
This city, founded by Phoenician traders, lost at Zama to Scipio Africanus after the failure of elephants
under a general from its prominent Barca family. For 10 points, name this loser of the Punic Wars to Rome
that had forces commanded by Hannibal.
ANSWER: Carthage [or Carthago; or Kart-hadasht]
104-13-95-02136

What female South African novelist and Nobel Prize winner wrote The Conservationist and July’s People?
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer
This is a calculation question. What is the volume of a cube whose space diagonal has length 30?
ANSWER: 3000sqrt3

VHSL Conferences 2014

2

Page 9 of 9

