Cal Classic IV
Packet by Casey Cook
Tossups
1. This novel's main character participates in the slaying of his adopted son Ikemefuna, but the protagonist
is exiled from his village not for this killing but rather for the accidental killing of a clansman. When the
main character, Okonkwo, returns to his village, he finds it taken over by Christian colonists. FTP, name
this novel about the decay of Tho society under English colonization, written by Chinua Achebe.
Answer: Thin~s Fall Apart
2. This law of physics may be viewed as an application ofLe Chatelier's principle to electrodynamics.
Named for the Estonian physicist who first stated it, it describes the direction of electrical current. For ten
points, name this law which states that the electromotive force induced in a conductor moving
petpendicular to a magnetic field tends to oppose that motion.
Answer: Lenz's Law
3. After becoming chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1959, this native of Missouri
became one of the first and most vocal opponents of the Vietnam War. For ten points, name this former
Senator from Arkansas, famous for his International Student exchange program.
Answer: J. William Fulbright
4. Although this composer lived only 31 years, by his 1828 death he had composed nearly 1000 works. He
joined a seminary, but left to become a teacher before starting to compose music. For ten points, name this
composer of "Six Moments Musicaux," "Pianoworks for Four Hands," and nine symphonies, including
"The Great Symphony" and "The Unfmished Symphony."
Answer: Franz Schubert
5. Born in Eatonville, Florida. in 1901, she is best known for her sympathetic portrayal of black life.
Several of her works reflect her studies in anthropology under Franz Boas. For ten points, name this author
whose unmarked grave was discovered by Alice Walker and who wrote Dust Tracks on the Road, Tell My
Horse, Mules and Men and There Eyes Were Watching God.
Answer: Zora Neale Hurston
6. Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1898, this man made significant contributions to statistical mechanics,
genetics, molecular biology, and political science before turning to the field he is famous for. His more
famous contributions came in Nuclear Physics and Nuclear Engineering. For ten points, name this man
who, along with Enrico Fermi, was given a patent for the nuclear fission reactor.
Answer: Leo Szilard
7. Though he was jailed for two attempted coups, this European won his country's 1848 presidential
election. His actions allowed and inhibited the unification of Italy, one of his foreign policy ?successes. It
was also he who masterminded putting Maximilian on the throne of Mexico. That failed almost as badly as
his Franco-Prussian War. FTP, name this French emperor.
Answer Napoleon III (accept Louis Napoleon)
8. A frat boy wants to get high on Nitrous Oxide. He has a large container of it with a metal nozzle. He
turns the valve and sucks on the nozzle. He soon notices that his lips and tongue have become frozen to the
nozzle and he can't get them off. For ten points, his embarrassment was caused by what effect, in which
gas forced through a small opening causes the opening to lose heat rapidly.
Answer: Joule-Thompson effect
9. Born in 1852, his given name was Mutsuhito and he came to power when he was only fifteen. He had
little political power, but was the most important symbol of unity in Japan. For ten points, name this man
whose ascension meant the end of Japanese feudalism and the forging of a new and modern state, famous
for his Restoration.

Answer: Meiji
10. This economic condition was at first deemed impossible by the early, simple use of the Phillips Curve.
It occurred for a long period of time in the 1970's forcing economists to revise their usage of the Phillips
Curve. For ten points, name this condition which occurs when inflation and unemployment are
simultaneously rising.
Answer: stagflation
11. Competing with him for a woman was a risky proposition, even for a god. When the river god Inachus
(ee-KNOCK-us) squared off in a wrestling match over Deianeira (DAY-uh-nair-a) this man broke off
Inachus' horn. When king Laomedon denied him Hesione, he sacked Troy. FTP, name this mythological
strongman whose track record with women is a bit mixed; he killed his first wife, Megara, in a fit of
insanity.
Answer: Heracles (accept Hercules)
12. Located on the Tiete river, about 35 miles from the ocean, this city is its country's chief port. Founded
in 1554 by the Portugese, the 15 million people in its metropolitan area make it the largest city in its
country and on its continent. For ten points, name this Brazillian city.
Answer: Sao Paulo
13. This order of mammals is sometimes known as a subclass called Prototheria. Adults of this order are
toothless and males have spurs connected to poisoned glands on their hind feet. Found only in and around
Australia, this order contains the only mammals who lay eggs. For ten points, name this order which
includes the duckbilled platypus and the echidna.
Answer: Monotremata (accept Monotremes)
14. "Frankenstein and Dracula," "The Chelsea Girls," "L'Amour," and "Trash" are all movies made by this
man. He also launched the magazine "Interview" which centered upon his fascination with the cult of
celebrity. For ten points, name this artist famous for his portraits of Marilyn Monroe and John F. Kennedy
and for paintings of dollar bills and soup cans, the leading exponent of the pop art movement.
Answer: Andy VVarhol
15. Born in 1717, her father was Charles VI of Austria. When she became queen, she was immediately
confronted with an invasion led by Frederick II of Prussia who boldly seized Siliesa marking the start of the
VV ar of Austrian Succession. For ten points, name this woman allowed to be queen by the Pragmatic
Sanction.
Answer: Maria Theresa
16. Some geologists maintain that this lake is actually the beginnings of a major ocean because of the
hydrothermal vents at its bottom. Lying just west of the Yablonovy Mountains, it's only Island is Olkhon.
For ten points, name this long, narrow Russian lake containing 20% of the Earth's fresh water which is the
deepest lake in the world.
Answer: Lake Baikal
17. "He that steals my purse steals trash ... but he that filches from me my good name steals that which not
enriches him and leaves me poor indeed." A fantastic line spoken by one of Shakespeare's greatest (worst)
slanderers and connivers. This man, by rumor and deceit, turns the moor of Venice into ajealous madman.
FTP, who is this sinister schemer who gets all the best lines in Othello.
Answer: Jago
18. One of the most important thinkers of the 19th century, this man supported women's rights,
proportional representation, labor unions, and farm cooperatives in such works as The Irish Land Question
and The Subjection of Women . A strong proponent of empiricism and utilitarianism, he studied under
Jeremy Bentham and his own father James. For ten points, name this author of On Liberty.
Answer: John Stuart Mill

19. Born in Lagos Nigeria in 1975, he went to high school in England. His father Ezekiel is a diplomat for
the Nigerian government. He attended BruneI University in England before transferring to the University
of the Pacific and taking up basketball. For ten points, name this man who led the Big West conference in
points, rebounds, and assists his senior year before being made the 1998 number one draft pick by the LA
Clippers.
Answer: Michael Olowokandi
20. The name is the same. One is a genus of birds related to albatrosses and petrels. The other causes
diseases in which victims develop abnonnal patches of protein on their brain tissue. For ten points, give
this tenn coined by Stanley Prusiner for small protein particles which cause diseases such as scrapie, kuru,
and mad cow disease.
Answer: Prions
21. In this book, the Persian king Ahasueres has given up his old wife Vashti in favor of the title character.
The title character's cousin Mordecai insults the courtier Hamon who persuades the king to massacre the
Jews. The king then has a change of heart, hangs Hamon and favors the Jews. For then points, name this
book of the Old Testament.
Answer: Book of Esther
22. The kings of this city supposedly lived between 11 th and 8th centuries BCE in Latium. Believed to be
completely fictional, it is thought that they were made up to bridge the gap between the Trojan War and the
birth of Romulus and Remus. For ten points, name the city of Numitor and Amulius, founded by Ascanius.
Answer: Alba Longa
23. This man often alludes to Kafka and Defoe in works which he insists are not political. A South
African, his works were always published in other countries for fear of government censorship. For ten
points, name this author of Dusklands, From the Heart of the Country, Waitingfor Barbarians, and The
Life and Times ofMichael K.
Answer: J(ohn) M(ichael) Coetzee
24. This collection of essays is based on the experiences of its author in the 1960's. Set in California, its
three sections include "Lifestyles in the Golden Land," "Personals," and "Seven Places of the Mind." For
ten points, name this book whose title essay describes the author's experiences in San Francisco's HaightAshbury district, written by Joan Didion.
Answer: Slouching Towards Bethlehem

Cal Classic IV
Packet by Casey Cook

1. Given an invention, name the inventor for ten points each.
a) Dynamite
Answer: Alfred Nobel
b) Air Brake
Answer: George Westinghouse
c) Helicopter controls
Answer: Igor Sikorsky
2. 30-20-10 name the composer from works:
30: the movie "A Star is Born"
20: "Lady Be Good" "Of Thee I Sing"
10: "Rhapsody in Blue"
Answer: George Gershwin
3. Given a man, name his ship for ten points each.
a) Charles Darwin
Answer: HMS Beagle
b) John Paul Jones
Answer: Bon Homme Richard
c) Francis Drake
Answer: Golden Hind or Pelican
4. Given a scientific accomplishment or discovery, name the scientist who achieved it for ten points each.
a) Explained photoelectric effect in 1905
Answer: Albert Einstein
b) Started Periodic Table
Answer: Dmitri Mendeleev
c) Devised the oil drop experiment to find the charge of the electron
Answer: Robert Millikan
5. Given a work of Chinese literature, name the author on a 5-10-15 basis
a) 5pts: Analects
Answer: Confucius
b) lOpts: The Art of War
Answer: Sun-Tzu
c) 15pts: The Golden Lotus
Answer: Jin Ping
6. Given a year, name the person who held the British throne for ten points each.
a). 1497
Answer: Henry VII
b) 1626
Answer: Charles I
c) 1687
Answer: James II
7. Give the capital of the following areas which are not countries on a 5-10-15 basis.
a) 5 pts: Northern Territories, Australia
Answer: Darwin
b) 10 pts: Tibet
Answer: Lhasa

c) 15 pts: Siberia
Answer: Irkutsk
8. What do you know about Berkeley's storied scientific past? Answer the following for ten points each.
a) Name the man who won the 1939 Nobel Prize in Physics and Invented the Cyclotron at Berkeley.
Answer: Ernest Orlando Lawrence
b) Name the father of the Hydrogen Bomb who worked on it at UC's Los Alamos National Laboratory and
later worked at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
Answer: Edward Teller
c) Name the chemist who, until dying on February 25, was the only living person ever to have an element
named after him. He discovered Berkelium, Calfornium, and Plutonium among others.
Answer: Glenn Seaborg
9. Well we've had a bonus about Berkeley, it's only fair that we have one about Stanford, so answer the
following about the inferior university across the bay for the stated number of points.
a) 5pts: This man, the founder of the university, tried to buy a spot of the UC Board of Regents with money
he earned by working Chinese immigrants to death. When he was denied, he endowed the university with
the same corrupt money.
Answer: Leland Stanford
b) 5pts: This man, the 31st President of the United States and the most famous graduate of the Junior Farm,
oversaw the economic downturn which led to the Great Depression
Answer: Herbert Hoover
c) 2Opts: These two men who came from Fairchild Semiconductors and the Junior Farm, founded Intel,
whose flawed Pentium chip caused millions of dollars in damage before the problem was corrected several
months after its release. Name them for ten points each.
Answer: Gordon Moore and Bob Noyce
10. Given the stadium of an NFL team, name the team for ten points each.
a) Memorial Stadium
Answer: Baltimore Ravens (accept either city or nickname)
b) Ericsson Stadium
Answer: Carolina Panthers
c) Raymond James Stadium
Answer: Tampa Bay Buccaneers
11. Given a work of art, name the painter for fifteen points, or five points if you need a more famous work.
a) 15pts: Vampire
5pts: The Scream
Answer: Edvard Munch
b) 15pts: The Balcony
5pts: Luncheon on the Grass
Answer: Edouard Manet
12. Name the Author from works 30-20-10
30: The Drifters, The Bridges at Toko-Ri
20: Caribbean, Space
10: Hawaii, Tales of the South Pacific
Answer: James A. Michener
13. For ten points each, name the three presidents who won the electoral college vote and the presidency,
despite losing the popular vote.
Answer: John Ouincy Adams, Benjamin Harrison, Rutherford Hayes
14. Given a Greek god, name the Roman equivalent for ten points each.
a) Rhea
Answer: Ops (or Cybele)

b) Eros
Answer: Cupid
c) Cronus
Answer: Saturn
15. How well do you know your Literary Lowells. Answer the following about Authors named Lowell for
ten points each.
a) This man was born in Cambridge, Mass. and attended Harvard before becoming the first editor of the
Atlantic Monthly and publishing The Biglow Papers.
Answer: James Russell Lowell
b) This American poet received a Pulitzer Prize for his 1946 poem "Lord Weary's Castle."
Answer: Robert Lowell
c) This New England Imagist of the early 20th century is best known for works such as: A Dome ofManyColored Glass and Sword Blades and Poppy Seed.
Answer: Amy Lowell
16. Given a description, name the primary germ layer, for ten points each.
a) Includes skin, nervous system, and sense organs.
Answer: Ectoderm
b) Includes lining of lungs, lining of digestive system, pancreas, liver, and respiratory sy stem.
Answer: Endoderm
c) Includes muscles, skeleton, hear, blood vessels, blood, and kidneys.
Answer: Mesoderm
17. 30-20-10-5 name the author from works
3Opts: Innocent Erendira, LeafStonn
2Opts: No One Writes to the Colonel, Evil Hour
IOpts: Love in the Time ofCholera
Spts: One Hundred Years ofSolitude
Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marguez
18. Given a mountain range, name the country in which its highest peak lies on a 5-10-15 basis.
a) 5 pts: Appenines
Answer: Italy
b) 10 pts: Atlas
Answer: Morocco
c) 15 pts: Andes
Answer: Argentina
19. For five points each and a bonus five for all correct, put the following elements in order from most
electronegative to least electronegative.
Nitrogen, Flourine, Rubidium, Lead, Carbon
Answer: Flourine, Nitrogen, Carbon, Lead, Rubidium
20. For five points each and a bonus five for all correct name the composers which made up the famous
"Russian Five"
Answer: Modest Mussorgski, Nicolai Rimsky-Korsakov, Mili Balakirev, Cesar Cui, Aleksandr
Borodin
21. 30-20-10 name the author from works
3Opts: World So Wide
2Opts: Main Street
I Opts: Babbit
Answer: Sinclair Lewis

a

