TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
TOSSUPS - ROUND 4
Questions mostly by Cornell (Jason Keller, Mina Radhakrishnan, Nechama Levy, and Aaron Safane)
1.
A Nobel-winning psychiatrist, this man he most famously stated, "We are healthy only to the extent that
our ideas are humane." He has been a prisoner serving a life sentence for treason, an installer of aluminum
combination storm windows and screens, an author using pseudonyms such as Frank X. Barlow, a circulation
man for the Ilium Gazette, and a hobo sleeping in the former Museum of the American Indian. FTP, name this
fictional author of some 117 novels and 2,000 short stories, who appears in several novels of Kurt Vonnegut.
Answer:
Kilgore Trout (can also accept Dr. Robert Fender)
2.
This man has held many political positions in his lifetime, and has undergone missions to Louis XII, and
to the Emperor Maximilian. He was with Cesare Borgia in the Romagna, and after watching the Papal election
of 1503, traveled with Julius II on his first campaign of conquest. He even organized an infantry force, which
fought at the capture of Pisa in 1509. Though he gained more fame for his literary works such as Mandragola, a
satire on seduction and the evils of women, and his version of The Art of War. FTP who is this man, appointed
Secondary Chancellor of Florence by the Medici in 1498, author of The Prince?
Answer - Niccolo Machiavelli
3.
Those that require busy waiting are termed spinlocks. Invented by Dijkstra for what he called "THE
Operating System," this construct is rarely used today, as monitors have replaced them. Consisting of an
integer value and a process list, this can only be accessed through atomic wait and signal functions after it is
initialized. FTP, name this tool of synchronization, which also refers to a method of signaling using flags or
lights.
semaphore
Answer:
4.
Like brown and golden algae, they store food as a glucose polymer called laminarin or in the form of oil.
Unlike brown and golden algae - or any other protists - they are unusually heavy; thus the special ion-regulating
mechanism to maintain buoyancy in water. At the end of their life cycle, the organic matrix decomposes and the
dense cell walls pull these organisms to the ocean floor, where their fossils form a silicate-rich sediment,
valuable as a filter or an abrasive. FTP identify this type of algae, known for its glasslike external shell.
Answer:
Diatoms or bacillariophytes
5.
He was called Agur, Lemuel, and was anointed by Zadok. The woman who bore his successor was a
wealthy Ammonite known as Naamah. One of his first actions upon becoming King was to kill his older brother
Adonijah when he pleaded for a wife. During his reign, he expanded the borders of his nation farther than they
ever had been before or since, although this was mostly due to his arranged marriages, including one to the
Pharaoh's daughter. Circa. 1006 BC, a temple was built on Mount Moriah bearing the name of, FTP, this last
King of the united Israelites.
Answer:
Solomon
6.
She quit playing chess because she found she enjoyed winning; pasted paper strips over the antireligious
parts of Swinburne's Atalanta in Calydon, objected to nudity in painting, and refused even to go see Wagner's
Parsifal, because it celebrated a pagan mythology. At the age of20, she contributed seven poems to The Germ
under the pseudonym Ellen Alleyne. One of her poems is set to music as the Christmas carol "In the Bleak
Midwinter." FTP, who was this author of "After Death" and "The Prince's Progress" and "Goblin Market"?
Answer:
Christina Rossetti

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
7.
It was part of the British Leeward Islands colony and later joined the West Indies Federation before
reverting to British ownership, and its People's Liberation Movement won all seats in Parliamentary elections in
1978. Rather than declare independence, it is taking steps toward reaching economic self-sufficiency, and
recovering from disasters. In 1989 it was struck by Hurricane Hugo and in 1995 it was rocked by the eruption
of Chances Peak in the Soufriere Hills. FTP, name this often devastated island whose capital is Plymouth.
Montserrat
Answer:
8.
Developed in 1925, it applies not only to electrons in atoms, but also to free electrons flowing through
matter. It is also important to chemistry, where it explains the regularities of the periodic law, and also applies
to elementary particles of half-integer spin. Resulting in a 1945 Nobel for its creator, FTP, identify this
fundamental principle of physics stating that two electrons cannot simultaneously occupy the same quantum or
energy state of an atom.
Answer:
Pauli Exclusion Principle
9.
The scandal resulted in the indictment of the president's private secretary, Orville E. Babcock, who was
later acquitted, and 110 convictions. Operating in Chicago, St. Louis, and Milwaukee, members bribed IRS
collectors in order to keep taxes for themselves, and allegations held that the illegally-kept taxes were used to
finance the re-election campaign of Ulysses S. Grant. Exposed by Benjamin Bristow, FTP, identify this scandal
which involved a group of distillers of alcohol.
Answer:
Whiskey Ring
10.
QUOTE: "What's up man hey yo what's up / Yeah what's go in' on here / Sick an' tired of five-oh runnin'
up on the block here / You know what I'm sayin' / Police them come an' now they blow down me door / One
him come crawl through through my window / So then they put me in the back the car at the station / From that
point on me reach my destination." So *that's* what the pasty-faced little runt was singing in, FTP, what
inexplicable hit by Snow?
Answer:
Informer (accept Snow before "hit")
11.
The setting is the city of Heliopolis, a caste-based city with Priests on the top, and slaves on the bottom.
The social law is governed by the important principle of Fraternal Love, based off a religion close to sun
worship with Masonic Rituals. FTP name this Mozart opera, which has a garden full of ferocious beasts that
can be tamed through the use of a musical instrument.
Answer - The Magic Flute or Die Zauberflote
12.
Charles "Chuckie" O'Brien always claimed that the blood found on the backseat of a borrowed 1975
Mercury he was driving was from a 40-lb package of salmon which he was driving across town. In early
September 2001, however, it was revealed that the FBI has matched a strand of hair found in the same car to
this man - a man who called O'Brien an "adopted son", but who hasn't called anyone anything since leaving the
Machus Red Fox restaurant outside Detroit on June 301\ 1975 - the same day Chuckie was supposedly
delivering fish. FTP, identify this former Teamsters boss, whose mysterious disappearance has never been
solved.
Answer:
James Riddle "Jimmy" Hoffa
13.
Freud referred to this as the reservoir of psychic energy, meaning it houses the raw biological urges that
energize human behavior. It engages in primary-process thinking, which is primitive, illogical, irrational, and
fantasy-oriented. It operates according to the pleasure principle, demanding immediate gratification of its urges.
FTP, name this unconscious component of personality which interacts with the ego and superego.
Plnswer:
id

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
14.
Its atmosphere contains little methane and its surface appears to be a combination of water-ice and
carbonaceous impurities. Because it is relatively close to the planet that it orbits, it had been obscured by the
glare of its planet's light. Attempts to find it failed because its planet is so remote until it was discovered in
1973 at the u.s. Naval Laboratory. FTP, name this only known natural satellite of Pluto.
Charon
Answer:
15.
This author's father was an economist and poet; a man who was both witty and wealthy. He was born in
Marseilles in 1869, and later built himself a grand chateau in the Pyrenees where he lived until his death in
1918. His first play was Gant Rouge and he later published a book of poems titled Les Musardises. FTP, name
this author, whose most famous play revolves around the general with a big heart and an equally big nose,
Cyrano de Bergerac.
Answer:
Edmond de Rostand
16.
This Chicago native was the 3rd player drafted in the June 1982 draft and only played 224 minor league
games before being called up to the major leagues. On May 8, 1984, he became only the 9th player ever to
record four hits in his first major league game. 10 All-Star Appearances, 2 World Series titles, and 2,304 hits
later, he was forced to retire when he woke up during Spring Training of 1996 with glaucoma. FTP, identify
this longtime Twins outfielder, who this year became the third youngest living electee to the Hall of Fame.
Answer:
Kirby Puckett
17.
He was the son of a wealthy restaurateur, whose property was seized by the Communist government in
1948, prompting his stance for the rest of his life. He eventually found ajob as a stagehand, beginning a career
in the theatre that would see him become resident playwright of the Theatre of the Balustrade. Due to his
involvement in the "Prague Spring", his plays were banned and his passport confiscated. Four years spent in
jail did not keep him from elected office after he led the "Velvet Revolution." FTP, name this author of "the
Garden Party" and "The Memorandum," also the first President of his the Czech Republic.
Answer:
Vaclav Havel
18.
Born in Edinburgh a sickly youth, he did so well at school he attended the university at 16, with his
family expecting him to be a lighthouse engineer. Preferring law, he thought his parents religion an abomination
and soon became known as a bohemian, ranting against bourgeois society, and marrying the 'loose' American
woman Fanny Osbourne. He eventually came back and started writing, making himself famous in America.
FTP name this man, who died sailing the South Seas of a cerebral hemorrhage in 1894, author of A Child's
Garden of Verses and Kidnapped.
Answer: - Robert Louis Stevenson
19.
Discovered by Johan August Arfwedson, a butyl compound containing this element is used in the
manufacture of synthetic rubber. Its chloride and bromide are chiefly used in brines in large refrigeration and
air-conditioning systems, but its most important compound may be its carbonate, which is used in the treatment
of manic-depressives. FTP, identify this alkali metal, the lightest of the solid elements.
Answer:
lithium
.
20.
Commissioned to do a stained-glass window, he traveled to Germany to seek assistance. While there, he
noticed the staunch realism present in the paintings of the 16 th century masters, and abandoned his view of
Impressionism for the styles he saw there. Among his works in this style are Woman with Plants, a portrait of
his mother, and Daughters of Revolution, a portrait of three old ladies who are overly proud oftheir ancestors.
FTP, name this Iowan, a leader of the Midwestern Regionalist movement, and painter of American Gothic.
Answer:
Grant Wood

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
21.
A synodic one happens between two consecutive identical phases of the moon. The draconic one is the
period between two successive transits of the Moon through its ascending node. The sidereal one is the period
between two successive conjunctions of the Moon with the same fixed star. The tropical one happens between
two successive transits through the meridian of the vernal equinox. FTP name this thing that can range from
27.212 days to 31 days if you're looking at March, May, or December.
month
Answer:
22.
Supposedly it first appeared sometime between 1862 and 1876, but the first recipe wasn't printed until
1884. Some believe its present name comes from the name of an English rifle with a strong kick; the OED says
its name is derived from a Genoese vermouth company. Most legends track its origin to gold rush Martinez,
California, where it was made dry with a twist of lemon, but most likely its first incarnation was sweet with a
cherry. FTP identify name this classiest of drinks, with a slew of variations as well as fans, the most famous of
whom prefers it shaken, not stirred.
Martini
Answer:
23.
Pittacus, Timarchus, Cleisthenes, Agathocles, Hippias, Pisistratus Hiero, Gelon, and Miltiades. In
ancient Greece all of these men were known by this title. FTP name this word, which is used today to indicate
any harsh autocratic ruler.
Tyrant
Answer:
24.
This nation's president ordered that its flags be flown at half-mast after it suffered its worst-ever
shooting spree. The spree caused President Moritz Leuenberger to cancel a meeting with the President of
Senegal. 57-year-old Friedrich Leibacher entered the local legislature with an assault rifle and a grenade and
sprayed at least 20 bullets in a five-minute frenzy which killed 15 lawmakers. He then committed suicide and
found a note entitled "A Day of Rage against the Zug Mafia." Zug is noted for its low taxes, spectacular Alpine
views, and proximity to Zurich airport in, FTP, what European nation?
Answer:
Switzerland

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
BONI - ROUND 4
Questions mostly by Cornell (Jason Keller, Mina Radhakrishnan, Nechama Levy, and Aaron Safane)

1.
Identify these British artists from works FTPE.
10) The series A Rake's Progress, the series Marriage a la Mode.
Answer:
William Hogarth
10) Portrait of Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan, Robert Andrews and his Wife, The Blue Boy.
Answer:
Thomas Gainsborough
10) The White Horse, The Hay Wain.
Answer: John Constable
2.
FTP each, given a description, name the character in William Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice:
The title character, his depiction is considered anti-Semitic today, although his famous "Hath not a Jew eyes?"
speech is the play's most memorable passage.
Answer:
Shylock
Shylock demanded a pound of this debtor's flesh because of his acts early in the play.
Answer:
Antonio
A noblewoman of Belmont, she is beautiful, intelligent, and the heroine of the play. Along with her maid
Nerissa, she enters the courtroom disguised as a man.
Answer:
Portia
3.
FTPE answer the following about the Lousiana Purchase:
a) Upon learning that Spain had secretly ceded the territory to France, Jefferson sent this future President to
join the U.S. minister to France, Robert Livingston, to buy New Orleans and a small strip that's now southern
Alabama and Mississippi.
Answer:
James Monroe
b) One of the reasons Napoleon was willing to sell the whole shebang was that his grand American plans had
been stymied by the slave revolt in Haiti, led by this man.
Answer:
Pierre Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture
[prompt on L' Ouverture - his last name is both words]
c) Sent in the aftermath of Lewis and Clark to explore the headwaters of the Arkansas and Red Rivers, this man
was captured by the Spanish in 1807, but not before naming after himself a big mountain he failed to climb.
Answer:
Zebulon Pike
4.
Only one of these can be heard on the tribute album recorded by Finnish classics professor Jukka
Arnmondt -- in Latin. Identify the following Elvis songs from lyrics FTPE:
A. "Now, the bellhop's tears keep flowin', and the desk clerk's dressed in black. Well they been so long on
lonely street they'll never ever look back."
Answer: Heartbreak Hotel
B. "We're caught in a trap. I can't walk out because I love you too much baby.
Answer: Suspicious Minds
C. "Just like a willow we would cryan ocean if we lost true love and sweet devotion."
Answer: It's Now Or Never
[READER: "Ladies and gentlemen, Elvis has left the tournament."]

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
5.
Name these reproductive entities, none of which is Madonna, FTP each.
This method of asexual reproduction involves the formation of a new organism from a generative point on the
parent.
Answer:
budding
Also known as a runner, this is a thin, slender horizontal branch designed to propagate an organism by budding.
Answer:
stolon
In sponges, these are aggregates of archaeocytes which become isolated when there is an abundance of food
particles. They are then expelled from the sponge to continue the process of asexual reproduction.
Answer:
gennnauies
6.
Answer these questions from the world of statistics from brief descriptions FTPE
a) This is the sum of the observation values divided by the number of those observations. Statisticians hate it if
you call this the average.
Answer: ill£!!!
b) This concept, which can be defined as the square root of the variance, measures the volatility of an event's
occurrence. It is more clearly defined as the square root of the sunnnaed squares of the deviations between an
observance and the observance mean.
Answer: standard deviation
c) This is the universe of all entities from which a sample can be drawn, and used to estimate its characteristics.
Answer: population
7.
As of this writing these questions and answers are still in the present tense. FTSNOP answer the
following about the Taliban:
F5PE, identify the three countries which had recognized the Taliban as the legitimate government of
Afghanistan before September 11 tho
Answer:
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates or U.A.E.
F5P, this loose collection of opposition groups is still waging a war against the Taliban in order to regain power
in Afghanistan.
Answer:
Northern Alliance or Northern Military Alliance or NMA
For the final ten, this man is the spiritual head and de facto ruler of the Taliban.
Answer:
Mullah Mohannnaad Omar
8.
1)

FTP each, answer these questions about Treasure Island:
What notorious buccaneer first charted the island in 1754 to hide his treasure?
Answer - Captain Flint
2)
What shipmate of Flint drew up the map which recorded the location of the treasure.
Answer - Bill Bones
3) The island was later acquired by Long John Silver and what shipmate?
Answer - Ben Gunn
9.
Answer these random questions about polymers FTP each.
Used to make thin films and plastic bottles among other things, this simple polymer has chemical formula
(CH2CH2)n. [READ: parentheses C H-two C h-two, parentheses closed, N]
Answer:
polyethylene
This is bonding between various strands of atoms in a polymer.
Answer:
cross-linking
This is a plastic material, which, partially due to cross-linking, is able to stretch to at least twice its length and
then return to its original position.
Answer:
elastomer

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTe 10/13/01
10.
30-20-10. Author from works.
30: The Long Dark Tea-Time ofthe Soul, Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency
20: Mostly Harmless, Young Zaphod Plays It Safe So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish
10: Life, the Universe, and Everything, The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, The Hitchhiker's Guide to
the Galaxy
Answer: Douglas Adams
11 .
Name the geologic time period FTP each.
The most important plants of this longest Paleozoic period include seed ferns, true ferns, lycopods, cordaitians,
and sphenopsids, and although few survive, they are responsible for the earth's deposits of coal.
Answer:
Carboniferous period
The period just before the Carboniferous, the proliferation of marine life earned it the name, "The Age of
Fishes."
Answer:
Devonian period
This period which followed the Cambrian is marked by the mass death of trilobites and the radiation of
brachiopods and nautiloids.
Answer:
Ordovician period
12. Identify the following Supreme Court justices who were laid to rest at Arlington National Cemetery FTPE.
a) This son of a Massachusetts poet is credited with shouting "Get down, you damned fool!" at Abe Lincoln
during an 1864 battle. He served 29 years on the court, where he became known as "The Great Dissenter."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.
b) He's the only President also to serve on the Supreme Court and the only one besides JFK buried at Arlington.
William H. Taft
C) There were two drives to impeach this justice - one in 1935, when his marriage to a 23-year-old was
brought to light, and again in 1970, when a group of conservative senators became upset over rejection of
their nominees. He outlasted both and became the longest serving justice in Supreme Court history.
William O. Douglas
13.
Remember those wonderful '90's? If not, have you been studying your Nobel Prize winners in
Literature? For 5 points each, name in any order any 6 ofthe 10 winners of the Nobel in Literature from 1990
to 1999 inclusive. To make it easier, here are their home countries: [READ SLOWLY] Mexico, South Africa,
St. Lucia, the U.S., Japan, Ireland, Poland, Italy, Portugal, and Germany.
Answer:
any 6 of: Octavio Paz, Nadine Gordimer, Derek Walcott, Toni Morrison, Kenzaburo Oe,
Seamus Heaney, Wislawa Szymborska, Dario Fo, Jose Saramago, Gunter Grass
14.
Nothing makes the tabloids spin round faster than celebrity love. Given a description of recent celebrity
romantic doins' and transpirins' , identify the celebrity for ten points, or for 5 if you need another clue.
10: She split from her husband, film director Jim Threapleton, after less than three years of marriage.
5: She met her now-ex-hubby on the set of Hideous Kinky, which did not make as much money as, say, Titanic.
Answer:
Kate Winslet
10: In a private ceremony on September 2nd , she married Hollywood cameraman Coleman "Coley" Laffoon,
whom she met while the groom was filming a documentary.
5: The documentary covered a concert tour by her then-lover, stand-up comedian Ellen DeGeneres.
Answer:
Anne Heche
10: This Oscar-winning member of Mensa married Dr. Reza Jaharry in a small, private ceremony on Long
Island, adding him to a list of husbands which includes director Renny Harlin and actor Jeff Goldblum.
5: Hopefully she can live on a doctor's salary, seeing as her self-titled ABC sitcom lasted only one season.
Obviously not enough archery.
Answer:
Geena Davis

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
15.
FTP each, identify these characteristics of black holes based on their descriptions.
This can be determined by the size of a black hole's event horizon. It determines the black hole's gravitational
pull at a given distance.
~svver:
mass
This property vvould theoretically allovv a black hole to be moved around by avery, very large magnet.
~svver:
charge
This property is defined as the radius of the black hole times its momentum.
~svver:
angular momentum or spin
16.
Given a group of gods or goddesses, give their collective name FTP each.
Clothos, Lachesis, Atropos
Ansvver:
Fates or Moirae
Alecto, Tisiphone, Magaera
~svver:
Furies
Urd, Verdandi, Skuld
~svver:
Noms
17.
History shovvs that the term "united Italy" is usually an oxymoron. FTPE name these Italian leaders:
a) This revolutionary leader led the Red Shirts, vvho seized southern Italy and paved the vvay for its
independence in 1861.
~svver:
Giuseppe Garibaldi
b) With the skilled maneuvering of advisor Count Cavour, this monarch of Piedmont got the promotion to
become king ofltaly upon its proclamation.
~svver:
Victor Emmanuel II
c) Rising to povver over a decade before Hitler, this Italian Fascist vvound up playing second fiddle on the Axis
side in World War II. When Italy fell, he tried to flee but vvound up hanging upside dovvn on a meathook.
~svver:
Benito Mussolini
18.
Ansvver these questions about the faculty of Hogvvarts FTPE.
He is the headmaster.
Albus Dumbledore
The potions teacher, he is continually passed over for the defense against the dark arts position, and is also head
of Slytherin House.
Severus Snape
She is the head of Gryffindor House.
Minerva McGonnegal
19.
N arne these central Asian mountain ranges other than the Himalayas FTP each.
a)
Lying on the border of Pakistan and Afghanistan, it divides the Amu Darya river valley to the north
from the Indus river valley to the south. Its highest point is Mount Tirich Mir and Khyber Pass is located here.
~svver:
Hindu Kush
b)
This series of parallel ranges, vvhose mountains rise to above 20,000 feet above sea level on average, and
the borders of China, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and India converge here. Its highest point is K2.
~svver:
Karakoram range
c)
Lying mostly vvithin Tajikistan, this highland region includes Lenin Peak, Communism Peak,
Revolution Peak, and Karl Marx Peak. At least, vve think they're still called by those names.
~svver:
Pamirs

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
20.
Identify the literary devices used in the following sentences FTPE:
a: I've answered that question a million times!
Answer: hyperbole
b: Edward enjoyed his emperor's red elephant.
Answer: assonance
c: I earned this by my own sweat.
Answer: metonymy

UTC 10/13/01

21.
Name the scientist 30-20-10
30) In his later years he experimented with hawkweed, but his work proved inconclusive. By the 1870s he
gave up the work which would posthumously bring him fame.
20) He published his important findings in 1866, but they were largely ignored until rediscovered by three
scientists, including botanist Hugo De Vries in the early 1900s. The significance to evolution and heredity
wouldn't come until the 1920 and 30s.
10) His work with pea plants in the monastery garden led him to propose two theories of heredity.
Answer:
Gregor MENDEL
22.
Shortly after Fox executives realized that the world was full of real-life Comic Book Guys, they decided
to do the sensible thing and plaster the Simpsons logo on every piece of crap they could fmd. FTPE, identify
these crummy Simpsons tie-ins.
A. In this game for the NES, Bart has to save the world from Kang and Kodos, who are building a giant deathray that is powered by hats and purple things. Yes, hats and purple things.
Answer:
Bart V s. The Space Mutants
B. This album, a follow-up to the mildly successful "The Simpsons Sing the Blues" almost never saw the light
of day due to conflicts with the actors who voice the characters. Now that it's been released, with no memorable
or humorous content, everybody wishes it had stayed locked up in the Fox vault with the Ark of the Covenant.
Answer:
The Yellow Album
C. The newest computer game featuring the Simpsons is this dull attempt to capitalize on another cultural trend.
Playas a Simpsons character and punch other Simpsons characters. Then kick them. Then punch them again.
Ha hal It's a laugh riot!
Answer:
Simpsons Wrestling

