DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2007
Packet 3:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. One thinker from this country wrote the essay collection I Write What I Like and discussed the
“consciousness” of a certain group in a work that also mentions the “quest for true humanity.”
Another published the sermon collections No Future Without Forgiveness and Crying in the
Wilderness. In addition to Steven (*) Biko and Desmond Tutu, a political figure from this nation
published the autobiography Long Walk to Freedom after being imprisoned at Robben Island. FTP,
identify this African nation, whose citizens like Nelson Mandela opposed Apartheid
ANSWER: South Africa
2. In these organisms, most functions not performed by the archaeocytes and choanocytes are
routed through the osculum, and they are often used in evolutionary studies in conjunction with
choanoflagellates. The only remaining parazoans, they are classified by their (*) spicules, some of
which are created by sclerocytes. Lacking muscles, nerves, or a true circulatory system, FTP, identify
this marine phylum whose hole-filled skeletons are used to scrub things.
ANSWER: Porifera or Sponges
3. The protagonist of this play derides several companions for “biting their lips” and “shaking
their heads,” before a herald is identified as a “servant of priapus” by Myrrhine and Calonice.
Lampito suggests a shield filled with wine to seal the play’s central (*) oath, uniting representatives
from Corinth, Boeotia, Sparta, and Athens. FTP, identify this play in which the titular woman
organizes a sex strike to stop Greek men from fighting in wars, written by Aristophanes.
ANSWER: Lysistrata
4. You want to find the velocity after 1 second of a particle moving along the curve f of x equals
the quantity x squared plus 2, close quantity, times the quantity x minus 1. Finding velocity
requires the first derivative, which with this equation will require either distribution of the
quantities or the product rule of (*) differentiation. FTP, what is the particle’s velocity? You have
ten seconds.
ANSWER: 3 Units/Second (derivative is 3x^2 - 2x + 2, so f(1) = 3)
5. Late in life this man relied on incorrect geographical data regarding the Hindu Kush and the
Don River and ended up purposelessly slaughtering some Scythians as he marched into the
Ukraine. This son of Hystaspes sent expedition under Mardonius and Datis and created the (*)
Behistun inscription, but died before his son could organize a larger invasion of Greece in retribution
for the Ionian revolt. FTP, identify this Persian king whose forces lost at Marathon, the father of
Xerxes I.
ANSWER: Darius I or the Great

December 2007, Packet 3
6. Out the rear window of the room, trees can be seen, evoking more classical representations of
the subject. A cassoni can be seen to the right of a curtain that covers half the room, and a maid
in a white dress (*) rummages through it. A dog lies at the feet of the subject, who holds flowers,
reclines nude, and looks out at the viewer. FTP, name this Titian painting depicting the Roman goddess
of love in an Italian town.
ANSWER: Venus of Urbino
7. This area contains part of the Gallatin, Absaroka, Madison, Beartooth, and Teton ranges. It
has its highest point at Eagle Peak, although Mount Washburn is more prominent, and the
continental divide runs through its (*) southwest portion. The Lewis Canyon cuts through this park,
which is actually sitting on the largest volcanic system on earth, the reason why geysers like Old
Faithful can be seen here. Consisting of parts of Idaho and Montana, FTP, identify this first US
National Park, located mostly in Wyoming.
ANSWER: Yellowstone National Park (prompt on “Wyoming” before “Eagle”)
8. Antisymmetry causes the formation of these kind of holes, while the highest occupied quantum
state in a system of particles at absolute zero is this kind of field. The Drake equation is a
“problem” named for this man, who also names a field consisting of quanta that obey statistics
named for this physicist and Paul (*) Dirac. Quarks and leptons are grouped into his namesake halfinteger spin particles, and he also names a major accelerator lab in Illinois. FTP, identify this Italian
physicist.
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi
9. His limited output was expanded when a number of letters he wrote, some of which discuss his
amateur photography, were published as Trading Twelves in the model of his earlier essay
collection, Shadow and Act. This author of Going to the Territory had his unfinished tale of Adam
Sunraider compiled into Three Days Before the Shooting, originally published as (*) Juneteenth,
but remains famous for a story about a nameless protagonist who retreats underground after a race riot.
FTP, identify this author of Invisible Man.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Ellison
10. The null one can indicate plurality for words such as fish and moose. The cranberry type can
only exist in bound form and free ones can stand alone. They can be composed of either (*)
phonemes or graphemes depending on whether one is speaking or writing, and both prefixes and
suffixes are examples of them. FTP, name these smallest units of language which possess meaning in
linguistics.
ANSWER: Morphemes
11. Before assuming the papacy, Benedict XVI was a prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine
of Faith, which currently oversees this entity. Responsible for the Edgardo Mortara controversy,
it was institutionalized by Paul III and famous men associated with it include Konrad von
Marburg, who (*) combated the Albigensians. Tomas de Torquemada most famously prosecuted,
FTP, what Catholic campaign to destroy heresy, whose Spanish form might not be entirely expected?
ANSWER: The Inquisition (unfortunately, “the Spanish Inquisition” is not correct)

December 2007, Packet 3
12. This figure, who created an important ancestral sword, used alcohol to slay the dragon
Orochi and once competed in a contest involving five beads. His origin from a nose is somewhat
less dignified than his two siblings, and perhaps explains why he felt the need to go on a drunken
rampage that saw him throw a severed horse head into his (*) sister’s weaving hall. That action
plunged the world into darkness after that sister, Amaterasu, hid in a cave. FTP, identify this angry,
angry kami, the god of storms in Shinto myth.
ANSWER: Susano-wo or Susano’o or Susano-o-Mikoto
13. Although the actual signatory of the Declaration of Rights and Principles, this man has
challenged numerous provisions of that document, including those regarding the right to a tv
station. Such objections stem from his attempt to use the Basic Law to question the legitimacy of
Ismail Haniyeh and Salam (*) Fayyad, whose Hamas party won a major electoral victory in 2006
against this man’s own Fatah party. FTP, identify this successor to Yasser Arafat, the current head of
the PLO.
ANSWER: Mahmoud Abbas
14. A dog points out the flaws of a number of characters as they climb a mountain in this work,
which also sees one group suffer greatly from a rigged dice game. An appendix describing the
lineage of a major figure is usually added to this work, and is called the Harivamsa, tracing the
lineage of (*) Vishnu. An avatar of Vishnu appears in its most famous section, a dialogue between
Arjuna and Krishna. Telling of a war between the Kauravas and Pandavas, FTP, identify this Indian
epic by Vyasa that contains the Bhagavad Gita and is even longer than the Ramayana.
ANSWER: The Mahabharata
15. This artist drew inspiration from Michael Jackson in his upcoming remake of “Wanna be
Startin’ Something” and from Bobby Vinson in his song “Lonely,” off of his first major album,
Trouble. This subject of the film Illegal Alien proclaims in one song regret for not being around
for his sons and for his (*) arrest for grand theft auto, which inspired his album Konvicted. That song,
“Blame it on Me,” also addresses his actions onstage with a minor in Trinidad. FTP, identify this
Senegalese-American singer, responsible for “Don’t Matter” and “Smack That.”
ANSWER: Akon or Alioune Badara Thiam
16. Nicholas Herkimer fought a heroic action at the Battle of Oriskany to prevent troops under
Barry St. Leger to reach this battle. The “Convention Army” of POWs was created following this
clash, which saw action at the Bemis Heights and (*) Freeman’s Farm. Daniel Morgan’s
sharpshooters proved decisive in this battle, even killing Simon Fraser. General Burgoyne surrendered
to Gates following the heroic action of Benedict Arnold at, FTP, what 1777 clash in New York that led
to France joining America in the Revolutionary War?
ANSWER: Battle of Saratoga
17. When this element is paired with mercury and tellurium, it becomes the most important
semiconductor not to contain silicon or gallium, and it is paired with the word “red” when it
bonds with Selenium. It is mostly extracted as an impurity from zinc, and by large amount
mostly used with nickel in (*) batteries. Discovered by Friedrich Strohymeyer, this blue and white
transition metal is highly toxic. FTP, identify this chemical element famous for its use in nuclear
control rods, with chemical symbol Cd.
ANSWER: Cadmium (accept Cd early)

December 2007, Packet 3
18. The central figure rejects the advances of The Baron as Gastone watches on in the first scene
of this work, inspired by Dumas, fils's The Lady of the Camellias. In Act III, Dr. Grenvil informs
Annina that the protagonist’s tuberculosis will be fatal. Earlier, Germont forces the protagonist
to end her relationship with his son, who had declared that he loved her in Un di, felice, eterea.
This son, (*) Alfredo, eventually holds Violetta in his arms as she dies. FTP, name this opera about the
title ‘fallen girl’, a work of Giuseppe Verdi.
ANSWER: La Traviata
19. This man’s “Mutability” appears in his collection Ecclesiastical Sketches, while he included
“Ode to Duty” and “Elegiac Stanzas” in his Poems, in Two Volumes. A summer vacation and stay
in France form some of the fifteen chapters in his work subtitled “the growth of the poet’s mind,”
(*) The Prelude. Better known works like “The Solitary Reaper” and “Tintern Abbey” appeared in a
collection co-published with Samuel Taylor Coleridge. FTP, identify this English poet whose works
appear in Lyrical Ballads.
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
20. One of his first well-recieved paintings features a Victorian home located next to a set of train
tracks. In addition to House by the Railroad, he painted a seated woman drinking a cup of coffee
in Automat, and two women chatting at a (*) café in Chop Suey. All of these paintings depict 20th
century American life, as does his most famous work, in which Phillies are advertised at a diner where
four people sit. FTP, name this painter of Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2007
Packet 3:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: FTPE, what kind of electrical device:
[10] Is central to Moore's law and was developed by Shockley, Bardeen, and Brattain?
ANSWER: Transistor
[10] Uses a wound coil and induction to transfer electrical energy from one circuit to another circuit?
ANSWER: Transformer
[10] Had its first example in the Leyden Jar and stores energy in the electric field between two
conductors?
ANSWER: Capacitor
2. Bonus: Answer these questions about the beloved economic concept of stagflation, FTPE:
[10] In addition to low growth, this condition, unsurprisingly, must be present in an economy
experiencing stagflation. It can occur in cost-push and demand-pull varieties.
ANSWER: Inflation
[10] Stagflation notably violates this economic curve, which posits an inverse relationship between
inflation and unemployment.
ANSWER: Phillips Curve
[10] Stagflation may be explained by these events, in which the price of a good or service
spontaneously changes. Oil experienced one of these during a period of US stagflation in the 1970s.
ANSWER: Supply Shocks
3. Bonus: Identify these Chilean authors, FTPE:
[10] This author of Paula and Eva Luna was forced to flee Chile after the death of her uncle Salvador
in a 1973 coup. She may be most famous for The House of the Spirits.
ANSWER: Isabel Allende Llona
[10] This author of Desolation, Tala, Ternera, and Sonnets of Death won the Nobel Prize in 1945. Her
pen name was taken from a French and an Italian poet.
ANSWER: Gabriela Mistral or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga
[10] Neftali Ricard Reyes was the birth name of this Chilean poet of On the Blue Shore of Silence,
Elemental Odes, and Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda
4. Bonus: Identify these figures important in the history of paper, FTPE:
[10] This Han dynasty eunuch, who might have murdered Empress Jingyin, is generally credited with
inventing modern paper.
ANSWER: Cai Lun
[10] This German inventor of movable type and namesake of a 42-line bible made having paper just
that much cooler after things could actually be printed on it.
ANSWER: Johannes Gutenberg
[10] The establishment of the Library of Alexandria under the second Egyptian ruler bearing this name
led to a national papyrus-drain, necessitating the leap from papyrus to parchment.
ANSWER: Ptolemy

December 2007, Packet 3
5. Bonus: Answer these questions about heresy, FTPE:
[10] This Emperor clashed with Antiochenes while on a campaign against the Sassanids, but is more
famous for preferring Paganism to Christianity and earning the epithet “the Apostate.”
ANSWER: Julian the Apostate or Flavius Claudius Iulianus
[10] This heresy, named for an Alexandrian priest, attacked Trinitarian beliefs and claimed the Jesus
Christ was separate from God.
ANSWER: Arianism
[10] Arianism, and many other heresies, were denounced by this 325 council overseen by St. Alexander
and called by Constantine the Great. It also saw the introduction of a namesake Creed.
ANSWER: First Council of Nicaea
6. Bonus: F5PE, given a university, identify that university's animal mascot:
[5] University of Wisconsin.
ANSWER: Badgers
[5] Penn State.
ANSWER: Nittany Lions (prompt on partial answer)
[5] University of Southern Illinois.
ANSWER: Salukis
[5] University of Oregon.
ANSWER: Ducks
[5] University of Michigan.
ANSWER: Wolverines
[5] UC Santa Cruz.
ANSWER: Banana Slugs
7. Bonus: Many computer science algorithms rely on representing information as a graph. Identify
these terms from graph theory FTPE:
[10] These fundamental units of a graph are connected to one another by edges.
ANSWER: Node or Vertex
[10] This is a connected graph in which any two vertices are connected by a unique simple path. They
may or may not posses leaves.
ANSWER: Tree
[10] This is a closed simple path with no repeated vertices except the start vertex and the end vertex.
ANSWER: Cycle
8. Bonus: Identify the ruler who held dominion over France when these major world events took place,
FTPE. If you need a year, you'll get five.
[10] The beginning of the War of the Spanish Succession.
[5] 1701.
ANSWER: Louis XIV
[10] Elizabeth I of England dies.
[5] 1603.
ANSWER: Henry IV or Henry of Navarre
[10] The launching of the Seventh Crusade (not to mention the Eighth).
[5] 1248.
ANSWER: Louis IX or Louis the Saint or Saint Louis

December 2007, Packet 3
9. Bonus: It begins act III of the second part of the Ring Cycle. FTPE:
[10] Identify this mythologically-inspired ensemble piece.
ANSWER: The Ride of the Valkyries
[10] This composer of the opera The Valkyrie always became annoyed when people requested he play
“The Ride of the Valkyries” separately in between bouts of raging antisemitism.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[10] “The Ride of the Valkyries” is one of only two ensemble orchestrations in Wagner's Ring Cycle.
The other occurs in this first opera, which tells of a certain treasure.
ANSWER: Das Rheingold or The Rhine Gold
10. Bonus: Identify these poets who were inspired by cemeteries, FTPE:
[10] This poet of “The Wild Honey-Suckle,” who is often cited as the “poet of the American
Revolution,” wrote “The Indian Burial Ground.”
ANSWER: Philip Freneau
[10] This author of The Song of Hiawatha was moved to write “The Jewish Cemetery” after visiting the
oldest such institution in the United States. He also wrote about a midnight ride undertaken by Paul
Revere.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
[10] This poet declared “the paths of glory lead but to the grave” in his “Elegy Written in a Country
Churchyard.”
ANSWER: Thomas Gray
11. Bonus: This man was the subject of a controversial MoveOn.org advertisement that demonstrated
puns and politics never mix. FTPE:
[10] Identify this commander of US forces in Iraq.
ANSWER: David Petraeus
[10] Petraeus oddly received a promotion after breaking his pelvis following a parchute failure during a
high-altitude jump during his time at this North Carolina military base, named for a Western theater
Confederate general.
ANSWER: Fort Bragg
[10] Petraeus's first adventure with military self-injury occurred when one of his squadmates
accidentaly shot him in the chest, necessitating surgery performed by this former US Senator from
Tennessee, who notably dissected cats from local shelters during med school and is under the
impression that HIV can be transmitted through sweat.
ANSWER: William “Bill” Frist
12. Bonus: It occurs when light hits particles and is scattered differently depending on wavelength.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this “effect” used to differentiate mixtures, named for a British scientist.
ANSWER: Tyndall Effect
[10] The Tyndall Effect is used to differentiate solutions and suspensions from these homogeneous
mixtures which consist of both dispersed and continuous phases.
ANSWER: Colloids
[10] The Tyndall Effect is analogous to what kind of scattering affecting particles smaller than those
governed by Mie Theory, often used to explain why the sky is blue?
ANSWER: Rayleigh Scattering

December 2007, Packet 3
13. Bonus: Identify these geographic entities which border the Sea of Okhotsk, FTPE:
[10] Mount Lopatin is the highest point on this long Russian Island north of Hokkaido.
ANSWER: Sakhalin
[10] This long peninsula to the East of the sea is known to fans of the board game Risk.
ANSWER: Kamchatka Peninsula
[10] Kunashir is the southernmost of this island chain, which separates the sea from the Pacific.
ANSWER: Kurile Islands
14. Bonus: Identify the method by which these literary figures are dispatched, FTPE. For example,
Juliet from Romeo and Juliet would be some variant on harming one's self with a dagger:
[10] Vladimir Lensky in Pushkin's Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Shot in a Duel (accept either)
[10] Beowulf, from Beowulf.
ANSWER: Mauled by a Dragon (accept any horrible act of maiming as long as it is perpetrated
by a Dragon)
[10] The Clutter family in Truman Capote's In Cold Blood.
ANSWER: Shot (with a Shotgun)
15. Bonus: It is named for the join participation of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay. FTPE:
[10] Identify this numerically-named war from South American history that saw the Campaign of the
Hills and the battles of Mato Grosso, Itoror, and Riachuelo.
ANSWER: War of the Triple Alliance
[10] This other South American country, with capital at Asuncion, was slammed in the War of the
Triple Alliance. It was led in the twentieth century by Alfredo Stroessner.
ANSWER: Paraguay
[10] This lunatic president of Paraguay was responsible for the devastation caused to his country after
he entered into the war. He was killed at Cerro Cora when enemy forces threw him into the Aquidaban
river and pelted him with grenades.
ANSWER: Francisco Solano Lopez
16. Bonus: Identify these monstrous figures from European folklore, FTPE:
[10] In France, these creatures are called loup-garou. They are usually associated with the lunar cycle.
ANSWER: Werewolves or Lycanthropes
[10] These Romanian vampire-witches take the form of old, birdlike crones and feast on human
essence. They were associated with owls.
ANSWER: Striga or Strix
[10] These mermaid-like creatures are seals which can shed their skin to become beautiful women.
They appear in Scottish and Icelandish myth.
ANSWER: Selkies

December 2007, Packet 3
17. Bonus: They use mRNA to accomplished translation. FTPE:
[10] Identify these organelles, whose presence on the endoplasmic reticulum causes it to be classified
as “rough” rather than “smooth.”
ANSWER: Ribosomes
[10] Ribosomes found in chloroplasts and mitochondria are similar to those found in prokaryotes, a fact
used as evidence for what theory put forth by Lynn Margulis?
ANSWER: Endosymbiont Theory or Endosymbiotic Theory
[10] RNase P and “Hammerhead” are two types of this RNA molecule, which joined enzymes as the
only biological catalyst.
ANSWER: Ribozymes or RNA Enzyme or Catalytic RNA
18. Bonus: This man published music criticism under the pseudonym “Corno di Bassetto.” FTPE:
[10] Identify this author who told of Larry Doyle and Tom Broadbent in John Bull's Other Island and
of Lady Britomart and Andrew Undershaft in Major Barbara, and also penned Arms and the Man and
Mrs. Warren's Profession.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] This famous Shaw play with a mythologically-inspired title centers on the tutelage of Eliza
Doolittle. It was adapted into My Fair Lady.
ANSWER: Pygmalion
[10] Boss Managan and Mazzini Dunn interact with figures like Captain Shotover in this Shaw play,
whose titular structure may be a metaphor for a ship.
ANSWER: Heartbreak House
19. Bonus: He is the “author” of the ghostwritten The Conscience of a Conservative. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Arizona senator who lost the election of 1964 over somewhat reasonable concerns
that he would wipe out all life on planet Earth with nuclear weapons.
ANSWER: Barry Goldwater
[10] Goldwater lost the election to this man, who ascended the presidency after the death of John F.
Kennedy and launched the Great Society.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson
[10] In 1977, Goldwater lost his long, inexplicable fight against the Torrijos-Carter Treaty governing
control of this entity.
ANSWER: The Panama Canal
20. Bonus: Identify these works of Frank Lloyd Wright, FTPE:
[10] This quintessential Prairie style home is located in Hyde Park, Chicago, adjacent to the University
of Chicago.
ANSWER: Robie House
[10] This famous Pennsylvania structure was built on a favorite picnic spot of the Kaufman family.
ANSWER: Fallingwater
[10] Paintings hang from the ceiling as viewers ascend the circular ramps that comprise this modern art
museum in New York.
ANSWER: Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum

