DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2007
Packet 2:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. One of this work’s greatest villains is Korhior, who claims that forgiveness is impossible and
incites Amlici and Nehor to rebellion, which is put down by the father of Shiblon and Helamon,
Alma. The Testimony of Witnesses is added as a forward to this work, whose third section
centers on Jacob, brother of (*) Nephi. Supposedly transcribed from Golden Plates as per the
instructions of Moroni, FTP, identify this collection of scripture created by Joseph Smith, the primary
text of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
ANSWER: The Book of Mormon
2. Alaric’s sack of this city may have created the Tsakonian language, while its more incompetent
rulers included Archidamus IV, who failed to prevent an Antigonid invasion, and Cleomenes III,
who was crushed at Sellasia by the Achean League. Nabis was the first to construct (*) walls
around this city, which had relied on the code of Lycurgus, a social system based on the helot slave
class, and a legendary martial culture for defense. FTP, identify this rival of Athens, a city on the
Peloponnesus that sent three hundred warriors under Leonidas to the Battle of Thermopylae.
ANSWER: Sparta
3. It is filled with Amacrine cells as well as Muller cells, which can become multipotent and
account for this object’s swift healing rate. Cells in this body which contain melanopsin interact
with the SCN and help maintain circadian rhythms. It is responsible for (*) relaying signals to a
certain nerve, and functions by the excitation of its receptors, cones and rods. FTP, identify this thin
layer of cells located behind the eye, sometimes scanned for identification.
ANSWER: Retina
4. The use of high-performance liquid chromatography to analyze these entities, often referred to
as the Gillett method, has indicated that the usual scale for rating them may be inaccurate for
subjects like the African Birdseye or Naga Jolokia. That rating system, the Scoville scale, relies
on (*) capsaicin concentrations and applies various values to the Serrano, Habanero, and Jalapeno.
FTP, identify these spicy features of certain plants, which might be described as “red hot.”
ANSWER: Chili Peppers
5. It first appeared between “Cavalry Crossing a Ford” and “Bivouac on a Mountain Side” in
Drum Taps, and features those that witness an object “grim and daring” with a “steady keel.”
Those onlookers, described as a “swaying mass” with “eager faces (*) turning,” are startled to find
that, though the voyage is closed and done, the title figure “has no pulse or will.” Elegizing Abraham
Lincoln, FTP, identify this Walt Whitman poem which likens the slain President to the commander of a
ship.
ANSWER: O Captain! My Captain!

December 2007, Packet 2
6. This creator of Newborn and Maiastra created a “hymn to curvature” in his Princess X, while a
gap appears in his wooden Socrates. His Table of Silence, Kiss Gate, and Endless Column
comprise his Targu Jiu Ensemble, a memorial to his fellow (*) Romanians. Better known works
include the crude stone carving The Kiss and a work intended to depict flight. FTP, identify this
sculptor of Bird in Space.
ANSWER: Constantin Brancusi
7. The Kugelrohr is a device used to achieve one form of this process, which relies on changing
relative pressures to carry it out, and is called Vacuum. Changing the rate at which a substance
is added determines whether it is Batch or Continuous, while it is most often governed by the
Fenske equation. Solutions are called azeotropic if they (*) cannot be separated by the fractional
form of this phenomenon. FTP, identify this chemical process, the separation of a mixture into
constituent parts based on their respective boiling points, which is sometimes used to purify water.
ANSWER: Distillation
8. This nation’s Black Lagoon can be found near the aptly-named Fungus Rock, which joins
Manoel, Filfla, and St. Paul’s Island as part of its uninhabited group. In 2007, it joined Cyprus in
adopting the Euro, which depicts its Mnajdra temple. Its features include the Lunzjata valley on
(*) Gozo, the peak Ta’Djemrek, and the island Comino. FTP, identify this archipelago south of Sicily,
notably controlled by a group of Knights, with capital at Valetta.
ANSWER: Malta
9. Isabelle and Ludwig engage in philosophical debates in a mental hospital in this author’s The
Black Obelisk. This creator of Heaven Has No Favorites and Shadows in Paradise wrote of Ravic,
who secretly corrects other men’s surgical errors, in Arch of Triumph. It is debated whether a
novel that mentions Haie and Muller, (*) The Road Back, is really a sequel to his most famous novel,
which tells of Paul Baumer’s experiences in World War I. FTP, identify this German author of All
Quiet on the Western Front.
ANSWER: Erich Maria Remarque
10. It forced James W. Marshall to enter the lumber business and was abandoned after Lansford
Hastings discovered that the Savannah, Levant, and Cyane under John Sloat had won a minor
naval battle. It saw the Battle of Ompali and the rule of William Ide, who took (*) power after the
capture of Mariano Vallejo in Sonoma and the seizure of Sutter’s fort. Backed by a militia led by John
C. Fremont, FTP, identify this brief republic which broke from Mexico in 1846, named either for a
namesake US state or its animal insignia.
ANSWER: Bear Flag Republic (or the Republic of California)
11. A recent study found that this object was too small and had inadequate metallicity to belong
to the Ursa Major Moving Group, while Thomas Barker and T.J.J. See engaged in an earlier
debate over Ptolemy’s description of this star’s red color. Bessel and Clark showed that it was a
(*) binary, while Halley described the progressions of Arcturus and this white dwarf, which the ancient
Egyptians linked with the flooding of the nile. FTP, identify this brightest star of Canis Major, also the
brightest star in the night sky, often called the “dog star.”
ANSWER: Sirius A (prompt on Alpha Canis Majoris early)

December 2007, Packet 2
12. Joseph Black and James Hutton published this man’s treatise on astronomy, Essays on
Philosophical Subjects. He identified Self-Love, Benevolence, and Reason as among the “nature”
and “motives” of the titular concepts in one work, whose contradictions with his best-known
tract inspired Oncken and Schumpeter to identify his namesake (*) “Problem.” That latter work
was challenged by John Nash and J.M. Keynes, and put forth such laissez faire concepts as the
“invisible hand.” FTP, identify this Scottish author of The Theory of Moral Sentiments and The Wealth
of Nations.
ANSWER: Adam Smith
13. Interpretation of the dialogue between Ludovico and Gratiano in this work may be altered
depending on how the “clown” attached to Montano is portrayed. A key scene in this work is
interrupted by loud complaints about “some minx’s token” made by the minor character Bianca,
who along with (*) Emilia realizes she has been manipulated into the theft of a handkerchief from the
daughter of Brabantio. Containing a discussion of the “green-eyed monster,” FTP, identify this
Shakespeare play in which Iago causes the murder of Desdemona by the titular Moor of Venice.
ANSWER: Othello
14. Following the defeat of William Hull, the freedom of the priest Gabriel Richard sparked this
man to deliver an ultimatum to Isaac Brock, for whom he was acting as a rear guard. He incited
Menawa to form the Red Sticks and begin the (*) Creek War, and may have been killed by Richard
Johnson at the Battle of the Thames. The brother of Tenskwatawa, or “the Prophet,” FTP, identify this
Shawnee leader who lost to William Henry Harrison at Tippecanoe during the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Tecumseh
15. Pencil and paper ready. You are trying to find the are of a region on a graph defined by the
X-axis, Y-axis, and the line Y=-6x+24 (y equals negative 6x plus 24). Because the line has a
negative slope and crosses through the first quadrant, it creates a triangle with the x and y axes
with vertices at the origin and the x and y-intercepts of the line. Knowing this, you can find the
lengths of the legs of the triangle, and then the area. (*) FTP, what is the area of the sector? You
have ten seconds.
ANSWER: 48 Square Units (height = 24, width = 4, 24*4/2 = 48)
16. According to some sources, he is linked with Perseus after being sent down a river in a glass
jar and discovered by the smith Mimir. This rider of Grani and father of Aslaug and Svanhild
was caught up in a bizarre love quadrangle with Gunnar, Gudrun, and (*) Brynhild, having earlier
been assisted by Regin the dwarf, who created his sword Gram. FTP, identify this Norse hero who
killed the dragon Fafnir, the son of Sigmund.
ANSWER: Sigurd or Sigfred or Siegfried
17. This piece’s allegro motto finale heavily relies upon the timpani. It opens with a
monothematic adagio, while its second movement was incorporated into The Seasons. The
second of the (*) London symphonies, it is its composer’s Symphony 94 in G major. The sudden
emergence of a loud C major andante movement gives the nickname to, FTP, what startling work of
Joseph Haydn?
ANSWER: Haydn’s Surprise Symphony (accept Symphony 94 in G Major early)

December 2007, Packet 2
18. A man finds modern life devoid of religious meaning until he is shot by police in this author’s
The Beggar, while an imprisoned criminal exacts unending revenge in a novel often cited as the
first Stream of Consciousness work in a certain language, The Thief and the Dogs. Dr. Booshy
and Kirsha inhabit the titular street in (*) Midaq Alley, while Sugar Street and Palace Walk are part
of his most famous collection. FTP, identify this 1988 Nobel Prize winner, the Egyptian author of The
Cairo Trilogy.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
19. Metamaterials, and materials with negative values for permittivity and permeability can have
negative values of it. The Sellmeier equation uses wavelength to determine it, and, surprisingly, it
can be less than (*) one, as in x-rays. For water it is about 1.33, and for a vacuum it is exactly 1. FTP,
name this quantity, governed by Snell’s law, that measures how much the speed of light is reduced in a
medium.
ANSWER: Index of Refraction or Refractive Index
20. The peace of Berwick ended the first of two conflicts in his reign involving the Gordons and
other Covanters, who opposed the rule of this King’s deputy, Thomas Wentworth. That conflict,
the Bishops’ War, ended this man’s Personal Rule, called the “Eleven Years of Tyranny” that had
been conducted under William (*) Laud. The Triennial act was passed by the Long Parliament under
the reign of, FTP, what son of James I, most famous for losing his kingdom and his head to Oliver
Cromwell in the English Civil War?
ANSWER: Charles I Stuart

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2007
Packet 2:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: The attackers called this action “General Uprising,” though in the West it was named for
lunar new year holiday on which it occurred. FTPE:
[10] Identify this offensive launched by NVA and Viet Cong forces, seen as a major turning point of the
Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Tet Offensive
[10] The Tet Offensive’s primary target was this capital of South Vietnam. It is known today as Ho Chi
Minh City.
ANSWER: Saigon
[10] This Vietnamese general and Defense Minister is generally considered the mastermind of the Tet
Offensive. Along with Ho Chi Minh, he is regarded as the chief North Vietnamese strategist of the war.
ANSWER: Vo Nguyen Giap
2. Bonus: The titular figure declares that a ship has arrive from Delos, and, like Carmelo Anthony and
Cam’ron, talks about how much he hates snitches. FTPE:
[10] Identify this dialogue in that title figure attempts to persuade Socrates to flee his impending
execution.
ANSWER: Crito
[10] Crito is one of many dialogues involving Socrates to be collected by this really famous student of
Socrates’s, who wrote The Republic.
ANSWER: Plato
[10] Socrates was being charged with corrupting the youth of Athens, a charge he responded to in this
other dialogue that blasts Anytus, Lycon, and Meletus. Its title refers to a defense rather than an
expression of remorse.
ANSWER: The Apology
3. Bonus: Answer these questions about Tibet’s Tanggula mountains, FTPE:
[10,10] The Tanggula mountains are home the headwaters of the Nu and Salween Rivers, as well as
these two other rivers. One is the chief river of Southeast Asia, the other the longest in China.
ANSWER: Mekong River and Yangtze River
[10] The mountains are home to the Tanggula Pass, the key route used to reach this capital of Tibet.
ANSWER: Lhasa
4. Bonus: Identify these writers who created closet dramas, FTPE:
[10] This author of The Sorrows of Young Werther wrote of a man who makes a deal with
Mephistopheles in Faust.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[10] This author of Upon the Circumcision and Comus wrote the closet drama Samson Agonistes. He’s
better known for works like Lycidas and Areopagitica.
ANSWER: John Milton
[10] This author created such memorably-named characters as Lady Hamilton Dalrymple in his “epic
closet drama” The Dynasts. He’s better known for creating characters like Bathsheba Everdeen and
Diggory Venn.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy

December 2007, Packet 2
5. Bonus: Bonus:It is thought by most astronomers to be the driving force behind universal expansion.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this hypothetical substance which can be dynamic or static, and which may constitute
upwards of 70% of the universe.
ANSWER: Dark Energy (do not accept “Dark Matter”)
[10] This constant, which can be symbolized lambda, or omega lambda when comparing energy
density and critical density, was first proposed by Einstein for a stationary universe. It has been
adopted by proponents of dark energy as a possible explanation for static dark energy.
ANSWER: The Cosmological Constant
[10] The idea of dark energy was first seriously considered after analysis of a type 1a supernova, which
resulted from the violent explosion of one of these stars, characterized by high density and faint
luminosity. Most main sequence stars will ultimately become one of these.
ANSWER: White Dwarfs
6. Bonus: Name these saints, FTPE:
[10] This apostle once denied Christ three times, but would probably prefer you remember him for
being the first Pope, or at least for his fishing prowess.
ANSWER: Peter
[10] A group of angry druids beheaded this patron saint of Paris, which is probably why he is usually
depicted in awesome fashion, holding his severed head in his hands.
ANSWER: Denis or Dionysius
[10] Diocletian’s soldiers tied this saint to post and killed him with a hail of arrows. Bummer.
ANSWER: Sebastian
7. Bonus: Job has a dialogue with God in this man’s play The Masque of Reason. FTPE:
[10] Identify this New England writer, better known for poems like “After Apple Picking,” “The Death
of the Hired Man,” and “Mending Wall.”
ANSWER: Robert Frost
[10] This Frost poem claims that man can find “salvation in surrender” and declares “the land was ours
before we were the land’s.” He read it at John F. Kennedy’s inauguration.
ANSWER: The Gift Outright
[10] Only the second collection published by Frost, after A Boy’s Will, this geographically-named set of
poems contained A Servant to Servants, After Apple Picking, and Mending Wall.
ANSWER: North of Boston
8. Bonus: It was described by Singer and Nicholson. FTPE:
[10] Identify this model, which maps the structure of the cell membrane and the manner in which
materials diffuse through it.
ANSWER: Fluid Mosaic Model
[10] The Fluid Mosaic model relies on these ampipathic compounds. In addition to steroids, the glycoand phospho- varieties are present in the membrane.
ANSWER: Lipids
[10] Potassium and sodium is the driving force for these entities, which control the voltage gradient
along the cell membrane and are an integral part of the Fluid Mosaic model. Many neurotoxins work
by interfering with their function.
ANSWER: Ion Channels or Channel Proteins

December 2007, Packet 2
9. Bonus: It held power following the National Convention until being overthrown on the eighteenth of
Brumaire. FTPE:
[10] Identify this final governing period of the French revolution, characterized by the rule of five
administrators.
ANSWER: The Executive Directory
[10] The Directory was established chiefly under the plan set forth by Paul Barras, who had
participated in this coup to overthrow the bloody Committee of Public Safety under Robespierre. It is
named for a month of the French Revolutionary Calendar.
ANSWER: Thermidorian Reaction or Revolt
[10] The Directory formed after civil unrest was put down by this young general, who would later do
some really famous things as Emperor of France, including facing Wellington at Waterloo.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte
10. Bonus: Images like The Three Crosses and a depiction of Christ anointing the sick, called The
Hundred Guilder Print, comprise some of this artist’s etchings. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Dutch artist of The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicholas Tulp.
ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn (first or last name is fine)
[10] This most famous Rembrandt work depicts the militia company of Captain Cocq. It was actually
set during the day.
ANSWER: The Night Watch
[10] The name of the title figure of this work is not named for the religion of a Dutch woman, but is
derived from its depiction of a biblical ceremony, perhaps involving Abraham and Sarah.
ANSWER: The Jewish Bride
11. Bonus: Name these lawyers from literature, FTPE:
[10] This expert sharpshooter throws a glass in his futile attempt to defend Tom Robinson in Harper
Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird.
ANSWER: Atticus Finch (either name)
[10] This colleague C. J. Stryver defends a look-alike in a treason trial, during which he falls for one of
the witnesses for whom he later makes a big sacrifice.
ANSWER: Sydney Carton (from Charles Dickens’s A Tale of Two Cities)
[10] This father of Dallas is repulsed by Julius Beaufort and Sillerton Jackson, but still ends up staying
with May Welland and losing Ellen Olenska in Edith Wharton’s The Age of Innocence.
ANSWER: Newland Archer
12. Bonus: Answer some questions about the 2008 Iowa Caucus results, FTPE:
[10] This former Baptist minister and Governor of Arkansas stunned Mitt Romney by winning the
Republican nomination, aided by a wave of evangelical support.
ANSWER: Michael Huckabee
[10] This former UN ambassador and Energy Secretary predicted a third-place finish in Iowa before
garnering just 2% of the vote. He’s also the current Governor of New Mexico.
ANSWER: William Richardson III
[10] This Californian’s 5% approval rating from the ACLU and 100% approval rating from Gun
Owners of America might help explain the fact that he actually won a delegate in Wyoming, but won
only 515 out of 100,000 votes in Iowa.
ANSWER: Duncan Hunter

December 2007, Packet 2
13. Many buildings that were once mosques in China are now temples to this man. FTPE:
[10] Identify this gigantic eunuch, who as a Grand Admiral of China made seven famous voyages.
ANSWER: Zheng He or Cheng Ho
[10] Zheng He served in the navy of this Chinese dynasty, noted for rulers like the Hongwu Emperor.
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty
[10] No one could really succeed Zheng He since the Ming dynasty pulled almost all naval funding
following the disastrous Tumu Crisis in which the Zhengtong emperor was captured by Esen Tayasi
and forces of this group, which had founded the dynasty preceding the Ming.
ANSWER: The Mongols (or the Mongolians, technically)
14. Bonus: She is considered the premiere mahavidya, or aspect of Devi. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Hindu goddess, associated with the thuggee sect.
ANSWER: Kali
[10] Kali’s mount is this kind of an animal. The Egyptian god Anubis is usually cited as possessing the
head of one of these creatures.
ANSWER: Jackal
[10] One hilarious story about Kali tells how she slaughtered Raktabija and danced on a bunch of
corpses, but accidentally defiled the body of her husband, this “Destroyer” from Hindu myth and part
of the trimurti with Brahma and Vishnu.
ANSWER: Shiva
15. Bonus: This man used only a single violin for his Strung Out. FTPE:
[10] Identify this American composer, noted for works like Akhnaten and Satyagraha.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] Glass may be most famous for a work setting this major physicist associated with Brownian
motion and the photoelectric effect “on the Beach.”
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
[10] Glass's Music in the Shape of a Square is a tribute to this man, a leading member of the French
group Les Six and composer of Gymnopedie and five pieces of “furniture music.”
ANSWER: Erik Satie
16. Bonus: Identify these cycles, FTPE:
[10] This thermodynamic cycle, named for a French scientist, is the most efficient possible cycle for
converting thermal energy into work.
ANSWER: Carnot Cycle
[10] This four-step cycle uses intake, compression, power, and exhaust strokes and is the most
commonly employed cycle in modern automobile engines. It is named for a German chemist.
ANSWER: Otto Cycle
[10] A Scottish scientist is the namesake of this cycle, which converts heat into work by rapidly
creating water vapor. It is the basis for nuclear reactors, as well as most coal-based power generators.
ANSWER: Rankine Cycle

December 2007, Packet 2
17. Bonus: Identify these Egyptian pharaohs, FTPE:
[10] Often considered Egypt’s greatest female ruler, this regent of Thutmose III established numerous
trading routes and began a campaign of Egyptian expansion.
ANSWER: Hatshepsut
[10] This pharaoh is regarded as the pharaoh from whom Moses freed the Hebrews in Exodus.
Historically, he’s famous for his architecture, as well as his victories over the Sherdan but loss to the
Hittites at Kadesh.
ANSWER: Ramesses II or the Great
[10] This ruler is known for constructing the smallest of the great Pyramids of Giza, as he evidently
was not as cool as Khufu or Khafra.
ANSWER: Menkaura
18. Bonus: Identify these minerals from the mohs scale, given their values and the minerals which
appear before an after them, FTPE:
[10] Seven, between orthoclase feldspar and topaz.
ANSWER: Quartz
[10] Eight, between topaz and diamond.
ANSWER: Corundum
[10] Two, between talc and calcite.
ANSWER: Gypsum
19. Bonus: Answer the following concerning the illustrious dramatic career of Tony Shalhoub, FTPE:
[10] Shalhoub played Jeebs, a resilient pawn shop owner and illegal arms trader, in the two installments
of this film franchise.
ANSWER: Men in Black
[10] Shalhoub is probably best known for his portrayal of this Obsessive-Compulsive detective in an
eponymous USA show.
ANSWER: Adrian Monk
[10] Shalhoub starred with Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis in this thriller about Islamic terrorists
conducting the titular campaign against New York, interestingly created well before 9/11.
ANSWER: The Siege
20. Bonus: It opens with June Woo receiving an invitation to take her mother’s place in a Mah-Jong
game. FTPE:
[10] Identify this 1989 novel told as a frame-tale, centering on two generations of Chinese-American
women.
ANSWER: The Joy Luck Club
[10] This author of The Hundred Secret Senses and The Opposite of Fate wrote The Joy Luck Club.
ANSWER: Amy Tan
[10] In this other Tan novel, Pearl reconciles with her mother Winnie and learns the dark secrets of her
family’s past over the course of a series of traditional Chinese ceremonies.
ANSWER: The Kitchen God’s Wife

