DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2007
Packet 1:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. He wrote of words that “describe the soundtrack to my life's song” and claims to be the reason
Ray Charles can sing. One song about him suggests that he “fix his backne” while
recommending “fix your head” to his teammate (*) Shelden. He competed closely with Saint
Peters's Keydren Clark for a record held by Curtis Staples, and holds ACC records for consecutive free
throws and career points. Selected 11th by the Magic, FTP, identify this author of the horrible poem
“Strength of the Condor,” a much-hated guard who graduated from Duke University in 2006.
ANSWER: Jonathan Clay “J.J.” Redick (award extra points if players deride J.J. Redick)
2. This author included a surprise political manifesto at the end of his travelogue set on the Rhine
River, and also addressed political topics in Les Chatiments, a poetry collection that would lead
this author to end up writing The Man Who Laughed after being (*) exiled to the Channel Islands
by Napoleon III. Better known for creating characters like Javert, Cosette, Esmerelda, and Quasimodo,
FTP, identify this French author of Les Miserables and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
ANSWER: Victor Hugo
3. The Austrian Board of censors forced the composer of this opera to change many plot
elements, and even the name of the protagonist was changed from Triboulet to a name that
reflects his profession. That title character compares himself to Sparafucile, is father to (*) Gilda,
and serves under the Duke of Mantua, who sings the arias Ella mi fu rapita and La Donna e Mobile.
FTP, name this Verdi opera about a hunchbacked jester.
ANSWER: Rigoletto
4. In his version of the periodic table, Andrea von Antropoff placed a type of matter consisting
solely of this particle as atomic number zero. A cluster of four of them is hypothesized to exist,
despite a theory which suggests that it should not be possible. Composed of three quarks, they
are classified as (*) baryons, and because of these quarks the electromagnetic force interacts with them
despite their lack of charge. FTP, name these particles discovered by Chadwick which along with
protons and electrons comprise atoms.
ANSWER: Neutron
5. J. M. Mason headed up a senate committee that investigated this man, who received key letters
from Connecticut and Chambersburg after assuming the name Isaac Smith. That committee,
which also included Henry Wise and Clement Vallandingham, ignored Hiram Griswold's
arguments and found that Hayward Shepherd, a (*) train baggage master, was murdered by this
man's forces. Involved at Pottawatomie and Osawatomie, FTP, identify this militant abolitionist who
was executed after his failed raid on Harpers Ferry in 1859.
ANSWER: John Brown

December 2007, Packet 1
6. ESR recently dated specimens of them at Es Skhul and Quafzeh, while Erik Trinkaus
conducted a famous study that established the probable walking motion of this species.
Mitochondrial DNA, isolated from specimens from the Feldhofer Grotto where Johann (*)
Fuhlrott discovered these hominids in the Rhine valley, has helped shed doubt on the theory that they
were wiped out by Cro-Magnons. FTP, identify this extinct hominid species, often associated with the
term “caveman.”
ANSWER: Neanderthals or Homo Neanderthalensis
7. Pencil and paper ready. Solve the following equation for x: 4 raised to the x plus 1 power
equals 2 raised to the 6x minus 10 power. Converting this equation into logarithm form will
produce a logarithm with an exponent; that exponent can then be converted into a term
multiplied to the logarithm. Alternatively, one could apply a property of exponents to (*) change
the original equation to terms with equal bases. FTP, what is the value of x? You have ten seconds.
ANSWER: 3
8. Mother Rigby animates a scarecrow to woo Polly Gookin in this author’s “Feathertop,” while
Roderick Elliston’s chest cavity is ostensibly being occupied by some kind of snake in “Egotism.”
Richard Digby, John Endicott, and Giovanni appear in “The Man of Adamant,” “The Maypole
of Merry Mount,” and (*) “Rappaccini’s Daughter,” tales this author published in collections like
Mosses from an Old Manse and Twice-Told Tales. FTP, identify this author of The House of the Seven
Gables and The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
9. Operations Blitz, Hammer, Anvil, and Jock Scott occurred in this country, which saw George
Erskine combat the Kamba Central Committee and the KCA in a conflict also fueled by the
Meru and Embu ethnic groups. Mwai Kibaki is only its third president, succeeding (*) Daniel
Arap Moi and Jomo Kenyatta. Seeing the bloody Mau Mau revolt, FTP, identify this East African
country home Masai Mara game reserve, a namesake mountain, and its capital city, Nairobi.
ANSWER: Kenya
10. It is synthesized in high levels in the liver, adrenal glands, and intestines, and most gallstones
are composed of it. It is present in all eukaryotes and excreted in bile in humans, and since it is
(*) insoluble in water, it is transported in the bloodstream by lipoproteins. FTP, name this sterol,
present in the body in HDL and LDL types, which can lead to a high risk of heart disease.
ANSWER: Cholesterol
11. A lone clock tower rises at back left in this painting, while various ships put to harbor at
right. The objects in the foreground are a historical reference to the titular figure, who insisted
on carrying the same items as the other figures depict in the painting. Those figures include (*)
Robert Rogers and Simon Fraser, who was actually recovering from wounds sustained at an earlier
engagement, and was not present at the Battle of Quebec. Depicting an Indian and soldiers surrounding
the titular expiring British officer, FTP, identify this Neoclassical masterpiece of Benjamin West.
ANSWER: The Death of General Wolfe

December 2007, Packet 1
12. According to some sources, this figure fathered Lynx and Iambe with the god who is
sometimes credited with ripping her to pieces and scattering her across the earth, Pan. Possibly
an inspiration for Ozwiena, most sources cite a doomed relationship with a son of Cephisus and
Leirope, complicated by a (*) punishment for delaying Hera's pursuit of Zeus, as the reason this
Oread nymph wasted away until only a certain feature remained. FTP, identify this admirer of
Narcissus who was cursed to only repeat the words uttered by others.
ANSWER: Echo
13. A disturbing diary entry by Robert Juet notes that this man always appeared hungry, and
was probably written during their mutual employment by the Muscovy Company. His trip to
Novaya Zemlya and discovery of Jan Mayen Island helped him finance a trip on the Half Moon,
though it was (*) Britain that funded his most famous voyage, which ended after a bad winter at James
Bay led to a mutiny. FTP, identify this British explorer who was set adrift in the huge Canadian bay
named for him.
ANSWER: Henry Hudson
14. Hazelwood v. Kuhlmeir and Bethel v. Fraser were used to evaluate the claim of “standardless
discretion” associated with this phrase. The statement “it's about money” in reference to this
phrase's originator drew heavy criticism, even from (*) Ken Starr, who represented the defendant in
the case it provoked. The subject of Morse v. Frederick, this message was first displayed outside
Juneau-Douglas High School in Alaska during an Olympic torch relay. FTP, identify this four-word
phrase, which the Supreme Court found justified a student's suspension for promoting illegal drug use.
ANSWER: Bong Hits for Jesus (or, more accurately, BONG HiTS 4 JESUS)
15. Inspired by Heraclitus, he defined virtue as consistency of the soul, achieved by disregarding
Pathos and embracing the principle of reason, Logos. In works like On Sight and On the
Universe, he posited a fiery aether that animated the universe, while the influence of Stilpo is
evident in On Verbal Style. Cleanthes and Chrysippus adapted his ideas of cosmopolitanism and
(*) extreme indifference, concepts that notably influenced Epictetus and Marcus Aurelius. FTP,
identify this founder of stoicism from Citium, who shares his name with a philosopher from Elea
known for his paradoxes.
ANSWER: Zeno of Citium
16. Those of the Uro- variety possess this phylum’s major characteristics in larval stage only,
though they maintain the endostyle and pharyngeal slits. The pfarrig, huia, and thylacine are
extinct members of this phylum, which together with echinodermata comprises the (*)
deuterostome superhylum. The presence of hyperoartia, or lampreys, in this phylum is accepted,
though they may not belong to vertebrata. Canidae, reptilia, mammalia, and primates all belong to,
FTP, what phylum, characterized by the presence of a notochord and hollow dorsal nerve chord, which
naturally includes humans?
ANSWER: Chordata or Chordates

December 2007, Packet 1
17. The Ottoman Nuri Bey appears in this author's historical novel subtitled “Freedom or
Death,” Captain Michalis. He wrote meditations on spirituality in The Rock Garden and The
Saviors of God, and commented on Christianity with Saint Francis as well as a better known
work that sees its protagonist declare victory by chopping down an apple tree. His most famous
character joins (*) Madame Hortense in a work about the re-opening of a Cretan mine. FTP, name
this author of The Last Temptation of Christ, a Greek author noted for Zorba the Greek.
ANSWER: Nikos Kazantzakis
18. The Montauban dispatch, issued weeks before it occurred, reflected the poor crop yields and
the general dissatisfaction with the wedding of Princess Margaret. Baron Retz argued for it, and
the Duke of Alba may have employed Maurevert, who attacked a meeting to discuss the Peace of
St. Germain in an attempt to murder (*) Gaspard de Coligny, prompting Charles IX and Catherine
d'Medici to organize this event. Celebrated by Pope Gregory XIII, FTP, identify this 1572 event in
which thousands of Parisian Huguenots were slaughtered, which occurred on a certain feast day.
ANSWER: Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre
19. Recent observations suggest that it is near the end of its tholeiitic basalt building phase, and
its multi-millennium cyclical behavior makes it unique among nearby peaks. Like Mount
Stromboli, features like lava fountains are common and flow is usually fluid rather than (*)
explosive. An active shield volcano, it is the largest on earth, though most of its mass is underwater.
FTP, identify this volcano which joins Kilauea and Mauna Kea as part of the five volcanic peaks on the
isle of Hawaii.
ANSWER: Mauna Loa
20. The protagonist of this novel makes friends with Betsy and Doreen during her internship with
a magazine company in New York, but after being rejected from a writing course she returns to
her home confused. Philomena Guinea is based on the author’s real life benefactor, and (*) Dr.
Nolan, who administers electroshock therapy to Esther Greenwood, is perhaps based on the author’s
therapist. FTP, name this novel penned under the name Victoria Lucas, a work of Sylvia Plath
ANSWER: The Bell Jar

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2007
Packet 1:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Its name translates as “Song Offerings.” FTPE:
[10] Identify this collection of poems, originally in Bengali, which earned its author the 1913 Nobel
Prize for Literature.
ANSWER: Gitanjali
[10] This Indian author of The Golden Boat, Red Oleanders, The Ideal One, and The Flight of Cranes
wrote Gitanjali.
ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore
[10] This Irish author and fellow Nobel Laureate was responsible for popularizing Gitanjali in Europe,
and also wrote the collection's introduction. He wrote To a Shade, The Stolen Child, Sailing to
Byzantium, and The Second Coming.
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
2. Bonus: Identify these proteins, FTPE :
[10] This protein consists of three left-handed helices twisted into a right-handed coiled coil, stabilized
by hydrogen bonds. It is the primary constituent of connective tissue like tendons, and is the most
abundant protein in all mammals.
ANSWER: Collagen
[10] Microfilaments are mainly composed of this globular protein, which is analogous to the bacterial
MreB. With myosin, it is responsible for muscular contraction.
ANSWER: Actin
[10] Factor XIII cross-links molecules of this protein, whose precursor is the fibrinogen. The Claus
method measures the concentration of this protein in blood, in which it forms a mesh to enact clotting.
ANSWER: Fibrin
3. Bonus: Answer these questions about mythical fish, FTPE:
[10] This creature from Irish mythology gained its most famous quality from a hazelnut diet, at least
until Finn McCool accidentally burned his thumb while cooking him.
ANSWER: The Salmon of Knowledge
[10] This Norse trickster deity was caught hiding as a salmon in Fanrang's Falls by the Aesir after he
tricked Hodr into murdering Baldur.
ANSWER: Loki
[10] This Hawaiian deity killed Hina's pet bird and used it to bait a gigantic fish hook with which he
create the Hawaiian islands.
ANSWER: Maui
4. Bonus: Identify these things which have declined according to various philosophers, F15PE:
[15] Edward Gibbon's seminal work discussing the decline and fall of this entity notably begins with
the end of the reign of Marcus Aurelius.
ANSWER: The Roman Empire
[15] Oswald Spengler's discussion of the decline of this entity describes its members as Faustian, while
claiming that the Greeks were Appolonian and the Muslims are Magian.
ANSWER: The West

December 2007, Packet 1
5. Bonus: This son of La'ibum spent time as a cupbearer at the court of Kish before rising to power.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this prominent subject of The Epic of the King of Battle, Mesopotamian ruler, the founder
of Akkad.
ANSWER: Sargon the Great or of Akkad
[10] The legend of Sargon's birth bears clear similarity to that of this biblical leader, a brother of Aaron
who parted the Red Sea.
ANSWER: Moses
[10] Sargon fought an expansion campaign in the “Cedar Forest,” a region identified with this presentday Middle Eastern country, which contains the only natural forest in the Middle East.
ANSWER: Lebanon
6. Bonus: FTPE, what kind of radiation:
[10] Occurs when a down quark becomes an up quark after emitting a W boson, and is characterized by
the emission of an electron?
ANSWER: Beta Minus Decay (prompt on “Beta”)
[10] Is the form taken by microwave, X-Ray, and ultraviolet radiation, and is mediated by photons?
ANSWER: Electromagnetic Radiation?
[10] Is the highest-frequency and most energetic form of radiation, and usually occurs via the
photoelectric effect, Compton scattering, or pair production.
ANSWER: Gamma Radiation (or Rays)
7. Bonus: Identify these works of literature given characters FTPE, or given authors F5PE:
[10] Bill Gorton, Robert Cohn, Jake Barnes.
[5] Ernest Hemingway.
ANSWER: The Sun Also Rises
[10] The Father, Mother, Son, Boy, Child, Stepdaughter, and Madame Pace.
[5] Luigi Pirandello.
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author
[10] Mademoiselle Reisz, Alcee Arobin, Robert Lebrun, and Edna Pontellier.
[5] Kate Chopin.
ANSWER: The Awakening
8. Bonus: It can be conducted via Aldis lamps, heliographs, or, most famously, flags. FTPE:
[10] Identify this practice of transmitting information using visual signals.
ANSWER: Semaphore or Optical Telegraph
[10] The first formal organization of a semaphore system was presented to the Royal Society by this
English scientist, better known for a namesake law that governs basic elasticity.
ANSWER: Robert Hooke
[10] Hooke was inspired following the disappointed communication skills displayed by European allies
at this 1683 battle, at which Jan III Sobieski broke Kara Mustafa Pasha's siege of a major European
city, the second time it had been so assaulted by the Ottomans.
ANSWER: Battle (or Siege) of Vienna

December 2007, Packet 1
9. Bonus: Answer these questions about Heitor Villa-Lobos, FTPE:
[10] Villa-Lobos is a composer from this South American nation, whose musical heritage also includes
styles like samba and bossa nova.
ANSWER: Brazil
[10] In addition to Ciranda, Amazonas, and Suite for Voice and Violin, Villa-Lobos created a series of
nine suites synthesizing the music of Brazil with the music of this European composer, noted for the
Brandenburg Concertos.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
[10] This lavish celebration, which precedes Lent, was a frequent inspiration for Villa-Lobos, probably
due to the fact that Brazil's celebration of it is considered the largest in the world.
ANSWER: Carnival
10. Bonus: Given some nefarious organizations, identify the country that created them, FTPE:
[10] The Kulak-targeting NKVD, which would give birth to the KGB.
ANSWER: Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or Soviet Union (accept Russia)
[10] The Bushveldt Carbineers, which were recruited in 1901 and were notably led by civilianmassacring Breaker Morant.
ANSWER: Great Britain (The Carbineers saw action in the Boer Wars)
[10] Unit 731, which conducted numerous horrific experiments from the “Waka House,” including
infecting POWs with deadly diseases and filling people with sea water to determine if it was a viable
substitute for saline (it wasn't).
ANSWER: Japan
11. Bonus: This apparent hypochondriac spent time being treated by Phineas Quimby before writing
some articles on healing in the Portland Evening Courier. FTPE:
[10] Identify this American religious figure.
ANSWER: Mary Baker Eddy
[10] Eddy's publication of Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures sparked this religion, which
notably eschews actual medical treatment in favor of prayer.
ANSWER: Church of Christ, Scientist or Christian Scientists
[10] In 1908 Eddy started this newspaper, which made headlines recently with the kidnapping of Jill
Carroll and its publication of forged documents about Scottish politician George Galloway.
ANSWER: Christian Science Monitor
12. Bonus: Features of this mountain include the Kangshung and, fittingly, the Hillary Step. FTPE:
[10] Identify this mountain in the Himalayas, the highest on Earth.
ANSWER: Mount Everest or Chomolungma
[10] When Edmund Hillary made the first ascent of Everest, he was accompanied by this Sherpa guide,
who was later worshiped as a deity by some residents of Nepal.
ANSWER: Tenzing Norgay
[10] This fourth-highest mountain on Earth is connected to Everest via the South Col. Its Western face,
a sheer wall of ice, is a popular method for Everest ascent.
ANSWER: Lhotse

December 2007, Packet 1
13. Bonus: This case arose when the defendant circulated a pamphlet exhorting US citizens to resist the
draft. FTPE:
[10] Identify this 1919 case, associated with the phrase “clear and present danger.”
ANSWER: Schenck v. United States
[10] Schenck’s pamphlet claimed that a draft was unconstitutional under the provisions of this
amendment, the first of the three “reconstruction amendments,” which prohibited “involuntary
servitude.”
ANSWER: Thirteenth Amendment
[10] This justice and author of The Common Law wrote a unanimous decision in Schenck v. US.
Though he sided with the majority in the Insular Cases, he became known for his dissents in economic
cases like Lochner v. New York.
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.
14. Bonus: Their name is chiefly a misnomer, since they are actually just unstable rather than thinly
distributed. FTPE:
[10] Identify this collection of seventeen elements, which includes yttrium and scandium.
ANSWER: Rare Earth Elements
[10] All fifteen elements of this periodic table series are rare earth elements. Examples include
Promethium, Cerium, and their namesake, element 57.
ANSWER: Lanthanides or Lanthanoids
[10] Rare earth elements typically form ores when they bond to this gas, which is also found in
hematite.
ANSWER: Oxygen
15. Bonus: An inquiry by Elisabetta Gonzaga begins this work. FTPE:
[10] Identify this work of Italian literature, often cited as a prime guide to being a perfect sixteenth
century gentleman.
ANSWER: The Book of the Courtier or Il Cortegiano
[10] This author, who also created a sonnet series on the sack of Rome, wrote The Book of the Courtier.
ANSWER: Baldassare Castiglione
[10] The Book of the Courtier is structured as series of tales across several nights, much like this other
work of Italian literature, written by Boccaccio, in which ten characters each tell ten stories.
ANSWER: The Decameron
16. Bonus: This painter of Prisoners from the Front was dispatched by Harper’s Weekly to document
the Civil War. FTPE:
[10] Name this American painter of Breezing Up.
ANSWER: Winslow Homer
[10] This best-known Homer work depicts a black man in small boat with a broken mask, ominously
surrounded by churning, shark-infested waters.
ANSWER: The Gulf Stream
[10] Some less rambunctious youths appear to be listening to a lecture in the background of this work,
set in front of a red schoolhouse. In the foreground, a group of boys engage in the titular game.
ANSWER: Snap-the-Whip

December 2007, Packet 1
17. Bonus: Identify these “young” things from history, FTPE:
[10] This group, which endeavored to reform the Ottoman empire, famously conducted several
genocides under the control of the “Three Pashas,” Ahmed Djemal, Mehmed Talat, and Ismail Enver.
ANSWER: Young Turks or Jon Turkler
[10] This movement, founded by Giuseppe Garibaldi, promoted resistance against the Austrians and
independence and unification for a certain Mediterranean nation.
ANSWER: Young Italy or La Giovine Italia
[10] This younger counterpart to the SA was chiefly designed by Kurt Gruber. Pope Benedict XVI was
notably a member.
ANSWER: Hitler Youth or Hitler Jugend
December 2007, Packet 1
18. Bonus: It was formed when Dave Grohl cannibalized the band Sunny Day Real Estate, including
bassist Nate Mendel. FTPE:
[10] Identify this band responsible for the albums Echoes, Silence, Patience, & Grace and One by One,
and songs like Best of You, DOA, and Times Like These.
ANSWER: The Foo Fighters
[10] Grohl had previously been the drummer for this really, really famous grunge band. After
bandmate Kurt Cobain’s death, Grohl wandered around aimlessly making demo tapes before forming
the Foo Fighters.
ANSWER: Nirvana
[10] This first single off of Echoes, Silence, Patience, & Grace was the fourth consecutive Foo Fighters
song to top the Modern Rock charts. The video features a sub woofer taking on a group of riot cops
and winning. By a lot.
ANSWER: The Pretender
19. Bonus: It begins by announcing “I met a traveler from an antique land,” and describes a crumbled
statue of Ramses the Great. FTPE:
[10] Identify this 1818 poem, whose title figure commands “look on my works, ye mighty, and
despair!”
ANSWER: Ozymandias
[10] This author of The Revolt of Islam, Adonais, and To a Skylark wrote Ozymandias.
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley
[10] This Shelley play, inspired by a similarly-titled Aeschylus work, sees Jupiter overthrown. It was
written concurrently with another play, The Cenci.
ANSWER: Prometheus Unbound
20. Bonus: Identify these concepts from Java programming FTPE.
[10] Java is platform independent because a compiler first translates the code into Java bytecode, which
is then run on this type of program, abbreviated “VM.”
ANSWER: Virtual Machine
[10] All functions in Java are this type of function, which identifies a subroutine associated with either
a class or an object.
ANSWER: Method
[10] The main method in a Java class must be of this return type.
ANSWER: Void

