TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
TOSSUPS - ROUND 3
Questions mostly by Anthony DeJesus of Case Western

1. His Whilomville Stories are based on several New Jersey cities that he lived in as a child. While working as a
correspondent for the Bacheller Syndicate in the far West and Mexico, he came across the material that would
lead to short stories such as "The Blue Hotel" and "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky." For ten points, name this
author of the Civil War novel The Red Badge of Courage .
Answer: Stephen Townley Crane
2. James Joyce is said to have been referring to the noises made by seagulls, when he said "Three [of these] for
Muster Mark!" in Finnegan's Wake. The word was later borrowed to explain the patterns of the Eightfold Way,
in describing how mesons and baryons are formed. For ten points, name this concept named by Murray GellMann, particles which include up, down, and strange.
Answer: quarks
3. Fretilin captured 55 of this state's 80 legislative seats in September 2001 elections - enough seats to form a
government, but not enough to guarantee unopposed passage of their fledgling nation's new constitution, which
will require a _ vote for passage. This still puts them in a prime position to steer their country towards full
independence next year, as the U.N. will step aside and allow home rule for the first time in history. FTP,
identify this former Portuguese colony which suffered under 24 years of Indonesian rule before voting for
independence.
Answer: East Timor (Do not accept Timor)
4.
He wrote that "It is better to be a human being dissatisfied than a pig satisfied; better to be Socrates
dissatisfied than a fool satisfied." In saying this, he distinguished between various qualities of pleasure, and not
just the quantity of pleasure. For ten points, name this philosopher who drew upon the ideas of Jeremy Bentham
and who wrote On Liberty and Utilitarianism.
Answer: John Stuart Mill
5. He was known as the "Mayor of Rush Street" for his fondness of the beer that he could fmd in that nightclub
district. He turned down an athletic scholarship with the University of Alabama for a tryout with his hometown
St. Louis Cardinals. For ten points, name this man who worked for the Cardinals, A's. White Sox, and Cubs, not
as a player, but as a broadcaster, and who is represented by a statue outside Wrigley Field.
Answer: Harry Caray or Harry Christopher Carabina
6. It is believed by some that this 1787 work had a fifth movement, a minuet between what are now the first two
movements. Its second movement is a "romanza," and it contains a traditional minuet followed by a rondo. For
ten points, name this orchestral serenade by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, whose German title translates as "A
Little Night Music."
Answer: Eine Kleine Nachtmusik (Accept early "A Little Night Music")
7. The square root of2 doesn't have this property, but both pi and e do. Though they are all irrational, the
square root of 2 is the root of a polynomial over the integers. Pi and e cannot be expressed as such a root
though, and are thus in what class of numbers, the opposite of algebraic?
Answer: transcendental
8. Passed in 1980, it is officially known by the acronym CERCLA, which stands for Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Taxes on polluting industries are supposed to add to
the initial $15 billion start-up fund of public money in, for ten points, what government program, intended to
finance the clean-up of hazardous waste sites?
Answer: Superfund

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
9. This case overturned the precedent set in Betts v Brady, which the Supreme Court called an "anachronism." It
extended the provisions of 1938's Johnson v Zerbst to state cases. In 1972, Argersinger v Hamlin extended it to
misdemeanor proceedings. For ten points, name this case which originated in Florida and which ruled that states
must provide indigent defendants with a lawyer.
Answer: Gideon v Wainwright
10. An autobiographical novel called The First Man was found in his wrecked car after he died in a crash in
1960. Among his plays were State a/Siege and The Just Assassins, part of his "cycle of revolt," which also
included the philosophical essay The Rebel and the novel The Plague. For ten points, name this Algerian-born
French author of The Stranger.
Answer: Albert Camus [pronounced Cam-MOO; accept but correct KA Y-mus]
11. This woman's heroines were Marie Curie and Florence Nightengale. When she attended the University of
Vienna, it had awarded only 14 doctorates to women in the last 541 years. Of those, none were in physics. She
died of cancer from exposure to mercury residue in her lab, but not before working with her nephew Otto Frisch
in interpreting data sent to her by Otto Hahn and. FTP, name this woman, namesake of element # 109, who did
not share Hahn's Nobel Prize for introducing the world to the process of fission.
Answer: Lise Meitner
12. The last president born while the U.S. was under British control, he served as an aide-de-camp to "Mad"
Anthony Wayne at the Battle of Fallen Timbers. In 1798, he was named secretary ofthe Northwest Territory
and in 1800 he was appointed governor of the Indiana Territory. In 1813, he led American troops to a decisive
victory over the British at the Battle of the Thames, but he may be better known as the hero of the Battle of
Tippecanoe. FTP, name this man, the 9th US President and first to die in office.
Answer:
William Henry Harrison .
13 . Formed in 1991 in New Orleans, they consisted of Caleb Guillote on guitar, Mark Miller on bass, and Billy
Landry on the drums. Their self-produced single took New Orleans by storm, and eventually earned them a
record deal with Ichiban. They hoped that "Marguerite", "Perfect Family", and "Sentimental Crap" would gain
the attention of the world the way their first single did, but lucky us - their followup album in 1995 was to be
their last. FTP, name this band whose 1994 album "A Different Story" contained their only hit, "New Age Girl".
Answer:
Deadeye Dick
14. Jewel runs away after his horse is traded, Darl is taken to an asylum, Cash's leg is broken and set in
concrete, and Dewey Dell is raped while her abortion money is used to buy Lafe a set of false teeth. FTP name
this 1930 novel of the journey to Jefferson, Mississippi to bury Addie Bundren, written by William Faulkner.
Answer:
As I Lay Dying
15. While it can be caused by ingestion of under cooked meat or inhalation of microbes. 95% of reported cases
result from spores infecting the body through the skin. It was the first disease for which the causative organism
was isolated, by C. J. Davaine in 1863, and for which a pure culture was obtained, by Robert Koch in 1876.
The CDC advises vaccination for this Bacillus species for those who import animal hides or furs from overseas,
as well as military personnel deployed to areas with high risk for exposure to the organism. FTP identify this
microbiological infection, which surfaced recently in Florida and is feared as a potential biological weapon.
anthrax
Answer:
16. He recovers the necklace known as the Brisingamen, which had been stolen from Freyja. In order to recover
it, he had to fight Loki in the guise of a seal, and he would later tangle with Loki at Ragnarok. For ten points,
name this guardian of Bifrost and bearer of the Gjallarhorn, who is the watchman ofthe Norse gods.
Answer:
Heimdall

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
17. Among those given charge of it were Zenodotus of Ephesus, Callimachus, Aristophanes of Byzantium and
Aristarchus of Samothrace. The Roman emperors Lucian Domitius Aurelian and Theodosius I and Caliph Umar
I are said to have ordered its burning. Founded by Ptolemy I, for ten points, name this building which was said
to house the greatest collection of books in antiquity.
Answer: Library of Alexandria (accept equivalents)
18. Calcium alumino silicate forms one variety, which, because it resembles a local limestone, is named for the
English isle of Portland. It is the matrix material in a certain aggregate composite involving rock and sand. For
ten points, name this matrix material which bonds the aggregate particles into a rigid solid in concrete.
Answer: cement [accept concrete only before "Portland"]
19. Koper lies on the Gulf of Venice. Triglav Mountain is in the Julian Alps, Lake Blea is to the east of there.
Postojna is east of the Kras Plateau, and the Drava, the Sava, and the Mura flow through it. If you're in
Hungary, you'll have to cross through this former state of Yugoslavia to get some Italian. FTP name this
republic with its capital in Ljubljana.
Answer: Slovenia
20. Andrew ofWyntoun placed him between 1283 and 1285 in the reign of Edward I, Walter Bower put him in
1266 in the time of Henry III, while their fellow historian and not the former prime minister John Major placed
him in the 1190's during the time of Richard the Lionhearted. For ten points, people, such as Sir Walter Scott in
Ivanhoe, picked up on Major's work by accepting his dating for what denizen of Sherwood Forest?
Answer: Robin Hood
21. Called by the ancient Greeks "elektron", this substance became electrically charged and attracted straw
when rubbed with cloth. The largest supply of it can be found in the Baltic Sea area. For ten points, name this
hard, yellow-brown substance, formed from tree resins, which may contain trapped insects.
Answer: amber
22. It was brought to America by slaves who called it benne IBEHN-neel and it became popular in southern
cooking. Coming in shades of brown, red, black, and pale grayish ivory, this nutty flavored food turns rancid
quickly because of its high oil content. For ten points, name this seed, found in the Middle Eastern confection
halvah, also used in baked goods, such as bread, whose oil is used is cooking.
Answer: sesame seed
23. His tombstone indicates he was a major - in reality, he was a captain when the American Revolution came
to an end. He was fired from his most famous job by President Washipgton, who was enraged by his demand
for fees totaling $95,000. He was paid just $3800, and went to his grave angry at many former friends. In
1909, some 84 years after his death, the Board of Commissioners for the City of Washington paid to have his
remains moved to Arlington, where they are buried under a tombstone which bears his original plans. FTP,
identify this artist, architect, and city planner who laid out Washington, D.C.
Answer:
Pierre Charles L'Enfant

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
BONI - ROUND 3
Questions mostly by Anthony DeJesus of Case Western
1. Identify these types of substances found in chemical reactions.
A) These proteins are copolymers of amino acids which catalyze reactions in living organisms.
Answer: e~mes
B) This term is used to refer to reactants in an enzyme reaction, which are acted upon by the enzyme.
Answer: substrate
C) This type of compound competes for the same state as a substrate and slows the reactions.
Answer: inhibitor
2.
Identify these personalities associated with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference FTPE.
A) In 1971, this man left the SCLC to found PUSH, or People United to Serve Humanity. Later, he would also
found the National Rainbow Coalition.
Answer: Jesse (Louis) Jackson, Sr.
B) Named executive director of the SCLC in 1964, he was one of President Carter's ambassadors to the United
Nations, and from 1982 to 1989, served as mayor of Atlanta.
Answer: Andrew Young
C) President of the SCLC from the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1968 until 1977, he led the Poor
People's Campaign march and encampment in Washington, D.C.
Answer: Ralph Abernathy
3. (pencil and paper ready) FTPE calculate the following: (10 seconds per part)
a.) The volume of a cone with height 3 and base radius 2, in terms of pi.
Answer: 4 pi
b.) The surface area of a sphere of radius 2, in terms of pi.
Answer: 16 pi
c.) Area of an equilateral triangle with each side 2, leave radicals
unexpanded.
Answer: square root of 3 (accept equivalents)
4. Identify these Dickensian novels, for ten points each.
A) Dickens' own favorite, despite being subtitled "Which He Never Meant To Be Published On Any Account",
its main character is a writer who worked in a London factory, and who later marries Dora Spenlow.
Answer: The Personal History, Experience, and Observations of David Copperfield the Younger, of
Blunderstone Rookery,
B) This piece of historical fiction, in which Charles Darnay and Sydney Carton both love Lucie Manette, is set
in London and Paris during the French Revolution.
Answer: A Tale of Two Cities
C) Only 6 of 12 planned installments were written for this mystery novel, set in Cloisterham.
Answer: The Mystery of Edwin Drood
5. Name these drivers in the 2001 Pepsi 400, who are not Dale Earnhardt, Jr., for ten points each.
A) Finishing second was this man, who won the fateful Daytona 500 which took the life of Earnhardt, Sr.
Answer: Michael Waltrip
B) This man finished third, admitting that he let Waltrip pass him because he "couldn't see the race finishing
any other way."
Answer: Elliot Sadler
C) In fifth place was this defending champion, who won the Winston Cup Series in 1996, preventing Jeff
Gordon from winning four straight years.
Answer: Bobby Labonte

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
6. Name the following structures of the brain FTPE.
A. This is the name given to the thick band of fibers that connects the left and right hemispheres of the brain.
Answer: corpus callosum
B. This structure, which controls cognition, movement coordination, and voluntary movement, is composed of
the corpus stratium, the subthalamic nucleus, and the substantia nigra.
Answer: basal ganglia
C. This is the portion of the brain stem superior to the medulla oblongata. It assists in controlling autonomic
functions and relays information between the cerebrum and the cerebellum.
Answer: pons
7. Identify the authors of the following dystopian works, for the stated number of points.
A) For five, 1984
Answer: George Orwell or Eric Arthur Blair
B) For ten, Brave New World
Answer: Aldous Huxley
C) For fifteen, The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia
Answer: Ursula K. Le Guin
8. Name the cities where you can find the following religious things, for ten points each.
A) The international headquarters of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are located here.
Answer: Salt Lake City, Utah
B) The Baha'i world headquarters can be found on Mount Carmel, overlooking this Israeli city.
Answer: Haifa
C) In this city, you can visit the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, the largest Gothic cathedral in the world.
Answer: New York City
9. For ten points each, identify the Eastern European composer of:
A) Slavonic Dances and the symphony From the New World
Answer: Antonin Dvorak
B) Nuumerous Preludes, Etudes, and other short piano pieces, including Polonaise in A Flat Major.
Answer: Frederic Chopin
C) Ma Vlast , The Moldau, and the opera The Bartered Bride
Answer: Bedrich Smetana
10. Answer these questions about the Panama Canal, for ten points each.
A) In 1879, this French diplomat formed the Compagnie Universelle du Canal Interoceanique for the purpose
of digging a canal. He failed in that effort, although he did build the Suez Canal.
Answer: Ferdinand Marie de Lesseps
B) As Secretary of State, this man lent his name to two key treaties - one signed with Luis Bunau-Varilla to
recognize the independence of Panama and one signed in 1899 with Lord Pauncefote to give the United States
the right to build a canal.
Answer: John Hay
C) This man was the chief engineer for the building of the canal and the first governor of the Canal Zone.
Answer: George Goethals

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
11. Identify these characters from the Aeneid, for ten points each.

UTC 10/13/01

A) This queen of Carthage kills herself when Aeneas leaves her, thus not giving her the best day of her life.
Answer: Dido
B) In the underworld, this father of Aeneas predicts the greatness of Rome.
Answer: Anchises Ian KIGH seezl
C) This son of Aeneas fulfills a prophecy by declaring that the Trojans are eating their tables as they eat food
heaped on large pieces of bread.
Answer: Ascanius or Iulus
12. Identify these angular quantities, for ten points each.
A) This is the change in angular position with respect to time.
Answer: angular velocity (do not accept angular acceleration)
B) This is the sum of each mass element times the square of its perpendicular distance from the axis of rotation.
Answer: rotational inertia (do not accept inertia)
C) This is the force applied to a rotating body, times the perpendicular distance from the axis of rotation to the
point at which the force is applied.
Answer: torque
13. Answer the following regarding the 18th Amendment, for ten points each.
A) What was the purpose of the 18th Amendment?
Answer: Prohibition of alcohol; accept equivalents
B) Passed over Wilson's veto on October 28, 1919, this enforcement legislation named for a Minnesota
representative made 0.5% alcohol the legal definition of an alcohol beverage.
Answer: Volstead Act
C) Prohibition was mercifully repealed by this amendment.
Answer: 21 st Amendment
14. FTPE, given a quote said after the credits roll at the end of a Tiny Toons episode, name the character.
A) "Let the show begin."
Answer: Elmyra
B) "I wanna flush it again."
Answer: baby Plucky Duck
C) "Au revoir, rna petite potato de couch."
Answer: Fifi La Fume
FTPE, given a painting housed in the famed Musee d'Orsay, name its painter.
15.
A) Arrangement in Black and Gray No.1: The Artist's Mother
Answer: James Abbott McNeill Whistler
B) Apples and Oranges
Answer: Paul Cezanne
C) Le Moulin de la GaZette
Answer: Pierre Auguste Renoir
16. Name the poets who wrote the following collections of poetry, for ten points each.
A) Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats (1939)
Answer: Thomas Stearns Eliot
B) North of Boston and A Boy's Will
Answer: Robert Frost
C) The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America
Answer: Anne Bradstreet

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
17.
Identify the following wind belts, for ten points each.
A) This is the equatorial low-pressure belt.
Answer: the doldrums
B) These winds in the higher levels of the atmosphere blow in the opposite direction from the trade winds.
Answer: antitrades
C) Beyond the trades are these belts, also known as the SUbtropical high-pressure belts.
Answer: horse latitudes
18. Identify the following related to the Beauharnais !boh ahr NAYI family, for ten points each.
A) The Beauharnais family first gained prominence when this widow of Alexandre, vicomte de Beauharnais
married Napoleon.
Answer: Josephine Tascher de La Pagerie or Josephine de Beauharnais
B) Josephine's daughter, Hortense de Beauharnais, married this brother of Napoleon, who was named king of
Holland in 1806, but who abdicated in 1810 after a dispute with his Napoleon.
Answer: Louis Bonaparte
C) Hortense's third son, some suspected this man was not fathered by Louis Bonaparte. He later ruled as
President of France's 2nd Republic from 1848 to 1852, then as emperor till deposed in 1870.
Answer: Louis Napoleon or Napoleon III
19.
Identify the following units of measurement, for the stated number of points.
A) For five, this is the unit of force in the SI system.
Answer: Newton
B) For ten, this is the unit of force in the British system.
Answer: pound (the slug is the unit of mass)
C) For fifteen, this unit of force in the cgs system. One newton equals 100,000 of these.
Answer: dyne
20. Name these cities, for ten points each.
A) Taking its name from the German word for bears, this European city's landmarks include the
Zeitglockenturm, a clock tower, which includes mechanical dancing bears every time it strikes the hour.
Answer: Bern
B) The largest center oflace-manufacturing in France, this port is 26 miles southeast of Dover, England,
making it the French city closest to England.
Answer: Calais lKAL ayl
C) The Taff, the Ely, and the Rhyrnney flow into the Bristol Channelthrough this city, the capital of Wales.
Answer: Cardiff
21. Answer the following about a legal procedure, for ten points each.
A) At this pretrial proceeding, the accused is formally charged.
Answer: arraignment
B) In addition to guilty or not guilty, the accused may give this response meaning that he or she does not wish
to contest the charges.
Answer: nolo contendere
C) The accused may choose to do this, which is entered as a plea of not guilty, by refusing to respond.
Answer: stand mute

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
22. Held for nine days in July, it involves people in white with red scarves accompanying beasts. FTPE:
A) Name the Spanish town which hosts this running of the bulls.
Answer: Pamplona
B) The festival actually has a name other than the "corrida de toros." Name the festival, honoring a saint.
Answer: San Fermin Fiesta (or Festival)
C) The San Fermin Fiesta was depicted in this 1926 Hemingway novel.
Answer: The Sun Also Rises

