TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
TOSSUPS - ROUND 7
Questions mostly by DePauw and Iowa

UTC 10/13/01

1.
He was born February 1S\ 1902. His first writings were discovered in 1925 when he was working as a
busboy and left three of his poems beside the plate of poet Vachel Lindsay. He moved to Harlem in 1924 and
in 1926 he published his first book of poetry, The Weary Blues. FTP name this author who helped shape the
Harlem Renaissance and wrote Freedom's Plow, One Way Ticket, and Montage of a Dream Deferred.
Answer: Langston Hughes
2.
The first example of this type of particle was the positron, discovered in 1932 by Carl Anderson. Both
the proton and the neutron have these components which, if they meet, produce a flood of energy in accordance
with Einstein's famous equation, E = mc 2 . FTP, name these particles, which, when they come into contact with
their opposite particles, mutually annihilate each other.
Answer: anti-particles (accept anti-matter)
3.
In ancient times, it was a mark burned into the skin of a criminal or slave .. More recent uses of the term
make it less ominous, such as in the case of a scar or birthmark. However, the classical sociological definition
makes it a mark of discredit or disgrace, as on one's good name. FTP, what is this general term for something
that makes a person outcast from a group?
Answer: Stigma (accept stigmata)
4.
In the late 1980's it repelled an invasion by Libya using mostly TOW missiles and machine guns
mounted on Toyota pickup trucks. This country houses more than 200 ethnic groups, including the Toubou in
the north, Arabs in the country's sahelian zone, and the Sara in the soudanian region; smaller cities include
Abeche, Moundou, and Sarh. FTP, what is this African nation with its capital at N'Djamena (ENN-1A-MEANAH), that shares its name with a lake inside the country's borders?
Answer: Chad
5.
Perhaps the two most striking pieces of contrasting color are the woman in the very center ofthe
painting with the red umbrella and dress and her child in white walking next to her, as well as the woman on the
far right of the painting, dressed in black with a matching umbrella. The blue lagoon on the left contrasts with
the green island on which everyone sits. FTP, what is this painting, housed at Chicago's Art Institute, that is
examined in Ferris Bueller 's Day Off for everyone of its points of color, as painted by Georges Seurat?
Answer: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte
6.
. The word was coined by Isaac Newton. It is calculated by multiplying the object's mass in kilograms,
m, by the square of its velocity in meters per second, v-squared, and dividing this product by the radius of the
circle in which the object moves in meters, r, giving a result in newtons. FTP, name this force that compels a
body to move in a circular path.
Centripetal force [NOT centrifugal]
Answer:
7.
Suggested to the book's author by Pushkin, only the first part of what was to be a three-part story was
completed, totaling twelve chapters in all. Originally named The Adventures ofChichikov, the story's titles
refers to the many serfs on a piece ofland and Chichikov's attempt to purchase some deceased ones so he can
use them as collateral in getting a bank loan. FTP, give the collective term for those serfs who were pushing up
the daisies and you'll also give the title of what book by Nikolai Gogol?
Answer: Dead Souls

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
8.
This former professor at the University of Nebraska participated in many of the most famous battles in
American history, including Wounded Knee and San Juan Hill. He was also a military observer to Japan during
the Russo-Japanese War, a commander ofthe Presidio, and was promoted ahead of 862 senior officers to the
rank of brigadier general in 1906. After retiring in September 1924, he was chair of the American Battle
Monuments Commission until his death in 1948. FTP, name this U.S. General ofthe Armies, commander of the
Mexican Punitive Expedition and of the American Expeditionary Force in World War 1.
Answer:
John Joseph Pershing
9.
This group of plants includes the orders Orchidales, Amary llidales, Graminales, and Liliales. Some of
the characteristics of these types of plants include flower parts in multiples of three, parallel leaf veins, and
scattered vascular bundles. In 1682, John Ray published his Methodus Plantarum Nova in which he introduced,
FTP, what classification of plants which separates these plants from those with two cotyledon?
Answer: monocotyledons (monocots)
10.
He was driven to the turfby Mo Lewis in the fourth quarter of his team's 10-3 loss to the New York
Jets, and even managed to play one more series. 45 minutes after the game, however, he began to feel
discomfort, went to the emergency room, and spent the night in intensive care. The good news is that none of
his organs were damaged - but he lost two pints of blood to internal bleeding, and will watch from the sidelines
as Tom Brady makes his first start at quarterback for the Patriots. FTP, identify this one time Washington State
Cougar, one of the highest-paid and most-frequently-sacked players in the NFL.
Answer:
Drew Bledsoe
11.
At the age of 18 he joined the Croatian Social Democratic Party and in 1913 he was conscripted into the
Austro-Hungarian Imperial Army. As supreme commander of the Partisans from 1941-45, he was much more
effective than rival Draza Mihailovic in resisting the Nazis, but got no help from the West because of his known
Communist sympathies. FTP, who was this revolutionary leader who signed the Belgrade Declaration with
Khrushchev in 1955 and was the leader of Yugoslavia until his death in 1980?
Answer: Josip Braz Tito
12.
Her lover is the general ofthe forces fighting against the forces of her father, which makes an unpleasant
end to her story almost inevitable. On the bright side, after Arnneris turns her in and Radames is sealed in a
tomb beneath the earth, she gets to spend her dying moments with him, having snuck in before the tomb was
sealed. FTP name this slave girl, title character of a Verdi opera.
Aida (Ay-EE-da)
Answer:
13.
He was originally a lawyer but turned his attention to astronomy after taking postgraduate studies at the
University of Chicago. While working at the Wilson Observatory, he began taking photographs of galaxies
through the lens of a massive telescope. Using this technique he was able to observe galaxies at distances up to
7 million light years away. FTP name this man, whose law says that the further galaxies were away from earth
the faster they moved away from our planet?
Answer: Edwin Hubble
14.
He is a recent graduate oflndiana University with a degree in Management and International Business.
His father, a doctor, approved his greatest plan in March 1998. Since then, he has inspired such people as
Kenneth Heinly, Jackie Biesanz, Jason Cromley, and Myra Jackson to lose a combined total of 340 pounds,
after losing 235 pounds in a little over a year. FTP, name this man whose weight loss regimen consisted mostly
of eating at Subway.
Answer:
Jared Fogle (accept either name)

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
15 .
READER: ALLOW 15 SECONDS BEFORE CALLING TIME
Pencil and Paper ready. If! have twice as many dimes as quarters, and I have 78 coins in all, what is the total
value of the coins?
$11.70 (5.20 in dimes plus 6.50 in quarters)
Answer:

16.
In 1884, it was clear that the Granger laws were ineffective in regards to transportation, and pressure
groups like the Mugwumps turned to the national level; in response, both parties included pro-regulation planks
in their platforms. But only when 1886's Wabash case overturned 1876's Munn v. Illinois, stating that the
Granger laws granted states unconstitutional powers, did Congress step in to pass legislation prohibiting shared
traffic and profits, requiring a short haul to cost less than a long one, and forcing railroads to publicize their
rates. FTP name either this 1887 act or the commission ofthe same name it created to prevent abuses by longdistance transporters.
Interstate Commerce Act or Commission; accept ICC
Answer:
17.
Dreaming of becoming a hero, he goes to sea, and is haunted by his abandoning a damaged ship. He
becomes manager of a trading post and marries a local girl, eventually becoming a leader and killing the
marauding pirate Gentleman Brown. But when his best friend dies in the process, he lets the tribal chief
Doramin shoot him in retribution. FTP, name this titular Joseph Conrad hero.
Answer:
Lord Jim
18.
He was not directly descended from Genghis Khan, but he considered himself to be Khan's successor.
Using diplomacy, he was able to maneuver himself into the leadership of the Chagatai Khanate by 1371. By
1395, he had sacked Georgia six times and conquered the rival Golden Horde. In 1398, he began a campaign in
India, ending with the conquest of Delhi in 1400, at which point he turned west and sacked Baghdad. FTP,
name this Mongol leader, head of the Timurid empire and subject of a Marlowe play.
Tamerlane or Timur Lenk or Timur the Lame
Answer:
19.
It contains some of the first mentions of photography in American literature. Hepzibah keeps a miniature
of her unfortunate brother Clifford, and the innocent farm girl Phoebe is able to detect in a daguerrotype the evil
character of Judge Pyncheon. FTP, name this 1851 novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
Answer:
House of the Seven Gables
20.
Founded by a Bulgarian washing machine salesman in the late 1930's, they gained their first major
public exposure in 1959, when leader Florence Houteffpredicted the end of the world would occur on April 22.
After the date passed, most members left the group, and it would not be revived in earnest until the 1980s, when
a former guitarist assumed leadership of the group and began stockpiling weapons. FTP, name this religious
group, most of whom were killed in a fire near Waco, Texas, on April 19, 1993.
Answer:
Branch Davidians
21 .
The average lifetime for one of these is four years. One was found in the Southern Hemisphere only 350
km from the Tropic of Capricorn. The kind in the Northern Hemisphere rarely travels far past the Grand Banks
of Newfoundland. Unlike the tabular varieties, the northern variety is very jagged because it typically begins its
journey by calving from the fjords of Greenland. FTP, identify this object that has only sunk one ship since
1912.
iceberg
Answer:

22.
For his evil deeds he was bound in a cave with a serpent set over him. It drips a poisonous venom over
his face that causes great pain, so it is fortunate that his wife Igun watches over him and catches most of it in a
cup. Some of his deeds include siring Sleipnir, stealing Sirs hair, and tricking Hoder into killing Baldur. FTP
name this Norse god, who will kill Heimdal at Ragnarok and is the half-brother of Thor.
Answer:
Loki

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001

UTC 10/13/01

23.
This foreign correspondent reported from Berlin for the Universal News Service and for CBS on the rise
of the Nazi's in Germany *. He also covered the Nazi collapse as a war correspondent and has given
information on the Nazi's actions as early as 1925. Some of his best-selling works include Berlin Diary, and
The Nightmare Years. Of course you may know him best for his record f the most frightening time period in
recent history, The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.
Answer:
William L. Shirer

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
BONI - ROUND 7
Questions mostly by DePauw and Iowa

UTC 10/13/01

1.
Answer the following about the roots of American feminism FTPE:
a) The first women's rights meeting was called by Lucrecia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton in this New York
town in 1848
Answer:
Seneca Falls
b) With her mentor Stanton, this skilled advocate and recruiter published the journal Revolution and in 1869
founded the National Woman Suffrage Association. She alienated some supporters by opposing the 15 th
Amendment, which gave suffrage to black men but not to women.
Answer:
Susan B. Anthony
c) Suffrage leaders who supported the 15 th Amendment as a step in the right direction split with Anthony and
formed the rival American Woman Suffrage Association. Among its leaders was this woman, better known as
the author of "America the Beautiful."
Answer:
Julia Ward Howe
2.

Answer these questions about the quadratics F15PE:
Answer:
For a quadratic in standard form, this quantity tells whether the equation will
have 0, 1, or 2 real solutions
Answer:
DISCRIMINANT
B: It is from this method of solving a quadratic equation that the quadratic formula was derived.
COMPLETING THE SQUARE
Answer:
C: If a quadratic is written in the form ax 2+bx+c=0, express the sum of the roots in terms of a, b, and c.
Answer:
-b/a
Note: the product of the roots is cia

3.
It's a great catch, the best there is. Answer these questions about Joseph Heller's Catch-22 FTPE
A. This man is the main character of the novel, a pilot who keeps trying to get sent home from WWII.
Answer: John Yossarian
B. This man is the scheming businessman, who ends up allying with the Nazis and destroying the base
Yossarian and all the others are stationed at.
Answer: Milo Minderbinder (accept either name)
C. His father gave this Henry Fonda lookalike his absurd name as ajoke. While he enlisted as a private, an
IBM computer with a keen sense of irony promoted him to an officer.
Answer: Major Major Major Major
4.
Identify the capitals of these Asian nations, for 5 pts. each:
A. Indonesia
Answer: Jakarta
B. North Korea
Answer: Pyongyang
C. Armenia
Answer: Yerevan
D. Malaysia
Answer: Kuala Lumpur
E. Nepal
Answer: Kathmandu
D. Kuwait
Answer: Kuwait City

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
5.
Is this a history bonus or a literary bonus? Depends on whether you name these people on the 10 point
clue or the 5.
a) 10 pts.: He won the 1953 Nobel Prize in Literature for his history of Great Britain, yet his only novel,
Savrola, is sometimes erroneously attributed to an American writer by the same name.
5 pts: He also served as Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1941-1945 and 1952-1955
Answer:
Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill
b) 10 pts.: As son of the U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain, he saw firsthand Britain's slide into World War II,
which he recounted in Why England Slept. He also wrote the Pulitzer-winning Profiles in Courage.
5 pts.: He also served as the 35 th President of the U.S.
Answer:
John F. Kennedy
c) 10 pts.: While hardly original, his ideas on the struggle for survival and his assertion that might makes right
were the basis of Me in Kampf, which he wrote while in prison in the 1920' s.
5 pts.: This Austrian-born man's election as Chancellor of Germany in 1933 prompted one headline to read
"Foreigner Becomes Head of Our Country."
Answer:
Adolf Hitler
6.
Identify these historically Black colleges and universities, FTPE.
A. Founded in 1904, this school in Daytona Beach is named for an early 20 th century black woman's leader.
Answer: Bethune-Cookman College
B. This Louisiana University is probably most widely known due to the longevity of coach Eddie Robinson,
the longest serving head coach in Div. I NCAA sports ever.
Answer: Grambling State
C. Founded in 1867, this Atlanta school whose graduates include Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., is the nation's
largest all-men's liberal arts institution. The only historically black college to send a team to UTC's
tournaments last spring, it won the 2001 Honda Classic All-Star Challenge. Coincidence? We think not.
Answer: Morehouse College
7.
The 1991 World Series is thought by many to be the best World Series ever played. It featured two
teams that went from worst to first and lasted seven games, with five of them being one run affairs and four in
extra innings. FTPE, answer the following about the 1991 Fall Classic.
A) F5PE, name the two teams that participated in this World Series.
Answer: Minnesota Twins and Atlanta Braves (Accept either place or nickname on either one)
B) Name the Twin who pitched all ten innings of Game 7, a 1-0 Twins victory. He was later named the World
Series MVP.
Answer: Jack Morris
C) Name the Braves pitcher -ironically now a closer himself -- who matched Morris with nine shutout innings
in Game 7 before being lifted for an ill-fated reliever.
Answer: John Smoltz
8.
Identify these (yawn) Henry James works from plot summaries, FTPE.
A. Cousins Basil Ransome and Olive Chancellor vie for the attention of the same woman - Olive wants to use
her for her social drive toward women's equal political/legal rights, while Basil wants her for his wife in an oldfashioned marriage. Basil wins
Answer: The Europeans
B. The moment Douglas describes the characters in the manuscript, the guests immediately assume a multitude
of hidden romantic attachments between them. As a gothic novel told from the perspective of a governess, the
text channels and focuses the suspicion of sexual overtones within Victorian society.
Answer: The Turn oUhe Screw
C. Heroine Isabel Archer, marries a scoundrel who takes away as many liberties from her as he possibly can.
Answer: Portrait ora Lady

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
9.
Name these genetic disorders, FTPE.
a. Most cases of this disorder are caused by the nondisjunction which leaves extra portions of chromosome #21
present in some or all of their genes. It causes mental retardation, but at widely variant levels.
Answer: Down Syndrome or trisomy 21
b. This is a hereditary degenerative brain disease which claimed the life of Woody Guthrie. Usually beginning
in mid-life, cells in the caudate nucleus of the brain begin to die, causing a relentless deterioration of intellectual
ability, emotional control, balance and speech. Chorea, or involuntary movements, is nearly always a symptom.
Answer: Huntington's Disease or Huntington's chorea
c. Jews of European descent and Cajuns are at higher risk for this fatal genetic disorder in which harmful
quantities of a fatty substance called ganglioside GM2 accumulate in the nerve cells in the brain. As nerve cells
become distended with fatty material, a relentless deterioration of mental and physical abilities occurs.
Answer: Tay-Sachs disease
10.
Listen here, see. We got this bonus, see. Identify these gangsters of the 1920's and 30's, FTPE.
A. Born Lester Joseph Gillis, this man gained a reputation not only for loving to kill, but also for his childlike
mug.
Answer: George "Babyface" Nelson
B. Kathryn Thorne, mistress to another gangster, made up a story about how this man was a gunner in World
War I, and even passed out spent cartridges from his Tommy gun to relatives.
Answer: George "Machine Gun" Kelly
c. This man got his nickname from a Kansas City brothel's inhabitants due to his ... (ahem) ... affection for the
ladies. He is also the only gangster that Woody Guthrie wrote a folk song about.
Answer: Charles Arthur "Pretty Boy" Floyd
11. To date 10 astronauts have died in the U.S. space program, all in the month of January. Three - two of
whom were the second American in space and the first American to walk in space -- perished in a fire while
testing the capsule for what would have been Apollo I in 1967. The other seven were aboard the shuttle
Challenger in 1986 when it exploded about two minutes after liftoff. For 10 pts. each, name any three of the 10.
Answer: any 3 of Virgil 1. "Gus" Grissom, Roger Bruce Chaffee, Edward H. White II, Gregory Jarvis,
Christa McAuliffe, Ronald McNair, Ellison Onizuka, Judith Resnick, Francis Scobee, or Michael Smith
12.
Answer the following about nuclear physics, FTPE:
A. This is a nuclear process in which two light nuclei combine to form a single heavier nucleus. An example of
this type of reaction important in thermonuclear weapons and in future nuclear reactors is the reaction
between two different hydrogen isotopes to form an isotope of helium.
Answer: fusion
B. Particles called pions and muons are produced when high energy electrons, protons, and complex nuclei
which are produced in a number of astronomical environments travel throughout the universe in this form
which can easily pass through an inch of lead.
Answer: cosmic rays
C. These reactions can produce any combination of lighter nuclei so long as the number of protons and
neutrons in the products sum up to those in the initial nucleus.
Answer: fission

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10113/01
13.
Think way back to last fall. You'll need to in order to, FTPE, name these shows which got axed before
winter.
A. This show on CBS failed to draw in the same level audience as the title star's films, such as For the
Boys and The Rose.
Answer: Bette
B. This USA series was supposedly based on the real life of a family in which everybody was a law
enforcement agent, even the kids. They should have picked a more interesting family.
Answer: Cover Me: Based on the True Life of an FBI Family
C. A notable comedienne tried to start a comedy show in 1993. It was cancelled in a month. They tried
again in 2000, with the same comedienne and the same name. This time, it lasted one episode on syndication,
and what's worse, the title comedienne is embroiled in legal scandal involving alleged child abuse.
Answer: The Paula Poundstone Show
14.
Display a cavalier attitude and identify these Cavalier Poets from lines they penned, FTPE.
A. Drink to me only with thine eyes / And I will pledge with mine. / Or leave a kiss but in the cup / and I'll not
look for wine.
Answer: Ben Jonson
B. Why so pale and wan fond love / Pritheee why so pale? / Will, when looking well can't move her / Looking
ill prevail?
Answer: Sir John Suckling
C. Stone walls do not a prison make / Nor iron bars a cage.
Answer: Richard Lovelace
15.
Identify these Jewish holidays FTPE.
(10) This is the 8 day observance commemorating the freedom and exodus of the Israelites (Jewish slaves) from
Egypt during the reign of the Pharaoh Ramses II.
Answer: Passover
(10) This is the New Year of the Jewish calendar, celebrated about a week before Yom Kippur.
Answer: Rosh Hashanah
(10) Coming from the root Shin-Bet-Tav, meaning to cease, to end, or to rest, this is the only observance
mentioned in the 10 Commandments.
Answer: Shabbat (accept Sabbath)
16.
FTPE answer the following about international events last month OTHER than the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11:
a)
On September 5'\ President Bush hosted his first state dinner. F5P, the President held the dinner in
honor of what visiting head of state?
President Vicente Fox Quesada
Answer:
b)
For the second time since they helped topple Poland's communist regime, this group which began as a
union of shipbuilders in Gdansk has been voted out of power.
Answer:
Solidarity or Solidarity Election Action
c)
The World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
came and went in September, and was mostly dismissed as a farce. 5 for one, 10 for both, identify the city and
nation which played host to the UN Conference on Racism.
Answer:
Durban, South Africa

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
17.
How well do you know your ancient languages? Name these words with a past. You'll get 10 pts for the
first clue and 5 for the hopefully easier clue.
(10) In Sanskrit this word translates as "Desire for more cows." If you're up on your Dutch the word is oorlog.
(5) This three letter word is synonymous with Krieg in Modern German. Good God, y'all, what is it good for?
Answer- War
(10) In Aramaic it translates as "Disappear like this word." It is thought to have originated from the name of
the Gnostic God Abraxas
(5) It used to be inscribed on magical amulets and is now used by everyday magicians & the Steve Miller Band.
Answer - Abracadabra
(10) It comes from a Latin word meaning "pregnant animal" and is used to mean a rock which has a fossil
embedded in it.
(5) In math it is a rectangular array of numbers and is also the subject ofNeo's question.
Answer - Matrix
18.
Answer these questions about the English Revolution and Civil Wars, FTPE.
A. FTP, name any year within the two English Civil Wars. If you're within 10 years, you'll still get 5 pts.
Answer: 1642-1648 (Accept 1632-1641 or 1649-1658 for 5 pts.)
B. An untrained but brilliant general, he led the Roundheads and served 15 years as Lord Protector of England.
Answer: Oliver Cromwell
C. This king, who had persecuted Puritans by having their ears cut off and noses slit, was ousted by
Cromwell's forces and beheaded in 1649, long before the noun "payback" was coined.
Answer: Charles I
19.
30-20-10 Identify the shared property from a list of materials.
30: Neodymium-Iron-Boron, Samarium-Cobalt
20: Gadolinium, Dysprosium
10: Iron, Nickel, Cobalt
Answer: Ferromagnetism
20.
Given a set of composers, give the classical era in which they composed, FTPE:
D. Wagner, Mendelssohn, Verdi
Answer: Romantic
Albinoni, Corelli, Telemann
Answer: Baroque
de Palestrina, Monteverdi, Gabrieli
Answer: Renaissance
21 .
Identify the rationalist philosophers, from a briefly sketched overview of their contributions, FTPE:
10) This Dutch Jewish philosopher developed an argument for pantheism through a series of geometric proofs
through which he also deduced that the universe is not directed by a higher force. His best known works are
Ethics and Tractatus Theologico-Politicus.
Answer: Baruch (Benedict) Spinoza
10) This French philosopher initiated the tradition of philosophical doubt and attempted to base knowledge on
intuition and deduction. He formulated the adage "I think, therefore I am" and wrote the Discourse on Method.
Answer: Rene Descartes
10) This Austrian philosopher made arguments for the perfection of the existing universe and for the role of
sufficient reason in ascertaining the nature of truth. He is perhaps best known for his concept of monads and for
co-inventing the calculus with Isaac Newton.
Answer: Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
22.
When viruses infect the vertebrate nervous system, they can be classified three different ways. FTPE,
what are the resulting conditions of:
a)
A viral infection of the spinal cord?
Answer:
Myelitis
b)
A viral infection of the covering of the brain?
Meningitis
Answer:
c)
A viral infection of the neurons of the brain and brain stem?
Encephalitis
Answer:

