TOSSUPS - ROUND 8
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC
Questions from, well, everyone

1.
In herbivores, it harbors colonies of bacteria that help digest the cellulose of plant material. One theory
suggests that in humans it might manufacture B lymphocytes, though no evidence of any crucial role for it has
been observed. First surgically removed by an English doctor in 1736, FTP name this vestigial organ in
humans.
Answer: appendix
2.
Described as being from Gath, according to Second Samuel 21, he was killed by a soldier named
Elhanan. Though described as standing six cubits and a span in Samuel, the Dead Sea Scrolls indicate he was
only four cubits and a span, about six-foot-nine. FTP name this Philistine more commonly known as being
slain by David.
Answer: Goliath
3.
The famous bridge built by Allied prisoners of war on the Kwai River was located in this country. It
also contains the Isthmus of Kra and the city Chon Buri. FTP what is this Asian nation whose currency is the
Bhat and whose capital is Bangkok?
Answer: Thailand
4.
Following their defeat near the river Alma in the fall of 1854, Russian forces retreated to Sevastopol,
which was besieged by British, French, and Turkish troops. The Russians then moved onto a nearby plain,
where on October 25 they were met by British calvary. Though the battle was inconclusive, the Russians did
hold the Vorontsov Heights, cutting the supply road for the allied forces. FTP name this battle of the Crimean
War, notorious for the "charge of the light brigade."
Answer: Balaklava (prompt for more on "Crimean War" or "Charge of the Light Brigade")
5.
He was expelled from Oxford in 1810 after distributing a pamphlet he wrote called "The Necessity of
Atheism." His early poem "Alastor" exhibits the Romantics' desire for life to match the ideal of art, and his
"Queen Mab" attacks overly rigid Christianity. FTP who is this author of "Ozymandias," perhaps as well
known for marrying William Godwin's daughter, Mary.
Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
6.
Consider a reaction in which one mole of nitrogen and three moles of hydrogen form two moles of
ammonia. An increase in pressure will cause the equilibrium to shift toward the ammonia side of the equation,
while a decrease in pressure will cause a shift toward the nitrogen-hydrogen side. This is a brief illustration,
FTP, of what principle which states that equilibrium will always shift to counteract changes in temperature,
concentration, or pressure, named for its French formulator?
Answer: Le Chatelier's Principle
7.
He surprised the British in July 1779 by attacking Stony Point, New York. The British thought him
crazy, creating a nickname for him. In August 1794, he won the battle of Fallen Timbers, which secured the
Northwest Territory. FTP, name this U.S. general after whom an Indiana fort was named.
Answer: Gen. "Mad" Anthony Wayne
8.
The subject is Jonathan Buttell, who holds a cavalier hat in his right hand. His dark curls and eyes
contrast with the bleak landscape and his fine silken garments. FTP, what is the popular name for this colorful
1770 portrait by Thomas Gainsborough.
Answer: The Blue Boy

9.
In the manuscript form, this long poem contained a parody of Alexander Pope's The Rape a/the Lock
which bore the title, He Do the Police in Different Voices, but these sections were edited out by "the better
craftsman." Madame Sosostris, Stetson, Phlebas, and Tiresias appear in what, FTP, 20 th -century masterpiece
edited by Ezra Pound and written by T. S. Eliot?
Answer: The Wasteland
10.
Kevin Wixted, this company's director of marketing, unveiled plans to work with Microsoft and WebTV
for their latest model "The Explorer," which has computer jack and a tray for WebTV keyboards or a laptop. It
might also hold a TV dinner. FTP, name this company that recently launched this "e-cliner" to go with its other
recliners.
Answer: La-Z-Boy
11.
Pencil and paper ready. For a quick ten points, find all roots of the following equation: x to the third
plus three x squared minus four x minus twelve equals zero. (READER: allow 10 seconds before calling time)
Answer: -2, -3, 2 (in any order)
12.
He was admitted to the Louisiana bar in 1915 and became a state railroad commissioner in 1918. In
1928 he was elected governor and was widely popular during the Depression with his plan for a minimum
income of $5000 per year. He became a Senator in 1932, after his handpicked successor was elected governor.
For ten points, name this demagogue assassinated in 1935.
Answer: Huey Long (prompt on Kingfish)
13.
This vast tale of the Heian period focuses on the title prince and his children, delineating many rituals of
courtly life. First translated by Arthur Waley from the Japanese, it was written in the early 10th century. FTP,
sometimes called the first novel, what is this work by Lady Murasaki Shikibu?
Answer: The Tale of Genji
14.
At the outset of the Persian Gulf War, this scientist warned that ifSaddam Hussein set fire to Kuwait's
oil wells, a variation of the "nuclear winter" scenario could occur. This proponent of space exploration designed
the greeting message plaque which adorned the Pioneer 10 spacecraft. FTP identify this famous astronomer,
whose 20+ books include The Dragons of Eden and whose 1980 PBS series, Cosmos, remains the mostwatched program in public-television history.
Answer: Carl Sagan
15.
If you lead a sinful life and God exists, you've got big problems. If, on the other hand, you lead a
virtuous life and God doesn't exist, you lose nothing. Best yet, if you lead a decent life, and God does exist,
you hit the jackpot. This is, FTP, a simplified version of the "wager" of what French author ofthe Pensees
(pohn-say)?
Answer: Blaise Pascal (acc. "Pascal's Wager")
16.
He studied engineering in Cairo as well as trained to be a commando. In 1956 he formed the commando
group Al Fatah, but worked with an Kuwati engineering firm for the next few years while leading raids into
Israel. More recently he has tried for the image of moderate statesman, though his support Iraq during the
Persian Gulf War shook his international standing. For ten points, name this leader of the PLO.
Answer: Yasir Arafat
17.
It opens with a series of bass chords intended to symbolize nationalistic spirit, while the melodies of the
string sections are intended to convey a hope for peace and freedom. Written in 1899, it used many of the
concepts of Russian nationalism to argue against Russian imperialism in Scandinavia. FTP, name this classical
piece, the most famous effort of Jean Sibelius.
Answer: Finlandia

18.
This scientific law could be behind the search for a perpetual motion machine, stating roughly that, if
not for such nuisances as gravity and friction, an object could move indefinitely without constant input of
energy. It states that if the vector sum ofthe forces acting on an object is zero, then the object will remain at
rest or moving at constant velocity. FTP, name this law, which introduces the concept of inertia.
Answer: Newton's Second Law
19.
A Maggot and Mantissa are some of the later novels of this author, whose first effort, The Collector,
followed a gambler who kidnaps the woman he loves. His best known novels follow wealthy Englishmen
Nicholas Urfe and Charles Smithson. FTP, who wrote The Magus and The French Lieutenant's Woman?
Answer: John Fowles

20. The Boston University Terriers. The Providence Friars. The New York Knicks. The Kentucky Wildcats.
The Boston Celtics. FTP these are head coaching positions on the resume of what new coach of the Louisville
Cardinals?
Answer: Rick Pitino
21.
This item should always be at least a day old before it is eaten. If properly made and kept in a dry, cool
place, it ought to be perfectly palatable at the end of three or four days. However, when fresh and hot, it is full
of moisture and the starch is held together in masses, preventing this item from being crusted which exposes
each grain of starch to the saliva. This also prevents digestion since the teeth form this food into leathery
poreless masses, which lie heavily on the stomach. FTP name this food made from flour, milk, and yeast;
kneaded and baked.
bread
Answer:
22.
Among the artifacts found from this civilization are a gate guarded by two lions and the Treasury of
Atreus, a beehive tomb. By about 1300 B.C.E., it was the greatest fortress in all Greece. Yet within a century,
it had collapsed due to invasions by the Dorians. FTP, identify this Achaean civilization which occupied the
island of Minos.
Answer: Mycenae
23.
It is one of the five events in the modern pentathlon, and it is the only style of fencing in which the
entire body is a target. FTP name the weapon and same named sport.
Answer: Epee

BONI - ROUND 8
1.

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

Name the 20 th century American poem from its opening line FTP or from the author FFP.
10) "Call the roller of big cigars"
5) Wallace Stevens
Answer: "Emperor of Ice-Cream"
10) "Something there is that doesn't love a wall"
5) Robert Frost
Answer: "Mending Wall"
10) "Droning a drowsy syncopated tune"
5) Langston Hughes
Answer: "The Weary Blues"

2.
Identify these European explorers from exploits FTPE.
This Spaniard executed the Emperor Atahualpa and founded the city of Lima.
Answer: Francisco Pizarro
This early Portugese sailor was the first European to round the Cape of Good Hope, opening Asia to sea trade
with Europe.
Answer: Bartolomeu Dias
This Frenchman navigated the length of the Mississippi and claimed Louisiana for France.
Answer: Robert LaSalle
3.
FTP each, answer these questions about a Russian composer.
A student of chemistry and a descendent of Caucasian royalty, he became the final member of the "Russian
Five."
Answer: Alexander Borodin
Borodin wrote this tone-poem in 1880 to commemorate the 25 th anniversary of the reign of Tsar Alexander II.
Answer: In the Steppes of Central Asia
Borodin revisited Central Asia in the opera Price Igor, which produced a lasting hit with a dance number based
on a Tatar tribe from the 12th century. Name that tune.
Answer: "Polovtsian Dances"
4.
NaOH + HCL --> NaCl + H20
FFP What kind of reaction is this?
acid-base or neutralization reaction
precipitate or salt
FTP What is NaCl classified as?
FTP the number of moles observed an recorded are equal, but on a more technical level this equation exhibits
the proper? stoichiometry
5.
FTP each, solve these simple math questions .. (READER: allow 15 seconds per part before calling
time)
34 times 24
Answer: 1,296
2
3 times 34
Answer: 729
42 divided by 45
Answer: 1164

6.
Given a brief description, name the work written by Albert Camus for 10 points each.
Similar to Dostoevsky's Notesfrom Underground, this novel is a conversation between an unnamed lawyer and
the reader. It confronts the question of free will and human motivation for the good.
Answer: The Fall
An anomic young Algerian, Meursault, commits murder and is convicted. It is Camus's most widely read work.
Answer: The Stranger or L 'Estranger
Dr. Bernard Rieux tries to cope with suffering and death in the quarantined Algerian port of Oran.
Answer: The Plague
7.
For ten points name each of these World War II battles.
This May 1942 battle effectively checked the Japanese advance south toward Australia. While the US lost the
carrier Lexington, the Japanese navy lost 2 aircraft carriers, 2 destroyers, and about 100 planes.
Answer: Battle of the Coral Sea
US Marines landed on this island August 7, 1942 in the first US amphibious assault on Japanese forces, and
managed to hold the strategic Henderson Field.
Answer: Guadalcanal
This 1945 battle which culminated in the taking of Mt. Suribachi resulted in 6000 US and 20,000 Japanese
casualties, but provided the first American base inside Japan's inner defense systems.
Answer: Iwo Jima
8.
Name the astronomers who made the following observations FTPE.
Predicted the existence of Pluto
Answer: Percival Lowell
Actually discovered Pluto
Answer: Clyde Tombaugh
Discovered the gaps in Saturn's rings
Answer: Giovanni Cassini
9.
FTSNOP identify the following children of Zeus from a description of their birth.
5) Her mother Metis was swallowed when she was about to give birth for fear that her child would kill Zeus.
Nevertheless she was born and sprung fully formed out of Zeus' head.
Athena
Answer:
5,5) Born on the island of Delos to Leto, these two twins were literally like day and night.
Answer: Apollo and Artemis
15) His mother, Maia, was the daughter of a Titan. Afraid of Hera, Zeus hid them both in a deep cave on the
top of Mount Cyllene.
lIermes
Answer:
10.
FTP each, answer these questions about a particular form of artwork.
It is formed by pasting together ready-made bits of heterogeneous materials.
Answer: collage
For ten points each, give the names of the Spanish artist and the French painter who made collages for cubist
works in the early 1900s. The former often used newspaper clippings in his collages, while the latter's work
includes Still Life With Chair Caning.
Answer: Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque

11.
Name these works by William Blake FTP each.
This creature possesses "fearful symmetry" and lives in "the forest of the night.
Answer: "The Tiger"
This long, mystical poem asks about Christ, "Did those feet in ancient times walk upon England's mountains
green?"
Answer: "Jerusalem"
A sort-of companion to "The Tiger," the poetic voice asks "who made thee?"
Answer: "The Lamb"
12.
In the quest for Civil Rights, it often took athletes to erase racist attitudes. Name these pioneering
African-American athletes FTPE.
In 1936, this man won four track and field gold medals at the Berlin Olympics.
Answer: Jesse Owens
The first black man to hold the heavyweight boxing world championship, he exiled himself to Cuba to avoid
prosecution for marrying a white woman.
Answer: Jack Johnson
This woman was the first of color to win a grand slam tennis event, taking Wimbledon in 1957.
Answer: Althea Gibson
13.
Name the state in which you'd find these national parks FFPE.
Mt. Rainier
Answer: Washington
Zion
Answer: Utah
Joshua Tree
Answer: California
Grand Teton
Answer: Wyoming
Denali
Answer: Alaska
Dry Tortugas
Answer: Florida
14.
Answer these questions about electricity FTP each.
This versatile American labeled electric charges "positive" and "negative."
Answer: Benjamin Franklin
The law of electrostatic force, essentially stating that charges with the same electrical sign repel each other, is
named after this Frenchman.
Answer: Charles-Augustin de Coulomb
Coulomb also has a physical constant, equal to 6.24xl 0 18 electrons, named for him. The coulomb measures the
number of electrons carried by what amount of current over what span of time?
Answer: one ampere and one second (accept any 1:1 ratio of amperes to seconds)
15.
For ten points per answer, name the following dealing with Cuba and the U. S. A.'s troubled
relationships.
James Buchanan and two other U. S. envoys drew up this 1854 document that threatened war with Spain if
Spain refused to sell Cuba.
Answer: Ostend Manifesto
This amendment to the 1901 Army Appropriations Bill specified when the U. S. could intervene in Cuban
internal affairs and was included in the Cuban constitution.
Answer: Platt Amendment
This 1961 attempt by Cuban exiles to overthrow Castro was smashed largely due to the failed delivery of
promised U. S. air support.
Answer: Bay of Pigs Invasion

16.
Given his or her pseudonym, name the author for ten points each.
Mark Twain
Answer: Samuel Langhorne Clemens
George Eliot
Answer: Mary Ann Evans
Voltaire
Answer: Francois-Marie Arouet
17.
Answer these questions about a Supreme Court decision FTP each.
This 1896 decision established the policy of separate but equal
Answer: Plessy vs. Ferguson
The Plessy vs. Ferguson case began over a Louisiana law requiring separate but equal facilities in what?
Answer: Railroad Cars (accept equivalent)
Plessy was the criminal district court judge who made the first ruling based on the equal protection clause of
what amendment?
Answer: 14th Amendment
18.
Yours is not to question why, but to begin your answers to the following questions with the letter 'y'
FSNOP.
15pts. This Greek family of 18 th and 19th century military men lends its name to a Michigan city.
Answer: Ypsilanti
5pts. What British dynasty was first represented by Edward IV?
Answer: York
1Opts. What Japanese admiral planned the attack on Pearl Harbor?
Answer: Yamamoto Isoroku
19.
FTPE I'll give you a set of proteins and you tell me if they are structural, transport, regulatory, or
enzymes.
structural
A) silk, collagen, microtubule
B) lactase, pepsin, sucrase
enzymes
C) hemoglobin, myoglobin
transport
20.
FTPE name these jazz bandleaders.
A) He was a pianist who combined the blues and the sound of New Orleans jazz to create what was called the
epitome of swing feel. His band was known for its rhythm section, especially with guitarist Freddie Green, bass
Walter Page, and drummer Jo Jones.
Answer:
Count (William) Basie
B) A bebop bassist, he was one of the first to establish the bass as a melodic rather than rhythm instrument. He
played with Louis Armstrong and Charlie Parker, but as a bandleader encouraged group improvisation.
Answer:
Charles Mingus
C) A big band leader he used many of the top soloists of the day- Louis Armstrong, Coleman Hawkins, Benny
Carter. He is best known for his novel arrangements of songs which used a "call and response" feature between
the brass and reed sections, a technique copied by other top band leaders of the day.
Answer:
Fletcher Henderson

21.
Answer these questions about Tampa, Florida FTP each.
This Tampa native, currently with the Yankees, was a dominant hurler for the cross-town Mets in the 1980s.
Answer: Dwight Gooden
This unit in the Spanish-American War, under Leonard Wood and Teddy Roosevelt, did its training exercises in
Tampa.
Answer: the Rough Riders
A brewery opened a major theme park next to its Tampa suds factory in 1959. Name either the park of the
brewery.
Answer: Anheuser-Busch or Busch Gardens
22.
30, 20, 10 name the person.
30 - George Soper's epidemiological study placed this person at the center of a small-scale 1906 epidemic.
20 - She was held by health officials for most of the rest of her life and banned from her profession, cooking,
because of health concerns.
10 - Her two-word nickname has become a byword for "healthy carriers" of infectious diseases.
Answer: Typhoid Mary or Mary Mallon

