NEW TRIER VARSITY 2009
EXTRA TOSSUPS

In this novel, two characters are affected by a performance of Camille, and Samson D’Arnault gives a piano concert.
Earlier, Peter and Pavel recount how they threw a newlywed couple out of a sledge to escape some wolves. The
Harling family lives next to the narrator, who works with Otto Fuchs and Jake Marpole and has a fling with Lena
Lingard. Earlier, the narrator kills a rattlesnake, saving the title character, who is later rejected by Larry Donovan
before marrying Anton Cuzak, another Bohemian immigrant living in Nebraska. Name this novel about the
relationship of Jim Burden and a girl with surname Shimerda, a work by Willa Cather.
ANSWER: My Ántonia
Landau’s problems concern these numbers, and include Legendre’s conjecture about them. A theorem concerning the
modular arithmetic of these numbers is called Fermat’s little theorem. It is believed that every even integer greater
than two can be expressed as a sum of two of these numbers, a conjecture named for Goldbach. The theorem named
for this type of number states that the number of these up to x can be approximated by the function x over the natural
log of x, and these numbers remain after applying the Sieve of Erastosthenes. This subset the of natural numbers is
often contrasted with composite numbers. Name these numbers of which two is the only even one, numbers that are
divisible only by one and themselves.
ANSWER: prime numbers [or primes; accept primality]
One character in this novel gets into a fight with Cuff, the school bully, after he has been made fun of since his father
is a grocer, when another boy is being hit for breaking a bottle of milk. Two characters leave Miss Pinkerton’s
Academy with dictionaries in hand, though one character throws it out the window of the coach. That character goes
on with the hope of wooing the other’s brother Joseph with the hope he will ask her to marry him at Vauxhall, as she
has no mother to arrange a marriage for her, Becky Sharp. Name this novel, declared to be “without a hero”, by
William Makepeace Thackeray.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair: A Novel Without a Hero
In an AC circuit, inductive reactance is proportional to the product of inductance and this quantity. The quality factor
of a resonator is proportional to the product of this quantity with energy stored over power lost. For an inductorcapacitor circuit, one type of this quantity can be found by one over the square root of L C; that is the ordinary version
multiplied by two pi, which is known as the angular type. This quantity is perceived aurally as pitch, and like
wavelength, its perceived value changes as a sound source approaches or recedes from an observer in the Doppler
effect. Name this quantity often measured in hertz, the reciprocal of period.
ANSWER: frequency [prompt on lowercase/little f; accept angular frequency; prompt on lowercase/little omega]
The existence of this entity was first postulated by Matthew Maury, though most of it was not discovered until the
voyage of the Challenger. This structure was likely created during the Triassic period, with its formation playing a role
in the splitting of Pangaea. The most notable part of it normally visible today is the Reykjanes (ray-KAHN-es) Ridge,
which bisects Iceland. About a thousand miles wide at its widest point, this location is significantly longer than the
Andes. Identify this mountain range, most of which can be found about halfway between the Americas and Africa and
Europe.
ANSWER: mid-Atlantic ridge

The enzyme that catalyzes this process consists of an iron component and a molybdenum-iron component around an
iron-sulfur center. It often takes place in leghemoglobin-containing root nodules, and for every two output molecules,
this process consumes sixteen ATPs. In addition to taking place in certain organisms, this reaction can be catalyzed by
lightning. It is only able to be conducted by some prokaryotes, such as bacteria in the genus rhizobium. Name this
reaction that adds hydrogen to produce ammonia from its namesake diatomic gas.
ANSWER: nitrogen fixation
This city built a large dike and two aqueducts in the fifteenth century to bring in fresh water, executing the head of a
nearby city who objected to the construction. The city was divided into four zones called campan, which were further
divided into twenty calpullis each. In the center of this city lay many of the public buildings, including its Great
Temple, which was the site of a massacre in 1520 avenged on La Noche Triste. Eventually, the center of the city was
named Traza after it was rebuilt by Spanish conquerors. Name this ancient city built in 1325 in the center of Lake
Texcoco and destroyed in 1521 by Hernán Cortés, completing the fall of the Aztec empire.
ANSWER: Tenochtitlan
Two works by this man feature Marcel Duchamp in the title, while two literary journals founded by this man
are Taller (ti-YER) and El Hijo Pródigo (el EE-hoh pro-DEE-hoh). He examined contemporary poetry in The Pears of
the Elm and The Bow and the Lyre as well as penning The Monkey Grammarian. He also wrote a poem which mentions
a river that comes full circle, forever arriving. That same poem includes one line for every day of the Aztec calendar.
He is more famous for an essay collection relating to his national identity which claims that self-discovery is the
realization that we are alone. Name this author of Sun Stone and The Labyrinth of Solitude, a Mexican.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz Lozano
This man’s claim to the throne, based on the Treaty of Wallingford, ended a period sometimes referred to as the
Nineteen-Year Winter. His large territory included Cumbria and Northumbria, which he retook from Malcolm IV,
and his troops once captured William I of Scotland. His reign was characterized by rebellions against him by his sons,
who were assisted by Philip II and Louis VII of France. He was the son of Matilda and the husband of Eleanor of
Aquitane, and two of his sons became Richard I and King John. Name this king under whom four knights in 1170
entered Canterbury Cathedral and murdered Thomas Becket.
ANSWER: Henry II Curtmantle
This man explained the relationship between real wages and real profit in his Theory of Profit. Robert J. Barro
expounded upon this man’s theory that it doesn’t matter if a government increases taxes or borrows money, previously
known as this man’s namesake “equivalence”. In another work, he formulated a law that concerns one’s ability to
produce a good at a lower cost than someone else, and he also posited a theory that salaries must meet subsistence
levels. Name this Classical British economist whose work On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation advanced
the law of comparative advantage and the Iron Law of Wages.
ANSWER: David Ricardo
One work by this artist shows four Hebrew words written vertically instead of across; those words are “menei menei,
teikel ufarseen”. Another work of his was restored after being slashed; it depicts—and is called—Danaë. The work
with the erroneous Hebrew depicts a scene from the Book of Daniel and is called Belshazzar’s Feast. His most famous
work, showing a group known as the Arquebusiers, received its nickname from a dark varnish coating it. Name this
artist of The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp and a painting depicting The Battle Company of Frans Cocq, popularly known
as The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn [accept either or both parts]
New Trier Varsity 2009
Extra tossups, page 2 of 3

This entity houses four deer which represent the four winds, and one other resident, Ratatosk, relays gossip between a
dragon and a bird. This entity will be destroyed by Surt, and in order to obtain the runes, Odin wounded himself with
a spear and hung from this entity for nine days. At the bottom of this lie Hvergelmir and the Well of Fate, and
beneath it lie Niflheim, Jotunheim, and Asgard. Name this ash tree that in Norse mythology links and shelters all of
the worlds.
ANSWER: Yggdrasil [or World Tree]
The natives of this locale enjoy casu marzu, a cheese riddled with live maggots, as a delicacy, even though consumption
of it is banned by EU legislation. Mistrals blowing south from France sweep over this island every winter and spring.
Occupied by the Byzantines after the fall of Rome, it became independent for a short time at the end of the sixth
century, but was later occupied by the Aragonese in the fifteenth century. It has since become part of Italy, and is now
one of Italy’s five autonomous regions. Name this island south of Corsica with its capital at Cagliari.
ANSWER: Sardinia
This work’s second movement was initially written for a fugato, and is a scherzo, marking a transition from dark to
light that is completed in the third movement, which begins with the bassoons and clarinets. The most famous part of
this composition is marked allegro energico, sempre ben marcato. That movement begins in six-four, going F-sharp Fsharp G A A G F-sharp E in the soprano line. Name this composition whose final movement sets to music a Friedrich
Schiller poem that begins “Freude, schöner Götterfunken”, called “Ode to Joy”, the final symphony of Ludwig van
Beethoven.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 in D minor, “Choral”, Opus 125 [accept any underlined part
or obvious equivalents thereof; do not require “Beethoven” after the end]
To prevent this process, objects can be treated with an oil and coated with magnetite, a process called bluing. Acids
increase the rate of this process, which was explained by Joseph Priestley. Because aluminum has a higher reduction
potential than the products of this process, aluminum foil can be used to remove them. A layer of chromium-threeoxide is responsible for preventing this process on stainless steel, and this process occurs much more rapidly in the
presence of salt or water. A type of redox reaction that results in hydrated ferric oxides, name this corrosion process of
iron.
ANSWER: rusting of iron [accept word forms; accept answers like “the formation of iron oxides” before the end]

New Trier Varsity 2009
Extra tossups, page 3 of 3

