2013 NHB Set A
Extra Question Sheet 3

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
1. In Near v. Minnesota, the Supreme Court ruled that prior restraint on these items was
unconstitutional. Hazelwood v. Kuhlmeier discussed these items in schools. A company producing this
item was sued by public safety commissioner L.B. (+) Sullivan in a case establishing the "actual
malice" standard, and was pursued by the Nixon administration for (*) publishing the Pentagon
Papers. For 10 points, name these items that include the Washington Post and New York Times.
ANSWER: newspapers
121-13-88-17101

2. Leontiades (LEE-on-TYE-uh-deez) conspired to take over this city by having the foreign
commander Phoebidas occupy its citadel. An elite commander packed this city's army's weak left
wing fifty men deep, using that "oblique order" to great effect at (+) Mantineia (MAN-tin-EY-uh)
and Leuctra. Pelopidas and Epaminondas (EP-uh-min-ON-duss) helped build this city up with an
elite unit of hoplites consisting of (*) pairs of lovers. For 10 points, name this Greek polis whose Sacred
Band usurped hegemony from Sparta.
ANSWER: Thebes
080-13-88-17102

3. Florence Reece's song "Which Side Are You On?" was written for workers in this industry during
the Harlan County War. Pinkerton detective James McParland infiltrated a group of workers in this
industry, sometimes called the the (+) Molly Maguires. The Colorado Labor Wars were between
workers and management in this industry, and Big Bill (*) Haywood started in one of its unions. For 10
points, name this industry that was extensively practiced in Idaho, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia
underground.
ANSWER: coal mining
121-13-88-17103

4. It's not Washington, but for a while no building in this city was allowed to be taller than a
structure designed by Bartolomeo Rastrelli. Jean-Baptiste Le Blond was the chief architect of this
city. During the Great Northern War it held the Nyen fortress, which was replaced by the (+) Peter
and Paul Fortress. The site for this city was chosen in part because it was a (*) warm-water port. For
10 points, name this Russian city on the Baltic Sea, built by a similarly named "great" tsar.
ANSWER: St. Petersburg
121-13-88-17104

2013 NHB Set A

Extras Round 3

Page 1 of 2

5. This man had a long-standing rivalry with the ruler of the Golden Horde, Tokhtamysh
(TOK-tuh-mish), whom he defeated at the Kondurcha River. One of his most important victories
came at the Battle of Ankara, where he captured the Ottoman Sultan (+) Bayezid I. This man
brutally sacked Delhi and brought artists and poets to his capital of (*) Samarkand, which became a
center for Islamic culture. For 10 points, name this Central Asian creator of skull pyramids who had a name
derived from his limp.
ANSWER: Timur the Great [or Timurlane or Tamerlane or Timur the Lame or Tamburlane]
141-13-88-17105

6. This former bus driver made a rambling statement saying that while he was addicted to
pornography, he was a good person and "had a lot of harmony" in his home, statements that
disgusted judge Michael Russo. His actions were exposed after Charles (+) Ramsey pried open a door
to his home. This man threatened Michelle Knight with death if she did not safely give (*) birth in an
inflatable swimming pool. For 10 points, name this Cleveland resident who was sentenced to life
imprisonment in 2013 for kidnapping and sexually abusing three women, only to be found dead in his cell
shortly thereafter.
ANSWER: Ariel Castro
052-13-88-17106

2013 NHB Set A

Extras Round 3

Page 2 of 2

