TOSSUP 21'S
ZZZ
It's what the "A" stood for in the name of former Sen. A. Willis Robertson (father of televangelist Pat).
In a 1681 verse by Dryden, it's one of the title characters, who represents Charles II's illegitimate son the Duke
of Monmouth. In Alan Paton's Cry, the Beloved Country, it's the wayward son of Rev. Stephen Kumalo. And
it appears in the title of the 1936 Faulkner novel about Thomas Sutpen's failed efforts to found an aristocratic
[Absalom]
Southern family . FTP what's this name, also the rebellious 3rd son of David in the Bible?
Ferdinand von Wrangel begins his survey of the Siberian Arctic coast. Ft. Atkinson, the precursor of
Omaha, is built. Ampere formulates the first laws of electromagnetism. James Monroe is reelected
overwhelmingly. George III finally dies. And Congress passes the Missouri Compromise. FTP in what year?
[1820]
Benjamin Franklin was an early proponent, but he put forth no definite plan. An Englishman named
William Willett did and tirelessly crusaded for it; in 1916, a year after his death, Britain adopted it. The U.S.
followed suit in 1917 as part of the war effort but repealed it in 1919 due to farmers' objections. It was
instituted again from 1942 to 1945, and for the following 20 years some states adopted it piecemeal. In 1966
Congress finally passed the Uniform Time Act, although Arizona, Hawaii, and parts oflndiana still don't
observe this system. FTP name it.
[Daylight Saving Time]
Wife of a noted philanthropist, this avid suffragist and abolitionist founded the New England Women's
Suffrage Association. She published a play, travel books, and such volumes of poetry as Passion Flowers and
Words for the Hour. Her best-known work was first published in the Atlantic Monthly in 1862. FTP name the
[Julia
author of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
Ward Howe]
FTP, give the common year given the following clues from American history. Marines pull out of
Nicaragua. The U.S. officially ends the gold standard. Giuseppe Zangara kills Chicago Mayor Anton Cermak in
a Miami motorcade. Frances Perkins becomes first female Cabinet member. Beer & wine sales are again made
[19331
legal. FDR calls a 'bank holiday' upon his inauguration. What is the common year?
In 1943 Edward J. Noble, the head of Life Savers candy, bought the 6 stations known as the "Blue
Network" from NBC. Noble's company merged with United Paramount Theaters in 1952. Long considered a
loser, it gained respect with the innovative sports programming of Roone Arledge before reaching the top with
such '70's classics as Charlie's Angels and Laverne and Shirley. FTP name this TV network.
[ABC, or American Broadcasting Co.]
Rap. Sequin. Tanner. Tickey. Stater. Stiver. Groat. Noble. Sovereign. Napoleon. Obol. Thaler.
Florin. Ducat. Doubloon. FTP these are all types of...what? [coins, if currency or money, ask for more info]

TOSSUPS -- TEST ON UTe TEAM

yyy
He could be recognized by his black hide with a white triangular mark on his forehead, the figure of a
half-moon on his side, and a beetle-shaped knot under his tongue. Consulted as an oracle, he came to be
regarded as the incarnation of the god Osiris. FTP name the sacred bull ofPtah in Egyptian mythology.
[Apis; accept Hap or Hapi]
His earliest novels often dealt with action on trains, e.g. Orient Express and Stamboul Train. Later his
massive output included the non-fiction Getting to Know the General, and such fiction as A Burnt Out Case,
Brighton Rock, and thrillers like The Third Man and Our Man in Havana. FTP name this British author.
[Graham Greene}
He wrote and directed the autobiographical film Kindergarten (1983). His written works include Almost at
the End, Wild Berries, and one I'll spell just to avoid any embarrassing miscues: F-U-K-U. FTP name this Soviet
poet who gained international fame by attacking anti-Semitism in the poem "Babi Yar."
[Yevgeny
Yevtushenko]
His short book _What Is Life? ~ cited as a major influence by Francis Crick, delved into the physics and
chemistry that underlay human life, especially the contradiction that there are too few atoms in the human body
to account for its stability or apparent lack of statistical fluctuation. This was shaped by his study of statistical
thermodynamics, as was his idea that the waves of orbiting electrons could be superimposed on one another.
FTP name this Austrian who shared the 1933 Nobel in Physics with Paul Dirac. [Erwin Schrodinger]
Bemoaning the quality of Greek drama after the death of Euripides, Dionysus disguises himself as Heracles and
goes to retrieve Euripies from Hades. However, a competition there between Euripides and Aeschylus convinces
Dionysus to rescue the latter instead. FTP name this 405 B.c. comedy by Aristophanes. [The Frogs, or
Batrachoi]
Her parents were ethnologists Alfred and Theodora Kroeber, authors oflshi: Last of His Tribe. Her father's
stories of other cultures shaped her literary style. She tried writing about a fictitious central European country, but
publishers ignored her works until she relocated them into fictitious worlds. FTP name the author of The Compass
Rose, Tehanu, The Lathe of Heaven, and The Left Hand of Darkness.
[Ursula K. Le
Guin]
Although her family was poor, this printer's daughter was planning to attend college until a stroke at age 16
paralyzed her left leg. Stuck at home, she discovered an aptitude which she turned into a science. She became a
lecturer, wrote for Women's Home Companion, and even taught for a year at Harvard Medical School, where she
wrote Food and Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent. FTP name this woman, whose 1896 Boston CookingSchool Cookbook revolutionized cooking by its use of precise recipes.
[Fannie
Farmer]
Besides the eighty species of the true ones, family Strombidae, there are 10 closely related species of the
spider variety. Among the varieties are the Milk, the Hawk-Wing, the Rooster, and the rare Goliath. Their name is
also the nickname for residents of Key West. FTP name this family of univalves, larger varieties of which can be
blown as horns.
[conchs]
He helped popularize synesthesia, a device using terms of one sense experience to describe another, by
assigning each vowel a color in his 1871 Sonnet of the Vowels. His hallucinatory images in The Drunken Boat
and his urging that poets become seers in Letter from the Seer prefigure surrealism. And he's often viewed as
one of the creators of free verse because of the rhythmic experiments in Illuminations. FTP name this poet,
who described his own intense, tortured existence in A Season in Hell.
[Arthur Rimbaud]

Approaching the age of 100 she was introduced as a "great humanitarian"; taking the podium, she
declared, ''I'm not a humanitarian, I'm a hellraiser." Her many causes included prison reform and opposition to
. the Spanish-American War. In 1903 she led a week-long march of child mill workers from Pennsylvania to the
Long Island home of President Roosevelt. FTP name this labor activist, namesake of a left-leaning
investigative magazine launched in 1976.
[Mary Harris "Mother" Jones]
There are actually 6 of them; the one most familiar to us is the anterior one. Varying numbers of small
bones called wormian bones gradually are fitted into the cranial sutures, closing them up. FTP give the proper
name for the skull fissures in infants, generally called a "soft spot." [fontanels]
This nobleman's son from Brittany studied under Johannes Roscellinus and William of Champeaux.
Condemned by a synod in Soissons for his Nominalist doctrines on the Trinity, he took to a hermit's hut at
Nogent-sur-Seine, where he founded a monastic school, the Paraclete. His works included Historia Calamitum
Meum, or "The History of My Troubles", and Sic et Non. FTP name this philosopher, whose troubles mainly
stemmed from his affair with a student named Heloise.
[Peter Abelard]

In 1911 he noted that Polaris was a Cepheid. In 1913 he became the first to estimate actual distance of
some Cepheid variables; Shipley used his work in determining the shape of the Milky Way. His most important
work lay unnoticed for ten years, mainly because he'd published it in a semipopular photographic journal in
1905. FTP name this Danish astronomer, whose observation of the relationship between the color of stars and
their luminosity was discovered independently by H.N. Russell.
[Ejnar Hertzsprung]
He was the first to date events with the phrase "anno Domini". His writings included commentaries on
the Pentateuch, scientific and philosophical treatises, biographies, and histories. His best known work, Historia
Ecclesiastica, tells of the history of Christianity in England to A.D. 729, FTP name this famed monk of Jarrow.
[the Venerable Bede]
Back in the late '50's, Houston record producer Huey P. Meaux was working on a novelty record called
"The Purple People Eater Meets the Witch Doctor". In need of a song for the flip side, he asked his recording
artist, the top D.J. from Beaumont radio station KTRM, for help. This D.l, one lP. Richardson, hastily penned
a rock In' roll classic. FTP name the song which made Richardson famous as "The Big Bopper" .
[Chantilly Lace]
As a student of St. George Ashe he reputedly outstripped a fellow student three years older, Jonathan
Swift. After one novella (Incognita) he turned to drama, where his ridicule of Puritan characters such as
Fondlewife and Tribulation Spintext in The Old Bachelor led to a Puritan crusade against his works and theater
in general. FTP name this playwright, whose works include The Double Dealer, Love for Love, and The Way of
the World.
[William Congreve]
Their name is believed to be derived from "bear shirt," an indication of the rough clothes they wore.
Worshippers of Odin, they attached themselves to royal and noble courts as bodyguards and irregular shock
troops. FTP name these unruly warrior gangs of Norse and Germanic history and folklore, whose unrestrained
fondness for rape and murder gave rise to a modern adjective meaning "out of controL" [berserkers]
Her first book was a story collection, The Soft Voice of the Serpent. Her first novel was The Lying Days.
She made her breakthrough with the 1974 Booker Prize winner, The Conservationist. FTP name the author of A
Soldier's Embrace, July's People, and My Son's Story, winner of the 1991 Nobel Prize for Literature.
[Nadime Gordimer]
Perturbation theory is the branch of mathematics involved in their use. Each line and each junction
between lines has a precise mathematical equivalent. Used extensively in particle physics and solid-state
physics, they represent specific terms in calculations in quantum field theory. FTP name these diagrams,
[Feynman diagrams]
developed in the 1940's by a future Nobel Prize winner.
Inspired by a Paderewski concert at age 12, he was a substitute organist at Calvary Baptist Church in
Kansas City before serving with Harry Truman in the 129th Field Artillery in World War I. His first known
composition, "Vernal Equinox," was based on a poem by Amy Lowell. But its was his association with
Gertrude Stein that got him attention, although Maurice Grosser had to supply scenarios after the fact to explain
her obtuse libretti for The Mother of Us All and Four Saints in Three Acts. FTP name this composer, whose
work on Robert Flaherty'S 1949 documentary Louisiana Story earned him the only Pulitzer given for a film
score.
[Virgil Thomson]

It was the title of a prize-winning Nazi film designed to inflame anti-Semitism. Although the story dates
back to at least the 6th century, the best-known version was a 17th-century book in which a shoemaker named
Asahuerus turned Christ away from his door en route to the crucifixion. FTP name the legendary figure who
was reputedly condemned to a ceaseless roaming of the world.

[the Wandering Jew; accept Eternal Jew or Ewiger Jude]
Founded by the Paiute mystic Wovoka, adherents included most of the Native Americans at Wounded
Knee, who believed that their gannents would become impregnable. Other followers of this belief included
Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull. It preached for Indian magicks to destroy the white invaders through rituals,
meditative prayer, and sacrifice. FTP identify this religious movement.
[the Ghost Dance}

It's the small town in Harrison Co., Texas, where Lady Bird Johnson was born. It's also a city on the
east bank of the Nile, the northern part of the site of ancient Thebes. And it's the mythical mystic who divines
the contents of envelopes kept in a mayonnaise jar on Funk & Wagnalls' front porch. FTP what name do they
[Karnak]
all share?

Herbert Boyer, Marcel Breuer, and Lyonel Feininger were among the original members of the faculty.
So were Wassily Kandinsky and Paul Klee. FTP name this influential school of design, founded in Weimar in
1919 by Walter Gropius.
[Bauhaus]

