2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Extra Question Sheet 1

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
1. This country's priests issued a "Declaration of the Clergy" which contained four points rejecting
the right of the Pope to interfere in political matters. In 1762, a Protestant in this country was
notoriously tortured to death after refusing to confess to killing his son. This country was targeted by
the Papal bulls (+) Cum occasione and Unigenitus, which targeted a doctrine that took root at the
convent of (*) Port Royal. For 10 points, name this country, the most receptive to the Jansenist heresy and
the religious nationalist ideology of Gallicanism.
ANSWER: France
019-13-94-26101

2. A sign language about which no details are known was commonly used among people in this
institution. The Valide and the Kadims often administered this institution, which was populated with
(+) hasekis. Transgressive people from this institution had their corpses thrown from the Topkapi
into the Bosporus. (*) Eunuchs often guarded this institution, whose hierarchy ranged from the odalisques
at the very bottom to the wives at the top. For 10 points, name these private quarters where Ottoman sultans
sequestered women.
ANSWER: Ottoman imperial harem [or seraglio]
020-13-94-26102

3. The Heruli accompanied these people in raids on Roman cities. After defeating these people at the
Battle of Naissus, Claudius II took on a cognomen derived from their name. This barbarian tribe
migrated from the (+) Vistula River to the Black Sea, raided the Balkans, and eventually killed
emperor (*) Valens at the 378 Battle of Adrianople. A branch of this group established a kingdom in Italy
under Theodoric the Great. For 10 points, identify this broad class of barbarians later subdivided into
"eastern" and "western" tribes.
ANSWER: Goths [or Ostrogoths; or Visigoths]
080-13-94-26103

4. A species of crab whose shell resembles a human face is thought to be the reincarnated form of
several men who died at one of these events. Large devices equipped with towers, known as louchuan,
were used in one of these event in 1363 in (+) Poyang. The Japanese imperial regalia disappeared
after one of these events, in which the six-year-old Emperor Antoku perished. Noryang Point was the
site of another of these events involving Japan and Korea, and Russia was defeated in a landmark
event of this kind at (*) Tsushima. For 10 points, identify this kind of battle in Asian history involving
fleets.
ANSWER: naval battles [or sea battles, etc.]
020-13-94-26104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

26

Page 1 of 2

5. A force involved in this conflict took an overland route through Hungary because of hostility from
Roger II of Sicily. In a side campaign during this conflict, Anselm of Havelberg and Henry the Lion
attacked the pagan (+) Wendish Slavs. Bernard of Clairvaux preached in support of this conflict,
which was called for when the County of Edessa was captured by Zengi. Louis (*) VII and Conrad III
of Germany participated in this conflict, which got bogged down outside of Damascus For 10 points, name
this crusade called for by Eugene III in 1145.
ANSWER: Second Crusade
141-13-94-26105

6. A member of this family developed the "dollar checkoff" and Earned Income Tax Credit while
chair of the Senate Finance Committee. Another member of this family developed a program in
which annual incomes would be limited to a million dollars as part of a program promoted by the
slogan "Every (+) Man a King." That member of this family was succeeded in the Senate by his wife
Rose after Carl (*) Weiss shot him. For 10 points, name this Louisiana political family whose members
include the "Kingfish," Huey.
ANSWER: Long family
048-13-94-26106

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

26

Page 2 of 2

