2014 National History Bowl National Championships
Extra Question Sheet 2

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
1. During this conflict, several people were tortured and killed at Nine Men's Misery. The mysterious
death of John Sassomon and subsequent murder trial sparked this conflict. A massive assault by
Josiah Winslow on an island fort in the Great Swamp Fight drew the (+) Narragansett tribe into this
war. The Pokunoket chief who fought in this war was eventually shot by John Alderman, and his
head was put on a pike outside (*) Plymouth for decades. For 10 points, name this seventeenth-century
war between English colonists and a number of Native American tribes led by Metacomet.
ANSWER: King Philip's War [or Metacomet's War until it is read]
239-13-94-27101

2. This country's navy and army took opposite sides in an 1891 civil war, respectively backing Jorge
Montt and sitting president Jose Balmaceda. This country's liberal "white beaks" were attacked by
the founder of The Starveling, Diego Portales. This country's sailors were rescued despite losing the
Battle of (+) Iquique (ee-KEE-kay) during a war in which it acquired the provinces of Tacna and (*)
Arica by the Treaty of Ancon. This country annexed Easter Island and won the War of the Pacific. For 10
points, name this South American country that was led to independence by Bernardo O'Higgins.
ANSWER: Republic of Chile [or Republica de Chile]
020-13-94-27102

3. A participant in this trial was later killed by James E. Day with a razor. Its defendants were
captured after Detective Hugh Patrick Byrne found an unusually-hinged pair of (+) glasses and a
destroyed typewriter. John R. Caverly presided over this trial, in which a guilty plea was entered so
that the defendants could avoid the (*) death penalty and be represented by Clarence Darrow. For 10
points, name this "trial of the century" about the murder of Bobby Franks by two Nietzsche-loving college
students.
ANSWER: Leopold and Loeb trial
048-13-94-27103

4. This man volunteered as counsel for Daniel Drayton and Edward Sayres, who were convicted of
helping two slaves escape in the Pearl Incident. This man's wife Mary Peabody compiled his papers
after his death, and this first president of (+) Antioch College was elected to Congress to replace the
spot left by John Quincy Adams's death. After a trip to Europe, this brother-in-law of Nathanial
Hawthorne transplanted the (*) "Prussian system" to his state and called for the creation of
teacher-training "normal" schools. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts father of the common school
movement.
ANSWER: Horace Mann
048-13-94-27104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

27

Page 1 of 2

5. As a result of this event, the popular magician Alessandro di Cagliostro spent nine months in
prison. It occurred partly because the former Ambassador to Austria needed to redeem himself to a
woman impersonated by the prostitute Nicole d'Oliva. During this event, Jean de la (+) Motte fooled
the Cardinal de Rohan into obtaining an object originally made for the Madame du (*) Barry, which
the la Mottes had sold on the black market instead. For 10 points, identify this scandal at the court of Louis
XVI concerning a piece of jewelry meant to be delivered to Marie Antoinette.
ANSWER: The Affair of the Diamond Necklace
080-13-94-27105

6. A leader of this country and Hassan II signed the Oujda Treaty, which was supposed to create a
union between this country and non-neighboring Morocco. This country was ruled for over forty
years by a man who changed the national flag to a single (+) color with no decoration and wrote The
Green Book. A revolution in this country started after the arrest of Fathi Terbil, who became a part
of this country's (*) National Transitional Council. For 10 points, name this African country where
protests in February 2011 in Benghazi led to the fall of Muammar Gaddafi.
ANSWER: Libya
023-13-94-27106

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

27

Page 2 of 2

