2013 NHB Set A
Extra Question Sheet 2

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
1. These people were able to capture a mountain howitzer at the Battle of Big Hole, involving their
military strategist Looking Glass. The city of Lapwai serves as the present-day seat of government
for this tribe, about half of whom were pursued by Oliver (+) Howard after a gold rush in their
ancestral Wallowa Valley home. Their most famous member surrendered to Nelson Miles in the Bear
Paw Mountains in 1877, saying "From where the sun now stands, I will (*) fight no more forever." For
10 points, name this Native American tribe led by Chief Joseph.
ANSWER: Nez Perce [or Niimiipu]
020-13-88-16101

2. This woman hosted the dating program Mr. Personality after her lack of success selling handbags.
This owner of an "infamous blue (+) dress" confided in her coworker Linda Tripp, who handed over
tapes of their conversations to Kenneth Starr. The soundbite "I did not have (*) sexual relations with
that woman" referred to her. For 10 points, name this White House intern who engaged in scandalous acts
with Bill Clinton.
ANSWER: Monica Lewinsky [or Monica Samille Lewinsky]
020-13-88-16102

3. The defendant in this case had an extra "d" added to his name in a clerical error, and died in an
insane asylum shortly after the decision was delivered. Benjamin Curtis filed a lengthy dissent in this
case, which was the second-ever time an act of Congress was ruled unconstitutional. Its plaintiff
moved with John Emerson to Rock Island, (+) Illinois before filing suit in Missouri. The Missouri
Compromise was invalidated in this case's opinion, authored by Roger (*) Taney (TAH-nee). For 10
points, name this 1857 case in which a slave was ruled to not have legal standing to sue for his freedom.
ANSWER: Dred Scott v. Sandford
132-13-88-16103

4. After a member of this family was assassinated, his body was rolled in a carpet and secretly buried
in San Lorenzo. A Pope from this family issued the bull Exsurge Domine. A queen from this family
ordered the deaths of Protestants in the (+) St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre. Two brothers from this
family were attacked, and one was killed, while attending mass, in the Pazzi (POT-see) Conspiracy.
This family included Queen of France (*) Catherine, founder Cosimom and the art patron Lorenzo the
Magnificent. For 10 points, name this Italian family that ruled Florence.
ANSWER: House of Medici [or the de Medici family; or de Medicis]
186-13-88-16104

2013 NHB Set A

Extras Round 2

Page 1 of 2

5. This man allied with the Hungarian Legion to defeat Giosue Ritucci at the Battle of Volturnus.
After the fall of Napoleon III, this founder of the International Legion assumed command of the
Army of the Vosges (VOO-juh). This leader of the Hunters of the Alps met a future king he helped
install at (+) Teano. In his most famous campaign, this man led a group of volunteers known as the
(*) redshirts in conquering the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. For 10 points, name this Italian who led the
"Expedition of the Thousand" during the Risorgimento.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
186-13-88-16105

6. One side in this war experienced the "57 Days of Hell" soon after losing control of the De Lattre
line. One side in this conflict, which was soon followed by the Geneva Conference, backed the puppet
emperor (+) Bao Dai, and was opposed by stalwart tactics of General Giap. This war lasted from
1946 until 1954, when the decisive Battle of (*) Dien Bien Phu heralded the end of French colonial
control. For 10 points, name this war which resulted in the creation of two countries in Southeast Asia.
ANSWER: First Indochina War [or French Indochina War; or War of Vietnamese Resistance; or
Anti-French Resistance War; accept descriptive answers such as the war for Vietnamese independence
against the French; do not accept or prompt on "Vietnam War"]
020-13-88-16106

2013 NHB Set A

Extras Round 2

Page 2 of 2

