2013 NHB Set A
Extra Question Sheet 1

This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a
first or second quarter question.
1. This leader used the Ettrick Forest as a base to attack the castle of Robert Wishart. This man, who
carried out the raid of Scone (SCOON) with the Earl of Douglas, is the subject of an epic poem by (+)
Blind Harry and was captured in Robroyston. With Andrew Moray, he won the Battle of Falkirk,
and he resigned his position as Guardian of (*) Scotland after losing at Stirling Bridge. He was hanged,
drawn and quartered in 1305 on the orders of Edward I. For 10 points, name this hero of Scottish
independence, nicknamed "Braveheart."
ANSWER: Sir William Wallace [prompt on Braveheart until it is read]
186-13-88-15101

2. The Widgery Tribunal was an investigation into an event with this name. An event with this name
started when some of the Twelve Apostles assassinated members of a group of intelligence agents
known as the Cairo Gang. Father (+) Gapon's attempt to present a petition at the Winter Palace in
1905 led to another event with this name. In the 1920 event of this name, the Royal Irish
Constabulary killed fourteen people at a (*) Gaelic football match at Croke Park. For 10 points, give the
common name for various massacre-filled days, including a 1972 event in Northern Ireland.
ANSWER: "Bloody Sunday"
186-13-88-15102

3. This man was nicknamed "The Big One" by traders from Hudson's Bay Company. This enemy of
the Patkanim lost his family's ancestral home, the Old Man House, to a U.S. government burning in
1870. He formed a lasting friendship with Doc (+) Maynard, though it was his interaction with Henry
A. Smith that resulted in a misattributed speech that claiming that "man did not (*) weave the web of
life, he is merely a strand in it." For 10 points, name this Native American chieftain who didn't actually
write that environmentalist speech, but did lend his name to a large city in the Pacific Northwest.
ANSWER: Chief Seattle [or Si'ahl]
020-13-88-15103

4. Over a hundred people under this status escaped from "Rat Hell" during the Libby breakout in
Richmond. William John Hamilton documented some of the struggles faced by these people, and
Wesley Turner's bloodhounds chased some of them. Some of these people lived at Castle Thunder.
Henry (+) Wirz was executed for his treatment of these people, many of whom were released under a
"parole" program which was ended by Edwin (*) Stanton. For 10 points, name these people, many of
whom died at Andersonville, who were Union soldiers captured by the Confederacy during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Union prisoners of war [or Union POWs]
187-13-88-15104

2013 NHB Set A

Extras Round 1

Page 1 of 2

5. Modern restructuring of this organization occurred under Faye Wattleton, its first
African-American president. The companion case to Gonzales v. Carhart involved this organization,
whose early leaders controversially backed (+) eugenics. Justices O'Connor, Kennedy, and Souter
authored a plurality opinion in a 1992 case pitting a chapter of this organization against
Pennsylvania governor Robert Casey. This organization evolved from Margaret (*) Sanger's
American Birth Control League. For 10 points, name this prominent organization promoting reproductive
health.
ANSWER: Planned Parenthood Federation of America [or PPFA]
020-13-88-15105

6. According to Plutarch, this man pretended that he had gone mad before putting on a cap and
reading a poem that encouraged continuing a war against Megara for control of Salamis. Herodotus
told an apocryphal story about this man naming a handful of people happier than the rich king (+)
Croesus (croh-EE-suss). He started a Council of Four Hundred after dividing citizens into four
classes. This man also reformed his city's (*) severe punishments for all crimes except homicide. For 10
points, name this Greek reformer who revised the law code of Draco and laid the foundation for democracy
in Athens.
ANSWER: Solon
023-13-88-15106

2013 NHB Set A

Extras Round 1

Page 2 of 2

