(

Here's a smattering of extra tossups and bonuses. Mostly literature, though. Many
are pretty long and college-level in difficulty. Bonuses are basic four-part HS-type.
His tongue was bitten off by a Turk in a grog house fight. An American patriot on par
with William Dawes or Samuel Otis, he was given a silver prosthesis so he could speak
again. Who was this man who did not tame the buffalo, but merely shot it, born Hans
Sprungfeld, who was actually a vicious pirate and not really the hero the citizens of
Springfield make him out to be?
Jebediah Obadiah Zachariah Jedediab Springfield (accept Hans Sprungfeld on
early buzz)
His historical trilogy set in late 17th century Poland describing its struggles with Cossacks,
Tartars, Swedes, and Turks included the novels With Fire and Sword, The Deluge, and
Pan Michael, and are considered by many his finest work. Who is this author more·
famous for his historical novel set in the time of Nero, Quo Vadis?
Henryk Sienkiewicz

(

He had great enthusiasm for the ideals of the French Revolution and in 1796 wrote the
poem, "Joan of Arc." Two years earlier he teamed with Coleridge to wri~. a verse drama
entitled The Fall of Robespierre. Who was this Poet Laureate from 1813-43 known for
his associations with Wordsworth and Coleridge, usually remembered as the "other" Lake
Poet?
Robert Southey
The main chara~te'r is disturbed by his attraction to the boy, Tadzio. Despite warnings of
cholera, the aging author stays on his vacation. What is this work describing Gustav von
~schenbach's demise at the hands of cholera, written by Thomas Mann?
Death in Venice (Der Tod in Venedig)
This play was modelled after its successful predecessor but was a critical failure, forcing
its author to abandon the public stage in 1600 for private theatre. What is this second of
Ben Jonson's comedied discussing personalities and mannerisms and how they relate to
the four fluids of Medieval physiology?
Every Man out of His Humour
A wealthy shipping merchant's wife dies as she is giving birth to their only son, Paul, who
later dies at a cruel boarding school. Paul's sister, Florence, is in love with Walter Gay,
but her father sends Gay to the West Indies. On the way there, he is shipwrecked and
presumed dead. Florence and Walter, who survived thanks to a passing Chinese clipper,
get married and go to the East. When the two reunite with her father, they bring back a
son of their own named Paul; everyone lives happily ever after. What is this major early
Dickens novel?
Dealings with the Firm of Dombey and Son, Wholesale, Retail, and for Exportation

c

Lovewit leaves his house in London due to an outbreak of the plague, leaving it to his
scheming servant, Face, and Dol Common and Subtle, the title character, move in. They
go on to cheat and swindle a variety of people, including Sir Epicure Mammon, and two
Puritans, Ananias and Tribulation. The three are promised the philosopher's stone by
Face, Subtle and Dol. What is this 1610 Ben Jonson comedy?
The Alchemist
This German composer's second offive operas, II Templario, is based on Ivanhoe. His
most famous opera also comes from British literature. Who is this composer, like Verdi
with Falstaff, based his Die lustigen Weiber von Windsor on Shakespeare's The }vferry
Wives of Windsor?
Otto Nicolai
The alternative title given to it, Hieronomo is Mad Again, provided T. S. Eliot with the
penultimate;me of The Wasteland. Hieronomo is the Marshal of Spain and Horatio is his
son. Lorenzo and Balthasar discover that Horatio loves Bel-imperia, Lorenzo's sister.
They hang Horatio on a tree, and Hieronomo finds the body and nearly goes mad with
grief. He discovers the identities of the murderers and carries out revenge by staging a
play, Solyman and Perseda, in which the murderers are killed and Bel-imperia commits
suicide. What is this play, from which Shakespeare got many of Hamlet's elements,
written by Thomas Kyd?
The Spanish Tragedie

(

Born John Wilson, this author's pen name comes from his two middle names. Novels of
his include Time for a Tiger, written while he was in Malaya and Borneo, The Kingdom of
the Wicked, about early Christianity, and also A Dead Man In Deptford, which is about the
life and death of Christopher Marlowe. Who is this author who died in 1994 best known
for his 1962 novel turned into a film by Stanley Kubrick, entitled A Clockwork Orange?
Anthony Burgess
In Operation Shylock: A Confession, the author meets his double, whose plan is to lead
the Jews out ofIsrael and back into Europe. This American is also known for his
sequence of novels concerning, Nathan Zuckerman, a fictional Jewish novelist. Who is
this man, also a Jewish novelist, best known for Goodbye, Columbus and Portnoy's
Complaint?
Philip Roth
One of the four Doctors of the Church, he was very opposed to the Arian heresy. Two
centuries before Gregory the Great, he introduced a type of chant and composed several
hymns. He excluded the emperor Theodosius from entering the cathedral at Milan until he
repented and did penance for the 390 massacre at Thessalonica. Who was this celebrated
bishop of Milan, known to Homer Simpson as the baptizer of St. Augustine of Hippo?
St. Ambrose of Milan

o

He was born Ricard Elieser Neftali Reyes, but in 1946 changed his name in honor of a
19th century Czech poet. He travelled widely in diplomatic service and became a member
of the Communist Party in 1939. Who was this supporter of Salvador Allende, Chilean
ambassador to France, and the 1971 Nobel Prize for Literature winner?
Pablo Neruda (Czech poet is Jan Neruda)
After being appointed court doctor to Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his son, Philip
II of Spain, he was sentenced to death for dissecting human bodies. The sentence was
lifted, provided he make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, but he died on his way back from the
Holy Land. Who was this professor at the University of Padua who abandoned the longused teachings of Galen and in 1543 published On the Structure of the Human Body?
Andreas Vesalius
This early form of novel was popularized in 16th century Spain. The genre's name comes
from the Spanish word for "rogue" or "rascal," and the stories are about the adventures of
low-born heroes who live by their wits and cunning rather than honorable behavior. What
is this novel type exemplified in English by such works as Huckleberry Finn and the works
of Tobias Smollett?
Picaresque
The psongwriting and poetry of Jim Morrison was heavily influenced by him. This poet
faught in the Franco-Prussian War, and his outlook on life changed considerably. He
turned to darker poetry from his earlier, happier verses. Who was this French Symbolist
who authored A Season in Hell and "The Drunken Boat?"
Arthur Rimbaud
He was first made a literary character in Tirso de Molina's 1630 play, The Seducer of
Seville, but was a popular folk figure much earlierr. He kills the father of a noble girl he
seduced and then while in the cemetery asks the effigy of the dead man to dine with him.
The father's ghost joins him and is a harbinger for his death. Who is this character placed
in Hell in a dream sequence in the third act of Shaw's Man and Superman and also the
subject of a major work by Lord Byron? .
Don Juan

It began in September 1972 when Iceland extended its fishing boundaries from 12 miles of
its coast to ,50 miles. Icelandic gunboats went so far as to attempt to intercept British
fishing trawlers. In 1976 a compromise was settled which allowed up to 24 British
trawlers within a 200-mile zone off Iceland. What was this diplomatic dispute whose
popular name is very similar to the tensions occurring between East and West at the same
time?
The Cod War

()

This work was once attributed to the French theologian Jean Charlier de Garson, but now
is usuall attributed to German Augustinian monk. Its four books trace the gradual .

(

progress of the soul to perfection. What is this 14th century work wTltten by Thomas a
Kempis?
De Imitatione Christi (The Imitation of Christ)
The fictional writer of the book is seen by many to be Henry Foe, the uncle of the actual
writer. It's the narrative of a London resident during 1664-65 and tells of a massive
outbreak of the Black Death. What is this Daniel Defoe work?
A Journal of the Plague Year
This 1940 work was on the recent Top 100 Greatest 20th Century Novels Written in
English List, but was actually written in German. The novel drew much attention to the
cruel Stalin regime and is the story of the arrest, imprisonment, trial, and execution ofN.S.
Rubashov in a dictatorship over which "No.1" presides. What is this nove~ the most
famous work by Arthur Koestler?
Darkness at Noon
This town on the north shore of Lake Victoria served as the capital of Uganda from 1894
unti11962. What is this site of a 1976 rescue oflsraeli hostages whose plane had been
hijacked?
Entebbe
He died in a car accident in 1992 before he could make an impact on post-communist
Czehoslovakia. In 1968 his liberalization policies called "Socialism with a Face" during
the Prague Spring led to the occupation of Czechoslovakia by Warsaw Pact forces. Who
was this politician who shares his last name with the Solomons' landlady on 3rd Rock
From the Sun?
Alexander Du beek
Its rather popular political nationalist movement is the Plaid Cymru, but in 1979 only
about 12 percent of its popUlation voted for succession. What is this principality officially
united with England since 1535 wbos major cities include Swansea, Newport, and Cardiff?
Wales
Bonus-Literature
Identify the following English authors given a pair of works

1. The Cricket on the Hearth and Dombey and Son
-- Charles Dickens
2. Barry Lyndon and Henry Esmond
-- William Makepeace
Thackeray
3. The Spy Who Came In From the Cold and The Russia House --John Le Carre
4. A Journal of the Plague Year and Moll Flanders
--Daniel Defoe

c)

Bonus- History

IdentifY the US President at the time of these major events
I'

\

1.
2.
3.
4.

The completion of the Transcontinental Railroad
The first modem Olympics are held in Athens
The US fights a naval war with Barbary pirates
Napoleon is defeated at Waterloo

-- Clysses S. Grant
-- Grover Cleveland
-- Thomas Jefferson
--James Madison

BOD us- Music
Identify the bands who created the following albums
1. Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs -- Derek and the Dominoes (prompt on Eric
Clapton)
2. In Through the Out Door
-- Led Zeppelin
3. Cosmo's Factory
-- Creedence Clearwater Revival
4. Let It Bleed
-- The Rolling Stones

BODus-Geography
Identify the largest city in terms of population in the following nations. None are national
capitals.

(

o

1.
2.
3.
4.

Morocco
Belize
Pakistan
South Africa

-- Casablanca
-- Belize City
--Karachi
--Johannesburg

