New Trier Scobol Solo 2013
Championship Tiebreakers

PORTA
NIGRA

1. This man wrote a poem in which the narrator meets “the enemy you killed. . . you jabbed and killed”.
This poet claims that “Not in the hands of boys but in their eyes / shall shine the holy glimmers of
 goodbyes.” One of his poems describes a man who failed to put on his gas mask in time and thus
plunges at the narrator “guttering, choking, drowning”. That poem take its title from a Horace phrase
described as “the old Lie”. A sonnet by this poet of “Strange Meeting” opens “What passing-bells for
these who die as cattle?” Name this poet of “Dulce Et Decorum Est” [DULL-kay et day-KOR-um
est] and “Anthem for Doomed Youth”.
Answer: Wilfred (Edward Salter) Owen

2. One painting by this artist shows Diana with her left arm resting on the back of a woman with a
pink dress while her right arm motions for the expulsion of Callisto. Another work by this painter
 shows two flailing cupids in the upper left corner and one riding a fish below while Europa holds
 a pink scarf on a white bull on the right side. This artist finished the landscape in a work by
Giorgione [jor-JOH-nay] after Giorgione died in 1510, and this painter later set a similar work inside,
adding a dog on the bed and a kneeling and standing woman in the background. Name this Venetian
who painted Venus of Urbino.
Answer: Titian [TEE-shun] [or Tiziano or Vecellio]

3. This leader was prompted by the deaths of his earls Edwin and Morcar at the Battle of Fulford
to march north, where, according to folklore, a giant axeman held up his entire army. Afterwards,
 this leader fended off an invasion led in part by his brother Tostig. At a later battle, this leader’s
 housecarls led a charge down Senlac Hill, where this leader apocryphally died by an arrow to his eye.
Name this English king who defeated the forces of Harald Hardrada at the Battle of Stamford Bridge,
only to be killed weeks later at the Battle of Hastings by the forces of William the Conqueror.
Answer: Harold II [or Harold Godwinson; prompt on Harold]

4. The old definition of this unit was based on blackbody radiation at the freezing point of platinum.
This unit is based on a source of monochromatic radiation of frequency 5.4 times ten to the twelfth
 hertz and that has a radiant intensity in that direction of 1/683 watt per steradian. Luminance can
 be measured in this SI unit per square meter. Multiplying this unit by steradians gives the SI unit of
luminous flux, the lumen, and multiplying this unit times steradians and dividing by square meters
gives the SI unit of illuminance, the lux. Name this base SI unit.
Answer: candela [or standard candle]

1

5. This composer adapted Henry Pacory’s Je te veux [zhay tay voo] to music while working as a cabaret
pianist in Arcueil. His three movement suite Desiccated Embryos ends with a rendition of Beethoven’s
 Eighth symphony. He coined the term “furniture music” to describe some of his works. This composer
 composed a work that has instructions for its theme to be played 840 times and he also composed
several Gnosiennes [nohss-yehn]. This composer of Vexations and the ballet Parade, composed a work
based on a Greek athletic festival, which was orchestrated by Claude Debussy. Name this French
composer of The Pear Shaped Pieces and Gymnopédies [zheem-noh-pay-dee].
Answer: Éric (Alfred Leslie) Satie [sah-tee]

6. This deity incited an endless war in which dead soldiers were turned into stone and revived the next
day in order to retrieve one of her possessions. This deity transformed one of her followers into a boar
 in order to uncover his lineage, and she cries tears of red gold whenever her husband is away. This
 owner of a cloak of falcon feathers slept with four dwarves over four nights to obtain the necklace
Brisingamen, and was impersonated by Thor at a wedding feast. Name this Norse goddess of love
and beauty, the twin sister of Frey.
Answer: Freyja [FRAY-yuh] [do not accept “Freyr” or “Frey”]

7. This mathematician improved Pierre de Fermat’s solution to the problem of points, which determines
how to decide a bet when a game cannot be completed. The rule named for this mathematician adds
 two combinations together to equal a third combination: the two original combinations have the same
 first number, which is one fewer than the first number in the third combination. The arrangement
named for this mathematician has diagonal sums that are Fibonacci numbers and has rows that
sum to powers of two. Name this French mathematician who arranged binomial coefficients into his
namesake triangle.
Answer: Blaise Pascal
8. In contrasting necessary quantities to luxuries, this book points out that customs made leather shoes
necessary in England but not in France. This work also states that “the skill, dexterity, and judgment
 with which. . . labour is generally applied” is more important than the rate of employment. This book
 also stated that it would cost thirty times as much money to produce wine in Scotland as in France,
so Scotland should allow imported wines. This also uses the example of a pin factory to demonstrate
the importance of the division of labor. Name this book completed in 1776 by Adam Smith.
Answer: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

2

Championship Tiebreakers

9. When this person was the UK prime minister, he helped establish King’s College London and
successfully pushed for passage of the Catholic Relief Act. Those successes were achieved about a
 year before the death of George IV. Much earlier, this person served as governor of Seringapatam and
 defeated the Maratha Confederacy at the Battle of Assaye. He was the only man to have held the
positions of Prime Minister and Commander-in-Chief of his countries army at the same time. Allying
with Gebhard von Blücher, name this politician and general, who was victorious over Napoleon
Bonaparte at the Battle of Waterloo.
Answer: Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington [accept either underlined name]

10. Separation of these materials requires the removal of gangue [“gang”], which was traditionally done
with a Frue vanner. Sea squirts may play a role in the formation of vanadium ones, while the bacteria
 C. metallidurans can be used to process the valuable quartz lode ones. The Curies discovered the
 elements radium and polonium in one of these that contains uranium, pitchblende. The Bayer process
dissolves the target metal in the major aluminum one, bauxite. Galena for lead and hematite for iron
are examples of what naturally occurring minerals that are mined to extract the precious metals they
contain?
Answer: ores [prompt on minerals]

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

3

Championship Tiebreakers

