New Trier Scobol Solo 2013
Championship, Phase III

PORTA
NIGRA

41. One character in this work has trouble handling a question asking for the first thing he remembers,
eventually responding that he has forgotten the question. Another character, who says that actors
 are the opposite of people, is known as The Player. An attempt to explain a series of unusual events
 in this play without invoking the redistribution of wealth invokes will, the stoppage of time, divine
intervention, and the vindication of a logical principle. This play involves a performance of The
Murder of Gonzago, and it begins with a character repeatedly saying the word “heads”. Name this
play focusing on two minor characters from Hamlet written by Tom Stoppard.
Answer: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
42. This figure caused a single night to last over four billion years in order to dance with his love, and
later married more than 16,000 disgraced virgins after using a discus to kill their captor. He squeezed
 the life out of his wet nurse’s breasts, chased away the serpent Kaliya, and killed his uncle Kamsa
 prior to the Kurukshetra War. After lending his entire army to Duryodhana, he chose to drive the
chariot of Arjuna, to whom he gave a series of orations recorded in the Bhagavad Gita. Name this
blue-skinned figure who followed Rama as the eighth avatar of Vishnu.
Answer: Krishna [prompt on Vishnu before the end]

43. This person was loved by Marshal Danville, who unwittingly took the poet Chatelard to see her,
but Chatelard was found hiding in her bedroom. When this person was seven months pregnant, her
 husband became convinced that her secretary had impregnated her, so his friends murdered that
 secretary, David Rizzio. This queen was believed to have written sonnets and eight letters to the
Earl of Bothwell, which supposedly implicated this person in the death of Lord Darnley, her husband.
This daughter-in-law of Catherine de Medici was executed for her role in the Babington Plot. Her
son becoming James the Sixth, and he later became James the First of England. Name this queen
executed for attempting to overthrow her cousin Elizabeth the First.
Answer: Mary, Queen of Scots [accept Mary Stuart or Mary I of Scotland, prompt on “Mary”
or “Mary I”, do not accept “Bloody Mary”]

1

44. Imetelstat, a potential new cancer therapy agent, works by targeting the enzyme that repairs these
structures. Blackburn, Greider, and Szostak received the 2009 Nobel Prize for determining the role of
 these structures, which typically adopt a G-quadruplex shape. The shortening of these structures
 explains the Hayflick limit to cell division and is the basis for the cellular theory of aging, and that
shortening of these structures can lead to cell senescence or apoptosis. Consisting of thousands of
TTAGGG repeats in humans, name these end sequences of chromosomes that prevent genes from
being lost during DNA replication.
Answer: telomeres [prompt on chromosomes before “role”]

45. A person’s hand appears in the shape of a heart over a square-patterned table in this artist’s The
Tea Cup. One work by this painter shows an upside-down human figure in a hieroglyphic style in its
 rectangular center, which is located above a lying dog and between two human figures. The dog in
 that work, Guardians of the Secret, is associated with another work that was also painted by this
artist in 1943 showing the creature that fed Romulus and Remus, The She-Wolf. One of this painter’s
later works became known as Blue Poles, though it was originally titled Number 11. His work Number
1, 1950 is commonly referred to as Lavender Mist. Name this alcoholic abstract expressionist known
for his “action painting” technique, which involved splattering or dripping paint.
Answer: (Paul) Jackson Pollock [accept The Tea Cup before “this artist’s”]

46. This term is applied to the points where an orbital path crosses a plane such as the ecliptic. This term
also describes the lines on Chladni plates. The angular momentum quantum number determines how
 many planar, or angular, types of these things that an electron orbital has, and some electron orbitals
 also have radial types of these. In a ripple tank, these are the points where destructive interference
is maximized. These do not exist at the end of an open-ended air column, but one of these is at a
closed end. Name this location on a standing wave where there is minimal motion.
Answer: nodes
47. One side in this war isolated and encircled enemy forces into pockets called motti [MOH-tee]
at the Battle of Raate [RAH-tay] Road, and then stopped the enemy’s advance towards the
 city of Oulo [OH-ooh-loh] at the Battle of Suomussalmi [SWOH-moos-AHL-mee]. After Semyon
 Timoshenko took command of the invading side in this war, it breached the Mannerheim Line. Simo
Hayha [SEE-moh HAA-ooh-HAA] recorded 505 sniper kills and was nicknamed the “White Death” in
this war that introduced the term “Molotov cocktail”. This three-month-long conflict resulted in the
Soviet Union being expelled from the League of Nations and gaining territory near Leningrad. Name
this offensive against Finland during World War II that took place during its namesake season.
Answer: Winter War [or talvisota; or vinterkriget; or Zimnyaya voyna; prompt on Russo-Finnish
War; prompt on World War II before it is mentioned]

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

2

Championship, Phase III

48. This person briefly departed from his usual subject matter after a discussion with Charles Darwin,
showing a person with ape features in his Paleolithic Man, and he also produced two busts, The
 Sergeant and The Savage. He portrayed hand-to-hand combat in The Old Dragoons of 1850, and he
 made one work showing a knocked-down horse during a polo match. This person showed a lone rider
in Trooper of the Plains 1868. One of his works showing a horse on its hind legs about to get whipped
by its rider is often on display in the Oval Office. Name this American sculptor of The Bronco Buster.
Answer: Frederic (Sackrider) Remington

49. This organization, which in 1971 controlled the ship Phyllis Cormack, is trying to stop the production
of golden rice. One of its supporters, Peter Willcox, is part of a group being charged with piracy and
 hooliganism. That group, which calls itself the Arctic 30, tried to get from their ship Arctic Sunrise
 to an oil rig, and they have been held in Murmansk since September by Russia. This group started
out as the Don’t Make a Wave Committee. Willcox, an American, once captained this organization’s
Rainbow Warrior. Name this opponent of nuclear power that takes part in environmental activism.
Answer: Greenpeace [accept Don’t Make a Wave Committee before it is mentioned]

50. In this novel, Miss Henderson, a factory overseer, secretly runs a prostitution ring. One character
in this book falls for the violinist Timoszius but is unable to marry him after she is fired from her
 job. The protagonist of this novel meets Jack Duane in jail and becomes part of Mike Scully’s gang.
 Teta-Elzbieta’s stepdaughter Ona dies during childbirth in this novel. In this book, Jurgis Rudkus
moves to Packingtown from Lithuania and works at various factories with terrible conditions. Name
this muckraking novel that exposed Chicago’s meatpacking industry, a work of Upton Sinclair.
Answer: The Jungle

51. This explorer made a treaty with Trimumpara Raja, loading his ships with spices from the Kingdom
of Cochin after this explorer had executed several Muslims. He retired soon after those adventures
 when Manuel I of Portugal put Vasco da Gama in charge of the next expedition. This person’s best
 known discovery may have been made because he avoided the Gulf of Guinea, causing him to find
what he originally called the Island of the True Cross when he landed at Porto Seguro near Monte
Pascoal, or Easter Mount. The land he found was later claimed for Portugal under the Treaty of
Tordesillas [tor-day-SEE-yahs]. Name this explorer who in 1500 landed in what is now Brazil.
Answer: Pedro Álvares Cabral
52. Thomas Jefferson wrote a letter to William Short saying that they belonged to this school of philosophy,
which received some support in the Renaissance starting with Lorenzo Valla. In Oenoanda, which
 is in modern-day Turkey, its tenets were carved onto a large stone wall. One of its followers, who
 used the term clinamen to describe the unexplainable swerving of atoms, was Lucretius. Believers of
this philosophy tried to attain ataraxia by denying the existence of an afterlife. Identify this ancient
Greek school that met in The Garden and which is often contrasted with Stoicism.
Answer: epicureanism

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

3

Championship, Phase III

53. The departure function of this quantity is divided by the quantity ideal gas constant times temperature,
and then placed in a power that is multiplied by pressure to find fugacity. The partial molar
 measurement of this quantity is equivalent to chemical potential. This quantity is applied to systems
 that are both isothermal and isobaric, and a basic formula for this quantity includes a pressure times
volume term if that formula uses internal energy rather than enthalpy. Identify this quantity used
to determine whether reactions will occur simultaneously, often contrasted with a similar quantity
named for Helmholtz.
Answer: Gibbs free energy [or Gibbs function or free enthalpy; prompt on free energy; do
not accept “energy” or “enthalpy”]

54. One character in this novel, who gets upset when the protagonist complains that he is shouting and
smoking a cigarette, is known as “Gunpowder” because of his bouts of tempers. Another character in
 this novel meets the protagonist at a tavern and tells him that being poor is not a sin, but begging is.
 That man, whose consumptive wife had three children by a previous marriage, is killed by a carriage.
This novel’s protagonist’s sister breaks off her engagement when the family is insulted by Luzhin.
The protagonist of this novel falls in love with Marmeladov’s daughter and kills Alyona. Name this
work about Raskolnikov, written by Fyodor Dostoevsky.
Answer: Crime and Punishment [or Prestuplenie I Nakazanie]

55. Section 301 in this law was invoked when Benjamin Owens was not given arbitration in an attempt
to save his job in what became the Supreme Court case Vaca v. Sipes. The president objected to its
 controls on some newspapers and its use of anti-Communist oaths. This law furthered the Sherman
 Antitrust Act’s ban on secondary boycotts, and that ban was strengthened twelve years after this law
was passed by its successor, the Landrum-Griffin Act. Passed over the veto of Harry Truman and
named for a New Jersey congressman and Ohio senator, this bill revised the Wagner Act. Name this
act that outlawed closed shops, passed in 1947 in reaction to a series of strikes.
Answer: Taft-Hartley act [or Hartley-Taft act; or Labor Management Relations Act of 1947
or LMRA]

56. This is the most general quadrilateral for which exactly one pair of opposite vertices are equidistant
from any fixed point on the diagonal that does not go through them. Like rhombuses and squares,
 these quadrilaterals have inscribed circles and perpendicular diagonals. When these quadrilaterals are
 not convex, they can be called darts or arrowheads. One of this shape’s diagonals is the perpendicular
bisector of the other, which is useful when proving that these shapes have one pair of congruent
angles. Name these shapes, also called deltoids, that have two pairs of congruent adjacent sides.
Answer: kites [prompt on deltoids]

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

4

Championship, Phase III

57. A poem by this man claims that the title object is “a resounding haven where in great waves / My
soul can drink the scent.” This poet claims that the only thing “more ugly, more wicked, more filthy”
 than “crawling monsters” is ennui [ahn-wee] in a poem that calls the reader a hypocrite. This poet of
 “The Head of Hair” described a figure that will “nonchalantly chaperone a ship / across the bitter
fathoms of the sea”. A collection by this poet of “To the Reader” contains one poem that begins
“Old Pluvius, month of rains” and another that begins “When the low heavy sky weighs like a lid”,
both of which are titled “Spleen”. Name this poet whose work “The Albatross” is found, like all of
his poems, in Les Fleurs du Mal [lay floor du mahl], or The Flowers of Evil.
Answer: Charles (Pierre) Baudelaire

58. Two of these characters test whether one object in Haskell has the type of another. In XML, it
separates a namespace from an element name, while it acts as a separator between keys and their
 values in JSON [“Jason”]. In C-like languages, this character follows block labels as well as each case
 of a switch statement; it also separates the second and third arguments to the ternary operator used
for compact if-then-else statements. In CSS, it separates property names from their values, such as
font-size, then this character, then 12pt [“twelve P T”]. Name this character that, in URLs, often
goes between the protocol and two slashes.
Answer: colon [do not accept or prompt on “semicolon”]

59. This composer borrowed from the “Streets of Laredo” when he wrote the solo piano piece Excursions.
He composed a cycle of ten songs for orchestra based on various poems by anonymous Irishmen in
 his Hermit Songs, and the house he shared with Gian [“John”] Carlo Menotti inspired his Capricorn
 Concerto. This composer wrote the overture to Richard Sheridan’s School for Scandal, and he wrote
music based on a story by James Agee, Knoxville: Summer of 1915. One of his pieces was played
after the deaths of people such as Franklin Roosevelt and John Kennedy. Name this 20th century
composer of the Adagio for Strings.
Answer: Samuel Barber
60. The folklore of this country is celebrated in sculptures on Dainas Hill just outside of its Turaida
Museum near the Gauja [GOH-yah] River. The Gauja starts in this country’s Vidzeme [VID-zeh-meh]
 region, which is near the final stretch of the Daugava River. The Daugava passes by this country’s
 second most populous city, Daugavpils [DAO-gahv-“pills”], which is near this country’s border with
Belarus. Its capital share its name with the gulf it lies on, which is connected via the Irbe [EER-buh]
Strait to the Baltic Sea. Name this country, located between Estonia and Lithuania, whose capital is
Riga.
Answer: (Republic of) Latvia

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

5

Championship, Phase III

