Cavalier Classic 1996
Finals
Tossups:
1) Anemic at birth, he only weighed six pounds and had to be kept alive with blood transfusions. Despite this slow start, he
weighed over 300 pounds at one point in his college career, and, at six foot six, would become the shortest player to lead the
NBA in rebounding. FTP, name this man, who accrued a record 36,000 dollars in fines during the 1989-90 season, an
Auburn graduate who has moved from the 76ers to the Suns to the Rockets.
Answer: Charles _Barkley_
2) After touring Europe, he published Reflections on the Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire in 1734. In 1748 he published
his most famous work, an analysis of political structures with respect to economic, social, and religious conditions. FfP,
name this French political philosopher, who defended his argument in Defense of the Spirit of Laws.
Answer: Baron de la Brede et de _Montesquieu_
3) It was originally published as a serial in The Egoist from February 1914 to September 1915. The hero is punished by
Father Dolan, terrified by Father Arnell's sermon on hellfire, and finally leaves Ireland. FfP, identify this autobiographical
novel, originally published as Stephen Hero and written by James Joyce.
Answer: _Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man_
4) Although he wanted to flee Constantinople during the Nika insurrection, his wife convinced him to stay, and his army
crushed the rebellion, killing over 30,000 people. Under his rule, Narses and Belisarius reconquered Italy, a fIfty year peace
was reached with the Persians, and the bubonic plague ravaged the empire. FTP, identify this Byzantine emperor, the husband
of Theodora who is best known for his legal codes.
Answer : _J ustinian_
5) She was the mother of Peparethus, Thoas, Staphylus, and Oenopion by her husband, Dionysus. Her wedding took place
on the island of Naxos, where she had been abandoned. FTP, name this daughter of Pasiphae and Minos, who gave a skein of
thread to Theseus to allow him to escape the Labyrinth.

6) After working for IBM, he founded Electronic Data Systems in 1962. In 1979, he funded a successful effort to rescue two
of his employees from an Iranian prison. After he sold EDS to General Motors in 1984, he diversified his other businesses,
and in 1992, made an unsuccessful run for president. FfP, name this founder of United We Stand, again a presidential
candidate in 1996.
Answer: H. Ross _Perot_
7) A 1995 compromise between rock climbers and the religious rituals of several Plains Indian tribes led to a voluntary
moratorium on climbers at this site around the summer solstice. The National Park Service then attempted to ban all
commerical guides during the month of June, prompting a lawsuit from a local guide. FTP, what Wyoming national
monument, prominent in the movie "Close Encounters of the Third Kind", is at the center of this controversy?
Answer: _Devil's Towec
8) This neurotransmitter is produced in part at the ends of sympathetic nerve fibers, where it conveys nerve impulses to
effector organs. It dilates the blood vessels in the skeletal muscles and the liver, but constricts many networks of minute
blood vessels. It also stimulates the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver, which provides needed instant energy in
"fight-or-flight" situations. FTP, name this hormone secreted by the medulla of the adrenal glands.
Answer : _epinepbrine_ or _adrenaline_ (accept _norepinepbrine_ or _noradrenaline_ only before the second sentence)

9) Among her lesser known works are South Moon Under, Golden Apples, and The Sojourner. A syndicated journalist, in
1928 she moved to Cross Creek, Florida. which became the setting for much of her fiction. FfP, name this novelist, best
known for the story of Jody and the fawn he adopts, The Yearling.
Answer: MaIjorie K. _Rawlings_
10) Alsace-Lorraine was restored to France, economic barriers were removed, Poland became independent, the Dardanelles
were permanently opened, and Serbia would extend to the sea. These are some of the provisions of, FfP, what address of
January 8, 1918, which also called for "open covenants openly arrived at" and the formation of the League of Nations?
Answer: the _Fourteen Points_
11) He was a pre-med student at St. Regis College before moving into an acting career. The voice of Johnny Storm, the
Human Torch, on the radio show The Fantastic Four, he was heard there by the producers of Saturday Night Live, who hired
him. FfP, identify this actor, who sang "The Best Thing" for John Waters's Polyester and whose acting credits include
Kingpin, Ghostbusters, and Groundhog Day.
Answer: Bill_Murray_
12) Given that one liter of water has a volume of 1000 cubic centimeters, and that one milliliter of water has a mass of one
gram, what is the mass, FfP, of a cubic meter of water?
Answer: _One million grams_, or _1000 kilograms_
13) He destroyed his Man at the Crossroads when John D. Rockefeller, Jr. objected to the inclusion of a portrait of Lenin in
the mural. He later recreated the piece in Mexico City where he also completed epics depicting the course of Mexican history
for the National Palace. FTP, name this artist, a friend of Leon Trotsky and the husband of Frida Kahlo.
Answer: Diego _Rivera_
14) Preferring a warm, humid, dark environment and usually inhabiting the tropics, only a few species of this insect have
become household pests, with a diet including food, paper, clothing, and books. Its backward-pointing mouthparts, flattened
oval body, long threadlike antennae, and shiny black leathery integument have been largely untouched by evolution for more
than 320 million years. FTP, name this hardy insect, which often meets its doom in a special "motel".

15) At the end of part one, the main character is tried by Lord Hategood for killing Apollyon, and Giant Despair imprisons
him in Doubting Castle. In part two, published six years later, the hero's wife, children, and neighbor Mercy follow him
over the river. FTP, identify this religious allegory, in which the Valley of the Shadow of Death, Vanity Fair, and the
Celestial City are visited by Christian, a book written by John Bunyan.
Answer: _Pilgrim's Progress_
16) During World War I, he was the State Department's special assistant in Central America. He was appointed to a Senate
seat from New York in 1949, advising the State Department and working on the Japanese Peace Treaty. FfP, name this
diplomat, who worked to liberate Communist countries as secretary of state under Eisenhower, the namesake of a Washington
area airport.
Answer: John Foster _Dulles_
17) This Side of Paradise, The Apple, Obsession, By Any Other Name, and Friday's Child are some of the less memorable
titles. Others include Tomorrow is Yesterday, Taste of Armageddon, Doomsday Machine, Requiem for Methuselah, and
Turnabout Intruder. FfP, these are all episodes of what still popular television show, whose best known titles include
Mirror, Mirror, Corbomite Maneuver, The City on the Edge of Forever, and Where No Man Has Gone Before?

18) Known by one or sometimes three-letter abbreviations, the identity of these organic molecules is determined by their Rgroups, or side chains. The human body is able to synthesize ten of them, but needs ten more to be supplied in the diet.
FfP, name these building blocks of life, examples of these include phenylalanine, tryptophan, and aspartic acid, which join
via peptide bonds to form proteins.
Answer: _amino acids_
19) At the age of 11 he became ruler of Fergana, and ten years later made himself ruler of Kabul. In 1522, the governor of
Lahore asked him to help defeat the Sultan of Delhi, and his victory at the battle of Panipat led to his rule over Bengal. FfP,
identify this father of Humayan, the flrst Mogul ruler of India who shares his name with a famous elephant.
Answer: _Babar_
20) In 1829 he became minister at the Old North Church, Boston, a position he resigned after three years over doctrinal
conflicts. Beginning a second career as a lecturer several years later, his most famous speeches include the 1838 address to the
Harvard Divinity school and the 1837 Phi Beta Kappa address known as the "American Scholar." FfP, name this American
transcendentalist, whose other writings include Nature and Self-Reliance.
Answer: Ralph Waldo _Emerson_

Cavalier Classic 1996
Boni for the fmals :
1) For the stated number of points, identify these common anions from their formulas.
5) OH minus
5) (C O-three) two minus
10) (S O-three) two minus
10) (Mn O-four) minus

2)
a)
b)
c)

Identify the following concerning Tecumseh FfP each.
Tecumseh was a chief of this Indian tribe.
Along with this man, his brother, Tecumseh formed a league of Northwestern tribes.
William Henry Harrison defeated the Indians without Tecumseh at this decisive 1811 battle.

3)
a)
b)
c)

Identify the following poems by Percy Shelley FTP each.
This 1820 ode ends by asking "If winter comes, can Spring be far behind?"
This sonnet features a ruined statue with the words "Look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair."
Shelley wrote this elegy in 1821 in memory of John Keats.

4) Answer these questions about the Canadian Football League FTP each.
a) It's the name of the trophy given to the CFL champion.
b) It's the length of a CFL field, not including the endzones.
c) It's the nickname of the CFL franchise in Saskatchewan.

5)
a)
b)
c)

FTP each, identify the following thermodynamic functions.
Internal energy minus the product of temperature and entropy.
Helmholtz free energy plus the product of pressure and volume.
Gibbs free energy plus the product of temperature and entropy.

6) Identify the economist, 30-20-10.
30) Born in 1883, he lectured at Cambridge from 1908 until his death, and was made the first baron of Tilton.
20) He represented Britain at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, and was also a member of the Bloomsbury Group.
10) This originator of New Economics wrote The Economic Consequences of the Peace and The General Theory of
Employment, Interest, and Money.
Answer: John Maynard _Keynes_
7) The verb "to be" is an irregular verb in most languages. For the stated number of points, give the infinitive of the verb
"to be" in the following languages.
5) French
10) German
15) Japanese

8) Identify the novels by Sinclair Lewis FfP each.
a) Its title character is a Zenith realtor whose name has become synonymous with middle class conformity.
b) Set in Gopher Prairie, it tells the story of Carol Kennicott, a housewife who tries to bring culture to her neighbors.

c) This 1927 novel describes a football player who becomes a minister and successful evangelist.
Answers: _Babbitt_; _Main Streec; _Elmer Gantry_
9) FIP each, give the formula for the moment of inertia for each object described below:
a) A uniform hoop of mass M and radius R, about an axis perpendicular to the plane of the hoop, through its center.
b) The same hoop, about an axis perpendicular to the plane of the hoop, through a point on its circumference.
c) A long thin rod of mass M and length L, about an axis perpendicular to its length, through one of its ends.
Answers: _R squared times M_, or _"M R squared"_; _2 times R squared times M_; _1/3 times L squared times M_
10) Identify the World War II conferences FfP each.
a) Attlee replaced Churchill 11 days into this July 1945 conference.
b) The relationship between General Giraud and de Gaulle's Free French was to be clarified at this 1943 African meeting.
c) The landing in France was discussed and the European Advisory Commission was set up at this November 1943 meeting.

11) Identify the ancient Greek playwrights who wrote the following works, FfP each.
a) The Frogs and The Clouds
b) The Trojan Women and Medea
c) Prometheus Bound and Agamemnon

12) Given a unit square, for 15 points each, fmd the areas of the largest inscribed circle and the smallest circumscribed circle,
respectively.

13) Identify the country from clues, 30-20-10.
30) Its rivers include the Salt, Great Fish, and Tugela.
20) Its cities include Durban, Port Elizabeth, and Wes-Rand.
10) Its larger cities include Bloemfontain and Pretoria.
Answer: _South Africa_
14) FIP each, identify these jazz legends.
a) This composer and pianist, whose given name was Edward Kennedy, revolutionized big band music with works like
"Creole Rhapsody," "Cotton Tail," and "Mood Indigo".
b) This tenor and soprano sax player is associated with the "hard" bebop movement, and remembered for pieces like
"Alabama." "Giant Steps" and "A Love Supreme".
c) Part of nearly every jazz movement from 1950 onward, this trumpeter's many albums included "Sketches of Spain,"
"Bitches Brew", and "Kind of Blue".

15) Answer these questions about recent events in Israel for the stated number of points :
5) Who became Israel's new prime minister in 1996?
10) What right wing party does Benjamin Netanyahu lead?
15) Recent negotiations with Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat centered on Israel's scheduled withdrawal from what town?

16) Given a President, identify the king or queen who ruled England during his term in office, FfP each.
a) Rutherford B. Hayes
b) Herbert Hoover
c) John Quincy Adams

17) For five points each and a five point bonus for all correct, name the authors of these books on the Publishers Weekly
bestseller lists during 1996.
a) Servant of the Bones
b) Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus
c) Executive Orders
d) The Last Don
e) L is for Lawless

18) Identify the following concerning the Koran for the stated number of points.
5) This archangel revealed the Koran to Mohammed.
10) The Koran is divided into 114 chapters, which are called this.
15) Although the Koran was traditionally passed down orally, it had to be written down during the reign of this third Caliph
after many reciters died in battle.

19) Identify the following chancellors of West Germany FfP each.
a) He founded the Christian Democratic Party in 1945 and was the first chancellor.
b) Taking power in 1969, he pursued an Ostpolitik in the East and won a Nobel Peace Prize.
c) He has served in the post from 1991 to the present.
Answers: Konrad _Adenauec; Willy _Brande; Helmut _Kohe
20)
30)
20)
10)

Identify the contemporary novelist, 30-20-10.
His short stories, collected in Slow Learner, include The Secret Integration and Low Lands.
Next April Mason and Dixon, his first new novel since Vineland, will be published.
He is best known for V. and Gravity's Rainbow.

Answer: Thomas _Pynchon_

