New Trier Scobol Solo 2014
Championship Phase IV

PORTA
NIGRA

51. In this novel, a visiting preacher from St. Louis says “I got de ricklickshun en de blood of de Lamb!”.
His sermon takes place at an Easter service attended by Frony and his family. At the end of this work,
Jason threatens Luster for taking an unusual way home. Jason’s brother is often told to stop moaning
and enjoys watching golfers. The second part of this work is set at Harvard, which is attended by
Quentin. Throughout this work, the black servant Dilsey cares for Benjy, who is mentally disabled.
Name this Faulkner novel about the Compson family, whose title is taken from a Macbeth soliloquy.



Answer: The Sound and the Fury

52. This protein binds to the protein filaggrin, and cells that produce it originate in the stratum ba·sa·le.
Type I and type II intermediate filaments are composed of acidic and basic isoforms of this protein.
The production of this protein, which results in cell death, is called cornification, and de·squa·ma·tion
often results in it being lost. This protein contains large amounts of the amino acid cysteine [SIS-teen],
and it is the primary component of the epithelium [ep-ih-THEE-lee-um], providing strength and
waterproofing. Name this structural protein that makes up the skin, hair, and nails.



Answer: keratin [“CARE”-uh-tin]

53. The city of Xanthos [ZAAN-thoss] had a tomb named for these creatures because of the appearance
of reliefs now found at the British Museum. One of these creatures named Podarge is the mother
of Balius and Xanthus, the horses of Achilles. These creatures were pursued to the Strophades by
the sons of Boreas, who stopped pursuing them after receiving a promise from Iris. Zeus punished
Phineus by having these creatures prevent him from eating his food. These creatures also carried the
daughters of Pandareus to the Furies, and they were generally blamed for any sudden disappearances
and associated with wind gusts. Name these winged women.



Answer: Harpies [or Harpy]

54. In this opera, one woman asks “May not a cheated maiden die?” in the song “Alone, and yet alive”.
Earlier in this opera, a chorus of schoolgirls sings “We wonder, how we wonder, What on earth the
world can be!”. That song, “Comes a Train of Little Ladies”, is followed by “Three little maids from
school”. One character in this opera sings that he’s “got a little list of society oﬀenders. . . who never
would be missed.” In this opera, Peep-Bo and Pitti-Sing are with a girl who is expecting to marry
Ko-Ko and is named Yum-Yum. Identify this comic opera set in Titipu [TIH-tee-poo] and named for
a Japanese authority, which was written by Gilbert and Sullivan.



Answer: The Mikado

1

55. Up to isomorphism, the Rado graph is the only graph with this property and the extension property.
If a measure is diﬀuse, such as the Lebesgue measure, then it considers any set with this property to
be a null set. If a space has a subset that is dense and has this property, then the space is separable.
One behavior of infinite sets with this property is demonstrated by Hilbert’s paradox of the Grand
Hotel. The cardinality of these sets is represented by aleph-null, and the fact that real numbers do
not have this property is demonstrated by Cantor’s diagonal argument. Name this property of sets
that can be put into bijection with the natural numbers.



Answer: countablility [accept countable or countably infinite or denumerable]

56. In 2009, many historians changed their belief about the exact location of this battle when a silver
boar badge was found. One side in this battle was divided into three battle groups, two of which
were led by John Howard and Henry Percy. A third army in this battle, commanded by Thomas and
Sir William Stanley, did not decide which side they would take until fighting began. When the Earl
of Richmond emerged from his rear guard to approach the Stanleys, Richard opted to charge, but
the Stanleys engaged Richard’s forces, which led to Richard’s death in a marsh. Name this battle
that led to the ascension of Henry VII and the death of Richard III, the decisive battle in the Wars
of the Roses.



Answer: Battle of Bosworth Field
57. This person classified sensations, passions, and emotions as impressions, and he classified the images
of those impressions in thinking and reasoning as ideas. He also wrote that people judge things
that bring them pleasure as beautiful in his eﬀort to find the true origin of morals. The distinction
between ideas not requiring experience and facts learned through experience is known as this person’s
“fork”. His criticism of other writers for not distinguishing between “is” and “ought” is known as his
“guillotine”. Name this writer of A Treatise of Human Nature who wrote about a missing shade of
blue in An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.



Answer: David Hume
58. The impacts of these devices can be measured through open-circuit and short-circuit testing. The
ferromagnetic materials inside these devices produce a sound caused by mag·net·o·stric·tion. These
devices are used because the requirements for transmitting electricity eﬃciently are diﬀerent from
the requirements for using electricity eﬃciently. The advent of these devices enabled AC to become
more popular than DC. Name these devices with primary and secondary windings, which are used
to “step up” or “step down” voltage.



Answer: transformers

New Trier Scobol Solo 2014

2

Championship Phase IV

59. This organization was harmed by the investigations of the Lexow Committee, which were inspired
in part by sermons by Charles Henry Parkhurst. Carmine DeSapio led a minor revival of this
organization during the 1950s but was harmed by his ties to Frank Costello, who was known as
“The Prime Minister of the Underworld”. The Locofocos originally formed to oppose this group, a
prominent leader of which died in Ludlow Street Jail after being convicted of corruption following the
Orange Riot of 1871. Name this group of Democrats, mostly Irish immigrants, a political machine
in New York City that was led by “Boss” Tweed.



Answer: Tammany Hall [or Society of St. Tammany or Sons of St. Tammany or Columbian Order or
Tammany Society]

60. One poem in this collection begins with the line “Alas, poor muse, what ails you today?”. Another
poem in this collection addresses an evil angel as “the prince of exiles” and beseeches him to “pity
on my long despair.” The title creature of a poem in this collection is “the king of the sky” and is
flying alongside a crew of shipmates. This collection’s foreword calls the reader a “Hypocrite reader,
my likeness, my brother.” This collection that includes “The Sick Muse” and “The Litanies of Satan”
is divided into sections called “Wine”, “Death”, “Revolt”, and “Spleen and Ideal”. Name this poetry
collection that includes “The Albatross”, written by Charles Baudelaire.



Answer: Les Fleurs du Mal [lay flyoor doo mahl] [or The Flowers of Evil]

New Trier Scobol Solo 2014

3

Championship Phase IV

