Georgia High School State Championship
Armstrong State College
March 11-12, 1988
Written by Mike Decker and Tom Waters

Finals
Bonuses

1. (30 points) Napoleon called England "a nation of shopkeepers." FTP each--which European nations or regions have been
nicknamed:
a. the Sickman of Europe
Answer: Turkey or Ottoman Empire
b. the Tinderbox of Europe
Answer: the Balkans
c. the Cockpit of Europe
Answer: Belgium
2. (30 points) In 1938 Emest Hemingway wrote two famous short stories in each of which an American dies while on an African
safari. In one, Harry dies of gangrene while, in the other, Francis is shot by his wife. For 15 points each--name these two
stories.
Answer: The Snows of Kilimanjaro and The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber
3. (30 points) "It was quite the most incredible event that has ever happened to me in my life," he later exclaimed, "It was
almost as if you had fired a 15-inch shell at a piece of tissue paper and it came back and hit you!" For 15 points each:
a. Who reflected on this, his greatest discovery when, in 1907, he shot alpha particles at a thin sheet of gold foil and found
that some of the particles bounced back at him?
Answer: Ernest Lord Rutherford
b. What part of the atom did Rutherford thus accidentally discover in this famous experiment?
Answer: Nucleus or Proton
4. (30 points) For all of their lofty philosophizing, the ancient Athenians could be downright practical. When, in mythic times,
Athens had to choose between Poseidon and Athena as their number one deity, they decided to give the honor to the god who
made them the best offer. For 15 points each;
a. What did Poseidon create for man's use?
Answer: The Horse
b. Athena won the contest by creating what kind of tree for the Athenians?
Answer: The Olive Tree
5. (30-20-10) Thirty points are yours for naming this people after the first clue; 20 after the second; or 10 after all three.
a. They lack epicanthic folds and refer to themselves by a name meaning "of the same eye-socket."
b. Until 1799 they maintained an independent homeland on the island of Sakhalin and Hokkaido.
c. They appear to be the aboriginal people of Japan.
Answer: Ainu (EYE-new)
6. (30 points) 150 years ago, the U.S. Army, enforcing a fraudulent treaty, rounded up 16,000 peaceful eastern Cherokee
Indians and forcibly moved them at bayonet point from Georgia to Oklahoma. More than 4,000 died along the way.
a. For 5 points, what name is given to this sorrowful journey?
Answer: Trail of Tears
b. For 5 points apiece--this Georgia to Oklahoma ''Trail of Tears" crossed what five other states?
Answer: Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, Missouri, Arkansas
7. (20 points) Mickey, Minnie, and Mighty may be the most memorable make-believe mice, but are not so well characterized as
these other mice whose names, mercifully, do not begin with "M." For 10 points each--identify:
a. The hero of the 1959 Daniel Keyes novel about a laboratory mouse whose intelligence is enhanced by a medical procedure.
Answer: Algernon (not Charlie)
b. The debonair title-hero of a 1945 book by E.B. White.
Answer: Stuart Little
8. (20 points) There are only two crimes specifically mentioned in the U.S. Constitution. For 10 points each--name them.
Answer: Treason and ~.
.
9. (20 points) For 10 points apiece--identify these important asteroids:
a. Its surface area is larger than Alaska and it was thought, when discovered in 1801, to be a new planet.
Answer: Ceres
b. Its irregular orbit takes it nearer the sun than Mercury--hence it's named for a mythological figure who flew too close to the
sun.
Answer: Icarus
10. (30 points) On August 5th, 1963, the U.S., U.S.S.R., and Great Britain signed the Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty. This treaty
banned nuclear weapons testing in three general places. For 10 points each--name these three places.
Answer: Outer ~, Under Water or Oceans, In the Atmosphere

11. (25 points) Romeo and Juliet are found in Shakespeare's play of the same name. For 5 points each--in what other
Shakespearean plays will find these pairs of characters:
a. Portia and Nerissa
Answer: The Merchant of Venice
Answer: Macbeth
b. Banquo and Malcolm
c. Goneril and Regan
Answer: King Lear
d. Falstaff and Mistress Page
Answer: Merry Wives of Windsor
e. Rosenkrantz and Guildenstern
Answer: Hamlet
12. (30 points) For 15 points apiece--identify these mathematical tools:
a. Complex numbers can be represented on a coordinate graph by plotting the real part along the horizontal axis and the
imaginary part along the vertical axis. What do we call this representation of a complex number?
Answer: Argand Diagram
b. This rule is used to solve systems of linear equations by computing determinants. It is named after an 18th century Swiss
mathematician. What do we call this method?
Answer: Cramer's Ruler
13. (30-20-10) Thirty points are yours for identifying this constitutional amendment on the first clue; 20 on the second; or 10 if
you need all three.
a. It forbids the taking of private property for public use without just compensation.
b. It requires a grand jury indictment in capital cases.
c. It forbids double jeopardy in criminal prosecutions.
Answer: Fifth Amendment
14. (25 points) Yellowstone National Park, one of our nation's largest, is divided among three states.
a. For 5 points each, name them.
Answer: Wyoming, Idaho, Montana
b. Yellowstone was the first national park to be created. For 10 points and within ten years, when was it established?
Answer: 1872 (accept 1862-1882)
15. (25 points) With the disease AIDS much in the news, people have almost forgotten about another similarly abbreviated
disease--SIDS.
Answer: Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
a. For 10 points--for what disease does the abbreviation AIDS stand?
Answer: Sudden Infant Death Syndrome
b. For 15 points--what is SIDS?
16. (20 points) Listen carefully to this axiom: Given a pair of real numbers, g and 12, exactly one of the following must be true: g
is greater than 12, g is less than 12, or g is equal to 12. Now, for 20 points, what name is given this axiom?
Answer: Trichotomy Axiom
17. (30 points) Amadeus was the last musical to win the Academy Award for best picture. For 10 points each--complete these
statements about other Academy Award winning movies:
a. Cima"on was the first "Blank" to win best picture?
Answer: Western
b. Wings was the only "Blank" film to win best picture?
Answer: Silent (accept equivalent)
c. Midnight Cowboy was the only "Blank" movie to win best picture?
Answer: X-Rated
18. (20 points) The Okefenokee is divided between Florida and Georgia. For 10 points each--what two eastern states share the
Great Dismal Swamp?
Answer: Virginia and North Carolina
19. (30-20-10) Thirty points are yours for naming this complex and often contradictory man after the first clue; 20 points after
the second; 10 if you need all three.
a. Hitler admired him in his Mein Kampf, yet he insisted in enrolling his grandchildren in a previously all-black school in Georgia.
b. He was a lifelong opponent of labor unions, yet shocked his fellow industrialists by introducing the 8-hour day and offering
the then-incredible wage of $5 per day in 1914.
c. After chartering a Peace Ship and traveling to Europe in a personal bid to end World War I, he retumed to America and
began massive armaments manufacturing using his assembly line techniques.
Answer: Henry Ford
20. (20 points) This word identifies a Jewish sect noted for its uncompromising opposition to Roman rule in first century
Palestine. They played a leading role at Masada in 73 A.D., choosing suicide rather than surrender. For 20 points--name this
group which has given us a synonym for "fanatic."
.
Answer:~

