TOSSUPS - FINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
It works by blocking the estrogen receptors that stimulate cancer cell growth. The equivalent for
females of the "androgen blockers" prescribed for males with prostate cancer, it is often used in concert with
raloxifene. FTP, name this most commonly prescribed anti-estrogenic drug, used in hormone therapy to treat
breast cancer.
Answer: tamoxifen
2.
They worship a rain god called Chac, a sun god called Kinich Ahau, a moon goddess called Ix Chel, and
a corn god whose name is uncertain. Their major cities included Uaxactun [wah-ZAC-toon], Chichen Itza, and
Tikal. Peaking around A.D. 250 but flourishing into the mid-1500's, they covered an area from Quintana Roo
and Yucatan in Mexico to parts of Honduras and El Salvador. FTP name this American civilization famed for
its accurate calendar and terraced pyramids.
Answer: Maya or Mayans
3.
It was brought to the level of great art by the genius of two dramatists, Kanami Kiyotsugu and his son
Zeami Motokiyo. Patronized by the Ashikaga shogunate after a shogun saw the boy Zeami perform in 1374, it
includes solemn dances intended to suggest the deepest emotions of the principal character and is written in
elevated poetic language. FTP, name this Japanese dramatic form.
Answer: No
4.
It is concerned with the definition of knowledge and related concepts, the sources and criteria of
knowledge, the kinds of knowledge possible and the degree to which each is certain, and the exact relation
between the one who knows and the object known. FTP, what is the branch of philosophy that addresses the
philosophical problems surrounding the theory of knowledge?
Answer: epistemology
5.
He is by trade a lawyer, which certainly helps him in understanding baseball behind the scenes. He was
the first big league manager to make extensive use of computers. Once the majors' youngest manager, his first
managerial stint was with the White Sox. FTP name this manager, who made his reputation leading the A's to
the 1989 world championship but who now manages the Cardinals.
Answer: Tony LaRussa
6.
Around 1440, a papal secretary by the name of Valla demonstrated that it had been a forgery. Supposed
to have been granted in the mid_8 th century, the Catholic church used it to bolster papal claims of power over
central Italy. FTP, what is this grant of land supposedly made to the papacy by the Byzantine Emperor for
whom it is named?
Answer: Donation of Constantine
7.
The products of this substance's reaction with gold are water, nitric oxide, and aqueous AgCl4-. It was
discovered by alchemists and used to dissolve the noble metals, which are relatively inert, and still finds use
today dissolving gold and platinum. It is made by mixing 3 parts hydrochloric acid to 1 part nitric acid. For ten
points, name this substance, whose name is Latin for "royal water."
Answer: aqua regia
8.
There were four, and they were aimed mainly at Irish immigrants, French refugees, and newspaper
editors. One provided for the arrest and deportation of subjects of foreign powers at war with the United States,
and another increased the naturalization period from 5 to 14 years. FTP name the Federalist legislation that was
denounced in the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions.
Answer: Alien and Sedition Acts (accept reasonable equivalents, and don't be picky about order)

9.
He entered the Greek diplomatic service in 1926, filling posts in Athens, London, and Kon;e, Albania.
As ambassador to Britain from 1957 to 1962, he helped negotiate the independence of Cyprus. While pursuing
his diplomatic career, he was also active as a poet. For ten points, name this winner of the Nobel Prize in
literature, known for The Turning Point, Mythistorema, and The King ofAsine.
Answer: George Seferis
10.
He was a bundle of contradictions - a materialist afraid of black cats and walking under ladders, a
Marxist obsessed with religious and sexual imagery, an engineer fascinated by art, and a bourgeois Latvian who
joined the Russian Revolution. He was forced to abandon and recant Bezhin Meadow and had the MolotovRibbentrop Agreements render impolitic the release of his anti-German Aleksandr Nevsky. He only completed
seven feature films in a 20-year career but reshaped the art form with his use of intellectual montage. FTP
name the director of The Battleship Potemkin.
Answer:
Sergei Eisenstein
11.
Math question. I live in a house with 10 people, all of whom are inveterate gossipers - each one of them
will tell a rumor they hear to exactly one person (excluding himself and the person he heard it from). FTP,
assuming that the chances of telling the rumor to the remaining members of the house are otherwise equal, what
is the probability that the rumor can be told 5 times without being told to someone who has already heard it?
(READER: allow 10 seconds before calling time)
Answer: 21/32 (accept: 105/256, depending on whether or not you choose to count the first person)
12.
This two word name refers to three places. One is an island group 1200 miles east of the Falklands.
The second is a portion of the native land of Eduard Shevardnadze, remarkable for its sizeable Ossetian
minority. The third is anything located between Macon and the Florida line. Curiously, sodomy is illegal in all
three. FTP what's the common two-word name referring to three places where the men are men, the women are
women, and the sheep are NOT nervous?
Answer:
South Georgia
13.
This model assumes that lone pairs occupy more space than do bonding pairs, that double bonds occupy
more space than single bonds, and that bonding pairs and lone pairs position themselves to minimize
interference. FTP, name this theory of electron organization, which useful for determining molecular geometry.
Answer: valence shell electron pair repulsion or VSEPR or "vesper"
14.
He succeeded his father Selim I in 1520, and was able to conquer Belgrade and Rhodes within a year.
He forged a treaty with Francis I against Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. Under him, the Ottoman Empire
achieved its zenith in terms of size and culture. FTP, name this sultan given the sobriquet "the Magnificent."
Answer: Suleiman I, the Magnificent
15.
This 1983 winner of the American Book Award sketches the lives of Mattie Michael, Etta Johnson, Ciel
Turner, Kiswana Browne, Cara Lee, and Theresa and Lorraine, all African-Americans who live in the same rundown housing project. FTP, name this forerunner to Linden Hills, by Gloria Naylor.
Answer: The Women of Brewster Place
16.
This French artist is best known for his iconoclastic and unconventional works. After his early success,
he spent the rest of his life working on a complex project, Bride Stripped Bare by her Suitors. He also created
several "ready-mades," one being a urinal signed R. Mutt, and drew a mustache on a copy of the Mona Lisa.
FTP, name this painter of Nude Descending a Staircase, No.2.
Answer: Marcel Duchamp

17.
The Director's Guild of America recently honored this movie as "best film" for 2000. Nominated in ten
Oscar categories, including Best Score, this film about the search for a stolen sword was directed by Ang Lee
and stars Michelle Yeoh and Zhang Ziyi. FTP, name this martial arts film and winner of the 2000 Oscar for
Best Foreign Language Film.
Answer: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon
18.
Once Hitler's third-in-command, this man flew his plane across the Channel and crashed in Scotland
during an unknown mission in 1941. After being sentenced to life in prison at the Nuremburg Trials, he died at
Spandau Prison in 1987 at age 92. Name this puzzling character for ten points.
Answer: Rudolph Hess
19.
He studied the effects of phototropism on the coleoptiles of canary grass with his son Francis in 1884. A
student of biologist John Henslow and geologist Adam Sedgewick, this combination of interests made him
uniquely qualified for an 1831 voyage across the Pacific. FTP, who accompanied Robert FitzRoy on the HMS
Beagle, and used his experiences to formulate a theory of evolution?
Answer: Charles Darwin
20.
Sir John Floyer, an esteemed London physician, advised this author's parents to take him before Queen
Anne and be "touched" as a cure for scrofula. The author wore the gold "touchpiece" from the ceremony for
the rest of his life, an anecdote related in a biography by a younger friend, James Boswell. The editor of The
Gentleman's Magazine and author of the controversial Account of the Life ofMr. Richard Savage, his only
work oflong fictional work is Rasselas. FTP, who is best known for his Dictionary of the English Language?
Answer: Samuel Johnson
21.
It contains an active ingredient, thujone, that's classified as a poison by the U.S. government.
Researchers at Berkeley found that thujone blocks the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA This offsets the
effects of its typically 148 proof alcohol content, providing greater clarity than comparable drinks, but can also
cause hallucinations, convulsions and even death. That's why only a few countries still allow the distillation of
the beverage the French call "the green fairy." FTP name this addictive liqueur, so bitter it's usually diluted
with cold water poured over sugar, whose kick comes from dried wormwood.
absinthe
[Accept vermouth before the phrase "148 proof," as it contains trace amounts of
Answer:
thujone but has a much lower alcohol content.]
22.
Ice accumulations prevent navigation on the upper river from December to April, but it is navigable by
large oceangoing vessels as far upstream as Montreal, and somewhat smaller ships can continue to Lake
Ontario. For ten points, what river is the chief outlet ofthe Great Lakes?
Answer: Saint Lawrence River
23.
After this process is completed, one of three things may need to be done before the end product is ready
for use: it may be cleaved by a proteolytic enzyme, glycosylated, or have its amino acids rearranged. Its
beginning is cued by the codon for methionine, ATG, and then tRNA elongates the protein. FTP, name the
second stage in protein synthesis.
Answer: translation
24.
Among biologists and psychologists, it refers to the view that the human mind is a nonmaterial entity
that nevertheless interacts with the body via the brain and nervous system. As a philosophical theory, it is the
doctrine that all objects in the world have an inner or psychological being. From the Latin word for "soul,"
FTP, what term is often used to refer to "pagan" nature worship?
Answer: animism

BONI - FINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
They met in 1787 to figure out how to run a country made up of 13 sometimes contentious states.
FTSNOP answer the following about the Constitutional Convention:
1. (5 pts.) Besides Washington, this was the only future President among the signers.
Answer: James Madison
2. (5 pts.) Talk about contentious -- this state sent no delegates because it wanted no Federal interference in its
affairs and took till 1790 to ratify the Constitution.
Answer: Rhode Island
3. (10 pts.) As a member of the 2nd Continental Congress this Pennsylvanian had opposed and refused to sign
the Declaration of Independence. This time, as a delegate from Delaware, he had to leave but asked fellow
delegate George Read to sign for him just to make his support clear.
Answer: John Dickinson
4. (10 pts.) Besides Dickinson, 15 of the 55 delegates refused to sign the Constitution. Perhaps the best known
is this Virginian, a forceful advocate of the Bill of Rights and namesake of a university in Virginia.
Answer: George Mason
2.
The B vitamins are, well, weird. Name these examples FTPE:
1. Long known to combat pellagra, this vitamin (also called B5) is now used as a remedy for schizophrenia
Answer:
niacin or nicotinic acid
2. Designated vitamin B 17, this compound found in almond and apricot seeds is toxic in sufficient doses but is
a controversial treatment for cancer not available in the U.S.
Answer:
Laetril or amygdalin
3. This component of many sunblocks is designated vitamin B(x) - wonder who decides when it gets a
number?
Answer:
PABA or para-aminobenzoic acid
3.
It's hard to find a better-looking failure than a model acting in a movie. FTP each, name these models
from roles:
The main role in Sirens and Blanche Ingram in Zeffirelli's Jane Eyre
Answer: Elle Macpherson
She starred opposite William Baldwin in the 1995 disaster Fair Game.
Answer: Cindy Crawford
She was Mystique in the X-Men movie.
Answer: Rebecca Romijn-Stamos or just Rebecca Romijn, John Stamos is worthless anyways
4.
Name the American author from works, 30-20-10.
30 - The Ground We Stand On and Three Soldiers
20 - District of Columbia and Manhattan Transfer
10 - The Big Money, which is part of the trilogy US.A.
Answer: John Dos Passos
5.
Answer these questions about the geography of France, 5-5-10-10.
5 - This river flows through most major cities in northern France before emptying into the English Channel.
Answer: Rhine River
10 - France's longest river, it empties into the Bay of Biscay.
Answer: Loire River
5 - This mountain is the second-highest peak in Europe.
Answer: Mont Blanc
10 - This gap in the Alps is just east of Mont Blanc, and is named for a monastery located along the pass.
Answer: (Great) Saint Bernard Pass

6.
Given its definition, name the computer term for ten points each.
It is a group of records or a collection of transactions (such as a group of files) that may be processed together.
Answer: batch
It is an arrangement of data in which each item may be identified by a key or subscript so that a computer
program can be designed to examine and extract specific data.
Answer: array
It is the direct retrieval of data from a location in the computer memory without the need for sorting through
sequential information.
Answer: random access
7.
FTP each, answer these questions relating to Chinese history.
Confucian thought posited that this was the universal principle of all matter, based on the source and union of
the two parts of the universe, yin and yang.
Answer: Tai Ji or T'ai Chi
This is the book in which the concept of Tai Ji is first mentioned, and its name translates as Book of Changes.
Answer: the Yijing (or I Ching)
This is the dynasty that ruled China when the Yijing was written.
Answer: Zhou or Chou
8.
The "Angry Young Men" aren't just Rasheed Wallace and Bonzi Wells, they were a loosely associated
group of authors! Answer these questions about 'em FTP each.
The "Angry Young Men" was a name given to writers in the 1950s from this nation.
Answer: England or Great Britain (be lenient here)
The movement got its name from this author's play Look Back in Anger.
Answer: John Osborne
The novelist of The Old Devils and Lucky Jim, his son is a famous author in his own right.
Answer: Kingsley Amis
9.
FTP each, name the geological era or period.
This is the era just before the rise of dinosaurs, and included the rise of land-dwelling populations of life from
free-floating sea-dwelling life forms.
Answer: Paleozoic Era
This is the current era that started around 65 million years ago, and follows the destruction of the dinosaurs and
the rise of mammals.
Answer: Cenozoic Era
This is the most current period, a subdivision of the Cenozoic Era, and has as a subdivision the Pleistocene
Epoch.
Answer: Quaternary Period
10.
Answer these questions about a composer FTP each.
Who composed the German Requiem and the Academic Festival Overture as part of his 19th century classical
revival?
Answer: Johannes Brahms
Brahms' Sonata in G Major is usually known by this name, because the repeated sixteenth notes repeated in the
third movement are suggestive of bad weather.
Answer: the Rain Sonata
Brahms wrote four "books" of these dances, based on folk tunes taught to him by violinist Eduard Remenyi.
Answer: Hungarian Dances

11.
Irony in the lives of professional sports stars is so wonderful. For 10 points each:
He was one of hockey's toughest defensemen, but he's now best remembered for a high stick that earned him a
full year suspension in 2000. He retired from hockey's IHL Grand Rapids Griffins on March 13 th after failing
to get back to the NHL.
Answer: Marty McSorley
This enforcer for the, who was laid out cold by McSorley's frightening cheap shot and missed twenty games, is
himself scheduled for a trial in which he is accused of attacking a visitor at his townhouse.
Answer: Donald Brashear
For another 5 pts. each, name the teams the respective goons were with at the time of the famed cheap shot.
Answer: Los Angeles Kings and Vancouver Canucks; accept either city or nickname, in either otder
12.
Name philosophical works from titles in their original language FTP, or for five if you need the author.
10 - Sein und Zeit
5 - Martin Heidegger
Answer: Being and Time
10 - L 'Etre et Ie neant
5 - Jean-Paul Sartre
Answer: Being and Nothingness
10 - Jenseits von Gut und Bose
5 - Friedrich Nietzsche
Answer: Beyond Good and Evil
13.
Identify the war by the battle, 5-10-15:
Battle of the Somme
ANSWER: World War I
Battle of Pork Chop Hill
ANSWER: The Korean War
Battle of the Alma
ANSWER: The Crimean War
14.
Answer these questions about English poetry from clues FTP each.
Sir John Suckling and Edmund Waller were among this politically-minded group of 1i h century wordsmiths.
Answer: Cavalier poets
Which Cavalier poet wrote: "I could not love thee, dear, so much / Loved I not honor more"?
Answer: Richard Lovelace
This Cavalier poet wrote "He that loves a rosy cheek, / Or a coral lip admires, / Or from star-like eyes doth seek
/ Fuel to maintain his fires, / As old Time makes these decay, / So his flames must waste away" in his poem
"Disdain Returned."
Answer: Thomas Carew (pronounced "Carey" as in Jim but also accept "Carew" as in Rod)
15.
Earn your "A" in chemistry by naming these terms, FTP each.
It is the existence of an element in two or more forms, such as diatomic oxygen and ozone.
Answer: allotropism or allotrope or allotropy
It is equal to -273.15 degrees Celsius.
Answer: absolute zero (prompt on "Zero Kelvin" or other temperature scales)
This describes a change that occurs without heat transfer between a system and its surroundings.
Answer: adiabatic

16.
FTP each, answer these related questions.
This French philosopher wrote about the struggle to use rational devices to control the emotions in Treatise on
Passion.
Answer: Rene Descartes
This play dramatized the experience in Treatise on Passion, in the form of a drama about a medieval Spanish
hero.
Answer: Le Cid
This playwright, an optimist like Descartes, wrote Le Cid, rejecting the unity of action, time, and place
previously required in Aristotle's classic rules.
Answer: Pierre Corneille
17.
FTP each, given the quantity that it refers to, name the SI unit from physics.
Potential difference in electromotive force
Answer: volt
Magnetic flux density
Answer: tesla
For another 10 pts., what quantity is measured in joules per Kelvin?
Answer: entropy
18.
Identify these committees from US history FTP each.
A North Dakota senator headed this committee, which investigated profiteering in the munitions industry during
World War 1.
Answer: (Gerald P.) Nye Committee
First known as the Dies Committee, for its Texas head, this House committee investigated such people
as the "Hollywood Ten" and Alger Hiss.
Answer: House Committee on Un-American Activities
Several Salt Lake City officials were convicted of bribery for their (successful) attempts to influence this
committee in 1999.
Answer: International Olympic Committee (prompt on IOC)
19.
Answer the following questions concerning mythology for the stated number of points.
Mentioned in Dryden's "To the Memory ofMr. Oldham", during a footrace, FTP, who fell in a pool of blood, as
a result of which his friend Euryalus won?
Answer: Nisus
This old couple was an excellent host for the disguised Zeus and Mercury. As a reward they were turned into
intertwined trees. FTP each, name them.
Answer: Baucis and Philemon
20.
Name the Nobel winners from 2000 for FTP each.
Literature, a Chinese novelist living in France.
ANSWER: Gao Xingjian
Peace, from only one of the sides of a half century old national conflict.
ANSWER: Kim Dae-jung
Chemistry, anyone of the three for work in plastics and electricity.
ANSWER: Alan J. Heeger, Alan G. Macdiarmid, or Hideki Shirakawa

21.
Identify these parts of the Arabian peninsula FTPE.
1.
This small thumb-shaped nation juts out into the Persian Gulf. Its capital, Doha, has been selected as
home for the next meeting of the World Trade Organization--apparently the authoritarian government there has
promised that there will be "no disruptions permitted" like those that upset the WTO's last meeting in Seattle.
Hotel accommodations will be a problem.
Answer:
Qatar
2.
This sultanate includes the detached enclave of Musandam overlooking the Persian Gulf, but the main
area overlooks the Arabian Sea instead. Under pressure from oil interests, borders with Yemen and Saudi
Arabia were finally delineated in 1995, but its border with the UAE remains undefined.
Answer:
Oman
3.
This arid highland region along the Red Sea is a province of Saudi Arabia. In 1916 a revolt led by
Hussein ibn Ali toppled Ottoman rule, but it came under the rule of the sultan ofNejd within a decade. It
includes the cities of Mecca and Medina and has given its name to a Shrine temple in South Carolina.
Answer:
Hejaz or al-Hijaz
22.
Identify these 19th century French sculptors, FTP each.
His fine sculptures included many of the Paris dancers whom he also painted in the Impressionist style.
Answer: Edgar Degas
His sculptures include The Age of Bronze and The Thinker
Answer: Auguste Rodin
This student of Rodin was famous for her intense depictions of the human body as seen in Rodin's Hands, but is
also famous for the 1989 film about her life and work.
Answer: Camille Claudel.

