New Trier Scobol Solo 2013
Championship, Phase II

PORTA
NIGRA

21. This person was John Nance Garner’s spokesman during Garner’s first presidential campaign and
negotiated the selection of Garner as vice president. He chaired the Interstate and Foreign Commerce
 Committee when it passed the Emergency Railroad Transportation and Federal Communications
 Acts, and he brought money home to his district by supporting the Red River project. When Joseph
Byrns died, this person became House Majority Leader, and when William Bankhead died in 1940,
this person became Speaker of the House. Identify this Texan who is the namesake of a congressional
office building and who was the longest serving House speaker in United States history.
Answer: Sam(uel Taliaferro) Rayburn

22. A poem by this man references “Ode on a Grecian Urn” with “Libation and sacrifice” before going on
to talk of an “Iron-hearted man-slaying” person “who would not live long”. Another of his poems
 says how the Old Masters “never forget / That even the dreadful martyrdom must run its course”.
 This poet of “The Shield of Achilles” wrote a poem set “in one of the dives / On Fifty-Second Street”
where the narrator thinks of the “darkened lands of the earth” where “the unmentionable odour of
death” lingers. Name this author of “The Age of Anxiety”, “September 1, 1939”, and “Musée des
Beaux Arts” [moo-zay day boh-zart].
Answer: W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden

23. When the type of matrix named for this person is left multiplied by a skew-symmetric matrix, the
result is Hermitian. This mathematician’s name comes second in the name of the theorem stating that
 each square matrix satisfies its own characteristic equation. This person is credited for the icosian
 game, which involves finding a cycle on a dodecahedron that visits each vertex once, which is why
graph cycles which visit each node exactly once are named for him. He carved one of his equations
into Brougham Bridge in Dublin after being inspired to discover it by a walk over the bridge. Name
this Irish mathematician and physicist who developed the concepts of tensors and quaternions.
Answer: Sir William Rowan Hamilton
24. The type of thruster named for this effect traps electrons, neutralizing what would be positively-charged
material pushed out of it. This effect is used to measured electron mobility, and its coefficient equals
 mobility times resistivity. The voltage created by this effect, which is zero on a Corbino disk, varies
 inversely with the product of charge density and strip thickness. Its voltage also varies directly with
the product of current and magnetic field strength. Name this effect created when a conducting strip
carrying a current is placed into a magnetic field, pushing the electrons towards one side.
Answer: Hall effect [or Hall voltage]

1

25. This work’s sixth movement uses augmented second intervals, and another of this work’s movements
is meant to depict unhatched chicks dancing. One movement in this work depicts two women arguing
 in the middle of a marketplace, while another depicts a cart drawn by oxen. Movements in this
 piece include the “Marketplace at Limoges” [lee-mohzh], “Bydlo”, and “Two Jews Rich and Poor”.
This work alternates between measures of 5/4 and 6/4 time, and Maurice Ravel’s orchestration of
this piece omitted its notable Promenade theme. Name this work, based on paintings by Viktor
Hartmann, composed by Modest Mussorgsky.
Answer: Pictures at an Exhibition(: A Remembrance of Viktor Hartmann) [or Kartínki s
výstavki(: Vospominániye o Víktore Gártmane)]

26. In act five of this play, one character claims to have made the discovery of “the strongest man in the
world”. In act one of this play, Petra talks about how hard she works as a teacher after delivering a
 letter to her father. The contents of that letter lead to a conflict between her father, Thomas, and
 his brother, Peter, who is a mayor. Eventually, Thomas is widely criticized by town residents in this
work because he is convinced that it is necessary to repair the drainage system of the town’s baths.
Name this work about the Stockmann family set in a small town in Norway, written by Henrik Ibsen.
Answer: An Enemy of the People [or En Folkefiende]

27. This man prophesied that Damascus and Samaria would fall before his son Maher-shalal-hash-baz
could say “mother” or “father”. Like Micah, he described a time of peace when people “shall beat
 their swords into plowshares”. His namesake book describes a man “wounded for our transgressions”
 and “bruised for our iniquities” in its “servant songs” and a boy called “Wonderful, Counsellor” and
a “Prince of Peace”. He prophesied that a young woman “shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall
call his name Immanuel”. Name this first of the major prophets whose namesake book precedes that
of Jeremiah.
Answer: Isaiah [or Isaias or Yeshayahu or Ishiya; accept Book of Isaiah or Sefer Yeshayahu or
Safar Ishiya]

28. An important early work of this man was History of the Freshwater Fishes of Central Europe, and
he developed the first systematic method for classifying fossil fish. Ezra Pound’s The Parable of the
 Sunfish is a tribute to this man’s notable teaching style, and he founded the Museum of Comparative
 Zoology at Harvard. This scientist’s eponymous lake formed when the Laurentide ice sheet blocked
drainage into Hudson Bay during the Pleistocene, and the relics of that enormous lake include Lake
of the Woods and Lake Winnipeg. Describing his most significant theory in Study on Glaciers, name
this Swiss-American paleontologist who, after discussions with Jean de Charpentier and a quarrel
with Karl Friedrich Schimper, first proposed the ice age.
Answer: Louis Agassiz

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

2

Championship, Phase II

29. The night before this battle, an enemy gun battery fired upon the USS McCulloch when its smokestacks
accidentally flared up. This battle ended after the USS Baltimore destroyed a gun battery at Sangley
 Point in order to expose a fort at Cavite [kah-VEE-tay]. This battle began as the Asiatic Squadron,
 led by the USS Olympia, opened fire on Admiral Montojo’s fleet, once Captain Gridley was told he
“may fire when you are ready”. Name this opening battle of the Spanish-American War in which
Commodore Dewey decisively defeated a fleet near the Philippine capital.
Answer: Battle of Manila Bay [accept Batalla de Cavite before “Cavite”; do not accept “Battle of
Manila”]

30. This country briefly headed by Amadou Sanogo is holding parliamentary elections in late November.
Cheick Oumar Diarrah is currently serving as its minister for national reconciliation and development
 of the North. The subject of the recent documentary Behind the Blue Veil, this country is now
 headed by Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta. Claude Verlon and Ghislaine Dupont were reporting near this
country’s town of Kidal when they were shot in early November, upsetting their native country of
France. This country’s region of Azawad declared independence in 2012 after a Tuareg rebellion.
Name this country, the location of the former Songhai and Gao empires.
Answer: (Republic of) Mali

31. This equation was derived in a work that gave the first visualization of the Carnot [kar-NOH] cycle
and an early version of the ideal gas law. Its first derivation was correct because it applies to a
 situation in which heat change equals enthalpy change. In one version of this equation, temperature
 squared is multiplied by the ideal gas constant, while in another version temperature is multiplied by
specific volume change. Both versions can be used to find the derivative of pressure with respect to
temperature. Name this equation that uses latent heat to calculate a slope on a phase diagram.
Answer: Clausius-Clapeyron equation or relation

32. Zeal-of-the-Land Busy and Dame Purecraft appear in one of this man’s plays about the “enormities”
at the title place. That work is Bartholomew Fayre, and in another of this man’s works, Kno’well
 employs Brainworm to spy on his son. In another comedy by this author, the title Venetian nobleman
 and his servant Mosca dupe three possible inheritors of the nobleman’s fortune. This man also wrote
about Captain Face, who is actually Jeremy, swindling money in the absence of his master during the
plague. Name this Jacobean playwright who wrote Every Man in His Humor, The Alchemist, and
Volpone [vawl-POH-nay].
Answer: Ben Jonson

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

3

Championship, Phase II

33. One work by this artist set during the Battle of Jersey depicts the title character in white being lifted
by his soldiers. In addition to The Death of Major Peirson, he made one portrait of a woman in
 pink with her elbow on the cushion of a black sofa and another portrait of her husband wearing red
 pointing to troops off in the distance. This artist painted his half-brother Henry Pelham wearing a
jacket with a bright pink collar and holding the leash of a squirrel. This artist set one of his works in
Havana harbor, showing a man trying to stab one of the title figures with a spear in an attempt to
save the other title figure. Name this artist who made portraits of Thomas Gage and other figures of
the American Revolution, and also painted Watson and the Shark.
Answer: John Singleton Copley

34. Angelman syndrome results from this type of inheritance due to paternal imprinting, and this concept
has been used to explain why the children of women pregnant during the Dutch famine of 1944 show
 a greater incidence of obesity and diabetes. This mode of inheritance for the mouse agouti gene can
 produce identical twins with different coat colors and is not thought to exist in plants, most of whose
cells remain totipotent. This phenomenon controls animal cell differentiation and works by histone
acetylation or DNA methylation. Identify this type of inheritance in which the expression of traits is
not directly linked to a nucleotide sequence.
Answer: epigenetics [accept genetic/genomic imprinting before it is mentioned; prompt answers
involving regulation of or differential gene expression]

35. One explanation for this event was that after annulling his marriage to Juliane of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld
and then marrying Joanna Grudzińska, a grand duke did not intend to return to his homeland. The
 leaders of this action had earlier formed the Union of Salvation and Union of Welfare, and Pavel
 Pestel also formed the Southern Society. Pestel was one of five people hanged at the end of this event,
along with two leaders of the Chernigov Regiment revolt. This was an effort to put one of two leaders
in charge, but Sergey Trubetskoy fled and Constantine Pavlovich never showed. Name this effort
after the death of Alexander the First to avoid the reign of Nicholas the First.
Answer: Decembrist Revolt or Rebellion or Uprising [accept Vosstanie Dekabristov]

36. In one opera by this composer, the arias “O noble lame étincelante” [oh noh-blay lah-may
ay-teen-say-lahnt] and “O souverain, o juge [zhooj], o père” are sung by Rodrigue [rohd-rig]. In another
 opera by this composer, the title character sings “Je suis encore tout étourdie” [zhuh swee ahn-kor
 too ay-toor-dee] about her journey to a convent. Soon after arriving at the convent, she falls in love
with Des Grieux [day gree-OOH], who is sent to a seminary and later assisted by Lescaut [less-koh].
Another opera by this composer features the intermezzo Meditation, after which the title character
agrees to follow the monk Athanaël. Like Puccini, one of this composer’s operas was about Manon.
Name this composer whose operas include Le Cid, Werther, and Thaïs.
Answer: Jules (Émile Frédéric) Massenet

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

4

Championship, Phase II

37. This psychologist worked closely with programming language designer Seymour Papert, whose
namesake principle attempts to explain some of this person’s results. He argued for reflective
 abstraction rather than pre-existing linguistic structures in a debate with Noam Chomsky. This
 founder of the International Centre of Genetic Epistemology performed experiments demonstrating
that some people lack the understanding of conservation of number. One of his experiments involved
pouring water from a tall thin cup to a short fat cup, and he also studied the learning of object
permanence. Name this psychologist who included concrete operational and sensorimotor as two of
the four stages in his model of the cognitive development of children.
Answer: Jean Piaget [zhahn pee-a-zhay]

38. This group settled in Pannonia after being defeated by King Geberic. That movement took place
under the leadership of Wisimar, who belonged to the Hasdingi tribe. After Hilderic was replaced
 as leader of this group by Gelimer, this group was defeated by the Byzantines under the leadership
 of Belisarius. This group moved to Africa, and soon after that they conquered Sicily, Sardinia, and
Corsica. Just after Roman emperor Valentinian III died in 455, this group, under the leadership
of Genseric, sacked Rome. Name this Germanic tribe whose name has become synonymous with
someone who defaces property.
Answer: Vandals
39. The northern part of this country includes the town of Konye-Urgench, which was an important city
in the Khwarezmian civilization. That northern region, Dashoguz Province, includes Sarygamysh
 Lake. The southeastern part of the country includes the city of Mary, which is the site of the ancient
 city of Merv, which was a stop on the Silk Road near the border with Afghanistan. The western
part of this country contains Garabogazköl, a large extension of the Caspian Sea. To the north, this
country borders Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. Name this country whose capital, which is near Iran, is
Ashgabat.
Answer: Turkmenistan
40. The narrator of this novel says that a missionary described his Grandfather Josiah’s beard as looking
like it belonged to an Arabian sheik. That narrator of this novel reads the Life of Jesse James as he
 travels from Virginia with Jake Marpole after his parents die. The protagonist has a brother who
 barks like a dog and has webbed fingers named Marek, and her depressed father commits suicide.
The narrator and the protagonist both befriend Lena Lingard in the town of Black Hawk, Nebraska.
Name this book about narrated by Jim Burden about a Bohemian immigrant that was written by
Willa Cather.
Answer: My Ántonia

New Trier Scobol Solo 2013

5

Championship, Phase II

