FINALS Packet 2

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
FINALS Packet 2: Tossups
1. This author wrote a short story in which a roast lamb comes alive after Basavriuk convinces Petro to kill a child.
This author of “St. John’s Eve” wrote a work in which the title Cossack shoots his son Andriy on the spot after
learning of his treachery; that work is Taras Bulba. He also wrote a work in which Poprishchin believes himself to
be the heir to the Spanish throne. In addition to “Diary of a Madman,” he wrote a work where Major Kovalyov
journeys to Kazan Cathedral to recover the title body part, and in another story by this author, the title article of
clothing is stolen from Akaky Akakievich. For 10 points, name this Russian author of “The Nose” and “The
Overcoat.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol [or Mykola Vasyliovych Hohol]
2. The lyrics to one piece by this composer are sung in Sanskrit but based on a traditional Welsh hymn. This
composer of Duel of the Fates wrote a prelude and variation of a Shaker hymn in the Air and Simple Gifts quartet,
which was performed at the 2009 presidential inauguration. One piece by this man simply consists of the strings
repeating two bass notes a half-step apart. This man also composed the Olympic Fanfare and Theme. He more
recently composed the score to the movie Lincoln and is the second-most nominated person for an Academy Award.
For 10 points, name this American composer of film scores, such as Jaws, the Indiana Jones series, and the Star
Wars saga.
ANSWER: John Towner Williams
3. Preludes to this battle include the Earl of Richmond’s landing at Milford Haven, after which he was joined by
Gilbert Talbot and other deserters of the sitting monarch. After this battle, the victor was crowned near the village of
Stoke Golding. Lord Stanley positioned himself between two opposing sides at this battle. At this battle, the Earl of
Oxford charged the Duke of Norfolk, allowing the son of Margaret Beaufort to pursue the losing commander of this
battle, whose corpse was discovered in the Greyfriars Friary in Leicester in 2013. For 10 points, name this victory
for Henry Tudor over Richard III which ended Plantagenet rule of England, the last battle of the Wars of the Roses.
ANSWER: Battle of Bosworth Field
4. Citizens in this novel use the Compuphone to order printed prayers from the franchise Soul Scrolls. At the end of
this novel, cassette tapes are transcribed and analyzed by Professor Pieixoto (“py-iks-OH-to”). A character frequents
an illegal club in this novel known as Jezebel’s, where Moira works as a prostitute after escaping the Red Center.
Econowives in this novel wear multicolored dresses to symbolize versatility, and the Marthas include Rita and Cora,
who serve Serena Joy and the Commander. The protagonist sleeps with the chauffeur Nick, a member of the
Mayday movement attempting to overthrow Gilead. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel about Offred, written
by Margaret Atwood.
ANSWER: The Handmaid’s Tale
5. In 1995, this organization donated a million dollars to St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital and has donated fifty
thousand dollars to it every year since. This company attempted to finance a space mission to the asteroid 449
Hamburga, and the first store of this organization opened in Southern California and operated the “Speedee
System.” This company trains its franchisers at Hamburger University. After the court case Liebeck v. this company,
a woman received several million dollars after coffee served by this company gave her third-degree burns. For 10
points, name this fast-food organization, represented by a namesake clown and the “Golden Arches.”
ANSWER: McDonald’s Corporation
6. This artist painted a backgammon table to the left of a figure who reaches into his back pocket for a spare card in
one work. In another painting, this man depicted Cleopas wearing a scallop shell as an apostle in green hunches
toward the central figure, who stretches his right hand over a table. This artist of The Cardsharps and The Supper at
Emmaus used Mario Minniti as the model for his Boy with a Basket of Fruit. This man created a painting in which
five men seated at a table count gold coins while Christ summons the title figure. For 10 points, name this Italian
Baroque artist known for his use of chiaroscuro, who painted The Calling of Saint Matthew.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio

FINALS Packet 2

2

7. This man sought refuge in the court of Tyndareus after his father’s death at the hands of Thyestes. He incurred
Apollo’s wrath by humiliating Chryses and later angered another man by taking his concubine Briseis. This man
once lured his daughter to Aulis by claiming that she would be married to Achilles; in reality, he sacrificed that
daughter, Iphigenia, to Artemis. This man was avenged by his children Electra and Orestes after he and his
concubine Cassandra were assassinated by Aegisthus and this man’s wife, Clytemnestra. For 10 points, name this
King of Mycenae, the brother of Menelaus and commander-in-chief of the Achaeans during the Trojan War.
ANSWER: Agamemnon
8. This man negotiated the withdrawal of British and French forces from territory claimed by this man’s country in
Armistice of Mudanya after the Chanak Crisis. Following the Battle of Sakarya, this man’s government guaranteed
his country’s independence with a treaty that replaced the Treaty of Sèvres, the Treaty of Lausanne. This man
commanded the Nineteenth Division at the Battle of Gallipoli and founded his country’s Grand National Assembly
at Ankara. He included republicanism and secularism in his Six Arrows, while his “Arrow” of reformism included
the adoption of the Latin alphabet and a ban on the fez. For 10 points, name this first President of the Republic of
Turkey.
ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Atatürk [accept either underlined name; prompt on “Mustafa”]
9. One theme in this work, later quoted in the composer’s songs “Somebody Loves Me” and “Embraceable You,” is
left unresolved before transitioning into a cadenza. This work subdivides the eighth-note rhythm into a three-threetwo arrangement after the opening ritornello. The composer altered the beginning of this work according to a
rendition played by Ross Gorman during rehearsal. Commissioned by Paul Whiteman for the concert “An
Experiment in Modern Music,” this work was inspired by the composer’s train ride to Boston. For 10 points, name
this 1924 composition for piano and jazz band by George Gershwin that opens with a solo clarinet glissando.
ANSWER: Rhapsody in Blue
10. Affinity, reality, and communication form a namesake concept map in this religion. Criminon is a program
seeking to rehabilitate prisoners using the teachings of this religion’s founder. Training and processing are the two
sides of this religion’s “Bridge to Total Freedom.” A form of counseling which generally makes use of the E-meter
in this religion is known as auditing, and souls in this religion are referred to as thetans. One deity in this religion
brought humans to earth in spaceships, placed them around volcanoes, and killed them by detonating hydrogen
bombs. For 10 points, name this religion that worships Xenu and arose from the Dianetics of its founder, L. Ron
Hubbard.
ANSWER: Church of Scientology
11. The Manchester Small Scale Experimental Machine utilized an early form of this entity known as the Williams
Tube. If CPU performance improves faster than this entity can function, a disparity in speed known as a memory
wall may arise. One type of this entity must be refreshed periodically and makes use of capacitors; in addition to that
dynamic type, this has phase change and static varieties. Modern computers often possess a few gigabytes of storage
of this entity, which mainly comes in volatile types that lose the information they contain when a system loses
power. For 10 points, name this type of storage that permits a user to retrieve data in any order.
ANSWER: RAM [or random access memory]
12. Before this battle, George Stoneman failed in an attempt to destroy the Orange and Alexandria Railroad to cut
enemy supply lines. Lafayette McLaws defeated John Sedgwick’s Sixth Army Corps at Salem Church and drove
them back to Banks’ Ford during this battle. Zoan Church was one position fortified by Confederates during this
battle. Oliver Howard’s Eleventh Army Corps was outflanked by a division of the victors of this battle that started
when Union forces crossed the Rappahannock River. For 10 points, name this “perfect battle” fought by Robert E.
Lee against Joseph Hooker, after which Stonewall Jackson was mistakenly shot by his own men.
ANSWER: Battle of Chancellorsville

FINALS Packet 2

3

13. One work by this artist portrays a nude woman pricking her toe on a globe while a curtain is drawn off her body.
This creator of Truth Unveiled by Time was patroned by Scipione Borghese, for whom this sculptor crafted one
depiction of a woman pushing away a bearded man with a three headed dog at his heels. This sculptor of The Rape
of Proserpina designed a fountain depicting the four namesake waterways, and Cardinal Cornaro commissioned him
to create a work featuring an angel thrusting a golden arrow into the breast of the title Spanish mystic. For 10 points,
name this Italian Baroque sculptor of The Fountain of the Four Rivers and The Ecstasy of St. Theresa.
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo Bernini
14. When this statement’s operators are related by Fourier transforms, it can be derived from the Cauchy-Schwarz
inequality. This statement was explained by its namesake in a thought experiment of a gamma-ray microscope. The
Bohr model violates this condition because it assigns a fixed angular momentum to each quantized orbital. One form
of this statement multiples energy and time, and this principle’s most common form sets the product of two standard
deviations as greater than or equal to h-bar over two. For 10 points, name this principle that states it is impossible to
determine the position and momentum of a particle simultaneously, named for a German physicist.
ANSWER: Heisenberg uncertainty principle [prompt on “uncertainty principle”; prompt on “principle of
indeterminacy”]
15. [MODERATOR, please read aloud to teams: “Two answers required.”]
One of these characters frequently rhymes with variants of “Give us this day our daily bread,” while the other
constantly tries to figure out the cardinal directions by the sun. These two characters fail to recognize actors’ clothes
as identical to their own clothes as they watch an enactment of their future deaths. These characters are frustrated
after getting twenty-seven questions and only three answers out of a friend. At the beginning of one work, they flip
heads ninety-two times in a row, and the king summons them to determine the cause of their friend’s apparent
insanity. For 10 points, name these two title characters of a play by Tom Stoppard, two friends of Hamlet.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern [both names required; accept names in either order]
16. The Stalin Notes proposed this action but were rejected because of disagreement over whether this action should
begin with free elections or with peace treaty negotiations. The Two Plus Four Agreement was signed in Moscow a
month before this event. During this event, Lothar de Maizière signed a treaty with Helmut Kohl that included the
abolition of his position as Prime Minister. This event is celebrated on October 3, the anniversary of the date a black,
red and gold flag was hoisted over the Brandenburg Gate. For 10 points, name this 1990 event a year after the fall of
the Berlin Wall, in which a communist country was absorbed into a capitalist country now led by Angela Merkel.
ANSWER: reunification of Germany [accept word forms and obvious equivalents that mention “unifying East
Germany and West Germany”; or deutsche einheit; or deutsche Wiedervereinigung; or herstellung der Einheit
Deutschlands; accept the dissolution of East Germany or word forms or obvious equivalents; prompt on anything
mentioning “fall of the Berlin Wall” or the “opening of the Brandenburg Gate” before mentioned; prompt on
anything mentioning “fall of the Iron Curtain” or “Soviet withdrawal from East Germany”; prompt on “die
Wende”; accept “German Democratic Republic” or “Deutsche Demokratische Republik” or “DDR” for “East
Germany” anywhere; accept “Federal Republic of Germany” or “Bundesrepublik Deutschland” or “BRD” for
“West Germany” anywhere]
17. In response to Siger of Brabant, this man penned “On the Unicity of Intellect,” in which he criticized Averroës,
whom he called “the Commentator” in another work. In a work written to Pope Urban IV, this man put himself in
opposition to the Eastern Church in Contra Errores Graecorum. This scholar described his idea of the “beatific
vision” in one work, in which he also divides the spirit into two parts: rational and irrational, in opposition to Plato.
This author of Summa Contra Gentiles used the “argument of degree” and “argument of the first mover” in his
quinque viae to prove the existence of God. For 10 points, name this medieval Italian theologian, writer of Summa
Theologica.
ANSWER: Thomas Aquinas [or Thomas of Aquino; or Tommaso d’Aquino; prompt on “Thomas”; prompt on
“Doctor Angelicus”; prompt on “Doctor Communis”; prompt on “Doctor Universalis”]

FINALS Packet 2

4

18. An intermediate of this type is formed on a carbon chain during E1 and SN1 reactions. That intermediate is
carbenium and assumes an sp2 hybridized state. A molecular example of this chemical species is arenium, which is
stabilized by pi bond delocalization. Coordination complexes occur when ligands bind to these entities. Metals in
aqueous solutions usually form these chemical species, which tend to have smaller atomic radii than their neutral or
oppositely-charged counterparts because of these species’ relative lack of electrons. A hydrogen form of this type of
species is a bare proton. For 10 points, name these positively charged chemical species, contrasted with anions.
ANSWER: cations [accept “carbocations” before “arenium”; prompt on “positive ions”; do not accept or prompt on
“anion”]
19. One character in this play performs a traditional tribal dance while chanting “OCOMOGOSIAY” (“oh-coh-mohgo-say”). That character is later joined by another character who skips work for three days in order to listen to his
favorite jazz duo at the Green Hat Bar. In this play, a down payment made by the main characters on a house in
Clybourne Park leads to a visit by Karl Lindner. Following advice from Joseph Asagai, one character in this play
straightens her hair; that character is Beneatha. For 10 points, name this play that chronicles the result of a large life
insurance payout received by the Younger family, a work by Lorraine Hansberry.
ANSWER: A Raisin in the Sun
20. In addition to sodium and calcium, this molecule’s conjugate base appears in a solution named for Hartmann.
The diabetic drug Metformin can cause abdominal pain and tachycardia in an acidosis named for this molecule. The
heart can fuel itself with this molecule, which is converted to pyruvate in the liver to eventually reform glucose. That
process, in which this molecule participates as an intermediate, is the Cori Cycle. In the absence of sufficient
oxygen, the human body converts pyruvate to this molecule using its namesake dehydrogenase. For 10 points, name
this product of fermentation that causes athletes pain and is often found in sour milk.
ANSWER: lactic acid [or CH CH(OH)COOH; or lactate; or C H O ; or CH CH(OH)COO ; or milk acid; or 2hydroxypropanoic acid]
3

3

6

3

3

_

TB. The Sealed Knot opposed this man and launched a failed uprising against him led by John Penruddock. This
man defeated David Leslie at the Battle of Dunbar and executed the defenders under Arthur Aston after the Siege of
Drogheda. John Lambert introduced the “Instrument of Government” to give this man his most well-known position.
He assisted Thomas Fairfax in a victory at the Battle of Naseby in his command of the New Model Army. Later, he
dissolved the Rump Parliament and replaced it with the Barebones Parliament. For 10 points, name this victor of the
English Civil War and “Lord Protector” of England who created the Commonwealth of England.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell

FINALS Packet 2

5

FINALS Packet 2: Bonuses
1. During this time, one may not eat until one cannot distinguish a black thread from a white one. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this month, during which all Muslims must fast between sunrise and sunset. Eid al-Fitr celebrates the end
of this month and breaking of the fast.
ANSWER: Ramadan
[10] During this holiday, the last ten days of Ramadan, Muslims stay up during the night in order to gain wisdom
from God. It commemorates the period in which Muhammad received his first revelation from God.
ANSWER: Leyla al-Qadr [or Night of Power]
[10] The Eid-al-Adha, which honors Abraham’s sacrifice of Ishmael, is celebrated at the end of this pilgrimage, one
of the five pillars of Islam.
ANSWER: hajj [prompt on answers containing “Muslim pilgrimage”]
2. Name some United States National Parks, for 10 points each.
[10] This National Park is located in Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. This park has the highest concentration of
geysers in the world, including Old Faithful.
ANSWER: Yellowstone National Park
[10] This National Park, off the coast of Florida, protects the unfinished Civil War-era Fort Jefferson. The park’s
name was partially coined by Ponce de Leon, who caught many turtles here.
ANSWER: Dry Tortugas National Park
[10] Located in Arkansas, this National Park ark is the smallest in area. Named for a geological feature consisting of
warm water coming up for the ground, this park has many spas on its “Bathhouse Row.”
ANSWER: Hot Springs National Park
3. Before the age of the TI-84, various devices were used for mathematical computation. For 10 points each:
[10] This ancient device records numerals by sliding beads on rods. The Chinese version of this device is called the
suanpan.
ANSWER: abacuses [or abaci; or counting frames]
[10] This Englishman created a difference engine that tabulates polynomials, and he designed an analytical engine
that uses punched cards. His other calculating machines ran on steam.
ANSWER: Charles Babbage
[10] This hypothetical device was invented to represent an “ideal computing device” that could simulate any
computer algorithm. It operates by reading a symbol on an inserted tape and responds based on a set of rules.
ANSWER: Turing machine
4. Benjamin Franklin used this term to describe societies that were drastically different from his. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this word, which as a noun paired with the adjective “noble,” describes the Native Americans. As an
adjective, this word describes a “Mind” in the title of a work that discusses “social bricolage.”
ANSWER: savage [accept noble savage or bon sauvage; accept The Savage Mind or La Pensée sauvage]
[10] This philosopher is often misattributed with the phrase “noble savage” because of his Discourse on the Origins
of Inequality Among Men. He also described the title bond between government and citizen in The Social Contract.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] This French anthropologist described his idea of “social bricolage” in The Savage Mind. This author declared
that “myth is language” in Mythologiques, and his memoir Tristes Tropiques concerns his fieldwork in Brazil.
ANSWER: Claude Lévi-Strauss

FINALS Packet 2

6

5. In the two-part season two finale of this cartoon series, Twilight Sparkle’s brother Shining Armor marries
Princess Celestia’s niece, Princess Cadance (“CAY-dence”). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this cartoon series about the unicorn Twilight Sparkle and her friends Rainbow Dash, Rarity, Fluttershy,
Applejack, and Pinkie Pie. It has become popular with adult male fans known as “bronies.”
ANSWER: My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic [do not accept “My Little Pony ’n Friends”]
[10] This animator was storyboard artist and supervising director for The Powerpuff Girls and the developer of
Foster’s Home for Imaginary Friends. She executive produced Season One of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic.
ANSWER: Lauren Faust
[10] This other television series focuses on the Land of Ooo (“ooh”), where two heroes, Jake the Dog and Finn the
Human, protect Princess Bubblegum and her Candy Kingdom from enemies such as the Lich and the Ice King.
ANSWER: Adventure Time with Finn and Jake
6. The Hall-Héroult process produces this element industrially by dissolving an oxide of this element in molten
cryolite. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this metal present in the ore bauxite that is refined industrially in the Bayer process.
ANSWER: aluminum [or Al]
[10] This chemical reaction uses a strong Lewis acid, often aluminum trichloride, to ionize a substituent and catalyze
its attachment to an aromatic ring. This reaction comes in “alkylation” and “acylation” varieties.
ANSWER: Friedel-Crafts reaction [or Friedel-Crafts alkylation; or Friedel-Crafts acylation]
[10] In the Gatterman-Koch reaction, hydrochloric acid and this poisonous gas are used in situ with the FriedelCrafts reaction. This gas is produced as a result of the partial combustion of wood and fuels such as oil.
ANSWER: carbon monoxide [or CO]
7. Ping, Pang, and Pong urge one character in this work not to ring the gong for the title character. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this opera, in which the Prince of Tartary falls in love with the title Chinese princess and answers three
riddles to gain her hand.
ANSWER: Turandot
[10] Turandot is an opera by this composer of Madama Butterfly, Tosca, and La bohème.
ANSWER: Giacomo Puccini
[10] In Turandot, the Prince of Tartary sings this tenor aria on the night after answering Turandot’s riddles, claiming
that “No one shall know my name” and that “None shall sleep.”
ANSWER: “Nessun dorma”
8. This building has a floor plan in the shape of a rose, which was its dedicatee’s favorite flower. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Indian mausoleum of white marble. Its commissioner may have wanted to construct a black version
for himself, on the opposite shore of the river on which it stood.
ANSWER: Taj Mahal [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This Mughal emperor commissioned the Taj Mahal for his third wife, Mumtaz Mahal. This son of Akbar also
paid for the construction of the Red Fort, after he moved his capital from Agra to Delhi.
ANSWER: Shah Jahan I [or A’la Azad Abul Muzaffar Shahab ud-Din Mohammad Khurram]
[10] Shah Jahan was deposed by this man, his son, who strayed away from Akbar’s policies of religious toleration.
ANSWER: Abul Muzaffar Muhi-ud-Din Mohammad Aurangzeb [or Alamgir]
9. This process has primary and secondary varieties, depending on the ecological disturbance that precedes it. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this process during which plants populate a barren area of land or reclaim an ecosystem that has suffered
environmental damage.
ANSWER: ecological succession
[10] This form of succession does not begin with a form of disturbance to a community but instead characterizes
how a few species gradually replace each other over time in an ecosystem.
ANSWER: cyclic succession
[10] This concept, developed by Frederic Clements, describes a “mature” ecosystem that has reached an
equilibrium. The ecosystem intermediates that precede this concept are referred to as seral communities.
ANSWER: climatic climax

FINALS Packet 2

7

10. In this author’s Baltasar and Blimunda, two lovers meet such historical figures as Bartolomeu de Gusmão and
Domenico Scarlatti. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who wrote about the spreading of the title epidemic in another novel, Blindness.
ANSWER: José de Sousa Saramago
[10] Saramago is from this Iberian country, whose other works of literature include Luís Vaz de Camões’ epic
poem, The Lusiads.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]
[10] Saramago wrote a work named The Gospel According to [this figure], whose father was crucified after being
mistaken for a zealot. The title character finds that he has the ability to catch multitudes of fish while at the Sea of
Galilee.
ANSWER: Jesus Christ [accept either underlined name; or Jesus of Nazareth; or Jesus Cristo; accept any
underlined part in The Gospel According to Jesus Christ or O Evangelho Segundo Jesus Cristo]
11. Africa has some interesting sites of antiquity aside from the Pyramids. For 10 points each:
[10] This Malian city was the site of the royal palace of the Mali Empire. Some Sufi shrines in this city were
destroyed by Islamists in 2012.
ANSWER: Timbuktu [or Tombouctou; or Tumbutu]
[10] Construction of this Southern African site, the capital of its namesake kingdom, started in the 11th century, and
it is most notable for its huge mortarless stone enclosure. This site is also known for its soapstone bird sculptures.
ANSWER: Great Zimbabwe
[10] This site was the capital of the Kingdom of Kush, on the east bank of the Nile. This location is most notable for
its over two hundred pyramids, which were built starting in the 3rd century BC to serve as tombs for Kushite kings.
ANSWER: Meroë [or Meroe]
12. This man said some very naughty things in his namesake sixteenth poem. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman poet who tells Rufus that girls flee from him due to the donkey under his armpit in one work.
In another of this man’s poems, he eulogized the dead sparrow of his girlfriend Lesbia.
ANSWER: Gaius Valerius Catullus
[10] Catullus’ Carmen 51 is almost a direct translation of this Greek poetess’ Poem 31. Known as “the Tenth Muse,”
she notably lived on the island of Lesbos, from which Catullus created his girlfriend’s alias.
ANSWER: Sappho
[10] In Poems 29 and 57, Catullus mocks the patronage of a rival poet by this man, implying that the pair had
engaged in a homosexual affair after this general defeated the Celtic chieftain Vercingetorix in the Gallic War,
before becoming Dictator of Rome.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar
13. In photography, increasing this value leads to a higher magnification of the subject. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this measure of how strongly an optical system converges or diverges light, which is the distance over
which collimated light is focused in air. This value is half the radius of curvature for a spherically curved mirror.
ANSWER: focal length
[10] A lens is described by this adjective if its surface curves inward, as contrasted with a convex lens.
ANSWER: concave
[10] This is the name of an image in which the outgoing rays from a point on the object always diverge, which
reverses the reflected image of an object. This type of image is produced by a flat mirror.
ANSWER: virtual image

FINALS Packet 2

8

14. This family was established by the 8th Count of Barcelos and included Catherine, the wife of Charles II of
England. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this family, whose members included Maria I and Manuel II, who ruled Portugal between 1640 and
1910. This family also ruled Brazil between 1822 and 1889.
ANSWER: Most Serene House of Braganza [or Sereníssima Casa de Bragança]
[10] During the Napoleonic Wars, the House of Braganza fled to this Brazilian city, from which the court ruled in
exile. It is now the second-largest city in Brazil and was the capital of Brazil until the founding of Brasilia.
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro
[10] Following an event of this type in Lisbon, the Marquis de Pombal directed relief efforts. That event of this type
also made King Joseph I paranoid of living in walled buildings, prompting him to live in a tent.
ANSWER: earthquake [accept Great Lisbon Earthquake of 1755]
15. In the upper right-hand corner of this painting, a skeleton prepares to decapitate a blindfolded, kneeling man. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this Pieter Bruegel the Elder painting in which a horde of skeletons commit atrocities against the living,
including hanging them, breaking them on wheels, drowning them, and ruining their feast.
ANSWER: The Triumph of Death [or De triomf van de dood]
[10] This Venetian painter’s Salome shows the title figure in a red cloak giving side-eye to the severed head in her
arms. His paintings Venus of Urbino and Sacred and Profane Love do not feature beheadings of any sort.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio]
[10] This friar and painter of the early Italian Renaissance, who has been officially beatified by the Roman Catholic
Church, painted The Beheading of Cosmas and Damian, as well as The Annunciation.
ANSWER: Fra Giovanni Angelico [both underlined parts required; or Guido di Pietro; or Fra Giovanni da Fiesole;
prompt on “il Beato Angelico”]
16. The narrator of this novel calls himself “the Large,” causing Stanley Kubrick to give him the last name DeLarge
in the film adaptation of this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Alex is sentenced to fourteen years in prison after leading a gang with Dim, Pete, and
Georgie. Characters in this work speak nadsat, an argot based on Russian and Cockney English.
ANSWER: A Clockwork Orange
[10] This author of A Clockwork Orange wrote about the fictional Pope Gregory XVI in the novel Earthly Powers
and translated into English works such as Cyrano de Bergerac, Oedipus the King, and Carmen.
ANSWER: John Anthony Burgess Wilson
[10] This therapy technique, administered by Dr. Brodsky in A Clockwork Orange, subjects patients to watching
violent scenes while taking nausea-inducing medicine, creating an aversion to committing acts of violence.
ANSWER: Ludovico’s Technique
17. The dragon Nidhogg gnaws at the base of this object. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Norse world tree, which is inhabited by the squirrel Ratatosk and four stags. Odin hung himself for
nine days and nights from this tree in his quest for knowledge.
ANSWER: Yggdrasil
[10] While being pursued by Apollo, the nymph Daphne prayed to her father Peneus, who turned her into this tree.
Victors of the Pythian Games were crowned with a wreath made from the leaves this plant.
ANSWER: bay laurel
[10] Erysichthon cut down an oak tree in the grove of this goddess, killing a nymph that guarded the tree. As a
result, this goddess sent Limos to plague Erysichthon, eventually causing him to eat himself.
ANSWER: Demeter [or Ceres]

FINALS Packet 2
18. This institution was especially opposed during the Vietnam War because of the number of Baby Boomers
coming of age. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this system of mandatory military service, which many people travelled to Canada to “dodge.” Nixon
ended this institution, and Carter replaced it with Selective Service.
ANSWER: the draft [or conscription; accept obvious equivalents]
[10] In this case, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of three students suspended for wearing black armbands in
protest. The Court held that the school may only censor student speech to protect other students’ rights.
ANSWER: Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School District [or 393 US 503; or John F. Tinker and
Mary Beth Tinker, minors, by their father and next friend, Leonard Tinker and Christopher Eckhardt, minor, by his
father and next friend, William Eckhardt v. The Des Moines Independent Community School District, et al.]
[10] Opposition towards the Vietnam War increased after this event, in which American troops killed villagers in
two settlements of Sơn Mỹ (“son-mee”) village suspected of harboring the Forty-eighth Battalion of the Vietcong.
ANSWER: My Lai Massacre [or thảm sát Mỹ Lai]
19. This author described Kwei-lan’s brother marrying the American girl Mary in her novel East Wind: West Wind.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Nobel Prize Winner who described Wang Lung’s journey from rags to riches as he buys land using
stolen money in her novel The Good Earth.
ANSWER: Pearl Sydenstricker Buck [or Sai Zhenzhu]
[10] This other American novelist whose works are infused with Chinese culture depicted Winnie Louie’s escape
from her abusive husband Wen Fu in The Kitchen God’s Wife.
ANSWER: Amy Tan
[10] This Amy Tan novel consists of narratives told by members of the title group as they play mahjong. Jing-Mei
struggles to fulfill her mother’s expectations for her to become a child prodigy, but they eventually reconcile.
ANSWER: The Joy Luck Club
20. The narrator begins this work by saying, “I cannot remember everything. I must have been unconscious most of
the time.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Holocaust cantata for narrator, men’s chorus, and orchestra. The police’s demands for a headcount,
represented by the narrator’s German interjections, are countered by the chorus singing Shema Yisrael.
ANSWER: A Survivor from Warsaw, Op. 46
[10] This Austrian composer of A Survivor from Warsaw wrote the string sextet Transfigured Night and the opera
Moses und Aron.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg [or Arnold Schönberg]
[10] Schoenberg developed this compositional technique that uses every pitch in the chromatic scale. Tone rows
within this technique divert emphasis from any particular note and are manipulated into transformations.
ANSWER: twelve-tone technique [or dodecaphony; or twelve-tone serialism; or twelve-note composition; accept
obvious equivalents; prompt on “serialism”]

9

