United States Geography Olympiad Final Round

1. This map line is crossed by a continuous nature preserve known on one side as Blackwater River State
Forest and the other as Conecuh National Forest. This boundary runs north-south along the eastern side of
Baldwin County, and is mostly parallel to the "Redneck Riviera." The Perdido River was the end of the
"Addition of 1812" that created the "foot" on the west of this boundary. A bar sitting on Perdido Key has
space on both sides of this border, which runs through an area often jokingly referred to as "L.A." and is
just a few miles west of Pensacola. For the point, identify this boundary which mostly runs east-west and
separates the western side of a panhandle from another state.
ANSWER: the border between Alabama and Florida [order not important, but do not accept or prompt if
only one answer is given]
019-13-94-33101

2. The Rondout, Neversink, and Ashokan reservoirs are among the artificial lakes in these mountains. The
northern portion of these mountains are the Helderberg Hills, and the Blackhead range in these mountains
is the location of Thomas Cole Mountain. The highest point of these mountains is Slide Mountain. Several
resorts in these mountains were the location of early stand-up comedy shows in the so-called borscht belt,
and Rip Van Winkle fell asleep in these mountains in a Washington Irving story. For the point, name these
mountains of the Appalachian system that are bounded by the Mohawk and Hudson river valleys and
located in southeastern New York.
ANSWER: Catskill Mountains
030-13-94-33102

3. The head of this country's dominant political party has begun the suburban development project of
Camko City. This country's main opposition is the Sam Rainsy (SAHM RANG-see) Party, and this
country's leader was criticized in the 2000s for the forced eviction of thousands of citizens after selling land
to foreign investors. This country was the site of a 1997 coup and purge against the royalist Funcinpec
party. This country is led by the dictatorial Hun Sen, who has been in power since 1985. For the point,
name this country whose ruling cadre was once called the "Kampuchean People's Party."
ANSWER: Kingdom of Cambodia [or Kampuchea until it is read]
052-13-94-33103

4. The "father" of this location was an Oklahoma businessman named Cyrus Avery. A song about it notes
"don't forget Winona" and that "Oklahoma City is mighty pretty."This multi-state location was the site of
the first drive-through restaurant and the first McDonald's. This road was removed from the Highway
System in 1985 after it was effectively replaced by the Interstate Highway System. A Bobby Troup song
invited listeners to "get their kicks on" this location. For the point, name this famous highway running from
Chicago to Santa Monica, once known as the "Main Street of America."
ANSWER: U.S. Route 66 [or Will Rogers Highway]
052-13-94-33104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 1 of 18

5. An indentation into this body was known as the Bay of Whales, and that bay was eliminated by a 1987
event. The base for Operation High Jump was located on this body and was known as Little America IV. Its
namesake first spotted it in 1841, and its anchor points include a similarly-named island and the Edward
VIII Peninsula. The McMurdo Sound region is on the western edge of this body, which was the
headquarters for Robert Falcon Scott's 1911-1912 sledding expedition, and its eastern barrier was the
starting point of Roald Amundsen's 1911 visit to the South Pole. For the point, name this indentation into
Antarctica that is the world's largest body of floating ice.
ANSWER: Ross Ice Shelf [prompt on “Antarctica”]
030-13-94-33105

6. In a conflict regarding this geographical feature, Deputy Sheriff Joseph Wood was stabbed by "Two
Stickney," the son of a rebellious major. Turtle Island in the Maumee River straddles it. This geographical
feature was disputed by Governors Robert Lucas and Stevens Mason, necessitating a convention that gave
one side valuable copper mines in the Keweenaw. After a bloodless war, this boundary was set when the
northern state received statehood and almost all of the Upper Peninsula. For the point, name this once
disputed geographical boundary between two Midwestern states, a dispute that centered on the city of
Toledo.
ANSWER: the Michigan-Ohio border [or the Ohio-Michigan border; prompt on Toledo until it is read]
052-13-94-33106

7. A people from this mountain range worship the sun god Tao Jreeku. The San Martin de Bolanos mining
community is located in this range. The Tepehuan Revolt occurred in this mountain range. Indigenous
people of this range include the Huichol and the Raramuri, who are known for their long-distance running.
The town of El Salto is south of one location in this range. Basaseachic Falls and Copper Canyon are
located in this mountain range. This mountain range runs from the Arizona-Sonoran Desert border to its
"del Sur" subrange. For the point, name this mountain range of western Mexico.
ANSWER: Sierra Madre Occidental
186-13-94-33107

8. This American city was where Edward Backus pushed for the building of a hydroelectric dam at
Koochiching Falls. It is the major city near Voyageurs National Park. In 2008, this city obtained an official
patent for its slogan, defeating longtime rival, Fraser, Colorado, for that right. This city has a nickname in
which the first word in its name is replaced with “Frostbite,” referencing the fact it is likely the inspiration
for Rocky and Bullwinkle’s hometown. It is located on the Rainy River directly across from Ontario’s Fort
Frances. For the point, name this Minnesota city known as the “Icebox of the Nation” for its extremely
cold temperatures.
ANSWER: International Falls
052-13-94-33108

9. On a holiday observed in this country, people play backgammon or ride horses and engage in a ritual of
throwing away leftover green vegetables which are said to collect sickness and bad fates of the coming
year. That holiday here is primarily observed by leaving cities and spending the day outdoors, and is known
as "Giving Away the Thirteenth." This country observes the midwinter bonfire festival Sadeh and the
autumn festival Mehregan, and eats fruit on the winter solstice holiday Yalda. The Haft Sin meal is served
on the first day of its Hijri calendar, which is called Nowruz. For the point, name this country where several
Zoroastrian holidays have taken on Islamic connotations.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran]
019-13-94-33109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 2 of 18

10. When E. Cardon Walker dedicated this location in April 1983, he said he hoped it would be a “symbol
of the spirit of cooperation and friendship” between nations. An entertainment complex at this location is
Ikspiari, which is close to the Maihama train station. This location’s entrance area is a shopping center
called the “World Bazaar,” which is similar to the American counterpart, “Main Street U.S.A.” It is the
third most visited theme park in the world behind the Magic Kingdom and a park with the same name in
Anaheim. For the point, name this theme park in Japan which features Cinderella Castle.
ANSWER: Tokyo Disneyland
052-13-94-33110

11. This race takes place on a circuit includes an s-shaped Piscine section and a bend at the Bureau de
Tabac. In the 1960s, the nicknames of Graham Hill were earned by his five victories in six attempts at this
race. Ayrton Senna won this race a record six times. This race's last corner is named for the man who
started it in 1929, Anthony Noghes. This race takes place on the shortest of all Formula 1 tracks, and it
passes underneath the Fairmont Hotel through a tunnel. For the point, name this Formula 1 race that takes
place on the streets of Monte Carlo in its namesake principality.
ANSWER: Monaco Grand Prix [or Grand Prix de Monaco; do not accept "Monte Carlo"]
023-13-94-33111

12. The city of Nyala in this region is home to one of the three branches of the Amel Center for Treatment
and Rehabilitation for Torture Victims. The highest point of a country is located in this region at the Deriba
Crater, which is part of this region's Marra Mountains. The Masalit, Zaghawa, and Fur people in this region
were targeted in the 2000s after a raid on an air base in Al-Fashir in this region was carried out in part by
the Justice and Equality Movement. This region was where Janjaweed forces were used by Omar al-Bashir.
For the point, name this region where hundreds of thousands of people have been killed and millions
displaced since 2003 in Sudan.
ANSWER: Darfur
023-13-94-33112

13. This mountain is believed to have the largest circumference of any mountain in the world, and the
Hubbard Glacier begins at this mountain. This peak rises above the Seward Glacier and is located in the St.
Elias Mountains. It was named for the founder of its nation's geological survey, and it is located in the
Kluane National Park and Reserve. This mountain was proposed to be renamed for Pierre Trudeau
following Trudeau's death in 2000, though that plan was scuttled. For the point, name this 19,551 foot peak
that is located in the Yukon Territory that is the second highest peak in North American and the highest
peak in Canada.
ANSWER: Mount Logan
030-13-94-33113

14. This political viewpoint was the pet issue of Joe Vogler, whose supporters allege he was murdered
before he could address the United Nations. Prior to his death, Vogler said he would be buried in Dawson
and not returned home until this philosophy reached fruition. Former members of a third party named for
this viewpoint include a four-time champion of the Tesoro Iron Dog race and the current mayor of Wasilla.
In 2008, reports surfaced that Todd Palin, Sarah Palin's husband, was once a member of that
aforementioned party advocating this cause. For the point, name this political movement which seeks to
turn the largest state in the U.S. into its own country.
ANSWER: Alaskan independence movement [or Alaskan secession or other equivalents]
052-13-94-33114

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 3 of 18

15. In 1915, this city hired "rainmaker" Charles Hatfield to produce enough rain to fill a reservoir. A
museum here contains the bronze cannon "El Jupiter" that was once used to defend it. George Marston
funded the Junipero Serra Museum in this city. Numerous military bases are located in this American city,
including the largest naval fleet in the world. It is home to Naval Base Point Loma and a historic fort
founded in 1769 called the Presidio. This city is home to the suburb of Rancho Bernardo. For the point,
name this second largest city in California, which forms a metropolitan center with Tijuana, Mexico.
ANSWER: San Diego
052-13-94-33115

16. The indigenous people living in this country's highlands are variously known as the "Degar" or
"Montagnards." This country contains the remains of the Cu Chi tunnel complexes. This country continues
to claim the Paracel Islands taken from it by China in 1974. Slightly under a quarter of this country's
population is concentrated in the Red River Delta. This country extends in an "S" shape from its northern
border with China to the southern Gulf of Thailand. For the point, name this country in southeast Asia
where the United States fought a costly war in the late '60s and early '70s.
ANSWER: Vietnam
080-13-94-33116

17. A sporting event that originated in this country consisted of throwing a ninety-pound, seventeen-foot
log into the air so that it lands oriented in the opposite direction; that sport is called "tossing the caber." In
this country's distinctive law system, based both on Roman law and common law, the supreme court is the
Court of Sessions. This birthplace of Presbyterianism has its religious life governed by the Kirk. This
country's people call its estuaries "firths" and its coastal indentations "lochs." For the point, name this
northernmost country in the United Kingdom known for its highlands and kilts.
ANSWER: Scotland [prompt on the United Kingdom]
080-13-94-33117

18. This region was home to the Warsangali Sultanate and the state of Ajuuraan, which used this region's
Shebelle and Jubba rivers for trade. A 2007 raid on an oil field on this peninsula took place in its town of
Abole. A coastal plain on this peninsula has the name Guban, meaning "burnt," and from that plain rises the
Galgodon Highlands. A capital city and port on this peninsula sit on the Gulf of Tadjoura, and it includes
the Ogaden Basin. For the point, identify this peninsula that is named for its shape and holds the countries
Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti, and Somalia.
ANSWER: Horn of Africa
023-13-94-33118

19. This city contains a water-management court which has held sessions for over a thousand years. This
city names a province where an annual tomato-throwing fight is held each August. This city contains the
eye-shaped glass dome for the Hemisferic building for its City of Arts and Sciences complex, designed by
hometown architect Santiago Calatrava. The octagonal Micalet bell tower of a cathedral called the Seu is in
this city, which contains the Albufera lagoon, and lies on the banks of the Turia river. Its culinary exports
include a saffron-containing rice dish called paella (pay- EY-yah). For the point, name this city on the
eastern coast of Spain.
ANSWER: Valencia
104-13-94-33119

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 4 of 18

20. A legend about residents of this building states that astronomer John Flamsteed objected to animals
flying past his telescope, which led to them having their wings clipped. The "noted desperado" Colonel
Thomas Blood tried to steal some treasure from this building, which has six ravens placed here at all times
due to the belief that if they are not, the kingdom will fall. The youthful Edward V and Richard of
Shrewsbury were known as the "princes in" this building. The Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom are
stored here. For the point, name this historic castle on the north bank of the River Thames, used as a
notorious prison in the sixteenth century.
ANSWER: Tower of London [or Her Majesty’s Royal Palace and Fortress]
052-13-94-33120

21. This country's unicameral parliament ensures that underrepresented groups have a say by having eight
slots for the "best losers." Rodrigues and Saint Brandon are part of this country's economic exclusion zone.
The depopulation of Diego Garcia to create a US military base intensified this country's dispute with the
UK over sovereignty of the Chagos islands. As a penal colony for the Dutch, this country saw the
introduction of pigs, monkeys, and rats, which, coupled with the Portuguese introduction of dogs, spelled
the extinction of a species in 1681. For the point, name this island country, once home to the dodo.
ANSWER: Republic of Mauritius [or Republique de Maurice]
020-13-94-33121

22. An activist for one of these groups, Theresa Spence, engaged in a hunger strike in 2012 in support of
the Idle No More movement, which seeks to support the interests of these groups. A school under the
continuous administration of these groups was established in Blue Quills in 1971. Ovide Mercredi is a
longtime activist for these groups and participated in the 1992 Charlottetown Accord, which would have
instituted self-government and treaty review for these peoples. This term is not the preferred nomenclature
for the Metis and Inuit peoples of the country in which these peoples reside. For the point, give this term
that refers to the Native American peoples of Canada.
ANSWER: First Nations peoples [prompt on Canadian Native Americans; prompt on Canadian Indians;
prompt on other descriptive answers]
030-13-94-33122

23. This state is the location of a complex that contains three stelae dedicated to the ruler Chan Muan at
Bonampak. The Grijalva River is sometimes known as the Rio Grande of this state and forms part of this
state's border with Tabasco, and the capital of this state is Tuxtla. Also the location of the Temple of the
Inscriptions at the Mayan city of Palenque, this state was the location of a guerrilla group headquartered in
the Lancadon rainforest that was led by the pipe-smoking, bemasked Subcommander Marcos. For the point,
name this state in southern Mexico that is bordered to the east by Guatemala and is the location of the
Zapatista National Liberation Army.
ANSWER: Chiapas
030-13-94-33123

24. At this location, John Croghan ran a tuberculosis hospital until he died of tuberculosis, having
erroneously believed conditions here could cure it. Floyd Collins became trapped in a sub-location at this
place and died in 1925. It is primarily located in Edmonson County, and visitors to it can take the Echo
River Tour and hear about things such as Frozen Niagara and Fat Man’s Misery. This location has over
400 miles of surveyed passageways, which makes it over twice as long as Mexico’s Sac Actun system. For
the point, name this longest cave system in the world, a U.S. National Park in Kentucky.
ANSWER: Mammoth Cave [or Crystal Cave]
052-13-94-33124

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 5 of 18

25. In 2006, Anna Hingley set a record long thought dormant by becoming the first woman to perform this
action using a horse. In 2002, the World Solar Challenge spurred several solar-powered cars to perform this
action. A disastrous attempt to perform this action by Robert Burke and William Wills led to three deaths in
1861, and this action was first performed without loss of life by John McDouall Stuart. This action laid out
the route for the Overland Telegraph line, and it was not performed by a train in the north-south direction
until 2012. For the point, identify this action of travelling from Broome to Cairns or Darwin to Adelaide,
traversing the inhospitable Australian interior.
ANSWER: crossing the Outback [or crossing Australia until it is read]
019-13-94-33125

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 6 of 18

2nd Third

26. This place is the location of a country's only oil field at Manantiales, and its native peoples were the
Ona, Yahgan, and Alacaluf. An island called Staten Island is separated from this group by Le Maire Strait,
and its mountains include Monte Darwin. An underwater ridge in the Scotia Sea connects this formation
with Palmer Land. Its main island is separated from Navarino and Hoste by the Beagle Channel, and its city
of Ushuaia is the southernmost city in the world. Cape Horn is located in this group, and this island group
is separated from the mainland by the Strait of Magellan. For the point, name this archipelago on the
southern end off of South America.
ANSWER: Tierra del Fuego
030-13-94-33126

27. The city of Berbera lies on this body of water. The Gulf of Tadjoura, at the westernmost edge of this
body of water, lies adjacent to Lake Assal. The Maritime Security Patrol Area was organized in this body
of water by Combined Task Force 150. The Sheba ridge passes under this body of water, and was formed
by seafloor spreading between the easternmost plates in the Afar triple junction. Its northwestern terminus
is the Bab el Mandeb. This so-called "Pirate Alley" makes up the entirety of Djibouti's coastline. For the
point, name this gulf south of the Red Sea that separates Somalia from Yemen.
ANSWER: Gulf of Aden
190-13-94-33127

28. People who take part in these performances are known as "disciples of the Pear Garden." Those people
who take part in these performances can also display different emotions or actions through the use of water
sleeves. A form of this type of performance makes use of melodies called qu-pai, and it also has two
different orchestra sections called wuchang and wenchang. In 1960, Wu Han wrote Hai Rui Dismissed from
Office for this type of performance. For the point, name this type of performance whose regional variants
include the Peking type, which mixes music and drama.
ANSWER: Chinese operas [or traditional Chinese theater; or xiqu; accept Chinese music drama before
"music"]
023-13-94-33128

29. The namesake people of this country have traditionally been divided into the Tekke, Ersari, and Yomut
clans. The capital of this country faced chronic water shortages prior to the Karakum Canal's reaching it in
1962. The entire central portion of this country consists of the Karakum Desert. A dictator of this country
constructed the Neutrality Arch, which included a gold statue of his likeness that was designed to
continuously face the sun and he attempted to build a $6 billion lake.That dictator of this nation made an
epic of his life, the Rukhnama, required readings in this nation's schools and was Saparmurad Niyazov. For
the point, name this Central Asian country with capital at Ashgabat.
ANSWER: Turkmenistan
030-13-94-33129

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 7 of 18

30. An island in this lake has a namesake Princess cruise boat for carrying tourists. In addition to being the
site of Dodi Island, this lake is also located next to the border of Digya National Park. Triton Logging owns
the largest underwater logging license for the trees submerged in this lake. The original plan for building a
dam to form this lake was created by Albert Ernest Kitson. This lake receives water from Black and White
rivers of the same name, and its namesake river was used to create this lake through the Akosombo Dam.
For the point, name this largest manmade lake by surface area, which is located in Ghana.
ANSWER: Lake Volta
023-13-94-33130

31. Jane Jacobs criticized this city's neighborhood of Chatham Village for creating a homogenous
community separate from the rest of the city. A university in this city contains the tallest educational
building in the Western Hemisphere, the Cathedral of Learning. The Duquesne Incline on Mount
Washington is one of its two funicular railways. The Clayton mansion in this city's Point Breeze
neighborhood once belonged to Henry Clay Frick, who was chairman of the Carnegie Steel Company.
Andrew Carnegie founded a university here now also named for Andrew Mellon. For the point, name this
city in western Pennsylvania.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
121-13-94-33131

32. Edward Abbey recounted being a ranger of this park in the memoir Desert Solitaire. Hungarian-born
prospector Alexander Ringhoffer first discovered an area in this national park with many erosion-produced
rock fins, which he termed the Devil's Garden, but which is now known as the Klondike Bluffs. Popular
locations in this park include a gigantic Balanced Rock, as well as a landmark nicknamed "delicate" that is
popular as a screensaver choice for Windows users everywhere. For the point, name this national park in
Utah, known for its many natural bridging formations.
ANSWER: Arches National Park
020-13-94-33132

33. A member of this non-literary group wrote the autobiography Before Night Falls which discussed his
time spent at El Morro Castle. The initial members crashed through the gates of a Peruvian embassy in the
suburb of Miramar. Members of this group included the MTV star Pedro Zamora and the homosexual poet
Reinaldo Arenas. Some members were assisted on their trip by the USS Saipan. Jimmy Carter was
embarrassed when it was revealed that most of this group consisted of exiles from jails and mental health
facilities selected by Fidel Castro. For the point, name this group of Cubans who arrived in the United
States by boat in 1980.
ANSWER: Mariel boatlift refugees [prompt on Cuban refugees]
052-13-94-33133

34. One face of this building contains the inscription "If heaven can be on the face of earth, It is this, It is
this, It is this." Pavilions named Sawan and Bhadon, the two rainy months in monsoon season, surround the
"life-restoring garden" in this structure. This structure also contains the "hall of private audiences," or the
"diwan-i-khas," where men like Bahadur Shah II received guests. The Lahori Gate is the main entrance to
this structure, from whose ramparts the prime minister delivers a speech every Indian independence day.
For the point, name this former residence of the Mughal emperors, a tourist attraction in Delhi named for
its colorful sandstone walls.
ANSWER: Red Fort
020-13-94-33134

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 8 of 18

35. Eugen Fischer used the children of these people as test subjects for his racial experiments. This was the
initial people imprisoned at the Shark Island camp. This people joined the Nama under Hendrik Witbooi in
a revolt. Under a leader named Samuel, they lost the Battle of Waterberg, after which Lothar von Trotha
proclaimed that any one of them found within enemy borders would be shot. The Germans drove this
people into the Omaheke desert in 1904, where thousands died of thirst. For the point, name this ethnic
group primarily found in Namibia that suffered one of the first genocides in the twentieth century.
ANSWER: Herero
052-13-94-33135

36. A channel with this name lies between Cape Catoche and Cape San Antonio. A ruin on the side of a
mountain in a state with this name is called the Nine Masks. A state of this name is the site of the Loltun
Caves in its Puuc Region. That same state with this name has a port city called Progreso, which is located
near the impact site for a crater generally named after the village Chicxulub. The city of Merida is the
capital of a state with this name, and the Campeche Bank runs along the coast of a peninsula with this
name. For the point, identify this name held by a state and peninsula in Mexico that are the locations of
Chichen Itza and Cancun.
ANSWER: Yucatan
023-13-94-33136

37. General Alexander Lebed led the 14th Army in support of this region, destroying an opposing army in
the Gerbovetskii Forest. This region actually controls the city of Bender, which is de iure under the Joint
Control Commission. This region uses the ruble as currency rather than the leu. Tiraspol is the major city of
this region which retains Russian as an official language and opposed a feared union with Romania. For the
point, name this state that has mostly broken away from Moldova and is named for the river that runs
through Moldova and flows into the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Transnistria [or Transdnistria]
080-13-94-33137

38. One city in this state is the location of a road called the Panchakosi and hosts a five day dhrupad
festival at the Tulsi Ghat. The capital of this state is located on the Gomati River and is the namesake of a
historic agreement between the Congress Party and Muslim League. The main industrial city of this state is
Kanpur, and this state is the location of the sacred city of Varanasi. A mausoleum for Mumtaz that was
commissioned by Shah Jahan is located in this state's city of Agra, and the capital of this state is Lucknow.
For the point, name this state that is the most populous state in India and is bordered by the state of Madhya
Pradesh to the south.
ANSWER: Uttar Pradesh
030-13-94-33138

39. The population of Nkombo Island, near this country's western border, speaks the hybrid Amashi dialect.
It is home to the active volcano Mount Bisoke and the dormant Mount Karisimbi, both of which are part of
the eastern Virunga Mountains. The southwest border of this nation is marked by the Ruzizi River, which is
part of the Albertine Rift. This country contains the eastern half of Lake Kivu, while the Democratic
Republic of Congo controls the western portion. For the point, identify this African country north of
Burundi which saw a 1990 civil war between the Hutus and Tutsis.
ANSWER: Republic of Rwanda
236-13-94-33139

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 9 of 18

40. Sergei Naumov reported on the controversial agricultural conditions of this country in 2013, but was in
jail when six-year-old Amirbek Rakhmatov suffocated during a harvest. In September 2013, this country
was given 220 million dollars by the Asian Development Bank for irrigation improvements, which human
rights groups say should be contingent on ending the practice of forcing children to work in its harvests.
This country's major export is known as "oq oltin" or "white gold" here, and is boycotted by several major
corporations under the "cotton pledge." For the point, name this country whose cotton industry was largely
responsible for drying up the Aral Sea.
ANSWER: Republic of Uzbekistan [or O'zbekiston Respublikasi]
019-13-94-33140

41. Rene Belbenoit wrote an account of this location titled Dry Guillotine. Inhabitants of this locale were
obligated to build "Route Zero," a road that never went anywhere. Henri Charriere wrote about his escape
from this place in Papillon. Georges Picquart investigated an inhabitant of this location and concluded that
Ferdinand Esterhazy should have been sent here instead. Located off the coast of Cayenne, this best-known
of the "Islands of Salutation" is located in present-day French Guiana. For the point, name this prison
where Alfred Dreyfus was sent.
ANSWER: Devil's Island [or Ile du Diable; prompt on French Guiana until it is read]
190-13-94-33141

42. Patrick Leigh-Fermor begins Between the Woods and the Water by crossing this body of water on Holy
Saturday. A Turkish community once lived on Ada Kaleh, an island in it that was submerged after dams
were built in the Iron Gates gorge. Apollodorus of Damascus built what was for many years the longest
arch bridge in the world across this river to help Trajan in his war with the Dacians. The Elizabeth Bridge
crosses it in the same city as a chain bridge designed by William Tierney Clark, and those bridges connect
what used to be two separate cities. For the point, name this river that passes through Vienna and Budapest.
ANSWER: Danube River
121-13-94-33142

43. Friedrich Ludwig Persius designed an orangery that overlooks this river, in a park designed by the
author of Hints on Landscape Gardening. This river flows through the English-style garden at Muskau
Park. The Giant Mountains overlook this river, on which the Museum of Glass and Jewelry may be found
at Jablonec. This river's name is shared by a shorter "Glatzer" river, which, like the main "Lusatian" river
known by this name, flows north from the Sudeten mountains. For the point, name this tributary of the
Oder, with which this river formed the postwar boundary between Germany and Poland.
ANSWER: Neisse [or Nysa]
019-13-94-33143

44. In 2012, twenty-two Buddhist temples in the suburbs of this city were burned down in the Ramu riots,
after a man with a Buddhist name posted an image of a desecrated Quran to Facebook. Maheshkhali island
lies off the coast of this city. This city is the gateway to an uninterrupted seventy-eight-mile stretch of
beach, where Fazlul Karim planted the Tamarisk Forest. This city's unusual name honors a British East
India Company captain who resolved a Rakhine-Arakan conflict here. For the point, name this city found
about ninety miles south of Chittagong, a resort spot in Bangladesh.
ANSWER: Cox's Bazar
019-13-94-33144

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 10 of 18

45. Jackson Lowrance's 1863 diary is the first recorded usage of this name. The ultimate origin of this name
is in the "boilers" who operated the sixteen hundred turpentine distilleries that supplied the shipping
industry from the state where this name became used. A legend about this name states that it came from
Charles Cornwallis, who was nonplussed by the blocking of the river between Rocky Mount and
Battleboro. This name may have been given by fellow Confederates in recognition of a late secession, or by
those admiring the ability of regiments from the state referred to by this name to hold their ground. For the
point, identify this term used for the metaphorically sticky-footed population of North Carolina.
ANSWER: "Tar Heels"
019-13-94-33145

46. A 1938 flood of this body of water prevented Japanese forces from capturing Zhengzhou. The Song
Dynasty artist Ma Yuan depicted this river "breaching its course." A 1642 flood of this body of water was
used by the Ming Governor of Kaifeng in an attempt to destroy rebellious peasants led by Li Zicheng. The
basin of this river is in the Yueguzonglie basin of the Bayan Har Mountains. The People's Victory Canal
connects this body of water to the Wei River. This river is known as the "cradle of Chinese civilization"
and "China's sorrow." For the point, name this second-longest river in China.
ANSWER: Yellow River [or Huang He]
186-13-94-33146

47. This sea is separated by the Curonian Spit from the Curonian Lagoon. The Guldborg Sound is located
next to this sea, which is drained through the Little Belt and Great Belt, the latter of which sits underneath
and above the Great Belt Fixed Link. The Silja and Tallink ferries operate on this sea. This sea is the
location of Bornhom and the Aland Islands, and it empties into the Kattegat. To the west of this sea is the
Kiel Canal, which links it to the North Sea. For the point, name this sea that stretches from Germany and
Denmark to its three namesake states, Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia.
ANSWER: Baltic Sea
023-13-94-33147

48. The geologist Giorgio Poretti used a global positioning system to measure the height of this mountain
in 2001, though his team's figure has not been adopted by the National Geographic Society. Edward
FitzGerald led the first successful expedition to climb this mountain from a base camp in the Horcones
Valley, and its summit was first reached by Matthias Zurbriggen. The Bermejo Pass lies directly south of
this peak, and its two summits are connected by a ridge called the Cresta del Guanaco. This mountain is
located in the Mendoza province on the Argentina-Chile border. For the point, give the name of the tallest
mountain in South America.
ANSWER: Aconcagua
030-13-94-33148

49. This range is comprised of "Millstone Grit" and limestone, which has formed several caverns such as
Rowten Pot and Ingleborough Cave. The Tyne Gap separates this range from the Cheviot. This range is
split by a gap which is defined by the Ribble and Aire rivers, below which it comprises the "Peak District"
that contains Kinder Scout. Above the gap, its northern section contains Whernside and Cross Fell. The
northern extent of this range runs coterminous with Hadrian's Wall. For the point, identify this Derbyshire
and Northumberland range of modest mountains, comprising the "backbone" of the island of Great Britain.
ANSWER: the Pennines
019-13-94-33149

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 11 of 18

50. Beech gaps occur only in this mountain range, which is home to a narrow valley called Cades Cove.
Roaring Fork and Grotto Falls are two waterfalls located in this range. The town of Gatlinburg is called the
gateway to these mountains. The peak of a mountain sometimes called the tallest in this range, Mount Le
Conte, is lower than Mount Guyot and this range's highest point, Clingman's Dome. The most visited
national park in the U.S. is named for this range. For the point, name this mountain range, a subset of the
Appalachians in eastern Tennessee.
ANSWER: Great Smoky Mountains [or the Smoky Mountains; or the Smokies; prompt on the
Appalachians until it is read]
190-13-94-33150

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 12 of 18

3rd Third

51. The birthday of Muhammad Zahir Shah was the setting for the first government-sponsored tournament
in this sport. Different styles of play predominate in the "coming out of the crowd" and "black place"
varieties of this sport. Players in this sport, thought to peak in their 40s, are called chapandazan. This sport
is the centerpiece of gatherings called tu'is in which khans demonstrate their ability to maintain order.
Players in this sport fight for control of a decapitated and dehoofed goat carcass. For the point, name this
national sport of Afghanistan.
ANSWER: Buzkashi [or Kokpar]
080-13-94-33151

52. This building was commissioned to celebrate the end of the Fifteen Years War and the Bocksay
uprising at the Peace of Zsitvatorok. This building's courtyard was closed to the horses of all but one man,
who had to bow below a suspended iron chain to enter. Twenty-thousand tiles within this building depict
fifty tulips, and it hosts calligraphic inscriptions by Seyyid Kasim Gubari. This building was designed by a
disciple of Sinan named Mehmed Aga, who gave it a distinctive six minarets. It was completed in 1616
under the patronage of its official namesake, Sultan Ahmed I. For the point, identify this Istanbul house of
worship named for the tiles' color.
ANSWER: Blue Mosque [or Sultan Ahmed Mosque until it is read; or Sultan Ahmet Camii until it is
read]
019-13-94-33152

53. Moviemaker Jean Rouch was one of a group of three Frenchman to explore the entirety of this body of
water in 1946. Fisherman from the Bozo people are involved in fishing operations on Lake Debo, which is
located on this river. This river's Inner Delta is where it loses nearly two-thirds of its flow between Segou
and Timbuktu. Mungo Park was the first European to explore this river. This river joins with the Benue
River before emptying into the Gulf of Guinea. For the point, name this third-largest river of Africa.
ANSWER: Niger River
186-13-94-33153

54. This country contains a national park whose name translates to "full of turtles," which is where the
endangered green turtle goes to nest. This is the first country in the American continent to ban recreational
hunting. It contains numerous plant species at the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve and it receives much
rain at the Central Cordillera (cor-dee-YAIR-uh) mountains. For the point, name this Central American
country ranked first among the Americas in the 2012 Environmental Performance Index, a status fueled by
the stability created by its longstanding democracy and lack of military.
ANSWER: Costa Rica
052-13-94-33154

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 13 of 18

55. In this country, the Ata'ta people live within the Dana Biosphere Reserve, and artificial springs have
been built in order to entice birds back to the dried-up Azraq Wetland Reserve. This country's Wadi Mujib
is found between the Madaba and Kerak Mountains, which overlook the Hammamat Ma'in hot springs.
This country's fifty-two "nahias" include Salt, Aljun, and Aqaba, and it has been ruled in recent decades by
the Hashemite kings Hussein and Abdullah II. For the point, name this country that controlled the West
Bank prior to the Six-Day War with Israel and, on independence, dropped the prefix "Trans" from its name.
ANSWER: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan [or Al Mamlakah al Urduniyah al Hashimiyah]
019-13-94-33155

56. This region was the birthplace of Joan, the queen of Henry IV of England accused of bewitching the
future Henry V. This kingdom's power reached its height during the reign of Sancho III. This kingdom was
ruled by a treacherous ally of John II who wreaked havoc during the Hundred Years' War, Charles the Bad.
Margaret of this region was a French princess who authored the Heptameron. It borders both the Basque
country and Aquitaine. This kingdom's historic capital, home to a famous "running of the bulls," is at
Pamplona. For the point, name this border region of Spain once ruled by the future Henry IV of France.
ANSWER: Navarre
080-13-94-33156

57. A massive renovation of this building took place under a man who was such a huge fan of the
Glyptothek and Alte Pinatothek in Munich that he sought out the architect of those two buildings, Leo von
Klenze. Giacomo Quarenghi designed a semicircular private auditorium for this building, as well as its
Raphael Loggias. In 1985, an insane man rushed into this building and threw acid all over Rembrandt's
Danae. The contents of this building were shipped on two trains hundreds of miles away to Sverdlovsk
during a Nazi siege. This museum is part of the Palace Embankment along with the Winter Palace. For the
point, name this art museum in St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Hermitage Museum
020-13-94-33157

58. This state was where the oldest terrestrial material ever found was located, coming from this state's
Narryer Gneiss Terrane in the Jack Hills. This state's nine administrative regions include Wheatbelt and
another named for the Gascoyne River. The port city of Wyndham in the north of this state is connected to
the state capital by the Great Northern Highway. The eastern border of this state travels along the 129th
meridian east for 1,157 miles, part of which is with the Northern Territory. For the point, name this state
with capital Perth that is also the largest state of Australia.
ANSWER: Western Australia
023-13-94-33158

59. This people's flag includes a half-blue, half-red circle representing the sun and moon, whose diameter
sits along green and yellow stripes. In the 70s, these people protested a proposed dam on the Alta river.
They're not the Ainu, but they may have used huge, symbol-inscribed drums in a bear hunt ritual. Their
storehouses are often raised feet off the ground on wooden legs. During the Cold War, many of these
people were removed from the coasts of the Kola peninsula to its interior near Lovozero. Their traditional
lifestyle involved nomadic reindeer herding. For the point, name this ethnicity of far-northern Russia,
Sweden, and Finland.
ANSWER: Sami [or Lapps; or Laplanders]
104-13-94-33159

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 14 of 18

60. The closed Homestake Mine is located in this region's city of Lead. The 1868 Fort Laramie Treaty
exempted this area from settlement by United States citizens. This region hosts the Sturgis Motorcycle
Rally in August of every year. The Ellsworth Air Force Base is in this region's largest city. A town in this
region where Calamity Jane and "Wild Bill" Hickock died was Deadwood. This region, which is home to
Rapid City, is where Korczak Ziolkowski is commissioned to build a memorial to Crazy Horse. For the
point, name this mountain range of western South Dakota and Wyoming where Mount Rushmore is
located.
ANSWER: Black Hills
186-13-94-33160

61. Birobidzhan is the capital of an autonomous oblast named for members of this religion in far eastern
Russia. A group of refuseniks who celebrated this faith attempted to steal a Soviet plane in the 1970
Dymshits-Kuznetsov affair. Lyubavichi, Russia was the center of a Haredi movement in this faith. Odessa
was one of the few Russian cities where members of this religion lived in the nineteenth century, after
Catherine the Great established the Pale of Settlement for them to live in shtetls. For the point, name this
religion targeted for centuries by Russian pogroms.
ANSWER: Judaism [or Jews; or Jewish people]
190-13-94-33161

62. This region was where a wave of arguments over iconoclasm, known as the Beeldenstorm, broke out.
Thierry of Alsace brought a relic from the Second Crusade to this modern-day province's Basilica of the
Holy Blood. A poem named for this region describes how "the poppies blow, between the crosses, row on
row," is about this region's "Fields," and is by John McCrae. A city in this region was where the Germans
first used mustard gas in World War I; that city was Ypres. This province includes the city of Bruges. For
the point, name this Dutch-speaking two-province area of northern Belgium.
ANSWER: Flanders [or Vlaanderen; or Flandre]
186-13-94-33162

63. Six underground types of these sites were built in Minnesota between 1979 and 1990, including one in
Hayward that was built along with a 3.3 acre wetland. One of these sites in Iowa near Wilton offers
information about the codes used in quilts for the Underground Railroad. Vince Lombardi and Walt
Whitman are two namesakes of twelve named sites of this type in New Jersey. In 2002, one of these sites in
Maryland was where the Beltway snipers were captured. For the point, name these sites that generally offer
bathrooms and vending machines along the sides of interstates.
ANSWER: interstate rest areas [or rest stops; or service areas]
023-13-94-33163

64. A 1930s film titled for this desert marked the first time Clark Gable acted in a talkie. This desert
extends past Cameron and can be accessed from Holbrook. In this desert, the Chinle rock formation is
exposed, revealing its bands of yellow, red, and white sediment. It extends from the southeast corner of the
Grand Canyon to the Petrified Forest. Joseph Ives coined the name of its desert in reference to its beautiful
sandstones and shales. For the point, name this desert on a plateau in Arizona.
ANSWER: the Painted Desert
080-13-94-33164

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 15 of 18

65. Clemens August donated the Heilige Stiege to this city in 1746, which were created by Balthasar
Neumann. In addition to having the Kreuzberg Church, this city is the home of a botanical garden around
its Poppelsdorf Palace. The media company Deutsche Welle is based out of this city. Every fall, this city
holds a month-long music festival in honor of it being the birthplace of Ludwig van Beethoven. This city is
the only one in Germany to have the title of Bundesstadt, in recognition of the role it held from 1949 until
1999. For the point, name this city in North Rhine-Westphalia that was the initial seat of government
post-reunification and the de facto capital of West Germany.
ANSWER: Bonn
023-13-94-33165

66. A story about this city's name says that it originated after a "thunderous noise" and voice told a ruler
that treasure here was "destined for other masters." Manuel Belgrano once threatened to blow up the Casa
de la Moneda here. A Spanish saying that means "to be of a great value" is "to be worth" this city. This
city's major export was taken by llama to the Pacific coast, where it eventually made its way to Panama
City and then Spain. It lies at the foot of the "Cerro Rico" or "rich mountain," which is said to have been
made out of ore. For the point, name this city in Bolivia that was once the location of the Spanish colonial
mint and silver trade.
ANSWER: Potosi [do not accept "San Luis Potosi"]
052-13-94-33166

67. The painting Menin Gate at Midnight and the Remembrance Driveway are found in a National War
Memorial in this city, which is also home to Mount Stromlo Observatory. The Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organization is headquartered in this city. This city's workforce mostly commutes
from suburbs such as Belconnen, Weston Creek, and Tuggeranong. An elongated lake in this city was
formed by damming the Molonglo River. This city was built over a fourteen-year period based on a plan by
Walter Burley Griffin. For the point, name this planned city that is 150 miles southwest of Sydney and
comprises most of the Australian Capital Territory.
ANSWER: Canberra
019-13-94-33167

68. The pre-historic Lake Hitchcock was formed when this river was blocked by a moraine in the
Pleistocene epoch. The New Deal-era creation of the Quabbin Reservoir diverted flow from its major
tributary, the Chicopee. Thomas Cole's painting The Oxbow is a depiction of this river from nearby Mount
Holyoke. Its massive 1936 flood occurred when huge chunks of ice breached the Vernon Dam and
inundated the towns of Hadley, Hatfield and Northhampton. This river flows into the Long Island Sound
and rises near the U.S. border with Quebec. For the point, name this major New England river which forms
the border of Vermont and New Hampshire and flows through Hartford.
ANSWER: Connecticut River
015-13-94-33168

69. This city has a Confucian garden donated by the Taiwanese government, a garden commemorating the
fortieth year of the United Nations, and its country’s national zoo in its El Picacho park, which is also the
site of the "Cristo del Picacho" statue. This city is home to an equestrian statue of its native son Francisco
Morazan. The meaning of this city's name is disputed, although a common claim is that it means "hills of
silver." This city was combined in 1938 to form the Central District with a neighboring city located across
the Choluteca River. For the point, name this city that was combined with Comayaguela and which serves
as the capital of Honduras.
ANSWER: Tegucigalpa [or Tegus]
023-13-94-33169

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 16 of 18

70. During an attack on this city, the Battle of Lake Borgne occurred. This city was where the Mechanics
Institute riot occurred. Lyndon Johnson was invited to visit this city by Victor Schiro after it was struck by
Hurricane Betsy. Ruby Bridges integrated William Frantz Elementary School in this city's Ninth Ward.
While occupying this city during the Civil War, Benjamin Butler was given the nickname "Beast." Sir
Edward Pakenham died at a battle in this city that was fought after the War of 1812 ended. The Supreme
Court case of Plessy v. Ferguson began in this city. For the point, name this Louisiana city that was
devastated by Hurricane Katrina.
ANSWER: New Orleans
186-13-94-33170

71. The Stone of Unction is located inside of this building. A tradition holds that this building stands at the
location where Adam's skull was buried. Outside this building, there is a ladder made of cedar wood which
may not be moved unless all six Christian ecumenical orders agree to it. The Catholicon of this building is
the site of an omphalos. The Aedicule of this building is the location of the Angel Stone, as well as a piece
of stone with a crack in it. This building stands on what's thought to be Golgotha. For the point, name this
church in the Old City of Jerusalem which contains Jesus's tomb.
ANSWER: Church of the Holy Sepulchre [or the Basilica of the Holy Sepulcher; or the Church of the
Resurrection]
190-13-94-33171

72. This location was the subject of 2009's Project LINQ, which sought to create a more diversified
entertainment district. It was reportedly named by a police officer, who was referencing his hometown of
Los Angeles. The largest privately funded construction project in U.S. history occurred at this location
inside a larger city, which was effectively created by Bugsy Siegel. This All-American Road is technically
located in Paradise and Winchester, and it contains fifteen of the world's twenty-five largest hotels. For the
point, name this location in the American Southwest which features numerous casino resorts includeing
Circus Circus, Treasure Island, and Caesar's Palace.
ANSWER: Las Vegas Strip [prompt on Las Vegas]
052-13-94-33172

73. The confluence of this river with the Shashe River is the location of the Mapungubwe National Park.
Boats navigating this river can enter it at its confluence with the Olifants River. The port of Xai-Xai is built
on this river, which is described as "greasy" and "set about with fever trees" in Rudyard Kipling's Just-So
Stories. This river flows from the confluence of the Marico and Crocodile Rivers. This river flows eastward
into the Indian Ocean. For the point, name this river in southern Africa that separates South Africa from
Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
ANSWER: Limpopo River
080-13-94-33173

74. A city in this region is legendarily named for the dying words of Kari, the daughter of Chief
Wautonomah, and was once known as Six Shooter Siding. This home of Tucumcari was warned against by
Charles Goodnight as containing "nothing to create an echo" and called an endless "sea of grass" by
Coronado. The ancient Clovis culture was discovered in this region. The west side of this region is defined
as the Mescalero Ridge, and it is also bounded by the Edwards Plateau on its south, the "break of the
plains" on its east, and the valley of the Canadian River on its north. For the point, name this region
containing Lubbock and Amarillo, a large mesa in western Texas and eastern New Mexico.
ANSWER: Llano Estacado [or the Staked Plain]
019-13-94-33174

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 17 of 18

75. This country’s village of Cange was where Paul Farmer co-founded the group Partners in Health. In the
1980’s, the “kochon blan” was an animal introduced in this country from Iowa, which unfortunately
proved to be fragile and useless for native agricultural purposes. As part of the PEPPADEP initiative, the
United States insisted on the eradication of a certain farm animal here in response to an outbreak of an
African virus. As part of an attempt to kill Clement Barbot, all black dogs in this country were put to death
by the secret police, the Tonton Macoutes. For the point, name this Caribbean country which experienced
the eradication of pigs during the presidency of “Baby Doc” Duvalier.
ANSWER: Haiti
052-13-94-33175

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

33

Page 18 of 18

