United States Geography Olympiad Round 2

1. This location was where a 1956 airliner crash, the first in the U.S. to result in more than a hundred
deaths, took place. Former Rough Rider Buckey O"Neill has a namesake cabin at this location, and the four
"Mary Jane Colter Buildings" are also here. It was named by John Wesley Powell, who led a nine-man boat
expedition through this site in 1869, and it has a "skywalk" maintained by the Hualapai tribe. The Pueblo
people regarded this location as their holy site "Ongtupqa." Now a national park, it was called "beyond
comparison" by Teddy Roosevelt. For the point, name this 277-mile wide, mile-deep fissure carved by the
Colorado River in Arizona.
ANSWER: Grand Canyon
052-13-94-30101

2. This region featured the construction of dueling world's tallest flagpoles in the 1980s. The U.S. staged
Operation Paul Bunyan in this region after the 1976 "axe murder incident." Commandos snuck across it in
1968 in the failed Blue House Raid to assassinate a president later killed by his own security forces in
1979. This region has a "Joint Security Area" located at Panmunjeom, and it was created after a 1953
armistice. For the point, name this strip of land running along the 38th parallel north which separates two
countries, including a Communist one led by Kim Jong-un.
ANSWER: Korean Demilitarized Zone [or Korean DMZ; or Korean border; prompt on Panmunjeom
until it is read; prompt on Korea]
052-13-94-30102

3. Roy Sesana is an activist for these people, many of whom were relocated to New Xade (cha-DAY) in
1997. These people consume a plant called hoodia that allows them to go days without eating. These
people, who branched off culturally from the Khoikhoi, call themselves the San. These people were forced
out of Gope after the discovery of kimberlites and diamonds. They use a poison derived from beetles to kill
elands and buffalo, though a government program in the 1990s forced some of them into farming. For the
point, name these natives of the Kalahari Desert.
ANSWER: Bushmen [or San until it is read]
190-13-94-30103

4. This structure contains an object called the “Ace of Cups” which legendarily was made to block the view
of a barber who was an enemy of the sculptor. The commission for it went to Nicola Salvi only after there
was protest that a Florentine won the assignment. This structure is waded into by Marcello and Sylvia in
the Fellini film La Dolce Vita. This site features in its middle a statue of Ocean carried on a chariot by two
horses jockeyed by Tritons. The practice of throwing money into it is referenced in the song “Three Coins
in the Fountain.” For the point, name this largest Baroque fountain in Rome.
ANSWER: Trevi Fountain
052-13-94-30104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 1 of 8

5. James Gamble Rogers washed many of this institution's buildings with acid to make them look older. In
the 60s, it built two residential areas whose floor plans have no right angles. This institution runs the
Peabody Museum of Natural History, where Othniel Marsh's dinosaur bone discoveries are displayed. Its
modern architecture includes residential areas named for Ezra Stiles and Samuel Morse, and a hockey rink
designed by Eero Saarinen often called "The Whale." This institution was the law school of Bill Clinton
and the undergraduate alma mater of both George Bushes. For the point, name this Ivy League university in
New Haven, Connecticut.
ANSWER: Yale University [or Yale College]
104-13-94-30105

6. Aurangzeb constructed the Bari Imam shrine, now a pilgrimage site in this city. Pir Sohawa is a resort in
the Margalla Hills, located directly north of this metropolis. A mosque designed like a Bedouin tent in this
city was named for Saudi Arabia’s King Faisal, who sponsored the project. This city is often paired with
Rawalpindi, which is less than ten miles away from it. Ayub Khan insisted on the construction of this city,
which is located in the Potohar Plateau, until it was finished in 1966. Mamnoon Hussain and Nawaz Sharif
live in this city. For the point, name this city located directly south of Srinagar, the capital city of Pakistan.
ANSWER: Islamabad, Pakistan
190-13-94-30106

7. Ica and Tacna are regions of this country. The archaeological site of Chan Chan was constructed by the
Chimu culture in this country. A canyon twice as deep as the Grand Canyon was carved out by the Colca
River in this nation, which sometimes lends its name to the Humboldt Current. The westernmost source of
the Amazon River is in this country. Its second-largest city is Arequipa (ah-ray-KEE-pah). Lines
resembling monkeys and lizards were created by the Nazca culture in this country. For the point, name this
South American country home to Macchu Picchu.
ANSWER: Republic of Peru
190-13-94-30107

8. The world's largest printing exhibition, Drupa, is held in this city. The Volkswagen Crafter and
Mercedes-Benz Sprinter are built in this city, where the Handelsblatt business paper is published. This city
replaced Hamburg as the center of the Japanese community in Germany, with over five hundred Japanese
companies now headquartered here. The narrow, parallelogram-shaped Stadttor overlooks the entrance to
the Rheinufer Tunnel in this city, whose port is Duisburg. For the point, name this city on the Rhine, the
capital of Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia state.
ANSWER: Dusseldorf
019-13-94-30108

9. American and British aid in the building of this structure was scuttled due to a country's decision to
engage Czechoslovakia in an arms deal. This structure's negative impact on the fertility of its control area
has required the spreading of approximately one million tons of artificial fertilizers per year, and it is
credited with the reduction of anchovies in the eastern Mediterranean. The building of this structure
required the dismantling and reassembling of the temples of Abu Simbel, and it impounds the Lake Nasser
reservoir. For the point, name this Egyptian dam that controls the annual flood of the Nile River.
ANSWER: Aswan High Dam [or Al Sadd al-Ali]
030-13-94-30109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 2 of 8

10. A tributary of this lake is where the Soo'nkahni Village site was discovered. Howard Stansbury led an
expedition to survey this body of water. This body of water is where a Chilean flamingo named Pink Floyd
stayed for the winter of 2005. A tributary of this body of water is the longest river in North America that
doesn't reach the sea. The Jordan and Bear Rivers are tributaries of this body of water. This lake's Rozel
Point is the location of Robert Smithson's Spiral Jetty. This lake is known as "America's Dead Sea" and is
the largest remnant of the prehistoric Lake Bonneville. For the point, name this lake in northern Utah.
ANSWER: Great Salt Lake
186-13-94-30110

11. This region's counties were reunited by Thibaut the Great in 1125, and it was united to the French
crown when the son of Joan of Navarre and of this region became King Louis X. The fairs of this region
occurred in its towns of Troyes (TWAH) and Lagny and saw early credit transactions, and this area has
traditionally been divided into Wet and Dry regions. The product most associated with this region
undergoes processes such as remuage and degorgement and comes in amounts such as magnums,
jeroboams, and splits. For the point, name this historical and cultural region of France that is noted for its
namesake sparkling wines.
ANSWER: Champagne
030-13-94-30111

12. This region was once a kingdom whose first known king was simply named "Oldman." Major cities in
this region include Puerto Cabezas and Bluefields. It is the title setting for a novel about ice-making written
by Paul Theroux. Great Britain's encroachment in this historical region necessitated the Clayton-Bulwer
Treaty. This region is named for the Indian tribe that resides there, rather than any form of insect. For the
point, name this strip of land along the Caribbean divided between Honduras and Nicaragua.
ANSWER: the Mosquito Coast
080-13-94-30112

13. This city's Society for Human Rights made it the first American city to have a gay rights advocate
group. A mayor of this city was killed by Giuseppe Zangara, who was trying to kill Franklin Roosevelt
instead, and was Anton Cermak. The Arbeiter-Zeitung was a newspaper in this city that was edited by
August Spies, one of eight men accused of the murder of Matthias Degan. An unidentified person threw a
bomb at the police as they acted to clear a labor strike in this city's Haymarket Square. An 1871 fire in this
city started at the farm of Catherine O'Leary. For the point, name this Illinois city led by Mayor Rahm
Emmanuel.
ANSWER: Chicago, Illinois
186-13-94-30113

14. I.V. Rubanov made an extensive study of this body of water, focusing on the nearby geology. The
Khwarezm Oasis lies south of this lake. Bioweapons such as anthrax and smallpox, the latter of which was
accidentally released, were stored on an island in this lake. After the diversion of the Amu Darya and the
Syr Darya rivers, which both flow into this lake, its salinity has increased as it split in two. For the point,
name this body of water in Central Asia, which has shrunk in area in the last several decades.
ANSWER: Aral Sea
140-13-94-30114

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 3 of 8

15. A physician at this location was Dr. Barry O'Meara, who wrote a book charging its administrator
Hudson Lowe with mistreating and possibly murdering another resident. This island was where Dinuzulu
kaCethswayo, the last officially recognized Zulu king, was exiled to in 1890. The most famous resident
here lived in Longwood House. Part of a British Overseas Territory with Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
(COON-yuh), this place was where the loser of the Battle of Waterloo ended up. For the point, name this
island off West Africa, the place of Napoleon's final exile.
ANSWER: St. Helena
052-13-94-30115

16. In 1870, Konstantin Mayevsky restored a palace in this city. The House with Chimaeras is located in
the Lypky neighborhood of this city. Most of the buildings on this city's Khreshchatyk Street were
dynamited in 1941, and this city is the home of the Mariyinsky Palace. A Grand Prince of this city baptized
its inhabitants after marrying the sister of Basil II and was Vladimir the Great. This city's Podil
neighborhood is overlooked by its St. Andrew's Church. This city on the Dnieper served as the capital of
the state of Rus (ROOS). For the point, name this Ukranian "mother" of Russian cities.
ANSWER: Kiev [or Kyiv]
186-13-94-30116

17. Mayor Rensselaer R. Herrick called this river "a sewer that runs through the heart of the city." One of
the first black majors of a major American city, Carl Stokes, held a press conference urging legislation in
response to an incident involving this river. It appeared on the cover of a 1969 issue of Time after an
incident that damaged railroad bridges near a Republic Steel mill. The film Major League opens with a
montage set to a song about this river, Randy Newman's "Burn On." Due to mass pollution, this river
infamously caught on fire in 1969. For the point, name this river that feeds Lake Erie at Cleveland, Ohio.
ANSWER: Cuyahoga River
052-13-94-30117

18. In 2010, this process was applied to the Swiss national Oliver Fricker in response to his actions at a
Trains Changi Depot. In the 1990s, this process was defended by the newspaper The Straits Times, which
blasted American "interference" and said it was necessary to prevent car vandalism. It was applied to
American Michael Fay, who violated the 1966 Vandalism Act, a bill introduced during the ministry of Lee
Kuan Yew. This practice is routinely used as an official punishment in Singapore. For the point, name this
type of corporal punishment in which an object made of rattan is used to hit people on the buttocks or
hands.
ANSWER: caning [prompt on spanking; prompt on corporal punishment]
052-13-94-30118

19. Ivan Michurin's restoration of this building after a 1737 fire removed a history of this place that had
been added in a small inscription in 1683. Redevelopment done on this building by Joseph Bove created its
namesake square. This church was headed by Ioann Vostorgov during World War I. According to tradition,
this church was built by Postnik Yakovlev. The tsar who ordered the construction of this church was so
impressed with it that he blinded the architect who designed it. This church is often mistaken for the
Kremlin and was built to honor Ivan the Terrible's conquest of Kazan. For the point, name this eight-domed
church in Moscow.
ANSWER: St. Basil's Cathedral [or the Cathedral of the Protection of Most Holy Theotokos on the
Moat; or Pokrovsky Cathedral; or Cathedral of Vasily the Blessed; prompt on Trinity Cathedral; prompt
on Trinity Church]
186-13-94-30119

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 4 of 8

20. This city features the tallest building in its country, a telecommunications headquarters called the Antel
Tower. During the 1843 to 1851 siege of it, its army was under the command of Fructuoso Rivera. The
Good Neighbor Policy was declared at a conference in this city, which hosted all of the matches for the first
FIFA World Cup. The ship Admiral Graf Spee fled to this harbor after the largest World War II naval battle
to take place in South America. It is located on the northeastern bank of the Rio de la Plata. For the point,
name this largest city in Uruguay.
ANSWER: Montevideo
052-13-94-30120

21. A man in this state sent a poem called “Oh Anna, Why Didn’t You Appear” to the police, lamenting
his inability to murder one of his victims. A killer in this state who operated in Sedgwick County had a
three-letter nickname referring to his tendency to tie up and torture his victims. Farmer Herbert Clutter and
his family were murdered in this state’s city of Holcomb by the drifters Dick Hickock and Perry Smith.
Truman Capote’s “true crime” book In Cold Blood was about a murder in this state. For the point, name
this state where the BTK Killer murdered ten people in the Wichita area.
ANSWER: Kansas
052-13-94-30121

22. The film Darwin's Nightmare discussed the loss of biodiversity in this body of water, which was treated
with weed weevils in early 1990s to stop an infestation of water hyacinth. The Agreed Curve governs the
loss of water from the Owens Fall Dam on this body of water. Lake George is connected to this body of
water by the Katonga River. This lake's largest inflow is the Kagera River, and Entebbe is on a peninsula
on this lake, the southern terminus of the White Nile. For the point, name this Rift lake, the largest in
Africa.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria
190-13-94-30122

23. This city's “four avenues” surround its central square, and at the center of that square is the city's
original cathedral. That cathedral was replaced in 2013 by the transitional “Cardboard Cathedral” after the
original became structurally unsound. This city was founded by the Canterbury Association, which lends its
name to the surrounding region. Its suburb of Lyttelton was the launching point for Ernest Shackleton's
Antarctic expedition. Programs called “Gap Filler” and “Greening the Rubble” have created community
centers and gardens in this city's debris from two large earthquakes in 2010 and 2011. For the point, name
this largest city of New Zealand's South Island.
ANSWER: Christchurch, New Zealand
121-13-94-30123

24. A luminary author claimed to eat at the restaurant in this building every day so as to be assured he
could not see it. This building was supposed to last for only twenty years, but was kept since it was found
useful in broadcasting radio communications. Luminaries in literature and the arts launched an "Artists'
Protest" against the construction of this building. Built for the 1889 World's Fair, this structure is located on
the Champ-de-Mars and was designed by Emile Nougier, Maurice Koechlin, and its namesake. For the
point, name the tallest building in Paris.
ANSWER: Eiffel Tower [or La Tour Eiffel]
140-13-94-30124

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 5 of 8

25. Missionaries settled this area in Loreto in 1697, and the sixty foot tall cardon cactus is endemic to this
region. La Paz is the capital of a state on this landmass. An island off of this landmass, Cedros, is located in
Sebastian Vizcaino Bay and has a large colony of elephant seals. Las Tres Virgenes is a volcanic group of
this area, which is the location of the San Quintin Volcanic Field. The Sierra de San Lazaro is located in
this area, and the resort city of Cabo San Lucas is located on its southern tip. For the point, name this
peninsula that is bordered by the Gulf of California to the east and is located in northwestern Mexico.
ANSWER: Baja California
030-13-94-30125

26. John Bulkeley used a desalination plant to supply fresh water to this location during the 1960's. It is
separated from the rest of the country by the "Cactus Curtain." Australian citizen David Hicks claimed he
was beaten and sexually assaulted while living in this location. The now-closed Camp X-Ray is at this
location, which Dick Cheney compared to "living in the tropics" in a 2005 interview. It is where Khalid
Sheikh Mohammed currently lives. This is the oldest overseas U.S. Naval base and currently houses a
detention of camp of various enemy combatants. For the point, name this United States Naval Station
located at Cuba.
ANSWER: United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay [or Gitmo]
052-13-94-30126

27. This city contains an organ called the "Mighty Mo" at the historic Fox Theater. During the civil rights
era, it was called "the city too busy to hate." The majority of people who live in the ACF River Basin are
found in this city's metropolitan area. Security guard Richard Jewell was blamed for a bombing in this city,
which was actually carried out by Eric Rudolph and directed against the Centennial Olympic Park. The
headquarters of CNN and the Coca-Cola Company are located here. For the point, name this city that is the
most populous in Georgia.
ANSWER: Atlanta
052-13-94-30127

28. This place was once known as New Ireland, and it was first colonized by French settlers at Port la Joie.
The second-largest city in this province is located along Bedeque Bay and is Summerside. A native of this
place wrote a series of books about an orphan who lives with the Cuthbert siblings in this polity. A
conference named for its capital was the first of a group of meetings that led to the creation of the
Dominion of Canada, and this place was the home of Anne of Green Gables author Lucy Maud
Montgomery. A nine-mile long Confederation Bridge connects this location to New Brunswick. For the
point, name this Canadian maritime province with its capital at Charlottetown.
ANSWER: Prince Edward Island [or P.E.I.; or Abegweit]
030-13-94-30128

29. Buildings in this complex indicate their status through a lion of statues on their roofs led by a man
riding a phoenix. This complex is guarded by a famous pair of lion statues of which the male lion guards an
orb and the female lion guards her cub. Many doors in this complex have 9 rows of 9 knobs, and this
complex as a whole has 9,999 doors for luck. The Meridian Gate leads to this complex, which contains the
Palace of Heavenly Purity. It is adjacent to Zhongnanhai, a garden that serves as the headquarters for the
Communist Party. For the point, name this complex in Beijing that served as the Imperial Palace of the
Ming and Qing dynasties.
ANSWER: Forbidden City [or Palace Museum]
080-13-94-30129

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 6 of 8

30. A South American type of these creatures called the boto becomes pink with age. These endangered
creatures belong to the superfamily Platanistoidea, and a bulbous-headed, nearly-blind example of them
from the Indian subcontinent travels on its side. In 2006, a Chinese subtype of this creature called the baiji
was declared functionally extinct. In Burma, these creatures collaborate with humans to drive fish into nets.
For the point, name these large mammals whose Irrawaddy and Indus subtypes are threatened by water
pollution and damming.
ANSWER: river dolphins
104-13-94-30130

31. In the 1980s, this practice was advocated for by a namesake coalition funded by Clorox, 7-Eleven, and
Idaho senators wanting to sell more French fries. The Navajo Indian Reservation obeys this practice, even
though the state it is located in does not for energy conservation reasons. It is notably not observed by the
US's overseas territories, Hawaii, and Arizona, and until April 2006, parts of Indiana did not observe it. For
the point, name this practice that ends in November, in which the clock is set forward by one hour during
the warmer parts of the year.
ANSWER: daylight saving time [or DST; or daylight savings time]
052-13-94-30131

32. This country's former intelligence head was reportedly secretly recording conversations in the
Bommeleer scandal. The Family of Man photo exhibition by Edward Steichen is permanently on display in
this country, as Steichen was a native of it. George S. Patton is buried here. The eastern border of this
country is basically formed by such rivers as the Moselle. This country was where the European Economic
Community signed the Schengen Agreement. It consists of the northern Oesling and the southern Gutland.
This country is ruled by Grand Duke Henri. For the point, name this very small country found to the east of
Belgium.
ANSWER: Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
052-13-94-30132

33. Massoud Barzani led a faction of this ethnic group in a war ended by a 1998 agreement. An
autonomous region for this group was provided for in the Treaty of Sevres (SEV-ruh) but was taken out of
the subsequent Treaty of Lausanne. A Marxist political party attempting to gain autonomy for this group
was founded by Abdullah Ocalan, and Jalal Talabani was a founder of a Patriotic Union for this group.
Approximately five thousand of these people were killed in the town of Halabjah following a 1988 gas
attack masterminded by Chemical Ali. For the point, name this ethnic group that live in contiguous areas of
Iran, Turkey, and Iraq and was the target of several attacks by Saddam Hussein.
ANSWER: Kurds [or Kurdish; or Kurdistan]
030-13-94-30133

34. One of these events is the subject of the Ernest Hemingway article "Who Killed the Vet," which
describes how it affected WPA laborers during Labor Day of 1935. In response to one of these events,
"Where in the hell is the cavalry on this one?" was asked by a Dade County official. Michael Brown was
told by George W. Bush that he was doing "a heck of a job" after one of these events, although Brown
resigned as head of FEMA soon after. One of these events in 2005 caused massive flooding at Lake
Pontchartrain. For the point, name these natural disasters, including Andrew and Katrina.
ANSWER: hurricanes
052-13-94-30134

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 7 of 8

35. The southern part of this country consists of the Tarai, and this country's portion of the Siwalik Range is
known as the Churia Range. This country's capital is located in a valley drained by the Baghmati River, and
its capital trades with the city of Hitaura through a U.S.-built aerial ropeway. Citizens of this country vote
based on candidates' party symbols due to this nation's low literacy rate. Prachanda led this country's
Maoist insurgency, and this country's King Birendra and eight other members of its royal family were
killed by Crown Prince Dipendra in 2001. For the point, name this landlocked country in the southern
Himalayas that is bordered by India and China and has its capital at Kathmandu.
ANSWER: Nepal
030-13-94-30135

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

30

Page 8 of 8

