United States Geography Olympiad Round 4

1. This country was the subject of a 2008 BBC documentary about the "law and disorder" in its capital. It
has the largest private security industry in the world and has the highest reported incident of rape in the
world. In this country, a rape trial featured a man admitting he took a shower to reduce the risk of
contracting HIV. That man on trial for rape was this country's president, the head of the African National
Congress. For the point, name this country which maintained a prison at Robben Island where Nelson
Mandela was imprisoned during the apartheid era.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa
052-13-94-32101

2. The International Livestock Research Institute controlled the proliferation of these animals in the Ghibe
valley. Artificial odor plumes are often created using urine to "trap" these creatures. The N'Dama resists a
disease transmitted by these organisms, nagana. These animals once completely disappeared when the
island of Principe was culled of its feral pig population. Unlike related species, this animal's females only
fertilize one egg at a time, and their larva burrow to the ground to form a hard shell. These animals carry
trypanosomes that cause sleeping sickness. For the point, name these biting flies that infest a lot of Africa.
ANSWER: tsetse flies
020-13-94-32102

3. The Barisan Mountains run through the north central part of this island and also contain Lake Toba. The
heavily Islamic northernmost region of this island was targeted in Operation Red Net after declaring
independence under Hasan di Tiro and the GAM. The city of Palembang was the capital of the greatest
kingdom based on this island, Srivijaya. It is separated from the mainland by the strait critical to the spice
trade between Europe and South Asia, the Strait of Malacca. This island contains the Aceh region, where
the Suharto regime fought an insurgency. This island is the second largest of the Greater Sunda Islands
after Borneo. For the point, name this large island of Indonesia.
ANSWER: Sumatra
080-13-94-32103

4. A movie created by evangelical Liberty Films from this country-specific film industry shows children
eating their parents. This industry that created the movie End of the Wicked was documented by Ben
Addelman in a film titled for this industry Babylon. This industry rapidly expanded after the 1992 release
of Living in Bondage. Many of this industry's straight-to-video movies are sold in the Idumota market. For
the point, name this second-largest producer of films in the world, which follows only Bollywood and
operates mainly out of Lagos.
ANSWER: Nollywood [or Nigerian film industry]
023-13-94-32104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 1 of 8

5. Workers in this region were racially segregated into "gold" and "silver" payrolls. Riots that broke out in
this region in 1964 are commemorated on Martyrs' Day. This region has two districts named after
Christopher Columbus and Vasco Nunez de Balboa. This region contains the Culebra Cut and Lake Gatun.
This birthplace of John McCain was made neutral by the Torrijos-Carter Treaties. For the point, name this
region of Panama that was administrated by the United States until 1979.
ANSWER: the Panama Canal Zone
080-13-94-32105

6. These people write in a close relative of the ancient Phoenician alphabet, the tifinagh script. Women
among these Islam-practicing people do not wear veils, but their men traditionally never take off their blue
veils after age 25. Iyad Ag Ghaly, a member of this ethnic group, founded Ansar Dine (DEE-nay). These
people rebelled against Amadou Toure's government with the goal of creating their own state of Azawad;
they thus initiated the 2012 Mali conflict subsequently taken over by Islamists. For the point, name these
Berber-speaking desert dwellers of North and West Africa.
ANSWER: Tuareg People [prompt on Berbers before it is read]
080-13-94-32106

7. This polity is the home of the literary critic who analyzed William Blake's poetry in Fearful Symmetry.
The artist Alex Colville taught at Mount Allison University in this province. The Mi'kmaq tribe in this
polity built the Augustine burial mound. Northrop Frye is from this province and home of the Tantramar
Marshes, which are located near the Bay of Fundy. This province is bordered by Quebec's Gaspe
(gas-PAY) Peninsula on its north. This province is the only one of Canada's Maritime Provinces that is
constitutionally bilingual. For the point, name this Canadian province whose largest city is St. John.
ANSWER: New Brunswick
186-13-94-32107

8. An equestrian statue of this city's namesake sits in front of its Art Museum. This city's Soulard
neighborhood hosts what is usually the second-largest Mardi Gras parade in the U.S. This city's Ballpark
Village is being built next to its baseball stadium, one of whose predecessors was called Sportsman's Park.
It's not New York, but Joseph Pulitzer founded its Post-Dispatch newspaper. Dankmar Adler and Louis
Sullivan built this city's ten-story redbrick Wainwright Building. Its most famous monument is part of the
Jefferson National Expansion Memorial, and was designed by Eero Saarinen. For the point, identify this
Midwestern city, home to the Gateway Arch.
ANSWER: St. Louis
233-13-94-32108

9. In 1876, Queen Victoria paid for a stone wall near Bsharri to protect a group of these trees from being
eaten by goats. A revolution named for these trees was precipitated by the murder of Rafik Hariri. In
Mesopotamian myth, Humbaba lived in a forest of these trees, and in the Bible, Solomon’s Temple was
constructed from their wood. One of these trees, in green, is nestled between two red stripes on a national
flag adopted in 1943. For the point, name these trees which are a symbol of Lebanon.
ANSWER: Lebanese cedar trees [or Cedrus libani]
190-13-94-32109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 2 of 8

10. According to a magazine article about the 2005 version of this event, the nickname "hitching post" was
given to a tourist who watched this event and couldn't sit down during it. This event includes thousands of
students who are trained to flip colored cards to create mosaics inside the May Day Stadium. This event is
commonly named after a popular folk song, and it requires around one hundred thousand performers. For
the point, name this multiple-month long festival that was originally held in 2002 to celebrate the birth of
Kim Il Sung, and which is held every year in Pyongyang.
ANSWER: Arirang Festival [or North Korean mass games; or mass gymnastics and artistic
performances]
023-13-94-32110

11. In this body of water, invasive trout threaten a massive species of namesake water frogs which grow to
20 inches long and have excessive skin all over their bodies. During the 20th century, the SS Ollanta was
stationed in this body of water, where potatoes are grown on Amantaní island. Its indigenous people used
reeds to build the Uros, dozens of artificial floating islands, and its real islands include the Isla del Sol. This
endorheic lake is in the Tinajani basin, and its parts are connected by the Strait of Tiquina. For the point,
name this lake on the Altiplano between Peru and Bolivia.
ANSWER: Lake Titicaca
104-13-94-32111

12. Brent Huffman is directing a documentary about the battle between copper miners and archaeologists in
this country over the ruins of a Buddhist city at Mes Aynak. A 2005 documentary by Christian Frei focuses
on another Buddhist site in this country, which was once the site of the Kingdom of Gandhara. In March of
2001, two large statues in this country were dynamited for being "false idols" according to Mullah
Mohammad Omar. For the point, name this central Asian country where the Buddhas of Bamiyan were
destroyed on the orders of this country's Taliban leaders.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan [or Jamhuri-ye Islami-ye Afghanistan]
023-13-94-32112

13. After a tabloid in this city printed scandalous reports, administrator Arthur Teele shot himself in the
lobby of a newspaper's building. It was where police officers killed Arthur McDuffie while trying to arrest
him, kicking off a series of race riots in the neighborhoods of Overtown and Liberty City. This city is
where the popular Spanish-language newspaper El Nuevo Herald is published and is where the majority of
migrants from the Mariel boatlift settled. This city's metropolitan area includes Broward and Dade counties.
For the point, name this southeastern Florida city noted for its significant Cuban-born population.
ANSWER: Miami
052-13-94-32113

14. In this city, a baker legendarily made a basilisk explode with a mirror in the year 1212; that legend is
inscribed on the wall of a house overlooking the "beautiful lantern alley" near the "Holy Cross courtyard"
here. This city's climate is mediated by the "Lufterl" breeze and by namesake woods keeping the cold air of
the Alps at bay. Its skyline contains St. Stephen's Cathedral and a landmark Ferris wheel in the Prater
amusement park. This city was divided into four occupation zones and an inner international zone for ten
years following World War II. For the point, name this longtime seat of Hapsburg power which remains the
dominant city of Austria.
ANSWER: Vienna [or Wien]
019-13-94-32114

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 3 of 8

15. McKim, Mead, and White designed a Doric portico to house this object, replacing a Victorian canopy
designed by Hammett Billings. Musing on this object, Alexis de Tocqueville wrote "Does this sufficiently
show that all human power and greatness is in the soul of man?" In a black nationalist speech, Malcolm X
noted that this object "landed on us." The 95-year old Elder Faunce was the first to pinpoint this object,
which is now only 1/3 of its size thanks to souvenir hunters. William Bradford did not mention this
geographical feature, on which the year "1620" is inscribed. For the point, name this granite marker near
where the Pilgrims aboard the Mayflower supposedly disembarked.
ANSWER: Plymouth Rock
020-13-94-32115

16. A battle near this city included a fight for Miteiriya Ridge, which was also known as Ruin Ridge and
resulted in the capture of many men from the Australian Ninth Division. A defense of this city was led
during World War II by Claude Auchinleck, and a battle in this city was called by Churchill "not the end"
but "perhaps the end of the beginning." Three months after a battle in this city, the Eighth Army was led on
an offensive by its commander Bernard Montgomery. For the point, name this Egyptian city where, in
1942, the British stopped and then turned back the advance of Erwin Rommel's forces.
ANSWER: El-Alamein
023-13-94-32116

17. This city's downtown area was rocked by 1992 explosions resulting from gasoline leaks into the city's
sewer system. A sculptor excavated a nearly-complete skeleton of a mammoth, the crown jewel of the
regional museum in this city. After Frankfurt, the second-largest book fair in the world takes place in this
city. In this city, a large hospital complex known as the Hospicio Cabanas houses many frescoes by Jose
Clemente Orozco. This "Silicon Valley of Mexico" was the birthplace of mariachi music. For the point,
name this capital of Jalisco (ha LEE sko), the second most populous city in Mexico.
ANSWER: Guadalajara
020-13-94-32117

18. Edward Piper began the first of these routes that ended in Ohio. Joseph McCoy advertised to make his
town the destination of one of them. The Shawnee fell out of use when towns on the way started attacking
disease-carrying travelers. Oliver Loving died on one of them started by Loving and Charles Goodnight.
Goodnight also invented the chuckwagon, which served as a kitchen on these routes. Abilene was the
destination of one of these begun as a trading route by Jesse Chisholm. After arriving at their end, most of
the travelers went by train to Chicago stockyards where they were slaughtered and shipped to the East
Coast. For the point, name these trails used for moving longhorns to market.
ANSWER: cattle trails [or cattle drives]
121-13-94-32118

19. This national monument is the home of Mantle's Cave, a significant resource to learn about the Fremont
culture. A 1955 book about the "magic rivers" in this national monument was edited by Wallace Stegner
and proposed by David Brower. It was the subject of a major 1950s debate over the building of a dam at
Echo Park. This site's name references a 1909 discovery by a Carnegie Museum of Natural History scientist
who was exploring the confluence of the Green and Yampa Rivers. For the point, name this national
monument on the border between Colorado and Utah, named due to numerous fossils being found there.
ANSWER: Dinosaur National Monument [prompt on Echo Park until it is read]
052-13-94-32119

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 4 of 8

20. This region contains the largest nickel-copper-palladium deposits in the world. An example of
Denisova hominins called "Woman X" was found in a cave in this region, which has namesake "traps"
responsible for the "Great Dying" extinction event. Those punished under the katorga system were sent
here. This region was the site of the 1908 Tunguska Event and was home to numerous labor camps called
gulags. For the point, name this large geographical region extending eastward from the Urals in North Asia,
which takes up three-quarters of Russia.
ANSWER: Siberia [prompt on Russia, etc. until "namesake" is read]
052-13-94-32120

21. This city has a theater that opened in 1989 and was a prize-winning creation of the Uruguayan designer
Carlos Ott. The Holy Innocents' Cemetery is a defunct graveyard here, where corpses were once studied by
Andreas Vesalius. This city features the international headquarters of the U.N. agency in charge of
promoting education, science, and culture. The headquarters of UNESCO are in this city, which has such
departements as the Hauts-de-Seine (oh-day-SENN). For the point, name this French city, the site of the
Elysee Palace and the Arc de Triomphe.
ANSWER: Paris
052-13-94-32121

22. This region is where a festival honoring a city's patron saint begins with a mass in the Saint Chapel of
the Basilica del Pilar. The "Solemn Mass of Infants" and "The Offering of Flowers" are a part of the Fiesta
del Pilar held in this autonomous community. In this region, Pedro de Arbues was assassinated in the Leo
Seo Cathedral. This region is home to Aneto, the highest mountain in the Pyrenees, and a monarch of this
region issued the Alhambra Decree with his wife Isabella. That monarch was Ferdinand II. For the point,
name this autonomous community of northeastern Spain that includes Zaragoza.
ANSWER: Aragon [or Arago]
186-13-94-32122

23. On the border between these two countries, guards exchange a high-step kick ritual before
simultaneously lowering their flags at sunset in the Beating Retreat. The Radcliffe Line divided these two
countries. The Wagah border is between these two countries, and they also dispute the Siachen glacier. The
Line of Control divides their territorial claims. The Zero Point separates the states of Gujarat and Sindh
between these two countries. For the point, name these South Asian countries that fought a 1999 war over
Kashmir.
ANSWER: Republic of India and Islamic Republic of Pakistan [either order acceptable, but do not accept
or prompt if only one answer is given]
190-13-94-32123

24. One crossing over this river was measured at "364.4 smoots, plus or minus an ear" long, where Smoot
was the length of a fraternity student of that surname. The Hatch Shell is a concert hall on this river's
namesake esplanade. This river, which starts in Hopkinton, was crossed until the 60s by the Warren Bridge,
threatening the monopoly of a namesake structure which was revoked in 1837 by Chief Jusice Roger
Taney. Its outflow is near the neighborhood of Back Bay. For the point, name this river between
Cambridge and Boston, Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Charles River
104-13-94-32124

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 5 of 8

25. A series of small passages that total a mile are on the ceiling of a location of this feature. The
"Chocolate High" passages were discovered in this feature in 1993. This park contains the deepest cave in
the Continental U.S. This park is the home of Spider Cave, Lechuguilla Cave and Slaughter Canyon Cave.
Jim White explored and named most of the locations of this feature. The sections of the namesake feature
of this park include the Queen's Chamber, Mystery Room and the Big Room. This national park is famous
for its massive bat flights. For the point, name this cave system in southeastern New Mexico.
ANSWER: Carlsbad Caverns National Park
186-13-94-32125

26. A reserve on Mount Williamson in this mountain range protects its endangered Bighorn Sheep.
Canyons on the west of this mountain range include Kern Canyon, Kings Canyon, and the Hetch Hetchy
Valley. The Merced River flows from this mountain range into the Central Valley. This mountain range
extends from the Mojave Desert to the Cascades. Giant sequoia trees only grow on the western slopes of
this mountain range, which contains the highest peak in the continental US, Mount Whitney. For the point,
name this mountain range that runs through California and Nevada.
ANSWER: Sierra Nevada
080-13-94-32126

27. A maligned practice during these events is nicknamed "digging your grave." A bent finger is
intermittently tapped twice during these events, which make use of a Lazy Susan, or a circular rotating tray.
The phrase "ganbei!" (gone-BAY) is often yelled during these events. Baozi (BOUT-suh) is offered near
the end of these events, types of which include hot pot and dim sum. For the point, name these Chinese
events whose participants wield chopsticks.
ANSWER: Chinese meals [or Chinese breakfasts; Chinese lunches; Chinese dinners; or any other such
answer]
020-13-94-32127

28. Manuel Moroun owns the only privately-owned one of these structures. Moroun has sued Michigan for
approving another of these Moroun fears would compete against his. Charles Ellet organized a kite-flying
contest in order to begin building one of these structures. Before working on a similar structure in
Brooklyn, John Roebling took over that project begun by Ellet. The busiest one of these is the Ambassador
between Windsor and Detroit, which is south of the Blue Water between Port Huron and Sarnia. For the
point, name these structures often over rivers which connect roads between two North American countries.
ANSWER: American-Canadian bridges [or obvious equivalents; or bridges to Canada; or
Michigan-Canadian bridges before “kite-flying contest”]
121-13-94-32128

29. The last ruler of this region when it was an independent county was the exiled René of Naples. Since
the early 1970s, pink flamingos have lived on an island in its marshy river delta, the Camargue. People
living in this region attacked the national government for vergonha, the policy of replacing their native
Occitan language, which with the closely related Catalan was the language of many early troubadours.
Vincent van Gogh painted landscapes here including one of the River Rhone, which forms this region's
western border. Its southern border is formed by the Mediterranean and contains Marseille. For the point,
name this region of southern France.
ANSWER: Provence
121-13-94-32129

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 6 of 8

30. The French consul Auguste Francois discovered a species of this animal, which is now commonly
named for him. Another species of this animal is found in and named for the Nilgiri Hills. Sri Lanka is the
only home of an animal of this type called the purple-faced langur. Another species of this animal found
only on the island of Borneo is named for its proboscis. These animals include lutungs, which are part of
the Old World group of these animals. For the point, name these animals that include macaques and other
primates with tails, which differentiates them from apes.
ANSWER: monkeys [prompt on primates]
023-13-94-32130

31. As part of her dissertation, anthropologist Eva Justin studied children at this location, and Gustav
Mahler's niece, Alma Rose, conducted a orchestra here. A book partially about this place is Man's Search
for Meaning by Viktor Frankl. This location had a section near Monowitz which provided cheap labor for
the IG Farben company. Now a UNESCO World Heritage site, it was run during the war by Rudolf Hoess,
and thousands were killed at its gas chambers near Birkenau. For the point, name this concentration camp
in Poland, the largest Nazi death camp.
ANSWER: Auschwitz [or Auschwitz-Birkenau; or Auschwitz-Monowitz]
052-13-94-32131

32. This state’s capital is the site of the Ekka agricultural fair each August, and is the home of the Story
Bridge. “Banana bender” is a slang term for inhabitants of this state. Carnarvon Gorge is a national park in
this state, which is also home to a world heritage site named for its Wet Tropics. Cairns and Rockhampton
are cities in this state, though its second-largest city is Toowoomba. Cape York Peninsula extends north in
this state, and the Great Barrier Reef extends along its shoreline. For the point, name this large state in
northeast Australia.
ANSWER: Queensland, Australia
190-13-94-32132

33. This city's "Swan Island" was the site of one of Henry Kaiser's World War II-era shipyards. Dispute
over its name was settled by a namesake penny flipped by Francis Pettygrove and Asa Lovejoy. The
fictional character Ramona Quimby lives on a real street in this city, Klickitat Street. Weird locations in
this city include the Velveteria Museum of Velvet Paintings and the 24 Hour Church of Elvis. It lies on top
of the Boring Lava Field, and it was named for the Maine hometown of a founder. This "city of Roses"
straddles the Willamette River and is nearby Mount Hood. For the point, name this most populous city in
Oregon.
ANSWER: Portland
052-13-94-32133

34. Legendarily, this place was rewarded by the king after the Wreck of the Ten Sail, where settlers saved
all hands in a ten vessel wreck. Reporters erroneously predicted hundreds had died here after it was hit by
Hurricane Ivan in 2004. Tourist sites here include the Seven Mile Beach and Stingray City. In July 2012,
this place's leader McKeeva Bush proposed a "community enhancement fee," which would have been the
first direct tax on income in this region's history. For the point, name this British Overseas Territory in the
Caribbean, a popular tax shelter consisting of three islands.
ANSWER: Cayman Islands
052-13-94-32134

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 7 of 8

35. This country's longtime prime minister Forbes Burnham declared it a Cooperative Republic in 1970 and
nationalized its Canadian and American-owned bauxite mines. The Courantyne River forms this country's
eastern border, and this country is the location of the Iwokrama rain forest preserve. The capital of this
country is located at the mouth of the Demerara River on the Atlantic Ocean. This country's airstrip at Port
Kaituma was the location of the murder of Congressman Leo Ryan. For the point, name this South
American country with capital at Georgetown that was site of the mass suicide of over nine hundred
members of People's Temple at the behest of cult leader Jim Jones.
ANSWER: Guyana
030-13-94-32135

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

32

Page 8 of 8

