United States Geography Olympiad Round 3

1. This region was the subject of a 1962 Allan W. Eckert article which quoted a pilot as describing "white"
and "green water." The largest non-combat loss of life in U.S. Naval history occurred here in 1918 when
the USS Cyclops went down here. Contrary to popular belief, Lloyd's of London does not charge higher
insurance rates to ships traveling through this region. Its infamy originated with an article about the
disappearance of Flight 19 here, which conspiracy theorists have blamed on UFO abductions. For the point,
name this region in the western Atlantic Ocean where aircraft and ships supposedly mysteriously disappear.
ANSWER: Bermuda Triangle [or Devil's Triangle]
052-13-94-31101

2. Two supporters of this movement, Gabriel Hudon and Raymond Villeneuve, killed Wilfred O'Neil with a
bomb. The "Popular Liberation Movement" of Charles Gagnon and Pierre Vallieres combined with an
organization that supported this goal. Rene Levesque founded a political party that held a 1980 referendum
on whether to accomplish this goal. Members of an organization that supported this movement kidnapped
James Cross and Pierre Laporte during the October Crisis. The FLQ violently supports the goal of this
movement. For the point, name this movement of self-rule for a French-speaking province of Canada.
ANSWER: Quebec sovereignty [or Quebec separatism; or Quebec independence; or any answer
indicating that Quebec would rule itself]
186-13-94-31102

3. The capital of this country is built on a height called Mount Sceberras, which divides this country's Great
Harbor from Marsamxett Harbor. The Roman governor Publius is buried in a cathedral in this country at
Mdina. This country contains a set of Megalithic temples, including the Ggantija complex and the Tarxien
complex, on Gozo. During World War II, this country as a whole received the St. George Cross for valor. It
was defended from the Ottomans under the leadership of Jean de la Vallette. This country's symbol is the
eight-pointed cross adopted by its longtime rulers, the Knights Hospitallers. For the point, name this
Mediterranean island nation south of Sicily and north of Libya.
ANSWER: Malta
080-13-94-31103

4. Just outside this city, disabled workers are employed at the Bombolulu workshops as artisans. This city
is a few miles north of the tourist-frequented Diani Beach.This city's Moi Avenue is home to two towering
sculptures of elephant tusks. Fort Jesus was built by Europeans near this city's Old Town. This city's
namesake island is split from the mainland by Tudor Creek, and its Kilindini Harbor was a major center of
the Swahili slave trade. For the point, name this port city in Kenya.
ANSWER: Mombasa
104-13-94-31104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 1 of 8

5. The largest district in this region, which also makes up its entire southern half, is the Kufra District. In
December 2013, a pro-autonomy group in this region signed a deal with the lobbying firm Dickens and
Madson. In October of 2013, a government for this region with 24 ministers and prime minister Abdraba
Abdulhameed Al-Barasi was declared. That government in this region has largely been orchestrated by
Ibrahim Jadhran, who has taken control of oil production in this region. For the point, name this region that
once bordered Tripolitania and Fezzan and currently has some movement for autonomous governance in
eastern Libya..
ANSWER: Cyrenaica
023-13-94-31105

6. A Tudor-style Story House in this city offers information about the city and its tea industry, and this city
is also the location of the Museum of Drinking Water. This city commemorated people massacred in 1947
by renaming a park the 228 Peace Park. A museum dedicated to aboriginal people from the island of this
city is called the Shung Ye Museum. In 2004, the Petronas Towers were replaced by a namesake 101
building in this city as the world's tallest building. For the point, name this Asian capital city that is also the
location of a memorial hall named for Chiang Kai-shek.
ANSWER: Taipei
023-13-94-31106

7. In a story depicting an "Autumn" in this region, Isaac McCaslin sees that Roth Edmonds has killed a doe
just after helping Roth pay off a black lover. David Cohen quipped that this region extended from the
Peabody Hotel to Catfish Row. The east of this region contains the cities of Greenwood and Vicksburg.
Bounded on the east by the Yazoo River, this region is the birthplace of an early style of blues practiced by
Robert Johnson, and has historically been home to a large black population. For the point, identify this
northwest section of Mississippi once advantageous for cotton plantations due to its location near a
namesake river.
ANSWER: Mississippi Delta
080-13-94-31107

8. This state is the location of the Nikolaikirche (nee-kol-EYE-keer-keh), which was the location of
Christian Fuhrer's Monday demonstrations against Communist restrictions. The Pillitz Palace is located in
this state, whose Zwinger Palace contains the Old Masters Picture Gallery. The construction of the Little
Castle in the Woods Bridge across the Elbe River in the capital of this state prompted the revocation of the
surrounding area's status as a UNESCO World Heritage site. That capital of this state lost approximately
100,000 residents during a World War II firebombing. For the point, name this state in eastern Germany in
which Leipzig is located and whose capital is Dresden.
ANSWER: Saxony [or Sachsen]
030-13-94-31108

9. This state contains the northern half of the National Radio Quiet Zone, which is designed to aid the radio
astronomy telescope at Green Bank, where the Drake Equation on extraterrestrial life was presented.
Violent labor disputes shook this landlocked state's towns of Paint Creek and Matewan in the 1910s and
20s. This state is home to the highest east-of-the-Mississippi vehicular bridge, an enormous steel arch over
New River Gorge. For the point, identify this state where coal mining wars took place decades after it
broke off from its eastern neighbor during the Civil War.
ANSWER: West Virginia
019-13-94-31109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 2 of 8

10. The first successful automobile company in the United States operated in this state, and was the
Haynes-Apperson company. It's not Ohio, but a gas boom occurred in this state's Trenton Gas Field. Paul
Dresser wrote an 1897 song about this state's official river. This state's emblematic poet was John
Whitcomb Riley, and Springs Valley High School in this state is where its native son played games in
French Lick. In this modern-day state, George Rogers Clark captured Fort Sackville and Vincennes during
the Revolutionary War. The Wabash River flows through this state before draining into the Ohio River. For
the point, name this "Hoosier state."
ANSWER: Indiana
186-13-94-31110

11. This city includes a Highway Axis and a Monumental Axis, which is lined with its governmental
buildings. The center of this city consists of the Square of the Three Powers, and its inner city residential
zones are organized as superblocks. This city's cathedral includes sixteen concrete columns, and its Palace
of the Dawn is the presidential residence. It is located between the headwaters of the Parana, Sao Francisco,
and Tocantins rivers. Lucio Costa was responsible for the master plan for this city, which resembles the
shape of an airplane. For the point, name this city that was designed in part by Oscar Niemeyer and is the
capital of Brazil.
ANSWER: Brasilia
030-13-94-31111

12. A theory about this body of water’s name states that Portuguese sailors coined it in reference to a small
species of tropical grape. It names a series of William Hope Hodgson stories that include “From the
Tideless Sea.” This sea is the traditional spawning migration center of both the European and American
eel. The name of this sea comes from a specific genus of broth macroalgae, which has a reputation for
ensnaring ships, although ships trapped here are mostly affected by the horse latitudes. For the point, name
this sea in the North Atlantic noted for the massive amounts of seaweed found there.
ANSWER: Sargasso Sea [prompt on the Atlantic Ocean]
052-13-94-31112

13. The oldest long-distance trail in the United States travels by this range's Mount Wilson. The
second-tallest peak of these mountains and a thousand acres of land were presented to Mortimer Proctor as
a birthday present in 1910. This mountain range is home to the Killington Ski Resort, which is on this
range's second-highest peak. The Long Trail passes by this mountain range, which includes the Camel's
Hump and Pico Peak as well as "The Resting Lion." In Massachusetts, these mountains are known as the
Berkshires. For the point, name this mountain range in Vermont that includes Mount Mansfield.
ANSWER: Green Mountains [prompt on Berkshires until it is read]
186-13-94-31113

14. This location was bought in 1887 by the owners of a rock quarry, the Venable Brothers. This location
was where William Simmons led a meeting of groups like the Knights of Mary Phagan, who applauded the
lynching of Leo Frank. In 1915, this site was the location of a cross burning that signaled the formation of a
new version of the Ku Klux Klan. Mount Rushmore sculptor Gutzon Borglum abandoned a project here in
1925 commissioned by the United Daughters of the Confederacy. For the point, name this quartz dome in
Georgia, which has a bas-relief depicting Stonewall Jackson, Robert E. Lee, and Jefferson Davis.
ANSWER: Stone Mountain
052-13-94-31114

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 3 of 8

15. This biome contains the endangered riverine rabbit, and huge bursts of orange daisies can be seen each
spring in its town of Calvinia. This region is home to shrubs called "bossies" which are grazed upon by the
sheep on its many sheep farms. In early 2014, the Buffels river flooded this region's town of Laingsburg,
and it also includes ostrich breeders in the town of Oudtshoorn. This region contains "Nama" and
"Succulent" subregions, and its name is thought to be a Khoisan word for "land of thirst." The
Matjiesfontein military graveyard honors Scots and Boers who died in this region. For the point, name this
arid region north of Cape Town in southwestern South Africa.
ANSWER: Karoo [or Great Karoo; or Little Karoo]
104-13-94-31115

16. This country was where Alois Estermann was murdered in his apartment, possibly by a state assassin.
During World War II, Hugh O’Flaherty sheltered various Jews and refugees in his office within this
country. This country's current head of state lives in Saint Martha's House, a far smaller residence than the
palace formerly used by its leaders. It was created in the 1929 Lateran Treaty, and this country is home to
St. Peter's Basilica and the Sistine Chapel. For the point, name this smallest internationally recognized
independent state, an enclave where the Pope lives.
ANSWER: Vatican City State
052-13-94-31116

17. On Bali, priests bless subak to maintain these things. In Japan, family names containing the syllable
"ta" refer to these areas. In the Philippines, a set of these areas in the mountains of Ifugao are referred to as
the "eighth wonder of the world," since they are made from an elaborate system of terraces carved into the
mountains. Water buffalo are raised to plow these strips of land, which are surrounded by earthworks so
that they hold rain during the monsoon season. For the point, name these flooded allotments of land used to
grow rice in Asia.
ANSWER: paddy fields [or rice paddies]
080-13-94-31117

18. This region has a sixteen foot tall, 5,500 pound bronze and gold statue called "God of Fortune" in a
building owned by Sheldon Adelson. People who sell "dead chips" in this region take part in a business
system called bate-ficha. Franco Dragone created "The House of Dancing Water" for this region's City of
Dreams, which is a complex located on reclaimed land between the islands of Coloane and Taipa. This
region includes the Cotai Strip, and it is known as the "Monte Carlo of the Orient." For the point, name this
special administrative region of China that in 2006 started taking in more revenue than Las Vegas from
gambling.
ANSWER: Macau Special Administrative Region [or Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu; or Regiao
Administrativa Especial de Macau]
023-13-94-31118

19. Railroad manager Otto Ohlson controlled this city for decades, and its Turnagain-by-the-Sea
subdivision was destroyed in a natural disaster, which also destroyed the five story tall "Penney Building."
This city is near the very large Chugach State Park. It was only seventy-five miles from the epicenter of the
1964 Good Friday Earthquake. The airport here is named in honor of former Senator Ted Stevens. The
Iditarod dog race begins in this city, and more state employees live in this city than the capital of Juneau.
For the point, name this most populous city in Alaska.
ANSWER: Anchorage
052-13-94-31119

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 4 of 8

20. This group's 10 Point Program reaffirmed this group's opposition to United Nations Resolution 242.
Ahmad Shuqayri was the first chair of this group, and this group was expelled by King Hussein during the
Black September crisis. Men associated with this group shot Leon Klinghoffer in the hijacking of the
Achille Lauro, and this group agreed to the Oslo Accords following negotiations with Shimon Peres. The
main faction of this group is Fatah, and Hamas opposed this organization's decision to recognize a rival's
right to exist in 1988. For the point, name this organization whose chairman was Yasir Arafat and fought
against Israel to gain a country for Arabs who lived in the mandate.
ANSWER: Palestine Liberation Organization [or PLO; do not accept "Palestinian Authority"]
030-13-94-31120

21. Bal Thackeray was a cartoonist active in this city. In 1784, this city was formed from the union of seven
islands by a project called the Hornby Vellard. Dabbawalas deliver food to workers in this city. Marathi
nationalists in the 1960s formed Shiv Sena in this city. An arch made of basalt in this city's harbor was
constructed to commemorate the 1911 visit of George V and Queen Mary. This city, the capital of
Maharashtra, was attacked by Lakshar e-Taiba terrorists in 2008. For the point, name this most populous
city of India and the home of the Hindi-language film industry.
ANSWER: Mumbai [or Bombay]
190-13-94-31121

22. A monument in this city is meant to represent the destination of the sacred bird Samruk. This city
includes a 150-meter tall transparent tent that is as wide as ten football fields. A tower in this city was
designed to resemble the tree of life holding a golden egg and also contains the Ayaly-Alakan, a handprint
from the president of this city's country. Residents of this city gave the nickname Chupa Chups to a tower
called Baiterek. For the point, name this city that became a capital city in 1997 when Nursultan Nazarbayev
moved the government from Almaty, Kazakhstan.
ANSWER: Astana
023-13-94-31122

23. Natalia Lafourcade was one of four artists to give a concert in this city's Monumento a la Mexicanidad.
The mayors Carlos Villareal and Rene Mascarenas Miranda were two of the men who helped to develop
this city, which includes a tourist area called the PRONAF zone. This city's first school for higher
education, the Escuela Particular de Agricultura, was founded by the Escobar brothers. In 2012, Carlos
Salas reported on the murder of women in this city that has been going on since 1993. This city in
Chihuahua is the sister city of El Paso. For the point, name this city named for the first indigenous president
of Mexico.
ANSWER: Ciudad Juarez [or El Paso del Norte]
186-13-94-31123

24. This country was where the "man with the hammer," a serial killer named Romulus Veres, operated,
and it was the site of two suicides of academics after the forced merger of the Babes (BAH-besh) and
Bolyai Universities. A region here has a historic seal of Michael the Brave. A cultural center in this country
is Timisoara, the site of mass protests before a 1989 revolution. This country contains Bran Castle, which is
commonly referred to as "Dracula's Castle." For the point, name this modern day Eastern European country
with such regions as Wallachia and Transylvania.
ANSWER: Romania
052-13-94-31124

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 5 of 8

25. During the last half-millennium, people in this landmass's highlands developed large bellies from
protein deficiency after the sweet potato became a staple crop. The HMS Fly names one river on this
landmass, whose west is home to Wilson's bird of paradise. This landmass's languages include Tok Pisin,
and its Fore people ate the brains of their dead, leading to an outbreak of the prion disease kuru. A
tribesman named Yali on this island inspired Jared Diamond to write Guns, Germs, and Steel. Its highest
point is at Puncak Jaya, and cities on its right side include Port Moresby. For the point, name this island
east of the Malay archipelago, whose western half belongs to Indonesia.
ANSWER: New Guinea [or Niugini; or Papua; do not accept "Papua New Guinea"]
104-13-94-31125

26. This country's coast can be traveled by taking the Ruta del Spondylus, which is also known as the Ruta
del Sol. The largest indigenous market in South America takes place in the city of Otavalo in this country.
This country's city of Puerto Lopez is located near to its Machalilla National Park, which includes the Isla
de la Plata home to many blue-footed boobies. A crater lake can be found in this country in Quilotoa, and
this country's capital is located near Cotopaxi. The Wolf and North Seymour Islands are located to the west
of this country as part of its Galapagos Islands. For the point, name this country whose largest cities are
Guayaquil and Quito.
ANSWER: Republic of Ecuador [or Republica del Ecuador]
023-13-94-31126

27. An airport in this country was attacked in Operation Cactus. Its Gan International Airport was once a
RAF base, and another airport is located at the island of Hulhule. This country has a president who was
featured in the documentary The Island President. That president, Mohamed Nasheed, is noted for his
efforts to investigate rising sea levels. Tamil mercenaries assisted in a 1988 coup here against President
Maumoon Abdul Gayoom. This island country is the smallest Asian country by population and land area.
For the point, name this island state of twenty-six atolls in the Indian Ocean, with its capital at Male
(mah-LAY).
ANSWER: Republic of the Maldives
052-13-94-31127

28. Public transit riders in this city pay with the RFID-based PASSMO system, and operators of its trains
include JR East and TX. This city is the point of departure for luxury excursions on the "Romancecar"
lines, and drivers here may use the "Aqua-line" tunnel under its namesake bay. This city's rail system is
comprised of the Metro and Toei networks, and it is the busiest subway in the world despite only a fifth of
its traffic going underground. It is the larger of two cities connected by the original "main trunk line"
high-speed trains. For the point, identify this city whose transport system was attacked with sarin gas in
1995 by Aum Shinrikyo.
ANSWER: Tokyo
019-13-94-31128

29. A transformed church in this city was where the first public demonstration of a Foucault pendulum took
place. Anatoly Sobchak was the first directly-elected mayor of this city. The assassination of a politician in
this city led to the Great Purge. Saint Isaac's Cathedral is in this city, where Stalin arranged for the death of
Sergei Kirov. Auguste de Montferrand designed this city's Alexander Column, and its Senate Square was
where the Decembrist Uprising occurred. This city's Winter Palace was stormed at the beginning of the
October Revolution. For the point, name this Russian city once known as Leningrad.
ANSWER: St. Petersburg [prompt on Petrograd; prompt on Leningrad until it is read]
186-13-94-31129

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 6 of 8

30. The program known as MINURSO took place in this region, which has seen riots in a city formerly
known as Villa Cisneros. This region was the subject of a 2000 U.N. plan led by James Baker. A
government that professes to control it may have backed the Independence Intifada and is based in Tindouf,
Algeria. This region has long been disputed with Polisario Front-controlled independent government, the
Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, by Morocco. For the point, name this disputed, sparsely populated
region located on the coast of an African desert.
ANSWER: Western Sahara [or the SADR until it is read; or Sahrawi until it is read]
052-13-94-31130

31. Submarine karst springs called vruljas are found in this body of water. The Zanclean flood refilled this
body of water. Climate zones named for this body of water exist between thirty-one and forty degrees north
and south of the equator. Winds crossing this body of water include the mistral and the sirocco, and the
Levant wind blows across its western expanses. In the Koppen system, this body of water is the namesake
of a dry-summer subtropical climate. For the point, name this sea whose basin supports olive trees growing
in North Africa and Southern Europe.
ANSWER: Mediterranean Sea
190-13-94-31131

32. This geographical term derives ultimately from a Gothic name meaning "work-ruler." A fringe theory
claims that it was actually the last name of a Welsh merchant named Richard. This word first appears in the
Cosmographiae Introductio of Martin Waldseemuller, who made an atlas in 1507 while under the belief
that the first European to sight the new world was an Italian named Vespucci. For the point, give this term
for the New World continents.
ANSWER: "America" [or the Americas, etc.]
019-13-94-31132

33. This country's coastline has the longest barrier reef in the northern hemisphere and the third longest in
the world. This country achieved independence partly thanks to an ethnically Palestinian future leader of
the PUP, Said Musa. This birthplace of chewing gum has important population centers at San Ignacio,
Punta Gorda, and Orange Walk. Arlen and Diane Chase uncovered an ancient Mayan city in this country
with a Spanish name meaning "snail." This home of the archaeological site of Caracol has a sizable
Anglican population. For the point, name this Central American country directly east of Guatemala whose
head of state is Queen Elizabeth II.
ANSWER: Belize
080-13-94-31133

34. Henry Deane engineered railways in this country. A railroad in this country is called the “Ghan” or
“Afghan Express” and was first laid in 1912, starting in Port Augusta. The world’s longest stretch of
straight railway tracks lies between Ooldea and Loongana in this country, crossing the Nullarbor Plain.
Kalgoorlie, the site of a gold rush in the 1890s, is at the western terminus of this country’s major railroad.
The Alice railway connected this country’s largest city to Alice Springs. For the point, name this nation
where a transcontinental railroad connects the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
190-13-94-31134

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 7 of 8

35. In this city, a Thanksgiving 1942 boxing match between a black unit's champion and a white unit's
champion turned into a riot. This city's urban area of Ahwatukee is bordered on the north by South
Mountain. Phillip Duppa suggested the name of this city, which was founded near the Salt River's
convergence with the Gila (HEE-luh) River by Jack Swelling. The landmark of Tom's Thumb is located in
the McDowell Mountains, which are located northeast of this city. This city's metropolitan area is known as
the "Valley of the Sun," and politicians from this city include Sandra Day O'Connor and John McCain. For
the point, name this largest city in Arizona.
ANSWER: Phoenix
186-13-94-31135

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

31

Page 8 of 8

