United States Geography Olympiad Round 1

1. This city's Crocker Art Museum is the oldest American art museum west of the Mississippi. Its Latino
culture is celebrated each Memorial Day weekend during the Festival de la Familia. In the nineteenth
century, this city was called Yee Fow, which is Chinese for "second city." This city was the western
terminus of the Central Pacific railroad. In the mid-2000s, a "cigar tent" was set up outside a mansion in
this city. The American River joins with this city's namesake river and was dammed to make Folsom Lake,
which lies northeast of this city. Sutter's Fort is in this present-day city. For the point, name this city where
governor Jerry Brown currently resides.
ANSWER: Sacramento, California
190-13-94-29101

2. These people often received hand-woven blankets as tokens of thanks. They often played a twenty-one
stringed lute known as a kora. Several of these people prefer the term "jali," meaning "blood," instead of
this word, which is derived from the French transliteration of a Portuguese word meaning servant. The
Kouyate line of these people traces back to Balla Faseke, who was ceremonially offered by a king to his
son. Alex Haley visited one of these people in 1966 in the process of researching his novel Roots. The Epic
of Sundiata was preserved by generations of these people. For the point, name these West African
storytellers and bards.
ANSWER: griots [pronounced "gree-OHs," but phonetic answers should obviously be taken]
020-13-94-29102

3. Henry the Pious, a duke of this region, died in battle against Mongols under Batu Khan.
Historically-important cities in this region included Troppau and Teschen. It contained Stalag Luft III, the
prison camp depicted in the film The Great Escape. This hugely coal-rich region was the site of an 1844
weavers' uprising dramatized by Gerhart Hauptmann. The War of the Austrian Succession broke out over
the transfer of this region. For the point, name this region currently located in southwest Poland and
historically divided between German and Polish populations.
ANSWER: Silesia
080-13-94-29103

4. One plausible origin for this modern-day English term is the name of a mythical land where skies rain
cheese and nuns frequently expose their bottoms, an imagined utopia for many peasants. This term also can
refer to people born within earshot of the bells of the St. Mary-le-bow church, which was destroyed during
the Blitz. Henry Higgins attempts to erase this identity from the flower-girl Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion.
These people often use rhyming slang like "namby pamby," address people as "govnor," and usually drop
the "h" sound. For the point, give this name for a popular London accent linked, for better or for worse,
with lower-class people.
ANSWER: Cockney
020-13-94-29104

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 1 of 8

5. This country's only World Heritage Site is a sacred mountain where Sulayman the prophet was buried.
The Battle of the Talas River took place in this modern-day country. Its capital was once named for
Bolshevik leader Mikhail Frunze. The city of Osh is located in this country's Fergana Valley. Askar
Akayev served as president of this country until he was unseated in 2005 during the Tulip Revolution.
Victory Peak lies on this country's border with China and is the tallest point of the Tian Shan Mountains.
For the point, name this mountainous state located east of Uzbekistan and north of Tajikstan.
ANSWER: Kyrgyzstan
190-13-94-29105

6. This lake's north arm is separated from Marian Lake by the Frank Channel, where the towns of Rae and
Edzo are located. This lake was the site of a trading rivalry between Cuthbert Grant and Laurent Leroux,
who founded Fort Providence and Fort Resolution here. The Hay River discharges into this lake and is the
namesake of a town on its shores. The first European to cross this lake was Samuel Hearne, who did so on
his way to the Coppermine River. This lake is drained by the Mackenzie River, and the capital of the
Northwest Territories, Yellowknife, lies on its shores. For the point, identify this second-largest lake in
Canada, behind the Great Bear Lake.
ANSWER: Great Slave Lake
066-13-94-29106

7. The Red and White singing contest in Japan takes place on omisoka, also known as this holiday. Saint
Sylvester's Day corresponds to this holiday. In Brazil, the reveillon (REH-vey-yon) is a party taking place
on this holiday. In Spain on this holiday, it is traditional to consume twelve grapes. The practice of
first-footing on this holiday is observed in Scotland, where it is called Hogmanay. The celebration of this
holiday prompted Kiribati to change time zones. In the southern U.S., it's popular to eat black-eyed peas on
this occasion. For the point, name this holiday celebrated by the crystal ball drop in Times Square.
ANSWER: New Year’s Day [or New Year's Eve; or January 1; or December 31]
190-13-94-29107

8. This city is the setting of a novel in which a duke's death is heralded by owls perching on the battlements
of Tankerton Hall. Nicholas Ridley was burned at the stake in this city. Matthew Arnold called it the "city
with her dreaming spires" in his poem "Thyrsis," and Roger Bannister ran the first mile in less than four
minutes in this city. Its most famous institution has a science library called the Radcliffe Camera and a
museum named for Augustus Pitt Rivers. For the point, name this city in England, home to the oldest
university in the English-speaking world.
ANSWER: Oxford
052-13-94-29108

9. The first successful ascent of one of this mountain's peaks was made by Percy Wyn-Harris and Eric
Shipton. Johann Ludwig Krapf was the first European to report seeing this mountain. After his country
gained independence, Kisoi Munayo raised his country's flag on the top of this mountain. The Embu people
build their houses so that the doors face this place. The Gikuyu people believe that God, or Ngai, lived on
this mountain before he came to the earth. Peaks of this mountain include Nelion and Batian. Jomo
Kenyatta wrote an anthropological text about "Facing" this place. For the point, name this second-tallest
mountain of Africa.
ANSWER: Mount Kenya
186-13-94-29109

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 2 of 8

10. This man joined a project led by John Hunt that also included George Lowe and G.W.F. Noyce. A
journey that this man took with Vivian Fuchs was recounted in his book No Latitude for Error. News of his
achievement broke on the same day of Queen Elizabeth II's coronation, and he and his partner attempted to
find information regarding the fate of George Mallory. The author of High Adventure, his most noted
project was funded by the Royal Geographical Society, and he founded the Himalayan Trust in honor of the
sherpas. For the point, name this New Zealander who, with Tenzing Norgay, became the first man to climb
Mount Everest.
ANSWER: Sir Edmund Hillary
030-13-94-29110

11. The Mazza Paleoindian site is located near the Winooski River on the shores of this body of water. A
canal that connected this body of water to points southward notably used a type of canal boat with sails,
and this body of water contains Valcour Island and is overlooked by Mount Defiance. A bridge connects
Chimney Point to Crown Point across this body of water, which was the site of the 1814 Battle of
Plattsburgh. In 1998, it was briefly declared the sixth Great Lake. For the point, identify this lake located
just south of the Canadian border and between Vermont and New York, named for a French explorer.
ANSWER: Lake Champlain
057-13-94-29111

12. Approximately four hundred people speak the Nivkh language in this locale, which is not related to any
other language. The highest point on this landmass is Mt. Lopatin. Approximately two thousand people
died in a 1995 earthquake here that destroyed the town of Nefegorsk. Anton Chekhov wrote about an 1890
journey to this place's penal colony, and La Perouse Strait separates this landmass from Hokkaido. This
location changed hands in the 1905 Treaty of Portsmouth and was renamed Karafuto. For the point, name
this island that is separated from the Asian mainland by the Tatar Strait and was taken by Russia from
Japan at the end of World War II.
ANSWER: Sakhalin Island [or Kafafuto before mentioned]
030-13-94-29112

13. Francois Icard and Paul Gielly excavated a site in this city where the ritual called “molk” occurred.
Those sites are called tophets, and contain evidence of child sacrifice. This city's name means “New City,”
suggesting it was meant to provide a permanent market for trade posts in Sardinia and Spain. A citadel in
this city was called the Byrsa. “Byrsa's” closeness to Greek for “oxhide” may be responsible for a legend
about how its borders were created. The man-made circular military harbor in this city was blockaded by a
mole built by Scipio Aemilianus. For the point, name this city destroyed by Rome in the Third Punic War.
ANSWER: Carthage
121-13-94-29113

14. A southern variant of this language is the nearly extinct language Pipil. In 2008, Mayor Marcelo Ebrard
recommended all government employees learn this language. It's not a European language, but a text
written in it included twelve books including "The Sun, Moon and Stars, and the Binding of the Years."
The Florentine Codex was written in this language, and a historical chronicle was written using it by
Fernando Alvarado Tezozomoc. The English words "avocado" and "chocolate" come from this language,
which was spoken by the Emperor Montezuma. For the point, name this language spoken by the Aztecs.
ANSWER: Nahuatl
052-13-94-29114

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 3 of 8

15. This river's source is located near Mount Delgado Chalbaud, and its delta extends from Pedernales to
Barima Point on the Boca Grande. A mile-long bridge crosses this river at Ciudad Bolivar. Much of this
river's basin north of the Guaviare River is composed of plains called the Llanos (YAH-nos). The Apure is
one tributary of this river, and one of this river's tributaries, the Caroni, is the location of Angel Falls.
Alexander von Humboldt led an expedition that proved that the Casiquiare River joins this river with the
Amazon. For the point, name this river that flows from the Guiana Highlands to the Atlantic Ocean and is
largely located in Venezuela.
ANSWER: Orinoco River
030-13-94-29115

16. A region of this country's capital, Kampong Ayer, is built entirely on stilts connected by bridges. This
country's official name includes the phrase "Abode of Peace." A bay named for this country separates its
Muara region from Temburong, a practical exclave. Hassanal Bolkiah, who has led this country since 1965,
lives in the Istana Nurul Iman, the largest palace ever built. Just south of this country is the region of
Sarawak. For the point, name this country, which is located on the northern tip of Borneo and is an
extremely wealthy oil sultanate.
ANSWER: Brunei
190-13-94-29116

17. This structure is the subject of a song that begins with the lyric "I’ve got a mule, her name is Sal." The
song "Low Bridge, Everybody Down" refers to it. This structure was dedicated on a celebration where one
man stood on the Seneca Chief and poured water into a harbor in the "wedding of the waters." It was fully
completed in 1825, although it was known as the "folly" of the New York governor. For the point, name
this artificial waterway that runs from Albany to Buffalo, ending at the namesake Great Lake.
ANSWER: Erie Canal
052-13-94-29117

18. This country's city of Piggs Peak is located near its Phophonyane Nature Reserve. The Bhunu Mall and
a handicrafts market are two sites in this country city of Manzini. This country is divided administratively
into fifty-five constituencies called tinkhundla. Every year, this country has a six-day first fruits ceremony
called the Big Incwala. This country's traditional capital is Lobambo, but its administrative capital and
largest city is Mbabane. For the point, name this small landlocked kingdom in Africa that is bordered by
Mozambique to the east and everywhere else by South Africa.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Swaziland [or Umbuso weSwatini]
023-13-94-29118

19. The last known one of these animals in the United States was named Coolah, who was a resident of the
Fort Wayne Children's Zoo. In 1996 at Mount William, it was observed that a specific facial tumor disease
was ravaging these animals. Originally known as "Harris's meat-lover," these nocturnal hunters mostly
prefer carrion and can be found at places like Macquarie Heads and Robbins Island. They were driven off
the mainland, presumably by the dingo. For the point, name this small-dog like carnivorous marsupial only
found on an island near Australia.
ANSWER: Tasmanian devil [or Sarcophilus harrisii; or Harris's meat-lover until it is read]
052-13-94-29119

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 4 of 8

20. This country began the Khurais Megaproject in 2006. Motiva Enterprises is a collaboration between an
American company and a firm headquartered in this country. Dammam is located in this country's Eastern
Province, while Shaybah is located in its extreme southeast. This country bought out ARAMCO in 1980.
Ghawar Field is located in this country. Abdullah Tariki, who hailed from this nation, joined with
Venezuelan Juan Pablo Perez Alfonso to found OPEC. For the point, name this largest oil producer in the
Middle East.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia [or Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Saudiyah]
190-13-94-29120

21. This structure was where the black cocker spaniel Tubby died when Leonard Coatsworth's car was
destroyed, an event captured on film by Barney Elliott. Othmar Ammann and Theodore von Karman
studied the demise of the original structure with this name, which was probably caused by aeroelastic
fluttering. This structure connects a city with the Kitsap Peninsula. The original bridge with this name was
known as "Galloping Gertie" after it dramatically collapsed on November 7, 1940. For the point, name this
suspension bridge that spans a strait of Puget Sound near a Washington city.
ANSWER: Tacoma Narrows Bridge
052-13-94-29121

22. The Tower of the Reformer in this city honors the reformist politician Justo Rufino Barrios. It became
the capital of its country after the 1773 Santa Marta earthquake. This city contains a shopping complex
called the Tikal Futura. It is near the active volcano Pacaya, and contains a cultural center named for author
Miguel Asturias. Much of this city is built on the ancient city of Kaminaljuyu, an ancient Mayan city. For
the point, name this most populous Central American city, the capital of a country, which with Belize,
borders Mexico to the south.
ANSWER: Guatemala City [or La Nueva Guatemala de la Asuncion]
052-13-94-29122

23. This body of water is home to the largest population of horseshoe crabs in the world. This body of
water receives the Smyrna and Appoquinimink rivers. Peter Minuit founded New Sweden at the
intersection of two rivers that feed into this body of water, and a powder mill along one of those rivers was
founded by E. I. DuPont. Those two rivers on this bay are the Christina and the Brandywine. The two capes
that mark the end of this bay are Cape Henlopen and Cape May. For the point, name this bay south of
Philadelphia which separates New Jersey from its namesake state.
ANSWER: Delaware Bay [prompt on Delaware; do not accept "Delaware River"]
239-13-94-29123

24. Dumplings called pelmeni originated from this country. Ukha is a fish soup, and shchi is a cabbage
soup, from this country. Hot water urns used to pour tea in this nation are called samovars. Rye bread is
made into a weakly alcoholic beverage common in this country, kvass. Blini made of buckwheat are
common in this country's cuisine, and beef sauteed in a mushroom sauce with sour cream is named for the
Stroganoff family from this country. For the point, name this country where Smirnoff, a producer of vodka,
originated.
ANSWER: Russian Federation [or Rossiyskaya Federatsiya; or Rossiya]
190-13-94-29124

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 5 of 8

25. A poet of the language of this ethnic group is Khushhal Khan Khatak. The son of the chief of the
Popalzai branch of these people is the current head of state in the country in which this group is a majority.
Mohammad Najubullah was a member of this ethnic group and replaced Babrak Karmal as president of a
country. The Khalil and Mandan branches of these people live in the Vale of Peshawar. The tradition of
these people holds that they are descended from the grandson of King Saul of Israel, and approximately
twenty-five million of these people live in Pakistan. For the point, name this ethnic group that constitutes
the majority of the people of Afghanistan.
ANSWER: Pashtun [or Pushtun; or Pakhtun; or Pathan; prompt on Afghans until it is read]
030-13-94-29125

26. The capital of this province was the location of the Peasant Movement Training Institute, and this
province's Huaisheng Mosque is considered to be its country's oldest. This province's Lingyang Gorge is
located near its city of Zhaoqing. The growth of the city of Shenzhen in this province has made its name
synonymous with speed, and Hong Kong is bordered by this province to the north. This province's capital
lies at the head of the Pearl River Delta and is Guangzhou. For the point, name this province that is the
southernmost of the mainland provinces and is the most populous province in the People's Republic of
China.
ANSWER: Guangdong [or Kuang-tung; or Kwangtung]
030-13-94-29126

27. This mountain was climbed by NHL executive Mark Waggoner so he could put the Stanley Cup on its
summit. Partisans of this peak insist that it is higher than Mount Massive, whose proponents put stones on
its summit to boost that mountain's height. This peak is located in the San Isabel National Forest a few
miles southwest of Leadville. This mountain is named for a territorial governor who brokered an 1873
treaty with the Ute tribe that opened up parts of Colorado for mining. For the point, name this peak, the
highest mountain in the Colorado Rockies.
ANSWER: Mount Elbert
052-13-94-29127

28. Leandro and Enrico Marconi were architects mostly active in this city, who designed its Great
Synagogue in the 1870s. Though it's not Copenhagen, this city's coat-of-arms features a mermaid. Saxon
Garden and Bruhl Palace, in this city, were both destroyed during World War II. This city’s Castle Square
is the home of Sigismund's Column, though its largest square is named for Josef Pilsudski. The 1942
"Grossaktion" of this city deported many of its residents to Treblinka. This city on the Vistula River is
home to the Frederic Chopin Museum. For the point, name this capital of Poland.
ANSWER: Warsaw
190-13-94-29128

29. This city's East Bay Street features thirteen colorful houses known as Rainbow Row. A tupelo and
cypress marsh called the Audubon Swamp Garden can be found near its Magnolia Plantation. The massive
cable-stayed Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge connects its downtown to the town of Mount Pleasant. A group of
old defensive formations called The Battery is on this city's coast and provides views of Fort Moultrie on
Sullivan’s Island. This city is divided naturally by the Wando, Cooper, Stono, and Ashley Rivers. It is the
location of the Citadel military college and the Fort Sumter historical site. For the point, name this largest
coastal city in South Carolina.
ANSWER: Charleston, South Carolina
015-13-94-29129

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 6 of 8

30. Momo is considered the king of this event, which is dedicated to the Greek god Momus. Seven-year-old
Julia Lira notoriously broke into tears during this event in 2010. Pixinguinha (pee-sheen-GWEEN-ha) died
during this event in 1973 and is remembered each year in frevo music played by bands such as Monobloco.
The Gala de Madrugada occurs in Pernambuco during this event, and in another city, denizens of favelas
compete in samba competitions. For the point, name this event which begins the Friday before Ash
Wednesday and ends on Mardi Gras, and is a huge festival in Brazil.
ANSWER: Brazilian Carnival [or Carnaval; or Rio de Janeiro Carnival]
190-13-94-29130

31. An example of these objects was owned by Adolf Hitler and formally called the "Columbus" example
"for State and Industry Leaders." That object was satirized when Charlie Chaplin danced with one in The
Great Dictator. The world's biggest manufacturer of these objects is the company Replogle. One of these
objects called the Hunt-Lenox possibly originated the phrase "Here be dragons." A three-story one is the
Mapparium in Boston. For the point, give the generic term for a three-dimensional scale model of the
Earth.
ANSWER: globe [prompt on maps]
052-13-94-29131

32. Mallows Bay along this river's estuary contains a massive ship graveyard, and a quarrying site along its
banks was the namesake for the Seneca Stone Ring Scandal. Its South Branch contains a large valley called
the Trough, and it is crossed by Boetler's and Pack Horse Ford near Shepardstown. The "sixth passenger"
saved several people from the Air Florida Flight 90 crash into this river, which is paralleled by the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal and has its Great Falls upstream from its meeting with the Anacostia. For the
point, identify this river that forms much of the Virginia-Maryland border and passes through Washington,
D.C.
ANSWER: Potomac River
057-13-94-29132

33. In a children's book, Stephen Cosgrove theorized that a creature called the "Wheedle" lived on this
structure. This structure took the title of the tallest building in the West from the neighboring Smith Tower.
One of the financiers of this building had been inspired by his visit to Germany's Stuttgart Tower to suggest
its design. Victor Steinbrueck introduced the hourglass profile of this building's tower, and this building
was made by combining the designs of John Graham, Jr. and Edward Carlson. This building was built for
the 1962 World's Fair and includes the SkyCity rotating restaurant. For the point, name this observation
tower in Seattle.
ANSWER: the Space Needle
186-13-94-29133

34. A commission headed by Robert Badinter declared that borders within this place were to be considered
frontiers protected by international law. Rebecca West wrote a lengthy travelogue about this place shortly
before its invasion, Black Lamb and Grey Falcon. Italians in this place were killed and thrown in sinkholes
called foiba by Partisans of this place, who also controlled Trieste for forty days in 1945. It was originally
divided into nine provinces called banovinas and later six socialist republics and the autonomous provinces
of Vojvodina (VOY-vuh-dee-nuh) and Kosovo. For the point, name this country once led by Marshal Tito
which began to break up in 1992.
ANSWER: Yugoslavia
121-13-94-29134

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 7 of 8

35. The El Grito de Jayuya revolt was part of this broader movement, which had such supporters as Blanca
Canales. The Ley de La Mordaza banned displaying certain flags to suppress this movement. The Carpetas
program run by local police in collaboration with the FBI sought to stop this movement. Supporters of it
tried to assassinate Harry Truman in 1950. For the point, name this political movement contrasted with a
pro-statehood movement, which seeks autonomy for an American commonwealth in the Caribbean.
ANSWER: independence movement in Puerto Rico [or obvious equivalents; do not accept "statehood for
Puerto Rico"]
052-13-94-29135

2014 National History Bowl National Championships

29

Page 8 of 8

