United States Geography Olympiad
Round 4

1. A province that shares its name with this city includes the Samir oil refinery and the site of the Battle of
Fedala. A controversially pricey building in this city includes a laser that points to the northeast and is the
world’s tallest religious structure. This city’s Old Medina region includes a replica of Rick's Café
Americain, a meeting site for expatriates in a movie set here. King Hassan II commissioned the
construction of a massive namesake mosque in this city, which also names a film that stars Ingrid Bergman
and Humphrey Bogart. For 10 points, name this North African port city, the largest city in Morocco.
ANSWER: Casablanca
117-13-82-04101

2. In Guns, Germs, and Steel, Jared Diamond relates in the prologue a conversation he had with a politician
from this country, Yali. The Kokoda Trail runs through this country's Owen Stanley Ridge and was the site
of fighting between Japanese and Australian troops during World War II. Secessionist movements have
come from its Bougainville Island, which is part of a semi-autonomous region. Bronislaw Malinowski
studied the kula ring in a group of islands now part of this country, the Trobriands. Its capital is Port
Moresby. For 10 points, name this country which takes up the eastern half of an island it shares with
Indonesia.
ANSWER: Papua New Guinea [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
121-13-82-04102

3. This political status was ratified in the controversial Seventeen Point Agreement and was implemented
along with several "thamzing," a local form of the "struggle session" targeting landlords. The holiday of
Serfs Emancipation Day celebrates this political status, which began with an invasion of Chamdo. A CIA
operation trained Thubtan Norbu and others as paratroopers who were supposed to start a guerilla war
against this political status, which failed. This status has led to a government-in-exile being established in
the McLeod Ganj area of Dharamshala, India. For 10 points, name this political reality involving
Communist control of Buddhist monasteries including those at Lhasa.
ANSWER: control or occupation of Tibet by the People's Republic of China [or any obvious equivalent
mentioning Tibet and China]
019-13-82-04103

4. Maqama is a genre of rhymed prose written in this language's classical version. Antoine Galland was the
first European to translate one collection originally written in this language, though Galland may have
added some stories of his own. The Self-Taught Philosopher was an early novel written in this language in
response to The Incoherence of the Philosophers. Richard Burton translated several works from this
language into English, including the erotic the Perfumed Garden and a collection whose frame story has
characters Shahryar and his wife Scheherazade. For 10 points, name this language of One Thousand and
One Nights.
ANSWER: Arabic [do not accept “Persian” or “Farsi”]
121-13-82-04104

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. In this valley, Emerald Pool is a common resting point along the Happy Isles trail, which runs by a
waterfall that was called Yanopah, before Lafayette Bunnell named it Vernal Fall. In this valley, Tenaya
Creek runs along the bottom of an arête called Clouds Rest. On top of a talus cone in the center of this
valley, one can find Curry Village, which is overlooked by Glacier Point. The Merced River courses
through this glacial valley, that is surrounded by high granite peaks and is in the western part of the Sierra
Nevada range. For 10 points, identify this Californian valley, the namesake of a national park that contains
Half Dome and El Capitan.
ANSWER: Yosemite Valley
149-13-82-04105

6. A dispute over a project of this typewas resolved by the Peace of the Braves. A crown corporation
running projects of this type launched many takeovers during Rene Levesque’s tenure as Minister of
Natural Resources during the Quiet Revolution. Projects of this type are found at James Bay and Churchill
Falls. One provincial crown corporation uses the output of these projects to meet over 90% of British
Columbia’s power needs. For 10 points, name this type of project that generates electricity in the world’s
second largest country by area by damming rivers.
ANSWER: Canadian hydroelectricity dams
153-13-82-04106

7. According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, this country’s Delta Works, built after a 1953
flood, are one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World. In 2012, a judge from this country ruled that
tourists could be banned from buying products that contain THC from this country’s coffee shops, many of
which are located in a city with a famous red-light district. Both the International Court of Justice and the
International Criminal Court are located in this country as it is home to the Hague. This country is famed
for its tulip production, which once sparked a namesake mania. For 10 points, name this country that
contains both North and South Holland.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [prompt on “Low Countries” or “Holland”]
149-13-82-04107

8. A "black" type of this food is made in Old Forge, Pennsylvania, with black pepper. Another variation on
this food is sometimes named after Steubenville or the Ohio Valley. The Quad Cities-style of this food
includes malt mixed into its base. A common version of this food may have been invented by either Ike
Sewell, Ric Riccardo, or Rudy Malnati at a restaurant that spawned a second location called Due. This food
served at Unos can come with pineapple and ham in its Hawaiian style. For 10 points, name this food that
can be found as a deep dish in Chicago or a thin crust in New York.
ANSWER: pizza
023-13-82-04108

9. This region was discovered in a 1517 expedition by Francisco Hernández de Córdoba. The islands of
Cozumel and Isla Mujeres lie off the coast of this region. This region contains the Chicxulub impact crater.
The ruined cities of Uxmal, Mayapán and Chichén Itzá are located in this region. This region includes the
states of Campeche and Quintana Roo. The northeast coast of this region contains the city of Cancún. The
Chicxulub crater was formed when an asteroid impacted this region, killing off non-avian dinosaurs. For 10
points, identify this peninsula that separates the Caribbean Sea from the Gulf of Mexico.
ANSWER: Yucatán Peninsula [prompt on Mexico; prompt on Central America]
066-13-82-04109

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. A statue of Giuseppe Garibaldi and a column donated from the Roman Forum stand in one of these
spaces known as "the Italian." An enormous Ombú tree and a rearing equestrian monument overlook the
one named for Jose de San Martín. The Diagonal Norte meets the Ninth of July and Corrientes Avenues at
the one "of the republic." Another one of these was where a 1945 demonstration forced Juan Peron's release
from prison and where a group protested the children "disappeared" during the Dirty War. For 10 points,
name these spaces, including the "Mayo" one, where political demonstrations often occur in Argentina.
ANSWER: plazas in Buenos Aires
019-13-82-04110

11. Every April, this city hosts a running competition in which participants cross its Cooper River Bridge.
In 2010, this city saw another re-opening of its Dock Street Theatre. Gian Carlo Menotti founded another
annual event in this American city that begins in late May, the Spoleto Music Festival. An earthquake
struck this city in 1886, although a more recent natural disaster to affect this city was Hurricane Hugo,
which made landfall near this home of The Citadel. This city’s Sullivan Island is home to Fort Moultrie
and Fort Sumter. For 10 points, name this city in South Carolina, an important port city during the 18th and
19th centuries.
ANSWER: Charleston, South Carolina
140-13-82-04111

12. This river has two segments designated blue ribbon trout streams, including the section that begins as
Rosebud Creek and the area that flows through Paradise Valley. This river hosts whitewater rafting at
Yankee Jim Canyon and cuts out its namesake "grand canyon" after leaving Hayden Valley over a
waterfall. The first trading post on this river was established by John Colter and Manuel Lisa at the place
where it receives the Bighorn. It passes through the city of Billings before entering the Missouri River at
Williston. For 10 points, name this river of Wyoming, Montana, and North Dakota that flows through a
same-named national park.
ANSWER: the Yellowstone River
019-13-82-04112

13. This body of water is the site of the oldest fossil reef built by multiple organisms, which is called the
Chazy Reef. It is the location of the towns North Hero and South Hero. Alburgh is the only town in Grand
Isle County that is not on an island in this body of water, which also contains Isle La Motte and Valcour
Island. This body of water is connected by the La Chute River to Lake George. This lake borders
Plattsburgh and Ticonderoga and is surrounded by the Adirondack Mountains to its west and, to its east, the
Green Mountains. For 10 points, name this lake that serves for much of its length as the border between
New York and Vermont.
ANSWER: Lake Champlain
023-13-82-04113

14. Settlements along this region include Lucia and Gorda. A popular tourist attraction in this region is
located in Julia Pfeiffer Burns State Park and is a waterfall that directly empties into the ocean. Jack
Kerouac’s experience in Bixby Canyon led him to write an autobiographical novel titled after this region,
whose attractions include McWay Falls. Bixby Creek Bridge is located in its northern portion, while its
southern portion’s terminus is sometimes defined at San Simeon. It can be traversed by taking California
State Route 1. For 10 points, name this coastal region in central California, named for its position south of
Monterey Bay.
ANSWER: Big Sur
140-13-82-04114

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. The introduction of invasive fish species into this lake have driven many of its native cichlid species to
extinction which, in turn, is theorized to cause the increasing algal blooms on this lake. Another possible
theory of the increasing algal blooms is the rapidly increasing population of the cities on its shores, such as
Kisumu and Jinja. The Soga, Luo, and Sukuma languages are spoken on this lake’s shores. The first
European to see this lake was Englishman John Hanning Speke, and Henry Morton Stanley was able to
confirm Speke’s claim of this lake being the source of the Nile. For 10 points, name this largest lake in
Africa.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria
014-13-82-04115

16. This constituent country’s Brecon Beacons National Park was designated in February 2013 as the fifth
international dark sky reserve. This area’s mythology was compiled by Lady Charlotte Guest into the
Mabinogion. This constituent country’s “Green Desert” makes up the area dominated by the Cambrian
Mountains. The south part of this country is home to coal fields that make up an important part of this
country’s economy. Seaside cities in this country include Swansea and Cardiff. For 10 points, name this
country of the United Kingdom, which occupies much of the western portion of Britain.
ANSWER: Wales
140-13-82-04116

17. Abraham Bristow discovered an island group with the same name as this city which is home to Carnley
Harbor and Port Ross. In 2005, a controversy erupted in this city when Adidas put up a promotional
sculpture on the sacred Watchman Island in its harbor. The so-called "Nippon clip-ons" were an innovative
way of expanding capacity on its namesake bridge. This city sits on an isthmus that runs between the
Hauraki Gulf's Waitemata Harbor and the Manakau Harbor. For 10 points, name this city on the North
Island, the most populous in its country, which was replaced as capital in 1865 by Wellington.
ANSWER: Auckland, New Zealand
019-13-82-04117

18. This region extends the to north up to the Izozog Swamps. This region's southeast is the location of Isla
de Cerrito, which hosts an annual dorado fishing competition. The Bermejo River flows through the
southern portion of this region, and the Pilcomayo River further divides it so that the northernmost section
is called Boreal. That section of this region was wrongly believed in the 1930s to have oil deposits, leading
to a war named for this region. For 10 points, name this largely uninhabited region that spreads north from
Argentina, and over which a war was fought by Bolivia and Paraguay.
ANSWER: Gran Chaco plain
023-13-82-04118

19. In one of these locations, a woman named Daisy Myers was hailed as the “Rosa Parks of the North.”
That example of these locations was also the site of June 1979 riots at a non New York intersection called
Five Points over gas prices. The first was built in Nassau County, New York, in 1947, with a follow up
built in the late 1950’s in Pennsylvania near Philadelphia. These locations featured structures which
contained pre-installed TV sets and electric stoves, and they were constructed by the so-called “GM of the
housing industry.” For 10 points, name these postwar suburban developments named for their builder and
built in an assembly line manner.
ANSWER: Levittowns
052-13-82-04119

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. One of these structures, the name of which translates to "thrice-built", overlooks the "Nunnery
Quadrangle" and has an elliptical shape. The largest of these structures is located at Cholula. Pacal the
Great was buried in one of these named for "the inscriptions." Another of these structures has four sets of
91 stairs, plus one stair on top, to add to 365 days in a year. One of these which is pockmarked by niches is
located at El Tajin. The most famous of them had a shrine to Huitzilopochtli and Tlaloc at its top and was
called the Templo Mayor. El Castillo is one of these structures located at Chichen Itza. For 10 points, name
these structures built by many Mesoamerican civilizations.
ANSWER: step pyramids
190-13-82-04120

21. William Penn and Robert Venable captured this island from the Spanish Empire. Various slave revolts
on this island were led by such men as Cudjoe, Tacky, and Samuel Sharpe. The British then fought the
Maroon Wars with escaped slaves from this island who hid out in Cockpit Country. A former capital of this
island was known as Spanish Town, and another capital was destroyed in a 1692 earthquake. Henry
Morgan was one of its governors. For 10 points, name this island where pirates of the Caribbean hung out
in Port Royal.
ANSWER: Jamaica
080-13-82-04121

22. The amateur National Baseball Congress is located in this city. El Dorado Lake and Cheney Reservoir
can be found on the outskirts of this city. The Beech and Cessna aircraft corporations were founded in this
city, which was the "air capital of the world" in the 1920s. Dennis Rader, the "BTK" killer, murdered 10
people in and around this city. This seat of Sedgwick County is located on the Arkansas River, about 140
miles southwest of Topeka, and is the home of a 2013 Final Four team. For 10 points, name this largest city
in Kansas.
ANSWER: Wichita, Kansas
080-13-82-04122

23. One holder of this position started a political crisis when he left the country for a reunion at Cornell,
and that man was a leader of the Pan-Green Coalition. That person was the first to address the 228
massacre. This position includes administering the islands of Matsu and Quemoy, which were shelled in the
mid-1950s. This position is currently held by a member of the KMT named Ma Ying-joeh, and it was first
held by Chiang Kai-Shek after his exile. For 10 points, name this head of state position that rules an island
with capital at Taipei
ANSWER: President of Taiwan
048-13-82-04123

24. One of these locations called Earth Cure started a “No Foreigners” policy in response to the rowdiness
of Russian sailors. That prompted a lawsuit filed by American born professor Debito Arudo. These sites
can be found near places like Mount Aso, and the one at Gero is found on the bank of the Hida River. In a
novel, Shimamura has an affair with Komako at a tourist site featuring one of these locations. That novel is
Yasunari Kawabata’s Snow Country. For 10 points, name these Japanese sites traditionally used as tourist
and public bathing places, which feature geothermally warmed groundwater.
ANSWER: Japanese hot springs [or onsen; prompt on baths; accept anything that suggests a heated body
of water]
052-13-82-04124

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. District Six, a former residential area in this city, saw 60,000 of its residents forcibly removed during
the 1970s. Sea Point is one of this city’s most densely populated and affluent suburbs and was a “whites
only” area. The Dutchman Jan van Riebeeck, working for the Dutch East India Company, founded this city
as a rest stop for ships sailing to India. Robben Island is an infamous penitentiary located off the coast of
this city and housed several notable political prisoners such as Jacob Zuma and Nelson Mandela. For 10
points, name this city located near the Cape of Good Hope and Table Mountain, the legislative capital of
South Africa.
ANSWER: Cape Town [or Kaapstad; or iKapa]
014-13-82-04125

26. In this city, an aquatics center that is overlooked by the ArcelorMittal Orbit was constructed by Zaha
Hadid. The introduction of flush toilets to this city led to its Great Stink. The barber Sweeney Todd
supposedly lived on Fleet Street in this city. This city’s “Wobbly Bridge” is actually the Millennium
Bridge, which lets off near the Globe Theater. Following a 1666 fire, numerous churches in this city were
rebuilt by Christopher Wren. Zero degrees longitude is defined as running through this city’s district of
Greenwich. For 10 points, name this city in which the Palace of Westminster, where the British Parliament
sits, is located.
ANSWER: London
149-13-82-04126

27. Protestors of this policy formed a group that included conspiracy theorist Jock V. Andrew and a
government employee who complained of discrimination, Irene Hilchie; that group was called APECt.
Other opponents of this policy stomped on a flag in Brockville during debate over the Meech Lake Accord.
This policy has been resisted by the infamous "Bill 101," which, among other provisions, forbids the
children of immigrants from receiving education in English. This policy's cornerstone was the Official
Languages Act of 1969, advocated by Pierre Trudeau. For 10 points, identify this policy of giving equal
status to English and French in Canada.
ANSWER: Canadian official bilingualism policy [or descriptive answers such as "giving equal status to
English and French" before it is read]
019-13-82-04127

28. One legend about this river concerns the god Suriya, whose affairs with a Naga from this river
produced three eggs. Near Kabwet, this river suddenly flows westward due to the Singu Plateau, and
eventually forms a confluence with the Chindwin River. The Myitsone Dam on this river has been
criticized for potential environmental damage. Its namesake dolphin, which has a small dorsal fin and a
small beak, is threatened. Formed in Kachin State from the confluence of the N'Mai and Mali Rivers, this
waterway is sometimes called the "Road to Mandalay." It flows into the Andaman Sea. For 10 points, name
this major river of Myanmar.
ANSWER: Irrawaddy River
192-13-82-04128

29. Mount Akhun overlooks this city. Yevgeny Kafelnikov was born in this city, where Maria Sharapova
first trained in her youth. A road between this city and Krasnaya Polyana has cost 200 million dollars per
kilometer. This city is located in the Krasnodar Krai, where terrible flooding occurred in 2012 and March
2013. Stalin's summer dacha was located here. This city with a humid subtropical climate is the target of
eleven billion dollars of infrastructure to connect it to the nearby Caucasus. For 10 points, name this Black
Sea resort in extreme southwest Russia that will host the 2014 Winter Olympics.
ANSWER: Sochi, Russia
190-13-82-04129

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. Albert Schickedanz designed a monument in this city that depicts the archangel Gabriel on top of a tall
column. This city’s Millennium Monument is in its Heroes’ Square. One building in this city contains
seven towers representing seven tribes and was named for the men who protected this city, the Fisherman’s
Bastion. This city is the home of the (SIG-et) Sziget festival. The right hand of a namesake saint is found in
this city’s largest church, St. Stephen’s Basilica. For 10 points, name this city on the Danube, which
formed as a merger of two cities to become the capital of Hungary.
ANSWER: Budapest
140-13-82-04130

31. The “Door to Hell” is a crater in a natural gas field in this country that's been burning since 1971. Much
of the agriculture in this country happens in its Amu Darya oasis, which contains its second largest city of
Chärjew. Nearly three-quarters of this country's land is the Karakum Desert. One of this country's leaders
claimed to have written the Ruhnama, a book that would serve as a spiritual guide for his country. That
president, Saparmurat Niyazov, built the “Neutrality Arch” with a golden statue of himself that rotated to
always face the sun in its capital city of Ashgabat. For 10 points, name this Central Asian country.
ANSWER: Turkmenistan
121-13-82-04131

32. Empress Anna was criticized for filling her court with Germans from this region. In 1989, a human
chain connecting all the national capitals in this region was formed. The Second Reich tried to set up a
United Duchy of this region, while the Third Reich joined it to Western Ruthenia in Ostland. This region
contains the historical regions of Courland and Livonia. In 1940, along with Moldova, the countries in this
region became Socialist Soviet Republics after a Red Army invasion. For 10 points, name this region on the
eastern shore of a Northern European sea, which encompasses Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.
ANSWER: Baltics [or obvious equivalents to the Baltic states]
153-13-82-04132

33. The chief god in this people's mythology is Chukwu. This ethnic group comprised the Kingdom of Nri
and originated the vessel drum known as the udu. The yam, not the cassava, is a staple crop of this people.
The fictional village of Umuofia is inhabited by this ethnic group in Things Fall Apart, a novel by Chinua
Achebe. They were one of the main ethnic groups exploited by the Atlantic slave trade, during which time
their numbers included Olaudah Equiano. Under Odumegwu Ojukwu, this ethnic group broke away from a
parent state to form Biafra. For 10 points, identify this ethnic group found mostly in Nigeria.
ANSWER: Igbo [or Ibo; or Eboe]
066-13-82-04133

34. Architectural landmarks in this city include the Frank Lloyd Wright designed Community Christian
Church, the Wight & Wight designed Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, and a Moshe Safdie-designed center
which houses this city’s orchestra. The 1981 Hyatt Regency walkway collapse killed 114 people in this
city. The consumption of "burnt ends" and preparation using molasses and wood smoke are characteristic
of this city's style of barbecue. For 10 points, name this city nicknamed the “City of Fountains”, the home
to the Royals and Chiefs.
ANSWER: Kansas City, Missouri
014-13-82-04134

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. In the 11th and 12th centuries, the city of (PLOTSK) Plock was the capital of this country, where
Mazovia is one of the sixteen voivodeships. The baptism of (MEESH-koh) Mieszko I, a member of the
Piast dynasty, started this country’s tradition of Catholicism. The Oder-Neisse line forms the western
border of this country, which, in the 16th through 18th centuries, formed a commonwealth with Lithuania.
The Vistula River, this country's longest, flows through Gdansk and Krakow. For 10 points, name this
country, the site of Warsaw.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland
014-13-82-04135

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

United States Geography Olympiad
Round 4
Tiebreakers

36. In 1835, the Englishman William Richardson started the first homestead in this city and laid out streets
when it was called Yerba Buena. William Pereira designed a tall building in this city that formerly was the
headquarters of a major life insurance holding company, the Transamerica Pyramid. The Embarcadero is a
major road in the north of this city, which ends at Ghirardelli Square after passing the Ferry Building and
Fisherman’s Wharf. For 10 points, the Palace of Fine Arts, the Presidio, and AT&T Park are all located in
what city of Northern California?
ANSWER: San Francisco [or Yerba Buena before it is read]
014-13-82-04136

37. Bayan Obo is the largest source of these commodities, which are almost exclusively produced in the
town of Baotou. In the US, Molycorp has somewhat successfully increased production of them. In 2010,
production of these was restricted by 40%, causing their price to rise more than 500%. Production of thes
commodities creates sludgy radioactive tailings ponds. Inner Mongolia is a center of the production of
these goods, which are extracted with concentrated acid baths. China produces 97% of the world's supply
of them. For 10 points, name these goods, which include neodymium, europium, and fifteen other
uncommon elements found in the soil.
ANSWER: rare earth metals [prompt on partial answer; prompt on lanthanides]
190-13-82-04137

United States Geography Olympiad

4

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

