United States Geography Olympiad
Round 1

1. A mostly discredited theory about this site’s use claimed that it was the birthplace of the Virgins of the
Suns. According to John Rowe, this site served as the estate of Pachacuti. The Mollepata, Classic and One
Day trails make up a larger trail that ends at this site. A room in this complex features three trapezoidal
windows and is located near the Temple of the Condor. Yale agreed to return artifacts taken from this site
by Hiram Bingham. This site is located on a mountain in the Urubamba Valley, about fifty miles northwest
of Cuzco. For 10 points, name Incan complex that is located in Peru.
ANSWER: Machu Picchu
149-13-82-01101

2. The largest collection of pre-Columbian gold in the world is located in this city's Gold Museum. A
central thoroughfare here is named for Jimenez de Quesada, the Spanish explorer who founded this city. A
bus route called TransMilenio and the largest network of bike paths in Latin America are used to get
around here. This city lent its name to some rioting that occurred during La Violencia. The mountain
Monserrate overlooks this city's central district of Candelaria, which is home to the Plaza de Bolivar and
the Centro Cultural Garcia Marquez. For 10 points, name this largest city of Colombia.
ANSWER: Bogota
190-13-82-01102

3. In 1996, this company purchased H.M. Gousha, a rival company begun by a former employee. This
company’s headquarters, which was designed by Burnham and Root, was the world’s first all-steel framed
skyscraper. Based in Skokie, Illinois, it was founded by a Chicago print shop owner and his partner, an
Irish immigrant. First publishing “Railroad Guides,” this company’s products were later adopted by Gulf
Oil to be sold at service stations, and one of its regional rivals was a company called King of the Road. For
10 points, name this American publisher of atlases, known for publishing road maps used by travelers.
ANSWER: Rand McNally
052-13-82-01103

4. Twenty-eight of these people were massacred at Myall Creek. A report entitled Bringing Them Home
was released, about the forced breakup of families from this group. The artwork of these people frequently
references the core concept of their mythology, the Dreamtime. After one Prime Minister declined to take a
"black armband view" of his nation's treatment of this group, his successor Kevin Rudd formally
apologized to their "Stolen Generations". For 10 points, name this people encountered by James Cook, the
indigenous population of Australia.
ANSWER: Aborigines [or Aboriginal Australians; prompt on indigenous Australians]
174-13-82-01104

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. A mole inhabiting this archipelago has been rendered nearly extinct due to the proliferation of goats on
these islands. This archipelago, which is sometimes called the "Pinnacle Islands", was annexed on January
14, 1895, by a country which now celebrates that date as "Pioneering Day." Near these islands, a fishing
trawler collided with patrol boats in 2010. This archipelago was purchased from a private owner in 2012.
Consisting of three rocks and five uninhabited islands, it is bounded by the Okinawa Trough to the south.
For 10 points, name these islands in the East China Sea angrily contested by Japan and China.
ANSWER: Senkaku Islands [or Diaoyu Islands; or Tiaoyutai Islands; or Pinnacle Islands before mention]
190-13-82-01105

6. An attempt to disrupt this system called “Project Popeye” involved seeding clouds with silver iodide
smoke. This system was bombed in Operation Barrel Roll. It was alternatively named for the Annamite
mountain range, and a nearby country used a similar system named for Sihanouk. Sections of this system
were headed by binh trams, which provided medical care for soldiers using it. For 10 points, name this
system of pathways used to transport material to the Vietcong and which is named after a Communist
Vietnamese leader.
ANSWER: Ho Chi Minh trail [or Truong Son trail]
052-13-82-01106

7. A student newspaper in this city, The Times-Delphic, published the first known “Paul is dead” hoax
story about the Beatles. The Meredith Corporation, which publishes Better Homes and Gardens, is located
here. It’s not in Minnesota, but the Norman Borlaug-founded World Food Prize ceremonies are given here,
and it is home to the headquarters of the Principal Financial Group and Aviva insurance. It shares its name
with a river whose name may mean “River of the Monks,” and it is home to the AAA affiliate of the
Chicago Cubs and Drake University. For 10 points, name this capital of Iowa.
ANSWER: Des Moines
052-13-82-01107

8. The Dabancheng Wind Farm, the largest on its continent, is located in this region. Aydingkol Lake,
which used to be freshwater, lies in this region’s Turpan Depression. Nuclear testing has occurred at a
location in this region that is now a dried-up lake, Lop Nur. The separatist group East Turkestan Islamic
Movement operates in this region. A recent influx of people of Han ethnicity to this region has caused cities
such as Urumqi to rapidly grow, but has also led to civil unrest between them and the dominant ethnic
group here, the Uyghurs. For 10 points, name this autonomous region, the Muslim-dominated largest
administrative region of China.
ANSWER: Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
140-13-82-01108

9. The Rough Riders commonly gathered at the Menger Hotel in this city. The 250th anniversary of this
city coincided with its hosting of the 1968 World's Fair, or Hemisfair, for which this city's Tower of the
Americas was constructed. Marriage Island is located in this city's namesake river. The Long Barracks and
the chapel are the most popular locations at a landmark in this city, which is connected to other attractions
by a thoroughfare called the River Walk. The seat of Bexar County, this city is home to a mission named
for nearby poplar trees. For 10 points, name this seventh-largest city in the US, the second-most populous
in Texas, and the home of the Alamo.
ANSWER: San Antonio
190-13-82-01109

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. The discovery of a number of these sites provided the impetus for the annexation of Griqualand West.
The "Premier" one of these places was formerly owned by Sir Thomas Cullinan. Barney Barnato made his
fortune by finding these sites, whose only American example is in Arkansas. An enormous complex of this
type provided for the expansion of Kimberley and was operated by the De Beers company. For 10 points,
name these lucrative operations often found in Southern Africa, built to extract a type of precious gem from
the ground.
ANSWER: diamond mines [prompt on partial answer]
080-13-82-01110

11. The history of a state centered on this city was chronicled by a monk at the Monastery of the Caves,
Nestor. The St. Andrew's Church in this city was designed by Bartolomeo Rastrelli. Its Upper Town is
connected to its Podil neighborhood by the Andriyivskyy Descent. This city was legendarily founded by
the brothers Kyi, Shchek and Khoryv. Thirty-four thousand Jews were massacred at a ravine near it called
Babi Yar. The Desna meets the Dnieper just upstream from this city. For 10 points, identify this capital of
Ukraine.
ANSWER: Kiev
066-13-82-01111

12. A museum in this country, which owns the largest collection of Roman mosaics in the world, is the
Bardo National Museum. This country's capital contains the Al-Zaytuna Mosque, which was modeled after
another mosque in this country containing the oldest minbar in the Islamic world. The Mosque of Uqba can
be found in this country's city of Kairouan. Tourist destinations here include Hammamet and the home of
many French artists at Sidi bou Said. This country also contains the ruins of the ancient city of Carthage.
For 10 points, name this North African country where the overthrow of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali kicked off
the Arab Spring.
ANSWER: Tunisia
080-13-82-01112

13. This province introduced the policy that linked farmers’ income to actual output, and it is the location
of the ancient Dujiangyan irrigation system. This province contains three autonomous prefectures,
including the Aba Tibetan, and it is the location of the cottage of the poet Du Fu. Prior to the separation of
Chongqing from it in 1997, it was the most populous province in China. It was also the site of a 2008
earthquake that killed thousands. This province is the location of the Wolong Nature Reserve, a sanctuary
for an animal principally found in this province, the giant panda. For 10 points, name this second largest
Chinese province with capital at Chengdu.
ANSWER: Sichuan [or Ssu-ch’uan; or Szechwan]
030-13-82-01113

14. One of these buildings has "Acik" sections at its ends in addition to the opposing "Maraton" and
"Fenerium" tribunes. Plans for a new structure of this type in Education City claim its shape will be that of
a "jagged diamond." Another planned building of this type had its design inspired by the sail of a dhow and
will be called Lusail Iconic. Both of those new structures of this type will be climate controlled given
concerns about summer weather during an international event in 2022. For 10 points, name these venues
that will be built in Qatar in preparation for the FIFA World Cup.
ANSWER: soccer stadiums [or football stadiums; or stadia]
023-13-82-01114

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. A military base in this country, Camp Lemonnier, is the only US military base in Africa. The port town
of Obock in this country is located where the Gulf of Tadjoura opens into the Gulf of Aden. The dominant
ethnic groups in this country are the Afars and Somalian Issas. This country contains Lake Assal, a crater
lake that is the lowest point in Africa. The capital of this country is connected by rail to the capital of
another country, Addis Ababa. For 10 points, identify this small country in the Horn of Africa that is
bordered by Ethiopia and Eritrea and whose capital is of the same name.
ANSWER: Republic of Djibouti
066-13-82-01115

16. This island contains a base at Camp Zama. One lake on this island is named for a lute-like instrument
favored by a version of the goddess Saraswati. One city on this island contains a suspension bridge whose
white towers are illuminated in rainbow colors at night. The Kanto plain occupies the central part of this
island, the location of Lake Biwa. For 10 points, name this island that contains Osaka and other cities in the
extended Tokyo Metropolitan Area, the largest of the four main islands of Japan.
ANSWER: Honshu
048-13-82-01116

17. This desert contains a number of archaeological sites created by the Huhukam Culture. Puerto Penasco,
or "Rocky Point," is a beach resort located within this desert. A section of this desert made fertile by
irrigation is the Coachella Valley. The Colorado and Altar Deserts are part of this larger desert. This desert
contains Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, and it is the only natural home of the Saguaro cactus. For
10 points, name this North American desert which is the namesake of a Mexican state and extends into
southern Arizona.
ANSWER: Sonoran Desert [prompt on Colorado or Altar desert before they are read]
080-13-82-01117

18. A pontoon bridge built across this river named for St. Isaac was rebuilt every summer after the death of
a man who hated bridges and preferred ferries. Vasiliyevsky Island is located in this river's delta. A canal
connects this river to the Svir River, which flows between the two largest lakes in Europe. This river flows
west from Lake Ladoga. The "Bronze Horseman" statue faces this river, around which some inhabitants
celebrate the "White Nights" during the summer. For 10 points, name this river of Europe, which flows
through St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Neva River
190-13-82-01118

19. The novel The Hunger Angel deals with the expulsion of people of this ethnic group from Romania. A
Nebraska law persecuting members of this ethnic group was overturned in a Supreme Court case that ruled
restricting foreign-language education unconstitutional. Some people of this ethnic group speak a dialect of
their language named for their home province of Rio Grande do Sul. One member of this ethnicity was
abducted from his Buenos Aires residence by Mossad in 1962. Many immigrants of this ethnicity to the
future United States spoke Pennsylvania Dutch. For 10 points, name this ethnicity of many war criminals
who fled to South America after the fall of the Third Reich.
ANSWER: German
020-13-82-01119

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. The border between these countries is supervised by consulates such as the one at (WAN-a-mint)
Ouanaminthe, which is less than a kilometer from a common crossing point at Dajabón. These two
countries' border is visible on a physical map due to the total deforestation on the west side, which stops
abruptly at the border. The Border of Lights movement memorializes an event that took place at these
countries' border, after which bodies were dumped into the Massacre River; that event involved soldiers
asking suspects immigrants to pronounce (per-uh-HEEL) "perejil," the Spanish word for parsley. For 10
points, name these countries which saw a migration after a 2010 earthquake and share the island of
Hispaniola.
ANSWER: Haiti and the Dominican Republic [order not important]
019-13-82-01120

21. “Recharge” and “Storage and Recovery” are two ways of saving these features from overuse. Over
Frank Ford's fears nuclear waste could harm one of these features, Yucca Mountain was chosen over
(DEEF) Deaf Smith County as a nuclear waste repository. These features are called “unconfined” if the
upper boundary of them is level with the water table. The Edwards is an artesian example in Texas which
allowed development of cities such as San Antonio, and the Great Plains are underlaid by the large Oglalla
one. For 10 points, name this layer of underground permeable rock that contains water.
ANSWER: aquifer
121-13-82-01121

22. Colorado Governor Bill Owens was criticized for pessimistically describing one of these events called
“Hayman.” A tool called the “McLeod” is used to combat these events. Another of these events was
theorized to be caused by fragments from Comet Biela and killed thousands in Peshtigo, Wisconsin. In
October 2007, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency as a response to one of
these events, which was exacerbated by the Santa Ana wind. For 10 points, name this type of natural
disaster that ravaged Southern California many times in the 2000’s, and has been caused by lightning
strikes and arson.
ANSWER: fires [or wildfires; or forest fires]
052-13-82-01122

23. This city's Museum Ludwig contains 900 Picasso paintings, while its Roman-Germanic museum
contains artifacts such as the Dionysus Mosaic. Since 2008, couples have placed "love locks" on this city's
Hohenzollern Bridge. Since World War II, it has rebuilt the prominent twelve Romanesque churches in its
old town. Nicholas of Verdun designed the golden Shrine of the Three Kings for this city's namesake
Gothic cathedral. For 10 points, name this German city on the Rhine, the namesake of a kind of perfume.
ANSWER: Cologne [or Koeln]
080-13-82-01123

24. The Aulic Council and the Vehmic Courts were institutions in this polity. Its defense and tax collection
duties were divided into regional Circles. George I advanced the British cause in this polity’s Corpus
Evangelicorum. Its Perpetual Diet was in Regensburg. Both the Dutch and Swiss Confederacies left this
polity, whose dissolution after the 1805 Peace of Pressburg ended the First Reich. For 10 points, name this
historic Central European polity centered on Germany that was often ruled from Vienna by the House of
Habsburg.
ANSWER: Holy Roman Empire
153-13-82-01124

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. The Algonquin Round Table often vacationed in this state’s Neshobe Island, which lies within Lake
Bomoseen. A memorial in its city of Sharon commemorates one of this state’s native sons, Joseph Smith.
Its state quarter features the distinctively shaped mountain Camel’s Hump. The Rock of Ages granite
quarry is located near its city of Barre. Its capital is the least populous of American state capitals, and is
dwarfed in population by Burlington. This state’s name has the same meaning as its primary mountain
range, the Green Mountains. For 10 points, name this state with capital at Montpelier which is nestled
between New York and New Hampshire.
ANSWER: Vermont
192-13-82-01125

26. The location of this monument was fixed by a 1925 Supreme Court case, although 2009 GPS reports
indicated that it may be up to three miles away from its intended location. This landmark was originally a
sandstone marker commemorating E.N. Darling's 1868 survey; the current granite and brass disk sits on the
site specified by Chandler Robbins's 1875 survey. The closest major towns to this monument are
Farmington and Durango. Maintenance of this monument is overseen by the Navajo Nation. For 10 points,
name this monument indicating the place at which one can be in the maximum possible number of U.S.
states at once.
ANSWER: Four Corners Monument
003-13-82-01126

27. In this nation, calcite reflections onto skeletons in the Talgua Cave gave it its nickname, the Cave of
Glowing Skulls. Its Caribbean coast extends as far east as Cape Gracias a Dios. The Cayos Cochinos
owned by this country are known for their undisturbed reefs and are part of the Islas de la Bahia. Its capital
is located in the department of Francisco Morazan, named for a national hero of this country. Its cities
include La Ceiba, Puerto Cortes, and San Pedro Sula. This nation lies between a namesake gulf and the
Gulf of Fonseca. For 10 points, name this Central American country east of Guatemala whose capital is
Tegucigalpa.
ANSWER: Republic of Honduras
192-13-82-01127

28. A mosque in this country is named for Bibi-Khanym, the wife of a man who is buried at the Gur-e Amir
in its second-largest city. The hook-shaped western state in this nation, Karakalpakstan, is the location of
the Amu Darya's delta. Like Liechtenstein, this country is doubly landlocked. The fifth-largest producer of
raw cotton in the world, this nation is located on the southern end of the Aral Sea. Timur's capital was
located in this modern-day nation, which borders all four of the other Central Asian "-stans."For 10 points,
name this home of Samarkand and Tashkent.
ANSWER: Republic of Uzbekistan
190-13-82-01128

29. This man rose in status by marrying Isabel de Bobadillo, the daughter of Pedrarias Davila, and joining
the Order of Santiago. He received a bunch of pearls from a female chief after encountering the people of
Cofitachequi. This man led the first European embassy to see Atahualpa while serving as the lieutenant of
Francisco Pizarro. He and his men lost many of their supplies in an Indian raid near Mobile, but he pressed
on, eventually dying of fever in Louisiana. For 10 points, name this Spanish explorer, the first to cross the
Mississippi River.
ANSWER: Hernando de Soto
080-13-82-01129

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. A news story about one site in this province reported about a glowing dog and low quality of life on
Frederick Street in a city's Whitney Pier neighborhood. This province is home to North America's largest
toxic waste site at its Sydney tar ponds. The oldest surviving lighthouse in North America is located on this
province. Like its neighbors, this province experienced White Juan, just a few months after the Sambro
Island Lighthouse was damaged when this province bore the brunt of Hurricane Juan in 2003. For 10
points, name this Canadian province on the Atlantic coast that also experienced hurricane damage to its
capital, Halifax.
ANSWER: Nova Scotia
023-13-82-01130

31. In 2008 this political body was reduced from two hundred twenty-five to one hundred thirteen
members. Its members are split between the Pan-Green Coalition, led by the Democratic Progressive Party,
and the Pan-Blue Coalition. This political body was awarded the 1995 Ig Nobel Peace Prize due to its
still-continuing penchant for fistfights breaking out on the legislative floor. For 10 points, the Kuomintang
currently holds a slight majority in what body that passes laws in Taipei?
ANSWER: Taiwanese Parliament [or Legislative Yuan]
003-13-82-01131

32. These animals are central to “course Landaise”, a prominent cultural activity in Gascony, as well as
events dubbed recortes. Arturo di Modica’s sculpture of one of these animals sits outside Amsterdam’s
central commodities exchange site. A passage through the Estafeta challenges participants of one event
involving these animals, which begins with prayers to Saint Fermín for protection and ends with the use of
an estoque. That event concludes with the killing of some of these animals in the Plaza de Toros. For 10
points, name these animals that take part in a namesake “running” in Pamplona.
ANSWER: bulls or cows
117-13-82-01132

33. In 1984, Robert Nicolai proposed that this empire’s eponymous language developed from an interplay
between river and caravan traders. This empire’s governors were called “koy” and its early kings were
called “dia.” The Saadi dynasty attempted to take the Taghaza salt mines from them, while their demise
signaled the rise of the Mossi states. Its original capital was Kukya, and it annexed Djenne under Sonni Ali.
One of this empire’s fundamental pieces of literature is the Epic of Askia Muhammad. For 10 points, name
this West African kingdom, mainly found in present-day Niger and Burkina Faso, which had its capital at
Gao.
ANSWER: Songhai Empire
192-13-82-01133

34. The libraries at this complex open to both the East and the West, and gopuras in this complex are
located facing each of the cardinal directions. This temple was made famous by Henri Mouhot. A bas-relief
in this complex depicts 92 asuras and 88 devas using Vasuki to churn the sea under the direction of Vishnu.
This complex was replaced as the state temple by Bayon, which was built by Jayavarman VII. Built by
Suryavarman II in the 12th century, this complex is a prime example of Khmer architecture. For 10 points,
name this large Hindu temple complex that is located in Cambodia.
ANSWER: Angkor Wat
149-13-82-01134

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. One island in this nation can be visited on a ferry that departs from Cirkewwa. A cathedral in the city of
Mdina in this country was supposedly built on the spot where the governor Publius met Saint Paul
following his shipwreck. This nation's flag features the George Cross, as King George VI awarded one to
this entire nation for the "heroism and devotion of its people" during World War II. The islands of Comino
and Gozo are part of this country. The capital of this country is named for the member of the Knights
Hospitaller who successfully defeated the Great Ottoman Siege of 1565. For 10 points, identify this island
nation, located south of Sicily, that has its capital at Valletta.
ANSWER: Malta
066-13-82-01135

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

United States Geography Olympiad
Round 1
Tiebreakers

36. Either six boys or a mountaineering club first ascended the "Three Fingered Jack" mountain in this
range in 1923. Two mountains in this range are humorously named for the fact that they are separated by a
large distance; they are Mt. Bachelor and The Three Sisters. A more famous part of this range is home to a
bobbing tree nicknamed the "Old Man" and has sacred significance to the Klamath Indians, who witnessed
the collapse of the Mount Mazama volcano. Another part of this range erupted in 1980, the most
catastrophic volcanic event in the United States. For 10 points, name this range that contains Crater Lake
and Mount St. Helens, found in Oregon and Washington.
ANSWER: Cascade Range [or the Cascades]
020-13-82-01136

37. One of these objects was destroyed in 1927 in Caenarvon. Louis Farrakhan says that Mayor Ray Nagin
told him these structures were destroyed in order to dislocate black people. These objects, which were
located at 17th Street and London Avenue, most greatly affected the Plaquemines and Saint Bernard
Parishes. These structures succumbed to overtopping from nearby Lake Ponchartrain. The US Army Corps
of Engineers were blamed for poor design of these structures after their 2005 failure. For 10 points, name
these structures which didn't hold back water from Hurricane Katrina.
ANSWER: New Orleans levee system [or New Orleans flood walls; or levees in Lousiana, on the
Mississippi River, etc.]
190-13-82-01137

United States Geography Olympiad

1

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

