United States Geography Olympiad
Round 2

1. A so-called hydrological "triple point" occurs at the Snow Dome in this range. This mountain range is
home to the Columbia Icefield Glacier, which is located on the Icefields Parkway. Lake Louise is located in
this section of a larger range. Its highest peak is Mount Robson, but this range is somewhat shorter than the
Saint Elias Mountains, home to Mount Logan. This section, home to Jasper National Park and Banff
National Park, was the major impediment in constructing the Canadian Pacific Railway. For 10 points,
name this northern section of a Western mountain range.
ANSWER: Canadian Rockies [or Canadian Rocky Mountains; prompt on Rockies]
190-13-82-02101

2. This territory was home to a university that developed a 38-character phonetic alphabet created by
George Watt. It was home to Cove Fort, meant to protect a telegraph line, and also serve as a way station
between people traveling from Beaver to its original capital, Fillmore. Its flag prominently featured the
image of a beehive. This territory was a smaller version of the provisional State of Deseret, which
encompassed all of present-day Nevada and much of California as well. For 10 points, name this western
territory that did not become its namesake state until support for polygamy was dropped by the Mormon
church.
ANSWER: Utah Territory [or Deseret until mentioned]
052-13-82-02102

3. In 1987, Clorox and 7-11 co-funded a coalition that supported this policy. In 2011, Dmitry Medvedev
signed a law implementing this policy in Russia eternally to limit stress-induced suicides. This policy was
first proposed by an entomologist from New Zealand named George Vernon Hudson. Most countries first
nationally implemented this policy during World War I to save fuel. Among US states, Arizona does not
use this policy. It was legendarily initiated by Benjamin Franklin while living in Paris. For 10 points, name
this policy which involves turning clocks forward one hour every March.
ANSWER: daylight savings time [prompt on changing clocks or equivalents]
190-13-82-02103

4. A major potash fertilizer source is located near the industrial site of Sedom in this area, whose workers
commute from the cities of Arad and Dimona. This area blends into the Har Yehuda in the north and the
Midbar Yehuda in the northeast. Government subsidies were needed in order to convince settlers to move
to this region’s port city of Eilat. It is bounded by the Jordan Rift Valley to its east and the Sinai Peninsula
to the west. Agricultural development in this area was revived following the establishment of three
kibbutzim here in 1943, and its main urban center is the city of Beersheba. For 10 points, name this desert
located in the southern part of Israel.
ANSWER: Negev Desert [or Negeb Desert; or Ha-negev Desert]
030-13-82-02104

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. Arab Bassenian named a housing project full of American-style buildings north of Beijing after this
county. This county contains the house of a prominent Shakespearean actress in her eponymous Modjeska
Canyon. The Saddleback Valley contains Mission Viejo within this county, which also has one of the
world’s largest organs in the Crystal Cathedral. The Nixon Museum is located in this county’s city of
Yorba Linda. Santa Ana is a notably liberal city within this mostly-conservative county, the site of Knott’s
Berry Farm and Disneyland. For 10 points, name this county in southern California in which Anaheim is
located.
ANSWER: Orange County
192-13-82-02105

6. John L. Savage, a civil engineer working for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, surveyed the site for this
project in 1944, but worked on it was stopped three years later. The poem “Swimming” is about a project
very similar to it and was written in 1956 by Mao Zedong. The Itaipu Dam and this structure are currently
tied for the most amount of electricity generated by a dam. For 10 points, name this dam, controversial for
its great environmental damage, located in southern China.
ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam
014-13-82-02106

7. Much of the theory behind this technique was developed by Tor Bergeron and Walter Findeisen, though
the technique itself was pioneered by Vincent Schaefer. Bernard Vonnegut discovered that silver iodide
could be used for this technique. Chinese authorities claimed that this technique successfully prevented rain
during the 2008 Summer Olympics opening ceremony. For 10 points, name this weather modification
technique in which chemicals are sprayed into clouds to induce them into releasing precipitation.
ANSWER: cloud seeding [prompt on weather modification or equivalents before read]
003-13-82-02107

8. One member of this group took charge of a municipal government following a cover-up of the SARS
virus in 2003. Within this group is a circle of seven members of the Standing Committee who wield great
power, and its members are appointed by the Central Committee. This group reasserted its power following
the death of Hu Yaobang. Liu Yangdong is its sole female member, and its other members include Wang
Qishan and Li Yuanchao. One of its members, Zhang Deijang, is a graduate of Kim Il Sung University and
replaced the disgraced Bo Xilai. For 10 points, name this group of twenty-five individuals who control the
Chinese Communist Party.
ANSWER: Politburo of the Communist Party of China [or Political Bureau; prompt on broad answers
such as “Chinese Communist Party”]
030-13-82-02108

9. James Strang ruled a self-proclaimed kingdom of dissident Mormons on an island in this body of water,
Beaver Island. In 1900, a river that flowed into this body of water was redirected with canals to empty into
the Mississippi River watershed. Sleeping Bear Dunes is a national lakeshore on this lake near the popular
vacation town of Traverse City. The Door Peninsula separates the rest of this lake from Green Bay. An
annual yacht race which does not begin at the Black River begins at Chicago. For 10 points, name this only
Great Lake entirely within the United States.
ANSWER: Lake Michigan [accept Beaver Island before "body of water" is read]
121-13-82-02109

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. People living in this region are the subject of The Shepherd of the Hills by Harold Bell Wright. This
region is often combined with the Ouachita Mountains. One mountain range in this region contains the
Mina Sauk Falls and is the Saint Francois Mountains. The highest peaks in this area are found in a division
called the Boston Mountains, which are the source of the White River. A large man-made reservoir named
for, and located in, this area was created when the Bagnell Dam was built on the Osage River. For 10
points, identify this highland region of the central United States.
ANSWER: Ozarks [or Ozark Mountains; or Ozark Plateau; prompt on Saint Francois Mountains]
066-13-82-02110

11. A city in Indiana by this name is the location of First Christian Church and North Christian Church,
both designed by Eero Saarinen. A city of this name in Mississippi was the birthplace of Tennessee
Williams. The Chattahoochee River runs through a city of this name that is located just north of the U.S.
Army Infantry School in Fort Benning, Georgia. The largest city of this name is located at the junction of
the Scioto and Oletangy rivers, and is the location of a zoo that employed Jack Hanna. For 10 points, give
this name of numerous United States cities, including the location of Ohio State University and the capital
of Ohio.
ANSWER: Columbus
030-13-82-02111

12. The first documented east-west crossing of this desert was done by Ralph Bagnold. An important oasis
in this desert is Al-Kufra. A field of this desert's namesake glass, which is made completely of silica, is
found in the Great Sand Sea north of the Gilf Kebir plateau. This desert contains the Jebel Uweinat
mountain range, which is located near the borders of the three countries in which it is found. One
impenetrable landform in it marked the southern extent of the British and German armies at both Battles of
El-Alamein; that landform is the Qattara Depression. For 10 points, identify this northeast part of the
Sahara that is located in Egypt, Sudan and a namesake country.
ANSWER: Libyan Desert [or Western Desert; prompt on the Sahara Desert]
066-13-82-02112

13. A newer way to cross this boundary is at Aman Setu, though it is traditionally crossed at the location of
a nightly joint flag-lowering ceremony, Wagah. Ambiguities in the Simla Agreement mean that where this
boundary nears the Siachen Glacier, it is dictated by the location of troops at the Actual Ground Position
Line. It was breached in Operation Gibraltar and again in 1999 during the Kargil War. This boundary is
based on the Radcliffe Line of 1947 and forms the Line of Control when it passes through the northwest of
Jammu and Kashmir. For 10 points, identify this international boundary created as the result of partition
when the British left South Asia.
ANSWER: the border between India and Pakistan [or obvious equivalents; accept Line of Control until
it is read]
019-13-82-02113

14. This country's oldest holiday occurs the week before Lent, features week-long consumption of pancakes
representing the sun, and is named after the word for "butter." People in this non-Finnish country can slap
their bodies over with bundles of twigs before entering a type of sauna called a banya. The balalaika is an
instrument native to this country, which contains Saint Basil's Cathedral. For 10 points, name this country
whose national drink is vodka.
ANSWER: Russia [or Rossiya]
080-13-82-02114

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. This island is the center of the new Christian denomination "Iglesia ne Cristo." A major religious
festival on this island is the Feast of the Black Nazarene. A mountain range on this island contains the
unimaginatively named High Peak, which is taller than Mount Mariveles; both mountains are in the
Zambales range, which begins at this island's northern Lingayen Gulf. The Bicol Peninsula on this island is
where Legaspi is overlooked by the Mayon Volcano. A strait named after this island separates it from
Taiwan on its north. This island was menaced by the eruption of Mount Pinatubo and is the site of Quezon
City. For 10 points, name this island, the home of Manila and the largest island in the Philippines.
ANSWER: Luzon
019-13-82-02115

16. Karst hills in this country originated the term mogotes and are found in the Sierra de los Organos range
of its Pinar del Rio province. A movement against a dictator in this country was started in the Sierra
Maestra range, which is the source of its longest river, the Cauto. The second-largest island in this country
is separated from the mainland by the Gulf of Batabano and is the Isla de la Juventud. Its city of Cienfuegos
contains a monument to its national hero, José Martí. An inlet on the Gulf of Cazones was the place of a
1961 CIA-backed invasion of this country known as the Bay of Pigs. For 10 points, name this largest
Caribbean island nation whose capital is at Havana.
ANSWER: Cuba
066-13-82-02116

17. This man is spuriously credited with writing a text consisting of 100 aphorisms such as “purging
medicine does not operate effectually when the Moon is conjoined with Jupiter.” This possible author of
the Centiloquium built upon the works of Marinos of Tyre, and Martin Waldseemuller expanded his work
to add “Terra Incognita.” He created a map that massively oversizes Sri Lanka as the island of
“Taprobane” and also estimates Eurasia to span 180 degrees longitude, which inspired Christopher
Columbus. For 10 points, name this ancient scientist from Alexandria, who wrote the Geography and the
Almagest.
ANSWER: Claudius Ptolemy
052-13-82-02117

18. The pasillo is a popular form of dance in this nation, whose traditional foods include a goat stew called
seco de chivo. The Valley of Longevity is an area near this country’s city of Vilcabamba whose inhabitants
claim to have an unusually long life span. Puyo is the capital of its largest province, Pastaza. Textiles are
sold in this nation at the famous Otavalo Market, while the Incan ruins of Ingapirca are near its third-largest
city, Cuenca. Cotopaxi and Chimborazo are mountains within it. This nation owns an archipelago to its
west made famous by Darwin’s finches, the Galapagos. For 10 points, name this country whose cities
include Guayaquil and Quito.
ANSWER: Republic of Ecuador
192-13-82-02118

19. On special occasions, these peoples cook an animal by filling its stomach with hot stones. A common
meal for these peoples is buuz, a steamed dumpling usually filled with mutton. The largest group of them
today is the Khalkha. They are fond of drinking fermented horse milk called airag. The traditional homes of
these peoples contain a center ring, passed down from the father, known as a shangrak; those traditional
homes are yurts called ger. Their first writing system was vertical and derived from the Uighurs, and they
constitute the majority of the population of Ulaanbaatar. For 10 points, name these peoples united by
Genghis Khan.
ANSWER: Mongols
066-13-82-02119

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. The Statue of the Republic, or Golden Lady, is located in a park in this city. Statues of Ignace
Paderewski and Tadeusz Kosciuszko are found in this city’s Humboldt Park. A park in this city contains a
rococo fountain, one of the largest in the world, named for Clarence Buckingham. Lollapalooza occurs at a
park in this city. The Pritzker Pavillion and Cloud Gate are located in Millennium Park in this city. Its
Jackson Park was the site of the 1893 Columbian Exposition, and a plaza named for the Daley family is
located in another of its green spaces. For 10 points, name this city home to Grant Park and Lincoln Park in
Cook County.
ANSWER: Chicago
190-13-82-02120

21. One island in this city was renamed because it was allegedly reached by George Washington after his
raft capsized. An island in this city with a generating station that cannot be directly reached by cars is
Brunot Island. Riverboats operating in this city include those in the Gateway Clipper Fleet. A riverside path
in this city is called the Eliza Furnace Trail in honor of Jones and Laughlin. This city has a "Golden
Triangle" that is marked by the 36 acre Point State Park, which sits across a river from PNC Park and
Heinz Field. For 10 points, name this city situated on the point where the Ohio is formed by the Allegheny
and Monongahela Rivers.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh
023-13-82-02121

22. A meat dumpling called the khinkali originated in this country. This country's villages of Sioni and and
Sno form part of the track of its yearly Kazbegi Marathon. This country's flag features one large red cross
with four other evenly-spaced smaller red crosses. The Kura River starts in Turkey, then flows through this
country to its southern neighbor, which is Azerbaijan. Abkhazia and South Ossetia are disputed regions of
this country. For 10 points, name this country in the Caucasus region with its capital at Tbilisi.
ANSWER: Republic of Georgia [or Sakartvelo]
189-13-82-02122

23. During the Congress of Vienna, the principality of Birkenfeld, which was then a part of this state, was
given to the Grand Duchy of Oldenburg. Socialist leader Max Braun held a rally in this state’s capital city
in the run-up to an important vote. In a different vote twenty years later in 1955, this state rejected
Europeanization. This state lost use of sites such as Goettelborn for fifteen years before it was allowed to
have a plebiscite. This state spent ten years after World War II as a protectorate under a neighboring
country. For 10 points, name this smallest German non-city state that was administered after World War I
by the League of Nations and had to give up its coal mines to France.
ANSWER: Saarland
023-13-82-02123

24. This island has the highest proportion of inhabitants of any territory who identify as Jehovah's
Witnesses, at around three percent. This island's only airport, on Prosperous Bay, is expected to be finally
operational in 2016. Though it is part of a British overseas territory also including Tristan da Cunha and
Ascension, Longwood House on this island is maintained by the French government due to its most famous
resident. For 10 points, name this island in the South Atlantic that served as the final place of exile of
Napoleon and whose inhabitants are known locally as "Saints."
ANSWER: Saint Helena
003-13-82-02124

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. Renewed interest in the exploration of this place was due to Clements Markham. An expedition to this
place marked the last use of the Fridtjof Nansen-commissioned Fram. It is home to the Valkyrie Dome and
Dome Argus. The South Shetland Islands of this place are the southern boundary of the Drake Passage. It is
bordered by the Weddell and Ross seas and its highest point is Vinson Massif. An expedition here was led
by Roald Amundsen. This region is the driest desert. For 10 points, identify this southernmost continent
that is the location of the South Pole.
ANSWER: Antarctica [prompt on South Pole]
066-13-82-02125

26. This city contains the oldest public library in its country, Chetham's Library. Ford Madox Brown
painted a series of twelve murals depicting this city's history; those murals are displayed in its Alfred
Waterhouse-designed town hall. One of the murals depicts the opening of the Bridgewater Canal, built to
bring coal from Worsley to here. John Taylor was a member of the “Little Circle” here that started the
newspaper The Guardian, which until 1959 was named for this place. For 10 points, name this English city,
one of whose Premier League soccer teams has Rafael and Wayne Rooney.
ANSWER: Manchester
121-13-82-02126

27. One section of this location is called the JSA, where a series of buildings called Conference Row are
located. Camp Bonifas is located within this feature. It was penetrated by Unit 124 during the Blue House
Raid, and a tree in this location was cut down in Operation Paul Bunyan after two officers were killed in
the Axe Murder Incident. The Bridge of No Return is located in this area. The so-called “Peace Villages”
are located on opposite sides of this feature, which was set by an agreement signed at Panmunjom. For 10
points, name this feature located near the 38th parallel, which currently separates two countries on the
Korean peninsula.
ANSWER: DMZ [or Demilitarized Zone]
048-13-82-02127

28. This national park maintains the four-pen barn and saddlebag cabin with running water of Bud Ogle. By
taking the Roaring Forks Motor Nature Trail, visitors to this national park can visit the Place of a Thousand
Drips. Hiking from this national park's Cades Cove can take visitors all the way to Thunderhead Mountain,
which includes a part called Rocky Top. Entrances to this most-visited national park in the US can be found
in Cherokee and Gatlinburg. For 10 points, identify this national park named for a section of the Blue
Ridge Mountains, and which is located on the border between North Carolina and Tennessee.
ANSWER: Great Smoky Mountains National Park
023-13-82-02128

29. The Square of the See lies at the center of this city, in which the Immigrant’s Hostel is located.
Guarulhos and Osasco are within this city’s namesake state. Located on the banks of the Tiete River, it
contains the largest population of Japanese people in one city outside of Japan. The Monument to Ipiringa
in this city celebrates its country’s independence. This city is on the Serro do Mar, and its port of Santos is
the busiest in Latin America. It has more people than any other city in the Southern Hemisphere. For 10
points, name this most populous city in Brazil, named after a saint from Tarsus.
ANSWER: Sao Paulo
192-13-82-02129

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. It’s not Chinese, but the “Sheng language” is based on this language and is primarily spoken among
the urban underclass. One of the first known documents in this language is an epic poem about Byzantine
Emperor Heraclius called “The Story of Tambuka.” Julius Nyerere translated The Merchant of Venice into
this language. When Germany seized Tanganyika, it made this language a colony-wide administrative
language. One phrase in this language that translates as “There are no worries” is “Hakuna matata.” For 10
points, name this Bantu language that is the official language of Tanzania and Kenya.
ANSWER: Swahili [or Kiswahili]
052-13-82-02130

31. A 3000-mile walk through this region is the subject of Graham Mackintosh’s book Into a Desert Place.
The San Lucan xeric scrub grows in dry parts of this region. This region’s wine grapes grow near the city
of Ensenada, and due west of it, blue-footed boobies live on the four Coronado islands. Its most
tourist-traveled city is home to a spherical cultural center on Avenida Revolución. A non-Bolivian state
capital on this peninsula sits on La Paz Bay. The fish taco originated on this peninsula, whose lower half is
home to a state with the suffix “Sur.” For 10 points, name this peninsula west of the Sea of Cortez, where
Tijuana is just south of a similarly-named US state.
ANSWER: Baja California peninsula [prompt on Baja; do not accept “Baja California Sur”]
104-13-82-02131

32. Shepherds in this region made use of the moplike Puli dog. Cities in this region include
(CATCH-kem-et) Kecskemet and (DEB-retz-en) Debrecen. It is the larger of two areas that cover what was
once the Pannonian Sea. The "Little" counterpart of this region is separated from it by the Transdanubians.
It is split into two parts by the Tisza, and the Danube is found in its west. This region is bounded by the
Carpathians and Balkans. For 10 points, name this large Hungarian plain known as the Alföld.
ANSWER: Great Hungarian Plain [or Great Alföld before it is read; or Nagy Magyar Alföld before it is
read; reverse prompt on Northern Great Hungarian Plain; prompt on Hungary]
066-13-82-02132

33. September 17 is National Heroes' Day in this country. Other countries hosted the Bicesse and Lusaka
agreements, which were failed attempts to end the civil war in this country. One organization that fought
for this country's independence was founded by Holden Roberto. Its largest ethnic group is the Ovimbundu.
Its first president after independence was the poet Agostinho Neto. The civil war in this country was ended
by Jonas Savimbi's death in 2002. Cabinda is a province and exclave of this country, whose civil war was
between UNITA and MPLA. For 10 points, name this country, led since 1979 by José Eduardo dos Santos,
that has its capital at Luanda.
ANSWER: Republic of Angola
066-13-82-02133

34. The world's oldest location of this kind is located near Gilboa Dam in central New York. The most
famous location of this kind is home to a Phytosaur fossil unearthed at Blue Mesa. That location of this
kind is found south of the Painted Desert, is the site of a roadside diner in a Robert Sherwood play, and is
home to many Late Triassic fossils. These area form when lignin and cellulose decay anaerobically and are
replaced by waterborne minerals. For 10 points, name these places, including a national park in Arizona,
home to fossilized tree trunks.
ANSWER: petrified forests [prompt on partial answer; or fossil forests]
020-13-82-02134

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. The Solentiname Archipelago and Zapatera Island are located on this body of water. Mombacho is a
volcano on its western shore, and gold was transported over its Vanderbilt Road. The port of Granada on
this body of water was a hotbed of pirate activity, and much of that city was destroyed by William Walker.
An island in this lake is the location of Concepcion Volcano and is Ometepe Island. This lake is drained
into the Caribbean by the San Juan River, and the Tipitapa River sometimes connects it to Lake Managua.
For 10 points, name this largest lake in Central America, that shares its name with a country.
ANSWER: Lake Nicaragua [or Cocibolca; or Mar Dulce before mentioned]
030-13-82-02135

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

United States Geography Olympiad
Round 2
Tiebreakers

36. Martin Behaim created a terrestrial globe named for this city which is the earliest extant one in the
world. This city is the location of a gymnasium founded by the Reformation leader Philip Melanchthon.
General Iona Nikitchenko and Francis Biddle were among the presiding officers in a proceeding that took
place in this city. It was the location for Leni Riefenstahl’s documentary film Triumph of the Will and the
place in which men including Alfred Jodl, Joachim von Ribbentrop, and Hermann Goering were sentenced
to death. For 10 points, name this German city that was the location of several large-scale Nazi rallies as
well as the post-World War II Nazi war crime trials.
ANSWER: Nuremberg [or Nurnbürg]
030-13-82-02136

37. One of these events that hit Waco in 1953 was considered God's vengeance for the lynching of Jesse
Washington. A series of these occurrences that killed about 700 people in 1925 is called the "Tri-State"
one. Future ones can be predicted when they produce a "hook echo." The Fujita scale measures the strength
of these events, which are common in a namesake "alley" between the Rockies and Appalachians. For 10
points, name these really dangerous whirlwinds common in the Midwest.
ANSWER: tornadoes
080-13-82-02137

United States Geography Olympiad

2

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

