United States Geography Olympiad
Round 5

1. This system expanded in part because the area inside Route 128 had a moratorium on highway
construction. The northeastern-most segment of this system runs from Bowdoin to Wonderland. In a song
about this system, which mentions Jamaica Plain, a wife delivers sandwiches to it for life since her husband
lacks the nickel needed to escape it; that song inspired the name of its “CharlieCard.” This system with a
trifurcated Green Line has a Silver Line commuter rail to Logan International Airport, and its Red Line
connects South Station to the Davis stop near the Tufts campus. For 10 points, name this system connecting
Cambridge landmarks such as Harvard and MIT to many stops in Boston via underground trains.
ANSWER: the Boston T [or the Boston-area public transportation system; or the Boston-area subway
system; or the Boston-area MBTA subway system; or the Massachusetts Bay Transporation Authority
subway system; accept the former name, Metropolitan Transit Authority; accept MTA]
104-13-82-05101

2. The Francis Beidler Forest is located in one of these areas known as the “Four Hole” one. One of these
locations was set to be the location of a DuPont titanium mining operation that was scuttled in 1997 due to
public protest; that location of this type was the origin of the Bugaboo Scrub Fire. Lake Drummond is
located in one of these places that was the location of a maroon colony. One of these places can be accessed
at Stephen Foster State Park and is located on the Suwanee River. Revolutionary War general Francis
Marion was known as a “fox” of these places. For 10 points, name these wooded wetland areas, examples
of which include the Great Dismal and the Okefenokee.
ANSWER: swamps
030-13-82-05102

3. “Major” Uruchurtu was the head of this city for fourteen years and resigned after protests over his
decision to remove tenements for an Olympic stadium. Miguel Ángel de Quevedo built an arboretum in this
city to serve as a seedling nursery for reforestation projects in its neighborhood of Coyoacán. The Party of
the Democratic Revolution has won its head of government since elections started in 1997. An 1985
earthquake killed over 10,000 people in this city. Monuments such as the Angel of Independence lie on its
Paseo de la Reforma, which goes from its central plaza, the Zócalo, to Chapultepec Castle. For 10 points,
name this capital of Mexico.
ANSWER: Mexico City, Federal District [or Ciudad de México, D.F.]
121-13-82-05103

4. David Graeber's book Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology includes research he did in this country
among the Tsimihety people. The Tsimihety refused to be ruled by Radama I, a king of the Merina
kingdom that once ruled what is now this country. The most common language of this country is in the
Austronesian family, despite its geographic nearness to Bantu speaking people. The Merina ruled from this
country's current day capital, which under French colonization was called Tananarive. For 10 points, name
this island country which the Mozambique Channel separates from the African mainland.
ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar
121-13-82-05104

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. This region specializes in a form of mead fermented with the aid of apple juice, known as (shoe-SHEN)
chouchen. The severely endangered native language of this region is the source of the words "dolmens" and
"menhirs," which accurately describe the Carnac stones located in a small village here. Among a colony of
artists who gathered in this region's town of Pont-Aven was Paul Gauguin, who depicted its women in The
Yellow Christ before departing for Tahiti. This region is located north of the Bay of Biscay. For 10 points,
name this region of northwest France located west of Normandy.
ANSWER: Brittany [or Bretagne; or Breizh; or Bertaeyn; or Breton]
020-13-82-05105

6. This religious group founded the Gateway Charter Schools in an experimental village in Central Valley
near Fresno. The longest-lasting incorporated community of this religious group in the United States
founded The Benevolent Society and came together in Chicago in 1906. They make up 97 percent of the
population of Southend. In March 2011, several women and children from this religious group were booed
and jeered at during an event to raise money to fight hunger and homelessness in Orange County. The
biggest community of this religious group lies in a suburb of Detroit named Dearborn. For 10 points, name
this religious minority in the United States, which has suffered much hate and discrimination since 9/11.
ANSWER: American Muslims [accept Bosniak Muslims on the first line; do not accept "Arabs" or
"Persians" or answers like that]
020-13-82-05106

7. The Fort d’Estrees is located on this island. Raymond Mauny argued that this place’s importance had
been inflated, highlighting instead the crucial role of the nearby Saint-Louis. Nelson Mandela crawled into
a prison cell during his tour of one building on this island. Boubacar Joseph Ndiaye reconstructed this
island’s most famous landmark, which contains a Door of No Return. This island is two kilometers off the
coast of Dakar. For 10 points, name this island owned by Senegal famed for its supposed importance in the
slave trade.
ANSWER: Goree Island
192-13-82-05107

8. This city’s namesake cheerfully said “Yes, yes, I’m dead, goodbye!” after being killed by a sniper at the
Battle of South Mountain. It is home to the National Bowling Stadium, and it forms a metropolitan area
with Sparks known as the “Truckee Meadows.” It contains an iconic arch at the intersection of Commercial
Row and Virginia Street. Once a popular destination for couples seeking a divorce, this city is also the
birthplace of the gaming corporation Harrah’s. For 10 points, name this “Biggest Little City of the World,”
which is northeast of Lake Tahoe and is the largest city outside of Las Vegas in Nevada.
ANSWER: Reno
052-13-82-05108

9. This state has been continually plagued by secessionist demands for a new State of Vidarbha, ever since
it was formed in 1953 by the Nagpur Pact. This present-day state was the home of several rebellions against
Mughal and British rule led by such figures as Pesha Baji Rao II and Shivaji, the Maratha wars. This state
is home to the University of (POO-nay) Pune and the Bollywood film industry. With a population equal to
that of Mexico, it is smaller by population than only Uttar Pradesh. For 10 points, name this second-largest
state of India, which dominates the central west coast of the country and is the home of India's financial
sector at Mumbai.
ANSWER: Maharashtra
019-13-82-05109

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. David Rittenhouse bought the land on which the first of these buildings was located; when construction
was finished in 1792, that building was the largest in Philadelphia. Another of these buildings, known as
the "Granite Lady," was the only financial institution still standing in San Francisco following the 1906
earthquake. Only two of these buildings, in Denver and Philadelphia, produce objects used by the general
public. The Bullion Depository at Fort Knox is considered one of these buildings even though it is not a
production facility. For 10 points, name these U.S. government buildings at which coins are made.
ANSWER: United States Mint Facilities
003-13-82-05110

11. Nine figures called the Lords of the Night preside over segments of one part of this system. This
system’s Tzolkin portion is created from the combination of the trecena and the veintena. The Haab was a
part of this system that incorporated the sun and included an unlucky five-day period called Uayeb.
Outlined in the Dresden Codex, it incorporates a 584-day cycle based on the movements of Venus. This
system’s Long Count is comprised of 144,000-day periods known as baktun, the last of which ended on
December 21, 2012. For 10 points, name this time-keeping system used by an ancient Mesoamerican
civilization.
ANSWER: long-count Maya calendar [or Mayan calendar, prompt on calendar]
192-13-82-05111

12. Every year, this island's capital celebrates a classical music festival in honor of Pablo Casals. Luis
Munoz Marin founded the Popular Democratic Party on this island, championing its subculture of
mountain-dwelling peasants called jibaros. (PON-say) Ponce, Bayamon, and Arecibo are among the cities
on this island, whose main mountain range is called the Cordillera Central. It is the ancestral home of Sonia
Sotomayor and the birthplace of Ricky Martin. For 10 points, name this Caribbean island, a
statehood-seeking territory of the United States.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
080-13-82-05112

13. This country's Pyrhn Pass is nicknamed the "Fremdarbeiterweg," or "foreign workers' route," because
foreign workers in this country use the route to go back home. This country's Pasterze Glacier is located in
the Hohe Tauern mountain range, directly beneath Grossglockner Mountain. Graz is the capital of Styria, a
state within this country. The Drau River begins in Italy and flows through this nation before reaching
Slovenia. The Danube River flows past this country's city of Linz. For 10 points, identify this European
nation which has cities like Salzburg and Vienna.
ANSWER: Republic of Austria
189-13-82-05113

14. After a trip to this island, Franz Boas believed that geography was not a definite constraint on human
behavior. The parachute ski-jump opening scene of The Spy Who Loved Me was shot on this island’s
twin-peaked Mount Asgard, which is in its namesake mountain range in Auyuittuq National Park. This
island is probably the Helluland of the Viking Sagas. Its largest city lies on the iron-pyrite rich Frobisher
Bay. The Davis Strait and a namesake bay separate this fifth-largest island in the world from Greenland.
For 10 points, name this Nunavut island that contains Iqaluit and is the largest in Canada.
ANSWER: Baffin Island [or Qikiqtaaluk; or Ile de Baffin; prompt on Helluland until it is read]
153-13-82-05114

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. Mountain man Jim Bridger spoke of “fire and brimstone” in this place. This place's assignment to a
single U.S. District Court has caused a legal peculiarity in which it may be impossible to form a
Constitutionally valid jury for crimes committed in certain sections of it. The geologist Ferdinand V.
Hayden convinced Congress to grant a status to this place that was signed into law by President Grant. A
volcanic caldera located under this national park is occasionally referred to a “supervolcano.” For 10
points, name this Wyoming national park.
ANSWER: Yellowstone National Park
014-13-82-05115

16. The unusually high number of wild chickens on this island is thought to be due to the destruction of
chicken coops by Hurricane Iniki. Seventeen miles southwest of this place is a "Forbidden" Island, which is
privately owned by Bruce and Keith Robinson. The second-highest point on this "Garden Isle" is Mount
Waialeale (WHY-ah-lay-AH-lay), sometimes considered the wettest place on Earth. This is the oldest and
fourth-largest of the main Hawaiian Islands, and Waimea Bay lies between Oahu and this island. For 10
points, name this northwesternmost of the eight main Hawaiian Islands.
ANSWER: Kauai
003-13-82-05116

17. Under the reign of King Fahd, the Saudi government funded this city’s Mosque of Islamic Solidarity,
while its Mosque of Fakr-ad-Din is located in its oldest part, Hamar Wayne. This city’s Garesa Palace was
built by the Sultan of Zanzibar. The headquarters of Hormuud are in its violent Bakaara Market, a hub of
guns trading. A namesake “Mile” in this city was used by troops to evacuate during a 1993 battle known as
Black Hawk Down. For 10 points, name this city overlooking the Indian Ocean on the Horn of Africa, the
capital of Somalia.
ANSWER: Mogadishu
192-13-82-05117

18. Gallotia bravoana is a giant lizard which is also named for this region's Garajonay National Park, found
in its island of La Gomera. A whistled language called Silbo Gomero is used by the Guanches of this
archipelago, which is south of the Savage Islands. One of the world's largest volcanoes, Mount Teide, is
located in this archipelago. This island group includes Lanzarote, La Palma, Fuerteventura, and
(ten-ey-REE-fay) Tenerife, the latter of which is the most populated island of Spain. For 10 points, identify
this Spanish archipelago within the Atlantic Ocean, which is actually named for native dogs, not birds.
ANSWER: Canary Islands
189-13-82-05118

19. This city's Forest Park is home to the Little Iron Well, Koliba, and the Kamzik TV Tower. The
Maximilian Fountain is found in this city's Old Town Hall. Along with the Trnava and Trencin regions, the
Zahorie is part of this city. This city's City Center includes a large tribute to Ludovit Stur. Both the Morava
and Malina rivers flow through this city, whose architectural landmarks include St. Michael's Gate. This
city's New Bridge was built across the Danube River. This city is the only national capital to border two
other nations. For 10 points, identify this largest and capital city of Slovakia.
ANSWER: Bratislava
189-13-82-05119

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. A video clip that was widely circulated in February 2013 shows the value of these objects by depicting
a briefcase-wielding actor lying down in order to fabricate an injury claim. A genre known as "courage and
dementia" has resulted thanks to this technology, which provided much of the clearest information about
the 2013 Chelyabinsk meteor. This technology helps its owners prevent insurance fraud and provides
concrete evidence for corrupt policemen. This technology has captured footage of fighter jets doing low
fly-bys and cattle trucks spilling their cargo. For 10 points, name these video-recording objects located on
the dashboard of many Russian cars.
ANSWER: dashboard cameras [or dashcams]
020-13-82-05120

21. One group in this country promoted the idea of Sun Language Theory, stating that all human languages
descended from its language. An ethnic minority here speaks Zazaki, which includes the letters “w” and
“x,” unlike its main language. Another of this country’s languages, commonly spoken in the Kurmanji
dialect, is banned in many schools and public places, because it is viewed as supportive of the PKK. This
country’s own alphabet has dotted and undotted versions of the letter “I” and changed from a script that
resembled Persian to a Romanized alphabet. For 10 points, name this country whose majority language was
reformed by Mustafa Kemal.
ANSWER: Republic of Turkey
117-13-82-05121

22. One landmark in this city is an old fortification in the Manueline style called the Tower of St. Vincent.
This city’s Alfama district accounts for much of its nation’s characteristic fado music. This city’s
downtown was restructured by the Marquis of Pombal following a major disaster in 1755. This city’s
skyline prominently features a bridge similar to the Golden Gate Bridge, named for the 25th of April,
which sits across from Europe’s longest bridge. That bridge, which lies on the Tagus River, is named for
national hero Vasco da Gama. For 10 points, name this earthquake-prone capital city of Portugal.
ANSWER: Lisbon [or Lisboa]
117-13-82-05122

23. This city's CITIC Plaza is the tallest concrete building in the world. Its Haizhu Bridge has twice been
blown up. Chen Clan Academy and Nansha Wetland Park are among its "Eight Sights," while its former
name of Panyu came from two nearby mountains. The Baiyun Mountain is called this city's
"lung." Sun Yat-sen was born near this city. Cities near it include Shenzhen and Dongguan, which are also
in the Pearl River Basin. This third-largest city in China was called Canton by Westerners. For 10 points,
name this largest city of southern China, located in Guangdong Province.
ANSWER: Guangzhou [or Canton before mention]
192-13-82-05123

24. The Syonan Jinja is a Shinto shrine located on Bukit Timah in this country. Sentosa Island is a popular
tourist destination in this country, which is symbolized by a mythical creature designed by Alec
Fraser-Brunner, the Merlion. Its Jurong Island is home to many petrochemical industries, and it is
connected to its northern neighbor by Tuas Second Link. Lee Kuan Yew is the "father" of this country,
whose main island is sometimes called Pulau Ujong. Stamford Raffles turned this country's main city into
an economic hub of Asia. For 10 points, name this small island country on the tip of the Malay Peninsula.
ANSWER: Republic of Singapore
192-13-82-05124

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. Spells and potions can be purchased on this city’s Calle Linares, which is known as the Mercado de
Las Brujas, or Witches’ Market. This city was once named after the Battle of Ayacucho. The heart of this
city is the Plaza Murillo, and the Choqueyapu River runs through it. It is overlooked by the Nevado
Illimani and the Cordillera Real and it is located about 1,400 feet below the the surface of the Altiplano.
This city, which is located between 10,650 and 13,250 feet above sea level, is the world’s highest capital
city. For 10 points, name this city which, along with Sucre, functions as a national capital of Bolivia.
ANSWER: La Paz
030-13-82-05125

26. The ALZHIR camp, formerly located outside this city, was designated for the wives of Stalin's enemies.
This city was renamed "Virgin Lands City" in 1961 to mark it as a hub for Khrushchev's grain production.
Its concert hall resembles a flower in bloom, while its Pyramid of Peace is intended to hold constructs for
several different religions. Kisho Kurakawa drafted the initial plans for this city's reconstruction, a project
that has been taken up by Vladimir Laptev. Formerly called Ak Mola, this city's Bayterek resembles an egg
in a poplar tree. Located on the Ishim River, it is the second-largest city in its country, after Almaty. For 10
points, name this capital of Kazakhstan.
ANSWER: Astana [or Ak Mola before mention]
192-13-82-05126

27. Victor Montagu started a group which now opposes this organization. Non-Inscrits are members of its
governing body that aren't affiliated with a recognized political faction. Bill Cash led a “rebellion” in John
Major's government against it. Article 49 of a 1992 treaty lays out the “Copenhagen criteria” for joining
this organization. Herman van Rompuy presides over the part of this organization which a 2009 treaty tasks
with defining its “general political directions and priorities.” That treaty is the Treaty of Lisbon. For 10
points, name this supranational organization headquartered in Brussels.
ANSWER: European Union [or EU; or European Economic Community or EEC before second
sentence]
121-13-82-05127

28. This lake is located in a small basin between the Gamburtsev Mountains and the Dome C region. In the
nineteenth century, Peter Kropotkin theorized this lake could exist, and that it was formed by the immense
pressure of ice sheets above. In March 2013, a new type of bacteria was discovered in this lake’s waters,
which was only 86% similar to any other known type of bacteria. It shares its name with the research
station where the world's coldest temperature was recorded. For 10 points, name this Antarctic lake.
ANSWER: Lake Vostok [or Ozero Vostok]
014-13-82-05128

29. Much public attention has been drawn to this issue after a score of 755 was obtained on the 0 to 500
AQI scale in January 2013. One solution to this problem has been criticized for lowering biodiversity; that
solution hinges on improving the forest cover from 18 to 23%, thereby beefing up the "Green Wall." NASA
satellites confirmed that another solution this problem worked, but that solution's gains dissipated after a
year, since it involved closing factories and taking cars off the road. For 10 points, name this issue that was
temporarily resolved for the 2008 Summer Olympics, but still haunts at least 16 cities in the world's most
populous country.
ANSWER: China's air pollution problem [or China's smog problem; or pollution in China; accept other
types of pollution as well, like Chinese water pollution; also accept Beijing's pollution problem, since
many of the clues are specifically about pollution in the capital]
020-13-82-05129

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. One of these places is on the southern end of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. Another of these places is
the location of Elkhorn Tavern and contains a portion of the Trail of Tears. Those locations of these type
are Glorieta Pass and Pea Ridge. The oldest of these west of the Mississippi River is at Wilson’s Creek in
Missouri. One of these places is the location of Water Oaks Pond and the Peach Orchard as well as a
sunken road that became known as the Hornet’s Nest, and Cemetery Hill and Seminary Ridge are located
at one of these places that also is the location of Little Round Top. For 10 points, Shiloh and Gettysburg are
what types of locations on which military actions took place in the 1860s?
ANSWER: American Civil War Battlegrounds [or reasonable equivalents, such as “Places on which
Civil War battles were fought”]
030-13-82-05130

31. A national park in this state contains a valley filled with ash from the 1912 explosion of Novarupta, the
Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes. Mount Chamberlain and Mount Michelson are in the Brooks Range in
the North of this state. Katmai National Park and Wrangell-St. Elias National Park are both in this state,
and another national park here has a name meaning "the high one" in Athabaskan. Its Denali National Park
contains Mount McKinley. For 10 points, name this US state that contains the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge.
ANSWER: Alaska
080-13-82-05131

32. According to Pliny the Elder’s Natural History, this monument was the burial place of King Harmais.
The first modern excavation of this monument was conducted by Giovani Caviglia. A popular tale about
this sculpture is that its nose was supposedly blown off by Napoleon’s troops. It is thought that this
monument was built by Pharaoh Khafra during the Old Kingdom, thus making it the oldest known
monumental sculpture in the world. For 10 points, name this large limestone monument of a lion’s body
and a human head that is located near a similarly named “Great Pyramid” in Egypt.
ANSWER: Great Sphinx of Giza
149-13-82-05132

33. For four centuries, ships passing through the waters of this modern-day county had to pay the "sound
dues" or risk being sunk by cannon fire. This was the first country in the world to offer gay couples civil
unions in the form of "registered partnerships." Off this country's east coast is a body of water named for
the fact that even a cat would have difficulty navigating through it. This home of the Kattegat lost the
province of Schleswig-Holstein to its southern neighbor. During World War II, several boats of Jews
departed this country across the Oresund strait from its main island of Zealand. For 10 points, name this
Scandinavian country located on the Jutland peninsula.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark]
020-13-82-05133

34. Whether or not this region is included in the terms of sixth article of the 1790 Nootka Sound
Convention is debated. Mount Tumbledown and the Two Sisters Ridge are high ground positions near this
region’s capital. This site of Goose Green reaffirmed its status in a March 2013 referendum by nearly
unanimously declaring for the country that has administered it since 1833. One country ousted Governor
Rex Hunt when it captured Stanley, the capital of this region that is also called the Islas Malvinas. For 10
points, name this archipelago contested in a 1982 war between the United Kingdom and Argentina.
ANSWER: Falkland Islands [or Falklands; or Islas Malvinas before read]
153-13-82-05134

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. This nation traces its history back to Fa Ngum, who founded of the kingdom of Lan Xang in 1354. In
1707 Lan Xang split into three kingdoms, but were reunited in 1949 as this country with Sisavang Vong as
king. A site in this country's Xieng Khouang province near the city of Phonsavan contains structures with
frogs, tigers, or monkeys on their lids. This home of the Plain of Jars is, along with Vietnam, one of two
countries in Southeast Asia under continuous Communist control since 1975. For 10 points, name this
Southeast Asian country between Thailand and Vietnam, with capital at Vientiane.
ANSWER: Laos [or Lao People's Democratic Republic]
014-13-82-05135

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

United States Geography Olympiad
Round 5
Tiebreakers

36. This city is the northern terminus of the Richardson Highway; ninety-eight miles south of this city, a
highway built under the direction of William Hoge terminates at Delta Junction. This city contains a
thirty-six-thousand-year-old mummified bison nicknamed "Blue Babe" and Growden Memorial Park, the
site of the annual "Midnight Sun" baseball game. This city was named after Theodore Roosevelt's Vice
President and, though not Juneau, was the site at which Alaska's state constitution was signed. For 10
points, name this largest city in the interior of Alaska and, after Anchorage, the second-largest in that state.
ANSWER: Fairbanks
003-13-82-05136

37. Bahía Limón is located at the north end of this structure, and the twin cities of Cristóbal and Colón are
located at one of its termini. The Gaillard Cut is located at this structure, which was created by the
damming of the Chagres River at Gatun Lake. Balboa Heights was the administrative headquarters of a
namesake zone that governed this entity, whose completion was aided by Walter Reed’s discovery that
yellow fever is transmitted by mosquitoes. For 10 points, name this man-made waterway that was the
subject of a treaty signed by Omar Torrijos and Jimmy Carter that connects the Atlantic and Pacific oceans
in its namesake Central American nation.
ANSWER: Panama Canal
030-13-82-05137

38. The National Level One Survey studied these objects, which are dealt with by the Halo Trust and a man
named Aki Ra. The Battambang and Krong Pailin regions are affected by these objects. A newspaper made
the tongue-in-cheek suggestion of sending British cows with mad cow disease to places with these objects.
Jody Williams won a Nobel Peace Prize for trying to ban these items. Many of them became a problem
during the Hun Sen regime, and they include the “bouncing betty” and a US export, the M-18 Claymore.
For 10 points, name these manmade threats which make rural Cambodians vulnerable to explosions.
ANSWER: Cambodian landmines [or unexploded ordinance in Cambodia]
104-13-82-05138

39. This structure was created as a compromise between the designs of John Graham and Edward Carlson,
who proposed a giant balloon. It was financed by a group called the Pentagram Corporation. Stephen
Cosgrove proposed this building was the home of a furry creature called the Wheedle, and it also contains a
revolving restaurant called SkyCity. When constructed for the 1962 World’s Fair, it was the tallest
structure west of the Mississippi River, and it was painted colors like Orbital Olive. For 10 points, name
this 605 foot tower from which people can observe the Olympic Mountains, a tower located in Seattle.
ANSWER: the Space Needle
052-13-82-05139

United States Geography Olympiad

5

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

