United States Geography Olympiad
Round 3

1. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. introduced an “Industrial Plan” named for this state after a labor dispute here.
Davis Waite sent the National Guard to protect workers in this state from armed men deputized by M. F.
Bowers. It's not Idaho, but Albert Horsley may have been behind the explosion of Independence Depot
here. Charles Moyer was the president of a labor union in its city of Cripple Creek, which also had Bill
Haywood as an officer. That union was the Western Federation of Miners, which was also involved in a
strike that saw four people killed in this state's city of Ludlow in Las Animas County. For 10 points, name
this state, the home of the U.S. Air Force Academy and Denver.
ANSWER: Colorado
121-13-82-03101

2. This area’s largest city lies near a prehistorical site founded by Henry de Lumley on Mount Boron called
Terra Amata. W. Somerset Maugham lived in this area’s Cap Ferrat, and a country within this region is
ruled by the House of Grimaldi. One city in this region holds an annual film festival that gives out the
Golden Palm. Saint-Tropez and Cannes are cities in this area, within which Monaco lies. Also known as the
Azure Coast, its most populous city is Nice. For 10 points, give this name associated with the
Mediterranean coast of southeast France, a popular destination for wealthy tourists.
ANSWER: French Riviera [or Azure Coast or Cote d'Azur before mention]
192-13-82-03102

3. The industrialist Maurice de Hirsch helped several immigrants from Russia to become the first "Jewish"
people of this type. During his time among these people, Charles Darwin wrote in his notebooks that they
used a device made of stone, metal, and wood spheres wrapped together in leather, known as the "balls."
The "shadow" of one of these people was written about by Ricardo Guiraldes. These people carried an
enormous knife known as the facon and roasted meat over pits of open fire in a technique known as
Churrasco. The fictional Martin Fierro is one of these people, who didn't even dismount to bathe. For 10
points, name these cowboys from the pampas in South America.
ANSWER: gauchos [prompt on cowboys; prompt on Argentines in the first sentence]
020-13-82-03103

4. The Pararaton is a record of kings who ruled on this island, on which Raden Patah found a kingdom
based in the present day city of Demak. Its western part, largely covered by the Parahyangan highlands,
includes the province of Banten, which has its capital at Serang. This island's namesake rhinoceros is the
rarest kind in the world and is confined to Ujung Kulon National Park. Mount Lawu lies near the source of
its longest river, the Solo, on which many hominids have been found. Mount Merapi is on this island, found
between Sumatra and Bali, which is the most populous island on Earth. For 10 points, name this Indonesian
island on which Jakarta is located.
ANSWER: Java
192-13-82-03104

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 1 of 9 © HSAPQ

5. This country's Tete Province contains the largest hydroelectric dam in Africa, which creates the Cahora
Bassa lake. The capital of this country contains Eduardo Mondlane University. This country contains a lake
whose name literally means "Lake Lake," Lake Nyasa. Since its independence, this country has been
governed by the FRELIMO Party. This country, which has an AK-47 on its flag, borders Zimbabwe to the
west, Tanzania to the north and South Africa to the south. For 10 points, name this country in Southern
Africa that, like Angola, is a former Portuguese colony.
ANSWER: Republic of Mozambique
080-13-82-03105

6. This place’s landscape is dotted by cylindrical Bronze Age towers called nuraghi. Its namesake language
has a southern Campidanese dialect and a northern Logudorese dialect. This island’s highest peak, Punta la
Marmora, is in its Gennargentu range, and the Tirso river runs through its center. Its town of Iglesias grew
over a silver mining industry spurred on by the same Ugolino commemorated in Dante’s Divine Comedy.
The San Teodoro resort is on this island’s beachy Emerald Coast. This island’s city of Sassari is south of
the Strait of Bonifacio, and its capital is Cagliari. For 10 points, name this Italian-controlled island south of
Corsica.
ANSWER: Sardinia [or Sardegna]
104-13-82-03106

7. This province lies at the eastern edge of the original definition of the arid region known as Palliser's
Triangle. This province contains its country's northernmost port, which is owned by OmniTRAX. That port
is in this province's city of Churchill, which is known as the polar bear capital of the world. Birds Hill
Provincial Park becomes the third-largest city in this province every year during the annual Folk Festival in
this province's capital city, which also hosts Folklorama. The Red River of the North receives the
Assiniboine River as a tributary in this province before emptying into its largest lake. For 10 points, name
this province that contains Lake Winnipeg.
ANSWER: Manitoba
023-13-82-03107

8. A tourist attraction in this city is the ancient Hindu Giant Swing. Five statues of soldiers surround an
obelisk in the Victory Monument at one of its intersections. Fish and vegetables are sold from boats in this
city's Taling Chan Floating Market. This city contains many canals from the Chao Phraya River. This
modern-day city was founded by the Chakri Dynasty ruler Rama I. For 10 points, name this capital of
Thailand.
ANSWER: Bangkok
080-13-82-03108

9. Cajamé led an Indian rebellion in this state against the government of Porfirio Díaz. Plutarco Calles was
the first modern governor of this state, which was also the home of revolutionary Álvaro Obregón. From
1824 to 1830, it was part of a single state with its southern neighbor, Sinaloa. Venustiano Carranza
organized the Constitutionalist Army's rebellion against Victoriano Huerta in its city of Hermosillo. In
1918, fighting broke out between Mexican federales and the U.S. Army in this state's border town of
Nogales. For 10 points, name this state which shares its name with a desert.
ANSWER: Free and Sovereign State of Sonora
121-13-82-03109

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 2 of 9 © HSAPQ

10. In the 2005 version of this event, the defending champion was defeated after a three-run comeback
caused extra innings, and Michael Memea hit a walk-off homerun. Angel Macias pitched a perfect game in
the championship of the 1957 version, and a perfect game in 2001 was vacated after discoveries were made
in the Dominican Republic concerning Danny Almonte. This event runs every year in Howard J. Lamade
Stadium in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and it includes eight regional teams and eight international teams.
For 10 points, name this annual baseball event for players between the ages of eleven and thirteen.
ANSWER: Little League World Series [or LLWS]
023-13-82-03110

11. Many people in this country were forced to relocate from their homes to (EE-bye) Ebeye Island. This
country completely lost its island Elugelab in 1952. This country is made up of two chains called Ratak and
Ralik, which mean sunrise and sunset. This country's legislature is made up of the Council of Iroij and
Nitijela. This country is the site of the Reagan Test Site on its islands in Kwajalein. Other testing by the
United States occurred on this country's Enewetak and Bikini Atolls. For 10 points, name this Pacific island
country that is part of the Compact of Free Association with the US along with Palau and Micronesia.
ANSWER: Republic of the Marshall Islands
023-13-82-03111

12. The second largest city in this country, Touba, is the holy city for the Mouride Brotherhood. In a 2012
presidential election in this nation, Macky Sall defeated the incumbent, Abdoulaye Wade. Saint (LOO-ee)
Louis lies on the mouth of the river named for this nation. That river also forms the entire border between
this nation and its northern neighbor, Mauretania. The capital of this nation lies on the Cap-Vert, the
westernmost point of mainland Africa. For 10 points, the infamous House of Slaves lies in Dakar, the
capital of which West African nation?
ANSWER: Republic of Senegal
014-13-82-03112

13. One group with this name includes its so-called "Showplace," Raspberry Island. The group with this
name in the United States, located off the coast of Bayfield, includes twenty-two islands, the largest of
which has the small town of La Pointe and is named Madeline Island. This name was given to a collection
of structures near Port Campbell once called the Sow and Piglets. That group is located just off of the Great
Ocean Road in Victoria. For 10 points, give this name shared by islands north of Wisconsin in Lake
Superior and by eight limestone stacks in Australia, with both sites having the a mismatched number
despite being named after a Biblical group of twelve.
ANSWER: Apostles [or Apostle Islands; or Twelve Apostles]
023-13-82-03113

14. A documentary called "Romeo and Juliet in" this city tells of a couple killed in this city’s “Sniper
Alley” while attempting to flee it in 1993. A revolutionary force advocating the creation of the Republica
Srpska carried out two massacres in this city’s Markale area, causing an investigation by the ICTY that
addressed a long “siege” of this city. This city is situated along the diminutive Miljacka River, which is
spanned by the Latin Bridge from which Gavrilo Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand. For 10
points, name this capital city of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ANSWER: Sarajevo
117-13-82-03114

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 3 of 9 © HSAPQ

15. One side in this dispute hired Aurel Stein and Sven Hedin to explore the "white space" on the map. The
other side in this dispute launched an unfortunate war that included the near-total massacre of William
Elphinstone's retreating forces. The backdrop for Rudyard Kipling's novel Kim, it caused a major world
empire to launch the Afghan Wars to protect its sovereignty over India. For 10 points, name this late
19th-century contest between the Russian and British empires for hegemony over Central Asia.
ANSWER: the Great Game [prompt on descriptions]
080-13-82-03115

16. One fruit that grows in this region is variously called puruma, uvilla, or this region’s tree-grape. A
2011 photography exhibit to bring attention to this region used the work of Per-Anders Pettersson and
Sebastiao Salgado. A river in this region is home to pink river dolphins, and freshwater areas in this region
are home to Black Caimans. This region is sometimes known as the "Lungs of the World," and it is the
leading producer of guarana. For 10 points, name this large, biodiverse region home to one in ten known
species on Earth, and which receives a lot of precipitation along its namesake river in South America.
ANSWER: Amazon rainforest [or Amazon basin; prompt on Amazon]
023-13-82-03116

17. Chuuk was at one time the administrative headquarters of one of these polities in the South Pacific.
These polities are described in Article 22 of the treaty that created them. Robert Lansing suggested they
were created to avoid directly ceding territory that would count towards reparations. The San Remo
conference distributed the Class A types, which included Mesopotamia and Palestine. Class B examples
included Tanganyika and Rwanda-Urundi. Many of them became UN Trust Territories in 1946. For 10
points, name these former German and Turkish colonies that were handed over to Allied Powers for
governance by the League of Nations.
ANSWER: League of Nations mandates
121-13-82-03117

18. The ancient kingdom of Damot was centered in the northern part of this present-day country. Edesius
and Frumentius introduced Christianity to another kingdom located here; that kingdom’s capital is
currently located in Tigray Province. This country contains the Church of St. Mary of Zion, and is said to
be the location from which the Queen of Sheba began her journey. This modern-day country, where Axum
was located, was also the site of the Battle of Adowa, which prevented its colonization by Italy. For 10
points, name this East African country, which was ruled in the 20th century by men including Haile
Selassie.
ANSWER: Ethiopia [or Abyssinia]
140-13-82-03118

19. A wildlife refuge in this region gained its name from the beans of lavender-like flowers that snow geese
fed upon during the winter. This location, home to Pea Island National Wildlife Refuge, is also home of a
breed of feral horses that can be found in areas such as Ocracoke Island. On one island in this location, the
word “Croatoan” was found carved into a tree following the disappearance of a colony. This region was the
site of the first flight, as the Wright brothers worked in this region’s Kill Devil Hill and Kitty Hawk. For 10
points, name this area of barrier islands located in eastern North Carolina.
ANSWER: Outer Banks
140-13-82-03119

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 4 of 9 © HSAPQ

20. This town was founded by the Detroit businessman Ashley Pond, who founded a ranch school named
for the nearby cottonwood trees that bloomed in autumn. In 2000, everyone in this town was evacuated and
400 homes were destroyed in the disastrous Cerro Grande forest fire. This town is near an Ancestral Pueblo
site named after a Swiss anthropologist, known as Bandelier National Monument. The true nature of cargo
arriving into this town, once known as Site Y, was concealed between 1942 and 1945. For 10 points, name
this New Mexico town, home to a national laboratory founded to carry out the Manhattan Project.
ANSWER: Los Alamos
020-13-82-03120

21. These regions are the target of a plan involving machines called “sifters” and “booms,” devised by
19-year old Dutch student Boyan Slat. Project Kaisei studied areas of this type. The largest of these areas,
east of the Kuroshio current, was discovered when Charles Moore was returning home from a boat race and
alerted Curtis Ebbesmeyer. They are largely composed of neustonic material invisible to the naked eye,
such as photodegraded polymers, and sit at the middle of large gyres. For 10 points, name these regions
whose “Great Pacific” example is east of Hawai’i, and which are large deposits of human debris.
ANSWER: oceanic garbage patches [or patches of marine debris; or marine litter; accept clear
equivalents; prompt on ocean gyres]
104-13-82-03121

22. Just east of this city's downtown is Lake Merritt, the US's first official wildlife refuge. In Everybody's
Autobiography, Gertrude Stein coined the phrase "there is no there there" to refer to this city. A pub
frequented by many sailors before their long sea voyages, named Heinold's First and Last Chance Saloon,
is found in the Jack London Square in this city. In this city, Oscar Grant was killed by a BART police
officer. The eastern terminus of the Bay Bridge, this city was the site of an Occupy protest in which
demonstrators were tear-gassed en masse. For 10 points, name this violent Northern California city
opposite of the bay from San Francisco.
ANSWER: Oakland
020-13-82-03122

23. Gujuli is a waterfall within this area’s Gorbea National Park, which features a namesake mountain
upon which an eighteen-foot cross has been mounted. The Aizkorri massif is in its namesake mountains,
while the Nervion River flows through its largest city. Located east of Burgos and Cantabria, its capital is
Vitoria-Gasteiz, and it encapsulates the provinces of Gipuzkoa, Alava, and Biscay. Souletin is a French
dialect of this area’s namesake tongue, which is a language isolate. Its largest city features a Guggenheim
Museum designed by Frank Gehry. For 10 points, name this autonomous community in northern Spain
whose largest city is Bilbao.
ANSWER: Basque Country
192-13-82-03123

24. This region's name literally translates as the "place where the sun sets." Habib Bourguiba once defined
this region as the area in which couscous was the staple food. A group formerly known as the Salafist
Group for Preaching and Combat renamed itself to "al-Qaeda in" this region and claimed responsibility for
2013 attacks on Timbuktu. For 10 points, name this region containing the Arabic-speaking countries of
northwest Africa.
ANSWER: Maghreb [or Maghrib]
003-13-82-03124

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 5 of 9 © HSAPQ

25. Silver doors in the Darshani Deohri archway stand before a causeway to this building, connecting it to a
largely white structure whose name means “Throne of the Timeless One,” the Akal Takht. Its entrances are
all below ground level, and a sarovar, a pool of water treated as nectar of immortality, surrounds this
building. This holy site’s construction was overseen by Arjun Dev. It was damaged in Operation Blue Star,
a raid ordered by Indira Gandhi. For 10 points, name this ornate building in Amritsar, India, the holiest
temple for Sikhs.
ANSWER: the Sikh Golden Temple at Amritsar [ or Sri Harmandir Sahib; or Darbar Sahib; prompt on
Amritsar, India until read]
104-13-82-03125

26. These non-Trobriand Islanders were studied by Polish anthropologist Bronislaw Pilsudski. Shiraoi is
one village initially founded by these people, who let an animal into the wild in their Iomante ceremony.
The name of the short-lived Ezo Republic was also used to refer to these people, who use the word kamui
to refer both to spirits and their sacred animal, the bear. These hairy people once inhabited the Kuril islands
and Sakhalin Island, and the Matsumae clan traded for their fish catch before their classification as “former
aboriginals” in the Meiji era. For 10 points, name these indigenous people of Hokkaido.
ANSWER: Ainu people
104-13-82-03126

27. A statue and a park in this city is named after The King and I actor Yul Brynner, who was born here.
After a 1974 arms summit held in this city, Gerald Ford gave his foreign counterpart the coat off his back in
a sign of friendship. In 2012, this city hosted the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, requiring
construction of the longest cable-stayed bridge in the world to connect the mainland to Russky Island.
Located at the head of the Golden Horn Bay, it is the home base of the Red Banner Pacific Fleet, and it was
connected to Moscow with the Trans-Siberian Railway. For 10 points, name this city, the largest Russian
port on the Pacific Ocean.
ANSWER: Vladivostok
052-13-82-03127

28. Because one part of this site has many tombs with false entrances, it is known as "the Street of
Facades." This site contains two clay water pipes with tapered ends, preceding a modern innovation by
hundreds of years. Although it is not Mecca, this site contains a temple to its goddess al-Uzza. This home
of the Urn and Corinthian Tombs contains a monastery known as "The Deir" as well as a Roman
amphitheater on its outskirts. The most famous building at this site is "The Treasury," which consists of
five statues, two rows of columns, one on top of a pediment, all hewn into a sandstone cliff. For 10 points,
name this Nabaetean capital city in Jordan, known for its rock-cut architecture.
ANSWER: Petra
020-13-82-03128

29. Based on trust games with over 400 subjects, a 2012 study led by Lisa Cameron concluded people born
while this policy was in effect were “less trustworthy” and “more pessimistic” “little emperors.” Provinces
have issued exceptions to this policy to deal with the “four-two-one problem,” where seniors may become
more reliant on state pensions in their retirement. In his essay “More than 100 Million Women are
Missing,” Amartya Sen cites Judith Banister's findings that suggest this policy increased female infant
mortality. In 2008, Zhang Weiqing confirmed this policy would be continued indefinitely. For 10 points,
name this Chinese policy intended to limit population growth.
ANSWER: China's one-child policy [or obvious equivalents; prompt on family planning policy]
121-13-82-03129

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 6 of 9 © HSAPQ

30. A holiday in this country, “Garifuna Settlement Day,” is popular in the district capital of Dangriga. It is
home to the Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary, the first sanctuary created for jaguars. Off this country’s
coast is a famous scuba diving site popularized by Jacques Cousteau called the Great Blue Hole. This
country’s name may come from the Mayan word for “muddy-watered.” This is the only Central American
country where English is the official language. For 10 points, name this country bordered to the west by
Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
ANSWER: Belize
052-13-82-03130

31. This location attracted a sizable number of Basque settlers, including Pete Aguereberry, who names a
scenic point here. This place once held a rich deposit of borax and is home to some beautiful wildflower
blooms. In the Pleistocene Era, this place was home to Glacial Lake Manly, which was succeeded by the
unimpressive Badwater Lake which appeared here for a few months in 2005. This place received its name
from prospectors traversing it in 1849 and contains the appropriately-named Furnace Creek, which in 1913
recorded the highest temperature in the world. For 10 points, name this inhospitable place in the Mojave
Desert, the lowest point in North America.
ANSWER: Death Valley
020-13-82-03131

32. Scott's Bluff National Monument and Chimney Rock are landmarks in this state, which also contains a
replica of Stonehenge made out of automobiles, Carhenge. The headquarters of Boys Town is in a suburb
of its largest city. L. Ron Hubbard was born in this state, and much of its population lives near the Platte
River. Home to many descendants of Czech immigrants, this state contains the headquarters for Berkshire
Hathaway, Warren Buffet's company. For 10 points, name this "Cornhusker State" whose largest city is
Omaha.
ANSWER: Nebraska
080-13-82-03132

33. The founder of the Iona Community, Georg MacLeod, was the first member of this organization to sit
in the House of Lords. One of these groups merged with the Alliance ‘90 party, and a member of this
group advised against joining the war in Iraq while serving as foreign minister to Gerhard Schroder. That
member of this group was Joschka Fisher, an ally of another member of this group known as “Danny the
Red” who led 1968 student protests in Paris. This group has the third largest political bloc in the European
Parliament and is co-led by former radical activist Daniel Cohn-Bendit. For 10 points, name this political
party, which is named due to its emphasis on environmental issues.
ANSWER: Green Party
030-13-82-03133

34. In 2003, a group opposed to this process in Texas, known as the “Killer D’s,” fled to Oklahoma to
prevent a quorum. Elkanah Tisdale illustrated this process in a drawing featuring the words “Marblehead”
and “Ipswich.” That illustration depicting it was published in the Boston Gazette and shows a dragon-like
monster meant to represent part of Essex County. Some historians believe this process’s name was coined
by Federalist newspapers to mock a Governor of Massachusetts. For 10 points, name this process of
manipulating political district boundaries, which has a name referencing a Vice President.
ANSWER: gerrymandering [accept word forms, prompt on redistricting]
052-13-82-03134

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 7 of 9 © HSAPQ

35. The Esopus Creek flows through this mountain range, which contains the Ashokan and Pepacton
reservoirs. A set of resorts in this mountain range that became a popular place for Jewish comedians was
called the Borscht Belt. Slide Mountain is the highest point in this mountain range, where the Woodstock
concert took place. It was the setting for Kindred Spirits and other paintings by the Hudson River School.
For 10 points, name this mountain range, a section of the Appalachians in southeastern New York.
ANSWER: the Catskill Mountains
080-13-82-03135

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 8 of 9 © HSAPQ

United States Geography Olympiad
Round 3
Tiebreakers

36. One colony of this country named its airport after Franklin Delano Roosevelt because his ancestors
lived there in the 18th century. That island, named after Saint Eustace, forms the SSS islands with another
colonized island of this country whose capital is The Bottom, Saba. The tumba is an indigenous form of
music from one colony of this country. Papamiento is spoken in many of this country's colonies. In 2010, it
changed the status of a colonial grouping that included Aruba and Curacao. For 10 points, identify this
former country whose namesake "Antilles" were split into their constituent parts, and which is led by
Queen Beatrix.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands
192-13-82-03136

37. A western division of this mountain range contains the subterranean Trümmelbach Falls. An ascent of a
mountain in this range is depicted in the last of Richard Strauss's tone poems. Divisions of this mountain
range include the Julians, Dinarics and Dolomites. Lakes bordering this mountain range include Como and
Lucerne. This range is the source of the Po and Rhone Rivers. One of the major achievements of the
Second Punic War involved Hannibal crossing these mountains. Four-thousanders in this range include the
Matterhorn. For 10 points, identify this crescent-shaped mountain range in Europe whose highest peak is
Mont Blanc.
ANSWER: The Alps [or Bernese Alps before "Julians" is read]
066-13-82-03137

United States Geography Olympiad

3

Page 9 of 9 © HSAPQ

