Georgia Tech High School Bowl Toss-Up Round

1

1. After almost a century of bickering and occasional armed skiImishes between the colonies of Pennsylvania and Maryland,
the two colonies agreed in 1760 to settle their dispute. The result was the hiring of two British surveyors to mark the parallel
of 30 degrees 43 minutes 17.6 seconds north. For lO points, identify this now famous boundary that bears the name of the
two men who laid it out
Answer: Mason-Dixon line
2. In contrast to Phidias' sculptures at the Parthenon, Skopas' figures for this wonder of the ancient world are harsher and
more dramatic. Located in Ionia, it was build for a satrap of Carla by his wife, Queen Artemisia. For lO points, identify this
structure whose occupant has lent his name to all subsequent tomb monuments.
Answer: Mausoleum at Halicarnassus
3. It was the first disease in which a particular bacterium was shown to be the causative agent and had one of the earliest
effective vaccines. For lO points, what is this rare bacterial disease, the cause of which was isolated by Robert Koch and
which can be picked up from spores found on infected cattle and sheep.
Answer: anlbI:ax
4. It was a adapted to the stage by George L. Aiken and first performed in September 1852 in Troy, New York. The book had
frrst appeared earlier that year and within a year had sold over 300,000 copies. For lO points, identify this American novel
that was the frrst to portray blacks as individuals and not as stereotypes.
Answer: Uncle Tom's Cabin
5. It located on Elliot Bay and built on Seven Hills between the Olympic Mountains and the Cascades. Its largest factory is a
plant of the Boeing company and it is a major Pacific port. For lO points, identify this city settled on Alki point in 1851, the
home of the University of Washington.
Answer:~

6. The modem version is made of hard wood with an outer rim of metal, while in ancient times it was made of stone. In
1962, AI Oerter became the frrst person to hurl one more than 200 feet. For 10 points, what are these implements thrown by
ancient Greeks that today are an important part of track and field events.
Answer:~

7. (JRD5lO.12) While on a tour of Europe with Horace Walpole in 1741, he and Walpole had a disagreement that was not
resolved until 1745. For 10 points, identify this professor of modem languages and history at Cambridge best known for the
1751 poem, Elegy Wrilten in a Country Churchyard.
Answer: Thomas Gray (1716-1771)
8. (JRD51 O. 7) In 1906, following the request of its duly elected president for help, President Roosevelt replaced him with a
U.S. governor, Charles Edward Magoon. For 10 points, identify this nation whose constitution provided for this intervention
by the 1902 incorporation of the Platt Amendment.
Answer: Cuba
9. Their name is derived from the Greek words meaning "salt- producing" and while they are not found free in nature, their
compounds have been known and used since ancient times. For lO points, what is this group of elements of group VIlA that
includes Bromine, Chlorine, and Fluorine.
Answer: halogens
10. He showed an amazing talent for music early in life, playing a difficult concerto in public at the age of 8 and publishing
his frrst work at the age of 15. Though he lived only 39 years, dying in 1839 from tuberculosis he left behind numerous
works for the piano. For lO points, identify tllis composer whose polonaises and mazurkas reflect his Polish heritage.
Answer: Frederic Chm2in
11. (JRD520.12) In 1893, with Josef Breuer, he published The Psychical Mechanism of Hysterical Phenomenon which was
based on Breuer's treatment of a girl simply by having her talk about her problem. For 10 points, identify this man who
from 1892 to 1895 used free association to develop his technique of psychoanalysis.
Answer: Sigmund fulld

and established the Vasa dynasty. The second ruled from 1611 to 1632 and was a great military success during the Thirty
Years War. For 10 points, what is this common name of Swedish kings.
Answer: Gustavus
13. This South American nation was inhabited by the Araucanian Indians, the only tribe never conquered by the Spaniards and
a few hundred thousand of them live there today. For 10 points, identify this long narrow nation that lies between the Andes
and the Pacific Ocean.
Answer: Q!ik
14. (JRD514.13) Beginning in 1920, he played small parts in the theater and silent films for a decade until he won
recognition in an LA stage production of "The Last Mile". In 1931, he made his talking picture debut in "The Pain teA,
Desert". Three years later, he was established as one of Hollywood's leading stars after both he and his co-star won Oscars for
"It Happened One Night". For 10 points, identify this actor most famous for his role of Rhett Butler in "Gone With the
Wind".
Answer: Clark ~
15. (JRD51O.5) It has the shape of a mountain divided into seven terraces. At the peak is the divine forest of earthly paradise
and on its seven levels are punished the seven deadly sins. For 10 points, identify this region where Virgil leaves Dante and
is replaced as guide by tlle fair Beatrice.
Answer: Purgatory or Pergatorio
16. (JRD518.4) The indices bearing this name are a system of numbers indicating the angles that the planes of a crystal
make with its axis. It is also the name of a drunken storyteller from Chaucer who treats the pilgrims to a ribald tale of an old
carpenter cuckolded by his young wife. For 10 points, what is this name common to several writers including the authors of
Life Among the Modocs, The Air-Conditioned Nighl1nare, and Death of a Salesman.
Answer: ~
17. In addition to fame and a ticker-tape parade, he was rewarded with a $25,()()() prize offered by Raymond B. Orteig for the
first to accomplish his feat. For 10 points, identify this man who in travelling from Roosevelt Field to Le Bourget Field
became tlle first man to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean.
Answer: Charles Lindbergh
18. Pencil and paper may be necessary. If tlle derivative of f(x) is 8x2 plus 7x plus 1 and the derivative of g(x) is 2X2 plus 3x
plus 2. For 10 points, what is tile derivative of the difference f(x) minus g(x)?
Answer: 6x 2 plus 4x minus 1
19. It was mostly drunk until tile Dutchman C.J. Van Houten revolutionized the industry by inventing a press that squeezed
the rich butter out of tile beans from which it was made. For 10 points, identify this favorite flavor of beverage for the Aztec
ruler Montezuma tIlat is today a velvety smooth rich candy product.
Answer: chocolate
20. (JRD513.4) Written from 1913 to 1927, it has cast of two hundred characters and through the eyes ofits central observer,
shows with excruciating slowness tile decadence and deatll of a society. For 10 points, identify this series centered on Marcel,
written in seven parts by Marcel Proust.
Answer: Remembrance of Things Past

Georgia Tech High School Bowl Bonus Round

1

1. 30-20-10 Identify the architect from the clues given.

a) This architect designed the generic Prairie House and the unbuilt Broadacre City
b) He designed the Robie House and the Johnson Wax Building
c) He designed the house Falling Waters and the Guggenheim Museum
A: Frank Lloyd WRIGHT

2. (30 points) For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the Roman orator Cicero.
1. In 63 A.D. he reached the pinnacle of his career by winning what office, the highest in the Roman Republic?
Answer: ~ or consulate or consulship
2. Cicero's chief rival in the election for the consulship was a revolutionary with a large following among the Roman mob.
For 10 points, identify tilis man who led a conspiracy to murder Cicero that failed.
Answer: Cataline
3. Against what man did Cicero deliver the scathing orations known as the Philippics?
Answer: Marc ~
3. (30 points) Answer the following questions about the immune system for 15 points each.
1. The proteins called antibodies are produced by the body in response to foreign proteins produced by viruses, bacteria and
other organisms. For 15 points, what are these foreign proteins called?
Answer: antigens
2. Macrophages in the immune system use this process of engulfing foreign bodies to help cleanse the body. For 15 points,
what is it?
Answer: Dhagocytosjs
4. (30 points) It tells the story of a young United States naval office who was on trial for treason. At the trial he said that he
never wished to hear the name of the United States again and for the 57 remaining years of his life that was the case. First, for
10 points, identify this 1863 story.
Answer: The Man Without a Country
2. For an additional 10 points, who wrote The Man Without a Country?
Answer: Edward Everett Hale
3. For a fina1lO points, what character was literally The Man Without a Country?
Answer: Philip Nlliilll
5. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify this city.
1. It was founded in 600 BC by Greek colonists from Phocaea in Asia Minor and for several hundred years thereafter was
known as Massalia.
2. It is located on the Gulf of Lyons and is tile second largest city in France.
3. It lent its name to tile French national anthem because tile song was first sung by troops from this city.
Answer: Marsejlles
6. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify tilis sporting event.
1. The first modem winner was Spiridon Loues in 1896.
2. In 1964 in Tokyo Bikila Abebe set an Olympic record in this event.
3. It was originally run by tile Greek Pheidippides in 490 BC.
Answer: Marathon
7. (30 points) For 15 points each, identify these works by Alexander Pope.
1. Written in 1712, it was suggested to Pope by a silly quarrel between Lord Peter and Mrs. Arabella Fermor. It was cast in
the form of a mock epic.
Answer: The Rape of the Lock
2. Written in 1734, Pope expressed the philosophical viewpoint that "The proper study of Mankind is Man" in this work.
Answer: Essay on Man

8. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify this s,tate.
1. In the early 1850's Ole Broneman Bull, a Norwegian musician, bought 125,000 acres in the western portion of this stf
The area was to be called Oleana and be seWed by immigrants from Norway.
2. It was in this state that the first oil well was drilled at Titusville.
3. It is the birthplace of James Buchanan and the site of Valley Forge.
Answer: Pennsylvania
9. (25 points) There are four chemical elements whose names begin with the letter "I". For 5 points each and a bonus for
getting all four, name the four elements that begin with "I".
Answer: Iron. Indiwn. Iodine. Iridium
10. (30 points) Identify these Italian operatic composers from works 5-10-15.
1. (5 pts) La Traviata
Answer: Giuseppe Ymli
2. (10 pts) The Girl of the Golden West Answer: Giacomo ~
3. (15 pts) TIle Elixir of Love
Answer: Gaetano Donizetti
11. (30 points) For 10 points, answer the following questions about children.
1. First, what English poet wrote the line "The Child is the Father of the Man"?
Answer: William Wordsworth
2. For 20 points, what Swiss psychologist studied the development of intelligence in children and wrote "The Language and
Thought of the Child" in 1926?
Answer: Jean Piaget
12. (30 points) For 10 points each, answer the following questions about Charlemagne.
1. For 10 points, what Frankish ruler was his father?
Answer: Pepin the Short or Pepin III
2. For 10 points, who was his brother who inherited half his father's kingdom in 746?
Answer: Carloman
3. For a fmal 10 points, name his only surviving son who inherited his empire.
Answer: Louis the Pious or l&.uis..l
13. (30 points) The Guiana region of South America contains three nation nestled between Brazil and Venezuela. Guyana is
obviously one of them.
1. For 5 points each, name tile other two nations in Guiana.
Answer: Surinam. French Guiana
2. For 5 points, of what nation was Surinam a colony?
Answer: the Netherlands or Holland
3. For 5 points each, name the capitals of Guyana, Surinam, and French Guiana.
Answer: Guyana - Georgetown, Surinam - Paramaribo, French Guiana - Cayenne
14. (30 pts.) Identify these actors who have won multiple Oscars for ten points each.
1. He won two Oscars for the films Boys Town and Captains Courageous.
Answer: Spencer Tracy
2. He won three Oscars, two for Best Actor and one for Best Supporting Actor, for the films One Flew Over the Cuckoo's
Nest, As Good as it Gets, and Terms of Endearment, respectively.
Answer: Jack Nicholson
3. He won two Oscars for tlle films Kramer vs. Kramer and Rain Man.
Answer: Dustin Hoffman
15. (30 points) Identify tlle following Latin doctors of tlle Church for 10 points each.
1. This Bishop of Milan taught St Augustine, another of the Latin doctors.
Answer: St. Ambrose
2. This 4tll century Saint produced tlle Vulgate translation of tile Bible.
Answer: St. ~
3. This pope from 590 to 604 was the first monk to be elected to the papacy.
Answer: St. Gregory the Great or Gregory I

16. (30 pts.) Identify this playwright given titles of his drama, 30- 20-10.
1. Bound East for Cardiff, The Web, and Dynamo
2. Lazarus Laughed; The Hairy Ape; Ab, Wilderness!
3. The Iceman Cometh, Mourning Becomes Electra, and All God's Chillun Got Wings.
Answer: Eugene O'Neill
17. (30 points) Answer the following questions about famous members of the Wampanoag tribe of Native Americans.

1. For 10 points, in what U.S. did settlers first encounter the Wampanoag?
Answer: Massachusetts

2. For 10 points, what chief of tlle Wampanoag signed the treaty of alliance with the Plymouth colony that held until his
deatll in 1661?
Answer: Massasoit
3. For a fina1lO points, identify tlle son of Massasoit who in 1675-1676 led a war against the white settlers of
Massachusetts.
Answer: King £hil.iu or Metacomet
18. For ten points each, identify the city in which treaties ending the following wars were signed.
a) American Revolution

A: PARIS

b) War of 1812

A: GHENT

c) Mexican-American War

A:GUADELOUPE- HIDALGO

19. (30 pts) For ten points each, identify tile Henrik Ibsen play given a brief description of its plot.

1. The one word title of tllis Ibsen play refers not only to tile disease passed on to Mrs. Alving's son Oswald by her deceased
husband but also to the dead conventions and beliefs that led her to conceal tile truth that kept her from living "for the joy of
life."
Answer: Glill£ls
2. The title character of this play is a ruthless, neurotic woman bored with her dull, scholarly husband, repelled by the idea of
her possible pregnancy, and concerned tllat she may have to forgo certain luxuries if her husband fails to be appointed a
professor at the university.
Answer: Hedda Gabler
3. A satire on meddling, half-baked idealists, a poetic fantasy of illusions, and a realistic tragedy of human weakness, all
unified by the symbolism of tlle title creature, it is one of Ibsen's most complex and compelling dramas.
Answer: The Wild Duck
20. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify tIlis game.
1. In 1547, the first description of it appeared in a book written by Torquemada in Spain and it is believed to have originated
there, at least in its modem form.
2. In England it is called draughts, in France jeu des dames, and in Germany Damenspiel.
3. It is played with two sets of 12 pieces on a board of sixty four squares.
Answer: checkers

