Georgia Tech High School Bowl Toss-Up Round

.2

1. (JRD514.20) He wrote three outstanding dramatic monologues: Tithonus, about the unfortunate immortal but aging
husband of Aurora; Lucretius, a view of the philosopher's achievement before he stabbed himself; and Ulysses, which borrows
from Dante the legend that Ulysses set out in old age on a another voyage to "follow knowledge". For 10 points, identify this
English poet best known for such works as "Idylls of the King" and "In Memorium".
Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
2. The oldest executive department of the Federal goverrunent, it was created July 27, 1789 during the fIrst session of
Congress under the Constitution. For 10 points, identify this cabinet department that has been headed by such distinguished
men as Thomas Jefferson, James Madison and John Quincy Adams.
Answer: Department of SYili<
3. Though its more useful properties were discovered in 1929 by a Scottish biologist, it wasn't until 1940 that a method of
manufacturing it in quantity was developed by Florey and Chain. For 10 points, what is this bacterial agent that is used to
treat human infection, the fIrst major antibiotic.
Answer: Ilenicjlljn
4. Another of the many cities built on seven hills, in 1755 all but one section of it was devastated by an earthquake.
Unimportant in Roman times, it became a great port of the Moorish kingdoms in Iberia and in 1147 was captured with the
aid of crusaders. For 10 points, identify this city on the Tagus River that in 1422 became the capital of Portugal.
Answer: Lisb.Qn
5. When he came to power, the extent of the Roman empire was at its greatest so he concentrated on improving internal
conditions rather than territorial expansion. Born in Spain, he was orphaned at 10 and came to live with his predecessor in
Rome in 86 A.D. For 10 points, identify this man who eventually was named the heir of Trajan as Roman emperor.
Answer: 1iad!:ian
6. (JRD502.9) From 1852 to 1862, he published many books on political events including The Secret Diplomatic History
of the Eighteenth Century, The Civil War in France, The Critique of the Gotha Programme, and The Eighteenth Brumaire of
Louis Bonaparte. However, it is not for historical works, but for his works in political economy that he is best known. For
10 points, identify this author of Das Kapital.
Answer: Karl Mmx
7. It is a planographic process and was invented in 1798 by Aloys Senefelder, a German. In this process the design to be
printed is merely drawn on the printing surface and does not need to be cut or engraved into it. For 10 points, what is this
printing process which name literally translates as "stone writing".
Answer: lithography
8. (JRD251.14) In its stronger form it may be stated that "A system containing several electrons must be described by an
anti symmetric total eigenfunction." Though it sounds rather cryptic to the layman, without this physical law, life itself
would not be possible as all elements would behave as noble gases. For 10 points, what is this law that keeps the outer
electron shells of atoms fIlled?
Answer: Pauli Exclusion Principle
9. (JRD519.11) He was born in San Gabriel, California, attended the Virginia Military Institute and later the U.S. Military
Academy where he received his commission in 1909. He served in Mexico with Pershing and later in World War I in France
where he became interested in the use of tanks and established a tank training school. For 10 points, identify this famous
tank commander who earned tile nickname "Old Blood and Guts" during World War ll.
Answer: George Smith £allim
10. Pencil and paper ready. For 10 points, add the following four numbers. The number of regular polyhedra, the number of
faces on an icosailedron, the number of sides on each face of a dodecalledron, and the greatest even prime.
Answer: 32
11. (JRD51O.15) It tells the story of Philip, who orphaned at the age of nine, goes to live with his aunt Louisa and uncle
William at Blackstable. He is then sent to King's School at Tercanbury but before graduation forces his elders to send him to
Heidelberg and later on moves to Paris where his life is nearly ruined by his slavish infatuation for the waitress Mildred

Answer: Of Human Bondage
12. (JRD520.9) He got his fIrst major fIlm part in a role that was to be portrayed by Lon Chaney, until Chaney's sudden
death. In many ways, he was better suited for the role, having played the part in a 1927 stage production and hailing from
Hungary, just a stone's throw from Transylvania. For 10 points, identify this actor, who played the title role in 1931's
"Dracula".
Answer: Bela L.ll.gQsi
l3. (JRD519.2) After serving for seven years as director of the Saragossa Military Academy, he became chief of staff in 1935
and governor of the Canary Islands in 1936. He joined Jose Sajnmjo in a military revolt against the Republican government
and in 1937 became head of the Falange party. For 10 points, identify this Spanish fascist.
Answer: Francisco Franco
14. It is an abbreviation for the Italian word for "section" and the modem term derives from a walled section of the city of
Venice to which the Jews were confIned beginning in 1516. For 10 points, identify this word which today refers to areas of
cities where disadvantaged members of one race, faith, or ethnic origin live together.
Answer:~

15. (JRD514.18) In 1843, he was appointed director extraordinary of music to the Weimar court, but spent little time there
until 1847 when he decided to settle there and devote himself full time to composition. There he wrote his fIrst 12
symphonic poems, the Dante and Faust symphonies, and some of his Transcendental and Paganini etudes. For 10 points,
identify this Hungarian composer and piano virtuoso.
Answer: Franz Li.sz.t
16. (JRD5l3.3) Upon his death, Hermod the Swift instantly rode to the underworld and begged that his spirit be allowed to
come back. The god of tlle dead agreed to release him on the condition that all living things should mourn for him. And all
did, except an old hag named Thaukt who may have been notlling more than a disguised Loki, the instigator of his death. For
10 points, identify tllis beloved Norse god killed by a dart of mistletoe.
Answer: Blliiliu:
17. (JRD200.1) It was made by the US ministers to France, England, and Spain in Belgium in 1854 and declared that the
possession of Cuba was necessary to the peace of the United States and that if Spain should refuse to sell it, the US was
"justifIed by every law, human and divine" in taking it by force. FTP name this manifesto promptly disavowed by Sec. of
State William Marcy.
Answer: Ostend Manifesto
18. Because of their fondness for eating mosquito larvae, they have been introduced in many parts of the world as mosquito
control fIsh. They are native to the caribbean area and were discovered in 1866 on the island of Trinidad by the man whose
name they bear. For 10 points, identify tllese colorful freshwater fIsh that are popular in tropical aquariums because of their
survival and reproductive abilities.
Answer: guppies or 1U!lWY
19. (JRD256.9) It was from this man's line that came the men who walked with God, Enos, Enoch, and Noah. Born when
his father was l30 years old, he was sent to take the place of his slain brother. For 10 points, name this third son of Adam
and Eve.
Answer: Stlh
20. (JRD502.18) He fIrst appeared in 1920 and in a series of children's stories the last of which was written in 1928. During
the course of his literary adventures he went on a voyage, owned a circus, a zoo, a Caravan, and a garden. In his fInal
appearance he visited the moon. For 10 points, identify this extremely talented linguist and veterinarian created by American
author Hugh Lofting.
Answer: Dr. DooIi!tle

Georgia Tech High School Bowl Bonus Round

.2

1. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify this 18th century English writer from his works.
1. The Lives of tile Poets and The Vanity of Human Wishes
2. Rasselas, Prince of Abyssinia
3. the 1755, Dictionary
Answer: Samuel Johnson
2. (30 points) Answer the following questions about scientists who worked with fluids.
1. First, for 5 points, name the Greek scientist who according to legend ran naked through the streets shouting "Eureka" upon
discovering tlle principle of buoyancy.
Answer: Archimedes
2. For 10 more points, identify tlle Swiss scientist who discovered the drop in pressure tllat occurs when a fluid moves. The
"lift" of airplane wings is explained by his principle.
Answer: Daniel Bemoulli
3. This man's principle state's !llat pressure is sent equally in all directions in any fluid and is tlle basis for many hydraulic
devices.
Answer: Blaise ~
3. (30 points) In tllis election year you are probably up on most of the major candidates and parties. But where were you 140
years ago? Answer tlle following questions about the election of 1852 for the stated number of points.
1. First, for 5 points, identify the man who was nominated by the Democrats in 1852.
Answer: Franklin ~
2. As tllere were no Republicans in 1852, the Whig nominee was tlle other major party candidate. For 10 points, name tlle
Whig candidate.
Answer: Winfield ~
3. For 15 points, identify !lIe tilird party tilat nominated John P. Hale of New Hampshire and George W. Julian of Indiana for
tlle vice-presidency.
Answer: Free-Soil party
4. (30 points) Answer the following questions about language.
1. First, for 10 points, what is tllis name for tlle linguistic science that studies the meanings of words?
Answer: semantics
2. Words tllat play on our emotions, often evoke these feelings not by what they stand for but by what they suggest. For
example, when we call someone "Honey" we do not mean to imply they are a sticky bee product. For 10 points, what 12
letter word is given to tllis implied meaning of a word?
Answer: connotation
3. For a final 10 points, what word is used to indicate tlle direct meaning of a word, void of emotional content or judgement.
Answer: denotatjon
5. (30 points) You have 20 seconds for tllis matll calculation bonus. Give me the area bounded by between tlle x-axis and
curve y equals x to the 4tll between tlle bounds x=1 and x=2. Express your answer as a fraction.
Answer: 3.1L.i
6. (25 points) Identify this artist for 30-20-10
1. (30) At tlle age of 18, he went to St. Petersburg and studied scenery design for the ballet for which he later painted several
sets.
2. (20) From 1923 on his work became increasingly religious and in 1961 he completed 12 stained-galls windows celebrating
tlle 12 tribes ofIsrael.
3. (10) His best known painting is "I and !lIe Village" based on his memories of childhood.
Answer: Marc Chagall
7. (30 points) Answer tlle following questions about the history of Quebec.
1. For 10 points, what French explorer founded the city?

Answer: Samuel de Champlain
2. For 10 points, within 5, in what year did Champlain found Quebec?
Answer: .l.Qilli
3. For a final 10 points, what first Bourbon monarch was Champlain serving as geographer royal when he founded Quebec?
Answer: Hen!}, IV
8. (30 points) Answer the following questions about England's famed Poet's Corner.
1. For 10 points, in what famous building is it located?
Answer: Westminster Abbey
2. For 10 points, the area grew up around the tomb of what early English author?
Answer: Geoffrey Chancer
3. For a final 10 points, what 19th centnry American poet in 1884 became the first American to be honored with a bust in
Poet's Corner?
Answer: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
9. (30 points) Identify the following rivers of Hades for the stated number of points.
1. (5 pts) What river surrounded the underworld by ringing it seven times and was the river by which the Greek gods swore
their oaths?
Answer:~

2. For 10 points, if a soul was to be reborn he had to drink from what river of forgetfulness?
Answer: Lethe
3. For 15 points, to reach Erebus in Hades, the souls of the dead had to cross what river of sadness or woe?
Answer: Acheron

10. (30 points) Answer the following questions about the history of the city of Chicago.

1. For 5 points each, name the two French explorers who in 1673 paddled down the Chicago river, becoming the first
Europeans to pass through the area that is now Chicago.
Answer: Jacques Marquette and Louis ~
2. What U.S. fort was built in 1803 by Captain John Whistler on the site of Chicago?
Answer: Fort Dearborn
3. Finally, more than 17,000 buildings were destroyed in a 27 hour fire that destroyed Chicago. For 10 points, in what year
did this fire supposedly started by Mrs. O'Leary's cow destroy the city.
Answer: .l.8ll
11. (30 points) There are two members of the family Camelidae with which you are all familiar. These are the two varieties
of humped camels which are distinguisbed by the number of humps. For 15 points each, name the type of camel based on the
number of humps.
1. one Answer: dromedmy
2. two Answer: bactriml
12. (30 pts.) Name this composer from works, 30-20-10.

1. the Polish symphony, tile Manfred symphony, and the opera, Mazeppa.
2. TIle operas The Queen of Spades, Eugene Onegin, and Yolande.
3. The symphony Patiletique and the ballet Sleeping Beauty.
Answer: Tchaikovsky
13. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify this legal phrase.

1. In the recent Robert Altman movie, The Player, it is the name of a fictional star-filled film starring Bruce Willis and Julia
Roberts.
2. It became a part of English law when it was written into the Magna Carta and it is part of the U.S. Constitution as well.
3. It is derived from the Latin for "you have the body".
Answer: habeus corpus
14. (30 points) Identify these people 30-20-10.

1. Their exact origin is unknown, but they are believed to have originated in India and migrated to Persia by the 10th century.
Later they were driven westward by the Mongols into Hungary and Romania and are now found throughout Europe.
? Thp. ('::III thp.mj;p.lvP'j; Rom ::Inti thp.ir l::Inoll::lop. ij; (,.::IIIp.n ROffi::lnv

3. They are a wandering people whose common name derives from the mistaken belief that they originated in Egypt.
Answer:~

15. (25 points) His poems are brilliant fantasies and accounts of his friendships and most of the best concern wine and love.
He was born around 701 and travelled with a Taoist hermit before settling down in Hankow with his wife's family. For 25
points, identify this 8th century man, considered the greatest Chinese poet.
Answer: Li Po
16. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify this body of water.
1. It is located between the Plateau of Moab and the Plains of Judea.
2. It is into this body of water tile Jordan River drains and on its southern shore you would find the city of Sodom.
3. It has no drainage outiets but loses much water to evaporation thus raising its salinity.
Answer: Dead Sea
17 The structure of DNA was discovered by four researchers working in two different locations. Three received the Nobel
Prize for tile discovery in 1962, one being deceased. Name any three of the four researchers for ten points apiece.
A: Francis CRICK, James WATSON, Maurice WILKINS, Rosalind FRANKLIN

18. FTPE, identify tile inventor of the following inventions.
a. stock ticker
b. dynamite
c. Polaroid camera

A: Thomas Alva EDISON
A: Alfred NOBEL
A: Edwin _LAND_

19. It is elemental! Or should we say this is your chance to show us what you know about the elements. I will give you
some clues about an element and you tell me what the element is FTP each.
a) What is tile rarest natural element in the earth's crust?
A: ASTATINE (At)
b) what is the least abundant element in earth's atmosphere?
A: RADON gas (Rn)
c) what is the most common element--70.68 % mass of the solar system?
A: HYDROGEN

20. (30 points) 30-20-10 Identify this island.
1. It is the southernmost of the Marianas Islands.
2. It is 209 square miles in area and was acquired by the U.S. during the Spanish-American war.
3. Its capital is at Agana.
Answer: Guam

