TOSSUPS - ROUND ONE
Dennis Haskins Open High School Quizbowl2006 -- UT-Chattanooga
Questions mostly by Carol Guthrie with a few from Oklahoma and Michael Bentley

1. This element is extremely reactive and does not occur naturally in a pure form, and was in fact discovered in the rock
petalite in 1817 by Johann Arfvedson and isolated a year later by William Thomas Brande and Sir Humphrey Davy. Its
name was chosen because unlike other alkali metals it was found in a "stone" Its possible use in the production of
methamphetamines has led to efforts to restrict the sale of battery cells for electronic devices that use it, though most often
its use as a drug is for depression or bipolar disorder. The lightest metal on the periodic table, FTP, name this element
with atomic number 3.
Answer:
Lithium
2.
James Garfield was the last never to have done this, but then he only had six months. George W. Bush, as of
March 2, 2006, has not done it, putting him 44 behind his father. Grover Cleveland did it 304 times. Martin Van Buren
never did it in an affirmative way, but did have one "pocket" one. FTP, what is this term, for the Latin for "I forbid,"
which is designated as a power of the U.S. president to stop passage oflegislation passed by Congress?
Answer:
veto
3. A basket of jugs is in the lower-left corner, while ten cakes are being carried in the foreground. Two men in the middle
are playing bagpipes, the doorway in the back is crowded with people trying to enter the namesake celebration, while the
main female participant in this title event sits in front of a green tapestry at her reception table. Such describes things
depicted in, FTP, what Pieter Bruegel painting of a party following the namesake nuptials?
Answer:
The Peasant Weddillg
4. He is described thusly: "Everything about him was old except his eyes and they were the same color as the sea and were
cheerful and undefeated." When he was young, he worked on boats that caught and sold sea turtles. His favourite
baseball team is the New York Yankees, because Joe Dimaggio is on the team. He is a mentor to Manolin, even after
Manolin's parents make him stop sailing with him because of his bad luck. FTP, identify this fisherman, protagonist of
Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea.
Answer:
Santiago [prompt on "the old man"]
5. He made his film debut in City Slickers playing Billy Crystal's son, though his first major role came in 1998 when he
played Homer Hickham in October Sky. Success in films like Lovely and Amazing and The Good Girl followed, though
2005 was an even bigger year for him, with a starring role in Jarhead and a Best Supporting Actor Nomination for the
role Jack Twist. FTP name this actor, costar with Heath Ledger in Brokeback Mountain.
Answer.
Jake Gyllenhaal
6. It is synthesized in small quantities in women by the theca cells of the ovaries, by the placenta, as well as by the zona
reticulosa of the adrenal cortex in both sexes, though in men the largest amounts of it are produced by the Leydig cells.
Like other steroid hormones, is derived from cholesterol and due to the dual function of the male gonad, it directly
influences spermatogenesis. FTP, what is this hormone which triggers the growth of male facial hair and increases muscle
mass?
Answer.
Testosterone
7. The modern one contains eleven custom-built circuit boards, a twelve-story data network, a personal computer running
Linux, a radio-frequency video game controller, and over 10,000 Christmas lights. It transforms Brown University's
fourteen-story Sciences Library into a giant video display that allows bystanders to playa game ofTetris which can be
seen for several miles. Its older namesake was a notorious prison which was stormed by French protesters on July 14,
1789. FTP, what's the common name?
Answer:
Bastille

8. Number 30 states that "No one is sure that his own contrition is sincere; much less that he has attained full remission."
More to the point, Number 66 states that "The treasures of the indulgences are nets with which they now fish for the
riches of men", while Number 75 states that "To think the papal pardons so great that they could absolve a man everi if he
had committed an impossible sin and violated the Mother of God -- this is madness." These are excerpts, FTP, from what
important document posted in 1517 in Wittenberg by Martin Luther?
Answer:
95 Theses
9. When this author was six-years-old, General Lafayette was visiting Brooklyn and, while riding amongst a throng of
admirers, plucked up the young lad and carried him on his horse. As a former printer he was able to set himself the
typeface of his first collection. While later collections Iike As a Strong Bird on Pinions Free and November Boughs
would bring fame for individual pieces like "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" and "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking", it is
for that first collection he would remain best known. FTP, name this author of Leaves a/Grass.
Answer. Walt Whitman
10. The terrigenous variety are derived from the weathering of pre-existing rocks, whch have been transported to the
depositional basin, and are classified according to their texture, i.e. grain size. The carbonate variety are formed through
both chemical and biochemical processes, and are composed mainly of Dolomite and Calcite. FTP, identify these types of
rocks whose types include shale, chalk and limestone.
Answer:
Sedimentary
11. Returning from a trip with Miss Edmunds touring art galleries, its protagonist discovers that his best friend has died
while trying to swing on a rope across a creek to their special meeting place. That protagonist, Jess, and newcomer Leslie
had become fast friends after Leslie beat him in a foot race at school, and Jess even gives Leslie a puppy at Christmas.
These are some events in, FTP, what popular children's book written by Katherine Paterson?
Answer:
Bridge to Terabitltia
12. He was assasinated on July 20, 1923, while driving his car through the town of Parra I, Chihuahua, having become at
outlaw at the age of 16 he became an outlaw after shooting the hacienda owner who had raped his sister. Born Doroteo
Arango, in 1916 in retaliation for the refusal of an arms merchant to deliver weapons to his army for which they had paid
him, he entered the United States and raided the town of Columbus, New Mexico, leading to a massive chase. Pursued
unsuccessfully through the mountains of Chihuahua, FTP name this notorious Mexican bandit and revolutionary who
gave a merry chase to an Expeditionary force to capture him under later war hero General John "Black Jack" Pershing.
Answer:
Pancho Villa
13. In 1932, Ole Kirk Christiansen, master carpenter and joiner, founded a carpentry business in the village of Billund,
Denmark to make stepladders, ironing boards and wooden toys. The toys became Ole's most successful product, and his
company adopted its now-famous name in 1934 from the Danish for "play well". In 1947, this company was the first in
Denmark to buy a plastic injection molding machine for making toys, soon churning out millions of plastic bricks. FTP,
identify this company whose name is interchangeable with its product, except perhaps the toddler Duplo version.
Answer:
Lego
14. Pencil and paper ready: It's dark and you stumble to your chest of drawers to grab some socks. You have 10 pairs of
white, 6 pairs of black and 4 pairs of red. FTP, what is the probability that the first individual sock you pull out will be
red? You have 10 seconds to answer.
Answer:
115 or 20 percent (total red (8) over total number of socks (40) is 8/40 or 1/5)
15. Along its 820-mile journey from its source it is fed by such tributaries as the the Mosel, the Neckar, and the Main,
having first emptied into and come out the other side of Lake Constance. Towards its emptying point it splits into three
distributaries, of which the Ijssel (Eye-Sell) branches off into the Ijsselmeer (eye-sell-mare), while the Waal and the Nek
carry water ultimately to its terminus. FTP name this European river flowing from its source in Switzerland through
Germany, France, and the Netherlands past such cities as Mainz and Frankfurt en route to the North Sea.
Answer:
Rhine

16. (OK) He is thought to have been related the Semitic god Baal Hammon, to whom children were sacrificed, and he
was often referred to in Greek as ankulometes, referring both to his crookedness and the shape of the object most
associated with him. He was the father of Eris by Nyx and of Chiron by Philyra, but is better remembered for the children
he fathered with his sister Rhea. FTP, who is this Titan, the youngest son of Uranus, whom he castrated with a sickle?
Kronos
Answer:
17. The main female character in this novel reminds the madwoman cenobite Paquette-la-Chanterfleurie of a daughter she
believes was kidnapped. That female lead is "married" to the writer Gringoire but loved a handsome officer whom she
was falsely accused of killing. She is finally executed for it at Monfalcon, despite the best efforts ofthe main character to
save her by giving her sanctuary in the namesake edifice, from whose roof he flings Claude Frollo in defense of the girl.
FTP name this novel which ends with the unearthing of the skeleton of Esmeralda intertwined with that of the protagonist
who had finally joined her in the grave, Quasimodo.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame (accept Notre-Dame of Paris)
Answer:
18. (OK) A mountain range on Venus, the only feature on the planet named for a man, is named for him, as is the world's
largest sub-millimeter telescope at Mauna Kea Observatory. In the field of astronomy, he disproved the nebular
hypothesis for the origin of the solar system and he demonstrated that Saturn's rings must be made of small solid particles.
He explored thermodynamics and helped to develop the kinetic theory of gases. FTP, name this Scottish mathematician
and physicist who developed a set of20 differential equations to explain the nature of electromagnetism.
Answer:
James Clerk Maxwell
19. One of his composition students, Antonina Milyukova, swore that she would commit suicide ifhe did not marry her,
so he did, but their relationship soured. By this point he had already written his first two symphonies, nicknamed Winter
Dreams and The Little Russian. The wealthy patron he never met, Nadezhda von Meck, was Polish, but his Polish
Symphony had been written before he started corresponding with her. FTP, name this Russian composer of such classic
works as 1812 Overture, Swan Lake, and The Nutcracker.
Answer:
Piotr Tchaikovsky
20. The illegitimate son of Rachel Faucett Lavien, he worked as a clerk for the international trading firm of Nicholas
Cruger, a New Yorker whose business hub was on St. Croix. On his own arrival in New York in 1773 he intended to give
up finance to study medicine at King's College, but instead in the summer of 1776 he took a crash course in ordnance and
became Captain in Henry Knox's Provincial Company of Artillery. By March 1777 he was aide-de-camp to Washington,
which would ultimately lead to his selection as Washington's Secretary of the Treasury. Namesake of the county you're
currently in, FTP, identify this man whose portrait still adorns the $10 bill.
Answer:
Alexander Hamilton
21. A Russian czar with this name supposedly had the gift of prophecy. A 13 th century Russian prince with this first name
defended Novgorod and northern Russia from Swedish invaders. A Russian author by this first name wrote Eugene
Onegyn. A fictitious one created by a Russian-born composer was the leader of a celebrated ragtime band. FTP, give this
name, perhaps most associated with a ruler who tamed his horse Bucephalus at age 13 and conquered virtually all of the
known world before he was twenty-five.
Alexander
Answer:
22.
(OK) Born to an ancient plebian family, he rose to high political ranks along with his patron L. Valerius Flaccus.
He won renown for his governorship in Spain and for his role at the Battle of Thermopylae and was known for his enmity
towards the Scipios. He is best known, however, for his strict moral sense and harsh lifestyle. FTP, who is this famed
Roman statesman and soldier, best remembered today for repated "Carthago delenda est" after all of his speeches in the
Senate?
Answer:
Marcus Portius Cato the Elder (or Cato the Censor or Cato Major or Cato Sapiens)

BONI - ROUND ONE
Dennis Haskins Open High School Quizbowl2006 -- UT-Chattanooga
Questions mostly by Carol Guthrie with a few from Oklahoma and Michael Bentley
1. Name these Shakespearean characters FTPE:
A. Perhaps because he appears in three plays including one specifically requested so that Queen Elizabeth could see him
fall in love, this character has more total lines than any other Shakespearean character.
Falstaff
Answer:
B. This character weds a moor in Othello.
Answer:
Desdemona
C. This character pleads for a horse in the play titled for him.
Answer:
Richard III
2. Within the course of two hundred years, several completely different statues of David originated in Italy; all are
masterpieces. For 10 points each:
A. Probably the most famous, this man's David stands fourteen feet tall in the Academia in Florence.
Answer:
Michelangelo Buonarotti
B. Of the four statues, this man's is the most dramatic and realistic portrayal of the biblical hero. This epitome of Baroque
art was conceived and carved in seven months.
Answer:
Gian-Lorenzo Bernini
C. Though this man's David is considered the first large-scale bronze nude statue of the Renaissance, it is not entirely
nude, as it features a hat with laurel on top and a pair of boots on his legs.
Answer:
Donatello
3. Answer the following questions relating to Mendelian genetics, FTPE.
A. This is the term for a change that occurs in the DNA sequence of a gene to some new, heritable form.
Answer:
mutation
B. This is the term for the specific place where a gene can be found; its name is Latin for "place".
Answer:
locus
C. This is the term for different forms of a gene. They occupy the same locus, or position, on chromosomes.
Answer:
alleles
4. E.L. Doctorow's novel Ragtime interweaves the lives of three fictional families with the lives ofreal historical figures.
Identify these historical figures who appear in Ragtime, FTPE.
A. The "Father" of the white middle class family from New Rochelle, New York accompanies this explorer on the 1909
journey for which most sources credit him with discovering the North Pole
Answer:
Robert Peary
B. This noted magician, born Erich Weiss, ties many details together in repeated interactions with the characters.
Answer:
Harry Houdini
C. Coalhouse Walker, angry over the destruction of his Model T, takes control this man's library and occupies it for
several days. Name this financier responsible for forming the first billion-dollar corporation in America, U.S. Steel.
Answer:
J.P. Morgan
5. Identify these mythical creatures you'll find in J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series, FTPE.
A. This centaur left his home in the Forbidden Forest to teach Divination at Hogwarts when Professor Umbridge fired the
previous Divination teacher. His name is the Italian name for Florence.
Firenze
Answer:
B. This is an enormous snake, originally bred deliberately by the dark wizard Herpo the Foul. It is brilliant green, can
grow up to 50 feet in size, and kills anything which looks into its eyes simply using its deadly gaze. Harry killed the one
lurking in the pipes of Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Chamber a/Secrets.
Answer:
Basilisk
C. These creatures are shape-shifters which likes to occupy dark, enclosed spaces, and when seen will take whatever form
the person who is viewing it finds most frightening. Destroyed by laughter, Professor Lupin teaches his Defense against
the Dark Arts students how to combat them via the Riddikulus spell in Harry Potter and the Prisoner 0/ Azkaban.
Answer:
Boggart

6.
Identify these political philosophers whose works and ideas helped influence ideas ofthe American Revolution.
A. This late 17th/early 18 th century British philosopher argued in his 2nd Treatise on Government that should the State fail
to preserve men's natural rights, then it should be overthrown.
Answer:
John Locke
B. This French philosopher argued that the best form of government was one in which the three branches, legislative,
judicial and executive, operated with checks and balances upon each other in his The Spirit a/the Laws.
Answer:
Charles de Secondat, Baron de la Brede et de Montesquieu
C. This English writer swayed many to join the Revolutionary cause by arguing for the necessity of American
independence in his pamphlet Common Sense.
Answer:
Thomas Paine
7. Identify these related English kings, FTPE.
Though this king was one of the most important forces in shaping England by means of his contributions to
I.
English common law, he remains reviled for his having Thomas a Becket murdered .
Henry II
Answer:
2. Son of Henry II, he wasn't all that great at ruling Britain, primarily since he was off fighting in the Third Crusade
against Saladin.
Richard I or Richard the Lionheart
Answer:
3. Also son of Henry II, his maladroit rule alienated the Barons who forced him to sign the Magna Carta in 1215.
John
Answer:
8. When looking at an equation, it's helpful to know what those letters stand for. FTPE, identify what these letters stand
for in the following equations.
A. In Ohm's Law, you'll generally find this term typically measured in Ohms and represented by the letter R.
resistance
Answer:
B. In order to find the de Broglie wavelength, you'll need to know this constant that is usually written with the letter h.
Answer:
Planck's constant
C. This item usually represented with an "n" can be defined as c over v, that is, the speed of light divided by the phase
velocity.
Answer:
index of refraction or refractive index
9. To answer this bonus, you may either rely on your knowledge of Homer's The Iliad or upon your having seen Brad
Pitt' s turn as Achilles in the movie Troy. FTPE,
A. Achilles refuses to fight for the Greeks after this king takes his war prize, Briseis, from him
Agamemnon
Answer:
B. Achilles returns to the battle to avenge the death of his best friend . Who is he?
Patroclus
Answer:
C. Patroclus was killed by this Trojan warrior, whom Achilles then slays. Name him.
Hector
Answer:
10. Given the numbers,
rd
A. 3
Answer:
B.6 th
Answer:
C.9 th
Answer:

give the non-number names of these Beethoven symphonies, FTPE:
Eroica
Pastoral
Choral

II. Did you watch the 48 th annual Grammy Awards back in February? It would help on this bonus. FTPE.
a. This Green Day song won Record of the Year.
Answer:
"Boulevard Of Broken Dreams"
b. This U2 Album won Album of the Year
Answer:
How To Dismantle An Atomic Bomb
c. The award for Best New Artist went to this man, also nominated for Best Song ofthe Year for his "Ordinary People"
Answer:
John Legend

12.
Answer the related questions, FTPE,
A. What English poet, in his work Marriage of Heaven and Hell, wrote: "If the doors of perception were cleansed
everything would appear to man as it is, -infinite-"
Answer:
William Blake
B. That quote by Blake serves as the epilogue and provides the title to the 1954 work, The Doors of Perception, which
was an exploration of the use of hallucinogenic drugs. What author of Brave New World wrote The Doors of Perception?
Answer:
Aldous Huxley
C. The 1960's rock group, the Doors, took their name from the phrase "the doors of perception." Who was the lead singer
of the Doors?
Answer:
Jim Morrison
13. (CO/OK) FTPE identify the following gas laws.
A. This law states the volume of a definite quantity of dry gas is inversely proportional to the pressure, provided the
temperature remains constant. Mathematically it can be expressed as PI VI = P2V2
Answer:
Boyle's Law or Boyle Mariotte Law
B. This gas law can be stated as the volume occupied by any sample of gas at a constant pressure is directly proportional
to the absolute temperature. Mathematically it can be expressed as V/T =constant where V is the volume and T is the
absolute temperature (measured in Kelvin)
Charles' Law or Law of Charles and Gay-Lussac (prompt on Oay-Lussac's Law)
Answer:
C. This law states that equal volumes of gas at equal pressure and temperature contain equal numbers of molecules
regardless of the size or shape of those molecules.
Avogadro's Law
Answer:
14. March is Women's History month, so let's test your knowledge of important women who contributed to the cause of
women's rights in America, FTPE.
A. Recently deceased, this woman is said to have helped launch the women's rights movement of the sixties and seventies
with her work The Feminine Mystique
Answer:
Betty Friedan
B. An ardent suffragist, she was arrested in Rochester, New York in 1872 for the crime of voting.
Susan B. Anthony
Answer:
C. In 1916, she set up the first birth control clinic in the United States, and the following year, she was sent to the
workhouse for "creating a public nuisance." Her many arrests and prosecutions, and the resulting outcries, helped lead to
changes in laws giving doctors the right to give birth control advice
Answer:
Margaret Sanger
15. You've undoubtedly heard it on the news before, but do you know what it means. The NASDAQ is the largest
electronic screen-based equity securities market in the United States. For 5 pts per correct word, decipher the individual
letters in the acronym NASDAQ.
Answer:
National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations
16.
In this 1954 novel a plane evacuating a group of schoolboys from Britain is shot down over a deserted tropical
island, and bloody hijinks ensure. FTSNOP:
1. (5) Name this novel.
Lord o(the Flies
Answer:
2. (5) Who wrote Lord of the Flies?
Answer:
William Golding
3. (10) This twelve-year-old English boy is elected leader of the group of boys marooned on the island. He attempts to
coordinate the boys' efforts to build a miniature civilization on the island until they can be rescued.
Answer:
Ralph (remember, British novel, so accept pronunciation "Rafe")
4. (10) One ofthe older boys stranded on the island, he becomes the leader of the hunters but longs for total power and
becomes increasingly wild, barbaric, and cruel as the novel progresses.
Answer:
Jack

17. Here are two sets of geographical trios. IdentifY each member of the trio for 5 pts. each.
A. The city of Pittsburgh sits at the confluence of three rivers. Name them.
Answer:
Allegheny, Monongahela, Ohio
B. A popular vacation destination is the ABC islands in the Caribbean. For 5 pts. each, what is the individual name of
each ABC island?
Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao
Answer:
18. (OK) Name the constellation in which you would find the following deep sky objects FTPE, or for 5 pts. from names
of stars:
A. (10) The Hyades and Pleiades star clusters and the Crab Nebula
(5) Aldebaran
Answer:
Taurus
B. (10) Flame Nebula, Barnard's Loop, and the Horsehead Nebula
(5) Bellatrix, Betelgeuse, and Rigel
Answer:
Orion
C. (10) North America Nebula
(5) Deneb
Cygnus
Answer:
19. Hinduism has grown to become the world's third largest religion, after Christianity and Islam, claiming some 837
million followers worldwide. FTPE answer these questions about Hinduism.
A. This is the term for the accumulated sum of ones good and bad deeds. It determines how you will live your next life.
Answer:
Karma
B. Hindus believe in the repetitious Transmigration of the Soul, the transfer of one's soul after death into another body.
This produces a continuing cycle of birth, life, death and rebirth through their many lifetimes. What is this cycle called?
Samsara
Answer:
C. The endless rebirth cycle of transmigration is eventually broken when one achieves enlightenment and enters into this
supreme state free from suffering and individual existence.
Answer:
Nirvana

20 .
(MB) Pencil and paper ready. I'll give you some binary operations, and you'll probably give me the result, FTPE.
You'll have 10 seconds per part. (Moderator's note: spaces are added for ease of reading).
[10] 00101101 "and" 1010 1010.
00101000
Answer:
[10] 1010 1010 "or" 0101 0101
Answer:
11111111
[10] 1101 0110 "xor" 10 11 0010
Answer:
01100100
21.
(OK) the following ancient Greek lyric poets F lOPE.
A. It is said that his father, among others, committed suicide upon reading his verse and this Theban is best remembered
today for his poems praising the feats and victories of aristocratic athletes at the various Greek games.
Answer:
Pindar or Pindaros
B. One of Catullus's poems to Lesbia was based on one of her poems and she is said to have thrown herself off a cliff for
love of the sailor Phaon. She is more famous for her love poetry for women, which some believe were her students .
Answer:
Sappho or Psappha
C. He exchanged poetry with Sappho and many say that he may have been her lover. He was held in great esteem by the
Latin poet Horace, who emulated him, and was regarded as the second greatest Greek lyric poet behind Pindar.
Answer:
Alcaeus

