TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
TOSSUPS - ROUND 9
Questions mostly by Amar Hatti and Seth TeitIer of California-Berkeley

1.
Most historians consider him a minor patriot, but some experts consider him the equal of William
Dawes or even Samuel Otis. In reality, he was one of the evillest men of the 1780s, and tried to kill George
Washington. His tongue was bitten off in a groghouse fight by a Turk, so he had a prosthetic tongue made out
of silver. FTP, identify this man, known until 1796 as Hans Sprungfeld, the founder and namesake of a fictional
city where his statue was decapitated by one Bart Simpson.
Answer:
Jebediah Springfield (accept Hans Sprungfeld before mention in the question)
2.
The background is completely blank, bringing emphasis to the objects in the front such as the packing
box holding an ink-well, a quill pen and a few pieces of paper with writing on it, the blood stained towel, and
the knife which is on the floor. As mirrored in a scene in The Red Violin, the figure is depicted in a pose
similar to Christ in the Pieta, holding a pen in his right hand and a letter he seemed to be writing in his left. And
let's not forget that he's lying in a bath-tub. FTP name this David [dah-VEED] painting, depicting the demise of
one of the Jacobin leaders.
Answer:
The Death of Marat
3.
It is the year 2494 A.D. and the world has recently suffered through the Nine Years War, after which it
was decided that ten World Leaders will have dictatorships to keep the peace, with the planetary motto
'Community, Identity, Stability' . In each oftheir possessions are the last copies of works such as the Bible and
the plays of Shakespeare, and they alone remember the old society. And people are happy the way it is, playing
games like Centrifugal Bumble-puppy and Escalator-Squash. But then again, children are engineered through
the use of hypnopaedia to be happy and content with their lives, and when they become adults they take soma to
forget their problems. These are all a part of, FTP, what dystopian novel, published in 1932 by Aldous Huxley?
Answer:
Brave New World
4.
Talleyrand once declared him one of the three greatest men of the age, along with Napoleon and Charles
Fox. After distinguished service in the Continental Army, he advocated the full repayment of Continental
Congress debts and the establishment ofa Bank ofthe United States in the early days of the Republic. FTP
name this first treasury secretary of the United States and co-author of the Federalist Papers with Jay and
Madison, killed by Aaron Burr in that famous duel.
Answer:
Alexander Hamilton
5.
They contain their own organelles, are inherited through the mother, contain their own DNA in circular
molecules, and reproduce separately from the rest of the cell by a process reminiscent of binary fission. They
have two membranes, and the space within the inner membrane, known as the matrix, is the site of the Krebs
cycle. FTP, identify these organelles which provide the cell with energy.
mitochondria
Answer:
6.
Starting off as a small time crook, this young man thought the extent of his criminal career would be the
robbing of Blum's store. After this caper fell through, he decided to take the more legal job of driver for the
Dalton family of Chicago, with no idea that he would soon rape and murder the young Mary Dalton. FTP,
name the confused, socially tread-upon character from Richard Wright's Native Son.
Answer:
Bigger Thomas (accept either name)
7. The title character dies from a fever caught by sitting up late at night to see the Colosseum in the moonlight.
Her only companion was the Roman gentleman Giovanelli. Despite spending much of her time with Giovanelli,
she is not engaged to him, as she assures Mr. Winterboume. She also declares to Winterboume, "I'm a fearful,
frightful flirt!" FTP, identify this short novel by Henry James.
Daisy Miller
Answer:

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
8.
In such later works as A Rap on Race, she stressed the necessity of maintaining the human capacity to
change and the value of cultural diversity. She also examined contemporary social institutions in developed
societies like the United States while running the Institute for Intercultural Studies. Her early perception of the
connection between the stresses of growing up and cultural expectations was a result of her work with so-called
primitive cultures in the South Pacific. FTP, name this American anthropologist, the author of Sex and
Temperament in Three Primitive Societies and Coming ofAge in Samoa.
Answer:
Margaret Mead
9.
He laid part of the blame for the loss of his job on comments made at a 1996 press conference, in which
he said "It's great to be back from vacation ... It's much more fun to be at work here, blocking reform, flying my
black helicopters, imposing global taxes." More conventionally-minded analysts believe he was replaced due to
his insistance that the inaction of the United States and Great Britain in African affairs was due to racism.
Whatever the case, the U.S. vetoed this Egyptian diplomat's nomination for a second term of office in 1996.
FTP, name this former U.N. secretary-general.
Answer:
Boutros Boutros-Ghali [prompt on Boutros or Ghali]
10.
Laplace was the first to calculate their effective radius; he made two physical errors, but they cancelled
and he accidentally got the right answer. Karl Schwarzschild later correctly derived the radius using general
relativity. The first good candidate was Cygnus X-I, a strong X-ray source, and it is now believed that most
galactic cores contain supermassive ones. FTP, what are these astronomical phenomena with event horizons
inside of which even light cannot escape?
black holes
Answer:
11.
Henry Frick was the general manager, but his boss owned the factory. Frick's support came from
telegrams sent from Loch Lannoch, and he was aided by the Pinkerton Detective Agency. Frick also built a 3
mile long fence, determined to break the Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel, & Tin Workers. FTP, what
Pennsylvania event was ended by state militia and ruined the career of Benjamin Harrison and the reputation of
Andrew Carnegie?
Answer:
Homestead strike
12.
In physics, he developed an early telegraph system, and his law is equivalent to Coulomb' s Law. Better
known as a mathematician, his students included Dedekind, Moebius, and Riemann. While in his teens, he
showed how to construct a regular 17-gon, and discovered the method ofleast squares. FTP, what German
proved the Fundamental Theorems of Algebra?
Answer:
Johann Karl Friedrich Gauss
13.
Because of the tropical climate, shades were installed for the relatively small horizontal windows. At the
base is the Suria KLCC shopping center, and a skybridge connects the 41st and 42nd stories. Their Islamic
influence is unmistakable in the geometric design by Cesar Pelli under the direction of Mahathir Mohammed.
FTP name this pair oftowers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, currently the tallest buildings in the world.
Answer:
the Petronas Towers
14.
Its name is believed to be derived from the colonnades around which its teachers first articulated their
beliefs, which included the idea that the universe is periodically destroyed and recreated. The core of the system
was the belief in the unity of nature and the divinity of the universe. Man's role in it was to live according to
nature and fate, with indifference to the vicissitudes of that fate. FTP, name this philosophy founded by Zeno of
Citium, whose most renowned adherent was the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius.
Answer:
Stoicism or Stoics

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10113/01
15.
In math, a 3-dimensional field ofthis type can have a divergence and a curl, but not a gradient. In
biology it describes an agent that transmits a disease to other organisms. Examples in physics include dipole
moment, electric field, and velocity. FTP, identify this word which in physics signifies a quantity with
magnitude and direction.
Answer:
vectors
16.
Before finishing his second year at the University of Kazan he left for his home, Yasnaya Polyana,
intending to farm. It wasn't until he lived in Moscow for two years that he got the urge to write, and in 1851 he
published his first work Childhood. His service in the Crimean War inspired Sketches at Sevastopol. FTP who
is this author of Anna Karenina and War and Peace?
Answer:
Leo (or Lev) Tolstoy
17. This nuclear process results in emission of one massive particle. In Rutherford's famous gold foil
experiment, it was the source for the beam used to spray the gold foil. Because of the positive charge of the
particles, some were deflected by the gold nuclei. When a nucleus undergoes this process, the atomic number
decreases by two and the mass number decreases by four. FTP, name this decay process which results in
emission of a helium nucleus.
Answer: Alpha decay (accept alpha process, alpha radiation, etc.)
18. His works are nearly all in two genres. His operas include Atalanta, and Orlando, while his oratorios include
Israel in Egypt, Saul, Solomon, and Judas Maccabeus. He traveled throughout Europe before settling
permanently in England, where he wrote Ode for St. Cecilia's Day. FTP, identify this German-born composer of
the Royal Fireworks Music, the Water Music, and the Messiah oratorio.
Answer: George Friedrich Handel
19.
Beckett's a dog while Lottie and Feliz are cats. It's good to have Mr. Reliable, the T.V. Queen or Guy
on Couch in your room but you have to beware the Ubergeek, Lord Yahoo and especially the Choad Warrior
who eats your food, booze and weed. And save the Justifiable Homicide for the Old Guy Upstairs. Nookie's
probably the best slack for your dollar, but don't count out the Gamestation and Harold the Hoopty Car. FTP
these are all cards in what Steve Jackson Game, which puts the players as roommates who invite people over
and go shopping to overcome the slack of their job.
Answer - Chez Geek [SHAY GEEK]
20. In 334 BC he was nearly killed when a Persian soldier clubbed him with an axe but was saved from a
second blow by one of his bodyguards. In squelching a revolt in Thebes, he spared only the temple of the gods
and the house of the poet Pindar, selling the inhabitants into slavery. Such decisive action and quickness in
conquest led him to create a vast Greek empire. For ten points name this military genius, the son of Philip of
Macedonia.
Alexander the Great
Answer:
21. It has been estimated that one out of every 15 Japanese who lived during the Tokugawa Shogunate were a
member of this group. The shoguns made many attempts to enforce their distinctiveness and preserve their
essential role in governance and learning by preventing farmers from carrying long swords, creating a martial
monopoly. FTP, name this class of Japanese warriors famed for their beautifully crafted swords and their
elaborately developed moral code, bushido.
Answer: Samurai

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001

UTC 10/13/01

22. His wife was Pleione, an Oceanid, with whom he sired the Pleides. One of these was Maia, the mother of
Hermes, making this immortal the grandfather of the messenger god. His daughter Taygete stamped the name
of Artemis on the Cerynean Hind, which Heracles was required to capture as one of his tasks. Another of his
daughters was Calypso the nymph who waylaid Odysseus for seven years. His brother was Prometheus who
allied himself with the gods and later created man. Unlike Prometheus this man fought with the Titans against
the gods, and was, in fact, one of their greatest leaders. Like Prometheus, he is eternally punished by Zeus.
FTP, name this Titan, the son of Iapetus and Clymene, who holds the world on his shoulders
Answer: Atlas
23. He became secretary to the Earl of Shaftesbury, who, as one of the proprietors of Carolina, induced him to
write a constitution for the colony in 1669. In his most famous work, he denied the rationalist doctrine of innate
ideas, maintaining that the human mind starts as a tabula rasa, or blank slate. That work, An Essay Concerning
Human Understanding, established modern empiricism. FTP, what English philosopher wrote Two Treatises on
Government, which were an important source for the Declaration of Independence?
Answer: John Locke

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
BONI - ROUND 9
Questions mostly by Amar Hatti and Seth Teitler of California-Berkeley

1.
Identify the Shakespeare play from characters, FTPE
10) Cassio, Roderigo, Iago, Desdemona
Answer: Othello
10) Panthino, Silvia, Valentine, Proteus
Ans : Two Gentlemen of Verona
10) York, Richmond, Prince Edward, King Edward IV
Answer: Richard III
2.
A circuit has a battery providing 4 volts, and three resistors in parallel, of resistances 2 ohms, 3 ohms,
and 6 ohms respectively. Answer the following questions FTSNOP. [Allow 10 seconds per part]
10) What is the total resistance in the circuit?
Answer: 1 ohm
5) What is the current leaving the battery?
Answer: 4 amperes
10) What is the total power expended in the circuit?
Answer: 16 watts
5) The current through the 3 ohm resistor is 4/3 amperes. How much current runs through the 6 ohm resistor?
Answer: 2/3 amperes
3.
Identify the following human travel and trade routes from the cities on each end FTPE
10) Xi'an, China, and Constantinople
Answer: the Silk Road
10) Cumberland, Maryland, and Vandalia, Illinois
Answer: the National Road; accept Cumberland Road or National Pike
10) Rome, Italy, and Bari, Italy
Answer: the Appian Way
4.
Identify the following 20th-century American composers FTPE.
a) He composed An American in Paris, Porgy and Bess (with libretto by his brother Ira), and Rhapsody in Blue
Answer: George Gershwin
b) He composed Fanfare for the Common Man, Rodeo, and Appalachian Spring
Answer: Aaron Copland
c) He composed Three Places in New England and Concord Sonata
Answer: Charles Edward Ives
5.
This is where your genial quizmaster will be in two weeks in a fish costume. Never mind, it's a long
story. Answer the following questions about the history of Chicago FTPE.
1. This incident, which occurred on May 3, 1886 at the McCormick Reaper Works, led to the execution of four
anarchists; four others were imprisoned until their pardon by Gov. John Altgeld.
Answer: Haymarket Square Riot
2. This 1929 bloodbath, in which six members of Bugs Moran's bootlegging ring were killed by gangsters
dressed as police, is one of the most famous killings perpetrated by Al Capone.
Answer: St. Valentine's Day Massacre
3. This group, which included Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman, was arrested in connection with the riots at the
1968 Democratic National Convention.
Answer: The Chicago Seven (accept Chicago Eight, which they briefly were)

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
6.
Identify the following Willa Cather works from characters FTPE:
a) Antonia Shimerda, Jim Burden
Answer: My Antonia
b) Father Joseph Vaillant, Father Jean Latour
Answer: Death Comes for the Archbishop
c) Carl Linstrum, Alexandra Bergson
Answer: 0 Pioneers!

UTC 10113/01

7.
Answer the following questions about the number 100 in chemistry, FTPE. [10 seconds per part]
10) Assuming fluorine has an atomic mass of 19, how many moles of hydrofluoric acid, HF, make 100 grams of
hydrofluoric acid?
Answer: ~
10) In a hydrous solution, the concentration of hydronium ions is 100 times as great as the concentration of
hydroxyl ions. What is the pH of the solution?
Answer: ยง.
10) Two answers required. 100 moles of hydrogen gas are reacted with oxygen gas to produce water. If all of
the hydrogen gas is reacted, how many moles of oxygen gas were used and how many moles of water were
produced?
Answer: 50, 100
8.
Would September truly be September without the MTV Video Music awards? Of course it would; it
was for centuries. But that doesn't get you off the hook. FTSNOP, answer the following about the VMAs.
5: This collaboration between Pink, Christina Aguilera, Missy Elliot, Mya, and L'il Kim won the award for
Video of the Year.
Answer:
Lady Marmalade
5: This Fatboy Slim offering danced its way to five awards, including best director for Spike Jonze and best
choreography - but not for Christopher Walken.
Answer:
Weapon of Choice
10: He made the entrance of the evening, arriving at the awards on top of an I8-wheeler while he performed his
latest single.
Sean Combs or P. Diddy but God oh God not Puff Daddy
Answer:
10: They won the MTV2 award for up and coming acts, and appeared on stage in tasteful "We've been shot in
the face!" makeup.
Answer:
Mudvayne
9.
Identify the following West African empires from incidents of their particular histories, FTPE.
10) This empire had been founded by the Berbers of North Africa, but came to be controlled by the Soninke
people around the year 1000 A.D. Currently under dispute is the theory that it fell to the Almoravids in a holy
war after a long period of decline.
Answer: Ghana
10) The legendary king Sundiata founded this empire, which lasted from approximately 1230 to 1430, with
control over some of the most important trade routes of Africa and a capital at Timbuktu.
Answer: Mali
10) The king Sonni Ali was able to expand his power from the city of Gao to encompass the former Mali and
many other areas to form the largest of the Sahel empires. It was most powerful under Askia Muhammed I, but
a 1591 Moroccan Invasion hastened its decline.
Answer: Songhai

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
10.
Pencil & paper time. 10 seconds per part, given the polynomial x squared minus 9 x minus 112, FTPE:
10) What is the product of the roots of the polynomial?
Answer: -112
10) What is the sum of the roots of the polynomial?
Answer: 210) Identify either of the two roots of the polynomial.
Answer: 16 or -7
11.
Identify the classic American play from characters, for ten points each.
A) John Procter, Reverend Parris, Abigail
Answer: The Crucible
B) Katherine, Tom, and Amanda Wingfield and Jim O'Connor
Answer: The Glass Menagerie
C) Oscar Madison and Felix Unger
Answer: The Odd Couple
12.
Identify the following things related to Puccini's Madame Butterfly FTPE.
10) The real name ofthe title character in the opera Madame Butterfly.
Answer: Cio-cio-san (pron. CRO-CRO-SAN)
10) The author of the play M. Butterfly.
Answer: David Renry Hwang
10) The band that came out with the 1996 album Pinkerton, whose tracks included EI Scorcho and Butterfly.
Answer: Weezer
13.
In the 1990's, the environmentalist movement decided to aim its pitch at kids through cartoons. Identify
these eco-toons FTPE.
A. Five bratty yet ethnically diverse kids band together to fight evil guys who want to destroy the Earth
for some reason. When their powers combine, they summon Canada's greatest superhero! Okay, so they don't
say he's Canadian. But he has to be. Just look at that haircut.
Answer: Captain Planet and the Planeteers
B. A mystical enchanted rainforest, which, oddly enough, is in Australia, is threatened by an evil slimething that is also a real-estate developer. It's up to a bunch of fairies to save the day.
Answer: FernGully: The Last Rainforest
C. This guy was a little purple alien who looked kinda like The Great Gazoo without his hat. Re was
appointed by some intergalactic organization to prevent Earthlings from destroying their planet. Oddly enough,
kids didn't enjoy taking orders from a sanctimonious alien, and his show was quickly cancelled.
Answer: Widget: The World Watcher
14.
Identify the following biology terms that all begin with the same letter, FTPE.
10) A microscopic pore surrounded by guard cells in the epidermis of leaves and stems that allows gas
exchange between the environment and the interior of the plant.
Answer: stoma or stomata
10) The primary pacemaker of the heart, located in the wall of the right atrium.
Answer: SA node or sinoatrial node
10) The tough white fibrous outer envelope of tissue covering all of the eyeball except the cornea.
Answer: sclera or sclerotic coat; accept sclerotic

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
15.
Julius Martov led the more centrist faction in the 1917 Russian Revolution. For ten points each:
A) Name that majority faction, whose name means "minority," which came from a dispute within the Russian
Social Democratic Labor party in 1903.
Answer: Mensheviks
B) The Mensheviks were opposed by this minority left-wing group, whose name means "majority" (figures).
Answer: Bolsheviks
C) The Bolsheviks were lead by what man, the founder of the Russian Communist Party?
Answer: Vladimir Ilich Lenin
16.
Identify these goddesses of Greek mythology FTPE:
a) The sister of Apollo, she was the goddess of hunting.
Answer: Arte~is
b) The daughter of Hyperion and Thea, and sister of Helios, she was the Greek goddess of the moon. She had
fifty daughters by Endymion.
Answer: Selene
c) She taught witchcraft and was a goddess of the dead. As she became identified with Artemis, Selene, and
Persephone, she was represented as a triple goddess, and was sometimes described as having three heads.
Answer: Hecate
17.
Seems ironic considering Robert E. Lee's family used to own the place. Identify these three Civil War
luminaries from the Union side buried at Arlington National Cemetery FTPE:
a) He plundered the Shenandoah Valley during the war, effectively ending Confederate resistance there, and
used his same approach out West, where he (and not William Sherman) said, "The only good Indian is a dead
Indian."
Answer: Philip Sheridan
b) The adopted brother of David Farragut, he too was a sailor, and his fleet of gunboats was instrumental in the
capture of Vicksburg.
Answer: David Porter
c) Serving in the 24th Wisconsin, he won the Congressional Medal of Honor at Chattanooga when, while
leading an attack, he planted his regimental flag on Missionary Ridge the ridge, turned to his men, and shouted,
"On Wisconsin!" In 1898, he was given command of troops in the Philippines, as was his son Douglas during
World War II; they remain the only father-son Medal of Honor winners.
Answer: Arthur MacArthur (first name not required)
18.
There are four planetary moons of the solar system that are larger than Earth's Moon. Three of them are
moons of Jupiter. For 10 pts. each, name any two of those Jovian moons.
Answer:
Ganymede, Callisto, or 10
F or another 10 points, name the moon of Saturn that is also larger than ours.
Answer:
Titan
19.
Name the following people associated with Pop Art from works FTPE:
5) The series Death in America; Marilyn; Campbell's Soup Cans
Answer: Andy Warhol
10) False Start; the series The Seasons; The American Flag series
Answer: Jasper Johns
15) Reverie, Whaam, Blam
Answer: Roy Lichtenstein

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
20.
Name tl).e following novels of Gabriel Garcia Marquez from brief descriptions, 5-10-15
5) The saga of the Buendia family and its life and loves in Macondo is acknowledged as his most popular
contribution to magical realism.
Answer: One Hundred Years of Solitude or Cien Anos de Solidad
10) This epic romance is the story of Florentino Ariza's half-century love for Fermina Daza, even after her
marriage to Dr. Juvenal Urbino, and their eventual fate together.
Answer: Love in the Time of Cholera or EL Arnor en Los Tiernpos deL CoLera
15) A dramatic journalistic account of the captivity by Pablo Escobar of several influential Colombians and the
efforts to secure their release. It is his latest work, published in 1996.
Answer: News of a Kidnapping or Noticia de un secuestro
21.
Identify the following religions of Asian origin FTPE.
10) This religion broke away from Hinduism in the 16th century, under the leadership of Guru N anak. The
sacred scriptures, compiled by Guru Arjun, are known as the Adi Granth.
Answer: Sikhism
10) A Chinese philosophical and religious system, it is based on the writings of Chuang Tzu and Lao Tzu, yogic
practices, and yin and yang theory. It opposes Confucianism and calls for a return to primitive social forms.
Answer: Taoism
10) Meaning "the way of the gods," this animistic religion emphasizes the worship of natural objects, legendary
deities, and national heroes. It is the official imperial religion of Japan, according to which the Emperor is the
descendant of the sun goddess Amaterasu.
Answer: Shintoism
22.
FTPE, identify the following types of cells involved in the human immune response.
These cells produce antibodies, which act to neutralize specific proteins the immune system recognizes as
foreign.
Answer:
B lymphocytes
These cells have specific antigen-binding sites, which allows the immune system to recognize antigens and, if
necessary, build an immune response to them.
Answer:
T lymphocytes
This type of T cell acts to shut down the immune response once levels of antigen begin to drop.
Answer:
T-S cell or suppressor T cell

