Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 1
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. This political figure led the Autumn Harvest Uprising, and forces under this leader were nearly destroyed by
the Encirclement Campaigns. This man who gained power at Zunyi and joined forces with Zhu De led a series of
purges in the Anti-Rightist Movement in response to the failure of a movement that supported free expression,
the Hundred Flowers Movement. The author of the Little Red Book, he lead his army on the Long March, and his
policies included one that attempted to modernize his country called the Great Leap Forward. For 10 points, name
this proponent of the Cultural Revolution, the first chairman of the People’s Republic of China.
ANSWER: Chairman Mao Zedong [Accept Mao Tse-tung.]
2. Transition to this phenomenon is marked by a discontinuous jump in electric heat capacity. One theory about this
phenomenon introduced the concepts of coherence length and penetration depth, explaining small perturbations in
density and the decay of external magnetic fields. That theory is named for Ginzburg and Landau. Explained by
the condensation of electrons into phonon-exchanging Cooper Pairs, materials exhibiting this phenomenon expel
magnetic fields in an effect named for Meissner. For 10 points, name this phenomenon which occurs at very low
temperatures and is defined as the absence of electrical resistance.
ANSWER: superconductivity
3. The Berleburg version of this text was written by Pietists so that the “one divine meaning” of it would be
revealed. Sirach and Tobit are works included within the Septuagint, which excludes many other Greek portions
of this text. A notable version of this text was translated by John Wycliffe. One version of this text establishes the
Apocrypha as deuterocanonical, a distinction Martin Luther draws upon in creating his version of this scripture.
Jerome translated this text into Latin to create a version called the Vulgate. For 10 points, name this work of
scripture, which comes in American Standard and King James versions and is broken into Old and New Testaments.
ANSWER: Christian Bible
4. In one account, this thinker is said to have suggested that he pay a fine of 30 mina; in another account he refuses
to suggest any such compromise. This thinker advanced what has been called the Theory of Recollection, which
states that our souls remember their previous lives. He referred to himself as “a gadfly” to his fellow citizens and
frequently praised the virtues of Sparta. This philosopher told the Athenians that the Delphic Oracle had declared
him the wisest man alive, but they convicted him of corrupting the youth anyway. For 10 points, name this Greek
philosopher whose death by hemlock was described by authors like Xenophon and Plato.
ANSWER: Socrates
5. Along with Lawrence Crawford, this man was a leader of the Eastern Association, and he championed the “four
fundamentals.” Henry Ireton served under this man during a campaign that was preceded by the Battle of Rathmines
and saw massacres following the sieges of Drogheda and Wexford. This former subordinate of Thomas Fairfax took
power following Pride’s Purge and won the battles of Naseby and Marston Moor. A member of the “Roundheads,”
he was nicknamed “Old Ironsides” and commanded the New Model Army. For 10 points, identify this man who
after the death of Charles I became the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell

6. Two characters in this opera realize they have fallen in love in the aria “O soave fanciulla,” and after a pair
of candles go out “Che gelida manina” is sung. The landlord Benoit fails in an attempt to collect rent. Later, a
character sings the saucy “Quand me’n vo” to embarrass her rich old admirer Alcindoro and seduce her former lover
Marcello. That character, Musetta, goes along with Marcello to buy medicine for a woman who loves Rodolfo.
Mimi dies of consumption at the end of this work that takes place in the Latin Quarter of Paris. For 10 points,
identify this opera named after a group of poor artists, written by Giacomo Puccini, that is also the basis for the
musical Rent.
ANSWER: La Boheme
7. This man’s Postmaster General, Cave Johnson, is credited with the introduction of postage stamps and street
corner mailboxes. This president’s Congress passed the Walker Tariff, and he had earlier defeated John Bell in a bid
for Speaker of the House. This man’s administration negotiated with Lord Aberdeen, resulting in the abandonment
of the “54-40 or fight” slogan for control of the Oregon Territory. After John Slidell failed to purchase California
and New Mexico, the Mexican-American War was fought during this man’s presidency. For 10 points, name
this “dark horse” winner of the Election of 1844 who was nicknamed “Young Hickory” and succeeded John Tyler.
ANSWER: James K(nox) Polk
8. One of this author’s characters reads Anna Karenina several times during a seventeen-day period without sleep.
One of this author’s novels begins with a character hearing Janacek’s Sinfonietta in a taxicab. That character later
kills the Leader, reads the book Air Chrysalis, and reunites with Tengo in a world with two moons. In this author’s
most popular work, Lieutenant Mamiya relates how he witnessed the flaying of his companion during World War
II, and Malta Kano helps the protagonist search for his cat. That work also sees Kumiko leave her husband, Toru
Okada. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of 1Q84, Norwegian Wood, Kafka on the Shore, and The Wind-Up
Bird Chronicle.
ANSWER: Haruki Murakami
9. The radius of a circle circumscribed around one type of these objects is given by Parameshvara’s Formula. The
areas of those objects are given by Brahmagupta’s Formula, and for cyclic versions, the product of the lengths of
the diagonals can be written in terms of side lengths in Ptolemy’s Theorem. Two different types of these objects can
be used to approximate integrals. When pairs of adjacent sides in them have equal lengths, they have perpendicular
diagonals and are called kites. They have two diagonals, and the sum of their angles is 360 degrees. For 10 points,
name these polygons that include trapezoids, parallelograms, and rectangles, all of which have four sides.
ANSWER: quadrilaterals [Accept cyclic quadrilaterals before “Brahmagupta’s.]
10. Upon first acquiring this object, its owner granted a future favor that became a request for the head of Sir
Balin. The predecessor to this item was destroyed in a duel against the father of Tor and Lamorak, King Pellinore,
while the companion piece to this object prevented its wearer from losing blood in battle, but was thrown away by
Morgana le Fay. After the Battle of Camlann, Sir Bedivere saw a mysterious hand emerge from a pool when he went
to return this weapon to the Lady of the Lake. For 10 points, name this weapon that succeeded another object that
was pulled out of an anvil and a slab of marble, the sword of King Arthur.
ANSWER: Excalibur [Accept Caliburn.]
11. One character in this novel is almost seduced with the help of her governess Mrs. Young, until she confesses to
her brother. Another character in this novel claims to be going to Gretna Green, but winds up in London, where she
is found by her uncle Mr. Gardiner. A clergyman in this novel boasts of his connections at Rosings, and after being
rejected by the main character, he marries Charlotte Lucas. That character, Mr. Collins, serves Lady Catherine de
Bourgh. Other characters who marry in this novel include Mr. Wickham and Lydia, as well as Jane and Mr. Bingley.
For 10 points, name this novel in which Mr. Darcy proposes twice to Elizabeth Bennet, written by Jane Austen.

ANSWER: Pride and Prejudice
12. The protagonist of this play brings his sons a punching bag signed by Gene Tunney as a present. One of that
man’s sons later steals a pen from a potential employer. This play’s protagonist is denied a job at the New York
office by Howard Wagner. Other characters in this play include a character who lets a star football player cheat
off his math homework, Bernard, and a character who walks in on the protagonist cheating on his wife Linda. The
titular car accident occurs because the protagonist believes that his suicide will bring his family insurance money.
For 10 points, name this play in which Biff confronts his father, the businessman Willy Loman, by Arthur Miller.
ANSWER: Death of a Salesman
13. This composer added a coda to his piece “Beside a Spring” for his student Giovanni Sgambati. That work,
along with a sonata in one movement that uses a chromatic theme in D minor to depict souls wailing in hell, the
Dante Sonata, is found in a set of three suites titled Year of Pilgrimage. This man composed a series of works with
slow “lassan” and fast “friska” portions transcribed for orchestra by Franz Doppler. Those include the “Carnival
at Pest” and the “Rakoczi March.” A famous set of etudes by him includes ones titled “Will o’ the Wisp”
and “Mazeppa.” For 10 points, name this composer of the Mephisto Waltzes, Transcendental Etudes, and Hungarian
Rhapsodies.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt
14. One character in this novel is wrapped in a blanket when his friend refuses to pay for a stay at an inn. Another
character in this novel thinks his brains are melting when someone puts curds in his hat and later attempts to fight
a lion that won’t come out of its cage. He later sends a Bascayan squire to Toboso in order to surrender to his lady
love. The protagonist of this work is unhorsed by the Knight of the White Moon and attempts to attack giants that
are actually windmills. Because the protagonist needs a lady, he picks the inn girl Dulcinea to be his love. For 10
points, name this novel about a delusional knight and his squire Sancho Panza, written by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha
15. A financial minister under this ruler published the Compte rendu au roi, making public this king's expenses,
leading to his replacement with Charles-Alexandre de Colonne. This man reinstated the policy of toleration through
the Edict of Versailles, and the Declaration of Pillnitz pledged support for this man's rulership. The 10th of August
Incident saw Swiss Guards massacred in defense of this king's family at the Tuileries, but this man was captured by
the sans-culottes. This king's wife allegedly declared, “Let them eat cake” in response to starving peasants. For 10
points, name this only French king to be executed, who lost power during the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Louis XVI
16. One equation for this quantity demonstrates that it is proportional to the logarithm of the internal energy density
and provides a valid approximation of this quantity for monatomic ideal gases. In addition to being calculated by the
Sackur-Tetrode equation, this quantity is equal to the negative partial derivative of Gibbs free energy with respect
to temperature. This quantity is also given by Boltzmann’s constant multiplied by the logarithm of the number of
microstates, and the third law of thermodynamics gives its value at absolute zero to be 0 for a perfect crystal. For 10
points, name this thermodynamic measure of disorder.
ANSWER: entropy
17. This man distinguished between nostalgics, hedonists, and goal-oriented people in a work he wrote with John
Boyd, The Time Paradox. He created a social fitness model that he later implemented in his Shyness Clinic, but
he may be better known for an experiment ended by Christina Maslach, in which one participant assumed the role
of a character from Cool Hand Luke. That experiment was analyzed in this psychologist’s The Lucifer Effect and
involved a hunger strike by participants facing mistreatment by a man nicknamed “John Wayne.” For 10 points,

name this man who had college students play the roles of prisoners and guards in the Stanford Prison Experiment.
ANSWER: Philip George Zimbardo
18. Blair, Tioga, and Schuykill counties are in this state, whose largest metropolitan area includes the East Falls,
Chestnut Hill and Southwark neighborhoods . Two of this state’s most significant historical industries are associated
with the cities of Bethlehem and Titusville. York is one of the main municipalities of its south-central “Dutch”
region along with Lancaster County. Point State Park in this state’s second-largest city marks the formation of the
Ohio River from the Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers near the site of Fort Duquesne. For 10 points, name this
sixth most populous US state which is governed from Harrisburg and contains Pittsburgh and Philadelphia.
ANSWER: Pennsylvania
19. One artist from this country painted a work in which the shadow of an equestrian statue looms in front of a
deserted clay field and the titular round brick structure. In addition to painting The Red Tower, that artist showed
the silhouette of a young girl rolling a hoop down an alleyway in Mystery and Melancholy of a Street. Another artist
from here depicted the motion of a small black animal walking alongside its owner in his Dynamism of a Dog on a
Leash as part of a movement that glorified automobiles and mechanized violence, Futurism. For 10 points, name this
country home to artists like Giacomo Balla and Umberto Boccioni, as well as Leonardo da Vinci.
ANSWER: Italy
20. In an aldolase catalyzed step in this process, the kinetically perfect enzyme triosephosphate isomerase is
responsible for converting one of two products. Another enzyme involved in this process is hexokinase, which has
especially high activity in the Warburg Effect because it is organelle-bound. Phosphofructokinase is a key regulator
which converts the F6P intermediate, and other intermediates include PGAL, G3P, and PEP. It provides energy for
NADH and ATP production through the production of pyruvate from its namesake breakdown of glucose. For 10
points, name this process usually followed by the Krebs Cycle, the first step of respiration.
ANSWER: glycolysis
Bonuses
1. The prediction of the existence of the omega baryon was confirmation for the theory of these particles, and their
name comes from Joyce’s Finnegans Wake. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these fermions that make up baryons like protons and neutrons. The model of nuclear physics based
around these particles was developed by Murray Gell-Mann.
ANSWER: quarks
[10] Quarks participate in this interaction that holds the nucleus together. Its analog of charge is called color, and it
is mediated by the gluon.
ANSWER: strong nuclear force [Accept strong interaction.]
[10] When paired with its antiquark, this second generation quark forms the J/Psi meson. It has a charge of ⅔ the
fundamental charge.
ANSWER: charm quark
2. The starch variety of this technique uses Napthal Black or Amido Black staining and a particularly sensitive and
unmutagenic stain for it is SYBR Green. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process which uses an electric potential and agarose to separate different fragments of DNA based
on the number of base pairs in each molecule.
ANSWER: gel electrophoresis [Prompt on electrophoresis.]
[10] DNA is able to migrate in gel electrophoresis due to the presence of this negative ion in its backbone.
ANSWER: phosphate ions [Accept PO43-.]

[10] This procedure for the detection of the presence of specific proteins utilizes gel electrophoresis onto
nitrocellulose paper and antibody-probing to produce observable bands.
ANSWER: Western blot
3. A legion of interpreters in this novel has images of parrots tattooed on their chests. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel set in Ancient Carthage about the titular daughter of Hamilcar Barca, who disguises a slave as
his son for use in the child-sacrifice to Moloch. The title character dies after seeing her lover Matho tortured.
ANSWER: Salammbo
[10] Despite being married to a French country doctor named Charles, the title character of this novel has affairs
with Rodolphe Boulanger and Leon Dupuis before swallowing arsenic. It is said to be the first realist novel.
ANSWER: Madame Bovary
[10] This author of Salammbo and Madame Bovary has been criticized for repeatedly changing the color of Emma
Bovary’s eyes throughout the novel. He died before finishing Bouvard and Pecuchet.
ANSWER: Gustave Flaubert
4. Name these varieties of Hindu scripture. For 10 points each:
[10] These traditionally eternal and authorless texts include the Yajur, Sama, and Atharva and comprise the oldest
strata of Hindu literature. The most famous of these texts is the Rig and says a lot about Indra.
ANSWER: Veda [Prompt on “shruti”]
[10] This largest Indian epic, which contains the Bhagavad Gita, describes an eighteen-day battle between two
groups of brothers, the Kauravas and the Pandavas.
ANSWER: Mahabharata
[10] The Brhadaranyaka Upanishad considers these devotional legends to be the fifth Veda. They typically include
the biographies and exploits of gods as well as elaborate cosmologies, such as those seen in the Bhagavata one.
ANSWER: puranas
5. According to Suetonius, this man shouted, “Quintilius Varus, give me back my legions!” after learning about the
defeat at Teutoberg Forest. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first Roman Emperor and adopted son of his great-uncle Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: Augustus [Accept Octavian or Imperator Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus Divi Filius Augustus.]
[10] Then known as Octavian, Augustus consolidated his power at this naval battle in the Ionian Sea, in which he
crushed the forces of Antony and Cleopatra, who fled to Egypt and committed suicide.
ANSWER: Battle of Actium
[10] This man commanded Octavian's fleet at Actium. As a reward, he was given Augustus' niece in marriage and
later became the husband of Augustus' only biological daughter, Julia the Elder.
ANSWER: Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa
6. While still pregnant, this god's mother was tricked by Hera into asking Zeus to reveal himself in his full glory,
which ended up killing her. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Greek god of wine and debauchery who was sewn into his father's thigh because his dead mother
Semele was unable to support him in her womb.
ANSWER: Dionysus
[10] After changing a bunch of pirates into dolphins, Dionysus went to Naxos where he fell in love with this
daughter of Minos, who had been abandoned there by Theseus.
ANSWER: Ariadne
[10] In a Greek creation story named for this mythological figure, Dionysus was named Zagreus and was the son of
Persephone. This guy's head kept singing after getting ripped off his body.
ANSWER: Orpheus

7. This thinker disagreed with Gratian in saying that a marriage does not need to be consummated in order to be
perfect. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this medieval scholar who was named Bishop of Paris in the 12th century and wrote four highly
influential textbooks for theology, his Books of Sentences.
ANSWER: Peter (the) Lombard [or Petrus Lombardus]
[10] Lombard adhered to this medieval philosophical movement which emphasized logic and reason in defense of
the Scripture. This movement really liked Aristotle and included Thomas Aquinas.
ANSWER: Scholasticism
[10] The schools that lent their name to the Scholastic movement were located in these structures, huge churches of
which Chartres, Amiens, and Notre Dame are famous examples.
ANSWER: cathedral schools
8. He composed a collection of works based on a theme given to him by Frederick the Great. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this German Baroque composer of The Musical Offering and the Brandenburg Concertos.
ANSWER: J(ohann) S(ebastian) Bach
[10] Bach wrote a collection of 14 works titled the “Art of” this musical form. They are paired with preludes in the
Well-Tempered Clavier and contain multiple voices in imitative counterpoint.
ANSWER: fugues
[10] Bach wrote fifteen of these pieces often played pedagogically by piano students. They are paired with three-part
sinfonias and have two contrapuntal voices.
ANSWER: inventions
9. This civilization engaged in the Flower Wars in order to obtain captives for human sacrifice. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this civilization centered in Mexico that was conquered by Hernán Cortés. Its capital was at Tenochtitlan.
ANSWER: Aztec
[10] During his conquest of the Aztecs, Cortés was aided by this Nahua woman, who served as a translator. She also
became a lover of Cortés, for which many viewed her as a traitor.
ANSWER: La Malinche [Accept Malinalli, Malintzin, or Dona Marina.]
[10] This man was the ruler of the Aztec Empire before being deposed by Hernán Cortés. The empire reached its
maximal extent under him.
ANSWER: Moctezuma II [Accept Montezuma II or Moteuczoma.]
10. This quantity is equal to 35 parts per thousand for ocean water, and water with very high values for it is called
brine. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this quantity which measures the content of dissolved substances, such as sodium chloride, in water.
ANSWER: salinity
[10] Salinity is one of the forces that helps drive the movement of water, resulting in these features that consist of
water in the ocean moving constantly in one direction. The Gulf Stream is the most famous example of one of these.
ANSWER: ocean currents
[10] Ocean currents run together to form these large rotating systems. The Sargasso Sea is found at the center of the
North Atlantic one of these, and large trash heaps are known to collect in their centers.
ANSWER: gyres
11. Its change is equal to the change in enthalpy minus the temperature times the change in entropy. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this quantity that is the measure of the maximum non-expansionary work that a thermodynamic system
can perform. It is often contrasted with Helmholtz Free Energy.
ANSWER: Gibbs Free Energy

[10] If the Gibbs Free Energy is negative, a reaction has this property, meaning that the reaction proceeds in the
forward direction.
ANSWER: spontaneous [Accept word forms.]
[10] The equipartition theorem states that the average kinetic energy in each of these is equal and thus kinetic energy
is shared equally along all of these. Each of these is a dimension on the phase space of a thermodynamic system.
ANSWER: degrees of freedom
12. This country is going through an executive leadership change in 2012. Welcome to the club! For 10 points
each:
[10] This country, previously led by Deng Xiaoping from Beijing, will name its new leaders at its 12th National
People’s Congress.
ANSWER: People’s Republic of China [or Zhongguo]
[10] This man led China prior to the 12th National People’s Congress and succeeded Jiang Zemin as General
Secretary of the CCP and President of China.
ANSWER: Hu Jintao
[10] This man is Hu Jintao’s successor as General Secretary of the CCP and President of China. He served in the
Fujian Province early in his career.
ANSWER: Xi Jinping
13. This field studies strategic decision-making, including in zero-sum and non-zero-sum varieties of its namesake
situations. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this field advanced by John von Neumann that contains theories applicable to Nim and Tic-Tac-Toe.
ANSWER: game theory
[10] In this famous scenario from game theory, players can decide to cooperate or betray their companion, resulting
in a heavy or light sentence based on the decision of their companion.
ANSWER: prisoner’s dilemma
[10] This decision rule from game theory, established by von Neumann, suggests that players should seek to limit
their opponent’s greatest potential payoff when formulating a strategy.
ANSWER: minimax theorem
14. The death by biplane crash of Finch Hatton, the lover of this work’s author, occurs in the last chapters and this
work curiously avoids discussing the author’s husband, a Swedish big game hunter. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel centered around a British expatriate’s experiences on a coffee plantation “at the foot of Ngong
Hills,” written by Isak Dinesen.
ANSWER: Out of Africa
[10] Out of Africa depicted British East Africa, which is now this country. Writers from this country include Ngugi
wa Thiong’o, who wrote Petals of Blood and was at one point a professor at Nairobi University.
ANSWER: Republic of Kenya
[10] In an essay entitled Decolonising the Mind, Thiong’o justified his decision to stop writing in English in favor of
this language native to Kenya.
ANSWER: Kikuyu [Accept Gikuyu.]
15. Name some things about an important early form of American literature. For 10 points each:
[10] Writers like Harriet Jacobs and Harriet Tubman described their time being owned in the American South
through this form of literature, named for the institution in which they were forced to participate.
ANSWER: slave narratives [Prompt on anything mentioning slaves, but don’t prompt too many times.]
[10] In one of the most famous slave narratives, this man discussed his voyage from Africa to Barbados and working
for men like Charles Irving and Michael Pascal, as well as his conversion to Christianity.

ANSWER: Olaudah Equiano or Gustavus Vassa
[10] This famous American abolitionist wrote a slave narrative in which he described being taught to read by Sophia
Auld. He later went on to found the abolitionist newspaper The North Star.
ANSWER: Frederick Douglass [Accept Frederick (Augustus Washington) Bailey.]
16. Early minimalist works by this composer included his Phrygian Gates and China Gates. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of an opera about the hijacking of the Achille Lauro, his The Death of Klinghoffer, as well
as a work about the Manhattan Project and Robert Oppenheimer, Doctor Atomic.
ANSWER: John (Coolidge) Adams
[10] One of Adams’s best known works is an opera about Richard Nixon’s visit to this Asian country. Music from
this country includes the “Butterfly Lovers” violin concerto.
ANSWER: China [Accept Nixon in China.]
[10] Adams composed this work in commemoration of the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Centers. It
earned him the Pulitzer Prize for music.
ANSWER: On the Transmigration of Souls
17. In one series by this artist, two men beat each other with cudgels in front of a barren, hilly landscape, while
another entry in that series shows the Fates hovering towards the viewer. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Spanish painter of the Black Paintings as well as two versions of a reclining woman entitled The
Naked Maja [MA-ha] and The Clothed Maja.
ANSWER: Francisco (Jose) de Goya (y Lucientes)
[10] Goya was a painter from this country. His The Third of May, 1808, shows an execution of people from this
country at the hands of Napoleon’s soldiers during the Peninsular War.
ANSWER: Spain [Accept Espana.]
[10] This group portrait by Goya shows the titular monarch on the right wearing a coat studded with medals. The
painting was criticized because everyone was painted separately, leading them to be looking in different directions.
ANSWER: Charles IV of Spain and His Family [Accept anything mentioning Charles IV and Family. Accept
Carlos IV, as well as La Familia de Carlos IV.]
18 Its settlers made landfall in modern-day Provincetown, Massachusetts. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this second permanent settlement of British North America that was eventually absorbed into the
Massachusetts Bay Colony.
ANSWER: Plymouth Colony [Accept New Plymouth Colony.]
[10] The Plymouth colonists travelled to the New World on this vessel, the namesake of a famous “Compact.”
ANSWER: the Mayflower
[10] According to legend, the settlers were taught to cultivate corn by Squanto, a member of this Native American
tribe. Squanto’s grandson Metacomet led these people against the settlers in King Philip’s War.
ANSWER: Wampanoag Tribe [Accept Wopanaak Tribe.]
19. This nation saw an uprising by the Sparticist League, which was led by Marxist revolutionaries including Karl
Liebknecht and Rosa Luxembourg. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German republic that formed after World War I and was named for the city where the national
assembly convened.
ANSWER: Weimar Republic [Accept Weimarer Republik, prompt on “Germany” or “Deutschland”]
[10] The Weimar Republic experienced the “hyper” variety of this economic condition, resulting in peasants burning
heaps of banknotes as a source of fuel. Zimbabwe is currently dealing with the same issue.
ANSWER: hyperinflation

[10] This man served as President of the Weimar Republic until he appointed Hitler as Chancellor in 1933. He
suspended many civil liberties with the Reichstag Fire Decree.
ANSWER: Paul von Hindenburg [Accept Paul (Ludwig Hans Anton) von Beneckendorff und von Hindenburg.]
20. One poem by this poet begins “And did those feet in ancient time. / Walk upon England’s mountains green / And
was the holy Lamb of God. / On England’s pleasant pastures seen!” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet who wrote poems like “The Poison Tree” and a poem which asks the title creature “who made
thee, dost thou know who made thee,” which was entitled “The Lamb.”
ANSWER: William Blake
[10] In this other animal-based Blake poem, the titular creature is “Burning bright / in the forests of the night.” It
also asks, “What immortal hand or eye / could frame thy fearful symmetry?”
ANSWER: “The Tyger”
[10] In the poem “Auguries of Innocence,” Blake warned that one of these animals “redbreast in a cage / Puts all
heaven in a rage.”
ANSWER: a robin

