Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 7
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. One of these chemicals forms through the Yang Cycle and is thought to be connected to the hyponastic response.
The balance between two types of these compounds determines the differentiation of parenchyma cells, and
Kurosawa discovered a type with an ent-kaurene precursor responsible for bakanae. Different members of this group
are famous for promoting apical dominance, cell differentiation, phototropism, stem elongation, and flowering. For
10 points, name this class of signaling molecules including auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins, responsible for
inducing physiological processes in plants.
ANSWER: plant hormones [Accept ethylene before differentiation of parenchyma cells, accept equivalents.]
2. This dynasty’s government was structured into the Three Departments and Six Ministries and it fell into chaos
after being attacked by the warlord Huang Chao. It reached its greatest extent under Emperor Xuanzong, and this
empire founded by Emperor Gaozu was defeated at the Battle of the Talas River. It was interrupted briefly by
the only female emperor, Empress Wu. Its founder, known as Li Yuan, rose to power after the fall of the Sui
Dynasty. The Yan Dynasty was established when it was interrupted by An Lushan’s Rebellion, and it was followed
by the Song Dynasty. For 10 points, name this dynasty ruling from 618 to 907 AD that saw the flourishing of art
and culture.
ANSWER: Tang Dynasty
3. Much of the early history of this city is contained in the Primary Chronicle written by a monk named Nestor. One
ruler of a polity named for this city helped Basil II put down the rebellion of Bardas Sclerus and married Basil II's
sister Anna Porphyrogeneta. That man's son was forced to contest with his half-brother Sviatopolk the Accursed
for the throne, and he constructed the Saint Sophia Cathedral in this city. More recently, Nazi troops massacred
thousands of people at the Babi Yar ravine in this city, which was heavily affected by radiation from Chernobyl.
For 10 points, name this city that was converted to Christianity under Vladimir the Great, the current capital of
Ukraine.
ANSWER: Kiev [Accept Kyiv]
4. James Russell Lowell wrote that the author of this poem and this poem’s subject were “three fifths genius”
and “two fifths sheer fudge,” and the author of this poem explained its didactic nature in his “The Philosophy of
Composition.” The speaker of this poem laments that “On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown
before,” and asks the subject “what thy lordly name is on the night’s Plutonian shore.” That subject stands upon
a “pallid bust of Pallas” and plagues the speaker with memories of his “lost Lenore.” For 10 points, name this poem
whose title figure “quoth ‘Nevermore,’” an Edgar Allan Poe poem about a big black bird.
ANSWER: “The Raven”
5. One character with an odd birthmark goes missing after a forest fire in this novel, and a boy in this novel
constantly repeats his name and address. Another character has blood smeared on his face and kicks sand in a small
child’s eyes. Although that character, Maurice, later feels bad, his friend Roger shows no regrets. Many characters
in this novel venture to “The Scar” to build a fire with one character’s glasses. A dreamy character in this novel
named Simon is killed when other boys mistake him for “the Beast.” For 10 points, Jack and Ralph square off for
leadership of a lost group of boys and Piggy is killed by a boulder in this novel by William Golding.

ANSWER: The Lord of the Flies
6. One method of doing this process introduced by Jack Kiefer takes into account non-uniform memory access time
and is named for Fibonacci, while a probabilistic quantum algorithm for this is named after Lov Grover and takes
big O of square root of n time. Poor implementations of one algorithm fail for large sets, as adding two interval
endpoints then dividing by two can give an overflow error. For ordered lists it can be completed in big O of log n
time, while the best general algorithm takes big O of n time as it requires looking at each element. For 10 points,
identify this process that has “linear” and “binary” versions used to find an element in an array.
ANSWER: search
7. In a work by this man, a character shouts “Ah la maledizione” upon realizing his bad fortune, which follows the
aria “V’ho igannata” after which that character’s father dies. One character in that opera by this man is compared to
an assassin in “Pari siamo,” while another’s love for Gaulthier Malde causes her to sing “Caro Nome.” Maddalena is
the sister of the assassin Sparafucile in that opera. In another opera by this man, the title character, who is described
as Celeste, is the daughter of Amonasro and competes with Amneris for the love of Radames. For 10 points, identify
the composer of an opera containing the aria “La donna e mobile,” Rigoletto, and one about an Ethiopian princess,
Aida.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Verdi
8. One famous scene in this novel features the tactic of allowing the enemy to fire upon empty straw boats in the
dark to acquire arrows, and another involves feigning nonchalance upon an enemy’s approach to protect an empty
fort. Three men make the Oath of the Peach Garden and proceed to win a great victory at Red Cliffs. Beginning
with the Yellow Turban Rebellion and ending with the victory of the Jin Dynasty, this novel features characters
such as Liu Bei, Zhuge Liang and Cao Cao (TSAO-TSAO) . For 10 points, name this Great Chinese novel by Luo
Guanzhong about the end of the Han Dynasty that features the titular states of Wei, Shu, and Wu.
ANSWER: Romance of the Three Kingdoms [accept San Guo Yan Yi]
9. This quantity is responsible for changes in refractive indices proportional to the square of this quantity in the
Kerr effect. A vector that describes the directional energy flux density is equal to the magnetic field times this
quantity and is called the Poynting vector. Drift velocity is equal to this quantity times electron mobility. A dipole
experiences a torque equal to charge times separation times this quantity. This quantity is zero within a conductor.
The integral of this quantity dotted with area over a closed surface is proportional to the charge enclosed by Gauss'
law. For 10 points, name this field that has units of force per unit charge and is symbolized by the letter E.
ANSWER: electric field [accept E before it is read]
10. The sections of this text occur in chronological order, except for the “Words of” its namesake and the section
named after Ether, which describes the exploits of a people descended from Jared after the confusion of tongues at
the Tower of Babel. Its central narrative begins at the time of Jeremiah with a patriarch called Lehi, whose family
eventually split into the Nephites and Lamanites, and in this scripture a later generation of Nephites was visited by
the resurrected Jesus long after their ancestors reached the Americas. For 10 points, name this religious scripture
preserved in a New York hillside on golden plates until it was unearthed by Joseph Smith with the help of an angel
named Moroni.
ANSWER: The Book of Mormon: An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates
of Nephi
11. This thinker founded a school of thought that argued that the manner in which knowledge is obtained has an
effect on the validity of that knowledge. That school included this thinker’s “Schema Theory.” In one work, this
thinker wrote that morality developed from peer interaction rather than mandates from authority figures, and he also

noted that a certain group was very egocentric in their “sensorimotor” stage. For 10 points, name this proponent of
genetic epistemology and author of The Moral Judgment of the Child, a Swiss psychologist who created a theory of
cognitive development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
12. The phrase “you can’t shoot an idea with a gun” was used at the first modern incarnation of this event, which
occurred in Oregon and saw the participation of Minnesota governor Harold Stassen. A more recent one of these
saw the statement “There is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.” One of these saw a famous disparity between
the opinions of radio listeners and television viewers because one participant appeared tired and pale. That was the
first of four of these that occurred in 1960 between Kennedy and Nixon. For 10 points, name these events that see
candidates for a certain office discuss controversial issues, a recent one of which saw Obama reference “horses and
bayonets.”
ANSWER: presidential debates [prompt on debates]
13. Along with Max Delbruck, this scientist was one of the first to propose that DNA replication is likely connected
with base complementarity. In addition, five rules for predicting the crystal structures of complex ionic crystals
are named for him. He proposed a three-strand structure of DNA, where one strand binds to a B-form double
helix through Hoogsteen or reversed Hoogsteen pairing. This famous scientist analyzed the tetravalent nature
of the carbon atom and developed a well-known model that attempts to explain its bonding; this model is called
hybridization. For 10 points, name the scientist who lends his name to a well-known electronegativity scale on
which fluorine is given a 4.0.
ANSWER: Linus (Carl) Pauling
14. A portrait of this man shows him wearing medals marking his membership in the Legion of Honor and Order of
the Iron Crown while standing in his green-carpeted study. In another painting, this man takes off one of his white
gloves before reaching out to touch a sick man amidst a crowd of victims of the bubonic plague in a mosque at Jaffa.
This man's name is etched on some rocks next to the names of Hannibal and Charlemagne in a painting showing
him pointing upwards atop a rearing horse while crossing the Alps. For 10 points, name this French ruler who was
depicted in a massive Jacques-Louis David work holding a crown above his kneeling wife Josephine.
ANSWER: Napoleon I Bonaparte
15. This philosopher argued that virtue rather than punishment better instills a sense of shame, which is necessary
to prevent crimes. In a famous story about this philosopher, he refused to ask about the horses after the stables were
burnt. This philosopher said that “what you do not wish for yourself, do not do to others,” his so-called “silver
rule.” Two important concepts in this man’s philosophy are righteousness and ritual, referred to as yi and li. This
philosopher served in the Lu state, and one follower founded a “neo-” version of this man’s philosophy. For 10
points, name this teacher of Mencius and author of the Analects, a famous Chinese philosopher.
ANSWER: Confucius
16. This man was once imprisoned by three queens until he promised to marry one of them, but he was rescued by
the daughter of his friend King Baudemagus. He suffered from madness for two years after being discovered in bed
with Elaine of Carbonek, the daughter of the Fisher King. This half-brother of Sir Hector-de-Maris was responsible
for the deaths of Gawain's brothers while attempting to rescue his lover from being burned at the stake. He had
earlier saved that lover from Meleagant in an adventure that earned him the nickname “Knight of the Cart.” For 10
points, name this man who fathered Galahad and had an affair with Guinevere, considered the best knight in the
world.
ANSWER: Sir Launcelot

17. In a section removed from one of this author’s novels, the protagonist confesses to Bishop Tikhon that he forced
the suicide of a young girl he seduced. In that novel, the nihilist Kirillov bites Pyotr Stepanovich, who murders Ivan
Shatov. In another novel, Aglaya dotes on a man who competes with Rogozhin for Nastasya Filippovna, Prince
Mishkin. In a third novel, Smerdyakov murders the father of the ex-soldier Dmitri, the scholar Ivan, and the initiate
Alyosha. For 10 points, name this novelist, who described Svidrigailov’s attempted seduction of Dounia and a pawn
broker’s murder by Raskolnikov, the author of The Brothers Karamazov and Crime and Punishment.
ANSWER: Fyodor Dostoevsky
18. Raymond-Roger de Trencavel was forced to defend the castle of Carcassonne during one of these conflicts,
which had earlier seen the death of Peter II of Aragon at the Battle of Muret. Another of these conflicts left the War
of the Lombards in its wake and occurred after John of Brienne was succeeded by Frederick II. A later one saw the
capture of Damietta by French forces but resulted in the capture of Louis IX. The defeat of Guy of Lusignan at the
Battle of Hattin triggered one of these wars in which Richard I was victorious at the Siege of Acre but was unable to
retake Jerusalem. For 10 points, name these religious wars in which Christians fought for the Holy Land.
ANSWER: Crusades [Accept Albigensian Crusade before “Lombards” is read.]
19. Muzio Clementi wrote a collection of these titled Gradus ad Parnassum. One of these works begins with an
E-E-E-E-F-E-C-E theme, while another was described by Robert Schumann as an “Aeolian Harp.” Gyorgy Ligeti
composed one titled after Brancusi’s “Infinite Column,” and Carl Czerny is remembered most for this type of
composition. Frederic Chopin composed a notable one titled “Winter Wind,” as well as one nicknamed “Black
Key,” but his most famous one appeared during the November Uprising of 1831 and is titled “Revolutionary.” For
10 points, name this type of musical composition often used to strengthen technique whose name comes from the
French word for “study.”
ANSWER: etude
20. Agriculture in this nation is distinguished between wet farming in and around cities such as Kandy in its central
portion and dry farming in regions such as its Northern Jaffna Peninsula. The Central Highlands of this nation
contain its highest point of Pidurutalagala. The mouth of the Kelani river in the west is the site of this nation’s
largest city of Colombo and its nearby capital, and this country was once connected by Adam’s Bridge to the region
of Tamil Nadu. For 10 points, name this island nation located southwest of the Bay of Bengal and southeast of the
Indian Subcontinent.
ANSWER: Sri Lanka
Bonuses
1. It is believed to have been built by the pharaoh Khafra, and it is the largest statue in the world carved out of a
single piece of rock. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this limestone statue at Giza that is lying down with its head raised in front of the Second Pyramid.
ASNWER: Great Sphinx
[10] The Dream Stele attributing the sphinx to Khafra was placed between the front paws of the sphinx by the
grandson of this pharaoh of the 18th dynasty, who succeeded his stepmother Hatshepsut in power.
ANSWER: Thutmose III [Prompt on Thutmose.]
[10] Another famous Egyptian structure is the tomb of this boy king in the Valley of the Kings that was famously
discovered by Howard Carter in 1922.
ANSWER: Tutankhamun
2. Answer the following question on chemical bond formalisms. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this famous depiction of chemical bonds, in which single bonds are represented by two dots, double
bonds by 4 dots, and triple bonds by 6 dots between elements.
ANSWER: Lewis dot formalism
[10] Arrhenius characterized these as either hydrogen ion donors or hydroxide ion donors. Name these species,
which can react in a neutralization reaction to form water and salts.
ANSWER: acids and bases [Prompt on acids or bases.]
[10] These compounds are formed by the reaction of metal ions, generally charged, with Lewis bases often called
ligands. These ligands form covalent interactions with the metal ions, generally bonding with d-orbitals. Examples
include Ziese’s salt and Vaska’s compound.
ANSWER: coordination complexes [Accept coordination compounds.]
3. Its long Ionic frieze is thought to depict a Panathenaic procession and it was designed by Iktinos and Kallikrates,
who incorporated the golden ratio into its design. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this large Greek temple that sits atop the Acropolis.
ANSWER: Parthenon
[10] The Parthenon is located in this Greek city, also home to the Areopagus where a lot of trials happened in
ancient times. It is currently the national capital.
ANSWER: Athens
[10] Another temple sitting on the Acropolis is this one, which features the Porch of the Caryatids and a series of
Ionic columns. It is named for a legendary king of Athens.
ANSWER: Erechtheion
4. In his most famous work, this philosopher attempted a destructuring or “Destruktion” of all previous western
philosophy and invented “dasein.” For 10 points:
[10] Name this philosopher, who argued that the first title concept could only be studied when stretched out over the
second in a “world historicality” in his work Being and Time.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
[10] Heidegger asked “What is” this concept in one essay. Walter Benjamin discussed the aura of this concept
before the modern era in his essay “The work of” this concept “in the age of mechanical reproduction.”
ANSWER: art
[10] Heidegger was famously accused of being active in this German party in the 1930s and 40s. Hannah Arendt
wrote about the trial of one of its members in her Eichmann in Jerusalem.
ANSWER: the Nazi party or the National Socialist German Workers’ Party or the NSDAP
5. He led an uprising that was crushed by governmental forces and saw him hanged after surrendering at the Battle
of Batoche. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of the Northwest Rebellion, a member of the Métis people who lead uprisings in Manitoba
and Saskatchewan.
ANSWER: Louis Riel
[10] Those rebellions led by Riel, which included the Red River Rebellion, were in this country north of the United
States.
ANSWER: Canada
[10] The Northwest Rebellion was quickly put down due to the construction of one of these that allowed for more
efficient troop transport. Leland Stanford helped finance one of these which helped connect the Atlantic and Pacific
coasts in the US.
ANSWER: transcontinental railroad
6. Factors that affect this measure include personal tastes, prices of related goods, and consumer expectations for the
future. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this economic measure, which almost always has a downward-sloping schedule.
ANSWER: demand
[10] This other economic concept measures the sensitivity of either supply or demand to a change in price and is
affected by the availability of substitutes and the necessity of the good in question.
ANSWER: elasticity [Accept price elasticity or price elasticity of demand.]
[10] When market demand is inelastic along a given section of the demand schedule, an increase in price will lead to
an increase in this quantity for producers. When demand is elastic, this quantity will decrease with a price increase.
ANSWER: total revenue [Do not accept “profit.”]
7. One character in this work flies to the moon on Elijah’s flaming chariot in order to recover another character’s
wits. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this epic poem by Ludovico Ariosto in which the title character’s madness is brought on by the pagan
princess Angelica’s elopement with the Moorish warrior Medoro.
ANSWER: Orlando Furioso
[10] Orlando appears under a different name in this French epic, in which he is killed defending Roncevaux pass
from the hordes of Muslims who seek to destroy the French army.
ANSWER: The Song of Roland [Accept Le Chanson de Roland.]
[10] This “great” French king is Roland/Orlando’s king and Holy Roman Emperor in both Orlando Furioso and
The Song of Roland.
ANSWER: Charlemagne
8. Answer the following about Caribbean literature. For 10 points each:
[10] This author wrote about the Cabral family’s experiences under Rafael Trujillo and their title overweight,
science fiction-loving descendant in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
ANSWER: Junot Diaz
[10] Diaz was born in this country, which saw the reign of Trujillo and shares Hispaniola with Haiti.
ANSWER: The Dominican Republic [Accept Republica Dominicana.]
[10] This other Caribbean author, a poet from St. Lucia, drew upon Homeric epics in his 1990 work Omeros.
ANSWER: Derek (Alton) Walcott
9. Name these features of the Jain religious tradition. For 10 points each:
[10] These are the liberated beings who, by teaching the Jain dharma, help others to also achieve enlightenment.
There have been twenty-four of these in this cosmic cycle.
ANSWER: tirthankaras [Accept jinas.]
[10] This most recent tirthankara, often considered the founder of Jainism, lived in the fifth or sixth century BCE,
slightly before the time of the Buddha.
ANSWER: Vardhamana or Mahavira [Accept Arukan.]
[10] According to tradition, all tirthankaras taught this principle of non-violence, which inspired Gandhi.
ANSWER: ahimsa
10. He included a bowl of oranges amongst several bottles of alcohol in A Bar at the Folies-Bergere, which depicts
the patrons as reflections in a mirror. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French Impressionist who also showed a black servant bringing a bouquet of flowers to the titular
nude prostitute in his Olympia.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet
[10] This painting of a picnic by Manet shows a nude woman seated beside two fully clothed gentlemen, and
another woman can be seen bathing in a pool in the background.
ANSWER: The Luncheon on the Grass [Accept Le dejeuner sur l'herbe.]

[10] Manet painted a man in a brown cloak seated alone with a glass of this drink beside him. It was also the subject
of a Degas painting showing two dejected patrons of a bar.
ANSWER: absinthe
11. This woman, who killed her own sons Mermerus and Pheres, married Aegeus of Athens after fleeing from
Corinth. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman who tried to poison the son of Aegeus when he came to Athens to claim his rightful place.
The plot failed when Aegeus recognized his own sword at his son's side.
ANSWER: Medea
[10] This is the aforementioned son of Aegeus. Aegeus drowned himself in his namesake sea when this man forgot
to fly white sails while returning from Crete, where he accomplished his most famous feat.
ANSWER: Theseus
[10] Theseus and his friend Pirithous each decided they should marry a daughter of Zeus. Pirithous selected
Persephone, while Theseus picked this sister of Clytemnestra who was stolen by Paris from her husband Menelaus.
ANSWER: Helen of Troy [Accept Helen of Sparta.]
12. This nation is planning to vote on independence from the United Kingdom in 2014. For 10 points each:
[10] This nation to the north of England contains a number of firths and lochs and the Highlands. According to a
New York Times Bestseller by Arthur Herman, it invented the modern world.
ANSWER: Scotland
[10] This current first minister of Scotland has pushed for the Scottish Independence Referendum as part of the
Scottish National Party’s platform.
ANSWER: (Alexander Elliot Anderson) Salmond
[10] The agreement between Alex Salmond and David Cameron that set up the 2014 referendum is named after
this Scottish city. The agreement was signed in this city’s St. Andrew’s House, the headquarters of the Scottish
government.
ANSWER: Edinburgh
13. This poem mentions people who “distributed Supercommunist pamphlets in Union Square...while the sirens of
Los Alamos wailed them down.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem. Its second part prominently features Moloch, and it begins, “I saw the best minds of my
generation destroyed by madness.”
ANSWER: “Howl”
[10] This Beat poet wrote “Howl” in addition to works like “Kaddish” and “A Supermarket in California.” He
famously palled around with other writers like Jack Kerouac and William S. Burroughs.
ANSWER: (Irwin) Allen Ginsberg
[10] This other Beat poet wrote works like “Junkman’s Obbligato,” which can be found in his collection A Coney
Island of the Mind. He ran the City Lights Bookstore in San Francisco.
ANSWER: Lawrence Ferlinghetti
14. Identify the following things about math. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this object in the real plane that is the set of points equidistant from a center point. Its area is given by
pi times r squared.
ANSWER: circle
[10] Infinite unions of these types of sets give other ones of these, as do finite intersections. Every cover made up of
these has a finite subcover for compact spaces, and they do not contain their boundaries.
ANSWER: open set
[10] One definition of these functions is that open sets map back to open sets. These functions are functions for
which small changes in input result in small changes in output. They can be formalized using epsilons and deltas.

ANSWER: continuous functions
15. One work by this man contains a “Dance of the Reed-Pipes” in addition to Russian, Arabian, and Chinese
dances. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Russian composer of a work that also contains a “Waltz of the Flowers” and features Herr
Drosselmeyer, a work in which the title character stabs the mouse king.
ANSWER: Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky
[10] Tchaikovsky also wrote this overture commemorating Russia’s victory over Napoleon in which La Marseillaise
is played as Moscow burns. It also features a famous cannon shot.
ANSWER: 1812 Overture [Accept The Year 1812.]
[10] This work by Tchaikovsky that contains a quotation from the Orthodox Requiem during its first movement also
contains a “limping waltz” in 5/4 time and a bassoon solo marked with six pianissimos that is sometimes played by a
bass clarinet.
ANSWER: Symphony Pathetique [Accept Patetičeskaja or Symphony No. 6 in B Minor.]
16. This man's trial at the Hague for genocide, racial persecution, torture, attacks on civilians, and other crimes
against humanity was called the “trial of the century.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this former President of Serbia who presided over the ethnic cleansing of Albanians in Kosovo during
Operation Horseshoe and ordered the Siege of Sarajevo.
ANSWER: Slobodan Milosevic
[10] Milosevic led Serbia following the breakup of this Balkan nation, which had included Croatia, Serbia, and
Bosnia.
ANSWER: Yugoslavia [Accept Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.]
[10] Perhaps the worst act of genocide committed by Serbian troops was this massacre of 8,000 Bosniak Muslims
that occurred during the Bosnian War. A mass killing of 62 children occurred in the same town two years before.
ANSWER: Srebrenica Massacre
17. In electromagnetic radiation, this phenomenon results from the cross terms in the calculation of the intensity of
two sources. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this effect that comes in both constructive and destructive varieties.
ANSWER: interference
[10] Two sources that are separated along the line of sight by a distance equal to this quantity will constructively
interfere. It is the distance from peak to peak in an oscillation.
ANSWER: wavelength
[10] This type of interference occurs when light reflects between a spherical surface and a planar surface. It is
named for a prominent English physicist.
ANSWER: Newton’s rings
18. This battle saw soldiers told to hold their fire at the enemy until they saw “the whites of their eyes,” a quote
which has not been clearly attributed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this early American Revolutionary Battle which was actually fought mostly on nearby Breed’s Hill.
ANSWER: Battle of Bunker Hill
[10] William Howe, who commanded the British forces at Bunker Hill, successfully led the campaign to take this
colonial capital in 1777.
ANSWER: Philadelphia
[10] This Connecticut native helped lead the colonial forces at Bunker Hill, and may have told William Prescott to
give the “whites of their eyes” order.
ANSWER: Israel Putnam

19. Sometimes it pays to be lucky in science. For 10 points each:
[10] Alexander Fleming is famous for discovering this first antibiotic, a beta-lactam, after allowing mold to grow on
his staphylococcus bacteria.
ANSWER: penicillin
[10] Penicillin works by inhibiting the formation of this component, often found in bacterial cell walls. Its structure
is that of cross-linked amino sugars.
ANSWER: peptidoglycan
[10] This technique of differentiating between groups of bacteria takes advantage of the presence or absence of
peptidoglycan, which produces a purple blue color.
ANSWER: Gram staining
20. In one work, this author points out that in ancient Greece, any book could be published, although heretical or
profane books would be burned. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author, who wrote a work reminding his audience that learned men like Moses, David, and Paul
became learned by reading books of all sorts in his Areopagitica.
ANSWER: John Milton
[10] In this work, Milton’s most famous, Satan is cast out of heaven by God and in turn tricks Adam and Eve into
eating the apple. Milton wrote this epic poem “to justify God’s ways to man.”
ANSWER: Paradise Lost
[10] In this play by Milton, the title character is taunted by Harapha after losing his strength-giving hair after
Dalila’s betrayal. At the play’s end the protagonist collapses a hall on himself and the Philistines.
ANSWER: Samson Agonistes

