Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 8
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. Kate Quigley publicly disagreed with her mother on the discussion concerning one participant in this event. Some
people feel that this event happened in response to the death of Abu Yahya al-Libi and trucks used in this event
reportedly had the logo of the Ansar al-Sharia group on them. Glen Doherty died alongside Tyrone S. Woods and
Sean Smith in this event. This event grew out of a protest against the movie “Innocence of Muslims” and it was
labeled an act of terrorism from the Rose Garden. For 10 points, name this September 11, 2012 event that took
place in the second largest city in a North African country and resulted in the death of American Ambassador J.
Christopher Stevens.
ANSWER: attack on the US Diplomatic Mission in Libya on September 11, 2012 [Accept logical equivalents
involving Benghazi and some sort of attack
2. In one work this man compared Fichte and Hegel to the irony of the titular philosopher as described by
Aristophanes. In addition to On the Concept of Irony with Continual Reference to Socrates, this man wrote a work
which compares one figure to the blackened breast of a woman trying to wean her child. In another work this man
considered Don Juan and wrote a chapter entitled “The Seducer’s Diary.” One of this thinker’s works begins, “is
there a teleological suspension of the ethical,” and goes on to consider the Knight of Faith and the Knight of Infinite
Resignation. For 10 points, name this philosopher, author of Fear and Trembling and Either/Or.
ANSWER: Soren (Aabye) Kierkegaard
3. One person of this surname analyzed forgetfulness and loyalty to the dead in the work “About Losing and Being
Lost.” That thinker contributed to a field mainly concerned with “defense analysis,” which that person claimed
can be studied through the manifestation of a person’s associations. Another person of this surname discovered
a phenomenon in which people shift feelings about one person to another, called transference. That thinker also
discussed “thanatos,” or the death drive, in his work Beyond the Pleasure Principle. For 10 points, give this last
name shared by a father-daughter duo known for their work in psychoanalysis, Anna and Sigmund.
ANSWER: Freud [Accept Anna Freud and Sigmund Freud, or Sigismund Schlomo Freud.]
4. In a thermodynamic process named for Bordwell, a law analogous to this law can be used to determine unknown
and experimentally inaccessible values for Gibbs Free Energy changes in chemical reactions. Lattice energies are
commonly calculated using this law in a process that uses ionization energies, vaporization enthalpies, and electron
affinities; that is the Born-Haber cycle. A consequence of this law is that the line integral around any path in the
state space of enthalpy is zero. Another consequence is that the enthalpy change of a reverse process is equal to the
negative of the enthalpy change of a forward process. For 10 points, name this law that states that enthalpy is a state
function.
ANSWER: Hess’s Law
5. A dispute involving Guillermo Guevara Paz around the “fence of shame” in this country is commemorated on its
January 9th Martyr’s Day. First discovered by Rodrigo de Bastidas, rule transferred to Guillermo Endara after one
event, and it was also ruled by Omar Torrijos. Tomas Herran signed a treaty about this country, which was followed
by a treaty in which it was represented by Philippe Bunau-Varilla. Until Operation Just Cause, this country was led
by Manuel Noriega and following a failed attempt in Nicaragua became home to a structure that dramatically cut
ship transit times. For 10 points, name this country bordering Costa Rica and Colombia, home to a namesake Canal.

ANSWER: Republic of Panama [Accept Republica de Panama.]
6. The antennae of moths assist them in flying by accounting for this effect, which is also used in mass flow meters.
The Rossby number can describe whether this effect is prominent in a system by relating it to inertial forces. When
considered on the Earth, the Beta effect leads to its variation with latitude. This effect is caused by a pseudoforce
and it was studied by a French scientist interested in water wheels. Leading to deflection of moving objects in
rotating reference frames, it drives oceanic and atmospheric currents. For 10 points, name this effect which
causes cyclones on Earth to rotate counter-clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Southern
Hemisphere.
ANSWER: Coriolis effect
7. Some of his earliest works are found in a book used by his father to teach piano to his sister, the Nannerl
Notebuch. This composer of the “Jeunehomme” Piano Concerto and an unfinished “Great” Mass in C Minor wrote a
piano work suggesting the sounds of Ottoman military bands. Franz Sussmayer completed a work of this composer
of a Coronation Mass and Rondo Alla Turca, who wrote many symphonies including the Linz, Haffner, Great G
Minor, and Jupiter. His death left his Requiem unfinished, and his Serenade No. 13 for strings is called Eine Kleine
Nachtmusik. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of operas such as Cosi Fan Tutte and Don Giovanni.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
8. In an attempted assassination, Ferdinand Cohen-Blind shot at this man five times before slicing his own throat.
This man, whose tenure was supported by Albrecht von Roon, organized a conference that formalized the process of
colonization in Africa and passed a series of laws allowing for state regulation of the clergy named after education
minister Adalbert Falk. Born to Junker parents, he was responsible for the Schnaebele incident and doctored
an exchange with Count Benedetti that lead to war with France, the Ems telegram. He opposed Catholics in
the “Kulturkampf” and was known for developing his “Realpolitik” during the reign of Wilhelm I. For 10 points,
identify this “Iron Chancellor” of Prussia.
ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck [Accept Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg.]
9. He’s not John Bunyan, but this author wrote about a man who seeks a mountain symbolizing perfection but is
waylaid in Haira and Aman. In addition to The Journey of Ibn Fattouma, he wrote a novel in which members of the
titular street compete for the hand of Hamida, and another in which the prostitute Nur loves Said Mahran. In a fourth
novel, the offspring of the titular patriarch represent the Abrahamic religions. In this author’s most favorite work,
al-Sayyid Ahmad attempts to dominate his children, including Yasin, Khadija, and Kamal. For 10 points, name this
author of Midaq Alley, The Thief and the Dogs, The Children of Gebalawi, and The Cairo Trilogy.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
10. In this present-day state, John Coode led four Protestant rebellions following the Glorious Revolution. In
November 2007, this state’s capital hosted a Middle East Peace Conference. Charles I granted the land for this state
to a man who died before he could receive it. The Pratt Street Massacre in this state was the first bloodshed in the
Civil War. Soon after the Glorious Revolution, the colonial capital was moved from St. Mary’s City to its current
location. After Charles II gave away part of this state’s original land grant, the Mason-Dixon line was used to
settle its dispute with Pennsylvania. For ten points, name this colony that was formed from land granted to George
Calvert, the 1st Lord Baltimore.
ANSWER: Maryland [Accept Province of Maryland.]
11. One artist from this movement placed a butterfly in front of the pubic region of a title nude figure, on whose
hand an owl is perched. In addition to that Portrait of the Dwarf Morgante, this school of painting produced a
Deposition scene by Jacopo Pontormo as well as a circular self-portrait with an distorted hand in the foreground,

the result of looking into a convex mirror. Perhaps the best-known work from this movement shows Saint Jerome
holding a scroll in the background and an elongated Christ child in the arms of a long-necked Mary. For 10 points,
name this art movement that included Bronzino and Parmigianino, known for its elongated figures.
ANSWER: Mannerism
12. This behavior is initiated by secretion of GABA from the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus, and bruxism is the
most common disorder occurring during it. Disorders of it include cataplexy, which is this process’s inappropriate
activation. Its onset is signaled by melatonin secretion. Its last stage is activated by acetylcholine and inhibited by
serotonin, and that stage is preceded by stages of theta activity and delta activity. That last stage, associated with
learning of complex tasks, is REM. For 10 points, name this state of unconsciousness of which adolescents need
approximately eight hours, during which it is possible to have dreams.
ANSWER: sleep
13. Rubin found anomalous rotation curves in spiral galaxies that implied the existence of this that caused velocity
to stay constant with radius. The WMAP experiment excluded the warm type of this, and Zwicky postulated the
existence of halos of this material. Baryonic forms were not found in enough abundance in astronomical surveys,
leading WIMPs to be considered the main component of this, and the existence of its cold type is part of the ΛCDM
model. This substance makes up 24% of the mass-energy of the universe. For 10 points, name this substance
detected through its gravitational effects because it neither emits nor scatters electromagnetic radiation.
ANSWER: dark matter
14. In one of this director's films, one character asks his friend about a strapless bra hanging off of a lamp on her
desk, and later follows a woman to an art museum where she gazes at the Portrait of Carlotta Valdes. In another
film by this man, the villainous Philip Vandamm sends a cropdusting plane to run over the protagonist, who is
mistaken for the secret agent George Kaplan and survives a chase across Mount Rushmore. This director also
created a film in which Melanie and Mitch are trapped in a house in Bodega Bay as thousands of the titular animals
attack them. For 10 points, name this director behind Vertigo, North by Northwest, Psycho, and The Birds.
ANSWER: Alfred (Joseph) Hitchcock
15. Of the 75 classes of things Vasubandhu denotes in his Treasury of Metaphysics, two of the unconditioned
classes refer to this state, which is often portrayed by a reclining image of the man who first taught how it might
be obtained. This state refers to the “blowing out” of the fires of hatred, delusion, and greed, and is distinguished
from moksa. This goal is at the end of a regimen of ethical action, meditation, and wisdom called the Eightfold Path,
which is also known as the Fourth Noble Truths. After attaining this soteriological goal, like Siddhartha Gautama
did under the Bodhi tree, a person will then attain its pari- or complete variety at the moment of death upon which he
or she will undergo no future rebirths. For 10 points, name this goal of Buddhism.
ANSWER: nirvana [Accept nibbana or nirodha]
16. A poem by E. A. Robinson refers to this figure as “elemental when he died, as he was ancient at his birth.” That
poem is “The Master.” Another poem about this figure asks a gray-brown bird to “sing out! Sing out” from “the
swamps, the recesses.” The speaker of that poem notes, “the great star early droop’d in the western sky in the
night, and [I] thought of him I love.” In another poem about this figure, the narrator announces that “the ship has
weathered every rack, the prize we sought is won” before screaming “O heart! heart! O drops of bleeding red!” For
10 points, name this subject of “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” and “O Captain! My Captain!”
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
17. This man signed the Treaty of Le Goulet with France, an agreement which betrothed Blanche of Castile to the
French heir, Louis the Lion. This figure laid siege to Mirebeau Castle after the death of his brother Geoffrey while
trying to wrest Brittany from his nephew Arthur. That conflict was followed up by the defeat of this king's allied

force with Ferrand of Flanders and Emperor Otto IV at the Battle of Bouvines, which resulted in this man being
forced to sign a document at Runnymede. Robert Fitzwaller led the First Barons' War against this king, who took
power while his brother Richard was on Crusade. For 10 points, name this English king who in 1215 signed the
Magna Carta.
ANSWER: John I [Accept John Lackland.]
18. One character in this novel tells of how he stared at the blank spaces on a map as a child. The protagonist waits
for a month for a supply of rivets, and another character is killed by a spear when he leans out of a window. A
Russian traveller in this novel warns the protagonist that whistles will be more use than guns. The protagonist, who
tells his story aboard The Nellie, debates whether to tell the truth about a man’s last words to his fiance in Belgium.
That man, who had lived in a house surrounded by decapitated heads, utters, “The horror! The horror!” For 10
points, name this novel in which Marlow searches for Mr. Kurtz in the Congo, written by Joseph Conrad.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
19. This figure bore a grudge against Pelias of Iolcus because he murdered Sidero in her temple, and later she
convinced Aphrodite to make Medea fall in love with Jason after the hero helped her cross a river. This goddess
struck Tiresias blind when he claimed that women enjoy sex more, and the Milky Way was created from this
goddess' breast milk while she was unknowingly nursing Heracles. One of her servants was a giant with onehundred eyes named Argus, who was killed by Hermes while watching over Io for her. For 10 points, name this
mother of Hebe, Hephaestus, and Ares, the Greek goddess of marriage and wife of Zeus.
ANSWER: Hera
20. This author wrote a play in which Vadius is kissed by a bunch of women because he knows ancient Greek, and
in another the protagonist is exiled from society after critiquing a nobleman’s mediocre poetry. In this author’s most
famous play, a man hides under a table while his wife seduces another man. Unfortunately, despite the advice of
Dorine and Damis, that man had already turned over the deed of his house to another. Mariane and Valere are able
to marry at the end of that play, which sees the title character, a false priest, attempt to woo his patron Orgon’s wife
Elmire. For 10 points, name this French playwright, author of The Learned Ladies, The Misanthrope, and Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
Bonuses
1. This playwright, who is not T. S. Eliot, adapted Henry II’s assassination of the Archbishop of Canterbury into the
play Becket. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French playwright, a vocal critic of the Vichy government, who wrote plays like Romeo and
Jeanette, Ring Round the Moon, and The Lark.
ANSWER: Jean (Marie Lucien Pierre) Anouilh
[10] Anouilh’s play The Lark tells the story of this historical figure. Other works about her include Friedrich
Schiller’s The Maid of Orleans, and Shaw wrote a play whose title added “Saint” to this woman’s first name.
ANSWER: Joan of Arc
[10] Anouilh adapted this play by Sophocles as a critique of the Vichy government. In it, Creon forces the death of
the title character when she attempts to bury her brother Polynices without the help of her sister Ismene.
ANSWER: Antigone
2. In this novel, Mariam’s father Jalil arranges her marriage with the shoemaker Rasheed, but Mariam miscarries
seven times. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel by Khalid Hosseini that sees Mariam kill Rasheed with a shovel to prevent him finding out
about a tryst between Laila and Tariq.
ANSWER: A Thousand Splendid Suns

[10] This other novel by Hosseini details the relationship between two boys--a Pashtun, Amir, and a Hazara, Hassan,
who is later executed by the Taliban.
ANSWER: The Kite Runner
[10] Both A Thousand Splendid Suns and The Kite Runner are set in this country with capital Kabul.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan [Accept Jomhūrī-ye Eslāmī-ye Afġānistān or Da Afġānistān Islāmī
Jomhoriyat.]
3. His presidency ushered in the so-called “Era of Good Feelings.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fifth US President who won almost unanimous re-election in 1820 despite the Panic of 1819 and
animosity over the Missouri Compromise.
ANSWER: James Monroe
[10] Monroe’s administration saw the signing of the Adams-Onís treaty, which added this as a US territory.
ANSWER: Florida
[10] This Convention signer was the final Presidential nominee of the dwindling Federalist Party and lost all but one
state to Monroe in 1816.
ANSWER: Rufus King
4. Answer the following questions about the elements. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this element, which exists in the diatomic state triply-bonded to itself, which is an essential component of
the amino-group in organic chemistry and occurs naturally in azide salts.
ANSWER: nitrogen [Accept N.]
[10] Two atoms of this element with 6 hydrogens form a compound that displays “banana bonds.” This element has
three valence electrons and participates in trigonal planar arrangements with halogens.
ANSWER: boron [Accept B.]
[10] This transition metal, which is generally regarded as the “noblest” metal due to its lowest reactivity among all
metals, is often used in hydrogenation chemistry. The coordination complex formed with this metal, two ammonia
ligands, and two chloride ligands is a powerful anti-tumor agent.
ANSWER: platinum [Accept Pt.]
5. They can form within derechos and often come down from cumulonimus clouds. For 10 points each:
[10] Name highly-destructive these vortexes of rapidly spinning air, types of which include waterspouts and dust
devils.
ANSWER: tornado
[10] The strength of a tornado is measured on this scale, the strongest getting a rating of 5 that is achieved upon
getting 260 mile per hour winds; it was later improved by an enhanced version.
ANSWER: Fujita Scale
[10] Tornadoes can form from these, which are thunderstorms that have within them rotating mesocyclones and
strong updrafts.
ANSWER: supercells
6. This work argued the presence of a “machinery for consumer-demand creation” was creating a “dependence
effect” in America. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1958 work that analyzed income disparity and consumer spending and popularized the
term “conventional wisdom.”
ANSWER: The Affluent Society
[10] This Harvard economist and author of The New Industrial State wrote The Affluent Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith
[10] Galbraith also penned a history of the United States economy leading up to this event that helped set off the
Great Depression on “Black Monday” and “Black Tuesday.”

ANSWER: the Wall Street Crash of 1929, (accept equivalents, including Stock Market Crash of 1929 or
descriptions, such as the stock market falling in 1929, as well as the title of Galbraith’s work The Great Crash,
1929)
7. One character in this novel defeats knights like Brian de Bois-Guilbert under the pseudonym Deschidado before
being saved during a melee by a man known as the Black Sluggard. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this novel which sees historic characters like Robin Hood and Richard the Lionheart help the titular
character save Rebecca from the evils of the Templars and marry Lady Rowena.
ANSWER: Ivanhoe
[10] This British historical novelist wrote Ivanhoe in addition to other novels like Waverley, The Bride of
Lammermoor, and Rob Roy.
ANSWER: Sir Walter Scott
[10] Jane Eyre reads this Scott novel, which takes place during the Porteous riots and features Meg Murdockson
trying to frame Effie Deans for the murder of Effie’s child while Effie’s sister Jeanie marries Reuben Butler.
ANSWER: The Heart of Midlothian
8. In an opera by this man, Leonore, Rocco, Jaquino, and Marzelline sing the Canon Quartet about Marzelline’s love
for the title character. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this composer whose only opera features the imprisoned Florestan being rescued by his wife Leonore,
who is disguised as the titular Fidelio.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
[10] This other composer also only wrote one opera, in which Siegfried, the Count of Brabant, orders Golo to kill
the title character before discovering the treachery of Golo. That opera is Genoveva.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
[10] This other composer wrote many operas, including the sequel to The Barber of Seville, in which Rosina and the
Count Almaviva are married. That opera is The Marriage of Figaro.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
9. This feature can be found in Greenland, the Faroe Islands, and even Chile. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this term for an inlet straddled by steep cliffs, a common geographical feature of Scandinavia created by
glaciers that have melted away.
ANSWER: fjord
[10] This Arctic archipelago owned by Norway is the northernmost holding of any Scandinavian country and was
originally used as a whaling base.
ANSWER: Svalbard archipelago
[10] This sea between Norway and Britain is bound to the north by the Orkney Islands and becomes the English
Channel at the Straits of Dover.
ANSWER: North Sea
10. In 2008, Hugo Chavez began an investigation into this man’s death and concluded that New Granada traitors
poisoned him. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of South American Independence who was president of Gran Colombia, known as “The
Liberator.”
ANSWER: Simon (Jose Antonio de la Santisima Trinidad) Bolivar (y Palacios Ponte y Blanco)
[10] The decisive victory that allowed Bolivar to win Colombian independence occurred at this battle, where Bolivar
flanked Barreiro’s rear guard. It shares its name with a commemorative bridge in Colombia.
ANSWER: Battle of Boyaca

[10] The independence of this South American nation did not heavily feature Bolivar. Instead, it saw founding father
Bernardo O’Higgins win victory at Chacabuco with the help of San Martin.
ANSWER: Republic of Chile [Republica de Chile.]
11. Name these methods of disposing of one's dead. For 10 points each:
[10] This is the mode of disposing of one's dead common among Hindus in India. It involves the burning of the
body, and the ashes that are created are often cast into rivers.
ANSWER: cremation [Accept equivalents.]
[10] Sutton Hoo is an example of this method of disposal common among Germanic peoples. Vikings combined this
method with cremation.
ANSWER: ship burial or boat grave [Accept equivalents.]
[10] Zoroastrians traditionally expose their dead to vultures and other carrion birds in one of these structures.
ANSWER: towers of silence [Accept dakhmag.]
12. Derek Parfit gave the “repugnant conclusion” as a counter to this philosophical system. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophical system which advocates achieving the greatest good for the greatest number, perhaps
resulting in the “torment of the few.”
ANSWER: utilitarianism
[10] This British philosopher and author of Principles of Morals and Legislation is considered the founder of
utilitarianism. He was also an early animal rights activist.
ANSWER: Jeremy Bentham
[10] The utility monster, a creature unaffected by diminishing marginal returns, was created by Robert Nozick in
this work which aimed to refute claims made in John Rawls’s A Theory of Justice.
ANSWER: Anarchy, State and, Utopia
13. Fergus mac Roich was a commander for the forces of Connacht in this war, having earlier been betrayed by
Conchobar mac Nessa. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war central to the Ulster Cycle, which saw Cuchulainn devastate the armies of Queen Medb, who
was really interested in stealing a certain Brown Bull.
ANSWER: Cattle Raid of Cooley [Accept Tain Bo Cualinge.]
[10] Another mythological cow was the Marathonian or Cretan Bull, which fathered this half-bull and half-human
monster with Pasiphae, whose husband had Daedalus build a Labyrinth to contain it.
ANSWER: the Minotaur
[10] This lover of Zeus was turned into a cow to hide her from Hera's jealous prying. Hera asked for the cow as a
gift, so this nymph was watched over by the hundred-eyed Argus Panoptes.
ANSWER: Io
14. This ruler ended the period of the Tetrarchy after inflicting a heavy defeat against Licinius at the 324 BC Battle
of Adrianople. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first Christian Roman Emperor, who legalized all religions throughout the empire in the Edict of
Milan. He also lends his name to the capital of the future Byzantine Empire.
ANSWER: Constantine I [Accept Constantine the Great.]
[10] According to legend, Constantine converted to Christianity after his victory in this battle because before the
battle he dreamed about a cross appearing in the sky.
ANSWER: Battle of Milvian Bridge
[10] This man was the losing commander at Milvian Bridge, where he was killed. The death of this son of Maximian
handed Constantine sole control over the Western Roman Empire.
ANSWER: Maxentius

15. The author of this poem describes the passage to heaven as “an innumerable caravan, which moves / to that
mysterious realm.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem which begins “To him who in the love of nature holds / communion with her visible forms.”
Its title is often translated as “A Meditation upon Death”
ANSWER: “Thanatopsis”
[10] This other poem by the author of “Thanatopsis” asks the titular bird which the poet encounters on the road
“Far, through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue / Thy solitary way?”
ANSWER: “To a Waterfowl”
[10] This American poet of “Thanatopsis” and “To a Waterfowl” also edited the New York Evening Post.
ANSWER: William Cullen Bryant
16. Some types of this quantity can be calculated in any system with conservative forces. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity, which comes in chemical and gravitational varieties and is often contrasted with kinetic
energy.
ANSWER: potential energy
[10] At this speed, the sum of an object’s kinetic energy and gravitational potential energy is zero, meaning the
object can in principle travel infinitely far away from whatever gravitational force is holding it down.
ANSWER: escape velocity
[10] This quantity is the difference of the kinetic energy and the potential energy. It names a formalism based on
Hamilton’s Principle, and its integral is the action.
ANSWER: Lagrangian
17. It was begun after an attempted suicide of Robert Schumann, and was written in commemoration of the death of
the composer’s mother. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this non-liturgical composition for chorus and orchestra which contains sections including “blessed are
they that mourn” and ends with “blessed are the dead”.
ANSWER: A German Requiem, To the Words of Holy Scriptures [Accept Ein deutsches Requiem, nach Worten
der heiligen Schrift.]
[10] This man composed A German Requiem in addition to a Tragic Overture and variations on themes of Pagnini
and Haydn.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
[10] This work by Brahms also known as “Cradle Song” is often sung by parents to put their children to sleep.
ANSWER: Brahms’ Lullaby [Accept Wiegenlied: Guten Abend, gute Nacht (either).]
18. Fig leaves were added to this work by Daniele da Volterra in order to cover pubic regions, but most of them
were removed during later restoration. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this skull-shaped fresco in which Michelangelo included himself as the flayed skin of Bartholomew. In it,
God calls the holy up to Heaven and damns sinners to Hell.
ANSWER: The Last Judgment
[10] The Last Judgment occupies most of one of the walls in this room, the ceiling of which features more paintings
by Michelangelo including The Creation of Adam.
ANSWER: Sistine Chapel [Accept Capella Sistina.]
[10] One of the wall paintings in the Sistine Chapel was painted by this artist and shows a kneeling Peter receiving
the keys to the Kingdom of God from Jesus.
ANSWER: Pietro Perugino
19. It has many responsibilities, including the storage of vitamins A, D, and B12 and filtering blood via Kupfer cells.
For 10 points each:

[10] Name this largest organ in the human body which can face cirrhosis from alcoholism, hepatitis B, and hepatitis
C.
ANSWER: liver
[10] The liver also plays a role in carbohydrate metabolism by using gluconeogenesis to avoid this condition, often a
diabetes complication that can cause fainting.
ANSWER: hypoglycemia (or low blood sugar, equivalents)
[10] One hormone that increases gluconeogenesis is this steroid also known as the stress hormone which increases
metabolism but decreases immunity.
ANSWER: cortisol
20. The Battle of Brunkeberg was fought here between Sweden and Denmark when Sten Sture the Elder advocated
Swedish secession. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city where a Danish invasion resulted in the massacre of nearly a hundred people in its
namesake “Bloodbath.” It's also the capital of Sweden.
ANSWER: Stockholm
[10] The Stockholm Bloodbath was perpetrated by the troops of the second Danish king with this name. The tenth
king of this name supposedly showed solidarity with Jews during World War II by wearing a yellow star.
ANSWER: Christian
[10] Both the aforementioned Battle of Brunkeberg and the Stockholm Bloodbath were Danish responses to Swedish
resistance to this personal union of both countries created by Margaret I of Denmark in 1397.
ANSWER: Kalmar Union [Accept Kalmarunionen.]

