Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 10
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. James Strang, founder of the Strangite sect of this religion, was king of Beaver Island until his assassination.
Other sects of this faith include Rigdonites and Bickertonites. At one point, members of this faith settled in
Independence, Missouri, where the Church of Christ Temple Lot is based. This faith began when its first leader had
the “grove experience” and after that man’s murder, its followers left Nauvoo, Illinois to established the State of
Deseret under the leadership of Brigham Young. This faith’s holy book was translated from golden plates revealed
by the angel Moroni. For 10 points, name this religion founded by Joseph Smith, of which Mitt Romney is an
adherent.
ANSWER: Mormons [Accept Mormonism, Latter-Day Saints, Latter-Day Saint movement, or LDS church.]
2. This scientist was the first recorded man to predict global warming due to human fossil-fuel burning and he
received the Nobel prize for discovering the mechanism of electricity conduction through electrolytes by ions in
solution. He further believed that ions existed in electrolytic solutions independent of current. This man was one of
the founders of physical chemistry, and an equation relating activation energy and rate constants is named for him.
This scientist also has a namesake definition of acids and bases where acids donate H+, whereas bases donate OH-.
For 10 points, name this contemporary of van’t Hoff and Ostwald, a Swedish chemist.
ANSWER: Svante (August) Arrhenius
3. One character in this novel takes a scythe and works in the field before inventing a new cooperative enterprise
system, and that character’s brother Sergei is a famous novelist. At the end of this novel, one of the main characters
goes to fight in Serbia against the Turks. That character had earlier raced his mare Frou-Frou too hard, breaking
her back. The main character of this novel tries to prevent the divorce of her brother Stepan and his wife Dolly,
but she ends up deserting her son Seryozha and her husband’s offer of divorce to tour Europe with her lover before
jumping in front of a train. For 10 points, name this novel about Kitty, Levin, Vronsky, and the titular socialite by
Leo Tolstoy.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
4. This man names a period of time in the history of the universe, during which the four fundamental forces were
unified, that period lasted for an amount of time that is one unit in his system of natural called "God's units."
This man’s introduction of the “action quantum” in his study of heat theory led him to formulate an eponymous
law that reduces to Rayleigh-Jeans Law at long wavelengths. That law of blackbody radiation helped to resolve
the “ultraviolet catastrophe” and led to the development of quantum theory. For 10 points, name this scientist,
whose constant has value 6.626*10^-34 joule-seconds and is symbolized by the letter h.
ANSWER: Max (Karl Ernst Ludwig) Planck
5. A man in red leaning over some ramparts in front of a river cityscape can be seen through three arches in one
work by this artist, which also shows a man in brown and gold robes kneeling at a Book of Hours in front of Mary.
Another work by this artist of Madonna of Chancellor Rolin shows clergy, knights, prophets, and martyrs gathering
for the central Adoration of the Lamb scene, and also shows God the Father enthroned in its top panel. This man
is best known for a work with a circular mirror on the back wall, an open window at left, and a dog at the feet of a
newly wedded couple. For 10 points, name this Flemish painter of The Ghent Altarpiece and The Arnolfini Wedding.

ANSWER: Jan van Eyck [Accept Johannes de Eyck, as well as the Madonna of Chancellor Rolin before “this
artist.”]
6. Morgan Snook served under this man during an expedition where he captained the Grenville, while Herman
Sporing and Daniel Solander were naturalists on one of his voyages. This man, who produced a detailed map of
Newfoundland, helped map the St. Lawrence River during the Siege of Quebec. Johann and Georg Foster succeeded
Joseph Banks in one role on his expeditions, the last of which saw him fail to pass through the Bering Strait aboard
the Resolution in an attempt to find the Northwest Passage. This discoverer of the eastern coast of Australia sailed
on the HMS Endeavor. For 10 points name this discoverer of the Sandwich Islands, now known as Hawaii.
ANSWER: Captain James Cook
7. Confabulation and amnesia in Korsakoff’s syndrome is one potential result of deficiency in this group of
compounds, and a related deficiency results in the three Ds of dermatitis, diarrhea, and dementia. Pregnant women
take a form of these groups as supplements to avoid birth defects and their consumption is also key to preventing
pellegra and beri-beri. Yellow-green urine results from excess intake of these chemicals and 5-hour Energy
unscientifically includes four of its members because they promote energy production and cell growth. For 10
points, name this group of vitamins including thiamine, riboflavin, and niacin and a 12 variety, which had been
previously considered a single vitamin.
ANSWER: B vitamins [Accept thiamine or B1 before “group of compounds”]
8. In November 2012, this country’s finance minister announced a $5 billion loan between the IMF and this
country’s Building and Development, that man is al-Nour. Salafist Front parties have recently been locked in
conflict about the inclusion of Sharia law in this country’s constitution. This country’s upper house of parliament,
the Shura, is currently controlled by the Freedom and Justice Party, whose chairman, Mohamed Morsi, is also the
current president of this nation. For 10 points, name this country which has seen controversy about Morsi’s ties to
the Muslim Brotherhood, in which protests in Tahrir Square led to the ouster of president Hosni Mubarak in 2011.
ANSWER: Arab Republic of Egypt
9. A Parsi servant in this work predicts that two hearses driving across the sea will serve as an omen for another
character’s death. In addition to Fedallah, other men in this book include the tiny Pip and the gigantic Daggoo. One
character in this novel keeps a strange coffin in the shape of a canoe, and another character nails a golden coin to
the mast of a ship. The Rachel saves the narrator of this novel, who began his life as a schoolteacher. That narrator
meets the the harpooner Queequeg before setting sail on the Pequod. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by
Ishmael, in which Captain Ahab is destroyed by the titular white whale, by Herman Melville.
ANSWER: Moby-Dick: or, the White Whale
10. Benedetto Marcello’s Il Teatro Alla Moda was published under a pseudonym constructed from this composer’s
name. This man composed a set of violin concertos named after the lyre-like cetra. This man also composed
concerto collections titled La Stravaganza and L’estro Armonico. This composer of a concerto for the mandolin
wrote an oratorio in which Holofernes is beheaded; that is Juditha Triumphans. The Contest Between Harmony and
Invention includes his most well known work, a set of four violin concerti. For 10 points, identify this man known as
the “Red Priest,” the composer of the concerti “Spring,” “Summer,” “Autumn,” and “Winter” that make up his Four
Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio (Lucio) Vivaldi
11. This city was added to Austrian territory in the Treaty of Campo Formio, which was signed at the home of its
last independent ruler, Ludovico Manin. Forces from this city under Bartolomeo d'Alviano were crushed by Louis
XII of France at the Battle of Agnadello during a war named for the League of Cambrai, which was formed by Pope

Julius II to oppose this city's power. Enrico Dandolo convinced a large fleet to pay its debts to this city by attacking
Zara in Dalmatia and then sacking Constantinople. For 10 points, name this Italian city formerly led by Doges, who
participated in the annual “Marriage of the Sea” ceremony held to honor this city's dependence on its many canals.
ANSWER: Venice [Accept Venezia or Venexia.]
12. One of this author’s characters is a doctor who reads the Bible to an illiterate farm family that ends up crucifying
him. This author imagined Averroes attempting to translate Aristotle’s Poetics in one work, and another sees Red
Scharlach murder the detective Erik Lonnrot at Triste-le-Roi. Aside from writing “The Gospel According to Mark,”
this author described an object found in Daneri’s cellar that allows one to see everything in the universe from every
angle. For 10 points, name this author of “Death and the Compass” and “The Aleph,” an Argentinian who also wrote
about the German spy Yu Tsun [sun] in “The Garden of Forking Paths.”
ANSWER: Jorge (Francisco Isidoro) Luis Borges
13. Following one war in this nation, Ruth Perry held power as Chairwoman of the Council of State. That conflict
saw Prince Johnson show the execution of the president on television. William Tolbert, a member of the True Whig
party, lead this country until his overthrow by Samuel Doe, who himself was killed in the civil war that saw Charles
Taylor take power. Currently led by Africa’s first female head of state to gain her position through election, Ellen
Johnson-Sirleaf, it was founded mostly by freed slaves from the United States. Its capital is named after the fifth
president of the United States. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Monrovia.
ANSWER: Republic of Liberia
14. The flames surrounding the Nataraja, or the god Shiva dancing, represent this event, which occurs every four
yugas. Both the eighteenth chapter of the Qur'an and the Book of Ezekiel indicate that a conflict between Gog
and Magog will occur during this event. The beasts Zizz, Behemoth, and Leviathan will be served as entrees at
a large banquet after they are slain by God at this time. A sun that rises in the west, three huge earthquakes, and
a “false Messiah” or Antichrist will accompany this event brought about when the angel Gabriel blows a trumpet to
resurrect the dead. For 10 points, name this final event in religious cosmologies, which some believe will occur this
December.
ANSWER: the end of the world [Accept equivalents.]
15. This thinker criticized Keynesian psychology in a work that called for an “industrial consumption price index.”
This man determined that every Riemann manifold can be isometrically embedded into a given Euclidean space in
his namesake “embedding theorem.” This thinker is best known for a concept proved by the Brouwer Fixed Point
theorem which describes a situation in which no person will change his strategy while knowing the strategy of his
opponent. For 10 points, name this subject of a biography by Sylvia Nasar and namesake of an “equilibrium” in the
field of game theory, an American mathematician whose struggles with schizophrenia were famously detailed in A
Beautiful Mind.
ANSWER: John Forbes Nash, Jr.
16. The TAS Classification names these objects, which often form through the Tholeiitic or calc-alkaline series.
Vine, Matthews, and Morley found patterns in one type of these, whose namesake “large provinces” are found in
places including the Siberian Traps and Deccan Traps. Including rocks such as andesite and peridotite, this type of
rock makes up batholiths and laccoliths, and can be classified based on metal and silicon content as felsic or mafic.
Based on crystal size they are phaneritic or aphanitic and based on formation they are intrusive or extrusive. For 10
points, name this type of rock, examples of which include granite and basalt, formed from cooled magma.
ANSWER: igneous rock [Prompt on a specific igneous rock, e.g. “granite” or “basalt.” Prompt on “Rock.”]
17. In one work associated with the “neo” variety of this philosophical movement, the author criticizes a reliance
on the correspondence theory of truth in Analytic philosophy. That work is Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature by

Richard Rorty. The founder of this branch of philosophy described four methods to overcome the titular “Fixation of
Belief” in one essay; that man is Charles Peirce. In one work advocating this philosophy, it is described as “A New
Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking.” For 10 points, name this philosophy that advocated practical knowledge,
championed by men such as John Dewey and William James.
ANSWER: pragmatism
18. With a cult center at Abydos, this god was usually depicted wearing a crown with ostrich feathers, and he
eventually became conflated with the corn god Neper, and later to the bull god Apis in a syncretic deity known as
Serapis. This god carried a crook and flail, and was found in a tamarisk tree at Byblos by his wife, who was his
sister since both were children of Geb and Nut. This god was cut up into fourteen pieces by his jealous brother Set,
after which he became ruler of a location where dead souls were weighed by Anubis against the feather of Maat. For
10 points, name this husband of Isis and father of Horus, the Egyptian god of the underworld.
ANSWER: Osiris [Accept Usiris.]
19. In Rousseau’s Emile, the only book Emile can read before age 12 is named for this character. The fictional
novelist Daniel Foe fictionalizes Susan Barton’s encounter with this character in a novel by J. M. Coetzee, and
in the novel in which this character most famously appears, he fights off wolves in the Pyrenees. This man takes
up occupancy on the Island of Despair, and he decides he has no right to kill uneducated cannibals.This character
famously sees a footprint on the beach. For 10 points, name this character who names his friend after the day of the
week he met him, a Friday, created by Daniel Defoe and based off shipwrecked sailor Alexander Selkirk.
ANSWER: Robinson Crusoe
20. A sculpture of this name at the Glenkiln Sculpture Trail shows a hunched-over figure with clasped hands and
raised arms which was made by Jacob Epstein. Antonio Canova sculpted a kneeling figure of this name with a cross
resting over a skull and the figure's knees. A legend about that same figure fasting for thirty days inspired a wood
sculpture showing an extremely gaunt depiction in which she is covered in her long hair. St. Peter's Basilica contains
a very youthful sculpture of another woman by this name in which she holds in her lap the body of her dead son. For
10 points, give this name shared by the subjects of Donatello's Penitent Magdalene and Michelangelo's Pieta.
ANSWER: Mary [Accept Maria. Be lenient and accept Mary Magdalene or the Virgin Mary even though the
Epstein work is just “Mary.”]
Bonuses
1. The first man to be considered as holder of this position helped deal with the South Sea Bubble, but resigned
following the disastrous Siege of Cartagena. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this position first held by Robert Walpole, the head of the government of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
[10] This man was Prime Minister many times in the mid-to-late 1800s. This Liberal leader was a fierce rival of
Benjamin Disraeli and supported Irish Home Rule.
ANSWER: William Ewart Gladstone
[10] This is the name given to the campaign strategy of Gladstone during the 1880 election during which he gave a
series of powerful speeches against Turkish atrocities in Bulgaria. It is considered to have set the stage for modern
political campaigning.
ANSWER: Midlothian Campaign

2. Answer the following questions about electrochemistry. For 10 points each:
[10] This equation of electrochemistry relates the voltage across the terminals of a galvanic cell to the standard
reduction potentials of each of its half-cells and the concentrations of aqueous ions in its half-cells.

ANSWER: Nernst equation
[10] This unit, generally given as 96,485 Coulombs per mole of electrons, is named after the creator the electric
motor and the discoverer of the law of electromagnetic induction
ANSWER: faraday
[10] This process, which is used to generate the majority of current aluminum through the electrolytic reduction of
an alumina-cryolite solution with graphite electrodes.
ANSWER: Hall-Heroult process
3. In one story by this author, Caractacus Pott buys the last Paragon Panther before that shop closes forever, and that
Panther later helps save the chocolate shop of Monsieur Bon-bon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novelist, who wrote a novel about a spy infiltrating the Spangled Gang’s illegal diamond cartel in
Sierra Leone with the help of Tiffany Case, Diamonds are Forever, in addition to Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang.
ANSWER: Ian (Lancaster) Fleming
[10] This character, Fleming’s most famous character, overcame villains like Mr. Big, Red Grant, and Dr. No for
MI6 in novels like Live and Let Die and From Russia, with Love.
ANSWER: James Bond (prompt on 007)
[10] This other novelist wrote about James Bond in his novel Colonel Sun. In his most famous novel, the title
character Jim Dixon is a bumbling English professor who successfully woos Christine.
ANSWER: Kingsley Amis
4. This man led an expeditionary brigade of his countrymen alongside Fructuoso Rivera's Colorado Party during the
Uruguayan Civil War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of the Redshirts who managed the military campaigns during the Risorgimento, which
resulted in Italian unification.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
[10] This member of the House of Savoy was King of Sardinia prior to the Risorgimento, after which he was made
the first king of a united Italy.
ANSWER: Victor Emmanuel II
[10] This military campaign undertaken by Garibaldi aimed at conquering the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, which it
achieved with the surrender of Francis II in 1861. It is named for the number of volunteers that set out from Genoa.
ANSWER: Expedition of the Thousand [Accept Spendizione dei Mille.]
5. Identify some arid areas of the South American continent, for 10 points each.
[10] This narrow desert in Northern Chile is known for its nitrate deposits and is the most arid desert on the planet.
ANSWER: Atacama Desert
[10] This region was originally named for the “big feet” of the native inhabitants. It is located east of the Andes and
makes up the majority of Argentina south of the Pampas
ANSWER: Patagonian Desert
[10] This small desert in Southern Peru is most famous for the series of lines drawn into the earth by its namesake
culture. From high above one can see the outlines of monkeys and other animals in this desert.
ANSWER: Nazca Desert
6. Walter Benjamin wrote that this artistic medium replaces cult value with exhibition value, while Roland Barthes
claimed that it lacks a connoted message. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artistic medium that was born from the invention of the daguerreotype and makes heavy use of the
camera.
ANSWER: photography [Accept equivalents.]
[10] This member of the Sierra Club took lots of photos of the American West, such as his Moon and Half Dome
and El Capitan, which were taken in Yosemite.

ANSWER: Ansel (Easton) Adams
[10] Both Adams and Dorothea Lange visited this Japanese internment camp. Adams was able to bring back
photographs of children in classrooms or farmers in the fields.
ANSWER: Manzanar
7. This poet took boxing lessons from Ernest Hemingway and wrote a pseudo-autobiographical poem about his
failure as a poet, Hugh Selwyn Mauberley. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet, a friend of T. S. Eliot, who wrote “In a Station of the Metro,” translated Chinese and Japanese
poetry, and composed the epic Cantos.
ANSWER: Ezra (Weston Loomis) Pound
[10] Pound became acquainted with this American expatriate artist and patron in Paris. She coined the term “Lost
Generation,” and her works include Tender Buttons and The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas.
ANSWER: Gertrude Stein
[10] Another one of Pound’s friends was this Imagist poet, best known by her initials, who wrote works
like “Oread” and the book length poem “Helen in Egypt.”
ANSWER: Hilda Doolittle
8. In this novel, one character drowns some newborn kittens in a bucket of water and famously chases a helicopter.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel that sees Bam and Maureen Smales live in their former servant’s village during a fictional civil
war in South Africa.
ANSWER: July’s People
[10] In July’s People, one of these items hidden in the roof of a hut is stolen from the Smales family. One Hundred
Years of Solitude opens with Aureliano Buendia facing a group of people pointing these items at him.
ANSWER: guns [Accept rifles, or equivalents]
[10] This South African author, who also created the businessman Mehring in The Conservationist, wrote July’s
People.
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer
9. This nineteenth century idealist included thesis, antithesis, and synthesis as the components of his dialectic. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this German philosopher who described how spirit and history undergo the same process in his Lectures
on the Philosophy of Religion and Phenomenology of Spirit
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
[10] This term denotes the name for a famous passage in Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit in which two
dialectically related opposites struggle with one another in their striving for self-consciousness.
ANSWER: master-slave dialectic [or Herrschaft und Knechtschaft Dialektik or lordship and bondage dialectic]
[10] This idealist dismissed Hegel as a “windbag.” He described the world as the objectification of a sinister will to
life. His interest in Hinduism and Buddhism is evident in his The World as Will and Idea.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
10. He only had one hand because he was the only god brave enough to place an arm in Fenrir's mouth while the
other gods chained the wolf down with Gleipnir. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Norse god of war who gives his name to the day after Monday.
ANSWER: Tyr
[10] Like many other gods, Tyr was fated to die during this apocalyptic battle that was preceded by the long
Fimbulwinter. Odin was swallowed by Fenrir during this battle.
ANSWER: Ragnarok

[10] This enormous hound was kept in a cave until he was released at Ragnarok, where he fought with Tyr until they
both killed the other.
ANSWER: Garm
11. This man’s namesake law restricted the Catholic Church and declared all citizens equal before the law. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this indigenous president of Mexico who fought Emperor Maximilian I and has a namesake city across
from El Paso.
ANSWER: Benito (Pablo) Juarez (Garcia)
[10] Juarez was in office as President when Zaragoza won the Battle of Puebla, which is celebrated during this
holiday.
ANSWER: Cinco de Mayo
[10] Juarez was a leader of the Liberals who battled the Conservatives in this 1857-1861 war, which occurred after
the ousting of Santa Anna.
ANSWER: Reform War [Accept Guerra de Reforma.]
12. Name these things about a Japanese religion. For 10 points each:
[10] This Japanese religion focuses on worship of various kami spirits, which may inhabit either a public shrine,
small household shrine, or natural location.
ANSWER: Shintoism or kami-no-michi
[10] This is the Japanese term for purification rituals performed before entering a shrine or elsewhere.
ANSWER: harae
[10] Dedicated practitioners may purify themselves by performing ablutions in a river. The first occurrence of this
practice was by this kami who purified himself in a underworldly river after departing from his similarly named
wife.
ANSWER: Izanagi-no-Mikoto [Do NOT accept “Izanami”]
13. It features Morro Castle in the background and a few ships can be seen moored in Havana harbor on both edges
of the painting. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting showing men on a boat trying to rescue their companion from an angry cartilaginous fish.
One of them holds a harpoon and prepares to strike down on it.
ANSWER: Watson and the Shark
[10] Watson and the Shark was a painting by John Singleton Copley, an artist from this country. Another artist from
here painted the portrait of Washington that appears on this country's dollar bill.
ANSWER: United States of America [Accept either. Accept USA and the US.]
[10] Copley painted his half-brother holding a small chain acting as a leash for this rodent, which sits chewing on a
shelled nut on a table.
ANSWER: squirrel [Accept Boy with a Squirrel.]
14. The immune response can be divided into innate immunity and acquired immunity. For 10 points each:
[10] First, name this portion of innate immunity which involves the dilation of blood vessels and the swelling of
tissue cells to limit spreading of infection.
ANSWER: inflammation
[10] Originating from monocytes, these cells are first to arrive and engulf large portions of infectious agent and
phagocytize them out of the cell.
ANSWER: macrophages
[10] This disease is particularly deadly since the Mycobacterium causing it is unaffected by alveolar macrophages.
ANSWER: tuberculosis

15. This state of matter is characterized by a high degree of ionization which is typically caused by high
temperatures and strong electromagnetic fields. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state of matter found in stars and neon lights.
ANSWER: plasma
[10] Plasma are characterized as having this length, scale over which mobile charge carriers such as electrons screen
out electric fields.
ANSWER: Debye length
[10] Peter Debye also names a law describing this quantity as proportional to the third power of temperature. This
quantity is defined as the amount of heat needed to change a substance's temperature.
ANSWER: heat capacity [accept specific heat]
16. One character created by this author earned her nickname when she ran through the bombardment of Riga trying
to sell bread. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this playwright who created a mother whose three children, Eilif, Swiss Cheese, and Kattrin are all shot
during the Thirty Years War in the play Mother Courage and Her Children.
ANSWER: (Eugene) Bertolt (Friedrich) Brecht
[10] This Brecht play describes the singer Arkadi Cheidze’s story of Grusha, who is awarded custody of the child
Michael after Judge Azdak makes use of the titular design.
ANSWER: The Caucasian Chalk Circle [Accept Der Kaukasische Kreidekreis.]
[10] Much of Brecht’s writing can be explained by this literary theory, in which characters and events are interpreted
as representing class struggle. It is named for a 19th century German philosopher and economist.
ANSWER: Marxism [Accept Marxist Literature and equivalents.]
17. This composer of the Death and the Maiden string quartet included two famous Andantino movements in his
incidental music to Helmina von Chezy’s play Rosamunde. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German composer whose eighth symphony is known as his “Unfinished Symphony.”
ANSWER: Franz (Peter) Schubert
[10] This work by Franz Schubert is written for the unusual ensemble of piano, violin, viola, cello, and bass. Its
fourth movement is a set of variations on a work about a fish, Schubert’s lieder Die Forelle.
ANSWER: Trout Quintet [Accept Piano Quintet in A Major.]
[10] Schubert also wrote this song cycle based off 24 poems by Wilhelm Muller which contains the song “The
Linden Tree” and ends with a poet listening to a hurdy-gurdy man.
ANSWER: Winterreise [Accept Winter Journey.]
18. This is the only planet that is less dense than water, and the Huygens gap is found in the Cassini division of one
if its features. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this gas giant that has the most distinctive set of planetary rings in the solar system.
ANSWER: Saturn
[10] This largest moon of Saturn is the only moon to have a thick atmosphere. It’s atmosphere made observation of
its surface difficult, until the Cassini-Huygens probe discovered liquid lakes on its surface.
ANSWER: Titan
[10] 98.4 percent of Titan’s atmosphere is made up of this gas which is responsible for its orange color.
ANSWER: Nitrogen
19. This battle included the campaign to take Little Round Top and the disastrous Pickett’s Charge. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this 1863 US Civil War battle, which also saw fighting at the Peach Orchard and Cemetery Hill.
ANSWER: Battle of Gettysburg

[10] A year prior to Gettysburg, the maritime theater of the Civil War saw these two ironclad warships face off in
the Battle of Hampton Roads, which ended with a draw.
ANSWER: USS Monitor and USS Merrimack [accept CSS Virginia. Prompt on just one answer.]
[10] This last major campaign of the US Civil War saw Ulysses Grant and Robert E Lee’s forces engage in trench
warfare in and around the namesake Virginia town.
ANSWER: Siege of Petersburg
20. This thinker argued that sickness makes the sufferer enter a role of “sanctioned deviance” in his Sick Role
hypothesis. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sociologist who also developed “action theory” in his work The Structure of Social Action.
ANSWER: Talcott Parsons
[10] Parsons taught at this university, whose other famous professors have included Steven Pinker and William
James. This university, America’s oldest, was founded in 1636
ANSWER: Harvard University
[10] Parsons also analyzed the work of this Italian thinker, who developed a namesake “efficiency” in economics in
which no one can become better off without making someone else worse off.
ANSWER: Vilifredo (Federico Damaso) Pareto

