Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 12
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. The speaker of this poem compares himself and the addressee to “birds of prey” that “rather at once our time
devour / Than languish in his slow chapp’d power.” The speaker then requests to “let us roll all our strength and all
/ Our sweetness, up into one ball,” in order that he and the addressee might tear through “the iron gates of life.” This
poem notes fears of “deserts of vast eternity” and how “Time’s winged chariot” is hurrying near, before the speaker
tells his addressee that “His vegetable love should grow / vaster than empires, and more slow.” For 10 points, name
this poem that begins “Had we but world enough and time,” written by Andrew Marvell.
ANSWER: “To His Coy Mistress”
2. For AC circuits, the expression for the average of this quantity includes a namesake factor which accounts for
differences in this quantity between DC and AC currents. In fluid systems, this quantity is equal to pressure times
volumetric flow rate. In a rotational system, this quantity equals torque times angular velocity, while its electrical
type can be expressed as both current times voltage and as voltage squared divided by resistance. Its integral with
respect to time gives the work done on a system, and its instantaneous form equals force dotted with velocity. For 10
points, name this quantity measuring the rate at which energy is transferred, which is measured in watts.
ANSWER: power
3. The gate-house of the Porte Sainte-Antoine at this location was replaced by a triumphal arch in honor of Henry
III's reign in Poland. Due to lack of funding, plaster was used instead of bronze to create a commemorative elephant
commissioned by Napoleon for this location, where the July Column now stands. Bernard-Rene de Launay was in
command when this place was besieged by a group of vainqueurs led by Camille Desmoulins and Georges Danton,
and that attack resulted in de Launay's head being placed on a pike and carried through the streets of Paris. For 10
points, name this French prison whose “storming” in 1789 is celebrated every year on July 14.
ANSWER: the Bastille [Accept Bastille Saint-Antoine.]
4. One myth from this country tells of how one of its gods saved a rabbit that had lost its fur after insulting a group
of sharks, and later retrieved a turnip-shaped arrow from a burning field. This country's folk tales feature cucumberriding water demons called kappas as well as an eight-headed dragon that was slain by this country's sea god. This
country was supposedly formed when its creator god Izanagi dripped brine from his spear, and its sun goddess
retreated into a cave after her brother threw a flayed horse into her room. That goddess, Amaterasu, was the ancestor
of this country's first emperor, Jimmu. For 10 points, name this nation home to the many kami of the Shinto religion.
ANSWER: State of Japan [Accept Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku.]
5. The speaker of this poem imagines that “a magic lantern threw the nerves in patterns on a screen,” and spends
the afternoon malingering “stretched on the floor, here between you and me.” This poem notes that the speaker was
meant to be an attendant lord or “a pair of ragged claws,” and proclaims “No! I am not Prince Hamlet!” Questions
in this work include, “Do I dare disturb the universe?” and “Do I dare to eat a peach?”, spoken before the speaker
sees “mermaids singing each to each” on a beach. This poem’s refrain describes women that “come and go, /
Talking of Michelangelo.” For 10 points, name this poem which begins, “Let us go then, you and I,” written by T. S.
Eliot.
ANSWER: The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock

6. The papal bull Laudabiliter allowed for an invasion of this region, a fortified part of which was known as The
Pale. Its government was put under control of another in Poyning’s Law, while a war here known as Tyrone’s
Rebellion or the Nine Years’ War caused the Flight of the Earls from this place. A shipment of weapons to this
region was captured before an event that saw the imprisonment of Roger Casement and saw rebels led by Patrick
Pearse take control of the General Post Office. Eamon de Valera participated in that event, which is now known
as the Easter Rising. For 10 points, name this home of the left wing party Sinn Fein, an island with cities such as
Belfast and Dublin.
ANSWER Ireland [Accept Eire.]
7. Hilary Putnam argued that identical states of this phenomenon can be triggered by different physical triggers in
the multiple realizability thesis. Gilbert Ryle compares this phenomenon to a “ghost in the machine” in his work
The Concept of this phenomenon. In an argument about the independence of this phenomenon, one philosopher
points out that candle wax can be both solid and liquid, and that while he can doubt the existence of the exterior
world, he can’t doubt the existence of this phenomenon. For 10 points, name this philosophical phenomenon, said by
Descartes to be located in the pineal gland, and contrasted with the body in a namesake problem of dualism.
ANSWER: mind or mental states [Accept reasonable equivalents; prompt on soul.]
8. The statistical mechanics derivation of this equation assumes an interparticle potential inversely proportional
to distance to the sixth power. Maxwell used an equal area rule to correct for an error in this equation, which can
be written in terms of the cube of the volume and is a simplification of the virial equation. It involves two gasdependent parameters, the first dependent on interparticle attractive forces and the second on the proper volume
of gas particles. Those are commonly written as a and b. For 10 points, name this equation of state for real gases
developed by a Dutch theoretical chemist as an improvement upon the ideal gas law.
ANSWER: Van der waals equation
9. One author from this nation wrote about a king that numbers his subjects and forces them to mine gold while
he himself lives behind an iron curtain. That author also wrote the lines “all I had achieved was carried off on the
golden boat -- only I was left behind,” as well as a collection of poems that begins “Thou hast made me endless,
such is thy pleasure.” Other works from this nation feature a prince’s philosophical discussion with his divine
charioteer and a king who defeats the demon king who abducted his wife with the help of a monkey god. For
10 points, name this home country of Rabindranath Tagore and Sanskrit epics such as the Mahabharata and the
Ramayana.
ANSWER: Republic of India [Accept Bharat Ganarajya.]
10. This composer drew rhythmic inspiration from Erik Satie’s Socrate for his indeterminate piece Cheap Imitation.
This composer of the incredibly virtuosic Freeman Etudes for violin used Finnegans Wake as the basis for his
Roaratorio. He wrote a work for David Tudor titled Music of Changes based off of the I Ching, in addition to a
piece in which twelve radios are tuned to twelve different stations, his “Imaginary Landscape Number 4.” In this
man’s best known piece, a pianist is instructed to sit at his bench and flip pages of a score without playing any notes.
For 10 points, name this American who explored composition relying on ambient noise in his 4’33”.
ANSWER: John (Milton) Cage, Jr.
11. Recent archaeological evidence suggests that several of this civilization’s cities were captured by a mysterious
invader from the north named “Spearthrower Owl.” Notable rulers of this civilization include Pacal the Great, who
built the Temple of the Inscriptions. This civilization used sacred water holes called cenotes to sacrifice to their rain
god, Chaac. This civilization built the cities of Tikal and Palenque, and its myth of the Hero Twins is told in the
Popol Vuh. Their mysterious collapse may have been caused by climate change and drought. For 10 points, name
this Mesoamerican civilization from the Yucatan peninsula, whose 52-year calendar ends next month.
ANSWER: the Mayans

12. In one work by this artist, a secretary in a blue dress pulls papers out of a filing cabinet while her boss sits
reading at a desk. This artist of Office at Night showed two rows of ceiling lights reflected in a window in a work
showing a bowl of fruit next to a woman drinking coffee alone. Ten identical windows with yellow shades appear
along the top of another painting by this artist that includes a deserted street with a barber pole casting a long
shadow. The best known work of this artist behind Automat and Early Sunday Morning includes an ad for 5¢
Phillies cigars and shows three lonely patrons at a diner at late hours. For 10 points, name this American painter of
Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
13. In one work by this author, an alien from near Sirius tours Saturn and the Earth after writing a heretical book on
bugs. Another work by this author sees the titular philosopher succeed at a number of challenges and marry Astarte
to become King of Babylon. In addition to Micromegas and Zadig, this author wrote a work in which a princess gets
her buttock cut off and the protagonist travels to El Dorado before reuniting with friends in Constantinople, many
of whom had started out in the castle of Baron Thunder-ten-Tronckh. For 10 points, name this French author who
invented Cunegonde and the optimistic Dr. Pangloss in Candide.
ANSWER: Voltaire [Accept Francois-Marie Arouet.]
14. In one work, this thinker discussed why for-profit media outlets succeed while those solely concerned with
reporting facts do not. This author of Manufacturing Consent developed a framework called “principles and
parameters” that attempted to answer Plato’s problem and used a “poverty of the stimulus” argument to support his
claim that the title set of rules is “universal.” This thinker also created a gramatically correct, nonsensical sentence
to illustrate the difference between syntax and semantics in his book Syntactic Structures. For 10 points, name this
MIT linguist who created the sentence “colorless green ideas sleep furiously.”
ANSWER: (Avram) Noam Chomsky
15. The central figure in this scandal offered an investigator the Stennis Compromise. The accidental pressing of
a foot pedal while answering a phone resulted in the loss of a recording connected to this event, in which attorney
G. Gordon Liddy was implicated. Elliot Richardson and William Ruckelshaus resigned in protest of the order to
dismiss Archibald Cox in this scandal’s “Saturday Night Massacre.” FBI Associate Director Mark Felt was revealed
to be the main inside source for Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, who investigated this scandal. For 10 points,
name this political scandal that involved the break-in of a certain Washington hotel, leading to the resignation of
Richard Nixon.
ANSWER: Watergate scandal
16. Unlike most Jewish holidays, business transactions may continue during this festive event, which is often
preceded by a day of fasting. During this holiday, it is customary to “blot out the name of” the son of Amalek
each of the 54 times his name appears during the reading of the Megillah. This holiday commemorates events that
occurred in Shushan, including God's foiling of the plot of the vizier to King Ahaseurus to kill every Jew in the
Persian Empire. Luckily for the Jews, Haman was stopped by Mordecai. For 10 points, name this Jewish holiday
during which it is customary to be charitable, give candy to friends, and read from the Book of Esther.
ANSWER: Purim
17. Edgar Allen Poe may have made the first reference to this body of water in Western literature, but erroneously
reported it to be located in Libya. Expansions of the dams near this river’s Inga Falls have been proposed to create
a massive hydroelectric power plant. This river contains a series of cataracts called Boyoma Falls, though they were
earlier named for Henry Morton Stanley. It is fed by the Lulalaba river, which itself originates from Lake Mweru
and Lake Tangyanika. Two national capitals lie directly across this river from one another and are named Kinshasa
and Brazzaville. For 10 points, name this central African river that lends its name to two countries.

ANSWER: Congo River
18. The lack of externally visible genitalia in this organism led to the naming of its Ken and Barbie genes, and
maternal effect genes involved in directing its anterior-posterior axis include bicoid and hunchback. Mutations in
the Antennapedia gene result in the growth of legs from the eyes in this organism and bithorax is another possible
mutation. Hybrid dysgenesis works through the P element common in wild type individuals, while phenotypes
include cinnabar, sepia, and white eyes. For 10 points, name this model organism that earned Thomas Hunt Morgan
the Nobel Prize for his studies of inheritance, with scientific name Drosophila melanogaster.
ANSWER: fruit fly [Accept Drosophila melanogaster before mention.]
19. One film by this director is sectioned off with black screens that read things like “The Stanislavski Catering
Company in action” and “God she's beautiful.” That film sees Elliot cheat on his wife after confessing his love
to her sister through an e. e. cummings poem. This director of Hannah and Her Sisters also made a film in which
a woman in love with the Belle Epoque chooses to remain there, and that film sees the protagonist advised by
Gertrude Stein on his novel before he returns to his own time. This man's best known film follows Alvy Singer's
relationship with his quirky girlfriend. For 10 points, name this director of Midnight in Paris and Annie Hall.
ANSWER: Woody Allen [Accept Allan Stewart Konigsberg.]
20. PG 1159 stars are thought to be the transition phase between planetary nebulae and one class of these objects,
which, like neutron stars, cool via the emission of neutrinos in a mechanism known as the Urca process. The
inability to sustain hydrogen-1 fusion characterizes a type of these objects known as “failed stars,” while electron
degeneracy pressure prevents the collapse of another type until it reaches the Chandrasekhar limit. For 10 points,
name these stellar objects that come in blue, red, brown, and white varieties and are named for their small size.
ANSWER: dwarf stars [Do not accept any specific types of dwarf stars.]
Bonuses
1. During one episode of this war, one side was convinced by Alcibiades to launch a naval invasion of Syracuse that
resulted in disaster. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war that arose from Spartan enmity towards Athenian hegemony enforced through its control of the
Delian League.
ANSWER: Second Peloponnesian War
[10] This decisive annihilation of the Athenian fleet by Lysander's Spartan ships effectively ended the
Peloponnesian War by crippling Athens' ability to maintain supply routes.
ANSWER: Battle of Aegospotami
[10] This historian fought for Athens during the war and later penned his History of the Peloponnesian War, which
contains an account of the conflict between the Melians and the Athenians.
ANSWER: Thucydides
2. The title character of this play insists on bringing her little bird with her when she elopes, since her dog Diana has
been unfaithful to her. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which the servant Jean seduces the Count’s daughter, but fails to elope with her when he
receives orders from the Count. The title character then leaves the room with a razor, presumably to kill herself.
ANSWER: Miss Julie [Accept Froken Julie]
[10] In this other play by the author of Miss Julie, Agnes, the daughter of Indra, descends to earth to explore its
problems and meets characters like The Officer, The Poet, and Ugly Edith.
ANSWER: A Dream Play [Accept Et Dromspel]
[10] Those plays were written by August Strindberg, who also wrote a play about the Captain, who has this relation
to Bertha. In To Kill a Mockingbird, Atticus Finch has this relation to Scout and Jem.

ANSWER: father [Accept equivalents, like paternal or dad.]
3. This author wrote a novel in which Colonel Joll and the Third Bureau arrive in a town during a state of
emergency. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of that novel, Waiting for the Barbarians, and another, Disgrace.
ANSWER: J(ohn) M(axwell) Coetzee
[10] Coetzee also wrote a novel about the “Life and Times of” this hare-lipped gardener who attempts to return his
sick mother to the birthplace of Prince Albert.
ANSWER: Michael K [Accept Life and Times of Michael K.]
[10] Coetzee also created the character Elizabeth Costello, an author who had rewritten this James Joyce novel from
the perspective of the wife of Leopold Bloom, Molly Bloom.
ANSWER: Ulysses
4. The New York Times described this submission to the Armory Show as “an explosion in a shingle factory.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Cubist-styled painting that shows multiple copies of a woman in a yellow dress. It was strongly
influenced by the stop-motion photography of Etienne-Jules Marey.
ANSWER: Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2 [Accept Nu descendant un escalier.]
[10] Nude Descending a Staircase was painted by this Dada artist better known for signing an upturned urinal
with “R. Mutt” and calling it Fountain.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp
[10] Fountain was one of these types of works in which the artist takes ordinary objects and makes art through their
positioning. In advance of the broken arm, which is just a snow shovel, is also one of these works.
ANSWER: readymades
5. Along with Raphson, this man names a method that can be used to numerically approximate the roots of an
equation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who discovered calculus along with Gottfried Leibniz.
ANSWER: Sir Isaac Newton
[10] This theorem in calculus states that for any two points on a continuous function, there is a point between them
at which the derivative is the slope of the line connecting the two endpoints. Rolle’s theorem is a special case of it.
ANSWER: mean value theorem [Prompt on “MVT.”]
[10] A differential equation used often in the calculus of variations that finds stationary values is named for Euler
and this man, who also names the remainder term from Taylor approximations.
ANSWER: Joseph Louis Lagrange
6. In one poem, this author coined the phrase “ignorance is bliss,” remarking that it is then “folly to be wise.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this 18th century English poet who wrote “Ye distant spires, ye antique towns” in an ode to a title
institution which he gazed at from down the Thames in “Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College.”
ANSWER: Thomas Gray
[10] Gray may be most famous for this poem, which begins “the curfew tolls the knell of parting day... and leaves
the world to darkness and to me.” It ends with an epitaph, lamenting the death of Gray’s friend Richard West.
ANSWER: “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”
[10] In another poem, Gray mourned the death of a favorite animal of this type, “drowned in a tub of goldfishes.”
Lewis Carroll created a “Cheshire” one of these with a mischievous grin that torments Alice.
ANSWER: cat

7. His version of demand does not consider the wealth effect in assuming fixed income, and he is better known for
developing elasticity, consumer surplus, short and long runs, and marginal utility. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this English economist whose textbook Principles of Economics popularized the Giffen Good, and who
was also the teacher of John Maynard Keynes.
ANSWER: Alfred Marshall
[10] Marshall’s work was influenced by the work of this economist, who created the Iron Law of Wages and
supported the repeal of the Corn Laws.
ANSWER: David Ricardo
[10] Ricardo’s belief in the inviability of the Corn Laws stems from this most famous contribution of his, a theory of
trade where relative opportunity costs rather than absolute costs are most important.
ANSWER: comparative advantage
8. The son of the Tsarita, Gvidon, marries the princess-swan in one work by this man. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of that work, The Tale of Tsar Saltan, which contains the “Flight of the Bumblebee.”
ANSWER: Nikolai (Andreyevich) Rimsky-Korsakov
[10] This composition by Rimsky-Korsakov, based off A Thousand And One Nights, begins with a movement
entitled “The Sea and Sinbad’s Ship.”
ANSWER: Scheherazade [Accept Shekherezada.]
[10] Another composition by Rimsky-Korsakov subtitled an “Overture on liturgical themes” describes “unbridled
pagan-religious celebrations” on this holiday.
ANSWER: Easter [Accept Russian Easter Festival Overture or Svetily prazdnik.]
9. Name these cities of southern China. For 10 points each:
[10] This largest financial center on the mainland is a special administrative region of the People’s Republic. It was
returned to China from the United Kingdom in 1997.
ANSWER: Hong Kong
[10] This other Special Administrative Region is located on the western side of the Pearl River Delta across from
Hong Kong and was administered by Portugal until 1999.
ANSWER: Macau
[10] North of Hong Kong and Macau is the Guangdong province, whose capital and largest city is this port, also
located on the Pearl River.
ANSWER: Guangzhou [accept Canton and Kwangchow]
10. The mercurous ion is known to form covalent bonds instead of forming these structures. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this bond formed in a lattice of atoms of the namesake kind of element, which can be sodium, copper, or
titanium. It involves shared bonding between adjacent nuclei and can be contrasted from covalent and ionic bonds.
ANSWER: metallic bonds
[10] The popular model used to describe metallic bonding generally gives metals as a “sea of” this particle, because
conduction bands overlap with valence bands, which allows its widespread delocalization.
ANSWER: (sea of) electrons
[10] One of the fourteen Bravais lattices, this type of metallic unit cell is formed from cubic closest packing, and
each atom has a coordination number of 12, since lattice points occur on both the corners and the faces of the cube.
ANSWER: face-centered cubic [Accept FCC.]
11. The speaker of this poem tells its subject “From thy dead lips a clearer note is born / Than ever Triton blew from
wreathed horn.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem which begins “this is the ship of pearl,” and urges “shut thee from heaven with a dome more
vast,” and “build thee more stately mansions, O my soul!”
ANSWER: “The Chambered Nautilus”

[10] “The Chambered Nautilus” was written by this poet who wrote the essay collection The Autocrat of the
Breakfast Table and fathered a famous supreme court justice.
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
[10] Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. was a member of this group of poets, whose other members included James Russell
Lowell and the author of Evangeline and The Song of Hiawatha, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
ANSWER: the Fireside poets
12. This work depicts an episode of the Hundred Years' War in which the titular city submitted to Edward III after a
long siege. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sculpture group showing six noblemen preparing to become captives of the English. They all wear
nooses around their necks and one cradles his head in distress.
ANSWER: The Burghers of Calais [Accept Les Bourgeois de Calais.]
[10] The Burghers of Calais was created by this French sculptor, who also included The Kiss and The Thinker in his
The Gates of Hell.
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
[10] Rodin was a lover of this other French sculptor. As an artist, she may be best known for The Waltz, which
shows the bodies of a dancing couple merging together into the woman's dress.
ANSWER: Camille Claudel
13. This quantity can be expressed as force crossed with the lever arm. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity measured in Newton-meters, making it the rotational analogue of force. It can also be given
as angular acceleration times the rotational analogue of mass.
ANSWER: torque
[10] The rotational analogue of mass is this quantity, an object's resistance to rotational motion. It is given by the
sum of all mass points multiplied by the squares of their distances from the center of mass.
ANSWER: moment of inertia
[10] This swaying behavior in the axis of rotation can be observed in gyroscopes. The pure form of this behavior
results from a varying second Euler angle, as opposed to precession, which varies the first Euler angle.
ANSWER: nutation
14. Name these things about an Indian religion. For 10 points each:
[10] This monotheistic tradition is common in the Indian state of Punjab. It was founded in the 15th century by
Nanak Dev, who asserted a common basis for Islam and Hindu traditions.
ANSWER: Sikhism [Accept Sikkhi.]
[10] Until the eighteenth century, the history of Sikhism could be divided into the lives of these teachers, of whom
Nanak was the first. The Sikh holy book Adi Granth is considered to be the last of these figures.
ANSWER: gurus
[10] This last human guru of Sikhism declared the Adi Granth to be the final and perpetual guru. He founded the
Khalsa in 1699 and outlined the Articles of Faith, or the Five K’s of Sikhism.
ANSWER: Guru Gobind Singh Ji [Accept Gobind Rai, prompt on “Rai.”]
15. He founded a library that played an important role in translating works, the House of Wisdom, and helped break
the power of the Barmakid family. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this ruler who sent Charlemagne a water clock and a white elephant named Abul-Abbas.
ANSWER: Harun al-Rashid
[10] Harun al-Rashid was a leader of this Islamic caliphate that followed the Umayyad Caliphate and had its capital
at Baghdad. It was ended with Hulagu Khan’s brutal sack of Baghdad.
ANSWER: Abbasid Caliphate

[10] Another Muslim empire, the Ayyubid Empire, was founded by this man, who was the primary rival of Richard
the Lionheart, losing to him at Arsuf. He took control of Jerusalem and was highly respected for his chivalry by the
crusaders.
ANSWER: Saladin [Accept Salah ad-Din Yusuf ibn Ayyub.]
16. This philosopher translated the Iliad, the Odyssey and Thucydides’ History of the Peloponnesian War in
addition to writing a study of the Long Parliament, Behemoth. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosopher who wrote works like De Cive and De Corpore in addition to a work which ends with a
discussion of ignorance, “Of the Kingdom of Darkness.”
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes
[10] This Hobbes’ work which contains “Of the Kingdom of Darkness” calls human life “nasty, brutish, and short”
and advocates an incredibly powerful absolute monarchy. It is named for a biblical monster.
ANSWER: Leviathan, or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil
[10] Hobbes says that an absolute monarchy is necessary in order to protect mankind from a state of nature, which
he defines with this famous phrase.
ANSWER: “war of all against all” [Accept “bellum omnium contra omnes”.]
17. This man’s administration saw an uprising of coal miners in the Battle of Blair Mountain, and his cabinet
included Attorney General Harry Dohery and Secretary of the Interior Albert Fall. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American President who succeeded Woodrow Wilson and was succeeded by Calvin Coolidge after
he died on a return trip from Alaska.
ANSWER: Warren G(amaliel) Harding
[10] Albert Fall was implicated in this real estate controversy surrounding the allocation of oil fields in Wyoming to
private companies without competitive bidding. It also involved the Elk Hills oil fields in California.
ANSWER: Teapot Dome Scandal
[10] Harding also called this conference in 1921 that led to the disarmament-minded Four-Power and Five-Power
Treaties. The Nine-Power Treaty was also signed here, in order to reinforce the Open Door Policy in China.
ANSWER: Washington Naval Conference
18. It is mainly composed of glycine, proline, hydroxyproline, and hydroxylysine. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this most abundant protein in mammals, a connective protein found in cartilage, bone, and teeth.
ANSWER: collagen
[10] The improper synthesis of collagen in the body results in this disease associated with pirates and sailors due to
the fact that Vitamin C is required for proper collagen synthesis.
ANSWER: scurvy
[10] The most common amino acid in collagen, glycine, is the unique among the twenty standard amino acids in
possessing this property. That comes from the fact that glycine’s side chain is just a hydrogen atom.
ANSWER: achiral
19. His father Tydeus was one of the Seven Against Thebes, so he joined Alcmaeon in sacking the city in the War of
the Epigoni. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this favorite of Athena who led the men of Argos during the Trojan War, during which he wounded Ares
and Aphrodite. He shares his name with a king who owned some man-eating horses.
ANSWER: Diomedes
[10] Diomedes was wounded during the Trojan War when this man hit him in the shoulder with an arrow. This
Trojan prince also pierced the heel of Achilles, killing him.
ANSWER: Paris
[10] As told in The Little Iliad, Diomedes and Odysseus snuck into Troy to steal this wooden statue of Athena
because it held all of Troy's luck.

ANSWER: Palladium
20. It was formed at the Lenin Shipyards in Gdansk and faced opposition by Wojciech Jaruzelski, who declared
martial law in late 1981 and arrested thousands of its members. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this trade union that contributed to the fall of Communist rule in Poland.
ANSWER: Solidarity [Accept Solidarnosc.]
[10] This future president of Poland was an electrician at the Gdansk Shipyards and was largely responsible for the
formation of Solidarity.
ANSWER: Lech Walesa
[10] Members of Solidarity participated in these negotiations with the opposition, including General Jaruzelski's
Communists. The result was the creation of a Senate and a democratically elected President.
ANSWER: Polish Round Table Talks [Accept Round Table Agreement.]

