Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 5
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. The Swiss Cheese Features are small pits found on this entity. Flooding during its Hesperian Epoch followed the
Noachian Epoch during which it was heavily bombarded. The Borealis basin covers forty percent of its surface,
which was photographed by a namesake Global Surveyor and also contains the Tharsis region, which is home
to many large volcanoes. This body visited by the Phoenix lander is home to the Valles Marineris and has an
atmosphere with 95% carbon dioxide. It is orbited by two moons, Phobos and Deimos, and has the highest mountain
in the solar system, Olympus Mons. For 10 points, identify this reddish-colored fourth planet from the sun.
ANSWER: Mars
2. This painter's most famous work appears in the background of another of his works, which depicts three nude
women in a room cluttered with clothes, shoes, and umbrellas. In addition to painting The Models, this artist
included a red-haired clown in the foreground of a painting in which an acrobat jumps above a white horse, The
Circus. His best known work occupies an entire wall at the Art Institute of Chicago and depicts some steamboats
and rowers on the River Seine, on the banks of which many Parisians relax with parasols, including a woman with a
monkey on a leash. For 10 points, name this French pointillist, the artist of A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La
Grande Jatte.
ANSWER: Georges (Pierre) Seurat
3. This nation was the target of Operation Northwoods, a rejected series of covertly orchestrated acts of terror. It was
also the site of the explosion of the French munitions vessel La Coubre. Current U.S. policy with regards to this
nation was reinforced with the Torricelli Act of 1992 and the Helms-Burton Act of 1996. Its seizure was advocated
by a document written by Soule, Mason, and Buchanan called the Ostend Manifesto, and its governance as a U.S.
territory was established with the Teller and Platt Amendments. For 10 points, name this Caribbean nation upon
which the U.S. has imposed a trade embargo since the rise to power of Fidel Castro in 1959.
ANSWER: Republic of Cuba [Accept Republica de Cuba.]
4. The so-called ‘fast-protein’ type of this process is an important method for protein-purification, and often the
associated resin contains Ni(II) ions that bind to His residues. The size-exclusion type of this chemical procedure
is also used for proteins and is a low-resolution process that separates based on size. The high-performance liquid
type of this process, along with other types, involves a mobile phase and a stationary phase. In the thin-layer type,
retention factors can be calculated as the ratio of the migration distance of the mobile phase over that of the solvent
front. For 10 points, name this procedure in chemistry involved in the separation of mixtures based on polarity.
ANSWER: chromatography [Accept more specific answers, i.e. thin-layer chromatography, affinity
chromatography, column chromatography, size-exclusion chromatography, ion-exchange chromatography,
etc.]
5. In one encounter that took place near this city, the USS Mississippi, equipped with new Paixhans guns, ran past
defenses at Uraga Harbor. Fires killed 140,000 people during a 1923 earthquake in this city. In 1995 the terrorist
group Aleph, formerly known as Aum Shinrikyo, launched a sarin gas attack on the subway of this city. The “Black
Ships” came here under the command of Matthew Perry, causing the end of the Sakoku policy that forbade
foreigners from entering this city’s country. During that period, when it was ruled by the Tokugawa Shogunate, this
city was called Edo. For 10 points, name this city with a view of Mount Fuji, the capital of Japan.

ANSWER: Tokyo Metropolis
6. Ada pushes Cadolt out a window in this man’s opera The Wedding. This man included a “Spinning Chorus” in
an opera in which Erik is abandoned by Daland’s daughter Senta, who saves a character’s soul by diving into the
sea. Klingsor stabs Amfortas with a holy spear and Kundry turns into a white dove in another of his operas that was
first performed at the Bayreuth Festival. This composer of The Flying Dutchman and Parsifal also composed a work
containing a famous “Bridal Chorus,” Lohengrin, and a cycle of works including Siegfried and Das Rheingold. For
10 points, name this composer whose “Ride of the Valkyries” can be found in his The Ring of the Nibelung.
ANSWER: (Wilhelm) Richard Wagner [VAHG-ner; accept The Wedding before “man”]
7. One author from this country wrote about a man who carries his wounded and estranged son Ignacio in search
of a doctor in the story “No Dogs Bark,” contained in his collection The Burning Plain. One poet from this nation
wrote that “life and death are reconciled in thee, lady of midnight” in a poem that begins by describing a “willow of
crystal,” entitled “Sun Stone.” Another author from this country created Harriet Winslow, who meets a fictionalized
version of Ambrose Bierce in one novel. For 10 points, name this home nation of Juan Rulfo and Octavio Paz, as
well as the author of The Old Gringo and The Death of Artemio Cruz, Carlos Fuentes.
ANSWER: Mexico [Accept United Mexican States, or Estados Unidos Mexicanos.]
8. One proposed plan to alleviate air traffic congestion in this city is the construction of an artificial island named
for its current mayor. The result of an effort to revitalize its western portion was the development of the Canary
Wharf financial district on the West India Docks of its Isle of Dogs, and Russell Square is home to this city’s School
of Economics. The M25 motorway spans its perimeter, and its internal transportation has a central hub at Charing
Cross Station. For 10 points, Lord Mayor Boris Johnson currently leads this capital and largest city of the United
Kingdom situated on the Thames river.
ANSWER: London
9. This man was a member of the Uranium Club during World War II, and a group named for him contains 3 by
3 upper triangular matrices with ones on the diagonal. Equivalent to Schrödinger’s wave formulation, a theory he
developed along with Max Born and Pascual Jordan represents physical observables by matrices and is called matrix
mechanics. Derived from matrix mechanics, a relation named for this physicist implies that his namesake pairs, such
as energy and time or position and momentum, do not commute. That relation is one of quantum mechanics’ most
well-known results. For 10 points, name this German physicist, best known for his Uncertainty Principle.
ANSWER: Werner (Karl) Heisenberg
10. The protagonist of this novel breaks his arm while trying to stop a runaway band of horses, and he finds an
empty muff on his bed that he recognizes as belonging to the woman he loves. The servant Black George helps that
character deliver messages to his lover, who is forced into accepting Master Blifil as her fiance. The protagonist
is surprised to learn that Mr. Partridge is not, in fact, his father, but that he is actually Mrs. Blifil’s son, making
him Squire Allworthy’s nephew. For 10 points, name this novel in which the titular foundling pursues his love for
Sophia Western, written by Henry Fielding.
ANSWER: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
11. This group was responsible for the attempted abduction of Charles IX at the Surprise of Meaux, resulting in the
death of their leader Anne de Montmorency in the war that followed. These people were declared rebels after they
put up seditious posters in the Affair of the Placards, and they won the Battle of Ivry against the forces of the Duke
of Guise. The failed assassination of one of them, Gaspard de Coligny, resulted in nationwide murders ordered by
Catherine de Medici in an event known as the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre. They were granted toleration by
Henry IV in the Edict of Nantes. For 10 points, name these long-persecuted French Protestants.
ANSWER: Huguenots [Accept French Protestants before the end.]

12. Enzymes in this structure are responsible for palmitoylation of the Ras superfamily, and this structure is also
responsible for O-linked glycosylation. This structure allows the production of glycosaminoglycans, which help
comprise the extracellular matrix. The acrosome is a derivative of this organelle. This organelle is capable of
targeting the lysosome via application of a mannose-6-phosphate tag to proteins at its “cis” region. COPII-coated
vesicles transport proteins from the ER to this structure, where they are targeted. For 10 points, name this organelle
usually made up of flattened disks known as cisternae, responsible for protein processing and packaging.
ANSWER: Golgi apparatus [Accept Golgi body and Golgi complex.]
13. Once character in this play admonishes another character not to push with his fingers, and instead to use a crust
of bread. When the son of the central family decides to pay the dues to join the Merchant Marine, the family’s lights
go off in the middle of a crucial dinner. One character skips school to visit the zoo, and that character’s mother is
delighted to learn that she had a crush in high school. The climax of this play comes when Jim O’Connor steps on a
toy unicorn. For 10 points, name this play in which Tom and Amanda fight about a potential “gentleman caller” for
Laura Wingfield, by Tennessee Williams.
ANSWER: The Glass Menagerie
14. Raymond Cattell developed 16 “factors” for classifying it. Lewis Goldberg worked with a group that developed
a set of dimensions of this concept nicknamed “The Big Five” that forms the acronym “OCEAN.” Gordon Allport
suggested studying this concept in both nomothetic and idiographic manners. A “histrionic” disorder associated with
this concept is characterized by attention-seeking and emotionality, and a test of this concept in people differentiates
between perceiving and judging, as well as extroversion and introversion. For 10 points, identify this concept, the
subject of the MMPI and Myers-Briggs Indicator tests.
ANSWER: personality
15. With the help of a servant, this man defeated a stone-hearted clay giant. That battle resulted in this god requiring
help from the seer Groa in removing a whetstone from his head. This god gained the service of Roskva and the
aforementioned servant Thialfi when the latter broke the thigh-bone of one of his goats. In addition to killing the
giant Hrungnir, this god once fished his mortal enemy out of the ocean and failed to lift its paw when it assumed the
form of a cat in the realm of Utgard-Loki. For 10 points, name this enemy of the Midgard Serpent who owned the
hammer Mjolnir, the Norse god of thunder.
ANSWER: Thor
16. Tertullian asked what Athens has to do with this city in his critique of Classical learning. The Arch of Titus was
built in commemoration of this city's capture in 70 AD, and Paul's trial before the Sanhedrin also occurred in this
city. An eighth century BCE tunnel built to carry water into this city in the event of an Assyrian siege can still be
seen today. The miraj or ascension of Muhammad to heaven occurred in this city above the Well of Souls. This city
houses the Istanbuli and Rambam Synagogues as well as the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the Temple Mount.
In this city, the Foundation Stone lies inside the Dome of the Rock. For 10 points, name this city in the West Bank,
Israel’s current capital.
ANSWER: Jerusalem [accept al-Quds]
17. One work by this thinker originally contained a parody of Christ’s speech to the thief on the cross, but that
passage was censored. The titular character of one work by this man sees the ugliest man in the world after being
warned of the sin of pity and delivers the parable of the tight-rope walker. This writer identifies Socrates and
Euripides with two Greek gods in his analysis of drama, which differentiates between the Apollonian and Dionysian.
That work is The Birth of Tragedy. In another work, this philosopher argued that man was just a transitional phase
between ape and ubermensch. For 10 points, name this philosopher who declared that “God is dead” and wrote Thus
Spake Zarathustra.

ANSWER: Friedrich (Wilhelm) Nietzsche
18. Schumann wrote his Marchenbilder for piano and this instrument, and this instrument is featured in a piece
written for the death of George V, Trauermusik. That work was written by Paul Hindemith, who was a virtuoso of
this instrument. One work featuring a large solo for this instrument contains an “Orgy of the Brigands” and was
inspired by Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage; that work is Harold in Italy. This instrument, which shares a name with “de
gamba” and “d’amore” versions used in Baroque and Renaissance music, has music for it written in alto clef, and its
lowest string is an octave below middle C. For 10 points, name this middle voice of a string quartet that is slightly
larger than a violin.
ANSWER: Viola
19. In one novel by this author, a poet’s red haired girlfriend is arrested for refusing to rat out her brother, and the
poet Jaromil is spoiled by his Maman. In another novel, after writing a note which reads “Optimism is the opium
of the people...Long live Trotsky!” Ludvik Jahn is expelled from the party. In addition to Life is Elsewhere and The
Joke, this author wrote a novel which sees Franz killed in Bangkok, focuses on Nietzsche’s concept of eternal return,
and features a romance between the pig Mefisto and dog Karenin. For 10 points, name this author of a novel about
the love affairs of Sabina, Teresa and Thomas, set in Prague, The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
20. During the rule of one monarch by this name, a marriage proposal led to a rebellion by Peter Carew and
James Croft, which was stopped by Robert Southwell. One monarch of this name appointed Reginald Pole as
Archbishop of Canterbury and was targeted by Wyatt’s Rebellion. Hugh Latimer was killed during that ruler’s
reign. Another ruler of this name was supported by the Rising of the North, the Ridolfi plot, and the Babington plot.
One person of this name succeeded Lady Jane Grey, while another ruler married the Earl of Bothwell and Lord
Darnley and was executed by Elizabeth I. For 10 points, give this name of a “Queen of Scots” and a ruler given the
nickname “Bloody”.
ANSWER: Mary [Accept Mary I or Mary Tudor or Bloody Mary before “Rising of the North.”]
Bonuses
1. An installation by Christo and Jeanne-Claude called The Gates runs through many of its pathways. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this public space with lots of trees and grass that was planned by Frederick Law Olmsted to bring some
green to the middle of Manhattan. The Metropolitan Museum of Art is located here.
ANSWER: Central Park
[10] Another famous planned park is this one in the Gracia district of Barcelona. It features a long serpentine bench
surrounding its terrace along with a mosaic salamander fountain.
ANSWER: Parc Guell [GWELL]
[10] Parc Guell was designed by this Catalan architect who is best known for a church with lots of towers that when
illuminated at night look like they are made of bones. That church, La Sagrada Familia, has yet to be completed.
ANSWER: Antoni Gaudi (i Cornet)
2. At the end of this play, the last candle goes out and a character is left sobbing in the darkness. For 10 points each:
[10] Name that play, in which Oswald discovers that not only has he inherited syphilis from his father Captain
Alving, but that his love Regina Engstrand is actually his half-sister.
ANSWER: Ghosts [Accept Gengangere.]
[10] Ghosts was written by this Norwegian playwright of When We Dead Awaken and a play about the dissolving
marriage of Torvald and Nora, A Doll’s House.
ANSWER: Henrik (Johan) Ibsen

[10] This Ibsen heroine entrances the scholar Eylert Lovborg, and attempts to destroy his research and urge him to
suicide. She shoots herself with one of her father’s pistols when Judge Brack attempts to blackmail her.
ANSWER: Hedda Gabler [Prompt on “Gabler.”]
3. This experiment used a light source to fire at two gaps, which then produced an interference pattern through
diffraction. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this experiment first carried out by an English scientist, which showed the probabilistic nature of
quantum mechanics.
ANSWER: Young's double-slit experiment
[10] The double-slit experiment was early evidence that light not only behaved as a particle but also as one of these
oscillations.
ANSWER: waves
[10] The Davisson-Germer experiment demonstrated the wave nature of electrons by firing them onto the surface of
this element. This element, along with iron and cobalt, is considered a common ferromagnetic material.
ANSWER: nickel [Accept Ni.]
4. Answer the following questions about the industrial chemistry of a particularly important compound of nitrogen.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this compound, which is a noxious gas important for fertilizer use and in the production of nitric acid. Its
formula is NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia
[10] Name this process, patented by a German chemist in the early 1900s, which industrialized the synthesis of
ammonia. This process is analogous to nitrogen fixation in biology.
ANSWER: Haber-Bosch process
[10] Although initially osmium was considered as a useful catalyst in the Haber process, oxides of this much
cheaper element are currently used in large-scale industrial versions of the process.
ANSWER: iron
5. These objects that have constant access time to elements are functionally equivalent to pointers in C. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these commonly used data structures whose elements are accessed through their indices.
ANSWER: arrays
[10] This type of “last in, first out” data structure that can be implemented using an array is commonly compared
against a queue.
ANSWER: stack
[10] This type of self-balancing data structure that ensures worst-case big O of log n insertion, deletion, and lookup
has alternating layers which are given different parities.
ANSWER: red-black binary tree
6. Name these things about mountains in the Old Testament. For 10 points each:
[10] This is the mountain upon which Moses received the Ten Commandments from God. After descending from
this mountain, Moses became angry upon seeing his people worshipping a Golden Calf.
ANSWER: Mount Sinai [Accept Mount Horeb.]
[10] This man first reached dry land on mountains forty days at sea, after which he saw a rainbow from God. He had
previously built an ark to survive a flood.
ANSWER: Noah [Also accept Noe or Noach.]
[10] These are the mountains upon which Noah's ark landed. They are thought to be a likewise-named mountain in
Turkey with Lesser and Greater peaks.
ANSWER: Mountains of Ararat [Accept Mount Lubar or Mount Judi.]

7. Name these Americans related to the hotly contested Election of 1824. For 10 points each:
[10] This long-serving Speaker of the House came in third and conceded his votes to John Quincy Adams, giving
Adams the election. He was known as the “Great Compromiser.”
ANSWER: Henry Clay, Sr.
[10] After Clay was appointed Secretary of State, this man complained of a “corrupt bargain.” He would go on to
defeat John Quincy Adams for re-election in 1828.
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
[10] This Secretary of the Treasury under Monroe placed fourth in the election and returned to Georgia to serve as a
judge.
ANSWER: William (Harris) Crawford
8. He painted a scene from the story of Susanna and the Elders that is dominated by the towering palace of
Jehoiakim on the right. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German painter who also showed massive, swirling crowds of Macedonian and Persian soldiers and
a floating inscription in his The Battle of Alexander at Issus.
ANSWER: Albrecht Altdorfer
[10] This other German artist showed a bored angel sitting in front of a wall with a magic square in his Melancolia I
as well as various other engravings like Knight, Death, and the Devil and his Apocalypse woodcut series.
ANSWER: Albrecht Durer
[10] Another German artist, Hans Holbein the Younger, painted this double portrait of some French people in
England. It features a globe, a lute, and a stretched out skull.
ANSWER: The Ambassadors
9. Words to this piece of music were written by Joseph Weyl, and in Austria it is played at midnight on New Years’
Eve. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this famous waltz written in 3/4 time, titled after a “beautiful” river.
ANSWER: By The Beautiful Blue Danube [Accept The Blue Danube Waltz, An der schönen Blauen Donau, and
Der Blauen Donau.]
[10] The Blue Danube waltz was composed by one composer of this last name. That composer, known as the “waltz
king,” also wrote an opera in which Falke is dressed as the title animal, Die Fledermaus.
ANSWER: Strauss [Accept Johann (Baptist) Strauss the Younger, Jr., the Second, or the Son.]
[10] Another composer with the last name of Strauss, Richard [REE-kard], composed this tone poem
whose “Sunrise” section is famously featured at the beginning of 2001: A Space Odyssey.
ANSWER: Also Sprach Zarathustra [Accept Thus Spoke Zarathustra and Thus Spake Zarathustra.]
10. After putting down repeated rebellions by their leader Widukind, Charlemagne issued a Capitulatio outlining the
terms of surrender for these people, eventually massacring thousands of them at Verden. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these Germanic peoples who invaded and settled in Britain along with the Angles and Jutes.
ANSWER: Saxons
[10] Charlemagne became the first holder of this title upon being crowned by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day in 800.
Otto of Brunswick was the only member of the Welf family to hold this title.
ANSWER: Holy Roman Emperor
[10] The crowning of Charlemagne as Emperor made him the successor to Constantine VI as the leader of the
Christian world, drawing the anger of this Byzantine Empress.
ANSWER: Irene of Athens [Accept Irene Sarantapechaina.]
11. In one novel by this author, Savonarola convinces the title character to stay in Florence, but after the Bonfire of
the Vanities and her grandfather’s betrayal by Tito Melema, she leaves. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this author of Romola and The Mill on the Floss as well as a novel in which Silas Marner’s greatest
treasure turns out to Eppie rather than the fortune that was stolen by Duncan Cass.
ANSWER: George Eliot [Accept Mary Ann Evans or Marian Evans.]
[10] In this Eliot novel, the doctor Tertius Lydgate struggles to revolutionize medicine in the titular town, and
Dorothea Brooke falls in love with her husband’s cousin Will Ladislaw.
ANSWER: Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life
[10] This man is Dorothea’s first husband. A dour clergyman working on A Key to All Mythology, this man declares
in his will that Dorothea cannot both marry Will Ladislaw and keep his estate.
ANSWER: Edward Casaubon [Accept either underlined part]
12. This state defeated the Latin League at Lake Regillus and survived the sack of its capital following a defeat by
the Gauls at the Allia River. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state that formed after Lucius Junius Brutus helped to overthrow Tarquinius Superbus, and was
eventually supplanted by a similarly named Empire.
ANSWER: Roman Republic [Accept Res-publica Romanorum. Prompt on Rome. Do not accept “Roman
Empire” or “Kingdom of Rome.”]
[10] This Roman orator and consul strongly advocated traditional republican government, warning against the
implications of Caesar's dictatorship. He gave the Philippics speeches to denounce Mark Antony.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero
[10] After losing to Cicero in an election for the consulship, this man plotted to have Cicero murdered and to stage a
revolt in Etruria, but things went badly and he was killed at the Battle of Pistoria in 62 BC.
ANSWER: Catiline [Accept Lucius Sergius Catilina.]
13. This October 2012 storm wreaked havoc in the Caribbean and along the Eastern Seaboard. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hurricane that is currently estimated to become the second costliest Atlantic storm. It caused great
damage in New York and New Jersey and interrupted the 2012 Presidential campaigns.
ANSWER: Hurricane Sandy [Accept Frankenstorm.]
[10] This Republican governor of New Jersey praised President Obama’s response to the storm. He also instituted
statewide gasoline rationing to deal with Sandy’s aftereffects.
ANSWER: Christopher (James) Christie
[10] This man claimed that President Obama and FEMA reacted to the hurricane too rapidly. Ironically, this former
director of FEMA had been heavily criticized for his slow response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
ANSWER: Michael Dewayne Brown
14. This empire had its capital at Ctesiphon and was founded by Ardashir I. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this last empire that revived orthodox Zoroastrianism and fought a war with the Byzantine empire in the
early 7th century.
ANSWER: Sassanid empire [Accept Sassanian Empire.]
[10] This ruler from the same region overthrew the Median Confederation to found the Achaemenid Empire in the
mid-sixth century BC. He was succeeded by his son Cambyses II.
ANSWER: Cyrus the Great [Accept Cyrus II or Cyrus the Elder.]
[10] The Sassanid Empire and the Achaemenid Empire both spoke varieties of this language, now the official
language of Iran.
ANSWER: Persian [Accept Farsi.]
15. This philosopher wrote a constitution for the Carolinas that encouraged the slave trade and gave slaveholders
absolute power over their slaves. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British philosopher who developed primary and secondary characteristics in An Essay Concerning
Human Understanding and advocated religious toleration in A Letter Concerning Toleration.

ANSWER: John Locke
[10] In his Two Treatises of Government, Locke argued that all men have the right to life, liberty, and this concept.
Pierre-Joseph Proudhon asked “What is” this concept in a famous anarchist essay.
ANSWER: property
[10] Locke’s An Essay Concerning Human Understanding was a critical work in this branch of philosophy, which
seeks to understand the nature of knowledge and how humans know what they know.
ANSWER: epistemology
16. The Hershey-Chase experiment determined DNA was the mechanism of genetic inheritance because bacteria
infected by these entities continued to pass on phosphorus in future generations. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of virus capable of infecting bacteria.
ANSWER: bacteriophage
[10] One bacteriophage mode of replication is this cycle, which breaks open cells after replication so the
bacteriophage can find other hosts.
ANSWER: lytic cycle
[10] The T4 bacteriophage in E. coli uses the lytic cycle and is contrasted with this phage with a Greek letter name
discovered by Esther Lederberg. This phage uses the lysogenic cycle.
ANSWER: lambda phage [Accept enterobacteria phage lambda and coliphage lambda.]
17. In one scene in this author’s recent memoir, Nelson Algren dies just prior to a planned meeting with this author.
That memoir, written in the third person, is titled Joseph Anton. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who also created a character born on August 15, 1947, Saleem Sinai, in the novel Midnight’s
Children.
ANSWER: (Sir Ahmed) Salman Rushdie
[10] Rushdie used the pseudonym “Joseph Anton” after being the subject of a fatwa issued following the release of
this book, which centers around Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha.
ANSWER: The Satanic Verses
[10] In The Satanic Verses, Farishta and Chamcha are both aboard a hijacked plane that explodes over this body of
water.
ANSWER: The English Channel [Accept La Manche.]
18. Isis gained power over this god by poisoning him and refusing to provide the antidote until he revealed his secret
name. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Egyptian sun god who crossed the sky every day in his solar barge. He was later syncretized with
Amun.
ANSWER: Ra
[10] This Egyptian god of Chaos helped out on the solar barge, defending it from any enemies. He was a rival of his
nephew Horus for power after his brother Osiris died.
ANSWER: Seth
[10] One of the daily attackers of the solar barge was this serpent-demon who rose up out of Bakhu and tried to eat
Ra and his following. When he succeeded, solar eclipses happened.
ANSWER: Apep [Accept Apophis.]
19. One character in this novel teaches beavers to sing songs and later takes another man’s place in prison. That
character is David Gamut. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, in which Gamut rescues the titular character Uncas, who fights alongside Chingachgook and
Hawkeye, also known as Natty Bumppo, against the French and the Hurons.
ANSWER: The Last of the Mohicans: A Narrative of 1757

[10] This novelist of The Last of the Mohicans had his literary offenses listed by Mark Twain and wrote other novels
about Natty Bumppo like The Deerslayer and The Pioneers in his Leatherstocking Tales.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
[10] In this Leatherstocking Tale with a similar plot to The Last of the Mohicans, Bumppo fights the villainous
Arrowhead for Mabel Dunham with the help of the frontiersman Jasper Western, who eventually marries Mabel.
ANSWER: The Deerslayer, or The First Warpath
20. In this experiment, children displayed violence towards an inflatable toy that they had previously seen an
experimenter abuse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this experiment conducted at Stanford, which also found that the gender of the experimenter influenced
the relative levels of violence displayed by children of different genders.
ANSWER: Bobo doll experiment
[10] This proponent of social learning theory and coiner of the term “self-efficacy” ran the Bobo doll experiment.
ANSWER: Albert Bandura
[10] This other behaviorist created an operant conditioning chamber, known as his namesake “box,” and also wrote
Walden Two.
ANSWER: (B)urrhus (F)rederic Skinner

