Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 3
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. In one of this man’s works, he determined that he had previously mistranslated the word “numaym” as “clan,”
instead of “a bundle of privileges.” This man distinguished between historical and geographic sciences in his work
The Study of Geography. This man wrote about his study of Inuits on Baffin Island in his book The Central Eskimo,
and he tutored Alfred Kroeber. His best known work advanced his concept of cultural relativism and was entitled
The Mind of Primitive Man. For 10 points, name this man who taught many other anthropologists at Columbia
University and was called “the Father of American Anthropology.”
ANSWER: Franz Boas
2. This location is home to the settlements of Villa Las Estrellas and Esperanza, the latter of which is situated on
Hope Bay. This region is bordered by bodies of water like the D’Urville Sea and the Mawson Sea. Deception Island
lies off the coast of this region, as does Alexander Island, the largest landform off its coast. Other features located
here include the volcano Erebus and a peak named for a long-serving Georgia Congressman. Exploration in this
home of Queen Maud Land and the Ross Ice Shelf was pioneered by Ernest Shackleton and Roald Amundsen. For
10 points, name this icy landmass that constitutes the world’s southernmost continent.
ANSWER: Antarctica
3. The presence of parasitic worms in this system can cause elephantiasis, which involves the swelling of skin and
tissues. It’s not the immune system, but one of its organs exhibits one of the few examples of involution and gets
slowly replaced by fat after puberty. Another organ in this system contains the Cords of Bilroth and is separated by
the marginal zone into red and white pulp. This system primarily uses the thoracic duct for draining interstitial fluid
and includes both the thymus and the spleen. For 10 points, name this subsystem of the circulatory system that has
namesake nodes that filter and recycle blood plasma and defend against infection.
ANSWER: lymphatic system [Prompt on immune system before mention.]
4. A painting entitled Portrait by this artist depicts a man in a white suit with a detached piece of Swiss cheese
for a head. This artist created a version of Van Gogh's Bedroom at Arles using his best known technique which he
debuted with his Look Mickey, an emulation of Mickey Mouse comic books. In one painting by this man, a bluehaired girl is drowning in splashing waves while thinking, “I'd rather sink than call Brad for help!” This artist's most
famous work shows rockets blazing through the sky from a fighter jet, creating a large red and yellow blast and the
titular captioned noise. For 10 points, name this Pop Artist who made use of Ben-Day dots and painted Whaam!
ANSWER: Roy Lichtenstein
5. The Irish god Manannan mac Lir owned one of these named Enbarr that carried his daughter Niamh and her lover
Ossian across the sea, while Sir Gawain owned one of these creatures named Gringolet. During a nighttime raid,
Odysseus and Diomedes brought these creatures belonging to Rhesus back to the Greek camp. Other examples of
these animals include two children of Zephyrus which were given to Peleus as a wedding gift, Xanthus and Balius.
Loki assumed the form of one of these animals when he mated with Svadilfari to give birth to an eight-legged one
named Sleipnir. For 10 points, name these creatures that include a giant wooden one associated with Troy.
ANSWER: horses

6. BG Verghese was removed from one post for criticizing this leader. One incident called for by this politician saw
Operation Shop paired with Operation Metal, which called for the destruction of Akal Takht. During the tenure of
this opponent of the Janata Party, Homi Bhabha oversaw a series of nuclear tests in Pokhran that were codenamed
Smiling Buddha. This politician ordered Operation Blue Star, leading to the attack in Amritsar on the Sikh Golden
Temple, the repercussions of which included this politician’s assassination by her Sikh bodyguards. For 10 points,
name this daughter of Nehru and former female Prime Minister of India.
ANSWER: Indira (Priyadarshini) Gandhi [Prompt on “Gandhi.”]
7. This man composed a work for violin and piano in E major as an engagement present to his wife. This composer
of “Salut d’Amour” also used clarinets, bassoons, and horns to answer an introductory recitative by the title
instrument in his Cello Concerto in E minor, a piece that was later famously performed by Jacqueline du Pre. This
man was inspired by a Cardinal Newman poem to write his Dream of Gerontius. August Jaeger was the inspiration
for the “Nimrod” movement of another work by this composer, who also wrote a series of six marches that takes its
title from Othello. For 10 points, name this British composer of the Enigma Variations and some marches popular at
graduations, Pomp and Circumstance.
ANSWER: Sir Edward (William) Elgar, 1st Baronet
8. This work features “Neapolitan” and “Venetian” dances in addition to a “Dance of the Corps and the Dwarves.”
In one scene from this work, the protagonist’s friend Benno accompanies him on a trip with his tutor Wolfgang,
during which he is given a crossbow. That character refuses the brides presented to him at the royal ball until
professing love for Odile, who has been disguised as his true love by the sorcerer Von Rothbart. At the end of this
work, Siegfried jumps into a lake with his true love Odette, releasing her from her curse. For 10 points, name this
work in which Odette is human only at night and takes the form of the titular bird during day, written by Peter
Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: Swan Lake [Accept Lebedinoye ozero]
9. Paul Rose lead violent actions in this place that resulted in the abduction and killing of Pierre Laporte by the
Chenier Cell. The abduction of James Cross in this polity contributed to the use of the War Measures Act to deal
with the FLQ in the October Crisis by prime minister Pierre Trudeau. The capital of this province was the site of
a 1759 battle that saw the deaths of the Marquis de Montcalm and General James Wolfe, and is also known as the
Battle of the Plains of Abraham. Attempts have been made to grant it special status as a “distinct society,” and
many residents support its independence. For 10 points, identify this French-speaking Canadian province home to
Montreal.
ANSWER: Quebec [Prompt on Canada before “province” is read.]
10. The title character of an unfinished poem by this man encounters Geraldine, who claims to have been abducted.
Another poem by this man ends with an image of “silent icicles / quietly shining to the quiet moon,” and describes
how the titular phenomenon “performs its secret ministry.” In addition to “Frost at Midnight,” this author wrote a
poem which features a “damsel with a dulcimer” and earlier describes the River Alph running down to a sunless sea.
The title emperor of that poem lives in Xanadu and decrees a “stately pleasure dome.” For 10 points, name this poet
of “Kubla Khan” who also wrote about the slaying of an albatross in The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
11. The lead-up to this war saw the signing of the Oñate Treaty between Spain and Austria as well as the Uskok
War, fought against Croatian pirates. The initial issue of this war was resolved in the Peace of Prague, prompting
French intervention. Early in this conflict, Christian of Anhalt was crushed at the Battle of White Mountain, ending
the short reign of Frederick the Winter King. The victor in that battle, the Count of Tilly, was later crushed by the
Swedish under Gustavus Adolphus at Breitenfeld and Lützen. For 10 points, name this long conflict ended by the
Peace of Westphalia and begun over conflicts between Catholics and Protestants in the Holy Roman Empire.

ANSWER: Thirty Years' War [Accept Bohemian Revolt until “French” is read.]
12. In “The Cave,” the eighteenth chapter of the Qur'an, this man witnesses the wrecking of a boat and the murder
of a child at the hands of a man named Khidr, the Green Man. God revealed the statement “I am that I am” to this
prophet, who was forced to flee from his homeland upon murdering one of the natives, only to return at the behest
of a burning bush. This husband of Miriam was able to change his staff into a snake and turned the Nile into blood,
demanding, “Let my people go.” For 10 points, name this brother of Aaron who led the Jews out of Egypt and
received the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai.
ANSWER: Moses [Accept Moshe or Musa.]
13. The autobiography of one prominent member of this movement, Lorenzo Dow, was once second only to the
Bible in book sales. Its western component included early events at Gasper River and Cane Ridge and inspired a
group that experienced a “Great Disappointment” on October 22, 1848, the Millerites. This movement resulted
in upstate New York being called the “burned-over district,” and its prominent figures included the Presbyterian
Lyman Beecher and Methodist Charles Grandison Finney. For 10 points, name this early 19th century period of
renewed religious fervor across the United States, similar to an earlier revival from the 1730s.
ANSWER: Second Great Awakening [Prompt on “Great Awakening.”]
14. One of this author’s characters recites the Lord’s Prayer with every noun replaced by the word nada. Another
character asks “the American” to “please please please please please stop talking,” in an argument about abortion.
This author of “A Clean Well-Lighted Place” wrote a novel in which the protagonist escapes “battle police” after
surviving the Battle of Caporetto. That work ends with Catherine Barkley dying in childbirth and her lover Frederic
Henry walking out into the rain. This man also wrote of Santiago catching a giant marlin that gets eaten by sharks.
For 10 points, name this author of “Hills Like White Elephants,” A Farewell to Arms, and The Old Man and the Sea.
ANSWER: Ernest (Miller) Hemingway
15. A more reactive source of nucleophilic carbon than a Grignard reagent is the alkylated or arylated form of this
element, and this element is currently under inspection as a potential generator of tritium in the commercialization
of d-t fusion. It is the heaviest stable element to form during Big Bang nucleosynthesis. Older stars are poor in
this element while younger ones are unexpectedly rich in it. The deuteride of its isotope with mass number 6 is
sometimes used as fuel for thermonuclear weapons, and the monovalent ion of this element is used to treat bipolar
disorder. For 10 points, name this element which is the first of the alkali metals and has atomic number 3.
ANSWER: lithium
16. One character created by this author journeys to the Amazon, meets the People of the Mist, and goes on safari to
Kenya before meeting a bunch of pygmies in the forest. This creator of Alexander Cold wrote a novel in which the
title character is conceived when a war journalist sleeps with a gardener dying from a snakebite. This writer’s best
known novel sees one character fall in love with a green-haired girl and alienate his granddaughter and her lover.
Those characters, Alba and Miguel, appear in this author’s most famous work which also features Clara and Esteban
of the Trueba family. For 10 points, name this Chilean-American author of Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits.
ANSWER: Isabel Allende Llona
17. One character created by this author receives three bottles of wine from the enemies of the title group, with
whom he made a separate peace. In another play by this author, a group of old women dump water on the heads
of men trying to smoke them out of a building. This author of The Acharnians created a character who helps the
personification of Inferior Argument defeat Superior Argument. In that play, a character obsessed with horse-racing
learns logic at the The Thinkery, leading him to beat up his father Strepsiades. For 10 points, name this Greek
comedic playwright of The Clouds who also wrote about some animals building Cloudcuckooland in The Birds.
ANSWER: Aristophanes

18. Thomas Aquinas famously stated that Isaac Israeli defined this concept as the “equation of things and intellect.”
One theory of this concept argues that it is only a linguistic tool. Another argues that it is determined in groups.
Those are the “deflationary” and “consensus” models of this concept, respectively. Aristotle defined this concept
as “to say of what is that it is.” The “correspondence” theory of this concept holds that this concept relies on
thoughts matching the outside world. Tables named for this concept are used to test logical validity. For 10 points,
name this philosophical condition, frequently contrasted with falsehood.
ANSWER: truth [Accept word forms.]
19. This scientific phenomenon helps explain Fata Morgana. The Fresnel equations describe this phenomenon’s
relationship to reflectance and polarization. Certain classes of metamaterials can have a negative value for a number
associated with this phenomenon. A law describing this phenomenon was derived by Fermat from his principle of
least time, and that law indicates that the ratio of phase velocities in two media are proportional to the sine of the
angle of incidence to this phenomenon's namesake angle. For 10 points, name this optics phenomenon described by
Snell's Law, in which light bends because of a change in medium.
ANSWER: refraction
20. Project Lambda is an initiative to add closures to this programming language. Fragments were recently
introduced in one use of this programming language in which Intents are used to interact with other apps. The
graphical user interface for it is provided by the Swing library, and its just in time compiler compiles its bytecode.
Used to write Android applications, this object oriented language uses ArrayLists, and programs in it often include
the phrase “public static void main.” Applets written in this language are often found on web pages. For 10 points,
name this programming language named for an Indonesian island whose logo is a cup of coffee.
ANSWER: Java [Do not accept “JavaScript.”]
Bonuses
1. This work's middle ground is dominated by two large columns that rise indefinitely, and two putti appear on a
cloud with a cross above the central scene. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting that shows Turkish and Moorish prisoners behind the titular patron, who is being presented
to Mary by St. Peter as his family is gathered around St. Francis on the right.
ANSWER: Pesaro Madonna [Accept Madonna di Ca' Pesaro.]
[10] This painting shows a naked courtesan representing a certain goddess reclining on her bed. A dog is curled up
beside her feet and two maids rummage through a chest in the background.
ANSWER: Venus of Urbino
[10] Both the Pesaro Madonna and the Venus of Urbino were created by this Venetian artist who also showed two
women and Cupid gathered around a sarcophagus in his Sacred and Profane Love.
ANSWER: Titian [Accept Tiziano Vecellio.]
2. One of this man's films ends with the shot of an explosion, which is the result of Ferdinand Griffon painting his
face blue and wrapping it with dynamite before lighting the fuse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this New Wave director of Pierrot le fou who also directed a film about the Humphrey Bogart-loving
petty criminal Michel in A bout de souffle, which is translated as Breathless.
ANSWER: Jean-Luc Godard
[10] Godard was a director from this country, which was also home to fellow New Wave director Francois Truffaut.
Lots of films from this country are set in Paris.
ANSWER: France
[10] France hosts this annual film festival located in a city on the French Riviera. Terrence Malick won its Palme
d'Or award in 2011 for The Tree of Life. (Why 2011 instead of 2012?)

ANSWER: Cannes International Film Festival
3. Herpesviruses aren’t only associated with STDs. For 10 points each:
[10] The Epstein-Barr Virus, or human herpesvirus 4, is responsible for this disease known for its months of fatigue.
It’s spread through saliva and many people contract it through kissing.
ANSWER: mononucleosis
[10] The very same virus is also responsible for the Burkitt’s and CNS varieties of this cancer of the lymphocytes.
ANSWER: lymphoma
[10] Human herpesvirus 3, also known as Varicella zoster, is responsible for this disease in children, which can lead
to encephalitis, pneumonia, or shingles as an adult. It causes itchy red spots to appear on the skin.
ANSWER: chickenpox
4. This character has an affair with his secretary Victoria Klonowska and founds the Emalia Camp after moving to
Krakow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who is responsible for saving the lives of over a thousand Jews during World War II, the
subject of a novel titled after his “ark” and a film titled after his “list.”
ANSWER: Oskar Schindler [Also accept Schindler’s Ark and Schindler’s List.]
[10] This author wrote Schindler’s Ark after being inspired to write about Oskar Schindler’s actions by the
Holocaust survivor Poldek Pfefferberg.
ANSWER: Thomas Michael Keneally
[10] Keneally is an author from this nation, also home to Patrick White, who wrote about a nineteenth century
Prussian explorer who treks across its largest desert in the novel Voss.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
5. As a child, he informed King Vortigern about a pair of dragons fighting each other underground, which was
preventing the king from building a tower. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this old magician and advisor to King Arthur who created the Round Table and was buried alive by the
magic of the Lady Nimue, with whom he was in love.
ANSWER: Merlin
[10] Merlin used his magic to help this father of King Arthur take the form of Gorlois and seduce his wife, Igraine.
His epithet comes from the sighting of a dragon-shaped comet.
ANSWER: Uther Pendragon
[10] The seduction of Gorlois's wife, Igraine, occurred at this Cornish castle while Gorlois was fighting Uther's
armies at nearby Terrabil. In later traditions, Arthur was born here.
ANSWER: Tintagel
6. Alban Berg composed a serialist work for this type of ensemble, his Lyric Suite. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this most common type of chamber musical ensemble that contains two violinists, one violist, and one
cellist.
ANSWER: string quartet [Prompt on quartet.]
[10] This Austrian composer known as the “father of the string quartet” also composed many symphonies including
the Military, Drumroll, and Surprise symphonies.
ANSWER: Franz Joseph Haydn
[10] This man composed a semi-autobiographical string quartet in E minor titled “From My Life,” where high notes
in the first violin represent impending deafness.
ANSWER: Bedrich Smetana
7. This man helped to establish a philosophy of “descriptionism” in his influential essay “On Denoting.” For 10
points each:

[10] Name this early 20th century British philosopher who collaborated with Alfred North Whitehead on a work that
built on the philosophy of Gottlob Frege, Principia Mathematica.
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William Russell
[10] Russell claimed that if he announced that one of these objects were flying through outer space, the burden of
proof would lie with him, an attack against those who defended God by saying one cannot prove God doesn’t exist.
ANSWER: a teapot
[10] Russell’s teapot is commonly referenced by those who hold this belief, including men like Richard Dawkins
and, prior to his death, Christopher Hitchens. Those who hold this belief think that God does not exist.
ANSWER: atheism [Accept word forms, do not accept agnosticism.]
8. This poet wrote of one creature that “likes a boggy acre / a floor too cool for corn.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet, who described a snake as “a narrow fellow in the grass” and described a sound “with blue,
uncertain, stumbling buzz / Between the light and me / And then the windows failed, and then / I could not see.”
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson
[10] Emily Dickinson wrote about one of these “in the opposite house / as lately as today” and also says that because
she could not stop for this, “he kindly stopped for me.”
ANSWER: a death
[10] In this Dickinson poem, the titular phenomenon occurs on “winter afternoons,” “oppresses like the weight of
cathedral tunes,” and “when it comes the landscape listens, / Shadows hold their breaths.”
ANSWER: “There’s a certain slant of light”
9. Answer these questions from fluid mechanics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this region in a fluid in which the flow is mostly a spinning motion. Examples of these entities include
the winds around a hurricane, smoke rings, and whirlpools.
ANSWER: vortex [or vortices]
[10] According to this principle from fluid dynamics, the upward buoyant force is equal to the weight of the
displaced fluid.
ANSWER: Archimedes' principle
[10] These equations arise from applying Newton's second law to fluid motion. Degenerate solutions of this
equation include the Poiseuille equation and Couette flow, but three-dimensional solutions have yet to be found.
ANSWER: Navier-Stokes equations
10. It can be used to solve polynomial equations of degree 2 and can be derived by completing the square. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this formula that states negative b plus or minus the square root of b squared minus four a c all over 2 a
gives the roots of a degree 2 polynomial.
ANSWER: quadratic formula [Accept quadratic equation.]
[10] The term b squared minus 4 a c in the quadratic formula is given this name. If it is positive the polynomial has
two distinct real roots, but if it is negative the polynomial has no real roots.
ANSWER: discriminant
[10] These formulas give the coefficients of a polynomial in terms of elementary symmetric functions of the roots.
ANSWER: Vieta’s formulas
11. Fulber Yolou was the first president of one nation named after this region, and a “Free State” effectively under
the rule of Belgium was located here. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this region in central Africa, which currently names a “Democratic Republic” formerly known as Zaire.
ANSWER: Congo
[10] The Congo Free State was under the personal rule of this king of Belgium, but that rule was ended following
the description of atrocities in the Casement Report. Adam Hochschild wrote a book about this man’s “Ghost.”

ANSWER: Leopold II [Prompt on “Leopold.”]
[10] This man deposed by Joseph Mobutu during the Katanga Crisis was the first prime minister of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo.
ANSWER: Patrice (Emery) Lumumba
12. Names these languages in which Buddhist scriptures are written. For 10 points each:
[10] Most foundational Mahayana Buddhist scriptures, including the Perfection of Wisdom Sutras and Lotus Sutra,
were written in this Indian language. This language is also the medium for Jain scripture.
ANSWER: Sanskrit
[10] Most Theravada Buddhists claim that the Buddha spoke this language. Their canon of scripture is both written
in and named for this language.
ANSWER: Pali
[10] Lamas are the leaders of a sect of Buddhism that shares its name with this language. Scriptures in this language
include a certain Book of the Dead along with many texts of Vajrayana Buddhism.
ANSWER: Tibetan [Accept Bod skad and Poyig.]
13. In one of this man’s poems, the speaker is on Bristol street when he hears someone sing about how he’ll love a
woman until China and Africa meet. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Irish poet of “As I walked out one evening” as well as “September 1, 1939,” “The Unknown
Citizen,” and “Funeral Blues.”
ANSWER: W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden
[10] “As I walked out one evening” describes a moment when all of these objects in the city “began to whirr and
chime.” “Funeral Blues” opens with the call to stop all of these devices that tell time and include watches.
ANSWER: clocks
[10] Auden also wrote a poem in memory of this friend of his. The poem describes how it was “a dark cold day”
when this man died.
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
14. Answer the following about a certain characteristic of liquids. For 10 points each:
[10] This is the pressure that originates from the pressure of evaporated liquid molecules above the liquid. This
pressure pushes on the trapping container.
ANSWER: vapor pressure
[10] This is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of a liquid is equal to the atmospheric pressure, causing the
liquid to change phase.
ANSWER: normal boiling point [Accept atmospheric boiling point.]
[10] A differential form of this doubly-eponymous equation is used to find the slopes of coexistence curves in
a phase diagram. One form of this equation is used to give an approximate relation between vapor pressure,
temperature, and heat of vaporization.
ANSWER: Clausius-Clayperon equation
15. This man's forces failed to capture Acre from a garrison led by Jezzar Pasha when William Sidney Smith
brought reinforcements and extra supplies to the city. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French general and future Emperor who surrendered to British and Prussian forces at Waterloo in
1815.
ANSWER: Napoleon I Bonaparte
[10] Napoleon's admiral Pierre-Charles Villeneuve was defeated by Horatio Nelson at this naval battle off the coast
of Spain. Nelson was mortally wounded during this clash while aboard the HMS Victory.
ANSWER: Battle of Trafalgar

[10] Earlier, Nelson had disobeyed his superior Sir Hyde Parker by attacking the fleet of the League of Armed
Neutrality at this battle. This victory gave the British tighter control over neutral shipping.
ANSWER: Battle of Copenhagen
16. This author described the sufferings of the working class in Lancaster and Yorkshire in The Road to Wigan Pier.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who also wrote about a Burmese policeman killing the titular creature in “Shooting an
Elephant” and Winston Smith in the novel Nineteen Eighty-Four.
ANSWER: George Orwell [accept Eric Blair]
[10] This 19th century author, who also considered labor problems in Northern England, co-authored The
Communist Manifesto with Karl Marx.
ANSWER: Friedrich Engels
[10] Engles based this work, his first, on his visit to Manchester during the Industrial Revolution. He criticized the
Revolution for significantly worsening the titular people, as seen by increased rates of whooping cough and measles.
ANSWER: Conditions of the Working Class in England
17. Its namesake objects were supposedly picked from their stems in a garden meeting of English nobles, in order to
show the allegiance of each noble. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war that was effectively ended with the defeat of Richard III by Henry Tudor at the Battle of
Bosworth Field. The two sides were represented by red and white types of a certain flower.
ANSWER: War(s) of the Roses
[10] Richard III belonged to this English house, which fought against the Lancastrians. Its other kings were Edward
IV and Edward V.
ANSWER: House of York
[10] This husband of Margaret of Anjou was the last king from the House of Lancaster. He employed Warwick the
Kingmaker and was captured at the Battle of Tewkesbury, after which he died in captivity.
ANSWER: Henry VI
18. This author wrote a story in which Nathanael begins to confuse the frustrating lawyer Coppelius with the titular
figure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author whose short stories include one in which the student Anselmus fights a Salamander and
another in which Nathanael loves the automaton Olimpia, “The Golden Pot” and “The Sandman.”
ANSWER: E(rnst) T(heodor) A(madeus) Hoffmann [Accept Ernst Theodor Wilhelm Hoffman.]
[10] One Hoffmann story features one of these toys, a gift from Drosselmeyer that helps defend Marie from the evil
Mouse King. It was adapted into a Russian ballet.
ANSWER: a nutcracker
[10] In “The Sandman,” Nathanael develops a phobia for these objects and throws himself from a belltower when he
sees pretty ones. Oedipus stabs out these body parts when he learns of his incest with Jocasta.
ANSWER: eyes
19. This 16th U.S. state was home to three presidents and the location of the Battle of Shiloh. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this home state of James K Polk, Andrew Johnson, and Andrew Jackson, which was the last to join the
Confederacy in 1861. Because it sent many soldiers for the War of 1812, it’s known as the Volunteer State.
ANSWER: Tennessee
[10] One early political figure from Tennessee was this Congressman who lost his life fighting for Texas at the
Battle of the Alamo. This frontiersman was known as the “King of the Wild Frontier.”
ANSWER: David “Davy” Crockett
[10] Containing much of what is now Eastern Tennessee, this state existed only briefly under the governorship of
Colonel John Sevier and had capital at Jonesborough.

ANSWER: State of Franklin
20. Silvio Berlusconi took The Economist to court in this city during their war of words. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city from which Berlusconi served as prime minister of Italy. It’s also the country’s capital.
ANSWER: Rome [Accept Roma.]
[10] This man is the current prime minister of Italy and succeeded Berlusconi in November 2011. Berlusconi
recently threatened to topple this man’s technocratic government.
ANSWER: Mario Monti
[10] The Italian press has labeled Berlusconi’s alleged sex parties with this name. This phrase may have originated
during the Dreadnaught hoax, carried out by the Bloomsbury Group.
ANSWER: bunga bunga parties

