Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 13
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. This author placed himself in a work in which he is chastised for his attachment to worldly possessions by St.
Augustine. This author also wrote a travel guide to the Holy Land, and two of his letters entitled “The Ascent of
Mount Ventoux” and “The Letter to Posterity” are often published along with his most famous work. This poet
wrote an unfinished epic about Scipio’s defeat of Carthage, along with a collection generally divided into works
written before the death of the dedicatee, whom the poet encountered in Avignon on Good Friday. For 10 points,
name this Italian poet, the namesake of a type of sonnet, who dedicated poems to Laura in his Il Canzoniere.
ANSWER: Petrarch [Accept Francesco Petrarca.]
2. The Marcha da Maconha was a series of demonstrations advocating this action in Brazil, and the 2005 Supreme
Court case Gonzales v. Raich came in response to Proposition 215, which did this action. Tom Tancredo recently
endorsed one piece of legislation that did this, Amendment 64, and Part Five of another piece of recent legislation
that did this set a DUI limit of 5 nanograms per milliliter of THC. That piece of legislation was Initiative 502. For 10
points, name this action, which the 2012 election saw Massachusetts do for medicinal use and Colorado as well as
Washington do for recreational use of a certain plant.
ANSWER: legalization of marijuana [Accept equivalents, including ones substituting cannabis for marijuana.]
3. A Roman naval victory took place off the coast of this region when Lucius Manlius Longus and Marcus Regulus
won the Battle of Cape Ecnomus. Roger of Lauria won the Battle of the Counts during a war fought over this region,
and that war began when rebels here massacred French residents in revolt against Charles of Anjou. Operation
Husky was the codename for the invasion of this island during World War II, and that invasion was followed up
by the Battles of Anzio and Monte Cassino as part of the Italian Campaign. For 10 points, name this Italian island,
fought over in the First Punic War, which was home to the Tyrants of Syracuse and the original Mafia.
ANSWER: Sicily [Accept Sicilia.]
4. A coefficient associated with this force is equal to one when stagnation pressure builds up over an entire
surface. Potential flow solutions to the Euler equation indicate that this force should be zero in direct opposition to
observation in a paradox named after Jean d'Alembert. The power needed to overcome this force is proportional to
the third power of velocity and at very low Reynolds numbers, this force for spherical objects is proportional to the
fluid velocity, according to Stokes’ Law. This force leads to an object reaching terminal velocity and counteracts
thrust. For 10 points, name this force which opposes an object's motion through fluid, including air.
ANSWER: drag [Accept air drag. Prompt on “air resistance.”]
5. While in Tasmania, Alexander Maconochie created a system used in these entities that was later reused in the
Elmira System. Along with George Beaumont, Alexis de Tocqueville wrote about these entities before penning
Democracy in America. The Presidio Modelo one in Cuba was based off one that implemented an “unequal gaze,”
and was designed by Jeremy Bentham. Michel Foucault also borrowed the idea of the Panopticon, one of these
in which all inhabitants can be observed from one place, in his Discipline and Punish. For 10 points, name these
institutions that currently house Jerry Sandusky and Bernie Madoff, places where society locks up criminals.
ANSWER: prisons [Accept equivalents, including jails and penal colonies.]

6. One character in this novel, Dr. Peabody, is blamed by a young boy for killing another character, and that boy
accidentally bores two holes in that dead character’s face. Another character in this novel receives ten dollars from
the farmer Lafe to receive an abortion, but ends up seduced by a pharmacist. One chapter in this work consists
entirely of the words, “My mother is a fish.” The patriarch of the central family takes a horse from Jewel and money
from Cash to pay for the central trip to bury his wife. For 10 points, name this novel in which Dewey Dell, Darl,
Vardaman, and their father Anse try to bury the deceased Addie Bundren, written by William Faulkner.
ANSWER: As I Lay Dying
7. This man’s life was chronicled by Ali Yazdi, and he won one engagement by setting fire to hay on the backs
of camels, terrifying the opposing side’s elephants. In addition to defeating Tokhtamysh at the Battle of the Terek
River, this man was victorious at the Battle of Ankara against Bayezid I. This ruler died following an attempted
winter attack on the Ming Empire, and he earlier made his capital at Samarkand. This man became known for his
brutality due to such incidents as his stacking of giant pyramids of his enemies’ skulls following his capture of
Baghdad and Deli. For 10 points, name this ruler whose name derived from the fact that he was crippled.
ANSWER: Timur the Lame [Accept Tamerlane and Timur-i Lang.]
8. A naval assault on this location ordered by Rear Admiral John Dahlgren resulted in complete failure. Two years
earlier, the ship Star of the West was prevented from bringing supplies to it prior to an engagement that saw Abner
Doubleday fire the first shot to leave this location. That battle saw this location defended by forces under Major
Robert Anderson, and the residents of the neighboring city, including victorious General P. G. T. Beauregard,
watched the fighting from balconies overlooking Charleston Harbor. For 10 points, name this South Carolina fort
that withstood 34 hours of continuous bombardment before surrendering in the first battle of the American Civil
War.
ANSWER: Fort Sumter
9. This man used Cepheid variables to determine that Andromeda and Triangulum were not part of the Milky Way.
A value named for this man can be represented as the derivative of the scale factor divided by the scale factor. One
discovery by this man led Einstein to reconsider his addition of the cosmological constant to general relativity. This
man is credited with an equation that gives a linear relationship between velocity and the distance of galaxies. That
relation uses the aforementioned value, currently given to be about 70 kilometers per second per Megaparsec. For 10
points, name this American astronomer, the namesake of a famous Space Telescope.
ANSWER: Edwin Powell Hubble
10. Yogacara posits “storehouse consciousness,” consisting of seeds that ripen into a person's experience, to
explain this concept. In Jainism, both vasudevas and prativasudevas acquire one variety of this while baladevas
acquire comparatively less. Some traditions hold that different colors of this concept taint a person's soul. Bhakti, or
devotion, and knowledge are alternative paths to this concept in the Bhagavad Gita, while arhats and bodhisattvas,
like buddhas, are not affected by this. For 10 points, name this concept prevalent in Hinduism and Buddhism, the
idea that actions committed in previous lifetimes influence one's prospects for rebirth.
ANSWER: karma [Accept kamma.]
11. One opera by this man features an object inscribed with the letters “FV,” and in that work Antonio sends a
message from prison to Pippo. That opera includes the aria “Deh, tu reggi in tal memento,” sung by the servant of
Fabrizio Vingradito, and centers around Ninetta, who is accused of stealing a silver spoon. Another opera by this
composer of The Thieving Magpie includes the aria “Una voce poco fa,” about a man called Lindoro. The music
teacher Basilio appears in that work, which sees the marriage of Rosina and Count Almaviva. “Largo al factotum” is
sung by Figaro in the beginning of that work. For 10 points, identify this composer of The Barber of Seville.
ANSWER: Gioachino (Antonio) Rossini

12. Heracles was rewarded with the opportunity to sleep with King Thespius' fifty daughters after ridding his
lands of one of these creatures. Atalanta and Hippomenes were transformed into these creatures for making love
in the temple of Cybele, while another of these creatures became associated with Sir Yvain after he rescued it
from a serpent. During her murderous rampage as Sekhmet, Hathor took this form that also formed the head of the
Chimera. Their best known example had skin that could not be pierced by any weapon, forcing Heracles to strangle
it for his first labor, after which he wore its skin. For 10 points, name these large cats, one of which lived in Nemea.
ANSWER: lions
13. In one novel by this author, a retired judge adopts a teenage orphan who later tries to commit suicide by drinking
methanol. In another work by this author, Shinji Kubo manages to safely return a shipping vessel through a storm,
which permits him to marry the pearl-diver Hatsue. This author of Decay of the Angel created a character who uses
his clubfeet to pick up women, while his friend discusses the story of Nansen and the kitten with Father Dosen. That
friend later burns the titular building after the outbreak of the Korean War. For 10 points, name this Japanese author
of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion who committed seppuku on television after staging a failed coup.
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [Accept Kimitake Hiraoka.]
14. Hugo Grotius’ theory of the natural right of individuals was a precursor to this philosophical concept. Proudhon
proposed an anarchist version of this concept, which another philosopher described in a work that explains how
every individual’s opinion in isolation will together produce the best decision for the state, otherwise known as
the “general will.” That work argues that voluntarily entering into a state of slavery is illogical and begins “man
is born free but everywhere he is in chains.” For 10 points, name this philosophical concept in which individuals
improve upon the state of nature by surrendering certain rights, the title of a work by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
ANSWER: the social contract
15. The artist of this work painted a similar one titled for Joan Deyman. The central subject in this painting was
acquired following an armed robbery and a subsequent strangling. The artist's signature and the date “1632” appears
on a faint poster at the back wall of this work, in front of which a man leans forward with a list of notes in his hand.
A large book is propped up in the lower right corner of this painting, whose title figure wears a wide black hat and
holds a pair of forceps in his right hand, peeling apart the arm of a corpse lying on a table. For 10 points, name this
Rembrandt work in which Dr. Nicolaes Tulp lectures about the human body.
ANSWER: The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp
16. Kiliani-Fischer synthesis can be used to form this compound, along with mannose, through the reaction of
arabinose with hydrogen cyanide, followed by cyanohydrin hydrolysis and reduction. Reduction of this compound
by two electrons yields the widespread artificial sweetener sorbitol. Emil Fischer won the Nobel Prize in 1902
partly for discovering a projection that accurately demonstrated the chirality of carbon atoms in this aldose. This
molecule is the monomer building block of glycogen and amylose. It is also the monomer of the most abundant
macromolecule on Earth, cellulose. For 10 points, name this six carbon abundant organic sugar, the main energy
source for most life.
ANSWER: glucose [Accept dextrose.]
17. It’s not Hungary, but Franz Liszt wrote a virtuosic piano rhapsody named after this country. A violin concerto
by Edouard Lalo contains themes from its music, while Fantasia for a Gentleman is a work by a composer from
here. A work for guitar and orchestra inspired by royal gardens, the Concierto of Aranjuez, was composed by a man
from this country, Joaquin Rodrigo. An opera that occurs in this country featuring Zuniga contains Escamillo’s
toreador song, and Don Jose kills the title character of that opera. For 10 points, name this European country that is
the setting for Carmen and inspired Isaac Albeniz’ Iberia.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [Accept Reino de Espana.]

18. One section of this work borrows from Ovid, with the story of a man whose white crow alerts him of his wife’s
infidelity, to which that man responds by turning the crow black. In another section of this work, the clerk Absolon
kisses two other characters’ bottoms, and Nicholas and Alison enjoy a night together while Alison’s husband
prepares for a great flood. The first story from this work sees Arcite and Palamon compete for the hand of Emily,
while in another part Sir Salvio must learn what women want most in the world. For 10 points, name this work in
which lots of people tell stories on their way to the shrine of Thomas a Becket, written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
ANSWER: The Canterbury Tales
19. After his greatest defeat, this man went into self-exile and led Seleucid forces belonging to Antiochus III at the
Eurymedon River. This man's siege of Saguntum resulted in his most famous war, during which he faced scorchedearth tactics that resulted in Fabius Maximus' nickname, “the Delayer.” This general pinned the army of Flaminius
against Lake Trasimene in one victory and was assisted by his brother Mago in wiping out forces under the consuls
Paullus and Varro at the Battle of Cannae. The invasion of Scipio Africanus recalled this man to his home city. For
10 points, name this Carthaginian general of the Second Punic War who led elephants across the Alps.
ANSWER: Hannibal Barca
20. Bacteria might utilize FtsZ for this process, while plants necessitate the formation of a phragmoplast during
it. In this process, GTPase RhoA is responsible for directing myosin II activation and actin formation to produce
a contractile ring. One exceptional form of this process occurs in oogenesis, when the polar bodies get very little
cytoplasm and organelles compared to the ovum. This process generally produces a cleavage furrow, resulting in
two cells with equal amounts of material, and it takes place after telophase in mitosis. For 10 points, name this
process which in which a cell’s cytoplasm is divided to form two daughter cells.
ANSWER: cytokinesis
Bonuses
1. Saigo Takamori, a man killed at the Battle of Shiroyama during the Satsuma Rebellion, has been called the last
true one of this class of people. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these noble warriors of Feudal Japan often depicted in armor and holding katanas. They sometimes
committed suicide in a ritual called seppuku.
ANSWER: samurai
[10] Seppuku is part of this code of the samurai. It was defined by the seven virtues and dealt with honor and
loyalty, meaning samurai who did not follow it had to commit seppuku.
ANSWER: bushido
[10] This battle saw forces under Oda Nobunaga and Tokugawa Ieyasu that included samurai with arquebuses defeat
the mounted samurai of Takeda Katsuyori, marking a transition in Japanese tactics.
ANSWER: Battle of Nagashino
2. Strong versions of these events often occur at Wadati-Benioff Zones, while those that occur at divergent
boundaries are usually weaker. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these natural disasters which cause the ground to shake and cause seismic waves.
ANSWER: earthquakes
[10] This is the name for the location on the surface of the Earth that is directly above the focus of an earthquake.
ANSWER: epicenter
[10] Earthquakes generate Rayleigh and love waves, which are these types of oscillations that travel at the boundary
between two media.
ANSWER: surface waves

3. This author wrote about a composer named “D” who talks to Aghwee the Sky Monster in one work. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Japanese author whose works, which include A Personal Matter and The Pinch Runner
Memorandum, often feature characters with mental handicaps.
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe
[10] This other Oe work sees the brothers Takashi and Mitsusaboro travel to Shikoku and confront their family
history. It also sees Takashi begin an uprising against a Korean store owner called the Emperor.
ANSWER: The Silent Cry [Accept Man'en Gannen no Futtoboru.]
[10] At the end of The Silent Cry, Takashi undertakes this action. Edna Pontellier dies through this action at the end
of The Awakening and Romeo and Juliet do this through poison at the end of a Shakespeare play.
ANSWER: committing suicide [Accept equivalents, including killing himself and shooting himself.]
4. It was precipitated by a discovery made by James W. Marshall at Sutter’s Mill. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this influx of opportunistic “forty-niners” after the discovery of a precious mineral. Much of a certain
state’s current population originated from miners trying to strike it rich during this event.
ANSWER: California Gold Rush [Prompt on “Gold Rush.”]
[10] This “Great Pathfinder” and first Republican nominee for President was one of the first U.S. Senators from
California. He had earlier helped instigate the Bear Flag Revolt.
ANSWER: John C(harles) Fremont
[10] This man served as military governor of California and died of yellow fever a year before the Gold Rush. More
famously, he led the Army of the West to victory at the Battle of San Pasqual during the Mexican-American War.
ANSWER: Stephen W(atts) Kearny
5. An early piano work by this man was titled The Cat and the Mouse, but he may be better known for his El Salon
Mexico. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American composer of Fanfare for the Common Man and ballets such as Billy the Kid and one that
contains a “Hoe-Down,” entitled Rodeo.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] This most famous ballet by Aaron Copland depicts a wedding in Pennsylvania and utilizes the Shaker
melody “Simple Gifts.” It was commissioned by Martha Graham.
ANSWER: Appalachian Spring
[10] This Copland work, which has been narrated by Neil Armstrong and Bill Clinton, contains passages read from a
certain man’s Civil War-era documents, including the Gettysburg Address.
ANSWER: A Lincoln Portrait
6. He wrote about a “Lupus Phobia” in The Case of Miss R. and in a more famous work, he detailed the effects of
organ dysfunction, pampering, and neglect. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this founder of individual psychology who wrote the Neurotic Constitution.
ANSWER: Alfred Adler
[10] Adler is most famous for this concept, often conflated with low self-esteem. It features the belief in never being
able to compensate for weakness.
ANSWER: inferiority complex
[10] Adler emphasized the influence of birth order on personality and stated that a child in this position in birth
order is dethroned by the next child and can become authoritarian. Somebody who is one of these people has only
younger siblings.
ANSWER: eldest child [Accept logical equivalents.]
7. One character in this novel has a failed sexual experience with Annabel in a cove on the beach at age 13, retarding
his sexual preferences. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this novel which focuses on the pedophilic Humbert Humbert and his attempt to woo the titular nymphet
and then get her back from the pornographer Clare Quilty.
ANSWER: Lolita
[10] This author of Lolita described the titular Russian professor’s comical attempts to speak English in Pnin and the
incestuous love of Van Veen and the titular girl in Ada. He also wrote Pale Fire.
ANSWER: Vladimir (Vladimirovich) Nabokov
[10] In Nabokov’s Pale Fire, the deranged Charles Kinbote edits this poet’s magnum opus after Gradus shoots him.
This poet laments the death of his daughter Hazel, and his work probably doesn’t refer to Zembla.
ANSWER: John Shade
8. The most commonly inherited form of mental retardation occurs through damage to this chromosome, and
Klinefelter’s Syndrome results from an extra copy of it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sex chromosome found in both males and females.
ANSWER: X chromosome
[10] X-inactivation, which results in the phenomenon of the calico cat, is an example of this field of study focusing
on non-sequence based inheritance that affects gene expression.
ANSWER: epigenetics
[10] One structure of interest in epigenetics are these proteins within nuclei that package DNA into nucleosomes.
Their cores are made of H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 subunits, and 147 base pairs of DNA can wrap around each of these
structures.
ANSWER: histones
9. An uprising led by this man began with his assassination of William Heselrig, after which he led a raid on the city
of Scone. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scottish nobleman who fought against King Edward I of England and was immortalized as the
protagonist of the film Braveheart.
ANSWER: William Wallace
[10] After the routing of their archers and cavalry at this battle, the Scottish forces under William Wallace arranged
themselves in circular formations called schiltrons. The Scottish forces were finally destroyed by English longbow
fire.
ANSWER: Battle of Falkirk
[10] This later Scottish king helped achieve Scottish independence after being crowned by William de Lamberton at
Scone and winning the Battle of Bannockburn against Edward I.
ANSWER: Robert the Bruce
10. One of this ruler's lovers supposedly constructed a series of fake villages along the Crimea in order to impress
her during her visit of the region. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tsarina of Russia and lover of Grigory Potemkin who became ruler after staging a coup against her
husband Peter III.
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [Accept Catherine II, prompt on “Catherine.”]
[10] Catherine's reign saw a revolt of these peoples led by Yemelyan Pugachev. Most of these people came from an
area now occupied by Ukraine and were peasants known for their horsemanship.
ANSWER: cossacks
[10] Another of Catherine's lovers was this count, who assisted in the overthrow of Paul. He gave Catherine a
famous diamond and also founded the Free Economic Society.
ANSWER: Count Grigory (Grigoryevich) Orlov
11. This term was first coined by Guillame Apollinaire in The Breasts of Tiresias, a play in which Theresa turns into
a man and watches her breasts fly away as a pair of balloons. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this term that names an artistic and literary movement that included painter Salvador Dali and playwright
Antonin Artaud.
ANSWER: surrealism
[10] This man defined surrealism as “psychic automatism in its pure state...dictated by the thought, in the absence of
any control exercised by reason.” That comes from this man’s Surrealist Manifesto.
ANSWER: Andre Breton
[10] Artaud attacked the human body in a form he termed the Theater of Cruelty. Ionesco and Stoppard are members
of the Theater of this, which Camus related to man’s futile search for meaning in The Myth of Sispyhus.
ANSWER: the Absurd
12. Name these things about Zoroastrianism. For 10 points each:
[10] Zoroastrianism is this kind of religion, whose adherents believe that precisely one god is worthy of worship.
ANSWER: monotheistic [Accept word forms,]
[10] As a monotheistic religion, Zoroastrianism centers around worship of this deity, who is a son of Zurvan and
battles against Ahriman, or Angra Mainyu.
ANSWER: Ahura Mazda [Accept any of the following: Athura Mazda, Aramazd, Ohrmazd, Hurmuz, and
Azzandara.]
[10] Zoroaster claimed that these deities of an older religion delight in war and are thus agents of Angra Mainyu.
The Gathas hold these figures as the “wrong gods.”
ANSWER: daevas
13. According to the Stefan-Boltzmann Law, the emissive power of one of these is proportional to the fourth power
of its temperature. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects, which absorb all radiation they receive.
ANSWER: black bodies
[10] The constant of proportionality in the Stefan-Boltzmann law is proportional to the inverse cube of this other
constant, symbolized h. Photon energy is equal to this constant multiplied by the frequency.
ANSWER: Planck’s constant
[10] Considering radiation to be the emission of discrete photons led to the resolution of a catastrophe named for this
type of radiation. That issue arose from the Rayleigh-Jeans model for black bodies.
ANSWER: ultraviolet [Accept UV catastrophe.]
14. Lauretta sings “O mio babbino caro” after her father threatens to separate her from Rinuccio in one opera by this
man. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of operas including Gianni Schicchi and one in which the protagonist sings an aria about
how none will sleep in the castle, “Nessun Dorma.”
ANSWER: Giacomo (Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria) Puccini
[10] Puccini composed this opera set in Japan, one of the most performed in the world, in which the title character,
Cio-Cio San, is a fifteen-year-old geisha who falls in love with a lieutenant in the American navy.
ANSWER: Madama Butterfly [Accept Madame Butterfly.]
[10] Cio-Cio San gets married to this lieutenant, who leaves for three years and returns with his American wife Kate.
ANSWER: Lieutenant B. F. Pinkerton
15. This party regained the presidency in its country in a July 2012 election. For 10 points each:
[10] This party or one of its predecessors was in power from 1929 to 2000. Notable presidents from this party
include Manuel Ávila Camacho and Ernesto Zedillo.
ANSWER: Institutional Revolutionary Party or Partido Revolucionario Institucional [Accept pronunciations
like “Pri”]

[10] The PRI is a political party from this country. Other political figures in this nation include Felipe Calderon and
Vicente Fox.
ANSWER: United Mexican States or Mexico
[10] This man represented the PRD in both the 2006 and 2012 elections. This man protested the result of the 2006
election, which he lost by just 0.58%.
ANSWER: Andrés Manuel Lopéz Obrador [Accept AMLO or El Pepe.]
16. The bifurcation of the street onto which the view of this painting opens reflects the recently renovated city
design by Baron Haussman. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting by Gustave Caillebotte showing many residents of the title city holding umbrellas. It is set
at the Place de Dublin near the Gare Saint-Lazare and is bisected by a streetlight.
ANSWER: Paris Street; Rainy Day [Accept Paris: A Rainy Day.]
[10] Caillebotte was included on the bottom right of this Impressionist painting, which also shows the artist's future
wife Aline Charigot among the titular group enjoying a midday meal on the Seine.
ANSWER: Luncheon of the Boating Party [Le dejeuner des canotiers.]
[10] Luncheon of the Boating Party is by this French Impressionist, who also painted Bal du moulin de la Galette
and A Girl with a Watering Can.
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste Renoir
17. This man’s first important work begins with the proposition that “the world is all the case.” For 10 points each,
[10] Name this philosopher, who wrote a work in which other propositions include “whereof one cannot speak,
thereof one must be silent,” his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. He also wrote Philosophical Investigations.
ANSWER: Ludwig (Josef Johann) Wittgenstein
[10] Wittgenstein taught at this university, which also housed Bertrand Russell, Alfred North Whitehead, and G. E.
Moore. It is traditionally paired with Oxford in the top tier of British universities.
ANSWER: University of Cambridge
[10] Wittgenstein assembled these collections of notes during his time teaching at Cambridge from 1933 to 1935.
They would go on to make up the basis of his Philosophical Investigations. Name either.
ANSWER: The Blue and Brown Books
18. All of this god's siblings were swallowed by their father as soon as they were born, so his mother replaced him
with a rock. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king of the Greek gods who overthrew his father Cronus after being raised on the milk of Amalthea
on Mount Ida.
ANSWER: Zeus
[10] As punishment for distracting Hera from catching Zeus dallying with some nymphs on Mount Helicon, this
woman was cursed so she could only repeat what others said. She fell in love with Narcissus but couldn't tell him.
ANSWER: Echo
[10] This follower of Artemis was raped by Zeus and gave birth to Arcas, after which Hera turned her into a bear.
Arcas nearly killed her but Zeus intervened and put her in the sky as Ursa Major.
ANSWER: Callisto
19. This place has no distinct echo, and no matter what one character says, the only sound returned is “Om.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this location, which Mrs. Moore visits with another character who goes off alone, and then claims that
Dr. Aziz attempted to rape her in the gloom.
ANSWER: the Marabar Caves
[10] The Marabar Caves appear in this novel, in which Adela Quested accuses the aforementioned Dr. Aziz. Most of
the action is set in Chandrapore, of which Adela’s fiancee Ronnie Heaslop is the magistrate.

ANSWER: A Passage to India
[10] A Passage to India was written by this British novelist of A Room with a View and Howard’s End.
ANSWER: E(dward) M(organ) Forster
20. Answer the following questions about thermodynamics. For 10 points each:
[10] The work done on a system, when added to this quantity, is given as the change in internal energy of a system
by the First Law of Thermodynamics. This quantity is the energy passed from object to object via thermal transfer.
ANSWER: heat
[10] This name is given to a process where a system does not exchange heat with its surroundings. Thus, similarly
named boundaries are impermeable to heat transfer.
ANSWER: adiabatic
[10] Given a hot reservoir and a cold reservoir, the heat engine which uses this cycle has the theoretical maximum
thermal efficiency. Named for a Frenchman, this cycle involves two adiabatic and two isothermal steps.
ANSWER: Carnot cycle

