Harvard Fall Tournament VII
Round 11
Edited by Stephen Liu, with assistance from Eric Mukherjee and Dallas Simons
Written by Stephen Liu, Graham Moyer, David Liu, Kuo-Kai Chin, Will Holub-Moorman, Stephen Morrison, Andy
Dibble, Sriram Pendyala, Jared Cowan, Mark Arildsen, and Artur Meller
Tossups
1. The Ashley Treatment involves the use of this chemical in growth attenuation, and this chemical also sees use
in the treatment of prostate cancer, albeit with potential side effects such as gynecomastia. This chemical uses the
transmembrane GPR30 receptor and theca cells produce its precursor. It causes the increase of LH in the luteal surge
and influences endometrium thickening. In addition to being used in oral contraceptives due to its role in a negativefeedback loop, the E3 form of it becomes dominant in menopause as this chemical’s primary source of production,
the ovaries, cease activity. For 10 points, name this steroid hormone which functions as the primary female sex
hormone in all vertebrates.
ANSWER: estrogen
2. A 1975 attempt to officially rename this landmark was blocked by Ohio congressman Ralph Regula and notable
features of it include the Browne Tower and the South Buttress. The Moose’s Tooth is located 15 miles southeast
of this landmark and the first account of it was recorded by the New Hampshire-born William Dickey, who was
digging for gold along the Susitna river when he spotted it. This landmark is an example of a granitic pluton, and the
Kahiltna Glacier extends extends southwest from it. Its local name is taken from the Koyokoun Athabaskan for “The
High One.” For 10 points, name this Alaskan mountain, which at 20,320 feet is the highest in North America.
ANSWER: Mount McKinley [Accept Denali.]
3. Ylides of this element are important intermediates in the Corey-Chaykovsky reaction. This element forms cluster
cofactors with iron in enzymes such as aconitase and ferredoxin. It catenates into its monoclinic form at high
temperatures, and it is stable in its cyclic rhombic form at room temperature. Cystine residues in proteins form a
bond that is named for a dimer of this element and thiols are organic compounds containing this heteroatom. The
binary compound formed from reaction of hydrogen with this element has a repulsive odor and is released by rotting
eggs. For 10 points, name this chalcogen that is below oxygen on the periodic table and has the atomic symbol S.
ANSWER: sulfur
4. In one story by this author, Kidd the Pirate’s buried treasure tempts the title character into making a deal with Old
Scratch. This author also worked on a biography of Christopher Columbus and told stories about a Moorish palace.
In addition to The Devil and Tom Walker and Tales From the Alhambra, this author wrote a story in which the
protagonist encounters the ghosts of Hendrik Hudson’s crew, and in another told of a man who loved Katrina Von
Tassel and was tormented by Brom Bones. For 10 points, name this author who told of Ichabod Crane and a man
who sleeps for twenty years in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and Rip Van Winkle.
ANSWER: Washington Irving
5. First Peter: 22-23 attests that a person who has become this exhibits “unfeigned love of the brethren” and
is “incorruptible,” but its prevalence across Christian denominations can better be accounted for by Jesus' claim in
John 3:3 that a person must become this before seeing the kingdom of God. John Wesley accepted this for infants,
but adults must experience a radical “change of heart” for this mode of regeneration to occur. The Eastern Orthodox,
Catholic, and Lutheran Churches take this requirement to be fulfilled by the rite of baptism. For 10 points, name this
kind of revival, a mechanism of Christian salvation best known among American Evangelical Christians.
ANSWER: being born again

6. Archbishop Janani Luwum was killed during the rule of this man. He killed the first prime minister of his country,
Benedito Kiwanuka, before being overthrown by Yoweri Musuveni, and oversaw the massacres of the Lange and
Acholi peoples. He seized the Kagera Region when he invaded a country ruled by Julius Nyerere, but that conflict
eventually led to his ousting. This man, who came to power after overthrowing Milton Obote, expelled Asians from
his country and he allowed an Air France plane hijacked by the PLO to land, which resulted in an Israeli attack on
Entebbe. For 10 points identify this man who ruled his country from Kampala, a dictator of Uganda.
ANSWER: Idi Amin (Dada)
7. Mary Magdalene can be seen with an angel running away from Christ's tomb in an El Greco work depicting this
figure in front of a tree with his hands clasped in penitence. Annibale Carracci showed this figure drawing away in
alarm from a cross-carrying Christ in a work set on the Appian Way, Domine Quo Vadis? The Raising of the Son of
Theophilus is part of a cycle of works depicting his life at the Brancacci Chapel, the most famous of which shows
this man on the left taking a coin out of a fish's mouth. For 10 points, name this apostle who appears three times in
The Tribute Money and is missing his usual set of keys in a Caravaggio work in which he is crucified upside-down.
ANSWER: St. Peter [Accept Simon Peter. Accept El Greco or Domenikos Theotokopoulos before “El Greco.”
Accept The Penitent St. Peter before “this figure.”]
8. In one section of this work, the author argues that our life can only result in imperfect happiness, and that all our
good actions are working toward the ultimate goal of perfect happiness in the afterlife. This work lists sovereign
authority, right intention, and righteous cause as the three major components of a just war. In its most famous
section, its author argued that it is impossible for everything to be contingent, therefore God must exist. Other
arguments include one borrowed from Aristotle, the “Unmoved Mover,” as well as the teleological argument. For 10
points, name this work, which lists the quinquae viae as proofs for God, the magnum opus of St. Thomas Aquinas.
ANSWER: Summa Theologica [Accept Summa Theologiae.]
9. For an electrical component envisioned by Leon Chua, this quantity depends on previous values, indicating that
electrical components can have a memory for this quantity. Predictions for this quantity are too low in AC circuits
because of the Skin Effect. In AC circuits, this is the real quantity added to the reactance to calculate the impedance.
This quantity is equal to a material-dependent constant times length divided by cross-sectional area and by Ohm's
law, it is equal to voltage over current. For 10 points, name this quantity whose SI unit is the ohm, which measures a
circuit element’s opposition to the passage of current.
ANSWER: resistance
10. This polity was briefly ruled by an oligarchical council called the Four Hundred, which was led by Theramenes.
After leading this polity to victory at the Battle of Cyzicus, Thrasybulus liberated its people from the rule of another
group. Citizens of this city-state wrote and collected pottery shards with names written on them to determine whom
they should exile, a fate that befell a man who persuaded this city to build 200 triremes to be used against the
Persians at Salamis. In addition to Themistocles, leaders of this city included a man who led it through its Golden
Age, Pericles. For 10 points, name this city that invented democracy, currently the capital of Greece.
ANSWER: Athens [Accept Athina.]
11. One author from this nation created a character who investigates child cannibalism in the fictional province of
Liquorland. Another writer from this nation described a character who hates the “imitation foreign devil” in “The
True Story of Ah Q.” A misdiagnosis of terminal lung cancer causes the character “I” to take a journey that is
described in chapters alternating with ones depicting the life of the character “You” in a work by an author from this
country. Authors from this nation wrote The Republic of Wine and Soul Mountain. For 10 points, identify this home
country of Lu Xun, Gao Xingjian, and 2012 Nobel Literature Prize winner Mo Yan.
ANSWER: People’s Republic of China [Accept Zhongguo.]

12. Carrasco nearly forces Quitieria to marry the title character in an opera by this man, who described a Druid
prank to frighten away Christians in another wotk. Those works are Camacho’s Wedding and First Walpurgis Night.
One symphony by this man uses Martin Luther’s chorale “A Mighty Fortress is Our God” in its fourth movement
and contains a Dresden Amen in its first movement. That work, his fifth symphony, is often titled Reformation.
For 10 points, identify this composer of the Hebrides Overture, the Italian Symphony, and incidental music to A
Midsummer Night’s Dream, which contains a famous wedding march.
ANSWER: (Jakob Ludwig) Felix Mendelssohn (Bartholdy)
13. The Vitali Set is a non-measurable subset of this class. Axiomatized by Alfred Tarski, this class can be
considered as equivalence classes of Cauchy sequences which can be used to see that each Cauchy sequence
converges. It has the least upper bound property in that any set bounded above has a supremum, and this complete
metric space can be constructed using Dedekind cuts. As shown in Cantor’s diagonalization argument it has an
uncountably infinite number of elements. These numbers that contain the irrational numbers can be written using
infinite decimals. For 10 points, name these numbers that are not imaginary, represented by a capital R.
ANSWER: real numbers (accept R before mentioned)
14. Maren and Fanselow suggested that neuronal and synaptic plasticity in the amygdala may have been responsible
for the results of this experiment, and Mary Cover Jones noted the presence of “degrees of toleration” in a study
performed four years after this experiment. Cotton wool, burning newspapers, a white rabbit, and other items
initially produced no response in the title subject, who later displayed a conditioned response of fear of the same
objects after they were introduced simultaneously with a loud noise. For 10 points, name this experiment that
provided evidence of classical conditioning in humans and was conducted by John Watson on the title infant who
was made to fear a white rat.
ANSWER: Little Albert experiment
15. One character in this play tells another of the time they picked grapes in Macon County and the other character
grows angry because he cannot remember that time of his life. One character in this play keeps another on a rope,
but goes blind and must be led by the rope. There is prominent tree on the set of this play, and two of the characters
consider hanging themselves from it. One of the protagonists of this play constantly complains of pain induced by
his boot. For 10 points, name this play in which the mute Lucky struggles with the suitcases of his master Pozzo,
and Vladimir and Estragon bide their time expecting the title character’s appearance, written by Samuel Beckett.
ANSWER: Waiting For Godot [Accept En attendant Godot.]
16. In this man’s most recent novel, Captain Simone Simonini investigates the link between his grandfather and
Barruelo. That link might explain the history of anti-Semitism in Europe and leads him to the titular Czech location.
In addition to The Prague Cemetery, this man wrote a novel featuring a computer named Abulafia that contains the
notes of Jacopo Belbo, who is murdered by men who think he has discovered a Templar conspiracy. This man’s
best known work follows Adso of Melk and William of Baskerville as they investigate a series of murders at a
monastery. For 10 points, name this Italian author of Foucault’s Pendulum and The Name of the Rose.
ANSWER: Umberto Eco
17. A group of German soldiers under Joachim Peiper were convicted of murdering 84 prisoners of war in an
incident in this country known as the Malmedy Massacre. The surrender of this nation by its king to Nazi forces
resulted in his abdication following a postwar general strike. Both the burning of the library at the University of
Leuven and King Albert I’s leadership of its military during the Race to the Sea occurred after the “rape” of this
nation. Three battles were fought at Ypres in this country, whose neutrality was violated by the Schlieffen Plan,
prompting Britain's entry into the First World War. For 10 points, name this country whose government fled to
Ostend from Brussels in 1940.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Belgium [Accept Koninkrijk Belgie.]

18. In fulfillment of a prophecy that his death would “come from the sea,” this man was killed by a stingray-tipped
spear thrown by his son Telegonus. This hero attempted to avoid fighting at Troy by feigning madness but was
discovered when Palamedes placed his son in front of his plow. A grandson of the thief Autolycus, this man was
found washed ashore by Nausicaa and brought home by the Phaeacians. This man's dog Argus died upon his return,
after which he fired an arrow through the rings of twelve axes and proceeded to slaughter the suitors of his wife,
Penelope. For 10 points, name this clever king of Ithaca who took ten years to return home from the Trojan War.
ANSWER: Odysseus
19. The winning side in this battle refused a payment ordered to them by the Supreme Court in 1980. It was fought
among features like the Nye-Richardson Ridge and the North Medicine Trail Coulee. It included a first attack by
the troops of Major Reno and Captain Benteen, and one participant’s men approached through Minneconjou ford.
This battle resulted in the destruction of the 7th Union Cavalry Regiment by the Lakota Sioux under Sitting Bull
and Crazy Horse. For 10 points, name this 1876 battle that took place in Montana and saw the Last Stand of George
Armstrong Custer.
ANSWER: Battle of Little Bighorn
20. Upon being shown a picture, one character in this work falls in love and sings the aria “This likeness is
enchantingly lovely.” This work composed for the troupe of Emanuel Schikaneder begins with three ladies killing
a serpent to save the protagonist. This work sees the moor Monostatos reprimanded by Sarastro for lusting after
the protagonist’s love. A padlock is placed over the mouth of the bird-catcher Papageno, while Pamina temporarily
loses faith in Tamino after a trial of silence. For 10 points, name this opera in which the evil Queen of the Night is
defeated that also sees Tamino play the titular instrument, written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
ANSWER: The Magic Flute [Accept Die Zauberflote.]
Bonuses
1. He showed a Turkish horseman on a rearing horse and several Greeks sitting around dejectedly in front of a
burning landscape in one of his works. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French painter of The Massacre at Chios who also showed an apathetic king laying on his bed as
women are slaughtered in The Death of Sardanapalus.
ANSWER: (Ferdinand Victor) Eugene Delacroix
[10] Delacroix may be best known for this painting in which the bare-breasted title figure holds the tricolore as a
crowd of 1830 French Revolutionaries march behind her.
ANSWER: Liberty Leading the People [Accept La Liberte guidant le peuple.]
[10] After visiting North Africa several times, Delacroix became a proponent of Orientalism, just like this 20th
century Swiss artist of Twittering Machine, Fish Magic, and Angelus Novus.
ANSWER: Paul Klee
2. Answer the following questions about electronic structure in atoms. For 10 points each:
[10] The atom is best understood by studying the attraction between the one proton and one electron in this lightest
element.
ANSWER: hydrogen [Accept “H.”]
[10] This principle states that electrons will always occupy the lowest-energy orbitals in the ground state of an atom.
For higher-electron atoms, this causes the filling order to deviate from the expected norm.
ANSWER: Aufbau principle
[10] This process prevents outer electrons farther from the nucleus from “seeing” potential of the nucleus due to the
repulsion of inner electrons. This results in outer electrons being farther from the nucleus than expected.
ANSWER: shielding [Accept screening.]

3. Changes in this quantity are equal to the integral of force with respect to time. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity equal to velocity times mass, the change of which is called impulse.
ANSWER: linear momentum
[10] Atoms typically collide in this type of collision, in which the combined kinetic energy of two bodies before the
encounter remains the same after the encounter.
ANSWER: Elastic collisions [Do NOT accept “inelastic collision”]
[10] Force can be expressed in terms of momentum for use in one of these equations. Common methods used to
solve these equations include separation of variables and Euler's method.
ANSWER: Differential equations [Accept Diffeqs.]
4. Name these things about a Buddhist practice. For 10 points each:
[10] Among Theravada Buddhists, there are two forms of this practice; one, samatha, aims at focusing
consciousness, while the other, vipassana, aims at gaining experiential insight into Buddha's teachings.
ANSWER: meditation [Accept dhyana or jhana or bhavana.]
[10] Many Tibetan Buddhist meditative practices involve visualization of Manjusri, a bodhisattva of wisdom who
wields this weapon. Peter used one to remove the ear of a Jewish servant who came to arrest Christ.
ANSWER: sword
[10] This variety of Chinese Buddhism disparages scripture in favor of meditative practice. Its name
means “meditation” in Chinese and its practice involves puzzles called koans.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhism [Accept Ch'an.]
5. This region of Northwest Spain is led by Artur Mas and hopes to hold a referendum on independence from Spain.
For 10 points each:
[10] This region of Spain contains the cities of Girona and Tarragona and has its own language related to Castillan
Spanish. This region has projected its independence movement onto a certain football club that rivals Real Madrid.
ANSWER: Catalonia [Accept Catalunya or Catalan.]
[10] This largest city in Catalonia is the region’s capital and has seen numerous recent demonstrations in favor of
Catalonian independence. It hosted the Summer Olympic Games in 1992.
ANSWER: Barcelona
[10] This political party of President Artur Mas is in favor of Catalonian independence and includes Jordi Puyol.
ANSWER: Democratic Convergence of Catalonia [Accept Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya.]
6. This member of the endocrine system releases tropic hormones, which target other endocrine glands. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this “master gland” with anterior and posterior portions that is regulated by the hypothalamus which is
itself responsible for the production of TSH, ACTH, FSH, and LH.
ANSWER: pituitary gland [Accept adenohypohysis.]
[10] The anterior pituitary’s TSH, or thyroid stimulating hormone, causes the thyroid to release T3 and T4, both
hormones responsible for regulating this combination of processes which maintain life.
ANSWER: cell metabolism
[10] The thyroid also releases this hormone, which targets osteoclasts and counters the activity of parathyroid
hormone on a particular metal ion in the blood.
ANSWER: calcitonin
7. In one work by this author, he discusses a postcard in which Socrates takes dictation from Plato, a reversal of their
traditional philosophical roles. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French philosopher who wrote The Post Card in addition to Of Grammatology, considered the
developer of deconstructionism.

ANSWER: Jacques Derrida
[10] Deconstruction was in part the study of contradictions found in these entities. Wittgenstein talked about games
involving these entities, examples of which include English and Mandarin Chinese.
ANSWER: languages
[10] In his Chinese Room experiment, this philosopher conjectured that if a computer had a program that made it
able to speak written Chinese, it would still be unable to understand Chinese.
ANSWER: John Searle
8. These events can occur when electron degeneracy pressure is overcome, causing the core of a star to collapse due
to gravity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these explosions of stars that release vast amounts of energy that can be brighter than galaxies.
ANSWER: supernovae
[10] Just as the core of a star is about to collapse, is made up of this element. This element is usually the heaviest
product of nuclear fusion.
ANSWER: iron
[10] This type of supernova occurs in white dwarves. This can occur in binary systems or when two white dwarfs
merge together.
ANSWER: Type 1a supernova [Prompt on “Type 1.”]
9. The events at this location were preceded with the coded order “climb Mount Nitaka.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Hawaiian naval base that was the target of a Japanese airstrike on December 7, 1941 that killed over
2,400 Americans.
ANSWER: Pearl Harbor
[10] This aircraft carrier was the only unrecoverable vessel from the attack. A memorial to it was dedicated at the
harbor in 1962.
ANSWER: USS Arizona
[10] This four-star admiral was the commander of the US Pacific Fleet at the time of the attack. Following it, he was
removed from command and demoted.
ANSWER: Admiral Husband E(dward) Kimmel
10. This play sees Simon Pilkings intervene in order to stop the ritual suicide of Elesin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play that centers around a Yoruba tradition, in which Elesin strangles himself disgracefully after his
Olunde kills himself to atone for Elesin’s shame.
ANSWER: Death and the King’s Horseman
[10] This author, who wrote about the competition between Baroka and Lakunle for the affections of Sidi in The
Lion and the Jewel, penned Death and the King’s Horseman.
ANSWER: (Akinwande Oluwole) “Wole” Soyinka
[10] Soyinka is an author from this nation, also home to the author of The Famished Road, Ben Okri, as well as
Chinua Achebe.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria
11. In one story by this author, a young boy drowns in a river while attempting to baptize himself and escape his
parents’ fights. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of The Violent Bear it Away who described Julian watching his mother die on a trip to the
YMCA in “Everything that Rises Must Converge” and the seduction of Helga in “Good Country People.”
ANSWER: (Mary) Flannery O’Connor
[10] In O’Connor’s story “A Good Man is Hard to Find,” the Misfit is one of these. Other examples of these
criminals include Hannibal Lecter, as well as Patrick Bateman in American Psycho.
ANSWER: serial killers [Accept reasonable equivalents, like “murderers.”]

[10] In this novel by Flannery O’Connor, Hazel Motes attempts to found a new church, and Enoch Emory goes
crazy while wearing a gorilla suit. The title refers to a substance Enoch claims that he and Hazel both have.
ANSWER: Wise Blood
12. Implicated along with Rufus Isaacs for insider trading in the Marconi Scandal, this man was responsible for the
People’s Budget that taxed alcohol, tobacco, and luxuries to pay for welfare programs. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Liberal prime minister of the United Kingdom, a representative at the Paris Peace Conference that
helped draft the conditions of Treaty of Versailles
ANSWER: David Lloyd George
[10] David Lloyd George was prime minister during the latter part of this “great war” from 1914 to 1918 that ended
with the Treaty of Versailles.
ANSWER: World War I
[10] Lloyd George became prime minister after forcing this man out of office. He was criticized for his weakness
during the early part of World War I, drawing blame for high casualties at the Battle of the Somme as well as the
Easter Rising.
ANSWER: Herbert Henry Asquith
13. This man wrote a poem which begins “The long sobs / of the violins / of Autumn / wound my heart.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this poet, a prominent Symbolist, who wrote the “Song of Autumn” in his collection Poems saturniens
and loved another poet, Arthur Rimbaud.
ANSWER: Paul-Marie Verlaine
[10] Both Verlaine and Rimbaud hailed from this country, whose other poets included men like Francois Villon and
Victor Hugo.
ANSWER: France [Accept French Republic or Republique Francaise.]
[10] Rimbaud wrote a poem about a season in this place which features two “Delirium” sections and the
section “Bad Blood.” This was the first location Dante visited after meeting Virgil.
ANSWER: hell [Accept A Season in Hell or Une Saison en Enfer. Prompt on “Inferno.”]
14. He first decided he wanted to join Arthur's court when he saw some knights pass through the forest he lived in
and mistook them for angels. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this knight who married Blanchefleur and inherited the restored Waste Land. He may be the son of King
Pellinore or Gawain and was the father of Lohengrin.
ANSWER: Sir Perceval
[10] Perceval was one of the three knights who officially achieved the quest to find this object. This was the cup
used by Christ to give his blood to the Apostles at the Last Supper.
ANSWER: Holy Grail
[10] Along with Perceval and Galahad, this was the third knight to achieve the quest. A cousin of Lancelot, he was
nearly murdered by his brother Lionel because this man chose to save a damsel instead of him.
ANSWER: Sir Bors de Ganis
15. In one poem by this author, the title character quits his teaching job and joins a band of nomads. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this poet, who wrote the “The Scholar Gipsy” in addition to a work eulogizing his friend and fellow poet
Arthur Hugh Clough, “Thyrsis.”
ANSWER: Matthew Arnold
[10] In this poem, Arnold’s most famous, “ignorant armies clash by night” on a “darkling plain,” while Socrates
hears “an eternal note of sadness.” This poem begins “the sea is calm tonight” as the poet looks out from the title
location.

ANSWER: “Dover Beach”
[10] Arnold published a poetic adaptation named for these two figures, a father and his son whom he slays in the
Persian epic the Shahnameh.
ANSWER: Rostam and Sohrab [Prompt on partial answer.]
16. One work by this man in E-flat major whose second movement is a funeral march is dedicated to the “memory
of a great man.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this composer of a work originally dedicated to Napoleon Bonaparte, his Eroica Symphony, as well as
a symphony that contains lyrics taken from “Ode to Joy.”
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
[10] This symphony by Beethoven contains a section in 12/8 time titled “By the Brook,” which includes a cadenza
that see three woodwind instruments imitate bird calls.
ANSWER: Pastoral Symphony [Accept Symphony No. 6]
[10] This other Beethoven symphony in A major contains a famous Allegretto section that sees a shift from A minor
to A major, as well as an Allegro con brio fourth section that contains a forte fortissimo marking in its coda.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 7
17. This country was home to a women's paramilitary organization known as the Lotta Svard, which operated an
anti-aircraft unit during the Winter War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scandinavian country that fought the Continuation War against the Soviet Union, which centered on
a struggle for control of its Karelia region. Its capital is Helsinki.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [Accept Suomi.]
[10] The Finnish army participated in this two-year Axis siege of a Russian city now known as Saint Petersburg.
This battle featured the Road of Life, a winter supply route that crossed the frozen Lake Ladoga nearby.
ANSWER: Siege of Leningrad
[10] This man commanded Finland's military throughout World War II. During the Winter War, the Finnish created
a defensive line from the Baltic to Taipale that was named after this leader.
ANSWER: Carl Gustaf Emil Mannerheim
18. Arthur Koestler wrote about this concept in The Roots of Coincidence. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this term describing two or more causally unrelated events that are experienced as occurring together in a
meaningful manner.
ANSWER: synchronicity
[10] This Swiss psychologist first described synchronicity, and also developed a set of archetypes that include the
Shadow and the Anima.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung
[10] Jung also published a work titled for psychology and this field, in which he compares the transformation of the
impure soul into the perfect soul with the transformation of lead into gold.
ANSWER: alchemy [Accept Psychology and Alchemy.]
19. The first president of this nation wrote a work about “facing” a mountain in this nation with a foreword written
by anthropologist Bronislaw Malinowski. For ten points each:
[10] Name this nation whose first president was Jomo Kenyatta.
ANSWER: Republic of Kenya
[10] Kenyatta was a leader of this rebellion of the Kikuyu, which was defeated with the capture of its leader, Dedan
Kimathi. The name of this rebellion is considered derogatory.
ANSWER: Mau Mau Rebellion [Accept Mau Mau Uprising/Revolt.]
[10] A more peaceful independence movement occurred in this other African nation formerly known as Northern
Rhodesia. Kenneth Kaunda, also known as KK, was a leader of this nation.

ANSWER: Republic of Zambia
20. One character in this work is spared by Prince Ivan and later hypnotizes Kaschei and saves Ivan by making
Kaschei’s minions dance the “Infernal Dance”. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ballet in which Kaschei is killed when the protagonist destroys a magical egg.
ANSWER: The Firebird
[10] This other ballet begins on solo bassoon an octave above middle C in a section titled “The Adoration of the
Earth.” Subtitled “Pictures of Pagan Russia,” it famously sparked riots in Paris after its 1913 premiere.
ANSWER: The Rite of Spring
[10] Both The Rite of Spring and The Firebird were composed by this Russian composer.
ANSWER: Igor Stravinsky

