TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
Questions mostly by Iowa
BONI - ROUND 13

UTC 10/13/01

1.
Identify the twenty-something actor from movies in which he or she has appeared, FTPE.
a) The Knight's Tale, The Patriot, 10 Things I Hate About You
Heath LEDGER
b) 200 Cigarettes, Addams Family, The Ice Storm
Christina RICCI
c) Down To You, 0, Save The Last Dance
Julia STILES
2.
Answer the following questions about women from the Old Testament.
1- FTP, what was the name of Moses' older sister, who watched his tiny ark as it floated downriver?
Answer: Miriam
2- Give the names of Jacob's two wives FFP each.
Answer: Rachel and Leah
3.
Who was the daughter of Jethro whom Moses married?
Answer: Zipporah
3.
Particle physics involves some cool toys. Given the description, you identify the device FTP each.
1)
Invented by D.A. Glaser, it contains liquid kept slightly above boiling point at pressure high enough to
prevent boiling. Right before the passage of ionizing particles the pressure is reduced causing the particles, like
neutrinos, to be photographed.
Answer - Bubble Chamber
2)
A row of alcohol-soaked strips is placed on top of a container while the bottom is cooled by solid CO 2•
Vapor diffuses downward with a center continuously sensitive to the presence of ions made by radiation.
Answer - Diffusion Cloud Chamber
3)
Similar to the Diffusion Cloud Chamber, this container has air and ethanol cooled suddenly by adiabatic
expansion, hence the name, causing vapor to become supersaturated. The excess moisture is deposited in drops
on tracks of ions created by the ionizing radiation.
Answer - Wilson Expansion Cloud Chamber
Provide the politician after one clue for 30 points, two for 20, or after three for 10 points:
4.
30) He was known for his characterization of protestors of Vietnam War protestors as "an effete corps of
impudent snobs."
20) In 1973, he pleaded nolo contendere to changes of income tax evasion and was fined $10,000 and
sentenced to 3 years' probation.
10) He was the vice president from 1969 to 1973, resigning from office in the wake of the scandal.
Answer: Spiro Theodore AGNEW
5.
FTPE answer the following about the geography of Australia:
(10) Lying along the tropic of Capricorn it has an area of roughly 3 million square miles
a) Its highest point is this mountain, padaoxically named for a Polish hero of the American Revolution.
Answer: Mt. lCosciuszco
(10) Its two longest rivers are part of one system, sometimes referred to as a single river. Give either name or
the combined name.
Answer: Murray and/or Darling.
(10) One of its most popular tourist sites is this mysterious rock formation in the middle of nowhere, which is
supposed to be called by its aborigine name, UlufU. It's where the dingoes got Lindy Chamberlain's baby.
Ayers Rock
Answer:

!
TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
6.
Much praise has been lavished on Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale . Now let's see if any of
you actually read this book. FTPE:
a) Handmaids get their names to be identified with the man they are to be bred with. Give the name of the
story's protagonist, who has such a name.
Answer - Offred [pronounced of-Fred, but accept off-red.]
b) What is the name of the dystopian society in the story
Answer - Gilead
c) What is the name of the radioactive territory surrounding Gilead
Answer - The Colonies
7.
It has an inner portion called the medulla and an outer portion called the cortex.
A) For ten points, name these endocrine glands associated with the kidneys.
Answer: adrenal glands
B) While the adrenal cortex secretes several corticosteroid hormones, the medulla secretes only two hormones.
For ten points each, name these two hormones, which regulate the sympathetic nervous system.
Answer: adrenaline (or epinephrine) and noradrenaline (or norepinephrine)

8.
Identify the following about a work of Russian literature, for 10 points each:
(10) This story concerns the conflict between the older aristocratic generation and the new democratic
intelligentsia of Russia in the 1860. It tells the story of a Nihilist who visits the home of his friend and has
conflicts with his friend's uncle.
Answer:
Fathers and Sons or Fathers and Children or Ottsy I deti
(10) This is the author of Fathers and Sons.
Answer:
Ivan Turgenev
(10) This is the name of the young Nihilist who confronts Pavel Kirsanov as a representative of the older
generation.
Answer:
Bazarov
9.
Name the colonial American painter from people or events he portrayed FTPE:
a) Mrs. Thomas Boylston, John Hancock, Paul Revere
Answer:
John Singleton Copley
b) Colonel Guy Johnson, Penn's Treaty with the Indians, The Death of General Wolfe
Answer:
Benjamin West
c) Thomas Young Seymour, The Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker Hill on 17 June 1775
John Trumbull
Answer:
10.
Answer the following questions about Chinese history FTPE.
A. Resentment of Western influence at the turn of the 20th century led to a failed uprising by a secret
organization. Name this organization behind this rebellion.
Answer: the Boxers or Fists of Righteous Harmony (accept equivalents).
B. The Boxer Rebellion occurred during the waning days of this dynasty, which lasted from 1644 to 1911.
Answer: Ch'ing or Quing
C. This dowager empress presided over China during the Boxer Rebellion.
Answer: Tz'u-hsi

