TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
TOSSUPS - ROUND 13
Questions mostly by Iowa

UTC 10/13/01

1.
The first took place shortly after French armies under Charles VIn were forced out and the Weepers
became the most prominent political party in the domain. After a sentence of excommunication and a plague
both struck the city, a second one was held in 1498 to try to stave off God's wrath, but riots broke out and the
Medicis replaced the Weepers in positions of power. Shortly afterwards, Girolamo Savonarola was executed.
FTP, name these mass burnings that share their name with a Tom Wolfe novel.
Bonfire of the Vanities
Answer:
2.
Roscoe Purkapipe ran away from home, but returned later claiming pirates kidnapped him on Lake.
Benjamin Pantier was a lawyer who met his demise at the end of a noose. A.D. Blood closed down all the small
cafes, and Henry Chase was the town drunk. FTP these are all inhabitants of this New England town, famous
for its cemetery, created by Edgar Lee Masters.
Answer:
Spoon River
3.
They are believed to cause such diseases as Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease and fatal familial
insomnia by causing the pathological transformation of a protein on the surface of certain brain cells. Many
doctors accept their existence, but some, notably Dr. Laura Manuelidis, a professor of neuropathology at Yale,
point out that there are dozens of strains of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, so there must be
something more complicated than a simple binary mechanism at work. FTP, name these disease processes, the
discovery of which earned Dr. Stanley Prusiner the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1997.
Answer:
Prions [PREE-ons but accept PRY -ons]
4. A set of oil drums in Cologne in 1961. A series of storefronts in 1966. The Berner Kunsthalle in 1968. Valley
Curtain in Colorado in 1972. A long fence in California in 1976. The Cologne Cathedral in 1980. Eleven islands
in Biscayne Bay in 1983. The Reichstag in 1995. FTP, all of these have been covered in fabric by what
Bulgarian artist and his associate, leanne-Claude?
Answer:
Christo lavacheff [accept lavacheffbut tell whoever says it that they need help]
5.
Born with impaired hearing, he was raised in veterans' public housing. After attending law school for
one year, he was drafted into the army, and received the Bronze Star for Valor, the Combat Infantry Badge, and
the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry. He won a Congressional seat the first time he ran, in 1982. He won his first
gubernatorial race by only 3 percentage points. FTP, name this man, 'a military veteran, an effective governor, a
true patriot, a trusted friend' of George W. Bush, who has appointed him as head of the new Office of Homeland
Security.
Answer:
Tom Ridge
6.
Located in the region of Latitude 5 degrees, 3 minutes south and longitude 101 degrees west, it is a
small, low, volcanic island and residence to a tribe of Kanakas Indians. It was visited for the first time in 1867,
houses a camp used for scientific research, and a history of it was recorded by Mr. Edward Prendick. Visitors
should be aware of the Island's law, "Not to go on all fours, not to suck up drink; not to eat flesh or fish; not to
claw the bark of trees; not to chase other men." FTP name this island, home to an English biologist and his
transformed Animal-Men, created by H.G. Wells.
Answer Noble's Island or The Island of Dr. Moreau (ace Moreau's Island)
7.
Quote: "Listen, 0 Lord, to the lament that rises from this place, to the call of the dead from the depths of
the 'metz yeghem'," said Pope lohn Paul n on his visit to this country in late September - using the local term
for what supposedly happened here before and during World War I. The issue of which term to use is a sticky
one - Turkey resents the use of the word genocide, as they still deny that the Ottoman Empire systematically

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
eliminated the population of this country as their empire was collapsing. FTP, identify this central Asian nation
who more recently has engaged in a war with Azerbaijan.
Answer:
Armenia [prompt on early buzz with the Pope]

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
8.
It is divided into color-coded sectors. Red for commercial activity, Gray for industrial, Yellow for cargo
bays, Green for the Ambassadorial wing, and Blue for the docking bays and med-lab. "Down Below" refers to
the underdeveloped areas beneath its main deck which is home to the "lurkers". FTP name this space station, in
orbit around Epsilon 3, "man's last, best hope for peace".
Answer:
Babylon 5
9.
The first element discovered by means of its radioactivity, it was found in pitchblende in 1898. The
scientist who discovered it, though living in France, named it for her native country. FTP, name this element
discovered by Marie Curie whose atomic number is 84 and whose symbol is Po.
Answer:
polonium
10.
The author of this book admits that part of her inspiration came from activities at the Facet of Divinity
Church, an institution dedicated to seances in which the congregation enjoys extramarital relations with
"spirits". Critics claim that the book is too rigid, as the states presented within do not necessarily occur in strict
order, but sometimes re-appear, regress, or occur simultaneously, and that the general principles can deal with
other types of grief. FTP, name this best-seller by Elisabeth Kubler-Ross.
Answer:
On Death and Dying
11.
The Prince's armies were outnumbered nearly two to one, had few cannon, and a strong wind blew sleet
right into their faces. With Hanoverian cannonballs raining down, the Prince, in his first ever military command,
refused to let his soldiers charge the enemy, thereby depriving them of the only tactic they were trained in. The
Prince's armies were trapped behind a stone wall, and the Duke of Cumberland forced Prince Charles to flee
within an hour. FTP, name this battle of 1745, the last fought on the mainland of Britain, which ended the
Jacobite rebellion.
Culloden Moor
Answer:
12.
Most exist between 10 to the negative 8th and 10 to the negative 6th seconds. Xi, Eta, Sigma, and
Lambda particles are among them, but not Tau particles. Pions and kaons are included, as are protons and
neutrons, while photons and leptons are not. FTP, what class of particles contains multiple quarks and is the
focus of the upcoming LHC at CERN?
Answer:
hadrons
13.
He was a school bandmate of David Bowie, and they would often play Buddy Holly songs together at
lunch. At 16, he was recruited to be the lead singer of The Herd, but later left the group to form Humble Pie
with Steve Marriott. He went solo in 1971, and appeared in the 1978 film Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club
Band as Billy Shears. After a mildly successful 1980's, he returned to the public eye as the guitarist on Bowie's
Glass Spider World Tour. FTP, name this master of the talk-box, best known for a 1976 album in which he
"Comes Alive!"
Answer:
Peter Frampton
14.
In the first part, King Agamemnon of Mycenae returns home after conquering Troy, unaware that he has
been cursed by the gods for earlier misdeeds. Shortly after coming home, he is killed by his wife Clytemnestra
and her lover, Aegisthus. Aegisthus then takes over the throne. In the second play, Clytemnestra and Aegisthus
are murdered by her son, Orestes, acting on the instructions of the gods. In the final play, Orestes, after being
hounded by the avenging Furies, is absolved of guilt before the court of the Areopagus. FTP, name this only
existing Greek trilogy, written by Aeschylus.
Oresteia
Answer:

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
15.
Born on August 17, 1601 in Beaumont-de-Lomagne, France, he investigated maxima and minima by
considering when the tangent to the curve was parallel to the x-axis and later wrote to Descartes giving the
method essentially as used today, or finding extrema by calculating when the derivative was O. Because of this
work, Lagrange stated that he considered this man to be the inventor of calculus. FTP name this man, whose
name resurfaced in 1993 when Andrew Wiles finally proved his last theorem.
Answer: Pierre de Fermat
16.
After spending eight years in Congress, he lost the election for New York governor in 1844. He was a
follower of Thurlow Reed in the Anti-Masonic Party, and grew to support Henry Clay. After the Fugitive Slave
Act destroyed the Whig party, he ran with the Know-Nothings in 1856. FTP, name the 13th President of the
U.S., who filled in for Zachary Taylor.
Answer:
Millard Fillmore
17.
A tutor for many years in the Cavendish family, he was friends with Galileo. The author of De Corpore
Politico and Behemoth, he believed that people are driven by the "right to self-preservation." In 1640, after his
political writings had brought him into disfavor with the parliamentarians, he went to France, where he was
tutor to the exiled Prince Charles. He pessimistically believed that human life in a state of nature was "solitary,
poor, nasty, brutish, and short." FTP, identify this author of Leviathan.
Answer: Thomas Hobbes
18.
Ground types of these are formed by a thin, uneven layer of material deposited beneath the ice or at its
edge as the ice margin retreats. Recessional varieties are created when retreating ice pauses for a long time.
Lateral ones are formed by rock fragments that have rolled onto the ice from nearby slopes. Medial varieties are
caused by the merging of two ice sheets, and terminal ones come at the furthest extent of ice. FTP, name these
rows of debris associated with glaciers.
Moraines
Answer:
19.
The Joke. Farewell Waltz. Slowness. The Book ofLaughter and Forgetting. FTP, name the Czechborn author of these works, as well as The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
Answer:
Milan Kundera
20.
The Great Temple was located within its precincts and was composed of two pyramids, each
representing a sacred mountain. Around it lay chinampas, small floating islets on which much of the city's food
was grown, and the city itself sat in the midst of Lake Texcoco and was connected to the mainland by four sixmile causeways. FTP name the capital of the Aztec Empire, captured by Hernan Cortes in 1521 after he had
assassinated the emperor Moctezuma
Answer:
Tenochtitlan
21.
Article One is titled "How Business is Conducted in Deliberative Assemblies." Article II is "General
Classification of Motions." Article III is "Privileged Motions." Article IV is "Incidental Motions." Article V
is "Subsidiary Motions." Article VI is "Some Main and Unclassified Motions." Article VII is "Debate," and
Article VIII is "Vote." FTP, identify these articles governing voting bodies, the standard guide for
parliamentary procedure.
Robert's Rules of Order
Answer:

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
22.
As New York City was planning Lincoln Center in the 1950s, a developer proposed destroying Carnegie
Hall and replacing it with an office building. Using his contacts in the music world, this man rallied support for
the venue and saved the hall. He played some 175 concerts in the hall, played concerts in Israel during the Six
Days' War and Gulf War, helped found the National Council on the Arts, and was one of the most recorded
violin players in history, including the original cast recording of "Fiddler on the Roof'. FTP, identify this
greatest of the 20 th century violin virtuosos, who passed away in New York City on September 22 nd •
Answer:
Isaac Stern

23.
This name was, perhaps fitting, since "Little Egypt" was the nickname given the area of the conflux of
the Ohio and Mississippi River around Carbondale, and the name refers to a hunting dog used by the Egyptians.
For ten points, name one of the oldest known purebred dogs in the world, now the mascot of Southern Illinois
University.
salukis
Answer:

