DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

January 2008
Packet 4:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. In the Civil War story arc, this character was given command of the Thunderbolts and
controlled with mood stabilizers. He was created thanks to Mendel Stromm, and was the first
major villain to employ the enforcers. Responsible for the death of Gwen Stacy, his weapons of
choice include DNA Bombs, Razor Bats, (*) Pumpkin Bombs, and his ubiquitous glider. This
identity was briefly assumed by Peter Parker's friend Harry, but is usually shown to be Norman
Osbourne. FTP, identify this green-skinned nemesis of Spider Man, known for his resemblance to a
small, demon-like creature.
ANSWER: The Green Goblin (do NOT accept Hobgoblin)
2. This world leader include a discussion of “the social basis of the third universal theory” in his
Green Book, which became extremely popular among IRA soldiers to whom this man had used
ships like the MV Eksund to deliver weapons. Operation El Dorado Canyon targeted this man
but instead killed his adopted daughter Hanna, and he clashed with (*) Bulgarian leaders over
imprisoned health workers at Benghazi Hospital. In 2003 this man, who overthrew Idris I, agreed to
payments for the Lockerbie bombing. The longest-serving head of government in the world, FTP,
identify this President of Libya.
ANSWER: Muammar al-Gaddafi (or Qaddafi)
3. It features a treacherous “change of slope” region oddly named for Alaska, as well as a region
known as Berlin. Its namesake river flows west and meets the Juncal, and its name may be
derived from “Sentinel of Stone.” It can be accessed via the English face, though Matthias
Zubriggen completed the popular “Polish Ascent” of this peak. (*) Puente del Inca is another key
feature of this summit, which at 22,481 feet is the largest in the Western Hemisphere. FTP, identify this
highest peak in the Andes, a mountain located in Argentina.
ANSWER: Mount Aconcagua
4. This man updated a Breugel painting in a woodcut depicting the Tower of Babel in Art Deco
style, while his “Italian period” produced works like Atrani and The Bridge. Twin reptiles are
featured in his Stars, while a Penrose triangle is central to his Waterfall. Better known for works
like Magic Mirror, Relativity, and (*) Ascending and Descending, images like Metamorphosis I
marked the beginning of his exploration of tesselations. FTP, identify this dutch graphic artist known
for depicting endless stairways among other optical illusions.
ANSWER: Maurits Cornelis Escher

January 2008, Packet 4
5. Despite convincing one character to perform a risky and ultimately botched foot operation and
allowing an assistant to inadvertently cause the title figure's death, one character in this novel
receives a medal for meritorious service in the epilogue. That epilogue tells not only of Homais,
but of Berthe, who is put to work in a factory after her (*) mother engages in affairs with Leon and
Rudolphe. The laughable Yonville doctor, Charles, is repeatedly cuckolded in, FTP, what novel about
Emma's torrid affairs, written by Gustave Flaubert?
ANSWER: Madame Bovary
6. This substance can sometimes create elevated, usually heavily forested platforms called
kipukas, while forms which include olivine nephelinite may form in a different region of the
earth. Carbonatite and copper sulfide forms of it often create ores, while marine instances are
often described as the “pillow” form. Its (*) billowy, smooth varieties often travel through namesake
tubes and are called pahoehoe (Pah-ho-aye-ho-aye), while its rougher, rockier form is called 'A'a (ahah). When magma rises to the surface, it becomes, FTP, what flowing, molten rock often ejected from
volcanoes?
ANSWER: Lava (sadly, “Magma” is not correct)
7. A stamp collection is used to solve a mystery in this author's The Wrecker, one of a group of
works that includes The Wrong Box and The Ebb Tide that was written with Lloyd Osbourne.
Steinbeck's The Pastures of Heaven includes lengthy descriptions of his Travels with a Donkey in
the Cevennes, while Colonel Burke is described by Ephraim MacKellar in his The Master of
Ballantrae. Catriona is the sequel to his famous tale of (*) David Balfour, Kidnapped. FTP, identify
this author of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and Treasure Island.
ANSWER: Robert Louis Stevenson
8. Bryce has to fax one lawsuit to each of his five enemies, and needs to determine how much
money it will cost. His lawsuits are 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 pages each. The copy shop charges $2.50 for
the first page and $1.50 for each additional page. To determine how much Bryce's legal actions
will cost him, you may want to first compute the total cost of the "first pages," then the total cost
of all of the additional pages. (*) FTP, how much will Bryce spend faxing his lawsuits?
ANSWER: $27.50
9. A ludicrous case seeking to invoke this amendment involved a man named Valenzuela, but
Engblom v. Carey, which involved striking prison guards, actually required it to be evaluated.
William O. Douglass cited it in his decision for Griswold v. Connecticut, claiming that it reflects
“another facet” of the right to privacy. The phrase (*) “manner prescribed by law” has been less
historically relevant than its requirement that war be declared. FTP, identify this infrequently-cited
amendment, which deals with quartering of troops in private homes and occurs in the Bill of Rights
following an amendment guaranteeing a right to bear arms.
ANSWER: Third Amendment
10. In iconography, this figure was generally referenced by depicting an empty chariot drawn by
white horses. The ultimate antithesis to druj, he promotes “good thoughts, good words, good
deeds” and is identified with Varuna in some traditions. His association with asha is celebrated
at fire temples , and he is dualistic according to (*) Zurvanism. Described by the Gathas and the
Zend Avesta, FTP, identify this opponent of Angra Mainyu, the chief deity of Zoroastrianism.
ANSWER: Ahura Mazda or Aramazd or Hormuzd

January 2008, Packet 4
11. When this word precedes “species,” it describes a population dynamic in which two separate
populations are able to interbreed with each other, but there exist two mutually exclusive “end”
populations. This kind of circuit uses two independent conductors, and in mathematics this term
denotes a structure that exhibits two operations, usually addition and multiplication. The term
(*) cyclic denotes this structure in organic chemistry, and Kekule's dream helped him prove this
structure for Benzene. FTP, identify this term that also describes the layers of rock and ice that
surround planets like Saturn and Uranus.
ANSWER: Rings
12. The music for this piece was updated a year later in a “symphonic suite” that extended the
celesta endings in scenes like “Magic Carillon” and “Appearance of the Thirteen Princesses.” A
single chromatic descending motif is generally used to depict the magical creatures in the realm
of (*) Kaschei the Immortal, who are encountered by the questing Prince Ivan. FTP, identify this ballet
by Igor Stravinsky, which also features the titular incendiary avian.
ANSWER: The Firebird or Zar-ptica
13. It was precipitated by the election of Duke Ferdinand of Styria to succeed Mathias, and it was
documented by Philip Fabricus. The term describes an event involving Jan Zelinsky and his
followers in Charles Square that helped spark a conflict that would last until the Battle of
Grotniki, the (*) Hussite Wars. The famous one saw no fatalities, since Jaroslav Borzita and Vilem
Slavata landed in a pile of manure. FTP, identify this inexplicably frequent historical event, in which
someone was hurled from an elevated window in the capital of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: The (Second) Defenestration of Prague
14. This work's preface contains a lengthy response to allegations regarding its author's
admiration for Spinoza, while the text itself describes “love of honor” and “love of virtue” acting
as the mechanism for proper actions of kings and free citizens, respectively. Quoted extensively
by Catherine the Great's Nakaz, it used a passage in Locke's (*) Two Treaties on Government to
identify its most famous theme. The separation of powers is espoused in, FTP, what tract by French
thinker Charles de Montesquieu.?
ANSWER: (Of) The Spirit of the Laws
15. This author's stories of Edmund Talbot included Close Quarters and Fire Down Below, and
are collected in his trilogy To the Ends of the Earth. That trilogy's first novel, Rights of Passage,
won him the 1980 Booker Prize, while he used Africa as the setting for The Scorpion God and a
small English village for The Pyramid. This author of Pincher Martin told of Neanderthal man in
1955's The Inheritors, but remains best-known for characters like (*) Sam and Eric, Jack, Ralph,
and Piggy. FTP, identify this Nobel Laureate who wrote The Lord of the Flies.
ANSWER: William Golding

January 2008, Packet 4
16. Uncertainties it left unresolved inspired Charles H. Townes to construct the first maser in an
attempt to place a limit on drift, also the goal of efforts by Hils and Hall and Trimmer. Its
indications for Walter Ritz's theory led to the Sagnac Experiment, while the Kennedy-Thorndike
Experiment attempted to test if Length Contraction played a role in this experiment. It used a
(*) pool of mercury for stability and a half-silvered mirror, and was conducted at Case Western Reserve
University. FTP, identify this 1887 experiment that discredited the theory of luminiferous aether,
named for two American scientists.
ANSWER: Michelson-Morley Experiment
17. A corner solution on an indifference curve is observed if Consumer theory correctly predicts
that this will denote a de facto state of zero consumption. An Edgeworth Box can be used to
construct indifference curves, enabling one to compute the value for the competitive type. Put
simply, it occurs at a (*) price where supply and demand intersect. FTP, identify this point often
found on economic graphs, generally denoting a state of balance, as in a chemical equation.
ANSWER: Equilibrium Point
18. Late in life this ruler won a decisive victory at the River Aire over Edgar Aetheling, who had
used the support of Sweyn II of Denmark to rebel in Northumbria. In addition to employing
Alain Le Roux to conduct the Harrying of the North, he overcame the Revolt of the Earls in his
homeland thanks to Odo. He is more famous for accepting the surrender of Archbishop Stigand
after (*) landing at Pevensey Bay and going on to defeat Harold II, as depicted in the Bayeux Tapestry.
FTP, identify this winner at the 1066 Battle of Hastings, a Norman king known as “the Conqueror.”
ANSWER: William I or the Conqueror or the Bastard
19. Eman laughs hysterically as he dies in this man's The Strong Breed, which focuses on the same
themes of self-sacrifice as his The Trials of Brother Jero. Baroka and Lakunle clash for the hand
of Sidi in one of his works, while this author of Requiem for a Futurologist wrote of Mr. Pilkings's
interference leading to Elesin's suicide in his best-known play. Noted for The Swamp Dwellers,
The (*) Lion and the Jewell, and Death and the King's Horseman, FTP, identify this winner of the 1986
Nobel Prize in Literature, a Nigerian playwright.
ANSWER: Wole Soyinka
20. Tetrahydrofolate and NAD+ are used to degrade this compound in the body, though alternate
pathways for degradation exist, including the conversion of serine to pyruvate and the creation of
glyoxylate by D-amino acid oxidase. It provides the C2N subunit of purines and it is a co-agonist
with glutamate in the brain. Chloroacetic acid and ammonia create this compound, and it is the
only one of its class that is not optically active. Conserved in (*) hemoglobin, it makes up a third of
collagen and is noted for its compact structure. FTP, identify this simplest amino acid.
ANSWER: Glycine

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

January 2008
Packet 4:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: It tells of Acrite and Palamon, who are imprisoned by Theseus. FTPE:
[10] Identify this story, in which the two titular warriors battle over the hand of Emily.
ANSWER: The Knight's Tale
[10] “The Knight's Tale” appears in a work describing the pilgrimage to Canterbury cathedral created
by this author of The House of Fame.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
[10] Chaucer was inspired to create “The Knight's Tale” by this work of early philosophy by Boethius,
in which the author conducts a conversation with the titular entity and declares that prisoners should be
treated with care and respect. Such a conclusion is hardly surprising, considering was awaiting
execution by torture when it was written.
ANSWER: The Consolation of Philosophy
2. Bonus: They can be continuous, fenestrated, or sinusoidal. FTPE:
[10] Identify these structures, the smallest blood vessels in the human body.
ANSWER: Capillaries
[10] Capillaries are connected to arteries by these intermediary structures, which are kept smooth
thanks to L-arganine and nitric oxide.
ANSWER: Arterioles
[10] Capillary action is a form of this process, in which different particles cling to one another. Van der
Waals forces cause the dispersive variety of this phenomenon.
ANSWER: Adhesion or Adhesive Force
3. Bonus: Given some objects from Norse mytholgy, indicate who owns them, FTPE:
[10] Gungnir, Draupnir, and the horse Sleipnir.
ANSWER: Odin (it's his spear)
[10] The Gjallarhorn.
ANSWER: Heimdall
[10] A magical suit of armor, as well as Draupnir, Frigg's cloak, and possessions of all the gods during
his mission to bring Baldur back from the underworld.
ANSWER: Hermod

January 2008, Packet 4
4. Bonus: It included California's Hiram Johnson and Washington's Miles Poindexter. FTPE:
[10] Identify this party active in the Election of 1912, officially known as the Progressive Party but
more commonly referred to by its founder's assertion that he was definitely fit for the presidency.
ANSWER: The Bull Moose Party
[10] This two-time president, who ascended to the office after the death of McKinley, founded the Bull
Moose party.
ANSWER: Theodore Roosevelt
[10] This would-be assassin was surely embarrassed when, after shooting Roosevelt in 1912, he was
forced to watch in horror as Roosevelt got back up and delivered a 90-minute speech while only
slightly bleeding.
ANSWER: John Schrank
5. Bonus: James Strachey translated this term, though it was originally derived from work by Georg
Groddeck. FTPE:
[10] Identify this construct responsible for basic human drives, often grouped with the ego and
superego.
ANSWER: Id
[10] This Austrian founder of psychoanalysis is credited with popularizing the ideas of the id, ego, and
superego in works like The Interpretation of Dreams.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
[10] Freud published a 1928 article about Parracide and this author, in which he analyzes the murder of
Fyodor by Smerdyakov.
ANSWER: Fyodor Dostoyevsky
6. Bonus: He names a unit for measuring ionizing radiation. FTPE:
[10] Identify this scientist who used a Pulyui Lamp, a Hittorf-Crookes Tube, and a Ruhmkorff coil to
make his most famous discovery, which won him the 1901 Nobel Prize.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen
[10] Roentgen discovered this form of radiation, with a wavelength of 10 to 0.01 nanometers. Oh yeah,
it's used to take pictures of your skeleton.
ANSWER: X-Rays
[10] Roentgen stole lots of ideas from this man as a foundation for his X-ray experiments. This man is
famous for engaging in the “War of the Currents” and for having his ideas stolen by numerous people,
but most memorably Edison.
ANSWER: Nikola Tesla
7. Bonus: Anton Webern and Alban Berg were among this man's first disciples. FTPE:
[10] Identify this 20th century Austrian composer, who pioneered the twelve-tone system and composed
The Luck Hand, Expectation, and Moses and Aaron.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
[10] Schoenberg used three groups of seven poems to compose a collection about this figure, whom the
composition describes as “moonstruck.”
ANSWER: Pierrot (accept Pierrot Lunaire)
[10] Schoenberg was perhaps the most dominant influence on this American minimalist composer,
known for creating numerous Imaginary Landscapes as well as 4'33'' (read: Four Minutes Thirty-Three
Seconds).
ANSWER: John Cage

January 2008, Packet 4
8. Bonus: It was signed in Runnymede in 1215. FTPE:
[10] Identify this “Great Charter” in which John I was forced to acknowledge that his rule was bound
by law and, thus, he had to be just a little nicer. But only to the really rich people.
ANSWER: The Magna Carta
[10] The Magna Carta was the first time an English king was forced to document his limited authority,
although this king, who lost his son William on the White Ship and died after consuming a ludicrous
amount of lampreys, had voluntarily acknowledged such a fact in his Charter of Liberties.
ANSWER: Henry I
[10] This pope, who called the Fourth Crusade and played mediator to William of Cagliari and Comita
III of Torres, declared the Magna Carta invalid.
ANSWER: Innocent III or Lotario de'Conti di Segni
9. Bonus: It invokes images like a marriage bed to affirm that the blood of both the speaker and
adressee are already intermingled in the title animal. FTPE:
[10] Identify this poem, perhaps the most romantic depiction of parasitism.
ANSWER: The Flea
[10] This metaphysical poet, whose Meditation XVII inspired the title of Hemingway's For Whom the
Bell Tolls, wrote The Flea, as well as Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.
ANSWER: John Donne
[10] Donne's seventeenth Holy Sonnet contains this famous phrase, which is later replaced with the
directive “thou shalt die.”
ANSWER: Death, Be Not Proud
10. Bonus: It occurs when element 6 exhibits an unshared pair of electrons. FTPE:
[10] Identify this anion, a nucleophile with a negative charge.
ANSWER: Carbanion
[10] Since any compound with a C-H group can lost a proton and create a carbanion, those molecules
must technically be classified as these kinds of compounds depending on their pKa value.
ANSWER: (Carbon) Acids
[10] Carbanions exhibit this form of molecular geometry, in which one atom is at the apex with one at
each of three corners of the base, also seen in ammonia.
ANSWER: Trigonal Pyramidal
11. Bonus: Donald Tusk is this country's Prime Minister. FTPE:
[10] Identify this country, whose president is Lech Kaczynski and whose capital is Warsaw.
ANSWER: Poland
[10] This term now refers only to the Polish parliament's lower house, but previously referred to all
three chambers of the Polish legislative body.
ANSWER: Sejm
[10] Following a 2001 electoral trampling by the Democratic Left Alliance, the Civic Platform party,
and even the League of Polish families, this political group slipped into the distant background of
Polish politics, a far cry from its heyday under Lech Walesa.
ANSWER: Solidarity Electoral Action or whatever that is in Polish

January 2008, Packet 4
12. Bonus: Identify the philosopher responsible for these works of philosophy which all concerned
something, FTPE, or F5PE if you need other clues.
[10] An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
[5] This Scottish empiricist created the work as an expansion of his earlier A Treatise of Human Nature.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge.
[5] This Irish thinker penned An Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision and Three Dialogues Between
Hylas and Philonous.
ANSWER: George Berkeley
[10] An Essay Concerning Human Understanding.
[5] In that work, this English thinker described the tabula rasa.
ANSWER: John Locke
13. Bonus: Answer these questions about labyrinths in Latin-American literature, FTPE:
[10] This collection of nine essays by Octavio Paz includes the section “The Present Day” and
discusses how the titular condition can arise from conflict indigenous and Spanish identities in Mexican
culture, and regrets how intellectuals are often unable to properly distance themselves from their
subjects.
ANSWER: The Labyrinth of Solitude
[10] The General in his Labyrinth is an exploration of the final days of Simon Bolivar penned by this
author of Love in the Time of Cholera and One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
[10] The collection Labyrinths, which contains El Aleph, The Library of Babel, and other stories from
Ficciones, was published by this blind Argentine author.
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges
14. Bonus: Answer these questions about organizations involved in innovations in computing, FTPE:
[10] Apple recently dropped the price on this mobile phone that features multi-touch technology.
ANSWER: iPhone
[10] This company's e-book device, the Kindle, downloads content using Sprint's network.
ANSWER: Amazon.com
[10] This non-profit from the MIT Media Lab donates affordable laptops to third-world countries.
ANSWER: One Laptop Per Child
15. Bonus: With which ancient Greek city are these entities associated?
[10] The Sacred Band, the Boetian League.
ANSWER: Thebes
[10] Piraeus, the Areopagus, the Boule, the Acropolis.
ANSWER: Athens
[10] Ephors, the Apella, the Code of Lycurgus.
ANSWER: Sparta

January 2008, Packet 4
16. Bonus: Pope Pius VII blessed the painter after sitting for this work, thoroughly unnerving him and
prompting him go out and commit several venial sins. FTPE:
[10] Identify this work depicting the crowning of a certain Corsican, for which the artist was paid so
poorly that he auctioned off places in the paintings background to bidders.
ANSWER: The Coronation of Napoleon
[10] This French painter of The Death of Marat and The Death of Socrates painted The Coronation of
Napoleon.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
[10] David also took to depicting historical events in this work, which accurately depicts a lone
dissenter but probably takes a few liberties in depicting the winds of change blowing in through a
window at top left.
ANSWER: The Tennis Court Oath
17. Bonus: It uses the name “Corambis” instead of Polonius, a reference to Shakespeare's “Bad
Quarto.” FTPE:
[10] Identify this novel, an adaptation of the Hamlet story, which focuses on the play's newly-married
couple and depicts the murdered king as a womanizing, violent jerk.
ANSWER: Gertrude and Claudius
[10] This American author of the Rabbit series, The Witches of Eastwick, and the short story “A & P”
wrote Gertrude and Claudius.
ANSWER: John Updike
[10] Updike's Brazil is another retelling, centering on the affair between these two lovers, a Cornish
knight and an Irish princess, whose relationship is complicated by Lord Mark.
ANSWER: Tristan and Iseult
18. Bonus: It is located in Northern Tanzania, on the Eastern Serengeti Plains. FTPE:
[10] Identify this African depression where anthropologists like Mary and Louis Leakey found
countless artifacts of early hominid development.
ANSWER: Olduvai Gorge
[10] Olduvai Gorge is part of this longer body, which stretches from Syria to Mozambique. It's a really,
really big gash in the Earth.
ANSWER: The Great Rift Valley
[10] The earliest tools from Olduvai Gorge are generally made of this common, dark-colored extrusive
igneous rock. It is usually described as chemically equivalent to gabbro.
ANSWER: Basalt
19. Bonus: Answer these questions about the 2008 Academy Awards, FTPE:
[10] This Spanish actor, known for Jamon, Jamon and The Dancer Upstairs, took home the award for
Best Supporting Role for his haunting performance as Anton Chigurh in No Country For Old Men.
ANSWER: Javier Bardem
[10] Daniel Day-Lewis won Best Actor for his role in this film based on Upton Sinclair's Oil! Its
soundtrack might be humanity's only chance to unify the music of Arvo Part, Johannes Brahms, and
Radiohead.
ANSWER: There Will Be Blood
[10] The role of Edith Piaf in La Vie en Rose won this French nutjob, who thinks man never landed on
the moon and believes in the 9/11 conspiracy theory, the Oscar for Best Actress.
ANSWER: Marion Cotillard

January 2008, Packet 4
20. Bonus: Identify these figures from Hawaiian history, FTPE:
[10] This king unified the islands with brilliant military planning at Pali Lookout and some assistance
from John Young and Isaac Davis.
ANSWER: Kamehameha I or the Great
[10] This last Hawaiian monarch opposed the Bayonet Constitution, but the passage of the McKinley
Tariff caused enough economic push for Charles Bishop to organize her overthrow, after which Sanford
B. Dole took over.
ANSWER: Liliukalani (accept Queen Lil)
[10] The Blout and Morgan Reports, commissioned by this President in 1893 and 1894, made it
abundantly clear that John L. Stevens was a huge criminal who illegally took over a sovereign state.
He managed to change the language of the Turpie Resolution to leave the possibility of Hawaiian open
in a last-ditch effort to somehow preserve Hawaiian independence.
ANSWER: Grover Cleveland

