DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

December 2008
Study Guide:
South American Literature

South American Literature
Argentina
Jorge Luis Borges (1889-1986): One of the most influential writers of the twentieth century, with an
extensive corpus of works. Noted for numerous short stories, most of which were collected in the
seminal Ficciones (“Fictions”). His story “The Aleph” describes a point located in the cellar of Carlos
Daneri which contains all other points in the universe. “The Garden of the Forking Paths” describes
Richard Madden's pursuit of double agent Yu Tsun during World War I, while “The Library of Babel”
describes a structure of hexagonal rooms that contains every possible collection of writing that could be
assembled from individual letters. Utopian themes dominate his “Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius” while
examined literary translation and writing in general in “Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote.” Borges
inherited a congenital disorder which caused him to lose his sight in middle age, though he remained a
dominant figure in world literature throughout his life.
Julio Cortazar (1914-1984): Noted for writing (sometimes extremely) experimental works, many of
which employ a stream-of-consciousness technique. Some major short story collections include The
Secret Weapons and Bestiary, while major novels include 62: A Model Kit and Around the Day in 80
Worlds. His magnum opus is the surreal Hopscotch, which traces Horacio Oliveira's pursuit of the
enigmatic woman La Maga. The title is derived from the novel's structure, which gives readers the
option of reading a shorter book or periodically jumping into sub-plot chapters, like hopscotch.
Jose Hernandez (1834-1886): Early Argentine writer whose fame rests on his epic poem Martin
Fierro, the definitive romantic work about the lifestyle of the gaucho (“cowboys” who inhabited the
fertile pampas plains region of Argentina). “Martin Fierro” was also adopted as the name of several
major Argentine literary magazines.
Manuel Puig (1932-1990): Living mostly in Mexico, Puig first gained acclaim with Betrayed by Rita
Hayworth, which uses a surrogate protagonist named Toto to paint a portrait of the author's own
obsession and ultimate frustration with dedicating his life to cinema. Other works include Heartbreak
Tango and his most famous, The Kiss of the Spider Woman, which uses a psuedo-frame tale structure
based on various films to examine the relationship between two prisoners, the homosexual Molina and
the political dissident Valentin.
Ernesto Sabato (1911): Though more famous recently for his role in investigating the desaparecidos
of Argentina's Dirty War (documented in his Never Again), his literary fame rests on the essay One and
the Universe and the novels Heroes and Tombs and The Tunnel, the latter of which centers on painter
Juan Pablo Castel. Interestingly, Sabato also holds a PhD in physics and worked as a research scientist
at the Curie Institute.
Chile
Isabel Allende (1942-): Magical realism author, whose father was the cousin of deposed Chilean
president Salvador Allende, an event which forced her to flee to Venezuela and eventually to the United
States (where she currently resides). Her best-known (and most lauded) literary achievement may be
her debut novel, The House of the Spirits. The work centers around three generations of the Trueba
family, whose patriarch Esteban manages a hacienda called Tres Marias. His wife Clara, daughter
Blanca, and granddaughter Alba are the central characters. Other major publications include Eva Luna,
City of the Beasts, and The Sum of Our Days. Allende's works frequently center around children (she
began her career working for a children's literary magazine), and her Paula is structured as a letter to

her dying daughter.
Jose Donoso (1924-1996): One of the early champions of magical realism, Donoso is known chiefly
for three works, including the much-anthologized “The Blue Woman.” His The Place without Limits
centers on a bordello owned by Manuela, while his best-known work is The Obscene Bird of Night.
The novel dissects the personality of Humberto Penaloza in an adaptation of a popular Chilean myth
centering on a monster called Invunche.
Gabriela Mistral (1889-1957): Famous poet who won the 1945 Nobel Prize for Literature. “Gabriela
Mistral” is actually a pen name drawn from Gabriela Mistral's two favorite poets, Gabriele D'annunzio
and Frederic Mistral. Her most frequently anthologized poems include “Intimate Letter” and “His
Name is Today.” She is best-known for her collections Temura, Tala, Desolation, and Sonnets of
Death.
Pablo Neruda (1904-1973): Born Neftali Ricardo Reyes, Neruda was an incredibly influential poet
from the publication of his first collections: Book of Twilights and Twenty Love Poems and a Song of
Despair (his best-known work). The body of his poetry ranges from social commentary (Spain in My
Heart) to surrealism (Residence in the Earth) to a fifteen-volume celebration of Chile and South
America (Canto General). His other major work, Elemental Odes, consists of poems mostly
celebrating the majesty of nature.
Columbia
Gabriel Garcia Marquez (1927-): Perhaps the most widely-read South American novelist, Garcia
Marquez is the champion of the magical realist style, his innovations in which earned him the 1982
Nobel Prize for Literature. He is most famous for his novels, though novellas like Leaf Storm, No One
Writes to the Colonel, and Chronicle of a Death Foretold are also notable. Garcia Marquez drew
inspiration from numerous tyrannical Carribbean dictators to write the lyrical The Autumn of the
Patriarch, and while the love triangle between Juvenal Urbino, Florentino Ariza, and Fermina Daza
ends with the raising of a flag indicating virulence in his Love in the Time of Cholera. Many Garcia
Marquez works take place in (or at least reference) the fictional city of Macondo, which is the subject
of his famous chronicle of the Buendia family, One Hundred Years of Solitude. Most recently, he
published the 2005 novel Memories of my Melancholy Whores. Garcia Marquz is also known for using
his immense popularity in Columbia to frequently act as a negotiator between rebel groups and the
government.
Peru
Mario Vargas Llosa (1936-): A still very much active author known for his ability to mix genre and
subject matter. He drew inspiration from his own marriage to pen Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter,
which follows the young student Mario as he works at soap-opera radio station. He delved into South
American history with The War at the End of the World and chose actual centers of Peruvian culture for
other works, setting The Time of the Hero at the Leoncio Prado Military Academy and The Green
House at a famous Peruvian bar. Vargas Llosa was also an unsuccessful candidate for the Peruvian
Presidency, losing to 100% fairly elected former dictator, Alberto Fujimori.

