DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

January 2008
Packet 3:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. This language contributed the term for the taste sensation triggered by glutamate proteins, as
well as a word that appears in F. Scott Fitzgerald's final work, the word “tycoon.” It can be
transliterated via Hepburn Romanization, and consists of two major (*) scripts. Words like
“futon” come from this language, whose scripts are hiragana and katagana. Also contributing poetry
styles like renga and haiku, FTP, identify this language that may help you order sushi and which is
spoken in Kobe, Yokohama, Osaka, Kyoto, and Tokyo.
ANSWER: Japanese
2. Henry Gates identified an African mythological archetype revolving around the “Signifying”
example of this animal, which usually interacts with a lion. A famous one accompanies Xuanzang
on a quest to retrieve the sutra from India and has a magical staff in (*) Journey to the West. In
the Ramayana, Ravana faces an army of Vanara led by Hanuman, all of whom are this kind of animal.
The Mizaru motif in Japanese spirituality consist of three of these creatures, traditionally called “see no
evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.” FTP, identify this primate, whose best-known cultural depiction
might be Curious George.
ANSWER: Monkeys (grudgingly accept Ape or Primate, though not specific terms like “gorillas”)
3. Late in life, this man became president of the American Colonization Society's Richmond
chapter, helping relocate blacks to Liberia. As Timothy Pickering's successor as Secretary of
State, he ended the Quasi-War in 1800, and he would later replace Oliver Ellsworth in another
post, thanks to his representation of the Fairfax Estate and mission with (*) Elbridge Gerry and
Charles Pinckney that led to the XYZ affair. Presiding over Barron v. Baltimore, Fletcher v. Peck, and
McCulloch v. Maryland, FTP, identify this third Supreme Court Chief Justice, whose decision in
Marbury v. Madison introduced the doctrine of Judicial Review.
ANSWER: John Marshall
4. The speaker declares that the voice he hears was “hear/In ancient days by emperor and clown”
and describes an “embalmed darkness” and “fruit-tree wild.” The second stanza is an extended
plea for alcohol, so that the speaker may “leave the world unseen”. Later the poem declares,
“thou was not born for death, immortal (*) bird,” and closes with the question “Do I wake or sleep?”
FTP, identify this ode addressed to the titular bird, a work by John Keats.
ANSWER: Ode to a Nightingale

January 2008, Packet 3
5. With Bernoulli, this man names an isotropic theory of elasticity, a so-called “beam equation,”
while Darboux's function is a generalized statement of a formula named for this man and
Maclaurin. Optimization problems may be solved with a formula named for him and Lagrange,
while a limiting constant between the harmonic series and natural logarithm is named for this
mathematician and (*) Mascheroni. Ending his life blind in St. Petersburg, he gained fame for
solving the Konigsberg Bridge problem. FTP, identify this Swiss mathematician, the namesake of a
number that begins 2.718 and symbolized “e.”
ANSWER: Leonhard Euler
6. This body of water's deepest point is at Diamantia, and It is the Southern terminus for the
Wallace Line. The Lombok strait connects to this body of water, which also contains the
Laccadive Islands. The Shatt al-Arab flows into this body of water, which the Bab al Mandeb
connects to the (*) Red Sea and the Strait of Hormuz to the Gulf of Oman. Containing the Maldives
and lying East of Madagascar, FTP, identify this third-largest ocean which lies south of its namesake
country with capital at New Delhi.
ANSWER: Indian Ocean
7. This founder of the Company of One Hundred Associates and issuer of the gabelle served
under Concino Concini, a job which led him into an exile spent composing religious writings.
The escape of a monarch from the Chateau de Blois allowed him to return and arrange the
Treaty of Angouleme, while subsequent plots against him include the Day of Dupes and that of (*)
Cinq-Mars. While dodging the machinations of Marie de Medici, this predecessor of Mazarin
convinced the king to aid Sweden in the Thirty Years war to check Hapsburg power. FTP, identify this
cardinal, the chief minister of France's Louis XIII.
ANSWER: Cardinal Richelieu or Armand Jean du Plessis
8. Hyperons more frequently contain many of these particles than they do their counterpart. A
superscript number above a Delta signifies the number of these particles present in a given
baryon, and positively charged pions must exhibit one of these. Along with its companion, it is
the primary constituent of (*) nucelons and has a positive 2/3 charge. The lightest of all quarks, FTP,
identify this particle found twice in protons, the counterpart of the down quark.
ANSWER: Up Quark
9. This composer saught to eliminate the division between aria and recitative in his opera The
marriage, an approach adopted in similar works like Salammbo and Khovanshchina. Along with
Rimsky-Korsakov, he created the first Russian tone poem, a work which spent time under the
titles The Witch and St. John's Eve before becoming (*) Night on Bald Mountain. Also noted for the
nationalistic Boris Gudonov, his most famous work is a celebration of artist Victor Hartmann. FTP,
identify this composer who created pieces like “The Great Gate of Kiev” for Pictures at an Exhibition.
ANSWER: Modest Mussorgksy

January 2008, Packet 3
10. He wrote screenplays for recent adaptations of The Trial and The Handmaid’s Tale and wrote
about the dangerous relationship of Emma, Robert, and Jerry in Betrayal. He has acted in his
own plays, including One for the Road, while Celebration is his most recent stage work. He wrote
of retired butcher Max in (*) The Homecoming, while his most famous works concern Ben and Gus,
who wait in a basement, and Stanley's titular celebration. FTP, name this 2005 Nobel Laureate, the
British playwright of The Birthday Party and The Dumbwaiter
ANSWER: Harold Pinter
11. One of them commissioned a massive granary and the road to the Temple of Peace. Another
wrote a series of letters on civil government to various regional rulers and had a famous
friendship with Rabbi Judah the Prince, and earned an epithet due to his reverence for his
predecessor. Bookended by Domitian and (*) Commodus, the final one fought against Germanic
tribes and Avidius Cassius and published the Meditations. Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, and
Marcus Aurelius were, FTP, what group of Roman emperors, known for the generally positive nature of
their rule?
ANSWER: The Five Good Emperors
12. Its most common alternative term comes from a word denoting “guided friend,” while its
better-known name originated as a pejorative term. The People of Heaven, ancestral spirits, are
heavily venerated in this faith, in which Orunmila can be received by Babalochas during the
drum-based Ifa ritual. Olurun is the source of the (*) Orishas, spirits which are a union of Catholic
saints and traditional African gods. Noted for legal cases involving animal sacrifice, FTP, identify this
religion whose name translates from the Spanish for “way of the Saints.”
ANSWER: Santeria (or Lukumi)
13. This work sees a baudy debate between Kreitton and Etton, personifications of right and
wrong, which leads one character to embrace the “New Style.” That character has praised
heaped upon him by a man he is beating in the next scene, but the situation soon prompts arson
at the (*) Thinkery. The struggle to cure Pheidippides's gambling problems leads Strepsiades to seek
the help of Socrates in, FTP, what Aristophanes comedy which features a titular chorus of whispy,
white objects found in the sky?
ANSWER: The Clouds
14. The polypeptide sequence formerly known as somatomedin C is named for its resemblance to
this compound and activates the AKT pathway. Regulator boxes on its controlling gene bind to
NeuroD, cyclic AMP, MafA, and Pdx1 factors, and phospholipase C causes the calcium surge that
releases this compound from the (*) Islets of Langerhans. Causing the conversion of glucose to
glycogen, FTP, identify this hormone associated with the pancreas, whose levels become problematic in
those suffering from diabetes.
ANSWER: Insulin

January 2008, Packet 3
15. Political liberalization in this country, one led by Talal, was undertaken under the direction of
Zayd al-Rifa'i and Zayd ibn Shakir in spite of the resistance of the Islamic Action Front, a wing
of the Muslim Brotherhood. Such reforms came in the wake of the Black September battle, in
which this nation expelled PLO members, and resulted in the Badran government under King (*)
Hussein. Currently led by King Abdullah II, FTP, identify this country which lies across a namesake
river from the West Bank, with capital at Amman.
ANSWER: Jordan
16. John Glover played this character in a short-lived series about Detective Ezekiel Stone. In
Family Guy, the discovery of the motorcycle-riding “super” version of this figure leads the family
to return from Texas, while Ray Wise currently plays this character as he interacts with his
newest recruit, Sam Oliver, on the show (*) Reaper. Elizabeth Hurley adopted this role in a 2000
Brendan Fraser film, Bedazzled, and in film this figure is behind the major plots of Rosemary's Baby,
The Omen, and according to Pazuzu, The Exorcist. FTP, identify this figure, who in between filmings
probably kicks back in Hell.
ANSWER: The Devil or Satan or Lucifer or The Beast or any other equivalent
17. This man spoke about “Homer and Classical Philology” during his inaugural lecture at the
University of Basel, a professorship that he also used to research Philosophy in the Tragic Age of
the Greeks and Human, All Too Human. His first major work dealt with the differences in
realities caused by recognition of true forms, which he termed (*) Dionysian and Apollonian. That
work, The Birth of Tragedy, preceded tomes like Beyond Good and Evil and Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
FTP, identify this German philosopher who famously declared “God is dead.”
ANSWER: Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche
18. A kneeling woman stretches out her arms, one of which holds a cup and one of which reaches
into a water bucket, at front right in this work. A man with a slipping robe leans on a staff at the
foot of the table, while a man in all red sits at the other end. The subjects seem fixated on the
blue-sashed central figure and oblvious to the (*) ethereal angels which dart around the scene,
illuminated by a flaming lamp. Showing the main figure shrouded in shining gold and blessing the
titular occurrence, FTP, identify this work by Tintoretto which shares subject matter with a famous
Leonardo Da Vinci work depicting a meal involving Christ.
ANSWER: (Tintoretto's) Last Supper (“Leonardo's Last Supper” is incorrect, “Last Supper” is
fine)
19. Somewhat non-traditional work by this author includes a collaboration with Richard
Danielpour, the opera Margaret Garner, and a work for children, The Book of Mean People.
Music frames her only short story, about Robert and Twyla, called “Recititaf.” This author of A
Mercy told of First Corinthians and Milkman Dead in (*) Song of Solomon, while other works
include Jazz, Tar Baby, and The Bluest Eye. FTP, identify this 1993 Nobel winner, an AfricanAmerican woman responsible for Beloved.
ANSWER: Toni Morrison

January 2008, Packet 3
20. Zinc amalgam or hydrochloric acid can be used to reduce ketones or aldehydes to these
compounds via Clemmensen reduction, and chloroform can be created when they undergo free
radical halogenation. Also called (*) paraffins, by definition their cyclic form is actually another
group. Containing butane, propane, ethane, and methane, they have general formula CnH2n+2. FTP,
identify these hydrocarbons characterized by the presence of single bonds, unlike Alkenes or Alkynes.
ANSWER: Alkanes (accept a really early buzz of Clemmensen Reduction)

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

January 2008
Packet 3:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Answer these questions about literary works whose titles mention weather phenomenons,
FTPE:
[10] According to a poem by Carl Sandburg, this vision-obscuring phenomenon comes in on “little cat
feet.”
ANSWER: The Fog
[10] A horrible love quadrangle grips Augusto, Mauricio, Eugenia, and Rosario this Spanish author's
Niebla, or Mist. He is considered the foremost figure of the Generation of '98 movement.
ANSWER: Miguel de Unamuno
[10] The nameless narrator's vision of a leopard amidst the title mountainside depositions concludes
this Hemingway short story about a writer dying from an infection.
ANSWER: The Snows of Kilimanjaro
2. Bonus: Identify these terms unleashed upon popular culture by Youtube, FTPE:
[10] Be thankful the link you clicked to open this packet didn't deliver you to a video of “Never Gonna
Give You Up” by Rick Astley in this horrible, horrible practice that somehow helped the album sales of
Portrait.
ANSWER: Rickrolling
[10] Vinnie Jones actually delivered a line in X-Men: The Last Stand inspired by a hilarious dub of
“Phoenix Saga Part III: Cry of the Banshee” in which this X-Men villain, whose real name is Cain
Marko, answers the question “do you know who I am?”
ANSWER: Juggernaut
[10] If you ever hear anyone yell “Time up, let's do this,” you're probably in serious trouble, because
that person emulates this incredibly moronic World of Warcraft figure who caused the death of his
entire party by heating up a burrito or something. Full name required.
ANSWER: LEEEEEEEERRRRRRROOOOOOYYYYY
JJJJJEEEEEEEENNNNNNKKKKKIIIIIIIIIIIIIINNNNNNNNNS (accept just “Leroy Jenkins”)
3. Bonus: It requires heat-stable enzymes like Taq Polymerase to function correctly, and often utilizes
the Peltier Effect. FTPE:
[10] Identify this process, which also uses magnesium or manganese ions, which provides a means of
easily replicating mass amounts of DNA and can come in Nested, Touchdown, Hot-Start, and
Asymetric varieties.
ANSWER: Polymerase Chain Reaction
[10] A form of PCR that avoids heat fluctuation relies on the use of this enzyme, which unwinds DNA
strands.
ANSWER: Helicase
[10] This absolute lunatic won the Nobel Prize for developing PCR, and consequently used his
newfound influence to warn the world about the glowing green raccoon aliens that abducted him and
forced him to write Dancing Naked in the Mine Field. On a completely unrelated note, he was pretty
much constantly on LSD.
ANSWER: Kary Mullis

January 2008, Packet 3
4. Bonus: A red Cherub holds a black sword as Adam and Eve wail like little crybabies in his The
Expulsion from the Garden of Eden. FTPE:
[10] Identify this early renaissance painter of Madonna with Child and St. Anne and the Cascia
Altarpiece, whose best known work is housed in the Brancacci Chapel and shows St. Peter retrieving a
coin from a dead fish at far left.
ANSWER: Masaccio or Tommasso Cassai)
[10] This aforementioned work shows in its central scene Jesus, who is ostensibly explaining that one
should render unto Ceasar that which is Caesar's and fork over the titular payment.
ANSWER: The Tribute Money
[10] Saint John the Evangelist and some very rich donors appear in this work, which depicts a
Crucified Christ above the phrase “I am what you are and what I am you shall be.”
ANSWER: The Holy Trinity
5. Bonus: It occurred in the wake of a power transfer, backed by Urban IV, in which Manfred was
replaced as governor by the Angevin Charles I. FTPE:
[10] Identify this rebellion on a certain Mediterranean island, which allegedly occurred after a French
knight attempt to grope a local woman on Easter Monday.
ANSWER: The Sicilian Vespers
[10] Charles I of Anjou, the son of Louis XIII and Blanche of Castille, ruled during the Sicilian Vespers
from this still-exisitng southern Italian city, whose name is derived from a previous “new city.”
ANSWER: Naples (not Neapolis)
[10] The Sicilian Vespers did wonders for the bodily safety of Michael VII, a Byzantine emperor from
this family, who succeeded the Komnenids, Angelids, and Laskarids.
ANSWER: Palaeologus or Palaeologids
6. Bonus: They are characterized by a carbon triple-bonded to a nitrogen atom. FTPE:
[10] Identify these organic compounds, created by Kolbe synthesis.
ANSWER: Nitriles
[10] Nitriles can often release one of these, the CN- (read: “CN minus”) anion, named for its
preparation from Prussian Blue. When it bonds to hydrogen, it creates a highly toxic compound with a
faint almond odor.
ANSWER: Cyanide
[10] The first Nitrile was first isolated using formic acid by this German-Swedish chemist, who
actually discovered oxygen before Priestley did.
ANSWER: Carl Wilhelm Scheele
7. Bonus: Identify these bays, FTPE:
[10] Bordeaux and Bilbao lie on the bay to the West of France.
ANSWER: Bay of Biscay
[10] The Napa and San Joaquin Rivers feed into this bay, which is sometimes said to comprise the San
Pablo and Suisun bays. It is home to Angel Island and Alcatraz.
ANSWER: San Francisco Bay
[10] Akimiski Island lies in this bay, itself a southern arm of Hudson Bay, which also contains the
outlet of the Harricana River, Hannah Bay.
ANSWER: James Bay

January 2008, Packet 3
8. Bonus: They include tales like The Prairie and The Pathfinder. FTPE:
[10] Identify this collection of five stories published between 1823 and 1841, all of which center on
Natty Bumppo.
ANSWER: The Leatherstocking Tales
[10] This author of The Last of the Mohicans created the Leatherstocking tales after being expelled
from Yale for cow theft or bomb-making or something.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
[10] Wah-ta!-Wah, Tom Hutter, and Harry March are among the characters in this work, the last
published Leatherstocking tale even though it is chronologically the first in the series.
ANSWER: The Deerslayer
9. Bonus: Identify these battles which occurred in the Middle East, FTPE:
[10] The capture of two Bedouin spies preceded this clash near the Orontes River, in which Hitties
under Muwatillis II fought the Egyptians under Ramses the Great.
ANSWER: Battle of Kadesh
[10] Rommel was twice repelled at this site in Egypt in 1942, blunting the advance of Germany's
Afrika Corps.
ANSWER: El Alamein
[10] Yazid I sent a few thousand troops to massacre a small party led by Husayn, son of Ali, at this 680
CE battle that led to the formation of Shia Islam.
ANSWER: Battle of Karbala
10. Bonus: This author of Cur Deus Homo collected his best-known thoughts in the tomes Proslogion
and Monologion. FTPE:
[10] Identify this early medeival English thinker, who used inductive logic to derive that a supreme
being must exist.
ANSWER: Saint Anselm
[10] Anselm is thus credited with originating this general argument for the existence of God, which
uses reason and intuition rather than faith or scriptural evidence to reach its conclusion.
ANSWER: Ontological Argument or Proof
[10] Anselm held this office, despite his feuds with Henry I. Other holders of this office have included
the less-successful royal feuder Thomas-a-Becket.
ANSWER: Archbishop of Canterbury
11. Bonus: This effect is used to enact the Linde Process, which liquifies gas by cooling it to very low
temperatures. FTPE:
[10] Identify this doubly-eponymous effect, named for two British scientists, in which the free
expansion of a real gas leads to a temperature change.
ANSWER: Joule-Thomson (or Joule-Kelvin Effect)
[10] The Joule-Thomson effect occurs only when this value is constant, simply meaning that no
external work is extracted. It is usually denoted H.
ANSWER: Enthalpy
[10] The Joule-Thomson effect does not apply for these kinds of gases, composed of homogenous
particles of zero volume experiencing no intermolecular forces.
ANSWER: Ideal Gases

January 2008, Packet 3
12. Bonus: The current manifestation has 567 true/false questions. FTPE:
[10] Identify this personality test often employed in diagnoses by psychologists, first developed in 1942
in at a certain Midwestern university.
ANSWER: Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory
[10] A mother and daughter team produced this other personality assessment, which relies upon a
scoring system based around four dichotomies.
ANSWER: Meyers-Briggs Type Indicator or MBTI
[10] The Meyers-Briggs test relied upon the theories expounded in his 1921 publication Psychological
Types. He adapted the term “syzygy” to describe one of his major theories.
ANSWER: Carl Jung
13. Bonus: Questions about the Grant administration scandals, FTPE:
[10] Benjamin Bristow and John Henderson were able to uncover and dismantle this massive network
centered around taxes on a certain beverage. It led to the indictment of Grant's secretary, Orville
Babcock.
ANSWER: The Whiskey Ring
[10] Henry Wilson, James Brooks, Oakes Ames, and even Vice President Schuyler Colfax were all
implicated in this scandal, centered around the namesake shady railroad construction company.
ANSWER: Credit Mobilier
[10] This hugely corrupt Secretary of War under Grant was the only cabinet secretary ever to be
impeached.
ANSWER: William W. Belknap
14. Bonus: They generally consisted of a single protagonist interacting with personifications of ethical
constructs, which theoretically convince that protagonist to choose good over evil. FTPE:
[10] Identify these medieval plays, often contrasted with Mystery or Miracle plays.
ANSWER: Morality Plays
[10] Along with Condemnation des Banquets and The Castle of Perseverance, this famous Morality
play has survived to modern times. The titular figure is, unsurprisingly, meant to symbolize all
mankind.
ANSWER: Everyman
[10] After encountering figures like Beauty, Death, and Knowledge, this is the only quality that
accompanies Everyman to his grave.
ANSWER: Good Deeds
15. Bonus: He made a rare foray into opera with Armida, which used a libretto based on Jerusalem
Delivered. FTSNOP:
[10] Identify this man who composed works like “Gypsy Rondo” and the Surprise Symphony for his
patrons, the Esterhazy family.
ANSWER: Joseph Haydn
[5,5] Haydn created two sets of symphonies that bear the name of these two European capitals, neither
of which is found in his home country.
ANSWER: London and Paris
[10] The steady punctuations in rhythm of the second movement of this twelfth London symphony give
the D major piece its popular nickname.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 101 in D Major or the Clock Symphony

January 2008, Packet 3
16. Bonus: Identify these animals that Pat Freeburn finds to just be really, really strange, FTPE:
[10] Pat is just generally unnerved by this order of egg-laying mammals. They include the platypus,
the echidna, and the extinct steropodon.
ANSWER: Monotremes or Monetremata
[10] Even more disturbing than the Giant Squid are these mollusks, also known as Antarctic or Giant
Cranch Squids, the largest known invertebrate.
ANSWER: Colossal Squid
[10] This creature, absolutely the only member of genus Daubentonia, is native to Madagascar and
known for its frighteningly long middle finger, which it uses to reach for insects inside tree bark.
ANSWER: Aye-Aye (“eye-eye”)
17. Bonus: Name these Jewish holidays, FTPE:
[10] The Five Calamities and the destruction of the temple all occurred on this “saddest day” of
Judaism, which is marked by fasting, lying on the floor, and reading from Lamentations.
ANSWER: Tisha B'Av or Ninth of Av
[10] Prayer practices like the avodah mark this Jewish day of atonement.
ANSWER: Yom Kippur
[10] This celebration, which occurs on the 14th of Nisan and is marked by Seder meals. It celebrates an
incident in Exodus that is also marked in Islam by Ashura.
ANSWER: Passover or Pesach
18. Bonus: It was created eight years after its namesake committed suicide by overdosing on barbital.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this prize, named for the author of Cogwheel, The Spider's Thread, and Rashomon, given
semi-annually to Japan's most promising young writer.
ANSWER: Akutagawa Prize
[10] A 1958 Akutagawa Prize went to this future Nobel Laureate and author of Somersault and The
Changeling, best-known for drawing from his own experiences with a mentally handicapped son in
books like The Silent Cry.
ANSWER: Oe Kenzaburo
[10] 1952's Season of the Sun won Shintaro Ishihara the prize, but he is far better known for his lunatic,
nationalist, racist rants and voiced desire to engage in nuclear war with North Korea as mayor of this
large Japanese metropolis.
ANSWER: Tokyo
19. Bonus: He and his cousin Glaukos got into a skirmish with Teucer and Ajax that led to his murder
by a Greek warrior. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Lycian, the grandson of Bellerophon, who fought for Troy during the Trojan war and
was killed by the companion of Achilles.
ANSWER: Sarpedon
[10] This man, the companion of Achilles, killed Sarpedon. He would later get into trouble when he
took the armor of Achilles and led the myrmidons into combat, resulting in his death at the hands of
Hector.
ANSWER: Patroclus
[10] Sarpedon was the son of Laodamia and this chief Olympian god, the husband of Hera. When
Sarpedon was killed, this thunderbolt-wielding deity caused the sky to rain blood.
ANSWER: Zeus

January 2008, Packet 3
20. Bonus: Given an invention, name the inventor, F5PE:
[5] The air brake.
ANSWER: George Westinghouse
[5] The mechanical reaper.
ANSWER: Cyrus McCormick
[5] By ripping off the work of James Small, the steel plough.
ANSWER: John Deere
[5] The seed drill.
ANSWER: Jethro Tull
[5] The modern papermaking process.
ANSWER: Cai Lun
[5] The sulfur-driven vulcanization process.
ANSWER: Charles Goodyear

