DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

January 2008
Packet 1:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. One episode preceding this conflict led to a loss of support among Copts following Shirkuh's
loss at Bilbeis to the forces of Amalric I, while another was an 1188 tax named for the man who
had reached a peace agreement with the leprous Baldwin IV. Called by Gregory VIII, its first
phase saw a clash with Isaac II Angelus and an unfortunate incident at the Saleph (*) river,where
one of its leaders drowned. Launced after Saladin's unification efforts, it included Frederick
Barbarossa, Philip II, and Richard I. FTP, identify this crusade, called the “Kings' Crusade,” the second
unsuccessful attempt at the Holy Land.
ANSWER: The Third Crusade (accept Kings' Crusade early)
2. Some sects consider this biblical figure to be a reincarnation of Elijah, and in Mormonism, he
bequeathed the priesthood to Oliver Cowdery and Joseph Smith. Islam describes him as the son
of Zacharia's barren wife, while Topkapi palace might house his jawbone. After ending up in
Machaerus, the marriage of Herodias to (*) Herod proved troublesome for this prophet, who was
never the same after Salome's dance. FTP, identify this prophet whose head was removed seven
months after he performed a certain initiation rite on an infant Christ.
ANSWER: Saint John the Baptist
3. This man discussed the need for fiction authors to understand history in essays like Graven
Images and It All Adds Up, while other works concern the loss of Clara Velde's ring, A Theft, and
another based on Allan Bloom, Ravelstein. This author of Mr. Sammler's Planet told of Eugene's
search for an African lion in (*) Henderson the Rain King, while other works include Herzog and
Humboldt's Gift. FTP, identify this winner of the 1976 Nobel, the Canadian-American Jewish author of
The Adventures of Augie March.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
4. These substances can be analyzed by the Eadie-Hofstee method, which is generally considered
inferior since it does not use any independent variables. More reliable graphical representations
of these compounds, whose so-called “perfect” varieties may exhibit quantum tunneling, is a
double-reciprocal representation named for Lineweaver and Burke, which analyzes the
Michaelis-Menten (*) equation. Named for their discovery in yeast, they have been described using
the “lock and key” and induced fit models. Endonuclease, amylase, and lactase are examples of, FTP,
what biological catalysts which lower activation energy and increase reaction rate when they bind to
substrates?
ANSWER: Enzymes

January 2008, Packet 1
5. Among its provisions was the Pink Map, which was later violated along with the Treaty of
Windsor. The Principle of Effectivity became critical as it applied to rulers like Msiri of Katanga
during this discussion, which couldn't prevent Marchand, Smith-Dorrien, and Kitchener from
clashing in the Fashoda incident. Portugal suggested it after (*) Leopold II and Henry Stanley held
talks, leading Otto von Bismarck to convene this event, which discussed the Congo River basin. FTP,
identify this 1884-1885 conference that determined colonial control of Africa, named for the capital of
Germany.
ANSWER: Berlin Conference (accept any synonym for Conference EXCEPT “Congress,” which
refers to something else)
6. One portion of this artistic work depicts a circle of ten shields with bronze medallions featuring
scenes from David's era, while another is flanked by Isiah and the Eritrean Sybil and shows a
sacrifice by Noah following the flood. Another part of it shows a snake coiled around a tree next
to a pointing man as two figures stalk off, having eaten the (*) Forbidden Fruit. The creation of
those figures, one of whom touches his finger to God's, is perhaps its most famous scene. FTP, identify
this group of paintings which adorns the underside of the roof of a certain building in Vatican City,
created by Michaelangelo.
ANSWER: The Sistine Ceiling (or just the Sistine Chapel)
7. Opponents to the DMCA argue that program code can be represented as these, and therefore
cannot be copyrighted. Solovay-Strassen, Miller-Rabin, Lucas-Lehmer, and AKS tests can be
used to classify a number as this. They can be computed using the Sieve of (*) Eratosthenes, and
Euclid determined that there are an infinite amount of them. Perfect numbers have a correlation with
the Mersenne variety of, FTP, what numbers, which possess only two factors, themselves and one?
ANSWER: Prime Numbers
8. In September this man crashed into a police vehicle while on multiple drugs but walked away
with just 24 hours in jail. The incident came shortly after he declared his desire to become a
missionary and live a peaceful life with his large collection of pigeons. He blamed himself for
Tupac Shakur's death, since Tupac had been watching an event featuring this man and Bruce (*)
Seldon before he was shot. Buster Douglass, Lennox Lewis, and big white guy Kevin McBride have
defeated this boxer, who currently sports a face tattoo. FTP, identify this ludicrously insane fighter,
best known for devouring a portion of Evander Holyfield's ear in 1997.
ANSWER: Mike Tyson (accept Malik Abdul Aziz, I guess)
9. Ziegler-Natta catalysts use organometallic aluminum compounds to create these compounds,
while Grubbs and Schrock catalysts can be used in a process used to redistribute their bonds that
won its creators the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. That process, called transalkylidenation or
(*) olefin metathesis, yields fewer side products for reactions involving compounds like Ethylene,
Butene, and Octene. FTP, identify these organic compounds characterized by the presence of a carboncarbon double bond.
ANSWER: Alkenes

January 2008, Packet 1
10. This man's lifestyle and use of the word “cosmopolitan” influenced the Stoics. He lost his
slave Manes and once held a contest to see who could smash his property with the most efficiency,
an idea not adopted by his disciples Antisthenes and Crates. Other shenanigans of this
philosopher include lewd acts in the (*) Agora, telling Alexander the Great to get out of his sun,
living in a tub, and wandering around with a lantern in daylight searching for an honest man. FTP,
identify this philosopher from Sinope, a famous Cynic.
ANSWER: Diogenes
11. Among the characters who witness the final comments about this man is Bernard, a successful
lawyer and son of Charley, who asserts that this character's strength was in his dreams. Another
character claims this man “had all the wrong dreams,” while his other (*) son asserts that he “did
not die in vain.” His affair caused the former son to balk at a promising athletic career, and his wife
Linda refuses to cry after he crashes his car at the play's conclusion. The father of Biff and Happy,
FTP, identify this “liked, but not well-liked” vendor, the subject of Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman.
ANSWER: Willy Loman (prompt on just Loman, or “The Salesman”)
12. This consort of Rati wields a sugarcane bow and rides a giant, occasionally carnivorous
parrot. The brother of Prasuti, he is often interpreted to be honored by the festival Holi, since it
recounts an event in which Shiva blew this god into millions of pieces after the latter intervened
on behalf of Parvati, which led the earth to lose its (*) fertility. He is associated with flowers and
spring, appropriate in a fertility deity. FTP, identify this Hindu god, whose namesake sutra governs
matters of love and desire.
ANSWER: Kama (or Kamadeva or Manmotha or Ratikanta or Ragavrinta or Ananga)
13. Among the achievements of this scientist are the proof of a quantitative link between Rayleigh
Scattering and critical opalescence and extending the selection rule to radiative transitions. One
major project led to the development of Donsker's theorem governing stochastic processes, while
another was proven by Millikan and inspired by (*) Planck, and dealt with the ejection of electrons
after radiation strikes matter. The namesake of a condensate with Bose, FTP, identify this really, really
famous physicist, associated with Brownian motion, the Photoelectric effect, and E=MC^2.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
14. Its fifth ruler, derisively called the “dog” ruler for spending national funds to create kennels
for stray dogs, demanded an audience with German physician Engelbert Kaempfer, who had
been living on Dejima Island in the one (*) port the rulers of this dynasty opened to Westerners,
Nagasaki. In addition to Tsunayoshi, this dynasty saw the incompetent Ienari and was established after
the Battle of Sekigahara by its founder, Ieyasu. Preceding the Meiji period, FTP, identify this final
Japanese Shogunate, which declined soon after Matthew Perry arrived in Tokyo Harbor.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate (or Bakufu) or Edo Shogunate (or Bakufu)
15. This work actually has numerous sequels, such as I Will Repay and The Laughing Cavalier,
which included reprised roles for characters like Andrew Ffoulkes and Lord Tony Dewhurst. As
discussed in the author's Links in the Chain of Life, this work began as a play produced by Fred
Terry. It ends on the Day Dream after Chauvelin is thwarted and Armand (*) St. Just is rescued.
Marguerite discovers that her husband, Percy Blakeney, is secretly rescuing victims of the French
Revolution in, FTP, what colorfully-titled novel by Baroness Emma Orczy?
ANSWER: The Scarlet Pimpernel

January 2008, Packet 1
16. This man's efforts to secure the Spanish Match were thwarted by the idiotic usurpations of
the Duke of Buckingham, which combined with George Cottington's report on his personal life
cost this politician his post as Thomas Lake's successor as Secretary of State. He had earlier
employed Edward Wynne to create the Avalon (*) Colony, but died before he won his best-known
charter and was succeeded by his son Caecilius. FTP, identify this Catholic, responsible for the
founding of Maryland, a state whose largest city bears his name.
ANSWER: George Calvert, First Lord Baltimore
17. Many of his greatest works came after he suffered a stroke and ended up in Aix-la-Chapelle,
playing organ pieces from operas like Alessandro and Scipione from his bathtub. Works like
Rodelinda and Acis and Galatea were eschewed for a genre that included Samson, Israel in Egypt,
and Judas Maccabeus. His most famous works were marked by the (*) accidental death of three
attendees, a performance on a barge, and the sudden rise of a monarch. George II was a fan of, FTP,
what composer of Royal Fireworks, Water Music, and Messiah.
ANSWER: George Frideric Handel
18. To the North of this country lies the Stara Planina, which is sometimes cited as the southern
terminus of a mountain range which includes Gerlach Peak. Golyam Bogdan is the highest peak
in Sredna Gora, a mountain range which touches the Iskar River in this country. Rila, Pirin, and
Vitosha mountains lie south of its capital, once called (*) Sredets, which contains the Boyana
Church and has a name translating to “wisdom.” Bordering Serbia, Greece, Romania, and Turkey, FTP,
identify this Balkan country with capital at Sofia.
ANSWER: Republic of Bulgaria
19. Its two constituent portions are theorized to interact via galactic tidal forces, with the inner
portion, often called the Hills region, possessing a torus shape while the exterior is more
spherical. Gliese 710 is the most likely candidate to next disturb it, unless (*) nemesis theory is
adopted as an explanation for the origin of objects like Hyakutake and Hale-Bopp. FTP, identify this
theorized region of space, named for a dutch astronomer, a “cloud” thought to be the cause of longperiod comets?
ANSWER: Oort Cloud
20. This poet speaks of a “little book. . . forbidden to your master” in his Tristia, while he
threatens various horrible acts against an enemy in Ibis. A quote from this author introduces
Joyce's Stephen Daedalus in Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, while works like The Cure for
Love and Ars Amatoria, or (*) The Art of Love, got him banished to the Black Sea. Best known for a
multi-book mythological collection, FTP, identify this Roman poet who wrote Metamorphoses.
ANSWER: Publius Ovidius Naso

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

January 2008
Packet 1:
Bonuses

1.Bonus: Identify these figures key in current politics in Russia, FTPE:
[10] This current Russian president and successor to Boris Yeltsin will be leaving office in May,
prompting many opponents to wonder how he plans to continue suppressing the media and rigging
elections.
ANSWER: Vladimir Putin
[10] This chairman of Gazprom and Putin disciple is expected to sweep the March presidential
elections, perhaps even without ballot rigging and voter suppression. Better safe than sorry though.
ANSWER: Dmitry Medvedev
[10] One leading Putin critic and former opponent of Medvedev is this man, who charged in 2007 that
Putin was responsible for the death of Alexander Litvinenko. He's probably better known as a chess
champion, taking on the computer Deep Blue in 1996.
ANSWER: Garry Kasparov
2. Bonus: Answer these questions about phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, better known as PEP
carboxylase, FTPE:
[10] PEP carboxylase plays a major role in photosynthesis by catalyzing this triatomic compound into a
four-carbon molecule. Its solid form is referred to as dry ice, though it's usually thought of as a gas that
is absorbed by plants as the first part of creating sugars.
ANSWER: Carbon Dioxide or CO2
[10] PEP carboxylase converts CO2 to oxaloacetate, which subsequently becomes this carboxylic acid,
which is used to give warheads their sour taste.
ANSWER: Malate or Malic Acid
[10] After PEP carboxylase creates oxaloacetate, malate is stored in the vacuoles in this photosynthetic
pathway, used by cacti, pineapples, and other plants whose stomata open mostly during the night.
ANSWER: Crassulacean Acid Metabolism
3. Bonus: Identify these authors who wrote about dogs, FTPE:
[10] This Russian author of Diaboliad and Zoyka's Apartment wrote about Sharikov, who becomes
human in Heart of a Dog. He also wrote The Master and Margarita.
ANSWER: Mikhail Bulgakov
[10] Dogs and other canines figure centrally in this author's White Fang, while the dog Buck is the
protagonist of his The Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: Jack London
[10] Dimitri Gurov has a torrid affair with the titular figure in this author's The Lady with the Dog.
He's better-known for plays like Three Sisters and The Seagull.
ANSWER: Anton Chekhov

January 2008, Packet 1
4. Bonus: The only extant portion of his second opera, L'Arianna, is the segment called “Adriana's
Complaint.” FTPE:
[10] Identify this renaissance Italian composer of The Coronation of Poppea and Selva Morale e
Spirituale, who also adapted a work by Torquato Tasso.
ANSWER: Claudio Monteverdi
[10] Monteverdi's best-known work centers on this husband of Eurydice, a Greek musician who makes
a journey to the underworld.
ANSWER: Orpheus or Orfeo
[10] Monteverdi's Vespers of the Blessed Virgin was a major influence on this composer of Aida and
Nabucco.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Verdi
5. Bonus: Identify these battles from the military history of Mexico, FTPE:
[10] Ignacio Zaragosa clashed with the forces of Charles de Lorencez at this 1862 battle, which
occurred between Fort Loreto and Fort Guadalupe. It is celebrated on Cinco de Mayo.
ANSWER: Battle of Puebla
[10] Following clashes at Buena Vista and Monterrey, Matthew Perry and David Conner supported
Winfield Scott's amphibious assault on this city, which began with action at Fort San Juan de Ulua. Its
name translates as “true cross.”
ANSWER: Veracruz
[10] The Battle of Otumba was precded by this event, in which Pedro de Alvorado and Hernan Cortes
desperately fough their way out of the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan. Its name suggests the time of day
at which it occurred, as well as the tragic loss of most of the expedition.
ANSWER: La Noche Triste or The Night of Sorrows (accept anything about sadness and night)
6. Identify these limits from astrophysics, FTPE:
[10] 1.4 solar masses is the approximate value of this limit, named for an Indian physicist, is exceeded
by stars that are too massive to become white dwarfs and instead will end their lives as neutron stars or
black holes.
ANSWER: Chandrasekhar Limit
[10] Stars that exceed this limit eject gas from their surfaces, as in gamma ray bursts. It governs the
maximum luminosity able to pass through a given mass, and relies on Thomson scattering figures to
calculate the rate of gas ejection.
ANSWER: Eddington Limit
[10] When an orbiting body dips below this minimum distance, its own gravity becomes less
significant than the tidal forces of another body. It's probably not a great plan to be on the surface of a
body this happens to.
ANSWER: Roche Limit

January 2008, Packet 1
7. Bonus: This philosopher published works like Signsponge, Writing and Difference, and Margins of
Philosophy. FTPE:
[10] Identify this recently-deceased French philosopher who wrote Of Grammatology, generally
recognized as the founder of the deconstruction movement.
ANSWER: Jacques Derrida
[10] Derrida wrote about international law as one of “Ten Plagues” in a work discussing the “Specters”
of this thinker, who wrote Das Kapital and, with Engels, The Communist Manifesto.
ANSWER: Karl Marx
[10] Derrida responded to Victor Farrias in a lecture titled On Spirit, which discussed this probable
Nazi and German philosopher who wrote Being and Time.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
8. Bonus: Identify these provinces within the Roman Empire, FTPE:
[10] Containing most of modern-day France, this region was the target of a military campaign by Julius
Caesar that culminated in the Battle of Alesia.
ANSWER: Gaul or Gallia
[10] Trajan's Bridge, which spans the Danube and entered this region, was named for the Emperor's
military expeditions here. It encompassed the Pannonian Plain and the Carpathians, and was at one
point ruled by Burebista.
ANSWER: Dacia
[10] Although it began as an independent kingdom, this North African region became a Roman
Province after a confusing succession crisis between Hiempsal, Adherbal, and Jugurtha following the
deaths of Micipsa and Massinisa.
ANSWER: Numidia
9. Bonus: Identify these individuals associated with the Notre Dame football program who have
shamed the Touchdown Jesus, FTPE:
[10] Despite being seated with other likely top-5 picks on Draft Day 2007, this quarterback fell to the
22nd overall pick to a team that didn't even need a quarterback, the Cleveland Browns.
ANSWER: Brady Quinn
[10] This former offensive coordinator for the New England Patriots is the current Fighting Irish head
coach. He is probably the only coach in college football history to seek a lifetime contract extension
after finishing 3-9.
ANSWER: Charlie Weis
[10] Before Ryan Leaf made it cool, this Irish quarterback was the number two overall pick in the draft
and went on to become a huge bust. Most famous as a clunker in Seattle, among the quarterbacks he
has lost his starting job to are Jon Kitna, Shane Matthews, Eric Kramer, Charlie Batch, and Jon Kitna
again.
ANSWER: Rick Mirer

January 2008, Packet 1
10. Bonus: This author wrote a series centering on Lanny Budd, including One Clear Call, Dragon's
Teeth, and A World to Win. FTPE:
[10] Identify this American author of The Profits of Religion and On Guard, probably best-known for
his portrait of Jurgis Rudkus.
ANSWER: Upton Sinclair
[10] Upton Sinclair's best-known work is certainly this muckracking novel about the abused Chicago
poor, which sparked outrage over its depiction of the meatpacking industry.
ANSWER: The Jungle
[10] Upton Sinclair's Boston is a critical diatribe against this event. Other literary reactions included
Sandburg's Legal Midnight Hour, Maxwell Anderson's Winterset, and William Carlos Williams's
“Impromptu: The Suckers.”
ANSWER: The Trial/Execution of Sacco and Vanzetti (accept equivalents)
11. Bonus: Among the works of this disciple of Thomas Munro are two depictions of ships: One being
towed after engaging the Fougueux and the Redoubtable, another showing the jettison of the titular
cargo. FTPE:
[10] Identify this English Romantic painter of The Fighting Temeraire and The Slave Ship.
ANSWER: J(oseph) M(allord) W(illiam) Turner
[10] JMW Turner may be best-known for this work subtitled The Great Western Railway. It depicts a
train swiftly emerging from some inclement weather on Maidenhead Bridge.
ANSWER: Rain, Steam, and Speed
[10] Among Turner's other works is a depiction of this event, which preserved numerous frescoes and a
site known as the “Grand Hotel Murecine,” as well as causing the death of Pliny the Elder.
ANSWER: The Eruption of Mount Vesuvius (accept equivalents)
12. Bonus: This reaction is generally classified as either acylation or alkylation, and can be modified
via the Zincke-Suhl or School reactions. FTPE:
[10] Identify this reaction, which sees a strong Lewis acid act on an aromatic ring and an alkyl halide,
and is named for two German chemists.
ANSWER: Friedel-Crafts Reaction
[10] The Gatterman-Koch variant of the Friedel-Crafts Reaction involves the use of aluminum chloride,
carbon monoxide, copper chloride, and this acid, symbolized HCl.
ANSWER: Hydrochloric Acid
[10] An environmentally friendly version of the Friedel-Crafts reaction, aluminum chloride is replaced
with this most stable allotrope of carbon, sometimes used as an industrial lubricant but named for its
more common use.
ANSWER: Graphite

January 2008, Packet 1
13. Bonus: Identify these works of sociology, FTPE:
[10] This work by Emile Durkheim divides the title concept into four categories: Anomic, Fatalistic,
Egoistic, and Altruistic. The differences in incidence of the phenomenon between Protestants and
Catolics, for whom it is a mortal sin, is also explored.
ANSWER: Suicide or Le Suicide
[10] Joseph Campbell identified the monomyth in this work, which documents the archetypical savior
myths of numerous societies.
ANSWER: The Hero with a Thousand Faces
[10] This work by Alexis de Tocqueville examines the diversity of culture and history that helps create
the titular political institution in the titular Western Hemisphere nation.
ANSWER: Democracy in America
14. Bonus: In this novel, George Osborne and William Dobbin are deployed to Belgium during the
Napoleonic wars. FTPE:
[10] Identify this “Novel without a Hero” which centers on Becky Sharpe.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair
[10] This author of The Luck of Barry Lyndon and Pendennis wrote Vanity Fair.
ANSWER: William Makepeace Thackeray
[10] After George dies, William is unable to win the affections of this grief-stricken character, who
begins the novel as Becky's best friend.
ANSWER: Amelia Sedley (either name)
15. Bonus: FTPE, what man is generally credited as the founder of:
[10] The Republic of Turkey, for which he served as the first President?
ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (either name)
[10] The Persian Empire, as a member of the Achaemenid dynasty?
ANSWER: Cyrus II or the Elder or the Great (prompt on “Cyrus”)
[10] The Mauryan Empire?
ANSWER: Chandragupta Maurya (do NOT accept “Chandragupta I” or anything like that)
16. Bonus: Identify these figures from the Kennedy administration, FTPE:
[10] Previously the first non-Ford family member to be named president of Ford Motor Company, this
man served as Secretary of Defense until the end of the Johnson administration. He is the subject of
the documentary The Fog of War.
ANSWER: Robert Strange McNamara
[10] As head of the Justice department, this man wielded perhaps more power than any other Attorney
General in history. This probably had something to do with being the President's brother.
ANSWER: Robert Francis Kennedy (or RFK or Bobby Kennedy, prompt on just “Kennedy”)
[10] This man was the longest-serving Secretary of State in history behind Cordell Hull. Before filling
that post, he engaged in a notable correspondence with You Chan Yang which became known as his
namesake “documents.”
ANSWER: Dean Rusk

January 2008, Packet 1
17. Bonus: Identify these authors from a certain country, FTPE:
[10] This Akutagawa prize-winning author created a man who suddenly finds himself growing radishes
on his leg in Kangaroo Notebook, but is best known for a novel about Niki Junpei, The Woman in the
Dunes.
ANSWER: Kobo Abe
[10] This Nobel laureate focused on the traditional tea ceremony in Thousand Cranes, but may be best
known for his tale of Shimamura in Snow Country.
ANSWER: Kawabata Yasunari
[10] Kobo Abe and Kawabata Yasunari are part of the literary tradition of this country, whose other
authors include Mishima, Oe, and Haruki Murakami.
ANSWER: Japan
18. Bonus: This term describes relationships which are also classified as injective, or information
preserving. FTPE:
[10] Identify this term which denotes functions in which each element in the domain is paired with only
a single element of the codomain.
ANSWER: One to One
[10] One to one functions are called bijective when they have this simple property, in which each
element corresponds to one and only one element in the other set.
ANSWER: Invertible (accept Inverse or equivalents)
[10] Injective paths are the subject of Helly statistics, which map the order of convex sets in spaces
named for this Greek mathematician.
ANSWER: Euclid
19. Bonus: He was born from an incestuous relationship between Myrrha and Theias. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Greek youth, renowned for his beauty.
ANSWER: Adonis
[10] Adonis was taken as a lover by this queen of the underworld, who herself had been abducted by
Hades from her mother Demeter.
ANSWER: Persephone
[10] Adonis is clearly identified with this Mesopotamian deity, the lover of Inanna.
ANSWER: Tammuz
20. Bonus: Imagine you find yourself in La Paz, Boliva. FTPE, in which country will you arrive if
you:
[10] Head Southeast through the Gran Chaco, toward San Lorenzo and Ciudad del Este.
ANSWER: Paraguay
[10] Head due north, or due east.
ANSWER: Brazil
[10] Take a ride all the way up the Desaguadero River, which drains Lake Poopo and a certain other
high-altitude lake?
ANSWER: Peru

