TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
TOSSUPS - ROUND 1
Questions mostly by DePauw's Stan Jastrzebski & Sarah Mordan-McCombs

1.
This work was once brumed from the Boston public library due to explicit language in some of its
poetry. Included in the work are such poems as "I Sing the Body Electric", the title poem and "I Hear America
Singing". FTP, what is this 1881 seminal collection by American Walt Whitman?
Answer:
Leaves of Grass
2.
This word refers to the energy released or created along the chemical gradient as elements come into
contact with one another. Going roughly from the bottom left to the top right of the periodic table, one ends up
with fluorine as the most endowed by this property. FTP, what is this 17-letter chemistry term that also helps to
determine the type of bond two elements in a compound will share?
Answer:
Electronegativity
3.,,;, Schopenhaue(s influence on this man's early views can be seen in The:Birth o/Tragedy. A bit of a;
musician; he was also a fan of Wagner in his early career, but later repudiated him. Perhaps inspired by karl ' .,
M~x, he saved much of his harshest judgment for Christianity, calling it "the one immortal blemish of '
,
mankind" and labeling it and alcohol the "two great European narcotics." He developed the concept of the
superman, or Ubermensch, in Thus Spake Zarathustra. FTP name the philosopher ()f Beyoncj. q()()d and Evil,
perhaps best known for saying, "God is dead."
, . Ariswer: · ' Friedrich Nietzsche
t

•I

~

4.
All the~~ain char~cters know is there's a year's supply of pudding in the fridge, and their girlfriends are
ticked at themJor ~rashing their house and forgetting their anniversary. To maJce up,with th~ girls, the g~ys
hav~ to fin~ t4~ anniversary gi,fts they qought for the occasion. Howevyf, that;s, cli~fi,~ult, 4ue to' one iarge,: ' ' ;'
misplaced.-. (lbject. This leads to the repeating of, FTP, what inane question by Asht<;m Kutcher 'ilrid Seann ,', , ;,
William
Scott in .the title Of a 2000 movie?
'
. "
"Dude, Where's My Car?"
Ahswer:
5.
28 years after the Titanic sank, its senior surviving officer, Charles Lightoller, once again stayed cool in
a crisis. During this battle he somehow stuffed 130 sailors onto his private yacht and got them away fromharm
and German dive bombers. Ironically, when German bombers ignited the oil tanks here, the heavy smoke
limited further runs and allowed Harold Alexander to lead the heroic evacuation of over 100,000 besieged
military personnel. FTP name this beachhead where Allied troops were trapped when France fell early in
World War II.
Answer:
Dunkirk or Dunkerque
6.
His first book, Atomics/or the Millions, was published in 1947, when he was only 19. ,He ,~id the lyrics
to Carole King's music for an ,animated film for TV called "Really Rosie," adapted frOI:n his book, ~ 'The '
Nutshell Library". He also wrote the often-banned In the Night Kitchen and the libretto for an operatic
adaptatiol) of his most famous work. FTP, who is this children's author of Where the Wild Things Are?
Answer: Maurice Sendak
'
7.
One can most easily factor polynomial functions of the form (x squared minus a squared) using this type
of function, although it would not work if the minus is changed to a plus in the original function. Simply take
the square root of the first term and then the second term and insert those numbers into terms in the final
factored answer and make sure each parenthesis has an opposite sign, one positive and one negative. FTP, if
you do this, you have just used what method of factoring useful in the factoring of functions like (x squared
minus 4)?
Answer: Difference of Squares

,_ •. ___-A:J~nvKlAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
UTC 10/13/0,
__.. ~U"'~ L.t, 1978, less than two weeks from concluding the negotiation of these, the Israeli
Knesset voted to approve them and to withdraw the Israeli settlements in the occupied Sinai. Also discussed
was the future of the still-debated and fought-over West Bank and Gaza territories. FTP, what legislation was
the result of these meetings in Mary land between Anwar Sadat, Menachim Begin and Jimmy Carter?
Answer: Camp David Accords
~

9.
It is widely misunderstood because it uses logarithms to determine the relative size of what it measures,
making a 7 ten times bigger than a 6 in measured amplitude. What's more, that tenfold increase in measured
amplitude translates into about a 31-fold increase in the estimated energy released. Still, this adaptation of the
alreac;ly modified Mercalli Scale has become the accepted leader in measuring seismic activity. FTP, name this
sc'aie, named for the theoretical physicist who developed it, cited every time there is an earthquake.
Answer:
Richter scale
10.
Plays by this man included "Cataline", "Bartholomew Fair", and "Every Man in His Humor". He was
also a poet in the early 17'h Century, penning such works as 'To Celia." FTP, who was this contemporary and
rival of William Shakespeare, who is better known for plays like "Volpone" and "The Alchemist"?
Answer:
Ben Jonson
11.
Classified technically as a form of post-impressionism, one if its great masters called the practice
divisionism. The art of using primary-color dots on top of one another to create secondary color dots, this is,
FTP, what artistic style, evident is such works as Saturday Afternoon on the Island of La Grand Jaffe, by
Georges Seurat?
pointillism
Answer:
12.
Often overlooked today is its artistic side, which included the sculptors Augusta Savage, Richmonde
Barthe, and Elizabeth Prophet and painters Archibald Motley, Laura Wheeler Waring, Henry Tanner, and
William H. Johnson. Less well-known authors that belonged to this movement included Nella Larsen and
Claude McKay. Countee Cullen gets more notice than those two, and Zora Neale Hurston and Langston
Hughes still more. FTP, what was this revival of African American literature of the early 20 th Century
commonly known as?
Answer:
Harlem Renaissance
13.
Ole Romer, working in a Paris laboratory in 1676, was among the first to try to measure this constant.
James Bradley made advances to the measurement in 1728 and Michel Foucault bettered Bradley's estimate,
but it was not until Albert Michelson's measurement that the debate was finally settled. FTP, what quantity did
Michelson determine was equal to 165,355 miles per second?
Answer:
Speed of Light
4.

th

The term dates from approximately the beginning of the 16 Century, when Spanish explorers named
le place after semi-mythical lands located somewhere west of Europe across the Atlantic. Even now, the
aribbean Sea bears an alternate name thanks to the name of the archipelago which it supports. It's commonly
vided into the Greater and Lesser. FTP, what is this group of islands that includes Cuba, Puerto Rico,
spanola and many smaller islands?
Answer:
the Antilles [accept Greater Antilles or Lesser Antilles before "Greater"]
This company now offers dental supplies, car care products, pharmaceuticals, products for professional
;entations, fuel cells, computer circuits, telephone accoutrements and even the sandpaper it was originally
ted to develop en masse. FTP, what is this northern US company, probably more famous for producing the
;pensable Post-It Note and Scotch Tape?
Answer:
3M (also accept Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing)

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10113/01
16.
Although there is no known cure, there are preventative measures that can be taken to prevent this
disease, if caught early in a child's development. Meaning "crookedness" in Greek, this can result in a rib
hump and the squeezing of internal organs and pinching of nerves if the Cobb angle is more than 10 degrees.
FTP, what is this spinal defect, most often found in youngsters, which results in the turning of the spinal
column?
scoliosis
Answer:
17.
While his cohorts John Wright and Robert Catesby are long forgotten, this man has a day named for him
in England. In early November, Brits burn bonfires in effigy to celebrate the placing of some 36 barrels of an
explosive substance under the House of Lords in 1605. FTP who was this man who some believe was framed
for his conjuring up and almost getting away with the Gunpowder Plot?
Answer:
Guy Fawkes
18.
She is a disbeliever in the gods, but we see her praying in one episode and giving alms of garlands and
incense to try to appease Apollo. It is to this woman that Oedipus relays the outcome of his meeting with
Tiresius and it is to her whom he goes after accusing Creon of conspiracy and treason. FTP, who is this
character in Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, sent to test the title character, her son?
Jocasta
Answer:
19. The son of a jurist, he was orphaned at age 9 and raised by a well-to-do friend of the family, Thomas
Ewing. Graduating 6th in his class at West Point, he proved his skill at Shiloh, was given leading roles at
Vicksburg and Chattanooga, and in a 4-month campaign drove the Confederates out of Atlanta. He held that
war would end only when its realities were brought home to the people, which explains his conspicuous
destruction of property. FTP, name this red-haired union general known for his 'March to the Sea'.
Answer:
William Tecumseh Sherman
20.
In her essay 'Mr. Bennett and Mrs. Brown' she argued against the linear narrative of realistic English
fiction and for a less restricted presentation of life. And she took her own advice, using soliloquies to follow the
lives of six people from childhood to old age in The Waves and interweaving the thoughts of several people
during the course of one day in Mrs Dalloway. FTP, who was this author of To The Lighthouse, whose own
works' names may be less familiar than a largely unrelated Edward Albee play with her name in the title?
Answer:
Virginia Woolf
21.
The Great Royal Wife of King Amenhotep IV, she joined her husband in worship of a new religion that
celebrated the power of the sun-disk Aten. FTP, who was this powerful woman of Egypt's 18 th Dynasty
Amarna period, who helped to reform the religion of the country and who never gets quite as much press as
Cleopatra?
Answer:
Nefertiti
22.
Owned by TMP Enterprises, it was founded in 1994 and merged with a rival, Online Career Center, in
1999. Among other things, its website lets you sign up as a free agent where interested parties can bid on your
services. You can also search databases from at least 15 different countrIes for employers looking for people
just like you. FTP, what is this dot-com, whose primary service is the posting of thousands of resumes online
for jobless folks looking to find work?
Answer: www.monster.c0l11
23.
William Butler Yeats talked in the title of one of his poems of sailing there. A code of laws, much like
those issued earlier by Hammurabi in neighboring lands, was created by the emperor Justinian I in the capital
city, which was finally overthrown during the Fourth Crusade. FTP, what was this ancient land?
Answer: Byzantium [grudgingly accept Byzantine Empire]

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10113/01
BONI - ROUND 1
Questions mostly by DePauw's Stan Jastrzebski & Sarah Mordan-McCombs

1.
Given a description of a cell organelle, you name it, FTPE.
A. A 3-D maze of connecting and branching channels, this has a rough and a smooth type, and is responsible
for phospholipid synthesis and assembly of proteins.
Answer: Endoplasmic reticulum (accept ER)
B. A curved membrane resembling a stack of pancakes, this organelle transforms vesicles given to it by the
endoplasmic reticulum from cis face to trans face.
Answer: Golgi complex or Golgi apparatus or Golgi body (-ies)
[do not accept Golgi cells, Golgi neurons, or Golgi corpuscles - that's other stuff]
C. Intracellular digestion occurs in these, which contain enzymes and also break down old organelles and cells.
Answer: Lysosomes
2.
They're male and they're usually fully clothed, but they're ironic. Maybe it's 'cause they're Canadian.
Identify the following Barenaked Ladies songs from lyrics, FTPE.
A. "You were wrong, I was right. You said good bye, I said goodnight."
Answer: It's All Been Done
B. "I could hide out under there ... I just made you say underwear"
Answer: Pinch Me
C. "I'm so cool, too bad I'm a loser. I'm so smart, too bad I can't get anything figured out."
Answer: Falling For the First Time
3.
Identify the poet from lines from his or her poems. You'll get 30 points if you can name the author on
the first clue, 20 points if on the second clue, or 10 points if on the third. (Hereafter we'll just say 30-20-10.)
(30) "On either side the river lie/Long fields of barley and of rye,lThat clothe the wold and meet the sky;!And
thro' the field the road runs byl To many-tower'd Camelot ... "
(20) "This is my son, mine own Telemachus,lTo whom I leave the sceptre and the isle,--/Well-loved of me,
discerning to fulfil/This labour, by slow prudence to make mild ... "
(10) "Half a league, Half a league 1half a league onward 1All in the Valley of Death 1 Rode the six hundred ... "
Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
(NOTE: Poems are, in order, "The Lady of Shalott", "Ulysses" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade")
4.
Identify these things about the Persian Wars against Greece, FTPE.
A. In 490 B.C., the Persian force is defeated at what site, approximately 26.2 miles from Athens?
Answer: Marathon
B. Ten years later, in 480, this Persian general succeeded in invading the Greek mainland.
Answer: Xerxes I (accept Xerxes the Great)
C. The Persian force was finally defeated in 480 in what large naval battle, named for the small strait where the
force was trapped and decimated by smaller Greek forces?
Answer: Salamis
5.
Reverse science. Given a meaningful value, tell me what named scientific constant it represents, FTPE.
A. 6.02 times ten to the twenty-third particles per mole
Answer: Avogadro's number
B. 6.673 times ten to the negative 11 th meters cubed over kilogram seconds squared
Answer: Gravitational constant
C. 6.62 times ten to the negative 34th joules-seconds
Answer: Planck's constant

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
6.
Identify these Brazilian cities, FTPE.
A. First, name the capital of the country, created from scratch just for that purpose in the 1950's.
Answer: Brasilia
B. For most of the past decade this Brazilian city has been the fastest growing city in the world in terms of
population. At about 25 million people, its metro area trails only Tokyo and Mexico City in some estimates.
Answer: Sao Paulo
C. This island city, capital of the state of Santa Catarina and home of men's world tennis number one Gustavo
Kuerten (KEER-TEN), has a name that loosely means city of flowers.
Answer: Florianopolis

7.
Let's not call them losers. Name the 1st runner-up in these 19th Century U.S. presidential elections FTPE:
A. In 1876 this Democrat topped Rutherford B. Hayes in the popular vote and probably really should have won
the Electoral College, but there were disputed results from 3 states, most notably Florida. Sound familiar?
Answer: Samuel Tilden
B. In 1820 James Monroe ran unopposed for reelection and got all electoral votes except one from a New
Hampshire elector with a grudge. That one electoral vote went to this future President, who couldn't have
been too happy about it since his own father was an elector voting for Monroe.
Answer: John Quincy Adams
C. At one point Abraham Lincoln was so worried about winning reelection in 1864 that he rushed Nevada into
the Union to get more electoral votes. Lincoln had been vulnerable because ofthe Union's slow progress in
the Civil War - ironic since this man, his opponent, was the general most responsible for that slow progress.
Answer: George McClellan
8.

Given a Bible verse, FTPE name the book of the Bible from whence it cometh:
A. "Trust in the Lord with all your heart; and lean not on your own understanding. lIn all thy ways
acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths."
Answer: Proverbs
B. "When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became
a man, I put away childish things."
Answer: 1 Corinthians (prompt on Corinthians)
C. "He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly: Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. The
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen."
Answer: Revelation(s)

9.
Identify these books that have, more than once, been banned since their publication, FTPE.
A. This autobiographical novel by Maya Angelou is the only one of hers that makes the list.
Answer: I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings
B. This Kurt Vonnegut book about the fire-bombing of Dresden during WWII is a frequent target of censors.
Answer: Slaughterhouse-5
C. This Margaret Atwood book about a future where people are kept in caves and used only for breeding has
drawn flack from feminists and anti-feminists alike.
Answer: The Handmaid's Tale
10. FTPE, given pieces of sculpture, name the Italian artist. (Hint: none of them moonlighted as Ninja Turtles)
A. Pieta and David
Answer: Michelangelo Buonarrotti
B. Apollo and Daphne
Answer: Gian Lorenzo Bernini
C. The three bronze doors of the baptistery of Florence
Answer: Lorenzo Ghiberti

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
11.
Given an NFL record, tell me who holds it, FTPE.
A. Most games played, beginning as a quarterback with the Bears and ending as a kicker with the Raiders.
Answer: George Blanda
B. Either of the two men who kicked a record 63 yard field goal- one for the Saints, one for the Broncos.
Answer: Tom Dempsey or Jason Elam
C. This former Eagle, Packer, and Panther holds the record for most sacks in a career
Answer: [Chattanooga's own] Reggie White
12.
Identify these things related to the U.S.' difficulties with Cuba in the 1960's FTSNOP.
5 - First, where was the failed invasion of Cuba by U .S.-armed rebels in 1961?
Answer: Bay of Pigs
10 - What ousted Cuban leader was the U.S. trying to restore to power?
Answer: Fulgencio Batista
5 - In the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962, this Soviet Premier wanted the U.S. to remove its missiles from Turkey
as a tradeoff for the USSR's pullout from Cuba.
Answer: Nikita Khrushchev
10 - Soon after this demand, what U.S. Attorney General went to Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin to
assure him that President Kennedy had already planned to remove those missiles from Turkey?
Answer: Robert (or Bobby) Kennedy
13. Identify the term common to several disciplines on a 30-20-10 basis.
A.) In data communications, the higher it is, the more frequent signaling errors are. It is directly proportional
to noise and bandwidth and inversely proportional to compressibility.
B.) In encryption, it refers to the disorder deliberately put into data for better encryption.
C.) In physics, represented by the letter S, it refers to a quantity that measures the extent to which energy of the
system is available for conversion to work.
Entropy
Answer:
14.
Given a first line from a piece of English literature, name the book, FTPE.
A. "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times ... "
Answer: A Tale of Two Cities
B. "Once upon a time and a very good time it was there was a moocow coming down along the road and this
moocow that was coming down along the road met a nicens little boy named baby tuckoo."
Answer: Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
C. "It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen."
Answer: 1984
15.
Given the etymology, or origin, of a term, give me the word FTPE:
A. In olden days, if Scottish farmers did not pay protection money, clan chiefs would steal their crops and
cattle. The second half comes from the Old English for rent or tribute; the first, rather than implying evil,
may be because this "rent" was usually paid in goods rather than silver coin, known as white money.
Answer: blackmail
B. Ironically, this unofficial motto expressing the attitude of the US Marine Corps is also an expression of the
Communist work ethic. It comes from a Mandarin word meaning industrial cooperative, but it was
mistranslated literally by Lt. Col. Evans Carlson as "work together."
Answer: gung ho
C. This journalistic term has two distinct meanings, a newspaper that specializes in sleazy, sensational stories
and a newspaper printed on smaller paper that folds like a book (as opposed to a broadsheet, the traditional
newspaper format).
Answer: Tabloid

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
16.
Name the Edgar Allan Poe poem from lines FTPE.
10: "And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side
Of my darling-my darling-my life and my bride ... "
Answer: Annabel Lee
10: "The skies they were ashen and sober;
The leaves they were crisped and sereThe leaves they were withering and sere;
It was night in the lonesome October
Of my most immemorial year"
Answer: 11lalume
10: Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.
"Surely," said I, "surely that is something at my window lattice:
Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery exploreAnswer: The Raven

UTC 10/13/01

17.
Let's see how much info you know about Nazi Germany. FTPE:
a) This was the name of the German plan to invade France at the start ofWWII by going through Belgium
Answer: - The Schlieffen plan
b) What French fortification network was the Schlieffen plan designed to bypass?
Answer: The Maginot Line
c) In 1938 Hitler occupied Austria. He referred to it by this euphemism, German for "annex."
Answer: Anschluss
18.
Does every famous photographer have a first name starting with "A"? Name these photographers FTPE.
a) This man was famous for his many portraits of Yosemite National Park, especially pictures ofEI Capitan.
Answer: Ansel Adams
b) One of the early champions of photography as art, this founder of the influentialjoumal Camera Work was
known for black and white photos of Lake George and of Georgia O'Keeffe, whom he eventually married.
Answer: Alfred Steiglitz
c) This man took the famous photo called "VJ Day" of a sailor and a nurse kissing in the midst of the tickertape
parade in New York following WWII.
Answer: Alfred Eisenstaedt
19.

Identify these features of the various "You Don't Know Jack" computer games, FTPE.
A. In Jack 4, what children's song was adapted so that players would get answers that each began with one
of five letters, in order to win a special in-game round?
Answer: Bingo
B. In YDKJ: The 5th Dimensia, another in game round has players doing what while finding the piece that
does not belong with a specific category, in order to take money away from opponent's and put it in
their own coffers?
Answer: Killing bugs (accept equivalents)
C. Finally, in the original Jack, what actor's voice is poorly imitated in the Jack Attack round, always
intoning "Remember the Clue"?
Answer: Jack Nicholson

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001
20.
Given its abbreviation from the periodic table, name the element, 5-10-15.
(5 pts) Hg
Answer: Mercury
(10 pts) Pr
Answer: Praseodymium
(15 pts) Sg
Answer: Seaborgium
21.

Given a character in Greek mythology, give its Norse counterpart.
A. Zeus
Answer: Odin
B. Ares
Answer: Tyr
C. Apollo
Answer: Balder

22.
Given a constellation's Latin name, you tell me what the English translation is, FTPE.
A. Cygnus
Answer: The swan
B. Lupus
Answer: The wolf
C. Corvus
Answer: The crow

UTC 10/13/01

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
11.
Name the Chinua Achebe novel from clues FTP each.
a. (10) Set in Umuofia, it tells the story of Okonkwo, who commits suicide in the end.
Answer:
Things Fall Apart
b. (10) Chris, Ikem, and Beatrice are the main characters in this novel, set in the fictional country of Kangan,
which is ruled by a military dictatorship.
Answer:
Anthills of the Savannah
c. (10) Obi Okonkwo, grandson of the protagonist in Things Fall Apart, is chosen to be sent to England and
educated there in this sequel to Things Fall Apart.
No Longer At Ease
Answer:
12.
Identify the science terms from brief descriptions FTP each.
(A) This protein, used by all vertebrates for oxygen transport, gives red blood cells their colour.
answer: hemoglobin
(B) This fatty, insulating layer surrounds neurons and acts to speed up nerve impulses.
answer; myelin sheath
(C) These covalent compounds are formed by the reaction between alcohols and acids, with water eliminated.
answer: esters
13.
Identify the man from clues 30-20-10.
30) His wife was Bertha of the Big Foot, and his brother and his younger son were both named Carloman. He
succeeded his father as mayor of the palace in 741 AD.
20) He ruled Neustria, Burgundy, and Provence. With his brother Carloman he chose the last Merovingian king,
and later proclaimed himself king in 751.
10) The first Carolingian king of the Franks, he was the son of Charles Martel and father of Charlemagne.
Answer: Pepin the Short or Pepin III
14.
Name the type of dance from a description, FTPE
a) Introduced to the French courts in the 17'h century, supposedly by Louis XIV's composer Jean Baptiste Lully,
it was characterized by an erect posture and deep curtsies and bows. Deriving its name from the French for
small, reflecting the small steps involved, it used a 3/4 meter.
Answer:
MINUET
b) Danced with great energy to big-band swing or syncopated music in 4/4 time, this 1930s and 40s dance grew
out of the lindy hop and the black bottom. It required a variety of steps and swings usually performed while
holding one of both ofthe partner's hands.
Answer:
JITTERBUG
c) From the German for "revolve" it is danced in 3/4 time with a strong first beat followed by two lighter beats.
Johann Strauss the Younger was among the most successful in writing for this form of dance while Peter
Tchaikovsky incorporated such music into his ballets.
W ALTZ
Answer:
15.
Give the following information about Odin FTPE:
A) The wife of Odin
Answer: Frigga (or Frigg, accept Freya as some variants treat them as the same person)
B) The eight-legged horse of Odin, the offspring of Svadilfare and Loki
Answer: Sleipnir
C) His spear which could never miss its target
Answer: Gungnir

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
16.
For 10 points apiece name the following trophies awarded by the National Hockey League.
a) The trophy awarded for gentlemanly sportsmanship
Answer:
LADY BING
b) The trophy awarded to the most outstanding goaltender
VEZINA
Answer:
c) The trophy awarded to the rookie of the year
Answer:
CALDER
17.
How well do you know Hardy's The Mayor of Caster bridge? If you have read it then you can easily
identify these characters from description FTP each.
1)
The focus of the story, he is a strong man who is honest and upright but full of pride which refuses to let
him reveal his past to Elizabeth.
Answer: Michael Henchard (accept either name)
2)
This young Scotsman is frailer than Michael Henchard but makes up for it in his charm, wit and good
humor. He has cultivated a pleasant singing voice and also a mind for mechanical things and business.
Answer: Donald Farfrae (accept either name)
3)
Felt to be suited to Donald Farfrae, she was tempered in poverty and the loss of her father Newson.
Resigning herself to study and self-betterment her kindness is shown in how she honors Henchard's last wishes.
Answer: Elizabeth-Jane
18.

Answer the following questions about derivatives FTSNP:
A:
(S) This derivative is defined as the slope of a curve at any given point.
Answer:
FIRST derivative
B: (10) Give an example of a function whose derivative is itself.
Answer:
y=ae x or f(x)= ae\ where a is any real number (For example, a team
should be given credit if they respond y=Se X)
C: (IS) The first derivative is the slope, acthe second derivative is the change in slope, or concavity.
FTP, what is the third derivative, defined as the change in concavity?
Answer:
JERK
19.
30-20-10. Name the President from cabinet members.
30: Postmaster General Will Hays, Secretary of Labor James J. Davis, Secretary of War John W. Weeks
20: Attorney General. Harry M. Daugherty, Secretary of the Navy Edwin Denby, Secretary of the Treasury
Andrew Mellon
10: Secretary of Agriculture. Henry C. Wallace, Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, Secretary of State
Charles Evans Hughes, and Secretary ofthe Interior Albert B. Fall
Answer: Warren Gamaliel Harding
20.
Identify the common name for the substance on a 30-20-10 basis.
A.)Its scientific name is 3-4 methylene-di-oxy-meth-amphetamine, and it is similar to mescaline, another drug
known to cause brain damage.
B.)The brain dame it does affects neurons that interact with seratonin, causing changes in mood, aggression,
sexual activity, sleep, and sensitivity to pain.
C.)Despite this, it is becoming ever more popular with those seeking its power to induce spiritual revelations,
increase love for humanity and help get down with the music.
Answer: Ecstasy (prompt on MDMA, XTC, and X)

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
21.
Answer the following questions, which mayor may not be related, FTSNOP.
10: This Washington, D.C. based organization was founded in 1980 by a group of civic and religious leaders,
spearheaded by TV producer Norman Lear, who were concerned by a rising tide of intolerance. While
generally considered liberal, its first executive director was a former Republican Congressman from Alabama.
Answer:
People for the American Way
10: This show airs at 10 am, 11 pm, and 2 am Eastern on the Fox Family Channel and 3 pm Eastern on the
Trinity Broadcasting Network.
Answer:
700 Club
5: Since its founding in 1920, this nationwide legal group has fought to maintain the rights they feel are
guaranteed by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, but despite noted defenses of right-wing extremists has
often come under fire as a group of far left agitators.
Answer:
American Civil Liberties Union or ACLU
5: For the final 5, what controversial televangelist went on the 700 Club and blamed People For the American
Way and the ACLU, amongst others, for the September 11 th attacks on New York and Washington?
Answer:
Jerry Falwell
Name the alleged actor from roles, 30/20/10.
For 30: Ray Chase in The Secret Agent Club, Cutter in The Ultimate Weapon. Dave Dragon in 3 Ninjas:
High Noon at Mega Mountain.
For 20: Blake in Santa with Muscles. The Man in Black in Muppets from Space.
For 10: Shep Ramsey in Suburban Commando. Sean Armstrong in Mr. Nanny.
Answer:
Hulk Hogan (or Terry Bollea)
22.

