1. World Literature
He was an unknown writer in 1864 when his native government gave him a scholarship for foreign travel.
By the time he returned twenty-seven years later, he was considered the founder of modern prose drama.
Whose plays included An Enemy of the People, Hedda Gabler, A Doll’s House, and Peer Gynt? He was
Norwegian.
ANSWER: (Henrik) Ibsen
2. Algebra (30 Seconds)
2
Find the oblique asymptote in slope-intercept form for the graph of y equals the quantity x -3x+5 end
quantity divided by the quantity x+1. [ Image]

ANSWER: y=x-4
3. Biology
What term comes from the Greek word for primary? It refers to organic compounds that are classified as
fibrous or globular. Examples include tubulin, hemoglobin, and hormones. These are made up of chains of
amino acids. Identify this term beginning with the letter P.
ANSWER: Protein(s)
4. United States History
(Note to moderator: 'Bloudy Tenent' is the same as 'Bloody Tenant') People who want to turn this man into
an American icon point to his early tolerance of all Christian faiths. Historians, however, point out that he
was very critical of the Church of England, Quakers, and eventually all organized religions. Identify this
author of The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution who was banished from Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1635
and soon thereafter founded the city of Providence, Rhode Island.
ANSWER: (Roger) Williams
5. Pop Culture
The records he set likely will never be broken, but unfortunately many of his statistics are not known with
certainty. For fourteen straight years, this pitcher won at least twenty games, and his total number of wins
exceeds five hundred. Identify this pitcher who lasted from 1890 through 1911. The annual award for Major
League Baseball’s best pitcher is named after him.
ANSWER: (Denton True 'Cy') Young
6. Technology
Which company was formed in 1998 by people who left Palm Computing? They make Blazer, Visor, and
Treo.
ANSWER: Handspring
7. British Literature
In which novel will you find the characters Muriel, Benjamin, Bluebell, Jessie, Pincher, and Boxer? They
take part in a revolution against Mr. Jones that is eventually led by Snowball and Napoleon. Identify this
novel set on Manor Farm written by George Orwell.

ANSWER: Animal Farm
8. Calculus (10 Seconds)
Which mathematician predicted that there would be a universal language and universal church? He may have
been the inspiration for Voltaire's Professor Pangloss. He is responsible for the symbols we still use today
for congruence and similarity but is best remembered for an article in 1684 for Acta Eruditorum that was the
first published account of calculus.
ANSWER: (Gottfried Wilhelm) Leibniz
9. Language Arts
Which word that often refers to flattering speech comes from the name of a stone reputed to bestow talent on
people who kiss it? The stone is located in a castle near Cork, Ireland.
ANSWER: Blarney
10. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
Round to the nearest whole number. Using the Ostwald Process, two molecules of ammonia are combined
with several molecules to produce one molecule of nitric acid. If you begin with 340 grams of ammonia and
get a perfect yield, how many grams of nitric acid will you end up with?
ANSWER: 630 (Grams)
11. World History
Which South American leader's first wife was an actress who rallied to get him released from prison and
helped him get elected as President? She also introduced compulsory religious education, promoted welfare
programs, and gained women the right to vote. After she died, his second wife was a dancer who served as
Vice President while he was alive and then President after his death. Identify this man who from 1946 to
1955 and from 1973 to 1974 was the President of Argentina. His first wife was known as Evita.
ANSWER: (Juan) Peron
12. Music
Which famous jazz musician was born in Kansas City in 1920? His most famous recordings include Donna
Lee, Embraceable You, and Ornithology. When he died in 1955, graffiti started appearing saying “Bird
Lives”.
ANSWER: (Charlie) Parker
13. United States Literature
Who is married to Myra and has kids named Ted, Tinka, and Verona? This 46-year-old real estate dealer
lives in the Floral Heights section of Zenith. He was a title character created in 1922 by Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER: (George F.) Babbitt
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
When these are multiples of the fundamental frequency, they are called harmonics. What term refers to one
of the higher frequencies that comprise a musical sound? It begins with the letter O.
ANSWER: Overtone(s)

15. Current Events
Which current world leader spent fifteen years as a foreign intelligence officer? When his predecessor
resigned on December 31, 1999, he was appointed President, and he won an election soon thereafter. Name
the man who succeeded Boris Yeltsin as the leader of Russia.
ANSWER: (Vladimir Vladimirovich) Putin
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the measure in degrees of the vertex angle in an isosceles triangle that has angles equal to x+11, 2x
+22, and 3x-3? The vertex angle is the angle that is not equal in measure to the other two.
ANSWER: 36 (Degrees)
17. Religion/Mythology
Who was three years older than his famous brother and the son of Amram and Jochebed? He committed two
major sins: denouncing his brother for marrying a foreigner and building a golden calf for worship. Identify
this man who some people believe was the one who actually said, “Let my people go.”
ANSWER: Aaron
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
What consists of the D, E, and F layers? Its existence was first predicted by Carl Friedrich Gauss, and it
used to be called the Kennelly-Heaviside Layer. Identify this region that begins forty miles above the Earth
created by solar radiation on uncharged atoms.
ANSWER: Ionosphere
19. Nonfiction
Who had a long popular career writing about adolescence in primitive cultures before becoming
controversial by supporting adolescent behavior in the United States in 1970? This anthropologist first
established her reputation in 1928 with the book Coming of Age in Samoa.
ANSWER: (Margaret) Mead
20. Art/Architecture
These were first developed in the Renaissance and written about by Andrea Palladio. Two types are the Pratt
and the Warren. What is the term for the series of rigid triangles used to support a beam bridge?
ANSWER: Truss(es)
TIEBREAKERS
When he realized the potential of his 1938 discovery, who almost committed suicide? He contemplated it
again on August 6, 1945, causing a friend to keep an eye on him throughout the night. Identify this German
chemist who was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1944. He worked closely with Lise Meitner and Fritz
Strassman to make sense of Enrico Fermi’s experiments, and he discovered that barium is produced by the
decay of uranium.
ANSWER: (Otto) Hahn
Who was the Greek god of light, youth, beauty, song, music, poetry, and prophecy? He killed Python at the

foot of Mount Parnassus near Delphi, and the oracle there became his servant. This god was often confused
with Helios.
ANSWER: Apollo
TRUE OR FALSE: There is a girl in Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night named Viola.
ANSWER: True

