1. Technology
The most promising type of these objects is the Proton Exchange Membrane. By what two-word name are
objects known which convert hydrogen and oxygen into water, creating direct current with the excess
energy? Some scientists are hopeful that these objects can solve our energy problems.
ANSWER: (Hydrogen or Methanol) Fuel Cell(s) (accept Hydrogen Cell(s) or Methanol Cell(s))
2. British Literature
Which 1882 novel includes the characters Ben Gunn and Billy Bones? It was written by Robert Louis
Stevenson and narrated by Jim Hawkins, and it featured Long John Silver.
ANSWER: Treasure Island
3. Physics (30 Seconds)
Give your answer using a single unit. How much energy is stored in a spring that has a spring constant of
40 Newtons per meter and is stretched by half a meter?
ANSWER: 5 Joules (accept -5 Joules)
4. Pop Culture
Which television show’s stars include Wilmer Valderrama, Kurtwood Smith, Laura Prepon, and Ashton
Kutcher? They play, respectively, Fez, Red, Donna, and Kelso in this Fox sitcom.
ANSWER: (That) 70s Show
5. Religion/Mythology
French legend claims that this woman spent the last thirty years of her life evangelizing in Provence and
living in a cave. Give the last name of the woman who was cleansed of seven sins and was the first person
to see Christ after his resurrection according to the New Testament.
ANSWER: (Mary) Magdalene
6. United States History
Although he was the leader of the Republican Party, whose attempts at the party presidential nomination
were turned down in 1856 and 1860? He instead became the party’s first Secretary of State. He was stabbed
in the throat the same night that Lincoln was assassinated but survived. Name this man often associated with
the purchase of Alaska.
ANSWER: (William Henry) Seward
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
There are no parentheses in this problem. Find all solutions to the equation:
3
2
5x -35x +50x=0

ANSWER: 0, 2, 5 (all three in any order, do not prompt or accept negative answers)
8. Current Events
What has been described by Donald Rumsfeld as “the least worst place we could have selected”? Each year

the United States tries to pay $4000 in rent to use this area for our Navy, but the checks are never cashed. It
is now the home of six hundred sixty unlawful combatants who are being held despite the lack of formal
charges against them. Name this Cuban bay.
ANSWER: Guantanamo (Bay) (accept Gitmo) (prompt on Cuba, Camp X-Ray or Camp Delta)
9. World Literature
Who wrote the words, “For always night and day I hear lake water lapping with low sounds by the shore;
while I stand on the roadway, or on the pavements gray, I hear it in the deep heart’s core”? This 1923 Nobel
Prize Winner died and was buried in 1939 in France but was moved in 1948 to Ireland.
ANSWER: (William Butler) Yeats
10. Biology
This genetic syndrome, whose name begins with the letter K, affects about one-tenth of one percent of
males, and it results in sterility and some feminine body features. Identify this syndrome caused by an extra
X chromosome.
ANSWER: Klinefelter(‘s) (prompt on XXY)
11. Language Arts
The common meaning of this word comes from French, while the religious meaning comes from Latin. The
common meaning is an intense emotion or ardent affection, while the religious meaning refers to the
sufferings of a martyr, especially Jesus. Name this word beginning with P.
ANSWER: Passion
12. Music
In the early 1960s, who became one of the first people to direct major orchestras in different cities—
Montreal and Los Angeles? He would later direct the Israeli and New York Philharmonic Orchestras, and
he was the first conductor used by the Three Tenors. Name this son of the founder of the Bombay
Symphony Orchestra.
ANSWER: (Zubin) Mehta
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the length of an arc that subtends two pi over three radians in a circle if the circle has a radius of six
centimeters?
ANSWER: Four Pi Centimeters
14. World History
Which royal house of England ended its reign with the Houses of Lancaster and York? In total, it reigned
from 1154 to 1485 and included Henry the Second, Richard the Lion-Hearted, and John.
ANSWER: Plantagenet (accept Anjou or Angevin)
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which astronomer was a Major in World War One and then an attorney? He was the first person to find a
star outside of the Milky Way Galaxy and observed that other galaxies are moving away from us. A space

telescope named after him was sent into orbit in 1990.
ANSWER: (Edwin) Hubble
16. United States Literature
After finishing college, which writer made a living doing laundry and then teaching English? He has not had
to worry about finding work since he became a bestselling author in 1974. One of his characters is Roland
of Gilead, the Last Gunslinger, who has been in The Dark Tower series. Name this author of Carrie, The
Shining, and The Green Mile.
ANSWER: (Stephen) King
17. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
What is the common name for the liquid alkaloid with chemical formula C10H14N2? As a drug, it can have
either an invigorating or tranquilizing effect. Though it is very toxic, most of the deaths it causes are due to
its addictive powers. Identify this chemical found in tobacco plants.
ANSWER: Nicotine
18. Calculus/Math History (10 Seconds)
Which French mathematician from the early eighteenth century was a critic of calculus but discovered a basic
calculus theorem? The theorem states that if a function is continuous between two inputs and has the same
output for both inputs, then the derivative must equal zero at some point between the two inputs.
ANSWER: (Michel) Rolle
19. Art/Architecture
This family made most of its money in the mining industry, and its art collecting began with Solomon in the
1920s. Who started museums named after themselves in Venice, Berlin, and Bilbao? Their New York City
museum was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
ANSWER: Guggenheim(s)
20. Nonfiction
Which real-life professor appears as a member of the Zion Council in The Matrix Reloaded? He wrote Race
Matters in 1993 and has written many essays on Black-Jewish relations and African American scholarship.
His name was in the news a lot a year ago due to a public dispute he had with the President of Harvard
University.
ANSWER: (Cornel) West
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1
What consists of a core of soft iron wound with two separate coils of wire? Current supplied to the primary
coil induces a current in the secondary coil, and the number of windings is proportional to the electrical
potential of each coil. This term begins with the letter T.
ANSWER: Transformer

Tiebreaker #2
According to Herodotus, he was a freed slave who died at Delphi in the sixth century BC. Some historians
claim that he never existed, and it is certain that he did not write at least some of the stories attributed to him.
Who is associated with the stories “The Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing”, “The Frogs Desiring a King”, “The Fox
and the Grapes”, and “The Hare and the Tortoise”? These are all fables.
ANSWER: Aesop
Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation SD?
ANSWER: South Dakota

