1. Technology
It was first introduced in 1984 and was similar to the Lisa, though it had a smaller screen, smaller price, and
square pixels. Name this line of computers that popularized the mouse and is still being developed by Apple
Computers.
ANSWER: (Apple) Macintosh (accept Mac, do not accept more specific answers)
2. British Literature
Which Shakespeare character says, “Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind”? She is fought over
by Lysander and Demetrius in A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
ANSWER: Helena
3. Physics (30 Seconds)
Remember to include units in your answer. If an object has an initial velocity of 6 meters per second and
accelerates in the direction of motion at 2 meters per square second, how far will it travel in 4 seconds?
ANSWER: 40 Meters
4. Pop Culture
Breakthrough and Conquer, The Assault, Joust, The Wall, Hang Tough, Powerball, and The Eliminator are
all parts of what made-for-television sporting event?
ANSWER: (American) Gladiator(s)
5. Religion/Mythology
Who once escaped capture by pirates by turning the pirates into porpoises and the sea into wine? This son of
Zeus and Semele could appear as a bull, a goat, or a child, and he was the god of wine and revelry.
ANSWER: Dionysus (accept Bacchus)
6. United States History
Who served as an agency director from 1924 through 1972? He is remembered for his absolute power and
his hatred of radicals, which made him an enemy of both the Ku Klux Klan and civil rights activists. Name
this director of the FBI.
ANSWER: (John Edgar) Hoover
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: When reading the numbers, do not say the word ‘comma’.) Multiply the two matrices
together. The first matrix has top row 2, 2 and bottom row 2, 2. The second matrix has top row 1, 2 and
bottom row 3, 4.
ANSWER: Top row 8, 12 and bottom row 8, 12 (accept equivalents)
8. Current Events
In which country was Pauline Hanson released from prison this week? Hanson, an anti-immigrant politician,
was serving time for electoral fraud, but her conviction was overturned. This nation recently made it more
difficult for refugees who reach one of its islands to gain asylum. Name this country headed by Prime

Minister John Howard.
ANSWER: Australia
9. World Literature
Many of which contemporary novelist’s books are surreal and allegorical in nature, including his 1981 work
about India titled Midnight’s Children? His most famous work opens with two characters falling to Earth
after a plane explodes above the English Channel. Its title, taken from a deleted section of the Koran, is The
Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: (Salman) Rushdie
10. Biology
The name for what channel comes from the Latin word for snail? It is a coiled tube containing three canals
and the auditory nerve, and it is located in your ear.
ANSWER: Cochlea
11. Language Arts
This word originally came from Latin and referred to parts of the body. It is also used in arithmetic to refer
to simple numbers. Name this word often associated with objects that are ten in number.
ANSWER: Digit(s)
12. Music
(Note to moderator: No singing, please.) Which rock anthem begins, “If I leave here tomorrow would you
still remember me? For I must be traveling on now--there's too many places I've got to see”? Often requested
at concerts even when the band does not play it, this song was a big hit for Lynyrd Skynyrd.
ANSWER: Freebird
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (10 Seconds)
What name is given to the intersection point of the three perpendicular bisectors of the sides of a triangle?
This name is used because the point is in the middle of a circle related to the triangle.
ANSWER: Circumcenter
14. World History
Who gained the throne thanks to the Pragmatic Sanction? Allied with George the Second of England, she
had to defend her throne against an alliance of Prussia, France, Spain, and Bavaria. She was very successful,
eventually being succeeded by one of her sixteen children. Name this eighteenth century Queen of Hungary
and Bohemia.
ANSWER: Maria Theresa (prompt if only half of name is given)
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
This region was invaded by troops in 1951, and in 1956 it became part of a larger country. Though the land
was undersea millions of years ago, it is now called the ‘Roof of the World’. Name this area whose
traditional religion is Lamistic Buddhism and whose capital is Lhasa.

ANSWER: Tibet
16. United States Literature
One of this author’s novels is about the last living American slave, and another is about a man unjustly
convicted of murder and a teacher. Name this Louisiana author of The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman
and A Lesson Before Dying.
ANSWER: (Ernest) Gaines
17. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: Pronounce the word sulfite carefully.) What is the oxidation number of the sulfur atom
in a sulfite ion? Sulfite has a charge of two negative.
ANSWER: (Positive) 4
18. Calculus/Math History (10 Seconds)
In addition to Colin MacLaurin, who else wrote a textbook titled Treatise of Algebra in the eighteenth
century? He is best-known for a rule he described 75 years after it had first been discovered which shows
how areas under curves can be approximated using parabolic arcs.
ANSWER: (Thomas) Simpson
19. Art/Architecture
Which French painter’s most creative period came between an 1825 visit to England and an 1832 visit to
Morocco? Often inspired by history, he painted The Battle of Nancy, The Battle of Poitiers, and Liberty
Leading the People.
ANSWER: (Ferdinand-Victor-Eugene) Delacroix
20. Nonfiction
(Note to moderator: ‘Jean-Jacques Rousseau’ sounds like John Jack Roosoe but with Frenchy J’s.) Which
book stated, “Man is born free; and everywhere he is in chains. One thinks himself the master of others, and
still remains a greater slave than they. How did this change come about? I do not know. What can make it
legitimate? That question I think I can answer.” Subtitled Principles of Political Right, it was written in 1762
by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
ANSWER: (The) Social Contract
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1
The front part of this connective tissue is the cornea. What six-letter term refers to the outer surface of an
eye? Its name begins with an S.
ANSWER: Sclera
Tiebreaker #2
Give the last name of the famous fictional family which has a father who fights with the Union army and a
mother nicknamed Marmee. The daughters are named Meg, Jo, Amy, and Beth, and they appear in Louisa

May Alcott’s Little Women.
ANSWER: March(es)
Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation NM?
ANSWER: New Mexico

