1. American Literature
The son of a minister, this writer lived in six different Southern states when he was growing up. His
writings about the South were often censored but became bestsellers. Name this author of Journeyman,
Trouble In July, Georgia Boy, God’s Little Acre, and Tobacco Road.
ANSWER: (Erskine) Caldwell
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
This term begins with the letter E and can apply to solutes or substances. The solutes generally lower the
freezing point of water a few times more than other solutes. What term is defined as a liquid ionic
conductor?
ANSWER: Electrolyte(s)
3. World History
Which leader is associated with the town of Sagres? He oversaw the colonization of the Madeira Islands and
the Azores. Name this third son of King John the First of Portugal. Though a few of his expeditions were
failures, he had a great impact on world history, laying the groundwork for Portugal’s colonial empire.
ANSWER: (Prince) Henry the Navigator
4. Technology
(Note to moderator: Say the letters individually in CMYK.) Which four colors are referred to as process
colors? Combinations of them often are used in color printing. They are often abbreviated as CMYK,
though the K stands for ‘key’ rather than a color. The last letter in the name of the key color, however, is a
K.
ANSWER: Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Black (any order, prompt on CMYK)
5. Language Arts
While this word can refer to human commotion, it usually refers to a violent wind. Name this word used as a
title by Shakespeare that does not really come in teapots.
ANSWER: Tempest
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
2
Find the value of c if there is exactly one x-intercept for the graph of y=x -26x+c.

ANSWER: 169
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
His PhD was in astronomy, and he devoted much effort to meteorology, dying of exposure on a trip to
study air circulation around Greenland. Name this scientist who in 1915 published The Origin of Continents
and Oceans, which was ridiculed at the time. The book described the former existence of a single continent
and the theory of continental drift.
ANSWER: (Alfred) Wegener
8. Music

Which instruments are traditionally made out of silver in Tibet, iron in Africa, and bronze in other regions?
They sometimes play a role in Eastern religions. Modern ones usually are at least 39 inches in diameter and
are freely suspended.
ANSWER: Gong(s) (accept Tam-tam(s))
9. Religion/Mythology
Which church is believed to have been started by Saint Mark? It coexisted peacefully with Islam from the
seventh through eleventh centuries but has been overshadowed since then, now accounting for at most five
percent of its nation’s population. Name this Christian religion whose name comes from the Greek word for
Egypt.
ANSWER: (Christian) Copt(ic Orthodox Church of Egypt)
10. Biology
What eleven-letter noun is a reaction involving constricting lung muscles and dilating capillaries? It can
occur when people are given a second dose of a drug they had a previous allergic reaction to, and it can be
fatal.
ANSWER: Anaphylaxis
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
What is the value at x=1 of the derivative of the function x times the natural log of x?
ANSWER: 1
12. Nonfiction
The first chapter of which book is four sentences long and titled “The kinds of principalities and the means
by which they are acquired”? The twenty-sixth and final chapter ends with a quote from Petrarch and is titled
“An exhortation to free Italy from the hands of the barbarians”. Name this very famous 1513 work by
Niccolo Machiavelli.
ANSWER: (The) Prince (or (Il) Princip)
13. Pop Culture
He was born on February 28, 2001, and his career almost ended last year when he slammed his head into an
iron bar. Going into June Fifth, this Philadelphia native seemed destined for the history books, but that was
before Birdstone passed him in the stretch. Name this winner of the 2004 Kentucky Derby and Preakness
Stakes.
ANSWER: Smarty Jones
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
-6
Nichrome has a resistivity of 10 ohm meters. What is the resistance of a nichrome wire that is ten meters
long and has a cross-sectional area of one-tenth of a square meter?

ANSWER: 10-4 Ohms (10-4 equals .0001 or a ten thousandth)
15. British Literature
Give the first and last name of the boy whose parents are supposedly Partridge and Jenny Jones. He is

raised alongside Master Blifil. This 1749 title character was created by Henry Fielding.
ANSWER: Tom Jones
16. American History
Who said, “We're going to have the best-educated American people in the world” and “If we do not succeed,
we run the risk of failure”? He was first elected to Congress from Indiana in 1976 and to the Senate in 1980,
resigning his seat in 1988 in order to become the Vice President.
ANSWER: (James Danforth) Quayle
17. Art/Architecture
The fish hat painted by this artist has a fork, knife, and lemon on top. One of his pictures has two versions,
one with the clarinetist in the middle and the other with the guitarist in the middle. Name this twentieth
century Spanish artist known for his blue and cubist periods and Guernica.
ANSWER: (Pablo Ruiz y) Picasso
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Include units in your answer. BD is the altitude of triangle ABC, and D is between A and C. Find the area
of triangle ABC if AB is 10 centimeters, BD is 8 centimeters, and CD is 14 centimeters.
ANSWER: 80 Square Centimeters (or 80 Centimeters Squared)
19. Current Events
Which American politician spent much of his childhood in Venezuela? He has served in the House of
Representatives since 1984 and is now the Majority Leader. This Texan recently has been admonished a few
times by the House Ethics Committee.
ANSWER: (Tom) DeLay
20. World Literature
Which writer’s earlier works, such as The Path to the Nest of Spiders, were inspired by his experiences in
World War Two? His later works were more in the realm of fantasy. Name this Italian author of The Baron
in the Trees, Cosmicomics, and Invisible Cities.
ANSWER: (Italo) Calvino

