1. World Literature
Many of his early writings referred to The Flame, a woman whose identity has never been discovered.
Those poems were written in the 1330s. His best-known work is about ten young people who leave
Florence and spend ten days together telling stories. Name the author of the Decameron.
ANSWER: (Giovanni) Boccaccio
2. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the hundredth term of the sequence that begins 10, 12, 14, 16, 18…
ANSWER: 208
3. Biology
What term from Greek means state of living together? Its subcategories include mutualism, commensalism,
and parasitism.
ANSWER: Symbiosis
4. United States History
People claim that once a position is made a Cabinet-level position, it is impossible to downgrade it in the
future. That is not true. There was a position raised to Cabinet-level in 1829 for the Jackson Administration
that was downgraded in 1971 by the Nixon Administration. Identify this position first held by Samuel
Osgood and first held at the Cabinet level by William Barry. It oversees our mail system.
ANSWER: Postmaster General
5. Pop Culture
Her last name is Roberts, and she supposedly graduated from Willows High School in Wisconsin. Some of
the more famous versions include Blue Rhapsody, Benefit Ball, Royal Splendor, and Totally Hair. Who got
bendable legs in 1965 and started talking in 1968, seven years after she started dating Ken?
ANSWER: Barbie (Barbara Milicent Roberts)
6. Technology
Winners are told to keep their acceptance speeches to five words or less. Categories include Fashion, News,
Technical Achievement, and Weird. Identify these Best of the Internet awards started in 1997.
ANSWER: Webby (Awards) (accept Webbies)
7. British Literature
He received a license to practice medicine at the age of twenty-one but almost immediately gave up that
career to become a full-time poet. Unfortunately, he caught tuberculosis and died five years later in 1821.
Identify this poet who wrote To Autumn, Bright Star, Ode to a Nightingale, and Ode on a Grecian Urn.
ANSWER: (John) Keats
8. Calculus (10 Seconds)
He was born in 1928 in West Virginia. In 1949, he developed the idea of an equilibrium n-tuple, which was
a fundamental piece of non-cooperative game theory. This idea won him a PhD from Princeton and
eventually the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics. Identify this man who was the subject of the book and movie

A Beautiful Mind.
ANSWER: (John Forbes) Nash
9. Language Arts
What twelve-letter word is used to describe the difference between the amount of money that was originally
paid for an object and its value at a later time? It refers to the loss of value due to use or aging.
ANSWER: Depreciation
10. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Which metallic element has a freezing point higher than room temperature but lower than body temperature,
which means that it melts in your hands? Originally called eka-aluminum by Mendeleyev, it has many
properties similar to aluminum but is much less abundant. Identify element 31, which is abbreviated Ga.
ANSWER: Gallium
11. World History
Early in his career, he tried to abolish the death penalty and once resigned as a judge rather than pronounce a
death sentence. People change. Identify this Frenchman who in 1792 declared that the king, "must die that
the country may live." He later had his partner Georges Danton guillotined for urging moderation. This head
of the Jacobins literally lost his head on July 28, 1794.
ANSWER: (Maximilien) Robespierre
12. Music
Which jazz musician was backed on many of his recordings by drummer Art Blakey and saxophonist
Charlie Rouse? His music was marked by its swing and sudden chords, and he was nicknamed 'The high
priest of bebop'. Identify this composer of Epistrophy, Evidence, and Round Midnight who played piano.
ANSWER: (Thelonious) Monk
13. United States Literature
Give the first and last names. His living brother is named D.B., and his brother who died was named Allie.
He also has a ten-year-old sister named Phoebe. Identify this resident of a rest home in California who
narrates about his experiences in New York City after leaving Pencey Prep. He is the main character of J.D.
Salinger's The Catcher In The Rye.
ANSWER: Holden Caulfield
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
To two significant figures in proper scientific notation, give the charge in coulombs of one trillion protons.
-7
ANSWER: 1.6 Times 10 (Coulombs)

15. Current Events
Which republic with an area of 7400 square miles and population just over one million people has
unsuccessfully been trying to become independent since 1991? It is estimated that four hundred thousand
people have been killed or forced to leave their homes during the past ten years. Identify this region located

between the Black and Caspian Seas in Southwestern Russia.
ANSWER: Chechnya
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Find the sine of any interior angle of a parallelogram if the sides are 5 inches and 10 inches and the area is
20 square inches.
ANSWER: 0.4 (or 2/5) (all four angles have the same sine)
17. Religion/Mythology
To Moslems, which city is the location from which Muhammad was carried to Heaven? To Christians, it is
where Jesus walked on his way to his crucifixion. To Jews, it is the site of the ancient temple destroyed in
AD 70. Identify this city which was unified in 1975 under Israeli rule but which may be divided again in the
future.
ANSWER: Jerusalem
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
What is generally formed from the cooling and solidification of magma? This is one of the three
classifications of rocks, the other two being metamorphic and sedimentary.
ANSWER: Igneous (Rocks)
19. Nonfiction
At the age of sixteen, he began working in the Harvard University Bookstore, and he eventually owned it.
The first edition of the book he is most famous for came out in 1855. It went through nine editions during
his lifetime and many more since then. Name the man who first put together Familiar Quotations.
ANSWER: (John) Bartlett
20. Art/Architecture
Who started off in Florence, then moved to Milan, then back to Florence, then back to Milan? His last years
were spent in France and Rome. There are seventeen surviving paintings that are definitely by him and no
sculptures, though he certainly created more. Thirty-one of his notebooks have also survived which treat a
wide range of scientific subjects. Identify this Renaissance man who painted The Adoration of the Magi,
The Last Supper, and Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: Leonardo da Vinci (accept either half of name)
TIEBREAKERS
(30 Seconds) Find the x-intercept of the line y=2x-5.
ANSWER: 5/2 (or 2.5 or 2 1/2) (can also be given as an ordered pair such as (2.5,0))
It’s a jolly holiday with her, and she is practically perfect in every way. Identify this character who
flies down to London to teach all sorts of lessons to the Banks family. Famously portrayed in the
1964 film by Julie Andrews, she makes use of the word supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.
ANSWER: Mary Poppins

TRUE OR FALSE: There is a girl in Shakespeare’s Othello named Juliet.
ANSWER: False

