1. American Literature
Which novel begins, “I first met Dean not long after my wife and I split up”? Dean, based on the real person
Neal Cassady, spends much of three years traveling around the United States with the narrator Sal Paradise.
Name this 1957 work by Jack Kerouac.
ANSWER: On The Road
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Which general term refers to the process of particles intermingling as the result of their spontaneous
movement? It often results in particles spreading from areas of higher concentrations to areas of lower
concentrations.
ANSWER: Diffusion
3. World History
What name is given to the civilization that flourished in Greece during the late Bronze Age? Much of our
knowledge of this civilization was discovered by Heinrich Schliemann in 1876. They wrote with Linear B
and followed the Minoan civilization.
ANSWER: Mycenae(an)
4. Technology
If you only give half the answer, it’s wrong. What weighs 3.6 ounces and has dimensions of 3.6 inches by
2.0 inches by 0.5 inches? The screen is 1.67 inches diagonally, the clickwheel says ‘menu’ on the top, and
they come in five colors. Their memory capacity is usually four gigabytes, which is enough for one
thousand songs. Name these Apple products.
ANSWER: Ipod Mini (accept both words in either order)
5. Language Arts
(Note to moderator: I have no idea how to pronounce the guy’s name—just fake it.) Which five-letter word
was coined about one hundred years ago by Gelett Burgess? It refers to a short, positive, and often
extravagant piece of publicity and is often associated with quotes found on the backs of books.
ANSWER: Blurb(s)
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
What is the y-intercept of the line that goes through the points (-1,7) and (5,-11)?
ANSWER: 4 (or (0,4))
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Most of its area is a province called Kalimantan. Its North contains the states Sabah and Sarawak, which are
parts of another country. Surrounded by Sarawak and the South China Sea, there is also the Sultanate of
Brunei. Name this island.
ANSWER: Borneo
8. Music
Who was studying to be a stained glass designer before he was kicked out of school for playing guitar

during class? His nickname came from the fact that he often had to replace his guitar strings between songs,
and crowds gave him a slow hand-clap when he did so. He belonged to the bands The Roosters, Casey
Jones, The Yardbirds, The Bluesbreakers, Cream, Blind Faith, and Derek and the Dominoes. Name this
performer of After Midnight, Change the World, and Wonderful Tonight.
ANSWER: (Eric) Clapton
9. Religion/Mythology
After this god died, Hermod worked out a deal with Hela that the god could come back to life if everyone
and everything mourned his death. Because one Giantess did not like him, however, he remained dead.
Name this son of Frigga who was killed by a mistletoe.
ANSWER: Balder
10. Biology
You are supposed to eat about 0.8 milligrams of which nutrient per day? Eating more than 1.5 milligrams
can cause brittle bones, while eating too little diminishes the body’s ability to fight infections and can cause
blindness. Name this vitamin found in large quantities in liver, eggs, milk, and carrots.
ANSWER: (Vitamin) A (accept Retinol)
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Give your answer as a single number. How many ways are there to arrange the letters in the word ‘eagle’?
ANSWER: 60
12. Nonfiction
In 1936, who became the first woman to take and pass the civil service test? After working for sixteen years
for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, she resigned to devote more time to her writing. Name this
author of Under the Sea Wind, The Sea Around Us, The Edge of the Sea, Food From the Sea, and Silent
Spring.
ANSWER: (Rachel Louise) Carson
13. Pop Culture
He was a First Team Academic All-American twice and, along with Jameer Nelson, was Co-National Player
of the Year in NCAA Mens’ Basketball. Name this athlete who led Connecticut to the 2004 national title and
is now playing for the Charlotte Bobcats.
ANSWER: ((Chukwu)emeka Noubuisi) Okafor
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
If a twenty kilogram object has a net force of fifty Newtons acting on it in the direction of motion, how long
will it take to accelerate from ten meters per second to thirty meters per second?
ANSWER: 8 Seconds
15. British Literature
Which writer was a successful playwright in the first decade of the twentieth century but became known
better as a novelist in the second decade? His best-known character is probably Philip Carey, who is born

with a clubfoot. Name this author of Liza of Lambeth, The Magician, The Razor’s Edge, and Of Human
Bondage.
ANSWER: (William Somerset) Maugham
16. American History
Before becoming President, who served in the New York and United States Legislatures and as Vice
President? One of his first acts as President was to appoint Daniel Webster as Secretary of State. He never
ran for President, losing the nomination of his party to Winfield Scott. Name this President who signed the
Compromise of 1850 soon after succeeding Zachary Taylor in office.
ANSWER: (Millard) Fillmore
17. Art/Architecture
The artist placed himself in the lower right corner of this work having a discussion with Ptolemy and
Zoroaster about planets. Below them, Euclid is giving a geometry lesson to children. The two people in the
center of the picture are Plato and Aristotle. Name this 1510 painting by Raphael.
ANSWER: (The) School of Athens (or Scuola di Atene)
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (10 Seconds)
Whose works include On the Equilibrium of Planes, Sand-Reckoner, On Measurement of the Circle, and
The Book of Lemmas? Born around 287 BC, he was killed by a Roman soldier after some of his ingenious
war machines could not make up for the weaknesses of the army of Syracuse. Name this man who said,
“Give me a place to stand and rest my lever on, and I can move the Earth.”
ANSWER: Archimedes (of Syracuse)
19. Current Events
From 1982 through 1990, who was the Governor of New Jersey? He is now the President of Drew
st
University. He has been in the news a lot this year because of a group he headed until August 21 , when it
disbanded after releasing its final report. Name the Chair of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks
Upon the United States, which was nicknamed the 9/11 Commission.

ANSWER: (Thomas) Kean
20. World Literature
Which book describes the Island of Crespo and the Bay of Vigo? One of the main characters is Doctor
Pierre Aronnax, who rides the Abraham Lincoln in search of a sea monster. The sea monster turns out to be
a submarine headed by Captain Nemo.
ANSWER: Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea
Tiebreaker #1
(Note to moderator: The ‘’ signs are just there to make it easier for you to know when to pause.) Which
shape are you using if you use the formula the quantity b-a end quantity divided by 2n all multiplied by f of
‘x sub zero’ plus two times f of ‘x sub 1’ plus two times f of ‘x sub 2’ etcetera? This formula is used to
approximate areas by breaking a graph down into a bunch of quadrilaterals each of which has two vertical
sides and at least one horizontal side.

ANSWER: Trapezoid (Rule)
Tiebreaker #2
Variations of this noun exist in Greek and Latin. According to one definition, it refers to anyone who
expresses a reasoned opinion. According to another definition, it refers to anyone who expresses a harsh
opinion. What is this six-letter word beginning with the letter C?
ANSWER: Critic
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get the last name of a President: DORF
ANSWER: (Gerald) Ford

