1. Technology
(Note to moderator: IEEE is often pronounced ‘I Triple E’.) Your answer should be the four-letter name
most commonly used for this technology. It often uses the IEEE 802.11b standard, but many sources are
upgrading to IEEE 802.11g. Identify this network connection from a central source which uses radio waves
to broadcast to computers within 300 feet or more. It is used by some schools and internet cafes.
ANSWER: WiFi
2. British Literature
Jane falls in love with Bingley, and Collins marries Charlotte Lucas. These events take place in which Jane
Austen novel featuring Elizabeth Bennet?
ANSWER: Pride And Prejudice
3. Physics
Which phenomenon was first discovered by Heinrich Hertz in 1887? Its study over the next eighteen years
led to the discovery that frequency is very closely related to energy for light. The explanation of this
phenomenon won a Nobel Prize for Albert Einstein.
ANSWER: Photoelectric (Effect)
4. Pop Culture
As an actor, who portrayed Mars Blackmon, a character obsessed with Michael Jordan? He is better known
for directing School Daze, Do the Right Thing, Jungle Fever, Malcolm X, Summer of Sam, The Original
Kings of Comedy, and 25th Hour. Born with the first name Shelton, he often attends New York Knicks
games.
ANSWER: (Shelton ‘Spike’) Lee
5. Religion/Mythology
Though many church members think otherwise, which popular Protestant denomination is probably an
offshoot of Congregationalism? Adherents claim that they have no human founder. Their most distinct belief
is that the act they are named after must be done only by believers and must involve complete immersion.
ANSWER: Baptist(s)
6. United States History
Give the first and last name of the man who often said, “Some men see things as they are and say why. I
dream things that never were and say why not.” He achieved national prominence in the late 1950s for
investigating Jimmy Hoffa and soon thereafter became Attorney General. While running for President in
1968, he won the California primary. Just after giving his victory speech, he was assassinated by Sirhan
Sirhan.
ANSWER: Robert (or Bobby) Kennedy (prompt on Kennedy)
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Solve the equation: 0.2x + 1.4 = 0.7x – 1.2
ANSWER: 5.2 (or 5&1/5 or 26/5)

8. Current Events
Though his father was an Orthodox Jew, he was raised as a Baptist and is now a Catholic. Two recent
books he has written are Waging Modern War and Winning Modern Wars. Name this former General who
is currently running for President.
ANSWER: (General Wesley) Clark
9. World Literature
Who was born with the name Jean-Baptiste Poquelin? This seventeenth century Frenchman wrote many
comedic plays, including The Affected Young Ladies, The School for Wives, Tartuffe, and The Misanthrope.
ANSWER: Moliere
10. Biology
(Note to moderator: ‘Meave’ is pronounced Mave, with one syllable) The sons of the family are Jonathan,
Philip, and Richard. Richard married Meave, and their oldest daughter is Louise. Identify this family headed
by the now-deceased Louis and Mary, who married in 1936. These Kenyan archeologists are famous for
their discoveries of many hominoids.
ANSWER: (The) Leakey(s)
11. Language Arts
It can be defined as something factual, empirical, actually the case, or spatiotemporal. Name this two-letter
word that confused Bill Clinton which can also be defined as the present third person singular form of to be.
ANSWER: Is
12. Music
Because there was not a lot of classical music written for his favorite instrument, he spent a lot of time
transcripting old works and influencing living composers. Name this Spaniard who passed away in 1987
after spending about ninety years playing the guitar.
ANSWER: (Andres) Segovia
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give your answers in degrees. Find all angles theta between 0 degrees and 360 degrees such that the tangent
of theta is equal to the square root of three.
ANSWER: 60 (degrees) & 240 (degrees) (either order)
14. World History
Which national leader launched the New Life Movement in 1934? He appeared to be at the peak of his
powers at the end of World War Two with the defeat of the Japanese, but he would be exiled only four years
later. Name the man who ruled China between Sun Yat-Sen and Mao Tse-Tung. His widow passed away
two weeks ago.
ANSWER: Chiang (Kai-shek) (prompt on Kai-shek or shek)
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
The name for which weather phenomenon came from a military analogy? It can be classified as equatorial,

polar, occluded, warm, or cold. It is a transition zone between two air masses often accompanied by
precipitation and low barometric pressure.
ANSWER: Front (or Frontal Zone)
16. United States Literature
Who wrote a trilogy whose books were The Financier, The Titan, and The Stoic? Often compared with Zola,
this early twentieth century author also wrote Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy.
ANSWER: (Theodore) Dreiser
17. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
For this problem, use 58.5 as the molar mass of sodium chloride and round your answer to the nearest
whole number. What is the molality of a solution if 117 grams of sodium chloride are dissolved in 500
grams of water?
ANSWER: 4 (Molal)
18. Calculus/Math History (10 Seconds)
Like Lobachevsky, this nineteenth century mathematician devised alternative geometries, and there is a curve
and a space named after him. His name is also used for the process of approximating the area under a curve
by using thin rectangles. Name this German mathematician whose last name begins with the letter R.
ANSWER: (Georg Friedrich Bernhard) Riemann
19. Art/Architecture
Though he died in 1891 at the age of 31, who left a lasting effect on the art world? He was one of the first
painters to move beyond both classical painting and Impressionism, and his paintings are in a distinctive
style that may have been based on his early use of crayons. Name the artist of A Sunday Afternoon on the
Island of La Grande Jatte.
ANSWER: (Georges) Seurat
20. Nonfiction
Born in Transylvania, this writer has spent most of his life in the United States. He has written several
accounts of his life and the philosophical issues it has raised, and doing so won him the 1986 Nobel Peace
Prize. Name the Holocaust survivor whose works include The Testament, The Accident, and Night.
ANSWER: (Elie) Wiesel
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1
The first commercial one in 1947 weighed 750 pounds, cost five thousand dollars, and required plumbing in
order to cool. It was not until 1976 that they became commercially successful in the United States. What
now common technology was invented when Percy Spencer, while playing with a magnetron, noticed that
the candy bar in his pocket had melted?
ANSWER: Microwave (Ovens)

Tiebreaker #2
It contains a mosque on one side and a jawab to balance it on the other, both of which are red sandstone. The
entire complex was built during the seventeenth century and is best know for its mausoleum and minarets,
which are covered in white marble. Identify this site on the Jumna River in Agra, India.
ANSWER: Taj Mahal
Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation NH?
ANSWER: New Hampshire

