1. Technology
What word is used by Microsoft for both a Windows feature and a separate piece of software? The
Windows feature was in the news yesterday because its exploitation by D-Squared Solutions was criticized
by the FTC. Over the past few years, use of the software has increased the animosity between Microsoft and
AOL.
ANSWER: Messenger
2. British Literature
Which play opens with one character flipping a coin and saying the word “Heads” five times? The two
protagonists sometimes play a game called Questions. Like many characters throughout the play, they are
taken from Hamlet. Name this absurdist work by Tom Stoppard.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead
3. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which quantity, often represented with a lower case Greek rho, is very small in silver and copper and very
large in glass and rubber? It is equal to resistance times cross sectional area divided by length and is usually
measured in ohm meters.
ANSWER: Resistivity (answer much match exactly)
4. Pop Culture (30 Seconds)
In alphabetical order, without correcting yourself, and with all pauses totaling at most three seconds, name
the Seven Dwarfs. Make sure that you name them straight in alphabetical order.
ANSWER: Bashful, Doc, Dopey, Grumpy, Happy, Sleepy, and Sneezy
5. Religion/Mythology
Which creature lived in a swamp in Lerna? It was killed with the assistance of Iolaus, who brought a
burning brand. The brand was necessary because whenever one head of the creature was chopped off, two
grew in its place. By searing eight of the necks and burying the immortal head under a rock, Hercules was
able to complete his second labor.
ANSWER: (The) Hydra
6. United States History
Handout; ANSWERS: Top Row 3 2, Bottom Row 1 4 5
7. Algebra (60 Seconds)
Find the sum of the series that starts out with the terms 10+12+14+16 and ends with the last term 40. It has
fewer than forty terms.
ANSWER: 400
8. Current Events
You can give either the full name or the acronym. This organization was formed in 1964 in reaction to an
unprovoked army attack on farmers. It is difficult to say what has been most damaging to its image:
hijacking a plane to kidnap a senator, murdering a man whose twelve-year-old son was dying of cancer,

killing thirteen people during Alvaro Uribe’s inauguration, or just the regular terrorism it carries out almost
daily. Name this Colombian organization which may be spreading into Peru.
ANSWER: FARC (or Fuerzas Armadas Revolucianarias de Colombia or Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia)
9. World Literature
Which poet was awarded knighthood in 1915 but repudiated it in 1919 after the Amritsar Massacre? His
books of poetry include Manasi and Gitanjali, and he made many attempts to bring together Western and
Indian literature. Name this 1913 Nobel Prize winner who lived much of his life in what is now Bangladesh.
ANSWER: (Rabindranath) Tagore
10. Biology
Which substances, first discovered in 1935, are 20-carbon fatty acid derivatives containing a 5-carbon ring?
They can affect blood pressure, blood clotting, ion transport, and muscle contraction. Aspirin works by
preventing the synthesis of these chemicals because they also sensitize nerve endings.
ANSWER: Prostaglandin(s)
11. Language Arts
Though it does not appear in dictionaries, this adjective is in a poetry collection and musical to describe the
moon and, more importantly, cats. It was coined by TS Eliot, who based it on a mispronunciation by his
niece of the words ‘Dear Little’.
ANSWER: Jellicle
12. Music
Handout; ANSWERS: (Wolfgang Amadeus) Mozart, (Sir Edward) Elgar, (Gioacchino) Rossini, (Edvard)
Grieg
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (60 Seconds)
If x is in the first quadrant and the cosine of x equals 0.62, find the value of the cosine of the quantity x over
2. Give a single answer.
ANSWER: (0).9 (or 9/10)
14. World History
What English name is commonly given to the war from 1701 to 1713 that included the Battle of Blenheim?
The main cause was the death of Charles Hapsburg the Second. He was childless, and European powers
disagreed as to whether Philip the Fifth or Leopold the First should take his place.
ANSWER: (War of the) Spanish Succession
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Sometimes categorized as Munich 15040 or as LFT 1385, which star was named after the man who
discovered it in 1916? It moves very quickly, and in a few thousand years it may be the star closest to our
Sun.
ANSWER: Barnard(‘s Star)

16. United States Literature
Give the first name of the 1918 title character who is left at the altar by Larry Donovan. Her last name
Shimerda, and at one point she is fired for attending dances. Name this character created by Willa Cather.
ANSWER: (My) Antonia (Shimerda)
17. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Which term, coming from the Greek word for impassable, refers to expansions or contractions that take
place without the loss or gain of heat? This term begins with the letter A.
ANSWER: Adiabatic
18. Calculus/Math History (180 Seconds)
Handout; ANSWER: 5Pi/3
19. Art/Architecture
It was supposed to portray Eustache de Saint Pierre, but the sculptor insisted on adding five other heroes.
Which 1884 work portrays a French tragedy that occurred in 1347? It was created by Auguste Rodin.
ANSWER: (The) Burghers of Calais
20. Nonfiction
This manual is divided into thirteen books. The first book shows how trigonometry can be used to predict
the paths of astronomical objects. The second shows how spherical trigonometry is useful in cartography.
The entire work was very influential from the time it was written in the second century BC until some of its
ideas were proved wrong in the seventeenth century AD. Identify this work by Ptolemy.
ANSWER: Almagest
21. Technology
Which corporation was founded in 1964 by an MIT professor who was disappointed when trying to buy a
new stereo? It is best known for acoustimass speakers and noise canceling headsets.
ANSWER: Bose (Corporation)
22. British Literature
Which poem begins with the line, “The sea is calm tonight,” and ends with the line, “Where ignorant armies
clash by night”? First published in 1867, it was written by Matthew Arnold and named after a location on
the English Channel.
ANSWER: Dover Beach
23. Physics (60 Seconds)
Let the acceleration due to gravity equal ten meters per square second. Find the exact acceleration of an
object sitting on a ramp if the coefficient of friction is 0.6 and the ramp is tilted at a forty-five degree angle.
Make sure you include units.
ANSWER: 2 Root 2 Meters per Square Second (or meters per second squared, do not accept meters per
second) (accept -2 Root 2)

24. Pop Culture
Handout; ANSWERS: (BA)C(SP)R(OBP)W, CWR, WCR, CRW, WCR
25. Religion/Mythology
th
Your answer should be a thirteen-letter word. A ceremony of this type on October 19 drew three hundred
thousand people and included a blood sample. Name this limited form of canonization that permits the
worship of a person by a Catholic. Dead people often go through this process years before being declared a
saint.

ANSWER: Beatification
26. United States History
Which Revolutionary War battle was won easily thanks to American spies who supplied lots of hard liquor
for Hessian Christmas parties? The battle lasted fifteen minutes and was followed a week later by a surprise
attack that scattered British troops. Name this George Washington victory which followed the crossing of
the Delaware.
ANSWER: (Battle of) Trenton
27. Algebra (60 Seconds)
Not including numbers that begin with zero, how many three-digit numbers are odd?
ANSWER: 450
28. Current Events
Which member of the US House of Representatives represents the area that includes many of San
Francisco’s tourist attractions? She recently described President Bush’s economic record as, “Three trillion
dollars deeper in debt, three million fewer jobs.” Name the House Minority Leader.
ANSWER: (Nancy) Pelosi
29. World Literature
Which French writer and his wife were known early in his career as ‘the Angkor Wat robbers’? At the end
of his career, he would become a friend of Picasso and an art critic, writing Voices of Silence. An observer
of the humanistic sides of revolutionaries, he wrote The Conquerors, The Walnut Trees of Altenburg, Man’s
Hope, and Man’s Fate.
ANSWER: (Andre) Malraux
30. Biology
Handout; ANSWERS: Top to Bottom: CEBAD
31. Language Arts
Which word is defined as of, relating to, or constituting a verb form that represents an attitude toward a
denoted act not as fact but as something entertained in thought as possible? This mood can be contrasted
with imperative or indicative.
ANSWER: Subjunctive

32. Music
Though he studied under classical musicians, his primary early influence was Duke Ellington. He composed
a good deal of music, including an arrangement titled Epitath which was first performed in 1989, ten years
after his death. Name the musician who recorded Tijuana Moods and Let My Children Hear Music who
played the double bass. His autobiographies were titled Beneath The Underdog and More Than a Fake
Book.
ANSWER: (Charles) Mingus
33. Geometry/Trigonometry (60 Seconds)
Give an exact answer and remember to include units. Find the volume of a square-based pyramid if each
edge is 1 centimeter long.
ANSWER: Root 2 Over 6 Cubic Centimeters
34. World History
Who was born with the name Prince Mutsuhito but changed his name to a word meaning ‘enlightened
government’? He was the first emperor to live in Tokyo and has a shrine in his honor in the center of the
city. Name this emperor who ruled from 1867 to 1912, replacing the shogunate and thus restoring imperial
rule.
ANSWER: (Emperor) Meiji
35. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
It was heard over two thousand miles away and caused tidal waves as large as 120 feet high. Sunsets around
the world looked different for a year afterwards. Name the volcano that erupted on August 27, 1883 in
Indonesia.
ANSWER: Krakatoa
36. United States Literature
Handout; ANSWERS: 54123
37. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Which seven-letter adjective means capable of being drawn out without breaking, especially into wire or
thread? It is usually applied to metals.
ANSWER: Ductile
38. Calculus/Math History (10 Seconds)
In 1828, who wrote An Essay on the Application of Mathematical Analysis to Electricity and Magnetism?
This was one of the earliest books to apply multivariable calculus to physics, and it led to a fundamental
theorem of multivariable calculus being named after this writer.
ANSWER: (George) Green
39. Art/Architecture
Squares With Concentric Circles, Houses In Munich, and lots of improvisations and color studies were
done by which early twentieth century painter? Considered by some people to be the founder of abstract art,

he was born in Russia and spent much of his life in Germany and France.
ANSWER: (Wassily) Kandinsky
40. Nonfiction
This 1979 book has a lot to do with artificial intelligence. Subtitled An Eternal Golden Braid, it looks at how
three very different people set and then broke their own rules. Name this work by Douglas Hofstadter which
names in its title a mathematician, a graphical artist, and a composer.
ANSWER: Godel, Escher, Bach
FIRST TIEBREAKER
Which author and playwright also wrote the songs “Poor Little Rich Girl” and “Mad Dogs and
Englishmen”? His autobiographies were titled Present Indicative, Future Indefinite, and Past Conditional.
Identify this comic playwright who had many hits between the World Wars and also wrote the serious play
The Vortex.
ANSWER: (Sir Noel) Coward
He was born in Poland but moved to Palestine at the age of twenty. During World War Two, he encouraged
Jews to join the British army and, against British orders, helped Jews escape from Poland to Palestine.
Name this Zionist who in the late 1940s became the first Prime Minister of Israel.
ANSWER: (David) Ben-Gurion (or Gruen, prompt on Gurion)
(60 Seconds)
Find the only intersection point for the system of equations: x2+y2=32 and x-y=8.
ANSWER: (4,-4) (or x=4 and y=-4)
According to Greek mythology, which constellation is the body of Callisto? It contains the Big Dipper, and
its name in Latin means Great Bear.
ANSWER: Ursa Major (prompt on Ursa, Bear, or Great Bear)
What four-letter term can be used in British English to describe a swamp or spongy soil? Here in the States,
it refers to a plant of the class Musci. It is a simple plant which usually grows on the sides of trees.
ANSWER: Moss
SECOND TIEBREAKER
For putting an image of himself on the shield of Athena, who was imprisoned for the rest of his life? Name
this sculptor who oversaw the building of one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World in addition to
public buildings throughout Athens. He supervised the building of the Parthenon.
ANSWER: Phidias
Who won a Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award for a book about a group of computer engineers
designing a 32-bit supercomputer? In addition to that book, The Soul of a New Machine, this author has
written House, Home Town, and Among School Children.
ANSWER: (Tracy) Kidder

Which poem begins: “By the rude bridge that arched the flood, their flag to April’s breeze unfurled, here
once the embattled farmers stood, and fired the shot heard round the world.” This Ralph Waldo Emerson
work commemorated the beginning of the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Concord Hymn
(60 Seconds)
For this problem, use the approximation that the sine of 18 degrees equals 0.309, and remember to include
units in your answer. Find the area of a decagon with an apothem of 10 centimeters.
ANSWER: 309 square centimeters
What is the only alkali metal to form a normal oxide and a nitride? The first element in a group often has
some different properties than the rest of the group, but in most periodic tables this element is the second one
in the column. Identify element number three.
ANSWER: Lithium
A controversy over the use of which computer key almost led to a lawsuit last month against Alex
Halderman? Halderman, a graduate student at Princeton, claims that holding down this key as a CD is
inserted into the drive blocks SunnComm’s MediaMax CD-3 copy-protection software. His report caused
SunComm to lose ten million dollars.
ANSWER: Shift
THIRD TIEBREAKER
Name the sister of Ismene who tries to get her brother a proper burial. This attempt brings her into conflict
with her uncle Creon. This daughter of Oedipus is the subject of a tragedy by Sophocles.
ANSWER: Antigone
Give the abbreviation or full name for the file format created by Compuserve in 1987 which is created by the
LZW compression algorithm. Because Unisys did not extend the patent on the algorithm when it expired in
June, files in this format are now legally available in Freeware. Though it is limited to 256 colors, this format
is a popular way of storing pictures.
ANSWER: GIF (or Graphic Image File (format))
What adjective is applied to a standard scale with, including the first and last, only eight notes? It is
contrasted with a chromatic scale, which includes all sharps, flats, and natural notes.
ANSWER: Diatonic
Who held the NHL records for goals and points before Wayne Gretzky? He played for the Detroit Red
Wings from 1946 to 1971 but did not retire completely from playing until recently. Name the man who was
teammates with his sons during the 1970s and 1980 and is known as Mr. Hockey.
ANSWER: (Gordie) Howe
The Universal Law of Gravitation states that F=Gm1m2/d2. Using this formula, what is the formula for
Gravitational Potential Energy? It is equal to the antiderivative of force with respect to distance.
ANSWER: (E=) -Gm1m2/d (+C)

