1. American Literature
Which 1962 novel is narrated by a man six feet, seven inches tall who pretends to be deaf and dumb? Much
of his narrative is about Randle McMurphy who, like many of the characters, has been diagnosed as a
psychopath. McMurphy rebels against Nurse Ratched in this Ken Kesey novel.
ANSWER: One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest
2. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
What is the partial pressure of water vapor if there is one atmosphere of total pressure coming from eighteen
grams of water vapor and eighteen grams of hydrogen gas?
ANSWER: 1/10 (atmospheres) (or (0).1 (atmospheres))
3. World History
In the first day of this nineteenth century battle, the allies were lucky to explode an ammunition wagon with
a cannonball, and on the third and final day they killed troops trying to retreat across the Elster River. In
which battle did Sweden, Russia, Austria, and Prussia join against a common enemy? This 1813 fight went
poorly for Napoleon.
ANSWER: (Battle of) Leipzig (or Battle of Nations)
4. Technology
(Note to moderator: The number at the end is 9 billion, 192 million, 631 thousand, 770.) The first one, built
in 1949, used ammonia. Currently, simple ones often use rubidium, while the best use cesium 133. Cesium
133 is used because of its consistency, which can be controlled at exactly 9,192,631,770 Hertz.
ANSWER: Atomic Clock(s) (prompt on clock)
5. Language Arts
Poems in this form are often broken into four-line stanzas. The first and third lines do not rhyme and are
eight syllables each, while the second and fourth lines do rhyme and are six syllables each. Dating back to
the Middle Ages, they were often sung. In modern popular culture, this word usually refers to a sentimental
song with a slow tempo, especially when it is performed by a hard rock group.
ANSWER: Ballad(s)
6. Algebra (10 Seconds)
What do you call functions whose inverses are also functions? These functions pass the horizontal line test
because there is no output value that is used more than once.
ANSWER: One-to-one (accept Injective, prompt Bijective, do not accept Surjective)
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
What is the common name for humus, but not the kind of humus you would eat? Technically not considered
a fertilizer, it is used to condition soil. Name this natural soil treatment that attracts microbes.
ANSWER: Compost
8. Music
Which instrument was greatly influenced by Theobald Boehm in the nineteenth century? We know that it has

existed in different forms for a long time thanks to an Egyptian drawing from five thousand years ago.
Name this instrument which gained popularity in the early eighteenth century thanks in part to sonatas by
Handel. It has replaced the recorder in orchestras and has existed since the fourth century BC in its
transverse form.
ANSWER: Flute
9. Religion/Mythology
Which god’s eyes were the sun and the moon? Some stories claimed that he turned into the pharaoh Menes,
and some claimed that he killed his brother Seth. Name this Egyptian god associated with falcons and light.
ANSWER: Horus
10. Biology
Your body has a few million of these tubes, and each one contains a capsule, a loop, and some tubules.
What are these objects that filter blood, allowing the creation of urine by the kidneys?
ANSWER: Nephron(s)
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Ignore units and give your answer in terms of pi. What is the volume of the object generated by rotating the
2
graph of y=x around the x-axis between x=0 and x=2?

ANSWER: 32Pi/5 (or 6.4Pi or (32/5)Pi or equivalent)
12. Nonfiction
Who sometimes cowrote works with Anna Schwartz or his wife Rose? His earlier books include A Theory
of the Consumption Function and A Program for Monetary Stability. His ideas included the Money Supply
Growth Rule, which established him as a monetarist, and the Natural Rate of Unemployment, which
established him as anti-Keynes. Name this 1976 Nobel Prize winner who is now 92 years old.
ANSWER: (Milton) Friedman
13. Pop Culture
Videos include King George and the Ducky, Josh and the Big Wall, Dave and the Giant Pickle, and Very
Silly Songs. Name this animated series hosted by Bob the Tomato and Larry the Cucumber. Their movie
was titled Jonah.
ANSWER: Veggie Tales
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
A ten kilogram object has an initial velocity of twenty-five meters per second. What will its final velocity be
if there is a force in the direction opposite of the motion of five Newtons that lasts for ten seconds?
ANSWER: 20 Meters Per Second
15. British Literature
Which Shakespeare character’s first words are: “Of honourable reckoning are you both; And pity ‘tis you
lived at odds so long. But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?” By suit, he is asking to marry the lord’s
thirteen-year-old daughter. The father eventually agrees, but the daughter does not. Name this other suitor of

Juliet.
ANSWER: (Count or County) Paris
16. American History
Whose real name was either Mary Hays McCauly or Mary Ludwig Hays? She became famous on June
th

28 , 1778 at the Battle of Monmouth. While delivering water to troops, she noticed that her husband was
wounded and took his place at a cannon, and she was later recognized by George Washington for her
heroism in battle.
ANSWER: (‘Sergeant’ Molly) Pitcher
17. Art/Architecture
The man portrayed in the lower right corner of this painting in a sleeveless shirt and backwards chair is a
famous artist, while the woman sitting across from him at the table wearing fancy clothes is a seamstress
who would later marry the painting’s creator. She is holding up her dog. Name this 1881 masterpiece by
Pierre-Auguste Renoir.
ANSWER: (The) Luncheon of the Boating Party (or En déjeuner à Bougival)
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (10 Seconds)
2

The inverse of this function is the natural log of the quantity x plus the square root of the quantity x +1. Its
graph near the origin is similar to the graph of the cubic function, but it grows much faster as x gets large.
Name this function whose equation is one-half of the quantity ex-e-x.
ANSWER: Hyperbolic Sine (do not accept Sine, prompt on Sinch or S-I-N-H, do not accept Hyperbolic
Cosine)
19. Current Events
Who was an executive at ABC when shows such as Happy Days and Welcome Back Kotter made it the
most popular network? He then moved to Paramount and helped make it the most popular movie studio. He
got his biggest job in 1994 when Jeffrey Katzenberg was passed over for his current position. He is now in
trouble because of a sweetheart deal he gave his friend Michael Ovitz. Name this man often criticized by
Roy Disney.
ANSWER: (Michael) Eisner
20. World Literature
The father struck while the iron was cold, put the cart before the horse, and bit off more than he could chew.
The son went to Paris and befriended Panurge. Works written about them in the middle of the sixteenth
century added over five hundred words to the French language. Name this pair described by François
Rabelais.
ANSWER: Gargantua and Pantagruel (or La Vie de Gargantua et de Pantagruel)
Tiebreaker #1
As a teenager, which psychologist wrote published works about animal behavior? As an adult, he would use
the term equilibration to describe how new experiences are assimilated into a child’s understanding of the
world. Name this Swiss psychologist known for developing the Sensory Motor, Preoperational, Concrete

Operational, and Formal Operational stages in child development.
ANSWER: (Jean) Piaget
Tiebreaker #2
Which complex includes the Freer Gallery of Art, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and National
Collection of Fine Arts? Formed in 1846, it is named after an Englishman who left money in his will to
increase human knowledge in the United States. Name this Washington, DC institution which also includes
the Air and Space Museum.
ANSWER: Smithsonian (accept longer answers)
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get the last name of a President: OOERVH
ANSWER: (Herbert) Hoover

