1. Technology
Which 1970s technology may soon be replaced by radio frequency identification? The new technology will
send messages saying when products have expired or when prescriptions have not been picked up and may
eventually help people keep track of their home inventories. The old technology can still be found on a very
large percentage of commodities in stores.
ANSWER: (Universal Product Code) Bar Code(s) (accept equivalents)
2. British Literature
Who wrote The Corsair, which sold ten thousand copies on its first day of publication in 1814? Very
popular during his own lifetime, he often wrote poems with protagonists who went on many adventures.
Identify the writer of Lara, Child Harold’s Pilgrimage, and Don Juan.
th
ANSWER: (George Gordon ‘Lord’) Byron, (6 Baron)

3. Physics (30 Seconds)
Two children with masses of 30 kilograms and 40 kilograms are playing on a seesaw and want it to be
evenly balanced. How far away from the pivot point should the larger child sit if the lighter child sits 12 feet
away from the pivot point?
ANSWER: 9 Feet
4. Pop Culture
Some recent box scores add a column for batting averages, and others add even more columns. In order,
however, what are the traditional four columns used for batters in baseball box scores?
ANSWER: AB R H RBI (or At Bats / Runs / Hits / Runs Batted In) (be generous, but the order must be
correct)
5. Religion/Mythology
The first speech is about wandering in the wilderness, the second is about Israel’s obligation to God, and the
third is about what God will do for Israel. Together, these three speeches form a book, which if you are
Christian is in the Old Testament and if you are Jewish is in the Torah. Name this book whose name
translates as Second Law.
ANSWER: Deuteronomy
6. United States History
Who chaired the town committee formed after the Boston Massacre to demand the removal of British
troops? He was later forced to flee British troops to Philadelphia, where he tried unsuccessfully to be
appointed as the Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army. He instead became President of the
Continental Congress, which made him the first signer of the Declaration of Independence.
ANSWER: (John) Hancock
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
7
Find the coefficient for the term containing x in the simplified binomial expansion of the quantity x+1 end
quantity raised to the eighth power.

ANSWER: 8
8. Current Events
Which leader has a Bachelor’s Degree in geology from CCNY and an MBA from George Washington
University? He spent much of the nineteen nineties as Chairman of America’s Promise: The Alliance for
Youth, which encourages volunteerism. This followed his tenure as Four-Star General and Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff. Name this member of President Bush’s Cabinet.
ANSWER: (Colin) Powell
9. World Literature
Which early twentieth century writer’s first two novels were about a failed student and a failed writer?
Several of his later protagonists were able to transcend their surroundings, including Harry Haller, who
chooses to be called Steppenwolf, and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: (Hermann) Hesse
10. Biology
Derived from the Greek word for home, what general term refers to the scientific study of the
interrelationship between organisms and their environments? This seven-letter word begins with the letter E.
ANSWER: Ecology
11. Language Arts
Which word means ‘add’ when it refers to food but means ‘subtract’ when it refers to wages? It can also
refer to making something fancy. Name this seven-letter word beginning with the letter G.
ANSWER: Garnish
12. Music
In addition to four greatest hits albums, which 1970s supergroup from Los Angeles produced the albums
On The Border, The Long Run, One Of These Nights, Desperado, and Hotel California?
ANSWER: (The) Eagles
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give your answer in degrees. A, B, and C are three points on a circle. If A is at the highest point on the
circle, C is at the leftmost point on the circle, and B is not in the upper left quadrant of the circle, what is the
measure of angle ABC?
ANSWER: 45 (Degrees)
14. World History
Gaining control of his country in 1985, who often used two terms which translate into openness and
restructuring? He oversaw a great reduction in power of his nation, which made him much more popular
outside his country than inside. Name the last leader of the Soviet Union.
ANSWER: (Mikhail) Gorbachev
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography

Which mineralogist is well-known because of work he did in the early nineteenth century? He was
controversial because he thought that physical characteristics were more important than chemical
composition in classifying minerals, and he is best-known for classifying objects based on hardness.
ANSWER: (Friedrich) Mohs (do not accept Moh)
16. United States Literature
Which playwright had a big hit on Broadway in 1959 before dying in 1965 at the age of 34? The hit, which
was the first drama on Broadway written by an African American woman, was A Raisin In The Sun.
ANSWER: (Lorraine) Hansberry
17. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
What type of oxidation-reduction reaction is used on gasoline or coal? These reactions involve oxygen and
produce energy rapidly, often creating a flame.
ANSWER: Combustion
18. Calculus/Math History (10 Seconds)
Which mathematician spent a lot of time raising the number 0.9999999 to higher powers? Doing so allowed
him to make tables that would simplify arithmetic for many people. This sixteenth and seventeenth century
Scottish mathematician developed logarithms.
ANSWER: (John) Napier
19. Art/Architecture
What style of architecture often refers to two-story buildings with one-story wings? It uses horizontal lines
and gently sloping roofs. Often referring to early twentieth century houses built in the Midwest, this style is
associated with Frank Lloyd Wright.
ANSWER: (The) Prairie (Style or School)
20. Nonfiction
In 1952, who wrote The Books In My Life, which described his favorite books? Many of this writer’s
books profile his wild life, which included extended stays in Paris and California after he grew up in
Brooklyn. Identify the author of Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn.
ANSWER: (Henry) Miller
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1 (30 Seconds)
2
Evaluate the integral from x=0 to x=3 of x dx.

ANSWER: 9
Tiebreaker #2
A biographer divided this composer’s career into three periods. The first period ended in 1800 with his first
symphony, the second period ended in 1814 and included Moonlight Sonata, and the third period ended

with his death in 1827. Name this composer, almost unanimously considered the greatest of his era, who
completed nine symphonies.
ANSWER: (Ludwig van) Beethoven
Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation VT?
ANSWER: Vermont

