1. American Novels and Novelists
One of his books claims that the lesson most people learn from the Bible is, "Before you kill somebody,
make absolutely sure he isn't well connected." He is best known for his science fiction, including a story
where alien abductors ask an Earthling about Charles Darwin and golf. All of his books are from different
publishers, and all of the publishers have gone out of business. Name this fictional writer whose biggest fan
is Eliot Rosewater. He goes to a party with Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: (Kilgore) Trout
2. Chemistry
Which classification system uses whether or not a substance accepts or donates protons to determine
whether it is an acid or a base? It is named after a Danish chemist and an English chemist.
ANSWER: Bronsted-Lowry
3. Visual Arts/Man-Made Structures
Which artist painted Jesus Christ crucified to an unfolded hypercube? This artist had a flamboyant
appearance that included a cape and handlebar mustache. Some of his paintings include melting timepieces.
ANSWER: (Salvador) Dali
4. Algebra/General Math (30 Seconds)
What is the square root of 1024? Your answer should be a whole number.
ANSWER: 32 (Accept plus or minus 32 or equivalent)
5. Pop Culture
He had a career 0.69 postseason earned run average and had converted 23 straight postseason save
opportunities. That was before Sunday, when he gave up two runs in the bottom of the ninth inning in Game
Seven of the World Series. Name this New York Yankee relief pitcher.
ANSWER: (Mariano) Rivera
6. United States History
Name the act passed in March 1941 that supposedly made the United States the 'arsenal of democracy'.
Though it at first only applied to Great Britain, it was extended three months later to the Soviet Union. This
allowed the United States to transfer military goods and other aid to countries opposing Germany.
ANSWER: Lend-Lease (Act)
7. Religion/Mythology
Who protected her infant son Horus from her brother Set? Her most important functions included
motherhood, marital devotion, healing the sick, and the working of magical spells and charms, and she was
married to her brother Osiris.
ANSWER: Isis
8. Physics (10 Seconds)
In 1971, this physicist theorized how black holes could have been formed by The Big Bang. In 1974, he
described how black holes could emit radiation, and this radiation was named after him. Name this best-

selling author of A Brief History of Time who once made a guest appearance on The Simpsons despite his
inability to speak.
ANSWER: (Stephen) Hawking
9. Current Events
Which corporation benefited from a ruling Wednesday saying that a five billion dollar punitive damage
ruling against it was excessive? This ruling stemmed from an oil spill in 1989 near the coast of Alaska
caused by the crash of the tanker Valdez.
ANSWER: Exxon (Exxon-Mobil should have been acceptable)
10. World Literature
Which Greek writer appears in Plato's Symposium, telling a myth about a man-woman who is split into two
pieces? One of this writer's own comedies concerns an argument in Hades between Aeschylus and
Euripides in which they sharply criticize each other's works. His other works include Clouds, Wasps, Birds,
and Lysistrata.
ANSWER: Aristophanes
11. Precalculus/Calculus (30 Seconds)
There are no parentheses in this problem--use the standard order of operations. What is the derivative of five
2
2
times x plus five divided by x ?

ANSWER: 10x-10x-3 (or 10x-10/x3, or students can add a negative instead of using subtraction)
12. Geography/Earth Science/Astronomy
Which country borders Lithuania, Latvia, Russia, Ukraine, and Poland? Its location has been tragic because
it received much of the fallout from the Chernobyl nuclear explosion. The territory's traditional capital was
Vilnius, but the country's current capital is Minsk. Name this country known as White Russia.
ANSWER: Belarus
13. Language Arts/Reference Sources
Sometimes considered a synonym of armageddon, what noun is defined as a prophetic revelation? Derived
from the Greek word for uncover, it is associated with Jewish and Christian writings in which God destroys
the wicked and raises the righteous to life. Give this word beginning with the letter A.
ANSWER: Apocalypse (do not accept apocalyptic)
14. Technology
This was first proposed by Ronald Reagan in March 1983, and has been pushed by George W Bush and
Donald Rumsfeld. The original proposal was that space-based and earth-based laser battle stations would
shoot down Russian ICBMs. Critics have claimed that the plan is unworkable, economically inefficient, and
likely to escalate the arms race.
ANSWER: Star Wars (or SDI or Strategic Defense Initiative)
15. Music
Which rock group, popular in the early nineteen eighties, consisted of Stewart Copeland, Andy Summers,

and Gordon Sumner? Some of their albums included Ghost In The Machine and Synchronicity, and their hit
songs included Roxanne and Every Breath You Take. Gordon Sumner is much better known as Sting.
ANSWER: (The) Police
16. Nonfiction
It was published in two volumes in 1925 and 1927, and an abridged version came out in 1930. By the end
of the 1930s, over five million copies had been sold. Its original title translates as Four and a Half Years of
Struggle Against Lies, Stupidity, and Cowardice. The first volume, dictated in prison, states what the author
wants revenge for, while the second volume gives his plan for achieving revenge. Name this book whose
title when translated from German is My Struggle.
ANSWER: Mein Kampf (prompt on My Struggle)
17. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
How many petals will the rose have that is given by the polar equation r equals the cosine of four theta?
ANSWER: 8
18. American Dramas, Poems, and Short Stories
Which 1949 poetry collection contained portraits of a girl from the South Side of Chicago at different stages
of her life? It won a 1950 Pulitzer Prize for Gwendolyn Brooks.
ANSWER: Annie Allen
19. Biology
Which phase of mitosis consists of the separation of paired centromeres? This phase takes place between
metaphase and telophase.
ANSWER: Anaphase
20. World History
He was born in 1869 and went to England to study law in 1888. Many of his first jobs were in South
Africa, and when he left a South African General declared, "The saint has left our shores, I hope forever."
Name this man who first became famous opposing the Rowlatt Bills, which allowed the British to imprison
without trial those charged with sedition in India.
ANSWER: (Mohandas Karamchand 'Mahatma') Gandhi
TIEBREAKER QUESTIONS
Ties are sudden death--the first correct answer ends the match. If a question from the match needs to be
thrown out, it should be replaced by the corresponding question from the replacement packet.
This is the name shared by two orders of mammals. They include tapirs, deer, and rhinoceroses. Name this
term for animals with hooves.
ANSWER: Ungulate(s) (or Ungulata)
The device this man is credited with inventing was actually developed in a cruder form in China four
hundred years earlier. Name the fifteenth century German craftsman whose device was used without
significant changes until the last fifty years to mass-produce books and newspapers.

ANSWER: (Johannes) Gutenberg
Spell the six-letter word beginning with the letter Z that is a genus of flowering herbs. Spell the word
ZINNIA.

