1. World Literature
Which writer of short stories and plays became a doctor in 1884? His short stories include The Steppe,
Ward Number Six, and The Black Monk, while his plays include Three Sisters, Uncle Vanya, and The
Cherry Orchard.
ANSWER: (Anton) Chekhov
2. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Give your answer as one number. If order does not matter, in how many ways can five people be chosen
from a group of seven? That is, what is the value of seven combination five?
ANSWER: 21
3. Biology
This five-letter term usually is associated with astronomy, but it is a part of your anatomy as well. It is
formed by parts of the maxilla, zygomatic, palatine, frontal, and sphenoid bones, and it is shaped like a
square-based pyramid. Identify this term for the eye socket.
ANSWER: Orbit
4. United States History
The current President is not the first one named George Bush to have several business scandals during his
administration. Which type of institution was bailed out with 157 billion dollars of tax money in 1989?
These were similar to banks and started out as home mortgage institutions in the 1930s but expanded during
deregulation in the 1980s. One belonged to Charles Keating, who ended up in jail.
ANSWER: Saving(s) and Loan(s) (accept S&L(s))
5. Pop Culture
A layer of rubber from Batesville, Mississippi is applied to the cork core. Then 369 yards of Vermont wool
are wrapped around. In a factory in Costa Rica, two pieces of cowhide from Tennessee are added using 88
inches of waxed thread. What object, weighing five ounces and having a nine-inch circumference, is thus
created?
ANSWER: Baseball (accept more information)
6. Technology
Since opening for business in April, 1998, what company has sold over 12 million airline tickets, 6 million
hotel room nights, and 6 million rental car days? You decide what you want and how much you are willing
to pay, and then they try to find you the best deal available.
ANSWER: (www.)Priceline(.com)
7. British Literature
Before writing fiction, who wrote A Middle English Vocabulary, an edition of Sir Gawain and the Green
Knight, and Beowulf: The Monster and the Critics? He is much better known for a book published in 1937
and a series of books published in 1954, 1955, and 1956. Identify this author who wrote about a sword
named Glamdring, a dragon named Smaug, and a wizard named Gandalf in Middle-Earth.

ANSWER: (John Ronald Reuel) Tolkien
8. Calculus (30 Seconds)
Evaluate the derivative at x=5 of the function x2-10x-7. This problem may be easier to solve graphically than
algebraically because the point is at the vertex of the parabola and the derivative is the slope at that point.
ANSWER: 0
9. Language Arts
What word can mean utter destruction or the loss of one's soul? It showed up this summer in the title of a
movie starring Jude Law, Paul Newman, and Tom Hanks.
ANSWER: (Road To) Perdition
10. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Which famous chemist lived from 1776 to 1856 and spent almost all of his life in Turin, Italy? He correctly
discovered chemical formulas for basic compounds such as water, ammonia, and carbon dioxide. The law he
discovered states that equal volumes of all gases at the same temperature and pressure contain the same
23
number of molecules, and he is closely associated with the number 6.02 times 10 .

ANSWER: (Lorenzo Romano Amedeo Carlo) Avogadro(, conte di Quaregna e Cerreto)
11. World History
In Europe, these began in the thirteenth century and ended in 1820, though they may have continued after
that in Latin America. They would begin with a thirty days' grace period during which people could confess,
and then the trials would begin. Accused people would not know who the witnesses against them were, but
they could submit a list of enemies who could not testify against them. People found guilty were punished
by fines, imprisonment, death, or excommunication.
ANSWER: Inquisition(s)
12. Music
(Note to moderator: No singing, please. Nothing personal.) It was first released as the B-side for the single
Substitute, but it became a Number One hit in 1979. Identify this song which begins with the lyrics, “First I
was afraid I was petrified Kept thinking I could never live without you by my side.” It made a star out of
Gloria Gaynor and is still played by many women after breakups.
ANSWER: I Will Survive
13. United States Literature
This novel follows two related wanderers, one of whom has the habit of petting mice to death. Their names
are Lennie and George. Identify this novel by John Steinbeck.
ANSWER: Of Mice and Men
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
Give the common name of the force that is calculated by multiplying the gravitational field strength times the
volume of fluid displaced times the density of the fluid. It can also be found by subtracting the downward
force caused by fluid pressure from the upward force. This force makes objects lighter in water and can be

strong enough to make objects float. Its name begins with the letter B.
ANSWER: Buoyancy (or Buoyant)
15. Current Events
Whose first name is based on the Italian musical directions to play with sweetness? She spent much of the
1990s as Stanford University’s Provost before serving as the primary foreign policy advisor to the Bush
Presidential Campaign. Identify the current United States National Security Advisor.
ANSWER: (Condoleeza) Rice (prompt on Condoleeza)
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
There are no parentheses in this problem--use the standard order of operations. Simplify the following
expression down to a single trigonometric function: sine cubed of x times secant of x plus sine of x times
cosine of x. [ Image]
ANSWER: Tangent (of) x (or Tan x)
17. Religion/Mythology
These hymns were written before 1000 BC and praise several Gods. They are broken into the four sections
Atharva, Sama, Yajur, and Rig. Identify these early religious works from India.
ANSWER: Veda(s) (accept more specific answer)
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which asterism contains the stars that make up the tail of the bear in Ursa Major? It has throughout history
been considered a plow, a coffin, and the leg of a bull. Name this famous group of seven stars often used to
locate the North Pole.
ANSWER: (The) Big Dipper
19. Nonfiction
(Note to moderator: The names are spelled correctly.) Which book became a surprise best-seller in 1991 and
was later made into a television movie by Oprah Winfrey? It features a disc jockey named Craig, but the two
main characters are Lafeyette and Pharoah, two brothers growing up in a housing project on Chicago's West
Side. Identify this book by Alex Kotlowitz.
ANSWER: There Are No Children Here
20. Art/Architecture
Which art gallery started out as government judiciary offices? It contains many of the best works by Sandro
Botticelli. Identify this major gallery in Florence whose name in Italian means offices.
ANSWER: Uffizi
TIEBREAKERS
What term is sometimes used to refer disparagingly to people from the French part of Canada but is the
nickname of a National Hockey League team in the Western part of Canada?
ANSWER: Canuck

Agostino di Duccio started the work on this sculpture forty years before it was completed by somebody
else. In 1504, it became the first nude statue since ancient times displayed in a public square. It is now
located in Galleria d’Accademia in Florence. Identify this work by Michelangelo that shows a hero about to
do battle with Goliath.
ANSWER: David
TRUE OR FALSE: There is a steward in Shakespeare’s King Lear named Oswald.
ANSWER: True

