1. Technology
Only sixteen were built, and they are being retired. Name the two hundred foot long objects that were built
cooperatively by France and Great Britain. These airplanes travel at twice the speed of sound.
ANSWER: Concorde(s) (prompt on SST or Supersonic Transport)
2. British Literature
Fellowship, Cousin, Kindred, and Goods refuse to accompany him, but Good Deeds goes along. Name this
title character from the late fifteenth century in the most famous English morality play.
ANSWER: Everyman
3. Physics (10 Seconds)
In 1926, who discovered the statistical laws for particles which obey the Pauli Exclusion Principle? Those
particles, which do not have an integer spin number, have since been named after him. He would later move
to the United States after winning the Nobel Prize. His most important discovery came on December 2,
1942, when he controlled a nuclear chain reaction beneath the stadium at the University of Chicago.
ANSWER: (Enrico) Fermi (prompt on fermion)
4. Pop Culture
Senator Joe Biden recently stated, “It looks un-American. It really does. It looks unfair. It looks like a rigged
deal.” The object of his scorn uses two human polls, seven computer polls, strength of schedule, number of
losses, and quality wins. What system is used to determine which football teams will play in the top college
bowl games?
ANSWER: BCS (or Bowl Championship Series)
5. Religion/Mythology
Which word means ‘that which is established’ in Sanskrit? In Buddhism, it refers to an ideal truth, but it is
more often associated with Hinduism and caste customs.
ANSWER: Dharma (do not accept Karma)
6. United States History
Who was elected to the Senate in 1930 but was so busy serving as Governor that he did not take the oath of
office until 1932? He called his agenda “Share the wealth”, and he titled his autobiography Every Man A
King. Identify this controversial Louisiana politician who was assassinated in 1935 by Carl Weiss.
ANSWER: (Huey Pierce ‘Kingfish’) Long
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
2
Find the x-coordinate of the hole in the graph of y equals the quantity x +2x-8 end quantity divided by the

quantity x2-6x+8.
ANSWER: (Positive) 2 (accept (2,-3))
8. Current Events
Which politician has recorded an album with “The Godfather of Soul” James Brown and once worked for

Don King? He has written the books Go And Tell the Pharaoh and Al On America. Name the Reverend
who spent this year running for President.
ANSWER: (Reverend Alfred) Sharpton
9. World Literature
Who completed a collection in 1840 titled A Picture-Book Without Pictures? During his lifetime, he
published 168 tales, including The Tinder-Box, The Snow Queen, The Emperor’s New Suit, and The Little
Mermaid. Name this Danish author.
ANSWER: (Hans Christian) Andersen
10. Biology
Name the sac in which pollen grains develop. Located at the ends of the stamen, the name for this part of the
flower begins with the letter A.
ANSWER: Anther(s)
11. Language Arts
Which word means ‘untying’ in French? As an English literary term, it refers to the outcome of a complex
series of events.
ANSWER: Denouement (the final t is silent, and the final n is almost silent)
12. Music
Which 1960 Lerner and Loewe musical contains the songs “How To Handle A Woman” and “I Wonder
What The King Is Doing Tonight”? It is sometimes linked with the Kennedy Administration.
ANSWER: Camelot
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the value of the difference: the cosine squared of thirty degrees minus the sine squared of thirty
degrees?
ANSWER: (0).5 (or )
14. World History
Who spent the final days of 1989 and beginning of 1990 in an embassy being bombarded by loud rock
music? This ended a career which included toppling the government of Arnulfo Arias, murdering Hugo
Spadafora, laundering drug money, and making himself the leader of Panama. Name this general who was
given a 40-year jail sentence by the United States.
ANSWER: (Manuel) Noriega (Morena)
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which astronomy term comes from the Latin word for cloud? Early astronomers sometimes confused them
with comets or galaxies. Some of the best-known examples are the Orion, Helix, and Crab.
ANSWER: Nebula(e or -s)

16. United States Literature
Give the first and last names of the character who fights for the Communists in the Spanish Civil War
because he is opposed to Fascism, blowing up a bridge near Segovia. He is the protagonist in Ernest
Hemingway’s For Whom The Bell Tolls.
ANSWER: Robert Jordan (prompt on Robert or Jordan)
17. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: pH should be pronounced using the two names of the letters.) Which chemical can be
used as a strong laxative and an acid-base indicator? It is colorless when the pH is below eight but gets very
red when the pH rises above ten.
ANSWER: Phenolphthalein (do not accept Phenol Red)
18. Calculus/Math History (30 Seconds)
2
Find the area between x equals one and x equals infinity under the graph of y=1/x .

ANSWER: (Positive) 1
19. Art/Architecture
Who used a name based on the Dutch town he lived in rather than his birth name of Jeroen van Aecken? He
lived from 1453 to 1516, and his paintings often had religious visions of Hell. Name this painter of The
Seven Deadly Sins, The Ship of Fools, and The Garden of Earthly Delights.
ANSWER: (Hieronymus or Jerome) Bosch (accept Aecken before it is mentioned)
20. Nonfiction
Whose first book was about Robert Moses, a public official who oversaw much of the development of New
York City? His more recent books have included The Path to Power, Means of Ascent, and Master of the
Senate. All of them are about Lyndon Johnson.
ANSWER: (Robert) Caro
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1
Invented at the University of Illinois and first used in 1993, this software was downloaded more than one
million times. Its creators went on to found Netscape, which made the internet a popular destination. Name
the first graphical web browser, which preceded Netscape Navigator.
ANSWER: Mosaic
Tiebreaker #2
Which US State has the years 1847 and 1896 displayed on its state seal? It contains Bryce Canyon, Zion
National Park, and Arches National Monument, and it is the Northwestern state of the Four Corners. This
state also contains the Bonneville Salt Flats, which are in the Great Salt Lake Desert.
ANSWER: Utah

Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation MO?
ANSWER: Missouri

