1. American Literature
Name the poem that ends: “Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave
thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by
life's unresting sea!” This 1858 poem was written by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Senior.
ANSWER: (The) Chambered Nautilus
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
The bacteria and the enzyme that commonly produce this compound are named after it. It has chemical
formula C2H4O2, and it has been known to man since ancient times. Name this chemical produced by
rotting fruit that is a component of vinegar.
ANSWER: Acetic Acid (accept Ethanoic Acid or Methanecarboxylic Acid, prompt on Vinegar)
3. World History
When he married Sophie Chotek, it was agreed that she would not become a royal and that their children
would have no claim to the throne. He became next in line after the suicide of his cousin and the death of his
father Karl Ludwig. This man never got to rule Austria-Hungary, however, because of a very unfortunate
trip to Sarajevo. Tourists to the Czech Republic can now see the bullet that killed this man, fired by Gavrilo
th
Princip on June 28 , 1914.

ANSWER: (Archduke Francis ‘Franz’) Ferdinand
4. Technology
What does the B stand for in BISDN? In terms of data transmission, this word refers to wires that can carry
several channels at once. It can also refer to a type of internet access or any high-capacity communication
link.
ANSWER: Broadband
5. Language Arts
Which seven-letter word refers to a woven or knit cloth or the material used to make a cloth? It can also refer
to the related industry, which is important in many economies.
ANSWER: Textile(s)
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Assume that i is equal to the square root of negative one, and express your answer in the form a+bi.
Multiply the quantity 3+4i times the quantity 2+i.
ANSWER: 2+11i
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
(Note to moderator: the e at the end Meroe makes the sound of a long a.) Named after an ancient nation that
was split into three pieces in later Roman times and is now split between two countries, which region
contains the land between the cities of Elephantine and Meroe? It contains the Belly of Rocks and the
Dongola Bend and is in some ways the successor of Kush. The Upper Region is now mainly in Sudan,
while the Lower Region is in Egypt.

ANSWER: Nubia (accept Ta-Seti, prompt Kush)
8. Music
Which composer wrote an opera in the mid-1890s which took nine years to get performed and was then
roundly criticized? He dedicated many of his last works to friends killed in World War One before being
killed by a German bomb in 1918 himself. Name this composer of “Gardens in the Rain”, “Prelude to The
Afternoon of a Faun”, and “Clair de lune”.
ANSWER: (Claude) Debussy
9. Religion/Mythology
Upon being wounded in battle, who requested to be taken to a nymph who could cure any ailment? Because
she was angry with him, she refused to treat him, and he died. As a boy, he had been sent to live with the
nymph because his father had been warned that the boy would be the downfall of Troy. The warning turned
out to be true, thanks in part to an apple given to Aphrodite.
ANSWER: Paris (or Alexander)
10. Biology
Sometimes ending in the suffix –ale, examples of which level of classification include decapoda, diptera,
rodentia, and primate? This level is more specific than class but less specific than family.
ANSWER: Order
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
3
Evaluate the integral from x=2 to x=4 of x dx.

ANSWER: 60
12. Nonfiction
Which 1963 book has chapters titled The Problem That Has No Name, The Sexual Solipsism of Sigmund
Freud, and The Forfeited Self? It begins: “The problem lay buried, unspoken, for many years in the minds
of American women. It was a strange stirring, a sense of dissatisfaction, a yearning that women suffered in
the middle of the twentieth century in the United States. Each suburban wife struggled with it alone.” It was
written by Betty Friedan.
ANSWER: (The) Feminine Mystique
13. Pop Culture
Which show was about a family who were losers but not quitters? In the seventh season, they got a child
named Seven who slowly disappeared. Name this show that ran from 1987 to 1997 on Fox starring Katey
Segal, Ed O’Neill, David Faustino, and Christina Applegate as the Bundy family.
ANSWER: Married…With Children
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which unit was first used by French and German scientists in the nineteenth century? About 445,000 of
them are equivalent to one pound. This unit is defined as the amount of force necessary to accelerate a mass
of one gram at a rate of one centimeter per second squared.

ANSWER: Dyne
15. British Literature
Other than Hamlet’s father, who is the only character in all of Shakespeare’s plays murdered in his sleep?
His sons Donalbain and Malcolm flee after his death, allowing his murderer, MacBeth, to succeed him as
King.
ANSWER: Duncan
16. American History
He fought in several Revolutionary War battles and spent his older years living off his pension in Sparta,
New York. Which leader, however, is better known for teaming up with Luke Day and Eli Parsons in a
failed effort that led to his death sentence? The sentence, given by the Supreme Court, was not carried out.
He supported farmers’ efforts against foreclosures in 1786 and 1787 in Massachusetts.
ANSWER: (Daniel) Shays
17. Art/Architecture
The coast of Catalonia can be seen in the background, and there is a swarm of ants towards the lower left
corner. The closest thing to a human form lies in the middle of the painting with a tongue coming out of its
nose. Name this 1931 oil painting famous for its melting timepieces.
ANSWER: (The) Persistence of Memory
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What are the coordinates of the point you will end up at if you start at the point (0,2) and rotate
counterclockwise around the origin 150 degrees?
ANSWER: (-1,-Root 3) (order must be correct, and both numbers must be negative)
19. Current Events
Who has served as a leader of the Federal Maritime Commission, Peace Corps, and United Way? This
cabinet member is married to Senator Mitch McConnell. Name the current Secretary of Labor.
ANSWER: (Elaine) Chao (accept Chao McConnell, prompt on McConnell)
20. World Literature
Two of which author’s most memorable characters are Fabrice del Dongo, who participates in the Battle of
Waterloo, and Julien Sorel, who has an affair with a mayor’s wife? Name this author of The Charterhouse
of Parma and The Red and the Black.
ANSWER: Stendhal (or (Henri) Beyle)
Tiebreaker #1 (30 Seconds)
2
Formulas for parabolas are typically written using the format y=ax +bx+c. Find the value of ‘a’ in such an
equation for the parabola that contains the point (5,37) and has its vertex at the point (3,1).

ANSWER: 9

Tiebreaker #2
Name the work that ends: “The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day dawns to
which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star.” One of the characters is
John Field, a poor Irishman who lives nearby at Baker Farm. The first and largest part is titled Economy.
What is this work by Henry David Thoreau?
ANSWER: Walden (or, Life in the Woods)
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get a last name shared by two Presidents: OOEETVRSL
ANSWER: (Teddy and/or Franklin) Roosevelt

