1. Technology
If you surf the internet, you have probably seen this three-digit number a lot. The first digit, a four,
represents a client error, and the second digit, a zero, refers to a general syntax error. The three numbers
together represent a Not Found Error.
ANSWER: 404
2. British Literature
Give the exact four-word phrase which is followed by the following words in a famous sonnet: “though
some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so; For those, whom thou think'st thou dost
overthrow, Die not, poor Death, nor yet canst thou kill me.” The sonnet was written by John Donne.
ANSWER: Death Be Not Proud (answer must match exactly)
3. Physics (10 Seconds)
-19
Which unit is equal to 1.6 times 10 Joules? Though it is a unit of energy, it is sometimes confused for a
unit of electrical potential difference. This unit has a two-word name.

ANSWER: Electron Volt(s) (Answer must match exactly)
4. Pop Culture
Harvey Stern in Deconstructing Harry, Bud Parker in Pleasantville, Homer Wells in The Cider House
Rules, and Red Pollard in Seabiscuit were all portrayed by which actor? He is best known for playing Peter
Parker, who turns into Spiderman.
ANSWER: (Tobey) Maguire (accept more information)
5. Religion/Mythology
Which religion’s sacred texts include the Gathas and the Avesta? It was probably the first religion to use
missionaries and became very popular during the height of the Persian Empire, but it is practiced by only a
few people today. Its prophet is mentioned in the title of a work by Friedrich Nietzsche.
ANSWER: Zoroastrian(ism)
6. United States History
Which late nineteenth century Indian leader was often motivated by a hatred of Mexicans? This Apache
leader twice escaped capture after surrendering, but he was forced to do hard labor after he was captured a
third time. Though he was feared and hated by whites in the 1880s, he eventually made money selling
souvenirs of himself and marched in the 1905 Teddy Roosevelt inaugural parade.
ANSWER: Geronimo (or Goyathlay)
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the only solution to the equation: x minus the square root of x equals ninety.
ANSWER: (Positive) 100
8. Current Events
Which not-for-profit organization is currently headed by John Reed? Reed is being paid one dollar, which is

about 188 million dollars less than his predecessor, Richard Grasso. This organization’s motto is, “The
world puts its stock in us.”
ANSWER: NYSE (or New York Stock Exchange)
9. World Literature
Oddly enough, which playwright’s Communist sympathies caused him to be exiled to the United States? He
fought in World War One for Germany before becoming a pacifist. Name this co-author of The Threepenny
Opera who also wrote Drums in the Night, Galileo, and Mother Courage and Her Children.
ANSWER: (Bertolt) Brecht
10. Biology
(Note to moderator: pH should be pronounced using the two names of the letters.) Which molecules are
useful in preventing pH changes in blood? More importantly, they consist of four polypeptide chains, each
of which contains an iron atom capable of transporting an oxygen molecule.
ANSWER: Hemoglobin
11. Language Arts
This is a spelling question. Spell the legal term which has a meaning similar to deposition. It is a sworn
statement in writing usually made under oath and without cross-examination. Spell this word beginning with
the letter A.
ANSWER: A-F-F-I-D-A-V-I-T
12. Music
Though the quartet he headed often changed, who often played with drummer Elvin Jones, pianist McCoy
Tyner, and bassist Jimmy Garrison? His popularity peaked in the late 1950s and early 1960s after he
recorded Giant Steps, Crescent, and A Love Supreme. Name this jazz tenor saxophonist.
ANSWER: (John) Coltrane
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give your answer as a number. How many cubic inches are there in a cubic foot?
ANSWER: 1728 (Cubic Inches)
14. World History
Which battle appears at the end of the Bayeux Tapestry? Taking place in Sussex, it ended the reign and life
of Harold the Second, and it led to the crowning of William the Conqueror. It took place in 1066.
ANSWER: (Battle of) Hastings
15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
What is defined as a wind blowing part of the year from one direction alternating with a wind from the
opposite direction? This term is often associated with rainy seasons, especially in Southern Asia.
ANSWER: Monsoon(s)

16. United States Literature
It is 2400 square miles and bounded on the North by the Tallahatchie River. Originally inhabited by
Chickasaw Indians, it contains 6298 Whites and 9313 Blacks. Name this area which was mapped out in the
novel Absalom, Absalom and appeared in many works by William Faulkner.
ANSWER: Yoknapatawpha County (prompt on Yoknapatawpha, be generous in accepting answers)
17. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
What pale blue gas is very toxic but important in keeping the Earth habitable? It is used in manufacturing as
an oxidizing agent, but, more importantly, it is very good at absorbing solar ultraviolet radiation. Identify this
allotrope of oxygen.
ANSWER: Ozone (prompt on 03)
18. Calculus/Math History (30 Seconds)
Find the fully simplified derivative for the function f of x equals the natural log of the quantity x2.
ANSWER: 2/x (do not accept answers including absolute value)
19. Art/Architecture
The remains of a picnic are in the lower left corner, while a woman dressed in white appears in the
background. Identify this 1863 painting which showed two clothed men with a naked woman. It brought
attention to the Impressionist movement and Edouard Manet.
ANSWER: Luncheon on the Grass
20. Nonfiction
Which economist and social scientist was forced to resign from both the University of Chicago and Stanford
due to personal affairs? He would later write The Higher Learning in America: A Memorandum on the
Conduct of Universities by Business Men. He is better known for writing The Theory of the Leisure Class
and coining the phrases ‘pecuniary emulation’ and ‘conspicuous consumption’.
ANSWER: (Thorstein) Veblen
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1
(Note to moderator: the word ‘lead’ in the first sentence refers to the chemical element lead.) Which element
is added to lead to make perfectly spherical lead shot? This element and its compounds also form the most
common type of irritant poisons, which cause inflammation throughout the body. Due mainly to weathering,
it ends up in groundwater, and there has been some controversy during the past few years as to how much
should be allowed in drinking water.
ANSWER: Arsenic
Tiebreaker #2
Which title character produced 514 offspring, including the runts Joy, Aranea, and Nellie? She often used
the word Salutations, but her most famous acts involved her use of the words Terrific, Radiant, Humble, and

Some Pig. Name the spider who saves Wilbur in a classic book by EB White.
ANSWER: Charlotte
Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation MS?
ANSWER: Mississippi

