1. American Novels and Novelists
Which novel first appeared serially in 1894 and in book form in 1895? It often uses the phrase 'the youth' in
reference to its protagonist Henry Fleming. Name this Civil War novel written by Stephen Crane.
ANSWER: (The) Red Badge of Courage
2. Chemistry
What process is achieved by heating the substance being treated and combining it with sulfur? It results in
higher tensile strength, resistance to swelling, and elasticity over a higher range of temperatures. Name this
process which was developed in 1839 by Charles Goodyear to improve rubber.
ANSWER: Vulcan(ization)
3. Visual Arts/Man-Made Structures
Two days before dying, what artist said, “I shot myself. I only hope I haven't botched it”? All of this artist's
works were created during the 1880s. He was influenced by Emile Zola in the middle of the decade, leading
him to paint The Potato Eaters. He also made several self-portraits, and he painted Starry Night.
ANSWER: (Vincent) van Gogh
4. Algebra/General Math (30 Seconds)
2
(Note to moderator: f(x) is read 'f of x', and f(-5) is read 'f of -5'.) If f(x) equals 17-2x , what is the value of
f(-5)?

ANSWER: -33
5. Pop Culture
Which movie’s main characters are named James P. Sullivan and Mike Wazowski? These animated
characters are voiced by John Goodman and Billy Crystal. Identify this movie that just had the best sales
opening ever for the month of November.
ANSWER: Monsters, Inc.
6. United States History
Who won 29 of the 32 cases he argued to the Supreme Court before becoming a Justice in 1967? His most
famous victory came in Brown vs. the Board of Education of Topeka. When he retired in 1991, he was
replaced by Clarence Thomas. Name this first African American Justice of the Supreme Court.
ANSWER: (Thurgood) Marshall
7. Religion/Mythology
In what text is Prince Arjuna told to perform his duty by Krishna? It is considered by many people to be the
fundamental Hindu text.
ANSWER: Bhagavad Gita
8. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which adjective is used to describe a theory of heat for gases, a friction sliding force, or the energy of

motion? It begins with the letter K.
ANSWER: Kinetic
9. Current Events
She was supposed to graduate from USC on May 11th, but after sending an email message to her parents on
May 1st nobody heard from her. Name this former prison intern who caused a huge controversy for Gary
Condit.
ANSWER: (Chandra) Levy
10. World Literature
Which novel is celebrated every year on June 16 in Dublin? People try to retrace the steps followed by
Leopold Bloom, whose day is described in the book's eight hundred pages. The tower in which the novel
opens is now a James Joyce museum.
ANSWER: Ulysses
11. Precalculus/Calculus (30 Seconds)
Give your answer as a percent and do not round. What is the probability of exactly one success if a trial is
attempted twice and each attempt has a success rate of seventy-five percent? Remember to give your answer
as a percent.
ANSWER: 37.5% (or 37 1/2 % or 75/2 %)
12. Geography/Earth Science/Astronomy
What line runs at North latitude thirty-nine degrees, forty-three minutes, and nineteen and eleven hundredths
seconds? It was surveyed in the 1760s by the two English astronomers who it is now named after. Name
this famous boundary between Pennsylvania and Maryland.
ANSWER: Mason (and) Dixon (Line)
13. Language Arts/Reference Sources
Begun in 1982, it now has a daily circulation of about one million, seven hundred thousand. Owned by
Gannett and often made fun of for its colorful charts, name the only general interest national newspaper in
the United States.
ANSWER: USA Today
14. Technology
To cheaply create one of these, you would need a sturdy table in a room with almost no vibrations, a lens or
concave mirror, film, green safety lights, and a laser. Name this type of picture first created by Dennis Gabor
in 1947 which looks three-dimensional.
ANSWER: Holograph (or hologram)
15. Music
Give your answer in English. Which musical piece opens with the Royal March of the Lion? Other
movements include Persons with Long Ears, Aviary, Kangaroos, and Tortoises. It was composed by
Camille Saint-Saens.

ANSWER: (The) Carnival of the Animals
16. Nonfiction
Which forty-seven page work was addressed, "To the inhabitants of America on the following interesting
subjects"? Within three months of publication, over one hundred thousand copies were sold, and historians
claim it was read and discussed by almost every literate resident of the American colonies. It stated, "the
cause of America is in a great measure the cause of all mankind," and was written in 1776 by Thomas Paine.
ANSWER: Common Sense
17. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the measure of each interior angle in a regular decagon?
ANSWER: 144 degrees
18. American Dramas, Poems, and Short Stories
What playwright from Chicago has written The Old Neighborhood, Speed The Plow, House of Games,
American Buffalo, Glengarry Glen Ross, and The Untouchables?
ANSWER: (David) Mamet
19. Biology
What term, taken from the Greek word for change, is defined as the totality of an organism's chemical
processes, consisting of catabolic and anabolic pathways? It begins with the letter M, and supposedly a fast
one makes a person thin.
ANSWER: Metabolism
20. World History
Be specific in your answer. What kings's downfall was hastened because of the unpopularity of both
Charles-Alexandre de Calonne and the king's wife, who was the daughter of Francis I and Maria Theresa?
He attempted to flee the capital but was captured at Varennes in 1791. One and a half years later, he was
guillotined.
ANSWER: (King) Louis XVI (the sixteenth) (also accept Louis-Auguste, do not accept King Louis)
TIEBREAKER QUESTIONS
Ties are sudden death--the first correct answer ends the match. If a question from the match needs to be
thrown out, it should be replaced by the corresponding question from the replacement packet.
What is the collective name for the sisters Polymnia, Euterpe, Terpsichore, Thalia, Calliope, Clio, Erato,
Melpomene, and Urania? They are daughters of Zeus and are called upon for artistic inspiration.
ANSWER: Muse(s)
According to a Simpsons parody of this show, Homer was addicted to painkillers and a reunion was
organized by Willie Nelson. If you watch too many real episodes, you'll think that all rock acts have gone
through some form of self-destruction before reaching their current state of inner peace. Name this VH1
show.
ANSWER: Behind The Music

Spell the six-letter word beginning with the letter S that refers a part of a circle bounded by two radii. Spell
the word SECTOR.

