1. American Novels and Novelists
What 1982 novel, consisting of letters written by its protagonist Celie to God, is banned from many school
libraries because of its graphic descriptions of sexual abuse? The 1985 movie version was criticized because
of its portrayal of Black males. Name this novel by Alice Walker made into a Steven Spielberg movie
featuring Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey.
ANSWER: (The) Color Purple
2. Chemistry
What major type of bond can be polar or nonpolar? They can be found in methane and ammonia, and occur
when two atoms share electrons.
ANSWER: Covalent
3. Visual Arts/Man-Made Structures
Unfortunately, there are no natural building materials within ten miles of this object, so much of it was stolen
hundreds of years ago. Much of it is made out of sarsen. Name this five thousand-year-old arrangement near
Salisbury, England.
ANSWER: Stonehenge
4. Algebra/General Math (30 Seconds)
What is the exact decimal value of one-sixteenth?
ANSWER: .0625
5. Pop Culture
Burning Love, Field Of Screams, Candle In The Wound, Screams From A Mall, and Little Barbershop of
Horrors are all episodes of which show within a show?
ANSWER: (The) Itchy and Scratchy (Show)
6. United States History
Give the nickname for the cavalry troop headed by Colonel Leonard Wood recruited mainly from
Southwestern Territories, including Indian Territories. Joined by about fifty very wealthy Easterners, they
left from Tampa Bay for Cuba on the Yucatan in June of 1898. They are often associated with the officer
who resigned as Secretary of the Navy to become their second in command, Teddy Roosevelt.
ANSWER: (The or Roosevelts') Rough Riders
7. Religion/Mythology
What city, located in the Sirat Mountains, has traditionally been ruled by sharifs but is now part of Saudi
Arabia? Around 570 AD, it was the birthplace of Muhammad.
ANSWER: Mecca
8. Physics (30 Seconds)
Give your answer in scientific notation with one significant digit. According to the Theory of Relativity,
how many joules of energy can be created from one kilogram of mass?

ANSWER: 9 x 1016 (Joules)
9. Current Events
A year ago, he was battling cancer and going through an ugly divorce. Recently, he has been honored by the
United Nations and Queen Elizabeth. Name the outgoing Mayor of New York City.
ANSWER: (Rudolph or Rudy) Giuliani
10. World Literature
Which Russian author's life was often a conflict between his desire to give away his money to lead a
spiritual life and his wife's desire to hold on to their wealth? He lived from 1828 to 1910 and produced
works such as Family Happiness, The Death of Ivan Ilych, Anna Karenina, and War and Peace.
ANSWER: (Leo) Tolstoy
11. Precalculus/Calculus (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: The a's which appears three times in the first sentence are names of a variable and
should be pronounced stronger than you would pronounce the word 'a'.) Give the one-word term for the
curve y equals the quantity a over two times the quantity e raised to the x over a power plus e raised to the
negative x over a power. This is also known as a hyperbolic cosine.
ANSWER: Catenary (prompt on hyperbolic cosine)
12. Geography/Earth Science/Astronomy
Which river goes from Colorado through New Mexico, passing near Los Alamos, Albuquerque, and Las
Cruces before it forms the border between Mexico and Texas and flows into the Gulf of Mexico?
ANSWER: Rio Grande
13. Language Arts/Reference Sources
This word is derived from the Hebrew for 'strike dead with thy lightning.' It was used throughout the
Middle Ages to protect from diseases but is used today to make people think that the user is in
communication with magical powers. What is this eleven-letter word which begins with the letter A?
ANSWER: Abracadabra
14. Technology
What does ISP commonly stand for? The most popular ISP is America Online.
ANSWER: Internet Service Provider
15. Music
Which 1941 song was written by Billie Holiday right after she had a fight with her mother? It contains the
phrase, "Momma may have, and Poppa may have..."
ANSWER: God Bless The Child
16. Nonfiction
What writer from Halicarnassus lived from about 484 to 425 BC? His greatest work describes the battles

between the Greeks and the Persians that ended during his childhood. Edith Hamilton called him the first
sightseer, while Cicero called him the father of history.
ANSWER: Herodotus
17. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
If two sides of a triangle are twelve and fifteen inches, between what two lengths must the third side be?
ANSWER: 3 and 27 inches (either order)
18. American Dramas, Poems, and Short Stories
Though he spent most of his life in California, what writer became famous for the stories he wrote in Alaska
at the beginning of the twentieth century? His first story collection was titled The Son of the Wolf, and his
next story was The Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: (Jack) London
19. Biology
In addition to many other animals, hearts of amphibians have two of what type of chamber? In general, these
chambers have thinner walls and less muscle than the other chambers in a heart. Name these chambers
which receive blood from the body and pass them on to the ventricles.
ANSWER: Atria (accept Atrium(s) or Auricle)
20. World History
Standing on Monte Sacro in Rome in the early eighteen hundreds, who made a vow to liberate his home
country of New Granada? He became a dictator in 1813 but was forced to flee to Jamaica in 1814. He
regained power in 1819 and during the next several years was able to kick Spanish forces out of many
South American countries. Name this leader who often took the title 'Liberator'.
ANSWER: (Simon) Bolivar
TIEBREAKER QUESTIONS
Ties are sudden death--the first correct answer ends the match. If a question from the match needs to be
thrown out, it should be replaced by the corresponding question from the replacement packet.
What three-dimensional molecular shape contains central angles of 109.5 degrees? This is the shape of
methane, with chemical formula CH4.
ANSWER: Tetrahedral
Its elevators, designed by Otis Elevator Company in the United States, ascend on a curve. The four
semicircular arcs at the bottom serve no structural purpose. Visitors at the top are about one thousand feet
off the ground. Name this structure designed for the 1889 International Exposition in Paris.
ANSWER: Eiffel Tower
Spell the nine-letter word beginning with the letter S that usually refers to the killing of animals. Spell the
word SLAUGHTER.

