1. American Novels and Novelists
What author has set some of his novels and stories in the fictional towns of Olinger and Brewer? He
inspired a movie starring Cher and Jack Nicholson with his book The Witches of Eastwick, and his bestknown books contain the nickname Rabbit in their titles.
ANSWER: (John) Updike
2. Chemistry
What type of orbital usually looks like a four-leaf clover? There are five of these in each shell, holding a total
of ten electrons. This orbital exists in each shell where the value of n is three or more.
ANSWER: d
3. Visual Arts/Man-Made Structures
Which artist's paintings include “Number Ten, 1949” and “Number Thirty-two, 1950”? In 1947, this
abstract expressionist began using the technique known as drip painting.
ANSWER: (Paul Jackson) Pollock
4. Algebra/General Math (30 Seconds)
In a trifecta bet, the gambler must pick the first three horses of a race in order. If there are ten horses in a
race, how many possible trifecta bets are there?
ANSWER: 720
5. Pop Culture
Which boxer won a gold medal in 1968 and world heavyweight titles in 1973 and 1994? He is better known
now for promoting his Lean, Mean, Fat-Burning Machine.
ANSWER: (George) Foreman
6. United States History
What seamstress moved to Detroit in 1957? Always active in the NAACP, she became known as the
Mother of the Civil Rights Movement because of the boycott she sparked in 1955. On December 1, 1955 in
Montgomery, Alabama, she refused to give up her seat on a bus.
ANSWER: (Rosa) Parks
7. Religion/Mythology
Give the full five- or six-word phrase for these characters. Which characters appear in Book Six of
Revelations? The animals they ride are white, red, black, and pale, and the last one is named Death.
ANSWER: (The) Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse
8. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which Austrian physicist left Berlin in 1933 because he opposed fascism, then fled Austria in 1938, and
Italy soon after that? This man was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1933 because he came up with a wave
equation which as accurately as possible described the motion of atomic particles. A famous thought
problem in physics involves his cat.

ANSWER: (Erwin) Schrodinger
9. Current Events
In which city did President Bush recently visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention? He then
gave a speech in this city on Thursday night. This city has the headquarters for CNN and was hit by a
terrorist bomb in 1996 during the Olympics.
ANSWER: Atlanta
10. World Literature
You must give the first and last names. What character saves his son-in-law Marius by travelling through
the sewers of Paris? He had already spent nineteen years in prison and is still pursued by Inspector Javert
because of his theft of a loaf of bread. Name this protagonist of Victor Hugo's Les Miserables.
ANSWER: Jean Valjean
11. Precalculus/Calculus (30 Seconds)
What is the log base nine of 3?
ANSWER: 1/2 or .5
12. Geography/Earth Science/Astronomy
What term is used for climates where there is no winter season in terms of temperature but there is a winter
dry season? An example is the Brazil Highlands, and it also exists in parts of Florida. There are usually few
trees and lots of grasses.
ANSWER: Savanna(s)
13. Language Arts/Reference Sources
What six-letter word is defined as a king or sovereign especially of a Muslim state? It begins with the letter
S.
ANSWER: Sultan
14. Technology
Which system, started in 1989, is controlled by twenty-four satellites orbiting twelve thousand miles above
the Earth? These satellites are monitored by five ground stations. If you receive signals from four of the
satellites, you can figure out where you are on the Earth's surface.
ANSWER: GPS (or Global Positioning System)
15. Music
What is the Italian word for what looks like a long less than sign? In Italian, it means 'to grow', and it tells
musicians to gradually play louder.
ANSWER: Crescendo
16. Nonfiction
Name the German philosopher who retired in 1879 because of nervous disturbances and lost his sanity
completely in 1889. His most famous work, which was published during this time of failing health, is Thus

Spoke Zarathustra.
ANSWER: (Friedrich) Nietzsche
17. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What does the cosine of theta equal if theta is in the first quadrant and the sine of theta is 12/13?
ANSWER: 5/13
18. American Dramas, Poems, and Short Stories
What play centers on a family with two sons named Happy and Biff? The parents are Willy and Linda
Loman in this 1949 drama by Arthur Miller.
ANSWER: Death of a Salesman
19. Biology
This disease is caused by a specific type of bacteria which enters the body through an open wound and
causes muscles to contract. Fortunately, there is a vaccine for it and if a person becomes infected there are
drugs to treat the cause and symptoms. Name this disease also known as lockjaw.
ANSWER: Tetanus (prompt on lockjaw)
20. World History
After being in existence at least one thousand years, what was halted in 393 AD by Emperor Theodosius
because of its associations with Paganism? It was recontinued in 1896 by Pierre, Baron de Coubertin, and is
now bigger than ever, with the most recent occurrence in Sydney, Australia.
ANSWER: Olympics (or Olympic Games)
TIEBREAKER QUESTIONS
Ties are sudden death--the first correct answer ends the match. If a question from the match needs to be
thrown out, it should be replaced by the corresponding question from the replacement packet.
Give the first and last name in your answer. Which character, described by his author as a combination of
three boys whom he knew, claimed that the first two disciples were David and Goliath? His antics are
among the best-known in all of American literature but were not appreciated by his Aunt Polly. Name this
friend of Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Tom Sawyer
What is the common name for the Platonic solid that has the second fewest number of sides? It is also
known as a hexahedron because it has six sides. All of the sides of this three dimensional figure are squares.
ANSWER: Cube
Spell the ten-letter word beginning with the letter S that means an object used to display relevant information
at a sporting event. Spell the word SCOREBOARD.

