1. American Novels and Novelists
Born in 1900, which writer's only novel was published in 1936? Her first fiancée died in World War One,
and her first husband left her after three months. People who knew her claimed that the fiancée was the
inspiration for Ashley Wilkes and the husband was the inspiration for Rhett Butler. The novel was Gone
With The Wind.
ANSWER: (Margaret) Mitchell
2. Chemistry
What is the common name for inorganic, nonmetallic, nonmolecular solids, including both crystalline
materials such as quartz and amorphous materials such as glasses? Examples include boron carbide and
zirconia. These materials have been investigated in recent times for superconductivity but have been used
since ancient times in pottery and porcelain.
ANSWER: Ceramic(s)
3. Visual Arts/Man-Made Structures
Which artist's subjects included Ludwig Beethoven, Vladimir Lenin, Elvis Presley, Marilyn Monroe, and
Mao Tse Tung? This Ruthenian-American from Pittsburgh also made many silk screens of Campbell's soup
cans.
ANSWER: (Andy) Warhol(a)
4. Algebra/General Math (10 Seconds)
I am going to give you a list of words. Choose the two that apply to the mathematical expression I will then
read to you. Make sure you pick two. The terms are monomial, binomial, trinomial, constant, linear,
2
quadratic, cubic, quartic, and quintic. The expression is 8x -17x+1.

ANSWER: Quadratic Trinomial (either order)
5. Pop Culture
Though nobody really knows when he was born, the best guess is that this pitcher began his major league
career at the age of forty-two and made a brief comeback at the age of fifty-nine. Name this Cleveland Indian
and St. Louis Brown who played from 1925 to 1947 in the Negro Leagues. He got his nickname from the
bags he carried as a child.
ANSWER: (Leroy Satchel) Paige
6. United States History
Your answer should be a single word. One of the reasons this policy was put into law was the shortage of
grains during World War One. Its details were spelled out in the Volstead Act in 1919. Name this policy
established by the Eighteenth Amendment and ended by the Twenty-First Amendment which outlawed
alcoholic drinks.
ANSWER: Prohibition (prompt on 18th amendment or Volstead)
7. Religion/Mythology
The followers of what religion believe in standing up against the powers of white Babylon? Many believe
that their ancestors committed an offense that led to their slavery and poverty in Jamaica instead of the
promised land of Ethiopia. This religion is often associated with Bob Marley and the colors red, green,

black, and gold.
ANSWER: Rasta(farianism)
8. Physics (30 Seconds)
In a completely inelastic collision, the two objects stay together after colliding. What will the final velocity be
in a completely inelastic collision if the first object has a mass of 20 kilograms and is moving at 5 meters per
second, and the second object has a mass of 40 kilograms and is moving in the same direction at 2 meters
per second?
ANSWER: 3 meters per second (for both objects)
9. Current Events
Who has been a chief of staff for President Ford, a Congressman from Wyoming, and a CEO of
Halliburton? A device implanted in his chest makes sure that his heart keeps beating, and he has spent a lot
of time in a secret location to avoid terrorist attacks. Name the Vice President.
ANSWER: (Dick or Richard) Cheney
10. World Literature
The prince of which city, located about sixty-five miles west of Venice, issues an edict calling for the death
penalty for anybody caught dueling? Unfortunately, this does not stop Mercutio and Tybalt from continuing
the feud between the Montagues and Capulets. Name this setting for Romeo and Juliet.
ANSWER: Verona
11. Precalculus/Calculus (30 Seconds)
What is the derivative of the function three times the cosine of five x?
ANSWER: -15 sine 5x
12. Geography/Earth Science/Astronomy
What is defined as a long, narrow inlet of the ocean with steeply sloping sides? They are often associated
with jagged coastlines, especially those of Norway.
ANSWER: Fjord(s)
13. Language Arts/Reference Sources
What word taken from French means to make puffy by beating and baking? It can also refer to a dish made
this way containing eggs. Name this word which contains a double F and begins with the letter S.
ANSWER: Souffle
14. Technology
Which pull down menu in Microsoft Word gives you the options Word Count, Mail Merge, or Spelling and
Grammar?
ANSWER: Tools
15. Music

Who composed "Fantasies & Delusions: Music for Solo Piano", which is currently on top of the Billboard
classical music charts? This pop singer is better known for his hits such as It's Still Rock and Roll To Me,
New York State Of Mind, Piano Man, and Uptown Girl.
ANSWER: (William or Billy) Joel
16. Nonfiction
Which book won the 1957 Pulitzer Prize for biography? It summarized the lives of American heroes such as
Edmund G. Ross, who saved the presidency of Andrew Johnson. The Senator who wrote the book would
soon become the United States President. Name this work by John Kennedy.
ANSWER: Profiles In Courage
17. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the surface area of a sphere with diameter of ten meters?
ANSWER: 100 pi square meters
18. American Dramas, Poems, and Short Stories
What poet, who passed away in 1997, took credit for the phrase 'flower power'? His poems include Ankor
Wat, Kaddish, and Howl.
ANSWER: (Allen) Ginsberg
19. Biology
Which term can refer either to a milk-secreting sac of epithelial tissue in the mammary gland or one of the
multi-lobed air sacs that constitute the gas exchange surface of the lungs?
ANSWER: Alveolus (or Alveoli)
20. World History
What term, euphemistically called social development, was used for the policy existing from 1950 until the
early nineteen nineties which determined individual rights based on whether the person was Bantu,
Coloured, white, or Asian? It existed in South Africa.
ANSWER: Apartheid
TIEBREAKER QUESTIONS
Ties are sudden death--the first correct answer ends the match. If a question from the match needs to be
thrown out, it should be replaced by the corresponding question from the replacement packet.
In what Disney movie are the songs One Jump Ahead, Friend Like Me, and A Whole New World? This
1992 picture was loosely based on The Thousand and One Nights and opens with the song Arabian Nights.
ANSWER: Aladdin
Which punctuation mark is used to combine two independent clauses in a compound sentence? Its name is
nine letters long, and the symbol looks like a period on top of a comma.
ANSWER: Semicolon
Spell the nine-letter word beginning with the letter S that means to indulge in contemplation. Spell the word

SPECULATE.

