1. World Literature
Who was a slave for five years after being captured by pirates and was hit by three bullets at the Battle of
Lepanto? He also spent a few stints in prison, which is where he began writing his only successful work.
Identify this author who wrote a story about a man from Central Spain who reads too many romances; the
man was Don Quixote de la Mancha.
ANSWER: (Miguel de) Cervantes
2. Algebra (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: Euler is pronounced 'oiler'.) This question was first raised in a letter written by a man
named Christian to Leonhard Euler in 1742 and is still unanswered. By what name do we call the question:
Is every even integer the sum of two primes?
ANSWER: Goldbach (Conjecture)
3. Biology
What term comes from the Greek words for naked seed? Many of the plants it refers to are conifers. Identify
this class of seed plants that are not angiosperms.
ANSWER: Gymnosperm(s) (or Gymnospermae)
4. United States History
It was signed into law in 1944, and over the years has caused an investment of billions of dollars. Which bill
at first provided six benefits, the most famous of which is education and training? It gives help to veterans.
ANSWER: GI Bill (of Rights) (or Servicemen’s Readjustment Act) (GI stands for Government Issue)
5. Pop Culture
She met her husband at one of his concerts, and they got engaged at the premiere of her HBO film
Introducing Dorothy Dandridge. This followed her stormy marriage to David Justice. Identify this actress
who caused a sensation by the way she accepted an Oscar this year for her performance in Monster’s Ball.
ANSWER: (Halle) Berry
6. Technology
Give the general term. What are the Epson Perfection 636U, Visioneer OneTouch 7600USB, Umax Astra
2200, and Hewlett Packard 4200C? They are used to convert pictures into computer files.
ANSWER: Scanner(s) (prompt on ScanJet)
7. British Literature
In which novel do leaders have titles such as Arch-Community Songster of Canterbury, Director of
Predestination, and Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning? Most people wear clothes that identify them as
being in a particular caste, and they revere Henry Ford. Identify this 1932 anti-utopian novel by Aldous
Huxley.
ANSWER: Brave New World
8. Calculus (30 Seconds)

Find the area between the line y=2x+3 and the x-axis between x=0 and x=5.
ANSWER: 40
9. Language Arts
What ten-letter word beginning with the letter P is a synonym for unimaginative or commonplace? It comes
from the Latin word for going on foot, and it is commonly used to describe a person who does so.
ANSWER: Pedestrian
10. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
Giving your answer to two significant figures, what is the pH of a solution if the hydrogen ion concentration
-8
is two times ten to the negative eighth moles per liter [2 x 10 moles/L]? As a hint, the common log of two

is very close to 0.3.
ANSWER: 7.7
11. World History
Though it took place far from Europe, which war pitted British outlanders against Dutch farmers? The
Dutch began fighting with victories at Ladysmith, Kimberley, and Mafeking, but British reinforcements
eventually turned the tide. The British eventually controlled the towns of Bloemfontein and Pretoria. Identify
this British victory in 1902 in what is now South Africa.
ANSWER: Boer (War)
12. Music
(Note to moderator: No singing, please. Nothing personal.) Which creature is brought strings and sealing
wax and other fancy stuff by Little Jackie Paper? He lived by the sea and frolicked in the autumn mist in a
land called Hannah-Lee. His song was written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow and was performed by
Peter, Paul, and Mary.
ANSWER: Puff (The Magic Dragon)
13. United States Literature
Which short story begins, "True!--nervous--very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am; but why will
you say that I am mad?" The narrator is obsessed with one eye of an old man, so he kills the man. Identify
this story by Edgar Allan Poe.
ANSWER: (The) Tell-Tale Heart
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
What are bound together by gluons? They bond with their antiparticles to form mesons. More importantly,
three of them bond together to form hadrons, which in turn form almost all matter. Identify these subatomic
particles that have charges of +2/3 or -1/3 compared to protons. They are classified as charmed, strange, up,
down, top, or bottom.
ANSWER: Quark(s)
15. Current Events

When the Taliban originally took control of Afghanistan, who gave them fifty thousand dollars and
weapons? In return, they promised to appoint him as their envoy to the United Nations. After this promise
fell through, he organized Taliban opposition, and the Taliban retaliated by killing his father. Name the
current leader of Afghanistan.
ANSWER: (Hamid) Karzai
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Find the cosine of either acute angle inside the following isosceles trapezoid. The bases of the trapezoid are
ten centimeters and twenty centimeters, and the height of the trapezoid is twelve centimeters.
ANSWER: 5/13
17. Religion/Mythology
What objects hold a parchment scroll with verses four through nine from the sixth chapter and verses
thirteen through twenty-one of the eleventh chapter of Deuteronomy? A word meaning Almighty is
supposed to be visible on the outside. These objects are meant to remind Jews of their obligations and are
nailed to doorposts.
ANSWER: Mezuzah(s) (accept alternative pronunciations of the last syllable, prompt on doorpost)
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which province has been the largest source of oil in Canada? Most of it is plains, though tourists are often
drawn to the Rocky Mountains in its Southwest corner. Identify this province that contains Medicine Hat,
Red Deer, Lethbridge, Edmonton, and Calgary. It was named after Queen Victoria's daughter.
ANSWER: Alberta
19. Nonfiction
Which Scotsman wrote The Theory of Moral Sentiments in 1759? He is best known for the idea of the
invisible hand, which he explained in An inquiry into the nature and causes of the Wealth of Nations.
ANSWER: (Adam) Smith
20. Art/Architecture
What was created between 200 and 100 BC and was found on the island of Melos in 1820? It probably is
supposed to represent Aphrodite, but that is not the name commonly given to this sculpture. Identify this
famous work currently located in the Louvre, except for the arms.
ANSWER: Venus de Milo
TIEBREAKERS
(Note to moderator: 'Cation' is pronounced cat-i-on, with a long i. 'Anion' is pronounced an-i-on, also with a
long i.) This common term refers to an ionic compound consisting of a cation from a base and and an anion
from an acid. Some kinds can be prescribed for medicinal purposes, though most people try to reduce it in
their diet in order to remain healthy. Identify this four-letter word that often consists of an alkali metal
combined with chlorine.
ANSWER: Salt
Synonyms of which four-letter word include fragment, leave, and portion? It often shows up when people

comb their hair.
ANSWER: Part
TRUE OR FALSE: There is a servant in Shakespeare’s All's Well That Ends Well named Steward.
ANSWER: True

