1. World Literature
Who seduces a girl of noble family and then kills her father? This character appears in a George Bernard
Shaw drama, Mozart opera, and Lord Byron poem. The first written drama about him was called 'The
Seducer of Seville'.
ANSWER: (Don) Juan (accept Don Giovanni and a variety of pronunciations)
2. Algebra (30 Seconds)
2
What are the coordinates of the focus of the parabola given by the equation y=x ?

ANSWER: (0,0.25) (or (0,1/4))
3. Biology
What is the most common form of dementia? It is marked by a loss of neural connections and a decrease of
brain mass. This disease almost always affects the elderly and is associated with major losses of memory.
ANSWER: Alzheimer’s (Disease)
4. United States History
Who graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1843, became a captain in 1847, and resigned
from the army in 1854? When the Civil War broke out, he was recruited and started out as a colonel, but his
rank rose quickly. He had early successes at Fort Henry, Fort Donelson, and Shiloh, but his status was
downgraded because of all the casualties at Shiloh. Identify this general at the battles of the Wilderness,
Spotsylvania Court House, and Cold Harbor who led the Union forces to victory and later became
President.
ANSWER: (Ulysses Simpson Hiram) Grant
5. Pop Culture
Which girl's name completes the following lines: "In an old house in Paris that was covered with vines lived
twelve little girls in two straight lines. They left the house at half past nine in two straight lines in rain or
shine. The smallest one was..." She was the subject of several books by Ludwig Bemelmans.
ANSWER: Madeline
6. Technology
In the most common use of this technology, electric signals are fed into semiconductor lasers, which
produce corresponding pulses of light. This light travels through thin pieces of glass or plastic, staying
inside because of total internal reflection. Photodetectors then convert the light back to electric signals, which
often contain telephone messages. What name is given to the long thin pieces of glass or plastic?
ANSWER: Fiber Optics (accept Optical Fibers)
7. British Literature
He started out as an architect, and it looked like he would remain one when his first works of poetry and
first novel could not find a publisher. However, his second novel, Desperate Remedies, was very
successful, and he then became a full-time writer. When he died in 1928, his ashes were placed in
Westminster Abbey but his heart was buried in Dorsetshire, the inspiration for his Wessex setting. Identify
this author of Jude the Obscure, The Return of the Native, and The Mayor of Casterbridge.

ANSWER: (Thomas) Hardy
8. Calculus (30 Seconds)
Evaluate the definite integral from x=0 to x=6 of x2dx.
ANSWER: 72
9. Language Arts
Suffixes often added to which word include -OR, -ION, and –ILE? By itself, it can mean a planned
undertaking, to jut out, or to devise in the mind. Identify this seven-letter word beginning with the letter P.
ANSWER: Project
10. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
This quantity cannot be measured directly, but changes in it can be measured and are an important part of
thermodynamics. What is the heat content of a system at constant pressure? It is represented by a capital H.
ANSWER: Enthalpy (prompt on H, do not accept Entropy)
11. World History
In 1847, which nation became Africa's first independent republic? Most of its history has been peaceful, but
that has not been the case since 1980, and it was recently criticized for aiding the civil war in neighboring
Sierra Leone. Identify this nation that was organized largely by the American Colonization Society. Its
capital is Monrovia.
ANSWER: Liberia
12. Music
What are the two white notes you would play on a piano if you were to play a scale of C Sharp Major?
ANSWER: F and C (either order, E Sharp is the same as F, B Sharp is the same as C)
13. United States Literature
Which author has described his stories as "artfully disguised soap opera"? This may explain why many of
his works have been turned into movies with major stars such as Robin Williams, Jim Carrey, Glenn Close,
Jodie Foster, and Michael Caine. He wrote A Prayer for Owen Meany, which inspired the movie Simon
Birch. Identify this author of The Hotel New Hampshire, The World According to Garp, and The Cider
House Rules.
ANSWER: (John) Irving
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which phenomenon was independently demonstrated by Joseph Henry and Michael Faraday in 1831 and
explained by James Clerk Maxwell in 1864? Henry and Faraday moved a magnet into a coil of wires and
showed that this generated a current in the wires. Identify this term beginning with the letter I.
ANSWER: (Electromagnetic or Electric or Magnetic) Induction
15. Current Events

Who was elected chancellor in 1998 by promising to lower unemployment? Even though unemployment has
not come down, he recently won reelection over Edmund Stoiber by coming out strongly against an invasion
of Iraq. Identify the chancellor of Germany.
ANSWER: (Gerhard) Schroeder
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
A rectangular prism has a surface area of 100 square centimeters. What will the surface area become if the
length, width, and height are all tripled?
ANSWER: 900 Square Centimeters (or Centimeters Squared)
17. Religion/Mythology
What minor character in the Bible says in the fourth chapter of First Corinthians, “Oh that Thou would bless
me indeed,and enlarge my territory, and that Thine hand might be with me,and that Thou would keep me
from evil, that it may not grieve me!” This character has become a major topic during the last few years
thanks to books and sermons by Bruce Wilkinson.
ANSWER: (Prayer of) Jabez
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which dormant volcano last erupted in 1707 and is 12,389 feet high? There is a shrine at its peak visited by
thousands of people every year, and it is famous for its view reflected in the still waters of Lake Kawaguchi.
Identify this mountain on the island of Honshu located about fifty-five miles from Tokyo.
ANSWER: (Mount) Fuji (or Fujiyama)
19. Nonfiction
It ends, “Nothing can bring you peace but yourself. Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of
principles.” Identify this 1841 essay written by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
ANSWER: Self-Reliance
20. Art/Architecture
"Nothing is ugly that has life. Whatever suggests human emotion, whether of grief or pain, goodness or
anger, hate or love, has its individual seal of beauty." Who said this in defense of his work Man with a
Broken Nose? Identify this creator of Thought, The Age of Bronze, and The Burghers of Calais. There are
two museums, one in Paris and one in Philadelphia, dedicated to this sculptor of The Thinker.
ANSWER: (Francois Auguste) Rodin
TIEBREAKERS
(30 Seconds) Assuming you are in the first quadrant, find the secant of the arctangent of two.
ANSWER: Square Root of Five (accept equivalents)
In which country will you find the Murray River, Gibson Desert, and Great Dividing Mountain Range?
This country borders the Arafura Sea, Gulf of Carpenteria, Timor Sea, Tasman Sea, Coral Sea, Indian
Ocean, and Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Canberra.
ANSWER: Australia

TRUE OR FALSE: There is a merchant in Shakespeare’s The Comedy of Errors named Balthazar.
ANSWER: True

