1. World Literature
Who wrote 'Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair'? He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in
1971, and he was also a political leader and diplomat who was considered unfriendly to the United States.
Identify this poet from Chile.
ANSWER: (Pablo) Neruda (or Neftali Ricardo Reyes)
2. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the intersection of the equations x+y+z=16, x+y-z=14, and x-y-z=4.
ANSWER: (10,5,1) (or x=10, y=5, and z=1)
3. Biology
This term can apply to several muscles, but it is most often associated with the muscle that extends the
forearm at the elbow. It goes along the back of the upper arm. Which term refers to any muscle with three
points of origin?
ANSWER: Tricep(s)
4. United States History
Born with the name Phoebe Ann Moses, who was known as Little Sure Shot? At thirty paces, she could
split a card held edge-on, and she was a part of Buffalo Bill Cody’s Wild West Show.
ANSWER: (Annie) Oakley
5. Pop Culture
What was the primary position played in common by: Bill Dickey, Roy Campanella, Mickey Cochrane,
Yogi Berra, Johnny Bench, Gabby Hartnett, and Carlton Fisk? Current players include Ivan Rodriguez and
Mike Piazza.
ANSWER: Catcher(s)
6. Technology
He was expelled twice from Harvard and forced out of his father-in-law's construction company. Which
architect, engineer, inventor, and poet designed factory-assembled luxury houses, cars with all-around
bumpers, and geodesic domes?
ANSWER: (Richard Buckminster) Fuller
7. British Literature
In 1891, he married his cousin. After that failed, he married one of his students in 1895. Who wrote several
realistic novels such as The Wheels of Chance and Ann Veronica but is best known for his science fiction?
Some of his novels, such as The World Set Free, turned out to be prophetic, but his most successful works
are still very much science fiction. Identify this author of The Time Machine, The War of the Worlds, and
The Invisible Man.
ANSWER: (Herbert George) Wells
8. Calculus (30 Seconds)

Evaluate the derivative at x=1 of the function f of x equals one divided by the quantity x+1. [ Image]
ANSWER: -1/4 (or –0.25)
9. Language Arts
What word of German origin refers to a structure so integrated that it is more than the sum of its parts?
Identify this word beginning with the letter G that refers to a school of psychology.
ANSWER: Gestalt
10. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
One example is the combination of benzene and carbon tetrachloride. What term is used to describe liquids
that dissolve freely in one another in any proportion? This term begins with the letter M.
ANSWER: Miscible (or Miscibility)
11. World History
Who commanded his most famous voyage as a replacement for his father, who had recently died? He left
Lisbon in 1497, reached Calicut in 1498, and returned to Lisbon in 1499. He did not accomplish all of his
goals because the goods he brought were in high demand in Africa but not in India. Identify this explorer
who made it to India by traveling around Africa.
ANSWER: (Vasco da) Gama
12. Music
When he died of typhus fever in 1791 he was in debt, so he was buried in an unmarked pauper's grave in
Vienna. Though no music was played at his funeral, his Requiem is often played at other people's funerals.
Who composed Jupiter Symphony, The Magic Flute, and Eine Kleine Nachtmusik?
ANSWER: (Wolfgang Amadeus) Mozart
13. United States Literature
Which 1958 novel was made into a successful 1961 movie? The narrator of the novel visits Joe Bell’s bar
and is reminded of a woman named Holly Golightly, who had left for Brazil fifteen years earlier. Identify
this book by Truman Capote that was made into a movie starring Audrey Hepburn. It is associated with a
famous jewelry store.
ANSWER: Breakfast at Tiffany’s
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
When he became President of the Kaiser Wilhelm Society in 1930, it was renamed for him. When he
supported Jews in 1937, he was forced to resign as President even though the organization retained his
name. Identify this physicist who is considered by many people to be the founder of modern physics. A
constant named after him gives the ratio of energy to frequency for a quantum and is represented by a lowercase h.
ANSWER: (Max Karl Ernst Ludwig) Planck
15. Current Events
Who was elected to the British Parliament several times but never served because doing so would require an

oath of allegiance to the Queen? Many people believe he was a leader of the Irish Republican Army, and he
often has represented Sinn Fein in talks with the British government.
ANSWER: (Gerry) Adams
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Ignore units. Find the area of the region contained by segments connecting the following four points around
the outside: (0,0), (0,4), (6,4), and (10,0).
ANSWER: 32
17. Religion/Mythology
Whose grandfather was shaped from a block of ice licked by a primordial cow? With his brothers Vili and
Ve, he shaped the entire world. Identify the father of Hod, Hermod, Heimdall, Vidar, Vali, Thor, and Balder
who was the chief god of Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Odin
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
What type of region is characterized by bare ground, mosses, and lichens? The two types are arctic and
alpine. This term begins with the letter T.
ANSWER: Tundra
19. Nonfiction
Which writer has written autobiographies titled Gather Together in My Name, Singin' and Swingin' and
Gettin' Merry Like Christmas, All God’s Children Need Traveling Shoes, and I Know Why the Caged Bird
Sings? This native of Stamps, Arkansas read a poem at Bill Clinton's first inauguration.
ANSWER: (Maya) Angelou
20. Art/Architecture
Which architect collaborated with Dankmar Adler to design Chicago’s Auditorium Building and Saint
Louis’s Wainwright Building? He had a twenty-year quarrel with his most famous apprentice, Frank Lloyd
Wright.
ANSWER: (Louis Henry) Sullivan
TIEBREAKERS
Which President had a master's degree in nuclear physics? Foreign policy issues addressed during his
presidency included passing the Panama Canal Treaties through Congress, negotiating SALT II with the
Soviet Union, boycotting the Olympic Games, negotiating the Camp David Accords, and trying to free
American hostages from Iran. Identify this President who just won a Nobel Peace Prize.
ANSWER: (James 'Jimmy' Earl) Carter
What is equal to one million, six hundred fifty thousand, seven hundred sixty-three point seven three
[1,650,763.73] wavelengths of the orange-red light of excited krypton-86? It is also the distance between
two markings on a platinum-iridium bar in Paris. Here in America, it may be best to think of it as about
thirty-nine and three-eighths [39 3/8] inches.

ANSWER: (One or A) Meter
TRUE OR FALSE: There is a servant in Shakespeare’s The Merchant of Venice named Mordecai.
ANSWER: False

