1. American Literature
A review in Time Magazine called which writer’s second novel “paceless, tasteless, and graceless”? Many
of his works blend fiction and nonfiction, such as his story about murderer Gary Gilmore titled The
Executioner’s Song and his story about a protest march on the Pentagon titled Armies of the Night. Name
this author whose work on World War Two was titled The Naked and the Dead.
ANSWER: (Norman) Mailer
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Though in biochemistry this term refers to small molecules that are bonded to large molecules, which general
term usually refers to atoms, ions, or functional groups that are bonded to one or more central atoms or ions?
The central atoms or ions are usually metals. Identify this term beginning with the letter L.
ANSWER: Ligand(s)
3. World History
Which famous action supposedly happened on January Tenth, 49 BC? It is unclear whether the quote was
said in Greek or Latin, but supposedly the leader said, “The die is cast.” This action, taken with an army,
made war against Pompey inevitable. It is often mentioned when somebody commits themselves to a risky
action.
ANSWER: (Julius Caesar Crossing the) Rubicon (accept paraphrases or entering Rome)
4. Technology
Give the full name rather than the abbreviation. Depending on the network and host, these may ban
commercial activity or other types of internet and computer behavior. Name these agreements that are
abbreviated AUP.
ANSWER: Acceptable Use Policy (or -ies)
5. Language Arts
Which word can refer to a type of railroad car or a vehicle suspended from above? It can also refer to flatbottomed boats which used to be common in the United States. Similar boats are usually associated with the
city of Venice.
ANSWER: Gondola
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
How old is David now? He is currently one-fourth as old as his father. In twenty-four years, he will be onehalf as old as his father.
ANSWER: 12
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
(Note to moderator: The e in Negro is pronounced like a long ‘a’.) Which country is cut in half by the Negro
River, which includes the largest artificial lake in South America? It is bounded on the West by a river which
shares its name with the country and opens into the Rio de la Plata. Name this buffer between Argentina and
Brazil on the Atlantic Ocean.

ANSWER: Uruguay (do not accept Paraguay)
8. Music
Which rock band’s albums include Get Your Wings, Toys in the Attic, and Get A Grip? Their hit songs
include Dream On, Sweet Emotion, and Jaded. Their lead singer was named Steven Tallarico, but he
shortened his last name to Tyler.
ANSWER: Aerosmith
9. Religion/Mythology
What term means ‘wearer of wool’ even though it usually is not associated with people who wear wool?
Followers often study at tariqas which, even though they did not exist in the seventh century, trace their line
of teachers back to Mohammed. They can be found in almost all Islamic communities and are known for
nurturing spiritualism. Name this group associated with dervishes.
ANSWER: Sufi(sm or Tasawwuf) (do not accept Dervish)
10. Biology
A botanist at the beginning of his career, he was appointed as a professor of invertebrates in 1793 even
though he knew nothing about the subject. He would soon become an expert. Name this scientist whose
ideas had a negative influence, through T.D. Lysenko, on Russian science, but had a positive influence on
Charles Darwin. He is associated with the theory of the inheritance of acquired traits.
ANSWER: (Jean Baptiste Pierre Antoine de Monet, Chevalier de) Lamarck
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
You can give your answer as a percent or as a probability. In one season, the Cubs won seventy percent of
their games in April and forty percent of their games during the rest of the season. What percentage of their
games did they win for the whole season if they played twenty percent of their games in April?
ANSWER: 46 (Percent) (or (0).46)
12. Nonfiction
Which graduate of the University of Michigan Law School has worked for the Center for Individual Rights
and the Senate Judiciary Committee? Her first bestseller was High Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Case
Against Bill Clinton, and she has followed that with books titled Treason, Slander, and How To Talk To A
Liberal If You Must.
ANSWER: (Ann) Coulter
13. Pop Culture
(Note to moderator: Spell out BET.) His last name is Kyles, and he got started on television as the host of
BET’s Comicview. He would later portray a coach on the Steve Harvey Show. Name this performer who
has appeared in the movies Ride, Big Momma’s House, The Original Kings of Comedy, Barbershop, and
Intolerable Cruelty.
ANSWER: Cedric (the Entertainer)
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which French Nobel Prize winner was considered a Prince by the Austrian government? He published two

short theoretical articles in 1923 that were soon confirmed by the Thomson electron-diffraction experiments.
The articles suggested that elementary particles could behave like waves, and those waves and their
wavelengths are now named after him.
ANSWER: (Prince Louis-Victor Pierre Raymond de) Broglie
15. British Literature
Which work ends, “He went like one that hath been stunned, And is of sense forlorn: A sadder and a wiser
man, He rose the morrow morn”? This poem in seven parts was completed in 1797, and it consists primarily
of a story told outside of a wedding. Name this Samuel Taylor Coleridge work involving an albatross.
ANSWER: (The) Rime of the Ancient Mariner
16. American History
Fields in Elk Hills were leased to Edward Doheny, and other fields were leased to Harry Sinclair. This
happened after control had been shifted from the Navy to the Department of the Interior, which was headed
by Albert Fall. Fall would eventually be convicted of accepting bribes, and the fields were returned to the
United States in 1927. Name this scandal that hurt the Harding Administration.
ANSWER: Teapot Dome (accept longer answer)
17. Art/Architecture
Which building has five towers to represent the five peaks of Mount Meru? Constructed during the twelfth
century, it contains the longest continuous bas-relief in the world. The bas-relief shows scenes from Hindu
mythology, but many Hindu relics in the building have been replaced by Buddhist ones. Name this building
which is shown on the flag of Cambodia.
ANSWER: Angkor Wat
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Calculate the dot product for the following vectors. Do not worry about units. The vectors are coplanar, and
angles are given from the x-axis rotating counterclockwise. The vector of length 6 at 75 degrees dot the
vector of length 10 at 195 degrees.
ANSWER: -30 (do not accept 30)
19. Current Events
He grew up in a town that featured four churches, one synagogue, and one mosque, and as a young adult he
was a pediatrician. After serving a three-year sentence for arms possession in his native Egypt, he moved to
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. Name this leader of the terrorist group Vanguards of Conquest who is often
labeled as Osama bin Ladin’s right hand man.
ANSWER: (Ayman al-)Zawahri (or Zawahiri)
20. World Literature
Who wrote a novel about Mehring, a man who finds a dead body on his barren farm? Other characters
include Bam and Maureen Smales, who are caught up in a revolution. Other novels include A Guest of
Honor and The Lying Days. Name this 1991 Nobel Prize Winner from South Africa.
ANSWER: (Nadine) Gordimer

Tiebreaker #1
Who wrote Ode to Anactoria, Ode to Aphrodite, and Please? Unfortunately, works of this lyrist who lived
around 600 BC exist almost only in fragments because the Christian church considered them obscene. Name
this poet who, though married, was at least partially responsible for coining the term ‘lesbian’.
ANSWER: Sappho
Tiebreaker #2
His 1925 work was put into other forms by Dirac and Schrodinger, but he is considered the inventor of
matrix mechanics. Name this man whose work during World War Two on atomic bombs is still
controversial because historians disagree as to whether he helped or hindered German efforts. He earlier
discovered that you cannot simultaneously know the position and the momentum of a particle.
ANSWER: (Werner) Heisenberg
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get the last name of a President: AGERAN
ANSWER: (Ronald) Reagan

