1. American Literature
Which novel contains the message: “O, Draconian devil! Oh, lame saint! P.S. Find Robert Langdon”? The
message, which also contains numbers from the Fibonacci sequence, is written by the head curator of the
Louvre as he dies. Name this bestseller by Dan Brown.
ANSWER: (The) Da Vinci Code
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
What can be classified into seven basic systems: cubic, tetragonal, hexagonal, trigonal, orthorhombic,
monoclinic, or triclinic? Defined as a homogeneous portion of a substance bounded by plane surfaces
making definite angles with each other, this a common form for solids.
ANSWER: Crystal(s) (accept longer answers, prompt on matrix)
3. World History
Which country’s capital was occupied by British troops in March, 1917? Many tribal rebellions against the
British broke out after World War One, and in response the British made King Faysal the First the nation’s
ruler. The British granted independence in 1932, and a 1958 revolution led by Abd Al Karim Qasim
eventually ended British influence. Name this country which has also had its government overthrown in
1963, 1968, and 2003. It is now headed by Iyad Allawi.
ANSWER: Iraq
4. Technology
th
What was released on June 5 , 2002 and had another official release this week? Since July, 2003, it has
been developed by a foundation. Though it was designed from scratch, it is in some respects the successor
of Netscape Navigator. Now in the process of becoming a software suite, name this competitor of
Microsoft’s Internet Explorer whose name is based on an old dislike of Mosaic.

ANSWER: Mozilla Firefox (accept either half of answer)
5. Language Arts
To Scots, this four-letter word means payment. It also can be used to describe the hard skin of an animal
such as a lobster, and a few hundred years ago it similarly referred to metal links used for armor. What is
this word commonly associated with post offices?
ANSWER: Mail
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
How many minutes will it take Jack and Jill working together to clean the basement? If they worked alone, it
would take Jack ten minutes and Jill fifteen minutes.
ANSWER: 6 (Minutes)
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Numbers 9617 through 9622 are named after members of Monty Python, while numbers 4147 through
4150 are named after members of The Beatles. Counting down from five to one, these are named Astraea,
Vesta, Juno, Pallas, and Ceres. What are these examples of minor planets usually located between Mars and
Jupiter?

ANSWER: Asteroid(s)
8. Music
Pioneers in which style of music included Clarence Garlow and BooZoo Chavis? Making heavy use of
accordions, it originated in Southern Louisiana as an outgrowth of Cajun music.
ANSWER: Zydeco (prompt on Cajun)
9. Religion/Mythology
According to one myth, Buddha was conceived when his mother had a dream about what kind of animal? In
Buddhist art, they often can be seen bathing the goddess Lotus. In Hinduism, Shiva is sometimes associated
with this animal and sometimes portrayed killing one named Gajasura. Name these animals often associated
in the Western world with overweight clumsiness and good memories.
ANSWER: Elephant(s)
10. Biology
Which four-letter word can be a synonym of chrysalis? It refers to a butterfly in the third of its four stages of
life. During this stage, the butterfly is transformed from a caterpillar while inside a cocoon.
ANSWER: Pupa
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (10 Seconds)
What two-word phrase is used to describe the set of all possible outcomes for an experiment? It is often
represented by a capital omega or U even though both words begin with the letter S.
ANSWER: Sample Space
12. Nonfiction
Who famously wrote, “In spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart”? Her family,
th
along with the van Daan family, moved into her father’s warehouse on July 9 , 1942. They stayed there

even after the property was sold until they were taken away on August 4th, 1944. She soon died in BergenBelsen, but her father survived and published her diaries a few years later.
ANSWER: (Anne) Frank
13. Pop Culture
According to the Oxford Dictionary, which hyphenated word was introduced into the English language by
the movie Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me? The dictionary definition is ‘a person closely
resembling a smaller or younger version of another’. It was the name of Verne Troyer’s character—Troyer
is thirty-two inches tall.
ANSWER: Mini-Me
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
How much force will be exerted on a wire making a thirty degree angle with a magnetic field if the length of
wire in the field is one-half meter, the current is sixteen amperes, and the magnetic field strength is one-half
tesla?

ANSWER: 2 Newtons
15. British Literature
Characters in which novel include Miss Skiffins, Bentley Drummle, Uncle Pumblechook, and Abel
Magwitch? Name this Charles Dickens novel which begins: “My father's family name being Pirrip, and my
christian name Philip, my infant tongue could make of both names nothing longer or more explicit than Pip.”
ANSWER: Great Expectations
16. American History
Its key statute levied import duties on glass, lead, paint, paper, and tea in order to provide salaries for some
colonial officials. Most of these duties were repealed in 1770. Name these 1767 Acts which angered
American colonists. They were named after the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
ANSWER: Townshend (Acts)
17. Art/Architecture
This artist started out as a caricaturist but fell in love with nature after spending a summer with landscape
painter Eugene Boudin. He met many famous painters in Paris in the 1860s and introduced them to open-air
painting in Fountainebleau Forest. Name this artist whose ‘Impression: Sunrise’ gave name to one of the
biggest movements in the history of art. He spent his last twenty-six years painting water lilies at Giverny.
ANSWER: (Oscar-Claude) Monet (do not accept Manet)
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give both possible answers. In which quadrant is theta if the sine of two theta is positive?
ANSWER: First (and/or) Third (both answers in either order, also accept one and/or three)
19. Current Events
Who entered politics in 1998 soon after the death of Wade, his first child? He wrote a book covering high
points from his first career titled Four Trials. Name this man who is finishing a term representing North
Carolina in the United States Senate.
ANSWER: (John) Edwards
20. World Literature
Reduced to poverty after victories by Augustus Caesar, this poet later gained a patron who gave him an
estate in Tivoli. Some of his sayings, such as Carpe Diem, are used in modern times as motivational quotes.
Name this contemporary of Virgil who wrote many Odes, Satires, and Epistles as well as the book Ars
Poetica.
ANSWER: Horace (or Quintus Horatius Flaccus)
Tiebreaker #1
Gene Siskel said this 1980 film suggests that if you are looking for the source of evil in the world, you don't
have to look any further than yourself. Roger Ebert called it an Othello for our times. One of the few
memorable quotes which can be repeated in a high school is, “You couldn't knock me out Ray; you couldn't
knock me out.” Based on the autobiography of Jake LaMotta, it starred Robert DeNiro as the boxer.

ANSWER: Raging Bull
Tiebreaker #2
This scientist’s lesser-known works involved thermal expansion and petroleum. He got his most famous
idea in 1869, which allowed him to predict the existence of gallium, scandium, and germanium. Name this
Russian credited with the development of the first periodic table.
ANSWER: (Dmitri) Mendeleyev
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get a last name shared by two Presidents: OONNSHJ
ANSWER: (Andrew and/or Lyndon) Johnson

