1. American Literature
Who rejected a Pulitzer Prize in 1930 because he did not believe his books were wholesome enough? He
first gained major success as a writer in 1920 with a novel about Carol Kennicott, who is ostracized from
Gopher Prairie. Name this author of Our Mr. Wrenn, Dodsworth, Elmer Gantry, Main Street, and Babbit.
ANSWER: (Sinclair) Lewis (do not accept Sinclair)
2. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
Give your answer to one significant digit only. How many carbon atoms are in one kilogram of carbon?
25

ANSWER: 5 x 10

(or Fifty Septillion) (do not accept 5 x 1022)

3. World History
About one hundred twenty-five thousand workers died in its construction, but because of debt the workers’
country soon sold its share to Great Britain. It was taken back, however, in 1956. Originally built from 1859
to 1869 and owned by France and Egypt, name this manmade waterway.
ANSWER: Suez (Canal)
4. Technology
In your answer, give the common term instead of anything that could be abbreviated FDR or CVR. These
are double-wrapped in stainless steel or titanium with insulation. Newer ones have sonar so that they can be
located. They use potentiometers attached to steel wire, and they also record audio. Name these objects
usually located at the backs of airplanes that are now being recommended for cars. The same two-word
phrase is used to describe something when you have no idea what is going on inside of it.
ANSWER: Black Box(es)
5. Language Arts
This nine-letter word comes from the Ancient Jewish practice of giving two animals to the High Priest; one
would be sacrificed and the other would be set free. Today, this word refers to a person, group, or object
which bears the blame for others.
ANSWER: Scapegoat
6. Algebra (10 Seconds)
What feature is often added to graphs of rational functions which have a numerator of equal or lesser degree
than their denominator? This line shows what output value the function approaches as the input value
approaches positive or negative infinity. The curve of the graph gets closer and closer to this line.
ANSWER: Horizontal Asymptote(s) (prompt on Asymptote)
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Its most noteworthy spot is about two hundred miles Southwest of Guam, and it has been explored by the
Trieste, the Kaiko, and The Challenger Deep. Name this feature which is about forty miles wide and seven
miles deep.
ANSWER: Mariana Trench (accept Challenger Deep on early buzz, prompt on Mariana or trench)

8. Music
Early in his career, which composer went out of popular favor for criticizing Franz Liszt? He would later
gain popularity with his ‘German Requiem’ and ‘Song of Triumph’. Name this composer who, despite four
symphonies, two piano concertos, and a great influence on later composers, is probably best known for his
Cradle Song.
ANSWER: (Johannes) Brahms
9. Religion/Mythology
During which five-day holiday do people worship Laksmi, the goddess of wealth? Its name translates into
English as rows of lighted lamps. On the last day, people often recall Bali, an ancient Indian King. Name
this Hindu festival.
ANSWER: Divali (or Diwali or Deepavali)
10. Biology
Which organ produces the hormone hPL, which causes a rise in blood sugar? Its full weight is a little over
one pound, and its primary purpose is to filter blood. Unfortunately, it does not filter alcohol or most
antigens. Name this temporary organ which exists in pregnant women.
ANSWER: Placenta (prompt on Afterbirth)
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
What is the value at x=pi/4 of the derivative of the function secant x?
ANSWER: Root 2
12. Nonfiction
Which essay begins: “It is a melancholy object to those who walk through this great town or travel in the
country, when they see the streets, the roads, and cabin doors, crowded with beggars of the female sex,
followed by three, four, or six children, all in rags and importuning every passenger for an alms.” It ends: “I
have no children by which I can propose to get a single penny; the youngest being nine years old, and my
wife past child-bearing.” Name this work by Jonathan Swift.
ANSWER: (A) Modest Proposal
13. Pop Culture
He was once called the Vince Lombardi of owners. Who said: "Winning is the most important thing in my
life, after breathing. Breathing first, winning next"? Always mired in controversy, he made illegal
contributions to the Nixon Presidential Campaign and once gave forty thousand dollars to a well-known
gambler. Name this man who was heard but not seen on Seinfeld. He owns the New York Yankees.
ANSWER: (George) Steinbrenner
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
What is the only fundamental force that acts on its own exchange particles? The subject of quantum
chromodynamics, it uses gluons to bind quarks together. These quarks combine together to form protons
and neutrons inside the nucleus of an atom.

ANSWER: Strong (Nuclear Force or Interaction)
15. British Literature
Which novel is about a man named Victor telling his life story to an explorer named Robert Walton? The life
story is terrifying, including an errant death sentence of a family friend for the murder of Victor’s brother.
Name this 1831 work by Mary Shelley about a man who creates life.
ANSWER: Frankenstein(, or the Modern Prometheus)
16. American History
Who resigned as the Governor of Maryland in order to become Vice President? He was a vocal critic of the
press and of Vietnam War protesters. His political career ended when he pleaded no contest to tax evasion
and then quit the Vice Presidency in 1973. Name this Nixon Vice President.
ANSWER: (Spiro) Agnew
17. Art/Architecture
In his early teens, this painter broke both of his legs. Because they never healed properly, he only grew to be
four-and-a-half feet tall. His heavy drinking affected his health as an adult, leading to his death in his late
thirties. Many of his best-known works are portraits of the dancer Jane Avril or posters for the Moulin
Rouge.
ANSWER: (Henri de) Toulouse-Lautrec
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the cotangent of 630 degrees?
ANSWER: 0 (do not accept undefined or anything like it)
19. Current Events
She has described herself as an energy analyst for Brewster-Jennings and Associates, but that is not her real
job. She was able to tell her real job to her husband only because he had a high-level security clearance. In
2002, she suggested that her husband should take a trip to Niger, where he discovered that Iraq was not
trying to purchase yellowcake uranium. Name this wife of Joseph Wilson whose name was mentioned in a
newspaper column by Robert Novak.
ANSWER: (Valerie) Plame (accept Plame Wilson, prompt on Wilson)
20. World Literature
Which famous poet lived much of his life at Avignon during the fourteenth century? Many of his works
center around a woman named Laura who may not have been real. Name this famous writer of Italian
sonnets.
ANSWER: (Francesco) Petrarch (or Petrarca)
Tiebreaker #1
(Note to moderator: Alceste has two syllables.) Which seventeenth century playwright created the character
Alceste, who is involved in several lawsuits? Name this Frenchman who wrote The Flying Doctor, The
Imaginary Invalid, The School for Wives, Tartuffe, and The Misanthrope.

ANSWER: Moliere (or (Jean-Baptiste) Poquelin)
Tiebreaker #2
Named after his father’s high school, who first gained fame as a sidekick to Joey Bishop? In 1983, he
started cohosting The Morning Show with Cindy Garvey, but the show did not gain popularity until she
was replaced with Kathie Lee Gifford. Kathie Lee has since been replaced by Kelly Ripa. Name this host of
the prime time Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?
ANSWER: (Regis) Philbin (prompt on Regis)
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get the last name of a President: NNLLICO
ANSWER: (Abraham) Lincoln

