1. World Literature
Which novel is narrated by a nineteen-year-old student named Paul Baumer? His schoolmaster Kantorek
convinces him to enlist in the German Army, which he serves during World War One. This novel, which
shows many of the horrors of war, was written by Erich Maria Remarque
ANSWER: All Quiet On The Western Front
2. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Let i equal the square root of negative one, and put your answer into a+bi form. What do you get when you
divide the quantity 5+7i end quantity by i?
ANSWER: 7-5i (accept -5i+7 or 7+(-5i))
3. Biology
Tissue in which organ resembles salivary gland tissue? Like the salivary gland, it produces amylase. This
organ also secretes lipase, trypsin, insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin. Identify this organ that is located at
the top of the small intestine.
ANSWER: Pancreas
4. United States History
Who dropped out of college, was temporarily blinded by a factory accident in 1867, and contracted malaria
and typhus on a trip to Cuba? He was quite successful during his lifetime, however, and had a major impact
on the policies of Theodore Roosevelt. Identify this author of The Mountains of California who raised
public sentiment to create the Sierra Club and our National Park System.
ANSWER: (John) Muir
5. Pop Culture
Which San Diego native lives in Carlsbad, California with his wife Erin and sons Riley, Spencer, and
Keegan? His income is estimated at ten million dollars per year, with much of that coming on royalties from
Activision. He also has licensing agreements with Adio Shoes, Mattel Toys, and Heinz, and he owns at least
parts of Blitz Distributions, Birdhouse, and 900 Films. Identify this athlete who retired from competition
after performing a 900 at the 1999 X Games.
ANSWER: (Anthony 'Tony' Frank) Hawk
6. Technology
What unit was named after the French engineer who developed a telegraph code more popular than Morse
code? Unfortunately, the unit is not standardized, but it traditionally represented one bit per second of
transmission for computer modems.
ANSWER: Baud
7. British Literature
One explains why crows are black, one tells what women want, and one tells of a choirboy who continues
to sing after he is murdered. Unfortunately, only one-sixth of them were written before the author died in
1400. Identify this collection of tales written by Geoffrey Chaucer.

ANSWER: (The) Canterbury (Tales)
8. Calculus (30 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: f(x) is pronounced f of x) If the integral from x=0 to x=4 of f(x) is equal to 10, then
what will be the integral from x=0 to x=4 of: 3 + 2f(x)?
ANSWER: 32
9. Language Arts
What word beginning with the letter S is used to describe a grant or gift of money or other property made by
way of financial aid? It is often used when a government gives money to support business.
ANSWER: Subsidy
10. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Give the name by which this woman is best known. She was born in Paris in 1897 and became an assistant
to her mother in 1918. In 1926, she married another one of her mother’s assistants, and the two of them
from 1928 on signed all of their scientific works jointly. Name this woman who was awarded the 1935
Nobel Prize along with her husband for their work with radioactive isotopes.
ANSWER: (Irene) Joliot-Curie (do not accept Curie)
11. World History
Your answer should be a six-letter name. What alternative name is given to the Yuan Dynasty? This group
ruled China from 1260 until 1368. It fell apart into many fragments, including the Golden Horde. The name
comes from the group of people who took over China led by Kublai Khan.
ANSWER: Mongol(s) (Dynasty)
12. Music
Who composed Kossuth, Duke Bluebeard's Castle, The Miraculous Mandarin, and Cantata Profana? He
often went on tour to perform his piano works and was greatly influenced by folk music. This composer
spent the last few years of his life in the United States after fleeing Nazi influence in his native Hungary.
ANSWER: (Bela) Bartok
13. United States Literature
Your answer should be a noun followed by a participle. “Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun? Or fester
like a sore--and then run? Does it stink like rotten meat? Or crust and sugar over--like a syrupy sweet?
Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. Or does it explode?” What is being asked about in this poem by
Langston Hughes?
ANSWER: (Montage of a) Dream Deferred
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
Find the equivalent resistance if you have three resistors in parallel of three ohms, twelve ohms, and twelve
ohms.
ANSWER: Two Ohms

15. Current Events
This foreign politician got into a lot of street fights when he was younger, including one in which he lost an
eye. Identify the founder of the National Front Party who has campaigned for the last thirty years for the
death penalty and against foreign influence. He made headlines earlier this year by qualifying for a run-off
election against Jacques Chirac for President of France.
ANSWER: (Jean-Marie) Le Pen
16. Geometry/Trigonometry (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: The author's name near the end of this question is not a typo.) "Imagine a vast sheet of
paper on which straight Lines, Triangles, Squares, Pentagons, Hexagons, and other figures, instead of
remaining fixed in their places, move freely about, on or in the surface, but without the power of rising
above or sinking below it." Which fictional world is thus described? It was written about in the 1880s by
Edwin Abbott Abbott, who used the pseudonym A Square.
ANSWER: Flatland
17. Religion/Mythology
What deity’s name comes from the Greek word for all? His father was sometimes considered to be Hermes
but at other times was given as different characters from The Odyssey. He rested at noon and was a piper.
Identify this character with the horns, legs, and ears of a goat.
ANSWER: Pan
18. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Give a two-word answer. This appears to be one star to the naked eye but is actually three. The two bright
ones rotate around each other with a period of eighty years, while the other one orbits them with a period of
millions of years. After Sirius and Canopus, this was considered the third brightest star in the skies. One of
the three stars is, after the Sun, the closest star to Earth.
ANSWER: Alpha Centauri (do not accept Proxima Centauri, which is one of the three stars)
19. Nonfiction
Allen Guelzo wrote one called Redeemer President, Don Fehrenbacher wrote Prelude to Greatness, Douglas
Wilson wrote Honor’s Voice, Stephen Oates wrote With Malice Toward None, and Carl Sandburg wrote
The Prairie Years and The War Years. Who was the subject of all of these biographies?
ANSWER: (Abraham) Lincoln (Biographies) (be lenient if more information is given)
20. Art/Architecture
The female torso, the bowler hat, and the window are recurring images in the works of which Belgian
surrealist? In his Golconda, men with bowler hats are falling like rain.
ANSWER: (Rene) Magritte
TIEBREAKERS
He found a result similar to G.F. Fitzgerald working independently. Even though his physical explanations
were wrong, the formula he came up with was used correctly in the formulation of Special Relativity.
Identify this man for whom the time and space transformation factors are named. He is especially associated

with length contraction.
ANSWER: (Hendrik Antoon) Lorentz
Which play begins with the line, "When shall we three meet again In thunder, lightning, or in rain?" It is
spoken by one of three witches who predict that the title character will become the King of Scotland. The
play was written by William Shakespeare.
ANSWER: Macbeth
TRUE OR FALSE: There is a nobleman in Shakespeare’s MacBeth named Laity.
ANSWER: False

