1. Technology
What safety devices were first used on airplanes in the 1950s and trucks in the 1980s? They are now
commonly found in cars. They use a hydraulic actuator which cycles on and off about twelve times per
second, affecting how much pressure is applied to the wheels. This allows the driver to control the car while
coming to a stop.
ANSWER: Antilock Brake(s) (System) (or ABS)
2. British Literature
Which controversial poem was first published in McClure’s Magazine in 1899? The second line reads,
“Send forth the best ye breed.” It was written by Rudyard Kipling.
ANSWER: (The) White Man’s Burden
3. Physics (10 Seconds)
Which four-letter word refers to the integral of force with respect to distance? Often measured in Joules, it is
numerically equal to the change in energy of a system.
ANSWER: Work
4. Pop Culture
In what movie will you hear the quote, "Whatya gonna do? Nice college boy, eh? Don't wanna get mixed up
in the family business? Now you wanna gun down a police captain because he slapped you in the face a little
bit, huh? Whataya think this is, the Army, where you shoot 'em a mile away? You gotta get up close like
this... badaBING! You blow their brains all over your nice Ivy League suit”? It won the Best Picture Oscar
in 1972 along with lead actor Marlon Brando.
ANSWER: (The) Godfather(, Part I)
5. Religion/Mythology
Which Sumerian and Babylonian goddess was known as the Lady of Birth, Protector of the Weak, Mother
of the Fruitful Breast, and Glad-eyed Lady of Desire? She ruled fertility, healing, and war, and visited the
Underworld to retrieve her husband Tammuz. Her name was used as the title of a terrible 1987 movie
starring Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty.
ANSWER: Ishtar (or Innana)
6. United States History
In a show of solidarity with the people he helped, who always insisted that his salary would be five dollars
per week plus room and board? He first became a leader for Saul Alinsky’s Community Service
Organization, but he quit in 1962. He then formed the National Farm Workers Association, which through a
merger became the United Farm Workers. Name this Mexican American famous for organizing grape
boycotts.
ANSWER: (Cesar) Chavez
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: When reading the numbers, do not say the word ‘comma’.) Find the determinant of the
matrix with top row 1, 0, 0, second row 1, 3, 5, and bottom row 1, 4, 7.

ANSWER: 1
8. Current Events
Name the man who was his country’s Prime Minister for seven months in the mid-1990s and returned to
power in 2001. He may also be the wealthiest person in his country, owning television stations, newspapers,
and a famous soccer team. He is detested in much of Europe, especially in Germany. Name this
controversial Prime Minister of Italy.
ANSWER: (Silvio) Berlusconi
9. World Literature
Which play involves Madame Ranevsky, whose estate is in bankruptcy? Lopahin suggests that summer
villas should be built on the estate. This was the last play written by Anton Chekhov, and it keeps the
audience guessing as to whether or not the trees will be cut down.
ANSWER: (The) Cherry Orchard
10. Biology
What term is used to refer to the enlarged structures that store starch at the end of rhizomes? This word
beginning with the letter T often refers to potatoes.
ANSWER: Tuber(s)
11. Language Arts
Which hyphenated word added to the English language a generation ago refers to a type of car insurance and
divorce law? The insurance allows for coverage of actual losses regardless of responsibility. The divorce
law allows the divorce to proceed without either party being held responsible for the dissolution of the
marriage.
ANSWER: No-Fault
12. Music
Which French term often refers to a composition written for a technical reason? Some are played for their
artistic value, while others are played merely for practice. This five-letter term comes from the word for
Study.
ANSWER: Etude(s)
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What is the only Pythagorean triple that contains the number 7?
ANSWER: 7 24 25 (any order, the number 7 can be skipped)
14. World History
Which pharaoh ruled from about 1333 to 1323 BC? Coming soon after the Amarna period, he reinstalled the
Egyptian Gods and thus undid the work of his father-in-law Akhenaton. In 1922, Howard Carter found his
gravesite and mummified body.
ANSWER: (King) Tutankhamen (accept Tutankhaton, prompt on King Tut)

15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which city was a sovereign republic for over one thousand years before Napoleon joined it with the
Hapsburg Empire? It contains the Rialto and the Bridge of Sighs, and its traditional center has been The
Piazza of Saint Mark. Nicknamed The Queen City of the Adriatic, it contains several canals.
ANSWER: Venice (or Venezia)
16. United States Literature
Though best known for his first novel, who also wrote Some Came Running, The Pistol, and The Thin Red
Line? His first novel was set in Hawaii just before the bombing of Pearl Harbor, and it was made into a
major movie starring Burt Lancaster and Frank Sinatra. Name the author of From Here to Eternity.
ANSWER: (James) Jones
17. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
What four-letter adjective is often used to describe water that is capable of leaving behind boiler scale, which
comes from solid carbonates? This is typically groundwater that contains alkaline earth metals.
ANSWER: Hard
18. Calculus/Math History (30 Seconds)
Find the value of the derivative at x=5 for the function y equals the quantity x+1 end quantity squared.
ANSWER: 12
19. Art/Architecture
Which Spanish painter spent the last few years of his life during the 1820s in voluntary exile in France? His
paintings include Tampoco, The Naked Maja, and The Third of May 1808.
ANSWER: (Francisco de) Goya
20. Nonfiction
Which seventeenth century philosopher argued that people and God have no free will? Unlike DesCartes, he
argued that there is not a dualism between the nature of body and mind. Because of his controversial views,
he was kicked out of the Jewish community in Amsterdam.
ANSWER: (Baruch or Benedict de) Spinoza

