1. American Literature
Give the first and last name of the fictional native of Connecticut who is described as, “Tall and exceedingly
lank, with narrow shoulders, long arms and legs, hands that dangled a mile out of his sleeves, and feet that
might have served for shovels.” Working as a teacher in Upstate New York, he falls in love with a wealthy
young woman named Katrina Van Tassel. Name this rival of Brom Bones in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
ANSWER: Ichabod Crane (prompt if half the answer is given)
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Who, using the standard of oxygen as 100, published a table of atomic weights? He also mistakenly argued
against Avogadro’s Hypothesis. In 1811, this discoverer of cerium, selenium, and thorium started using
one- and two-letter abbreviations for chemical elements.
ANSWER: (Jons Jacob) Berzelius
3. World History
The Swedish one was founded in 1731, the Danish in 1670, the French in 1664, the Dutch in 1602, and the
British in 1600. The Dutch one was sometimes called VOC, and the British one was sometimes called the
John Company. Give the common name of these large companies which had national monopolies on trade
with Asia.
ANSWER: East India(n) (Company) (prompt on India(n))
4. Technology
What 11-letter word was first used as a joke by Brad Graham in 1999? It became more popular after William
Quick picked it up in 2001 or 2002. William Quick is known as The Daily Pundit. Name this collective term
for informal personal web sites and web sites that contain periodic posts on a common page.
ANSWER: Blogosphere
5. Language Arts
(Note to moderator: Spell the suffix NESS.) Fill in each blank with the name of a part of speech, giving your
answers in the right order to make the statement correct. A word is changed from a ‘blank’ to a ‘blank’
when you add the suffix N-E-S-S.
ANSWER: Adjective Noun (order must be correct)
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
2 2
Ignore units. Find the distance between the two vertices of the hyperbola given by the equation: 4x -y =36

ANSWER: 6 (Units)
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Which river is two thousand kilometers long and has fourteen dams, three in Canada and eleven in the
United States? Its tributaries include the Willamette, Lewis, Snake, and Spokane Rivers. About one-fourth
of it runs along the Washington-Oregon state border.
ANSWER: Columbia (River)

8. Music
Who recorded his first solo, He’s the Last Word, in 1926? He became famous in the 1930s playing Fletcher
Henderson’s arrangements of jazz music with Teddy Wilson and Gene Krupa. Although he also had
successful classical music recordings, he was widely considered the best jazz clarinetist.
ANSWER: (Benny or Benjamin David) Goodman
9. Religion/Mythology
(Note to moderator: Persephone is pronounced per-SEF-uh-nee. Ceres has a soft C and two syllables.)
Which Greek goddess was celebrated by festivals every five years that lasted nine days long? Nine days
represented the amount of time it took her to find out about the death of her daughter Persephone. Name this
goddess of corn whose Roman equivalent was Ceres.
ANSWER: Demeter
10. Biology
Name the muscle that, though it exists in a lesser form in some reptiles, is for the most part unique to
mammals. It works in conjunction with the intercostals between the ribs and is located at the bottom of the
chest cavity. When it contracts, your lungs expand, causing inhalation.
ANSWER: Diaphragm
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
4

There are no parentheses in this problem. Find the maximum value of y if x is real and y=x-2x
ANSWER: 3/8 (or (0).375) (do not accept 1/2 or 0.5)
12. Nonfiction

Who earned a doctorate from an unaccredited school called Columbia Pacific University, spent nine years as
a monk under Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and divorced his first wife? He gives a lot of relationship advice,
claiming that men are like rubber bands and women are like waves. Name this author of Men Are From
Mars, Women Are From Venus.
ANSWER: (John) Gray
13. Pop Culture
After winning the Heisman Trophy at USC, who played most of his career for the Buffalo Bills, where he
became the first player to rush for two thousand yards in a season? He later acted in The Towering Inferno,
Capricorn One, and The Naked Gun movies. He divorced his wife in 1992, and she and Ron Goldman were
found murdered in 1994.
ANSWER: (Orenthal James) Simpson
14. Physics (10 Seconds)
The major assumption about which concept was challenged by a solution to the tau theta puzzle? In 1956,
Tsung Dao Lee and Chen Ning Yang found that in weak interactions it is not conserved. Also known as
space inversion, this term begins with the letter P.
ANSWER: (Space) Parity (prompt on (Space) Inversion)

15. British Literature
Which seventeenth century poet wrote, “Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, old time is still a-flying: and this
same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying”? His works include “Delight in Disorder”, “The
Vine”, and “To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time”.
ANSWER: (Robert) Herrick
16. American History
His first trial for perjury in 1949 resulted in a hung jury, but he was found guilty in 1950. Some records
found in Eastern Europe ten years ago seem to confirm his guilt. Name this man who served as a temporary
Secretary General for the United Nations after serving under many departments in Franklin Roosevelt’s
administration. He was accused of spying by Whittaker Chambers, who had hidden some of the evidence
against him in a hollowed-out pumpkin, and his conviction contributed to the success of Joseph McCarthy.
ANSWER: (Alger) Hiss
17. Art/Architecture
All of the paintings from which museum were moved to Geneva, Switzerland before being returned during
World War Two? Some of its famous pieces include The Triumph of Death, The Garden of Earthly
Delights, and The Family of Charles the Fourth. It owns close to nine thousand paintings. Name this
museum started by Charles the Third and Fernando the Seventh in Madrid.
ANSWER: (The or El) Prado (Museum)
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Points A, B, and C are collinear, with B between A and C. Q is not on line AC. Find the measure of angle
AQC if angle QAB is 25 degrees, angle QBA is 110 degrees, and angle BQC is 70 degrees.
ANSWER: 115 (Degrees)
19. Current Events
Which country is currently headed by President Lieutenant General Umar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir?
Recently, many Anuaks have entered into this country because they are fleeing from a genocide in Ethiopia.
On the other side of the country, however, over two hundred thousand people have fled to Chad and about
seventy thousand people have been killed in an ongoing genocide. Name this country which contains the
Darfur region.
ANSWER: Sudan
20. World Literature
(Note to moderator: The s is silent in Camus.) Give your answer in English. Which novel features Raymond
Rambert, a French journalist who is reporting on conditions in Oran, Algeria? At first, several rats in Oran
die, and then a lot of the humans start dying. Name this existentialist novel by Albert Camus.
ANSWER: (The) Plague
Tiebreaker #1
This term originally referred to a solid metal duplicate of a relief made by molding. Its meaning has evolved
to mean something repeated without variation. It now has a negative connotation and refers to the ignoring

of individual traits in a group.
ANSWER: Stereotype (accept different word endings)
Tiebreaker #2
Which organization has been headed by Roscoe Hillenkoetter, Allen Dulles, William Colby, George Herbert
Walker Bush, William Webster, James Woolsey, and George Tenet? It replaced the Office of Strategic
Services in 1947 and was important during the Cold War. It has received a lot of criticism lately for not
preventing 9/11 and giving out misleading information before the Iraq War.
ANSWER: CIA (or Central Intelligence Agency)
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get the last name of a President: YESAH
ANSWER: (Rutherford) Hayes

