1. Technology
This format is essentially a compression system. It takes information that is typically one hundred seventysix kilobytes per second and removes the ninety percent which is unimportant. This allows people to
transmit the information quickly and store more files. Name this type of file that is used by millions of
adolescents for music.
ANSWER: MP3 (accept MPEG (Audio Layer) 3)
2. British Literature
Give the first and last name of the 1722 title character who does not reveal her true name because she is on
the run from the law. She was sentenced to live in Virginia for stealing silk but moves back to England. This
heroine was created by Daniel Defoe.
ANSWER: Moll Flanders (prompt on Moll or Flanders)
3. Physics (10 Seconds)
Though qualitatively the same for light and sound, which phenomenon requires separate formulas for each
because of relativity? With light, it is associated with red shifts and blue shifts, and with sound it is often
associated with passing objects. Name this effect which causes differences in frequency based on relative
motions.
ANSWER: Doppler (Effect)
4. Pop Culture
Which move can only be used when you have a piece at the fifth rank and your opponent tries to pass you
by moving his pawn two spaces? This chess move allows the pawn to be captured by immediately moving
into the space it would have entered had it moved one space. It has a two-word French name.
ANSWER: En Passant (accept In Passing)
5. Religion/Mythology
What object hung on an oak tree in Colchis? Its acquisition required plowing a field with fire-breathing
bulls, planting dragons’ teeth, and slaying the giants who would crop up. Thanks to the help of Medea, these
feats were accomplished by Jason and the Argonauts.
ANSWER: (The Golden) Fleece
6. United States History
This was the name of a minstrel song from the middle of the nineteenth century, not the name of an actual
person. Its political use picked up at the end of the nineteenth century and beginning of the twentieth. What
nickname was given to state laws that formally disenfranchised and segregated Black people?
ANSWER: (Jim) Crow
7. Algebra (30 Seconds)
2
2
The foci are located at (3,0) and (-3,0) for the ellipse with equation x /25 + y /16 = 1. If you take any single
point on the ellipse and find the distances from that point to each focus, what will be the sum of those
distances?

ANSWER: 10 (Units)
8. Current Events
Your answer must be in English, but you can give either a three-letter acronym or a two-word phrase. The
two-word phrase may be the most misleading name of anything in history. This region is 150 miles long,
th
two-and-a-half miles wide, and is watched by two million soldiers. Name the area at the 38 parallel which
divides North and South Korea.

ANSWER: DMZ (or Demilitarized Zone) (prompt on 38th Parallel)
9. World Literature
Which 1759 novel was condemned by the City Council of Geneva and soon thereafter became a big seller
throughout Europe? It takes place in Germany, Bulgaria, Holland, Portugal, Spain, Argentina, Paraguay,
Surinam, France, Venice, and Propontis. Name this work containing the characters Cunegonde and
Pangloss written by Voltaire.
ANSWER: Candide(, or Optimism)
10. Biology
Which type of learning was demonstrated in an experiment by Konrad Lorenz on geese? This learning
typically takes place early in life and can result in a strong bond between parents and offspring.
ANSWER: Imprint(ing)
11. Language Arts
Which nine-letter word refers to a temporary alliance for joint action? It has been used often by the Bush
Administration in reference to actions in Iraq.
ANSWER: Coalition
12. Music
(Note to moderator: ‘bass’ is pronounced ‘base’) The answer is a four-letter word. C is movable. F is
usually called bass. G is usually called treble. Name the sign placed at the beginning of a musical staff to
denote the range of pitches of the notes.
ANSWER: Clef
13. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give your answers in radians. Find all solutions in radians between 0 and two pi for the equation: the sine of
two x equals one.
ANSWER: Pi/4 & 5Pi/4 (Radians) (must give both answers in either order)
14. World History
Which empire lasted from 1413 to 1922? It peaked at the end of the seventeenth century, when it controlled
most of the shore of the Mediterranean Sea. Its antagonism towards Russia led it to side with the Central
Powers during World War One, which hastened its downfall. By the end, most of its citizens were Turkish.
ANSWER: (The) Ottoman (Empire)

15. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
About two hundred million years ago, its existence led to the extinction of many species. Eventually, it broke
apart to form Laurasia and Gondwanaland, which in turn broke apart to form the continents pretty much as
we know them today. Name the former supercontinent.
ANSWER: Pangaea
16. United States Literature
Which author often wrote about an aspiring writer named Nathan Zuckerman? His story collection
“Goodbye Columbus” includes many portraits of Middle Class Jews. This writer’s most controversial
novel, written in 1969, is Portnoy’s Complaint.
ANSWER: (Philip) Roth
17. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: Carefully pronounce ‘ammonium sulfate’) There are three atoms in a molecule of water.
How many atoms are in a molecule of ammonium sulfate?
ANSWER: 15
18. Calculus/Math History (10 Seconds)
Who wrote early commentaries on the works of Diophantus, Ptolemy, and Apollonius? A great orator who
drew people to Alexandria around 400 AD, she was killed by a Christian mob.
ANSWER: Hypatia
19. Art/Architecture
(Note to moderator: ‘Munch’ is pronounced Moonk.) Which famous 1893 painting shows a person on a
bridge in front of a red-streaked sky? He is holding his head, and his mouth is wide open. It was painted by
Norway’s Edvard Munch.
ANSWER: (The) Scream (or The Cry)
20. Nonfiction
According to this ancient text, the five fundamental factors are moral law, heaven, earth, commander, and
doctrine. Moral law refers to politics, heaven refers to weather, and earth refers to terrain. Though it was
probably written in the fourth century BC, it is still considered a practical text. Name this military work by
Sun Tzu.
ANSWER: (The) Art of War (accept Ping-fa)
NOTE: These questions are for breaking ties. If you need to replace a question, use the corresponding
question from the Replacement packet. In a tiebreaker, the first correct answer wins the match.
Tiebreaker #1
What was introduced into both houses of Congress every year beginning in 1923 but did not get approved
by Congress until 1972? It then required ratification by states but ran into controversies regarding the
deadline for state approvals and whether states could rescind their approvals. Name this proposed change to
the Constitution which was a centerpiece of the feminist movement.

ANSWER: ERA (or Equal Rights Amendment)
Tiebreaker #2
What nickname is given to the major awards handed out each year by the American Theatre Wing? Often
given to Broadway shows, their full name is The Antoinette Perry Awards.
ANSWER: Tony (Awards) (or Tonies)
Tiebreaker #3
Which state uses the postal abbreviation KY?
ANSWER: Kentucky

