1. American Literature
Which novel features Tiny Duffy, Sam MacMurfee, Judge Irwin, and Jack Burden? Burden turns out to be
the most interesting character, though much of the book is about the political career of Willie Stark. Name
this 1946 novel by Robert Penn Warren.
ANSWER: All the King’s Men
2. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
The best way to achieve this effect is by filtering a hot solution and then allowing it to cool. The result is
unstable and will be lost by shocks to the system, especially if any piece of the solute is added to the
solution. What term is used when solutions exceed their theoretical level of solubility?
ANSWER: Supersaturation (or Supersaturated)
3. World History
Give your answer in English, using the nineteenth century nickname. This was first used in the second
century BC. It was started by a failed diplomatic attempt but for over one thousand years was successfully
used for commerce. Silver, gold, amber, ivory, carpets, perfume and glass often headed East. In addition to
the title object, porcelain, furs, spices, and gems often headed West.
ANSWER: (The) Silk Road
4. Technology
The answer is a six-letter geek slang word. Do not give a longer answer. What is defined as a procedure in
which all the files on a disk are rewritten on the disk so that all parts of each file reside in contiguous
clusters? This process is often done to increase speed.
ANSWER: Defrag
5. Language Arts
What single word is used for forms of verbs that describe actions that are completed at the time spoken or at
the time spoken of? It is associated with the helping verbs will have, shall have, had, or have depending on
whether the tense is in the future, past, or present.
ANSWER: Perfect
6. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Simplify ten divided by the quantity five plus the square root of fifteen.
ANSWER: 5 – Root 15 (accept –Root 15+5 but not its opposite)
7. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
In which city is the busiest port in the world? It lies on the New Maas, an estuary of the Rhine, and it is near
the North Sea. Name this second largest city in the Netherlands, the former home of Erasmus.
ANSWER: Rotterdam
8. Music
Which composer once said, “I have nothing to say, I am saying it, and that is poetry”? Early in his career, he
altered pianos for his compositions by adding paperclips and rubber bands between the strings, and his later

pieces make use of radios, tape players, and tossed coins. Name this composer of the Imaginary Landscape
series, The Wonderful Widow of Eighteen Springs, Cheap Imitation, and Four Minutes Thirty-Three
Seconds. He died in 1992.
ANSWER: (John) Cage
9. Religion/Mythology
After being a prisoner of war, he set out once again to become a fighter. On his way, however, he had two
dreams, one which contained a lot of crosses and a second in which he was told to return home. Near the
end of his religious life, he received the stigmata during prayer. Name this saint of the environment and
animals who lived from 1181 to 1226 and started a major order of monks.
ANSWER: (Saint) Francis (of Assisi)
10. Biology
The rarer form of which disease usually is caused by too little vasopressin and classified as insipidus? The
more common form, classified as mellitus, probably affects over ten million Americans and can lead to
blindness, kidney disease, or amputation. Mellitus can be further classified as Type One or Type Two
depending on whether the disorder is caused by too little insulin or the body’s inability to use it.
ANSWER: Diabetes
11. Calculus/Combinatorics (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: The ‘’ signs are just there to make it easier for you to know when to pause.) What
algebraic expression is equal to the sum from ‘k equals zero’ to ‘k equals n’ of ‘n combination k’ times ‘x
raised to the n minus k power’ times ‘y raised to the k power’? The equation, credited to Isaac Newton, is
equivalent to the Binomial Theorem.
n
n
ANSWER: (x+y) (or (y+x) )

12. Nonfiction
Which historian’s works were about leaders such as Hiero the First, Cyrus the Great, and Socrates? His
best-known work tells of his leading a Greek retreat from the Persians and is titled Anabasis. His name in
Greek means ‘foreign sound’.
ANSWER: Xenophon
13. Pop Culture
Which actress was a huge star in the 1990s, appearing in movies such as Total Recall, Last Action Hero,
Casino, and The Mighty? Her career went downhill after an aneurysm in 2001 made her too much of a
medical risk for major movies. Name this star of Basic Instinct who recently played the villain in Catwoman.
ANSWER: (Sharon) Stone
14. Physics (30 Seconds)
Find the focal length of a lens if an object and its image are both located ten centimeters from the lens.
ANSWER: 5 Centimeters
15. British Literature

“Was there a man dismay'd? Not tho' the soldier knew Someone had blunder'd.” Name this poem which
begins, “Half a league, half a league, half a league onward, all in the Valley of Death rode the six hundred”.
It commemorates an event which took place 150 years ago–the Battle of Balaclava during the Crimean War.
This poem was written by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
ANSWER: (The) Charge of the Light Brigade
16. American History
You can answer with the abbreviation or the full name. Which organization was formed in 1957, changing
its name several times during that year? It was an expansion of the Montgomery Improvement Association
and was also headed by Martin Luther King, Junior.
ANSWER: SCLC (or Southern Christian Leadership Conference)
17. Art/Architecture
Which architect said, “I could not tell you about the concept of art;I need to give it a concrete form”? His
works combined Christian and Islamic styles, giving a modern update to forms which had been fused five
hundred years earlier. Name this designer of the Casa Vicens and Palacio Episcopal. His La Sagrada Familia
is still under construction in Barcelona.
ANSWER: (Antonio) Gaudi
18. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Include units in your answer. Find the length of side C in a triangle if side A is four centimeters, side B is
five centimeters, and the cosine of angle C is 37/40.
ANSWER: 2 centimeters
19. Current Events
Which nation arrested twenty-one prison guards this week who were plotting to kill supporters of the
country’s former ruler? The ruler fled to South Africa earlier this year, and he has been replaced by Interim
Prime Minister Gerard Latortue. Name this Caribbean nation which has also suffered this year from
hurricane damage. It will be visited by the Prime Minister of Canada tomorrow.
ANSWER: Haiti
20. World Literature
(Note to moderator: Kleonike has four syllables, Aristophanes has five, and Peace has one.) Which title
character has friends named Kleonike and Lampito and a handmaid named Peace? By convincing the women
of Greece to take an oath together, she is able to end the Peloponnesian War. Name this play by
Aristophanes about a sex strike.
ANSWER: Lysistrata
Tiebreaker #1
Though ten missions were planned, this name was only given to six space flights. The last one contained
Valentina Tereshkova, who was the first woman in space. Coming from the Russian word for East, the first
mission with this name was flown by Yuri Gagarin.

ANSWER: Vostok
Tiebreaker #2
As a young leader serving under his father, who annihilated the Sacred Band of the Thebans? He would
later destroy Thebes. His greatest victory came at a battle known in English as Camel’s House, where he
defeated Darius the Third in 331 BC. This victory gave him control of most of the civilized world known to
him. Name this man who also cut the Gordian knot.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great (or Alexander the Third (of Macedon))
Tiebreaker #3 (No Time Limit)
Unscramble the following letters to get the last name of a President: FFEEOJRSN
ANSWER: (Thomas) Jefferson

