Cal Classic IV
Packet by Selene Koo
Tossups
1. This novel was dedicated to Thackeray: an unwitting bad choice by the author, since Thackeray had an
insane wife and a young mistress, facts which agreed too well with the novel's characters. This novel was
semi-autobiographical, however, one portion of the novel is set in a school strikingly similar to Cowan
Bridge School, which the author attended. For ten points, name this 1847 novel by Charlotte Bronte.
Answer: Jane E.yre
2. One of the three independent discoverers of this law wrote it out on a napkin over lunch in Cambridge
University. The other two discoverers were Gennan and American This law only operates when several
restrictions are obeyed, including an infinitely large population and completely random mating. For ten
points, name this law of genetics, which states that gene frequencies will remain unchanged unless outside
forces change the frequencies.
Answer: Cast1e-Hanly-Weinbe~ Law
3. Her paintings were first shown at an experimental art gallery in New York City called "291." Her art is
compared to both the surrealist work of Dali and the abstract art of Mondrian. For ten points, name this
American artist most famous for her depictions of animal bones, flowers, and the New Mexico desert.
Answer: Georgia O'Kee1fe
4. They are a result of conservation of charge and conservation of energy. They are useful in determining the
current in complex circuits, such as those containing a resistor and an inductor. For ten points, name these
rules, one of which states that the sum of the changes in potential in a closed circuit loop is equal to zero.
Answer: Kirchhoff's rules (or Kirchhoff's Laws)
5. As a baby she was abandoned on a mountain and left to die. She survived, however, to aspire to join
Jason's Argonauts and to join the Caledonian boar hunt For ten points, name this maiden, mother of one
of the Seven against Thebes, raised by a she-bear, whose hand was won by a young man who defeated her
in a foot race.
Answer: Atalanta
6. "He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear / His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear." Indeed, this
thane of Cawdor does all these things, killing unarmed men and helpless families, because of his thirst for
power and control. For ten points, name this Scot, who dies by the hand of a man not of woman born, a
creation of William Shakespeare.
Answer: Macbeth
7. Benjamin Franklin once read this book of the Bible to a literary circle in France; they failed to recognize
it as a book of the Bible but were impressed by its literary beauty. It contains the lines, "for where you go
I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge; your people shall be my people, and your God my God; where
you die I will die, and there will I be buried." For ten points, name this book of the Old Testament,
thought to be written by Samuel, which tells of the love between Boaz and the woman the book is named
for.
Answer: Book of Rll1h
8. Abraham Polonsky says of him, "I wouldn't want to be wrecked on a desert island with him because if
he was hungry, he'd eat me alive." In 1952, he testified before the House Un-American Activities
Committee, informing on eight friends including Clifford Odets and Paula Strasberg. Because of this, in
1989, he was denied the Life Achievement Award of the American Film Institute. For ten points, name this
director of "Gentleman's Agreement," "A Streetcar Named Desire," and "On the Waterfront."
Answer: Elia Kazan
9. He was the only man chosen to become Speaker the day he was elected to the House of Representatives.
His gravestone reads, "I know no North nor South nor East nor West," and his most famous quotation
may be, "I'd rather be right than president." For ten points, name this proponent of the "American

system," a Kentucky statesman nicknamed the Great Compromiser.
Answer: Henry Qay
10. She married at the age of 16 and moved to America with her husband, settling in Ipswich. Her Puritan
beliefs are reflected in lines such as, "Farewell, my pelf; farewell, my store. I The world no longer let me
love; I My hope and Treasure lies above." For ten points, name this early American poet, author of the
collection of poems "The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America."
Answer: Anne Dudley Bradstreet
11. This governmental agency was described as "a corporation clothed with the power of government but
possessed of the flexibility and initiative of a private enterprise." At the end of World War II, it was the
United States' largest electricity supplier. For ten points, name this conservation-oriented agency, created
in 1933, which built a series of 39 dams.
Answer: Iennessee valley Authority
12. After the defeat at Aegospotami, he fell out of favor and died trying to escape from his house, which his
enemies had set on fIre. Accused of destroying sacred images of Hermes, he switched sides and aided the
Spartans. For ten points, name this Athenian general, who believed that the key to success in the
Pelopennesian War was Sicily, and one major reason the Athenians lost that war.
Answer: AIcibiades
13. A priest drinks chocolate, enabling him to rise above the ground. A baby boy with a pig's tail is
abandoned by its parents and eaten by ants. For ten points, these bizarre occurrences are among the
multitudes that are a part of what novel, the history of a Latin American town named Macondo, written by
Gabriel Garcia Marquez?
Answer: One Hundred Years g,fSo/itude or Cien Anos de Soledad
14. She was crowned queen when she was only one week old; Henry VIII attempted to betrothe her to his
son Prince Edward, an attempt called the "Rough Wooing." She married the Earl of Bothwell, who had
carried her off and may also have murdered her previous husband, Henry Stuart. For ten points, name this
Catholic queen of Scotland, the mother of King James I of England.
Answer: Mruy Queen of Scots or Maty Stuart
15. First suggested by Leibniz in 1693, this quantity associated with a matrix is equal to zero only when
the matrix is not invertible. It is also important in Cramer's rule for solving simultaneous linear equations.
For ten points, name this quantity frequently symbolized by something which looks like the absolute value
ofamatrix.
Answer: determinant
16. The value of this for food products is generally signifIcantly greater than -1, while for non-food
products, it tends to be smaller than 1. A product which has a low amount of this generally makes up only
a small portion of the consumer's budget, and has few substitutes. For ten points, name this measure of the
amount demand changes with a change in price, which also describes a characteristic of a rubber band.
Answer: price elasticity of demand

ake in the world behind Lake Superior, this lake is 3720 feet above sea
18. The second largest fresh
level with a maximum depth of 270 feet. Its inlets include the Kagera River and the Katonga River. For ten
points, name this largest lake in Africa whose only outlet is the Nile River.
Answer: Lake Victoria or Victoria Nyauza
19. This concept was fIrst thought up based on a passage in Joseph Priestly's Treatise on Government.
Along with laissez-faire and Malthusian ideas on population, it formed the basis for England's

Philosophical Radical Party. For ten points, name this idea which found support from John Stuart Mill and
Jeremy Bentham, which seeks the greatest good for the greatest number.
Answer: utjlitarianism
20. Two important battles were fought here. In the earlier, 1415, the Teutonic Knights were checked in
their eastern invasion. The latter, in 1914, avenged this defeat and was a crippling blow to the Russian
war effort in early World War I from which the Russians never recovered. Ludendorff and Hindenburg
became national heroes for, FTP, what 1914 victory against the Russians?
Answer: Tannenberg
21. His wife Saskia van Uylenburgh, and his common-law-wife and housekeeper Hendrickje Stoffels were
frequent subjects of his portraits. He was such a good painter that at the ripe young age of 22, he already
took pupils at his studio in Leiden. For ten points, name this painter who also loved to paint himself, the
Dutch Baroque master of chiaroscuro.
Answer: Rembrandt Harmensz(oon) van Rijn
22. His fate hung on when his birthday was: if he turned 20 after the crime occurred, he would have been
sentenced to death; if he turned 20 beforehand, he would get a prison term. Being given the benefit of a
doubt didn't help him much; he died in prison in 1918 from tuberculosis. For ten points, name this
member of the Black Hand, the Serbian who shot and killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand, setting off World
War!.
Answer: Gavrilo ~
23. The gemstone opal is one of these, causing its characteristic play of colors. Other examples include
smoke and aerosol sprays. Michael Faraday created one containing gold particles which still does not
appear to be settling. For ten points, name this type of suspension containing microscopic particles larger
than single molecules suspended in another phase, which scatters light passing through it.
Answer: ~ (prompt on early buzz of suspension)
24. An English major who tells him that he's a symbol, two prostitutes named Sandy and Candy, and
numerous other women, have all fallen for him. However, his greatest achievement deals with the one
woman who hates him, seeing him as a threat to her virtual dictatorshipone Miss Ratched. For ten points,
name this voluntary patient in a mental ward, hero of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.
Answer: Randle Patrick McMurphy

Cal Classic IV
Packet by Selene Koo
Bonuses

l. Identify the following groups of mythological peoples on a 15-5 basis.
a) 15: They were created from ants because of a plea from the king of Aegina.
5: They were the followers of Achilles in the Trojan War.
Answer: Myrmidons
b) 15: In the Trojan War, led by Penthesilea, they fought against the Greeks.
5: They were a nation of female warriors.
Answer: Amazons
2. Identify the following related to the French religious wars for ten points each:.
a) These French Protestants were eventually rooted out, many into exile; the rest were killed.
Answer: Huwenots
b) This event beginning August 24, 1572, resulted in the death of about 50,000 Huguenots in Paris and
nearby provinces.
Answer: St Bartholomew's Day Massacre
c) Identify the "perpetual and irrevocable" document which allowed the Huguenots to practice their religion
in 20 specified "free" cities.
Answer: Edict of Nantes
3. Identify the poem from lines, 30-20-10.
30: ... like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing,
Yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red,
Pestilence-stricken multitudes:
20: Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is:
What if my leaves are falling like its own!
10: If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?
Answer: "Ode to the West Wind"
4. Identify the intermolecular force which predominates in the following molecules for 15 points each, or 5
if you need a brief description of the force.
a) 15: methane
5: this type offorce is caused by temporary dipoles in nonpolar molecules.
Answer: van der Waals or London dispersion forces
b) 15: hydrogen chloride
5: this type of force occurs between any two polar molecules.
Answer: dipole-dipole forces
5. Identify the following works based on famous twentieth-centuty American figures, for 15 points each.
a) Willie Stark is a politician who is vel)' similar to Huey Long in this novel by Robert Penn Warren.
Answer: All the Kjn~ 's Men
b) This novel by E.L. Doctorow tells the stOI)' of 3 families whose lives are interconnected with each other
and major historical figures of the tum of the twentieth centul)', such as Hafl)' Houdini and J.P. Morgan.
Answer: Rqwme

6. For ten points each, identify the following plant growth hormones given a description of their effects.
a) This family of hormones promotes stem elongation and the synthesis of hydrolytic enzymes.
Answer: ~ibberelJjn
b) This hormone promotes cell elongation on the dark side of a plant stem, causing plants to grow toward
a light source. It is also instrumental in the falling of leaves.
Answer: mOOn (or indoleacetic acid or IAA)
c) This hormone induces winter dormancy in plants by reducing mRNA production; it also controls plant
water loss through the stomata.
Answer: abscisic acid (or ABA)

7. Identify the following dystopic novels, for 15 points given the setting, 5 points if you need the author.
a) 15: Oceania
5: George Orwell
Answer: 12.!li.
b) 15: The Republic of Gilead
5: Margaret Atwood
Answer: The Handmaid's Tale

8. Identify the following prehistoric land masses for the given number of points.
a) For ten points, name the supercontinent which contained all of Earth's land masses before the Triassic
period.
Answer: Pan~a
b) For ten points each, name the two smaller land masses which Pangaea broke up into after continental
drift began
Answer: Laurasia, Gondwanaland
9. Identify these plays associated with the theater of the absurd, for ten points each.
a) Though not strictly absurd, this play by Edward Albee contains a limited cast of 4 characters, 2 of which
are named George and Martha, and numerous plays on words. The title refers to a nursery rhyme and an
English author.
Answer: Who's A/raid Ql Virvnia Woolt?
b) This play by Torn Stoppard looks at the world of Shakespeare's tragedy Hamlet through the eyes of two
minor characters.
Answer: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
c) This "anti-play" by Eugene Ionesco was inspired by the Assimil method of learning English and is a
mockery of middle class English life. It includes such scenes as Mr. and Mrs. Martin realizing that they
must be married to each other, and three alternate endings.
Answer: The Bald Soprano (or La Cantratrice Chauve; also translated The Bald Prima Donna»

10. For 10 points each, name one of the rivers near or in the capital cities of the following countries.
a) Canada
Answer: ~ River or Iillkilll River
b) Yugoslavia
Answer: ~ River or SaYa River
c) Cambodia
Answer: Mekon& River or TOnIe Sab River
11. Identify the following which relate to the American frontier, for ten points each.
a) Give the date when the American frontier was declared to be closed because five new states were admitted
to the Union.
Answer: 1890
b) Who wrote The Significance of the Frontier in American History, in which he stated that the conflict
between the wild and civilization created the unique American identity?
Answer: Frederick Jackson ~
c) This act of 1887 contributed to the end of the frontier by breaking up Indian settlements and giving each
head of a family 60 acres of land. The Indians lost over 60 million acres of land as a result of the act.
Answer: ~ Severalty Act (or General Allotment Act of 1887)
12. Identify the following terms related to thermodynamics for ten points each.
a) This quantity is defmed as the heat absorbed by a system divided by the temperature of the system; for a
spontaneous process, it has a positive value.
Answer:~

b) This type of thermodynamic process is one carried out in a perfectly insulated system, where heat
absorbed is zero.
Answer: adiabatic
c) This thermodynamic cycle results in the most efficient heat engine possible; it consists of two steps at

constant temperature, and two at constant heat.
Answer: ,CamQj; cycle
13. Identify the following people important in the drafting and ratification of the Constitution of the United
States.
a) For 5 points each, name the three men who wrote anonymous letters published under the name
"Publius," later collected as the Federalist papers.
Answer: Alexander HamiItol1 John hu:.. James Madison
b) For 15 points, name the man who led the committee which drafted the fInal version of the Constitution.
Answer: Gouverneur Morris
14. Given a brief description, identify the following about early hominids for 10 points each.
a) In late 1998, the fIrst complete skull and skeleton of a member of this genus of early hominids was found
at Sterkfontein Caves.
Answer: Australopithecus
b) This was the first species of early hominid to discover fire and move out of Africa to Europe and Asia.
Examples include Java Man and Peking Man.
Answer: Homo erectus
c) German anatomist Rudolf Virchow saw fossil remains of this hominid and thought they were Homo
sapiens afflicted with rickets, and with a flattened head caused by powerful blows.
Answer: Neanderthal man (or Homo sapiens neanderthalensjs)
15. Identify the following composers of the Russian Five for 15 points each.
a) This doctor and organic chemistI)' professor composed such works as In the Steppes oiCentral Asia and
the opera Prince Igor.
Answer: Alexander Porrrrevich Borodin
b) He gave up a career in the military to make more time for music. His compositions include the opera
Boris Godunov and Pictures at an Exhibition.
Answer: Modeste Petrovich Mussor~sky

16. Identify the architectural period to which these buildings belong, for ten points each.
a) Amiens Cathedral
Answer:~

b) the United Nations Secretariat Building
Answer: International style
c) the U.S. Capitol
Answer: Neoclassical
17. Name the current leader of the following Middle Eastern countries for 10 points each.
a) king of Jordan
Answer: Abdullah
b) president of Iran
Answer: Mohammed Khatami
c) president of Syria
Answer: Hafez Assad
18. Identify the following religions, ten points each.
a) This religion was brought to China by Bodhidharma. It consists of two main sects, Rinzai and Soto.
Answer: ~ Buddhism
b) Adherents to this religion, founded by Charles Tays Russell, are known for their door-to-door
evangelization. Many of the religions tenets may be found in The Watchtower.
Answer: Jehoyah's Witnesses
c) A combination of Hinduism and Islanl, its religious center is the Golden Temple at Amritsar.
Answer: ~sm

19. Identify the Egyptian ruler for the stated number of points.
a) 5: He was the fIrst historical fIgure to establish a monotheistic religion, one based on the cult of Aton, the sun
god.
Answer: Akhenaton (or Ikhnaton or Amenhotep IV)

th

b) 10: The 1Ifth ruler of the 18 dynasty, she became regent because of Thutmose Ill's yOWlg age, and crowned
herself pharaoh.
Plnswer: lIats~sut
r
c) 15: He founded the 3 dynasty in Egypt and built the flrst known pyramid in Egypt, a step pyramid.
Plnswer: ~ (or~)

20. Give the full name of the U.S. bureaucratic agency given a brief description for ten points each, flve points if you
need its acronym.
a) 10: This agency administers a merit system for federal government jobs, establishes the general schedule for pay
offederal employees, and maintains the merit-based federal civil service system.
5: 0PM
Plnswer: Office of Personnel Manacement
b) 10: This agency in the executive branch was established in 1970. Its role is to help the president promote and
maintain effective government Speciflcally, it helps the president come up with his version of the federal budget and
supervises his administration of other agencies.
5:0MB
Plnswer: Office of Management and Budget
c) 10: This agency regulates interstate and foreign radio, television, wire, and cable communications. It issues
licenses and assigns frequencies and call signs to radio and television stations, and regulates the use of cable
channels.
5: FCC
Plnswer: Federal Communications Commission

2l. Identify the following novels with related titles for ten points each.
a) This novel by Nathaniel West tells the story of a newspaper columnist who tries to give advice to the lovelorn.
He is known only by his female pen name.
Plnswer: Miss Lonelyhearts
b) This novel by Virginia Woolf is a stream-of-consciousness description of a day in the life of the main character.
Characters include Peter Walsh and Septimus Smith.
Answer: Mrs. Dallowqv
c) This French naturalist novel tells the story of Emma's marriage to a COWltry doctor, her subsequent affairs, and
her death by arsenic overdose.
Plnswer: Madame Bovary
22. Identify the following people whose last name was "Smith" for ten points each.
a) This politician from Maine served as congresswoman from 1940 to 1948, and was elected to the U.S. Senate in
1948, making her the 1mt woman elected to both houses of Congress. In 1964, she became the first woman
nominated for the presidency by delegates of a major political party when she was nominated by the Republican
Party.
Plnswer: Margaret Chase Smith
b) He was the 1mt Roman Catholic to win the nomination of a major political party, being chosen by the
Democratic Party in 1928 to run for President. He served four tenns as governor of New York.
Plnswer: Alfred Emanuel Smi,t h
c) She was sentenced to life in prison in 1995 for murdering her two sons. She had strapped them in their car seats
and then allowed the car to roll into a lake in South Carolina.
Plnswer: Susan Smith

a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a

a
a

