by David M. Levinson

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV (UR2)

Cal Classic IV
Packet by David Levinson
Tossups
1. Born in WaldOIf, Gennany in 1763, in 1784 he moved to America and quickly became a traderfrom his
New York base. He made trips to Canada and in 1808 created the American Fur Company. For 10 points-name this man whose wealth and luxury is still remembered in the name of a famous New York hotel.
Answer: John Jacob Astor

2. Wanting a dog bold enough to kill rats but small enough to carry in a pocket, weavers in northern
England developed this breed in the 1850's. Having silky, long hair that touches the floor -- for 10 points-name this 4-8 pound toy dog.
Answer: Yorkshire Terrier (or Yorkie)
3. The Republicans are of course the Grand Old Party, but this four-time English Prime Minister was called
"The Grand Old Man" . A rival to the Tory Disraeli -- for 10 points -- name this leader of the liberals in the
late 19th Century who tried but failed to give Ireland Home Rule.
Answer: William Ewart Gladstone
4. This drug has now been shown to be effective in treating the mouth ulcers of people infected with illY.
This at least shows some beneficial effects for a medicine which resulted in many limbless European babies
in the early 1960's. For 10 points -- name this drug, the only known so far to heal the ulcers, which has
recently been approved to treat Leprosy?
Answer: Thalidomide
5. This Tolstoy work begins "Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own
way." For 10 points -- in what novel does the title character enter a tragic, adulterous affair, and commit
suicide by throwing herself under a train.
Answer: Anna Karenina
6. One of the most famous statues in antiquity of this god depicts him as a baby on the arm of his halfbrother Hennes. Some scholars think his worship came from the East. He is sometimes depicted with wild
animals such as tigers and often dolphins. Wild women called Maenads often accompany him. FTP, who
is this god of revelry, tragedy, and wine in Greek mythology?
Answer: Dionysus (prompt on Bacchus)
7. His 1734 Considerations on the Grandeur and Decadance ofthe Romans demonstrates how a
democracy, once having lost those public virtues that constitute the essence of its existance perishes
through tyranny. In 1721 he satirized Parisian institutions and individuals in his Persian Leiters. For 10
points -- who is best known for The Spirit ofthe Laws?
Answer: Montesguieu
8. Held in 1884 and 1885 to settle the conflicting claims of the European powers over lands in Africa, this
conference mainly discussed the Belgian claim to the Congo. Named after the European capital city where
it was held -- for 10 points -- what meeting's agreements led to the peaceful division of Africa among the
Europeans?
Answer: Berlin Conference (or Congress of Berlin)
9. Like Washington D.C., it was surveyed by Thomas Ellicott, and its plan is quite similar. Named for the
French for "good river", it handled and milled the Great Plains grain in its heyday. It is the unlikely home to
the National Earthquake Center, and was called home by Presidents Cleveland and Fillmore. For 10 points
-- name the city whose minor league team the Bisons play at Pilot Field and whose NFL team plays at Rich
Stadium.
Answer: Buffalo (from
Fleuve)

B.

1

by David M. Levinson

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV (UR2)

10. The initial design by Jorn Utzon proved to by unbuildable because hte shell roofs were non-uniform,
though the firm of Ove Arup enabled a slightly modified version to be constructed. Now the world famous
symbol of Australia's largest city -- for 10 points -- name this multi-shelled performance center.
Answer: Sydney Qpera House
II. The last name is the same: Gustav, working with James Franck, showed that atoms can only absorb
energy in definite amounts and won the 1925 Nobel Prize in physics. Gustav's uncle Heinrich accidentally
discovered the photoelectric effect in 1887 during experiments in which he confirmed James Clerk
Maxwell's prediction that electromagnetic waves would travel through space with the speed of light. For
10 points -- what name has become the SI unit for frequency?
Answer: Hertz
12. Murphy's Law says that anything that can go wrong will go wrong. Philip Roth, in the 1969 Portnoy's
Complaint put forward the notion that my desires are repugnant to my morals. For 10 points -- what trap
put forward in a Joseph Heller novel, states that you have to be crazy to do something, and if you are crazy
we can't let you do it?
Answer: Catch -22
13. Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaronaike was elected Prime Minister of this nation in 1%0, and in 1972 she
changed it's name. This country has a Sinhalese majority and Tamil minority, and was the first modern
nation to elect a female head of government. For 10 points -- name this island of Serendip, just to the south
of India.
Answer: Sri Lanka (accept Ceylon)
14. This tragedy deals with Creon, King of Thebes, and with one of those who tries to unseat him. Creon
forbids the burial of Polyneices (poly-NIGH-sees), and the sister who tries to bury Polyneices is ordered
shut up alive in a vault. for 10 points -- what is this play about the conflict of public and private duty
written by Sophocles and re-examined by Jean Anouilh?
Answer: Anti~one
15. It states that if a stress is placed upon a system in equilibrium, the equilibrium is displaced in the
direction that counteracts the effect of the stress. An increase in the concentration of a substance favors the
reaction that uses up the substance and lowers its concentration. For 10 points -- what is this chemical law?
Answer: Le Chatelier's Principle
16. Dick Hickok and Perry Smith, for no apparent reason, murdered the Clutter Family in a small Kansas
town. Truman Capote secured the confidence of everyone in town and -- for 10 points -- wrote what
"nonfiction novel" about this event?
Answer: In Cold Blood
17. Invented in 1913 by Arthur Wynne, it is derived from the Victorian game called Magic Square. It first
appeared in the New York World, and by 1920 every major newspaper printed one. For 10 points -- name
this verbal mental exercise?
Answer: Crossword Puzzle
18. A General Court, including a "Grand Council of Delegates", would serve for three years, while the
President would be named by the king. The Iroquois met with delegates from New York, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire to form a plan of union, at for
10 points what 1754 Convocation?
Answer: Albany Congress (accept Albany Convention or Albany Plan)
19. Originally discovered in 1911 by Dutch Physicist Heike Kamerlingh Onnes, it has more recently been
achieved at near room temperature by Paul Chu among others. The implications are enormous- magnets
could levitate trains, electric lines would have no power loss, computers would be even faster. For 10
points, what is this device, made with ceramics, which offers no resistance to the flow of electricity, and so
wastes no energy?

2

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV (UR2)

by David M. Levinson

Answer: Superconductivity
20. In the early 1400's he was fmanced to go to a fair in France, but missed it by a year. In order to avoid
trouble with his moneylenders he invented a device. In 1455 he entered a partnership with Johann Fust, and
it was then he produced what came to be called the Mazarin Bible, named for the library where it was
found. For 10 points -- who brought printing to Europe?
Answer: Johannes Gutenberg
21. The Year is the Same: Edward Pusey begins his association with the Oxford Movement, Benjamin
Harrison is born, Santa Anna becomes President of Mexico, Mehemet Ali is given Egypt and Syria, All
Gennan states join the Zollverein, and Andrew Jackson begins his second tenn by withdrawing all US
funds from the Bank of the United States. For 10 points -- name the common year.
Answer: 1833
22. Legend says his father obliged him to swear an oath of hatred against Rome at age nine. In his
twenties, he took over command of the army in Spain and opened the Second Punic War. His successive
victories at Trebia, Ticinus, Lake Trasimene, and, worst of all, Cannae were made possible by his bold
crossing of the Alps, complete with elephants. Nevertheless, FTP, what Carthaginian military genius lost at
Zama 14 years after Cannae when Scipio turned his own tactics against him?
Answer: Hannibal (Barca)
23. Associated with excessive alcohol abuse, some writers have used this tenn as though the syndrome
were caused by alcohol abuse, which is misleading. For 10 points -- what is this delerium whose onset
follows the cessation of alcohol intake after many years of alcohol abuse?
Answer: Delerium Tremens (acceptD.T.'s)

3

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV (UR2)

by David M. Levinson

Cal Classic IV
Packet by David Levinson
Bonuses

°

1. Identify these famous illustrators (for 1 points each):
a) An English Graphic Artist, his work appeared in Punch and today an award bearing his name is given for
expertise in the world of children's book illustrations.
Answer: Randolph Caldecott
b) A cartooinist and bitter political and social satirist, his watercolors of scenes of everyday life are
untouched by any romantic feeling for picturesque poverty. He is the French artist of The People ofJustice.
Answer: Honore Daumier
c) An American illustrator, he exposed the Tweed Ring and created the symbol of the Donkey for the
Democrats.
Answer: Thomas Nast
2. Who created the following detectives (or detective like characters) five each, five for all five
a) Adam Dalgiesh
Answer: P.D. James
b) The Hardy Boys
Answer: Edward Stratemeyer
c) Nero Wolfe
Answer: Rex Stout
d) Charlie Chan
Answer: Earle Biggers
e) Mike Hammer
Answer: Mickey Spillane
3. Identify these two Portuguese on a 15-5 basis:
15 Points: The second governor of the Portuguese colonies in India, he occupied Goa in 1510 and
a)
proceeded to seize important points along the trade routes. He captured the Straits of Malacca and Hormuz,
thereby giving Portugal control over the Indian Ocean.
5 Points : A city in New Mexico shares his name.
Answer: Alfonso Albuquerque
b)
15 Points: Living from 1394 to 1460, he sponsored the exploratory voyages along the African
coast which laid the foundation for the Colonial Empire.
5 Points: He was a member of the Royal Family.
Answer: Prince Hen!), the Navigator
4. Places in the Arctic Circle seem to have a proportionally large number of colored names, perhaps to
brighten up the bleakness:
a) What former territory is now called Kalallit Nunaat?
Answer: Greenland
b) What is the capital of Northwest Territory?
Answer: Yellowknife
c) What is the capital of the Yukon Territory?
Answer: Whitehorse
5. Name these places of Sailors Mythology (15 each):
a) This ship, universally considered a bad omen, is doomed to sail around the world and can never call to
port. Its captain made an impious oath to round the Cape of Good Hope.
Answer: The Flying Dutchman
b) It is where a Monkee might keep his gym shorts and the sailor's name for the evil spirit of the sea share a
name. If a sailor has gone here he has been buried at sea.
Answer: DaY)' Jones Locker
6. Identify these characters from Russian Literature (for 10 points -- each):
a) In Gogol's The Inspector General, who is thought to be the Inspector?
Answer: Khlestakov
b) In Dosteovsky's The Idiot, who is called The Idiot?

4

by David M. Levinson

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV CUR2)

Answer: Prince Myshkin
c) In Dosteovsky's Crime and Punishment, who is the Criminal?
Answer: Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov
7. Relay . In this Relay question, each member of your team must answer at least one part without
consulting your teammates. As help, the captain may assign individuals to answer now knowing that the
categories are: American History, English Literature, Chemistry, and Architecture. Five pts per part, ten for
all five
a) American History: He was the first President of the United States under the Articles of Confederation
Answer: John Hanson
b) English Literature: This British Prime Minister won the Nobel Prize for Literature, mostly for his works
about World War II.
Answer: Winston Churchill
c) Chemistry : One of the three stable forms of carbon, the other two being graphite and diamond, it is
shaped like a soccerball and named for the discoverer of the geodesic dome.
Answer: Buckyballs or Buckminster Fullerenes
d) Architecture: Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, this house in Bear Run Pennsylvania is perhaps the most
famous in the world because of its cantilever over a local stream
Answer: Falling Water or the Kaufman House
8. Identify the following bands from a brief description 10 each
a) One member's father was chief of staff for the CIA's Political Action Staff, before founding this band in
1977 he played with "Curved Air". Another got his nickname from playing soccer.
Answer: The Police
b) In Spanish this band's name means "The Wolves"
Answer: Los Lobos
c) They began as the "M&B Five" playing pubs in England owned by Miller and Butler Breweries before
changing their name, but keeping the M and B initials
Answer: Moody Blues
9. Vicky Verbal is studying for the SAT's and sees some similar words which she cannot correctly
identify. Help her out, identify the following as an Epitaph, Epithet, Epithalamium, Epiphany, or an
Epigram for five points each and five more for all correct:
a) A short satirical poem or statement
Answer: Epigram
b) A song or poem written to honor a bride or bridegroom
Answer: Epithalamium
c) A word or phrase used to characterize a person or thing
Answer: Epithet
d) A verse inscription on a gravestone
Answer: Epitaph
e) An intuitive perception of the essential nature of something. Answer: Epiphany
10. Pen and Paper may be needed. Given the following five genuses of bacteria: Mycobacterium ...
Rickettsia ... Yersina ... Salmonella ... Vibrio, tell which is the causal agent for the following diseases: (10
points each)
a) Typhoid Fever
Answer: Salmonella
b) Bubonic Plague
Answer: Yersina
c) Rocky Mountain Spotted fever
Answer: Rickettsia
11 . Rome was sacked several times. Of what people were the following men, who led sacks of Rome,
king:
a) Alaric
Answer: Visigoth
b) Gaiseric
Answer: Vandal
c) Brennus .
Answer: Gaul
12. Identify these ancient Greek oracles:
a) FTP, Apollo established himself here by killing the Python, and so the priestess who gave the oracles
was called Pythia.
Answer: Delphic Oracle or Oracle at Delphi

5

by David M. Levinson

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV CUR2)

b) F20P, Located in Northwestern Greece, it is the oldest Oracle known to the Greeks. It was centered on
an oak tree and its messages were given through the rustling of leaves, the cooing of pigeons, the babbling
of a nearby brook, and by the gongs of priestesses who were called "pigeons". What is this oracle of Zeus?
Answer: Oracle at Dodona
13. Unlike the major televsion networks, PBS depends upon its affiliates to originate programming.
Identify the city of broadcast of the following eastern PBS stations (five points each):
a) WGBH
Answer: Boston
b) WNET
Answer: New York
c) WTTW
Answer: Chicago
d) WQED
Answer: Pittsburgh
e) WETA
Answer: Washington
f) WHYY
Answer: Wilmington or Philadelphia
14. Senator Windbag wants the Federal government to fund a road for his state to connect the towns of
Small and Smaller.
a) What kind of project is this unessential appropriation?
Answer: pork-barrel
b) Windbag cannot obtain this highway without trading votes with Senator Gasbag, who wants a dam in his
state. What is this process called?
Answer: log-rolling
c) Some constituents are waiting in the hallway waiting to see Windbag to ensure that the highway has an
exit in their town. This process is called what?
Answer: lobbying
15. Many of America's favorite tunes originated in the civil war era. Identify the writers of the following
pieces of music associated with the Old South (for 10 points -- each):
a) "Shoe Fly Don't Bother Me" and "John Brown's Body"
Answer: Thomas Bishop
b) "0 Susanna" and "The Camptown Races"
Answer: Stephen Collins Foster
c) "The Blue Tail Fly (or Jimmy Crack Com)" and "Old Dan Tucker"
Answer: Daniel Decatur Emmett
16. Identify this author 30-20-10
30: In 1908, he had four plays running simultaneously on the London stage. In 1914 he worked on an
ambulence unit in Flanders. For much of the war he roamed the South Pacific.
20: He was born in Paris, and his mother died when he was eight as a result of stillbirth, as a result,
stillbirths featured prominently in his writings. He trained as a doctor, and wrote the novel Liza of Lambeth
in 1897.
10: In 1915 he wrote OfHuman Bondage and in 1930 Cakes and Ale.
Answer: Somerset Maugham
17. As most academic competitors can tell you, reading too much leads to near-sightedness. Identify the
following vision problems, for ten points each:
a) This condition results when the curvature of the cornea or the lens is asymmetrical.
Answer: Astigmatism
b) If you are nearsigted, your eye focuses in front of the retina. This is called what?
Answer: Myopia
c) If you read too little, perhaps this condition ensues, when the eye is too short and the image forms behind
the retina.
Answer: Hyperopia
18. Answer these literary questions (ten points each)
a) In Thornton Wilder's Our Town, what is Our Town?
Answer: Grover's Comers New Hampshire

6

High School Questions of Cal Classic IV CUR2)

by David M. Levinson

b) In Charles Dickens' Our Mutual Friend, who is Our Mutual Friend?
Answer: John Hannon
c) In Henry James' What Maisie Knew, what did Maisie know?
Answer: Both her stepmother and her stepfather were committing adultery
19. On what Mediterranean island will you find the following cities:
a) Ajaccio
Answer: Corsica
b) Cagliari
Answer: Sardinia
c) Palermo
Answer: Sicily
20. PROBLEM For thirty points, find the pH of a 0.1 molar solution of Hydrogen Chloride, with a density
of 1.64 grams per liter at Standard Temperature and Pressure. (you have 15 seconds):
Answer: 1: (PH = -log(O.I)= - (- 1) = 1)

a
a

a
a
a
a
a
aa
a

a
a
a
a

a
a

a
aa

a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a

a
a

a
a

7

