TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
Questions mostly by Josh Levit of Case Western
TOSSUPS - ROUND 11

1.
Her original dislike of Jane Fairfax is based on her admitted jealousy at Jane's accomplishments and
breeding. Her efforts to reform the character of Harriet Smith are finally rendered futile when Harriet marries
the farmer who was her original intended. A leader of Highbury society, her own plans are ambiguous even
after her attempts to marry off all her acquaintances. FTP name this title character of a Jane Austen novel who
eventually finds love and a respectable marriage with Mr. Knightly.
Answer:
Emma Woodhouse
2.
A baby lies limp in her crying mother's arms. Far to the right a man screams from a burning building.
A horse, seemingly pierced by a spear brays from the center, a man with a broken sword lays underneath. It is a
depiction of a peaceful market day in the Basque country of Spain, rudely bombed back to the stone age by a
German Condor Legion. FTP name this 1937 work by Picasso.
Answer:
Guernica
3.
After a season in which he ranked fourth in the league in scoring, he was voted to the 2001 First All-Star
th
Team - his 13 year on the first squad and his 19th year as an all-star, putting him second only to Gordie Howe
in all-star seasons. He led NHL defensemen in playoff scoring in 1983 and again in 1988, and became Boston's
all-time leading playoff scorer in 1991; a decade later, he became the NHL's tenth-highest playoff scorer, but a
bigger milestone was passed that season by the Canadian. FTP identify this 21-year NHL player, whose first
Stanley Cup victory only came in 2001 after a trade to Colorado.
Answer:
Ray Bourque
4.
Around the year 130 BC, Hipparchus compared ancient observations to his own and concluded that in
the previous 169 years the intersections between the elliptic and celestial equator had moved 2 degrees, and in
doing so, discovered this phenomenon. For ten points, name this astronomical phenomenon defined as any
motion of a spin axis around a cone, an example of which would be a spinning gyroscope.
Answer: Precession
5.
While the CIA does not think that the father wrote the popular anonymously-written novel "Zabibah and
the King", they have not ruled out his son as author, as its overt sexuality seems to fit his reputation as a
womanizer. Head of the national football federation, the son had the national team beaten on the soles of their
feet after a loss to Kazakhstan, and his April Fool's Joke for 2001 was announcing in the newspaper an increase
in food rations. In comparison, even his dad's invasion of Kuwait seems rational. FTP, give the last name of
the family that (at least as of Thursday night) still rules Iraq.
Answer:
Hussein [Saddam and Usay]
6.
Located somewhere in Bohemia, it consists of a conglomerate of 2-story buildings and several low
dwellings, and is so large that it may seem like a small city. Overlooking an oppressive village it has a single
tower, round and almost featureless, covered with ivy and a few windows. It might seem strange that the
villagers all have skulls that seem flattened by blows, and that nobody can stay in the village without the count's
permission. FTP name this edifice, home to the Count of Westwest, and the titular setting of a work by Franz
Kafka.
Answer - The Castle
7.
It returned all captured territory to its previous owners before the war and although it did not touch upon
the main controversial issues, it did provide for joint commissions to negotiate the Northwest Boundary Act.
This treaty also did not solve the conflict of naval forces in the Great Lakes. FTP name this treaty signed by the
United States and Britain in a western city of Belgium.
Answer: Treaty of Ghent

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
8.
The source is John 8:7. Jesus says it in response to a group of scribes and Pharisees who have brought
an unnamed woman to the temple, a woman who was caught in the act of adultery. Attempting to comer, Jesus
they point out that the laws of Moses proscribe a death sentence for that sin and ask if he would change that.
Jesus, FTP, responds with what phrase, sparing the woman her death, the latter half of which was changed in
"Rent" to the lyrics " .. be the first to condemn La Vie Boheme"
Answer:
He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. (accept clear
knowledge equivalents as it is translation, but do not accept "let he among us without sin, be the first to
condemn ... " as this does not appear in John 8.7)
9.
In a very dilute solution, a solute molecule will (with rare exceptions) have only solvent molecules as
near neighbors, and the probability of escape of a particular solute molecule into the gas phase is expected to be
independent of the total concentration of solute molecules. So begins an extended version of what law that
states that, in dilute and low pressure solutions, the weight of the gas dissolved in a liquid is proportional to the
pressure of the gas exerted upon the liquid, a law named after a 19th century English chemist and physicist.
Answer: Henry's Law
10.
He began as a Congressman representing Greenwich Village in 1916 and remained in office until 1932.
When Mayor Jimmy Walker was forced to resign, he ran in 1933 to fight the corruption of the Tammany
machine and won. He served for three terms and during WWII served as Roosevelt's director of the Office of
Civilian Defense. FTP name this New York mayor, nicknamed "The Little Flower," who shares his name with
a community college, the ghost that spoke to the mayor in Ghostbusters II, and a major airport in Queens.
Answer: Fiorello H. LaGuardia
11.
The hero of this work first appears in the lower lefthand comer of a group photograph. As he forges a
trail through the Chilkoot Pass, he is totally unaware that he is being followed by a bear. Seeking shelter from a
storm, he is stuck in a cabin with Big Jim McKay and the fearsome Black Larsen. With starvation near, the hero
eats his own shoe for Thanksgiving dinner. After falling in love with a dance-hall girl and being stood up on
New Year's Eve, Big Jim takes him back to the cabin, near which they strike gold, just before the cabin falls
over the cliff. FTP name this classic 1925 Charlie Chaplin film.
Answer:
The Gold Rush
12.
Most work done using the principles of this effect is concerned with vibrational transitions, which give
larger shifts observable for gases, liquids, and solids. For a liquid compound, the intensity of the light affected
due to this effect may be only 11100,000 of that of the incident beam. For ten points, identify this effect named
after an Indian physicist which states that change in the wavelength of light occurs when a light beam is
deflected by molecules.
Answer: Raman Effect
13. He was nearly the first person to fly non-stop from New York to Paris - his June 1925 attempt ended in a
crash landing on the French coast. It was not the first bout with aerial fame for this American, who had once
been discharged from the Navy for physical reasons. He nearly died in 1934 when a poorly ventilated shack led
to carbon monoxide poisoning, but by 1938 he had published Alone, a grim autobiography of that incident,
along with his first famous flight - a flight which began in Spitsbergen, Norway and ended in his receipt ofthe
Congressional Medal of Honor. FTP, identify this first man to fly over both poles.
Answer:
Richard Evelyn Byrd, Jr.
14.
Bishop Gregory of Tours quotes him as saying, "Oh woe, for I travel among strangers and have none of
my kinfolk to help me", no doubt as a result of his policy of murdering all possible rivals. In the late 5th and
early 6th century, he used this policy to build a kingdom in what was the Roman province of Gaul. For ten
points, name this Frankish monarch, the founder of the Merovingian dynasty.
Answer: Clovis

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10113/01
15.
After bathing in the dragon's blood, he is rendered invulnerable, except for a spot on his shoulder where
a linden leaf fell. Of course, he is murdered and the second half of the epic featuring him is concerned with the
revenge taken by his wife. For ten points, identify this prince, the protagonist of the Nibelungenlied.
Answer: Siegfried
16.
READER: ALLOW 15 SECONDS BEFORE CALLING TIME
Pencil and Paper ready. As I walk into an auditorium, I notice a sign outside of it that says each of 97 rows
contains 95 seats. Halfway through trying to do this difficult multiplication in my head, I realized that it was
much easier if! simply looked at 97 as (100-3) and 94 as (100-6), and multiplied the two binomials. FTP, how
many seats are there in the auditorium?
Answer:
9,118

17.
Caleb was an American educator, textbook author, and bookseller during the four decades following the
American Revolution. George Caleb was the mid 19th century American artist of Jolly Flatboatmen in Port,
and Raftsmen Playing Cards. For ten points, identify their common last name also shared by Hiram, the
"discoverer" of Macchu Pichu.
Answer: Bingham
18.
This process uses up ATP as an energy source and consumes NADPH2 as a reducing power for adding
high-energy electrons to make its final product. There are three phases: Carbon Fixation, in which two
molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate are produced; Reduction in which 3-phosphoglycerate is converted to
glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate or G3P, and Regeneration, in which some of the G3P is converted back into
ribulose biphosphate. For ten points, name this process, a metabolic pathway named after an American
biologist, found in the stroma in which carbon enters in the form of CO 2 and leaves in the form of sugar.
Answer: Calvin cycle
19.
His burial at Arlington was opposed by the FBI, who cited his leftist activities and communist
sympathies as reason enough for his exclusion. He served on the Aleutian Island of Adak during World War II,
allegedly so the army could keep him out of their hair. It was here that he first conceived of a comic strip titled
"Secret Agent X-9". It was not well received, but by then his literary reputation was already established, as his
pre-war life as a private detective gave him plenty to draw on. FTP, identify this author of Red Harvest, The
Thin Man, and The Maltese Falcon.
Answer: Samuel Dashiell Hammett
20.
After attempts to create this system through logo graphic means, Roman letters from the English
language were borrowed, and some Roman letters were modified. Used in its creator's native language in
official documents, it started with 200 symbols, but was then reduced to 86. For ten points, identify this
syllabary (not alphabet) invented by Sequoyah.
Answer: Cherokee
21.
Vahagn, Tsohanoai, Sundi-Mumi, Aruna, Shamas, Saule, Lugh, Marici, Dazhbog, Heimdal, Savitar,
Marduc, Adonis, Ah Kinchil, Inti, Kuat, Mithras, Frey, Moloch, Horus, Apollo. FTP, these, along with Helios
and Ra, are deities of what celestial body?
Answer: Sun; accept equivalents
22.
According to Phil Spector he died of an "Overdose of Police", a play on this man's continuous arrests,
usually for obscenity charges, but two times for narcotics. Paul simon asserted he died of an "overdose of hate
and bigotry" before Simon performed "A Most Peculiar Man." He decried what he saw as the hypocrisy in all
aspects of American life and attacked religious figures by name in his classic bit "Religions, Inc." FTP, name
this American Comedian.
Answer:
Lenny Bruce or Leonard Schneider

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001

UTC 10/13/01

23. He occasionally used the "I Ching" to help him compose. He began his career by experimenting with
percussion ensembles and, thanks to his teacher Shoenberg, wrote 12 tone compositions. Quickly, however, he
expanded to new experiments beginning with the "prepared piano" (a piano with objects placed on or between
the strings) and ultimately record and tape players and radios. FTP, name this avant-garde composer, the force
behind "roaratorio", "Imaginary Landscape No.4" and "Four Minutes, Thirty-Three seconds."
Answer:
John Cage

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
BONI - ROUND 11
Questions mostly by Josh Levit of Case Western

1.
Ancient Roman centurions suffered from Hun dread. Hun dread. Get it? FTPE answer the following:
This ruler of the Huns from 433 to 453 terrorized the Roman Empire before dying on his wedding night.
Answer: Attila
This pope somehow convinced Attila not to sack Rome. Some say Peter and Paul miraculously joined him;
others say that Attila and his armies were just exhausted.
Answer: Leo I or the Great
Before Attila, the Huns were prevented from sacking Rome in 394 thanks to this leader of the Visigoths, who
later felt shafted, broke his treaty with Rome, and in 410 sacked the city himself.
Answer: Alaric
2.

Answer the following about a movie director FTPE:
(a) He frequently features dead or dismembered dogs andlor quiet nighttime snowfall in his films, which
include Scrooged, Beetlejuice, and the 2001 Planet of the Apes.
Answer:
Tim Burton
(b) Burton keeps casting the same people in several films -- Jeffrey Jones, Michael Keaton, and Wynona
Ryder among them. This Burton favorite starred in Edward Scissorhands and Sleepy Hollow.
Answer:
Johnny Depp
(c) Burton also has a favorite composer, this former frontman of the '80's new wave group Oingo
Boingo, whose many Burton scores include Batman, Beetlejuice, Edward Scissorhands, and Scrooged.
Answer:
Danny Elfman.
3.
Identify the following from earth science for ten points each.
A. This fault where the Pacific and North American plates meet in California is among the world's most active.
Answer: San Andreas Fault
B. Further north, near the strait which shares its name, this plate located east of the Pacific Plate is subducting
under the North American Plate.
Answer: Juan de Fuca Plate
C. While most of the seismic activity in the u.S. is concentrated along the North American-Pacific plate
boundary, there is also a significant hazard along this fault line near the Missouri-Tennessee border, where three
earthquakes of magnitude greater than 7.5 occurred in 1811-1812.
Answer: New Madrid Fault
4.
His main squeeze was named Zelda, but he's not Dirk. Name the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel from a brief
description FTPE:
a) His first novel, it was set at Princeton and helped set the stage for the Roaring Twenties.
Answer:
This Side of Paradise
b) This 1925 novel, through the eyes of Nick Carraway, tells of an enigmatic gangster's love for the
unattainable rich girl Daisy Buchanan.
Answer:
The Great Gatsby
c) Published to lukewarm reviews in 1934, this tells of a psychiatrist destroyed by his wealthy wife.
Answer:
Tender Is the Night

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
5.
For ten points each identify the following anatomists from clues.
A. This 16th century Flemish scientist revolutionized the study of biology and the practice of medicine with his
careful description of the anatomy of the human body.
Answer: Andreas Vesalius
B. After serving as canon of the cathedral of Modena he turned to the study of medicine at the University of
Ferrara in the late 1530's. He contributed greatly to the study of the human body through his discoveries
concerning female reproductive organs.
Answer: Gabriel Fallopius
C. In 1661, this Italian anatomist made major contributions to the study of microscopic human anatomy through
his discovery of capillaries.
Answer: Marcello Malpighi

6.
Identify these 19th century wars fought on American soil from battles FTPE.
Thames River, Lake Erie, New Orleans
Answer: War of 1812
Pensacola, St. Marks
Answer: Seminole Wars
Horseshoe Bend
Answer: Creek War
7.
Picture this. Two 10 ohm resistors are in parallel with a 15 volt battery. 10 seconds per part:
(5 pts each) For 5 points each, what is the voltage across each resistor?
Answer - 15 volts (for both)
(10) What is the total resistance?
Answer - 5 ohms
(10) Now replace each resistor with a 15 microFarad capacitor. What is the total capacitance?
Answer - 30 microFarads
8.
A.

B.

C.

9.
(A)

Given an African nation, identify its first leader following independence FTPE or from its capital for 5:
(10) Robert Mugabe
(5) Harare
Answer: Zimbabwe
(10) Kwame Nkrumah
(5) Accra
Answer: Ghana
(10) Patrice Lumumba
(5) Kinshasa
Answer: Democratic Republic of the Congo (prompt on Zaire)

Identify the following works from Russian Literature from characters FTPE or from the author for 5:
10 pts.: Petrovich, Sonia Semyonova, Raskolnikov
5 pts.: Fyodor Dostoyevsky
Answer: Crime and Punishment
(B)
10 points: Akaky Akakievich, Significant Personage
5 pts.: Nikolai Gogol
Answer: The Overcoat
10 points: the title character, whose real last name is Shukov
(C)
5 pts.: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
Answer: One Day in the Life ofIvan Denisovich

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
10.
In Exodus, when the pharaoh doesn't let Moses take the Israelites home, God sends 10 really nasty
follow-up messages. Name the ten biblical plagues of Egypt. You'll get 5 points for naming 1, 10 for 3, 15 for
5,20 for 6, 25 for 8, or 30 for all 10 correct. (Note to moderator: allow 15 seconds; accept equivalents.)
Answer: Nile turns to blood, Frogs, Gnats or mosquitoes, Flies, Death of cattle, Boils, Hail, Locusts,
Darkness during the day, Death of the firstborn male child of each household
11.
Identify the French composer from works for ten points each.
A. Daphnis at Chloe, La Valse, Bolero
Answer: Maurice Ravel
B. Carnival a/the Animals, Samson et Delila
Answer: Camille Saint-Saens
C. Tales of Hoffman, Gaiete Parisienne
Answer: Jacques Offenbach
12.
Given a starting atomic isotope and a series of nuclear decays, identify the element that the resulting
atomic isotope would be FTPE. You need not give the atomic mass of the isotope.
10) Helium-4 undergoes a beta decay.
Answer: Lithium-4
10) Fluorine-19 undergoes an alpha decay.
Answer: Nitrogen-IS
10) Chlorine-36 undergoes an alpha decay and then a beta decay.
Answer: Sulfur-32
13.
Name the authors FTPE given titles of their poems as well as their better-known novels:
(10)
"The Tears of Scotland"; The Adventures of Roderick Random
Answer:
Tobias Smollett
(10) "The Traveler"; The Vicar a/Wakefield
Answer:
Oliver Goldsmith
(10) "The Bee Meeting", "Tulips", and "Morning Song"; The Bell Jar
Answer:
Sylvia Plath
14.
Name the following baseball players not named Bonds who set records in 200l.
A) Following a major September RBI drought with a late surge, this man became the first 3 rd baseman to drive
in 100 runs each year for six straight seasons.
Answer:
Larry "Chipper" Jones
B) In the last week of the season, this well-traveled, egotistical outfielder now with the Padres reached the 3,000
hit plateau and broke Ty Cobb's record for runs scored in a career.
Answer:
Rickey Henderson
C) He became the first shortstop to hit 50 home runs in a season, eclipsing Ernie Banks' mark of 48.
Answer:
Alex Rodriguez

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
15.
Name the following Supreme Court cases dealing with the First Amendment, for 10 points each:
(10) In this 1925 case it was declared that portions of the Bill of Rights (specifically the First Amendment)
had to be upheld by the states by extension of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Answer:
Gitlow v. New York
(10) In this case, Justice Holmes declared that "clear and present danger" was the only reason for limiting
free speech.
Schenck v. United States
Answer:
(10) This 1966 ruling declared that a work must have "some redeeming social value" and that the states might
therefore prohibit the printing or sale of works "which portray sexual conduct in a patently offensive way, and
which, taken as a whole, do not have serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value."
Answer:
Miller v. California
16.
Identify the author from works, 30-20-10
30- Beowulf: the Monster and the Critics and a translation of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
20- Tree and Leaf and The Silmarillion
10- The Hobbit and The Fellowship ofthe Ring
Answer:
J(ohn) R( onald) R( euel) TOLKIEN
17.
a)

Answer the following questions about algebra, FI5PE:
The slopes of perpendicular lines have this relationship.
OPPOSITE RECIPROCALS
Answer:
(reluctantly accept NEGATIVE RECIPROCALS, but do not accept RECIPROCALS)
b) If there are infinitely many solutions to a system of two linear equations, the lines are said to have this
relationship.
DEPENDENT or COINCEDENTAL
Answer:
18.
Answer the following about the rise of Buddhism in Asia FTPE.
10) This northern branch of Buddhism evolved from the so-called Mahasangha tradition about a hundred years
after the death of Buddha. It emphasizes the role of bodhisattvas and sutras and is the primary form practiced in
East Asia.
Answer:
the Mahayana
10) Two Japanese monks named Eisai and Dogen introduced this form of Buddhism to Japan. Its focus is on
mediation as the path to enlightenment.
Zen
Answer:
10) This third Mauryan emperor converted to Buddhism and sent missionaries to the Far East and Sri Lanka. He
also set up columns promulgating his edicts over his empire.
Answer:
Asoka
19.
FTPE, given a company's former or expanded name, give the name it's now more commonly known by:
a) Andersen Consulting
Answer: Accenture
b) Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company
Answer: IBM
c) N M Electronics
Answer: Intel

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
20.
Given a description of a National Seashore, name that landmark, for 10 points each.
(10) This Virginia and Maryland barrier island is famous for its wild horses.
Answer:
Assateague Island (accept Chincoteague, the island where the horses actually live)
(10) This North Carolina site is famous for its treacherous currents, shoals, and storms and became known as
the "graveyard of the Atlantic."
Answer:
Cape Hatteras
(10) This Patchogue, New York site consists of a light house and the nearby William Floyd Estate and
contains such features as the Otis Pike Wilderness, the only wilderness in New York City, and the Sunken
forest, a 300-year-old holly forest. It's perhaps best known as an early center of gay culture.
Answer:
Fire Island
21.
You know philosophy? Well answer these questions FTSN 0 P.
(5) This school of thought includes the 'Greatest Happiness for the Greatest Number Principle' and was
advocated by Jeremy Benthem and Henry Sedgewick.
Answer - Utilitarianism
(10) Developed by Husserl, this method of inquiry is supposed to begin from a scrupulous inspection of ones
own consciousness and intellectual process.
Answer - Phenomenology
(15) Developed by John von Neumann, this mathematical theory deals in situations in which participants wish
to maximize some property in situations of uncertainty with respect to the other players.
Answer - Game Theory
22.
Identify these types of securities, for ten points each.
A) These promissory notes promise to pay interest for a number of years until maturity, when the face value is
due.
Answer: bonds
B) This security represents the right to buy a security or commodity at a specified price within a specified
period of time.
Answer: option
C) This hybrid security is a type of stock that has a fixed yield like a bond, but has dividents which can go
unpaid with causing bankruptcy.
Answer: preferred stock

