TOSSUPS - ROUND 3
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe
Questions mostly by Lauren Licata of Bryn Mawr University

1.
This song first appeared on the 1976 album Agents of Fortune. The song was heard in the original film
of Halloween, as well as on the desert floor in Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey. On a Saturday Night Live sketch,
this song constantly needed "more cowbell." FTP, what is this seemingly spooky but often joked-about song by
Blue Oyster Cult?
Answer: (Don't Fear) The Reaper
2.
A cactus growing out of a rock with an eagle perched on top was the omen that the priests of this Latin
American nation waited to see before building the foundations of their empire. The people spoke Nahuatl and
were a combination of the Toltec, Chichimec, and Mexica people. FTP name this group which ruled most of
Mexico from 1427-152 and had its capital at Tenochtitlan, present day Mexico City.
Answer:
Aztec
3.
If you are recording the change in the light radiated by the galaxy, its "Red Shift," you are relying on
this principle, Similarly, if you are standing on a street corner and you hear a very high pitched siren
approaching, you'll note that the closer it gets the louder it sounds until it passes and the sound not only fades
away in volume, but also goes down in pitch. FTP name this effect, first outlined in 1862 by the Austrian
physicist for whom it is named.
Answer:
Doppler effect
4.
He is expelled by the founder of a historically black college when he reveals how African-Americans are
treated in the South. The Communist Party of New York tries to use him as a token, but, after a surreal riot in
Harlem, he realizes his loss of social identity. FTP, name this titular character of a 1952 Ralph Ellison novel.
Answer: Invisible Man

5.

Apprentice to Andrea de Verrochio, his early talent was evident in an angel he painted in Verrochio's
"Baptism of Christ." His own "Virgin on the Rocks" was one of the premiere paintings of the High Renaissance
in Italy, though today it hangs with his other most famous work, a female portrait, in the Louvre. FTP name
this Florentine born master and painter of the Last Supper.
Answer:
Leonardo da Vinci
6.
It was originally called Oak. It is similar in syntax to C++, but only supports single inheritance, although
it enhances this with the notion of interfaces. It can be compiled to machine code using compilers like GCl, but
is more commonly distributed as bytecode, which is run in a virtual machine. FTP, name this computer
programming language developed by Sun Microsystems, with components called beans and program types
called servlets, maillets and applets.
Answer: Java (Do not accept lavascript, a totally different language developed by Netscape
Communications)
7.
A colorless liquid with a burning taste, it is an excellent solvent. It dissolves iodine, sulfur, phosphorus,
gums, waxes, and other organic compounds. Use of this chemical has been restricted since 1978 because it is
potentially carcinogenic in extended use. FTP name this hydrocarbon with a formula of C6H6 and a
characteristic structure of a hexagon with a ring in its interior.
Answer:
Benzene
8.
His wife became a best selling author, and his autobiography won the 1954 Pulitzer prize. He moved to
Europe in 1935 after the murder of his firstborn, and praised the German air force as the best in Europe. In
1933 he made aerial surveys of over 48,000 km for transatlantic air routes and landing fields. For ten points,
name this man who made history in his single engine monoplane, The Spirit ofSt. Louis.
Answer: Charles Augustus Lindbergh

9.
The title refers to Dorlcote, a town where Philip Wakem desires the woman who, against the advice of
her cousin Lucy Deane, runs off with Stephen Guest. FTP, name this novel that follows the lives of Tom and
Maggie Tulliver, written by George Eliot.
Answer: The Mill on the Floss
10.
From the Persian for "beggar", these sects have Sufism as their basis. They do not take vows like their
Western counterparts, but groups are known by their practices, such as howling. FTP, name this monks of
Islam, whose name has become the word for a spinning, destructive wind.
Answer: Dervish or Whirling Dervishes
11.
His surviving works include "The Sandreckoner," "On Plane Equilibrium," and "Quadrature of the
Parabola." His contributions to weaponry include something called the burning mirrors and an early catapult.
Such feats make up for the shame of running down the street naked after one of his greatest realizations. FTP
name this Greek genius who solved the golden crown mystery and first established the existence of buoyancy.
Answer: Archimedes
12.
It started as a terrorist campaign against Christian missionaries in northeastern China, and the final result
was a harsh treaty where China was forced to pay $333 million in indemnities to the Western Powers. It
featured a general uprising in Beijing against the foreign legates and was organized by the Society of the
Righteous and Harmonious Fists. For ten points name this 1900 Chinese national uprising.
Answer: Boxer Rebellion
13.
Just over 2300 years ago, it controlled an empire of approximately three million square miles. Today
that is reduced to just under ten thousand square miles. Back then, it was the center of cultural interaction
among Persians, Romans, Hindus, and Egyptians. Now it is a secondary center of cultural conflict among
Albanians, Serbs, and Greeks. Back then its official language was Greek; today seventy percent of its
inhabitants speak a Slavic language. In other words, about the only thing left of this historic empire centered in
southeastern Europe is its name. FTP name this homeland of Alexander the Great.
Answer:
Macedonia
14.
Its newest student is the irresistibly beautiful Cheryl Blossom. Ms. Grundy is a teacher, and Mr.
Weatherbee is its principal. FTP, name this fictional high school whose students include Reggie, Betty,
Veronica, Jughead, and Archie.
Answer: Riverdale High School
15.
A frame story, it takes place in a delightful villa in Fiesole, near Florence, which is occupied by seven
women and three men. Every day, each person tells a story relating to a given theme, like "tragic love stories"
and "human vices". FTP, name this collection of 100 stories, written between 1349 and 1353 by Giovanni
Boccaccio.
Answer: The Decameron
16.
Founded in Ripon, WI, it began as a reaction to the Kansas-Nebraska act, and drew its membership from
former Whigs, Know-Nothings, and Free Soilers. Its first presidential candidate was John C. Fremont in 1856,
and by 1858 it had taken control of the House of Representatives. FTP, name this political party whose
leadership currently includes Trent Lott, Dick Armey, and George W. Bush.
Answer: Republican Party
17.
After receiving a degree in Physics and Mathematics from Rostov University, he served in the army
until he was arrested for referring to Stalin as "the boss." He served eight years in prison and became a teacher
after his release. His nonfiction works, such as The Gulag Archipelago, investigate the inner workings of the
Soviet Union. FTP, name this Nobel laureate and author of Cancer Ward and The First Circle.
Answer: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn

18.
First identified in 1869 by Friedrich Miescher it was dyed successfully by Robert Feulgen in 1914.
Biologist P .A. Levene correctly deduced the four basic elements that make up its structure and Erwin Chargaff
recorded that these elements occur in equal proportions. But it was Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction picture
of this molecule that led Watson and Crick to understand, FTP, this molecule which contained the key to
heredity's structure.
Answer:
DNA or Deoxyribonucleic acid
19.
While it features memorable supporting characters like Luther Billis and Bloody Mary, It focuses on two
sets oflovers. The first is a Midwestern farm girl who falls for a married French painter many years her senior.
The second set involves a young Marine and a native girl. A new televised production of it features Hary
Connick, Jr., and Glenn Close. FTP name this musical, based on a book by James Michener and written by
Rodgers and Hamrnerstein.
South Pacific
Answer:
20.
His father was Zeus but his mother was a mortal, Princess Alcmena. Too strong and impatient for
typical noble life, he was sent to rid the countryside of Thebes from lions and wolves. Impressed, the King of
Thebes gave him his daughter for marriage, but Hera bewitched him so he accidentally killed his own children.
FTP name this famous Greek hero who performed 10 labors for his cousin Eurystheus.
Heracles or Hercules
Answer:
21.
The first legally established one was created in Rome in 1555 by Pope Paul IV, and others were set up in
Europe for the next centuries. They were surrounded by walls and locked at night, and the inhabitants were
sometimes forced to wear insignia outside them. Adolf Hitler reestablished these Jewish sectors in Nazi
controlled Europe. FTP name this term that's come to mean a crowded inner city area inhabited by minorities.
Answer: ghetto
22.
The Roman goddess Justinia, the Slavic god Rugiviet, and the fearsome Indian goddess Kali are all
depicted holding one. Hautec1aire was carried by Oliver, Sigfried possessed both Gram and Balmung, Durandel
was owned by Roland, Arondight belonged to Sir Lancelot. FTP, these are all mythical examples of what item,
of which Arthur's Excalibur is also an example?
Answer: swords
23.
Built according to a design by Joshua Humphreys, it was put to sea under Capt. Samuel Nicholson in
1798. Its original figurehead, a depiction of Hercules, was lost in the Barbary Wars and replaced with an
unpopular likeness of Andrew Jackson. It hosted the signing of the U.S.-Tripoli peace treaty, but is most
famous for an 1812 battle with the HMS Guerriere, in which a British cannonball bounced off its hull. FTP,
what ship thus gained the nickname "Old Ironsides?"
Answer: USS Constitution (accept: Old Ironsides before it is mentioned in the question)

BONI - ROUND 3

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

1.
Does anyone watch the NBA before playoff time? If not, you'll probably miss two of these three teams
struggling for the last playoff spot in the Western Conference with records that would easily get them in if they
were in the East. Name the NBA teams from clues FTPE; either city or team nickname will suffice.
a) They were slapped with serious sanctions including the loss of Joe Smith by the Commissioner's office for
violating the salary cap, no surprise considering what they're committed to paying Kevin Garnett.
Answer: Minnesota Timberwolves
b) Rising stars Steve Francis and Cuttino Mobley have gotten a boost as treatment seems to have removed the
health risk from a blood clot in Hakeem Olajuwon's leg.
Answer: Houston Rockets
c) The offseason addition of Patrick Ewing hasn't helped, so this team is considering ditching Ewing and
trading Yin Baker during the offseason to free up cap room for a rebuilding effort.
Answer: Seattle Sonics or Supersonics
2.
ID the following treaties, FTPE:
Signed in 1850 by the US and Britain, each country agreed not to dominate or colonize the territories of Central
America.
Answer: Clayton-Bulwer treaty
Not dominating Central America is really noble and all, but 51 years after Clayton-Bulwer was signed, it was
getting in the way of American control of the proposed Panama canal. Hence, this 1901 treate between the U.S.
and Britain.
Answer: Hay-Paunceforte treaty
You may have noticed that neither the U.S. nor Britain had control of Panama at the time the Hay-Paunceforte
treaty was signed; the country controlling the land was Colombia, which was not so sanguine about giving the
U.S. control of the canal area. One quick U.S.-instigated revolution later, America was able to negotiate this
treaty with the new - and unsurprisingly America-friendly - nation of Panama.
Answer: Hay-Bunau-Varilla treaty.
3.
FTPE, given a description of a game starring everyone's favorite pudgy plumber, name that game.
This game, for four players, is essentially an elaborate version of Sorry! Complete with Mini-Games that earn
points.
Answer: Mario Party (or Mario Party 2, but roll your eyes while accepting that answer ©).
Not counting auto racing, Mario stars in games involving what two sports, F5PE?
Answer: Golf and Tennis
Edwin Abbott would have a field day with this latest adventure game entree in the Mario franchise. Name it.
Answer: Paper Mario
(Author's note: Edwin Abbott wrote a book - which one author of this packet really likes, and the other thinks
is highly overrated - called Flatland, about a two-dimensional world visited by a three-dimensional being.)
4.
FTPE name the following functional groups.
A) N02
Answer:
Nitrate
B) N03
Answer:
Nitrite
C) P04
Answer:
Phosphate
D) C2 H3 02
Answer:
Acetate
E) C03
Answer:
Carbonate
F) SH
Answer:
Thiol

5. FTP each, name these British authors from clues.
This hunchbacked satiric poet wrote "An Essay on Man" and "An Essay on Criticism."
Answer: Alexander Pope
The husband of the author of "Sonnets from the Portuguese," he also wrote poetry, such as "My Last Duchess."
Answer: Robert Browning
Much of his poetry was inspired by the Irish patriot Maud Gonne, but may be better known for helping to found
the Abbey Theater.
Answer: William Butler Yeats
6.
30-20-10 name the musical work.
30) It consists of four movements, three of which are solely orchestral; the fourth and final movement takes its
vocal text from a poem by Schiller.
20) The composer's Opus 125, it was completed in 1824 though its German composer never heard its
performance.
10) Its choral finale has been heard in "Sister Act II," "A Clockwork Orange," and most recently bastardized in
the "Starz" commercials.
Answer: Beethoven's Symphony No.9 (prompt on the "Choral" symphony since it is part of the clues)
7.
Properly speaking, Canada has only ten provinces, with the remainder of its land in three territories.
FTPE, given a territory, name its capital:
Yukon
Answer: Whitehorse
Northwest Territory
Answer: Yellowknife
Nunavut
Answer: Iqaluit [ik-AHL-oo-it]
8.
Why history majors are seldom shocked by the news, chapter 1. Answer the following FTSNOP:
For ten points, a 1923 scandal involving bribery in the Veterans Bureau, headed by Charles R. Forbes of Ohio,
was the first to break in what president's administration?
Answer: Warren G. Harding
For five points per answer, name the two naval oil reserves where drilling rights were leased to private
companies owned by Edward Doheny and Harry Sinclair.
Answer: Elk Hills, CA and Teapot Dome, WI
FTP, who was Harding's Secretary of the Interior convicted of accepting bribes in the Teapot Dome scandal?
Answer: Albert B. Fall
9.
FTPE, given a description of a work that won the Pulitzer Prize, name it.
This Jane Smiley novel is an adaptation of King Lear that focuses on three sisters trying to come to terms with
their abusive father's death.
Answer: A Thousand Acres
The title character is killed by her mother, Sethe, in this Toni Morrison novel.
Answer: Beloved
The title of this Frank McCourt memoir refers to his mother, and it tells of his formative years in Ireland.
Answer: Angela's Ashes
10.
FTPE, I'll name two moons. You tell me which planet they both circle.
Ariel and Umbriel.
Answer: Uranus
Triton and Galatea.
Answer: Neptune
Calypso and Hyperion.
Answer: Saturn

11.
FTSNOP answer the following about European history.
10) name the war started when Philip of Anjou, grandson of Louis XIV, was set to take the throne in 1700.
The thirteen year battle was between the Grand Alliance (England, the Netherlands, Denmark, Austria and later
Portugal) and another coalition of nations (France, Spain, and parts of Italy and Germany).
Answer: War of the Spanish Succession
5) what collective treaty resolved this war?
Answer: Peace of Utrecht
15) Stemming from dissatisfaction over the Peace of Utrecht, it was a trade war between Spain and Britain.
The latter had resorted to smuggling and in 1731 the namesake of this war was maimed on his captured ship, the
Rebecca.
Answer: The War of Jenkin's Ear
12.
Give the authors of these plays about women FTP each.
The Miss Firecracker Contest and Crimes of the Heart are two of her comedic looks at Southern women.
Answer: Beth Henley
Mrs. Warren's Profession is about a former prostitute who now owns a series of European brothels - much to
the dismay of her highly educated daughter.
Answer: George Bernard Shaw
"for colored girls who have considered suicide/when the rainbow is enuf," featuring a cast of seven women in
different colored clothing, is one of this playwright's "choreopoems."
Answer: Ntozake Shange
13.
FTPE from a brief description identify the scientist who contributed to evolutionary theory.
A) A French zoologist who studied the fossil record and concluded that simpler lifeforms gave way to more
complex one. Though his general idea behind the progression, inheritance of acquired characteristics, was on
target his ideas on the giraffe were patently absurd.
Answer:
Jean Baptiste Lamarck
B) An English naturalist, he had a great deal of similarity with Darwin. His ideas incorporated those of
Malthus and Lyell as well as observations made on the Malay Archipelago. Darwin received this "noble and
generous" man's 20 page manuscript as an impetus to write his own "The Origin of the Species."
Answer:
Alfred Russell Wallace
C) An 18th century geologist, he proposed that the earth had been created through a slow and gradual process
of erosion. His theory, known as "uniformitarianism," implied an "old earth."
Answer:
James Hutton
14.
Identify these ancient historians FTP each.
His record of the wars between the Greeks and Persians earned him the title, "Father of History."
Answer: Herodotus
His History from the Founding of the City is a long narrative of Rome history up to 9 B.C.
Answer: Livy
He wrote about Sparta's 27-year war with Athens in History of the Peioponnesian War.
Answer: Thucydides
15.
FTP each, give the area of the triangles described .. (READER: allow 15 seconds per part before
calling time)
A right triangle with legs of lengths 6 and 8 meters
Answer: 24 m2
A triangle with sides length 5, 12, and 13 meters
Answer: 30 m2
An equilateral triangle with side length 6 meters
Answer: (the quantity 9 times the square root of 3) divided by 2 m2

16.
Name these figures in the Russian Revolution of 1917 FTP each.
This Romanov tsar abdicated in 1917.
Answer: Nicholas II
In October 1917, he became leader of the new Soviet Union as head ofthe Bolsheviks.
Answer: Vladimir Lenin
A leader of the Bolsheviks, he negotiated the treaty ofBrest-Litovsk. He served as foreign minister and
commissar of war before being exiled by Stalin in 1927.
Answer: Lev (or Leon) Trotsky
17. FTP each, answer the following questions relating to physics terms.
This quantity is the rate at which work is done.
Answer: power
This is equivalent to 746 watts in electricity or 2545 BTU in terms of heat, and is slightly smaller in the metric
system than in the English system.
Answer: one horsepower
This Scottish inventor and engineer set the value of one horsepower, but is better known for his refinements of
the steam engine.
Answer: James Watt (N.B. He greatly improved steam engines, but they were invented by Savery and
Newcomen)
18.
When the German invaders conquered the western Roman Empire in the 5th century, they destroyed the
professional Roman army and substituted their own armies, made up of warriors who served their chieftains for
honor and booty. Answer the following related questions for ten points each.
What was the political/military system descending from the German invader's armies, which consisted of land
grants in return for military service and fealty?
Answer: Feudalism
What was the name of the person who pledged fealty to a lord in return for land?
Answer: Vassal
What was the grant of land a vassal received from a lord called?
Answer: Fief
19.
Answer these related philosophy questions FTP each.
This philosopher, brother of a famous author, wrote The Principles ofPsychology and The Will to Believe.
Answer: William James
James was one of the early advocates of this philosophical movement, which advocates a close connection
between theory and action and was founded by Charles Sanders Peirce (pronounced "purse").
Answer: pragmatism
One of James' essays attempts to refute this idea, popular after the Newtonian revolution in physics, in which
the state of the universe at a given moment will necessarily lead a single, unique and potentially identifiable
future.
Answer: determinism
20.
FTP each, answer these related art questions.
This Spaniard, active in the early 19th century, created canvases like The Allegory of the City of Madrid and The
Duchess ofAlba.
Answer: Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes
Goya painted a famous contrasting clothed and nude versions of this reclining figure.
Answer: Maja
The Madness of Fear and other pieces in Goya's Disasters of War series were created using this technique.
Answer: engraving

21.
FTP each, answer these related questions on the border between psychology and physiology.
Physical or psychological in origin, this is the dependence on an activity or substance.
Answer: addiction
The new drug gamma-vinyl GABA blocks high levels of this brain chemical, associated with pleasure, and may
help cure drug addictions.
Answer: dopamine
Attempting to get off a physical addiction isn't always easy. This shaking, caused by alcohol withdrawal, can
lead to hallucinations and even death.
Answer: delirium tremens or DT's
22.
For the stated number of points, name the recently appointed cabinet members from the department
headed.
5 points. Department of Defense
Answer: Donald Rumsfeld
10 points. Department of the Interior
Answer: Gale Norton
15 points. Department of Housing and Urban Development
Answer: Mel Martinez

