Varsity Quiz 2004: Quarter Final 4
First Round
1) In which 1966 film does Paul Scofield as Sir Thomas More say at his execution, "I am
commanded by the king to be brief, and, since I am the king's obedient subject, brief I will be. I
die his Majesty's good servant but God's first"?
Answer: A Man for All Seasons
2) The human skeleton is said to consist of 2 divisions: the bones of the head, neck, and trunk
and the bones of the appendages and their supports. Name either of these divisions.
Answer: Axial (or spinal) skeleton or appendicular skeleton
3) What name is given to the period that marked the intellectual and material preeminence of
Athens, Greece? It is so named for the Athenian statesman who ruled from about 460 to 429 B.C.
Answer: Age of Pericles (Periclean Age)
4) Physics Question: How much work is done when a 10 kg suitcase is lifted one meter?
Answer: 98 joules
5) Name the leader under whose orders the Israelites marched around Jericho, then shouted and
blew their trumpets, causing the walls to fall down.
Answer: Joshua
6) Many in the late 18th century believed that dairymaids who had caught cowpox could not
catch smallpox. Which English scientist proved that being inoculated with cowpox matter would
prevent people from catching smallpox?
Answer: Edward Jenner
7) Which unit of length equal to about 3.26 light-years is used to compute the distance of stars?
This unit is equal to the distance of a star whose annual parallax is one second of arc.
Answer: Parsec
8) Name the woman of Italian-American ancestry who was the first woman to be elected
governor in the U.S. without having succeeded her husband in office. She represented
Connecticut in the House of Representatives for 2 terms before becoming governor.
Answer: Ella Grasso
9) Which term beginning with the letter G is used in earth science to designate the belief that
changes in the earth have taken place slowly, without sudden and violent transitions?
Answer: Gradualism
10) On October 14, 1066, the forces of William, the Duke of Normandy, defeated those of
Harold at the Battle of Hastings, leading to William's being crowned king of England on which
day later that year? Charlemagne was crowned emperor on this same day.
Answer: Christmas Day.

11) Math Question: What is the value of the log of the cosine of π/3 radians if the base of the
log is 2?
Answer: -1
12) In which Samuel Barber opera, commissioned for the September 16, 1966, opening of "The
Met" in Lincoln Center, do the principal characters kill themselves after Octavius' victory in 31
B.C.?
Answer: Antony and Cleopatra (he fell on his own sword and she was bitten by an asp)
13) In 1996, scientists opened jet tubes in the Glen Canyon Dam for 4 days in an effort to raise
the water level and restore beaches and wildlife along which river that flows through the Grand
Canyon?
Answer: Colorado River.
14) Identify the large French chateau about 37 miles south of Paris where Pope Pius VII stayed
when he came to crown Napoleon and where Napoleon abdicated the throne in 1814. The
existing structure was begun in 1528 by commission of François I.
Answer: Fontainebleau
15) Author Richard Condon, who died at age 81 in 1996, saw two of his novels made into
acclaimed movies, including Prizzi's Honor, and which story of political paranoia that gained
frightening realism with the assassination of President John F. Kennedy?
Answer: The Manchurian Candidate
16) Math Question: What is the conjugate of the complex number one plus i?
Answer: One minus i
17) Moro, another form of the word Moors, refers to Muslims who live in the southern part of
which country in the Pacific that consists of more than 7,000 islands?
Answer: Philippines
18) Which 2-word term used in the U.S. for a "live and let live" philosophy was used in the
Soviet Union for a program advocating evolutionary victory over capitalism?
Answer: Peaceful coexistence

19) Identify the female outlaw of the late 19th century who was known as the "Bandit Queen,"
the "Female Jesse James," the "Female Robin Hood," "Lady Desperado," and "Queen of the
Outlaws." Her first name is Belle.
Answer: Belle Starr (born Myra Belle Shirley)
20) Which word identifies a large-scale orchestral composition ranging in length from one to 6
sections but usually divided into 4 sections?
Answer: Symphony

21) Which word beginning with the letter F designates both "something such as information that
is considered plentiful but often inferior, raw, or coarse" and "coarse food for animals, cattle, and
similar domestic animals"?
Answer: Fodder
22) In which New England city was the first and only edition of the first American newspaper,
Publick Occurrences Both Foreign and Domestick, published in September 1690 by Benjamin
Harris?
Answer: Boston (accept Cambridge)
23) Which country celebrated 55 years of independence from Britain on August 15, 2002, using
the occasion to criticize its rival, Pakistan?
Answer: India
24) In which 1942 film does Humphrey Bogart say to Ingrid Bergman, "Here's looking at you,
kid"? This film title names a major Moroccan city.
Answer: Casablanca
25) Name the islands in the Danish West Indies that William Henry Seward tried to purchase
during the Andrew Johnson administration and that the U.S. finally purchased from Denmark in
1917.
Answer: Virgin Islands

Bonus Round
1) Name the 1811 Jane Austen novel that is the basis of the 1995 film in which Emma Thompson
stars as Elinor Dashwood, the sensible sister of the rash Marianne.
Answer: Sense and Sensibility
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning films: 1st the source of the plot for
the 1995 movie Clueless, an 1815 Jane Austen novel in which Emma Woodhouse takes care of
an indulgent father and 2nd the Tony Award-winning Andrew Lloyd Webber musical based on a
1950 film starring Gloria Swanson as a faded film star attempting a comeback.
Answers: Emma and Sunset Boulevard
2) As a result of the 20th or "Lame Duck" Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, who was the
first President to be sworn in on January 20? The year was 1937.
Answer: Franklin D. Roosevelt (20th Amendment was ratified on February 6, 1933).
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning the U.S. government: 1st Name the
building in Philadelphia in which the 2nd Continental Congress and the Federal Constitutional
Convention met and 2nd name the southern state that was the 4th after Delaware, Pennsylvania,
and New Jersey to ratify the Constitution, in 1787.
Answers: Independence Hall (in Independence National Historical Park) and Georgia (it
was ratified on January 2, 1788).
3) Math Question: The first two terms of the binomial theorem expansion of (a + b)6 [READ:
the sum of a and b all raised to the sixth power] are a6 and 6a5b [READ: a to the sixth power and
six times a to the fifth power times b]. What are the coefficients of the next two terms?
Answer: 15 and 20
Bonus Question: Answer each of the following math questions: 1st what is the y-intercept of the
line with the equation y = 2x - 1? and 2nd what is the cube root of 343?
Answers: -1 or (0,-1) and 7
4) Name the author of the 1994 book Closing Time, which features characters Yosarian and Milo
and is a sequel to Catch-22, written 32 years earlier.
Answer: Joseph Heller
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following associated with the word hell:
1st the 4 words completing the following statement made by Major General Smith as Communist
divisions attacked during the Korean War: "Retreat, hell! We're not retreating, we're just
advancing _____." and 2nd the former name of the Dardanelles, the strait joining the Aegean Sea
with the Sea of Marmara (Marmora)
Answers: "in a different direction" and Hellespont
5) Identify the red or yellow crystalline pigment found in the carrot.
Answer: Carotene
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning biology : 1st the gradual loss of a
behavioral response of an animal as a result of ongoing stimulation and 2nd the Word defined as
the "attribution of human traits to animals other than man"
Answer: Habituation and Anthropomorphism

6) Which President warned of a Democratic repeal of the high protective tariff with these
words: "The grass will grow in the streets of a hundred cities, a thousand towns; the
weeds will overrun the fields of millions of farms," in a campaign speech on October 31,
1932?
Answer: Herbert Hoover
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning warnings: 1st name the vast
African country crossed by the Nile where a civil war has been fought since 1983 and aid
agencies continue to warn of famine and 2ndgive the symbol that warns about poison or
pirates.
Answers: Sudan and Skull and crossbones
7) Name 2 of the 3 people thrown into the fiery furnace for not obeying King
Nebuchadnezzar's command to worship the golden image as related in the Book of
Daniel in the Bible.
Answer: Shadrach (Hananiah), Meshach (Mishael), and Abednego (Azariah).
Bonus Question: Identify the following concerning geography: Name 2 of the 3 largest
Italian volcanoes.
Answers: Etna (Aetna), Vesuvius, and Stromboli
8) Give the general name for the 3 curved, tubelike canals in the inner ear that help to
maintain balance and are called the inferior, superior, and posterior canals.
Answer: Semicircular canals
Bonus question: Identify each of the following parts of the inner ear from the given first
letter: 1st the letter V – the Part that includes the utriclus and the sacculus and 2nd the
letter C – the Part that has 3 fluid-filled ducts and resembles a snail shell.
Answers: Vestibule and Cochlea
9) Identify the British dependency that covers only about 2 square miles and is located
just south of the Tropic of Capricorn about 5,000 miles east of Australia. It was occupied
by 9 mutineers from the HMS Bounty in 1790.
Answer: Pitcairn Island
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following geographic sites: 1st the Island country
separated from India by the Palk Strait and the Gulf of Mannar
and 2nd the country in which Albertville, the site of the 1992 Winter Olympics, is
located.
Answer: Sri Lanka and France
10) Math question: A set S contains 3 elements. How many subsets of S contain an odd
number of elements?
Answer: 4
Bonus Question: Answer each of the following math questions: Find 3 consecutive odd
integers that sum to 57 and 2nd Convert 200° to its equivalent radian measure.
Answers: 17, 19, 21 and (10/9)π or 10π divided by 9

Speed Round
1) What term beginning with P denotes an axiom or premise assumed to be true for the
purpose of argument or scientific investigation?
Answer: Postulate
2) Which lawyer presented the arguments for Oliver Brown in the 1954 Brown v. Board
of Education case before being selected as the 1st black justice of the Supreme Court?
Answer: Thurgood Marshall
3) Which 19th-century American author postulated that if you build a better mousetrap,
the world will beat a path to your door?
Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
4) Identify the adopted home town of Abraham Lincoln, where his body arrived for burial
on May 3, 1865.
Answer: Springfield (Illinois)
5) The Great Dark Spot on Neptune was so named because of its resemblance to the
Great Red Spot on which planet?
Answer: Jupiter
6) Give the word that names a small, usually grotesque, figure usually attached to a
Gothic structure?
Answer: Gargoyle
7) Identify the Democratic U.S. senator of Irish ancestry who was first elected to his seat
representing Massachusetts in 1962.
Answer: Edward Kennedy
8) Name the chapel whose ceiling painting was pronounced fully restored in 1990 after a
decade of cleaning to bring back the bold, bright colors used by Michelangelo.
Answer: Sistine Chapel
9) Name the planet that was discovered on September 23, 1846, when astronomers began
to search for the source of an unexplained force of gravity that seemed to be influencing
Uranus.
Answer: Neptune
10) Identify the 1995 film starring Liam Neeson and Jessica Lange that is based on Sir
Walter Scott's 1817 novel about Scottish outlaw Robert Macgregor.
Answer: Rob Roy

11) Which amendment in the Bill of Rights is the foundation of the doctrine of states'
rights?
Answer: 10th Amendment

12) What is the maximum number of different types of atoms that may bond to the same
carbon atom?
Answer: 4.
13) Math Question: If the hypotenuse of an isosceles right triangle is 8 centimeters, what
is the area of this triangle?
Answer: 16 square centimeters.
14) Which country acknowledged in 2002 having broken a 1994 agreement with the U.S.
by pursuing a nuclear weapons program, trying to become the world's 8th nuclear power?
Answer: North Korea
15) The 1995 movie Tall Tale stars Patrick Swayze as which legendary Southwest
cowboy who supposedly invented the six-shooter and dug the Rio Grande?
Answer: Pecos Bill
16) In a nursery rhyme, which character “… runs through the town…? Rapping at the
window, crying through the lock”?
Answer: Wee Willie Winkie
17) Identify the French city that in 1998 celebrated the 400th anniversary of the decree
issued there by Henry IV (4th) giving the Huguenots the freedom of religion?
Answer: Nantes
18) Name the American General whose forces defeated the British at the second Battle of
Saratoga on October 7, 1777, in New York.
Answer: General Horatio Gates
19) Which element was first found in the gaseous atmosphere surrounding the sun and
named after the Greek god of the sun?
Answer: Helium
20) Which Icelandic born Norse explorer is credited with the discovery of North America
in A.D. 1000 on October 9?
Answer: Leif Eriksson
21) 1) If each step in a staircase is 6 inches high, how many steps are in a staircase 15
feet high?
Answer: 30.

22) Which type of compound dissolves in water to furnish hydrogen ions or hydronium
ions?
Answer: Acid.
23) In which country did Pierre Trudeau replace Lester Pearson as prime minister?
Answer: Canada.

24) Name the 16th-century French writer who created the personal essay.
Answer: Michel de Montaigne
25) Give the word for "a prophetic revelation, especially one depicting the ultimate
triumph of good and the destruction of evil at the end of the world."
Answer: Apocalypse.
26) Name the statesman, diplomat, and chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court who
coauthored the Federalist Papers.
Answers: John Jay
27) Identify the moon of Saturn discovered in 1991 and named after the flute-playing
Greek god of fields and shepherds who was half-man and half-goat.
Answer: Pan
28) Math Question: Identify the cosine of 210°.
Answer: -√
√ 3/2 [READ: negative square root of 3 over 2]
29) Name the character whose name completes the title of T.S. Eliot's poem The Love
Song of J. Alfred __________
Answer: Prufrock
30) Which word for "grain" has the same spelling as the surname of a 19th-century
French artist?
Answer: Millet

