Varsity Quiz 2004: Semi-Final Match 2
First Round
1) Which term designates any of a phylum of aquatic, sessile animals with a porous
structure; a pad of gauze used in surgery; and a person with a capacity for drinking or
acquiring knowledge?
Answer: Sponge
2) Which Confederate guerrilla leader, who raided border states during the U.S. Civil
War, is called "The Bloodiest Man in American History"?
Answer: William Quantrill
3) Which amendment to the U.S. Constitution concerning search and arrest warrants was
violated by the "Plumbers" working in secret for the Nixon administration?
Answer: Fourth Amendment.
4) Math Question: Find 2 integers whose sum is 3 and whose difference is 5
Answer: 4 and negative 1
5) In 2002 The global law enforcement consortium unveiled an internet-based system to
quickly identify wanted criminals. Identify this group.
Answer: Interpol
6) Name the Indian tribe of Chief Joseph, who surrendered himself and his band of
Indians to the US Cavalry on October 5 1877, in Montana.
Answer: Nez Perce
7) Thurgood Marshall served as the Department of Justice official representing the U.S.
government in all cases brought before the U.S. Supreme Court. What is the title for this
position?
Answer: Solicitor general.
8) Which word designates both someone used to advance another's goal and a chesspiece
of the lowest value?
Answer: Pawn
9) The Lorraine motel in which city has been turned into a civil rights museum since
Martin Luther King was assassinated at the site?
Answer: Memphis (Tennessee)
10) In 1996, government agencies were locked in a dispute over how to improve the
traffic congestion around which British monument on the Salisbury Plain, a ring of
stones, whose tourist facilities were called "a national disgrace" in a government report?
Answer: Stonehenge

11) Which city, where Democrats outnumber Republicans 5-1 and where the GOP has
never held a national convention, was chosen as host for the GOP for 2004?
Answer: New York City
12) In which field did Albert Abraham Michelson become the first American to win a
Nobel Prize, in 1907, for showing that the speed of light through any medium is constant
and for his design of precise optical instruments and the accurate measurements he
obtained with them?
Answer: Physics
13) Name the American poet whose collection Drum Taps reflects his Civil War
experiences. Its Sequel contains the "O Captain! My Captain!," which laments the death
of President Lincoln.
Answer: Walt Whitman (full title of 2nd volume is Sequel to Drum Taps)
14) Math Question: By what factor is the area of a circle multiplied if its radius is
doubled?
Answer: 4
15) Which word of Turkish origin, beginning with the letter H, designates any nomadic
tribe or group, especially a tribe of Mongols, or any large, moving crowd or throng?
Answer: Horde
16) Which person, born in Venezuela in 1783, made a celebrated vow atop the Aventine
Hill in Rome in 1805 that he would not rest until his fatherland had been liberated from
Spain? He is known as "the George Washington of South America."
Answer: Simón Bolívar
17) Which of the 7 Wonders of the Ancient World was located at Olympia, Greece?
Answer: The Statue of Zeus.
18) Name the American architect who designed the house Fallingwater, located in a
Pennsylvania forest.
Answer: Frank Lloyd Wright
19) Give the common name for the SI measurement unit for work.
Answer: Joule
20) Which term designates "a meteor that survives atmospheric friction and hits the
surface of the earth"?
Answer: Meteorite.
21) In 1994, Philadelphia used fireworks, tours, and exhibits to mark the 350th birthday
of its founder. Name this English Quaker.

Answer: William Penn
22) Who was born Denton True, pitched for 22 years, mostly with the Cleveland Indians
and the Boston Red Sox, won 511 games, and an award named after him is presented
annually to the best pitcher in each league?
Answer: Cy Young
23) Which term designates both an early or developing idea or project and an animal or
plant in the earliest stages of its development?
Answer: Embryo
24) Identify the Asian country known for the architecture of the huge temple complexes
at Angkor.
Answer: Cambodia (formerly Kampuchea)
25) In which year did George Washington cross the Delaware River on December 25 to
launch the attack that defeated the Hessian soldiers at Trenton on the 26th?
Answer: 1776

Bonus Round
1) Identify the American architect who suggested putting a dome over Manhattan to cut
costs of heating and air conditioning.
Answer: R. Buckminster Fuller.
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following architects or terms used in the field of
architecture: 1st the large water color painting in wet plaster and 2nd the slender fluted
column having elaborately carved acanthus leaves on its capital.
Answers: Fresco and Corinthian
2) Name the class of organic compounds with the general formula R-OH. In this group,
one or more hydrogen atoms of a hydrocarbon have been replaced by an —OH group.
Answer: The alcohols, or the hydroxyl group
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning chemistry: 1st of the 4
alkenes, name the one with the formula C4H8 whose name begins with the prefix cisAnd 2nd give the term used to designate elements 104 to 109 on the periodic table.
Answers: Cis-2-butene and Transactinide
3) Identify the Prussian emperor whose reign from 1740 to 1786 is generally considered
the empire's Golden Age.
Answer: Frederick the Great (Frederick II)
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning "Golden Ages."1st the
Russian leader from 1682 to 1725 and 2nd the Roman leader from 27 B.C. to A.D. 14.
Answers: Peter the Great and Augustus
4) Which character in Shakespeare's Julius Caesar (III, ii, 13) says, "Romans,
countrymen, and lovers! hear me for my cause, and be silent, that you may hear"?
Answer: Brutus
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning Shakespeare: 1st the play in
which the Witches and Hecate cast spells and 2nd the Play that includes the word "well"
twice in its title.
Answers: Macbeth and All's Well That Ends Well
5) Math Question: Two cones have a radius of 5. If the first has a height of 12 and the
second has a height of 8, what is the ratio of the volume of the larger to the smaller?
Answer: 3 to 2 or 3/2
Bonus Question: Answer each of the following math questions: 1st How many edges
does a rectangular-based prism contain? and 2nd What is the equivalent degree measure
of an angle that is pi radians?
Answers: 12 and 180

6) Give the name of the greedy, mythological King of Corinth who was doomed to roll a
heavy stone uphill.
Answer: Sisyphus
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning mythology: 1st name the
Greek king of the gods considered the father of the 3 Graces and second name the God of
the sea, son of Poseidon and Amphitrite, who is featured in Disney's film The Little
Mermaid.
Answers: Zeus and King Triton
7) Which American author wrote and directed Westworld, a 1973 film about robot
characters running wild in a fantasyland resort but is better known for The Andromeda
Strain, Rising Sun, and Jurassic Park?
Answer: Michael Crichton
Bonus Questions: Identify each of the following concerning Crichton's Jurassic Park: 1st
the Central American country off whose west coast Jurassic Park is located and 2nd the
Vicious and intelligent creatures that pursue the children in the kitchen.
Answers: Costa Rica and Velociraptors
8) Which U.S. President-to-be organized a relief program that fed 10 million civilians in
German-occupied Belgium after Britain blockaded the coast during World War I?
Answer: Herbert Hoover.
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning programs: 2nd name the
program designed to help Germany pay its WWI reparations, named after a banker who
served as Calvin Coolidge's Vice President and 2nd give the statement that executes a
BASIC computer program.
Answers: Dawes Plan and Run
9) Math Question: If the quantity x - b divides the quantity x8 - c [READ: x to the 8th
power minus c], then c equals b raised to what power?
Answer: 8
Bonus Question: Answer each of the following math questions: 1st What is the
geometric mean of 3 and 12? And 2nd What is the total surface area of a cylinder with
radius 5 and height 5?
Answers: 6 and 100π.
10) Which author won the 1921 Pulitzer Prize for fiction for her novel The Age of
Innocence, which appeared ten years after the publication of her novel Ethan Frome?
Answer: Edith Wharton
Bonus Question: Identify each of the following concerning literature: 1st name the16thcentury French moralist who established the personal essay as a genre of literature and
2nd name Jonathan Swift's 18th-century satire that proposes an unusual solution for the
food shortage resulting from the Irish potato famine
Answer: Michel de Montaigne and A Modest Proposal

Speed Round
1) Which word designates all of the following: a thick, tangled mass of hair; a pile of
grain sheaves, stacked together to cure and dry; and a sudden, powerful concussion?
Answer: Shock
2) Which Kentucky city is known as "The Capital of the Horse World"?
Answer: Lexington
3) Which 2-word term means "language that is not understandable" and identifies a
children's game of jump rope in which 2 people turn 2 ropes simultaneously in a
crisscross pattern?
Answer: Double Dutch
4) What name identifies the illuminated manuscript of the Gospels created in Ireland
between the mid-700s and early 800s and today housed at Trinity College in Dublin?
Answer: The Book of Kells.
5) Which word, derived from the French for "a spinning top," designates a ballerina's full
turn completed on one foot?
Answer: Pirouette.
6) Identify the metal on the periodic table with the atomic number 80, one of the two
whose names end in y.
Answer: Mercury
7) What a baseball pitcher is doing if he is "shaving the corners"?
Answer: Throwing strikes (over the edges of home plate)
8) Which word completes the expression __________ of life, designating a basic staple
food, like bread or rice?
Answer: Staff
9) Which endocrine gland in the neck produces a hormone that helps control the body's
metabolic rate?
Answer: Thyroid gland
10) Which term is described as the ratio of the vertical change to the horizontal change
between the coordinates of 2 points plotted on a line?
Answer: Slope
11) In The Jungle Book, Bagheera, the black panther, tells Mowgli to get the Red Flower
from the village to protect himself. What is the Red Flower?
Answer: Fire

12) In which century did Francisco Pizarro conquer the Incas?
Answer: 16th century (in 1532).
13) Math Question: If a deck of 52 playing cards is separated into two piles with a ratio
of 4 to 9, how many cards are in the smaller pile?
Answer: 16
14) Identify the genus of one-celled flagellates, classified as algae, that live in fresh water
and can form a green scum in small ponds.
Answer: Euglena
15) Basalt characterized by hexagonal jointing is also found at which "causeway" in
Northern Ireland?
Answer: Giant's Causeway
16) Name the type of fish that Santiago battles for 2 days off the coast of Cuba in Ernest
Hemingway's book The Old Man and the Sea.
Answer: Marlin
17) Of which empire was the ancient kingdom of Numidia a part prior to the Punic Wars
that led to its becoming a separate kingdom about 201 B.C.
Answer: Carthaginian Empire
18) Give the Italian word for a solo in an opera.
Answer: Aria
19) Which term is used in chemistry to designate a measure of the attraction of an atom
for electrons in the covalent bond?
Answer: Electronegativity
20) Math Question: Simplify the square root of 162 minus the square root of 72.
Answer: Three times the square root of two
21) Name the Poet whose radio play about a day in the life of a Welsh village contains
the following line: "It is a spring, moonless night in the small town, starless and
bible-black".
Answer: Dylan Thomas (in Under Milk Wood)
22) Paul McCartney is a major benefactor of a $23 million performing arts college in
which British city, his hometown?
Answer: Liverpool

23) Which word, derived from Arabic, identifies a frozen dessert resembling an ice but
made with gelatin?
Answer: Sherbet
24) Which word identifies the silvery-white, brittle, metallic element with a crystalline
structure used in alloys to harden them? Its atomic number is 51, and its chemical symbol
is Sb.
Answer: Antimony.
25) Which usually malicious dwarfish creatures of Norse mythology, some with as many
as 50 heads, lived in caves or underground and worked as smiths?
Answer: Trolls (in earlier stories the smiths were giants or Jotuns)
26) What are the 3 colors of television screen phosphors?
Answer: Red, green, and blue
27) Name the Biblical character whose wife was changed into a pillar of salt when she
ignored a warning not to look back
Answer: Lot
28) In 1994, oil was discovered beneath the weekend home of Queen Elizabeth II. Name
this castle located 20 miles west of London.
Answer: Windsor Castle
29) Flowering plants are divided into monocots and dicots. To which plant structure does
this suffix "cot" refer?
Answer: Cotyledon, or seed leaf
30) On the Australian flag there is a large star for the Commonwealth. Which
constellation do the other 5 stars on the flag represent?
Answer: Southern Cross

