Varsity Quiz
Semi Final Match I
Round 1
1. Name the industry that Charles Ferdinand Dowd persuaded to break the US into 4 time
zones zigzagging from north to south in 1883 prior to his influencing federal officials to
do the same.
Answer: Railroad Industry
2. Which two cities are referred to in the title of the Charles Dicken’s Book A tale of two
Cities.
Answer: Paris and London
3. Math Question: If a car can travel 38 miles on 2.4 gallons of gas, how many miles
could the car travel on 6 gallons of gas?
Answer: 95 miles
4. Fractional distillation used to separate a mixture of substances such as petroleum
depends on differences in what property of the compounds?
Answer: Boiling Point
5. In which country is the war in the movie Wag the Dog set? Ten years prior, this country
led by Communist dictator Enver Hoxha became the world’s most isolated and poorest.
It is also the home country of Mother Theresa.
Answer: Albania
6. Name the powerful cardiac stimulant that is derived from the foxglove plant.
Answer: Digitalis
7. In which work by John Bunyan did Theodore Roosevelt draw the term “muckrakers”
from the line about a man “with a muck rake in his hand”: who would rather rake filth
than look upward to see the heavenly crown being offered to him from above.
Answer: Pilgram’s Progress
8. Name the 17th century Flemish painter known for his portraits and religious canvasses.
He is best known for his portraits of the British royal family of King Charles I.
Answer: Van Dyck
9.

Name the poem in which Alexander Pope satirizes fashionable people by relating a tale
about a young attractive woman whose lock of hair is cut off by a suitor at a party.
Answer: The Rape of the Lock

10. Name the author whose autobiography is entitled Timebends: A Life. He married
Marilyn Monroe in 1956, three years after writing The Crucible.
Answer: Arthur Miller
11. In which 7 mile tunnel connecting France and Italy under Western Europe’s highest
peak did about 40 people die in 1999 when a truck caught fire.
Answer: Mont Blanc Tunnel

12. Math Question: What is the measure of the smaller of two angles forming a linear pair
if the difference of the two angles is 70 degrees.
Answer: 55 degrees
13. Name the French city famous for being the site where on April 19 1598, King Henry
the fourth of France signed the Edict of __________ officially recognizing religious
tolerance.
Answer: Nantes ( pronounced Nant)
14. Name the American poet of Renascence and Other Poems who sometimes wrote under
the pen name Nancy Boyd. Her initials are E.S.V.M.
Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
15. Name Puerto Rico’s chief Caribbean port. It is named for the Spanish explorer who
completed conquest of the island in 1508 and served as it’s governor from 1509 to
1512.
Answer: Ponce
16. Math Question: What is the weight in Newtons of an object whose mass is 100
kilograms.
Answer: 980 Newtons
17. Name the US President who signed Jay’s Treaty even though his Secretary of State
Edmund Randolph, whom he considered a traitor, recommended that the treaty not be
signed.
Answer: George Washington
18. Identify the many headed dog of Greek mythology that Hercules was to capture as one
of his 12 labors. This dog was a guardian of Hades.
Anwer: Cerberus
19. Name the novel by Sinclair Lewis that is set in the fictional Gopher Prairie, Minnesota
based on the real-life Sauk Centre, Minnesota, where he was born.
Answer: Main Street

20. Math Question: Find the value of the quantity (4-x) if 9 times( x - 4 ) = 45.
Answer: -5
21. Give the colorful nickname of Anna Sage, the women who told the FBI where John
Dillinger could be found.
Answer: Lady in Red or Woman in Red
22. Name the cell organelle that is responsible for energy production.
Answer: mitochondrion

23. Which word is used to designate a large collection of gas, dust, and billions of stars
held together by gravity and kept from collapsing inward by its rotational motion.
Answer: Galaxy
24. Identify the name given to the civil rights movement founded in 1905 challenging
Booker T. Washington’s leadership and demanding an end to racial discrimination.
Answer: Niagara Movement
25. Which term is used to designate the branch of physics that deals with the behavior of
matter at the level of the atom, the nucleus, and the elementary particle.
Answer: Quantum Physics

Round 2
Bonus Round
1. Which word linked with Edgar Allen Poe has the NFL team in Baltimore adopted as its name?
Answer: Ravens
Bonus: Identify each of the following associated with ravens. 1st name the city where ravens
gorged on the dead after a 1666 fire and 2nd the site in this city where a small flock of ravens
was kept by a Yeoman Raven Master before the king started an extermination program.
Answer: London and the Tower of London
2. Name the seed containing structure that develops from the ovary of a plant.
Answer: Fruit
Bonus: Identify the following associated with fruit: 1st name the disease caused by lack
of vitamin C and associated with sailors or people unable to obtain fresh fruit and 2nd
Name the South American born 1940s Hollywood film star who became famous for
performing with a fruit laden turban.
Answer: Scurvy and Carmen Miranda
3. Which presidential candidate in 1844 used the campaign slogan “Fifty-Four-Forty or Fight”, but
when elected compromised on this position?
Answer: James K. Polk
Bonus: Name the US politician associated with each of the following slogans or phrases:
1st “Free soil, Free Men, Free Speech, ________ and 2nd “Fit as a bull moose”.
Answer: John C Fremont and Theodore Roosevelt
4. Which group of freshwater lakes is served by the three sets of canals and locks called the Welland
Canal, the Soo Canals, and the St. Lawrence Seaway?
Answer: Great Lakes
Bonus: Identify each of the following concerning the Great lakes: 1st the deepest and
2nd the shallowest.
Answer: Lake Superior and Lake Erie
5. Math Question: What is the area of a circle circumscribed by a square with side length of
10 feet?
Answer: 25 pi square feet
Bonus: Answer each of the following math questions: 1st what is the product of 5 - 3i
and 4 + 2i and 2nd what is the derivative of the sine of x squared.
Answer: 26 - 2i and two times the cosine of x squared
6. Name the Alice Walker novel on which the 1985 film with Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah
Winfry is based.
Answer: The Color Purple
Bonus: Identify the following: 1st Name the playwright who wrote Glengarry Glen
Ross. He also wrote the screenplay for its 1992 film version staring Al Pacino and Jack
Lemmon and 2nd name the 1986 Kevin Costner film based on W.P. Kinsella’s book
Shoeless Joe.
Answer: David Mamet and Field of Dreams

7. Which word meaning “a person considered smugly conventional and lacking in culture”
originally designated one of a warlike people in southwestern Palestine who frequently fought
the Israelites?
Answer: Philistine
Bonus: Which word ending in –NE identifies characteristics of the following animals:
1st Cat and 2nd Sheep
Answer: Feline and Ovine
8. To which ruling militia did Secretary of State Madeline Albright offer normal relations in
1999 on the condition that is expel suspected terror leader Osama Bin Laden.
Answer: Taliban
Bonus: Identify the following concerning events of 1999. 1st Name the country in
which Fernando de la Rue, the non-Peronist mayor of the counrty’s largest city was
elected president to succeed Carlos Saul Menem and 2nd Name the winner of golf’s
1999 US Open who died in a plane crash.
Answer: Argentina and Payne Stewart
9. Name the first domed stadium in major league baseball. This stadium, torn down in the
1990’s, was located in Texas.
Answer: Astrodome ( in Houston)
Bonus: Identify each of the following concerning major league stadiums: 1st Lyndon
Johnson’s vice president after whom a domed stadium is named and 2nd the West Coast
domed stadium with a royal name.
Answer: Hubert Humphrey (Metrodome in Minneapolis) and Kingdome
10. Math Question: In a 30° - 60° - 90 ° triangle, what is the ratio of the length of the
hypotenuse to the length of the shortest side of the triangle
Answer: 2 to 1
Bonus: Answer each of the following math questions: 1st give the ratio of a pair of
sides of a given regular polygon and 2nd give the measure of an apothem of a regular
hexagon with a side length of 12.
Answer: one to one and 6 times the square root of 3
11. Name the animal that Alice uses as a croquet mallet in the croquet game in Lewis Carroll’s
Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.
Answer: The Flamingo
Bonus: Identify each of the following concerning Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland:
1st the rude host of a mad tea part to which Alice invites herself and 2nd the riddlemaking, outspoken guest at the tea party.
Answer: The March Hare and The Mad Hatter

Round Three
Speed Round
1. Name the Fourtune 500 company whose name is French for “from the bridge.”
Answer: Du Pont
2. Name YoYo Ma’s instrument , the bass member of the violin family.
Answer: Cello
3. Give the modern name for the strait that joins the Sea of Marmara and the Aegean
Sea .
Answer: Dardanelles
4. Name the late actor known for his role in 1964’s Dr. Stanglelove and for his Oscar
winning performance in the 1970’s film Patton.
Answer: George C Scott
5. Math Question: Give the 2nd term of the expansion of quantity (3x + 5y) 3
Answer: 135x2y
6. Identify the “suicide doctor” who was convicted of second-degree murder in 1999 in
Michigan for giving an ailing man a lethal injection and for the delivery of a controlled
substance.
Answer: Dr. Jack Kevorkian
7. Name the physicist who in 1901 won the first Nobel Prize in physics for his
discovery of X-rays.
Answer: Wilhelm Konrad Roentgen
8. In 1993, Vice President Al Gore wrote the introduction for a new edition of which
classic Rachel Carson book about the environment.
Answer: Silent Spring
9. Which halogen is contained in hormones produced by the thyroid gland?
Answer: Iodine
10. Which US President was born Leslie Lynch King Jr?
Answer: Gerald Ford
11. Scientists have discovered a gene that lets fruit flies live 35% longer than those
without it. Name the biblical figure for whom they named this gene since he is said to
have lived 969 years.
Answer: Methuselah

12. Which city, named for a son of Zeus, was buried along with Pompeii by the
eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 AD.
Answer: Herculaneum

13. Name the term that is used in literature to designate the time and place of a
narrative.
Answer: Setting
14. Identify the warning that police give to suspects that was established by a 1966
Supreme Court decision.
Answer: Miranda Warning
15. Name the black author whose novel Go Tell it on the Mountain portraying Jon
Grimes’ religious conversion.
Answer: James Baldwin
16. Name the type of electromagnetic wave that occurs when a photon is emitted by
radioactive material.
Answer: Gamma
17. Name the scientist who was famous for his heredity experiments involving pea
pods.
Answer: Gergor Mendell
18. Name the animals that made up the hair of the Gorgons of Greek mythology.
Answer: Snakes
19. Identify the Mexican peninsula that separates the Gulf of Mexico from the
Caribbean Sea.
Answer: Yucatan Peninsula
20. Which adjective follows the noun to complete the title of Rudyard Kipling’s
Captain ________
Answer: Courageous
21. Identify the largest river in Spain that empties into the Mediterranean Sea.
Answer: Ebro
22. Math Question: What is the cosine of negative pi over 3.
Answer: ½
23. Name the ruler of the Mogul empire of India from 1556 to 1605.
Answer: Akbar
24. Name the modern musical instrument whose ancestor was the sackbut.
Answer: Trombone
25. Name the daughter of Agenor who was carried of to Crete by Zeus disguised as a
white bull.
Answer: Europa

26. Name the type of US tax where the tax burden amounts to the same percentage of
income for all incomes.
Answer: Proportional

27. Name the US President to be who wrote an original proof for the Pythagorean
theorem while he was a member of the House of Representatives in 1876.
Answer: James Garfield
28. Name the abolitionist who led a raid on southern sympathizers at Pottawatomie
Creek, Kansas in May 1856.
Answer: John Brown
29. Name the word representing eternal peace in Buddhism. It is also the name of a
rock band that was headed by deceased singer Kurt Cobain.
Answer: Nirvana
30. Name that state whose state flower is the poppy, state fish is the golden trout and current
Governor is Gray Davis.
Answer: California
31. Identify the novel by Hermann Wouk in which Captain Queeg is the victim of a
mutiny. It is based on an actual mutiny led by shipman Fletcher Christian.
Answer: Mutiny on the Bounty
32. Name the author of the sonnet that contains the line: “Shall I compare thee to a
summer’s day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate.”
Answer William Shakespeare
33. Identify the group Harry Truman joined in 1922 because he needed its backing to
be elected judge and then soon resigned from since he refused their demands that no
Jews or Catholics be appointed to public office.
Answer: Klu Klux Klan
34. Identify the Mark Twain novel whose title page includes the words “Tom Sawyers
comrade”.
Answer: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
35. What name is given to a derivative of a hydrocarbon in which an amino group is
attached to a hydrocarbon chain.
Answer: amine
36. Name the Russian leader who resigned as the country’s leader on October 15th
1964.
Answer: Nikita Khrushchev
37. Name the scientist who won the 1921 Nobel prize in physics for his explanation of
the Photoelectric Effect.
Answer Albert Einstein

38. Name the baseball hero remembered for saying, “People all say that I’ve had a bad
break, but today-today I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth.”
Answer: Lou Gehrig

39. Name the author of The Joy Luck Club.
Answer: Amy Tan
40. What letter symbolizes Planck’s constant?
Answer: h

