NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 3
First Quarter

1. In an 1876 work, this figure is bandaged and quotes Pyrrhus (PEER-us) while sitting by the grave of a
tiger. This figure's first appearance was in a cartoon satirizing the panic over Ulysses S. Grant's supposed
campaign for a third term as president. For 10 points, name this animal that was used by cartoonist Thomas
Nast as the symbol of the Republican party.
ANSWER: elephant
052-12-63-03101

2. This disaster occurred over Palestine, Texas, and some fake photos of this disaster were taken from the
opening of the movie Armageddon. Linda Ham was singled out in the investigation of this disaster. It was
caused by the detachment of a piece of foam insulation. For 10 points, identify this disaster in which a
space shuttle disintegrated upon reentry into the Earth's atmosphere.
ANSWER: Space Shuttle Columbia disaster
066-12-63-03102

3. Government officials funded the paramilitary GAL to fight this group in the 80's. They carried out
Operation Ogre and held their first conference in Bayonne in the early 60's. Prime Minister Zapatero called
for this group to permanently abandon violence after a 2010 ceasefire; earlier they were initially blamed for
the 2004 Madrid subway bombings. For 10 points, name this Spanish terrorist organization that seeks
independence for the Basque (bask) region.
ANSWER: ETA (or Euskadi Ta Askatasuna)
064-12-63-03103

4. The case Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co ruled that this action was unconstitutional since it was
unapportioned, thereby striking down part of the populist Wilson-Gorman Tariff Act. The Revenue Act of
1861 temporarily imposed this type of levy whose variants include the windfall and capital gains type. For
10 points, name this type of levy that was permanently established by the Sixteenth Amendment.
ANSWER: income tax
064-12-63-03104

5. The enemy leaders at this battle were related through the winner’s marriage to Fausta, the sister of the
loser, who drowned in the Tiber River. This battle represented the demise of a tetrarchy once featuring
Severus and Galerius. Before it, the winning leader saw the words “Through this sign, you shall conquer”
and the image of a cross. For 10 points, name this 312 battle in which Maxentius was defeated by his rival
Constantine the Great.
ANSWER: Battle of Milvian Bridge
052-12-63-03105

6. In 1967, a group in Shanghai formed during the Cultural Revolution modeled themselves after this
group. It failed in part due to the renovations spearheaded by Baron Haussmann and was put down by
troops under Adolphe Thiers (THEE-airs). Louis Blanqui (BLAN-key) was president of this group formed
after the Franco-Prussian War. For 10 points, name this short lived 1871 government that ran the capital of
France.
ANSWER: Second Paris Commune
064-12-63-03106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 1 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This man improved the refracting telescope, which helped his studies. His Mysterium Cosmographicum
advocated a Platonic solid model of the solar system that incorporated Copernicus’ heliocentrism. His most
notable achievements came from working with Tyco Brahe (BRA-hay) and his data. For 10 points, name
this German astronomer who posited three laws of planetary motion.
ANSWER: Johannes Kepler
147-12-63-03107

8. This event occurred after one side was stymied by a stone wall later excavated by nationalistic
archaeologists in the 1920s. It occurred off of Takashima Island and destroyed up to ninety percent of an
invading fleet. For 10 points, name this 1281 natural disaster in Hakata Bay that ended the Mongol invasion
of Japan and was considered a "divine" typhoon.
ANSWER: kamikaze [or 1281 Hakata Bay typhoon until "Hakata Bay"; or equivalents mentioning a
storm in Hakata Bay until "Hakata Bay"; or equivalents mentioning a storm stopping the Mongol
invasion of Japan until "Mongol"; prompt on typhoon; prompt on divine wind; prompt on Second Battle
of Hakata Bay]
003-12-63-03108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 2 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 3
Second Quarter

1. After being accused of election fraud, this leader implemented Article 352 of the constitution, declaring a
state of emergency. This leader implemented the Garibi Hatao (GA-ree-bee ha-taw), or "Eradicate
Poverty," and oversaw the Smiling Buddha nuclear test. After an interview with Peter Ustinov and in
retaliation for launching Operation Blue Star against the Golden Temple at Amritsar, this leader was shot
by her bodyguards and succeeded by her son Rajiv (RAH-jeev). For 10 points, name this prime minister of
India and daughter of Jawaharlal (JAW-ah-har-la) Nehru.
ANSWER: Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi
BONUS: Indira Gandhi originally groomed this son of hers as her successor before his 1980 death in a
plane crash.
ANSWER: Sanjay Gandhi
048-12-63-03101

2. Mago's treatise on this subject is one of the few works to have survived the sack of Carthage after the
Third Punic War. In Columella's twelve-volume work on this subject, he claimed that Cato the Censor
"taught [this subject] to speak Latin." An early poem in Greek on this subject is addressed to Perses. That
poem is Hesiod's Works and Days. Virgil wrote four books on this subject collected as the Georgics. For 10
points, name this subject, books concerning which often dispensed advice to farmers.
ANSWER: agriculture [or farming before "farmers" is read; or grape farming before "farmers" is read; or
viniculture; or viticulture; or wine-making]
BONUS: Hesiod wrote what other poem describing the origins of the world and the gods?
ANSWER: Theogony [or Theogonia]
003-12-63-03102

3. This man's twin sister prayed to God to cause a storm to prevent him from abandoning their discussion.
This brother of Scholastica was saved from a poisoned loaf of bread when a raven carried it off. This man
founded twelve monasteries with twelve monks each near Subiaco (SOO-bee-ay-co), where he had lived as
a hermit. The writings of this founder of the monastery at Monte Cassino allow for faults and lay out a
balanced schedule of work, prayer, study, and sleep. For 10 points, name this patron saint of Europe who
established a namesake rule for monastic behavior.
ANSWER: Saint Benedict
BONUS: The Benedictine order was founded at what French monastery that was itself founded by William
of Aquitaine?
ANSWER: Cluny Abbey
105-12-63-03103

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 3 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. In this country, the planned Operation Drumstick would have used soldiers to replace oil tanker drivers.
The “Rivers of Blood” speech denounced immigration into this country. During the 1970’s, a factory in
Speke in this country was hired to store coffins due to a gravediggers strike. An infamous 1970’s headline
in this country was “Crisis? What Crisis?”, which depicted leader James Callaghan as being “out of
touch.” For 10 points, name this country which experienced the 1978-79 “Winter of Discontent,” which led
to a Conservative victory under Margaret Thatcher.
ANSWER: United Kingdom [or England; or Kingdom of Great Britain]
BONUS: Callaghan’s predecessor as Prime Minister was what Labour Party leader, who abolished capital
punishment and pushed for the National Insurance Act of 1966 to help disabled workers?
ANSWER: James Harold Wilson [or Baron Wilson of Rievaulx]
052-12-63-03104

5. Bayard Rustin handled the logistics of this event, which saw Bob Dylan sing "Only a Pawn in their
Game." John Lewis, one of the speakers at this event, had parts of his speech cut, such as a call for a
scorched earth policy. A. Philip Randolph, the head of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, organized
this event, whose full title indicated that its main objectives were jobs and freedom. For 10 points, name
this 1963 rally that saw Martin Luther King, Jr. deliver his "I Have a Dream" speech.
ANSWER: March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom
BONUS: The March on Washington occurred after the June 1963 assassination of what NAACP field
secretary in Mississippi?
ANSWER: Medgar Wiley Evers
064-12-63-03105

6. The class action suit resulting from this event awarded an estimated $600,000 to 119 Irish and Italian
workers. That suit successfully blamed Arthur Jell for failing to conduct standard safety tests that would
have shown a Purity Distilling Company storage tank to be structurally unsound. This event began shortly
after 12:30 PM on January 15, 1919, and wiped out much of Commercial Street. For 10 points, name this
disaster in which 2.3 million gallons of a sticky substance flooded Boston's North End.
ANSWER: Great Boston Molasses Flood [or Boston Molasses Disaster; or Boston Molassacre; or other
obvious equivalents mentioning molasses and some sort of disaster]
BONUS: Purity's lawyers tried to claim that people subscribing to what political philosophy planted a
bomb in the tank? This philosophy was also held by Mikhail Bakunin.
ANSWER: anarchism [or anarchists]
003-12-63-03106

7. After an emigration, this group was called the Falash Mura. Henry Aaron Stern was sent to preach
Christianity to them. This group recently protested the MDA’s policy of disposing their donated blood. The
Liqa Kahnat (LEEK-a, KAN-at) is the chief of the priests, or Kessim, of this group. In Operation Moses
and Operation Solomon, the Mossad helped airlift thousands of them from a country controlled by the
Derg. They claim descent from the Dan tribe and were thus subject to the Law of Return. For 10 points,
name this group of African Jews.
ANSWER: Ethiopian Jews [or Beta Israel; prompt on Jews; prompt on Ethiopians]
BONUS: The original Ethiopian Jewish leader, Menelik, is said to have brought what holy relic to Ethiopia,
where it supposedly now resides in the Tana Kirkos monastery?
ANSWER: Ark of the Covenant
048-12-63-03107

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 4 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. During this monarch’s reign, Robert Kett led a peasants’ revolt in Norfolk. This man’s father tried to
arrange this man’s marriage via the Treaty of Greenwich, whose rejection led to the War of the Rough
Wooing. The Duke of Somerset and John Dudley, 1st Duke of Northumberland, served as Lord Protector
during the reign of this man, who put down riots sparked by Thomas Cranmer’s Book of Common Prayer.
For 10 points, name this only son of Henry VIII.
ANSWER: Edward VI
BONUS: What woman, the sister of the Duke of Somerset and the mother of Edward VI, is the only of
Henry VIII’s wives to be buried beside Henry?
ANSWER: Jane Seymour
079-12-63-03108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 5 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 3
Third Quarter

THE CONSTITUTION BUNCH
Which participant at the 1787 Constitutional Convention was…
1. The president of the convention and lived at Mount Vernon?
ANSWER: George Washington
2. The designer of the Virginia Plan and the fourth U.S. President?
ANSWER: James Madison, Jr.
3. Said the document would "astonish our enemies" and was the first Postmaster General?
ANSWER: Benjamin Franklin
4. A future Vice President who refused to sign and names a way of redrawing electoral districts?
ANSWER: Elbridge Thomas Gerry
5. A Governor of Virginia who refused to sign and was the first Attorney General?
ANSWER: Edmund Jennings Randolph
6. A Connecticut politician who proposed the "Great Compromise" regarding the legislature?
ANSWER: Roger Sherman
7. A South Carolina politician who chaired the Committee of Detail and was briefly Chief Justice?
ANSWER: John Rutledge
8. Later crushed as the Federalist candidate from New York in the election of 1816?
ANSWER: Rufus King
052-12-63-0310-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 6 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

ANCIENT HISTORIANS
Which ancient historian…
1. Wrote the main source history for the Greco-Persian Wars?
ANSWER: Herodotus
2. Wrote about his military experiences in his Commentaries on the Gallic Wars?
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar
3. Wrote History of the Peloponnesian War?
ANSWER: Thucydides (THOO-sid-ah-dees)
4. Wrote a lengthy history of Rome entitled Ab Urbe Condita?
ANSWER: Livy [or Titus Livius]
5. Described the reigns of four Emperors in his Annals?
ANSWER: Publius Cornelius Tacitus
6. Wrote Lives of the Caesars?
ANSWER: Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus
7. Wrote histories of Catiline’s conspiracy and the war against Jugurtha?
ANSWER: Sallust [or Gaius Sallustius Crispus]
8. Wrote Against Apion and History of the Jewish War?
ANSWER: Flavius Josephus
014-12-63-0310-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 7 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

REVOLUTIONARY WAR BATTLES
Which Revolutionary War battle…
1. Began the war in the two namesake Massachusetts cities?
ANSWER: Battles of Lexington and Concord
2. Saw the end of the war when Charles Cornwallis surrendered to George Washington?
ANSWER: Battle of Yorktown
3. Was fought after the Battle of Trenton and saw the death of General Mercer?
ANSWER: Battle of Princeton
4. Saw General William Howe and his British-Hessian army cause the Americans to retreat to
Philadelphia?
ANSWER: Battle of Brandywine
5. Resulted in a victory in South Carolina for Daniel Morgan over the forces of Banastre Tarleton?
ANSWER: Battle of Cowpens
6. Was the last major battle in the Carolinas, in which the British won a tactical victory under Alexander
Stewart, but the Americans gained strategic ground under Nathanael Greene?
ANSWER: Battle of Eutaw Springs
7. Was the battle where Mary Ludwig Hays was presumably the woman who became known as Molly
Pitcher?
ANSWER: Battle of Monmouth Courthouse
8. Saw the death of Nicholas Herkimer after his forces were ambushed by a coalition of Loyalists and
Indians?
ANSWER: Battle of Oriskany
127-12-63-0310-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 8 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 3
Fourth Quarter

1. In one of his voyages, this man became the first European to encounter the city of Stadacona and
its chief Donnacona. Earlier, he kidnapped two native boys while travelling in Gaspe Bay. This man
was commissioned to go on his first voyage after Jean Le Veneur introduced him to (+) Francis I. A
Huguenot (HOOG-ah-not) named Roberval replaced this man on his last voyage. His first voyage
saw him explore much of the Gulf of St. (*) Lawrence while his second voyage saw him travel down the
St. Lawrence River, past the site of modern day Quebec City. For 10 points, name this French explorer of
the mid sixteenth century who claimed Canada for France.
ANSWER: Jacques Cartier
064-12-63-03101

2. This lake drains Lake George through the La Chute River and is fed by Otter Creek. The most
studied outcropping of the Chazy Reef formation is in the northernmost island in this lake, Isle La
Motte. In one of the earliest naval battles of the Revolutionary War, (+) Benedict Arnold delayed the
British by forcing them to fight him near Valcour Island in this lake. The French and British built
forts at Crown Point promontory on this lake. Thomas Macdonough stoped the British invasion of
New York during the War of 1812 at the town of (*) Plattsburgh on this lake. It forms the boundary
between Vermont and New York. For 10 points, identify this lake named after a French explorer of
Canada.
ANSWER: Lake Champlain
066-12-63-03102

3. Two of this composer's most notable madrigals are Vestiva i colli and lo son ferito. This composer
wrote a four-voice free mass he entitled Missa brevis. Johann Fux's Gradus ad Parnassum discusses
this composer's use of counterpoint. Abbé (AB-ay) Baini suggested that this man's most famous work
was written in response to Cardinal (+) Borromeo calling for music rendering the texts of the Mass to
be as clear as possible. That work allegedly convinced the Church not to ban (*) polyphony in the
aftermath of the Council of Trent. For 10 points, identify this Renaissance composer of the Pope Marcellus
Mass.
ANSWER: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina
066-12-63-03103

4. Six deaths took place when this event was recreated in 1949 in Ecuador. Its perpetrator had been
influenced by the Archibald MacLeish drama Air Raid. This event ostensibly began with music from
Ramon Raquello and his orchestra, with the perpetrator eventually appearing as Professor Pierson.
Many people missed this event’s beginning because they were listening to the comedy of (+) Charlie
McCarthy. It was broadcast on Halloween on the (*) Mercury Theatre on the Air. For 10 points, name
this 1938 adaptation of a certain science fiction novel, during which director Orson Welles convinced some
Americans that a Martian invasion was taking place.
ANSWER: Orson Welles’ War of the Worlds broadcast
052-12-63-03104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 9 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. During this event, a cry of "Let's pay them off!" prompted a crowd to pelt the police with coins.
This event resulted in a decline in support for the Mattachine (MATT-ah-cheen) Society, which
cautiously did not support it. This event is commemorated on (+) Christopher Street Day. Lieutenant
Seymour Pine has defended his role in this event on the grounds that he was investigating the Mafia.
This event, partially caused by the death of actress (*) Judy Garland, began when police raided the
namesake bar, leading to unexpected reprisals from its transsexual and gay patrons. For 10 points, name
these 1969 riots that catalyzed the formation of the Gay Pride movement.
ANSWER: Stonewall Riots
080-12-63-03105

6. This ruler centralized his power by issuing royal capitularies to local authorities, and he kept
himself informed of local matters through the system of missi dominici. After being ousted from the
papacy, (+) Leo III fled to this man, who put him back in power. This man is said to have received an
elephant as a gift from Harun al-Rashid. He sponsored the scholar Alcuin (al-KWIN) of York, and
his biography was written by (*) Einhard. This son of Pippin the Short was ambushed at the Battle of
Roncevaux (RON-seh-VO) Pass, although he also conquered Saxony and Northern Italy. For 10 points,
name this “great” ruler of the Franks and emperor of the Romans.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles the Great]
080-12-63-03106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 10 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 3
Extra Questions

This event is commemorated with a June 16th holiday called Youth Day. A photo of a dead Hector
Pieterson during this event became a symbol for international outrage. Participants during it called
for the resignation of (+) B.J. Vorster after Desmond Tutu spoke of "the language of the oppressor."
In its aftermath, the Bantustan Transkei was declared independent. It was sparked by a government
decree that made (*) Afrikaans an official language in schools while diminishing native languages. For 10
points, name this series of 1976 high school-led protests in South Africa.
ANSWER: Soweto Uprising
064-12-63-0310-1

BONUS: The Nez Perce under Chief Joseph surrendered in 1877 to what general who also tracked
Geronimo?
ANSWER: Nelson Appleton Miles
124-12-63-0310-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 3 Page 11 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

