NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 7
First Quarter

1. This document has the "no" box checked under the question "is residence on a farm or plantation?" and
is signed by attendant David Sinclair. It became publicly available in April 2011, and was originally issued
by the Kapiolani Maternity & Gynecological Hospital on August 4, 1961. For 10 points, identify this
document, long sought by figures such as Orly Taitz and Donald Trump.
ANSWER: Barack Obama’s long-form birth certificate [or certificate of live birth]
019-12-63-07101

2. Settings of this story include folk choruses known as turbae. Penderecki's setting of this story uses the
BACH motif. Settings of it were typically played on Good Friday. Bach wrote five settings of it, but only
the St. John and St. Matthew ones have survived. For 10 points, identify this story that documents the
suffering of Jesus before his crucifixion.
ANSWER: The Passion of Jesus Christ
066-12-63-07102

3. This product was introduced to what is now the Southern U.S. by Captain John Thurber. Historically, the
South produced the Carolina Gold type of this product. The ancestors of the Gullah were brought as slaves
to America for the purpose of producing this crop. For 10 points, name this grain, also known as Oryza
sativa, that is grown in water logged fields.
ANSWER: rice [or Oryza sativa before mentioned]
001-12-63-07103

4. Sejo of this dynasty had six martyred ministers put to death. The Strife of Princes was a power struggle
during this dynasty, for which Sejong the Great created the Hangul script. It was established by Taejo
(TAH-joe). Yi Sun-sin commanded turtle ships for its military. For 10 points, name this Korean dynasty
that lasted from 1392 to 1897.
ANSWER: Choson Dynasty [or Joseon Dynasty]
127-12-63-07104

5. After becoming Deputy Attorney General of New York in 1915, this politician was elected to the House
of Representatives before joining the Army Air Services and serving in Italy in WWI. His second stint in
Congress saw his labor legislation with George Norris pass in 1932. For 10 points, name the "Little
Flower" who served as Mayor of New York City from 1934 to 1945.
ANSWER: Fiorello La Guardia
147-12-63-07105

6. This emperor's attempt to trade Belgium for Bavaria provoked the formation of the Furstenbund against
him. He emancipated many Jews and issued the Edict of Toleration, but many of his reforms were reversed
by his successor, Leopold II. For 10 points, name this "Enlightened" Holy Roman Emperor, the son of
Maria Theresa.
ANSWER: Joseph II [prompt on Joseph]
080-12-63-07106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This philosopher reflects on the saying "only one who works earns bread" in his "Preliminary
Expectoration." He discussed how aesthetes keep life interesting by crop rotation. This man contrasted the
knights of faith and infinite resignation in a work about Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac. For 10 points, name
this author of Fear and Trembling and Either/Or, a Danish proto-existentialist.
ANSWER: Søren Aabye Kierkegaard [or Johannes de Silentio; or Victor Eremita; or William Afham; or
Frater Taciturnus; or Constantin Constantius; or Vigilius Haufniensis; or Nicolaus Notabene; or
A.B.C.D E.F. Godthaab; or A.B.C.D.E.F. Rosenblad; or Inter et Inter; or Procul; or Captain Scipio; or
Judge William; or A.F.; or Hilarius Bookbinder; or Johannes Climacus; or H.H.; or Anti-Climacus;
prompt on A; prompt on B]
020-12-63-07107

8. A hidden puppy in this movie prompts a bloody shootout. A delirious scene early in this movie is set to
"The End" by The Doors. One character in this movie assaults a beach because "Charlie don't surf" and also
says "I love the smell of napalm in the morning." Marlon Brando plays Colonel Kurtz in, for 10 points,
what Francis Ford Coppola Vietnam War movie?
ANSWER: Apocalypse Now
020-12-63-07108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 7
Second Quarter

1. One event in this war prompted René Iché to sculpt a skeletal figure wearing a bow and a dress. A series
of over one hundred paintings by Robert Motherwell was created as a “funeral song” for this conflict.
Robert Capa’s famous photograph of a “falling soldier” during this war was probably staged. A cubist
work depicting a lightbulb, a horse, a cow, and flailing bodies was based on a bombing during this war. For
10 points, name this inspiration for Picasso’s Guernica.
ANSWER: Spanish Civil War
BONUS: Picasso painted a portrait of this woman, who coined the term “Lost Generation” for the
American exiles in Europe after World War I.
ANSWER: Gertrude Stein
015-12-63-07101

2. Soviet scientist Ivan Michurin was a proponent of this scientist’s theories, which he passed on to Trofim
Lysenko. This scientist coined the term invertebrates and developed a system of classification for them. A
student of the Comte de Buffon, he proposed that giraffes stretching out their necks passed on that trait to
their children. For 10 points, name this French naturalist who proposed a theory of inheritance of acquired
traits.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lamarck
BONUS: This American geneticist researched inheritance in Drosophila in his “Fly Room” at Columbia.
ANSWER: Thomas Hunt Morgan
015-12-63-07102

3. One leader of this country oversaw an economic boom called “the record years” and allied with the
Peasant’s League. Another of its PMs left a screening of “The Mozart Brothers” just before his
assassination, possibly on the orders of South African PM PW Botha. Another politician from here died in
a plane crash on his way to negotiate a solution to the Congo Crisis as UN Secretary General. For 10
points, name this nation home to Dag Hammarskjold, where Olof Palme was shot in Stockholm.
ANSWER: Sweden
BONUS: Dag Hammarskjold was succeeded as UN secretary general by this Burmese politician, who
helped diffuse the Cuban missile crisis.
ANSWER: U Thant
048-12-63-07103

4. This man published a journal called "Letters to His Constituents." This man argued against a war
advocated by Jacques-Pierre Brissot (brih-SOH) and lived with a cabinetmaker after the declaration of
martial law. This conductor of the festival of the Supreme Being exonerated the mob responsible for the
September Massacres and condemned the leaders of the Girondins. After a suicide attempt, this man was
guillotined during the Thermidorian Reaction. For 10 points, name this leader of the Committee of Public
Safety during the Reign of Terror.
ANSWER: Maximilien de Robespierre
BONUS: Robespierre admired what Enlightenment author of Reveries of a Solitary Walker and
Confessions?
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
105-12-63-07104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. Because of this man's studies, Muhammad Ibn Tughluq appointed him judge upon his reaching the
Sultante of Delhi. Following that, he was appointed as an ambassador to the Yuan Dynasty. A stop in the
Maldives led to his marriage into Omar I's family. After visiting China, he decided to return home upon
hearing of his father's death after three Hajjes and travelling for nearly 25 years and 75,000 miles. For 10
points, name this Moroccan explorer of the Muslim world during fourteenth century.
ANSWER: Ibn Battuta
BONUS: Ibn Battuta was a member of what indigenous North African people whose ranks include Lusius
Quietus, Saint Augustine, and Masinissa, king of Numidia?
ANSWER: Berber [or Imazighen]
147-12-63-07105

6. During a failed attempt to attack Mexico, this man was killed by mutineers. This man helped the Count
de Frontenac establish a fort on Lake Ontario. His exploits were recorded by the Franciscan missionary
Louis Hennepin. This man was granted a noble title by Louis XIV and named the Louisiana territory for
him. For 10 points, name this explorer who claimed the Mississippi Valley for France.
ANSWER: Rene-Robert Cavalier, Lord de La Salle
BONUS: Unlike many other explorers, La Salle did not search for what mythical city of gold?
ANSWER: El Dorado
105-12-63-07106

7. This man was pressured into sending away his lover, Berenice of Cilicia, upon becoming emperor. In a
military campaign, he let pilgrims into a city for Passover but refused to let them out. That siege of
Jerusalem is commemorated with his namesake Arch. This man inaugurated the Colosseum and provided
relief after Mount Vesuvius erupted. For 10 points, name this Roman Emperor from 79 to 81 CE, the son
and successor of Vespasian.
ANSWER: Titus Flavius Caesar Vespasianus Augustus [do not accept or prompt on any non-underlined
answer]
BONUS: Titus also put down a rebellion by Terentius Maximus, one of three impostors that claimed to be
what emperor, who according to legend would return after his 68 CE suicide?
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [or false Nero; or Pseudo-Nero; or Nero
Redivivus; do not accept or prompt on any non-underlined answer]
003-12-63-07107

8. Along with Thomas Platt, this man resigned from the Senate after the Half-Breed candidate William
Robertson was appointed Collector of the Port of their state against their wishes. He declined to succeed
Salmon P. Chase as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. This advocate of the patronage system broke with
Chester A. Arthur over civil service reform. For 10 points, name this New Yorker who led the Stalwarts.
ANSWER: Roscoe Conkling
BONUS: Conkling helped draft what constitutional amendment concerning due process?
ANSWER: Fourteenth Amendment
105-12-63-07108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 7
Third Quarter

MODERN EUROPEAN WOMEN
Which woman...
1. Led the British suffragette movement along with her daughters Adela and Christabel?
ANSWER: Emmeline Pankhurst [or Emmeline Goulden]
2. Was guillotined for assassinating Jean-Paul Marat?
ANSWER: Charlotte Corday [or Marie-Anne Charlotte de Corday d'Armont]
3. Spied for Germany under the cover of an exotic dancer with an Indonesian name?
ANSWER: Mata Hari [or Margaretha Geertruida "Margreet" Zelle]
4. Was executed along with her father Nicholas II in 1918 despite false reports that she survived?
ANSWER: Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia
5. Wrote novels like Indiana and had a famous affair with Frederic Chopin?
ANSWER: George Sand [or Amantine Lucile Aurore Dupin]
6. Was mentioned in the last words by her executed husband Maximilian I?
ANSWER: Carlota of Mexico [or Charlotte of Belgium]
7. Received many love letters from her husband Napoleon Bonaparte?
ANSWER: Josephine de Beauharnais
8. Covered the period of the First Reform Act in Felix Holt besides writing Middlemarch?
ANSWER: George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
020-12-63-0710-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

EARLY JAPAN
What was...
1. The term for a warrior of the noble classes who served a daimyo?
ANSWER: samurai
2. The term for a military dictator that held most of the real power, with the emperor in only a spiritual
role?
ANSWER: shoguns
3. The first modern novel, written by Lady Murasaki, about the title prince's courtly adventures?
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji [or Genji Monogatari]
4. The period from the late eighth to late twelfth century that saw a flourishing of the arts?
ANSWER: Heian Period
5. The sun goddess from whom the emperors of Japan claimed descent?
ANSWER: Amaterasu
6. The conflict between the Yamana and Hosokawa families that began the Warring States period?
ANSWER: Onin War
7. The 1185 naval battle that ended the Gempei War?
ANSWER: Battle of Dan no Ura
8. The indigenous people of Japan known for practicing bear sacrifice?
ANSWER: Ainu
003-12-63-0710-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

RUSSIA 1917
In 1917...
1. What last czar of Russia was deposed?
ANSWER: Nicholas II [prompt on Nicholas]
2. What Bolshevik ordered the overthrow of the Provisional Government?
ANSWER: Vladimir Ilyich Lenin [or Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov]
3. Conditions failed to improve despite the 1916 assassination of what mystic?
ANSWER: Grigory Rasputin [or Grigory Yefimovich Novykh]
4. What Parliamentary body was dissolved?
ANSWER: Duma
5. What Minister of War succeeded Prince Lvov as the Provisional Government's Prime Minister?
ANSWER: Alexander Fyodorovich Kerensky
6. What namesake of a 1916 offensive led a second, less successful, offensive against Austria-Hungary?
ANSWER: Alexei Alexeievich Brusilov
7. What Russian army commander-in-chief demanded that the Provisional Government cede authority to
him?
ANSWER: Lavr Georgyevich Kornilov
8. What colorfully-named force fought against the Red Army?
ANSWER: the White Army
003-12-63-0710-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 7
Fourth Quarter

1. This policy was supported in United Steelworkers Co. v. Weber. The Supreme Court decided that a
stricter form of it was unconstitutional in a case arising from an institution in Davis, California. Due
to a strict point system, this policy was successfully challenged by Jennifer (+) Gratz, although the
more general type was upheld in Grutter v. Bollinger. It has been challenged, as in the (*) Bakke case,
for going against the Civil Rights Act. For 10 points, name this practice of reversing traditional
discrimination by giving preference to minorities in admissions or job applications.
ANSWER: affirmative action
080-12-63-07101

2. This man responded to a schismatic council called at Pisa by followers of Louis XII by convoking
the Fifth Lateran Council. Earlier, this man sought refuge in the court of Charles VIII of France to
escape assassination by Alexander VI. He was made a cardinal by his uncle (+) Sixtus IV. After
succeeding Pius III as Pope, he joined an alliance against Venice called the League of Cambrai. This
pope commissioned the (*) paintings on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. For 10 points, name this Pope
known for patronizing artists such as Raphael and Michelangelo.
ANSWER: Julius II [or Giuliano della Rovere; prompt on Julius]
014-12-63-07102

3. Although this man was originally engaged to Alys of France, who was rumored to have become his
father's mistress, he ultimately wed Berengaria of Navarre. After poor treatment by Isaac
Comnenos, this leader rapidly conquered (+) Cyprus. Austrian duke Leopold V briefly imprisoned
this leader at Durnstein Castle after a perceived slight at the Siege of Acre. After the Hospitallers
broke ranks, this leader won an important victory at the Battle of (*) Arsuf over Saladin. For 10 points,
name this English monarch who ruled from 1189 to his death, an important commander in the Third
Crusade known as "the lionhearted."
ANSWER: Richard I of England [or Richard the Lionhearted; or Richard, Coeur de Lion; prompt on
"Richard"]
126-12-63-07103

4. A Judge magazine cover depicts this cause's supporters as moths flying near a candle and dying.
An address in support of this movement asked "Will it choose blessings or cursings, life or death,
which? Which?" Supporters of this movement deplored the (+) "Crime of '73" and sought a 16 to 1
ratio. One supporter of this movement said in an 1896 speech, "You shall not press down upon the
(*) brow of labor this crown of thorns; you shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold." For 10 points,
name this movement led by William Jennings Bryan that championed "bimetallism" between gold and
another metal.
ANSWER: free silver [or bimetallism prior to mention]
020-12-63-07104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In one novel by this man, the protagonist marries the aging homosexual Jojo Oglethorpe in hopes
of his advancing her theater career. This man wrote about the marriages of Ellen Thatcher in (+)
Manhattan Transfer, as well as a work in which one character commits suicide by convincing a
drunken airman to take her out in his plane. In that work by this author, Mary French defends
Sacco and Vanzetti, and Charley (*) Anderson drinks himself to death after the success of his
manufacturing business costs him his values and his best friend. For 10 points, name this novelist who
included The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The Big Money in his U.S.A. trilogy.
ANSWER: John Dos Passos
105-12-63-07105

6. This document resulted in the death of Hitoshi Igarashi and Ettore Cariolo. William Nygaard
managed to escape an attempt on his life due to this document, which prompted another group to
abduct Jackie Mann in Lebanon. Cat (+) Stevens expressed support for it and stated that burning an
effigy wouldn’t satisfy him. 17 years after its issuance, one official stated that this document was
eternally in effect and raised the (*) bounty to 2.8 million dollars. It resulted in several bookstores being
firebombed and was issued for a blasphemous portrayal of Muhammad. For 10 points, name this document
calling for the death of the author of The Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: Iran/Khomeni’s fatwa against Salman Rushdie
048-12-63-07106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 7
Extra Questions

The only extant wild horse, Przewalski's horse, partially lives in this desert. Aurel Stein discovered
the Diamond Sutra, the oldest known printed text, in this desert, at a series of Buddhist cave
complexes known as the Mogao caves. Stone Age humans lived in the White Cave in this desert. The
(+) Silk Road crossed this desert between Yumen Guan and Hami. The southwest of this desert
encompasses the Alxa Plateau, which is partially bounded by the (*) Yellow River. This desert is
partially a result of a rain shadow due to the Himalayas. For 10 points, identify this desert found in China
and Mongolia and contrasted with the harsher Taklamakan desert.
ANSWER: Gobi Desert
066-12-63-0710-1

BONUS: What major refuted a letter by Tom Glen as part of the official cover-up of the My Lai Massacre
and later went on to become Secretary of State under George W. Bush?
ANSWER: Colin Luther Powell
014-12-63-0710-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 7 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

