NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 10
First Quarter

1. This leader sent an eighteen-month expedition of ambassadors to Europe, known as this man's "Grand
Embassy." This leader defeated a rebellion by his half-sister Sophia. This leader founded his country's first
naval base at Taganrog (tah-GAHN-rog), gained Swedish lands after the Great Northern War, and required
his boyars to cut off their beards. For 10 points, identify this westernizing tsar of Russia.
ANSWER: Peter I of Russia [or Peter the Great; prompt on Peter]
126-12-63-10101

2. Under his government, Hellyer and Cardin drafted a white paper proposing the unification of the
military. This man supported the Bomarc program and signed the Auto Pact. As external affairs minister,
he proposed the UN Emergency Force to diffuse the Suez Crisis. For 10 points, name this Canadian Prime
Minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner.
ANSWER: Lester Bowles Pearson [or Mike Pearson]
048-12-63-10102

3. This artist convinced Worthington Whittredge to model for his most famous painting. He painted a
pioneer train in his mural Westward the Course of Empire Takes its Way. His most famous painting depicts
an anachronistic American flag and several people not involved in the Battle of Trenton. For 10 points,
name this artist of Washington Crossing the Delaware.
ANSWER: Emmanuel Leutze
015-12-63-10103

4. This song was inspired by a poem called "Cloud Piece," written by its singer's wife. Dick Cavett's
interview with Forrest Gump about his trip to China provides the lyrics for this song, once painfully sung
by Bill Clinton with Israeli and Palestinian children. According to it, there's a world with "nothing to kill or
die for and no religion too." For 10 points, name this anthem by John Lennon that says "it's easy if you try."
ANSWER: "Imagine"
020-12-63-10104

5. Sixty-six pieces for solo piano are collected in this composer's Lyric Pieces. This composer's piano
concerto was the first to be recorded and is in A minor. This man's most famous work includes such
sections as "Solveig's Song" and Morning Mood. For 10 points, identify this Norwegian composer best
known for his Peer Gynt suite, which includes In the Hall of the Mountain King.
ANSWER: Edvard Grieg
066-12-63-10105

6. One class of irregular verb in this language is the "mi" verb, which exhibits reduplication. It employs the
genitive absolute. This language's Koine dialect emerged out of its Attic dialect, and was popular in the
Hellenistic era. For 10 points, name this language spoken by Pericles.
ANSWER: Ancient Greek
080-12-63-10106

7. One ruler of this nation was ousted after a riot at Triskati University. Jusuf Habibie (JOO-soof
hah-BEE-bee) succeeded one ruler of this nation, who was opposed by the signers of the Petition of Fifty
and continued the policy of Pancasila (PAHN-kah-SEE-lah) set by his predecessor. For 10 points, name
this country that was ruled from 1945 to 1998 by Sukarno and Suharto.
ANSWER: Republic of Indonesia [or Republik Indonesia]
048-12-63-10107
NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. During this country's war of independence, José de Canterac's forces were defeated at Junin
(hoo-NEEN), and Viceroy La Serna's forces were defeated at Ayacucho by Jose de Sucre (SOO-kray). An
earlier effort at independence was led by Túpac Amaru II, who claimed to descend from the Inca. For 10
points, name this country whose historical sites include Machu Picchu.
ANSWER: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru]
015-12-63-10108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 10
Second Quarter

1. This man resigned as Prime Minister following the failure of his Irish Coercion Bill, which was meant to
deal with the Great Famine. While serving as this man's personal secretary, Edward Drummond was killed
by Daniel M'Naghten (mick-NAW-ten). Following the resignation of Lord Melbourne, this man refused to
form a government unless Queen Victoria dismissed some of her ladies of the bedchamber. For 10 points,
name this British Prime Minister who repealed the Corn Laws and founded a namesake police force.
ANSWER: Robert Peel
BONUS: What city was the headquarters of the Anti-Corn Law League and the economic school to which
David Ricardo belonged?
ANSWER: Manchester
149-12-63-10101

2. The methodological dispute between this man and Thomas Hobbes is described in Leviathan and the
Air-Pump. He suggested air was not a homogenous substance in Suspicions about the Hidden Realities of
the Air. This man explained his atomic theory of matter and proposed there were more than four elements
in The Sceptical Chymist ("Skeptical Chemist"). For 10 points, name this early proponent of the scientific
method, the namesake of a gas law stating that pressure and volume are inversely proportional.
ANSWER: Robert Boyle
BONUS: Boyle was an early member of which scientific society chartered by Charles II, whose other
members included Robert Hooke and Isaac Newton?
ANSWER: Royal Society of London for Improving Natural Knowledge
121-12-63-10102

3. This emperor was responsible for the building of the Temple of Venus and of Rome, the largest temple
in ancient Rome, at the site of Nero's former Domus Aurea. This ruler's favorite was the Greek youth
Antinous, who was deified after his death. This ruler was responsible for the completion of the Temple of
Olympian Zeus. During this emperor's rule, the Bar Kokhba rebellion in Judea was suppressed. For 10
points, name this Roman emperor and successor to Trajan who built a namesake "wall" bordering Britain.
ANSWER: Hadrian
BONUS: Hadrian constructed a huge villa at what city near Rome?
ANSWER: Tivoli [or Tibur]
126-12-63-10103

4. Political movements founded during this time period include the Public Against Violence and the Civic
Forum. One event that helped spark this period was a demonstration with candles which took place in
Hviezdoslav (vee-EHZ-doh-slahv) Square. After this revolution, Gustav Hasek (HAH-sheck) resigned,
allowing Vaclav Havel to be elected president of his nation. For 10 points, identify this two-month-long
1989 revolution in which the Communist Party lost control of Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Velvet Revolution [or Gentle Revolution; or other answers implying a revolution in
Czechoslovakia before "Czechoslovakia" is read; or Velvet Divorce before "revolution" is read; or other
answers referring to the dissolution of Czechoslovakia before "revolution" is read]
BONUS: What Czechoslovakian document seeking recognition of human rights was named after the year it
was published and lent its name to an anti-Soviet movement?
ANSWER: Charter 77 [or Charta 77]
126-12-63-10104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. Developments during this dynasty included the literary genre of Fu and the invention of the seismograph.
The Records of the Grand Historian date from this dynasty and were written by Sima Qian (chi-AHN).
This dynasty was founded by Liu Bang and interrupted by the brief-lived Xin (SHIN) Dynasty. This
dynasty made Confucianism the state ideology, contrasting with the previous Qin (CHIN) Dynasty. For 10
points, name this dynasty that shares its name with the largest Chinese ethnic group.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
BONUS: The aforementioned Xin dynasty was founded in 9 CE by what usurper?
ANSWER: Wang Mang
014-12-63-10105

6. In the aftermath of this battle, Abraham Lincoln responded to criticism of one general with the quote "I
can't spare this man; he fights." Brigadier general W. H. L. Wallace's men held a position known as the
"Hornet's Nest" in this battle, along a path called the Sunken Road. Reinforcements under Don Carlos Buell
turned the tide on the second day of this then-bloodiest Civil War battle. For 10 points, identify this April
6-7, 1862 victory for Union forces under Grant, fought in southern Tennessee.
ANSWER: Battle of Shiloh [or Battle of Pittsburg Landing]
BONUS: The Union Army captured Lookout Mountain during what other Civil War battle in Tennessee,
fought after a retreat from Chickamauga?
ANSWER: Battle of Chattanooga [or Chattanooga Campaign]
126-12-63-10106

7. In a memo related to this scandal, Nancy Temple noted that she "prefer[red] to avoid" being a witness.
This scandal was precipitated when it was discovered that Chewco was being run by Michael Kopper.
David Duncan, an Arthur Andersen employee, shredded documents related to this scandal. Sherron
Watkins is considered to be the whistleblower of this scandal. Kenneth Lay's conviction in this scandal was
abated due to his death. For 10 points, identify this scandal involving a Texas energy corporation.
ANSWER: Enron scandal
BONUS: As proved in the Enron tapes, executives at the Enron Corporation manipulated the electricity
crisis in this state to charge premium prices for power.
ANSWER: California
066-12-63-10107

8. Members of this family gained land about the size of Rhode Island by training runners to cover vast
distances in the day and half allowed by the Walking Purchase from the Lenape Tribe. Another member of
this family went to jail along with his entire jury after preaching in the street, and wrote a Framework of
Government providing for fair trials and religious freedom in his "Holy Experiment." For 10 points, name
this family of Quakers, the namesake of a state that contains Philadelphia.
ANSWER: Penn family [or John Penn; or Thomas Penn; or William Penn]
BONUS: What friend of William Penn founded the Quakers?
ANSWER: George Fox
105-12-63-10108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 10
Third Quarter

EARLY ISLAM
What was the...
1. Muslim holy book revealed to Muhammad?
ANSWER: Qu'ran [or Koran]
2. Arabic term for "holy war" that spurred many of its conquests?
ANSWER: jihad
3. Caliphate led from Baghdad by Harun al-Rashid?
ANSWER: Abbasid Caliphate
4. Caliphate that conquered Egypt in the tenth century and claimed descent from Muhammad's daughter?
ANSWER: Fatimid Caliphate [or Fatimid Dynasty]
5. Collective term for the first four caliphs to succeed Muhammad?
ANSWER: Rightly Guided Caliphs
6. Arabic term roughly translated as "causing problems" used for two seventh century Islamic Civil Wars?
ANSWER: fitnah [or fitnat]
7. Battle at which Ali defeated the daughter of Abu Bakr and widow of Muhammad, Aisha?
ANSWER: Battle of the Camel [or Battle of Khoraiba]
8. Ninth century revolt of African slaves led by Ali ibn Muhammad that started near Basra?
ANSWER: Zanj Rebellion [or Zanj Revolt]
003-12-63-1010-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

MODERN EGYPT
Who or what was...
1. The canal connecting the Red and Mediterranean Seas, opened in 1869?
ANSWER: Suez Canal [or Qanat al-Suways]
2. The country from which Egypt gained limited independence in 1922?
ANSWER: United Kingdom [or United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland]
3. The hieroglyphic-containing tablet deciphered by Champollion?
ANSWER: Rosetta Stone
4. The first-ever Islamic political party, founded in Egypt in 1928 by Hassan al-Banna?
ANSWER: Muslim Brotherhood [or Society of Muslim Brothers; or al-Ikhwan al Muslimun]
5. The Muslim leader who led an 1881 rebellion in Egypt and Sudan?
ANSWER: al Mahdi [or Muhammad Ahmad ibn Abd Allah]
6. The nineteenth century governor who modernized Egypt's army?
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali
7. The Nationalist party that advocated for Egyptian independence?
ANSWER: Wafd Party [or Egyptian Delegation Party]
8. The first King of Egypt following its limited independence, who was succeeded by his son Farouk?
ANSWER: Fuad I
003-12-63-1010-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

SINKING SHIPS
What ship sank...
1. After hitting an iceberg in the North Atlantic in 1912?
ANSWER: RMS Titanic
2. While carrying munitions in the Irish Sea in 1915?
ANSWER: RMS Lusitania
3. In nine minutes after taking a direct hit at Pearl Harbor?
ANSWER: USS Arizona
4. After colliding with the MS Stockholm near its destination of New York in 1956?
ANSWER: SS Andrea Doria
5. Forcing John F. Kennedy and other crew members to swim to Plum Pudding Island?
ANSWER: PT 109 [or PT Boat 109]
6. Under mysterious circumstances on Lake Superior in 1975?
ANSWER: SS Edmund Fitzgerald
7. Due to reactor scram in 1963, making it the first nuclear submarine to sink?
ANSWER: USS Thresher
8. After running aground on Vanderbilt Reef north of Juneau in 1918?
ANSWER: Princess Sophia
003-12-63-1010-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 10
Fourth Quarter

1. The Duke of Sutherland forced many people out of this region. The Grampian Mountains form the
southeast part of this region. Fort Williams is one endpoint of the Caledonian Canal, which lies in the
fault region that bisects this region, the Great (+) Glen. The Orkneys are generally considered part of
this region. Urquhart Castle overlooks one lake in this region, Loch (*) Ness. One of the last battles on
British soil took place in this region at Culloden Moor, near Inverness, which is regarded as the capital of
this region. For 10 points, identify this area of Scotland contrasted with the Lowlands.
ANSWER: the Scottish Highlands [prompt on Scotland]
066-12-63-10101

2. This man died less than a week after being appointed to the Supreme Court by Ulysses S. Grant.
Edmund G. Ross ultimately decided on the results of this man's resignation from an earlier post. He
served as Attorney General under James (+) Buchanan, and he succeeded Simon Cameron in
another cabinet position. In that position, his advocacy of radical reconstruction and subsequent
dismissal caused one president to be accused of violating the (*) Tenure of Office Act. For 10 points,
name this Secretary of War whose firing led to Andrew Johnson's impeachment.
ANSWER: Edwin McMasters Stanton
014-12-63-10102

3. In this novel, a prince decides to take his dead son's intended bride as his own before she flees to a
church sanctuary with the help of a peasant. That prince decides not to execute that peasant when a
mark below his shoulder identifies him as the son of Friar (+) Jerome. One character in this novel
wishes to ally his family with Frederick's by their marrying each other's daughters, a plan which falls
apart when he stabs Matilda after mistaking her for (*) Isabella. In this novel, the sable-plumed helmet
of Theodore's ancestor Alfonso stalks the usurper Manfred. For 10 points, name this first Gothic novel, a
work of Horace Walpole.
ANSWER: The Castle of Otranto
105-12-63-10103

4. In one attack in this nation, Sikh extremists planted a bomb on Air India Flight 301. Another
attack in this nation was conducted by a group currently known as (+) Aleph. That incident was the
subject of a work that criticized the government's erratic disaster management system and the
willingness of the people to ignore and forget, entitled (*) Underground. In that incident in this country,
people carrying sharp umbrellas punctured newspaper-wrapped containers of Sarin. For 10 points, name
this country in which Aum Shinrikyo (shin-REE-kee-oh) killed many on the Tokyo subway.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon-koku; or Nippon-koku]
048-12-63-10104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. After learning of a plot on his life this man had the son of Parmenion, Philotas, executed. Under
this man, the Companion cavalry was commanded by (+) Hephaestion. This king built a large
causeway in his successful siege of Tyre. This man’s forces defeated those of Memnon of Rhodes at
the Battle of the Granicus. This man fought against Porus after his defeat of the (*) Persian Empire at
the Battle of Gaugamela, after which his enemy, Darius III, fled. His successors were collectively known as
the diadochi. Philip II was the father of, for 10 points, what Macedonian king who at his 323 BCE death
ruled the largest empire then known?
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on Alexander]
149-12-63-10105

6. The Turks took this city in 1517 after they conquered the Egyptians. The Aws and Khazraj
(KAHZ-razh) tribes inhabited this city at the time it was settled by Jews who had been expelled by
the emperor Hadrian. After a visit to this city, the king Abi-kariba As'ad decided to convert Yemen
to Judaism. The Muslim population of this city defeated (+) Abu Sufyan ibn Harb's forces at the
Battle of the Trench, cementing their rule of it. The Muslim calendar begins at an (*) arrival in this
city, which then had its name changed from Yathrib. For 10 points, name this city to which Mohammed
fled on the hijrah from Mecca.
ANSWER: Medina [or Yathrib before mentioned]
105-12-63-10106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 10
Extra Questions

One ruler with this name appointed Jan Tarnowski to defeat the Teutonic Knights, whose Grand
Master Albert, Duke of Prussia, converted to Lutheranism and paid homage to this ruler. That ruler,
known as “the Old,” had a son of the same name secondarily named (+) “Augustus” who established
the Union of Lublin between his country and Lithuania. The third ruler of this name, belonging to
both the (*) Jagiellon and Vasa dynasties, unsuccessfully attempted to unify his country with Sweden. For
10 points, give this name shared by three kings of Poland.
ANSWER: Sigismund
014-12-63-1010-1

BONUS: What color describes a "Hole of Calcutta," as well as a “Hand” in the name a Serbian terrorist
group?
ANSWER: black
132-12-63-1010-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 10 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

