NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 9
First Quarter

1. One of this man's paintings depicts a meeting of the stockholders of the Royal Company of the
Philippines. He painted the quashing of an uprising in The Charge of the Mamelukes. A lamp illuminates a
Christ-like figure in a white shirt as he faces a firing squad in his The Third of May, 1808. For 10 points,
name this court painter to Charles IV who created the Black Paintings.
ANSWER: Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes
015-12-63-09101

2. This thinker claimed that the Oedipus (EDD-uh-pess) complex was not universal in Sex and Repression
in Savage Society. This man wrote the preface to his student, Jomo Kenyatta's, work Facing Mount Kenya.
Marcel Mauss (MAHR-sehl MOOSE) used this man's study of the kula ring among the Trobriand
Islanders. For 10 points, name this Polish anthropologist who wrote Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
080-12-63-09102

3. At age ten, this non-fictional person ran away from home and joined a circus. His brother had to resign
as president of the University of Massachusetts after phoning this man, who originally worked as Donald
Killeen's enforcer before taking control of the Winter Hill Gang. For 10 points, name this longtime fugitive
mobster from Boston who was captured in California in 2011.
ANSWER: Whitey Bulger [or James Joseph Bulger, Jr.]
019-12-63-09103

4. This action overturned the 1814 Treaty of Kiel by way of a referendum that passed by a vote of over
360,000 to 184. Oskar II abdicated as a result of this action, which installed Haakon VII as king but did not
break up the Scandinavian Monetary Union. For 10 points, name this 1905 action in which a country voted
to break off from its eastern neighbor, Sweden.
ANSWER: independence of Norway [or dissolution of the political union between Norway and Sweden]
003-12-63-09104

5. Megalithic graves called "giants' graves" were built in this place by the civilization also responsible for
beehive structures called nuraghe (noo-RAHG-ay). Phoenicians settled at colonies like Caralis, now
Cagliari (KAHLL-yar-ee). Polybius (PUH-lib-EE-us) called Rome's seizure of this place "contrary to all
justice" when it and Corsica were taken from Carthage during the Mercenary War. For 10 points, name this
second-largest Mediterranean island, after Sicily.
ANSWER: Sardinia [or Sardegna]
121-12-63-09105

6. As a commander, this man won the First Battle of Adobe Walls. This man forced one group to go on the
Long Walk to Bosque Redondo (BAH-skay reh-DON-doe). He destroyed crops and livestock to subdue the
Navajo (NAH-vah-hoe) tribe. He served as a guide for John Fremont (FREE-mont) and Stephen Kearney
(KAHR-nee). For 10 points, name this American frontiersman, the namesake of the capital of Nevada.
ANSWER: Kit Carson [or Christopher Houston Carson]
080-12-63-09106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 1 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This prime minister introduced an alternative to criminal charges called Anti-Social Behaviour Orders.
He helped facilitate the Good Friday agreement in Ireland. He came to power by defeating Conservative
John Major in a landslide. He was widely criticized for involving the UK in the War in Iraq. For 10 points,
name this Labor politician who served as PM from 1997 to 2005.
ANSWER: Tony Blair [or Anthony Charles Lynton Blair]
015-12-63-09107

8. Evidence for the existence of this body includes the widespread distribution of fossils from the fern
"glossopteris" (gluh-SAHP-ter-iss). Its name was coined by Alfred Wegener (VAYG-uh-nuhr), who
proposed the theory of continental drift. It was split into Laurasia and Gondwana, which were divided by
the Tethys Sea. For 10 points, Asia, Europe, and North America split from what early supercontinent?
ANSWER: Pangaea
015-12-63-09108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 2 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 9
Second Quarter

1. When two of this man's employees, Bill Gaylord and Paul Chiapparone, were taken into custody in Iran
in 1978, he assembled a team led by Arthur D. Simmons to free them without government help. In 1984,
this man bought a copy of the Magna Carta and lent it to the National Archives for them to display
alongside the Declaration of Independence and Constitution. For 10 points, name this Electronic Data
Systems founder and diminutive Texas billionaire who ran for president in 1992 and 1996.
ANSWER: Henry Ross Perot
BONUS: Ross Perot got enough votes in 1992 that he received federal election funds for the 1996 contest,
where he ran on the ticket of what political party he formed in 1995?
ANSWER: Reform Party of the United States of America [or RPUSA]
147-12-63-09101

2. The Second Lateran Council attempted to outlaw the use of this weapon. Liutprand of Cremona
(CRAY-moan-ah) related how this weapon was used to defend against an attack by Prince Igor (EE-gore)
of Kievan Rus (kee-ehv-AHN ROOSE). Its creation is attributed to a Lebanese or Syrian architect,
Kallinikos (kahl-LEE-nee-kohs). Constantine VIII ordered the death of anyone who divulged its formula,
which is lost to history but almost certainly included petroleum. For 10 points, name this predecessor of
napalm used by the Byzantine navy to burn enemy ships.
ANSWER: Greek fire
BONUS: Greek fire was particularly effective in naval battles fought on what sea, which is connected to
the Black Sea by the Bosporus and to the Aegean Sea by the Dardanelles?
ANSWER: Sea of Marmara [or Propontus]
003-12-63-09102

3. This man released the recorders that were on board Korean Air Lines Flight 007. The Khasavyurt Accord
ending the First Chechen War was signed during this man's administration. He was reelected after defeating
Gennady Zyuganov (geh-NAH-dee z-you-GAHN-oaf). During his country's constitutional crisis, he
ordered the dissolution of the legislature, which resulted in the military siding with him and shelling the
white house. He criticized Gorbachev (gahr-bah-CHAHF) and succeeded him as leader of Russia.
Succeeded by Vladimir Putin, for 10 points, name this first president of Russia.
ANSWER: Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin
BONUS: Yeltsin first came to prominence in the Gorbachev administration as part of these reforms that
sought to restructure Soviet economics and politics.
ANSWER: perestroika
127-12-63-09103

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 3 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Important supporters of this rebellion included Lord Grey of Warke, Robert Ferguson, and Archibald
Campbell, 9th Earl of Argyle. The leader of it had found success as Commander-in-Chief of the English
Army during the Third Anglo-Dutch War. The losers of this rebellion were subject to the Bloody Assizes
led by Judge George Jeffreys. This conflict began over James II's Roman Catholicism and a claim to the
throne by James Scott, the illegitimate son of Charles II. For 10 points, name this 1685 English uprising
that was ended by the Battle of Sedgemoor.
ANSWER: Monmouth Rebellion
BONUS: Although some call the Battle of Sedgemoor the last one fought on English soil, that position
neglects the Battles of Preston, Clifton Moor, and Culloden, all of which were fought during which later
uprisings?
ANSWER: Jacobite Risings
147-12-63-09104

5. In Hollywood, this man started an affair with Gloria Swanson and created Radio-Keith-Orpheum studios.
This man's comments that democracy was doomed in Britain led to his forced resignation as ambassador in
1940. He investigated many cases of fraud as the first head of the SEC. He became head of the Columbia
Trust at age 25, and made a fortune on speculation and bootlegging that survived the 1929 crash. For 10
points, name this Irish-American patriarch of a political family that included President John Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: Joseph Kennedy [or Joe Kennedy; prompt on Kennedy and J Kennedy]
BONUS: This 1919 act prohibited the sale of liquor, giving rise to bootlegging.
ANSWER: Volstead Act
080-12-63-09105

6. In 866, Mieszko I (me-YEHZ-koh) became the first ruler of Poland to do this after marrying a princess
of the Premyslid (preh-MISS-uhl-id) Dynasty. Vladimir of Kiev did this and took the name Basil to gain
the favor of the Byzantine Empire. The Vikings were given Normandy after undergoing this process. The
Cyrillic alphabet was developed to cause this to happen in Slavic nations. This change happened in Kent
due to the lesser Saint Augustine, who became the first Archbishop of Canterbury. For 10 points, identify
this religious change undergone by Constantine the Great.
ANSWER: converting to Christianity [or baptism, since many of the clues could apply to that
specifically]
BONUS: Rather than converting to Christianity, in the ninth century the rulers of the Khazars decided to
convert to what other religion?
ANSWER: Judaism
132-12-63-09106

7. One character in this work falls into debt despite his sixty-three ways of making money and is so enraged
at being overcharged for a sheep that he tosses the sheep into the sea. This work contains a section in which
Grandgouiser (GRAHN-goo-zee) recognizes the genius of a character due to his invention of a bum-wiper.
Panurge's story occupies an entire novel in this series written by Alcofribas Nasier, an anagram of the real
author's name. For 10 points, name this raunchy five-novel series about a giant and his son created by
Francois Rabelais.
ANSWER: The Life of Gargantua and Pantagruel [or La vie de Gargantua et de Pantagruel]
BONUS: Gargantua and Pantagruel contains elements of what genre of novels about poor but witty
scoundrels that was popular in Spain?
ANSWER: picaresque novels
020-12-63-09107

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 4 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. From 1975 to 1976, this man chaired the Organization of African Unity. His expulsion of Asians in 1972
hurt his country's economy. His ill-fated attempt to take the Kagera province of Tanzania in 1978 resulted
in a war that ended his regime. This man was implicated in a gold smuggling scheme in 1965 in Zaire
(zah-EAR) with the man whom he later overthrew in a military coup, Milton Obote. For 10 points, name
this dictator and third President of Uganda.
ANSWER: Idi Amin Dada Oumee
BONUS: Israel organized a raid to rescue hostages held by Palestinian terrorists who had diverted an Air
France plane to what Ugandan city?
ANSWER: Entebbe [or Entebbe Raid; or Operation Thunderbolt; or Operation Entebbe]
147-12-63-09108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 5 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 9
Third Quarter

AFRICAN LEADERS
Who was...
1. The first president of post-apartheid South Africa?
ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela
2. The first president of Kenya and is considered its founding father?
ANSWER: Jomo Kenyatta [or Kamau Ngengi; or Johnstone Kamau]
3. Injured during and possibly complicit in the assassination of Anwar Sadat, his predecessor?
ANSWER: Muhammad Hosni El Sayed Mubarak
4. A major Negritude poet, member of the Academie Francaise, and Senegalese president?
ANSWER: Leopold Sedar Senghor
5. The creator of the failed collectivization program ujamaa, who led a Tanzanian invasion of Uganda?
ANSWER: Julius Kambarage Nyerere
6. Egyptian president who nationalized the Suez Canal?
ANSWER: Gamal Abdel Nasser
7. A puppet president for Prime Minister Robert Mugabe until Mugabe removed him in 1987?
ANSWER: Canaan Sodindo Banana
8. Ruler who outlined his political beliefs in The Green Book and ruled Libya until 2011?
ANSWER: Colonel Muammar Gaddafi
003-12-63-0910-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 6 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

WEAPONS OF WAR
What medieval weapon was..
1. A giant English bow used to great effect against the French at Agincourt?
ANSWER: English longbow [or Welsh longbow]
2. A light spear thrown from behind a shield wall or, in modern times, in a track and field event?
ANSWER: javelin
3. In its simplest form, just a giant log used to break open walls?
ANSWER: battering ram
4. An anti-cavalry thrusting spear used to great effect by the Swiss?
ANSWER: pike
5. A blunt weapon whose "flanged" variety includes the Russian Pernach?
ANSWER: mace [do not accept "flail"]
6. The first portable firearm to include a matchlock firing mechanism, a predecessor of the musket?
ANSWER: arquebus [or harquebus; or hackbut]
7. A Roman torsion-powered catapult sometimes referred to in the Middle Ages as a mangonel?
ANSWER: onager
8. A giant crossbow used as a siege weapon?
ANSWER: ballista
003-12-63-0910-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 7 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS
Which British Prime Minister…
1. Currently holds the position?
ANSWER: David Cameron
2. Defeated Napoleon at Waterloo as a general?
ANSWER: Arthur Wellesley [or 1st Duke of Wellington]
3. Represented the UK at Versailles?
ANSWER: David Lloyd George
4.. Was the son of another PM and led Britain for fifteen years after the American Revolution?
ANSWER: William Pitt the Younger [prompt on Pitt]
5. Wrote a letter advocating a Jewish homeland?
ANSWER: Arthur Balfour
6. Passed the 1832 Reform Act and is the namesake of a variety of tea?
ANSWER: Charles Grey [or 2nd Earl Grey]
7. Was the first ever Labour Prime Minister?
ANSWER: James Ramsey MacDonald
8. Was ousted after the failure of the Stamp Act?
ANSWER: George Grenville
015-12-63-0910-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 8 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 9
Fourth Quarter

1. This man was exiled to Hong Kong after losing a conflict in which his supporters drafted the (+)
Malolos (MAH-loh-lohs) constitution. He used a pseudonym based on the name of Mary Magdalene
when he joined Andres Bonifacio's Katipunan (KAH-tee-POO-nahn) movement. This man lost a war
in which Gregorio del Pilar (PEE-lahr) delayed opposing forces at the Battle of Tirad Pass. He was
captured by Frederick (*) Funston. He lost an election to Manuel Quezon (KAY-sohn) for a post he had
held after seizing his capital following the Battle of Manila Bay. For 10 points, name this revolutionary and
first president of the Philippines.
ANSWER: Emilio Aguinaldo
048-12-63-09101

2. This region is home to the Seven Churches of Revelation. The largest Assyrian trading colony in
this region was at Karum Kanesh. One civilization centered in this region had a sanctuary located at
Yazilikaya, near their capital of Hattusas. Its regions included (+) Lydia and Ionia. That
aforementioned civilization was defeated by Ramses II at the Battle of Kadesh and was the Hittites.
This region is separated from the Levant by the Taurus Mountains and from (*) Thrace by the Sea of
Marmara, which connects the Black and Aegean Seas. It was also home to the city of Troy. For 10 points,
identify this western protrusion of Asia, found in modern-day Turkey.
ANSWER: Anatolia [or Asia Minor; prompt on Asia; prompt on Turkey; prompt on Cappadocia before
"Lydia" is read]
066-12-63-09102

3. Notable combatants in this battle included the future "Hero of Bennington," John Stark, and
Daniel Shays. John Trumbull commemorated the Death of General Warren at this battle, in which the
British won a Pyrrhic victory by gaining the (+) Charlestown peninsula at the expense of numerous
officers and a third of their forces. Occurring on July 17, 1775 during the Siege of (*) Boston, the
majority of the fighting in it actually occurred on Breed's Hill. For 10 points, name this battle of the
American Revolution during which either Israel Putnam or William Prescott saying "Don't fire until you
see the whites of their eyes."
ANSWER: Battle of Bunker Hill [or Battle of Breed's Hill before mentioned]
147-12-63-09103

4. This country was backed by the Cubans and Soviets in deterring the forces of Mohammed Siad
Barre in the Ogaden War. In the latter part of the Cold War, this nation was led by Mengistu (+)
Mariam, part of a Communist military junta called the Derg (DURG). One leader of this nation
discussed collective security in a 1936 speech to League of Nations, which led to him becoming
TIME's Man of the Year. That ruler of this country is considered the (*) messiah in Rastafarianism.
For 10 points, name this African nation led throughout much of the twentieth century by Haile Selassie.
ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia [or Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik]
064-12-63-09104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 9 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This election featured the first instance of a televised national party convention. The winning
candidate in this election repeatedly attacked the "Do-Nothing Congress" in his campaign speeches.
Third party candidates in this election included Progressive Party nominee (+) Henry A. Wallace and
the States' Rights Party, or Dixiecrat, nominee Strom Thurmond. The (*) Chicago Daily Tribune
famously ran an incorrect headline about Dewey defeating the actual winner of this election. For 10 points,
name this presidential election won by Harry S. Truman.
ANSWER: Election of 1948
014-12-63-09105

6. An immediate cause of this conflict was the election of the French bishop Bruno to the office of
Pope and his desire to reform the papacy. When Normans invaded southern Italy and replaced the
Byzantine clergy with Latin ones, it exacerbated this (+) conflict and magnified different traditions,
such as the use of leavened or unleavened bread for the Eucharist, days of fasting, and clerical (*)
marriage. It culminated when Cardinal Humbert, a legate of Pope Leo IX, walked into the Hagia Sophia
and issued an excommunication of the Patriarch of Constantinople, Michael Cerularius, on July 16, 1054.
For 10 points, name this conflict between the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christians.
ANSWER: East-West Schism [or Eastern Schism; or Great Schism; do not accept "Western Schism"]
147-12-63-09106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 10 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 9
Extra Questions

This man was captured by the Ottomans at the kalabalik of Bender, and he forced Frederick IV, the
king of Denmark and Norway, to sign the Treaty of Traventhal. This king defeated the forces of
Charles Eugene de Croy in 1700, successfully breaking the siege of (+) Narva, and he ceded Ingria,
Estonia, and Livonia when he signed the Treaty of Nystad. This king’s forces lost a decisive battle at
(*) Poltava to the Russians under Peter the Great as part of the Great Northern War, which initiated the
collapse of his empire. For 10 points, name this the King of Sweden.
ANSWER: Charles XII [prompt on Charles]
014-12-63-0910-1

BONUS: Emile Zola wrote J'accuse in support of what wrongfully-accused Jew?
ANSWER: Alfred Dreyfus
124-12-63-0910-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 9 Page 11 of 11
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

