NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 2
First Quarter

1. Since 2006, John Mica has annually introduced House resolutions to authorize compensation for the
survivors of this event. It took place after the failure of Plan Orange-3 and the surrender of Edward King.
Over one-eighth of its participants died before reaching Camp O'Donnell. For 10 points, name this forced
march from a Philippine peninsula in 1942.
ANSWER: Bataan Death March
003-12-63-02101

2. This concept was said to "impart peace to the country and stability to the Union," but also that it was "a
living, creeping lie." This concept central to the Kansas-Nebraska Act was implicated for Bleeding Kansas.
Lewis Cass proposed this solution instead of the Wilmot Proviso. For 10 points, name this term for states
choosing if they wanted slavery or not.
ANSWER: popular sovereignty
124-12-63-02102

3. One character in this novel goes to work in the fields even on the day she first gives birth. The uncle of
this novel's protagonist provides protection from robbers and becomes addicted to opium. In this novel, the
protagonist takes a concubine named Lotus Blossom while married to O-lan. For 10 points, name this novel
about the rise of the peasant Wang Lung written by Pearl Buck.
ANSWER: The Good Earth
105-12-63-02103

4. Michael Majerus wrote a recent book on these organisms. J.W. Tutt proposed that changes in these
organisms were due to bird predation. H.B.D. Kettlewell studied these organisms and concluded that their
phenotypical change was due to industrial melanism. For 10 points, identify these oft-cited examples of
evolution whose darker form became prevalent due to soot.
ANSWER: peppered moths [or Biston betularia]
066-12-63-02104

5. Despite pressure from Jaruzelski (yah-roo-ZEL-skee) and Honecker, this leader opted against using
military force on Poland. He names a political doctrine used to justify military intervention against
Alexander Dubcek (DOOP-chek). This Soviet leader was in power for the signing of the SALT treaty
during the détente period, an era that ended following his invasion of Afghanistan. For 10 points, name this
Soviet premier who came to power after Khrushchev.
ANSWER: Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev
064-12-63-02105

6. This city was the target of an alliance between Charles III of Savoy and the "Knights of the Spoon."
William Farel invited one figure to live in this city, and the heretic Michael Servetus was executed here.
One leader of this city set up the "Ecclesiastical Ordinances" and came here after writing the Institutes of
the Christian Religion in Basel. For 10 points, name this Swiss city home to John Calvin during most of the
1500s.
ANSWER: Geneva [or Geneve; or Genf; or Ginevra]
052-12-63-02106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. One waterway with this name is spanned by the Rialto Bridge. The disparate parts of another waterway
given this name were combined during the Sui (SWEE) Dynasty. That waterway flows north-south and
connects the Yangtze (YANG-SEE) and Huang He. For 10 points, identify this name held by both a
waterway that makes an S-shaped curve through Venice and the largest artificial river.
ANSWER: Grand Canal
066-12-63-02107

8. This commander routed the army of the Vandal Gelimer at the Battle of Tricamarum. He defeated the
Goth Witiges (VIT-uh-gace) and retook the city of Ravenna. Along with Mundus and Narses, this man
suppressed a rebellion of chariot fans in the Nika Riots. For 10 points, name this great general of Justinian.
ANSWER: Flavius Belisarius
080-12-63-02108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 2
Second Quarter

1. This man's 1988 committee report accused Oliver North of turning a blind eye to drug smuggling. This
man said if you do not try to be smart, "you get stuck in Iraq." He was speaking when Andrew Meyer was
tasered by University of Florida police. In 1971, this man testified before the Senate as part of Vietnam
Veterans Against the War. During his presidential campaign, he was attacked by Swift Boat Veterans for
Truth. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts Senator who opposed George W. Bush in the 2004 election.
ANSWER: John Forbes Kerry
BONUS: One opponent Kerry defeated to win the 2004 nomination was what retired Army General, who
commanded Operation Allied Force in the Kosovo War?
ANSWER: Wesley Kanne Clark, Sr.
052-12-63-02101

2. This man's eighth symphony contains an unusually beefy coda; he dubbed that work "my little
Symphony in F" to distinguish it from his sixth, also in that key. Another of his compositions includes the
words "Oh friends, not these tones" and the word "goetterfunken." He used flutes, oboes, and clarinets to
mimic nightingales, quails, and cuckoos in a movement called "By the Brook." Brahms's First Symphony is
often referred to as this composer's tenth. His final symphony includes people singing Schiller's "Ode to
Joy." For 10 points, name this composer of the Choral and Pastoral symphonies.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
BONUS: Beethoven's fifth symphony is noted for its "fate knocking at the door" motif, consisting of these
four opening notes.
ANSWER: G-G-G-E flat [do not accept "G-G-G-E"]
020-12-63-02102

3. During one campaign, this man used the jingle "He killed my ma, he killed my pa, but I will vote for
him." Groups that rebelled against his government were LURD and MODEL. This man worked for a
former president who had his ear cut off on television by Prince Johnson. In 2003, this leader fled to a
country ruled by Olusegun Obasanjo. He came to power after a guerrilla war overthrew Samuel Doe. In
2006, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf demanded his extradition. For 10 points, name this warlord of Liberia who took
power in 1997.
ANSWER: Charles McArthur Ghankay Taylor
BONUS: What leader of South Africa, who succeeded Nelson Mandela as President in 1999, reportedly put
pressure on Taylor to step down from the presidency in 2003?
ANSWER: Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki
052-12-63-02103

4. This man was nicknamed "Clubfoot" after sustaining a wound at Malacca. He ordered the execution of
Luis de Mendoza and the marooning of Pedro Sanchez and Juan de Cartagena after putting down a mutiny
in San Julian Bay. Among his ships were the Concepcion and Victoria. He was killed during a skirmish
with Lapu Lapu on Cebu Island in what is now the Philippines, leaving Juan Sebastian Elcano to complete
the feat he is known for. For 10 points, name this explorer that led the first voyage to circumnavigate the
globe.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Magellan [or Fernando de Magellanes; or Fernao de Magalhaes]
BONUS: What other explorer was the first European to see the Pacific?
ANSWER: Vasco Nunez de Balboa
003-12-63-02104
NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. An unreliable account of events here is found in the Flatey Book. Native inhabitants of this place
probably prevented permanent settlement at Hop and were called skraelings. The only archaeological
evidence of this place was discovered at L'Anse aux Meadows ("LANCE"-uh-"meadows") by Helge and
Anne Stine Ingstad. For 10 points, Bjarni Herjolffson (BYAR-nee HAIR-yolf-son) supposedly discovered
what site later visited by Thorfinn Karlsefni and Leif Ericsson, the southernmost Viking settlement in
Canada?
ANSWER: Vinland [accept Viking settlements in North America or equivalents until "L'Anse" and
prompt afterwards; accept Viking settlements in Canada or equivalents until "L'Anse" and prompt
afterwards; prompt on Newfoundland; prompt on Canada]
BONUS: Another Viking settlement, Markland, is identified with what Canadian region north and east of
Quebec, the mainland part of a province that also includes Newfoundland?
ANSWER: Labrador [or Labrador peninsula]
003-12-63-02105

6. Zaiyi was one of the leaders of this movement. The Taiyuan Massacre occurred during it. The Seymour
Expedition was an attempt to protect Western diplomats from this event, which was preceded by the failed
Hundred Days Reform. The Eight-Nation Alliance was formed to suppress this rebellion. This event took
place during the rule of the Empress Dowager Cixi (SEE-SHEE) and was carried out by the Society of
Righteous and Harmonious Fists. For 10 points, name this revolt that attempted to force foreign influence
out of China.
ANSWER: Boxer Rebellion
BONUS: The Boxer Rebellion took place during this last Chinese dynasty. It was preceded by the Ming.
ANSWER: Qing Dynasty
127-12-63-02106

7. Thomas McKean was delayed in this action for five years; Matthew Thornton, a mere four months.
James Wilson claimed to require the support of Cumberland County before doing this action, while Robert
Livingston and John Dickinson notably refused. Charles Thomson was one of only two people to do this on
the date commonly acknowledged. The majority of people did this action on August 2, a full month after
agreeing to it. For 10 points, give this action first performed by John Hancock on July 4, 1776.
ANSWER: signing the Declaration of Independence [accept equivalent answers]
BONUS: William Floyd, Philip Livingston, Francis Lewis, and Lewis Morris were the signers of the
Declaration of Independence from what colony, which was the only one to abstain from the vote to approve
it?
ANSWER: New York
003-12-63-02107

8. Footage from this team's second Super Bowl victory was used in the film Black Sunday. Another Super
Bowl victory for this team was achieved due in part ot the 158 rushing yards and one touchdown of that
game's MVP, Franco Harris. This team's most recent Super Bowl title came when they defeated the
Arizona Cardinals at Super Bowl XLIII, with wide receiver Santonio Holmes winning the MVP. For 10
points, name this NFL team whose Super Bowl winning quarterbacks are Terry Bradshaw and Ben
Roethlisberger.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh Steelers [or Pittsburgh Steelers]
BONUS: The MVP for the Steelers' win in Super Bowl X was this wide receiver, who challenged Ed
Rendell for the governorship of Pennsylvania in 2006.
ANSWER: Lynn Curtis Swann
088-12-63-02108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 2
Third Quarter

FEMINISM
Identify these people and things related to the feminist movement.
1. Woman who established the first birth-control clinic in the U.S.
ANSWER: Margaret Higgins Sanger [or Margaret Higgins]
2. Betty Friedan work identifying the "problem that has no name."
ANSWER: The Feminine Mystique
3. Conservative woman who founded the Eagle Forum and opposed the Equal Rights Amendment.
ANSWER: Phyllis McAlpin Stewart Schlafly [or Phyllis McAlpin Stewart]
4. Section of the 1972 Education Amendments that forbids excluding women from educational benefits on
the basis of sex.
ANSWER: Title IX [or Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act]
5. Organization founded by Betty Friedan that supported the ERA.
ANSWER: National Organization for Women [or NOW]
6. Author of "I was a Playboy Bunny" and co-founder of Ms. magazine.
ANSWER: Gloria Marie Steinem
7. Australian author of The Female Eunuch.
ANSWER: Germaine Greer
8. Author of The SCUM Manifesto who attempted to kill Andy Warhol.
ANSWER: Valerie Jean Solanas
080-12-63-0210-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

POST-WAR GERMANY
Which person, object, or group…
1. Was a barrier between West and East Germany torn down in 1989?
ANSWER: Berlin Wall
2. Is a Brussels-based treaty organization joined by West Germany in 1955?
ANSWER: NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organization]
3. Was the first Chancellor of a united Germany?
ANSWER: Helmut Josef Michael Kohl
4. Willy Brandt’s normalizing “eastern policy”?
ANSWER: Neue Ostpolitik (OOST-pol-ee-teek)
5. Led East Germany from 1971 until reunification?
ANSWER: Erich Honecker
6. Was the secret police of the East German state?
ANSWER: Stasi [or Ministry for State Security]
7. The capital of West Germany?
ANSWER: Bonn
8. Was a communist gang that assassinated Jürgen Ponto?
ANSWER: Baader-Meinhof Gang [or Baader-Meinhof Group; or Red Army Faction]
015-12-63-0210-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

POSITIONS OF POWER
What office in the U.S. government…
1. Is not worth "a bucket of warm spit," according to a bowdlerized John Nance Garner?
ANSWER: Vice President
2. Interacts with reporters and is currently held by Jay Carney?
ANSWER: White House Press Secretary
3. Heads a Board of Governors that sets the target funds rate?
ANSWER: Chairman of the Federal Reserve
4. Runs the White House Office, and was formerly held by Rahm Emanuel?
ANSWER: White House Chief of Staff
5. Was created by the National Security Act of 1947 and first held by James Forrestal?
ANSWER: Secretary of Defense
6. Argues Supreme Court cases on behalf of the federal government?
ANSWER: Solicitor General
7. Was held by Maxwell Taylor during the Cuban Missile Crisis?
ANSWER: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
8. Was a Cabinet-level post until 1971, and is the highest-paid government official after the President?
ANSWER: Postmaster General
132-12-63-0210-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 2
Fourth Quarter

1. The dogmas of this man's philosophy were laid out in the "Principal Doctrines." This philosopher
introduced the "swerve" to the atomic theory of Democritus to avoid determinism. He met with his
disciples in a school he founded called "The (+) Garden." Like Socrates, he was accused of atheism,
in his case for producing one of the first formulations of the problem of evil. His ideas are put forth
in Lucretius' De Rerum Natura. This man claimed that the highest goal of existence was (*) ataraxia.
For 10 points, name this Athenian philosopher who claimed, in opposition to Stoicism, that the purpose of
life was relief from pain.
ANSWER: Epicurus
080-12-63-02101

2. In later life, this man took refuge with the Persian king Artaxerxes, who made him governor of
Magnesia. He convinced his city to use the silver discovered at Laurium to prepare for war against
Aegina, rather than divide it amongst its citizens. This democratic opponent of (+) Aristides was
responsible for the construction of the Piraeus. He led the evacuation of Artemisium, and once lured
the Persian king into attacking by pretending to have (*) switched sides. He was responsible for
building up the naval power of Athens. For 10 points, name this victor at Salamis.
ANSWER: Themistocles
080-12-63-02102

3. One man involved in this event sang "John Brown's Body" to the court during his trial. Alexander
Graham Bell built a metal detector to aid one man involved in this event. This act was carried out
with a British Bulldog (+) revolver, chosen because its wielder thought it would look good in a
museum. The man who carried out this act wrote a speech about his victim "vs. (*) Hancock," which
he believed entitled him to a diplomatic post. One of the consequences of this event was the passage of the
Pendleton Act. For 10 points, name this act carried out by the disgruntled office-seeker Charles Guiteau
(ghee-TOW) that resulted in the death of the twentieth U.S. President.
ANSWER: assassination of James Abram Garfield [or equivalents mentioning Guiteau killing James
Garfield]
127-12-63-02103

4. One story says that a man at this location said "Come out, you old rat!" to Captain Delaplace and
claimed he was acting on the authority of "Jehovah and the Continental Congress." Under the
French, this site was called Carillon until its seizure by Jeffrey (+) Amherst. After surrendering this
site to John Burgoyne, Arthur St. Clair was court-martialed, despite Burgoyne's advantage of
cannons on Mount Defiance and Fort Crown Point. This site was captured by (*) Benedict Arnold and
the Green Mountain Boys. For 10 points, name this fort near Lake Champlain in New York that was
captured by Ethan Allen.
ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga [or Fort Carillon until mentioned]
052-12-63-02104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In a no-longer extant full-length bronze nude sculpture of this man, he has a lion-like mane of hair
and is wielding a lance and looking to the heavens. All portraits of this man emphasized his heroic
personality by showing him without a beard. The only person allowed to sculpt this man's image was
(+) Lysippos. A mosaic of this man that is likely a reproduction of a Philoxenos of Eretria fresco
shows him in a Medusa- emblazoned breastplate and riding on his horse (*) Bucephalus. That fresco
shows him beating back the king of Persia. For 10 points, identify this subject of an Altdorfer painting
about his victory at the Battle of Issus.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on Alexander]
066-12-63-02105

6. In this country, which was the target of Operation Unicorn, Constitutional Council president Paul
Yao N'Dre engaged in a dispute with Independent Electoral Commission leader Youssouf Bakayoko
over who had the authority to announce election results. This country's New Forces coalition joined
with one person claiming to be its prime minister, (+) Guillaume Soro, to support Bakayoko’s
proclamation that Alassane Ouattara (WUT-uh-ruh) was its new president. Ouattara eventually
triumphed over Laurent (*) Gbagbo (BAHG-boh) in, for 10 points, what African country and former
French colony, where a brief civil war over the election results raged in 2010 and 2011?
ANSWER: Ivory Coast [or Republique de Cote d'Ivoire]
019-12-63-02106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 2
Extra Questions

Before this battle, two spies were tortured into confessing that the enemy was "more numerous than
the grains of sand on the beach" and very close at hand. One ruler reportedly became deserted with
"no shield-bearer" but credited his survival to the gods and the (+) composite bow. Two inscriptions
describing this battle are the "Poem" and the "Bulletin." Many soldiers drowned while trying to
escape by swimming the (*) Orontes River. One man's camp was attacked by the forces of Muwatalli II,
and the opposing side had divisions named for Amun, Re, and Ptah. For 10 points, name this huge chariot
battle in which the Hittites fought Ramses the Great.
ANSWER: Battle of Kadesh
052-12-63-0210-1

BONUS: In 1976 Ferdinand Marcos transferred the capital of the Philippines back to Manila from what
city, which was named after that country's president during World War II?
ANSWER: Quezon City
124-12-63-0210-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 2 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

