NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 1
First Quarter

1. In the early 1970s, this building held future NBA Commissioner Larry O'Brien's office. One event at this
site had James McCord trying to gain access on orders of E. Howard Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy. For 10
points, name this former site of the Democratic National Committee headquarters, which was burglarized
in 1972 by men tied to the Nixon administration.
ANSWER: Watergate Hotel and Office Building
052-12-63-01101

2. The priest Christian von Wernich was convicted for taking part in this event. It is commemorated by the
Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo. This event occurred during the National Reorganization Process and
targeted groups such as the Montoneros (mon-ton-YEH-ros) who opposed Jorge Rafael Videla. For 10
points, name this state-run attack on leftists from 1976 to 1983 in Argentina.
ANSWER: Dirty War [or Guerra Sucia]
052-12-63-01102

3. This ruler gained territory from Russia by the Treaty of Stolbovo following the Ingrian War. This man
was succeeded by Axel Oxenstierna (AHK-suhl OOK-suhn-sher-nah). Earlier, with Saxon assistance, he
defeated a force led by Pappenheim and the Count of Tilly at the Battle of Breitenfeld. For 10 points, name
this "Lion of the North," a Swedish king known for his victories in the Thirty Years' War.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus Magnus [or Gustav II Adolf; or Gustavus the Great]
064-12-63-01103

4. One leader of this rebellion was killed by William Walworth at Smithfield, leading to the king declaring
himself the leader of this movement. Two leaders of this event were John Ball and Jack Straw. For 10
points, name this rebellion against Richard II, led by Wat Tyler.
ANSWER: Peasant’s Revolt [or Great Rising of 1381; or Wat Tyler's revolt before it is read]
149-12-63-01104

5. This figure is depicted as twice as large as her lover in the Florentine Codex. She married Juan Jaramillo
(HAR-ah-mee-yo) after that lover left for Honduras. She prevented an ambush by the Cholula and gave
birth to the first mestizo baby, Martin Cortes. For 10 points, name this translator and mistress of Hernan
Cortes, considered the mother of Mexico.
ANSWER: La Malinche [or Dona Marina; or Malinalli Tenepal; or Malintzin]
003-12-63-01105

6. This man beat Loyalist forces at the Battle of Black Mingo and at Parker's Ferry. This man escaped the
fall of Charleston because he was absent due to an injury. Banastre Tarleton was tasked with capturing this
man and gave him his nickname, a reference to his hiding places. For 10 points, name this South Carolina
guerrilla fighter known as the "Swamp Fox."
ANSWER: Francis Marion [prompt on Swamp Fox until mentioned]
052-12-63-01106

7. This man argued that Indonesia killed as many people in East Timor as the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia,
and collaborated with Edward Herman on Manufacturing Consent. He coined the term “poverty of the
stimulus.” In Syntactic Structures, he created the grammatical but meaningless sentence “Colorless green
ideas sleep furiously.” For 10 points, name this linguist and political activist at MIT.
ANSWER: Noam Chomsky
080-12-63-01107
NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. An offstage clarinet repeats a C and A flat ostinato in one movement of this suite. A cello solo imitating
ripples is from another movement, used by Michael Fokine for a ballet starring Anna Pavlova. This piece's
movement "Fossils" is similar to its composer's Danse Macabre. The only movement its composer
published during his lifetime was "The Swan." For 10 points, name this Saint-Saens (say-SAWN) suite set
at a zoo.
ANSWER: The Carnival of the Animals [or Le carnaval des animaux]
020-12-63-01108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 1
Second Quarter

1. One of this ruler's biographers was Chihab al-Umari (CHEE-hob al-oo-MAR-ee), and this man
patronized the architect Ibn al-Sahili (EE-ben al-sah-HEE-lee). One of this ruler's generals, Sagmandia,
conquered the future capital of the Songhai Empire. This ruler commissioned the Djingerayber
(duh-JING-er-ay-ber) Mosque at Sankore University. He allegedly deflated the price of gold in Egypt by
bringing too much with him on a trip to Mecca. For 10 points, name this mansa of the Mali Empire who
made a hajj in 1324.
ANSWER: Mansa Musa I
BONUS: What was that future capital of the Songhai Empire?
ANSWER: Gao
079-12-63-01101

2. This man was Chief Justice when the case of Lum v. Rice upheld the exclusion of minority children from
white schools. He was also Chief Justice for a case ruling minimum wage legislation for women
unconstitutional. That case was Adkins v. Children's Hospital in 1923. This man was succeeded as Chief
Justice by Charles Evans Hughes, whom he had previously appointed. For 10 points, name this only Chief
Justice to also serve as President of the United States.
ANSWER: William Howard Taft
BONUS: What 1905 Supreme Court case struck down a law that restricted the number of hours New York
bakers could work each day?
ANSWER: Lochner v New York
052-12-63-01102

3. A theorem named for this man states that every Riemann manifold can be isometrically embedded into a
Euclidean space. The situation in which each actor is making the best decision given the decision of the
others is known as this man's equilibrium, one of the contributions to game theory that won this man the
1994 Nobel Prize in Economics. For 10 points, name this mathematician whose struggles with
schizophrenia are depicted in his biography A Beautiful Mind.
ANSWER: John Forbes Nash, Junior
BONUS: What Hungarian-American game theorist developed the mini-max theorem and has a namesake
computer architecture?
ANSWER: John von Neumann
105-12-63-01103

4. This city was bombed on Ugly Wednesday by the US Air Force. A piece of uniform stuck in his spleen
killed Reinhard Heydrich after he was shot in this city. A radio station broadcast a cry to revolt in this city
in May 1945. It was the site of demonstrations at Letna Park, which forced Ladislav Adamec to talk with
Vaclav Havel. The 1948 death of Jan Masaryk in this city is sometimes known as its "Third
Defenestration." For 10 points, name this capital of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: Prague [or Praha]
BONUS: A major public square in Prague is named after what patron Czech saint and Christmas carol
subject?
ANSWER: Saint Wenceslas [or Wenceslaus I; or Good King Wenceslas]
124-12-63-01104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This city’s general Pagondas defeated Athens at the Battle of Delium. This city supported Xerxes at the
Battle of Plataea (pluh-TEE-uh). Its general Pelopidas (puh-LOP-i-duhs) defeated Sparta at the Battle of
Tegyra (tuh-GYE-ruh), and its general Epaminondas (ih-pam-uh-NON-duhs) defeated Sparta with the
“oblique order” formation at Leuctra (LOOK-truh). Macedonia defeated this city at Chaeronea
(ker-uh-NEE-uh). For 10 points, name this Boeotian (bee-OH-shun) city whose armed forces included its
sacred band.
ANSWER: Thebes
BONUS: After defeating Thebes at Chaeronea (ker-uh-NEE-uh), what ruler organized the League of
Corinth and was assassinated by his bodyguard?
ANSWER: Philip II
079-12-63-01105

6. This group was depicted as a rabbit in a cartoon titled “Moral Suasion” in which the animal looks into a
snake’s eyes. Its three leaders were Sir James Eric Drummond, Sean Lester, and Joseph Avenol. Robert
Cecil pushed for this group to adopt Esperanto as an official language and also proclaimed it officially dead
in 1946. Based in Geneva, it listlessly condemned Mussolini’s invasion of Ethiopia. For 10 points, name
this group formed after World War I which unsuccessfully tried to maintain world peace.
ANSWER: League of Nations [or Societe des Nations]
BONUS: The League of Nations emerged out of the 1919 Paris Peace Conference, at which Italy was
represented by what member of the “Big Four,” a Prime Minister dubbed “the Weeper?"
ANSWER: Vittorio Emanuele Orlando
052-12-63-01106

7. One man with this surname wrote a collection of true crime accounts called Pillars of Salt. That leader
with this name worked with Dr. Zabdiel Boylston to controversially promote smallpox innoculaton.
Another man with this surname traveled to London to protest the Dominion of New England and request a
new Charter of Massachusetts. One man with this surname wrote the book Wonders of the Invisible World
about the Salem witch trials. For 10 points, give this surname of Puritan ministers Increase and Cotton.
ANSWER: Mather [or Cotton Mather; or Increase Mather]
BONUS: Increase Mather was a foe of what governor of the Dominion of New England, who failed to
obtain the Connecticut charter when it was hidden in an oak tree?
ANSWER: Edmund Andros
052-12-63-01107

8. This man painted people standing at the shore and looking up in his depiction of the eruption of
Vesuvius. He was a witness to the burning of the Houses of Parliament, which he painted several times. He
painted slaves being thrown off a ship as an insurance scam in The Slave Ship, and painted a steamboat
pulling the title ship in The Fighting Temeraire. For 10 points, name this English Romanticist painter of
Hannibal Crossing the Alps and Rain, Steam and Speed.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
BONUS: Turner was buried next to Joshua Reynolds in what Christopher Wren-designed building, which
includes a Whispering Gallery?
ANSWER: St Paul’s Cathedral
015-12-63-01108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 1
Third Quarter

SUPREME COURT CASES
In which Supreme Court Case…
1. Did Roger Taney rule that a slave was not free simply because he had lived in a free state?
ANSWER: Dred Scott v. Sandford
2. Did the court uphold racial segregation under the "separate but equal" doctrine?
ANSWER: Plessy v. Ferguson
3. Did the court uphold the Espionage Act of 1917 in a case about the distribution of circulars to draftees?
ANSWER: Schenck v. U.S.
4. Did the Court decide that the Constitution gave implied powers to Congress, thereby preventing the
namesake state from placing a tax on notes not chartered in the state?
ANSWER: McCulloch v. Maryland
5. Did Congress affirm its power to regulate interstate commerce due to a dispute over navigation
privileges?
ANSWER: Gibbons v. Ogden [or Gibbons v. Ogden]
6. Was the Contract Clause strengthened as a result of the namesake college's claim that the state could not
force it to become a public institution?
ANSWER: Dartmouth College v. Woodward
7. Did the Court consolidate three cases dealing with the namesake institutions of the butchery industry,
resulting in interpretations of the newly created Fourteenth Amendment?
ANSWER: Slaughter-House Cases
8. Was the government's power to regulate monopolies limited? It was also known as the Sugar Trust Case.
ANSWER: U.S. v. E.C. Knight Co.
127-12-63-0110-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VIETNAM
Who or what was...
1. The political leader of the Viet Minh after whom Saigon was renamed?
ANSWER: Ho Chi Minh
2. The American politician who lost a presidential election to Barack Obama and who was a P.O.W. during
the Vietnam War?
ANSWER: John Sidney McCain III
3. The gulf in which North Vietnamese forces attacked the U.S.S. Maddox in August 1964?
ANSWER: Gulf of Tonkin
4. The 1954 battle that ended French presence in Vietnam?
ANSWER: Dien Bien Phu
5. The method of suicide used by Thich Quang Duc (THITCH KWANG "DUCK") to protest government
anti-Buddhist policies?
ANSWER: self-immolation [or equivalent answers suggesting lighting oneself on fire]
6. The American-supported leader of South Vietnam ousted and shot in 1963?
ANSWER: Ngo Dinh Diem (NO DIN DEE-em) [prompt on Ngo]
7. The last Nguyen (WEN) dynasty emperor?
ANSWER: Bao Dai
8. The 1954 agreement that divided Vietnam along the 17th parallel?
ANSWER: Geneva Accords
003-12-63-0110-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

FOREIGNERS IN GREECE
Which non-Greek person was…
1. The American who won six gold medals in swimming at the 2004 Olympics?
ANSWER: Michael Fred Phelps
2. The British Romantic poet of Don Juan who died at Missolonghi?
ANSWER: Lord Byron [or George Gordon, Lord Byron]
3. The ambassador who shipped off now-namesake marble sculptures from the Parthenon to England?
ANSWER: Lord Elgin [or Thomas Bruce, Seventh Earl of Elgin; accept Elgin Marbles]
4. The author of The Owl and the Pussycat and many limericks, who painted several watercolors of
Athens?
ANSWER: Edward Lear
5. The archaeologist who excavated Mycenae and discovered the city of Troy?
ANSWER: Heinrich Schliemann
6. The French founder of the modern Olympic Games, who oversaw the 1896 Games in Athens?
ANSWER: Pierre de Coubertin [or Baron Coubertin]
7. The Bavarian elected King of an independent Greece in 1832?
ANSWER: Otto
8. The Portuguese Jew whose problems in Greece prompted Lord Palmerston to quote, "Civis Romanus
sum"?
ANSWER: Don Pacifico [or David Pacifico; accept Don Pacifico Affair]
003-12-63-0110-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 1
Fourth Quarter

1. In this work, a prophecy that travelers will eat their tables is fulfilled by using bread as plates. One
character in this work promises Deiopea (DYE-oh-PAY-uh) in marriage in return for a favor and
also incites a group of women to light their ships on fire while stopped in (+) Sicily for funeral games.
Its protagonist's mother leads him to the golden bough so that he may travel to the underworld with
the (*) Cumaean Sibyl. The protagonist of this work abandons Carthage, leading Dido to commit suicide,
before he journeys to Lavinia's home of Latium and defeats Turnus. For 10 points, name this epic by Virgil
about a Trojan ancestor of the Romans.
ANSWER: the Aeneid
105-12-63-01101

2. John Woods killed “ten men in 103 minutes” here, while Robert Ley used a towel to strangle
himself here. In this city, one man condemned the “willing cooperation with slave labor” by the IG
Farben company, while Alfred (+) Krupp denied his company’s involvement in politics. Its Palace of
Justice was used by Judge Francis Biddle and prosecutor Robert (*) Jackson during one event.
Joachim von Ribbentrop was executed in this city and Hermann Goering killed himself here. For 10 points,
name this German city, the site of postwar trials of Nazi war criminals.
ANSWER: Nuremberg [or Nurnberg]
052-12-63-01102

3. This Cabinet position was held by a man who said aborting African-American babies was
"morally reprehensible, but the crime rate would go down." After leaving this post, that man wrote
The Book of Virtues and revealed he lost millions gambling. Besides William (+) Bennett, another
man to hold this post got it after overseeing the "Houston miracle" and once called a major union a
"terrorist organization." Under George W. Bush, this post was held by (*) Rod Paige and Margaret
Spellings. This position's current occupant is a supporter of Race to the Top. For 10 points, name this
Cabinet position currently held by Arne Duncan.
ANSWER: Secretary of Education
052-12-63-01103

4. This crime was committed by a group called the “Greys.” Willard Richards and John Taylor
managed to survive it, and its perpetrators were defended by Orville Hickman Browning. Its target
had previously surrendered to William Bettisworth after Thomas Ford granted him a trial by jury.
During this event, the target’s brother (+) Hyrum was shot in the face. This event occurred in
Carthage, Illinois, where the target was imprisoned for ordering the destruction of the newspaper (*)
Nauvoo Expositor for an article about his polygamous ways. For 10 points, name this event in which the
founder of the Latter-Day Saints movement was killed.
ANSWER: assassination of Joseph Smith [or equivalents mentioning people killing Joseph Smith;
prompt on answers that just give Smith]
048-12-63-01104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In March 2012, this man repeated comments from 2010 in which he called for the legalization of
marijuana possession. He won the Washington caucus and finished second in Iowa during his 1988
bid for the (+) Republican nomination, during which he promised to ban pornography. He started
the first-ever Christian TV station in Portsmouth, decades before a 2008 earthquake, when this
Regent University founder claimed that (*) Haiti had made a “pact with the Devil.” For 10 points, name
this host of The 700 Club and prominent Christian conservative leader.
ANSWER: Marion Gordon “Pat” Robertson
019-12-63-01105

6. Despite being a heretic, this man resolved the controversial papal election between Symmachus
and Laurentius. After this man's death, his daughter, Amalasuntha (ah-MAH-lah-soon-thuh),
became regent. To stop him from terrorizing Byzantium, Emperor (+) Zeno gave him the title of
Consul. He sponsored the formulator of the trivium and quadrivium, Cassiodorus, and built the
Basilica of Sant'Apollinare in his capital. His less admirable deeds include executing the philosopher
(*) Boethius (boh-EE-thee-us) and murdering his predecessor, Odoacer (oh-doh-EY-ser). For 10 points,
name this Ostrogothic king of Italy.
ANSWER: Theodoric the Great [or Theodoric the Amal]
080-12-63-01106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 1
Extra Questions

A 2007 documentary claims that Klaus Barbie boasted to have devised the strategy of killing this
man. He wrote The African Dream about his time in the Congo. Alberto Korda's photo of this man is
titled (+) "Heroic Guerrilla Fighter." While not a native of the country, he joined the 26th of July
Movement against Fulgencio (*) Batista. This author of The Motorcycle Diaries was killed by Bolivian
forces in 1967. For 10 points, name this Argentine revolutionary who allied with Castro during the Cuban
Revolution.
ANSWER: Ernesto Guevara [or Che Guevara]
052-12-63-0110-1

BONUS: One investor in Brook Farm was what author of The House of the Seven Gables?
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
088-12-63-0110-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 1 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.


