NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 8
First Quarter

1. One form of this law was held to be constitutional in Wickard v. Filburn. That was a 1938 enactment,
which passed after the 1933 version was struck down in U.S. v. Butler. This law was unpopular due to the
perceived waste it created. For 10 points, name this New Deal legislation that subsidized farmers for
destroying crops and livestock.
ANSWER: Agricultural Adjustment Act [or AAA]
015-12-63-08101

2. This action was effectively performed by those who were coerced to trample the fumi-e by the
Tokugawa government. It was performed by many moriscos (mor-EES-cos) in face of the Inquisition and is
legitimized by the doctrine of Taqiyya (TAK-ee-ya) when the safety of the person doing it is threatened.
Those who did it willingly are called apostates. For 10 points, name this action that some Jews appeared to
perform by not wearing their yellow star.
ANSWER: renouncing one's faith [accept renouncing Christianity; accept renonuncing Judaism;
accept renouncing Islam; accept any synonym of giving up one's religion]
020-12-63-08102

3. Although this agreement bears similarities to 1973’s Sunningdale Agreement, it enabled for more
self-determination. Along with 2006’s St. Andrews Agreement, it’s the basis for its country’s status as
part of the United Kingdom. A referendum supported it despite opposition from the Democratic Unionist
Party. For 10 points, name the landmark agreement signed in Northern Ireland on April 10, 1998.
ANSWER: Good Friday Agreement [or Belfast Agreement]
147-12-63-08103

4. One person who held this position led the victorious forces at the Battle of Azaz; another person in this
post was beheaded at the age of 16 by Charles I of Anjou. This throne held by Baldwin II and Conrad III
was first held by Godfrey of Bouillon (boo yown). For 10 points, name this throne which was established
after the First Crusade.
ANSWER: kings of Jerusalem (accept obvious equivalents)
088-12-63-08104

5. Pierre d'Aubusson led a 1480 defense of this island against Ottoman forces. The Ottomans launched a
more successful siege in 1522, forcing the Knights Hospitaller to relocate their base from this island to
Malta. It is the most prominent island in the Dodecanese (doe-deca-nese). For 10 points, name this Greek
island which in ancient times was home to a famous statute of Apollo called the Colossus.
ANSWER: Rhodes
015-12-63-08105

6. A 73-story Marriott sits at the center of this city’s seven skyscraper complex called the Renaissance
Center. A sculpture here depicting a man holding a golden orb and family is named “the Spirit” of this city.
Founded by Antoine Cadillac, it forms a metropolitan area with Windsor, Ontario. For 10 points, name this
headquarters of Ford and GM, the largest city in Michigan.
ANSWER: Detroit
015-12-63-08106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This man was awarded the Copely Medal for his monographs on barnacles and his theory about the
formation of coral reefs. His ideas were defended by Thomas Huxley. One of this man’s theories was
partially inspired by the differing beak sizes on a series of finches. For 10 points, name this scientist who
wrote On the Origin of Species after visiting the Galapagos Islands.
ANSWER: Charles Darwin
015-12-63-08107

8. In this novel, a group of travelers gradually lose Noah, Granma, and Connie. A dying man at the end of
this novel may be saved by Rose of Sharon's breastfeeding. In this work, the death of the preacher Jim Casy
inspires Tom to continue fighting for the rights of migrant workers. For 10 points, name this novel by John
Steinbeck about the Joad family's attempt to cope with the Dust Bowl.
ANSWER: The Grapes of Wrath
105-12-63-08108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 8
Second Quarter

1. The Porteous (POR-tee-us) Riots occurred during this man’s tenure in the post for which he is most
famous. He strongly opposed the Peerage Bill in the House of Commons. He developed the sinking fund
while Chancellor of the Exchequer. This man reluctantly declared the War of Jenkins’ Ear. He gained
repute for his handling of the South Sea Bubble. For 10 points, name this Whig who served under George I
and George II as the first prime minister of Great Britain.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole
BONUS: Walpole’s handling of the South Sea Bubble was notably much better than the management of
this concurrent economic bubble caused by a French private bank made by John Law.
ANSWER: Mississippi Bubble
127-12-63-08101

2. One member of this band was the only person to appear on the English and American stages of Live Aid.
Another member of this band sang a solo work that ends by stating, “The eyes of the world are watching
now,” about slain South African activist Stephen Biko. Albums by this band include The Lamb Lies Down
on Broadway and Invisible Touch. For 10 points, Peter Gabriel and Phil Collins were members of what
British progressive rock band that shares its name with the first book of the Bible?
ANSWER: Genesis
BONUS: What actor, who portrayed Malcolm X in the 1992 Spike Lee film, also played Stephen Biko in
the 1987 movie Cry Freedom?
ANSWER: Denzel Washington
030-12-63-08102

3. This man killed a soldier that prevented him from honoring a request of Remigius, Bishop of Reims
(rehm), to return a stolen vase after the Battle of Soissons. He lost Aquitaine to his brother-in-law
Theodoric the Great. According to Gregory of Tours, after the Battle of Tolbiac and on the advice of his
wife Clotilde, this man converted to Christianity. For 10 points, name this King of the Franks until his 511
death, the founder of the Merovingian Dynasty.
ANSWER: Clovis I [or Chlodowech; or Clodovechus]
BONUS: Clovis commissioned what Frankish law code, named after his branch of the Franks, whose
best-known provision prevented females from inheriting the throne?
ANSWER: Salic Law [or Salian Law; or Lex Salica]
003-12-63-08103

4. One reason for this law came after a failed plan to give Jefferson one more vote than Burr threw an
election to the House. Thomas Jefferson's loss to John Adams in 1796 and his victory four years later
prompted the passage of this legislation. This changed Article II, Section 1, Clause 3 of the Constitution.
Prior to this amendment, the runner-up in the Electoral College was made Vice President. For 10 points,
name this 1804 amendment that changed the way the President and Vice President are elected.
ANSWER: Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution
BONUS: The only time the House has chosen a President after the passage of the Twelfth Amendment was
during this election, which saw John Quincy Adams chosen over Andrew Jackson in a "corrupt bargain."
ANSWER: Election of 1824
127-12-63-08104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This politician received criticism from several hardline groups for his doctrine of Enlightened
Moderation, and he was supported by the PML-Q party. His government launched Operation Sunrise, a
military strike against the Lal Masjid. Ziauddin Butt (ZEE-aw-din Bute) was once nominated to replace this
man, who in one post masterminded the Kargil infiltration. He deposed Nawaz Sharif in a bloodless coup
and immediately declared a state of emergency. For 10 points, name this general and President of Pakistan
until 2007.
ANSWER: Pervez Musharraf
BONUS: Musharraf had a secret meeting with this former PM of Pakistan and founder of the PPP, who was
killed by a car bomb in 2007.
ANSWER: Benazir Bhutto
048-12-63-08105

6. Captain Hodson captured the leader of one side of this conflict at Humayun's Tomb. This event saw the
death of Henry Lawrence at the Siege of Lucknow. Bahadur Shah was tried for treason after it, resulting in
him being the last of his dynasty. The Siege of Cawnpore during this event included the Bibighar
(bee-bee-gar) Massacre. Mangal Pandey's outburst preceded this event. One cause of it was the use of
animal fat in the Enfield rifle. For 10 points, name this 1857 rebellion of Indian soldiers against the British
East India Company.
ANSWER: Sepoy Mutiny [or Indian Mutiny before read; or Rebellion of 1857 before date is mentioned]
BONUS: The siege of this city ended in a British victory the day before Brigadier John Nicholson died.
ANSWER: Delhi
127-12-63-08106

7. One of the earlier complete examples of these compositions by a single composer was composed by
Guillaume Machaut (ma-SHOW), who inspired later examples by composers like Josquin des Prez (deh
PREY). "Parody" ones incorporated material from outside sources. Johann Sebastian Bach wrote one in B
minor. They traditionally began with the "Kyrie" and included the "Gloria" and "Agnus Dei" sections. For
10 points, name these medieval settings of the Latin liturgy.
ANSWER: masses
BONUS: Gabriel Faure (FOR-ay) composed a setting of what mass, held in memory of the dead?
ANSWER: Requiem Mass
080-12-63-08107

8. Jess Gorkin and Leo Szilard (ZILL-ard) are variously credited with the idea for this piece of technology,
which used the ETCRRM II for one-time pad cryptography. Its first known use other than test messages
was during the Six Day War. In 1984 it was modernized for fax transmission; before that, this device
installed in response to the Cuban Missile Crisis used teletype but not telephones. For 10 points, name this
communication device intended to rapidly deliver messages between the two superpowers during the Cold
War.
ANSWER: Moscow-Washington hotline [or Washington-Moscow hotline; or U.S.-Soviet hotline; or
other answers mentioning a hotline between the U.S. and Soviet Union; prompt on Molink; prompt on
hotline]
BONUS: Until 1978, a secondary cable for the Moscow-Washington hotline ran through what North
African city at the west end of the Strait of Gibraltar, occupied by Spain during World War II?
ANSWER: Tangiers
003-12-63-08108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 8
Third Quarter

NON-ENGLISH COLONIZATION
Name the...
1. Modern-day state where Spanish settlements of San Gabriel and Taos can be found.
ANSWER: New Mexico
2. Country that founded Fort Elizabeth in Hawaii, Fort Ross in California, and many settlements in Alaska.
ANSWER: Russia [or Russian Empire]
3. Florida town founded in 1565, making it the first permanent European settlement in the modern United
States.
ANSWER: Saint Augustine
4. French fort in what is now Pittsburgh, which Edward Braddock failed to capture in the French and Indian
War.
ANSWER: Fort Duquesne [or Fort Du Quesne]
5. Alabama Gulf Coast city that served as the first capital of French Louisiana.
ANSWER: Mobile
6. Modern city whose "Missions National Historical Park" preserves the four least-well-known of its five
missions.
ANSWER: San Antonio, Texas
7. Colony centered at Fort Christina in what is now Delaware.
ANSWER: New Sweden [or Nya Sverige]
8. California bay on which the second presidio in Alta California was founded in 1770.
ANSWER: Monterey Bay
003-12-63-0810-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

JAMES MADISON
Answer the following about the life of James Madison.
1. Madison introduced this set of ten amendments to the U.S. Constitution.
ANSWER: Bill of Rights
2. Madison was married to this First Lady.
ANSWER: Dolley Payne Todd Madison [or Dolley Payne; or Dolley Payne Todd; prompt on Madison]
3. This term was used for the group who pushed Madison to enter the War of 1812.
ANSWER: War Hawks
4. Madison defeated this Federalist on his way to the office.
ANSWER: Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
5. Madison initially vetoed a bill to create the second of these financial institutions.
ANSWER: Bank of the United States
6. Madison's second Vice President was this Governor of Massachusetts, who died after less than two years
in office.
ANSWER: Elbridge Thomas Gerry
7. This slave owned by Madison wrote a memoir of the president after being freed.
ANSWER: Paul Jennings
8. Madison opted to not remove this general as governor of Louisiana, despite accusations of
ineffectiveness.
ANSWER: James Wilkinson
088-12-63-0810-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

LEWIS AND CLARK
The Lewis and Clark Expedition...
1. Encountered what Shoshone woman who served as an occasional translator and guide?
ANSWER: Sacagawea [or Sacajawea; or Sakakawea]
2. Began by traveling up what river?
ANSWER: Missouri River
3. Reached the Pacific Ocean by descending what river?
ANSWER: Columbia River
4. Got around the Great Falls through what method of carrying a boat between navigable waters?
ANSWER: portage [or portaging; or Great Falls portage]
5. Was officially referred to by Thomas Jefferson by what name?
ANSWER: Corps of Discovery Expedition
6. Spent the winter of 1804-05 at what North Dakota fort named after a nearby Native American tribe?
ANSWER: Fort Mandan
7. Took along a keelboat and two of what small wooden rowboats?
ANSWER: pirogues
8. Included what slave of William Clark, the first African-American to reach the Pacific Ocean?
ANSWER: York
003-12-63-0810-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 8
Fourth Quarter

1. William Julius Wilson wrote about the "Declining Significance" of this concept, which was the
subject of a "Question" investigated by Ashley Montagu in a statement for UNESCO. The problems
caused by this concept clashed with the "American Creed" according to (+) Gunnar Myrdal's An
American Dilemma. Kenneth and Mamie Clark's doll experiments analyzed children's attitudes
towards this concept. In the South, it was legally defined by the (*) "one-drop rule." For 10 points,
segregation with respect to what attribute was ruled unconstitutional by Brown v. Board?
ANSWER: race [or equivalents; or whiteness; or blackness; or other such answers; or word forms, like
racism]
080-12-63-08101

2. One prime minister of this country was convincted of improperly being paid for hosting the
cooking shows All Set at 6. A.M and Tasting and Grumbling. One business magnate from this country,
who passed away in 2012, teamed up with Austrian Dietrich Mateschitz to invent (+) Red Bull.
Though it is not Japan, this country was the site of Operation Hiroshima, which blocked off its major
international airport with a crowd of (*) “yellow shirts.” That led to the fall of the government of
Thaksin Shinawatra. For 10 points, coups often receive the implicit backing of King Bhumibol
(BOOM-ee-bowl) in what country, once known as Siam?
ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand [or Ratcha Anachak Thai; or Prathet Thai]
019-12-63-08102

3. This man ordered Luis de Moscoso to frighten an enemy by jousting with lances; he won a pyrrhic
victory over that enemy, Tuskaloosa, at the Battle of Mabila. Though he is not Cortes, his body was
secretly cast into a river in blankets covered with sand to maintain the illusion that he was a (+) sun
god. This man led one division of cavalry at the Battle of Cajamarca, which was won by his superior
Pizarro. This man became the first European to see the Valley of the Smokes. This explorer traveled
into (*) Georgia, the Carolinas, Tennessee, and Alabama before making his discovery. For 10 points, name
this Spaniard credited with discovering the Mississippi.
ANSWER: Hernando de Soto
020-12-63-08103

4. After this man's death, the eunuch Zhao Gao (JOW GOW) tried to take control of his empire. His
regent Lu Buwei (LOO boo-WAY) may have been his real father. He established Xianyang
(see-ANN-YANG) as his capital, and his minister (+) Li Si burned Confucian books and other texts
not in line with Legalist thought. This ruler, who took mercury pills for eternal life, survived an
assassination attempt by Jing Ke. He commissioned the (*) Great Wall of China, and he was buried in
Xi'an (she-AHN) with eight thousand terra cotta soldiers. For 10 points, name this man who unified China
in 221 BCE by founding the Qin (CHIN) Dynasty.
ANSWER: Qin Shi Huang-di [or Ying Zheng]
079-12-63-08104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. A participant in this event dismissed one nation as the most “pigheaded people” he had met,
though he noted that their leader at this event was “honest--but smart as hell.” One person at this
event argued for an international governing authority for the Danube River. The (+) Trinity test at
Alamogordo occurred during this event. The leaders at this event placed one border at the
Oder-Neisse line and dismissed the Morgenthau Plan as too extreme. One person at it was replaced
due to the (*) British elections, while another had recently replaced FDR. For 10 points, name this Allied
conference in a German city that occurred five months after Yalta.
ANSWER: Potsdam Conference
132-12-63-08105

6. Plato's description of Atlantis was given to this historical figure, and he is credited with the
eudaemonism, "Call no man happy till he is dead." This man's warnings that Peisistratus
(PIS-uh-stratus) would become a tyrant were dismissed. One reform of this man limited the power of
the (+) eupatrids. Economic reforms introduced by this man were called the "shaking of of burdens,"
and those reforms canceled all (*) debts and freed enslaved debtors. Another of his reforms allowed the
right of appeal from the verdict of magistrates. For 10 points, name this Greek statesman known for
moderating the harshness of Draco's law code.
ANSWER: Solon
030-12-63-08106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 8
Extra Questions

This artist included a portrait of Suleiman the Magnificent on the far left of one painting. A band of
uniformed Germans appears out of place on the left of another work by this artist. This man painted
himself and several contemporaries as musicians playing in front of a seated (+) Jesus in one work,
which also includes a dwarf holding a parrot at an event during which Jesus changed water into
wine. One painting by this man was intended as a Last Supper but had its title changed when the (*)
Inquisition objected to its irreverence. For 10 points, name this Venetian Renaissance painter of The
Wedding at Cana and The Feast in the House of Levi.
ANSWER: Paolo Veronese
105-12-63-0810-1

BONUS: What man, nicknamed "Little Ellick," served as Davis's Vice President during the Civil War?
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton Stephens
014-12-63-0810-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 8 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

