NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 6
First Quarter

1. This city contained a paper mill established by Chinese prisoners in 751. One ruler of this city, Ulugh
Beg, constructed an observatory here in the 1420s. A ruler of this city defeated Tokhtamysh
(TOAK-tuh-mish) to break the power of the Golden Horde. For 10 points, name this capital of Tamerlane's
empire, a city in modern-day Uzbekistan.
ANSWER: Samarkand
132-12-63-06101

2. This man's wife, Carmen Polo, was influential in the election of the Marquis of Arias Navarro to the
presidency. This man announced a rebellion after being sent to a remote command in the Canary Islands.
He oversaw the fusion of the Carlist movement with the fascist Falange Party. For 10 points, name this
generalissimo who led Spain after the defeat of the Spanish Republic following the Spanish Civil War.
ANSWER: Francisco Franco
030-12-63-06102

3. Louis Leroy coined the name of this art movement, whose proponents included Armand Guillaumin
(gee-YOE-man) and Alfred Sisley. One painter associated with it frequently painted her sister Lydia. This
movement got its name from a painting of the sun setting over a boat in Le Havre (HAHV) harbor. For 10
points, name this art movement which included Mary Cassatt (kuh-SOT) and Claude Monet (moe-NAY).
ANSWER: Impressionism [or obvious equivalents]
015-12-63-06103

4. This man ran for his first consulship against the wishes of his mentor Metellus. His great innovation was
in recruiting his legions among the poor unpropertied classes. A seven-time consul, this man defeated the
Numidian Jugurtha and many invading Germanic tribes. For 10 points, name this reformer of the Roman
military and great rival of Lucius Cornelius Sulla.
ANSWER: Gaius Marius
015-12-63-06104

5. During this man's death, the editor of Inspire magazine was also killed. An email conversation with this
man was tied to Nidal Hasan, the accused Fort Hood shooter, a year before this New Mexico-born man was
put on a "target list." For 10 points, name this American citizen who was killed by a Hellfire missile strike
in Yemen in September 2011.
ANSWER: Anwar al-Awlaki
019-12-63-06105

6. The Russian promyshlenniki (pro-MISH-len-IH-kee) exploited Siberian natives to obtain this resource.
To monopolize this resource, the Iroquois (EER-uh-koy) went to war with Algonquian-speaking tribes of
the Great Lakes. John Jacob Astor made his fortune from its trade. For 10 points, name this resource
obtained from beavers and sables used to create warm hats and clothes.
ANSWER: animal fur [or beaver furs; or otter furs; or other specific furs; or pelts]
080-12-63-06106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. The Pecora Commission investigated the causes of this event. A worse version of this event happened on
October 19, 1987. Many afflicted by it stereotypically booked hotel rooms only to jump to their deaths
from the windows. This event happened on Black Tuesday and amounted to a loss of $30 billion. For 10
points, name this 1929 event that began the Great Depression.
ANSWER: 1929 stock market crash [or 1929 Wall Street Crash; or Black Tuesday before mentioned;
prompt on Stock Market Crash; accept Great Depression before October, prompt on it afterwards until
mentioned]
020-12-63-06107

8. Max Hoffman was instrumental in negotiating this treaty. Talat Pasha insisted that the defeated nation
cede all lands it won in an 1877 war with the Ottoman Empire. The terms of this treaty were reached by
German diplomat von Kuhlmann and Leon Trotsky. This treaty caused the independence of Finland,
Poland, and the Baltic states. For 10 points, name this 1918 treaty that allowed Russia to exit World War I.
ANSWER: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
127-12-63-06108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 6
Second Quarter

1. A push for universal suffrage in this nation was called the Blue Revolution. Operation Vantage was a
British mission to protect this nation, which in a later war saw the Battle of Dasman Palace and the Battle
of the Bridges. This nation, which is ruled by the Sabah (suh-BAH) family, was accused of "economic
warfare" via slant drilling before a 1990 invasion by a neighboring country. For 10 points, name this nation
annexed by Saddam Hussein in the Gulf War.
ANSWER: State of Kuwait [or Dawlat al Kuwayt]
BONUS: In the Gulf War, what name was given to the six-lane road running from Kuwait to Basra, where
several thousand retreating Iraqi soldiers were bombed?
ANSWER: Highway of Death [or Highway 80]
048-12-63-06101

2. This plan was supported in the Senate by a motion of Jesse B. Thomas. In his Peoria speech, Lincoln
discussed how this had been all but repealed. The Tallmadge Amendment was a failed modification of this
plan. The annexation of Texas involved an extension of the boundary formed by this agreement. This
agreement admitted both Maine and another state to the Union. For 10 points, name this 1820 agreement
that outlawed slavery in territories above the 36'30 parallel, except in the namesake state.
ANSWER: Missouri Compromise
BONUS: What Kentucky senator proposed extending the Missouri Compromise line as part of his own
last-ditch compromise attempt to persuade the south not to secede?
ANSWER: John Jordan Crittenden
127-12-63-06102

3. Daikokuya Kodayu (DIE-koe-KOO-yuh koe-DAH-yoo) was granted an audience with this ruler, after
which he was able to return home. The Treaty of Kuchuk Kainarji was signed during this monarch’s reign.
The Orlov brothers were instrumental in the murder that brought this ruler to power. Pugachev’s Rebellion
opposed this ruler, who placed Poniatowski on the throne of Poland. She ascended to the throne after her
husband Peter III was assassinated. For 10 points, name this Russian empress, a famous enlightened despot.
ANSWER: Catherine II [or Catherine the Great; prompt on Catherine]
BONUS: This statesman and favorite of Catherine apocryphally created namesake fake villages in Crimea
to show off to the Empress. He also names a famous battleship that saw an uprising.
ANSWER: Grigory Potemkin
127-12-63-06103

4. In one novel by this author, the protagonist believes “nobody with a good car needs to be justified” and
tries to use his car in seducing the daughter of a fake blind man, Sabbath Hawkes. That protagonist enlists
the help of Enoch Emery in starting a new church, with little success. In a short story by this woman, the
cat Pitty Sing is secretly brought on a road trip which ends when the grandmother and her family are
murdered by the Misfit. For 10 points, name this Southern author of “A Good Man Is Hard to Find.”
ANSWER: Flannery O'Connor [or Mary Flannery O'Connor]
BONUS: What protagonist of O'Connor's novel Wise Blood founds the Church Without Christ?
ANSWER: Hazel Motes [or Hazel Motes]
121-12-63-06104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. The founder of this group of people refused to kiss the foot of Charles the Simple and allowed one of his
warriors to lift the king's foot to his mouth, causing him to fall over. Besides the Viking Rollo, another
leader of these people known as "the fox" led campaigns with his brother Roger to take over Sicily. That
leader of these people also defended Pope Gregory VII from Henry IV and was named Robert Guiscard.
For 10 points, name this group of people whose conquest of England was led by William the Conqueror.
ANSWER: Normans
BONUS: What last Anglo-Saxon king of England was killed at the Battle of Hastings?
ANSWER: Harold II Godwinson
105-12-63-06105

6. One proponent of this policy was given the epithet “dung-named” for his support of it. This policy
resulted in the resignation of Germanus I. It arose partially as an imitation of a policy decreed by Yazid II.
It was opposed by the Empress Irene, who convened the Second Council of Nicaea to end it. Starting under
Leo III in 726 and continuing under Constantine V, this policy resulted in many Byzantine paintings of
Mary being replaced with crosses. For 10 points, give this term for the destruction of religious images.
ANSWER: Byzantine iconoclasm
BONUS: Another destructive religion-inspired event was this one in fifteenth-century Florence, organized
by the priest Girolamo Savonarola.
ANSWER: Bonfire of the Vanities [or Fallo della Vanita]
132-12-63-06106

7. Although this man served as an advisor to Richard Nixon, Nixon once described Adlai Stevenson as a
graduate from this man's "cowardly college of Communist containment." This man authored the memoir
Present at the Creation. In a position he held from 1949 to 1953, he crafted a doctrine to prevent the spread
of communism into the Middle East. For 10 points, name this Secretary of State under Truman.
ANSWER: Dean Gooderham Acheson
BONUS: In 1946, Acheson and TVA head David Lilienthal developed a plan for international control of
what resource, only to have Bernard Baruch modify it before it was presented to the United Nations?
ANSWER: atomic energy [or nuclear energy; or uranium]
030-12-63-06107

8. Operation Rosselspring, or Operation Knight’s Move, was a failed attempt to raid this man's
headquarters in Drvar. To bring in foreign visitors, this man abolished all visa requirements. He was
excommunicated for imprisoning Cardinal Aloysius Stepinac. This enemy of the Chetniks cofounded the
Non-Aligned Movement. For 10 points, name this longtime ruler of Yugoslavia.
ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito
BONUS: This scar-faced Nazi organized Operation Knight’s Move. He also kidnapped Miklos Horthy’s
son and carried out an attempt to free Mussolini called the Gran Sasso Raid.
ANSWER: Otto Skorzeny
079-12-63-06108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 6
Third Quarter

P.T. BARNUM
P.T. Barnum was associated with...
1. What ringmaster whose circus merged with his in 1881?
ANSWER: James Anthony Bailey [or James Anthony McGuiness]
2. A speech supporting the ratification of what amendment prohibiting slavery?
ANSWER: Thirteenth Amendment
3. What 19th-century anti-alcohol movement?
ANSWER: temperance [or prohibition]
4. Two terms in which state's legislature, in which he also served as mayor of Bridgeport?
ANSWER: Connecticut
5. An attempt to buy the petticoats worn by what man while fleeing Richmond?
ANSWER: Jefferson Davis
6. What "Swedish Nightingale" whose first American tour Barnum bankrolled and publicized?
ANSWER: Jenny Lind [or Johanna Maria Lind]
7. A fake of which fake stone statue defended by Christian fundamentalists as evidence for Biblical
literalism?
ANSWER: Cardiff Giant
8. Sponsoring a state ban, which Poe v. Ullman failed to overturn, on what type of substances?
ANSWER: contraceptives [or birth control; or obvious equivalents; do not accept "abortion"]
003-12-63-0610-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

SPEAKERS OF THE HOUSE
Which U.S. Speaker of the House…
1. Was the 60th Speaker of the House and the first woman to hold the office?
ANSWER: Nancy Patrica D'Alesandro Pelosi [or Nancy Patricia D'Alesandro]
2. Was speaker under Clinton and a candidate in the Republican primaries in 2012?
ANSWER: Newton Leroy Gingrich [or Newton Leroy McPherson]
3. Is the current speaker of the house?
ANSWER: John Andrew Boehner
4. Was the longest-serving speaker?
ANSWER: Samuel Taliaferro Rayburn
5. Was often at odds with the policies of the Reagan administration and worked for the Anglo-Irish
agreement of 1985?
ANSWER: Tip O'Neill [or Thomas Philip O'Neill, Jr.]
6. Proposed the American System and was nicknamed "the Great Compromiser?"
ANSWER: Henry Clay
7. Hailed from Oklahoma and served as Speaker during Watergate?
ANSWER: Carl Bert Albert
8. Resigned after an ethics investigation centered on his excessive speaking fees?
ANSWER: Jim Wright [or James Claude Wright, Jr.]
127-12-63-0610-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

EARLY CONGRESSIONAL ACTS
Give the…
1. Common name of 1789, 1793, 1801, and 1802 acts that set up an entire branch of the federal
government.
ANSWER: Judiciary Acts
2. Act "for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States" grouped with the Alien Acts.
ANSWER: Sedition Act [or Alien and Sedition Acts]
3. Rebellion caused by a 1791 "luxury tax" on the namesake kind of alcohol.
ANSWER: Whiskey Rebellion
4. First of three bills passed to restrict trade with Britain and France during the Napoleonic Wars.
ANSWER: Embargo Act
5. Act that established the U.S. Mint.
ANSWER: Coinage Act
6. Act that provided the mechanism by which Ohio and, by extension, future territories would become
states.
ANSWER: Enabling Act of 1802
7. Subject of the first bill ever passed by Congress, which also defined their exact wording.
ANSWER: oaths of office
8. Subject of the first bill ever vetoed.
ANSWER: apportionment of the House of Representatives [or equivalents concerning how to allocate
seats in the House of Representatives; or fixing the number of seats in the House of Representatives]
003-12-63-0610-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 6
Fourth Quarter

1. During this war, the Beiyang Fleet was decimated in the Battle of the Yalu River. The Battles of
Pungdo and Seonghwan preceded the formal declaration of this war. The assassination of Kim
Ok-gyun helped lead to this war. The (+) Tonghak Rebellion caused one country to violate the
convention of Tientsin, which sparked hostilities that led to this war. The aftermath of this war saw
the victor defeat the Republic of (*) Formosa and invade Taiwan. This war was ended by the Treaty of
Shimonoseki. For 10 points, name this 1894 to 1895 war fought over control of Korea between the Qing
Dynasty and a country in its Meiji period.
ANSWER: First Sino-Japanese War
127-12-63-06101

2. With Derek Walcott, this man's attempts to write a musical about Salvador Agron entitled The
Capeman was a flop. This musician sang "I never been laid so low in such a mysterious way" in
"Mother and Child Reunion." He appeared in a video with (+) Chevy Chase for his song in which he
sings "where's my wife and family? What if I die here? Who'll be my role model now that my role
model is gone, gone?" That song is (*) "You Can Call Me Al." He sings "though my lack of education
hasn't hurt me none, I can read the writing on the wall" in "Kodachrome." For 10 points, name this
American musician wrote "Bridge Over Troubled Water" to be sung by his partner, Art Garfunkel.
ANSWER: Paul Frederic Simon
088-12-63-06102

3. One piece of this type with a dramatic B-flat minor ending is Debussy's Pour les Tierces.
"Concert" pieces of this type include Waldesrauschen and Gnomenreigen, while another was inspired
by the second violin concerto of Paganini, La Campanella. Chopin's (SHOA-pan) "Butterfly" and (+)
"Black Keys" are examples of this type of piece that make up his Opus 10 and Opus 25. Another
piece of this type was apocryphally composed in response to the 1831 capture of Warsaw by the (*)
Russians. For 10 points, identify these pieces intended to improve a performer's technique that include
Liszt's "Transcendental" ones and Chopin's "Revolutionary."
ANSWER: étude (AY-tood)
066-12-63-06103

4. The inhabitants of one island in this body of water speak an Elizabethan-era dialect of English.
That island is Tangier Island. The Calvert Cliffs are a set of fossil-rich chalk cliffs that lie on this
body of water. This body of water is spanned only by its namesake bridge and (+) bridge-tunnel, the
latter of which connects to Cape Charles. The British besieged Fort McHenry from this body of
water. John (*) Smith remarked that oysters "lay thick as stones" in it. Its tributaries include the James,
Potomac, and Susquehanna rivers. For 10 points, identify this largest estuary in the United States, a bay
bordered by Maryland and Virginia.
ANSWER: Chesapeake Bay
066-12-63-06104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This man wrote about the conservative politics of Metternich and Castlereagh in his book A World
Restored. He worked to keep Operation Menu secret in order to prevent knowledge of bombings in
neutral (+) Cambodia. This man was instrumental in the U.S. involvement with Operation Condor.
This diplomat met secretly with (*) Zhou Enlai (JOE ehn-LIE), paving the way for the formalization of
relations with China. He won a notable award along with Le Duc Tho. For 10 points, name this American
Secretary of State under Nixon and Ford who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his role in ending the Vietnam
War.
ANSWER: Henry Kissinger [or Heinz Alfred Kissinger]
127-12-63-06105

6. After this body was given the power to raise an army via the Militia Ordinance, the ruling king
issued the Commission of Array to build his own army. The ruling king also issued a list of
complaints called the Grand (+) Remonstrance against it. The Self-Denying Ordinance forbade its
members from being commanders in the army. John Pym led this body, which formed after the
Battle of Newburn in the Second (*) Bishops’ War. For 10 points, name this legislature whose members
were ousted by Charles I in Pride’s Purge and replaced by the Rump Parliament.
ANSWER: Long Parliament
079-12-63-06106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 6
Extra Questions

This group marched on the capital in response to the drafting of the COCOPA Law. This
organization created a series of Councils of Good Government to oversee local affairs. This group,
which is led by a figure called (+) Delegate Zero, seized several cities on January 1, 1994, in response
to the implementation of NAFTA, which they believed hurt (*) indigenous groups. For 10 points, name
this Chiapas-based leftist radical group named for an agrarian reformer that is currently active in Mexico.
ANSWER: Zapatistas [or Zapatista Army of National Liberation; or ZANL; or Ejercito Zapatisa de
Liberacion Nacional; or EZLN]
048-12-63-0610-1

BONUS: One of the lawyers for the Africans aboard the Amistad was which member of the House of
Representatives who had previously served as President?
ANSWER: John Quincy Adams [prompt on Adams; do not accept "John Adams"]
147-12-63-0610-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 6 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

