NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 4
First Quarter

1. In a "study for 23 strings," this man lamented the bombing of Munich during World War II. This
composer of Metamorphosen scandalized audiences with a striptease in the "Dance of the Seven Veils."
The timpani take over after the "Dawn" theme in a tone poem by him, used at the beginning of 2001: A
Space Odyssey. For 10 points, name this composer of Salome and Also Sprach Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Richard Georg Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
020-12-63-04101

2. Orville Hubbard was the so-called "dictator" of a city in this state for 36 years. Jerome Cavanagh was
mayor during the 1967 12th Street riot in a city in this state. That major city in this state had Coleman
Young serve as its first African-American mayor. For 10 points, those individuals served as mayor in what
state, which contains Dearborne and Detroit?
ANSWER: Michigan
030-12-63-04102

3. Vladimiro Montesinos, this man's head of intelligence, was part of a network of corruption in his
administration. During his "shock," he introduced the Nuevo Sol as the new currency. He was convicted of
human rights violations due to his involvement with the Grupo Colina death squad. For 10 points, name
this ethnically Japanese president of Peru.
ANSWER: Alberto Fujimori
127-12-63-04103

4. The last of these mandated "the utmost good faith shall always be observed towards the Indians." The
second one of these established the township system of land grants, setting aside a section in each township
for a school. For 10 points, name these laws under the Articles of Confederation meant to ensure the
orderly settlement of the namesake territory.
ANSWER: Northwest Ordinances
030-12-63-04104

5. It's not Poetics, but this book discusses diegesis and mimesis in poetry. This book argues that without
consequences, everyone would be unjust, with Glaucon's description of the ring of Gyges. It describes a
place where chained prisoners ascribe forms to shadows on the wall. For 10 points, name this dialogue that
contains the "allegory of the cave," written by Plato.
ANSWER: The Republic [or Politeia]
020-12-63-04105

6. Nathaniel Isaacs wrote an unflattering account of this ruler. He defeated Zwide at the Battle of Gqokli
Hill. This man did away with the assegai and used his impi in his "buffalo horns" formation. The Mfecane
was a period of savage warfare that followed in this man's wake. For 10 points, name this ruler who united
the Zulu Kingdom.
ANSWER: Shaka kaSenzangakhona
127-12-63-04106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 1 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. Characters on this show included the snobbish Charles Winchester and the cross-dressing Maxwell
Klinger. The final episode of this television series was entitled "Goodbye, Farewell, and Amen," which
remains the television episode with the highest ratings in American history. For 10 points, name this
television series which followed a group of doctors in the Korean War.
ANSWER: M*A*S*H
088-12-63-04107

8. David Cardinal Beaton executed this man's teacher George Wishart, and this man is the primary author
of the Book of Common Order and the Book of Discipline. He condemned Mary, Queen of Scots in his
pamphlet The First Blast of the Trumpeter Against the Monstrous Regiment of Women, and his followers
became the Kirk. While exiled in England, he revised the Book of Common Prayer. For 10 points, name
this Scottish reformer who founded Presbyterianism.
ANSWER: John Knox
079-12-63-04108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 2 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 4
Second Quarter

1. This city was captured by Cyrus in the Battle of Opis. The homesickness of Amytis of Media led to the
building of a famous structure in this city. One temple located in this city was Esagila, south of the ziggurat
Etemenanki, both of which were dedicated to Marduk. This city was also the site of the Ishtar Gate. For 10
points, name this ancient city, the Hanging Gardens of which were one of the Seven Wonders of the
Ancient World.
ANSWER: Babylon
BONUS: The Hanging Gardens were built under what Babylonian leader who also captured Jerusalem?
ANSWER: Nebuchadnezzar II [prompt on Nebuchadnezzar]
126-12-63-04101

2. This painter died at the young age of 33 from injuries sustained after falling from his horse. His own
works depicting horses include a painting of a Napoleonic officer in The Charging Chasseur and a
depiction of an English race in The Derby at Epsom. He painted the Argus in the background of a painting
in which a man rises to the top of a pyramid of bodies to wave a shirt. For 10 points, name this French
painter of The Raft of the Medusa.
ANSWER: Théodore Géricault
BONUS: The Raft of the Medusa caused a stir at the 1819 version of this event, an annual art show put on
by the Académie des Beaux-Arts.
ANSWER: Paris Salon
015-12-63-04102

3. This man led a militia to prevent Lord Dunmore from disarming a magazine in the Gunpowder Incident.
William Wirt wrote a biography of this man, who defended the Two-Penny Act in a legal case called the
Parson's Cause. This man refused to attend the Constitutional Convention because he "smelt a rat." This
politician introduced the Virginia Resolves in response to the Stamp Act. For 10 points, name this first
Governor of Virginia who declared in one speech, "Give me liberty or give me death!"
ANSWER: Patrick Henry
BONUS: In this speech, which Henry gave when introducing the Virginia Resolves, Henry declared,
"Caesar had his Brutus, Charles I his Cromwell, and George III may profit by their action" before adding
that, "if this be [the title action], make the most of it."
ANSWER: "Treason" speech
079-12-63-04103

4. This group twice had convictions overturned by the Supreme Court due to unlawful jury exclusion
practices. Ruby Bates recanted her testimony against this group. Clarence Norris was the last pardoned in
this group, of which Haywood Patterson was named the ringleader. Seven of the nine members of this
group were given death sentences due to a fabricated incident on a train near Paint Rock, Alabama. For 10
points, name this group of black teenagers unlawfully convicted of raping two white women in the 1930's.
ANSWER: Scottsboro Boys
BONUS: Name the 1932 Supreme Court case coming out of the Scottsboro Boys trial, which held that
states must provide adequate counsel for defendants in capital cases and was extended in Betts v. Brady.
ANSWER: Powell v. Alabama [or Alabama v. Powell]
003-12-63-04104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 3 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This process was the reason why Eduard Kullman tried to assassinate a leader at the Kissingen spas.
While not a scientific process, its name was coined by scientist Rudolf Virchow, and it softened after the
election of Pope Leo XIII. This process included laws named for Adalbert Falk or the “May Laws,” which
resulted in the closing of many seminaries. For 10 points, name this attempt to reduce the power of the
Catholic Church in 1870’s Prussia led by Otto von Bismarck.
ANSWER: Kulturkampf [or culture struggle]
BONUS: Leo succeeded what long-reigning pope, who had convened the First Vatican Council in 1869
and was the last ruler of the Papal States?
ANSWER: Pius IX [or Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti]
052-12-63-04105

6. This man’s first wife was the biologist Lynn Margulis, who helped develop the theory of endosymbiosis.
As the “S” in the five member TTAPS study, this man coined the term “nuclear winter.” While at Cornell,
this scientist headed the committee that designed the Golden Record which was included in the Voyager
missions. He wrote Pale Blue Dot and Contact. For 10 points, name this astronomer known for the TV
series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage.
ANSWER: Carl Sagan
BONUS: Carl Sagan was a supporter of this project, which used distributed computing to search for alien
life in its “@home” component.
ANSWER: Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence [SETI]
015-12-63-04106

7. This ethnic group's art includes frequent depictions of a namesake beast that resembles a sideways
seahorse. Their symbol stones written in the Ogham alphabet led John Rhys to conclude that they were not
of Celtic origin. Cruithne is the mythical first king of this group whose raiders supposedly forced Hadrian
to build his wall. For 10 point, name this Scottish ethnic group named after their tradition of body painting.
ANSWER: Picts
BONUS: What medieval historian chronicled the history of the Picts in part of his Ecclesiastical History of
the English People?
ANSWER: The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede]
003-12-63-04107

8. This event resulted in Viktor Lutze becoming the head of an organization. It targeted those who had
written the Marburg speech. This event was initiated with the code word “Kolibri.” During it, a former
Prime Minister was hacked to death with an axe. Sometimes known as “Operation Hummingbird,” it
resulted in the death of Ernst Rohm. For 10 points, name this 1934 event which purged dissident Nazi
factions, including many members of the SA.
ANSWER: Night of the Long Knives [or Nacht der langen Messer; or Operation Hummingbird until
mentioned; or the Rohm-Putsch until "Rohm" is mentioned]
BONUS: Rene Levesque, the founder of what political party, appropriated the term "Night of the Long
Knives" to refer to November 4, 1981, when the Kitchen Accord was drawn up without his province's
approval?
ANSWER: Parti Quebecois [or PQ; do not accept "Bloc Quebecois"]
052-12-63-04108

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 4 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 4
Third Quarter

ANCIENT CULTURES
Which empire or culture...
1. Lived in northwestern Iran and toppled the neo-Assyrian Empire?
ANSWER: Medes [or Median Empire; or Median Confederacy; or Madai]
2. Developed the cuneiform script and had Ubaid and Uruk periods?
ANSWER: Sumeria
3. Ruled Nubia and had a capital at Meroe?
ANSWER: Kingdom of Kush [or Kas]
4. Inhabited the vast steppes above the Black and Caspian Seas?
ANSWER: Scythians [or Scyths]
5. Were led by a "Scourge of God" named Attila?
ANSWER: Huns
6. Originated the "Mandate of Heaven" and succeeded the Shang?
ANSWER: Zhou Dynasty [or Zhou Empire; prompt on Chinese empire]
7. Flourished in south Peru and built some mysterious lines?
ANSWER: Nazca culture
8. Mistook the conquistador Hernan Cortes for a god?
ANSWER: Aztec Empire
020-12-63-0410-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 5 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

AMERICAN TRANSPORTATION
What transportation route...
1. Was the river traversed by Robert Fulton's steamboat?
ANSWER: Hudson River
2. Was dug to connect the Hudson River to the Great Lakes?
ANSWER: Erie Canal
3. Allowed early Midwestern farmers to move crops to the Mississippi?
ANSWER: Ohio River
4. Was searched for by Henry Hudson in northern Canada?
ANSWER: Northwest Passage
5. Is the oldest road in New York City?
ANSWER: Broadway
6. Began at Cumberland as the first highway built by the U.S. government?
ANSWER: National Road
7. Runs through Cumberland Gap, and was established by Daniel Boone?
ANSWER: Wilderness Road
8. Runs along the Potomac River and contains 74 locks?
ANSWER: C&O Canal [or Chesapeake and Ohio Canal]
132-12-63-0410-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 6 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

ITALIAN STATES
What Italian state…
1. Came under the control of Cosimo de Medici in 1433?
ANSWER: Florence
2. Was ruled by doges such as Enrico Dandolo?
ANSWER: Venice
3. Rebelled against Charles I on Easter 1282 during its namesake “vespers?”
ANSWER: Sicily
4. Joined Sicily in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies and was later ruled by Joachim Murat (JO-ah-keem
MUR-ah)?
ANSWER: Naples
5. Was the birthplace of admiral Andrea Doria and explorer Christopher Columbus?
ANSWER: Genoa
6. Was home to St. Ambrose and, later, the Sforza (SUH-forza) family?
ANSWER: Milan
7. Hosted a 1409 ecumenical council that worsened the Great Schism by electing a third pope?
ANSWER: Pisa
8. Was founded by Pepin the Short and received the forged Donation of Constantine?
ANSWER: Papal States
079-12-63-0410-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 7 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 4
Fourth Quarter

1. The meeting that produced this document included Christian Beyer and Alfonso de Valdes. The
Six Articles, a precursor to the 39 Articles, was based on this document. After this document was
attacked, Philipp (+) Melanchthon defended it in his "apology". Adherence to this document became
the only requirement to join the Schmalkaldic League. This document was presented at a 1530
meeting called by Holy Roman Emperor (*) Charles V at a diet of the same name. For 10 points, name
this document that outlines the tenets of the Lutheran faith, a "confession" issued at a namesake German
city.
ANSWER: Augsburg Confession
064-12-63-04101

2. A 2005 report from the Naval War College identified George Mendonza as the man widely
depicted doing this action. Navy lieutenant Victor Jorgenson shot Mendoza doing this from a less
dramatic angle. In 2010, Edith (+) Shain, also involved in a famous picture of this action, died at age
ninety-one, three decades after writing a letter to the photographer stating that "a subsequent soldier
motivated me into the next opening of the (*) subway." For 10 points, identify this action that a sailor is
doing in the iconic Alfred Eisenstadt photo V-J Day in Times Square.
ANSWER: kissing a nurse
019-12-63-04102

3. A “deep state” within this country was posited after a car crash involving the leader of the Gray
Wolves and a member of the True Path Party in the Susurluk scandal. Several members of the
Ergenekon group are awaiting trial in this country, where police foiled the Sledgehammer coup. The
(+) Justice and Development Party headed by Recep Tayyip Erdogan currently leads this nation,
which has been fighting the PKK insurgency for the 3 decades. In 2007, this nation saw a series of
Republic Protests in support of secular (*) Kemalist ideology in response to increased Islamization. For
10 points, name this country whose Grand National Assembly meets in Ankara.
ANSWER: Turkey
048-12-63-04103

4. This man was appointed United States railroad commissioner by Grover Cleveland. He was
severely wounded at a battle sometimes called Fair Oaks in which his forces were repelled by troops
under George McClellan. In July of 1864, he was replaced in one position by John Bell (+) Hood, and
he had served as the commander of the Army of Northern Virginia before the appointment of Robert
E. Lee. At the Bennett House near (*) Durham Station, this man signed terms of surrender on April 18,
1865. For 10 points, name this Confederate general who waged delaying tactics in the Atlanta Campaign
and during the waning days of the Civil War.
ANSWER: Joseph Eggleston Johnston
030-12-63-04104

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 8 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In one work by this man, Parson Oliver reveals the story of a Squire's wife to dissuade Parson
Tickletext from sending his daughters a novel about her. This author also founded a police force
nicknamed the Bow Street Runners. The title character of another novel by this man learns that he
was taken from Mr. and Mrs. (+) Wilson by gypsies as a baby, leaving him free to marry Fanny. This
author of Joseph Andrews also wrote a novel in which Mrs. Waters reveals that Bridget paid her to
claim the title character as her son, enabling him to marry (*) Sophia Western as the nephew of Squire
Allworthy. For 10 points, name this British novelist of Shamela and Tom Jones.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding
105-12-63-04105

6. A left-bank tributary of this river is unique in that it rises in impermeable crystalline highlands, a
northward extension of the Massif Central known as Morvan, and is the Yonne. The most dangerous
winter flood of this river occurred in 1910. The tidal bore in this river, known as (+) mascaret, has
been virtually eliminated through dredging. The Vikings used this river in their 885 to 886 siege of
the most notable city this river flows through. This river empties into the English Channel at (*) Le
Havre. After the Loire, it is the longest river in France. For 10 points, identify this river that flows through
Paris.
ANSWER: Seine River
066-12-63-04106

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 9 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version)
Round 4
Extra Questions

This man launched the "ten years of stability" program and adopted a new flag that symbolized his
country's permanent neutrality with crossing olive branches at the bottom. In response to a pension
fund deficit, this man increased the pension age to 85. He claimed that his countrymen were the first
to build robots in a book he (+) mandated every schoolchild to read, the Ruhnama
(ROOK-nah-mah). His more bizarre decrees included requiring students to shave their beards and
banning (*) makeup on news reporters. For 10 points, name this President-for-Life of Turkmenistan until
his 2006 death, who took a name meaning "leader of the Turkmens."
ANSWER: Sarpurmarat Turkmenbashi the Great [or Beyik Turkmenbashi; or Sarpurmarat Atayevich
Niyazov]
003-12-63-0410-1

BONUS: This 1868 treaty, named for a defensive structure in Wyoming, changed the boundaries of the
Sioux Reservation and provided a temporary peace in the area.
ANSWER: Treaty of Fort Laramie
040-12-63-0410-1

NHBB - Bowl Nationals (Middle School Version) Round 4 Page 10 of 10
© 2012 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

