NASAT Tryout Set: Literature
Tossups
1. Black snakes float down from the heavens as a warning in this novel's opening location of Wen-Te Hall.
One character in this work pretends to be drunk to surprise his enemies. That character is Chang Fei (chahng
fay). Ssu-ma Yen ("sue"-mah yen) is the emperor at the end of this work. In this work, Liu Pei (LEE-oo
PAY) captures two of the title political entities and General Cao Cao ("sow" "sow") is portrayed as a villain.
For 10 points, name this work by Luo Guanzhong (LEW-oh GWAN-zong) that describes a tumultuous
period in Chinese history.
ANSWER: Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or Sanguozhi Yanyi]
2. In this work, Jacinto is seen guarding the opening of a ceremonial cave, and Antonio Jose Martinez had
earlier instigated a revolt of the Taos Indians. Magdalena warns the title character of the evil intentions of
her husband Buck Scales and lives with Kit Carson, and the lifelong friend of the title character is Father
Joseph Vaillant. For 10 points, name this novel centering on Father Jean Marie Latour's experiences in New
Mexico, a work of Willa Cather.
ANSWER: Death Comes for the Archbishop
3. The main character of this novel is scolded by his uncle Karl for flirting with Leni, a woman with webbed
fingers. In this novel, Frau Grubach is the main character’s landlady and cannot help his plight. At one point
in this work, the main character observes Franz and Willem being whipped. Franz and Willem had earlier
arrested the main character of this work. For 10 points, name this work about Joseph K.’s condemnation by
the title judicial proceeding, a work by Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: The Trial [or Der Prozess]
4. This work, which was written for a competition with Horace Smith, ends by describing the "lone and level
sands" that "stretch far away." A visage in this poem conveys the frown, wrinkled lip, and "sneer of cold
command" of the title figure, who is also described as "the hand that mocked them and the heart that fed."
This poem relates the story of a traveler met in an "antique land" who tells of "two vast and trunkless legs of
stone" in the desert. A pedestal described in this poem reads "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!"
For 10 points, name this sonnet about a titular "king of kings," written by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
ANSWER: "Ozymandias"
5. The protagonist of this novel mixes lemonade and Coca-Cola at a drugstore and later works as a bell-hop.
Its author was inspired to write it when he read about the execution of Chester E. Gillette. The protagonist's
parents were Kansas City street preachers. That character chooses to buy Hortense a coat rather than help his
sister. The protagonist idealizes Sondra and takes Roberta Alden out on a canoe with disastrous
consequences. Partly set in the factory-filled city of Lycurgus, for 10 points, name this novel about Clyde
Griffiths that was written by Theodore Dreiser.
ANSWER: An American Tragedy
6. This author wrote about flowers that “eat my oxygen” in “Tulips” and ended one poem by claiming “I
rise with my red hair and I eat men like air” after stating her skin was as “Bright as a Nazi lampshade.” This
author of “Lady Lazarus” wrote “I have always been scared of you,with your Luftwaffe” in a poem in
which she conflates Nazi imagery with her father. This author also wrote a novel about Esther Greenwood’s
psychiatric treatment. For 10 points, name this suicidal American author of “Daddy” and The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 1 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This poem uses sod as a representation of death. The seventh stanza of this poem mentions the sad heart
of Ruth standing in tears “amid the alien corn”. In its fourth stanza the poet states he will fly, not “charioted
by Bacchus” but instead on the “viewless wings of Poesy”. This poem ends by asking “Do I wake or
sleep?” and it opens with its narrator exclaiming that he felt like he just drank hemlock because his senses
are numb and his heart aches. Later, the poet exclaims that the title creature “was not born for death”. For 10
points, name this John Keats poem dedicated to a bird.
ANSWER: "Ode to a Nightingale"
8. This author wrote a novel in which Darryl Van Horne earns the ire of Alexandra Spofford, Jane Smart,
and Sukie Rougemont in the title Rhode Island town. He also wrote a series of novels in which the infant
Rebecca June accidentally drowns in a bathtub. He created a character who works for Charlie Stavros at an
auto dealership. That creation of this author "is rich" and "at rest" in two of his novels, and is a former high
school basketball star who earns his nickname by sticking out his front two teeth. For 10 points, name this
author who created "Rabbit" Angstrom in Rabbit, Run.
ANSWER: John Hoyer Updike
9. In one poem by this author, a ship floats into the reef of Norman’s Woe after a storm forces its captain to
bind his daughter to the mast. This author of “The Wreck of the Hesperus” wrote about a widowered man
who works “under the spreading chestnut tree” in “The Village Blacksmith.” This author set one of his long
works “in the forest primeval” and another one “by the shores of Gitche Gumee.” This author of Evangeline
popularized the legend of “One, if by land, and two if by sea” in another poem. For 10 points, name this
author of The Song of Hiawatha and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
10. This writer fictionalized the romance between Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning from the
perspective of the couple's dog. She created the imaginary figure "Judith Shakespeare" in a work about the
conditions necessary for a woman's success as a writer. In a novel by this author of Flush, the psychiatrist
William Bradshaw is unable to prevent Septimus Warren Smith from committing suicide. The title character
of that novel, Clarissa, is unsatisfied with her dinner party. For 10 points, "A Room of One's Own" is an
essay by what member of the Bloomsbury Group who wrote Mrs. Dalloway?
ANSWER: Adeline Virginia Stephen Woolf
11. This work closes with Bailey declaring himself head of an expedition, and setting up strict penalties for
anyone who would challenge his role as governor, judge, and record keeper. This work includes a
description of a Haberdasher, Carpenter, Weaver, and Dyer, who do not appear later. This section begins
with a description of the return of spring, with the accompanying April showers. For 10 points, name this
section that describes pilgrims at the Tabard Inn, preceding the Knight's Tale in a collection by Geoffrey
Chaucer.
ANSWER: the General Prologue to the Canterbury Tales [prompt on partial answer]
12. This author wrote about the aftermath of Beale and Ida Farange's divorce in one novel. This author who
adapted Maupassant's [mow-pass-AH] "The Necklace" into his short story "Paste" also wrote a novel in
which Miles and Flora are haunted by ghosts named Peter Quint and Miss Jessel. This author of What
Maisie Knew also wrote The Golden Bowl and The Turn of the Screw. For 10 points, name this American
author who wrote about Catherine Sloper in Washington Square and Isabel Archer in The Portrait of a Lady.
ANSWER: Henry James

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 2 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. One character in this work kneels to pay homage to a one hundred year old cupboard. That character
frequently references billiards and is named Gayef (GAH-yeff). One character's son Grisha (GREE-shah)
drowned, leading to that character's departure for France. That character rejects a suggestion to build and
rent out villas to pay a mortgage. At one point, the servant Firs claims that he is ready to die now that
Madame Ranevsky has returned home. At a party late in this work, Lopakhin ("LOW"-pah-keen) announces
that he has purchased the title estate. For 10 points, name this final play by Anton Chekhov.
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishniovy Sad]
14. In this novel, Anne marries the schoolmaster Dr. Strong and resists the seduction of her cousin Jack
Maldon. The protagonist of this novel has an eccentric aunt named Betsey Trotwood who nicknames him
“Trot.” The protagonist of this novel marries the vain Dora Spenlow after James Steerforth runs away with
his childhood friend Little Emily. The protagonist of this novel eventually marries Agnes Wickfield despite
the scheming of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novel.
ANSWER: David Copperfield
15. This author's last notable work, Pierre and Jean, came immediately before his death from syphilis. This
author's short stories include "Madame Tellier's Establishment" and the story of a prostitute who procures
the release of her traveling companions from a Prussian officer, "Boule de Suif." The hallucinatory horror of
this author's "The Horla" presaged his own madness. For 10 points, name this French author of a story where
a woman wastes her entire life paying for a lost necklace, only to discover it is fake, "The Necklace."
ANSWER: Henri-René-Albert-Guy de Maupassant
16. The main character in this work attacks the liberal lawyer Seneca Doane. In this novel, the reporter
Kenneth Escott is paid to write an article about a Presbyterian Sunday school. The prison sentence of Paul
Riesling in this novel causes the title character to flirt with liberalism, but the title character ultimately joins
the Good Citizens' League. For 10 points, name this novel about the title businessman in the town of Zenith,
a work of Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER: Babbit
17. This writer coined the term "Boston Brahmin" in his novel Elsie Verner. One of this poet's poems
described a man as "the last leaf upon the tree in the Spring" and is titled "The Last Leaf." Another poem
described how a title entity will no more feel the victor's tread but that it's better that it will sink beneath the
wave. A third poem by this man describes a title entity's construction of "stately mansions...as the swift
seasons roll." For 10 points, name this American Fireside Poet who wrote "Old Ironsides" and "The
Chambered Nautilus."
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
18. This author wrote a three-character play about junk store owner Don and his friends, who attempt to steal
a rare coin collection. This man’s most famous play features a police detective named Baylen, who
interrogates such other characters as Dave Moss and George Aaronow. This author of American Buffalo
created Shelly “the Machine” Levene and Ricky Roma, who are both obsessed with obtaining sales leads.
For 10 points, name this American playwright who described the cutthroat world of real estate sales in
Glengarry Glen Ross.
ANSWER: David Mamet
19. The con men and grifters who populate this author's stories include Einhorn and Tamkin. Among this
author's literary alter egos is Chick, who narrates a story describing the death of a professor very much like
this author's friend Allen Bloom, Ravelstein. One of his most famous characters writes letters he will never
send, to people like his ex-wife Madeline. For 10 points, name this Canadian-American author of The
Adventures of Augie March and Herzog, who won a 1976 Pulitzer Prize for Humboldt's Gift.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Belo]
NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 3 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. In one story by this author, The Cardinal reveals that he is Kasparson after telling tales with three other
aristocrats stranded by the "Deluge at Norderney." This author wrote Seven Gothic Tales, as well as a novel
in which the protagonist declines an offer by Remi Martin to carve up a coffee plantation watched formerly
by squatters, a name the protagonist gives for the local Kikuyu farmers. In that autobiographical novel by
this author, she divorces a Swedish baron and leaves Kenya for Denmark. For 10 points, name this author of
Out of Africa.
ANSWER: Isak Christenze Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]
21. In one story by this author, Brekhunov sacrifices his life while covering his servant Nikita during a snow
storm. Another story by this author of "Master and Man" takes place on a train ride in which Pozdnyshev
(POZ ni chef) confesses to killing his wife and her lover Trukhashevsky (TRUE ka SHEV ski), who play a
violin work by Beethoven. In addition to The Kreutzer (KROIT zer) Sonata this man wrote a novel in which
Prince Andrey is mortally wounded at the Battle of Borodino. For 10 points, name this Russian author who
wrote about Pierre Bezhukov (beh ZOO koff) in War and Peace.
ANSWER: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
22. This man wrote a glowing letter to his friend Dionigi after he climbed Mount Ventoux. This man wrote
of meeting a woman on Good Friday and alleged that she also died on Good Friday. One of his collections is
also called Rime Sparse (ree-MAY spar-SAY), or "scattered rhymes." He wrote the poetry collection Il
Canzoniere, or "song book," which was dedicated to his beloved Laura. For 10 points, name this
Renaissance humanist and early poet who names a type of Italian sonnet.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
23. The villagers of this work joke about Amadi the leper because he has white skin. The uncle of this
novel's protagonist notes that "Mother is supreme" and welcomes the protagonist during his seven-year
exile. Although Mr. Kiaga and Mr. Brown win support in this novel by offering the osu, or outcasts, refuge,
Reverend James Smith is far less tolerant. This novel ends ironically when the District Commissioner
decides that he would dedicate a paragraph in The Pacification of the Primitive Tribes of the Lower Niger to
Okonkwo. For 10 points, “The Second Coming” inspired the title of what novel by Chinua Achebe?
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
24. In this work, one character tells a story about a man carving the initials “E.A.T.” into a watermelon. The
primary antagonist of this story is accompanied by Hiram and Bobby Lee. One scene takes place at The
Tower, where Red Sammy says the title phrase. A memory lapse from the grandmother leads the cat Pitty
Sing to jump into the driver’s seat, causing an accident during a trip from Atlanta to Florida. At the end of
this story, the main antagonist kills Bailey and the rest of his family. For 10 points, the murderer known as
The Misfit appears in what short story by Flannery O’Connor?
ANSWER: “A Good Man is Hard to Find”
25. In one work by this author, Captain van Toch discovers the title marine animals near Sumatra, which,
under the Great Salamander, rebel against humans. Alquist is the only human spared in his most famous
play, in which Primus and Helena become Adam and Eve figures after the pair is given souls. That work
sees Helena Glory, a representative of the Humanity League, marry the protagonist, Harry Domin. For 10
points, what author of War with the Newts introduced the word that means "labor" in Czech, "robot," in
R.U.R. ?
ANSWER: Karel Capek

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 4 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

26. This character drunkenly phones a girl to ask if he can trim her Christmas tree. He is annoyed that Jane
Gallagher would go out with Ward Stradlater, whom this character had to write an English assignment for.
He repeatedly asks cabbies where the ducks in Central Park go for the winter. He broke all the windows in
the garage the night his brother Allie died. His brother D.B. is one of the "phonies" this character hates. For
10 points, name this protagonist of The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: Holden Caulfield [or Holden Caulfield]
27. In this writer's first prose work, Lisandro mourns Leonida's death by the Tagus River, Silerio complains
about the loss of Timbrio and Nisida and the poet-shepherd Elicios vies with a richer suitor for the title
figure's love. Berber pirates enslaved this man on his voyage home from fighting against the Turkish navy.
In his magnum opus, the title knight dons a helmet filled with curds before embarking on the Adventure of
the Lion and attacks thirty or more monstrous giants despite Sancho Panza pointing out that the knight's
targets are windmills. For 10 points, name this author of Galatea and Don Quixote de la Mancha.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
28. In this novel, a hermit claimed that he would have been pope had the monasteries not been abolished,
and a subplot in this work involves Hugh tricking his brother Miles Hendon in order to marry Edith. One of
the title characters used the royal seal to crack nuts, and that character is a native of the slum Offal Court.
For 10 points, name this work by Mark Twain about Tom Canty being mistaken for the future Edward VI.
ANSWER: The Prince and the Pauper
29. In this work, the central family is told by Monsiuer Loyal that they must move out of their home. One of
the central characters in this work fears prosecution for treason due to incriminating papers from his friend
Argus that are being used as blackmail. Elmire's illness is ignored by her husband in this play. Cleante warns
of the title character's machinations throughout this work. Valere and Mariane are married in this work. In
this play, Orgon hides under a table and learns about the true nature of the title character. For 10 points,
name this work about the title religious hypocrite written by Moliere.
ANSWER: The Tartuffe, or the Impostor [or Le Tartuffe, ou L'Imposteur]
30. This author’s World War I ambulance driving led to the novels One Man’s Initiation 1917 and Three
Soldiers. This author created Ellen Thatcher and Jimmy Herf. Those characters appear in a work by this
writer featuring impressionistic views of New York City called Manhattan Transfer. This man’s longest
work includes “Newsreel” and “Camera Eye” segments and consists of The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The
Big Money. For 10 points, name this American author of the U.S.A. Trilogy.
ANSWER: John Roderigo Dos Passos
31. This author wrote about a schoolteacher who prays naked, Kate Swift, in "The Strength of God." He also
created Adolph Myers, who moves out and renames himself Wing Biddlebaum after being accused of
molesting a boy, in "Hands." His other charaters include a young reporter who sleeps with the farm girl
Louise Trunnion. For 10 points, what American author wrote about George Willard in the short story
collection Winesburg, Ohio?
ANSWER: Sherwood Anderson
32. One of this writer's poems begins by stating "Thy trivial harp will never please or fill my craving ear."
Another of this man's poems includes the line "I am the doubter and the doubt." In addition to "Merlin" and
"Brahma," this thinker wrote, "Unmeasure still my Shakespeare sits lone as the blessed Jew." This writer
stated "beauty is its own excuse for Being" in his poem "The Rhodora." For 10 points, name this author of
the essay The Over Soul who was an American transcendentalist.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 5 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

33. Felix Mendelssohn's overture Calm Sea and Prosperous Voyage was inspired by two short poems by this
author. This author asked "Who rides so late through the night and wind?" in his poem about a child killed
by a supernatural being, "The Erl King." This author wrote a two-part play whose title character fathers a
child with Gretchen and marries Helen of Troy after selling his soul to Mephistopheles
(meh-fist-OFF-oh-leas). For 10 points, name this German author of Faust.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
34. Just before his death, this writer wrote about dreams running around withered fields after falling sick on
a journey. He also envisioned the broken dreams of soldiers while watching summer grasses. This man was
accompanied by Sora on a journey that produced his Narrow Road to the Deep North. One of his works
involves a frog's jump into an old pond. This writer's works are rich in "season words." For 10 points, what
Edo-period writer is considered the master of the seventeen-syllable haiku?
ANSWER: Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Kinsaku]
35. The protagonist of this story stops drinking tea at night in order to save more money. After being
mocked by fellow copyists, the protagonist of this story is helped by Petrovich to spend eighty rubles in St.
Petersburg. The protagonist of this story dies of a fever while ranting about a Person of Consequence who
berated him for asking about an item stolen after a party. Akaky Akakievich haunts St. Petersburg in
continuing pursuit of a piece of clothing in this story. For 10 points, name this short story about that titular
lost piece of winter clothing, written by Nikolai Gogol.
ANSWER: "The Overcoat" [or "Shinel"]
36. A character in one of this author's works proclaims "the alehouse and the stable are the only schools he'll
ever go to." Constance Neville schemes to keep some jewels in the family and Hardcastle denounces Tony
Lumpkin in that work, subtitled The Mistakes of a Night. In a novel by this man, a church official fakes the
death of his daughter Olivia. In that book, Burchell fools the Primoses when he disguises himself as
Thorndike. For 10 points, name this Irish writer of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield.
ANSWER: Oliver Goldsmith
37. This author addresses a subject who, if asked, should say that its father did not exist and that its mother
threw it from her door due to poverty, in her poem "The Author to Her Book." A posthumous collection of
her poems contains "To My Dear and Loving Husband," but she had gained some notice during her lifetime
when her brother-in-law John Woodbridge published some of her manuscripts. For 10 points, name this
early American poet, who lamented the loss of her possessions in Upon the Burning of Our House, and
whose works were collected in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up In America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet
38. One work by this author retells an ancient classic and sees the protagonist live the last year of his life in
Antarctica after earlier traveling as a holy man in Africa. Another of his novels offers a controversial
narrative of Jesus Christ from his own perspective. In addition to The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel and The
Last Temptation, he wrote a novel that sees the main characters stay at the hotel of Madame Hortense. The
title character of that novel later works as a foreman at a Cretan mine. For 10 points, name this Nobel Prize
winning European author of Zorba the Greek.
ANSWER: Nikos Kazantzakis
39. One of this author's novels is narrated by a religious zealot named Drusilla Clack, who passes around a
flier claiming that Satan can be found in sofa pillows. That novel also contains the butler Betteredge, who
reveres Robinson Crusoe. He wrote about the somnambulating (som-NAMB-yoo-late-ing) Godfrey
Ablewhite, who steals an object that he believes will bring harm to his love, Rachel Verinder. Colonel
Herncastle previously stole that gemstone, causing three Hindus to attempt recovery in England. For 10
points, name this Victorian novelist, who wrote The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
ANSWER: William Wilkie Collins
NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 6 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

40. In one novel by this author, Arabella Donn’s son Little Father Time hangs himself along with the
children of Sue Bridehead. This author wrote another novel in which Richard Newson buys the wife and
child of a drunk Michael Henchard. This author wrote Jude the Obscure and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Another novel by this author is about a titular dairymaid married to Angel Clare who is arrested at
Stonehenge before being hanged. For 10 points, name this British novelist of Tess of the D’Urbervilles.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy
41. In a Derek Walcott poem, the speaker questions how to choose between Africa and this entity "that I
love." In his work Decolonizing the Mind, Ngugi (in GOO gee) wa Thiong'o explained his abandonment of
this system, which he had used in the novel A Grain of Wheat to describe the independence movement in his
native Kenya. George Orwell formulated six rules to avoid euphemism, ugliness, and inaccuracy in this
language in an essay about "politics" and it. Used to write Gordimer's July's People, for 10 points, name this
language used by Shakespeare.
ANSWER: English language
42. Two characters in this play are only thought of as grotesque, "no-necked monsters." This play ends with
the bitter reply of one character, "Wouldn't it be funny if that was true?" A character has possible romantic
feelings for Skipper in this play. The couple Mae and Gooper scheme to secure another character's estate. In
this play, Doctor Baugh prescribes heroin for one protagonist, who has the "lech" for a character who dodges
a crutch, Maggie. Brick Pollitt is the son of Big Daddy in, for 10 points, what play by Tennessee Williams?
ANSWER: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
43. Joseph Priestley likely inspired the character of Inflammable Gas in this man's satirical An Island in the
Moon. He created a mythology in which the son of Los and Enitharmon defeats Albion's Angel. His work is
subtitled "Shewing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul," and includes two poems titled "The
Chimney Sweeper." Another poem in that collection asks, "What immortal hand or eye could frame thy
fearful symmetry?" and addresses the title animal "burning bright in the forests of the night." For 10 points,
name this British author whose Songs of Innocence and Experience contains the poem "The Tiger."
ANSWER: William Blake
44. A conflict in this play occurs when part of a woman's body is first described as "angelic" but then as
"monkeylike," shortly before a handful of snapdragons is dubbed a "wedding bouquet" of "pansies,
rosemary, and violence." Near its end, a character is accused of eating a telegram announcing that a man had
died in a car accident while swerving to avoid a porcupine. Games of "Get the Guest" and "Humiliate the
Host" ensue in this play when Honey and her husband, the new biology professor Nick, visit the home of
older faculty member George and his wife Martha, who squabble over a nonexistent son. For 10 points,
name this drama by Edward Albee, whose title refers to the British feminist author of Mrs. Dalloway.
ANSWER: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
45. One character in this play poses as a Welshman named Le Roy. A scene in this play sees an offensive
gift of tennis balls offered to the title character. One of the final scenes in this play sees that character
requiring a translator, Alice, to woo the French Katharine. This play opens with a chorus talking about “a
Muse of fire.” The title character has a speech on St. Crispin’s Day where he calls his men a “band of
brothers” and declares "once more unto the breach, dear friends." For 10 points, name this Shakespearean
play which describes the titular British king’s success at the battle of Agincourt.
ANSWER: Henry V

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 7 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

46. This author wrote about Hannes Graff and Siggy Javotni in his first novel, Setting Free the Bears.
Another work by this author contains the novella The Pension Grillparzer. That work has a title character
married to Helen Holm and is called The World According to Garp. This author of The Cider House Rules
also wrote a work in which a midget befriends John Wheelwright and saves children from a grenade attack.
For 10 points, name this American author of A Prayer for Owen Meany.
ANSWER: John Irving
47. This man wrote that a peer “was not for an age, but for all time!” In one poem, this author begged the
title figure to “drink to me only with thine eyes.” This author created Sir Epicure Mammon for a play about
swindling. That play by this author sees Lovewit’s house occupied by Face and Dol Common. This author
wrote about Mosca plotting to fool Corvino and Corbaccio, who aim to become the titular character’s heir.
For 10 points, name this author of The Alchemist and Volpone.
ANSWER: Ben Jonson
48. In one of this author's short stories, Mahony meets a "queer old josser." The narrator of another of one of
his novels becomes fixated with the word "paralysis" after the death of Father Flynn. This author of "Araby"
and "The Sisters" wrote about Morkans’ annual dance and Michael Furey’s tragic death in a story about
Gabriel Conroy. That work, "The Dead," is the final piece in the short story collection Dubliners. For 10
points, Stephen Dedalus appears in both A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses by what Irish
author?
ANSWER: James Augustine Aloysius Joyce
49. One of this author's plays centers on the victim of a scheme of Don Sallusto who falls in love with the
queen. Another focuses on a bandit who loves Dona Sol and caused a notable demonstration upon its
premiere. In addition to Ruy Blas and Hernani, he wrote a novel that features the characters of Bishop
Myriel, Fantine, and Cosette. For 10 points, name this French author who wrote about a transparent
antagonism between Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean in Les Miserables.
ANSWER: Victor Marie Hugo
50. In one sonnet, this poet remembers pausing in the morning to feel a "calm so deep" caused by "all that
mighty heart...lying still." In addition to "Sonnet Composed upon Westminster Bridge," this poet wrote that
he'd rather "be a pagan, suckled in a creed outworn" in another sonnet. In one poem, this poet claims that a
"green pastoral landscape" is "more dear...for thy sake" when addressing his sister Dorothy. That poem
begins "five years have passed." This poet of "The World is Too Much with Us" wrote that he "wandered
lonely as a cloud" in "Daffodils." For 10 points, name this British poet of "Tintern Abbey."
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
51. In one novel by this author, Paul D travels to Cincinnati in his search for Baby Suggs and the mother of
Denver. This author wrote about the navel-less Pilate, who is the aunt of Macon. In one novel by this author,
Nel Wright’s best friend seduces her husband Jude. That work by this author is titled Sula. This author
wrote about the slave Sethe’s escape over the Ohio river, which happened before she murdered her two year
old daughter. This author created the character Milkman Dead. For 10 points, name this author of Song of
Solomon and Beloved.
ANSWER: Toni Morrison [or Chloe Anthony Wofford]
52. In this play, one character states "Jack shall have Jill. Nought shall go ill." In this play, Egeus's daughter
runs into the woods. "Rude mechanicals" perform Pyramus and Thisby at Theseus's wedding in this play.
One character declares "Lord, what fools these mortals be!" That character gives a love potion that causes
Demetrius and Lysander to vie for Helena instead of Hermia. That love potion also makes Titania fall in
love with Bottom, who has his head turned into a donkey's. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play
featuring the fairies Puck and Oberon.
ANSWER: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 8 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

53. In one play by this dramatist, Kratos (KRAH-tose) and Bia (BEE-uh) drag the title character to Scythia,
where Io (EYE-oh) wanders by to deliver a prophecy about Heracles. Atossa (ah-TOE-suh) and the ghost of
Darius (duh-RYE-us) advise Xerxes (ZERK-seez) in a different play by this man. Another of his works ends
when a group's name is changed to "The Kindly Ones." That group had chased a character to Delphi
following the killings of Aegisthus (eye-JISS-thus) and Clytemnestra (KLAE-tem-NESS-truh) in a previous
play by this author, in vengeance for the death of Agamemnon. For 10 points, name this author of
Prometheus Bound and The Persians, whose trilogy consisting of Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers, and
The Eumenides (yoo-MEN-id-eez) tells the story of Orestes (oar-EST-eez).
ANSWER: Aeschylus (ESS-kuh-liss)
54. Because he was attacked by Achilles when he was tending his flocks, he organized the Dardanians to
attack the Greeks. This man founded the town of Lavinium, named after his wife. He protected the body of
Pandarus. Later, in battle, Diomedes broke this man's hip by throwing a stone, leading to his mother trying to
rescue him. This ancestor of Romulus and Remus was the son of Venus and Anchises. Dido of Carthage
killed herself when this man left her. For 10 points, name this Trojan survivor who was the subject of an epic
by Virgil.
ANSWER: Aeneas
55. In the story "University Days," this man wrote about a tackle for the Ohio State football team who was
made eligible for the Illinois game when, after much prodding, he successfully named a mode of
transportation. This man also wrote a story about Mrs. Barrow, a woman who quotes Brooklyn Dodgers
announcer Red Barber's expressions in the story "The Catbird Seat." He also wrote a man who fantacizes
about flying a Navy hydroplane and smoking a cigarette in front of a firing squad in his "secret life." For 10
points, name this American humorist who wrote about Walter Mitty.
ANSWER: James Thurber
56. This author claimed to be "Done with the compass, done with the chart" in one poem and described
feeling "zero at the bone" in a poem about snakes. This author of "Wild Nights! Wild Nights!" and "A
Narrow Fellow in the Grass" claimed that she "could not see to see" after hearing a "blue, uncertain,
stumbling" sound in another poem. She surmises that "the horses' heads / were toward eternity" in a poem in
which she rides in a carriage with Immortality. For 10 points, name this poet who heard a fly buzz when she
died and for whom Death kindly stopped.
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
57. In one of this author’s novels, Clavdia Chauchat has an affair with the protagonist. This man created a
Jesuit educated Jew who duels with Ludovico Settembrini named Leo Naptha. One of his works is about the
composer Adrian Leverkuhn selling his soul to the devil. He wrote about a man who becomes obsessed with
the Polish boy Tadzio. This author of Doktor Faustus wrote about a man who lives in a Swiss sanatorium
named Hans Castorp. Gustav von Aschenbach (AAH shen bach) dies in a story by this man. For 10 points,
name this author of The Magic Mountain and Death in Venice.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
58. A subplot in this novel sees characters protesting the arrest of a black militant for the “Granny Ripper”
murders. One dream sequence in this novel features villagers walking into the sea while incorrectly
believing it will part for them. This novel opens with two characters falling out of an exploded plane. Those
characters are Indian Muslim actors, who transform into an angel and a devil. For 10 points, name this novel
which caused the Ayatollah to demand to the death of its author, Salman Rushdie, and whose title refers to a
controversial section of the Quran.
ANSWER: The Satanic Verses

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 9 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

59. This author wrote a novel narrated by Sophie, the aunt of policeman Pieter van Vlaanderen (VLAN durr
en). This author of Too Late the Phalarope wrote a work in which a political activist named Dubula
constructs Shanty Town. That work's plot is motivated by a letter from Theophilus Msimangu (mm see
MAHN goo) telling the protagonist to help his sick sister, Gertrude, who is actually a prostitute and informs
Stephen Kumalo that for the murder of Arthur Jarvis, his son Absalom is in jail. For 10 points, name this
South African author of Cry, the Beloved Country.
ANSWER: Alan Paton (PAY ton)
60. This poet was inspired by Measure to Measure to write about a woman who mourns “'My life is dreary,
he cometh not” while waiting for Angelo. This author of “Mariana” wrote about a creature that lives “Below
the thunders of the upper deep” in “The Kraken.” This poet was inspired by Arthurian legend to write his
collection The Idylls of the King. This author wrote one poem about a figure who decides “To strive, to seek,
to find, and not to yield” and another about a group who “rode into the valley of death.” For 10 points, name
this poet of “Ulysses” and “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
ANSWER: Alfred Lord Tennyson
61. Near the end of this novel, a character's attempts to call an ambulance are thwarted when Clytie burns
the manor house. One character in this novel begins an affair with the teenaged Milly shortly after his son
Charles Bon is murdered in front of his manor's gates. The final sections of this novel involve the meeting of
Miss Rosa Coldfield and the author's recurring character Quentin Compson, who learns the story of the
central family. This novel opens when Thomas Sutpen buys land to build his plantation. For 10 points, name
this Biblically-titled novel by William Faulkner.
ANSWER: Absalom, Absalom!
62. One author used this language to write a novel about the quest of two students who call themselves the
Visceral Realists. This language was used by that author to write the novels 2666, and The Savage
Detectives. Another author used this language to write a short story about a man who sees a point that
contains all other points showing him the entire universe. For 10 points, name this language used to write
"The Aleph," and "The Garden of Forking Paths," as well as similar works by Roberto Bolaño, Jorge Luis
Borges, and other authors from Argentina.
ANSWER: Spanish Language [accept Español]
63. One character in this novel deduces that her husband is having an affair by sniffing his dirty laundry,
which reveals that Barbara Lynch is her husband's lover. Doctor Juvenal Urbino dies in this novel when he
falls from a tree trying to capture a parrot. This book tells of the long-lasting love of Florentino Ariza for
Fermina Daza. At the end of this novel, the two elderly lovers are must sail up and down a river for the rest
of their lives because they claim to be contaminated by the title malady. For 10 points, name this novel set in
the age of a certain disease, written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
ANSWER: Love in the Time of Cholera [accept El Amor en los Tiempos de Colera]
64. This character hires the governess Mrs. Younge to care for his sister. This character reveals that his sister
Georgiana was seduced by Mr. Wickham in a letter apologizing for his haughty proposal. This nephew of
Catherine de Bourgh owns the Derbyshire estate of Pemberly and is a good friend of Mr. Bingley. His
pursuit is outlined in the first line of the book in which he appears, which claims that "a single man in
possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife." For 10 points, name this character who marries
Elizabeth Bennett at the end of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
ANSWER: Fitzwilliam Darcy [accept Mr. Darcy]

NASAT Tryout Set: Literature Page 10 of 10
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

