NASAT Tryout Set: Social Science
Tossups
1. In a book subtitled "the Puzzle of the Bomb," William Poundstone applied this construct to nuclear
warfare. The iterated form of this construct was the subject of a tournament held by Robert Axelrod, which
held that "tit for tat" was the best strategy for approaching it. The only Nash Equilibrium in the iterated form
of this game is to defect every time. In the most common formulation of this game, players receive six
months if both stay loyal but ten years if their partner enters a plea bargain. For 10 points, name this
common situation in game theory.
ANSWER: prisoner’s dilemma
2. This thinker defined sabotage as the “conscientious withdraw of efficiency” and noted businessmen’s
profit-seeking as an example. He expressed his hope for technocracy in The Engineers and the Price System.
This writer criticized esoteric learning without meaning in a work whose title group develops out of
barbarism. War, hunting, and sports support a certain predatory group according to, for 10 points, what
economist, who attacked "pecuniary emulsion" and "conspicuous consumption" in The Theory of the Leisure
Class?
ANSWER: Thorstein Bunde Veblen
3. Blogs it hosts include "Evaluations," started in December 2009. Books by its current contributors include
a study of "an elite based on brainpower," Bobos in Paradise. Another of its writers published The Greatest
Story Ever Sold about the deceptions of the Bush Administration. In addition to David Brooks and Frank
Rich, its weekly writers include Gail Collins, Ross Douthat (DOW-that), and Maureen Dowd. For 10 points,
name this newspaper, whose op-ed page features the weekly stylings of Paul Krugman and Thomas
Friedman.
ANSWER: The New York Times [or New York Times op-ed page or equivalents; or NYT]
4. He called the framework for nature to allow people to mentally develop genetic epistemology. He claimed
that in one stage of life, we are unable to understand conservation. This man believed that we learn through
adapting our schemas. He claimed that in one stage of life, we are unable to understand conservation. That
phase is called the preoperational stage, which precedes the concrete and formal operational stages, but
follows the sensorimotor stage. For 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist who studied the mental
development of children.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
5. This thinker described the significance of masawa in the “Story of Shipwreck,” which also discusses the
use of items such as mwali and souvali. This man wrote The Scientific Theory of Culture and attacked the
Oedipus Complex in Sex and Repression in Savage Societies. Coral Gardens and Their Magic is a sequel to
his best known work, an ethnographical study on Trobriand Islanders. For 10 points, name this founder of
functionalism, the Polish anthropologist of Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
6. This man claimed that social order was becoming increasingly bureaucratic, a process he likened to the
"polar night of icy darkness." This man defined the "state" as the "monopoly on the legitimate use of
physical force" in his lecture Politics as a Vocation. In another work, he claimed that society forces people
into an "iron cage." That work by this author cited Ben Franklin's writings as an example of how Luther's
teachings led a certain religious group to follow a "secular vocation." For 10 points, name this German
author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
ANSWER: Max Weber [accept Maximilian Carl Emil Weber]

NASAT Tryout Set: Social Science Page 1 of 2
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This work was revised several times in the years following its publication at the urging of Wilhelm Stekel;
the revisions included very stringent symbolisms such as one about climbing ladders. Case studies are
interrupted with Irma's Injection, an experience of the author. The author argues that the titular entities are
examples of wish-fulfillment or the expression of the unconscious uncensored by the preconscious. Also
containing a formulation of the Oedipus Complex that was expanded upon in the author's Beyond the
Pleasure Principle, this is, for 10 points, what psychological text by Sigmund Freud?
ANSWER: The Interpretation of Dreams [or Die Traumdeutung]
8. In the 1980s and 90s, this man developed government and binding theory and the Minimalist Program.
His namesake hierarchy classifies formal grammars. He discussed the sentence "Colorless green ideas sleep
furiously" in his magnum opus, Syntactic Structures. He developed the concept of principles and parameters,
which he considers to be a part of the universal grammar. For 10 points, name this founder of generative
grammar, a linguist who is also known for left-wing political writing.
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky

NASAT Tryout Set: Social Science Page 2 of 2
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

