NASAT Tryout Set: RMP
Tossups
1. This man's argument that forms exist independently of the objects that possess them is refuted by the title
character in the Parmenides. This character teaches a slave to perform a mathematical problem during a
discussion of virtue in the Meno. He claimed "the unexamined life is not worth living" at a trial where he
refused to admit to "corrupting the youth," according to the Apology. In the Crito, this man refused to escape
from his conviction of death. For 10 points, name this Athenian philosopher who was used as a character in
the dialogues of his student Plato.
ANSWER: Socrates [do not accept "Plato"]
2. This group met at the Chamber of Hewn Stones and consisted of seventy-one members. Members of this
group sat in a semicircle facing the a leader called the "nasi." One incarnation of this group was led by
Rabban Gamliel. With oversight from Rome, this group handled matters of taxation, the census, and other
administrative tasks in ancient Jerusalem. During one trial, this group was led by the high priest Caiaphus.
For 10 points, name this Jewish council that opposed Jesus and his apostles in the New Testament gospels.
ANSWER: Sanhedrin
3. This god's forms include the white, six-armed peacock rider who kills the demon Sindu, and Dhumraketu,
who will cleanse the world during the Kali Yuga. Three of this god's four hands hold an axe, a whip, and a
lotus. He is depicted riding a mouse or a rat, and this deity is often called the "remover of obstacles." This
god is the oldest son of Parvati and Shiva, who chopped off his original head. He only has one tusk and is
often shown holding the broken one. For 10 points, name this elephant-headed god from Hinduism.
ANSWER: Ganesha
4. In one myth, this figure usurped Ophion and Eurynome. This figure sent the dragon Campe to guard
prisoners in Tarturas. This figure's downfall began when he ingested the Omphalos stone. This man castrated
his father with an adamant sickle, and the severed parts created the Erinyes, Meliae, and Gigantes. This
figure ruled until he was dethroned by Zeus, Hades, and Poseidon, whom he had previously attempted to eat.
For 10 points, name this husband of Rhea, the leader of the Titans who overthrew Uranus.
ANSWER: Cronus [accept Kronos; prompt on Saturnus]
5. Tales from this people include a symbolic marriage with the earth and their creation story orders animals,
clay, and wood as coming before mankind. Their death deities include Hunhau (wan-WAH). Their
underworld, called Xibalba (shee-BALL-bah), was visited by two twins important to their mythology. Those
twins had earlier slain the deity Seven Macaw. That tale of Hunaphu (WAN-ah-pwa) and Xbalanque
(SHEE-BA-lan-KAY) appears, among other sources, in the Popol Vuh. Centered around Copan and Tikal,
for 10 points, name this Mesoamerican culture that was responsible for the construction of Chichen Itza.
ANSWER: the Mayans
6. In some sources, this man had a daughter, Roma, who married Aeneas. Pisistratus accompanied this man
on his journey to Sparta. This man convinced his father not to slay Medon or the minster Phemius. When he
was a baby, this man was placed by Palamedes in the path of a plow. Athena sent this man to visit Nestor at
Pylos. This figure appears in the Telegony where he marries Circe, who enchanted sailors led by his father,
who had gone missing for twenty years. For 10 points, name this son of Penelope and Odysseus.
ANSWER: Telemachus

NASAT Tryout Set: RMP Page 1 of 4
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This mythical figure used the story of “turning an old ram into a young ram” in order to convince Pelias’s
daughters to kill Pelias. She also killed the bronze giant Talos by driving him insane. At one point, this
character was taken to her aunt, Circe (SEER-cee), to receive cleansing after she chopped her brother into
pieces. She also killed Glauce (GLAU-see) and her own children to enact revenge upon her former husband,
who was protected from some fire-breathing oxen and a sleepless dragon with her help. For 10 points, name
this sorceress who aided Jason.
ANSWER: Medea
8. In a letter to this man, William Molyneux questioned whether a blind man given sight could recognize
touched items. That letter responded to this man's work on Boyle's idea of primary and secondary qualities.
He defended his religion in The Reasonableness of Christianity, but argued against persecuting dissenters in
his Letter Concerning Toleration. This empiricist advanced a natural rights theory of the social contract and
formulated the tabula (TAH boo lah) rasa. For 10 points, name this Englishman who influenced the U.S.
Founding Fathers with his Two Treatises on Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
9. Literature important to adherents of this religion includes biographies of its first leader called Janamsakhis
(jah-nahm-sahk-ees). This religion celebrates the martyrdom of figures like Tegh Bahadur with its festivals
called Gurpurabs. Followers of this faith worship in Gurdwaras and drink the holy water amrit to be inducted
into the khalsa. Some adherents of this faith follow the “Five K’s,” which mandate carrying a dagger and
covering their uncut hair with a turban. For 10 points, name this Indian religion led in the past by a series of
ten gurus.
ANSWER: Sikhism
10. A missive written to these people by St. Clement outlines the division of ministerial orders and the
doctrine of apostolic succession. In earlier texts, they are asked "If the whole body were an eye, where were
the hearing?" and told that "when I became a man, I put away childish things," shortly before the declaration
"For now we see through a glass, darkly." Other advice to these people approves the eating of meat offered
to idols and suggests that women be silent in church. For 10 points, identify these Christian inhabitants of a
certain Greek city who received two namesake Pauline epistles in the New Testament.
ANSWER: the Corinthians
11. This deity was nurtured in Zeus's stomach when Zeus swallowed her mother Metis. This deity engaged
in a contest in which Poseidon created the first horse, and she became the namesake of a city after she
offered the first olive tree. The head of the Gorgon Medusa is at the center of this goddess's shield, the Aegis.
The Roman equivalent of this goddess is Minerva. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of knowledge
and justice, the namesake of a Greek city-state.
ANSWER: Pallas Athena [accept Athene; accept Pallas; accept Minerva before read]
12. One antagonist of this character never sleeps and is wearing only one of his seven armors when he is
defeated. This figure foresaw the arrival of his rival when he dreamt of being attracted to an immobile star
and an axe, and the goddess Aruru created that rival out of clay. He defeats the monstrous defender of Cedar
Forest, Humbaba. On his quest to find immortality, this figure meets one of the only two survivors of the
Great Flood, Utnapishtim. He fights with Enkidu in the second tablet of Enuma Elish. For 10 points, what
king of Uruk is the hero of the Sumerian myth?
ANSWER: Gilgamesh

NASAT Tryout Set: RMP Page 2 of 4
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. Apollo fired an arrow at this figure, who drank from the tainted spring of Tilphussa. His mother Chariclo
pleaded on his behalf, but he only received the ability to divine birdsongs. He warns Amphitryon about
Zeus's advances on Alcmene and warns Odysseus's men about the cattle of Helios. This figure angers
Oedipus by telling him that he is his own downfall. This man was transformed into a woman by Hera and
blinded by Athena, whom he peeked at while she was bathing. For 10 points, name this unfortunate seer
from Greek mythology.
ANSWER: Tiresias
14. It can be divided into thirty ajza (AJ-zah) each containing two ahzab (AH-zahb), or into seven stations
called manazil (MAH-nah-zeel). Translated by Salman the Persian and Robert of Ketton, it is analyzed
spiritually through tawil (tah-WEEL) and its commentary is known as tafsir (TAHF-seer). Its second chapter
tells of how Samiri constructed the golden calf and was banished after Moses's return. Each of its chapters
except the ninth opens with the basmala (bahs-MAHL-lah); those 114 chapters are known as suras. For 10
points, name this holy text of Islam.
ANSWER: Koran [or Qur'an]
15. One book associated with this religion is translated as the "Record of the Transmission of the Light."
One common practice in this religion is counting one's breaths. One school in this religion was founded by
Dogen, who emphasized "practice-realization." Another school in this religion emphasizes riddles found in
collections such as The Gateless Gate and The Blue Cliff Record. Those riddles, known as koans, include
"Does a dog have Buddha-nature?" and "What is the sound of one hand clapping?". For 10 points, name this
offshoot of Buddhism that emphasizes meditation and is common in Japan.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhism [or Ch'an Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism]
16. After planting a vineyard, this figure became drunk and lied down naked in his tent, where he was seen
by his youngest son. That incident caused this man to curse one of his grandsons to be "the lowest of slaves"
to his brothers. This father of Shem, Japheth, and Ham made use a raven and dove to explore his
surroundings at one point. That came before this man entered into the so-called Rainbow Covenant
protecting all life from the recurrence of the event with which this man is most associated. For 10 points,
name this Biblical figure who was commanded by God to build an ark to survive the great flood.
ANSWER: Noah [or Noe; or Noyach]
17. This group carries on its traditional musical arts at its community in Maine at Sabbathday Lake. Their
official name is The United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Coming. They were transplanted to
America by Ann Lee, and they maintain their numbers only through conversions and adoption of orphans, as
they practice strict celibacy. Their more popular name was originally meant to insult the contortions they
made during the dances that comprised a large portion of their public worship. For 10 points, name this
Protestant sect with a name similar to the group they broke off from, the Quakers.
ANSWER: the Shaker community [or the Shakers; accept United Society of Believers in Christ's Second
Coming before it is read]
18. One of this man’s brothers, who rode around in a bronze chariot imitating Zeus, was Salmoneus
(SAL-moh-NAY-uss). He marked the hooves of his cattle to prove that Autolycus was stealing from him. He
earned Zeus’s wrath for telling Asopus of Aegina’s abduction. This son of Enarete (EE-nuh-REE-tay) and
Aeolus (eye-OH-luss) claimed that his wife Merope (muh-ROH-pee) did not perform proper funeral rites.
He made that claim in order to convince Persephone to allow him to return to life, and he earlier tricked
Death into chaining himself. For 10 points, name the tragic Greek who was condemned to eternally roll a
boulder up a hill.
ANSWER: Sisyphus

NASAT Tryout Set: RMP Page 3 of 4
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. This philosopher created a table that used the headings of quantity, quality, modality, and relation to
define different forms of judgment. One work by this man describes the impossibility of disproving two
valid but contradictory claims called antinomies. This philosopher wrote that morals came out of a
rationality called the categorical imperative in his work Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals. This
thinker wrote multiple critiques, such as his Critique of Pure Reason. For 10 points, name this
eighteenth-century German philosopher.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
20. This figure creates an altar on Mount Ebal and carves the Ten Commandments into it. He is one of
twelve spies sent to scout the land, but only he and Caleb gave a positive report. Two of this man's spies are
saved by the prostitute Rahab. This figure prays for the sun and the moon to stop in their tracks during a
battle with the Amorites. As Moses' successor, he leads the Israelites in conquering Canaan. For 10 points,
name this Old Testament leader whose most famous military victory was against the city of Jericho, which
fell after the Israelites circled its seven times.
ANSWER: Joshua
21. This monarch's sister Hesione saved him from slavery as a child. His first wife Arisbe married Hyrtacus.
This man's children with his second wife Hecuba included Troilus and Polites. Iris recommended this figure
make a risky trip without any guards into enemy territory. Hermes helped guide him to Achilles' tent so this
man could negotiate a ransom of his son's body. As this man's city is being overrun, Neoptolemus
(nee-OP-tall-UH-mus) slays Polites and then this son of Laomedon (lay-AW-meh-don) in brutal fashion. For
10 points, identify this father of Hector and king of Troy in the Iliad.
ANSWER: Priam
22. This figure's blood transformed into anemones after he was gored by a boar. Theias (THY us) chases his
daughter Myrrha with a knife after their incestuous union produces this figure. One love interest of this
figure placed him in a chest after birth. He was given in that chest to Persephone, who refused to give him
up. Zeus settled the dispute by decreeing that this man must spend half the year of earth with Aphrodite and
half in the underworld with Persephone. For 10 points, name this mythological figure whose name is often
used to describe any handsome young man.
ANSWER: Adonis
23. One text of this type begins with a "euhemerized" (yoo-HEM-er-ized) prologue in which the central
figures are claimed to be resettled Trojan warriors who came to be worshiped. One of these texts contains a
poem in which a trickster god levies insults at the other gods. The "Poetic" or "Elder" one of these texts
contains such "lays" as the Lokasenna and Voluspa. The "Prose" one was written by Icelandic statesman
Snorri Sturluson. Both of these texts outline a system of myth that contains such figures as Baldur, Loki, and
Odin. For 10 points, give the general name for these primary-source texts for Norse mythology.
ANSWER: the Eddas
24. In the Old Testament, this figure's birth was foretold by an angel to Manoah's wife, who had been barren
for many years. On this man's way to his own wedding, he discovers bees nesting in the carcass of a lion and
eats honey from that carcass. He once killed a thousand warriors with the jawbone of an ass. He was raised
as a Nazarite, which meant he took certain vows. He later brought down the temple of Dagon on the heads of
the Philistines after his betrayal. For 10 points, name this symbol of strength from the book of Judges whose
hair was cut by the treacherous Delilah.
ANSWER: Samson [or Shimshon; or Shamshoon]

NASAT Tryout Set: RMP Page 4 of 4
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

