NASAT Tryout Set: Science
Tossups
1. This compound is turned into xanthate (ZAN-thate) before being rebuilt through a spinneret in the process
to create viscose rayon. This compound has beta-1,4 glycosidic (gly-co-SID-ic) linkages; those linkages are
the only difference between this compound and starches, which are likewise made up of repeating chains of
glucose. This most abundant organic compound on earth is indigestible by humans; however, it can be
broken down by microorganisms that live in cows and termites. For 10 points, name this compound that
makes up the majority of a plant’s cell wall.
ANSWER: cellulose
2. Old rubber tires often “crack” when exposed to this compound, whose concentration is reported in
Dobson units. The Chapman cycle describes the production and degradation of this compound, which at low
temperatures forms a dark blue liquid. It takes its name from the Greek “to smell,” and its odor can be
observed during lightning strikes. In the atmosphere, this compound is broken down by compounds called
chlorofluorocarbons (KLOR-oh-FLOOR-oh-CAR-buns). For 10 points, name this compound that forms a
namesake layer in the atmosphere that shields the Earth from ultraviolet light, with formula O3.
ANSWER: ozone [accept O3 before mentioned]
3. This language's arguments dot callee gives extra power to anonymous functions. Like Python, it has a for
in construction. Commonly used libraries for this language includes Ext, YUI, and Dojo. Primitive types in
this language include undefined and null. Instead of using classes, this language like its Self predecessor
uses prototypes. Local variables can be declared by the keyword var. For 10 points, name this programming
language often used in webpages.
ANSWER: JavaScript [or ECMAScript; or JScript]
4. The Shankland team supported the outcome of this experiment by finding fundamental flaws in Daisy
Miller’s observations. A version of this experiment looking for seasonal variation was carried out by
Kennedy and Thorndike. It used a half-silvered mirror to split coherent light and attempted to detect a
certain "wind" by measuring fringe shift with an interferometer. Its results were explained by the
Lorenz-FitzGerald hypothesis concerning length contraction. For 10 points, what experiment, named for two
physicists at Case Western, disproved the existence of luminiferous (loo-min-IF-er-us) aether (EE-ther)?
ANSWER: Michelson-Morley experiment
5. A form of these substances that marks a shift to a specific electric potential is known as the redox type.
The most notable type of these substances includes chemicals like cresol (KREE-sol) red and bromothymol
(BRO-mo-THY-moll) blue and demonstrates the endpoint of an acid-base titration. For 10 points, name
these chemicals that reversibly change color at a certain chemical point and include acid-base examples like
phenolphthalein (FEE-nolf-THALE-een).
ANSWER: indicator [or pH indicator; or acid-base indicator]
6. This element, whose most stable form is the rhombic (ROM-bick) allotrope (AL-oh-trope), is extracted by
pumping superheated steam into deposits in the Frasch (FRASH) process. Thiols (THY-olls) are alcohol
analogs with oxygen replaced by this element. A platinum or vanadium (vuh-NAY-dee-um) catalyst is used
in the contact process, which synthesizes a compound consisting of oxygen, hydrogen, and this element.
Although blue in flame test, it is yellow as a solid and a liquid. This element forms cross-links in rubber
vulcanization. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 16.
ANSWER: sulfur [or S]

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 1 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. Under some conditions, an ICE table must be use to compute this property, and a device used to measure
this property is named for Arnold Beckman. The Henderson-Hasselbalch (HEN-der-sun HOSS-el-bock)
equation relates this quantity to the pKa of a compound, and it is kept constant by buffer solutions. It is
defined as the negative of the base ten log of the concentration of hydronium ("high"-DRO-nee-um) ions.
For 10 points, give this quantity that measures how acidic or basic a solution is, which is seven for water.
ANSWER: pH
8. Along with mollusks, this grouping is defined by the existence of a cavity for blood circulation known as
the hemocoel (HEE-moh-"SEAL"). This phylum takes in oxygen through stacks of plates filled with blood
known as book lungs. One extinct member of this phylum was the most common animal of the Cambrian
Explosion. That animal was a three lobed marine creature known as the trilobite (TRY-lo-bite). Members of
this phylum have exoskeletons made of chitin (KYE-tin). For 10 points, name this phylum that includes
crustaceans (crus-TAY-"shins") and insects.
ANSWER: Arthropoda [or arthropods]
9. Historically, it was believed that these objects could be modeled as a cavity with equally likely modes that
increased with frequency. The fourth power of temperature is proportional to the flux emitted by one of
these according to the Stefan-Boltzmann (STEF-on BOLTS-mon) law. They have a wavelength of
maximum intensity described by Wien's (VEENZ) displacement law. The ultraviolet catastrophe describes
the breakdown of the Rayleigh-Jeans Law governing radiation from these entities. For 10 points, name these
objects that absorb all incoming energy.
ANSWER: blackbody
10. For a black hole, this quantity is given by the product of the area of that black hole with Boltzmann's
constant, divided by four times the Planck length squared. Taking the negative derivative with respect to
temperature of the Helmholtz free energy yields this quantity, which can be defined as Boltzmann's constant
times the logarithm of the number of microstates of a system. This quantity goes to a minimum as
temperature approaches absolute zero. For 10 points, the second law of thermodynamics holds that, over
time for isolated systems, there is an increase in what measure of disorder, symbolized S?
ANSWER: entropy [prompt on S before it is read]
11. These can be treated as a collection of stream processors. They often use z-buffers and they make use of
framebuffers. These devices must deal with transformations, clipping, and shaders. Two popular ways of
writing software that use them are OpenGL and DirectX. These devices use many small computing units to
operate on vertices and pixels. For 10 points, name these components of a computer that accelerate the
rendering and display of visual output.
ANSWER: GPU [or graphics processing unit; or video card; or graphics card]
12. A disease related to this organelle is caused by a lack of hexosaminidase (HEX-ose-am-IN-ih-dace) A,
characterized by a red spot in the iris, and called Tay-Sachs disease. Mannose-6-phosphate tags proteins
destined for this organelle. This organelle contains namesake hydrolases and can absorb material via
autophagy. This organelle's V-class proton pumps create an acidic environment to carry out its main
function. For 10 points, name this organelle that breaks down macromolecules and cellular waste.
ANSWER: lysosome
13. This process can be reversed in a pathway involving urokinase ("YOUR"-oh-KINE-ase), and it is
downregulated by prostacyclin (PROS-tuh-"SIGH"-klin). Christmas disease results from a lack of Factor IX
involved in this process. During this process, the serine protease (PRO-tee-ase) thrombin (THROM-bin)
converts fibrinogen (fie-BRIN-oh-jen) into fibrin (FIE-brin), which forms a mesh polymer. Platelets have
several important roles in this process. For 10 points, name this process by which by which the blood
congeals after injury, which is impaired in hemophilia (HEE-mo-FILL-ee-uh).
ANSWER: coagulation [or clotting]
NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 2 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

14. When these landforms lie parallel to one another, they create raised and lowered areas called horsts and
grabens. Flat irons form from scarps, which are located along these features. These features divide a surface
into a hanging wall and a footwall. At lower depths, they are called shear zones. If the movement of one of
these features has both strike and dip components, it is known as an oblique-slip one. They also come in
transform and strike-slip types. For 10 points, name these cracks in the Earth's surface, the movement of
which causes earthquakes.
ANSWER: faults
15. One class of these are circuit gateways and they can be used to make a DMZ. An example of a stateful
one is iptables and NAT can be configured to act like a very basic one. Application-Layer ones use
knowledge about the content to make decisions. They protect against things like denial of service attacks.
Common techniques include port blocking and packet filtering. Usually they must be configured to allow
new trusted programs and services to access the internet. For 10 points, name these pieces of software or
hardware that protect computers from network based attacks.
ANSWER: firewalls
16. They are the subject of Wagstaff's Conjecture. The Lucas-Lehmer test is used to find these numbers. The
programs GIMPS searches for new examples of these numbers. Every even perfect number is the product of
one of these numbers and a corresponding power of two. The first four of these numbers are three, seven,
thirty-one, and one hundred and twenty-seven. For 10 points, identify these prime numbers of the form two
to the n minus one, named for a medieval French mathematician.
ANSWER: Mersenne prime numbers [prompt on prime before mentioned]
17. On the station model, this phenomenon is plotted using a barb that contains flags which show its
magnitude. On a map, this phenomenon's direction is held constant along an isogon, while its speed is
constant along an isotach. Near the ocean, this phenomenon changes direction at night, when the land cools
faster than water. The lack of this phenomenon defines the "horse latitudes." The Beaufort Scale measures
the strength of this phenomenon, the speed of which is related to damage on the Saffir-Simpson and Fujita
scales. For 10 points, name this phenomenon, the movement of air on the earth's surface.
ANSWER: wind
18. Spirochetes (SPY-ro-KEATS) have modified versions of these structures known as axial filaments. In
bacteria, the hook, or base of this organelle, is covered. This organelle is attached to a basal body. In
eukaryotes, they are the longer of two types of structures that are composed of a "nine plus two"
arrangement of microtubules. Unlike that other structure, cilia, these structures work by rotating in a
clockwise or counterclockwise manner. For 10 points, name these whiplike projections that are the main
method of cell motility in Euglena and sperm cells.
ANSWER: flagella [or flagellum]
19. Along with rural agenesis (ay-JEN-uh-sis), this disease accounts for a majority of the occurrences of
congenital absence of the vas deferens (VOSS DEF-er-enz). This disease is most commonly caused by a
deletion of three nucleotides, starting with the phenylalanine (fen-il-AL-uh-neen) at position 508, of a
namesake chloride channel. This disease is diagnosed in early childhood via the noninvasive sweat test. It
was first described by Dorothy Andersen, who described its characteristic pancreatic scarring. For 10 points,
name this autosomal recessive genetic disease that causes a buildup of mucus in the lungs.
ANSWER: cystic fibrosis [or mucoviscidosis; prompt on "CF"]

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 3 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. The earliest definition of this term involved the use of tens to the seventh and negative seventh and was
named for John Napier. Numbers of this type are made up of an integer called the characteristic and a
fraction called the mantissa. Taking this operation to the multiplication of two components is equivalent to
adding the values of this operation to those components individually. The derivative of one type of this
function is equal to one over x. That type is taken in the base of e and is called the natural type of this. For
10 points, name this function that is the inverse of an exponent.
ANSWER: logarithms [or Napierian logarithms; or natural logarithms]
21. This element forms a namesake cycle with sulfur whose net reactant is water and net products are
hydrogen gas and oxygen gas. A hormone that includes this element is thyroxine (thy-ROX-een), which
loses one atom of this element to yield its active form. Preparations of this element include Lugol's solution,
and its presence in the diet prevents goiter. For 10 points, name this halogen often used as a test for starch
and in a disinfecting agent, which on the periodic table appears below bromine but above astatine.
ANSWER: iodine
22. In Minkowski space, this quantity equals the rate of change above the four-momentum vector with
respect to proper time. The total amount of this quantity imparted on a charged particle by both the magnetic
and electric fields is named for Lorentz. This quantity is equal to the time derivative of the body's
momentum by Newton's Second Law. Work is equal to this quantity times distance. For 10 points, name this
vector quantity measured in newtons, which equals mass times acceleration.
ANSWER: force [or net force]
23. In the MIPS ("mips") architecture, many ALU ("A"-"L"-"U") operations, such as add, have this as their
opcode. In "one's complement" notation there are two of these. In Unix, slash dev slash null has a
counterpart that produces these. In C++ this is equivalent to false. Arrays usually start with this index. In
digital circuits, this number corresponds to a low voltage. A common programming error, or exception, is
dividing by this number. For 10 points, name this value, which is contrasted with "one" in the binary system
used by computers.
ANSWER: zero
24. Wolff's Law governs the circumstances that cause density of this tissue to increase or decrease.
Precursors to this tissue are generated at the epiphyseal (EPP-ih-FIZZ-ee-uhl) plate. Since estrogen causes
cells that resorb this tissue to undergo apoptosis, this tissue becomes noticeably weaker in post-menopausal
(men-oh-"PAWS"-uhl) women. Blood is supplied to this tissue through Haversian (huh-VER-zee-uhn)
canals, and the hydroxyapatite ("high"-DROX-ee-APP-uh-tite) in this tissue's matrix is a major site of
calcium storage. For 10 points, name this tissue that comprises the majority of the skeleton.
ANSWER: bone
25. An outdated model for the structure of this entity was proposed by Davson and Danielli. Enzymes such
as flippases ("FLIP"-"aces") move molecules within this structure. It contains glycolipids (GLY-ko-LIP-idz)
such as gangliosides (GANG-lee-oh-"sides"). The fluidity of this structure is regulated by the amount of
cholesterol within it. The fluid mosaic model of this structure holds that proteins and lipid rafts are
embedded in a freely moving phospholipid (FOSS-fo-LIP-id) bilayer. For 10 points, name this structure that
encloses the cell and separates it from the outside environment.
ANSWER: cell membrane
26. The Sylvester-Gallai theorem gives a requirement that all items in question are upon only one of these.
These objects are replaced by the idea of a geodesic on a general metric; specifically, in spherical geometry,
these objects are replaced by "great circles." In coordinate geometry, these objects can be specified in
slope-intercept form. Perpendicular ones intersect at an angle of ninety degrees. For 10 points, name this
geometric construct defined by two points.
ANSWER: lines
NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 4 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

27. This man proved the theorem of quadratic reciprocity. He used his formulation of least squares to
accurately predict the orbit of Ceres. This mathematician discovered a compass and ruler construction for the
heptadecagon. This man devised an improved proof of the fundamental theorem of arithmetic. According to
a popular legend, while still in school he devised a simple formula for the sum of one through n. His name is
also attached to a statistical distribution about a mean, also called the normal distribution or bell curve. For
10 points, name this German mathematician.
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich Gauss
28. Along with sodium carbonate, this substance's chloride is a byproduct of the Solvay Process. This
element can be made through the reaction of its oxide with aluminum. This element's oxide is known as
quicklime. Lime is a heated form of this element's carbonate. Marble is a crystalline form of this element's
carbonate that is also known as limestone. This element has an electron configuration of [Ar]4s2 ("Argon
Four S Two"). For 10 points, name this alkaline earth metal with symbol Ca.
ANSWER: calcium [or Ca before it is read]
29. Methods of measuring the magnitude of this effect often include the use of a platinum probe, such as a
DuNouy ring or Wilhelmy plate. This phenomenon is no longer changed once the critical micelle
concentration is reached. Those micelles are formed by substances that lower the strength of this effect,
which are called surfactants. This effect limits the height in a container of a meniscus caused by capillary
action. Bubbles form spheres according to this effect. For 10 points, name this cohesive attraction that
causes a film to be created at the top of liquids, which allows some insects to walk on water.
ANSWER: surface tension
30. This body releases cytochrome ("SIGH"-tow-krome) c to trigger apoptosis (AY-pop-TOW-sis). The
DNA found in these organelles (OR-guh-NELLZ) is passed down matrilineally (MAT-ruh-LIN-ee-uh-lee),
and along with its double membrane, may be evidence for its endosymbiotic (EN-"dough"-sim-by-OTT-ick)
origin. Its inner folds are called cristae (KRIS-tay), and its matrix is home to respiration reactions like
glycolysis (GLY-"CALL"-ih-sis). For 10 points, name this organelle, the "powerhouse" of the cell.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
31. The enzyme that produces this compound has segments called F0 and F1 connected by a rotating axle.
This compound is converted into a cyclic signal transduction second messenger called cAMP ("camp"). The
Embden-Meyerhof pathway produces two molecules of NADH and two molecules of this compound.
Hydrogen ions are pumped across a gradient to produce this compound in oxidative phosphorylation
(OX-ih-DAY-tive FOSS-FOR-ill-AY-shun). For 10 points, name this "energy transfer currency" of the cell,
a compound that contains three phosphate groups and goes by a three-letter acronym.
ANSWER: ATP [or adenosine triphosphate; or adenosine 5' (five-prime) triphosphate]
32. Monomitic systems occur when only the generative type of these structures is present. Other types of
them include the elongated and thick walled skeletal type and the multi-branching binding variety. Their tips
are sometimes the site of haustoria (how-STOR-ee-uh) in parasites. Those tips are the source of their
expansion through an organelle known as the spitzenkorper (SPIT-zen-kor-per). Most of them are divided
into cells by barriers called septa. A collection of these structures is known as a mycelium
(my-SEEL-ee-um). For 10 points, name these structures that make up most of a fungus.
ANSWER: hyphae

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 5 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

33. Drugs containing a compound called artemisinin (AR-tuh-mih-SINE-in) are used to treat this disease,
whose severity is lessened in individuals with thalassaemias (THAL-uh-SEEM-ee-uhs). Those who
completely lack receptor proteins called Duffy antigens are immune to one form of this disease. Individuals
who are heterozygous for the mutated allele for sickle cell anemia are at far less risk for this disease. Its
longtime treatment was derived from Cinchona (sin-CHO-nuh) bark. For 10 points, the parasite Plasmodium
causes what disease that was once treated by quinine (KWY-nine) and is spread by mosquitoes?
ANSWER: malaria
34. One species of these creatures, Mycocepurus smithii (MY-coh-seh-"PURE"-us "SMITH"-"e"), is
cultivated by the Attini and is entirely female. The presence of a metapleural (MET-uh-PLOOR-uhl) gland,
which secretes phenylacetic acid (FEN-il-uh-SEE-tic), differentiates most species of these creatures from
other members of order Hymenoptera (hi-men-OP-ter-uh). These organisms of family Formicidae
(for-MISS-uh-dee) often herd aphids for food and include "driver," "carpenter," and "army" varieties. For 10
points, name these insects which form underground hives occupied by soldiers, workers, and the queen.
ANSWER: ants [or Formicidae until it is read]
35. The movement of one type of these objects at high altitudes can create cracks called bergschrunds
(BEARG-schrundts). These objects are split by the firn limit into two zones, called the zones of
accumulation and ablation. When two of these objects are near each other on a mountain, they can cause the
formation of an arête (ar-RET). The movement of these objects caused the formation of such geographic
features as moraines. Types of them include cirque, alpine, valley, and continental. For 10 points, name
these large moving masses of ice.
ANSWER: glaciers [accept alpine glacier or cirque glacier or valley glacier until "moraines;" do not
accept or prompt on specific types of glaciers after "moraines"]
36. The product of one type of this process is recycled in the Cori Cycle after it is transported to the liver.
This biochemical process is preferred over oxidative phosphorylation by organisms like yeast, and it is
essential to such diverse phenomena as muscle soreness and the brewing of beer. For 10 points, name this
alternative pathway to cellular respiration, in which cells anaerobically break pyruvate into products like
ethanol or lactic acid instead of oxidizing it to carbon dioxide.
ANSWER: fermentation
37. The Hoffman modulation contrast type of these devices enhances phase gradients. A component named
after Nomarski (no-MAR-skee) is used in the differential interference contrast type of these devices. Abbe
(AH-BAY) condensers are attached to these devices. Confocal ones remove light that is out of focues. They
have objective and ocular pieces. The multiplication of the strengths of two of their pieces gives the total
magnification. For 10 points, name these laboratory devices that magnify images of cells and other
structures.
ANSWER: optical microscopes
38. These compounds form Weinreb amides by the Wittig reaction, and varieties of these substances with
alpha-hydrogen centers participate in a type of tautomerism named for these compounds and enols.
Examples of these compounds include a compound with abbreviated formula Ph2CO ("P-H-TWO-C-O"),
benzophenone, which like other members of this family features a carbonyl group. For 10 points, name this
functional group which consists of a carbon double bonded to an oxygen and to two other carbon atoms.
ANSWER: ketones

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 6 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

39. A thermal inversion can cause rays to wrap around the earth in the infinite form of this phenomenon.
That difference in temperature can also allow sound to travel farther due to this effect, such as sound
traveling over a lake. This phenomenon is no longer observed once an angle of incidence reaches a critical
angle and causes total internal reflection. One is the minimum value for the index associated with this effect;
that index, denoted n, is equated with angles of incidence via Snell's Law. For 10 points, name this
phenomenon in which a wave changes velocity upon entering a different medium.
ANSWER: refraction
40. These devices are typically used in traffic light sensors, and their impedance is proportional to angular
frequency. Like resistors, when these devices are arranged in series or in parallel their strength is combined.
The energy stored by these devices is proportional to one half times the current squared. The L in RLC
circuits refers to these devices. These devices, which include solenoids and toroids, are represented in circuit
diagrams by a coil. For 10 points, name these electrical devices that can store energy in a magnetic field.
ANSWER: inductors
41. The gene "mothers against decapentaplegic" (DECK-uh-PEN-tuh-PLEE-jick) was discovered in this
model organism. Genes such as bicoid (BI-coyd), oscar, and hunchback are important for its early
development, which takes place in a syncytium. One mutant of it is eyeless. Polytene (PAHL-ee-teen)
chromosomes can be found in this organism, as can P elements. Features of this organism includes bristles,
ommatidia (OM-muh-TID-ee-uh), and wings. Thomas Hunt Morgan did his primary genetic research on this
organism. For 10 points, name this insect model organism.
ANSWER: Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit fly]
42. Though it is not the kidneys, the tissue surrounding arteries in this organ is called a Malpighian
(mal-PEE-gee-uhn) body. One type of tissue in this organ is made up of Cords of Billroth. Along with the
liver and bone marrow, the body stores ferritin (FAIR-it-in) bound iron in this organ. The two main types of
tissue in this organ meet at the "marginal zone." Along with the thymus, this part of the lymphatic system is
the only organ that contains efferent lymphatic vessels. This organ is made up of red pulp and white pulp.
For 10 points, name this organ that removes old red blood cells from the blood.
ANSWER: spleen
43. One model for the formation of these regions was proposed by John T. Wilson. One of these regions,
nicknamed the "Great Meteor," may be responsible for diamond-containing kimberlite deposits. Rhyolites
(RYE-oh-lites) are formed when basaltic magma from these regions bubbles under a continental crust. One
of them created the Galapagos island chain. A currently active one resulted in the formation of the Hawaiian
island chain. For 10 points, name these areas on the earth's crust where very hot plumes of magma result in
unusually high levels of volcanic activity.
ANSWER: hotspots [or mantle plumes]
44. An alternate name for this type of reaction is "metathesis" (muh-TATH-uh-sis). If one of the products of
this kind of reaction breaks down to release a gas, it is an effervescent reaction. This type of reaction is also
undergone when acids and bases are neutralized to form salts. This type of reaction differs from a redox
reaction in that no reactant changes oxidation states. In the most common form of this kind of reaction, two
ionic solutions are added to each other to form a precipitate. For 10 points, name this type of reaction in
which portions of two reactants swap positions with each other.
ANSWER: double displacement reactions [or double replacement reactions]

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 7 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

45. This material completely surrounds lands known as "kipuka." A landform called a tuya results when this
substance is found beneath a glacier. This substance interacts with water to form the "pillow" type of it.
When this substance is very liquid, it is known as pahoehoe (pa-HOY-hoy). When this material takes on a
chunky consistency, it is known as aa (AH-ah). Composite, or "strato" cones, alternate between this emitting
this material and expelling tephra and ash. For 10 points, name this type of molten rock, the above-ground
counterpart of magma.
ANSWER: lava [do not accept "magma"]
46. This organ is calcified in a condition named for its resemblance to porcelain, and a condition caused by
an excess of cholesterol is named for this organ's resemblance to a strawberry. Like the pancreas, it is
emptied through the action of the hormone cholecystokinin (COAL-uh-sis-toe-KINE-in). Its cystic duct
connects with the common hepatic duct; that connection forms a duct named for a substance the liver
produces but this organ stores. For 10 points, name this organ found just above the liver, whose main
function is to store bile.
ANSWER: gallbladder
47. Data serialization and restoring serialized data requires these objects to be "swizzled" and "unswizzled."
Nonstatic methods implement one of these called "this." Each node of a doubly linked list includes two of
these, often called "next" and "previous;" the head and tail nodes have one each of these set to NULL. These
objects are "dereferenced" to obtain the value at the address they indicate. For 10 points, name these
variables present in many programming languages, notably C and C++, that store a memory address.
ANSWER: pointers
48. Cajal (kuh-HALL) bodies in this structure contain scaRNAs, which direct post-transcriptional
modifications of another type of RNA unique to this structure. Transport into and out of this organelle is
dependent on a GTPase called Ran. Importins and exportins move proteins across this organelle's membrane.
A smaller organelle within this one is the site of ribosome (RYE-bo-some) production. This organelle is
surrounded by a membrane known as its "envelope," which breaks down and disintegrates during prophase.
For 10 points, name this organelle that contains much of a cell's genetic material.
ANSWER: cell nucleus
49. In complete metric spaces, Cauchy sequences always have one of these. Those of a function can be
found using the sandwich theorem and a typical definition is that for some delta region around x, f(x) will be
within some epsilon region. A technique for finding indeterminate ones of functions of form f(x)/g(x) c uses
the ratio of the respective derivatives and is better known as L’Hôpital’s rule. These are often used to give
define derivatives. For 10 points, name this concept often given as the value of a function as it approaches a
certain point.
ANSWER: limit
50. One problem concerning the substances is solved using the Sackur-Tetrode equation and is presented in
the Gibbs paradox. The law named for these substances is not effective when dealing with high pressures or
low temperatures. That law is a combination of laws named for Charles and Boyle. These substances are
assumed to have no attractions between themselves, and have completely elastic collisions. For 10 points,
name this hypothetical form of a phase of matter, which is modeled by its same named equation of PV=nRT
("P-V equals N-R-T").
ANSWER: ideal gases [prompt on gases]

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 8 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

51. The Harris Matrix makes use of the laws of this scientific field. This field was advanced by the laws of
Nicholas Steno, who theorized that assuming original horizontality and lateral continuity were important in
this field. Terms in this field include "anticline" and "sincline." The first work in this field was the Law of
Superposition, which assumed that the oldest material was on the bottom and the youngest material was on
top. The iridium-rich K-T boundary was discovered using this discipline. For 10 points, name this branch of
geology, the study of layers of rock.
ANSWER: stratigraphy [prompt on geology]
52. Free radicals act as messengers in the namesake "signaling" of these reactions. Disproportionation
(DIS-pro-por-shun-AY-shun) reactions occur when different atoms of the same element undergo both
half-reactions of this class of reactions. The two half-reactions which make up these reactions take place in
the two half-cells of an electrochemical (ee-LECK-tro-KEM-ih-kul) cell. For 10 points, name this class of
reactions which involve a change in oxidation number, named for the fact that they consist of reduction and
oxidation.
ANSWER: redox reactions [or oxidation-reduction reactions before "reduction"; or reduction-oxidation
reactions before "reduction"]
53. When these materials interface with other materials, Andreev (ahn DREE yev) reflection can occur. A
phenomenological theory of these was developed by Lev Landau and Vitaly Ginzberg. They expel magnetic
fields from their interior in the Meissner Effect. Coming in Type I and Type II varieties, these materials are
described as the result of electrons condensing into Cooper pairs by BCS theory. For 10 points, name these
materials, which have zero resistance at low temperatures.
ANSWER: superconductors [prompt on superconductivity]
54. Python employs the "duck" way of determining these constructs. C++ can use RTTI to determine these
at runtime as a form of introspection, and C++ uses templates in a similar fashion to "generic" ones.
Programming languages can be classified by having static, dynamic, strong, or weak systems of these. If
built into a language they can be called "primitive," while object-oriented programming allows the
programmer to implement new ones. For 10 points, name these programming constructs which include
characters, bools, integers, floats, and strings.
ANSWER: data types
55. One formulation of this value uses Slater's rules to find a effective nuclear charge, which is then divided
by the covalent radius. The Allred-Rochow (ROSH-ow) formulation of it does not account for the d-block
elements. Allen suggested that this value is related to the average energy of a certain particle, and Mulliken
defined it as the mean of first ionization energy and electron affinity. Fluorine possesses the highest value
for, for 10 points, what quantity proposed by Pauling as a measure of an atom's ability to attract electrons to
itself?
ANSWER: electronegativity
56. The Czochralski (cho-KROLL-skee) technique is a way of synthetically making these. The intercepts of
the axes of the structure of these can be used to determine their Miller indices, and fourteen structures named
for Bravais (bruh-VAY) can be used to describe these. The packing factor of these indicates the percent of
space used by matter. Their structure can be classified using terms like orthorhombic (OR-tho-ROM-bick),
monoclinic, and face-centered cubic. For 10 points, name these solids made of repeating patterns of atoms or
molecules, examples of which include ice and quartz.
ANSWER: crystals [prompt on lattices; accept crystal lattices]

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 9 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

57. The sequence KDEL marks proteins for retention in this structure. Chaperone proteins located in this
structure fold newly created proteins. A specialized variety of this structure stores calcium ions and is found
in smooth and striated muscle. That "sarcoplasmic" (sar-co-PLAZZ-mic) type of this organelle is in turn a
subset of a type of this structure which is the location of carbohydrate and steroid metabolism. That type is
known as "transitional" or "smooth." For 10 points, name this organelle, which also has a "rough" type that
contains ribosomes (RYE-bo-soams).
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [or ER; or smooth endoplasmic reticulum; or rough endoplasmic
reticulum; prompt on sarcoplasmic reticulum; prompt on SR]
58. One class of this phylum is distinguished by the presence of a pharynx that opens into the gastrovascular
(GAS-tro-VAS-kyoo-lurr) cavity and is known as the actinopharynx (ack-TIN-o-FAIR-inks). One member
of this phylum, Chironex fleckeri (KY-ro-nex FLECK-er-eye), is in the class Cubozoa (CUBE-oh-ZO-uh).
Its class Anthozoa (AN-tho-ZO-uh) contains corals. Organisms in this phylum are characterized by stinging
cells known as nematocytes (nuh-MAT-oh-sites) and grow from a polyp to a medusa. For 10 points, what
marine phylum includes sea anemone, hydra, and jellyfish?
ANSWER: Cnidaria (ni-DARE-ee-uh)
59. This statement is invoked in the Born-Haber (BORN HAW-ber) cycle. This statement follows from the
fact that the quantity it concerns is a state function, and therefore its value is independent of the system's
trajectory. This statement is often framed in terms of the heats of formation of reactants and products. For 10
points, name this statement of thermodynamics that suggests that a reaction's enthalpy change is equal to the
sum of the enthalpy changes of each step.
ANSWER: Hess's Law
60. "Low barrier" types of these entities occur in the catalytic triad of serine proteases. A unique form of
these is present in borane-ammonia complexes. In RNA and proteins, they are chiefly responsible for
secondary structure. Water expands upon freezing because these entities become ordered. They usually
involve fluorine, nitrogen, or oxygen and their namesake element. For 10 points, name these exceptionally
strong dipole-dipole interactions.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonds
61. Sputnik is the name given to an infection that targets the unusually complex Mimi one of these agents.
They can be classified under the Baltimore scheme. One class of them is responsible for the E6 and E7
oncogenes, and some of them have gag genes. Their reproductive cycle can be classified as lysogenic or
lytic. Their central component is a protein capsid which encloses their genetic material, which can be RNA
in the "retro" type. For 10 points, name these infectious agents that require a host cell to replicate.
ANSWER: virus
62. An open question about these is whether those that exploit randomness such as those related to languages
in BPP are more powerful than deterministic ones. Models on which the behavior of these evaluated include
the cell probe, decision tree, and PRAM. If they exploit optimal substructure and memoization they can be
considered "dynamic" and if they recursively breakup a problem they are "divide and conquer". Examples
include the Bellman-Ford, Euclid's, and Dijkstra (DIKE stra)'s. For 10 points, name these methods of solving
a problem in a finite number of steps, some of which are "sort" and "search" ones.
ANSWER: algorithm [or computation; accept Turing machine before cell probe]

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 10 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

63. This substance is assumed to have vertical equipotential lines in order to simplify solutions to an
equation for its movement. That assumption named for Dupoit is invoked along with Darcy's law to explain
this substance's movement. Pockets of air are found alongside it in the vadose zone. It is present in any
bedrock pore in the phreatic zone. Structures that contain it can emit it spontaneously if its namesake "table"
is above ground level. This substance flows freely from artesian wells. For 10 points, name this substance,
which is found in porous rock in aquifers.
ANSWER: water [accept groundwater; or underground water; or H2O; or other reasonable equivalents]
64. Early development of some of these cells are guided by netrin (NET-rin) and semaphorin
(SEM-uh-FOR-in) proteins. Historically, reticular (RET-ick-YU-lar) theory contrasted with these cells'
namesake doctrine. Examples of these cells include pyramidal cells and Purkinje (pur-KIN-jee) cells. The
cell body of one of these cells is known as the soma, and a "hillock" in these cells generates an action
potential, which is propagated down the axon. For 10 points, name these cells of the nervous system.
ANSWER: neurons
65. The Havel-Hakimi theorem gives the conditions for a sequence to correspond to one of these. Ramsey's
theorem deals with the coloring of complete ones. They can occur in undirected and directed forms, the
latter of which gives a direction to one of their components. Hamilton and Euler (OY-ler) name cycles in
these; Euler's is used in the Seven Bridges of Konigsberg Problem, which launched the study of them. For 10
points, name these mathematical objects made of vertices and edges.
ANSWER: graphs
66. Nickel is purified in the Mond process by reacting it with this compound. This compound can react with
chlorine gas to form phosgene (FOSS-jeen), which was once used as a chemical weapon. A mixture of it
with hydrogen gas is called syngas. It is referred to as carbonyl (CAR-bo-neel) when it functions as a ligand.
In the body, hemoglobin (HEE-mo-glo-bin) is about two hundred times more likely to bond to this
compound than oxygen. It is formed in incomplete but not complete combustion reactions. For 10 points,
name this odorless, colorless gas that is often called "the silent killer," which has the formula CO.
ANSWER: carbon monoxide [or CO before mentioned]
67. Some models of this process have a LS factor, and the most common model for it is the revised USLE.
This process comes in sheet, rill, and gully forms. It opposes orogeny and loosens the ped structure. The
products of this process can undergo deposition. Fluvial, aeolian, and glacial processes cause this process,
which can be increased by a lack of vegetation. It is similar to, but not the same as, the related concept of
weathering. For 10 points, name this process by which materials such as soil are moved, such as when a
stream wears down its banks.
ANSWER: erosion
68. A recently developed one of these with a good proven competitive ratio is called tango. One of these that
operates on a restricted key set with log log n performance is named after van Emde Boas (vahn EM-dah
BOH-az). The zig-zag step is one of the steps which can be used in creating the splay type of these. A set of
coloration rules are used in the red-black type, which is an example of the balanced binary search class of
these. Their topmost nodes are known as root nodes. For 10 points, name these data structures whose
terminal nodes are called leaves.
ANSWER: trees

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 11 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

69. One section of this organ contains a mass of lymphoid (LIM-foid) tissue called Peyer’s (PAY-erz)
Patches. Another section of this organ receives a material from the pylorus known as chyme. Like the
esophagus, this organ uses a contractile motion known as peristalsis (PAIR-ee-STALL-sis). This organ
receives the enzymes trypsin (TRIP-sin), lipase (LYE-"pace"), and amylase (AMM-ill-ase), which break
down proteins, lipids, and starches, respectively. For 10 points, name this organ divided into the jejunum,
ileum, and duodenum, whose main function is to digest food before it passes into the large intestine.
ANSWER: small intestine [accept ileum before "chyme" is read]
70. This function's Taylor series approximation begins 1 - X2/2! + X4/4! ("One minus X squared over two
factorial plus X to the fourth over four factorial"). In Euler's Formula, this function added to i(sin(x)) ("I
times the sine of X") is equal to eix ("E to the I X"). This function is also equal to the square root of 1-sin2
(theta) ("One minus sine squared of theta") and approaches zero as theta approaches p/2 ("pi over two").
Name this function equal to a triangle's adjacent side over its hypotenuse.
ANSWER: cosine
71. This law's integral and differential forms can be related by the Kelvin-Stokes Theorem. The original
formulation of this law broke the rule that the divergence of a curl must be zero; that flaw was corrected with
the addition of a displacement current by James Maxwell. In cases with the requisite symmetry, this law is
used in place of the more cumbersome Biot-Savart (BEE-oh suh-VAR) Law. For 10 points, name this law
that states that the line integral of the magnetic field around a closed loop is proportional to the current
passing through it.
ANSWER: Ampere's Law
72. This is the number of variables that the Ackermann function takes. Euler's formula states that the number
of vertices, minus the number of edges, plus the number of faces of any convex polyhedron is equal to this
number. This is the only number for which the reciprocals of its powers sum to the number itself. This is the
highest number x at which a to the x plus b to the x can equal c to the x, according to Fermat's Last Theorem.
It is the third number in the Fibonacci series. For 10 points, name this number, the only even prime.
ANSWER: two

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 12 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NASAT Tryout Set: Science
Team Rounds
1. [10] This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the perimeter of a rectangle whose area is 10 and
whose length is 1.6 times longer than its width.
ANSWER: 13
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. If a rectangular coordinate is 2,sqrt(3), what is it in polar
form?
ANSWER: (sqrt(7), pi/6) [or (2.646, 0.524)]
[10]This is a 10-second calculation question. What is (2x+2sqrt(3))*(2x-2sqrt(3))?
ANSWER: 4x2-12
[10] This is a 20-second calculation question. What is 13.916724 divided by 3.49?
ANSWER: 3.9876
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. If Ermes puts $340 in a bank account that pays 3 percent
annual interest compounded every quarter, how much is in his bank account after four years?
ANSWER: 383.18
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the harmonic mean of 1 through 6 in reduced
fractions? The harmonic mean is the reciprocal of the average of the reciprocals of the values.
ANSWER: 120/49
2. [10] This is a 30-second calculation question. What is 8x5 + 6x4 + 42x3+29x2+55x+35 divided by 2x2+5?
ANSWER: 4x3+3x2+11x+7
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. Suppose you have 256 meters of rope. What is the largest
rectangular area that you can enclose with the rope?
ANSWER: 4,096 square meters
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. What is 9.5*7.23?
ANSWER: 68.685
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. If Ludmilla has three different pairs of shoes, seven scarves,
and eleven different hats, how many different outfits can she make from those items?
ANSWER: 231
[10]This is a 20-second calculation question. If a triangle has two angles of 30 and 105 degrees, a side length
of 2*squareroot(2-squareroot(2)) opposite the unknown angle, and another side of length 2, what is the
length of the unknown side?
ANSWER: 2
[10]This is a 20-second calculation question. What is 3.74?
ANSWER: 187.4161

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 13 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

3. [10] This is a 20-second calculation question. If Professor Persikov has has an initial population of four
frogs and the population doubles every 4 weeks, how many frogs does he have after a year? You may
assume that there are 52 weeks in a year.
ANSWER: 32,768
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the value of w if 3w=7w+11? Give your answer in
decimal form.
ANSWER: -2.75
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. What is 7/3 divided 2/9?
ANSWER: 21/2 [or 10.5]
[10] This is a 20-second calculation question. What is 3.567*9.877?
ANSWER: 35.231259
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. Consider a cone of height h and radius r. If 14h=336 and
3r+3=h and we approximate pi by 3.14, what is the surface area of the cone?
ANSWER: 703.36
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. What are the roots of x3 - 5.5x2 - 17.5x + 49?
ANSWER: x=-3.5, 2, 7 [accept in any order]
4. [10] This is a 10-second calculation question. Add eight and six-sevenths plus thirty-four and one-quarter.
ANSWER: 1207/28 [or 43 3/28]
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. Find 32 percent of 73.
ANSWER: 23.36
[10] This is a 20-second calculation question. Every domino in a set of dominoes is two inches long,
three-quarters of an inch wide, and one-quarter of an inch thick. How many of these dominoes can fit in a
box that is four and a half inches wide, four inches long, and two and three-quarters inches high?
ANSWER: 132
[10] This is a 20-second calculation question. A company finds that demand for its widgets follows the
equation 100 minus 2p, if p is the price they charge for each widget; and the amount of money earned by the
company is the product of the price and the quantity sold. What price earns the largest revenue?
ANSWER: $25
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. You have a coin that lands heads-up 75% of the time when it
is flipped. If you flip this coin four times, find the probability of getting exactly three heads.
ANSWER: 27/64
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. Find cos(sin-1 -6/13) ("cosine of the arcsine of negative
six-thirteenths").
ANSWER: (square root 133)/13

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 14 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This is a 20-second calculation question. Divide 9.4624 by 7.09.
ANSWER: 1.36
This is a 10-second calculation question. A banner is placed on a 12-foot wall. If the banner covers 35% of
the length of the wall, what is the length of the banner in feet and inches?
ANSWER: 4 feet, 2.4 inches
This is a 30-second calculation question. Solve the system of equations -8x+2y-4z = -40; 3y-8z = -12;
-8x+9y-4z=-68.
ANSWER: (4, -4, 0)
This is a 10-second calculation question. Evaluate 3x2 - 7x + 9 when x = -3.
ANSWER: 57
This is a 20-second calculation question. Three of the corners of a rectangle are at the points (10, 10), (5,0),
and (2, 4). Find the location of the fourth corner.
ANSWER: (13, 6)
This is a 30-second calculation question. According to a recent census, a certain town has 590 households
with no children, 1826 households with one child, 1574 households with two children, 153 households with
three children, and 26 households with four children. In this town, to the nearest tenth, what is the average
number of children per household?
ANSWER: 1.3
6. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate (2/15)2 times 25 plus 3 times 4/7.
ANSWER: 136/63 [or 2 10/63]
This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the least common multiple of 6, 12, 15, and 40.
ANSWER: 120
This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the center and radius of the circle with equation x2 - 12x + y2
+ 4y = 41.
ANSWER: center (6, -2) and radius 9
This is a 20-second calculation question. Simplify the expression (x2+11x+24)/(x2-9).
ANSWER: (x+8)/(x-3)
This is a 30-second calculation question. Using 3.14 as the value for pi, give the volume of a cylinder with
radius 7 inches and height 4 inches.
ANSWER: 615.44 cubic inches
This is a 30-second calculation question. In a population with a mean height of 67 inches and a standard
deviation of 2.5 inches, find the standard score (or z-score) of a person with a height of 71 inches.
ANSWER: 1.6

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 15 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This is a 10-second calculation question. Multiply 7.55 times 3.8.
ANSWER: 28.69
This is a 10-second calculation question. Give the prime factorization of 16,200.
ANSWER: 233452
This is a 20-second calculation question. Factor: 8x2 + 78x + 85.
ANSWER: (4x+5)(2x+17) [order of factors does not matter]
This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the foci of the hyperbola with equation 5(x-2)2 - 3(y+1)2 = 30.
ANSWER: (-2, -1) and (6, -1)
This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the surface area of a cylinder that has a radius of 9 inches and
a height of 13 inches. Use 3.14 as an approximation for pi.
ANSWER: 1243.44 square inches
This is a 30-second calculation question. A coin is weighted to land heads 60% of the time. If you flip this
coin three times, what is the probability that you will get at least two heads?
ANSWER: 81/125 [or 0.648]
8. [10] This is a 20-second calculation question. Suppose 20% of the books on your bookshelf have covers
and the rest do not. Furthermore, you have not read 70% of the books with covers and 60% of the books
without covers. Given a random book off of your shelf that you have read, what is the probability in lowest
terms that it has a cover?
ANSWER: 3/19
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. Add 4/11 and 5/7.
ANSWER: 83/77
[10] This is a 10-second calculation question. Evaluate 3x4 + 2y when x =3 and y=7.
ANSWER: 257
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. Factor 16z2 - y2 - 6y - 9.
ANSWER: (4z-y-3) (4z+y+3)
[10] This is a 30-second calculation question. Using 3.14 for pi find the area of the ellipse whose foci are
(2squareroot(10), 0) and (-2squareroot(10)), and whose eccentricity is (2squareroot(10))/11.
ANSWER: 310.86
[10] This is a 20-second calculation question. Guglielmo wants to make as many pizzas as he can for $200.
Sauce costs $1.50 a can and there is enough sauce per can for 2 pizzas. Cheese costs $2 a pack and has
enough for one pizza. Dough costs $3 a can and is enough for 1.5 pizzas. Assuming he can only make an
integer number of pizzas, if he makes the maximum number of pizzas, how much money will he have left?
ANSWER: 50 cents

NASAT Tryout Set: Science Page 16 of 16
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

