NASAT Tryout Set: Arts
Tossups
1. This painter showed the winds of change blowing in from the left as a man stands amid a crowd, in his
depiction of a national assembly. He showed a bearded man pointing to the sky while Crito touches his knee
in a work whose central figure reaches for a goblet. In one of his paintings, a man in his bathtub keels over
while clutching a letter. This man also depicted three brothers saluting their father, who holds three swords,
while a group of Roman women weep. For 10 points, name this French painter who depicted the deaths of
both Marat and Socrates, and who painted The Oath of the Horatii.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
2. Directly above an altar, this man painted the prophet Jonah looking towards God in front of the whale. He
also painted Charon in one work that also contains a self-portrait of himself in the skin of St. Bartholomew.
He included horns on his statue of Moses. He painted a beardless Jesus in heaven above the damned in hell
in one fresco. This sculptor of a Moses for the tomb of Pope Julius II painted Adam stretching out his hand
to receive life from God in one fresco. For 10 points, name this painter of The Last Judgement and the
Sistine Chapel ceiling.
ANSWER: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarotti Simoni [or Michelangelo Buonarotti]
3. He set a sequence of Wilhelm Mueller's poetry to music in Die Schoene Muellerin. He also set Mueller's
poems such as "The Hurdy-Gurdy Man" in his Winterreise (vin-tur-EYE-suh) or Winter Journey. This
composer reworked his piece Die Forelle (DEE for-EL-uh) into a quintet. Dietrich Fisher-Deskau recorded
his songs, including "The Erlking." His second-to-last symphony has only two movements and an
incomplete scherzo. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Trout Quintet and his eighth
symphony, the Unfinished, also famed for his lieder.
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert
4. Some of this kind of composition include a "tuba mirum." Giuseppi Verdi's composition of this type was
written for Alessandro Manzoni. Four distinct brass bands play in Hector Berlioz's composition of this type,
which includes a "Dies Irae." Poems by Wilfred Owen are included in Benjamin Britten's "War" one of this
type of work, and movements like "Blessed are they that mourn" appear in Johannes Brahms' "German" one
of these. Franz Sussmayer completed Mozart's version of this type of work after Mozart's death. For 10
points, name this type of piece, a setting of the mass for the dead.
ANSWER: Requiem mass [or missa Pro Defunctis]
5. One piece by this composer is being played at St. Burchardi church and is scheduled to finish in the year
2640. This composer wrote Bacchanale (bah-ka-NAAL) for the “prepared piano” he invented. This
composer of As Slowly As Possible used the I Ching is inspiration for the aleatoric composition Music of
Changes. He composed a work in which a pianist walks on stage but plays nothing. For 10 points, name this
American composer whose 4'33" (4 minutes and 33 seconds) consists of four minutes and thirty three
seconds of silence.
ANSWER: John Cage
6. This piece makes use of an "F, B flat, F" ascending motif. It was commissioned as part of a program
honoring World War II servicemen by Eugene Goosens, the conductor of the Cincinnati Symphony
Orchestra. It received its ultimate name when the composer heard a radio speech by Vice-President Henry
Wallace. The composer re-used this melody in his Third Symphony, and dedicated this piece to the figure
"who... was doing all the dirty work in the war and in the army." For 10 points, identify this composition by
Aaron Copland, whose title indicates that it was written for the ordinary American.
ANSWER: "Fanfare for the Common Man"
NASAT Tryout Set: Arts Page 1 of 5
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. In this opera, a grand concertato finale to Act Two includes "Gloria all'Egitto." In Act One, the title
character sings "Ritorna Vincitor" (ree-TOR-nah VEEN-kuh-tor). "O Patria Mia" is an aria in this opera
about the title character's homeland, which is at war with her captors. This opera includes the characters
Amonasro and Ramfis. This opera concludes with Amneris at the tomb of Radames, where he dies along
with the title character, a slave. For 10 points, name this opera, named after an Ethiopian princess and set in
Egypt, by Guiseppe Verdi.
ANSWER: Aida
8. This artistic movement spawned another movement that focused on the effects of light, luminism. A
craggy peak overlooks a burgeoning civilization and a naval battle in one series of paintings from this
movement. One painter in this group depicted a contemporary meeting William Cullen Bryant on a rock
outcropping in Kindred Spirits. Other works of this movement include Heart of the Andes, and the Voyage of
Life and Course of Empire series. Its members included Asher Durand and Thomas Cole. For 10 points,
name this group of American landscape artists, named for a New York valley.
ANSWER: Hudson River School
9. This country is found in the name of an album of “Sketches” by Miles Davis. One composer from this
country wrote The Three Cornered Hat and Love the Magician. Mikhail Glinka was inspired by this country
to write Jota Argonesa (HO-ta ar-go-NAY-sa). Isaac Albeniz wrote a series of tone poems inspired by this
country named Iberia. This nation is the home of Joaquin (hwa-KEEN) Rodrigo and Manuel de Falla
(FYE-ya). For 10 points, name this country that inspired the musical work Summer Night in Madrid.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de Espana]
10. The first section of this work was reused in its composer's Juditha Triumphans. That F major movement
represents a hunt. It was originally published as part of its composer's Opus 8, entitled "The Contest between
Harmony and Invention." The second part of this work concludes with a thunderstorm, and the first depicts
bird in the first movement, according to its accompanying sonnets. For 10 points, name this set of four violin
concertos by Antonio Vivaldi representing different times of year.
ANSWER: The Four Seasons [or Le Quattro Stagioni]
11. This artist painted a Victorian mansion with a railroad track running along the bottom of the painting.
This artist of House by the Railroad depicted a row of houses near a train tunnel in his Approaching a City.
He showed two similarly dressed women sitting at the same table in a Chinese restaurant in his Chop Suey.
He also painted an advertisement for Phillies cigars into his work that shows two fedora-wearing men and a
woman in a red dress sitting at a corner diner. For 10 points, name this American painter of Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
12. This composer dedicated his first symphony to Nikolai Rubenstein. His only unnumbered symphony was
inspired by the Russian premiere of Berlioz's Harold in Italy and is named for Lord Byron's poem Manfred.
His last symphony contains a "limping waltz" in 5/4 time. This composer of the Pathetique symphony wrote
a piece to commemorate a victory over Napoleon, which calls for cannons to be shot. One of his other works
includes the "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy." For 10 points, name this Russian composer who wrote the
1812 Overture and the Nutcracker ballet.
ANSWER: Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky [accept Pyotr Ilych Tchaikovsky]
13. One symphony by this man consists of the hymn "Veni, Creator Spiritus" and a setting of the scene of
the Holy Anchorites from Faust. In one of this man’s song cycles, the singer laments the tragic death of his
two children. This composer of Kindertotenlieder (Kin-DER-toten-LEADER) wrote a symphony whose
final movement ends with church bells tolling as souls ascend into heaven. This man wrote both the Song of
the Earth and the Resurrection symphony. For 10 points, name this German composer whose other
symphonies include the Titan and the Symphony of a Thousand.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler (MAH-ler)
NASAT Tryout Set: Arts Page 2 of 5
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

14. This figure is sometimes depicted holding a book on the 'seat of wisdom.' In one painting, this figure
stands on a base decorated with sphinxes, which were wrongly identified by Vasari as harpies. Caravaggio’s
("CARE"-ah-VAH-jee-ohs) depiction of this figure's death depicts her swollen feet and belly. A man in the
lower right unfurls a scroll while this woman totes a large baby in a painting by Parmigianino
(PAR-meh-JEE-ah-NEE-no), in which she is "of the long neck." For 10 points, name this Biblical woman
who looks over the infant Jesus and John the Baptist near "the rocks" in a painting by da Vinci.
ANSWER: Mary [or the Madonna; or Virgin Mary; prompt on Mother of Jesus; prompt on Our Lady]
15. This composer was moved by the deteriorating condition of Clara Schumann to compose the pessimistic
piece Four Serious Songs. "Gaudeamus Igitur" (gow-day-AH-mus IH-gih-tur) is among the student songs
incorporated into one of this man's works. The czardas [char-dash] A Memory of Bartfa provided the theme
to the first of this man's Hungarian Dances. This composer wrote The Academic Festival Overture, as well
as a first symphony that was nicknamed "Beethoven's Tenth." For 10 points, name this 19th century German
composer of of a Lullaby.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
16. One of his paintings shows a man and child huddled and facing a woman on a beach, all without shoes.
Another work by this painter shows the faint outline of a woman's head visible above the neck of a hunched,
cross-legged figure holding an instrument. This artist of The Tragedy and The Old Guitarist paintd a chaotic
scene with a screaming horse's head that depicted the bombing of a Basque town. This painter of Guernica
(ger-NEE-kah) also had "Rose" and "Blue" periods. For 10 points, name this Spanish Cubist painter.
ANSWER: Pablo Picasso [or Pablo Diego José Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno María de los
Remedios Cipriano de la Santísima Trinidad Ruiz y Picasso]
17. This artist pioneered a style that was used by another man to to paint the the Portrait of Felix Feneon. A
boy in swimming trunks sits on top of his clothes while looking into a river in this man's depiction of the
Bathers at Asnieres. A woman with a parasol holding a monkey on a leash is one figure in a riverside scene
in one of this man's paintings, which uses tiny dots of color to depict its images. For 10 points, name this
French artist of Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte, the founder of pointillism.
ANSWER: Georges Seurat
18. This man's childhood "Grand Tour" produced the first copy of Gregorio Allegri's Miserere, which the
Vatican kept secret, when he transcribed it from memory after one hearing. He composed six quartets
dedicated to Josef Haydn. His twenty-first piano concerto is called "Elvira Madigan." His final symphony
was in C major, and was his forty-first. For 10 points, name this Salzburg-born composer whose music is
listed in the Koechel catalog, and wrote the Little Night Music and Jupiter symphony.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [accept Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart]
19. This man wrote a symphony containing one adagio lamenting women standing in line at the store and
another adagio denouncing a massacre of Jews, which were both settings of Yevgeny Yevtushenko
(YEV-"two"-SHANE-koh) poems. He composed two cello concertos for Mstislav (MIS-ti-slav)
Rostropovich. This composer of the Babi Yar symphony wrote an earlier work that had the opening
movement feature a tranquil melody interrupted by the invasion theme. For 10 points, name this composer
whose experience during the Nazi invasion of Russia inspired his Leningrad symphony.
ANSWER: Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich

NASAT Tryout Set: Arts Page 3 of 5
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. This composer was named in a set of variations on St. Anthony's chorale by Brahms. This man used the
melody of "Deutschland Uber Alles" (DOYTCH-lahnd OO-bear ALL-less) in his "Emperor" string quartet.
His 45th symphony was written to have the performers leave the stage in protest of his employers, who were
the Esterhazy (ESS-tair-HAH-zee) family. His 94th symphony includes an extremely loud chord in an
otherwise quiet passage. For 10 points, name this prolific composer of over a hundred symphonies, including
the "Farewell" and "Surprise."
ANSWER: Franz Joseph Haydn
21. This composer wrote the music for a song that includes the lyrics "I got music, I got my girl, who could
ask for anything more?" Ferde Grofe orchestrated a work this man wrote on commission for a concert with
Paul Whiteman. He wrote the Cuban Overture and a Concerto in F. One of his works opens with a clarinet
playing a trill then a glissando. For 10 points, name this American composer of the tone poem An American
in Paris, and Rhapsody in Blue.
ANSWER: George Gershwin [or Jacob Gershvin; prompt on Gershwin]
22. This instrument plays a solo in the "Aviary" movement of Saint-Saens's (sahn SEN-zez) Carnival of the
Animals. It is the first instrument to play the primary melody in Ravel's Bolero, and it performs the opening
chromatic scale in Debussy's Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun. Players of this instrument, which delivers
the lead melody in "Morning Mood" from Peer Gynt, have included Jean-Pierre Rampal and Herbie Mann.
Its shorter variant, pitched an octave higher, is called the piccolo. For 10 points, name this reedless
woodwind instrument that is usually made of silver metal.
ANSWER: C flute
23. This composer wrote the movement "Montagues and Capulets" for his ballet Romeo and Juliet. He
claimed that his first symphony was written in the style of Josef Haydn, had Haydn been alive in the
twentieth century. An opera by this composer sees the King of Clubs' son cursed by Fata Morgana to seek
after the title fruit. Another piece by this composer of the Classical symphony and the opera Love for Three
Oranges uses the bassoon to represent the grandfather and the oboe to represent the duck. For 10 points,
name this Russian composer of Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev
24. This composer wrote four ballades for piano, a style of composition he developed. He composed
twenty-four preludes, including one called "Raindrop," and the "Revolutionary" etude. Among his works are
"Heroic" and "Military" examples of a genre from his home country. His works include many mazurkas and
polonaises. For 10 points, name this Polish composer of the "Minute" Waltz.
ANSWER: Frédéric François Chopin [or Fryderyck Franciczek Szopen]
25. This composer wrote six scenes of incidental music for his brother-in-law Arvid Jarnefelt's play Kuolema
(kwo-LEM-uh), the most famous of which is this man's Valse Triste (VAHLS TREEST). He used two
english horns to musically depict a bird mournfully swimming around an island in his piece The Swan of
Tuonela (twoh-NELL-uh), which was based on the mythology of his homeland. For 10 points, name this
composer who used the Kalevala as the source for his Lemminkainen (Lem-in-KY-nen) Suite and who
composed Finlandia.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius
26. One work by this artist contains "The Princess from the Land of Porcelain" at its center and was
purchased by Charles Freer from Frederick Leyland. He objected to a critic calling one his works a "pot of
paint flung in the public's face," and thus sued John Ruskin for libel over a depiction of fireworks above
London. This artist of the Peacock Room and Nocturne in Black and Gold painted The White Girl and an
"arrangement in grey and black" that depicted one of his close relatives. For 10 points, name this American
expatriate artist, known for a portrait of his mother.
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill Whistler
NASAT Tryout Set: Arts Page 4 of 5
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

27. Dissatisfaction with this man’s painting The Martyrdom of Saint Maurice for the Escorial ended this
man’s chances at receiving royal patronage. The central figure wears a red robe and a man in yellow is
drilling a hole in a cross in this man’s painting The Disrobing of Christ. In one of this man’s paintings, the
artist’s son Jorge Manuel is located on the left with a handkerchief in his pocket bearing the artist’s
signature, and that painting shows Saints Stephen and Augustine placing the title figure in a tomb. For 10
points, name this painter of The Burial of Count Orgaz and View of Toledo.
ANSWER: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopoulos]
28. He composed a stilted piano lullaby called "Of Foreign Lands and Peoples" to begin his piano suite that
also contains the "Dreaming" movement. This composer musically depicted the Cologne Cathedral in his
third symphony. This composer of Dichterliebe and Scenes from Childhood dedicated his Kreisleriana to
Chopin. He depicted himself musically as "Florestan" and "Eusebius" in such works as Papillons and
Carnival. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Rhenish and Spring symphonies.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
29. This musical work was the first symphony scored for three horns instead of two. It has a solo horn enter
with the main melody four measures before the rest of the orchestra in its first movement's recapitulation. Its
second movement is a funeral march, and this symphony is in E-flat major. It is dedicated to the "memory of
a great man," although it was originally dedicated to Napoleon. For 10 points, name this symphony by
Ludwig van Beethoven, his third.
ANSWER: Symphony no. 3, "Eroica" [accept either; accept no. 3 or third before mentioned]

NASAT Tryout Set: Arts Page 5 of 5
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

