NASAT Tryout Set: Current Events
Tossups
1. ?In January 2010, a legislator from this country, David Bahati, announced plans to attend a February
session of the U.S. National Prayer Meeting. Meeting organizer Bob Hunter has said that Bahati is not
invited, due to sponsoring a bill in this country's legislature that introduces penalties of life in prison and
execution for homosexual acts. Other controversial figures from this place include Joseph Kony, the leader
of a group that has rebelled againt President Yoweri Museveni for the past twenty years, called the Lord's
Resistance Army. For 10 points, identify this African country, whose previous rulers include alleged
cannibal Idi Amin.
ANSWER: Republic of Uganda
2. This man's chief political opponent is proposing to reverse this person's defunding of the Council on
Learning. Opposition leader Michael Ignatieff also denounced as "a crazy way of running democracy" this
head of government's decision to petition Governor-General Michaelle Jean to prorogue Parliament. Since
defeating Paul Martin in 2006, he has led a minority government as the head of the Conservative Party. For
10 points, name this current prime minister of Canada.
ANSWER: Stephen Joseph Harper
3. This politician and his wife both admitted to extramarital affairs after he had been in office for only one
day. His was widely criticized passing over Caroline Kennedy to select Kirsten Gilibrand for a vacant Senate
seat. This governor came to prominence after his predecessor was forced to resign after being revealed as
"client number nine," in a bust of a high class prostitution ring, causing that predecessor to give a public
apology as his wife looked at him with disdain. For 10 points, name this blind governor of New York, the
successor of Eliot Spitzer.
ANSWER: David Patterson
4. A breach in the security of this company in December 2009 led this company's chief legal officer David
Drummond to conclude that some of its offices might have to be closed down. By shutting down those
offices, this company may lose even more of its share of the market in one country to its competitor Baidu.
This company's reaction came in light of the illegal accessing of e-mail accounts held by human rights
activists in a certain country. For 10 points, name this American company that allowed censorship of its
search engine after 2006 in China.
ANSWER: Google Inc. [prompt on Gmail]
5. In 2005, Burger King stopped serving ice cream cones in the United Kingdom because a swirl on the cone
allegedly spelled out this word. A similar situation with this word led to a recall of Nike Air shoes in 1998.
In January 2010, several churches in Malaysia were firebombed in opposition to Christians using this word.
For 10 points, what is this word that most Arabic speakers of any religion use to mean "God," but which is
most frequently used to refer to the supreme figure of Islam?
ANSWER: Allah
6. Lumumba Di-Aping likened one part of this event to demanding that Africa sign a "suicide pact." Evo
Morales declared this event to be a failure, blaming a group of countries led by the United States. A demand
for limousines exceeded the supply in the country in which this event occurred, requiring importation from
Germany and Switzerland. Despite expectations of a legally binding resolution, the end result of this
meeting does not require nations to sign a successor to the Kyoto Protocol. For 10 points, name this fall
2009 international conference that came to a weak accord on fighting global warming.
ANSWER: the Copenhagen Summit [or 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference]

NASAT Tryout Set: Current Events Page 1 of 2
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. In 2009, the CIA announced that half of the twenty most wanted Al Qaeda suspects in Pakistan had been
killed using these devices, though Pakistani groups named hundreds of civilian casualties resulting from
their use. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Defense announced that these vehicles's monitoring systems were
being hacked by Iraqi insurgents using the program SkyGrabber, which is sold to the public for thirty
dollars. For 10 points, an increasing number of aerial bombings by the U.S. military are being conducted
using what remotely controlled, pilot-less aircraft?
ANSWER: Predators [or Predator RQ-1 planes; or Predator MQ-1 planes; or Predator MQ-9 planes; or
Reapers; or drone planes; or UAVs; or Unmanned Arial Vehicles]
8. One candidate for this position threatened to invoke a state law against defamatory political statements
after being accused of wanting to turn women away from emergency rooms. A candidate who lost in the
primary election for this office was Alan Khazei, the founder of the service program CityYear. The primary
winner who defeated Khazei committed a gaffe during the general campaign by claiming Curt Schilling was
a Yankees fan. State attorney general Martha Coakley lost to Republican Scott Brown in a January 2010
special election that, for 10 points, filled what office, that was left vacant by the death of Ted Kennedy?
ANSWER: United States Senator from Massachussetts [accept obvious equivalents such as
Massachusetts Senator; prompt on partial answer]

NASAT Tryout Set: Current Events Page 2 of 2
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

