NASAT Tryout Set: Geography
Tossups
1. The highest point of this nation is only 103 meters and is located on the Jebel Dukhan (JEH-bell
DO-kahn). Its capital city is the site of the current WTO Development Round. The Inland Sea is in the
southeast of this nation. The Hawar Islands are off its western coast. Ruled by Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani
(kah-LEE-fah all TAH-nee), it currently boasts the second highest GDP per capita in the world because of its
rich oil and natural gas deposits. Located to the south east of Bahrain, for 10 points, what small peninsular
nation bordering Saudi Arabia has its capital at Doha?
ANSWER: State of Qatar [or Dawlat Qatar]
2. This nation is home to the Buddhist monuments of Borobudur and Prambanan. This country also shares
an island with a nation with capital at Dili, Timor, and controls the islands which were the destination of
Ferdinand Magellan, the Moluccas, or Spice Islands. This nation is also home to a volcano whose eruption
created the Year Without a Summer, Mount Krakatoa. Its western province of Aceh was devastated by a
tsunami in 2004. For 10 points, name this nation which includes the islands of Java, Sumatra, and Borneo
with capital at Jakarta.
ANSWER: Indonesia
3. One ancient culture from this present-day country is the Nok culture, which existed in what is now the Jos
Plateau. The second-largest city in this country is Kano. The southwest corner of Lake Chad is part of this
country, which is bordered by Benin to the west and Cameroon to the east. It is home to the Ibo [EE-bow],
who formed the breakaway Republic of Biafra in 1967. In 1991, its capital was moved to Abuja
[ah-BOO-dja]. For 10 points, name this most populous country in Africa, whose largest city is Lagos.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria
4. This mountain system includes the Tethys range. Darjeeling is a city in this system’s Siwalik range. In
Kashmir, this mountain system begins at the mountain Nanga Parbat. In the northwest these mountains run
into the Karakorum range. These mountains are the source of the Brahmaputra river. They run through Uttar
Pradesh, and the city Kathmandu is found in them. The Ganges runs to the south of these mountains, which
cover Bhutan and Nepal. For 10 points, name this group of mountain ranges in Tibet and India that includes
Mount Everest.
ANSWER: Himalayas [or Himalayan mountains]
5. One trail found on this mountain stops by the "Garden of the Senecios" and the Barranco Wall. One
landslide in this mountain created the Western Breach, which leads up to the Lava Tower. Near its summit is
the retreating Furtwangler Glacier, which is passed by on the Northern Circuit, Rongai, and Umbwe routes.
The Kibo, Mawenzi, and Shira are the three cones that make up this stratovolcano, the tallest freestanding
mountain in the world at 19,334 feet. Located in Tanzania, for 10 points, name this tallest mountain in
Africa.
ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro
6. The largest lake in this mountain range is split by the Strait of Tiquina (tick-EE-nuh). This range is
bordered on the northeast by Los Llanos (YAN-os). Split into regions called the Cordillera
(cor-dee-YEAR-uh), its Occidental portion contains the extinct volcano Chimborazo, and its Oriental Range
includes Lake Titicaca. Its highest point is Aconcagua. For 10 points, name this mountain range that runs
along the western edge of South America, from Venezuela to Chile.
ANSWER: Andes Mountains

NASAT Tryout Set: Geography Page 1 of 2
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This city is the home of Oscar Niemeyer's Copan Building, and the 9 de Julho Palace is also located here.
The massive Morumbi and Pacaembu football stadiums are located here. This city's Mirante do Vale is the
tallest building in this city's country. Guaruja is a beach resort for this city. The Parque do Ibirapuera is the
home of this city's Art Biennial. This city is located on the Tiete (Tyuh-Tey), and Pinheiros, rivers. This
city's Atlantic port is Santos. For 10 points, name this largest city in Brazil.
ANSWER: Sao Paulo
8. The largest lake in this nation, located in its east about two hundred miles south of Kars, is Lake Van. The
Pontic Mountains rise along the northern coast of this country and run eastward into Georgia. The Taurus
Mountains follow the southern coast. The Euphrates and Tigris Rivers rise in this country before flowing
south into Syria and Iraq. The European portion of this nation is separated by the Bosporus. For 10 points,
name this nation located between the Black and Mediterranean Seas that contains the Anatolian Plateau.
ANSWER: Republic of Turkey [or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti]

NASAT Tryout Set: Geography Page 2 of 2
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

