DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

November 2007
Packet 2:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. One of these called “the Will of Heaven” belonged to Vietnamese king Le Loi, while that of
Heimdall is called Hofud. The loss of Frey's is a precursor of Ragnarok, and Beowulf's was
called Hrunting. One famous one was once known as caladbolg, or “hard lightning,” and in one
account is (*) aquired after its predecessor is destroyed in a duel with Pellinore and its owner seeks the
assistance of the Lady of the Lake. FTP, identify these weapons, the most famous of which might be
Excalibur.
ANSWER: Swords
2. This man notably departed from Greek traditions by removing the chorus from his play, The
Siege of Numantia, but drew Greek inspiration in his mythological satire Journey to Parnassus.
His most lucrative publication was a collection of sixteen comedies and farces, though he is better
known for his pastoral romance Galatea and his (*) Novelas Ejemplares. Most famous for creating
the characters of Dapple, Rocinante, Dulcinea, and Sancho Panza, FTP, identify this Spanish author of
Don Quixote.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes
3. Pencil and paper ready. Eric is eating a triangular samosa and decides to determine its area.
He knows that its sides have values of 9, 41 and 40 samosa units. Eric could apply Heron's
formula, finding the root of the equation s(s-9) (s-41) (s-40) [read: s times the quantity s minus 9
times the quantity s minus 41 times the quantity s minus 40], noting that s is half the (*) perimeter.
Aside from taking the square root of 32,400, a value simply ten times the root of 324, Eric could also
realize that 9,41, and 40 is a pythagorean triple of the right triangular samosa, and use the simple
formula ½b*h [one-half base times height]. FTP, what is the samosa's area? You have ten seconds.
ANSWER: 180 (9*40/2 = 180)
4. This thinker quoted Dante, claiming “all cowardice must here be dead” in his Contribution to
the Critique of Political Economy. He discussed the coup of the “Citizen King” in a pamphlet
titled for a month of the Revolutionary Calendar, The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon,
and discussed a kind of pathetic fallacy, his idea of (*) reification. Also describing the alienation of
society by the age of capitalism he hoped to overthrow, FTP, identify this author of Das Kapital and,
with Friedrich Engels, The Communist Manifesto.
ANSWER: Karl Marx

5. Contrabass sounds heavily in this opera at the introduction of Parpignol, the toy seller, and as
the characters enter the Cafe Momus, where Alcindoro is stuck with a massive bill. A subplot
concerns Schaunard and Colline, while in Act II another character sings the raunchy “when I go
along,” better known as (*) Musetta's Waltz. Revolving around Marcello, Rodolfo, and the
tuberculosis-ridden Mimi, FTP, identify this Puccini opera about a group of artsy Parisians.
ANSWER: La Boheme
6. Its disputes with Shiites, who had earlier helped its genesis by aiding Abu Muslim, led to the
creation of the Idrisid kingdom, while this polity also saw the shameful abduction of the black
stone by the Qarmatians from Mecca. Its rulers included Ma'mun, who helped create the House
of Wisdom, and Harun (*) al-Rashid. Ending with Hulagu Khan's 1268 sack of its capital, Baghdad,
FTP, identify this second major Sunni dynasty which rose to prominence following the fall of the
Umayyads.
ANSWER: Abbasids
7. It is dominated by the White, Dikti, and Idi mountain ranges, which overlook the Myrtoon and
Karpothian Seas. These mountains form Samaria Gorge and grassy plateaus like Lasithi, Nidha,
and Omalos. This home of Mount Ida has its capital at (*) Heraklion, lies near a site at which
Mertagenes and Chersiphron created the Griffin Fresco and the Little Throne Room, found by Arthur
Evans and called Knossos. FTP, identify this largest island of Greece, home to the ancient Minoan
civilization.
ANSWER: Crete
8. Before mentioning the “iron gates of life,” the poet uses the image of “birds of prey” when
speculating that “thy willing soul transpires/At every pore with instant fires.” Earlier in this
poem, the poet discusses how his love is like a vegetable, before (*) promising rubies and
referencing the Ganges in an attempt to “make him run” when he laments that “we cannot make our
sun/Stand still.” Beginning with the line “Had we but world enough and time,” FTP, identify this poem
in which Andrew Marvell attempts to seduce an unwitting girl with warnings of mortality.
ANSWER: To His Coy Mistress
9. It is produced when PRPP-derived indole reacts with Serine, a synthesis most commonly
achieved from shikimic acid and anthranilate. In prokaryotes, it creates a repressor protein that
binds to the trp operon, while it is better known for reacting with quinolinic acids and
kynurenine to create niacin. It can eventually create (*) melatonin after its namesake hydroxylase
works to create serotonin. FTP, identify this T-initialed amino acid, often erroneously cited as the
reason turkey makes you sleepy.
ANSWER: Tryptophan
10. A broken glass ashtray punctuates his Beauty No. 2, while a collaboration with John Cale
produced Women in Revolt. This creator of Sleep, Chelsea Girls, and Vinyl used the color wheel as
a model for Vesuvius , while 231 East 47th street was a famous location of his (*) Factory. Shot by
Valerie Solanas, he is remembered for depictions of Elvis, daily products like Campbell's Soup cans,
and Marylin Monroe. FTP, identify this filmmaker and artist, the central figure of American Pop Art.
ANSWER: Andy Warhol or Andrew Warhola

11. In one scene, the Rakshasa Marich tricks the protagonist's brother, while another brother
places that character's sandals on the throne after blaming Kaikeyi for the death of Dasharatha.
That protagonist ends up at the head of a varana army with (*) Hanuman, the monkey lord, as they
journey to Sri Lanka to battle the demon Ravana. Ending with the titular character's return with his
wife Sita, FTP, identify this Hindu epic about the seventh avatar of Vishnu, often attributed to Valmiki.
ANSWER: Ramyana
12. This president appointed Fred Vinson to his short term as Chief Justice, and appointed as
Secretary of War Henry Stimson. He feuded with Howard McGrath and faced corruption
allegations by Estes Kefauver, having earlier risen to power by defeating Roscoe Patterson as
part of the machine of Tom Pendergast. He (*) reorganized and integrated the military, passed the
National Security Act, and attempted a “Fair Deal” similar to his predecessor's New Deal. FTP,
identify this 33rd US president, who dropped the atomic bomb and succeeded to office following the
death Franklin Roosevelt.
ANSWER: Harry Truman
13. The document that prompted this case contained a snitch provision paying $50 for
informants, and one hundred years later it was cited by the similar D'Emden v. Pedder in
Australia. Citing George Williams, the decision stated that Congress could make laws to
constitutionally enforce express powers, the (*) elastic clause, and that a state could not interfere
with constitutional action by the Federal government, specifically the act of taxation. FTP, identify this
1819 case which outlawed a tax on the US Bank by a state whose capital is Annapolis.
ANSWER: McCulloch v. Maryland (either name, either order acceptable)
14. This man's works were popularized at the Karlsruhe Conference, and his best-known theory
was verified by Loschmidt. He succeeded where Dalton had failed after examining Gay-Lussac's
Law and distinguishing between atoms and (*) molecules, allowing him to conclude that, when
volume, temperature, and pressure are constant, molecule concentration is as well. FTP, identify this
Italian chemist whose namesake number is the amount of particles in a mole, approximately
6.022x10^23 (read: Six point zero two two times ten to the twenty-third).
ANSWER: Amedeo Avogadro
15. He pioneered the Leak Attack as a response to his rejection of the attrition strategies of the
Duke of Marlborough, seen in victories over Charles of Lorraine and Charles Soubise. This
author of the Testament Politique was forced to watch his friend Hans Katte executed by his
abusive father. He was soundly shown up by (*) J.S. Bach, but won major victories at Leuthen and
Rossbach to prompt the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. Invading Silesia following the Pragmatic Sanction,
FTP, identify this Prussian monarch, generally regarded as having been pretty good.
ANSWER: Frederick II or the Great
16. The smooth skin of these creatures excludes them from family manidae, whose only member
is the pangolin, while all varieties of this type of animal belong to the order pilosa. The smallest,
the silky, is barely a foot long while the “collared” variety are known as tamanduas. The bestknown variety have massive claws that can kill (*) jaguars but are more often used to break up dirt
mounds. FTP, name these South and Central American mammals, known for long tongues which are
often used to consume certain colony-building insects.
ANSWER: Anteaters (accept Suborder Vermilingua)

17. Artaphernes wrote following this battle that the losers were impetuous due to frustrating
strategic victories on Naxos and Euboea, and it may have occurred concurrently with a helot
rebellion, accounting for one city's absence. Afterwards, the losers attempted to sail to Phaliro,
but a quick march toward (*) Athens thwarted them. Won under the brilliance of Miltiades, FTP,
identify this 490 battle of the Persian wars, most famous for Pheidippides's 26-mile sprint to announce
the victory.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
18.This author of the play The Least of These claimed that “flood waters await us in our avenues”
in “Amazing Peace: A Christmas Poem.” The refrain of “Our Grandmothers” titles the
collection I Shall not Be Moved, while this author earlier claimed that, despite “your bitter,
twisted lies,” (*) “still I rise.” Gather Together in My Name is the sequel to her autobiography, which
is titled from a Dunbar poem. Delivering her poem “On the Pulse of Morning” at Clinton's
inauguration, FTP, name this African-American poet and author of I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
ANSWER: Maya Angelou
19. One character with this name kills Tex with an impressive display of arm strength, but still
faces constant criticism from Simmons and Griff over his pink armor, despite his assertion that
it's “light red.” Oliebollen, youtiao, Soofganiyah, and beignets are various international
incarnations of this (*) food product, which also names a driving maneuver in which the car is rapidly
spun around. Often used to describe a torus, FTP, identify these products, essentially rings of fried
dough commonly sold by Krispy Kreme or a company whose name begins with “Dunkin'.”
ANSWER: Donuts (Doughnuts)
20. One condition of this treaty involved a declaration on the slave trade, stemming from
lingering hostilities over the Creole case. Stemming from an arbitration failure by King William
I of the Netherlands, Winfield Scott's presence prompted its negotiation. Shared use of the (*)
Great Lakes were also discussed, though the primary issue involved land claims between lumberjacks
and farmers. Named for a Massachusetts senator and Secretary of State Daniel and British diplomat
Alexander Baring, FTP, identify this treaty which resolved the Aroostook War.
ANSWER: Webster-Ashburton Treaty

DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

November 2007
Packet 2:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Recent works by this author include the The Penelopiad, Oryx and Crake, and The Blind
Assassin. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Canadian author of Cat's Eye, The Robber Bride, and and a story about Offred.
ANSWER: Margaret Atwood
[10] This work, set in the oppressive male society of Gilead, tells of that titular concubine Offred. It is
Atwood's most famous.
ANSWER: The Handmaid's Tale
[10] One of Atwood's illustrated poetry collection is titled “Speeches” for this literary character, who
relates the story of his unfortunate scientific projects to Robert Walton in a Mary Shelley work.
ANSWER: Doctor Victor Frankenstein
2. Bonus: Identify these instruments, FTPE:
[10] This F-pitched double reed woodwind is featured in Rossini's William Tell overature and in the
riot-inducing “Ritual Action of the Ancestors” portion of The Rite of Spring.
ANSWER: English Horn or Cor Anglais
[10] The most common variety of this single reed woodwin is the Soprano version. Their keys are
usually arranged in the Oehler system, and they are characterized by a large pitch range and black
color.
ANSWER: Clarinet
[10] This large instrument is essentially a hybrid of a tuba and a helicon. It is named for the man
responsible for “Semper Fidelis” and “The Stars and Stripes Forever.”
ANSWER: Sousaphone
3. Bonus: Following Samuel Young's unfortunate encounter with a mosquito, his yellow fever allowed
this military unit to see action in the assault on Santiago. FTPE:
[10] Identify this military unit, active during the Spanish-American war, whose numbers famously
included Teddy Roosevelt.
ANSWER: 1st United States Volunteer Cavalry or The Rough Riders
[10] The famous “charge” up this location is not entirely historically accurate, since the unit really took
a pretty leisurely stroll up Kettle Hill, instead of riding headfirst into guns at this battle.
ANSWER: San Juan Hill
[10] Since Teddy Roosevelt had limited experience commanding troops in the field, he voluntarily
deferred his commission as first commander of the Rough Riders to this Medal of Honor recipient.
ANSWER: Leonard Wood

4. Bonus: Answer these questions about Anaximander, FTPE:
[10] Anaximander was active in Miletus as a student of this philosopher, who believe water was the
base element for all existence.
ANSWER: Thales
[10] Anaximander published a work “on” this concept, in which he expressed a forerunner of
evolutionary theory but misidentified humans as possibly being fish. This term also titles an essay
collection by Emerson which contains “Beauty,” “Discipline,” and “Idealism.”
ANSWER: Nature
[10] Though he put forth many revolutionary astronomical ideas, chiefly that there was a natural origin
of the universe, he still believed in this model of the Universe advocated by Ptolemy, which was
callenged by Nicolaus Copernicus.
ANSWER: Geocentric Model (accept word forms, prompt on “Copernican”)
5. Bonus: Identify these Jet Li movies where everyone gets beaten up, FTPE:
[10] Quentin Tarantino “presented” this retelling of the classic The Emperor and the Assassins, in
which Jet Li plays a man who ultimately decides not to kill Qin Shi Huang.
ANSWER: Hero
[10] Despite the fact that he's set to star in two more Kung Fu movies this year, every preview for this
film announced it was Jet Li's “final martial arts epic.” It tells of Huo Yuanjia, who beats people up
professionally until Chinese nationalism is restored.
ANSWER: Fearless
[10] This film, while not lacking for scenes in which Jet Li beats everyone up, had a strong dramatic
element highlighted by key roles for Morgan Freeman and Bob Hoskins. It was released
internationally as Danny the Dog.
ANSWER: Unleashed
6. Bonus: Identify these people associated with the periodic table, FTPE:
[10] The creation of the periodic table is generally credited to this Russian chemist, who also put forth
several theories about aether and anticipated the explanation of critical temperature.
ANSWER: Dmitri Mendeleev
[10] This British chemist adapted and updated Mendeleev's model through his justification of atomic
number theory.
ANSWER: Henry Moseley
[10] The addition of actinides and transuranic lanthanides to the periodic table was largely due to the
work of this Berkeley scientist, the namesake of element 106.
ANSWER: George Seaborg

7. Bonus: He was aided in his pursuit of the nymph Carna by his most famous anatomical feature.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this Roman god of doorways, beginnings, and endings, famously depicted as posessing
two faces.
ANSWER: Janus
[10] The doors of Janus's temple were kept open when Rome was at war, a reference to Janus causing a
hot spring to erupt and prevent pursuit of Romans conducting this action, depicted famously by
Giambologna.
ANSWER: Abduction or Rape of the Sabine Women (accept anything that mentions something
bad happening to the Sabines)
[10] This brother of Remus, quite significant in the founding of Rome, conducted the military actions
against the Sabines.
ANSWER: Romulus
8. Bonus: Answer these questions about the military innovations of the first of the three Japanese
unifiers, Oda Nobunaga, FTPE:
[10] Nobunaga used tactics that were revolutionary even by European standards in salvo firing of this
weapon, a smoothbore predecessor of the musket. Its name, derived from its use as a defense during
sieges, is usually translated as “hook gun.”
ANSWER: Harquebus or Hackbut or Hackbuss
[10] Oda's successor, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, used Oda's own studies of the European trace italienne to
construct this famous castle, named for Japan's second-largest city.
ANSWER: Osaka Castle (or Ozakajo)
[10] Nobunaga gained naval supremacy by fastening pieces of this metal element to the sides of his
ship. A more advanced method was used in the West to create ships like the USS Constitution.
ANSWER:: Iron
9. Bonus: Identify these authors of the American south, FTPE:
[10] One of the founders of New Criticism, this author of Blackberry Winter and At Heaven's Gate is
famous for creating Willie Stark in All the King's Men.
ANSWER: Robert Penn Warren
[10] This author of Everything that Rises Must Converge wrote a short story about a grandmother who
gets her family killed by the Misfit, “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
ANSWER: Flannery O'Connor
[10] This Georgian author of Tiger Lillies is remembered for the “The Marshes of Glynn,” “Sunrise,”
and “The Song of the Chattahoochee.”
ANSWER: Sidney Lanier

10. Bonus: It simply states that the structure of the language used by a population has a measurable
effect on the manner in which that population perceives reality. FTPE:
[10] Identify this linguistic hypothesis.
ANSWER: Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis
[10] Works like The Tempo of Growth in Fraternities and Race, Language, Culture by this Columbia
anthropologist helped inspire the hypothesis. He was a teacher of Edward Sapir, Ruth Benedict, and
numerous other major figures of twentieth century anthropology.
ANSWER: Franz Boas
[10] The idea behind the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis were examined this novel, in which Newspeak is
designed in significant part to prevent people from having revolutionary thoughts by depriving them of
corresponding revolutionary language. It was written by George Orwell.
ANSWER: 1984
11. Bonus: Answer these questions about the science of sleep, FTPE:
[10] Stage N2 of sleep is characterized K-Complexes and by these bursts in brain activity. This kind of
fiber plays an important role during cell division, pulling chromosomes apart.
ANSWER: Sleep Spindles
[10] These sleep waves, named for a letter of the Greek alphabet, are associated with deep sleep,
specifically stages three and four. They register as two hertz or less on an EEG.
ANSWER: Delta Waves
[10] Sleep can be more generally divided into two stages based on whether or not this property is
exhibited. It is associated with neural activity similar to that during waking hours, and can be inhibited
by antidepressants.
ANSWER: Rapid Eye Movement Sleep
12. Bonus: Answer these questions about the geography of Hell, FTSNOP:
[10] John Milton cites this city as Satan's capital in Hell, where it is administrated by Mammon and
Beelzebub. It is roughly derived from words meaning “all demons” and means chaos or disorder in
modern usage.
ANSWER: Pandaemonium
[10] Active sins like heresy and suicide earn you a spot in this city of the dead in the sixth circle of hell.
Its walls are guarded by self-immolating fallen angels with giant weapons.
ANSWER: Dis
[5,5] F5PE, these two works of literature, by Milton and Dante respectively, describe the two cities.
ANSWER: Paradise Lost and The Divine Comedy (or The Inferno)
13. Bonus: Name these South American Rivers, FTPE:
[10] This river, whose drainage basin is the largest in the world, is the namesake of a really big South
American rainforest. Tributaries include the Madeira and the Rio Negro.
ANSWER: Amazon River
[10] Sete Quedas Falls and Itaipu Dam are found on this River, which later meats the Paraguay. It is
not named for a carnivorous fish.
ANSWER: Parana River
[10] The Parana and the Uruguay rivers meet to form this river, which saw the sinking of the Graf
Spee. It contains Isla Martin Garcia.
ANSWER: Rio de la Plata or the River Plate

14. Bonus: Answer these questions about the assassination of Julius Caesar, FTPE:
[10] This man's dagger plunge prompted Caesar to supposedly utter the phrase “et tu,” because he
considered this co-conspirator of Cassius a close friend.
ANSWER: Marcus Junius Brutus
[10] Following the assassination, Brutus was out-orated by this former tribune and chief lieutenant of
Caesar, who turned public opinion against the assassins.
ANSWER: Mark Antony or Marcus Antonius
[10] Admiral Ahenobarbus's timely maneuvering could not prevent Brutus and Cassius from losing at
this battle, the final victory for the Second Triumvirate over the conspirators.
ANSWER: Battle of Philippi
15. Bonus: His last work was a two-volume novel about the romance between Sylvie and Bruno.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this British writer, whose other works include “The Hunting of the Snark,” Pillow
Problems, and numerous distressing photographs of partially-clothed young girls.
ANSWER: Lewis Carroll or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson
[10] Carroll is best known for documenting the adventures of this character, based on the young Miss
Liddell, who encounters such characters as the Mad Hatter and the White Rabbit.
ANSWER: Alice
[10] Carroll somehow managed to introduce a number of words into actual English in this utterly
ridiculous poem, which details a monster that is even more terrifying than a Bandersnatch.
ANSWER: Jabberwocky
16. Bonus: Pencil and paper ready. Simplify each of the following logarithmic expressions, FTPE.
Your answer may still contain a logarithm.
[10] 3 * log(2) [read: “three times log two”]
ANSWER: log(8) [because 3*log(2) = log(2^3) = log(8)]
[10] log(8) – log(4) [log eight minus log four]
ANSWER: log(2) [because log(8)–log(4) = log(8/4) = log(2)]
[10] log(1) [log one]
ANSWER: 0
17. Bonus: Answer these questions about farming and government in Russia, FTPE:
[10] This system created representative groups based around farming villages, several of which were
organized into volosts. This term, meaning “peace” or “world,” was also applied to a Russian space
station.
ANSWER: Mir
[10] The Mir system was eventually reorganized into this system of expanded representation under the
direction of Nicholas Milyutin as part of Alexander II's reforms. Three-quarters of the council were
noblemen despite the fact that the aristocracy comprised less than two percent of the population.
ANSWER: Zemstvo
[10] This man sought to use the collective farming tradition of the mir and zemstvo systems to
industrialize Russia as part of his five year plans. He became head of the Soviet Union following the
death of Lenin, and led the country during World War II.
ANSWER: Joseph Stalin (or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzughashvili)

18. Bonus: A famous study of these insects resulted in important genetics information by mapping the
incidence of white-eyed versus red-eyed specimens. FTPE:
[10] Identify these insects.
ANSWER: Drosophila Melanogaster or Fruit Flies (prompt on just “Flies”)
[10] This winner of the 1933 Nobel Prize in Medicine and author of The Scientific Basis of Evolution
conducted the famous drosophila experiments.
ANSWER: Thomas Hunt Morgan
[10] Morgan drew on theories by Huge De Vries about this kind of genetic phenomenon, which can
come in missence, silence, point, and frameshift varieties.
ANSWER: Mutations
19. Bonus: Name these works of art that exemplify certain important words form art history, FTPE:
[10] The technique of sfumato, the use of overlaid colors to create depth and volume, is typified by the
background and dark-haired central figure of this Leonardo da Vinci work, also known as La
Giaconda. It's ridiculously famous.
ANSWER: Mona Lisa
[10] Like pretty much every Caravaggio work, this scene depicting Jesus pointing at a certain tax
collector applies chiaroscuro, extreme contrast between light and dark, to create the so-called “Baroque
Moment.”
ANSWER: The Calling of Saint Matthew
[10] Probably the most famous work of the De Stijl movement is Piet Mondrian work, which looks like
an overhead of a bunch of poorly-placed legos. It is currently housed in the Museum of Modern Art,
and has a title referencing New York.
ANSWER: Broadway Boogie-Woogie
20. Bonus: This man's “Amusing Myself” is about drinking wine, while “Seeing Off a Friend” and
“Autumn Air” discuss his many interpretations of wine FTPE:
[10] Identify this raging alcoholic and legend of Chinese literature, whose poems like Drinking Alone
by Moonlight became unfortunately descriptive when he drowned, extremely drunk, trying to kiss the
moon's reflection in a lake at night.
ANSWER: Li Bai or Bo or Po
[10] Li Bai, Wang Wei, and Du Fu were poetic legends of Chinese literature during this dynasty, often
called a golden age of Chinese cultural achievement. It was briefly interrupted by Wu Zetain and
famously had its capital at Chang'an.
ANSWER: Tang Dynasty
[10] This fascist lunatic transliterated a Li Bai work to create “River Merchant's Wife.” He also wrote
the Cantos.
ANSWER: Ezra Pound

