DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

November 2007
Packet 1:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. One part of this document consists of a series of questions presaged by “Again-”, and it begins
by quoting Jesus's affirmation that all life should be repentance, but asserting that said
repentance is internal and not related to the sacraments. George Rorer transcribed it, and Philip
(*) Melancthon wrote of the famous act associated with this document, which was inspired by Johannes
Tetzel's sale of indulgences. Forcing its author to appear before the Diet Of Worms, FTP, identify this
list of complaints that sparked the Reformation, nailed to a Wittenberg church by Martin Luther.
ANSWER: The Ninety-Five Theses on the Power of Indulgences
2. The only one of these with a peptide structure is systemin, while salicylic acid can fulfill this
role when it acts as part of immune response. One regulates EIN2 and is produced by
methionine, while another is created by the plastid. In addition to ethylene and abscisic acid,
which regulates (*) bud formation, they include cytokinins, which influence shoot formation.
Phototropism and seed germination are governed by auxins and gibberellins, examples of, FTP, what
kind of hormones, named for the autotrophic kingdom in which they are found?
ANSWER: Plant Hormones (prompt on partial before “Hormones,” accept just Plant after)
3. This novel opens as the primary character hitches a ride on a truck with a “No Riders” sign,
having just been released from the McAlester for accidentally murdering someone. The rabidly
moral Jim Casy ends up going to jail in place of the main character, and becomes a staunch (*)
labor supporter. Al, who loves Agnes, Winfield, and Rose of Sharon, who breastfeeds a starving man,
belong to the central family. Telling of Ma, Pa, and Tom Joad, FTP, name this work about migrant
workers by John Steinbeck.
ANSWER: The Grapes of Wrath
4. Ancestral Africans in this nation are represented by the One Future party, while the Green
party was robbed of the 2% necessary to gain seats in this nation's legislature due to the procannabis “Green Leaf” party stealing votes. Balad was the smallest party to gain seats in a
legislature dominated by the Energy, (*) Forward, and Consolidation parties, better known as
Meretz, Kadima, and Likud. The Knesset is the legislature in, FTP, what country whose leaders have
included Ehud Olmert and Ariel Sharon, with capital at Jerusalem?
ANSWER: Israel
5. In some Renaissance music it is described in terms of the tactus, or heartbeat, while in late
styles it is sometimes defined by a type of dance. Changes in it can be described as allargando,
rubato, (*) ritardando, or accelerando. For ten points, identify this musical term from the Italian for
“time,” examples of which include marcato, moderato, lento, adagio, and andante, that denotes the
speed of a piece.
ANSWER: Tempo (prompt on “speed” or equivalents)

6. One ruler with this name and number entered France into the Quadruple Alliance and
presided over la Regence while Louis XV was underage. Another won the Battle of Bouvines
against John Lackland and had a homosexual affair with Richard I, whom he accompanied on
the Third Crusade. That (*) Capetian, called “Augustus,” shared this designation with the subject of
an attack by Demosthenes and father of Alexander the Great, the one “of Macedon.” FTP, give this
name and number shared by the Spanish king who built the Escorial and sent the Armada in 1588.
ANSWER: Phillip II (prompt on partial answer)
7.The density of this property times a constant comprises its divergence theorem, which itself is
paired with the delta operator in Gauss's Law. It is discussed along with mass and angular
momentum in the (*) No Hair theorem, while is applicability to the magnetic force is the subject of
magnetic monopole theory. It can be calculated with a surface integral from a Gaussian surface, and its
discrete nature was proven by the Oil-Drop experiment. Measured in Coulombs, FTP, identify this
property which is generally +1 for protons and -1 for electrons.
ANSWER: Electric Charge
8. One character in this work derides those who put their faith in a boy's love, a horse's health, or
a whore's oath. A minor character, Oswald, dies after calling someone “dunghill,” while another
character disguises himself as Caius after a marriage involving the King of France. One main
character (*) refuses to “heave [her] heart into [her] mouth” and loses a flattery contests to her sisters,
Reagan and Goneril. Telling of the tragic fate of Cordelia, FTP, identify this Shakespeare play about
the titular monarch's decision to divide his kingdom.
ANSWER: King Lear
9. Its most commonly misdiagnosed varieties are undifferentiated and residual, which exhibit
symptoms largely outside Kurt Schneider's first-rank classification system for this condition.
Negative symptoms like avolition and alogia often present in the (*) catatonic variety, though the
better-known disorganized and paranoid type are characterized by delusions and hallucinations. John
Nash suffered from, FTP, what psychiatric disorder named from the Greek for “split mind?”
ANSWER: Schizophrenia
10. This figure's father may have been the Lydian Tmolus, and thus a shrine to him was found on
Sipylus, as well as at Argos. He became an accessory to golden dog theft by Pandareus, and was
descended from Demeter through his mother Plouto. He fathered the ugly engraver Broteas with
Dione, as well as the founder of the (*) House of Atreus, whose shoulder was consumed by the gods.
FTP, identify this father of Niobe and Pelops who was condemned to face an eternity of food and drink
just out of his reach.
ANSWER: Tantalus
11. Before being supplanted by the Diarisso dynasty, rulers of this kingdom like Bassi and Tunka
Menin resisted a jihad by Abu Bakr ibn Umar's Almoravids. Its capital was divided into a
mercantile and royal section, known as El-Ghaba, and was tied to the ancestral tradition of the
Soninke people. That capital, (*) Kumbi Saleh, took advantage of salt and gold deposits to become a
center of West African trade. Eventually supplanted by the Mali Empire, FTP, identify this African
kingdom that shares its name with a modern day country whose capital is Accra.
ANSWER: Ghana

12. After performing a musical number this character is attacked with an iron bar, which
bounces off of him and later grows into a pivotal structure. His own realm contains the Wood
Between the Worlds, and in one scene he slashes Aravis's back, prompting the repeated assertion
that he isn't tame. His namesake (*) How, home to the Stone Table, was the scene of his sacrifice at
the hands of the White Witch, after which he rose from the dead like the figure his character is based
on. FTP, identify this C.S Lewis character, a giant, Jesus-like lion from The Chronicles of Narnia.
ANSWER: Aslan
13. Its interaction with hydrogen iodide as a part of a certain cycle can create large amounts of
“clean” hydrogen, while it was first produced industrially via the lead chamber process. It is
primarily used to create phosphoric acid and its production is often used as an (*) economic
indicator. A vanadium catalyst is used in the contact process to create this substance, once called oil of
vitriol. FTP, identify this strong acid with formula H2SO4.
ANSWER: Sulfuric Acid
14. This president appointed the first Secretary of the interior, Thomas Ewing. He exploited a
split Democratic party to defeat William Butler and Lewis Cass with his running mate, the
comptroller of New York. That election also saw a victory of Free Soil candidate Martin Van
Buren and took advantage of this man's attire at the (*) Battle of Lake Okeechobee, which earned
this commander at Monterrey and Buena Vista the moniker “Old Rough and Ready. FTP, identify this
twelfth US President, who succeeded Polk and was succeeded by Fillmore after dying in office.
ANSWER: Zachary Taylor
15. The portion of this work showing a group on horseback with a lone tower in the background
is known as The Just Judges and was stolen in 1954. The smallest portion depicts Cain's murder
of Abel, while Saint Cecilia plays the organ for a concert of angels. Saint Christopher leads
hermits and pilgrims toward the (*) central scene, above which Jesus sits enthroned flanked by Mary
and John the Baptist. Depicting the Adoration of the Lamb, FTP, identify this altarpiece by Jan van
Eyck, named for a town in Belgium that saw a treaty ending the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Ghent Altarpiece (or Adoration of the Mystic Lamb or The Lamb of God)
16. Though it isn't Russia, the founder of this country's literary vernacular wrote The Madman's
Diary, as well as The True Story of Ah Q. The estrangement of this country's only Nobel
Laureate, the author of Dark City, The Other Shore, and (*) Soul Mountain, and the crackdown
following the Hundred flowers campaign damaged a heritage that includes Water Margin, Dream of
the Red Chamber, Journey to the West, and Romance of the Three Kingdoms. FTP, identify this home
of Lu Xun, Gao Xingjian, and the author of The Little Red Book, Mao Zedong.
ANSWER: China (accept any variant, like People's Republic or Republic)
17. At its center is a landmass named for a pioneer in the field of lobotomy, Ford Island, and its
lease was one condition of the Reciprocity Treaty. Supported by Bellows and Hickam fields, its
Barber's point and Opana station were the first, following the phrase “Climb Mount (*) Niitaka,”
to be targeted by Shigekazu's bombers. Home of the monument to the USS Arizona, FTP, identify this
Hawaiian inlet whose attack on December 7, 1941 by Japan prompted America to enter World War II.
ANSWER: Pearl Harbor

18. Its propensity to attract certain atoms was lowered by Feshbach Resonance, while its wave
function is mapped by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. It took seventy years for Carl Weiman and
Eric Cornell, who used a rubidium catalyst while working at (*) UC-Boulder, to create this
substance, for which they won the 2001 Nobel. Achieved by confining bosons and causing atoms to
collapse to the lowest quantum level, its temperature comes extremely close to absolute zero. FTP,
identify this state of matter named for an Indian physicist and the formulator of the theory of relativity.
ANSWER: Bose-Einstein Condensate
19. Cherksy Mountain is the highest peak in this entity's namesake mountain range to its north,
the source of the Lena River. The Uda, Kilokh, Chikoy, Barguzin, and Selenga rivers all feed
this body, as does the Angara, a tributary of the Yenisei. Olkhon island is at the center of this (*)
Lake, by volume the largest freshwater lake. Called “the blue eye of Siberia,” FTP, identify this
Russian lake, the deepest lake in the world.
ANSWER: Lake Baikal
20. This author of the poetry collections Flower of Key and Playful Evil wrote of a father's plot to
prostitute his daughter to a rich, dying nobleman in The Turn and of the empowered Marta in
The Excluded Women. Vitangelo is the protagonist of One, No One and One Hundred Thousand,
while this author of Tonight we Improvise wrote of a (*) concussion victim who believes his the
titular king, Enrico IV. Madame Pace joins actors trying to perform a play in the best known work of,
FTP, what Italian Nobel Laureate who wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
ANSWER: Luigi Pirandello

DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

November 2007
Packet 1:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: The Long Range is the northernmost extension of this mountain range. FTPE:
[10] Identify this range found on the east coast of the United States, which contains peaks like Mount
Katahdin.
ANSWER: Appalachian Mountains
[10] The namesake of this peak, the highest in the Appalachians, fell to his death while double
checking its height.
ANSWER: Mount Mitchell
[10] This southern region of the Appalachians separates Tennessee from North Carolina, and is named
for the characteristic hazy appearance of the peaks.
ANSWER: Great Smoky Mountains
2. Bonus: Perform these multi-topic mathematical operations, FTPE:
[10] The atomic number of oxygen times the number of Palladio's books of architecture.
ANSWER: 32 (8x4)
[10] The number of Roman emperors who ruled from 68-69 CE plus the number of laws of
electromagnetism presented by Heaviside and named for James Clerk Maxwell.
ANSWER: 8 (4+4)
[10] The number of samurai in an Akira Kurosawa film divided by the number of gables on a house
described by Nathaniel Hawthorn.
ANSWER: 1 (7/7)
3. Bonus: They are named for their formulator, who discussed them in The Atom and the Molecule.
FTPE:
[10] Identify these diagrams that demonstrate bonding in molecules between atoms and lone pairs,
named for an American chemist.
ANSWER: Lewis Dot Diagrams
[10] Lewis Diagrams are said to depict one of these structures when the bonding possibilities are
superimposed on one another and the average of the various possibilities is used as the Lewis structure.
ANSWER: Resonance Structure
[10] Lewis structures, and the molecular bonding patterns they depict, are the foundation of this model
for predicting molecular structure. Though developed by Gillespie and Nyholm, it is better known by a
five-letter acronym.
ANSWER: Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion Theory (often pronounced “vesper”)

4. Bonus: Identify these Stuart monarchs, FTPE:
[10] The Exclusion Bill was passed after lunatics Israel Tonge and Titus Oakes made up the Popish
Plot, an alleged coup attempt against this ruler, restored to the throne following rule by people named
Cromwell.
ANSWER: Charles II
[10] The Popish Plot, had it been real, would have sought to replace Charles with this much more
Catholic brother, who indeed succeeded him in 1685.
ANSWER: James II
[10] The Act of Settlement was passed to ensure Hanoverian succession of this last Stuart monarch,
whose reign also saw the War of the Spanish Succession and the Act of Union.
ANSWER: Anne I
5. Bonus: Identify these buildings in which music is notably played, FTPE:
[10] Jorn Utzon designed this southern hemisphere building, noted for its fan-like projections.
ANSWER: Sydney Opera House
[10] Salieri was the first composer whose music was exhibited at this very famous Milan opera house.
ANSWER: La Scala (Teatro alla Scala)
[10] This Charles Garnier building opened in 1875. Marc Chagall painted the ceiling in 1964, and an
unfortunate event with a chandelier in this building inspired a Gaston Leroux novel.
ANSWER: Paris Opera House
6. Bonus: Supply the method by which these literary characters meet their untimely demise, FTPE:
[10] Ophelia from Shakespeare's Hamlet.
ANSWER: Drowning (accept equivalents)
[10] Beowulf. From Beowulf.
ANSWER: Eaten/Impaled/Scorched by a Gigantic Dragon
[10] Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter in Edgar Allan Poe's “Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
ANSWER: Death by Orangutan (specifically, killed with a razor and strangled, respectively)
7. Bonus: Identify these famous plays from football history, FTPE:
[10] Future paralyzer Jack Tatum smashed John Fuqua, but Terry Bradshaw's pass fell right into the
hands of Franco Harris, who scored a touchdown as the Steelers beat the Raiders. Its name references a
certain theological concept.
ANSWER: The Immaculate Reception
[10] The simple act committed by Dwight Clark upon an amazing Joe Montana pass gives this play,
which sent the 49ers to the Super Bowl instead of the Cowboys, its terse name.
ANSWER: The Catch
[10] Joe Pisarcik's terrible attempt to give the ball to Larry Csonka led to Herm Edwards returning a
fumble for a touchdown on this play, which derives its name from the New York Giants home stadium.
ANSWR: The Miracle at the Meadowlands

8. Bonus: Varieties of these particles include the lambda, omega, sigma, delta, and xi. FTPE:
[10] Name this class of particles that consist of exactly three quarks, whose notable members include
protons and neutrons.
ANSWER: Baryons
[10] Baryons and mesons form this larger class of composite particles, referring to any particles made
of quarks and interacting via the strong force.
ANSWER: Hadrons
[10] Quarks form hadrons due to this phenomenon that prevents their existence as free particles;
instead, they must cluster to form particles with neutral color charge.
ANSWER: Color Confinement
9. Bonus: Given a list of twentieth-century rulers, identify the western hemisphere country, FTPE:
[10] Leonel Reyna, Horacio Vasques, Rafael Trujillo.
ANSWER: Dominican Republic
[10] Francisco Madero, Victoriano Huerta, Venustiano Carranza, Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana.
ANSWER: Mexico
[10] Alfonso Pena, Jose Linhares, Getulio Vargas, Luiz Lula da Silva.
ANSWER: Brazil
10. Bonus: He was the third son of King David. FTPE:
[10] Identify this man who fled to Talmai after organizing the death Amnon, whose name appears
twice in the title of a Faulkner novel.
ANSWER: Absalom
[10] Amnon's rape of this sister of Absalom prompted the latter to commit murder.
ANSWER: Tamar
[10] Absalom ended up hanging from his hair in a tree following his failed rebellion, where he was
unceremoniously speared multiple times by this man.
ANSWER: Joab
11. Bonus: His final novel depicts a flirtatious, gay professor probably based on Allan Bloom. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Canadian-American Nobel Prize winner, famous for works like Henderson the Rain
King and Herzog.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
[10] Published after The Dangling Man and The Victim, this breakout Bellow work is a pseudopicaresque novel and centers on the titular brother of Simon and Georgie.
ANSWER: The Adventures of Augie March
[10] Failed actor Tommy Wilhelm is the subject of Bellow's Seize the Day, which takes its title from a
poem of this famous Roman, who wrote the Ars Poetica and The Song of the Ages.
ANSWER: Horace or Quintus Horatius Flaccus

12. Bonus: It has been evaluated through the Wepplo, Hicklin, and Roth-Jacobellis tests. FTPE:
[10] Identify this legal concept, of which Potter Stewart famously declared “I know it when I see it.”
ANSWER: Obscenity (synonyms don't work)
[10] The famous three-pronged analysis method for classifying material as obscene was delivered in
Miller v. California by this chief justice, who succeeded Earl Warren and was himself succeeded by
William Rehnquist.
ANSWER: Warren Burger
[10] The supreme court struck down almost all of the Communications Decency Act when it ruled in a
case involving Janet Reno and this famous organization dedicated to protecting individual rights in
America.
ANSWER: American Civil Liberties Union
13. Bonus: Identify these astronomical objects, FTPE:
[10] Sometimes also bearing the name of first theorizer Kenneth Edgeworth, this region containing
numerous asteroids, small bodies, and Pluto lies outside of Neptune's orbit.
ANSWER: The Kuiper Belt
[10] This region, which lies a really, really long way from the Sun, has an inner portion known as the
Hills region. It is hypothesized to be the source of long-period comets and is named for a Dutch
astronomer.
ANSWER: Oort Cloud
[10] Kirkwood gaps are holes in this region, which lies between Mars and Jupiter. Vesta, Ceres, and
Pallas are among the largest of its members, which are basically just space rocks of various sizes.
ANSWER: The Asteroid Belt
14. Bonus: The protagonist of this story is Eugene Gant, who inhabits a town likely based on the
author's own Asheville, North Carolina. FTPE:
[10] Identify this first novel by the author of The Web and the Rock.
ANSWER: Look Homeward, Angel
[10] This author's ridiculously long October Fair was sliced up to become a number of much more
concise works, including You Can't Go Home Again and Of Time and the River. He wrote Look
Homeward, Angel.
ANSWER: Thomas Wolfe (Tom Wolfe is not correct, prompt on Wolfe)
[10] This poet's Lycidas, written to commemorate the death of Edward King, provided the title for
Look Homeward, Angel.
ANSWER: John Milton
15. Bonus: Identify the author of these philosophical treatises on a 15-10 basis:
[15] The Problems of Philosophy, Why I Am Not a Christian.
[10] 1913 Principia Mathematica, with Alfred North Whitehead.
ANSWER: Bertrand Russell
[15] Florentine Histories, Discourses on Livy.
[10] The Prince.
ANSWER: Niccolo Machiavelli

16. Bonus: Answer these questions about the immune system, FTPE:
[10] Also called leukocytes, these bodies are the primary defense mechanism of the immune system.
They are usually contrasted with their oxygen-carrying red counterparts.
ANSWER: White Blood Cells
[10] This letter is used to classify lymphocytes, themselves a class of white blood cells. They can be of
the 1, 2, plasma, or memory variety, and often work in conjunction with T cells.
ANSWER: B Lymphocytes
[10] These cytokine proteins come in type I, type II, and type III varieties and generally work by
inhibiting viral replication, the action from which their name is derived. They are crucial in fighting
RNA viruses.
ANSWER: Interferons
17. Bonus: A shoe flies through the air as two creepy-looking French aristocrats surround a pink-clad
girl in this 1767 work. FTPE:
[10] Identify this painting which takes place in a garden filled with angel statues.
ANSWER: The Swing
[10] This painter of Young Girl Painting and The Captured Kiss painted The Swing.
ANSWER: Jean-Honore Fragonard
[10] Fragonard was a leading artist of this movement, whose name derives from the French for “shell.”
Other members include Watteau and Boucher.
ANSWER: Rococo
18. Bonus: Identify these directional names from literature, FTPE:
[10] This Percy Shelly poem addresses the title phenomenon as “thou breath of autumn's being.”
ANSWER: Ode to the West Wind
[10] This James Michener collection, later made into a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, is set on
and around Vanatu and follows the lives of American sailors during World War II.
ANSWER: Tales of the South Pacific (“South Pacific” is the musical, not the collection)
[10] The Hamilton and Trask families form the basis of this novel set in the Salinas Valley of
California.
ANSWER: East of Eden (by John Steinbeck)
19. Bonus: Among his first military actions was a defense of Fort Sullivan under William Moultrie.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this winner at the Battle of Mingo Creek, a guerrilla leader from the Revolutionary War,
commonly known as the “Swamp Fox.”
ANSWER: Francis Marion
[10] Marion was formally commissioned as the commander of South Carolina troops by John Rutledge,
who would later become the second man to hold this position, in which he himself would be succeeded
by Oliver Ellsworth.
ANSWER: Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court
[10] During the Siege of Savannah, Marion served under Benjamin Lincoln, who played a key role in
suppressing this rebellion of Massachusetts farmers in 1787.
ANSWER: Shays' Rebellion

20. Bonus: This subject of the speech “In Toga Candida” served with distinction during the Social
War. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Roman, namesake of a famous conspiracy to bring down the senate.
ANSWER: Catiline or Lucius Sergius Catilina
[10] Catiline's actions, whether they actually occurred or not, were nonetheless consistently denounced
by this famous Roman orator, who ended up beheaded at the order of Marc Antony.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero
[10] Catiline's conspiracy might have worked if not for the treachery of a group of Allobroges, an
envoy of barbarians from this province in present-day France that saw rulers like Vercingetorix.
ANSWER: Gaul

