DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

November 2007
Packet 3:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. Women were systematically enslaved by these people through the Chosen Women system, and
other cultural distinctions include the empowering of huaca totems. Their conscripted labor
system, the mit'a, was adopted by invaders who won at Puna and later took advantage of a civil
war to win the Battle of (*) Cajamarca. Its twilight saw the power of Huayna Capac fought over by
Huascar and Atahualpa. FTP, identify this South American civilization defeated by Pizarro, who were
active at Arequipa, Cuzco, Manchu Pichu, and other places in Peru.
ANSWER: Incan Empire
2. Pioneer 10 is pointed at the alpha star of this constellation, and John Flamsteed did not receive
credit for discovering Uranus because he classified it as a star here. Teide 1, the first verified
Brown Dwarf, is in this constellation, which in 1054 saw a supernova whose remnants formed the
(*) Crab nebula. Also containing the Hyades and Pleiades, its beta star is Elnath. Containing the
extremely bright Aldebaran, FTP, identify this constellation named for its resemblance to a bull.
ANSWER: Taurus
3. Eastern tributaries of this river include the Prut, Siret, and Arges, while one of its largest is the
Inn. It is pan-European corridor XII, and a major hydroelectric dam is located on its Iron Gate.
Flood management is accomplished by links with the Tisza and (*) Rhine, while its source is the
Brigach river in the Black Forest. The cities of Vukovar, Bratislava, Linz, Passau, Budapest, and
Vienna lie on the banks of, FTP, what second-longest European river that empties into the Black Sea
and was the subject of waltzes by Johann Strauss.
ANSWER: Danube or Donau
4. This author's tale of Gabrielle Leggett's involvement in a cult, The Dain Curse, touched on
surreal themes and introduced a man sharing a profession with Mickey Linehan and Bob Teal,
the Continental Op. That man becomes involved in a labor dispute involving Elihu Willson in
Red Harvest, while (*) Nick and Nora Charles investigate a disappearance in his The Thin Man.
Known for his relationship with Lilian Hellman and tale of the titular avian figurine, FTP, identify this
creator of Sam Spade and author of “hardboiled” mystery works like The Maltese Falcon.
ANSWER: (Samuel) Dashiell Hammett
5. In act two, one character refuses Clara's request to skip work, while Maria chides another
character for his illegal activities and Frazier conducts mock divorces. Peter returns from
prison to find one of the protagonists ill shortly after Serena is appalled by Sportin' Life's antireligious (*) “It ain't necessarily so.” One of this opera's title figures is jailed for contempt after the
murders of Robbins and Crown, after which he leaves for New York to find his love. FTP, identify this
George Gershwin opera about the titular lovers, set on Catfish Row.
ANSWER: Porgy and Bess

6. The Hilbert-Polya conjecture speculates that one over this quantity plus i times a real number
are Riemann operators, and according to Dirac's theorem a graph is Hamiltonian if each vertex
has a degree of at least n over this value. In the (*) quadratic formula, the numerator is divided by
this quantity times a, and unsurprisingly dividing a perimeter by this value yields a semiperimeter.
FTP, identify this numerical value which yields the area of a triangle when it divides the base times the
height.
ANSWER: 2
7. This figure is known as “the Good” in a country in which he re-established the Diet and issued
native currency, The Marrka. Despite his friendliness toward Finland, his “No Dreams” speech
prompted the January Uprising, after which he banned Ukrainian in the Ems Ukase. His
brother (*) Konstantin was the architect of his most famous act, while his establishment of the Okrana
prompted the People's Will to assassinate this czar in 1881. Known for freeing the serfs among his
other reforms, FTP, name this successor of Nicholas I, who was himself succeeded by Alexander III.
ANSWER: Alexander II Nikolaevich
8. When this phenomenon involves spherical or cylindrical particles, it is sometimes named for
Gustav Mie. When density variations act on protons, the Brillouin form occurs, while another
famous form is typically of the “vibrational” variety. Evaluated through the use of an S-Matrix
and mapped by (*) Feynman diagrams, change in energy determines whether it is elastic or inelastic,
and another form accounts for the blue color of the sky. Raman, Rayleigh, and Compton are forms of,
FTP, what phenomenon in which radiated particles deviate from a straight, set path?
ANSWER: (Electromagnetic) Scattering
9. One character in this work provides a vivid description of Dilmun that prompts the
protagonist to pass between two mountains that are guarded by scorpion demons, after which he
encounters Siduri. An earlier scene centers around the Cedar Forest, where the 13 winds and the
Axe of the Heroes are used to defeat (*) Humbaba by the protagonist and his companion, a wild man
who is killed by the Bull of Heaven after the title figure rejects Ishtar. Seeing the death of Enkidu and
the titular king of Uruk's failed quest for immortality, FTP, name this Mesopotamian epic.
ANSWER: Epic of Gilgamesh
10. His big break came with Afrika Islam and DJ Aladdin on Rhyme Plays, produced by Sire
Records. Often overlooked is his anti-homophobic “The Tower” and anti-racist “Momma's
Gotta Die Tonight” in favor of his more controversial band, Body Count. The voice of Mad Dogg
in San Andreas, his most famous lyrics claim that he “know[s] your family's (*) grieving” but
declares an intent to “get even.” Noted for the controversial song “Cop Killer,” FTP, identify this
rapper who recently hosted “rap school” and stars as Fin Tutuola on Law and Order: SVU.
ANSWER: Ice T or Tracy Marrow
11. Paraspeckles can form a crescent mass on this structure, whose organizer region was
described by McClintock. It is notably not membrane-bound*, but is surrounded by condensed
chromatin. Cajal bodies often attach to this organelle, whose other regions include the DFC and
the granular component. Enzymes like RNaseP carry out its primary function, for which (*)
rDNA is abundant in this structure. Key in ribosome synthesis, FTP, identify this spherical body
within the nucleus, usually visible as a dark spot.
ANSWER: Nucleolus (prompt on “Nucleus” or “Nuclear Envelope” before *)

12. The defenders arrayed themselves as a large square, which withstood several cavalry charges
directed at their commander. The victorious commander in this battle, detailed in the Mozarbic
chronicle, was drawn into conflict out of a desire to absorb the lands of Odo the Great, and it
may have turned when the attackers fled to secure their lootings, leaving (*) Abd-al-Rahman to be
slaughtered by forces under “The Hammer.” Leading to the rise of the Carolingians, FTP, name this
732 battle fought in France in which Charles Martel halted Muslim expansion in Western Europe.
ANSWER: Battle of Tours
13. This mythological figure is sometimes used in examining military history, since later periods
identified its most famous foe as carrying the newly-practical bronze sword. Alternatively cited
as a child of Selene, it ended up in Argolis, and frustrated an attempt to fulfill Eurystheus's
commands until (*) Athena recommended using its own claws. Turned into a cloak for its slayer due
to its ability to resist being beaten with a giant tree, FTP, identify this offspring of Typhon and Echidna
and subject of Heracles's first labor, a large feline with an impenetrable hide.
ANSWER: The Nemean Lion
14. Two barred, crescent windows are visible at back left, above three stooped figures ascending
a staircase. A blue and brown-clad man faces a wall, while a figure in red stands between a torch
and some chains. Twelve men join the title figure, a reference to the (*) Last Supper, but only the
orange-clad seated figure appears calm, resting his hand on the title figure's knee. Depicting a man
gesturing toward Heaven while accepting a chalice of Hemlock, FTP, identify this canvas by JacquesLouis David depicting the demise of a Greek philosopher and teacher of Plato.
ANSWER: The Death of Socrates
15. In this work, a conversation about Lord Fellamar is interrupted by Blifil's accusations that
the title character is a murderer. Begun after its author was banned from creating political
dramas, another scene sees Partridge discover that Jenny is impersonating Mrs. Waters.
Deborah Wilkins is initially tasked with (*) caring for the title character, who falls in love with
Sophia Western after being abandoned as a baby with Squire Allworthy. FTP, identify this early
British novel centering on the titular foundling, written by Henry Fielding.
ANSWER: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
16. One type of cell found in this organ is a macrophage rich in CRIg known as Browicz-Kuppfer
Cells, which destroy another type of cell. A collagen sheath called Glisson's capsule encapsulates
this organ, described by the Couinard system, while Ito cells are found in the Spaces of Disse,
which border sinusoids within it. Rich in (*) peroxisomes, it emulsifies lipids to create bile.
Divided into lobes, it is the largest internal organ. Hepatitis and Cirrhosis chiefly affect, FTP, what
large, reddish organ of the human body?
ANSWER: The Liver
17. Rarer interpretations identify this figure with Kosmartydene, and one relative of this figure
was responsible for the deaths of Bigthan and Teresh, for which that man is given royal
garments. The death of Abihail orphaned this biblical figure, who rose to prominence following
Vashti's (*) refusal to appear naked before Ahasuerus's advisor's. Also called Hadassah, her actions
following the construction of a 75-foot structure are celebrated on the 13th of Adar as Purim. FTP,
identify this cousin of Mordechai who saved the Jews from Haman.
ANSWER: Esther (accept Hadassah early, prompt on “Myrtle”)

18. H.V. Morton's transcription errors may have delayed it, while mainstream critics of the
Morgenthau plan cited the policy as a direct contradiction to this entity. A product of Operation
Riviera, the Bretton Woods conference used its free trade and global economic (*) cooperation
provisions as a frame for creating the IMF and World Bank. Also declaring mandatory disarmament
and rejecting expansionism, it was drafted on the USS Augusta in the namesake body of water. FTP,
identify this 1941 agreement between Churchill and Roosevelt, named for an ocean.
ANSWER: Atlantic Charter (or Conference)
19. This man's time as youth director of Operation Breadbasket led him to found the National
Youth Movement, while he would found the National Action Network ten years before his jail
term following the Vieques protests. An FBI sting heavily implicated this man in a money
laundering operation tied to (*) boxing matches, and in 2007 it was revealed that Strom Thurmond's
ancestor owned this man's great-grandfather. Running in the 2004 Democratic primary, FTP, identify
this frequent collaborator of Jesse Jackson, an African American activist and Baptist minister.
ANSWER: Alfred Charles “Al” Sharpton
20. George Stransom meditates on death in one of this author's tales, while in another the
narrator encounters Juliana and Miss Tita in Venice while searching for the titular documents.
This author of The Altar of the Dead and The Aspern Papers told of Fleda's struggle with her son
Owen over an inheritance in The Spoils of Poynton. Dr. Sloper and Morris Townsend feature in
(*) Washington Square, while Isabel Archer is the subject of his The Portrait of a Lady. FTP, name
this author of The Bostonians, The Ambassadors, and The Turn of the Screw, a brother of psychologist
William.
ANSWER: Henry James

DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

November 2007
Packet 3:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Identify these trickster deities, FTPE:
[10] This one-time cow milker is the father of Narfi, Vali, Fenrir, and Hel, and is the Norse deity of
trickery and fire. He is responsible for Hod's accidental murder of Baldur.
ANSWER: Loki
[10] This West African trickster figure had several run-ins with the Tar Baby, and was the son of
Nyame and Asase Ya. He's also pretty well known for being a giant spider.
ANSWER: Kweku Anansi-Tori
[10] Deeds of this figure include a creative act accomplished by tricking his brothers into believing he'd
found a gigantic fish, and restraining the sun to lengthen days. His name is quite similar to that of a
major island of Hawai'i.
ANSWER: Maui
2. Bonus: Answer these questions about the presidency of George Washington, FTPE:
[10] Washington erased the embarrassment of an earlier uprising involving Massachusetts farmers by
dispatching this rebellion in Pennsylvania, which centered around a tax on a certain substance.
ANSWER: Whiskey Rebellion
[10] In 1790 Washington oversaw the admission of this state into the union. It is strongly associated
with Dorr's Rebellion and Roger Williams.
ANSWER: Rhode Island
[10] A boundary along the St. Croix river was among the term's of this 1794 treaty, which normalized
relationships with Great Britain following the American Revolution.
ANSWER: Jay's Treaty
3. Bonus: Its platforms come in Standard, Enterprise, and Micro editions: J2SE, J2EE, and J2ME.
FTPE:
[10] Name this object-oriented programming language.
ANSWER: Java
[10] Any Java class that will be executed must have a method by this name. It is public and static, and
its return type is void.
ANSWER: Main
[5, 5] In Java, block comments start and end with these two characters. They appear in reverse order
when closing a comment.
ANSWER: / and * (slash and asterisk)
4. Bonus: Answer these questions about the collection of musical works known as The Ring of the
Nibelung, FTSNOP:
[10] This German composer of The Wedding, The Ban on Love, Tannhauser, and Lohengrin created the
cycle.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[5,5,5,5] F5PE, identify the four operas which comprise the Ring Cycle.
ANSWER: The Rhinegold (or Das Rheingold), The Valkyrie (or Die Walkure), Siegfried, and
Twilight of the Gods (or Gotterdammerrung)

5. Bonus: Given a description of the action, identify the codename of these WWII military operation,
FTPE:
[10] The Molotov-Ribbentrop pact was violated when Germany invaded the USSR in this operation,
named for a medieval Holy Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Operation Barbarossa
[10] Allied forces descended on Sword, Gold, Utah, Omaha, and Juno beaches on June 6, 1944,
launching the invasion of Normandy.
ANSWER: Operation Overlord (prompt on “D-Day” or similar answers)
[10] Wernher Von Braun topped the Osenberg list of key scientists extracted by the US military from
Nazi Germany in the waning days of World War II.
ANSWER: Operation Paperclip (accept Operation Overcast if someone knows that)
6. Bonus: Identify these compounds key in DNA replication, FTSNOP:
[5,5] In D-Loop replication, which occurs in chloroplasts and mitochondria, these two purines are
attached to the heavy strand, while the pyrimidines cytosine and thymine are bound to the light strand.
ANSWER: Adenine and Guanine
[10] These enzymes can adopt unitary, binary, or even toroid structures, and are used to break
hydrogen bonds and “unzip” DNA.
ANSWER: Helicases
[10] These short fragments of DNA, discovered by their namesake using the pulse-chase method, are
formed by RNA primase and DNA polymerase III. They are later linked to create a continuous strand
of DNA by ligase.
ANSWER: Okazaki Fragments
7. Bonus: Identify these plays by Eugene O'Neill, FTPE:
[10] It centers around sailor Chris Christopherson and his estranged daughter, the titular ex-prostitute,
who falls in love with Mat Burke.
ANSWER: Anna Christie
[10] General Mannon's homecoming to Christine, Orin, and Lavinia is complicated by Adam Brant,
leading to a series of murders in this adaptation of the Orestia.
ANSWER: Mourning Becomes Electra
[10] Nat, Essie, Richard, and Arthur Miller are central to this play about Richard's coming of age. It is
often described as O'Neill's only comedy.
ANSWER: Ah, Wilderness!
8. Bonus: It was established following the defeat of the Taira clan in the Genpei War. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Japanese Shogunate, which lasted from 1185 until 1333.
ANSWER: Kamakura Shogunate
[10] This clan founded the Kamakura shogunate. Prominent members included Yoshitsune and
Yoritomo, who became the first shogun.
ANSWER: Minamoto
[10] Shortly after Minamoto Yoritomo's death, this clan gained de facto control of the empire, using the
Minamoto name and, after Go-Taba's Jokyu War, the Kujo clans to claim legitimacy. They were
largely destroyed by the Ashikaga clan.
ANSWER: Hojo Clan

9. Bonus: Identify these candies given some of their “special flavors” of varying advisability, FTPE:
[10] Extra Creamy, Neapolitan, Caramel-filled, Cherry Cordial, and a mixture of white and milk
chocolate swirls.
ANSWER: Hershey's Kisses
[10] Fudge, Peanut Butter, Mint Slice, and disturbingly, Coffee, which might make you glad that it's
two for me, none for you.
ANSWER: Twix
[10] Rainbow, Jumbo, and, somehow, cereal. This candy is also available packed inside gumballs and
wedged into strips of gummi-like candy.
ANSWER: Nerds
10. Bonus: Answer these questions about things named for a physicist, FTPE:
[10] Bohrium is only a slightly better name than eka-rhenium, which was what element 107 was called
before this Danish physicist and winner of the 1922 Nobel became its namesake.
ANSWER: Niels Bohr
[10] Niels Bohr and this man conducted a namesake series of debates about quantum mechanics. This
scientist is pretty famous for work on the photoelectric effect, Brownian motion, and the theory of
relativity.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
[10] The Bohr magneton is a physical constant of this property, which measures the strength of a
system's net magnetic source.
ANSWER: Magnetic Moment or (accept Magnetic Dipole Moment)
11. Bonus: Answer these questions about Scandinavians in England, FTPE:
[10] Asser wrote about the legal reforms of this man, who earned the epithet “the Great” by defending
England from Viking invaders.
ANSWER: Alfred the Great (or of Wessex)
[10] This Viking King rose to power after battling Edmund Ironsides and winning at Ashingdon and
Helgea. His own death splintered his empire between Magnus Olafsson, Harold Harefoot, and
Harthacanute.
ANSWER: Canute I or the Great
[10] The greatest age of Viking conquest in England was precipitated by a man with this name, who
bore the epithet “Bloodaxe.” Another viking with this name, called “the Red,” was a notable explorer,
like his son Leif.
ANSWER: Erik
12. Bonus: Identify these works of Leo Tolstoy, FTPE:
[10] This really famous, really long Tolstoy work tells of the wild Kuragin, loyal Rostov, and cynical
Bolkonsky, all soldiers encountered by Piere Bezukhov as he tries to navigate Napoleon's invasion of
Russia.
ANSWER: War and Peace
[10] The numerous misdeeds of the vile Nikita, including his corruption of Anisija and Marinka, form
the basis of a Tolstoy work about the “power” of this entity. Arthur Koestler's novel in a trilogy that
includes The Gladiators and Arrival and Departure cites this concept as occurring at noon.
ANSWER: Darkness
[10] Tolstoy's religious awakening underlines this story about a man who is aided by Gerasimov but
succeeded by Aleexev after he falls, injures his side, and undergoes the title event in the middle of the
night.
ANSWER: The Death of Ivan Ilyich

13. Bonus: It contains the islands of Partida, Tiburon, Espiritu Santo, and Angel de la Guarda. FTPE:
[10] Identify this gulf, bordered by the Mexican states of Sonora and Sinaloa, also known as the Sea of
Cortes.
ANSWER: Gulf of California
[10] The Gulf of California is bounded to the west by this peninsula, which includes Cabo San Lucas.
ANSWER: Baja California (or Lower California) Peninsula
[10] This river, whose outlet was once Monterey Submarine Canyon, now flows into the Gulf of
California. It features Horseshoe Bend in Arizona.
ANSWER: Colorado River
14. Bonus: Among the works of this thinker are The Art of Controversy, Parerga and Paralipomena,
and On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason. FTPE:
[10] Identify this philosopher, who dealt with epistemology, ontology, aesthetics, and ethics in volume
one of his most famous work, The World as Will and Representation.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
[10] Schopenhauer was an ardent opponent of this philosopher and famous advocate of the dialectic.
Schopenhauer deliberately scheduled his own lectures at the same time as this man's at Berlin to try to
strip away his audience. Instead, no one went to see Schopenhauer.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
[10] Schopenhauer's philosophy is remarkably similar to this tenet of Buddhism, which describes
suffering as a consequence of desire and the ability of man to reach Nirvana.
ANSWER: The Four Noble Truths (need “Four” and “Truths” but not necessarily “Noble”)
15. Bonus: Given a description, identify these functional groups, FTPE:
[10] A hydroxol group bonded to the carbon atom of an alkyl group.
ANSWER: Alcohols
[10] An oxygen atom bonded to two substituted alkyl or aryl groups, giving base formula R-O-R.
ANSWER: Ethers
[10] A carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom and double bonded to an oxygen atom, creating a
terminal carbonyl group.
ANSWER: Aldehydes
16. Bonus: One title figure of this work beheads the other, only to witness him promptly pick up his
head and stalk off promising retribution. FTPE:
[10] Identify this fourteenth century tale about one of King Arthur's companions and his colorful
adversary.
ANSWER: Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
[10] This author of Patience, Cleanness, and Saint Erkenwald is cited as the author of Sir Gawain and
the Green Knight. His actual name is unknown and is derived from another one of his famous works.
ANSWER: The Pearl Poet (prompt on “the Gawain Poet”)
[10] Sir Gawain and the Green Knight bears some similarity to Perceval, the Story of the Grail by
Chretien de Troyes, perhaps the most famous of these medieval minstrels and courtiers famous for
composing epic tales and wooing ladies-in-waiting.
ANSWER: Troubadours (or Trouveres)

17. Bonus: It shares its name with a far less famous 274 clash between Aurelian and Tetricus. FTPE:
[10] Identify this pivotal 451 CE battle in present-day France, in which Flavius Aetius and Theodoric I
turned back the “Scourge of God.”
ANSWER: Battle of Chalons or the Catalaunian Fields or Campus Mauriacus or Maurica)
[10] This man was the losing commander at the Battle of Chalons and was the aforementioned
“Scourge of God.” He was convinced by Leo I not to sack Rome at the Mincio Meeting, and following
his death, his Huns fell into discord and fought the Battle of Nedao.
ANSWER: Attila the Hun
[10] Theodoric, the extremely illegitimate son of Alaric, successor of Wallia, and key ally of Flavius
Aetius at Chalons, was a king of this people, one of two main branches of a certain Germanic tribe who
ended up rising to prominence in Western Europe, particularly Spain.
ANSWER: Visigoths (prompt on Goths)
18. Bonus: Works by this man include The Shy Child, Canvasing for Peace, and the textbook
Psychology and Life. FTPE:
[10] Identify this American psychologist who attended high school with Stanley Milgram, whose most
prominent experiment centered around such participants as “416” and “John Wayne.”
ANSWER: Philip Zimbardo
[10] Zimbardo is best known for his Prison Experiment, which turned actual students into prisoners and
guards, conducted at this California university.
ANSWER: Stanford University
[10] Zimbardo published The Lucifer Effect after being asked to explain how certain situations can
precipitate evil behavior while testifying on behalf of Ivan Frederick, who was facing charges
regarding his actions at this institution.
ANSWER: Abu Grhaib Prison
19. Bonus: Numerous geometric shapes, including a magic square, sphere, rhombohedron, and
hourglass, feature in this German's Melancholia I. FTPE:
[10] Identify this artist of the 1500s noted for The Cannon, Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, and
numerous other woodcuts.
ANSWER: Albrecht Durer
[10] A skull lies at bottom left of this Durer woodcut, which also depicts a dog underneath one of the
titular figures, who is goaded by the other two, more sinister entities as he rides along a gnarled trail.
ANSWER: Knight, Death, and the Devil or Ritter, Tod, und Teufel, theoretically)
[10] In 1515 Durer depicted one of these creatures, that had been sent by Manuel I of Portugal to Pope
Leo X, with a bit too much armor plating. Species of these large mammals include the Javan,
Sumatran, Indian, Black, and White.
ANSWER: Rhinoceroses
20. Bonus: They included Hugo Dyson, Warren Lewis, and Owen Barfield. FTPE:
[10] Identify this mid-twentieth century literary group which had a definite taste for fantastic fiction
and was associated with Oxford University.
ANSWER: The Inklings
[10] Among the Inklings was this pretty famous fantasy novelist of The Silmarillion who created
characters like Sauron, Gollum, and Bilbo Baggins.
ANSWER: J.R.R. Tolkien
[10] Another prominent Inkling was this extremely Christian writer, who produced The Four Loves, A
Grief Observed, and The Screwtape Letters.
ANSWER: Clive Staples Lewis

