TOSSUPS - ROUND 9
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe
Questions mostly by Nick Nuar, Michigan State U.
1.
Properly speaking Physalia physalis is four separate interdependent organisms, a colony of polyp-like
organisms One of those, the pneumatophore, is the gas-filled membrane which supports the others. When the
weather is bad, it deflates to float beneath the surface. It can cause shock, fever, and heart distress. FTP, identify
a relative of the jellyfish also called a blue bottle
Answer: Portuguese man-of-war_(accept bluebottle before it's said, but do not accept jellyfish)
2.
Here no deformed child was allowed to live; boys began military drill at the age of 7 and entered the
ranks at 20. From the ages of 20 to 60 all men were obliged to serve as hoplites in the army. This city-state
developed as a military power that peaked after their victory in the Peloponnesian War. FTP name this city of
ascetic warriors.
Answer: Sparta
3.
It features a physician and a gallery manager who are wealthy, successful, and travel in a sophisticated
social circle. Based on a short piece by Arthur Schnitzler, the stars of this movie have since divorced.
Controversy over its supposedly shocking depiction of sexual exploration helped obscure the fact that it was,
well, boring. FTP, what final directorial effort of Stanley Kubrick starred Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise?
Answer: Eyes Wide Shut
4.
He is aided by Homunculus in his attempt to seduce Gretchen. He is eventually saved despite seeing
Helen of Troy and witnessing Walpurgis Night under the direction of Mephistopheles. FTP, name this scholar
who sells his soul to a demon in a work by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.
Answer: Faust (oh, OK, accept Faustus)
5.
The first eyewitness account of this natural site is by Flemish monk Louis Hennepin. A 1597 sawmill
was the first of many successful attempts to draw power from the 200,000 cubic feet of water that pass over it
each second. FTP, name this tourist attraction in western New York.
Answer: Niagara Falls
6.
This event will be preceded by three consecutive seasons of winter, then Skoll will devour the sun and
Hati will eat the moon. Three cocks will crow, the dead will be raised, and battle will ensue between Fenris and
Odin. After the universe is destroyed, a new world will begin with Lif and Lifthrasir. FTP, name this Norse
day of doom, also the title of a Wagner opera.
Answer: Ragnarok or Gotterdammerung
7.
As the chairman ofthe Republican National Committee in 1920, this Boston politician helped engineer
the nomination of Warren G. Harding. He used his considerable clout to become majority leader of the Senate
and chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee a year before, from which position he opposed US entry into the
World Court. FTP, who, with Hiram Johnson and William Borah, headed the "irreconcilables" against
Wilson's plan to enter the League of Nations?
Answer: Henry Cabot Lodge
8.
Isolated in 1806 by German chemist F.W.A. Sertiirner, this compound's chemical structure, determined
in 1920, is differentiated from two similar drugs by its R, R prime, H bond sequence. Its salts are powerful
analgesics but must be used cautiously because of their great addictiveness. FTP, what powerful alkaloid is
similar to, but discovered before, other opiates like codeine and heroin?
Answer: morphine

9.
This Fireside poet was first noticed when he contributed articles to William Lloyd Garrison's Free Press
newspaper. He is also known as the Quaker poet, and was committed to the abolition of slavery. Best known
for his pastoral poems such as Legends ofNew England in Prose and Verse, FTP, name this author of SnowBound.
Answer: John Greenleaf Whittier
10.
"Milk & Honey," "Peaches & Cream," "Nicotine & Gravy," and "Debra" are all tracks on this 1999
release. Singles include "Mixed Bizness" and "Sexx Laws." FTP, name this follow-up to Odelay, Beck's most
recent album.
Answer: Midnite Vultures (prompt on Beck)
11.
The collection of his speeches and essays is listed on Rage Against the Machine IS reading list and is
titled Ideas and Opinions. In it you will find his fiercely satiric quotations like "Common sense is the collection
of prejudices acquired by age 18." His later work showed how gravity bends light. FTP, name this winner of
the 1921 Nobel Prize.
Answer: Albert Einstein
12.
Though he studied neoclassical art, this painter developed his distinctive style after reading Humbert de
Superville's "Essay on the Unmistakable Signs of Art." Many of his best-known paintings take place on the
riverside, like 1884's Bathing at Asniers to Port-en-Bessin. Paintings like Les Pose uses, depicting three dumpy
models, illustrate his distinctive style, most famously executed in Sunday Afternoon on the Island ofla Grande
Jaffe. FTP, who is most closely associated with "pointillism?"
Answer: Georges Seurat
13.
As personal confessor to Queen Isabella he convinced her that assimilated Sephardic Jews and Muslims
were a threat to the Catholicism of Spain. As a result she helped secure him powers to convert the infidels by
any means necessary, most of which were pretty gruesome. FTP name the first Grand Inquisitor of the Spanish
Inquisition, whom Mel Brooks portrayed in one of filmdom's most bizarre musical numbers.
Answer: Tomas de Torquemada_(pronounced like you can't "talk 'em oudda" anything.)
14.
In the 18 th century, Alexander Pope said the Greek poet Homer and this were the same. William
Wordsworth wrote in "Tintern Abbey" that he worshipped this because it never betrayed a loving heart. Ralph
Waldo Emerson said it transformed him into a transparent eyeball. The dictionary lists 13 definitions from
"character" to "scenery." FTP, name this idea, the cornerstone of Transcendentalism.
Answer: nature
15.
The arrest of Sir Roger Casement caused a planned rural insurgency to fall through, but Patrick Pearse
and Tom Clarke went ahead with pre-existing plans and took over post offices and other government buildings
on April 24 t \ 1916. The event's long-term effect was to create five-year power vacuum, but the short term saw
nearly a week of heavy fighting in Dublin. FTP, identify this abortive rebellion, staged in Ireland on a religious
holiday.
Answer: Easter Rising or Easter Rebellion
16.
This occurs every year during roughly the same time as the Leo portion ofthe horoscope. Its radiant, or
the point back to which all the meteors can be traced, is near the star which shares a similar name. It is linked to
the passage of the Swift-Tuttle comet. FTP, name this meteor shower, which peaks around August 1ih or 13 th .
Answer: Perseids
17.
Pencil and paper ready: For a quick ten points, what is the determinant of the matrix whose first row is
1,2 and whose second row is 3,4?
Answer: -2 (1 * 4-2 * 3)

18.
This literary term was first used by Franz Roh in an essay about the "Objectivist" paintings of George
Grosz and Otto Dix. Used by such authors as the Australian Aborigine Mudrooroo Narogin, it was given a
rigorous definition by Alejo Carpentier, a Cuban author. FTP, what style juxtaposes mythic traditions and
objective depictions, and has been used by Julio Cortcizar, Jorge Amado, and other Latin American authors?
Answer: magic realism or magical realism
19.
This composer's operatic output, much of which was completed by other musicians, includes
Khovanshchina and Boris Gudonov. His unfinished opera Sorotchinsk Fair, based on a Gogol story, draws
heavily on Russian folk themes, but the opera is best remembered for producing a memorable "single." FTP,
what Russian composer is probably known for the short, dark classic Night on Bald Mountain?
Answer: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky
20.
She was the first woman to appear on U. S. currency, on the back of the 1875 $20 bill. After converting
to Christianity she took the name Rebecca and had a son named Thomas. She died of smallpox in Great Britain
on the eve of her return to Virginia. Her real name was Matoaka, and she was the daughter of Powhatan. She
married John Rolfe, but for ten points, name this Indian maiden best remembered for saving John Smith's life.
Answer: Pocahontas
21.
Samuel Johnson and John Bunyan exhibited this type of neurosis, described by the psychologist Sir
Aubrey Lewis as occurring in both primary and secondary varieties. FTP, in what type of neurosis might a
person who fears contamination wash her hands repeatedly for fear of germs on the tap?
Answer: obsessive-compulsive disorder or obsessive-compulsive neurosis
22.
On March 41,\ this company's CEO, Jack Stahl, resigned as part of major restructuring. Earlier this year,
the company entered a joint venture with Nestle to sell ready-made tea and coffee, and it paid a pretty penny for
Harry Potter-related advertisements. Perhaps these moves will offset the effects of last year's failed attempt to
acquire Quaker Oats. FTP, name this soft-drink giant based in Atlanta.
Answer: Coca-Cola or, grudgingly, Coke
23.
Originally written by either James Upham or Francis Bellamy, both of Boston, it was first used at the
National School Celebration in 1892. Expanded in 1923, 1924, and 1954, its final addition was "under God."
FTP name this short statement of loyalty, which is recited to the American flag.
Answer: Pledge of Allegiance
24.
Technically, it's unstable. Fortunately, it will probably be thousands of years before anyone sees it decay
to a more stable state; so don't throw any out. They're worth around $15,000 an ounce. FTP, what's the name of
this hard allotrope of carbon.
Answer: Diamond

BONI - ROUND 9

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
Identify the chemical law, for ten points each.
The pressure and volume of an enclosed gas are inversely proportional.
Answer: Boyle's Law
If a reaction is carried out in steps, the change in enthalpy for the reaction will equal the sum of the enthalpy
changes for the individual steps.
Answer: Hess's Law
The solubility of a gas in the solution phase is directly proportional to the partial pressure of that gas over the
solution.
Answer: Henry's Law
2.
30-20-10. Name the author, by his works.
30. Toad of Toad Hall, his dramatization of "Wind in the Willows."
20. When We Were Very Young and Now We Are Six
1O. The House At Pooh Corner.
Answer:
A.A. Milne
3.
Why history majors are seldom shocked by the news, chapter 3. Answer the following about Nixon's
scandals OTHER than Watergate FTPE:
a) By the time Nixon resigned, he had gotten a new Vice President to replace this one, who himself resigned
and was convicted for taking kickbacks from building contractors while Governor of Maryland.
Answer: Spiro Agnew
b) In 1973 this wealthy Tampa shipbuilder was convicted of making a huge illegal contribution to Nixon's 1972
campaign. He later moved to New York to be closer to his new investment, a baseball team.
Answer: George Steinbrenner
c) Steinbrenner wasn't the first controversial millionaire tied to shady Nixon campaign financing. In 1960 this
reclusive billionaire aircraft designer was revealed to have made an illegal million dollar loan to Nixon.
Answer: Howard Hughes
4.
Write down this list of fruits: Cherry, Lemon, Lime, Grape, Strawberry, Raspberry, Apple, Orange, and
Pineapple. Now for ten points apiece:
First: Give me the five flavors on this list that are Life Savers' Five Flavors.
-- Cherry, Lemon, Lime, Orange, Pineapple
Second: The four flavors in a regular pack of Starburst Fruit Chews.
-- Cherry, Lemon, Orange, Strawberry
Finally, What five flavors are found in a regular pack of Skittles?
-- Lemon, Lime, Grape, Strawberry, Orange
5.
Given a brief description, identify the computer language for ten points each.
A. Introduced in 1956, this language is the standard computer language for scientist and mathematicians. John
Backus and an IBM team developed the language.
Answer: Fortran [Formula Translator
B. Named for the woman who wrote programs for Babbages' "analytical engine." It is based on Pascal and
used by the military.
Answer: Ada
C. First used for mathematics, this language is useful to airlines for complex routing and scheduling.
Introduced by Kenneth Iverson ofIBM in 1961.
Answer: APL [A Programming Language]

6.
FTP each, name these classical music terms.
This is a composition for voice and accompaniment that is generally designed for small, private settings.
Answer: cantata
This is an un-staged, grand composition for a vocal soloist and instruments.
Answer: oratorio
This is generally the actual text of an opera, and is sometimes used to describe the texts of oratorios and ballets.
Answer: libretto
7.
Identify each pair ofliterary lovers, 5 points for each name:
a) He travels through the Inferno and Purgatory searching for her; she guides his way through Paradise.
Answer: Dante and Beatrice
b)He shows up at her North African doorstep a refugee from Troy. She falls for him, but the gods call him to
Italy, so he abandons her. She throws herself on a burning pyre. The end.
Answer: Dido and Aeneas
c) When her father learns of their affair, the enraged patriarch castrates him. Both rather embarrassed, they part
and become servants of God. For the rest of their lives, however, they correspond passionately.
Answer: Peter Abelard and Heloise
8.
Identify this hierarchy of African Kingdoms FTP each.
Situated between the Sahara Desert and the headwaters of the Senegal and Niger rivers, it was the first great
kingdom in western Africa, rising around 700.
Answer: Ghana
This empire replaced Ghana as the most powerful state in 1200.
Answer: Mali
In 1500, this empire conquered Mali.
Answer: Songhai
9.
Identify the philosopher from quotations. Each correct answer is worth ten points.
a. "Man is by nature a political animal"
Answer: Aristotle
b. "The life which is unexamined is not worth living"
Answer: Plato
c. "There is only one good, Knowledge, and one evil, ignorance" Answer: Socrates

10.
N arne these athletically-inclined cousins, 5 for one member of the pair and 15 for both.
Both Eastern-conference All-Stars, one throws down dunks for Toronto and the other is the only exciting thing
about the Orlando Magic.
Answer: Vince Carter and Tracy McGrady
One was a surprising success at QB for the New Orleans Saints and the other is widely projected as the first QB
to be taken in the 2001 NFL draft.
Answer: Aaron Brooks and Michael Vick
11.
Identify the Shakespearean play from the quotes given on a 30-20-10 basis.
(30) "More sinned against than sinning"
(20) "That way madness lies" and "Every inch a King"
(10) "How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child."
Answer: King Lear

12.
One result ofthe quantum revolution in 20th-century physics was the discovery of an enormous
collection of subatomic particles, sometimes known affectionately as the "particle zoo." How well do you
know this menagerie? For five points each, ell name a subatomic particle and you tell me whether it's a
baryon, lepton, or meson.
A. Baryon
a.) Proton
b.) Electron
A. Lepton
A. Lepton
c.) Muon
A. Baryon
d.) Neutron
e.) Pion
A. Meson
f.) Neutrino
A. Lepton
13.
Name the following concerning the Revolutionary war for the stated number of points.
The two battles that mark the beginning of the American Revolution, for five points each.
Answer: Battles of Lexington and Concord
FTP, these hills outside Boston were fortified with captured artillery in the successful effort to drive out the
British.
Answer: Dorchester Heights
F5PE name the final battle of the war and the British commander who surrendered as the band played "The
World Turned Upside Down."
Answer: Battle of Yorktown and Gen. Charles Cornwallis
14.
Give the name of each trio from Greek mythology, for the stated number of points.
A. the Fates
a) For 5 points: Clotho, Lachesis, Atropos
A. the Graces
b) For 10 points: Aglaia, Euphrosyne, Thalia
A. the Sirens
c) For 15 points: Leucosia, Ligea, Parthenope
15.

For ten points each, give the scientific name for each of these cells.
1) Nerve cell
-- neuron
2) Kidney cell -- nephron
-- thrombocyte
3) Platelet

16.
30-20-10 Identify the author from the works.
30: Shampoo Planet
20: Life After God
10: MicroSerfs, Generation X
Answer: Douglas Coupland
17.
For ten points each identify these units in the English system expressed in terms of other English units.
A. 1 Horsepower
a) 550 foot-pounds per second
b) 14 pounds
A. 1 Stone
c) 8 furlongs
A. 1 statute Mile

18.
Identify these regions associated with Argentina FTPE.
1.
The setting for the improbable movie Eversmile New Jersey, this arid southern region includes the
industrial port Comodoro Rivadavia and the resort city San Carlos de Bariloche. Its name suggests wilderness
and isolation, and is thus perfect for a popular brand of sporting outerwear.
Answer:
Patagonia
2.
This flat central grassland region is home to Argentina's cattle industry, third largest in the world until
the recent discovery offoot-and-mouth disease there. Its name comes from a Quechua word meaning "flat,"
and its largest city is Buenos Aires.
Answer:
Pampas (or Pampa)
3.
Drained by the Pi1comayo and Bermejo Rivers, this flat lowlands region includes much of northern
Argentina, as well as adjacent areas of Paraguay and Bolivia. Hard clay soil and god-awful cycles of drought
and flood make agriculture difficult, but Bolivia and Paraguay fought over it in the 1930s anyway, largely
because of the red quebracho wood which supplies most of the world's tannin. The largest city on the Argentine
side is Resistencia.
Answer:
Gran Chaco (prompt on Chaco)
19.
For 5 pts each, with a bonus for all five, given the modern military aircraft nickname, provide the letter
number designation
F-14
Answer: Tomcat
A-6
Answer: Intruder
SR-71
Answer: Blackbird
F-4
Answer: Phantom
F-l11
Answer: Aardvark
20.
Given a Queen of England, name the royal house to which she belongs FTP each.
Elizabeth II
Answer: Windsor
Anne
Answer: Stuart
Victoria
Answer: Hanover or Hanoverians
21.
F or the stated number of points, name these influential figures in economics.
5 points. This man, along with Karl Marx, co-wrote the Communist Manifesto.
Answer: Friedrich Engels
10 points. Also a sociologist, he is best known for "On Liberty" and Principles ofPolitical Economy.
Answer: John Stuart Mill
15 points. Marx partly adapted this man's theory, which stated that the price of a consumer good was directly
related to the number of labor hours that went into producing it.
Answer: David Ricardo
22.
Answer these questions about 19th century France for the stated number of points.
FTP each, name the two largest political parties in the French legislature by 1870.
Answer: Republicans and Liberals
FTP, this President succeeded Jules Grevy after a crisis over the popular Gen. Georges Boulanger. He was the
grandson of the man nicknamed the "organizer of victory" in 1793.
Answer: Marie Francois Sadi-Carnot

