DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

October 2007
Packet 2:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. This President's cabinet included the first Jew to hold his position, Health, Education, and
Wellness Secretary Abraham Ribicoff, as well as prominent GATT negotiator C. Douglass
Dillon, his Treasury Secretary. Other members included Arthur Goldberg, an eventual Supreme
Court nominee, and Arizona Stewart (*) Udall, who would direct this president's successor's social
program. Dean Rusk and Robert MacNamara began as members of, FTP, whose administration, which
also featured presidential brother Bobby as Attorney General?
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald Kennedy Administration
2. The fate of this entity is tied to the genesis of the Khanty and Iapetus, and its Avalonia feature
was among the first discussed by its initial theorizer. It divided Panthalassa from Tethys, and it
may have succeeded an entity known as the Vendian, according to Alfred (*) Wegener.
Eventuallydividing into the Laurasia and Gondwanaland regions, its existence is key to the theory of
continental drift. FTP, name this Paleozoic and Mesozoic era supercontinent, named from the Greek
for “all-earth.”
ANSWER: Pangaea
3. One key section of this event involved the Expounding of the Law, which discussed the
metaphors of Salt and Light. Other statements made during this event include the declaration
that the pure of heart shall see God and that the meek shall inherit the earth, the Eight (*)
Beatitudes. Advocating simplicity of worship and introducing the Lord's prayer, it began after its
deliverer attracted a crowd by healing the sick. The Golden Rule was introduced by Jesus Christ at,
FTP, what religious speech named for its site on a hill near the Sea of Galilee?
ANSWER: Sermon on the Mount
4. This poem's final stanza describes “smothering dreams,” a reference to a figure who is earlier
seen “through the misty panes and thick green light.” Constructed partly as a response to poems
like “Who's for the Game?” by Jessie Pope, it closes by referencing “innocent tongues” and
“children (*) ardent for some distant glory,” who are told of the titular Latin lines, first penned by
Horace. Translating to “it is sweet and fitting to die for your country,” FTP, identify this World War I
poem by Wilfred Owen.
ANSWER: Dulce et Decorum Est

5. This state is essentially a massive instance of Karst topography, and is home to the Perdido
River and Woodruff Dam. Its natural forests include the Choctawhatchee and Apalachicola.
Big Cypress reserve lies near this state's largest lake, which receives the New River, Taylor
Creek, and (*) Kissimmee River. Castillo San Marcos in this state is a part of the oldest continuallyestablished European city in America, St. Augustine. Home of Lake Okeechobee, FTP, name this
Sunshine State whose cities include Jacksonville, Miami, and Tallahassee.
ANSWER: Florida
6. Pencil and paper ready. You want to purchase enough helium to inflate 60 balloons. A fully
inflated spherical balloon has a diameter of 1 foot and the cheapest helium tanks have 24 cubic
feet each. Knowing that the volume of a sphere is (*) four-thirds times pi times r cubed, FTP, find
the minimum number of tanks you will need to buy for your party. You have ten seconds.
ANSWER: 9 [50*(4/3pi)/24]
7. This man appears as a counterexample to the titular concept in Salman Rushdie's Shame, a
reference to beliefs revealed by lines describing a man in the “Tower of Darkness” who chides
those who cannot realize that “the flower that once has blown forever dies.” Other lines like “the
(*) moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on” were translated from this man's work by Edward
Fitzgerald. Describing a “jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou,” FTP, identify this Persian astronomer
and poet, best known for his quatrains, or Rubaiyat.
ANSWER: Omar Khayyam
8. They prompted the US to insist on a resolution to the Oregon Boundary dispute due to fears of
instability, while the Ralli firm was one primary motivation for their creation. The one of 1815
prompted Peterloo, and David (*) Riccardo attacked them, arguing that Britan should utilize
comparative advantage. Robert Peel resigned upon the repeal of, FTP, what group of British tariffs on
imported grain, named for a type of grain also commonly called maize?
ANSWER: Corn Laws
9. St. Boniface destroyed a famous tree sacred to this god while Christianizing Germany, and he
once turned Alvis to stone so his daughter Thrud wouldn't have to marry a dwarf. The owner of
a chariot pulled by two goats, he slaughtered Thrym's dinner guests while disguised as (*) Freya
after Thrym stole his most famous possession. The wearer of the Jarn Griepr, a pair of iron gloves, the
belt Megingjord, and the hammer Mjolnir, FTP, identify this Norse god of agriculture and thunder.
ANSWER: Thor or Tor
10. Tetrahydrofuran is a cyclic molecule with this functional group. The simplest benzene
derivative with this functional group is anisole, while Williamson synthesis cannot produce crown
varieties of these compounds. They can also be produced by the intermolecular (*) dehydration of
alcohols, and the diethyl compound with this functional group was once used as an anesthetic. FTP
identify these organic compounds in which an oxygen atom is bonded with two alkyl groups.
ANSWER: Ethers

11. One author from this country produced The Jewel of the Seven Stars and The Lair of the
White Worm. Another produced the collections Death of a Naturalist and District and Circle,
penned the play Burial at Thebes, and undertook a major translation project that helped win him
the 1995 Nobel Prize. The writing of (*) Ossian are key in this countries literary history, as are works
like “Ivy Day in the Committee Room” and Finnegans Wake. FTP, identify this home of Bram Stoker,
Seamus Heaney, and James Joyce, who used its capital to title his collection Dubliners.
ANSWER: Ireland
12. One of this man's earliest memories involves his horror at his mother's reaction after his
father Johnny gives her free prime rib after grinding up the butcher's hand. One of his friends,
the illegitimate son of a nun, was with him when he killed Willie Overall. Other victims of this
man, who imagines himself as Kevin (*) Finnerty, include his cousin Tony Blundetto, Ralphie
Cifaretto, and his nephew Christopher Moltisanti, played by Michael Imperioli. The father of AJ and
Meadow and husband of Carmela, FTP, identify this mafia patriarch of a recently-concluded HBO
series.
ANSWER: Anthony Soprano (accept just Tony, but prompt on Soprano)
13. Act III of this work takes place in a gorge, where one main character is told of his dying
mother by Micaela, who sings the aria “I say that nothing frightens me.” Later in that act, the
title character receives an omen while reading (*) cards, foretelling the love triangle involving a
cigar girl, Escamillo, and Don Jose. Famed for the Habanera and the Toreador song, FTP, identify this
opera by Georges Bizet about the titular Spanish gypsy girl.
ANSWER: Carmen
14. The kingdom of this name fought the economic “Pig War” against a larger power, and saw
Peter I Karadordevic installed following the brutal murder King Alexander and Queen Draga. It
won Macedonia and Kosov in the Balkan Wars. Earlier, nobles of this area fought Murad I at
the Battle of (*) Kosovo on June 28, 1389, the same day Franz Ferdinand arrived in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. FTP, identify this birthplace of Gavrilo Princip with capital at Belgrade, which became
independent again in 2006 after it separated from Montenegro.
ANSWER: Kingdom or Republic or Anything of Serbia
15. This Experiment prompted reasearch into Nagaoka Hantaro's Saturnian theory, and relied
on zing sulfide for its observations. Performed by Gieger and Marsden, it used a tube of radon to
(*) emit alpha particles, one in eight thousand of which deflected at an unexpected angle. Disproving
the plum-pudding model of the atom, FTP, identify this experiment named for the New Zealand
physicist who oversaw it or for the precious metal it utilized.
ANSWER: Rutherford's Gold Foil Experiment (accept either; accept Geiger-Marsden early)
16. This poem describes objects likened to “loaves” and “balls” and describes the decision to
“walk the line.” Noting that “on one has seen them made or heard” when describing that which
“two can (*) pass abreast,” the narrator wonders whether the titular action is necessary as “here there
are no cows.” Describing the titular occurrence between pine and apple trees, FTP, identify this poem
by Robert Frost which closes with the line “good fences make good neighbors.”
ANSWER: Mending Wall

17. This man's name was adopted by insurgent Jacinto Canek, and he led his nation to
preeminence in the Triple Alliance by reorganizing tribute and trade routes. He improved the
Templo Mayor, probably inspired by his origins in the Tlamatini, or (*) scholar class. Following
the Night of Sorrows, he was used as a puppet then killed by a man some sources claim this ruler
mistook for Quetzacoatl. FTP, identify this man who led the Aztec Empire at the time of Cortes's
conquest, whose “halls” are referenced in the Marine Corps hymn.
ANSWER: Montezuma (or Moctezuma) II
18. Experiments with recombination of VSV mounted with a spikeprotein may lead to an
effective vaccine for this disease, which may also be targeted by PMO-based antisense drugs.
Because it belongs to filoviridae, interferon treatments are ineffective in treating this disease,
whose Tai and (*) Reston strains likely only affect nonhuman primates. Characterized by its loopedfilament structure, FTP, identify this hemorrhagic fever named for a River in Zaire, a famous, scary
virus.
ANSWER: Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever
19. In 1603 this man sued the Hospital of Charity after a group of monks attempted to refuse to
pay him for a commission, which may have influenced his Opening of the Fifth Seal. Other
works include a depiction of Mary floating above the disciples and one of soldiers performing the
titular action on Jesus. In addition to The (*) Assumption of the Virgin and The Disrobing of Christ,
he showed Saint Stephen and St. Augustine assisting a Spanish nobleman in The Burial of Count
Orgaz. FTP, identify this Mannerist who worked in Toledo but took his name from his birthplace,
Crete.
ANSWER: El Greco or Domenicos Theotokopoulos
20. He claimed that humidity and planetary motion governed human health in his Tetrabiblos, or
Four Books. In another work, he used the writings of Marinos and Tyre to construct a grid
system that set a western boundary at the “Fortunate Isles.” That work, (*) the Geographia, was
less popular than his Almagest, the seminal work of Greek astronomy. FTP, identify this Alexandrian
advocate of geocentrism whose namesake universal model was succeed by that of Copernicus.
ANSWER: Ptolemy or Claudius Ptolemaeus

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

October 2007
Packet 2:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Following the death of Allan Ramsay, George III appointed this man's rival, Joshua
Reynolds, as official court painter. FTPE:
[10] Identify this British landscape painter of Cottage Girl with Dog and Pitcher and Mr. And Mrs.
Andrews, most famous for his depiction of Johathan Buttall.
ANSWER: Thomas Gainsborough
[10] That famous Gainsborough work is this portrait, named for the color of Buttall's attire.
ANSWER: The Blue Boy
[10] Though Gainsborough hailed from Suffolk, this other British painter is far more associated with
the area, since he famously depicted it in The Cornfield, The Haywain, and pretty much every other
work he ever painted.
ANSWER: John Constable
2. Bonus: Name these statistical terms, FTPE:
[10] This variable designates the mapping from the sample space to the space of possible values.
ANSWER: Random Variable
[10] This measure of the spread of values in a probability distribution is denoted by a lowercase sigma.
ANSWER: Standard Deviation
[10] The square of the standard deviation is this quantity, which can be computed by subtracting the
square of the expected value from the expected value of the variable squared.
ANSWER: Variance
3. Bonus: Play the death game and tell whether these characters from Greek drama committed murder,
suicide, both, or neither, F5PE:
[5] Medea.
ANSWER: Murder
[5] Antigone.
ANSWER: Suicide
[5] Lysistrata.
ANSWER: Neither
[5] Orestes.
ANSWER: Murder
[5] Ajax, in a Sophocles play.
ANSWER: Both
[5] Strepsiades.
ANSWER: Neither

4. Bonus: It occurred in the wake of Jay's treaty, which weakened ties between the two nations
involved. FTSNOP:
[10] Identify this 1797 political incident in which three French officials tried to strong-arm John
Adams's delegation into paying a bribe in order to see the French foreign minister.
ANSWER: XYZ Affair
[5,5] F5PE, name any two of the American diplomats who refused to pay the bribe.
ANSWER: Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, Elbridge Gerry, John Marshall
[10] The French foreign minister in question was this conniving backstabber, who somehow managed
to survive from the reign of Louis XVI through Napoleon and beyond, attending the Congress of
Vienna and serving under Louis-Philippe.
ANSWER: Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord
5. Bonus: Ziemssen, Settembrini and Peeperkorn are residents of the Swiss sanatorium that comprises
the main setting of this novel. FTPE:
[10] Identify this novel in which the protagonist's cousin Joachim also inhabits the titular geographic
feature.
ANSWER: The Magic Mountain (or Der Zauberberg)
[10] This protagonist of The Magic Mountain ultimately leaves the sanatorium to fight in WWI.
ANSWER: Hans Castorp (accept either)
[10] This German Nobel Laureate wrote The Magic Mountain, as well as Death in Venice and
Buddenbrooks.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
6. Bonus: This man produced the Mishneh Torah, a comprehensive legal tome. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Jewish philosopher, best known for his Guide for the Perplexed.
ANSWER: Moses Maimonedes or Moshe ben Maimon or Rambam
[10] Maimondes's Guide for the Perplexed seeks to reconcile and differentiate Jewish theology and the
philosophy of this Greek thinker, who wrote Poetics and Nichomachean Ethics and tutored Alexander
the Great.
ANSWER: Aristotle
[10] This other Jewish philosopher was influenced by Maimonedes and used the geometric
construction of axioms and propositions in his Ethics. He also created the Tractatus Theologi-Politicus
and was kicked out of the Jewish faith.
ANSWER: Baruch Spinoza
7. Bonus: Identify these serpent-like creatures from various mythologies, FTPE:
[10] This denizen of Lerna was slain by Heracles after Iaolus provided a firebrand to prevent its nine
heads from regrowing.
ANSWER: Lernean Hydra
[10] The mother of the Hydra, as well as the Teumessian Fox, Ladon, the Nemean Lion, and Chimera,
this mate of Typhon was half-nymph and half twisted, mutated serpent thing.
ANSWER: Echidna
[10] After the death of his brother Otr, this dwarf turned into a dragon after he slew his father Hreidmar
and claimed his gold. The hero Sigurd slew him and bathed in his blood, as Norse heroes seemed
prone to do.
ANSWER: Fafnir

8. Bonus: Name the SI unit given the quantity it measures, F5PE:
[5] Capacitance.
ANSWER: Farad
[5] Radioactivity.
ANSWER: Becquerel
[5] Electric charge.
ANSWER: Coulomb
[5] Electrical resistance.
ANSWER: Ohm
[5] Frequency.
ANSWER: Hertz
[5] Magnetic Flux.
ANSWER: Weber
9. Bonus: Identify these countries involved in extended wars against the Dutch during the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries, FTPE:
[10] The ancient laws of the Duchy of Barbant were used as a justification by this nation's monarch
when her entered the War of Devolution against Hapsburg Spain, hoping to gain control of the
Netherlands. That monarch was Louis XIV.
ANSWER: France
[10] The War of the Grand Alliance was sparked when the League of Augsburg was joined by this
nation, whose recently ascended monarch William III or Orange would later sign the Treaty of
Ryswick.
ANSWER: Great Britain or England
[10] This nation faced a major revolt from the Netherlands during the eighty years war, prompted by
ridiculous taxes and the oppressive activity of the Duke of Alba and the Council of Blood.
ANSWER: Spain
10. Bonus: Answer these questions about spring in music, FTPE:
[10] This composer's Opus 44 is usually called the Spring Symphony. He's also known for adapting a
Japanese Noh play into Curlew River and for composing Billy Budd and The Young Person's Guide to
the Orchestra.
ANSWER: Benjamin Britten
[10] The first symphony of this composer, keyed in B flat major, was written before his Rhenish and
soon after he met his future wife, Clara.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
[10] “Spring” is fittingly the first movement in this composer's set of four violin concertos, The Four
Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio Vivaldi

11. Bonus: This process is facilitated by opsonins, which bind to foreign bodies. FTPE:
[10] Identify this process in which cell membranes engulf solid particles, forming internal “food
vacuoles.”
ANSWER: Phagocytosis
[10] Neutrophils and Eosinophils conduct phagocytosis most frequently in the human body, and are a
subdivision of this general kind of immune system cell, also known as a leukocyte.
ANSWER: White Blood Cells
[10] After phagocytosis occurs, the captured particle is usually broken down by this common digestive
organelle.
ANSWER: Lysosome
12. Bonus: Identify this figures key in the history of Pakistan, FTPE:
[10] This founder of Pakistan organized the All India Muslim League and authored a namesake set of
fourteen points to outline a constitution for his country.
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali Jinnah
[10] This daughter of executed Prime Minister Zulfikar recently returned to Pakistan after charges
against her by the current President were dropped.
ANSWER: Benazir Bhutto
[10] This man is that current President of Pakistan, but faces numerous political challenges including
Bhutto's return and former Supreme Court Justice Wajihuddin Ahmed's potential electoral challenge.
ANSWER: Pervez Musharraf
13. Bonus: Identify these big cheaters from the world of professional sports, FTPE:
[10] This NFL head coach is noted for his atrocious fashion sense and propensity to illegally videotape
the signals for opposing teams. He might be the most prosperous cheater in sports considering the
disgusting numbers put up by the New England Patriots through seven weeks.
ANSWER: Bill Belichick
[10] This American track athlete had to give up her five gold medals from the Sydney game after it was
revealed that she'd used illegal steroids.
ANSWER: Marion Jones-Thompson
[10] This mobbed up former NBA referee was busted for point shaving by the FBI. Unlike other
cheaters who have to surrender trophies or give up draft picks, this guy is going to federal prison.
ANSWER: Tim Donaghy
14. Bonus: The title character is Jean Marie Latour, who arrives in New Mexico to establish a Catholic
mission and is aided by Father Joseph Vaillant. FTPE:
[10] Identify this 1927 novel.
ANSWER: Death Comes for the Archbishop
[10] This author of Shadows on the Rock, The Song of the Lark, and My Antonia penned Death Comes
for the Archbishop.
ANSWER: Willa Cather
[10] This work, the first in Cather's prairie trilogy, describes the relationship between Carl Linstrum
and Alexandra Bergson. Its title is taken from a Walt Whitman poem.
ANSWER: O Pioneers!

15. Bonus: This work's later chapters are set in Milan, where St. Ambrose oversees the conversion of
the author. FTPE:
[10] Identify this autobiography that details the life of an ex-Manicheaist and Archbishop of Hippo.
ANSWER: The Confesssions of Saint Augustine
[10] Augustine's Confessions describe his conversion to Christianity, a faith shared by this woman, his
mother.
ANSWER: Saint Monica
[10] This other work by Augustine describes the titular concept and its counterpart while offering a
rebuke of those who had accused Christianity of being responsible for attacks on Rome.
ANSWER: City of God
16. Bonus: Give the charges of these polyatomic ions, FTPE:
[10] Carbonate, or CO3.
ANSWER: -3 (minus three or three minus\)
[10] Manganate, or MnO4.
ANSWER: -2 (minus two or two minus)
[10] Disulfide, or S2.
ANSWER: -2 (minus two or two minus)
17. Bonus: This man advocated the philosophy of Satyagraha, a practice of nonviolent resistance.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this famous pacifist and father of Indian independence.
ANSWER: Mohandas (or Mahatma) Gandhi
[10] Gandhi imported the concept of Ahimsa, or extreme non-violence, from this Indian religion whose
followers traditionally employed brooms to sweep insects out of their path for fear of accidentally
stepping on them.
ANSWER: Jainism
[10] This German psychologist and coiner of the term “identity crisis” authored the Pulitzer-prize
winning Gandhi's Truth, describing Gandhi's employment of Ahimsa and Satyagraha. He's also known
for theorizing eight stages of social development.
ANSWER: Erik Erikson
18. Bonus: Identify these notable world dams, FTPE:
[10] This dam is named for the Nile's first cataract, and creates the massive reservoir Lake Nasser.
Fittingly, it has a nearby “low” counterpart.
ANSWER: Aswan High Dam
[10] Lake Mead is created by this dam, also called Boulder, which is located on the Colorado River and
named for the thirty-first US president.
ANSWER: Hoover Dam
[10] Banks Lake is created by this dam, a notably huge structure begun in 1933 on the Columbia River.
ANSWER: Grand Coulee Dam

19. Bonus: The first of this novel's three sections, “The Window,” sees several of the main family's
guests, including Charles Tansley, Lily Briscoe, and their housekeeper, Mrs. McNab. FTPE:
[10] Identify this novel that revolves around the Ramsay family's trip to the titular structure.
ANSWER: To the Lighthouse
[10] This author of Three Guineas and Orlando wrote To the Lighthouse.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf
[10] In her short story collection The Common Reader, Woolf retells the story of this shipwrecked
sailor from a Defoe work inspired by Alexander Selkirk, a famous companion of the cannibal Friday.
ANSWER: Robinson Crusoe (either name)
20. Bonus: FTPE, identify the following somewhat related Supreme Court cases.
[10] Pornography was found in the plaintiff's house after police entered without a warrant. The court
ruled that evidence obtained illegally may not be used for criminal prosecutions.
ANSWER: Mapp v. Ohio
[10] In this better known case, the court ruled that a person in custody must be informed of his rights to
remain silent and consult an attorney, leading to a namesake set of suspect “rights.”
ANSWER: Miranda v. Arizona
[10] In this previous case, the plaintiff was denied an attorney despite repeated pleas for one; the court
established that it was a suspect's right to legal counsel and overturned the conviction.
ANSWER: Escobedo v. Illinois

