TOSSUPS - OCTOFINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
Perhaps his most important works were his Report on Public Credit and Report on Manufactures,
addressed to Congress in 1790. Earlier he had served in the Continental Congress, the Annapolis Convention,
the Constitutional Convention, and as General Washington's aide-de-camp. He was also the most prolific
essayist for The Federalist. He was the first Secretary of the Treasury and may been seen today on the ten
dollar bill. For ten points, name this man killed in a Weehawken, NJ, duel by Aaron Burr.
Answer: Alexander Hamilton
2.
A co-founder ofIntel initially observed it while he was preparing for a speech. It accurately predicted
the advancement of computer technology from the mid-sixties onwards, and it bears the name of its discoverer.
FTP, name this law that states that the capacity of a silicon microchip will double every 18 months.
Answer: Moore's Law
3.
He is eventually tricked by Elmine. He had duped the faithfully gullible Orgon into deeding property to
him, but the king of France personally intervenes and destroys his scheme. FTP, name this titular religious
hypocrite in a comedy by Moliere.
Answer: Le Tartuffe
4.
In 1943, E.A. Doisy and Henrik Dam won the Nobel Prize for Medicine for discovering it. Also called
naphthoquinone [nap-though-QUIH-knownJ, it enables prothrombin synthesis in the liver. It can be produced
by intestinal bacteria, but its greatest source is leafy green vegetables. FTP, name this vitamin useful in aiding
blood coagulation.
Answer: vitamin K (accept "naphthoquinone" if they ring in before it's said)
5.
Though he wasn't an outstanding rookie, he was the first president ofthe National Hockey League. For
his work, the championship trophy of the American Hockey League is named after him. FTP, name this hockey
builder whose name is most famously attached to the NHL' s Rookie of the Year award.
Answer: Frank Calder
6.
Adherents to this sect follow the tradition set by the religious master Prabhupada, who began it in 1966.
Their central text is the Bhagavad-Gita, and they lead lives dedicated to their beliefs, even rising at 3 am for
communal worship services. FTP, name this sect dedicated to the blue-skinned avatar of Vishnu.
Answer: Hare Krishna (Accept International Society for Krishna Consciousness and ISKCON)
7.
The author of this long poem, published in 1947, insisted that his publisher typeset it like an 1883
geological textbook. The inspiration for Leonard Bernstein's second symphony, this poem is set in New York
City at a bar, where bar patrons come to the conclusion that they need Christianity to combat the stresses of the
modem world. FTP, name this W. H. Auden poem subtitled "a Baroque Eclogue."
Answer: The Age of Anxiety
8.
While in Italy, this painter's works focused on aristocrats, and examples include Marchesa Cattaneo
with a Servant and Genoese Noblewoman with her Son. Moving north past his homeland of Flanders, his works
include Henrietta Maria with her Dwarf, James Stuart and the often-reproduced Charles I at the Hunt. FTP,
name this 1i h century student of Rubens.
Answer: Anthony van Dyck
9.
QUOTE: "The idea of men adrift on a raft does have a certain appeal, but for the most part this is a long,
solemn and tedious Pacific voyage". This was part of a rejection letter sent to this man trying to peddle his
account of re-creating a voyage of the Polynesians. For ten points, name this author of Aku-Aku and The Ra
Expeditions, leader of the Kon Tiki expedition.
Answer: Thor Heyerdahl

10.
This piece first performed in 1850 was inspired by the composer's unrequited passion for Harriet
Smithson, an Irish actress. Subtitled, "An Episode in the Life on an Artist," it is one ofthe first successful pieces
of program music (music that tells a story). It includes black magic, opium-induced hallucinations, and romantic
passion. FTP, name this work by Hector Berlioz.
Answer: Symphonie fantastique (accept: Fantastic Symphony)
11.
Colin Powell's report on it concluded that "relations between Americal [sic] soldiers and the Vietnamese
people are excellent." Later, more thorough investigations revealed that on March 16, 1968, the Americal
Division's Charlie Company under the command ofLt. William Calley had killed over 300 unarmed civilians
in, FTP, what South Vietnamese village?
Answer: My Lai ["me lie"] (accept "My Lai massacre" or equivalent)
12.
This Haligonian was shocked to find out she was adopted. Her move to Vancouver when she was 18 led
to the release of her debut album, Touch. Her 1993 release, Fumbling Towards Ecstasy, saved Nettwerk
Records from going bankrupt. FTP, name this singer-songwriter who sang the Oscar-nominated "When She
Loved Me" from Toy Story 2 as well as "Adia" and "Sweet Surrender."
Answer: Sarah McLachlan
13.
He established a competent civil service and strongly centralized rule. An advocate of religious
tolerance, he removed the special tax upon non-Muslims, forbade slave raids upon the Hindus, and himself
twice married Hindu princesses. In his nearly 50-year rule he extended the boundaries of his empire to include
Afghanistan, Baluchistan, and much of India's northern plain and southward into the Deccan. FTP name this
16th century Mogul emperor.
Answer:
Akbar the Great
14.
Among the many important industrial applications of it are the large-scale production of oxygen and
nitrogen from air. It led to the discovery of the Joule-Thompson effect, and it has made possible the
commercial transportation of liquefied natural gas. For ten points, what is the study and use of materials at very
low temperatures?
Answer: cryogenics
15.
Byron referred to this pupil of Thomas Square and Roger Thwackum as "an accomplish blackguard."
Perhaps young Blifil, who antagonizes him throughout his youth, has something to do with his dissipation.
Both he and Blifil fight for the attention of Sophia Western, and she eventually chooses him over Blifil. FTP,
name this foundling, the subject of a novel by Henry Fielding.
Answer: Tom Jones (full title: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling)
16.
Between 1831 and World War I, legislative power in this nation was split between the Clerical and
Liberal parties. It passed a broad new electoral law in 1848, and thereby avoided the unrest that shook the rest
of Europe. In spite of this, most power was still lodged in the monarchs of the period, Leopold I and II. FTP,
what nation colonized the Congo?
Answer: Belgium
17.
This occurs at the end of mitosis, just before a cell reenters interphase. It follows the recreation of the
nuclear envelope and the decondensing of chromosomes. FTP, name this process, by which two daughter cells
become separated after nuclear division.
Answer: cytokinesis
18.
The Persian word for "earth" is the root of an English term. It described the color of military outfits
designed for desert wear. FTP, name this classic Banana Republic color.
Answer: Khaki

19.
The name's the same, first and last, which prompted the later one to use an informal version of the first
name. The later one wrote The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Tes(and The Right Stuff, while the other made the world
safe for hypocrisy in his books The Web and The Rock and Of Time and the River. FTP what first and last name
did these two authors share?
Answer: Thomas Wolfe (oh, OK, accept Tom Wolfe)
20.
In her later years she turned to government service, becoming US ambassador to Ghana and a high
ranking member of the US delegation to the UN. Years earlier she'd worked with Ronald Reagan in That
Hagen Girl, an ill-fated attempt to turn her into a grown-up actress. FTP, identify the actress who was
originally slated to play Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz after starring in Captain January and Rebecca of
Sunnybrook Farm.
Answer: Shirley Temple or Shirley Temple Black
21.
He was born in 1901 in Jefferson, Iowa and studied mathematics at Princeton University. In 1935 at
Princeton, he founded the American Institute of Public Opinion to measure voter sentiment. FTP, name this
man for whom a famous poll is still named.
Answer: George Gallup
22.
The term was coined by Eugen Bleuler, who based his ideas upon the theories of 19th century doctor
Emil Kraepelin. Bleuler adapted the earlier idea of dementia praecox to posit a lack of coordination between
cognitive and emotional aspects of the personality. Affecting about 1% of the population, FTP, what is this
condition, from the Greek for "split mind."
Answer: schizophrenia
23.
He began his public service career as an assistant District Attorney in Philadelphia. He was later
appointed to the Warren Commission to investigate the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. FTP, name
this Republican Senator from Pennsylvania who, as of March 2001, chairs the Senate Veteran's Affairs
committee.
Answer: Arlen Specter
24.
He coveted the vineyard ofNaboth and had him executed. He was criticized by the prophet Elijah for
this and other sins. With his wife Jezebel, he was eventually destroyed for his wickedness. FTP, name this
Biblical king of Israel.
Answer: Ahab

BONI - OCTOFINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
Answer the following questions concerning Native Americans for ten points each.
American soldiers massacred some 200 unarmed Sioux on December 29, 1890, near what creek in South
Dakota?
Answer: Wounded Knee
Lieutenant Colonel George Custer and 260 soldiers we all killed by between 2500 and 4000 Sioux and
Cheyenne at what battle?
Answer: Battle of Little Bighorn
Chief Joseph led a band of what tribe from Oregon to Montana before being captured 50 miles from the
Canadian border in 1877?
Answer: Nez Perce (NEZ per-SAY, but don't be picky on pronunciation)
2.
Given an element's atomic number, give its discoverer FTP each. If you need the name of the element,
you'll get only 5 pts.
(10 pts.) 19
(5 pts.) Sodium
Answer: Sir Humphrey Davy
(10 pts.) 1
(5 pts.) Hydrogen
Answer: Henry Cavendish
(10 pts.) 84
(5 pts.) Polonium
Answer: Marie Curie
3.
30-20-10. Name this dramatist.
30 - His essential theme, as seen in Wagons Full of Cotton, is the vulnerability of beauty to time and to a society
dominated by violence.
20 - He wrote Summer and Smoke and Night of the Iguana.
10 - He is better known for The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Answer: Tennessee Williams
4.
Identify the following about a rap group, FTP each.
This group is composed of Andre 3000 and Big Boi.
Answer: OutKast
OutKast received critical acclaim for this album that includes "Ms. Jackson" and "B.O.B."
Answer: Stankonia
Most people learned of OutKast from this album that featured "The Art of Storytelling" and "Rosa Parks"
Answer: Aquameni
5.
I know you've been waiting for a bonus about the grotesque ways that Christian martyrs met their death.
FTP each:
He was shot full of arrows, but recovered and so was battered to death with cudgels.
Answer: St. Sebastian
They were killed because of their young age on order of Herod and are usually considered martyrs even though
they weren't even Christian
Answer: the Holy Innocents
This soldier-saint was beheaded in Nicomedia as part of Diocletian's purges
Answer: St. George

6.
For 15 points each, name these books only related to each other by the adultery of the main characters.
And they are both by Americans. And both were written in the early 20 th century... Maybe they do have a lot
in common after all ...
Amerigo sleeps with the Charlotte Stant, the best friend of his wife Maggie Verver, in this Henry James novel.
Answer: The Golden Bowl
The title character falls in love with Mattie Silver, the cousin of this annoying, invalid wife Zeena. This Edith
Wharton novella comes to a nastily ironic conclusion.
Answer: Ethan Frome
7.
Identify these concepts involved in going faster than the speed of light, 5-10-15
5: Traveling faster than light is considered rare, but not impossible, according to this man's theories of relativity.
Answer: Albert Einstein
10: A theoretical particle that travels faster than the speed of light is called this.
Answer: tachyon
15: A particle that moves faster than the speed of light in its medium gives off this kind of radiation, named for
its Russian discoverer.
Answer: Cherenkov radiation
8.
Name these people & places associated with Julius Caesar FTP each.
In 69 BC, Caesar helped this man gain control of the armies of the East. With Caesar and Crassus, he was part
of the First Triumvirate.
Answer: Pompey (Cneius Pompeius Magnus)
In 49 BC, Caesar crossed this river to enter Italy as a sign that he would advance upon Rome to take power.
Answer: Rubicon
This year saw the appointment of Caesar as "dictator-for-life" and his assassination at the hands of Brutus.
Answer: 44 BC[E]
9.
Pencil and paper ready. A googol is 10 to the
What is the base ten log of a googol?
Answer: 100
What is the base ten log of that?
Answer: 2
What is the base ten log often to the pi?
Answer: ill

lOath

power. For ten points each (15 seconds per part):

10.
Given a clue, give the work ofliterature described FTP.
This "gospel," attributes to Gnostic theologians, tells the story of the journey of one of Jesus' disciples to India.
Answer: The Gospel of Thomas
The title of this Chinua Achebe novel refers to a line from William Butler Yeats poem, "The Second Coming."
Answer: Things Fall Apart
It is the first novel of Nobel Prize winner Nadine Gordimer.
Answer: The Lying Days
11.
Name these pop musicians or groups from rumors about upcoming albums for 15 or from older album
titles for 5.
15 - She will record a new live album at a concert in Stockholm in March.
5 - Oops ... I Did it Again and ... Baby One More Time
Answer: Britney Spears
15 - Their lead singer, Nina Persson, is planning a solo album while Peter Svensson has been touring with
another band, Paus.
5 - Gran Turismo and Last Band on the Moon
Answer: The Cardigans

12.
FTP each, name these features of plants.
This is the conductive tissue that can harden into wood in woody plants.
Answer: xylem
This is the other major conductive tissue, that runs in the opposite direction as xylem.
Answer: phloem
This is the term for the water pressure that gives a non-woody plant support and helps it hold its shape.
Answer: turgor pressure
13.
Expressed powers, implied powers, reserved powers, forbidden powers, or Austin Powers. For ten
points each, label the following.
The establishment of public schools
Answer: reserved power
The establishment of post offices
Answer: expressed power
The use of a bill of attainder
Answer: forbidden power
14.
30-20-10 Name the American family from some of its members.
30 Richard was a leading member of the Bay Colony and contributed to the translations in the Bay Psalm
Book.
20 Increase, Richard's son, wrote the sermon "The Day of Trouble is Near."
10 Cotton wrote Magnalia Christi Americana and an account of the Salem Witch Trials.
Answer: Mather
15.
We hope Playboy never attempts a pictorial on this theme. Name these women of The Simpsons, FTPE:
This is Marge's sister who has been married.
Answer: Selma
She is Bart's teacher.
Answer: Edna Krabappel
She is Apu's wife.
Answer: Manjula
16.

FTPE given a description of an assassination attempt, name the intended target.
Giuseppe Zangara shot at this President-elect who was pulled out of harm's way when a woman grabbed
Zangara's arm. The bullet fatally wounded Chicago Mayor Anton J. Cermak, who had come to Miami to make
political peace with the President-Elect..
Answer: Franklin D. Roosevelt
2.
On October 12, 1984, this British Prime Minister narrowly escaped injury when a bomb supposedly
planted by the IRA exploded at the Grand Hotel in Brighton, England during the annual Conservative Party
conference.
Answer: Margaret Thatcher
3.
How hard is this man to kill? On September 7, 1986, this Chilean president escaped unharmed when his
motorcade was attacked by rebels using rockets, bazookas, grenades, and rifles.
Answer: Augusto Pinochet Ugarte
1.

17.
Given a famous building, identify the city in which it is located and one of its primary architects, 5
points for getting one part correct and 15 for both.
St. Paul's Cathedral, competed in 1675
Answer: London and Sir Christopher Wren
The Seagram Building, completed in 1958
Answer: New York City and either: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe or Philip C. Johnson

18.
Name the following Englishmen from clues, FTP each.
After the execution of Charles I, this Puritan become the dictator of England.
Answer: Oliver Cromwell
This man served as Cromwell's secretary. He also wrote L 'Allegro and II Penseroso.
Answer: John Milton
After Milton lost his eyesight, this metaphysical poet became his assistant. His poems include "A Dialogue
between the Soul and Body" and "To His Coy Mistress."
Answer: Andrew Marvell
19.
Given a star with an apparent magnitude below 1, name its constellation FTPE.
1. Capella
Answer:
Auriga
2. Altair
Aquila
Answer:
3. Achernar
Eridanus
Answer:

°-

20.
30, 20, 1 name the philosopher.
30 - He denied the existence of romantic love, instead claiming that attraction between man and woman was
caused by irrationality.
20 - His most famous work, The World as Will and Idea, transforms Kant's ideas to a cyclical history that owes
much to Hegel, whose ideas he otherwise despised.
10- He's the only philosopher consistently identified by the adjective "pessimistic."
Answer: Arthur Schopenhauer
21.
For ten points each, name the famous father-in-law of each of the following men.
A. Franz (or Ferenc) Lizst
a) Richard Wagner
A. Eugene O'Neill
b) Charlie Chaplin, the third time
c) Arnold Schwarzenegger
A. Sergeant Shriver
22.
Given a city or region, from what political entity did the Russian empire acquire it? Ten points per
correct answer.
The city of Astrakhan
Answer: the Tatars or the Golden Horde
The region of Livonia
Answer: the Teutonic Knights (or Knights Hospitilars)
(or Order of the Sword) (or Brothers of the Sword)
The city of Minsk
Answer: Poland

