DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

October 2007
Packet 1:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. This man discussed Plato's concept of anamnesis in his treatise On Memory and Reminiscence,
and in another work uses chapter titles like “Pleasure and Politics” and identifies eudaimonia, or
ultimate happiness. That work postulates the golden mean in an attempt to explain arete, or
virtue, and was (*) edited by this thinker's son. The coiner of the terms “hamartia” and “catharsis,”
FTP, identify this author of the Poetics, Metaphysics, and Nichomachean Ethics, a Greek philosopher
who tutored Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Aristotle
2. This man's experiments with gold colloids may have anticipated nanoparticle science. One of
his early papers discussed the chlorine clathrate hydrate, and his discovery that charge
redistribution occurred only on the exterior of a conductor led to the creation of his namesake (*)
cage. He designed a machine that uses a commutator to convert mechanical rotation into electric
current, the dynamo, and discovered diamagnetism and electrolysis. FTP, identify this British scientist
namesake of the SI unit of capacitance, famous for his experiments with electromagnetic induction.
ANSWER: Michael Faraday
3. The home to the world's largest Sapodilla forest, this land mass is the probable source of
tektites on the shores of Haiti. A scientific theory involving iridium concentrations at the K-T
boundary, the (*) Alvarez hypothesis, speculates that an asteroid impact at this area's Chixulub Crater
wiped out the dinosaurs. The site of Chichen Itza and Cancun, FTP, identify this center of Mayan
civilization, a Mexican peninsula extending into the Gulf of Mexico.
ANSWER: Yucatan Peninsula
4. Chinese writer Lu Xun wrote a famous essay about the dire fate that awaited this work's
protagonist, who is often referred to as a “squirrel.” It begins as Bobby, Emmy, and Ivar are
celebrating Christmas Eve, and ends after Christine Linde's mission fails, leading to the
protagonist (*) slamming a door. Earlier, that protagonist had borrowed money from Krogstad in
order to save her husband's life, but is horrified at his reaction to her blackmail. FTP, name this play
about Torvald and Nora Helmer, who lives in the titular toy abode, written by Henrik Ibsen.
ANSWER: A Doll's House or A Doll House
5. One main participant in this event had already drawn heavy criticism over his handling of
action at Fort Fisher and the Bermuda Hundred Campaign. The issues of this event were
resolved in the case Myers v. US, and a decision by David Carter led to an angry confrontation
involving Lorenzo (*) Thomas. Lyman Trumbull and Edmund Ross cast deciding votes after the
sitting president tried to replace Edwin Stanton, violating the Tenure of Office Act. FTP, identify this
1865 trial that almost removed the 17th US president from office.
ANSWER: Impeachment of Andrew Johnson (accept equivalents as long as they involve Johnson)

6. One painting with this title depicts one figure in a brown cloak with a black-feathered cap, and
was created by Francesco Hayez. Another work by this name is meant to emulate the Venus of
Willendorf, while another shows figures in flowers and black and white checkered attire
surrounded by (*) gold. The best-known example does not depict a noted author's muse, but rather
Francesca di Rimini, and appears in the Gates of Hell series. Brancusi, Klimnt, and Rodin all created
works titled for, FTP, what simple act of love?
ANSWER: The Kiss
7. Opponents to the DMCA argue that program code can be represented as these, and therefore
cannot be copyrighted. Solovay-Strassen, Miller-Rabin, Lucas-Lehmer, and AKS tests can be
used to classify a number as this. They can be computed using the Sieve of (*) Eratosthenes, and
Euclid determined that there are an infinite amount of them. Perfect numbers have a correlation with
the Mersenne variety of, FTP, what numbers, which possess only two factors, themselves and one?
ANSWER: Prime Numbers
8. This man wrote Juvenalia, a discussion of obstacles encountered when composing poetry,
which he published in Latin like his earlier depiction of the Jesuit founder in hell, Ignatius his
Conclave. The term most associated with him was coined in Johnson's Life of Cowley, and his
poem “Song” instructs “go and (*) catch a falling star.” His Meditation XVII produced the phrases
“no man is an island” and “for whom the bell tolls.” FTP, identify this author of Valediction:
Forbidding Mourning, a British metaphysical poet.
ANSWER: John Donne
9. Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co. struck down the income tax provision associated with the
Wilson-Gorman example of one of these. The specific variety is determined by the volume or
dimensions of (*) goods, while the ad valorem variety is most commonly used and involves a specific
percentage. The Dingley, Payne-Aldrich, Underwood, and Hawley-Smoot acts are all examples of,
FTP, what kind of tax on foreign imported goods, one of which Calhoun called an “abomination?”
ANSWER: Tariff (accept Wilson-Gorman Tariff Act before the *)
10. The lover of Claudia Acte, this man appointed Tigranes as governor of Armenia following a
campaign against Parthia. His adoption was celebrated by the production of a coin showing both
this figure and his uncle, and helped popularize him over the younger (*) Britannicus, whom this
emperor would later poison. Advised by Burrus and Seneca, he is better known for the murder of his
mother, Agrippina the Younger. FTP, identify this successor to Claudius who may have fiddled while
Rome burned.
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus (or Drusus) Germanicus or Lucius Ahenobarbus
11. Surikov depicted this action being carried out by Alexander Suvorov, in a location that is
either Maddalena or Simplon. The Fallacies of Hope accompanies a painting alternatively called
Snow Storm by JMW Turner depicting a North African performing this act, while Paul
Delaroche was commissioned to create a realistic version of its most famous (*) performer. Most
famously, it is depicted as occurring on a gray mare through St. Bernard's Pass by Jacques-Louis David
FTP, identify this action carried out by Hannibal and Napoleon, the passage through a certain SwissItalian mountain range.
ANSWER: Crossing the Alps (accept any equivalents that mention motion and the Alps)

12. Ibn Kathir challenged their veracity because they were not heard by any of the sahaba,
meaning that their isnad, or chain of transmission, was inferior. Delivered during the revelation
of Al-Najm, they mentioned Uzza and Manat, usually referred to as the (*) “daughters” of a certain
deity. Their namesake either tempted their deliverance or changed his voice to resemble Mohammed's.
FTP, identify these controversial statements of Islam, used to title a major work by Salman Rushdie.
ANSWER: The Satanic Verses
13. This group had its inception in the Everlasting League, and had a notable victory against
Leopold of Austria near Lake Aegeri at the Battle of Mortgarten. The German Landsknecht
was an attempt to imitate this group, one hundred of whom served as Francis I's honor guard at
Pavia in 1525. Securing their most famous (*) post under Sixtus IV, commander Jules Repon, and
not Michaelangelo, created their blue, orange, and red uniforms. FTP, identify this mercenary force
from a certain country best known for providing security for the Vatican.
ANSWER: Swiss Guard or Mercenaries (accept anything that mentions Swiss people who fight)
14. This author of The Four Ages of Man addressed Phoebus, bidding him to “make haste” and
noting that “all our loves conjure him not to stay” in the poem, Another. Self-criticism is the
focus of a poem which describes an “irksome visage,” The Author to Her Book, while (*) she
discussed events in her life in Verses upon the Burning of our House and A Dialogue between Old
England and New. FTP, identify this early female poet from New England, author of The Tenth Muse
Lately Sprung Up in America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet
15. This figure uses social Darwinism to defend his favorite sport, pushing people into the lake in
the park. He often appears as the patron saint of technology and runs a corporate headhunting
service, which he explains does not behead current (*) employees to the Pointy-Haired boss. Such
services are usually performed by his nemesis, the feline evil director of human resources. FTP,
identify this white, furry Scott Adams character, the pet and companion of Dilbert.
ANSWER: Dogbert
16. Schrodinger's What is Life? uses this to comment on the theory of abiogenesis, while the
problems of using it to examine other statements is called Loschmidt's Paradox. First discussed
in Carnot's Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire as a consequence of the relationship between
(*) work and decreasing heat, Claudius stated its simplest form, that heat cannot spontaneously flow
from a colder body to a hotter one. FTP, identify this numbered law of thermodynamics which states
that entropy is always increasing.
ANSWER: Second Law of Thermodynamics
17. Ngugi's Devil on a Cross is set in one of these, and examples include Gouffre Martel from The
Stars My Destination. Soyinka's The Man Died is an autobiographical account of one, and is
subtitled “notes” of one of these places. Oscar Wilde proclaimed that each man kills the thing he
loves in a (*) “ballad” of one called Reading, while Richard Lovelace wrote to Althea from one and
stated that they are not made by stone walls. Martin Luther King wrote a “Letter from a Birmingham”
example of, FTP, what kind of institution, generally used to house inmates?
ANSWER: Prisons or Jails (accept equivalents)

18. This work employs the castenets in a similar style to the composer's earlier The Fiery Angel
and Lieutenant Kije Suite, while some performances choose the somewhat morbid option of
playing the stifled oboe in this piece's closing scene. Woodwinds introduce a (*) theme of timpani
and bass drum used to represent the hunters, while the clarinet, flute, and bassoon are used for the cat,
bird, and grandfather. FTP, identify this Prokofiev piece about a boy's encounter with the titular
carnivore.
ANSWER: Peter and the Wolf
19. This man's opponents called him “the Donkey” as a reference to his naivete, at least until he
executed them as part of his Corrective Revolution. He was imprisoned for asking for aide from
Hitler, and later joined Muhammad Naguib and his own predecessor to form the (*) Free Officers
Movement. This leader directed his forces to cross the Bar Lev Line during the Yom Kippur War, and
met with Carter and Menachem Begin to sign the Camp David Accords. FTP, identify this successor
of Gamal Nasser, an Egyptian president assassinated in 1981 by Khalid Islambouli.
ANSWER: Anwar al-Sadat
20. Krakatoa created a high sulfuric acid concentration in these specific objects, and one variety
can display very faint crystal-produced halos. “Fall Streaks” in these clouds are referred to as
uncinus, or “sky hooks,” and they are classified in the 'A' family. The size of the ice (*) crystals
that compose them can also produce the “stratus” or “cumulus” variety of, FTP, what clouds,
characterized by their high altitude and thin, wispy appearance.
ANSWER: Cirrus Clouds

DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

October 2007
Packet 1:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Answer these questions about prominent Spanish philosopher Jose Ortega y Gasset, FTPE:
[10] In History as a System, Ortega y Gasset advocates a concept he calls “vital reason,” largely an
attempt to complete what he views as the inadequate “cogito ergo sum” philosophy of this French
thinker.
ANSWER: Rene Descartes
[10] In addition to The Revolt of the Masses and Invertebrate Spain, Ortega y Gasset wrote a tract
about the history of deductive reasoning in which he discussed this philosopher, who himself wrote A
Philosopher's Creed and believed in entities called Monads.
ANSWER: Gottfried Leibniz
[10] Ortega y Gasset's last published work compared discussed bullfighting and this activity. A famous
thought experiment involving a stag and this activity was put forth by Rousseau.
ANSWER: Hunting (accept equivalents)
2. Bonus: This author of The Experimental Novel authored a cycle of twenty novels, Les RougonMacqart. FTPE:
[10] Identify this French naturalist who wrote Nana.
ANSWER: Emile Zola
[10] Zola published the letter J'Accuse alleging antisemitism and stupidity as the primary motivations
behind the conviction of this French captain, whose namesake “affair” was due to the actions Ferdinand
Esterhazy.
ANSWER: Alfred Dreyfus
[10] Maheu's daughter Catherine is loved both by Chaval and Etienne in this Zola novel, often
considered his best and set during a miner's strike.
ANSWER: Germinal
3. Bonus: Answer these questions about the recent activity of the US legislature, FTPE:
[10] The unfortunately abbreviated Financial Anti-Terrorism Act, later combined into the PATRIOT
act, passed the house in 2001 with a 412-1 vote. The lone dissenter was this Texas representative and
current presidential candidate, who usually identifies himself as a Liberterian.
ANSWER: Ron Paul
[10] Randy Forbes, a congressman from this state, accidentally included his recommendation in the
first draft of 2005's Gangbuster Bill to award funding to police stations based on numbers of blacks and
Hispanics in their jurisdictions. This state is also home child-choking Jim Moran
ANSWER: Virginia or VA
[10] The Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act, passed in 2006, was primarily meant to target this radical
environmental group, usually considered by the FBI to be the top domestic terror threat.
ANSWER: Earth Liberation Front

4. Bonus: Answer the following about acids and bases, FTPE:
[10] This definition states that bases are substances which increase the concentration of hydroxide ions
in water, while acids increase the concentration of hydrogen ions. It was developed by a Swedish
chemist.
ANSWER: Arrhenius Theory
[10] The hydrogen ions bond to lone-pair electrons in water to form the H3O+ ion, which is also known
by this name.
ANSWER: Hydronium or Oxonium ion
[10] The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation relates concentrations of conjugate bases to acidity and
governs these substances, which resist change in pH.
ANSWER: Buffer(s) Solutions
5. Bonus: This building once had massive, ornate bronze doors and bronze and gold-filled coffers
lining its interior. FTPE:
[10] Identify this home to a decaying Raphael and “temple to all the gods,” which had its bronze – and
anything else worth selling – looted repeatedly during various attacks on Rome.
ANSWER: The Pantheon
[10] The pantheon's portico features sixteen of these columns, which notably feature Acanthus leaves.
ANSWER: Corinthian Columns
[10] The Pantheon is famous for this feature, a circular opening at the apex of its dome. Mantegna
painted one into his ceiling at Castello di San Giorgio.
ANSWER: Oculus or Oculi
6. Bonus: This work describes the death of the poet's friend, Gaius Gallus, as well as the coming of a
golden age heralded by a messianic figure, probably an allusion to Octavian. FTPE:
[10] Identify this set of pastoral poems which includes the famous “Hymn to Italy.”
ANSWER: Bucolics or Eclogues
[10] This Roman poet created the Bucolics as well as the Georgics and The Aeneid.
ANSWER: Virgil or Publius Vergilius Maro
[10] Virgil serves as a guide during this first entry in Dante's Divine Comedy.
ANSWER: The Inferno
7. Bonus: The phrase “NOTUVY” is useful in remembering them. FTSNOP:
[10] NOTUVY represents the shapes, not the first letters, of what set of six basic mechanical devices,
which include levers and pulleys?
ANSWER: Simple Machines
[10] This simple machine is represented by the Y in NOTUVY. Archimedes devised a famous one
which acted as a water pump.
ANSWER: Screw
[5,5] Aside from the screw, lever, and pulley, name any two of the remaining three simple machines,
F5PE. Hint: They are represented by the N, O, and V.
ANSWER: Incline Plane, Wheel and Axle, Wedge

8. Bonus: Identify the individual responsible for shooting these television characters, FTPE:
[10] Mr. Smithers on The Simpsons.
ANSWER: Maggie Simpson (prompt on Simpson, obviously)
[10] J. R. Ewing on Dallas.
ANSWER: Kristin Shepard (either name)
[10] Terry Crowley on The Shield.
ANSWER: Vic Mackey (either name)
9. Bonus: Given a list of gods, identify the common area over which they hold dominion. For example,
“Hephaestus, Loki, and Agni” would be “fire.”
[10] Indra, Raiden, Thor.
ANSWER: Thunderbolts or Lightning or Storms
[10] Ares, Huitzilopochtli (Hweet-zee-low-poke-tlee), Tyr
ANSWER: War (accept equivalents like Battle)
[10] Kali, Yama, Ereshkigal
ANSWER: Death
10. Bonus: This 1962 novel is told in a futuristic slang called Nadsat, which draws from Cockney
English and Russian words. FTPE:
[10] Identify this novel about the extremely violent Alex, who terrorizes London with his droogs before
undergoing the Ludovico technique.
ANSWER: A Clockwork Orange
[10] This author of A Clockwork Orange and the verse novel Byrne said that the title refers to someone
who “has the appearance of an organism lovely with color and juice, but is in fact a toy to be wound up
by the almighty state.”
ANSWER: Anthony Burgess
[10] Burgess wrote an early trilogy, The Long Day Wanes, during his time as an education officer in the
British Colonial Service while stationed in this Asian country with capital at Kuala Lampur.
ANSWER: Malaysia
11. Bonus: Name these data structures from computer science, FTPE:
[10] This data structure is used by an operating system to store context for function calls. Common
operations on it include push, pop, and peek.
ANSWER: Stack
[10] Unlike stacks, which are First-In First-Out, these data structures are First-In, Last-Out. Variations
of them include circular ones, with a pointer indicating the head.
ANSWER: Queue
[10] This “min” version of this type of tree stores the minimum value at its root and maintains that all
nodes are smaller than their children. The depth of the tree at any two leaf nodes never differs by more
than one.
ANSWER: Heap

12. Bonus: Answer these questions about political theorist Kenneth Waltz, FTPE:
[10] In his seminal work Theory of International Politics, Waltz put forth the major tenets of the
structural or “neo” form of this political philosophy. This term is also associated with the styles of
Edward Hopper and Gustave Flaubert.
ANSWER: Realism
[10] Waltz is currently on the faculty at this Ivy League school, which recently hosted Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmedinejad.
ANSWER: Columbia University
[10] Waltz's theory of international anarchy comments upon this thinker's evaluation of the state as an
entity which holds a monopoly on the legitimate use of force. He is better known for author Politics as
Vocation and describing the link between Calvinism and economics.
ANSWER: Max Weber
13. Bonus: Identify these Nobel Laureates who drew inspiration from India despite not actually being
Indian, FTPE:
[10] Born in Bombay, this British winner of the 1907 Nobel Prize for Literature wrote numerous works
about India, including The Jungle Book, Kim, and Gunga Din.
ANSWER: Rudyard Kipling
[10] This Irish author of The Second Coming and Sailing to Byzantium helped popularize actual Indian
author Rabindranath Tagore's Gitanjali, leading the latter to win the 1913 Nobel. He himself won in
1923.
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] This man's love for India led to his appointment as Mexican ambassador to the country, and
inspired his novel The Monkey Grammarian. He's better known for works like Eastern Slope, The Bow
and the Lyre, and Labyrinth of Solitude, and for winning the 1990 prize.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz
14. Bonus: FTPE, identify the following about electromagnetism
[10] This law states that charge enclosed by a surface divided by the permittivity of free space gives the
electric flux through that surface.
ANSWER: Gauss' Law
[10] This law states that the line integral over a closed path of a magnetic field yields the current
passing through a loop. It was later modified to include the term for displacement current.
ANSWER: Ampere's Law
[10] Gauss' law and Ampere's law are two parts of this set of four equations relating electricity and
magnetism, named for a Scottish physicist.
ANSWER: Maxwell's Equations

15. Bonus: Name these insurgents, FTPE:
[10] This Italian independence fighter spent time on the River Tyne and in Uruguay before leading the
Expedition of the Thousand, better known as the Red Shirts, through southern Italy.
ANSWER: Guiseppe Garibaldi
[10] This Revolutionary War hero served under Nathaniel Greene at Eutaw Springs and paired with
Henry Lee to attack Georgetown, but was more successful leading his militia in various raids on British
supply lines, earning the title “Swamp Fox.”
ANSWER: Francis Marion
[10] Taking his name from the last ruler of the Inca, this man led a revolt against the Spanish in Peru in
the 1700s, winning at Sangarara before being captured and executed.
ANSWER: Tupac Amaru II (or Jose Gabriel Condorcanqui Noguera)
16. Bonus: Answer the following about French tolerance, or lack thereof, FTPE:
[10] Issued in 1598, this statement gave Huguenots the right to practice their religion and established
military strongholds like La Rochelle.
ANSWER: Edict of Nantes
[10] This King issued the Edict of Nantes. He also founded the Bourbon Dynasty after winning the
War of the Three Henrys.
ANSWER: Henry of Navarre or Henry IV of France or Henry IV Bourbon (prompt on partial
answer)
[10] Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes through this proclamation, which shares its name with
forest around which the Barbizon artistic school was centered.
ANSWER: Edict of Fontainebleau
17. Bonus: They differ from ctenophores in that they do not possess certain structures that characterize
members of this phylum. FTPE:
[10] Identify this marine phylum which contains jellyfish.
ANSWER: Cnidaria
[10] Organisms in phylum Cnidaria are characterized by the presence of these structures, which are
responsible for the characteristic jellyfish “sting.”
ANSWER: Nematocyst or Cnida or Cnidocyst (accept Cnidocyte, Cnidoblast, or Nematocyte)
[10] Cnidaria's class hydrozoa contains this organism, not actually a jellyfish but rather a siphonophore.
It is named either for its characteristically tinted tentacles as or its unique sail-like air bladder.
ANSWER: Portuguese Man o' War or Bluebottle or Bluebubble
18. Bonus: It ends with Leonora married to Rodney Bayham, while the narrator takes care of the
comatose Nancy Rufford. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Ford Maddox Ford novel in which John Dowell tells of Edward Ashburnham's
numerous extramarital affairs, declaring “This is the saddest story I have ever heard.”
ANSWER: The Good Soldier
[10] Ford Maddox Ford helped publish the early poems of this writer, including the collection Touch
and Go. He also told of Paul Morel in Sons and Lovers.
ANSWER: David Herbert Lawrence
[10] Ford was a friend and frequent collaborator of this author, with whom he co-wrote The Nature of
a Crime, The Inheritors, and Romance. This writer is better known for author Lord Jim and Heart of
Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad

19. Bonus: Answer the following questions about important historical thrones, FTPE:
[10] This Persian king and successor to Darius I set up a massive throne on the shore to observe the 480
BC Battle of Salamis, only to watch the Greeks under Themistocles smash his fleet.
ANSWER: Xerxes I
[10] The Persians would later capture the Peacock Throne from this Islamic Indian kingdom, whose
rulers included Babur, Shah Jahan, and Akbar.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire
[10] This African kingdom, which lasted from 1701 to the late nineteenth century, featured a legend
centering on a Golden Stool which descended from the sky thanks to Okomfo Anokye. It lends its
name to a major Ghanan ethnic group.
ANSWER: Ashanti or Asante
20. Bonus: This city saw the 1893 World's Fair, during which serial killer H.H. Holmes opened a hotel
at which he may have murdered over one hundred people. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Illinois “Windy City,” home of the John Hancock Center and Sears Tower.
ANSWER: Chicago
[10] Bobby Seale, Abbie Hoffman, and six other men were tried following the riots that occurred in
Chicago following the Democratic Convention in this year, which saw Hubert Humphrey lose a close
race.
ANSWER: 1968
[10] Five men were executed before John Altgeld signed pardons in the wake of this 1886 event in
Chicago, which saw the death of police officer Mathias Degan.
ANSWER: Haymarket Square Riot or Bombing

