DACQ
Dynasty Academic Competition
Questions

October 2007
Study Guide:
World Mountains

Mountains of the World
Mt. Everest:
Range: Himalayas (Asia)
Height: 29,028 ft
First Ascent: Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay, 1953
Everest, the tallest mountain in the world, sits on the border between Nepal and Tibet. It can be climbed by the
“Valley of Silence” on the Lhotse face, a massive mountain which adjoins Everest. The eastern face is known as
Kangshung, while to the northeast lies the Rongbuk Valley. George Mallory unsuccessfully attempted to scale
Everest, explaining his actions with the terse “because it is there.”
K2:
Range: Himalayas, specifically the Karakoram Range (Asia)
Height: 28,251 ft
First Ascent: Lino Lacadelli and Achille Compagnoni, 1954
Also known as Godwin-Austen and Lamba Pahar, K2 is the second-highest mountain in the world. It is usually
ascended via the Abruzzi Spur, home to notable features such as the “black pyramid” and House’s Chimney.
The Polish Line and Magic Line are also sometimes attempted. K2 is home to the Shaksgam River and is
disputed by both China and Pakistan.
Mount Aconcagua:
Range: Andes (South America)
Height: 22,841 ft
First Ascent: Matthias Zurbriggen, 1897
Aconcagua is the tallest mountain in the western hemisphere (and the southern hemisphere), and is located in
Argentina. Its name is usually thought to come from the Quecha for “Sentinel of Stone.” It lies on the English
and Polish glaciers, the latter of which lends its name to a common transverse route of ascent.
Mount Kilimanjaro:
Range: No traditional range, sometimes considered part of the Usambara Mountains (Africa).
Height: 19,303 ft
First Ascent: Hans Meyer and Ludwig Purtscheller, 1889
Kilimanjaro is massive stratovolcano located in Tanzania, and is the largest peak in Africa. Its central peak,
Kibo, is flanked by Shira and Mawensi, and it forms the Ngurdoto crater with Mount Meru. There are several
climbing routes, including Western Breach, Machame, and Lemosho. Its highest point is known as Uhuru peak.
Mont Blanc:
Range: Alps (Europe)
Height: 15, 774 ft
First Ascent: Jacques Balmat and Michel-Gabriel Paccard, 1786
Mont Blanc (or Monte Bianco) straddles the French-Italian border and is claimed by both countries. It is the
tallest peak in Western Europe. Popular ascents include the “path of the three mountains” and the “royal path.”

Mount Elbrus:
Range: Caucasus (Europe)
Height: 18,510 ft
First Ascent: Khilar Hachirov, 1829
Mount Elbrus, located in Russia, is the highest mountain in Europe. Known in Ancient times as Strobilus, it is
often cited as the location at which Zeus bound Prometheus. The source of the Baskan, Malka, and Kuban
rivers, it is a twin-peaked stratovolcano that forms part of Kel-Ketchen lake.
Mount McKinley:
Range: Alaska (North America)
Height: 20,320 ft
First Ascent: Harry Karstens and Hudson Stuck, 1913
McKinley (also called Denali in Athabaskan or Bolshaya Gora in Russian) sits on five glaciers: The Peters,
Kahiltna, Ruth, Traleika, and Muldrow. It is the tallest mountain in North America and is located in Alaska. It
has two summits, North and South, as well as regions known as South and East buttresses and Browne Tower.
Mount Rainier:
Range: Cascades (North America)
Height: 13,210 ft
First Ascent: P.B van Trump and Hazard Stevens, 1870
Mount Rainier is located in Washington and is the highest mountain in the Cascade Range. Like most other
geographic features of the Pacific Northwest, it was named for one of George Vancouver’s friends. It is the
source of the Carbon, Cowlitz, and Puyallup rivers, and is composed of three summits: Columbia Crest, Point
Success, and Liberty Cap.
Mount Whitney:
Range: Sierra Nevada (North America)
Height: 14,505 ft
First Ascent: Charles Begole and John Lucas, 1873
Mount Whitney, located in California, is the highest mountain in the contiguous United States. It consists
mainly of granite and borders the Owens Valley, and is home to several minor peaks known as “keedles.”
Notably, one route of ascent (the “Mountaineer’s Route”) was first climbed by famed naturalist John Muir.
Vinson Massif:
Range: Sentinels (Antarctica)
Height: 16,050 ft
First Ascent: Nicholas Clinch, 1966
Vinson Massif is the highest mountain in Antarctica, and lies in the Sentinel range (itself an extension of the
Ellsworth Mountains). It lies on the Ronne Ice Shelf, and is named for Carl Vinson, a congressman from
Georgia. Ascent is usually accomplished via the Branscomb glacier.
Mount Kosciuszko:
Range: Great Dividing Range (Australia)
Height: 7,310 ft
First Ascent: Pawel Strzelecki, 1840
Mount Kosciuszko, named for a Polish freedom-fighter who also fought in the American Revolution, is
generally referred to as the tallest mountain in Australia (specifically, it lies in New South Whales). This
classification is amusingly incorrect for several reasons. First, Australian territory contains two peaks (Mount
McClintock and Mawson Peak) which are most definitely taller than Mount Kosciuszko. Even more curiously,
Mount Kosciuszko is not actually Mount Kosciuszko. Upon discovery that a nearby peak, Mount Townsend,
was actually taller than Kosciuszko, authorities switched names to ensure that “Mount Kosciuszko” remained the
“tallest” mountain in Australia.

