Packet 11

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 11: Tossups
1. On the night before a battle, this man dreamt that he was tied to a wheel that plunged into black water full of
serpents. This man was conceived at the castle Tintagel after his father disguised himself as Gorlois to sleep with
Igraine. Following his last battle, this figure was taken to the Isle of Avalon to recuperate. This king unknowingly
slept with his half-sister Morgause to conceive a man who mortally wounded this figure at the Battle of Camlann.
This son of Uther Pendragon and father of Mordred married the daughter of King Leodegrance, Guinevere. For 10
points, name this ruler of Camelot who presided over the Round Table and wielded Excalibur.
ANSWER: King Arthur Pendragon
2. In one work from this nation, the title character tracks criminals for Constable Farrell and later brutally murders
the Healy family. In another novel from this country, Mr. Judd is the sole survivor of a group that includes the title
character, who writes to Laura Trevelyan. In addition to Voss, another novel from this nation centers around a bet to
transport a glass church to Bellingen. That novel is Oscar and Lucinda. Amon Goeth is the commandant of Plaszow
in another novel from this nation, whose title character shelters Polish Jews from the Nazis. For 10 points, name this
nation home to Patrick White, Peter Carey, and the author of Schindler’s Ark, Thomas Keneally.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
3. This man advocated “Meatless Mondays” to ration food while overseeing the US Food Administration during
World War I. He supported the “Own Your Own Home” campaign during his tenure as Commerce Secretary to
promote home ownership and created the Veterans Administration and the Federal Farm Board. This President
promised “a chicken in every pot” in his campaign against Al Smith, and the Bonus Army marched on the Capitol
during his presidency. Shantytowns became known as this president’s “villes” during the Great Depression. For 10
points, name this president during the beginning of the Great Depression who was defeated by Franklin Roosevelt in
1932.
ANSWER: Herbert Clark Hoover
4. One artist from this movement sculpted household fixtures, including a giant fan and light switches, from soft
materials. In addition to Claes Oldenburg, another artist from this movement included a bodybuilder in Just what is
it that makes today’s homes so different, so appealing?. One artist from this movement depicted a blue-haired figure
thinking she would “Rather Sink – Than Call Brad For Help” in Drowning Girl, and that artist created another work
by printing Ben-Day dots, which features a fighter plane in Whaam!, by Roy Lichtenstein. For 10 points, name this
art movement that depicted mass culture, including Andy Warhol’s Campbell’s Soup Cans and silkscreens of
Marilyn Monroe.
ANSWER: pop art
5. In the Mahakala tantra, this substance is described as the “perfect medicine.” After the Churning of the Ocean of
Milk, this substance was created where drops of the nectar Amrita touched the ground. Yogis of the Shaivite cult
often consume this substance as an aid to their sadhana, or spiritual practice. The Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church
teaches that this substance is the Eucharist, and another religion makes use of it through long vessels called chalices
in their “reasoning sessions.” In Hinduism, it is called bhang or ganja, and is often presented to Shiva as an offering.
For 10 points, name this cannabinoid often smoked by Rastafarians, who can now legally do so in Colorado and
Washington.
ANSWER: marijuana [or weed; or pot; or bud; accept cannabis before cannabinoid is mentioned]
6. The sea level highstand during the mid-Cretaceous period can be attributed to this process’s namesake pulse. The
Vine-Matthews-Morley hypothesis states that this process causes evidence for Earth’s reversing magnetic field
through the appearance of alternating stripes in polarized rock. Robert Dietz’s model of this process assumed that a
sliding surface was present at the base of the lithosphere. This process was first described by Harry Hess, and it is
caused by the asthenosphere’s convection currents, which propel basaltic magma to the Earth’s surface. For 10
points, name this process responsible for continental drift that creates new oceanic crust at mid-ocean ridges.
ANSWER: seafloor spreading [prompt on “continental drift” before mentioned]

Packet 11

2

7. One movement in this suite is said to represent “French women quarrelling violently in the market,” and the third
movement depicts children at play in the Tuileries. Another movement portrays the flight of the witch Baba Yaga.
That movement, “The Hut on Fowl’s Legs,” precedes the final movement of this suite, a two-part rondo
commemorating a structure designed for Tsar Alexander II. This suite opens with a Promenade theme that is restated
four times to represent a viewer walking between displays, and it concludes with “The Great Gate of Kiev.” For 10
points, name this fifteen-movement piano suite composed by Modest Mussorgsky.
ANSWER: Pictures at an Exhibition: A Remembrance of Viktor Hartmann [or Tableaux d’une exposition; or
Kartínki s výstavki: Vospominániye o Víktore Gártmane]
8. In a prose poem, this author described his fears of a nuclear attack that would be instigated if his country
delivered a Dolphin Class submarine to Israel. Simon Dach hosts an intellectual gathering in this author’s novel The
Meeting at Telgte. The Wilhelm Gustloff sinks at the beginning of another of his novels, which is narrated by Paul
Pokriefke. This author of Crabwalk wrote a novel in which the title object is gifted to the protagonist on his third
birthday. That novel is followed by Cat and Mouse and Dog Years in this author’s Danzig Trilogy. For ten points,
name this German author who chronicled the life of Oskar Matzerath in The Tin Drum.
ANSWER: Gunter Wilhelm Grass
9. Solving the Laplace equation for a constant potential calculates this quantity. This quantity is calculated as four pi
times the permittivity of free space times radius for a sphere, and the reciprocal of this quantity is elastance. This
quantity is found by summing the inverse of each individual value when their associated devices are connected in
series, while it is summed directly when the devices are in parallel. An early device associated with this quantity is
the Leyden jar. This quantity is more commonly found by dividing charge by voltage for a namesake parallel-plate
device. For 10 points, name this quantity that measures the ability of a body to store electrical charge.
ANSWER: capacitance [prompt on “C”; prompt on “capacitors”]
10. A large athletic stadium in this city was built in a pit made by bombs and features acrylic glass canopies
supported by steel cables. Besides the Olympic Stadium, this city is home to the European patent offices and the
Zeiss Planetarium. The Nymphenburg Palace in this city was home to its local rulers, and the Michaelskirche in this
city is the largest Renaissance church north of the Alps. This city’s Frauenkirche features the Devil’s Footprint, and
the central square of this city is the Marienplatz. A prominent structure in this city was designed to look like a car
tire, the BMW Headquarters. For 10 points, name this third largest city in Germany and capital of Bavaria.
ANSWER: Munich [or München; or Minga]
11. Peasants in this novel hold a “skimmity-ride” to embarrass a man who is having an affair, causing a pregnant
woman’s death. At the end of this book, Elizabeth-Jane finds a will that only wants that the will’s writer be
forgotten. While drunk, the title character makes a deal with the sailor Newsom at the beginning of this novel, but
regrets it and forswears drinking for twenty years afterwards. Rain on the day of festivities organized by the title
character starts a rivalry with a former business partner, Donald Farfrae. For 10 points, name this novel about
Michael Henchard, the administrative head of a certain English town who sells his daughter and wife, by Thomas
Hardy.
ANSWER: The Mayor of Casterbridge: The Life and Death of a Man of Character
12. Differences of this quantity are represented by specific ratios in the partition coefficient. Substances with an
infinite value of this quantity in relation to each other are miscible, and the addition of a compound containing the
precipitate leads to the decrease of this quantity in the common ion effect. This quantity for a gas in a liquid is
proportional to the partial pressure of the gas above the liquid according to Henry’s law. The value of this quantity
under normal conditions is exceeded during supersaturation. For solids in liquids, this quantity is usually
proportional to temperature. For 10 points, name this measure of how well a substance dissolves in another.
ANSWER: solubility

Packet 11

3

13. In one work, this author noted a rapid adaptation to twentieth century life among the Manus Islanders. Besides
writing New Lives for Old, this person observed how one group carried their babies in baskets and beat them until
they stopped crying; those people were the Mundugumor Islanders. This person disproved the stereotype of
primitive people acting like children while living among the people of Tau Island, and asserted that adolescence was
formulated based on cultural experiences in Growing Up in New Guinea. For 10 points, name this anthropologist
who observed the sexual freedom of women on a Pacific island in Coming of Age in Samoa.
ANSWER: Margaret Mead
14. A structure of this type in Batalha Monastery is surmounted by a gothic-style metal crucifix. One of these
structures was the only part of the Saxon Palace not demolished in the destruction of Warsaw. The first modern
eternal flame in Europe was lit at a structure of this type at the Arc de Triomphe. Bouquets from British royal
weddings are laid at this structure in Westminster Abbey, which was dedicated on Armistice Day, 1920; the
American structure of this type was dedicated the following year. For 10 points, name this type of structure, an
example of which is the final resting place of “An American Soldier, Known but to God” at Arlington National
Cemetery.
ANSWER: Tombs of the Unknown Soldier of World War I [or Tomb of the Unknown Warrior of World War I; or
monuments for the unknown soldiers; accept obvious equivalents; prompt on “monuments”]
15. CASQ2 is the cardiac form of a protein that can be found in one type of this organelle; that protein is
calsequestrin. Lysine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, and leucine form a retention sequence in this organelle known as
KDEL. Vesicles that are leaving this organelle are tagged with the protein COPII. Though not the Golgi apparatus,
this organelle can contain flattened areas known as cisternae, and a type of this organelle is continuous with the
double membrane of the nucleus. One version of this organelle named for its outer appearance is involved in lipid
and carbohydrate metabolism. For 10 points, name this organelle surrounding the nucleus that comes in “smooth”
and “rough” varieties.
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [or ER; accept sarcoplasmic reticulum or SR before “lysine”]
16. Gabe Newell called this platform’s store a threat to Steam, and it was announced at Computex 2011. Gadgets
were removed from this platform, and this product is the first of its kind to implement universal searching from
anywhere within an application, true inter-program multitasking, and a built-in file system explorer. USB 3.0 is
natively supported on this platform, as is 3D Printing. This platform allows its users to see a graph of file transfer
speed, and clicking a monitor’s corner in this operating system allows users to switch between apps and activate a
“Charms” bar. For 10 points, name this operating system whose Start screen features live tiles, recently created by
Microsoft.
ANSWER: Windows 8.1 [or Windows NT 6.2; or Windows NT 6.3; prompt on “Windows” or “Windows NT” or
“Windows RT”]
17. After raids by the Chams at this site, one king moved his capital a few miles north of this structure. This
structure’s design represents a mythical mountain at the center of the universe, Mount Meru. Despite a war in a
neighboring country, Jacqueline Kennedy was hosted by Norodom Sihanouk at this structure. This structure, whose
name translates to “City of Temples,” is near the town of Tonle Sap. This structure, which is depicted on the flag of
the country in which it is located, was the capital of King Suryavarman II’s Khmer Empire. For 10 points, name this
largest religious structure in the world, originally a Hindu temple complex, a Buddhist temple located in Cambodia.
ANSWER: Prasat Angkor Wat
18. This author wrote of the Columbia professor Bill Everhart and Wesley Martin, and in another work, the central
character recounts a fantasy in which he envisions various creatures gathering near a castle in Lowell to awaken the
Great World Snake. Besides The Sea is My Brother and Doctor Sax, this author wrote a novel in which the narrator
remembers climbing the Matterhorn Peak in California with Japhy Ryder. This author of The Dharma Bums wrote a
work in which the protagonist meets Old Bull Lee in New Orleans. Neal Cassady is fictionalized as Dean Moriarty
in that novel, which is narrated by Sal Paradise. For ten points, name this Beat Generation author of On the Road.
ANSWER: Jean-Louis “Jack” Kerouac

Packet 11

4

19. This man was honorably discharged from the 18-X Army Reserve program because of broken legs in September
2004. He claimed he needed epilepsy treatment while employed at his most recent job and used the codenames
“Verax” and “The TrueHOOHA.” This person, one of only ten people to be accused of treason under the Espionage
Act, reportedly gave $250 to Ron Paul. Both Venezuela and Russia offered this man asylum, and news reports from
The Washington Post and The Guardian released details that this man, while working at Booz Allen, leaked about
the NSA program PRISM. For 10 points, name this government contractor who released over two million
government documents in 2013.
ANSWER: Edward Joseph Snowden
20. This polity won the Battle of the Upper Baetis with help from Numidian cavalry under Massinissa. One general
from this empire feigned a retreat and outflanked mercenaries at the Battle of Macar River, and that man’s son was
ambushed by Nero and Salinator and killed at the Battle of the Metaurus River. Another of that man’s sons
surrounded his enemy with a crescent formation after feigning retreat at the Battle of Cannae. This empire was
defeated when Scipio Africanus frightened this empire’s elephants at Zama. For 10 points, name this ancient
maritime empire in North Africa, who fought in the Punic Wars against Rome, and whose generals included
Hannibal.
ANSWER: Ancient Empire of Carthage [or Carthago; or Qart-ḥadašt]
TB. This material is classified into namesake orders that include histosols and aridisols. The first three layers of this
substance are labeled O, A, and B, respectively. Those layers are classified as this substance’s namesake horizons,
which together produce this substance’s namesake profile. Most of this material on Earth is younger than the
Pleistocene epoch, and cellulose is the most abundant plant residue in this material. Five percent of this material’s
volume is composed of humus. For 10 points, name this material, comprising the first few feet of the crust, that
contains the root systems of plants as well as nutrients needed to support them.
ANSWER: soil [or topsoil]

Packet 11

5

Packet 11: Bonuses
1. The Rockwell scale measures this property by creating an indentation in the material being tested. For 10 points
each:
[10] This property of a mineral can be determined by a scratch test by observing how easily a sample can be marked
by another material. This characteristic is also judged on the Mohs scale.
ANSWER: scratch hardness
[10] This quality describes the appearance of a mineral when light strikes its surface. Examples include “vitreous”
and “greasy,” while use of “dull” when describing this property means that the mineral exhibits Lambertian
reflectance.
ANSWER: luster
[10] A mineral exhibits this characteristic when it can be broken along a plane parallel to the face of a sample,
producing a flat surface along the break. Feldspar notably exhibits this property.
ANSWER: cleavage
2. This philosopher argues that we cannot derive what we “ought” to do from observing what “is.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Scottish empiricist who developed the “is-ought” problem and wrote Dialogues Concerning Natural
Religion, Enquiry Concerning the Principle of Morals, and A Treatise of Human Nature.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] This work by Hume contains the section “Of Miracles” and supposedly awakened Immanuel Kant from his
“dogmatic slumber.” Its two broader sections cover empirical and applied epistemology.
ANSWER: An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding [do not accept “An Essay Concerning Human
Understanding”]
[10] In An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Hume describes this scenario, which shows that the mind
can conceive of an idea without being previously exposed to it. It involves imagining a certain hue that one has
never seen.
ANSWER: missing shade of blue [accept obvious equivalents]
3. Answer some questions about nude males in sculpture, for 10 points each:
[10] Name this bronze figure by Rodin that appears in a work of art titled The Gates of Hell. It depicts a man with
his chin resting on one hand as he performs the title action.
ANSWER: The Thinker [or Le Penseur]
[10] This sculpture by Myron depicts the title Greek athlete hunched over and about to release the title object.
Although the original has been lost, Roman copies of it exist.
ANSWER: Discobolus [or The Discus-thrower]
[10] This famous statue in the Vatican shows a bearded man and his two sons struggling against many large
serpents. It depicts Athena’s curse of the title Trojan priest when he tried to expose the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
ANSWER: Laocoön and His Sons [or Laocoön Group; or Gruppo del Laocoonte]
4. This functional group may be reacted with osmium tetroxide to form a diol (“die-all”). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of molecule characterized by at least one double bond between two carbon atoms, in contrast to
alkanes or alkynes.
ANSWER: alkenes [or olefins]
[10] The double bond in alkenes is this type of bond, caused by the overlap of p orbitals. Unlike sigma bonds, these
bonds contain no electron density along the bond’s nodal plane.
ANSWER: pi bonds
[10] Alkenes can undergo this process, in which they are treated by a certain element and converted to alkanes using
Lindlar’s catalyst. This process is often used to saturate unsaturated fats.
ANSWER: hydrogenation [accept forms like hydrogenate or hydrogenating; prompt on “hydrogen” or any
answer that mentions “adding hydrogen”]

Packet 11

6

5. This work was preserved by Francisco Ximénez. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sacred religious text of the Maya, which contains a creation myth in addition to epic stories.
ANSWER: Popul Vuh
[10] Perhaps the best-known story from the Popul Vuh is that of the Hero Twins, who are exceptional players of this
game.
ANSWER: Mesoamerican ballgame [or juego de pelota; or pitz; or ollamaliztli]
[10] The name of this creature references the Big Dipper, and this beast pretended to be the sun and the moon before
the Hero Twins shot this bird out of a tree and became the real sun and moon.
ANSWER: Seven Macaw [or Vucub-Caquix]
6. Scientists are not always right the first time around. For 10 points each:
[10] Ancient physicians after Hippocrates believed in this theory, which held that the human body was made up of
four basic substances and sickness was caused by an imbalance in these substances.
ANSWER: humorism [or the four humors, prompt on the “four temperaments”]
[10] Science in Middle Ages Europe is usually thought to consist mainly of this practice, which involved searching
for an elixir of life or turning lead to gold. Notable practitioners of this included Isaac Newton and Nicholas Flamel.
ANSWER: alchemy
[10] Seventeenth-century European scientists tried to explain fire with the theory of this substance, which allowed
things to burn but was consumed in the process. Its existence was later disproven by Antoine Lavoisier.
ANSWER: phlogistons
7. Answer the following about discreet warfare in the twentieth century, for 10 points each.
[10] This is the term given to any war in which the main belligerents do not fight each other directly, instead
fighting through third parties. Examples of this type of warfare include the Vietnam War and the Second Congolese
War.
ANSWER: proxy warfare [or proxy conflict]
[10] This country on the Mosquito Coast was the site of a proxy war through the 1980s, in which the communist
Sandinistas, led by Daniel Ortega of the socialist FSLN, overthrew the Somoza regime and his Contras.
ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua [or República de Nicaragua]
[10] The United States supplied this organization of seven Afghan tribes with arms to counter the growing Soviet
influence in Afghanistan. After the communists lost in 1992, members of this group fought for control of the
country.
ANSWER: Seven Party Mujahideen Alliance [or Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen; or Peshawar Seven]
8. This endocrine gland has anterior and posterior segments. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this gland in the human body that is connected to the hypothalamus via the infundibular stalk. This gland
is responsible for secreting antidiuretic and growth hormone.
ANSWER: pituitary gland
[10] Resting above the kidneys, these glands’ cortices produce aldosterone, which stimulates the collecting ducts of
the kidneys to retain water and ions. The medullae of these glands secrete epinephrine and norepinephrine.
ANSWER: adrenal glands
[10] Located in the brain, this gland produces melatonin, levels of which vary daily to regulate the body’s circadian
rhythms.
ANSWER: pineal gland

Packet 11

7

9. One man from this country commemorated his daughter’s death in Elegy on the Death of Daughter Olga and the
opera Jenůfa. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this home country of the composer of a Sinfonietta dedicated to this country’s armed forces, Leoš
Janáček (“YAH-nah-chek”). This country was also home to a man who composed “From [this country’s] woods and
fields.”
ANSWER: Czech Republic [or Česká republika; or Česko; or Čechy; accept Czechoslovakia or Československo;
accept Kingdom of Bohemia or České království or Königreich Böhmen or Regnum Bohemiae]
[10] This Czech composer commemorated his daughter’s death in a Piano Trio in G minor. He also included “Die
Moldau” and “From Bohemia’s woods and fields” in his symphonic poem cycle Má vlast.
ANSWER: Bedřich Smetana [or Friedrich Smetana]
[10] This other Czech composer commemorated his daughter’s death in his Stabat Mater. While living in the United
States, he composed his Symphony No. 9, From the New World.
ANSWER: Antonín Leopold Dvořák
10. This man was the first Irishman to hold his highest political position. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British Prime Minister who passed the 1832 Reform Act and the Catholic Emancipation Act. He
became Prime Minister mostly due to his military success in the Peninsular War and during the Hundred Days.
ANSWER: Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington [accept either underlined name; prompt on “the Iron Duke”]
[10] This successor to Wellesley’s second term repealed the Corn Laws in response to the Irish Potato Famine. As
Home Secretary, this man created the Metropolitan Police Force of London.
ANSWER: Robert Peel, 2nd Baronet
[10] As Secretary for Education, this other Conservative Party Prime Minister became known as the “milk
snatcher.” This other Prime Minister began the Falklands War with Argentina and was the first female British Prime
Minister.
ANSWER: Margaret Hilda Thatcher, 1st Baroness Thatcher [prompt on “the Iron Lady”]
11. Name some women in the Old Testament, for 10 points each.
[10] Eli thought this barren woman was drunk when she prayed for a son. She later gave birth to Samuel, and
praised God, saying that “not by strength does one prevail.”
ANSWER: Hannah [or Channah]
[10] This mother of Obed accompanied her mother Naomi to the town of Bethlehem, where she married Boaz. Her
son was Jesse, father of David.
ANSWER: Ruth
[10] This only female Judge, who “held court” beneath a palm tree, prophesied that “the Lord hath delivered Sisera
into [the] hand” of Barak and brought peace to Israel for forty years preceding the ascent of Gideon.
ANSWER: Deborah
12. The manifesto launching this artistic movement urged artists to “glorify war,” “sing the love of danger,” and
“demolish museums and libraries.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artistic movement of the early 20th century whose focus on energy and motion is exemplified by
Umberto Boccioni’s sculpture Unique Forms of Continuity in Space.
ANSWER: Futurism [accept Futurismo]
[10] Futurism was started and generally propagated in this country, home to Filippo Marinetti, the author of the
Futurist Manifesto, as well as Boccioni and painter Giacomo Balla.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy [or Regno d’Italia; accept Republic of Italy or Italian Republic or Repubblica
italiana]
[10] One of Balla’s most prominent Futurist works depicts the “dynamism” of this animal, which is depicted with all
four legs, its tail, and its ears in motion, as are the feet of the woman walking alongside it.
ANSWER: dog [accept dachshund but do not accept other breeds]

Packet 11

8

13. This man was temporarily replaced by Alfred Terry but was later restored his command, albeit under Terry’s
direct supervision. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this commander of the Seventh United States Cavalry who was defeated by Sitting Bull and killed with
his troops at his “last stand” at Little Bighorn.
ANSWER: George Armstrong Custer
[10] The Seventh United States Cavalry later massacred followers of this Native American religious revival practice
established by Wovoka at Wounded Knee, ending the Indian Wars.
ANSWER: Ghost Dance [or Nanissáanah]
[10] This 1864 massacre occurred when Colorado militiamen attacked a village of Cheyenne and Arapaho. Because
this massacre broke the Treaty of Fort Laramie, Congress was prompted to launch an investigation.
ANSWER: Sand Creek Massacre [or Chivington Massacre; or Battle of Sand Creek]
14. This poem describes “The smiles that win, the tints that glow” of a woman who has “A heart whose love is
innocent.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem, that describes a person performing the title action “like the night / Of cloudless climes and
starry skies.”
ANSWER: “She Walks in Beauty”
[10] This English Romantic poet of “She Walks in Beauty” also wrote about the travels of a young man in “Childe
Harold’s Pilgrimage.”
ANSWER: Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron; or George Gordon Noel, 6th Baron Byron]
[10] This epic poem by Lord Byron describes the title Spanish womanizer who is sent off on a journey by his mother
Inez after he has an affair with Donna Julia.
ANSWER: Don Juan
15. Answer some questions about a particular race in the 2014 midterm elections, for 10 points each:
[10] This Senate Minority Leader was vocal in his opposition to a proposed flag-burning amendment and fellow
Republican John McCain’s Bipartisan Campaign Finance Reform Law.
ANSWER: Addison Mitchell “Mitch” McConnell, Jr.
[10] Manufacturing executive Matt Bevin will challenge McConnell in this state’s Senate Republican primary.
McConnell and the other Senator from this state, Rand Paul, have declined to run for governor of this state in 2015.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Kentucky
[10] A music video by Mitch McConnell’s campaign called this Kentucky Democratic Senate candidate and current
Kentucky Secretary of State a “left wing mime” and claimed she was “not ready for primetime.”
ANSWER: Alison Case Lundergan Grimes
16. The total mechanical energy of these is proportional to the square of their amplitudes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects that include springs and pendulums, which experience a restoring force proportional to their
displacement from equilibrium. The damping coefficient is used in deviations from these ideal systems.
ANSWER: simple harmonic oscillators [or SHOs]
[10] This law states that the force required to compress a spring is directly proportional to the length it is displaced.
ANSWER: Hooke’s law [prompt on “spring equation”]
[10] The change in elongation of a spring is determined by this constant of proportionality, symbolized E, which is
calculated as the ratio of stress to strain.
ANSWER: Young’s modulus [or tensile modulus; or elastic modulus]

Packet 11

9

17. This figure criticizes the corruption of the Church, saying that a “bird rests in [the preacher’s] cowl.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this allegorical woman who lives in the Empyrean and takes over Virgil’s role as guide to heaven in The
Divine Comedy.
ANSWER: Beatrice [or Beatrice, pronounced “beh-ah-TREE-che”]
[10] Beatrice was created by this Florentine author, who described a three-headed Satan chewing on the heads of
Brutus, Cassius, and Judas in Inferno.
ANSWER: Dante Alighieri [accept either underlined name]
[10] When questioned by St. James, Beatrice claims that “no child of the Church Militant… has more [of this
quality]” than does Dante. It is one of the three cardinal virtues represented in the Eighth Sphere, along with Faith
and Love.
ANSWER: hope [or speranza]
18. For 10 points each, answer these questions about knightly orders.
[10] This order broke off from the Knights Hospitaller, and had a major influence in Prussia after Frederick II’s
Gold Bull of Rimini until their defeat at the hands of Polish-Lithuanian troops at the Battle of Tannenberg.
ANSWER: Teutonic Knights [or Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem; or Orden
der Brüder vom Deutschen Haus St. Mariens in Jerusalem; or Ordo domus Sanctæ Mariæ Theutonicorum
Hierosolymitanorum; or German Order; or Deutscher Orden; or Deutschherrenorden; or Deutschritterorden]
[10] The Knights Hospitaller of St. John made this island their base after it was captured by Fulkes do Villaret. Arab
merchants had previously dismantled the Colossus of Helios at this location.
ANSWER: Rhodes [or Ródos]
[10] Members of this order initially stationed themselves at Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem. This order was dissolved
in the early 14th century by Pope Clement V after accusations of fraud and heresy from King Philip IV of France.
ANSWER: Knights Templar [or Templars; or Templiers; or Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple
of Solomon; or Pauperes commilitones Christi Templique Salomonici; or Order of the Temple; or Ordre du
Temple]
19. This character memorizes The Complete Works of William Shakespeare on the Reservation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this son of Linda who enters the World State with the alpha Bernard Marx. Lenina attempts to seduce
this character, who hangs himself at the end of the novel in which he appears.
ANSWER: John the Savage [prompt on “the Savage”]
[10] John the Savage appears in Brave New World, a novel by this British author of Eyeless in Gaza and Point
Counter Point. This author also wrote of Denis Stone at the title estate in Crome Yellow.
ANSWER: Aldous Leonard Huxley
[10] The current year in Brave New World is marked in relation to the death of this figure. Citizens of the World
State worship this American founder of a motor company that introduced the Model T.
ANSWER: Henry Ford
20. Before being taken to an insane asylum, the protagonist of this work laments, “I have always depended on the
kindness of strangers.” For 10 points each.
[10] Name this play that follows the tragedy of Blanche DuBois, a Southern belle who is raped by her brother-inlaw, Stanley Kowalski.
ANSWER: A Streetcar Named Desire
[10] This American playwright wrote A Streetcar Named Desire. He also wrote the play The Glass Menagerie and
described Brick and Big Daddy’s relationship in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
ANSWER: Thomas Lanier “Tennessee” Williams III
[10] This Tennessee Williams play set in Mexico describes Hannah Jelkes staying at a hotel owned by Maxine
Faulk, a friend of the ex-minister Reverend T. Lawrence Shannon.
ANSWER: The Night of the Iguana

