Packet 6

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 6: Tossups
1. One side’s participation in this battle was the tie-breaking decision of the ruling polemarch, who died in this battle
while leading the right wing of his army. In this battle, one thousand Plataean troops assisted the winning side, led
by Callimachus, after allied soldiers were delayed. Datis and Artaphernes were stopped from moving inland by the
presence of troops positioned in a swamp, led by Miltiades. A legend regarding this battle is about the courier
Pheidippides, who ran to Athens to tell the news of victory, after which he dropped dead. For 10 points, name this
battle, which ended the first Persian invasion of Greece and lends its name to a 26.2-mile run.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon [or Machē tu Marathōnos]
2. Völsung was conceived after Frigg gave one of these objects to his father Rerir. Skírnir presents Draupnir and
these objects to Gerðr on behalf of Freyr to ask for her hand in marriage. Thjazi stole these objects along with Idunn
with the help of Loki. Aphrodite gave three of these to Hippomenes, while Heracles was told to retrieve these in his
Eleventh Labor from the Garden of the Hesperides. Eris threw one of these objects into the wedding of Peleus and
Thetis, with a label indicating that it was “for the fairest.” For 10 points, name these fruits, golden ones of which
distracted Atalanta during a race and which Paris awarded to Aphrodite.
ANSWER: apples [accept golden apples]
3. The Q cycle involves the reduction of coenzyme Q10 to ubiquinol in these structures. A dysfunction of these
organelles can affect neurons in Leigh’s disease. MACs form in these structures during apoptosis, during which a
part of complex III is released. That protein, cytochrome c, is embedded in a structure of this organelle through
which the movement of electrons form a proton gradient, which synthases use to produce a nucleoside derivative.
The internal area within this organelle’s double membrane is called the “matrix,” which is folded in this structure to
form cristae. For 10 points name this double-membraned organelle, the main site of ATP production.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
4. Dagobert von Wurmsur attempted to break this man’s Siege of Mantua, but was defeated by this man at the Battle
of Castiglione. This man’s Imperial Guard never entered combat until the inconclusive Battle of Eylau. This
commander won a bloodless victory at the Battle of Ulm against Karl Mack, allowing him defeat the Prussians at the
Battle of Jena-Auerstedt. He defeated Mikhail Kutuzov at the Battle of Borodino during his 1812 invasion of Russia
and retreated from the Pratzen Heights to win the Battle of Austerlitz. For 10 points, name this Corsican-born
general and self-crowned Emperor of the French, who was exiled to St. Helena following his defeat at the Battle of
Waterloo.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either underlined part; accept Napoleon I or Napoleone Buonaparte]
5. At the top of this painting, a man’s face is shown under the red roof of a yellow church. A figure on the right of
this work wears a red cap embroidered with triangles and a necklace with a cross. That figure holds a flowering
branch in his left hand, which wears a red ring. In front of the colorful buildings depicted in its background, an
inverted woman plays the violin next to a man holding a scythe. A woman milks a white cow in the cheek of one of
the central figures of this painting. A faint line connects the pupils of the two central figures, a goat and a greenfaced man. Thought to portray the artist’s hometown, for 10 points, name this painting by Marc Chagall.
ANSWER: I and the Village
6. In Hinduism, the central items of this action are called bhiksha. Vaishyas and kshatriyas may not be recipients of
this action, while brahmans can be under certain circumstances. The Mishneh Torah lists eight levels of this action,
the last being this action performed simply out of pity. Zen monks practice takuhatsu to encourage others to perform
this action. This action is required at Purim for Jews in the mishloach manot and at the end of Ramadan for Muslims
to help others celebrate Eid al-Fitr. In many Christian churches a basket with a long handle is used to collect this.
For 10 points, name this action mandated in zakat, the third pillar of Islam, the act of donating to the poor.
ANSWER: almsgiving [or giving alms; accept descriptive answers like giving food to the poor or donating to the
poor before the end; accept obvious equivalents; prompt on “charity”]

Packet 6

2

7. One subrange of this mountain range contains Mount Roosevelt, Mount Churchill, and Dieppe Mountain, and
another subrange contains the Liard River and Muncho Lake. This mountain range contains the Battle of Britain
Range and the Terminal Range as well as the sources of the Athabasca and Kicking Horse Rivers in Jasper and
Yoho National Parks. In this range, the Royal Gorge cuts through Fremont Peak, and the Jackson and Blackfoot
Glaciers are in this mountain range’s Glacier National Park. The Teton range of this mountain range lies north of the
state which contains this range’s Mt. Elbert and Pike’s Peak. For 10 points, name this largest mountain range in
Western North America.
ANSWER: Rocky Mountains [or Rockies; accept Canadian Rockies before “Fremont Peak”; accept Muskwa
Ranges before “Athabasca”; accept Battle of Britain Range before “Liard River”]
8. In his lone election, this man ran with William Rufus King as his running mate and defeated his commanding
officer from the Mexican-American War, Winfield Scott. This man’s Minister to Spain recommended either
purchasing Cuba or taking it by force in the Ostend Manifesto. To gain land for the Southern Pacific Railroad, this
man’s Secretary of War arranged the Gadsden Purchase. Stephen Douglas convinced this man to repeal the Missouri
Compromise and allow popular sovereignty to decide whether slavery would be legal in two certain territories. For
10 points, name this Democratic fourteenth President who signed the Kansas-Nebraska Act, succeeded by James
Buchanan.
ANSWER: Franklin Pierce
9. A rabid dog bites Sierva María in this author’s Of Love and Other Demons, and this man included “The
Handsomest Drowned Man in the World” in a collection titled Leaf Storm. Angela Vicario’s brothers Pedro and
Pablo murder Santiago Nasar in one of his novellas, and in another work Dr. Urbino’s death after falling from a
ladder leads to Florentino’s pursuit of Fermina. Besides writing Chronicle of a Death Foretold and Love in the Time
of Cholera, this man wrote of Aureliano translating the scroll of Melquíades before a hurricane destroys Macondo.
For 10 points, name this Colombian author who described the Buendía family in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez [prompt on partial last name; accept Of Love and Other
Demons before “this author”]
10. This note’s Dorian mode contains only white keys on the piano. This note’s major key was “the key of glory” for
Baroque trumpets until the invention of the valve trumpet. The entirety of The Art of Fugue is written in this note’s
minor key, as is the first movement of Sibelius’ violin concerto. Tchaikovsky, Brahms, and Beethoven all wrote
their violin concertos in this note’s major key. Mozart’s Requiem and the beginning of Beethoven’s Ninth
Symphony are set in this note’s minor key. This note’s natural minor scale contains only B-flat, and its major scale
contains F-sharp and C-sharp. For 10 points, name this musical note after which Pachelbel titled a Canon, a whole
step above C.
ANSWER: D [accept Re]
11. One equation associated with this procedure includes the Eddy-diffusion parameter and calculates the height
equivalent to a theoretical plate, the Van Deemter equation. Lathe and Ruthven developed one version of this
procedure that isolates macromolecules, the size-exclusion type. Dividing the sample distance by the migration
distance of the solvent calculates this procedure’s retention factor. Commonly performed with silica gel, this
procedure’s mobile phase flows through a column containing the stationary phase. For 10 points, name this
laboratory technique with gas, paper, and thin-layer varieties that is used to separate mixtures.
ANSWER: chromatography
12. In one poem by this author, the narrator relishes a moment when only cabs can be heard and decries his “horrible
life” and “horrible city.” In another work, this poet urges the reader to “Get drunk! Stay drunk! On wine, virtue,
poetry, whatever!” Besides “At One O’Clock in the Morning” and “Get Yourself Drunk,” a verse in another work
by this poet claims that of the “filthy menagerie of our vices,” ennui is the ugliest. That work by this poet is divided
into sections including “Parisian Scenes,” “Revolt,” and “Spleen and Ideal.” For 10 points, name this French poet
who included “The Sick Muse,” “The Albatross,” and “To the Reader” in his poetic collection Les Fleurs du Mal.
ANSWER: Charles Pierre Baudelaire

Packet 6

3

13. One experiment associated with this phenomenon tested subjects’ ability to pull on a rope and confirmed that the
Ringelmann effect contributes to this phenomenon. Another experiment observing this phenomenon asked Columbia
University students to complete a questionnaire while a room filled with smoke and was conducted by Darley and
Latane. Pluralistic ignorance and diffusion of responsibility are causes of this phenomenon, which was cited to
explain the apathy to Winston Moseley’s murder of Kitty Genovese on a busy New York street. For 10 points, name
this social phenomenon that observes that people are less likely to intervene during an emergency when more
witnesses are present.
ANSWER: bystander effect [accept Ringelmann effect before mentioned]
14. One form of this quantity over the rate of thermal diffusivity is the Prandtl number, and Sutherland’s formula
calculates this quantity for an ideal gas as a function of temperature. The Navier-Stokes equations reduce to the
Euler equations when heat conduction and this quantity are zero. It is independent of stress for Newtonian fluids,
and the ratio of the inertial forces to the forces caused by this property is known as the Reynolds number. This
quantity’s kinematic form is found by dividing its dynamic form by the substance’s density. This quantity, which is
zero in superfluids, contributes to turbulence when decreased. For 10 points, name this quantity, a fluid’s resistance
to flow.
ANSWER: viscosity [prompt on “eta” or “mu”]
15. In this work, a “blood-dimmed tide” drowns “the ceremony of innocence,” while one creature in this work
moves “its slow thighs” and is circled by “indignant desert birds.” That creature has a “lion body and the head of a
man” and “a gaze blank and pitiless as the sun.” The narrator of this work believes that “Surely [the title event] is at
hand” before his sight is troubled by “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi.” This poem opens with an image of a
“falcon [that] cannot hear the falconer,” and ends by describing a “rough beast [that] slouches towards Bethlehem to
be born.” For 10 points, name this poem that claims that “Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold,” by William
Butler Yeats.
ANSWER: “The Second Coming”
16. Charles Spearman labeled task-specific variation in this quantity as s and attempted to explain correlations in
this quantity by a general, or g, factor. That g factor can be measured through Raven’s Progressive Matrices. The
long-term global increase of this value in populations is called the Flynn effect, and Raymond Cattell created a
Culture Fair test to determine this quantity. Proposed by William Stern, this value is tested by tools such as the
Stanford-Binet test. The median score for this quantity is defined as 100, and a high value of this can enable a person
to join Mensa. For 10 points, name this score that supposedly measures how smart a human is.
ANSWER: intelligence quotient [or IQ score; prompt on “intelligence”]
17. In one part of this work, the narrator discusses his brief romance with a prostitute named Monique, later
describing how his first wife left him for a Russian man named Maximovich. The Beardsley School stages a
production of The Enchanted Hunters, whose playwright Clare Quilty abducts one character in this work. The
narrator of this novel, who is writing an anthology of French literature for American students, stays with the Haze
family because of a fire. Charlotte dies after reading Humbert Humbert’s diary, in which he details his attraction for
Dolores. For 10 points, name this Vladimir Nabokov novel about the narrator’s obsession with the title nymphet.
ANSWER: Lolita
18. This man designed the Mesa Laboratory in Boulder to look “carved out of the mountain” and used the Mosque
of Ahmad Ibn Tulun as a model for his Museum of Islamic Art. This architect of the JFK Presidential Library built
the East Wing of the National Gallery of Art to contrast with the neoclassical design of that building’s West Wing.
He designed the John Hancock Building in Boston to reflect the color of the sky it faces and also designed the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland. A building by him in Hong Kong was modeled after bamboo
shoots. For 10 points, name this Chinese American architect of the Bank of China Tower and a glass pyramid that
sits in front of the Louvre.
ANSWER: Ieoh Ming Pei

Packet 6

4

19. One person with this surname was the intended target of Unit 684, which was a response to a raid of the Blue
House ordered by that man. That man’s son, who shares this surname, emphasized military development in his
Songun policy. Another person with this surname accused his uncle Jang Sung-taek of treason and had him
executed. One man with this surname led his People’s Army up to the Pusan Perimeter but was turned back to the
thirty-eighth parallel by United Nations forces. Leaders with this surname advocate the political ideology Juche. For
10 points, give this surname of Il-sung, Jong-il and Jong-un, the Supreme Leaders of North Korea.
ANSWER: Kim [accept any of Kim Il-sung, Kim Jong-il or Kim Jong-un before mentioned]
20. This man negotiated with the deity Masaka to regain control of his command. His nephew, Rene, and his
brother, Robert, were killed in a house fire at his childhood home in La Barre, France. His ship has a yacht named
the Cousteau, and this character once toasted Montgomery Scott with a bottle of Aldebaran whiskey while
reminiscing about his command of the Stargazer. Before the Battle of Wolf 359, he was referred to as Locutus after
his assimilation by the Borg. His clone was once the praetor of the Romulan Empire, and this man calls his first
officer “Number One.” For 10 points, name this Starfleet captain of the starship Enterprise-D, played by Patrick
Stewart.
ANSWER: Jean-Luc Picard
TB. In this novel, Blake Andrews visits one character in prison, revealing that that character’s brother Hugh has
married Lady Edith. A character in this novel uses an object that he finds in an ornamental suit of armor to crack
open nuts. Miles Hendon meets a character at the gates of the Guildhall and is later made an earl in this novel, and
another character who lives on Offal Court was taught Latin by Father Andrew. At the end of this novel, the first
title character returns the Great Seal to verify his identity at the second title character’s coronation. For 10 points,
name this novel by Mark Twain, detailing the adventures of Tom Canty and Edward Tudor after they switch places.
ANSWER: The Prince and the Pauper

Packet 6

5

Packet 6: Bonuses
1. One man falls off a rearing white horse while his pursuer raises a sabre in the companion piece to this painting,
The Charge of the Mamelukes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting of Napoleon’s victory at the Battle of Medina de Rioseco. An illuminated man in a white
shirt pleads with a firing squad while a monk prays over the bodies of the dead.
ANSWER: The Third of May 1808 [or El tres de mayo de 1808 en Madrid; or Los fusilamientos de la montaña del
Príncipe Pío; or Los fusilamientos del tres de mayo]
[10] This Spanish Romantic painter of The Charge of the Mamelukes and The Third of May, 1808 created the Black
Paintings and Disasters of War series.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes
[10] This set of eighty prints by Goya includes Look how solemn they are! and an etching that portrays bats and owls
flying toward the central subject, The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters.
ANSWER: Los Caprichos
2. At the beginning of the Kalevala, multiple objects of this type shatter to form the world. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this object that the world is created from in various mythologies, including one divided by Pangu in
Chinese mythology and one made by an ibis in Egyptian mythology.
ANSWER: world egg [or cosmic egg; or mundane egg]
[10] In Greek mythology, Gaia and some other primordial deities emerged out of this state of nothingness at the
beginning of the universe.
ANSWER: Chaos [prompt on “arche”]
[10] In Norse mythology, the world was created from the body of this primordial giant who fed on the cow
Auðumbla and was killed by Odin, Vili and Vé.
ANSWER: Ymir [or Aurgelmir; or Brimir; or Bláinn]
3. This cellular process begins with the dissolution of the nuclear membrane during its prophase. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process during which eukaryotic cells duplicate.
ANSWER: mitosis [do not accept “meiosis”]
[10] This process sees the creation of a cleavage furrow and involves splitting the cytoplasm of the eukaryotic cell to
form two daughter cells. The phragmoplast forms during this process in plant cells.
ANSWER: cytokinesis
[10] Prokaryotes undergo this form of asexual reproduction, in which copies of their genetic material attach to
opposite ends of the cell, which pinches off in the middle to form two identical daughter cells.
ANSWER: binary fission [prompt on “prokaryotic fission”; do not accept “multiple fission”]
4. This work opens with the theme played by the flute and cycles through seventeen restatements before concluding
with an orchestral tutti. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this piece commissioned by Ida Rubinstein for ballet. The steady crescendo is overlaid by a snare drum
ostinato with triplets on each second beat, a rhythm that characterizes the title Spanish dance.
ANSWER: Boléro
[10] This French composer of Boléro wrote the Gaspard de la nuit suite and a piece dedicated to his patron
Princesse de Polignac, Pavane for a Dead Princess.
ANSWER: Joseph-Maurice Ravel
[10] Maurice Ravel’s work of this type in G major opens with a whip crack. He also composed a work of this type in
D major for the left hand only for Paul Wittgenstein.
ANSWER: piano concertos [prompt on “concertos”]

Packet 6

6

5. In his autobiography, this figure describes stealing pears for the sake of sinning in order to describe the sorry state
of his soul, but merely touches upon his several mistresses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Doctor of the Church who was converted from Manichaeism to Catholicism through the prayers of
his mother, St. Monica. His works include City of God and Confessions.
ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Aurelius Augustinus Hipponensis]
[10] This other Doctor of the Church revised Latin translations of the Bible from Greek texts, which were later
compiled into the Vulgate. A Durer engraving of this figure features a lion and a sleeping dog in the foreground.
ANSWER: Jerome [or Eusebius Sophronius Hieronymus]
[10] This French abbot was called Doctor Mellifluus for his brilliant speaking skills, and his protege was elected
Pope Eugene III. He is the primary reformer of the Cistercian Order.
ANSWER: Bernard of Clairvaux
6. Answer the following about stars, for 10 points each.
[10] This constellation represents the twins Castor and Pollux. Its namesake meteor showers appear in December,
and the zodiac sign of the same name follows Taurus.
ANSWER: Gemini
[10] The brightest star in a constellation is usually labeled with this Greek letter in the Bayer designation. In Gemini,
Castor is labeled as this type of star even though Pollux is brighter.
ANSWER: alpha star
[10] Members from this class of luminous stars serve as standard candles. Polaris is an example of a classical
version of these objects, which can be used in the calculation of the Hubble constant.
ANSWER: Cepheid variables [or Cepheids]
7. In 1927, U.S. Customs taxed this work of art as a propeller blade. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this series of seven marble and nine bronze sculptures, a streamlined depiction of the beak, feathers, and
tail of the title avian.
ANSWER: Bird in Space [or L’Oiseau dans l’espace]
[10] This Romanian sculptor of Bird in Space also created The Gate of the Kiss and Sleeping Muse. He sculpted a
phallic sculpture for Princess Marie Bonaparte titled Princess X.
ANSWER: Constantin Brâncuși
[10] This memorial in Târgu Jiu which reaches nearly one hundred feet tall was created by Brâncuși and dedicated
to the Romanian soldiers of World War I. It consists of a stacked set of sixteen-and-a-half rhomboid modules.
ANSWER: Endless Column [or Column of the Infinite; or Coloana fără sfârșit]
8. Saint Dunstan drew up the original procedures for an event of this type in Bath. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ceremony last performed in 1953 for Elizabeth II, a year after her accession to the throne. During
that event of this type, she was anointed, blessed and consecrated by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
ANSWER: coronation of the British monarch [accept obvious equivalents; accept enthronement for
“coronation,” but prompt on “enthronement” or “coronation” by themselves; accept any underlined part of United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or England or Wales or Scotland in place of “British”; accept
king or queen in place of “monarch”; prompt on answers mentioning “inauguration”; do not accept or prompt on
answers mentioning just “Ireland”]
[10] Five of these objects are carried before the monarch in the coronation procession, including the ones of
Spiritual and Temporal Justice and the one of Mercy. The Jeweled one of Offering is presented to the monarch.
ANSWER: swords [accept any of Sword of Spiritual Justice, Sword of Temporal Justice, Sword of Mercy,
Jeweled Sword of Offering]
[10] British monarchs are crowned with a copy of this Anglo-Saxon king’s crown, and are seated on a chair named
for this saint. The Sword of Mercy is also called this king’s sword.
ANSWER: Edward the Confessor [or Saint Edward; or Eduardus Confessor; prompt on “Edward,” but do not
accept any numerical variations; do not accept “Edward the Martyr”]

Packet 6

7

9. The Van de Graaff generator utilizes this principle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process by which the electric charges of an uncharged, conducting object are segregated upon
contact with a charged object.
ANSWER: electrostatic induction [do not accept “electromagnetic induction”]
[10] This quantity, the electric potential difference per unit charge, is calculated as the negative of work over charge.
This quantity’s SI unit derives from the surname of the Italian inventor of the electric battery.
ANSWER: voltage [or electric tension; or electric pressure; prompt on “V”]
[10] This law calculates flux by taking the surface integral of an electric field. Another form of this law states that
flux can be calculated by dividing charge by the permittivity of free space.
ANSWER: Gauss’s law [or Gauss’s flux theorem]
10. At the end of this work, Bokonon wishes that he turned himself into a statue atop Mount McCabe. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this novel that describes the deaths of the inhabitants of the island of San Lorenzo by ice-nine, an
invention of Felix Hoenikker.
ANSWER: Cat’s Cradle
[10] Cat’s Cradle is written by this American author of Welcome to the Monkey-House, Breakfast of Champions,
and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
[10] In this Vonnegut novel, the Tralfamadorians kidnap the optometrist Billy Pilgrim and make him “unstuck in
time,” allowing him to witness the firebombing of Dresden.
ANSWER: Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
11. Even if someone shows up at your door with a bloody axe asking where your children are, lying is wrong. For 10
points each:
[10] Lying is wrong according to this concept, which states that an action not motivated by a desire is moral and
should be taken if the maxim on which it is based can be held as a universal practical law.
ANSWER: categorical imperative [or kategorischer imperativ]
[10] The categorical imperative was described in Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals by this Prussian
philosopher and author of Critique of Pure Reason and Critique of Practical Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
[10] Besides the Critiques of Pure and Practical Reason, Kant also wrote a critique of this concept, the reflective
form of which he divides into the agreeable, the beautiful and the sublime.
ANSWER: judgment [or Urteilskraft; accept Critique of Judgment or Critique of the Power of Judgment or Kritik
der Urteilskraft]
12. Answer some questions about water, for 10 points each.
[10] Due to the two lone pairs and two bonding pairs of electrons on each oxygen atom, water molecules possess
this molecular geometry.
ANSWER: bent molecular geometry [accept forms of underlined part]
[10] Water striders capitalize on this property of water, which results from attractive forces between water molecules
on the liquid’s surface, leading to the formation of a thin layer that resists applied force.
ANSWER: surface tension
[10] These structures form when molecules with hydrophobic and hydrophilic regions are placed in an aqueous
solution. Unlike liposomes, these spherical structures consist only of a single layer.
ANSWER: micelles [or micellae]

Packet 6

8

13. This event was called at the Council of Clermont. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this military endeavor called by Pope Urban II with the phrase, “Deus vult!” or “God wills it!” Its
projected aim was to capture the Holy Land and make it safe for Christian pilgrims.
ANSWER: First Crusade [prompt on “the Crusades”]
[10] The Crusaders sought aid from Alexios I Komnenos, the leader of this empire.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire [or Eastern Roman Empire; prompt on “Basileia Rhōmaiōn”; do not prompt on or
accept “Roman Empire” or “Rome” or “Imperium Romani”]
[10] The crusaders established this state under Godfrey of Bouillon after gaining control of its namesake city from
the Fatimids. After it was defeated by Saladin, the crusaders in the Third Crusade relocated this state to Acre.
ANSWER: Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem [or Regnum Hierosolimitanum; or Hierusalem; or Roiaume de
Jherusalem; or Regno di Gerusalemme; or Vasíleion tó̱ n Ierosolýmo̱ n; prompt on “Kingdom of Acre”]
14. The eastern terminus of U.S. Route 6 is located on this landmass whose northern extreme is Race Point. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this landmass, named after a type of coldwater fish, which contains cities like Provincetown and
Eastham. Much of this is protected by a namesake National Seashore, created by John F. Kennedy in 1961.
ANSWER: Cape Cod
[10] This island is located about thirty miles south of Cape Cod and is separated from Cape Cod by a namesake
sound. A prominent colonial seaport, it was named a National Historical Landmark District in 1966.
ANSWER: Nantucket Island [or Town and County of Nantucket]
[10] Nantucket is separated from this other island to the west by Muskeget Channel. This island was home to a
prominent deaf community that developed its own sign language.
ANSWER: Martha’s Vineyard [or Noepe; or Martin’s Vineyard]
15. This work posits that “the charge of nursing a beggar’s child [is] two shillings per annum, rags included.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this satirical essay in which the author recommends raising Irish children to be eaten, after which
marriages would be improved by the increased revenue gained from selling their young.
ANSWER: A Modest Proposal for Preventing the Children of Poor People in Ireland from Being a Burthen to Their
Parents or Country, and for Making them Beneficial to the Publick
[10] This author of A Modest Proposal also wrote a work in which the title character travels to such places as
Laputa, Balnibarbi, Luggnagg, Glubbdubdrib, and the even more exotic Japan.
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
[10] Lemuel Gulliver also traveled to this land inhabited by giants, north of Monterey and the Straits of Anian. Rats
are the size of large dogs, flies are the size of birds, and the stride of its inhabitants is ten yards.
ANSWER: Brobdingnag [or Brobdingrag]
16. One opponent of this document wrote that it would “delay the Americanization of our great population.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this treaty between Germany and the Allies at the end of World War I. This treaty was never ratified by
the United States because of Republican opposition under Henry Cabot Lodge.
ANSWER: Treaty of Versailles [or Traité de Versailles; or Treaty of Peace between the Allied and Associated
Powers and Germany; do not accept “Treaty of Peace between the Allied and Associated Powers and Austria” or
“Bulgaria” or “Hungary” or the “Ottoman Empire” or any other country in place of “Germany”]
[10] This British economist argued that the war reparations forced onto Germany were too harsh in The Economic
Consequences of the Peace. He later published The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
[10] After the failure of the Dawes Plan, this plan was adopted, further reducing the reparations debts and allowing
Germany to postpone two-thirds of its annual payment. This plan also called for a Bank for International
Settlements.
ANSWER: Young Plan

Packet 6

9

17. The Supreme Court struck down a law in this state allowing police officers to arrest without a warrant in a 2012
case. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state that passed SB 1070 in 2010, which allows officers to detain suspected undocumented
immigrants based on appearance.
ANSWER: State of Arizona
[10] This woman was the governor of Arizona who signed SB 1070 into law. She said, “This is a day we’ve been
waiting for,” after the Supreme Court upheld that law.
ANSWER: Janice Kay “Jan” Brewer
[10] As Secretary of Homeland Security, this former Arizona governor and current president of the University of
California implemented an executive order to stop the deportation of DREAM Act-eligible undocumented
immigrants.
ANSWER: Janet Ann Napolitano
18. Despite flirting with her, this character rejects Kitty at a ball, instead dancing with her married sister-in-law. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this character who elopes with Anna and leaves for France after receiving a commision to a military post
in Tashkent, following his attempted suicide.
ANSWER: Count Alexey Kirillovich Vronsky [prompt on “Alexey”]
[10] Count Vronsky is the lover of the title character in Anna Karenina, a novel by this author. Other works by this
author include The Death of Ivan Illych, How Much Land does a Man Need, and War and Peace.
ANSWER: Leo Nikolayevich Tolstoy
[10] Tolstoy also wrote this short story, in which Pozdnyshev kills his wife after discovering her affair with a
violinist. The adulterating couple perform the title Beethoven piece as an expression of their love.
ANSWER: The Kreutzer Sonata [or Kreitzerova Sonata]
19. This settlement was built in the shape of a triangle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first permanent English settlement in America, founded by the Virginia Company, that suffered
through the 1609 “Starving Time” and was resurrected a few years later by Thomas Rolfe.
ANSWER: Jamestown [or James Fort]
[10] Jamestown encroached on a group of Indians from this tribe, led by a chief commonly known by the same
name. Pocahontas was from this tribe.
ANSWER: Powhatan Confederacy [accept Powatans or Virginia Algonquians]
[10] This captain of the ship Susan Constant brought the Jamestown settlers to Virginia. A city at the mouth of the
James River and a university in that city are named for him.
ANSWER: Christopher Newport [do not accept “Newport News”]
20. She begins a brief affair with the playwright Michaelis at her estate, Wragby. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character married to a paralyzed aristocrat named Clifford. She later begins an affair with the estate
gamekeeper, Oliver Mellors.
ANSWER: Lady Chatterley [or Connie Reid; or Constance Reid; prompt on “Reid”; do not accept “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover”]
[10] Besides writing Lady Chatterley’s Lover, this author wrote The Rainbow and described Ursula and Gudrun
Brangwen’s various relationships in Women in Love.
ANSWER: David Herbert Lawrence
[10] This D.H. Lawrence novel describes the love triangle between Paul Morel, Miriam Leivers, and Clara Dawes.
However, Paul fails to marry either woman and ends up broken-hearted and alone.
ANSWER: Sons and Lovers

