Packet 7

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 7: Tossups
1. One character in this novel borrows a houndstooth jacket from the protagonist to wear on a date with Jean. That
character gets in a fight with the protagonist over a poem that describes green writing covering a baseball mitt. The
protagonist of this novel tells women from Seattle that he has just seen Gary Cooper at the Lavender Room. He later
seeks advice from a former English teacher who strokes his head, Mr. Antolini. At the end of this novel, the
protagonist watches his sister Phoebe ride a carousel, several days after leaving Pencey Prep, a boarding school that
he thinks is full of “phonies.” For 10 points, name this novel which centers on Holden Caulfield, by J.D. Salinger.
ANSWER: The Catcher in the Rye
2. Two of these entities can interact and merge in the Fujiwhara effect. Some of these entities with maximum
potential intensity above an upper bound, denoted v-sub-p, weaken because they lose more energy to friction than
they gain from evaporation. Mild forms of these phenomena are called tropical depressions. These phenomena are
categorized according to their wind speeds from 1 through 5 on the Saffir-Simpson scale, and the “eye” of one of
these is its calmest area. Possessing a low-pressure center and wind speeds of at least 74 miles per hour, for 10
points, name these spiral arrangements of rainstorms, examples of which were named Sandy, Andrew, and Katrina.
ANSWER: hurricanes [or typhoons; or cyclones; prompt on “tropical storms”]
3. The Ten Year Crusade was completed by this belief system’s Hands of the Cause, members of which include the
Custodians. This belief system, which is believed to have originated out of an Islamic offshoot called the Shaykhi
tradition, is governed by seven National Spiritual Assemblies, which promulgate texts such as The Seven Valleys
and The Book of Certitude. Adherents to this religion endure a nineteen-day fasting period, and Shoghi Effendi was
the Guardian of this religion until 1957. Prophets of this religion include Adam, Krishna, and Jesus. For 10 points,
name this religion which is centered at the House of Justice in Haifa and follows the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.
ANSWER: Bahá’í Faith [or Baha’iyyah]
4. The speaker of this work echoes Ophelia at the end of the second section, saying, “Goodnight Bill. Goodnight
Lou. Goodnight May. Goodnight.” The narrator of this work asks, “Who is the third who walks always beside you?”
after noting, “But there is no water.” In this poem, Madame Sosostris says, “Those are pearls that were his eyes”
when describing the “drowned Phoenician sailor” in her “wicked pack of cards.” Containing the sections “The
Burial of the Dead” and “A Game of Chess,” this poem ends with the Sanskrit “shantih shantih shantih” in its last
section, “What the Thunder Said.” For 10 points, name this modernist poem that begins “April is the cruellest
month,” written by T.S. Eliot.
ANSWER: The Waste Land
5. After this event, Louis Lingg was sentenced to death but killed himself in jail before his execution. Rudolph
Schnaubelt most likely caused this event, but left the country after he was released the first time. William Ward
interrupted a speech by Samuel Fielden immediately before this event to order the crowd to disperse. After this
event, the Knights of Labor declined in influence, and those convicted for this event were later pardoned by John
Peter Altgeld. This event occurred during a rally in front of the McCormick Harvesting Company led by August
Spies. For 10 points, name this 1886 event in Chicago that began when anarchists through a bomb at the police.
ANSWER: Haymarket Square Riot [or Haymarket affair; or Haymarket massacre; accept obvious equivalents
that mention Haymarket Square; prompt on answers mentioning a rally in front of the McCormick Harvesting
Machine Company or a strike on that company before mentioned]
6. Cherokee legend holds that this entity was formed from cornmeal dropped by a fleeing dog. Elsewhere, this entity
is called the “Road of the Warriors,” and the son of Attila is said to ride down this entity when Hungary is under
threat. Other Finno-Ugric peoples called this entity the “Pathway of the Birds.” In another tradition, magpies form a
bridge every year on the seventh day of the seventh month over this entity, which was created to separate two lovers,
a princess and a cowherd. One Greek myth describes the formation of this entity when Hera woke up to find that
Heracles was breastfeeding from her. For 10 points, name this astronomical feature, the galaxy that contains our
solar system.
ANSWER: Milky Way [prompt on “Gili Ulisvsdanvyi”; prompt on “Hadak Útja”; prompt on “Linnunrata” or
“Linnutee”; prompt on “Yinhe” or “Eunha” or “Ginga” or “Silver River”; prompt on “Galaxias”]

Packet 7

2

7. In one of his letters, this man chided Cicero for speaking too ornamentally to the Senate against Catiline. This
man also wrote an unfinished set of forty-eight biographies in Latin of Republican and Imperial Romans, Biblical
patriarchs, and legendary heroes. The most prominent figure of that work is also the protagonist of a Latin epic
poem by this man, which described Scipio’s invasion of the title continent. Besides De Viris Illustribus and Africa,
this author described “blonde curling hair” blowing in the breeze in a poem dedicated to Laura. For 10 points, name
this Renaissance author of the Canzoniere whose namesake type of sonnet consists of an octet followed by a sestet.
ANSWER: Francis Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
8. A small bird is inscribed on a stone bench in this painting, which also features a burning lamp atop a pedestal in
the center. Two men beneath an arch in the left background lead the waving title figure’s wife away from the central
scene, and a broken shackle lies on the floor in its foreground. A grieving man in blue leans against a wall, and Crito
clutches the thigh of this work’s title subject. The title figure’s student sits at the foot of a bed in this work, which
portrays a weeping man in red handing the title figure a goblet. For 10 points, name this painting by Jacques-Louis
David that depicts a Greek philosopher defiantly raising his finger as he prepares to drink hemlock.
ANSWER: The Death of Socrates [or La Mort de Socrate]
9. This quantity is the negative of the magnetic moment dotted with the magnetic field. The virial theorem multiplies
this quantity by negative one-half and equates it to a related quantity. When plotting position against this quantity, a
system experiences an unstable equilibrium phase at a local maximum. This quantity for a spring is equal to one-half
times the spring constant times displacement squared, and the change in this quantity is the negative of work. This
quantity for an object in Earth’s gravity is mgh. For 10 points, name this type of stored energy that arises from an
object’s position within a system, contrasted with kinetic energy.
ANSWER: potential energy [prompt on partial answer; prompt on “U”]
10. One character in this novel gained the nickname “Picture” after appearing in TIME Magazine. Andy Shroff owns
the Metro Cub Club in this novel, in which Joseph D’Costa reappears as a ghost after being shot near Methwold’s
Estate. A character and his rival are switched at birth by the nurse Mary Pereira. The protagonist marries Parvatithe-witch and has telepathic powers and an oversized nose that is constantly dripping. That character, Saleem Sinai,
is a member of the title group that was born precisely at the beginning of India’s independence. For 10 points, name
this novel written by Salman Rushdie.
ANSWER: Midnight’s Children
11. This country established a monarchy with Frederick Charles of Hesse as King-elect, but he resigned after being
appointed to the position. The Emperor of Russia was also known as the Grand Prince of this location following the
Diet of Porvoo, which annexed this territory from Sweden. This country replaced the marka with the euro in 2002.
The 1975 Accords that established international relations guidelines were signed in this country’s capital. The sniper
Simo Häyhä, also known as White Death, fought for this country in one war, in which this country pushed back the
Soviet Union due to the Mannerheim Line. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country with capital at Helsinki.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomen tasavalta; or Suomi]
12. A red sandstone sculpture of one of these creatures commemorates the Siege of Belfort during the FrancoPrussian War and was designed by Frédéric Bartholdi. A relief sculpture of two of these creatures flanking a pillar is
the namesake of the main gate to the ancient city of Mycenae. Four bronze sculptures of these creatures designed by
Sir Edwin Landseer surround Nelson’s Column in Trafalgar Square. A bronze sculpture of a winged one of these
animals stands atop a granite column in Saint Mark’s Square and has become a symbol of the city of Venice. For 10
points, name this feline animal, fu sculptures of which guard the Forbidden City in Beijing.
ANSWER: lions [prompt on “cats” or “felines” before “feline”]
13. Key locations in this game include the Fort Duquesne Bridge and a fictional university whose mascot is the
Bighorns. In one cutscene, one protagonist entrusts another with a pistol after nearly drowning; in another, giraffes
stroll through Salt Lake City. This game’s developer was criticized for one protagonist’s uncanny resemblance to
actress Ellen Page. Zombie-like enemies are categorized as runners, stalkers, clickers, or bloaters depending on the
severity of their cordyceps (“COR-de-seps”) fungal infection. For 10 points, name this best-selling 2013 PS3 game
in which Joel is tasked with delivering Ellie to the Fireflies, in hopes of saving the title group of survivors.
ANSWER: The Last of Us

Packet 7

3

14. This man, who founded the Young England movement, advocated for a “One Nation” party. As Chancellor of
the Exchequer, he gave suffrage to all male homeowners in the Reform Act of 1867. As Prime Minister, he
guaranteed workers the right to protest with the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act. He prevented Russia’s
expansion into the Dardanelles at the Congress of Berlin. This statesmen led his nation during the Zulu War and his
nation’s failed invasion of Afghanistan. For 10 points, name this Conservative British Prime Minister, a friend of
Queen Victoria and a rival of William Gladstone, the first and so far only British Prime Minister to be born a Jew.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield [accept either underlined name]
15. The final movement of this composer’s fourth symphony is a passacaglia featuring a theme from Bach’s cantata
“For Thee, O Lord, I long.” This composer based one piece on a csárdás (“CHAR-dash”) by Béla Kéler (“BA-la
KA-ler”) in a set of works for piano four-hands. He concluded one work with the drinking song “Gaudeamus igitur,”
written after receiving an honorary doctorate from the University of Breslau. This composer of the Academic
Festival Overture also included a libretto from the Luther Bible in a piece that commemorates the deaths of his
mother and Robert Schumann. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Hungarian Dances and A German
Requiem who composed a famous lullaby.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
16. A quantity represented Z-star is divided by the square of the covalent radius in one definition of this quantity,
and higher atomic values of this quantity make for better leaving groups in SN2 reactions. A ratio of electron
densities is used in one definition of this quantity, which can be calculated as the mean of electron affinity and first
ionization energy. Defined by Sanderson and Mulliken, this quantity increases as one moves toward the top right of
the periodic table, and it is measured from 0.7 to 3.98 on a relative scale developed by Linus Pauling. Fluorine has
the highest value of, for 10 points, what property that reflects an atom’s ability to attract electrons?
ANSWER: electronegativity [do not accept “electron affinity”]
17. In this nation, the flogging of Te Ara prompted natives to carry out the Boyd Massacre, and the Hutt Valley
campaign took place under the rule of governor George Grey. Hone Heke cut down a flagstaff in this nation to spark
the Flagstaff War. The Fourth Labour Government in this country instituted tax reforms named after this country’s
chief Finance Minister, Roger Douglas. This nation and Australia formed an army corps that saw action in the Battle
of Gallipoli. William Hobson forced the natives of this country to sign the Treaty of Waitangi, and this country was
discovered by Abel Tasman. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Wellington, the home of the Māori.
ANSWER: New Zealand [or Aotearoa]
18. This man’s namesake rule advocates setting the nominal interest rate at zero, and his proposition that money
supply should be increased by a constant percentage rate annually is his namesake k-percent rule. This man
proposed reducing government deficit and stopping the creation of more money, contributing to the “Chilean
Miracle.” This economist argued that policies adopted by the Federal Reserve worsened the Great Depression in a
work he co-authored with Anna Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States. For 10 points, name this Nobel
Prize-winning founder of the Chicago school of economics and author of Capitalism and Freedom.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman
19. Strasburger cells directly aid and support this tissue’s proper function. Extra solute in this tissue leads to a net
movement of matter into sugar sources through this tissue’s sieve plates, causing hydrostatic pressure to force a flow
of solute into sugar sinks. That movement is aided by this tissue’s companion cells, whose active transport of solute
drives movement of sap according to the pressure flow hypothesis. The vascular cambium separates this tissue from
its counterpart, which, unlike this tissue, consists of mostly dead cells. Primarily consisting of sieve tube members,
for 10 points, name this plant tissue that transports sugar, contrasted with xylem.
ANSWER: phloem
20. Henry Adams compared militant Germany to this thought experiment. Leó Szilárd noted that it has to have some
way of acquiring and storing information, thereby refuting its formulator’s claims. The Brownian ratchet is similar
to this thought experiment, but Richard Feynman proved that it cannot actually produce useful work because the
mechanism will not work under the theorized conditions. The title entity controls a gate between two gas chambers
and is able to cause a temperature difference, thus causing a decrease in entropy. For 10 points, name this thought
experiment formulated by a Scottish physicist, which seems to defy the second law of thermodynamics.
ANSWER: Maxwell’s demon

Packet 7

4

TB. In one public address, this ruler describes how Joseph of Arimathea founded the Church in this ruler’s kingdom
and noted that even Christ paid taxes to Caesar. This ruler contended that, despite having a “weak and feeble” body,
this monarch possessed the “heart and stomach of a king” in the Speech to the Troops at Tilbury. In an address to
members of Parliament, this ruler claimed that it would be sufficient “that a marble stone shall declare that a Queen,
having reigned such a time, lived and died a virgin.” For 10 points, name this last Tudor queen who ruled over
England at the time of the Spanish Armada.
ANSWER: Elizabeth I [prompt on the “Virgin Queen” until “virgin” is mentioned; prompt on partial answer]

Packet 7

5

Packet 7: Bonuses
1. It is the integral with respect to mass of the distance a particle is from a given rotation axis, squared. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this rotational analogue of mass, symbolized I, which measures an object’s resistance to change in
rotation.
ANSWER: mass moment of inertia [or rotational inertia; or angular mass; prompt on “polar moment of
inertia”]
[10] The moment of inertia of a hollow type of this geometric object is calculated as two-thirds times mass times
radius squared. The particles of this object are all equally spaced from its center of mass.
ANSWER: spheres [prompt on “balls”]
[10] This theorem uses the moment of inertia at the center of mass of an object to calculate the moment of inertia
about a given axis, provided the axis has the namesake property with respect to the axis about the center of mass.
ANSWER: parallel-axis theorem [or Huygens-Steiner theorem]
2. One of these animals, Minimus, creates a new anthem after Beasts of England is banned. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these animals that include Napoleon. One of them, Squealer, convinces the others that the windmill was
Napoleon’s idea, while another, Snowball, is chased away by dogs.
ANSWER: pigs
[10] Those three not-so-little piggies are characters in Animal Farm, a novel by this man, who also described a
policeman shooting an elephant in Burma. This author wrote of Winston Smith in Nineteen Eighty-Four.
ANSWER: George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
[10] In Nineteen Eighty-Four, this member of the Inner Party is a secret agent of the Thought Police. He tortures
Winston in Room 101 and claims that the image of the future is “a boot stamping on a human face—forever."
ANSWER: O’Brien
3. Vili and Vé may have had relations with this goddess when their brother was not around. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this wife of Odin who can see the future but chooses not to reveal it.
ANSWER: Frigga
[10] This daughter of Loki presides over a realm of the same name, the underworld in Norse mythology, which is
separated from the other worlds by the river Gjöll.
ANSWER: Hela
[10] Loki cut off the golden hair of this wife of Thor and later commissioned the sons of Ivaldi to replace that hair.
Loki claimed that this figure had an affair with him when she challenged him to insult her.
ANSWER: Sif
4. A system with p possible phases has p-choose-three of these. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this point on a phase diagram corresponding to the temperature and pressure at which the three phases of
a substance coexist in thermodynamic equilibrium.
ANSWER: triple point
[10] These substances occupy the upper right portion of a phase diagram and exist when temperature and pressure
exceed that of their namesake point. The gas and liquid phases in these substances are indistinguishable from each
other.
ANSWER: supercritical fluids [or SCFs]
[10] The phase diagram of water exhibits a negatively sloping melting curve because this property increases for
water as it melts. It is defined as mass per unit volume.
ANSWER: volumetric mass density

Packet 7

6

5. The title character convinces everyone that he is innocent by proclaiming himself to be the worst evildoer. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this play about the title hypocrite, who deceives Orgon to seduce his wife Elmire. The title character is
eventually arrested by King Louis XIV.
ANSWER: Tartuffe, or the Imposter [accept either underlined part; or Tartuffe, ou l’Imposteur]
[10] Tartuffe is a work by this French playwright, whose other works include The Misanthrope, A School for Wives,
and The Miser.
ANSWER: Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
[10] Angelique is permitted to marry Cléante in this Molière play, after Toinette masquerades as a famous doctor
and “cures” the title character, Argan, who is constantly afraid of being sick.
ANSWER: The Imaginary Invalid [or The Hypochondriac; or Le Malade Imaginaire]
6. This civil rights leader was assassinated by Byron De La Beckwith in Jackson. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this civil rights leader who, with the aid of the Regional Council of Negro Leaders, organized a boycott
of filling stations and worked to integrate the University of Mississippi.
ANSWER: Medgar Wiley Evers
[10] This man founded the Black Star Line as part of the Back to Africa movement and founded the United Negro
Improvement Association. He was ultimately deported to Jamaica after being convicted of mail fraud.
ANSWER: Marcus Mosiah Garvey, Jr.
[10] This first president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference delivered his “I’ve Been to the
Mountaintop” speech the day before his death and authored Letter from Birmingham Jail.
ANSWER: Martin Luther King, Jr. [accept MLK]
7. Its name may derive from the Arabic for “wool,” describing the garb of its ascetic members. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mystical sect of Islam whose adherents form turuq, or groups surrounding a spiritual master, to seek
perfect union with Allah. They believe Ali to be the father of their esoteric tradition.
ANSWER: Sufism [or tawassuf]
[10] Adherents of Sufism who have renounced the world are known by this Persian term. One such order, the
Mevlevi, is known for its ecstatic whirling dance.
ANSWER: dervish [or derwish; or darwish]
[10] The Mevlevi order was founded by followers of this 13th-century Sufi poet. His collection Mathnawi includes
such inspirational lines as “Lovers don’t finally meet somewhere. They’re in each other all along.”
ANSWER: Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Rūmī [accept either underlined part; or Jalāl-ad Dīn Muhammad Balkhī; or
Jalalludin; or Mevlâna]
8. They cover only 0.1 percent of the ocean’s surface, but they hold twenty-five percent of marine life. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these structures, under threat from ocean acidification, that consist of calcium carbonate secretions by
namesake polyps.
ANSWER: coral reefs [prompt on partial answers]
[10] In this process, environmental triggers cause corals to expel their endosymbiotic algae, causing them to become
weaker and turn white. Rising water temperatures often contribute to this phenomenon.
ANSWER: coral bleaching
[10] Corals belong to this class of Cnidaria that also contains sea anemones. Unlike other Cnidarian classes like
Scyphozoa and Cubozoa, this class lacks a free-floating medusa stage.
ANSWER: Anthozoa [or Anthozoans]

Packet 7

7

9. During this war, Maurice de Saxe aborted an invasion of the British Isles due to unfavorable weather. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this war sparked by Charles VI’s rejection of Salic law in his appointment of his daughter Maria Theresa
to the namesake Holy Roman Archduchy. This war was ended by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession [or First Carnatic War; or War of Jenkins’ Ear; prompt on “First
Silesian War” or “Second Silesian War”]
[10] This man began the Silesian Wars by invading Silesia after the death of Charles VI and ended them in the
Battles of Chotusitz and Hohenfriedberg. He later won the Battle of Rossbach during the Seven Years’ War.
ANSWER: Frederick II [or Frederick the Great; or Friedrich II; or Friedrich der Grosse; or Der Alte Fritz;
prompt on partial answer]
[10] This Duke of Bavaria elected to the throne against Maria Theresa was the first non-Habsburg Emperor in four
hundred years. He shares his name and number with a king crowned at Rheims after Joan of Arc lifted the Siege of
Orléans.
ANSWER: Charles VII
10. At the beginning of the work in which this character appears, he wakes up next to Beelzebub after being “Hurled
headlong flaming from th’ ethereal sky.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this angel who rebelled against God and declared that it was “Better to reign in Hell, than serve in
Heav’n.”
ANSWER: Satan [or Lucifer]
[10] Satan appears in this epic by John Milton, in which he tempts Eve into eating the apple through a serpent in
revenge for his banishment from Heaven.
ANSWER: Paradise Lost
[10] At the end of Book I of Paradise Lost, Mammon recommends building this capital of Hell, whose name means
“all of demons.” After it is built by Mulciber, all of the spirits must shrink in size to enter it.
ANSWER: Pandemonium
11. A small white dog gazes at the central figure from the bottom right, and two cherubim statues grasp each other in
the undergrowth. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting of a woman riding the title recreational object while being pushed by her husband. She
kicks off a pink shoe toward her hiding lover.
ANSWER: The Swing [or L’Escarpolette; or The Happy Accidents of the Swing; or Les Hasards Heureux de
l’Escarpolette]
[10] In addition to The Swing, this French artist painted The Pursuit and The Meeting, included in his four-painting
cycle The Progress of Love.
ANSWER: Jean-Honoré Fragonard
[10] Fragonard was a member of this eighteenth century art movement that developed in Paris to break from the
restrictions of the late Baroque period. Its other members included Antoine Watteau and François Boucher.
ANSWER: Rococo period
12. This tribe lost its Spanish domains to the Umayyads at the Battle of Guadelete and most of its French domains to
Clovis at the Battle of Poitiers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this branch of the Goths that was once led by Alaric.
ANSWER: Visigoths [or Visigothi; or Vesi; or Visi; accept Visigothic Kingdom or Kingdom of the Visigoths or
Regnum Visigothorum or Gutthiuda Thiudinassus; do not accept “Ostrogoths”]
[10] The Visigoths are an offshoot of the Goths, who were hired as mercenaries for this empire, until they killed its
emperor Valens at Adrianople. Diocletian split this empire into its eastern and western sections.
ANSWER: Roman Empire [or Rome; or Imperium Romanum; accept Western Roman Empire or Eastern Roman
Empire; prompt on “Senatus Populusque Romanus” or “S.P.Q.R.”; do not accept “Byzantine Empire” or “Latin
Empire” or “Roman Republic” or “Holy Roman Empire”]
[10] Theodoric I, widely considered to be the first king of the Visigoths, helped Flavius Aetius stop the advance of
the Huns under Attila into Gaul at this 451 battle.
ANSWER: Battle of the Catalaunian Plains [or Battle of Châlons; or Battle of the Catalaunian Fields; or Battle
of Maurica]

Packet 7

8

13. Name some things about India’s general election in 2014, for 10 points each.
[10] This outgoing Prime Minister, a member of the Indian National Congress, is an economist by training and was
the second Prime Minister to have completed two nonconsecutive terms.
ANSWER: Manmohan Singh
[10] This leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party was elected Prime Minister. However, the United States has banned
him from the country due to his suspected involvement in 2002 Hindu-Muslim riots.
ANSWER: Narendra Damodardas Modi
[10] The leader of the Indian National Congress shares this last name with multiple former prime ministers as well
as India’s foremost historical non-violent freedom fighter and proponent of satyagraha.
ANSWER: Gandhi [accept any of Mohandas Gandhi, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi]
14. This ballet’s “Running Gun Battle” accompanies a scene of Sheriff Pat Garrett ambushing the title character. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this ballet with choreography by Eugene Loring. The title outlaw is introduced during “Street in a
Frontier Town,” after which he watches his mother’s death in a drunken brawl.
ANSWER: Billy the Kid
[10] This American composer of Billy the Kid wrote a piece for brass and percussion inspired by Henry Wallace,
Fanfare for the Common Man. He also scored a ballet set in western Pennsylvania, Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] In its seventh section, Appalachian Spring contains the theme of this Shaker hymn, introduced by a solo
clarinet and continued with five variations.
ANSWER: “Simple Gifts”
15. A military junta was organized in this country in the name of the deposed King Ferdinand VII. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this country, initially named Nueva Extremadura, in which the battle of Chacabuco was fought against
Spanish royalists near its capital of Santiago.
ANSWER: Republic of Chile [or República de Chile]
[10] Chilean troops at the Battle of Chacabuco were led by this man, who later succeeded Jose Miguel Carrera as
Supreme Dictator of Chile.
ANSWER: Bernardo O’Higgins Riquelme
[10] This Argentinian, who met Simon Bolivar at the Guayaquil Conference, led his Army of the Andes to cross the
Andes from Argentina into Chile to join Bernardo O’Higgins in the Battle of Chacabuco.
ANSWER: José Francisco de San Martín
16. Chapter 12 of this work describes an image of businessmen “hustling to catch trains, to hustle through the
vacations which the hustling doctors had ordered.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel set in the fictional town of Zenith about the title businessman, who leaves the “Good Citizens
League” after his affair with Tanis Judique.
ANSWER: Babbitt
[10] This American author of Babbitt also wrote It Can’t Happen Here, Elmer Gantry, and Dodsworth.
ANSWER: Harry Sinclair Lewis
[10] In this Lewis novel, a performance of Androcles and the Lion is abandoned by the Thanatopsis Club and the
main character, Carol Kennicott, who tries to “bring culture” to Gopher Prairie.
ANSWER: Main Street
17. The Wacker process oxidizes this compound with a palladium catalyst to form acetaldehyde. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this compound that contains a double bond and has chemical formula C H . It is involved in fruit
ripening.
ANSWER: ethylene [or ethene]
[10] These diterpenoid acids were identified during studies of “foolish seedling” disease in rice. These hormones
stimulate flowering, stem elongation, and the activation of dormant seedlings.
ANSWER: gibberellins [or GAs]
[10] The first one of these hormones isolated was indole-3-acetic acid. This class of hormones stimulates plant cell
elongation by causing the efflux of protons out of the cell, which decreases the rigidity of the cell wall.
ANSWER: auxins
2

4

Packet 7

9

18. This work includes a scepter, on top of which stands an eagle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this chryselephantine work by Phidias at Olympia, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.
ANSWER: Statue of Zeus at Olympia [prompt on “Temple of Zeus at Olympia”]
[10] Designed by Satyros and Pythius of Priene, this other Wonder of the Ancient World was a tomb commissioned
by its namesake’s sister-wife Artemisia II. It is topped by a four-horse chariot featuring its two dedicatees.
ANSWER: Mausoleum at Halicarnassus [or Tomb of Mausolus]
[10] Another one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World was a lighthouse located in this city, which included a
statue of Triton on each corner of the structure. This city is also the site of Pompey’s Pillar and a large library.
ANSWER: Alexandria [or al-iskandariyya; or Eskendereyya; or Aleks; or Rakotəә; or Alexándreia e kat Aígypton;
prompt on “Rhakotis” or “Raˁ-Ḳāṭit” or “Alexandrie” or “İskenderiye”]
19. Four of the five relationships occur within this group. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this small group of people whose leaders command respect through filial piety. According to a certain
philosopher, the structure of the state should be modeled on the structure of this group.
ANSWER: the family [or jia]
[10] This Chinese philosopher who developed the five relationships believed that the state should be modeled on the
family. His ideas were collected by his disciples in the Analects.
ANSWER: Confucius [or Kongzi; or Kongfuzi; or Kong Qiu; or Kong Zhongni]
[10] Another Chinese philosopher, Mozi, argued against Confucian filial piety, instead emphasizing this concept.
According to Mozi, all of society should benefit through this universal concept.
ANSWER: universal love [or jian’ai]
20. Name some islands and seas in Southeast Asia, for 10 points each.
[10] This largest sea in Asia and third largest in the world is located west of the Philippines. The Pasig and Pearl
Rivers flow into this body of water.
ANSWER: South China Sea [or Nan Zhongguo Hai; or Biển Đông; or Minami Shina Kai; or Laut Cina Selatan;
or Dagat Timog Tsina; or Luzon Sea; or Dagat Luzon; or West Philippine Sea; or Dagat Kanlurang Pilipinas]
[10] This island lies east of Makassar Strait and south of a namesake sea. It is the third largest Sunda island and the
fourth largest island in Indonesia.
ANSWER: Sulawesi [or Celebes]
[10] This heavily forested island, which contains the Malaysian states Sabah and Sarawak, can be found west of
Sulawesi. It is the third largest island in the world and is divided between three countries.
ANSWER: Borneo

