Packet 3

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 3: Tossups
1. Hauser’s law states that federal tax revenues stay around a constant percentage of this value. A three percent rise
in this value will cause a one percent fall in unemployment according to Okun’s law. This quantity’s namesake
deflator is calculated by dividing the nominal value of this quantity by its real value. For a European country to join
the Eurozone, its national debt must be less than sixty percent of this value. This value can be found by adding up
either a country’s expenditures or its total population’s income. A percent change in this value is used to measure
economic growth. For 10 points, name this market value of all final goods and services produced within a country.
ANSWER: gross domestic product [or GDP; prompt on “net economic output” or “net national economic
output”; do not prompt on or accept “gross national product” or “GNP”]
2. With Florence Knoll, this man designed a building alternatively known as “The Black Rock.” He placed thin slits
in the otherwise windowless brick cylinder to let light into one building, and he experimented with floating acoustic
“clouds” in another. This architect of the MIT Chapel and Kresge Auditorium also incorporated wing-like structures
in the TWA Flight Center at JFK International Airport and designed the Washington Dulles Airport. Equilateral
triangles form the two bases of another of this man’s designs, an inverted catenary curve on the west bank of the
Mississippi River. For 10 points, name this Finnish-American architect of the St. Louis Gateway Arch.
ANSWER: Eero Saarinen
3. Point Alden and Cape Gray border Commonwealth Bay in this region. The oldest settlement still occupied in this
region is Orcadas Base, and the King Haakon VII Sea borders this region’s Queen Maud Land. Deception Island
surrounds Port Foster in this region’s South Shetland Islands. Weddell Sea lies between this region’s namesake
peninsula and Coats Land. The Ellsworth Mountains contain the highest point on this landmass, Vinson Massif.
Mount Bird is an inactive volcano on this landmass’s Ross Island, which also contains Mount Erebus. Vostok is a
subglacial lake under this landmass. For 10 points, name this continent covered by ice that contains the South Pole.
ANSWER: Antarctica [accept Adélie Land or Terre Adélie before “Orcadas”]
4. One work by this man was written for string quartet and string orchestra, and was inspired by folk tunes heard on
a trip to Wales. This composer took the title of one of his works from a line in Othello, and that work used a theme
composed by this man for the coronation of Edward VII. This man, who composed an Introduction and Allegro, said
that he hinted at the theme of the second movement of Beethoven’s Pathétique piano sonata in another work, in a
movement subtitled “Nimrod.” For 10 points, name this English composer of the Enigma Variations and the Pomp
and Circumstance marches, which are commonly played at graduations.
ANSWER: Edward William Elgar
5. The preface of this work describes “thick and palpable clouds [overshadowing the] Land,” dispelled by this
work’s namesake figure. The frontispiece of the first edition of this work features two brothers standing on either
side, one wearing the ephod and hoshen, above a pelican feeding her young in a cartouche. The printer, Robert
Barker, printed multiple erroneous editions of this work, one of which accidentally orders readers to commit
adultery. The idea of this work was conceived as a middle ground between High Church bishops and Puritans at the
Hampton Court Conference. For 10 points, name this English version of the Bible translated during the rule of its
namesake king.
ANSWER: Authorized King James Version [or KJV; or Authorized Version; or AV; or King James Bible;
prompt on “Bible”]
6. John II sent this man to Setúbal to capture a French trading envoy in the Algarves. The Jerónimos Monastery was
founded in this man’s honor. He forcibly took several Nairs and sixteen fisherman with him to Africa in protest after
the Zamorin of Calicut rejected his gifts. Nicolau Coelho was the captain of the first ship commanded by this man to
return home, the Berrio. This man burned the São Rafael near Malindi and refused to return to Mombasa, and
Bartolomeu Dias accompanied this man on his first voyage around the Cape of Good Hope. For 10 points, name this
Portuguese explorer who became the first European to sail around Africa to India.
ANSWER: Vasco da Gama, 1st Count of Vidigueira [accept either underlined name]

Packet 3

2

7. This man led Temple Number Seven in Harlem and led a mob in New York City to protest the arrest of Johnson
Hinton. This man encouraged blacks both to use their right to vote and to take up arms against the government in
“The Ballot and the Bullet” speech. This founder of Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American
Unity was assassinated at the Audubon Ballroom. After this man claimed that Kennedy’s assassination was an
example of “chickens coming home to roost,” he was forced into a ninety-day silence by Elijah Muhammad. For 10
points, name this militant civil rights leader advocated black separatism before breaking with the Nation of Islam.
ANSWER: Malcolm X [or El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz; or Malcolm Little]
8. An artist from this country painted two mousetraps created by Joseph and featured the Annunciation in the central
panel of a triptych. In addition to Robert Campin, this country was home to an artist who showed the title figures
being accompanied by a pack of dogs in a landscape featuring a group a skaters on the ice below in The Hunters in
the Snow. That artist painted 112 literal depictions of proverbs from this country in another work. In another
painting from this country, a girl in a blue headscarf wears a pearl earring, and that artist also painted a “view of” his
home city, Delft. For 10 points, name this country whose painters have included Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Jan
Vermeer.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden; accept Burgundian Netherlands or
Bourgondische Nederlanden; accept Republic of the Seven United Netherlands or Republiek der Zeven Verenigde
Nederlanden; accept the Republic of the Seven United Provinces or Republiek der Zeven Verenigde Provinciën;
accept Federated Dutch Provinces or Foederatae Belgii Provinciae or Dutch Federation or Belgica Foederata;
accept Seventeen Provinces or Zeventien Provinciën; prompt on “County of Holland” or “Graafshap Holland”;
do not accept “Flanders” or “County of Flanders” or “Vlaanderen” or “Graafschap Vlaanderen” do not prompt on
or accept “Belgium” or “Kingdom of Belgium”]
9. This god’s wife gave birth to Melinoë by Zeus, who disguised himself as this god. This god pursued the nymph
Minthe, who was turned into the mint plant. After killing Medusa, Perseus escaped the other Gorgons with this
god’s Helm of Darkness. One person entered this god’s realm by giving three barley cakes to the guard, while
another person lulled that guard to sleep with his lyre. This owner of Cerberus abducted his wife while she was
picking flowers in Nysa and tricked her into eating pomegranate seeds so that she would have to stay with him. For
10 points, name this husband of Persephone and Greek god of the underworld.
ANSWER: Hades [or Aidoneus; or Plouton; or Clymenus; or Polydegmon; do not prompt on or accept “Pluto”]
10. The first time that anyone directly addresses this character is while he is looking at a painting of a woman in a
fur coat. This character is forced back into his room by his father with a cane and a rolled newspaper after he makes
his mother pass out and his manager run out of the room. At mealtime, this character hides under a couch while his
sister leaves him rotting food scraps. This character dies in isolation after hearing his sister play the violin, and after
his death, that sister, Grete, is finally able to find a husband. He is previously paralyzed for a month after his father
throws an apple at him. For 10 points, name this character who wakes up as a bug in Franz Kafka’s The
Metamorphosis.
ANSWER: Gregor Samsa [accept either underlined name]
11. The existence of an object in this region was proposed to explain recurrent cycles of mass-extinction events.
That proposed object is either a brown or red dwarf called Nemesis. Tyche is a planet hypothesized to exist in this
region. The inner portion of this region is the disc-shaped Hills cloud. Halley-type short-period comets and all longperiod comets originate from this region, and the dwarf planet Sedna may have also originated in this region.
Voyager 1 will probably reach this region in about three hundred years. For 10 points, name this outer boundary of
our solar system, almost a light year away from the Sun and a thousand times farther away than the Kuiper Belt.
ANSWER: Öpik-Oort cloud

Packet 3

3

12. This character was born as a Maia named Olórin, living in the garden of Irmo and studying under Nienna. This
character was called Lathspell and Stormcrow while at Edoras, and he was named Mithrandir by the Elves and
Tharkûn by the dwarves. This rider of Shadowfax discovered his weapon in a trollhoard, and used that sword
Glamdring on Zirakzigil to slay Durin’s Bane. After falling in Moria, he later returned to command troops at the
Battles of Helm’s Deep, Minas Tirith, and the Black Gate. For 10 points, name this leader of the Company of Thorin
and the Fellowship of the Ring, a Gray, and later White, wizard in J.R.R. Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings trilogy and
The Hobbit.
ANSWER: Gandalf the Grey [or Gandalf the White; accept Incánus; accept Lathspell or Stromcrow or
Mithrandir or Tharkûn before mentioned; prompt on “Greyhame” or “Old Greybeard” or “The White Rider” or
“The Grey Pilgrim”]
13. A popular banner supporting this cause urged “Kaiser Wilson” to “take the beam out of [his] eye.” Sweden
adopted a limited form of this right for taxpaying guild members during the Age of Liberty. Emmeline Pankhurst
delivered her “Freedom or Death” speech in support of this right. New Zealand was the first modern country to
adopt an unrestricted form of this right in 1893 while it was part of South Australia. The denial of this right was the
first grievance listed in the Declaration of Sentiments drafted at the Seneca Falls Convention. For 10 points, name
this right established in the Nineteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution.
ANSWER: women’s suffrage [or women’s right to vote; accept obvious equivalents; prompt on “women’s
rights”; prompt on partial answer]
14. Susanna is sent by Dr. Griggs at the beginning of this work, and one character forgets the seventh
commandment. Willard throws one character out of a courtroom after that character accuses Thomas Putnam of
stealing his land in this work. Ezekiel Cheever discovers a needle inside a poppet sewn by Mary Warren, leading to
Elizabeth’s arrest. Betty lies unconscious during this work after Reverend Parris discovers a ceremony led by the
slave Tituba. After Abigail accuses him of witchcraft, John Proctor is hanged at the end of this work. For 10 points,
name this play written by Arthur Miller as a response to McCarthyism, describing the Salem witch trials.
ANSWER: The Crucible
15. Activated phospholipase C produces diacylglycerol, which triggers the release of this element inside of the cell,
and abscisic acid triggers the influx of this element’s ion from vacuoles, causing stomata to close. Parathyroid
hormone causes the increased resorption of this element’s ion in the distal tubules of the kidney, and this element’s
ion binds to proteins to initiate SNARE-mediated vesicle fusion in neuronal synapses. Osteoclasts break down a
tissue that stores this element, a phosphate of which is termed hydroxylapatite. For 10 points, name this alkaline
earth metal, an element with a plus-2 oxidation state that is often found in milk and bones.
ANSWER: calcium [or Ca; or calcium 2+; or Ca 2+; the relative order of the “+” and “2” does not matter]
16. Oswald Tesimond and Henry Garnet may have learned about this event through the confessional. In the potential
aftermath of this event, one man favored kidnapping Prince Henry rather than Princess Elizabeth. This event was
first discovered through the Monteagle Letter. William Wade questioned one person involved with this event, who
was captured at around midnight in the tunnels underneath the intended target of this event. This event is
remembered on the fifth of November with effigies of a co-conspirator of Robert Catesby. For 10 points, name this
event which failed to kill James I and Parliament after Guy Fawkes failed to light charges.
ANSWER: Gunpowder Plot [or Gunpowder Treason Plot; or Jesuit Treason; prompt on answers involving “Guy
Fawkes” or “assassinating James I” or “blowing up Parliament” before mention]
17. This author wrote about the deaths of Vashti and Kuno after the collapse of a universal machine in “The
Machine Stops.” In a novel by this man, Leonard Bast dies at the hands of Charles Wilcox and Margaret Schlegel
inherits the title estate from Henry Wilcox. Besides writing Howards End, this writer described the arrogant Cecil
Vyse and the elopement of George Emerson with Lucy Honeychurch in another work. In a different novel by this
author, Adela Quested brings a false accusation of sexual harassment against Dr. Aziz, a young Muslim physician in
the title location. For 10 points, name this British author of A Room with a View and A Passage to India.
ANSWER: Edward Morgan Forster

Packet 3

4

18. A eutectic system consists of a mixture that performs this process at a lower temperature than each of its
substituents. Clarence Birdseye developed a technology that induces this process in certain substances. Most
substances perform this transition through crystallization of their molecules, and amorphous substances do so
without forming regular structures. Supercooled substances have not undergone this transition but are under the
appropriate conditions to do so. Water notably expands when it undergoes this process. For 10 points, name this
phase transition from a liquid to a solid, which for water occurs at zero degrees Celsius.
ANSWER: freezing [or solidification; prompt on “crystallization” or equivalents before mentioned]
19. The protagonist of this work delays finishing breakfast before going to the Hotel “Excelsior.” While the
protagonist attends dinner in a white suit, an old guitarist who looks “rather like a Neapolitan comedian” comments
on the smell of disinfectant. A boatman without a license in this novel states that he can “row [the protagonist] well”
when the protagonist asks to be taken to the wharf. Several days after eating overripe strawberries, the protagonist of
this novel witnesses a fight between Jasieu and another boy and is afflicted by the title event via cholera. For 10
points, name this novella in which the Polish boy Tadzio is followed by Gustav von Aschenbach, by Thomas Mann.
ANSWER: Death in Venice [or Der Tod in Venedig]
20. This quantity’s namesake factor is the ratio between real and apparent values of this quantity and is calculated by
dividing resistance by impedance. This quantity’s namesake gain is defined as the ratio of this quantity at a load to a
source. This quantity over unit area yields intensity, and in fluid systems this quantity equals pressure times the
volumetric flow rate. This is the product of the electric potential difference and the current. For rotational systems,
the cross product of torque and angular velocity yields this quantity, which is equal to the dot product of force and
velocity in linear systems. For 10 points, name this amount of work done per unit time, whose SI unit is the watt.
ANSWER: power [prompt on “P”]
TB. One leader of this polity executed Piet Retief and his men but was later defeated by a small force led by Andries
Pretorius. This polity, which refused an ultimatum from Henry Bartle Frere, failed to capture a garrison defended by
fewer than two hundred men under John Chard. This polity was defeated at the Battle of Ulundi but previously had
defeated the British at Isandlwana, and it pioneered the use of the “buffalo horn” military formation under its leader
Cetshwayo. Its founder defeated Chief Zwide and was later assassinated by his brothers Umhlangana and Dingane.
For 10 points, name this empire founded by Shaka that fought the British in South Africa.
ANSWER: Zulu Kingdom [or Zulu Empire; or Zululand]

Packet 3

5

Packet 3: Bonuses
1. One character in this work claims that Europeans “have no respect for what [they] cannot understand.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this play in which, following a Yoruban chief’s death, the interruption of Elesin’s ritual suicide by
Colonel Pilkings prompts his son Olunde to take his place.
ANSWER: Death and the King’s Horseman
[10] Death and the King’s Horseman is a play by this Nobel Laureate and author of Season of Anomie and The Lion
and the Jewel.
ANSWER: Akinwande Oluwole “Wole” Soyinka
[10] Soyinka is a native of this populous west African country, whose other authors include Christopher Okigbo,
Ajegunla Joe, and Chinua Achebe.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria
2. This Union victory allowed Lincoln to issue the Emancipation Proclamation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Civil War battle, the bloodiest single-day battle in American history, at which George McClellan
repelled Robert E. Lee’s forces from their invasion of Maryland.
ANSWER: Battle of Antietam [or Battle of Sharpsburg]
[10] In this early Civil War battle, Confederate generals P.G.T. Beauregard and Joseph E. Johnston stopped the
Union advance under Irvin McDowell. Thomas Jackson received his nickname “Stonewall” at this battle.
ANSWER: First Battle of Bull Run [or First Battle of Manassas; prompt on “Bull Run” or “Manassas”]
[10] The ironclad CSS Tennessee engaged Rear Admiral David Farragut’s entire force in this 1864 Union naval
victory. At this battle, Farragut is said to have declared, “Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!”
ANSWER: Battle of Mobile Bay
3. This man wrote, “A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of the American transcendentalist movement, who wrote Self-Reliance and discussed
humanity’s disconnect with natural beauty in his essay Nature.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
[10] Ralph Waldo Emerson gave this speech to the Phi Beta Kappa Society at Harvard, saying that the title figure
was educated through nature, books and action, in that order of priority.
ANSWER: “The American Scholar”
[10] In another essay, Emerson described this title concept, “within which every man’s particular being is contained
and made one with all other.”
ANSWER: oversoul
4. In Trop v. Dulles, Chief Justice Earl Warren wrote that this concept “must draw its meaning from the evolving
standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this concept prohibited in the Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution. This phrase may
have first been used to describe the sentence of Titus Oates after the uncovering of the Popish Plot.
ANSWER: cruel and unusual punishment [accept equivalents like “cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment”; do not accept specific instances like “torture” or “enhanced interrogation”]
[10] In Furman v. Georgia, the Supreme Court declared that inconsistencies in this form of punishment make this
cruel and unusual. In the United States, it is primarily conducted through lethal injection.
ANSWER: death penalty [or capital punishment; or execution; accept obvious equivalents]
[10] In Discipline and Punish, this French philosopher analyzed the modern shift from public torture to idealized
prisons like Jeremy Bentham’s Panopticon.
ANSWER: Paul-Michel Foucault

Packet 3

6

5. Name some former states of the Holy Roman Empire, for 10 points each.
[10] This state was created by the Privilegium Minus, and was the home of the Habsburg Dynasty. Emperor Franz II
later made this state an Empire of its own, and Franz Josef I combined this state with Hungary.
ANSWER: Archduchy of Austria [or Erzherzogtum Österreich; or Duchy of Austria; or Herzogtum Österreich; or
Empire of Austria; or Kaisertum Österreich]
[10] This fiefdom of the Kingdom of Poland with capital at Königsberg was built up from the lands of the Teutonic
Knights at the behest of Martin Luther. King William I of this state became Emperor Friedrich I of the German
Empire.
ANSWER: Duchy of Prussia [or Herzogtum Preussen; or Ducatus Prussiae; or Prusy Książęce; or Kingdom of
Prussia; or Königreich Preussen; prompt on “Kaliningrad Oblast” or “Kaliningradskaya oblast”]
[10] This state merged with the Duchy of Prussia to create the Kingdom of Prussia. It has a namesake Gate in Berlin,
and J.S. Bach wrote six concertos titled after this German state, supposedly to cure its Margrave of insomnia.
ANSWER: Electorate of Brandenburg [or Kurfürstentum Brandenburg; or Kurbrandenburg; or Margraviate of
Brandenburg; or March of Brandenburg; or Mark Brandenburg; or Markgrafschaft Brandenburg]
6. [NOTE TO MODERATOR: do not read out the prompts of the first answer line unless necessary]
This character spends a small fortune throwing lavish parties to attract the attention of Grushenka. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this character, who is falsely charged with the murder of his father, Fyodor, after a dispute regarding his
inheritance.
ANSWER: Dmitri Fyodorovich Karamazov [prompt on “Fyodorovich” or “Karamazov”]
[10] Dmitri, Alexey and Ivan make up the title fraternal trio of this novel by Fyodor Dostoevsky.
ANSWER: The Brothers Karamazov [or Brat’ya Karamazovy]
[10] In The Brothers Karamazov, Ivan tells his brother Alexey a tale of this type about a Grand Inquisitor from
Seville. Other examples of this type include those of the Good Shepherd, the Good Samaritan, and the Prodigal Son.
ANSWER: parables
7. An inscription in the upper left of this work states that the artist has changed his name to “Iitsu.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this woodblock print by Hokusai that depicts three fishing boats caught in the title phenomenon near the
title location while traveling back towards Edo.
ANSWER: The Great Wave off Kanagawa [or Kanagawa-Oki Nami-Ura]
[10] The Great Wave off Kanagawa was the first of a series of Thirty-six Views of this Japanese volcano.
ANSWER: Mount Fuji [or Fujisan]
[10] Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji is a work in this genre of woodblock prints. This genre depicts the urban
lifestyle of Japan under the Tokugawa shogunate.
ANSWER: ukiyo-e [or floating world]
8. This man said that the glory of his state was made by the bravery of the war dead. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Athenian statesman who led the city-state during the Peloponnesian War, during which he delivered
a difficult-to-translate funeral oration and died of plague.
ANSWER: Pericles
[10] Pericles’ funeral oration was recorded by this man in his History of the Peloponnesian War, although that text
may have been a combination of two orations, one delivered earlier during the Samian War.
ANSWER: Thucydides [or Thoukudídēs]
[10] Thucydides also chronicled a dialogue between envoys of Athens and this city-state, in which Athens demands
that this city join the Delian League, saying, “The strong do as they can and the weak suffer what they must.”
ANSWER: Milos [or Melos; accept Melian Dialogue]

Packet 3

7

9. This structure contains a cis face and a trans face and consists of stacks called cisternae. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organelle that modifies, packages, and exports proteins to different parts of a eukaryotic cell.
ANSWER: Golgi body [or Golgi apparatus; accept word forms]
[10] This structure encloses cells, and it consists of a phospholipid bilayer. This is described by the fluid mosaic
model and is surrounded by a cell wall in bacteria, plants, and fungi.
ANSWER: cell membranes [or plasma membranes; or cytoplasmic membranes]
[10] These transmembrane proteins serve as channels to allow the movement of water molecules through the cell
membrane. They were discovered by Peter Agre, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2003.
ANSWER: aquaporins
10. The opening fanfare to this piece was used as the theme for 2001: A Space Odyssey. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tone poem that features sections such as “Sunrise,” “Of Science and Learning,” and “Song of the
Night Wanderer,” inspired by a Friedrich Nietzsche essay.
ANSWER: Also sprach Zarathustra [or Thus Spoke Zarathustra; or Thus Spake Zarathustra]
[10] This composer of Also sprach Zarathustra also wrote a tone poem depicting a sick artist, Death and
Transfiguration. He included two themes played by the horn and D clarinet in Till Eulenspiegel’s Merry Pranks.
ANSWER: Richard Georg Strauss [prompt on “Strauss”]
[10] Richard Strauss also composed this opera in which Octavian falls in love with Sophie after he is chosen by
Baron Ochs as the title figure to deliver a silver engagement flower to Sophie.
ANSWER: Der Rosenkavalier [or The Knight of the Rose]
11. The protagonist’s final soliloquy has been speculated to be a farewell address by the playwright to his audience.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1611 Shakespeare play that begins with a storm at sea. The magician Prospero, with aid from the
spirit Ariel, marries his daughter Miranda to Ferdinand after taking revenge on his brothers.
ANSWER: The Tempest
[10] This child of Sycorax hides under a cloak while fetching firewood for his master, mistaking a jester for a spirit
sent by his master to torment him. He later leads Trinculo and Stephano in a failed attempt to overthrow Prospero.
ANSWER: Caliban
[10] King Alonso of Naples had helped Antonio usurp Prospero’s position as Duke of this city. Prospero reclaims
the dukedom of this city after the wedding of Miranda and Ferdinand.
ANSWER: Duchy of Milan [or Ducato di Milano; or Ducatus Mediolani]
12. Name some things about historically significant Summer Olympics, for 10 points each.
[10] This African-American sprinter upstaged his German counterparts in the 1936 Berlin Olympics by winning four
gold medals, dealing a great blow to the Nazi belief of Aryan supremacy.
ANSWER: James Cleveland “Jesse” Owens
[10] The 1956 Olympics in Melbourne featured the violent “Blood in the Water” water polo match between this
country and the Soviet Union, in response to a suppressed revolution in this country that year led by Imre Nagy.
ANSWER: People’s Republic of Hungary [or Hungarian People’s Republic; or Magyar Népköztársaság; or
Magyarország]
[10] The June Democracy Movement occurred before the 1988 Olympics in this city, leading to the establishment of
the Sixth Republic in its nation in an effort to prevent the establishment of a military junta before the Olympics.
ANSWER: Seoul Special City [or Seoul Teukbyeolsi]
13. Osmotic pressure is defined as one of these. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these physical properties such as boiling point elevation and freezing point depression that depend only
on the concentration, rather than identity, of solute particles.
ANSWER: colligative properties
[10] This law states that the partial pressure exerted by a solvent’s vapor equals the product of the solvent’s mole
fraction and the vapor pressure of the pure solvent. Ideal solutions are defined as those that obey this law.
ANSWER: Raoult’s law
[10] This term, symbolized i, is used in the calculations of colligative properties and represents the extent to which
electrolytes dissociate in solution by accounting for the formation of ion pairs.
ANSWER: van’t Hoff factor

Packet 3

8

14. Identify some things about Snoopy’s alter egos, for 10 points each.
[10] Snoopy becomes this alter ego when he puts on sunglasses and leans against a wall. This alter ego does nothing
besides “hanging around the student union,” mostly because he “doesn’t have wheels.”
ANSWER: Joe Cool
[10] As the World War I Flying Ace, Snoopy flies his doghouse as the Sopwith Camel to fight this figure. This
historical figure was the German flying ace during the war.
ANSWER: Red Baron [or Manfred Albrecht Freiherr von Richthofen]
[10] As the World Famous Writer, Snoopy uses this seven-word sentence to start his novels. This sentence originally
appeared in Edward Bulwer-Lytton’s Paul Clifford, followed by an elaborate description of the rain.
ANSWER: “It was a dark and stormy night”
15. This character receives a crossbow for his twenty-first birthday, after which the celebration is concluded with the
“Dance with Goblets.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this prince who is tutored by Wolfgang and often accompanies his friend Benno on hunts. He is tricked
into confessing his love for Odile rather than the beautiful Odette.
ANSWER: Prince Siegfried
[10] Prince Siegfried is the protagonist of this ballet composed by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, in which Odette
transforms into a maiden at the title location.
ANSWER: Swan Lake [or Lebedinoye ozero]
[10] Odile is the daughter of this evil sorcerer and antagonist of Swan Lake, who takes the form of an owl in the
second and fourth acts. His spell over Odette is broken when Odette and Prince Siegfried leap into the lake together.
ANSWER: Baron Von Rothbart
16. This work begins with the funeral of the title Southern spinster and includes scenes that describe how she fell in
love with a Northern laborer, Homer Barron. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story that ends with some townspeople opening a room in the title woman’s house to reveal her
bed, which contains the decomposed body of her former lover and a single strand of gray hair on its pillow.
ANSWER: “A Rose for Emily”
[10] This Southern author penned stories that often centered around the Compson family in Yoknawpatawpha
County. In addition to writing “A Rose for Emily,” he authored As I Lay Dying and Light in August.
ANSWER: William Cuthbert Faulkner
[10] This novel by Faulkner focuses on four members of the Compson family, including the mentally handicapped
Benjy. This novel depicts Quentin Compson’s suicide after he is separated from his sister Caddy.
ANSWER: The Sound and the Fury
17. It is quantized as the fourth quantum number, which is a half-integer for fermions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property, the intrinsic angular momentum of particles.
ANSWER: spin angular momentum [accept spin quantum number]
[10] Silver atoms were sent through an inhomogeneous magnetic field in this 1922 experiment named after two
German physicists. It confirmed two different quantizations of electron spin.
ANSWER: Stern-Gerlach experiment
[10] This principle explains how electron degeneracy pressure normally prevents a star from collapsing. It states that
no two fermions can have the same principal quantum numbers or occupy the same quantum state simultaneously.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle
18. In Izumo Province, this figure turned Kushinada into a comb to hide in his hair. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this god of sea and storms who created five men from a necklace in a contest with his sister Amaterasu.
This ruler of Yomi obtained the sword Kusanagi from the tail of the dragon Yamata no Orochi.
ANSWER: Susano’o [or Takehaya Susanoo-no-Mikoto]
[10] Susanoo was born from the nose of this creator god during a purification ceremony, which occurred after this
god returned from Yomi. He plunged a spear into the ocean with his wife, forming the islands of ancient Japan.
ANSWER: Izanagi-no-mikoto [or Izanagi-no-Okami]
[10] Susanoo, Amaterasu, and Izanagi are kami from this indigenous Japanese religion, whose practitioners’ shrines
are fronted by torii gates.
ANSWER: Shintō [or kami-no-michi]

Packet 3

9

19. A tuya is a type of volcano in which lava erupts through these objects. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these large moving bodies of ice formed where an accumulation of snow exceeds its ablation. Erosion
caused by these objects creates drumlins and fjords.
ANSWER: glaciers
[10] These features are the accumulation of debris displaced from the walls or floor of a valley by an advancing
glacier. The melting of glaciers deposits debris to form these features, which come in lateral or ground types.
ANSWER: moraines
[10] These arena-shaped basins are found at the head of glacial valleys. They often mark the location of a glacier’s
creation and form tarns when the ice surrounding them melts.
ANSWER: cirques [or corries; or cwms]
20. With the exception of At-Tawba, each sura of this work begins with the basmala. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this holy text, said to have been dictated to Muhammad by the angel Jibril. It is the most important
Islamic scripture.
ANSWER: Qur’an [or Koran]
[10] One source for interpretation of the Qur’an are these sayings and deeds of Muhammad. They are classified into
the categories of authentic, good, and weak.
ANSWER: hadith
[10] This Arabic term refers to the body of jurisprudence developed as an expansion of sharia through tradition.
ANSWER: fiqh

