Packet 5

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 5: Tossups
1. The epigraph to this novel is a poem supposedly written by Thomas Parke D’Invilliers. One character in this
novel wears cufflinks of human molars and supposedly fixed the Black Sox Scandal. That character helped the title
character become wealthy through a bootlegging operation. The eyes of T.J. Eckleburg watch over the Valley of
Ashes in this novel, and George Wilson takes revenge on the title character for killing his wife. The title character
watches the green dock light across the bay lives next door to the narrator, Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this
novel in which the title character hosts parties and pursues Daisy Buchanan, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: The Great Gatsby
2. The largest city in this region is located near the base of Chenque Hill. In this region, Mount Chaitlen and the
Puyehue-Cordón Caulle lie beside Nahuel Huapi Lake. The Chubut flows through this region, which contains the
San Jorge Gulf. Mount FitzRoy is the tallest mountain in this region, which contains the Perito Moreno Glacier in
Santa Cruz Province. East of this region lies the lowest point on its continent, the Valdes Peninsula. The Strait of
Magellan and Tierra del Fuego lie south of this region, which is itself south of the Pampas. For 10 points, name this
region of South America that encompasses Chile and Argentina.
ANSWER: Patagonia
3. This man described a tree of philosophy with metaphysics as the roots, physics as the trunk and other sciences as
the branches. He believed that the essence of mind is thought, while the essence of the body is extension. This man
argued that sensations are involuntary to the mind and therefore must have an external source, and a world external
to the mind must exist. Since everything taken to be true is given by the senses, this philosopher began one work by
rejecting everything in order to find true knowledge. For 10 points, name this author of Discourse on the Method
and Meditations on First Philosophy, a French philosopher who asserted, “I think, therefore I am.”
ANSWER: René Descartes [or Renatus Cartesius]
4. In one poem by this author, the narrator tells the reader to “Bring me my Bow of burning gold” and “Arrows of
desire.” Besides writing a poem in which John Milton enters the author’s foot in the form of a comet, this author
wrote a poem about a small boy whose friend Tom Dacre weeps when his hair is shaved. In addition to writing “The
Chimney Sweeper,” this author also described a tree that he “watered night and morning with my tears” in “A
Poison Tree.” In another poem, he marvels at the “fearful symmetry” of a beast “burning bright / In the forests of the
night.” For 10 points, name this English poet whose Songs of Innocence and Experience includes “The Tyger.”
ANSWER: William Blake
5. This player hit a walk-off home run in his 2003 rookie debut; later that season, he helped his team defeat the New
York Yankees in the World Series. After four All-Star appearances with his original team, this player and teammate
Dontrelle Willis were traded from the Marlins to his current team. In 2012, this player moved to third base to make
room for Prince Fielder. He struck out against Giants closer Sergio Romo to end the 2012 World Series, despite
being the first player since 1967 to lead the league in batting average, home runs, and RBI. For 10 points, name this
Detroit Tigers third baseman, winner of the Triple Crown and two-time reigning American League MVP.
ANSWER: José Miguel “Miggy” Cabrera Torres
6. In this work, the appearance of ravens distracts one character, causing his death at the hand of Hagen, who seeks
the title object. Previously in this work, that character gains the ability to understand birds from tasting dragon blood
and crosses a circle of flame to wake another character from a deep sleep. In this work, Fafner and Fasolt demand
Freia as payment for the construction of Valhalla, but settle for Rhine gold taken by Wotan and Loge from its
original thief, Alberich. In this work, the sword Nothung can only be forged by the slayer of Fafner, Siegfried. For
10 points, name this opera cycle by Richard Wagner about the title cursed golden object forged by Alberich.
ANSWER: Der Ring des Nibelungen [or The Ring of the Nibelung; or the Ring Cycle; accept Götterdämmerung or
Twilight of the Gods before “title object”]

Packet 5

2

7. In this novel, the false news of an uprising in Spain led by Don Carlos causes one character to lose a million
francs, and that character loses the rest of his wealth when he is kidnapped by Italian bandits. The title character
saves his former employer, Pierre Morrel, from disgrace and suicide with the sudden reappearance of the Pharaon
and a note signed “Sinbad the Sailor.” The title character buys his way into the Italian aristocracy with the lost
treasure of Cardinal Caesar Spada, which he gained with the help of Abbé Faria. For 10 points, name this novel by
Alexandre Dumas in which Edmond Dantès takes his revenge on those who had him imprisoned in the Château d’If.
ANSWER: The Count of Monte Cristo [or Le Comte de Monte Cristo]
8. A derivative of this molecule is carboxylated to form salicylic acid in the Kolbe-Schmitt reaction. This molecule
is attached to a methyl group to form the side chain of phenylalanine. Some derivatives of this molecule include
toluene and aniline. As a functional group, it is given the name “phenyl,” and reducing this molecule completely
yields cyclohexane. Because of this cyclic molecule’s alternating single and double bonds, it possesses two Lewis
structures. This hydrocarbon with six delocalized pi electrons can be depicted as a hexagon with a circle in the
middle. For 10 points, name this aromatic molecule with a chemical formula of C H .
ANSWER: benzene [or cyclohexa-1,3,5-triene; or 1,3,5-cyclohexatriene; or benzol; or phene; accept C6H6
before mentioned]
6

6

9. One work by this composer concludes with the traditional “Grandfather’s Dance” in a movement about King
David’s march against the Philistines. This composer of Carnaval wrote “Of Foreign Lands and Peoples” and
depicted dreaming in “Träumerei” from his piano suite Scenes from Childhood. This composer wrote a symphony
with the movements “Evening” and “Merry Playmates.” Another of this composer’s symphonies includes
movements played “Lebhaft” and a fourth movement inspired by the composer’s visit to the Cologne Cathedral on
the title river. For 10 points, name this German composer of the “Spring” and “Rhenish” symphonies.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
10. One work of this type details the adventures of the knight Rinaldo and the sorceress Armida during the First
Crusade and is titled La Gerusalemme Liberata. Another work in this form details the title figure’s victory at the
Battle of Kirina, after which he became the first Mansa of Mali. The title figure of another work of this type
discovers corn and becomes the lover of Minnehaha. A work of this type written in Latin describes Dido’s suicide
after her lover leaves for Italy, having come to her from Troy after the Trojan War. For 10 points, name this type of
poem, examples of which include The Song of Hiawatha and The Aeneid, a long account of a heroic journey.
ANSWER: epic poem [prompt on “poem” before mentioned]
11. An egg sits on a red table while a man paints a bird in one self-portrait by this artist, and another painting depicts
three crescent moons above three identical men. In addition to The Mysteries of the Horizon, this man painted a
giant green apple in the title location of another work, The Listening Room. One painting by this man juxtaposes an
image of a pipe with the text “this is not a pipe,” and another shows a clock atop a mantlepiece and one of two
candlesticks being reflected in a mirror. That painting depicts a locomotive emerging from a fireplace. For 10 points,
name this Belgian surrealist painter of The Treachery of Images and Time Transfixed.
ANSWER: René François Ghislain Magritte
12. One of these figures arrived to a duel to find himself facing a clay statue and was tricked into standing on his
shield. Another of these creatures almost won a wager regarding his ability to build city walls in eighteen months,
until his horse Svadilfari was seduced by Loki disguised as a mare. Another of these creatures stole the hammer
Mjölnir and hid it miles underground, demanding Freyja’s hand in marriage as ransom before being slain by the
cross-dressing Thor. Hrungnir and Thrym are creatures of this type, as is Surtr, who will kill Freyr and set the world
ablaze at Ragnarök. For 10 points, name these frequent foes of the Aesir who often hail from Jötunheim.
ANSWER: giants [accept thurs; accept frost giants or hrimthurs before “Surtr”; accept jötunn or jötnar before
“Jotunheim”; do not prompt on or accept “fire giants” or “eldjötnar” or “mountain giants” or “bergrisar”]

Packet 5

3

13. One side in this conflict was forced to abandon the Siege of Turin after their defeat by Victor II Amadeus and his
cousin at the Battle of the Stura. During this conflict, the Duke of Vendôme defeated Imperial troops under
Archduke Charles and Guido Starhemberg at the Battle of Villaviciosa. Marshal Claude de Villars was defeated by
Lord Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy at the Battle of Malplaquet; the victors of that battle would also win the
Battle of Blenheim in this war, which was ended by the Treaty of Utrecht and the accession of the grandson of Louis
XIV. For 10 points, name this war, after which Philip V took the throne of the namesake country, with capital at
Madrid.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession [prompt on “Queen Anne’s War”]
14. One of these devices uses the neodymium ion to dope a YAG host crystal. Optical tweezers operate from the
force created by these devices, which were used to cool rubidium-87 atoms in the creation of the first Bose-Einstein
condensate. Q-switching in these devices causes a phenomenon in which the number of particles in an excited state
exceeds the number in a lower energy state, called population inversion. The gain medium of these devices provides
energy during pumping, and the optical cavity consists of a pair of mirrors that allows the escape of photons. For 10
points, name these devices that make light coherent through stimulated emission of radiation.
ANSWER: lasers [or light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation before “amplify”]
15. One of these works was supposedly written to Seneca the Younger, but was never authenticated, and another of
these works was co-written by Sosthenes. One of these warns against Encratism and teaches congregations how to
pray, while another addressed to the same person uses the phrase “Itching Ears” to refer to people who simply hear
what they wish. Most of these works begin with “Dear brothers and sisters.” One of these says that women should
cover their heads in the presence of God and that “Love is patient; love is kind.” For 10 points, name these Biblical
books found after the Acts of the Apostles, written by a certain Apostle to the Gentiles.
ANSWER: Pauline Epistles [or Epistles of Paul; or Letters of Paul; accept obvious equivalents; prompt on
“Epistles” or “Letters”]
16. John Mitchel and Thomas Meagher led an uprising during this event and were sent to Van Diemen’s Land,
although they both escaped to the United States. This event caused a typhus epidemic to break out on Grosse Isle,
where many people affected by this event died. The Baring Brothers and Company ordered shipments of corn in
response to this event, but other relief efforts were stopped by Charles Trevelyan, who attributed this event to divine
judgment. The Corn Laws were repealed in response to this event. For 10 points, name this event that began in the
1840s when a certain crop was inflicted with a namesake blight, causing many Irish people to die of hunger.
ANSWER: Irish Potato Famine [or Irish Famine; or the Great Famine; or an Gorta Mór; accept Young
Irelander Rebellion of 1848 before “typhus epidemic”]
17. A specific group of these objects was used by Giovanni Cassini to create ephemeris tables to help sailors
determine longitude. Ole Rømer demonstrated that light has a finite speed by observing one of these objects. The
innermost group of these objects is the Amalthea group, and the Himalia group is the outermost group of these
objects orbiting in prograde. NASA considered the possibility of establishing a base on one of these objects in its
Human Outer Planet Exploration project. The four largest of these objects are named for Galileo. For 10 points,
name these objects that include Io, Europa, and Ganymede, a group of satellites that orbit a planet with a Great Red
Spot.
ANSWER: moons of Jupiter [accept Galilean moons or Cosmica Sidera or Medicea Sidera before “Amalthea”;
prompt on “moons”]
18. Franklin Roosevelt’s Agricultural Adjustment Act paid Arkansas farmers to reduce their yield of this crop, and it
was the primary trade item at the Royal Exchange in Manchester. The Department of Agriculture launched an
Eradication Program to destroy boll weevils that hindered production of this crop. John Kay’s flying shuttle helped
speed up the processing of this plant, and Samuel Slater developed the Rhode Island System of factories processing
this crop. The value of this crop skyrocketed because of a 1793 invention that could quickly remove the seeds of this
plant. For 10 points, name this plant processed by Eli Whitney’s “gin,” often made into textiles.
ANSWER: cotton

Packet 5

4

19. An abnormal number of repeats of the CGG trinucleotide in the FMR1 unit of this structure can result in a form
of mental retardation. Dosage compensation serves to equalize expression in these structures, and the inactivation of
one of these structures in the healthy human female results in a Barr body. Turner’s syndrome affects females that
only inherit one of this structure, while Klinefelter’s syndrome affects males who inherit two. This chromosome
carries mutated alleles that can result in disorders such as hemophilia and red-green color blindness. For 10 points,
name this sex chromosome, of which female humans carry two but males carry only one along with a Y
chromosome.
ANSWER: X chromosomes [prompt on “chromosomes”]
20. George Hammond was the first envoy this nation sent to the United States, and with the United States, this
nation signed a treaty that proposed the construction of a canal in Nicaragua, the Clayton–Bulwer Treaty. This
nation fought the United States in the Aroostook War, which was ended in a treaty that established a boundary at the
forty-ninth parallel, the Webster–Ashburton Treaty. Previously, this nation approved a treaty that required it to
evacuate the Great Lakes area, but this nation continued to impress American sailors into naval service after that
treaty. For 10 points, name this nation that signed Jay’s Treaty and fought the United States in the War of 1812.
ANSWER: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland [accept either underlined part; or United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland; or Kingdom of Great Britain; do not accept “England”]
TB. One king by this name invaded England in the First Barons’ War and was received as king in London but was
never crowned there. A Holy Roman Emperor of this name was the last surviving child of Charlemagne and was
titled “the Pious.” Another king by this name, the son of Blanche of Castile, began the construction of a chapel to
hold his relics of the Passion of Christ and was the only King of his country to be canonized. The eleventh holder of
this name was known as the “Spider King,” and another ruler of this name said, “I am the state!” For 10 points, give
this name of nineteen French kings, one of whom built Versailles and was known as the “Sun King.”
ANSWER: Louis

Packet 5

5

Packet 5: Bonuses
1. The Super-Kamiokande in Japan uses Cherenkov radiation to detect these particles. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these leptons, assumed to be massless by the Standard Model, which exhibit electron, muon, and tau
varieties. Large underground tanks of carbon tetrachloride have been used to detect them.
ANSWER: neutrinos
[10] Neutrinos and other leptons are subject to this fundamental force, which causes color change in quarks and
violates P symmetry. Mediated by heavy W and Z bosons, this force is not as powerful as its strong counterpart.
ANSWER: weak nuclear force [or weak nuclear interaction]
[10] Hadrons that are also bosons form this group of particles, which contain one quark and one antiquark bound
together by the strong force. These particles were predicted by Yukawa and include pions and the J/psi (“jay-sigh”)
particle.
ANSWER: mesons
2. One of this man’s plays is set in St. George’s Park Tea Room. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this playwright who wrote of the brothers Morris and Zachariah in Blood Knot. He also wrote about the
waiters Sam and Willie discussing a ballroom dancing competition in “Master Harold”…and the Boys.
ANSWER: Athol Fugard
[10] This author described Rosa Burger’s activism in France and her eventual detainment. She also depicted the
Smales, a white family, fleeing to their servant’s native village in her novel July’s People.
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer
[10] Both Athol Fugard and Nadine Gordimer were born in this country, whose history was marred by apartheid
during the twentieth century.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa [or Union of South Africa]
3. Answer the following about tariffs in American history, for 10 points each.
[10] This tariff on low-cost imports, the highest in US history, was passed towards the end of the presidency of John
Quincy Adams. This tariff was especially resented in the South.
ANSWER: Tariff of 1828 [or Tariff of Abominations]
[10] This crisis occurred during Jackson’s presidency when John C. Calhoun encouraged South Carolina to ignore
the Tariff of 1828, arguing that a state has the right to deem a federal law unconstitutional and declare it void.
ANSWER: Nullification Crisis of 1832
[10] Sponsored by Republicans, this controversial tariff was passed at the beginning of the Great Depression,
increasing import duties to levels near those of the Tariff of 1828.
ANSWER: Tariff Act of 1930 [or Smoot-Hawley Tariff; or Hawley-Smoot Tariff]
4. This layer is the densest in the Earth’s atmosphere. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this lowest portion of the atmosphere that contains most weather systems and lies underneath the
stratosphere. The upper boundary of this layer is the site of a temperature inversion.
ANSWER: troposphere
[10] These are the boundaries between two air masses of different densities and usually different temperatures. Cold
types of these entities bring thunderstorms and heavy precipitation.
ANSWER: weather fronts [or storm fronts]
[10] These currents of fast flowing air generally occur in the tropopause, and the strongest ones are found in the
Earth’s polar regions.
ANSWER: jet streams [prompt on “streams”]

Packet 5

6

5. This figure stood “six cubits and a span” tall, or almost ten feet, according to the Old Testament. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Philistine giant, whose death at the hands of an Israelite shepherd with a sling is recounted in the first
book of Samuel.
ANSWER: Goliath of Gath
[10] The Israelites besieged and conquered this Canaanite city, whose walls collapsed after Joshua commanded his
army to shout and blow rams’ horns after marching around this city for seven days.
ANSWER: Jericho [or Yeriho; or Ariha]
[10] This Assyrian general under Nebuchadnezzar invaded the lands of the Israelites, but was beheaded by the
widow Judith, who had entered his camp claiming to be a defector.
ANSWER: Holofernes
6. This novel begins with thousands of rats dying in the streets and describes the eventual quarantine of a town
afflicted by the title epidemic. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which the town of Oran is affected by a mysterious disease, during which Dr. Rieux and
Raymond Rambert help victims while Father Paneloux uses the opportunity to bring people to faith.
ANSWER: The Plague [or La Peste]
[10] This French-Algerian author wrote The Plague, as well as essays such as “The Rebel” and “The Myth of
Sisyphus.” He also narrated the demise of Meursault in The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] In this other Camus novel, Jean-Baptiste Clamence describes his former life in Paris as a lawyer. He is forced to
admit his own moral hypocrisy when he fails to help save a woman who jumps off a bridge.
ANSWER: The Fall [or La Chute]
7. Answer some questions about Muslim Spain, for 10 points each.
[10] This pair of “Catholic monarchs,” conquered Granada and forced King Boabdil to resign his position in the
Edict of Alhambra. These two monarchs also founded the Spanish Inquisition and funded Christopher Columbus.
ANSWER: Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile [both answers required; prompt on partial answer]
[10] Moorish rule over Spain had been a continuation of this Islamic dynasty, which preceded the Abbasid Dynasty
in its rule of the Islamic Empire. This empire was defeated by Charles Martel at the Battle of Tours.
ANSWER: Umayyad Dynasty [or Umayyad Caliphate; or Al-Ḫilāfa al-ʾumawiyya; or al-ʾUmawiyyūn; or Banū
ʾUmayya]
[10] This city was founded by the Umayyad caliph Abd-al-Rahman, and its Great Mosque features yellow and red
bands around horseshoe arches. This city was captured in 1236 by Ferdinand III of Castile.
ANSWER: Córdoba [or Cordova; or Qurṭubah]
8. Sailing under the command of Odysseus can be hazardous to your health. For 10 points each:
[10] You might have been incinerated when your ship was destroyed by Zeus’s thunderbolt, leaving Odysseus to
wash up on the shores of Ogygia (“oh-JEE-ja”) and fall under the sway of this nymph, a daughter of Atlas.
ANSWER: Calypso
[10] You might have found yourself on Telepylus, the city of this group of giants. If you were not eaten by this
group on the spot, you probably drowned when chased off the island, since only one ship escaped intact.
ANSWER: Laestrygonians [or Laestrygones]
[10] Because of Odysseus’s decision to steer clear of the whirlpool Charybdis, you might have been plucked
screaming from the deck by this six-headed monster, said to inhabit the Strait of Messina.
ANSWER: Scylla [or Skylla]

Packet 5

7

9. In the bottom right area of a work in which this object appears, a soldier hunches over to help raise it. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this object photographed by Joe Rosenthal that was raised by a group of soldiers on Iwo Jima.
ANSWER: American flag [accept flag of the United States or obvious equivalents; prompt on “flag”]
[10] In another war-related photograph by Diane Arbus, a young boy with one suspender hanging off his left
shoulder clutches this explosive object in his right hand.
ANSWER: toy hand grenade [prompt on “bomb”]
[10] A Pulitzer Prize-winning photograph taken in South Sudan by Kevin Carter shows one of these creatures in the
background staring at a starving girl trying to get to a feeding center.
ANSWER: hooded vulture [prompt on “bird”]
10. [NOTE TO MODERATOR: do not read out the alternate answer of the first answerline unless necessary]
This argument is based on the fact that we are never presented with negative evidence. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theory that explains how everyone is able to learn grammar, given the relatively little information
learned in school.
ANSWER: poverty of the stimulus [accept but DO NOT REVEAL Plato’s Problem]
[10] This man theorized the concept of universal grammar and created a namesake hierarchy of grammars. In his
Syntactic Structures, he made up the grammatically correct but meaningless sentence, “Colorless green ideas sleep
furiously.”
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky
[10] Chomsky was influenced in his “poverty of the stimulus” argument by this philosopher’s dialogue Menon, in
which this philosopher observes that an uneducated servant understands geometry when talking with Socrates.
ANSWER: Plato [or Plátōn]
11. Miss Ivors accuses the protagonist of being a West Briton because he writes for The Daily Express. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this short story in which Gretta and Gabriel attend the Morkan sisters’ annual dance and dinner, after
which Gretta tells her husband about the death of Michael Furey, a boy she used to love.
ANSWER: “The Dead”
[10] This author included his story “The Dead” in his collection Dubliners. He also wrote Finnegans Wake and
described Stephen Dedalus’s coming of age in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
ANSWER: James Augustine Aloysius Joyce
[10] This Joyce novel parallels the structure of The Odyssey and describes the wanderings of Leopold Bloom
through Dublin during a specific day in his life.
ANSWER: Ulysses
12. This composer’s fifth symphony was commissioned by his country’s government for his own fiftieth birthday.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of the Karelia Suite whose Lemminkäinen Suite features an English horn solo depicting
The Swan of Tuonela.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius [or Johan Julius Christian Sibelius]
[10] Sibelius composed this symphonic poem in protest of Russian censorship in his native country. It is sometimes
considered to be an unofficial national anthem of the namesake country.
ANSWER: Finlandia
[10] Sibelius wrote a “Sad” composition of this type as part of incidental music for the play Kuolema. Johann
Strauss, Jr. composed many pieces of this type, including one titled “By the Beautiful Blue Danube.”
ANSWER: waltzes

Packet 5

8

13. It struck down the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the 2010 Supreme Court case which held that the First Amendment protects the right of organizations to
support the cause of a candidate monetarily without restriction.
ANSWER: Citizens United, Appellant v. Federal Election Commission
[10] Through this political practice, centered on K Street in Washington, D.C., special interest groups pay namesake
individuals to influence government regulators and legislators.
ANSWER: lobbying [accept word forms]
[10] Jack Abramoff was convicted of corruption while lobbying on behalf of organizations of this type. Tribal
sovereignty prevents state governments from interfering with the operations of these businesses.
ANSWER: Native American casinos [accept “American Indian” instead of “Native American”; prompt on
“casinos”]
14. Solutions of these are modeled by Flory-Huggins theory. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these large molecules that consist of similar subunits called monomers. Examples of these in biology
include proteins and DNA.
ANSWER: polymers
[10] This substance is formed from polymerizing chloroethene. It is widely used instead of copper for pipes and also
as insulation for electrical cables.
ANSWER: poly(vinyl chloride) [or PVC; do not accept “poly(chloroethene)”]
[10] The polymerization of vinyl chloride involves the formation of these reactive intermediates, which can form
from the homolytic cleavage of a molecular bond. These species attack double bonds with their unpaired valence
electrons.
ANSWER: free radicals
15. Name the following works by the Cubist Pablo Picasso, for 10 points each.
[10] This painting was created in response to the bombing of the namesake Basque village during the Spanish Civil
War. A single lamp blazes overhead, and the tongues of a flailing woman, bull, and horse are replaced by daggers.
ANSWER: Guernica
[10] This painting depicts the jagged outlines of five nude prostitutes, two of whom wear African tribal masks.
ANSWER: Les Demoiselles d’Avignon [or The Young Ladies of Avignon; or The Brothel of Avignon]
[10] This monochromatic painting from Picasso’s Blue Period features the title blind, lifeless subject hunched over
an instrument. Recent x-ray examinations have determined three hidden figures peering over the title subject.
ANSWER: The Old Guitarist [or El guitarrista ciego]
16. This poem describes a woman’s “horny feet [protruding] … / To show how cold she is, and dumb.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this poem that contrasts the hedonism of the title character working in the kitchen with the death of a
poor woman. “Boys / Bring flowers in last month’s newspapers,” and the speaker states, “Let be be finale of seem.”
ANSWER: “The Emperor of Ice Cream”
[10] This American Modernist poet of “The Emperor of Ice Cream” wrote of “an old sailor / [catching] tigers / in
red weather” in “Disillusionment of Ten O’Clock.” He also wrote “The Idea of Order at Key West.”
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens
[10] Stevens described this animal that “whirled in the autumn winds” and whose eye is “the only moving thing”
“among twenty snowy mountains” in a poem titled “Thirteen Ways of Looking at [this animal].”
ANSWER: New World blackbird [prompt on “bird”]
17. The cell walls of these organisms consist of peptidoglycan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this domain of prokaryotic microscopic organisms that can come in coccus, bacillus, and spiral shapes.
ANSWER: bacteria [or bacterium]
[10] Bacteria use this process of horizontal gene transfer to exchange DNA. During this process, two bacteria create
a bridge using a pilus (“PEE-lus”) and exchange information via their plasmids.
ANSWER: bacterial conjugation
[10] This process is performed on bacteria to differentiate them into namesake “-positive” or “-negative” types. It
uses a dye called crystal violet to stain bacteria.
ANSWER: Gram-staining [or Gram’s method; accept obvious equivalents]

Packet 5

9

18. The music video for this song features the rapper Pitbull dancing on the beach with a tall, white-clad woman. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this collaboration between Ke$ha (“KEH-sha”) and Pitbull, a Western-themed song that offers to “make
a night you won’t remember” and states “you better move, you better dance.”
ANSWER: “Timber”
[10] This single by singer Miley Cyrus describes how “you came in like” the title object. In its music video, a nude
Miley Cyrus swings from the title black object while breaking down concrete walls.
ANSWER: “Wrecking Ball”
[10] This song by Lana del Rey was featured in Baz Luhrmann’s film The Great Gatsby. It asks whether the listener
will “still love me when I’m no longer” the title two qualities.
ANSWER: “Young and Beautiful”
19. Name the following Native American sites, for 10 points each.
[10] These Peruvian ruins were rediscovered by Hiram Bingham in 1911. It was built in 1450 as an estate for the
emperor Pachacuti, and its primary structures include the “Hitching Post” and the Temple of the Sun.
ANSWER: Machu Picchu [or Machu Pikchu]
[10] Protected by a namesake national park in 1906, this site in southwestern Colorado contains ruins of many clifftop and mesa-top dwellings. It was inhabited by the Anasazi from 600 to 1300.
ANSWER: Mesa Verde National Park
[10] This site, in modern-day Illinois, contains the 10-story Monks Mound, as well as eight smaller mounds. This
site of “Woodhenge” was the center of Mississippian culture and likely declined around 1300 AD.
ANSWER: Cahokia Mounds State Historic Site
20. Name the following about a period in Roman history, for 10 points each.
[10] This name was coined by Niccolò Machiavelli for a group of popular emperors who ruled from 96 to 180 AD.
This group did not choose heirs from their family until the last one designated Commodus his successor.
ANSWER: Five Good Emperors [prompt on “Nerva–Antonine dynasty”]
[10] This first non-Italian emperor was called optimus princeps by the Senate for his conquests, expanding the
empire to its greatest extent. His conquest of Dacia is commemorated on a namesake column in Rome.
ANSWER: Trajan [or Marcus Ulpius Trajanus; or Caesar Marcus Ulpius Nerva Traianus; or Imperator Caesar
Nerva Traianus Divi Nervae filius Augustus]
[10] This emperor earned his sobriquet by convincing the Senate to accord his adoptive father Hadrian divine honors
and built a namesake wall across Scotland in 142 AD.
ANSWER: Antoninus Pius [or Titus Aurelius Fulvius Boionius Arrius Antoninus; or Titus Aelius Caesar
Antoninus; or Caesar Titus Aelius Hadrianus Antoninus Augustus Pius]

