Packet 8

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 8: Tossups
1. In one novel, this character tries and fails to scare off a ram and later gets stuck in a tree, where a bull tries to
knock him out. This character is commanded to sing of walls after he slips on blood, and he is previously told by a
dragon to find some gold and sit on it. In another work, this character’s blood melts a sword when his head is cut
off. He is unable to approach the throne in that work because he is said to be a descendant of Cain. Another
character pretends to be asleep before fighting this character unarmed, and this character runs back to his cave to die
after his arm is pulled off. For 10 points, name this stalker of Heorot, the first monster slain by Beowulf.
ANSWER: Grendel
2. At a Tim Hortons in Toronto, this man made fun of the multiple colors of the Canadian dollar. This man’s
apartment has a model of a Star Wars stormtrooper and a toilet lid that springs back up after it is put down. This
character hired actors to fool his mother into thinking that he was married and offered his best friend a chance to
design the Goliath National Bank building. This laser tag fan is the inventor of dating rules such as the “crazy/hot
scale” and the “lemon law” and has been slapped six times by Marshall Eriksen. For 10 points, name this
legen…wait for it…dary womanizer who hangs out with Ted Mosby at MacLaren’s bar on How I Met Your Mother.
ANSWER: Barnabus “Barney” Stinson [accept either underlined name]
3. This organ secretes an acidic film called the acid mantle, and it possesses immune cells named after Langerhans.
Some secretory structures in this organ come in apocrine and eccrine varieties, and it contains mechanoreceptors
such as Pacinian corpuscles and Meissner’s corpuscles. This organ secretes a lubricant from its sebaceous glands,
and it contains fat stores in its subcutaneous layer. A layer of keratin is produced by the epidermis, the topmost layer
in this organ, which also contains hair follicles. For 10 points, name this largest organ of the human body that serves
as the first line of defense against pathogens and forms the body’s outer covering.
ANSWER: skin [prompt on “epidermis” before “apocrine” is read]
4. This character blames the imaginary magician Friston for the theft of his books, which were in reality burned by
the priest Pedro Perez. Near the end of the work in which he appears, the fictional author Benengeli admits that his
only purpose in writing about this character was to indicate the demise of chivalry. This character embarks on many
adventures, including the theft of a barber’s basin that he thinks is Mambrino’s helmet and the destruction of
windmills that this character mistakes for giants. On those adventures, he is accompanied by Rocinante and Sancho
Panza. For 10 points, name this title “Ingenious Gentleman” from La Mancha in a novel by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: Don Quixote de la Mancha [or Alonso Quijano]
5. The cities San Juan and Panajachel are located in the western highlands of this country and surround Lake Atitlán.
The archaeological site Holmul is located in this country’s north, which houses the Petén basin, and this country
contains the highest peak in Central America, Volcán Tajumulco. The Polochic and Dulce Rivers flow into this
country’s Lake Izabal. Puerto Barrios is located on the eastern coast of this country within the Gulf of Honduras.
Flores and Santa Elena are cities in the north of this country near the ancient ruins of Tikal. For 10 points, identify
this Central American nation bordered by Honduras, Belize, El Salvador, and Mexico.
ANSWER: Republic of Guatemala [or República de Guatemala]
6. One proponent of this philosophical tradition wrote that truth only expresses endorsement of beliefs. Inquiry is the
process of changing an indeterminate situation into a determinate one according to another proponent of this
philosophy, who also wrote that experience is shaped by habits of expectation. This philosophy’s namesake maxim
holds that our conception of something is solely made of its practical effects. Another writer associated with this
philosophy argued that it does not make a practical difference whether a man is actually going around a squirrel
when chasing it around a tree. For 10 points, name this philosophy of John Dewey, Charles Sanders Peirce and
William James.
ANSWER: pragmatism [or pragmaticism; accept word forms]

Packet 8

2

7. One of this author’s poems describes the “juggler of day / Leaping like leopards to the Sky.” This author of
“Blazing in Gold and quenching in purple” also surmised that the title object was “Written by faded men” in “The
Bible Is An Antique Volume.” One of this author’s poems describes the narrator “Reeling—through endless summer
days / From inns of molten blue” and declares “Inebriate of air—am I.” This poet of “I taste a liquor never brewed”
mentions a “blue, uncertain stumbling buzz,” and another of her poems describes horses’ heads turned “toward
Eternity.” For 10 points, name this poet of “I heard a Fly buzz when I died” and “Because I could not stop for
Death.”
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
8. In one of this man’s works, a petty criminal who befriends a doctor dies in a knife fight with a crime boss before a
shopkeeper buries his ashes on her farm. In addition to Drunken Angel, this man described a warrior who murders
every member of two rival gangs except for one farmboy at the very end of another work. In another film by this
director of Yojimbo, he depicts the decline of a clan led by Hidetora, as well as a movie based on the story “In a
Grove” describing a murder from different points of view. In one movie by this director of Ran and Rashomon, the
title group of rōnin defends a town from bandits. For 10 points, name this Japanese director of Seven Samurai.
ANSWER: Akira Kurosawa [or Kurosawa Akira]
9. The French attempted to perform this military action in 1866 after the execution of Bishop Siméon-François
Berneux and eight other Catholic priests, although they gave up this action after the Treaty of Ganghwa. Another
attempt to perform this action during the Imjin Wars was turned back at the Battle of Myeongnyang, where Yi SunSin’s turtle ships defeated Toyotomi Hideyoshi’s fleet. The United States began this action at the Battle of Inchon,
and during that occurrence of this event Douglas MacArthur incurred Chinese military action by advancing to the
Yalu River. For 10 points, name this action which constitutes an attempt to take over a certain East Asian peninsula.
ANSWER: invasion of the Korean Peninsula [accept obvious equivalents; accept invasion of North Korea or
invasion of South Korea; accept “Choson Bando” or “Hanbando” for “Korea”]
10. In this work, one character claims that men “are ignorant apes” after a debate regarding differing Gospel
accounts of the crucifixion. That character wears only one shoe for the first half of this work, removing the other
halfway through because Christ went barefoot. Another character in this work mistakes a carrot for a turnip and
wants to hang himself from a tree to pass the time. In the final act, the blind Pozzo is led on a rope by his former
slave, Lucky. At the ends of both acts of this play, a boy tells the two protagonists that the title character will “surely
arrive tomorrow.” For 10 points, name this absurdist play featuring Vladimir and Estragon, by Samuel Beckett.
ANSWER: Waiting for Godot [or En attendant Godot]
11. All of the movements except one in Bruckner’s piece of this type and number begin with the strings playing
pizzicato. Mendelssohn’s piece of this type and number features the hymn A Mighty Fortress is Our God and was
composed for the tricentennial of the Augsburg Confession. In his piece of this type and number, Mahler began the
Trauermarsch first movement with a trumpet solo. That work contains an adagietto fourth movement, and Mahler
also paid homage to another work of this type and number that begins with the fate motif. For 10 points, name this
type of musical composition of a specific number, of which Beethoven’s begins with a short-short-short-long
rhythm.
ANSWER: symphony no. 5
12. This man ruled in favor of a law outlawing private parties from running lotteries in Cohens v. Virginia and
resolved a conflict regarding the Yazoo lands in Fletcher v. Peck. He upheld the federal government’s right to
regulate interstate trade in Gibbons v. Ogden. He denied that a former Vice President was involved in “an overt Act
of treason” in the trial of Aaron Burr. Andrew Jackson challenged this man to enforce his decision supporting the
autonomy of the Cherokee Indians in Worcester v. Georgia. For 10 points, name this longest-serving Chief Justice
of the United States who ruled the Judiciary Act of 1789 unconstitutional in Marbury v. Madison.
ANSWER: John James Marshall

Packet 8

3

13. An echocardiogram uses this phenomenon to determine the velocity of blood, and the Mössbauer rotor
experiments measured one form of this phenomenon through the emission of gamma rays. One experiment used
canal ray tubes to measure the transverse form of this phenomenon, and Lorentz transformations are used when
calculating this effect’s relativistic form. The altering of spectral lines as a result of this effect causes blueshift and
redshift, which are used to measure the radial velocities of galaxies. For 10 points, name this effect named for an
Austrian physicist, the perceived change in frequency of a wave relative to its observer, which alters the pitch of a
siren.
ANSWER: Doppler effect [or Doppler shift]
14. Paul Cézanne created a still life depicting a stacked pyramid of these non-fruit objects. One of these objects lies
in the bottom left, beneath a horse’s head, in Albrecht Dürer’s engraving Knight, Death, and the Devil. One painting
by Caravaggio depicts a saint looking down with his arm outstretched towards one of these objects in Saint Jerome
Writing. Another painting portrays Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve above an anamorphic one of these
objects that stretches across a tiled floor. That painting is Hans Holbein the Younger’s The Ambassadors. Georgia
O’Keeffe painted, for 10 points, what white objects that encase the brains of humans and animals?
ANSWER: skulls [accept human skulls before “Georgia O’Keeffe”]
15. The first leader of this state published Mit Brennender Sorge in opposition to Nazi treatment of Jews, although
he credited that publication to his eventual successor, who represented this state at the signing of the
Reichskonkordat. The creation of this state ended the Roman Question with the signing of the Lateran Treaty. A
butler to one head of state of this polity was found guilty of stealing classified documents regarding corruption
among high ranking members in this state’s hierarchy. For 10 points, name this smallest recognized sovereign state,
which is the location of St. Peter’s Basilica and is governed by the Pope.
ANSWER: Vatican City State [accept Stato della Città del Vaticano; prompt on the “Holy See”; do not accept
“Papal States”]
16. The King James Version of the Bible translates the re’em to be one of these creatures. King Donmyeong of
Goguryeo was said to have ridden one of these creatures, whose lair was supposedly found in November 2012. The
Japanese version of these creatures is the kirin. The Danish throne is supposedly made from a body part of these
creatures, although they were most likely the tusks of narwhals, which are called these creatures of the sea. The
product of its namesake anatomical figure is called alicorn and has the power to negate poison. For 10 points, name
this single-horned legendary animal that could only be tamed by virgin women.
ANSWER: unicorns
17. Chemical potential is the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to the mole fraction, and an equation
partially named for Helmholtz relates this quantity to the inverse square of temperature. Surface tension is the
change in this quantity per unit surface area. This quantity is the negative of the ideal gas constant times the absolute
temperature times the natural logarithm of the equilibrium constant. This quantity is also calculated as the enthalpy
minus the product of temperature and entropy, and it is defined as the maximum amount of work that can be used by
a system. For 10 points, name this thermodynamic quantity that is negative for spontaneous processes.
ANSWER: Gibbs free energy [or Gibbs function; prompt on “free energy”]
18. This man remarked that he finally began “to be housed like a human being” after finishing construction of his
Domus Aurea. At the end of his reign, this man committed suicide as a result of Vindex’s Rebellion, which brought
this man’s rival, Galba, to the throne, beginning the year of the Four Emperors. He was closely advised by his
mother Agrippina and a writer who allegedly participated in the Pisonian Plot against this figure, Seneca the
Younger. He had a large Colossus of himself erected at the Colosseum and blamed the Christians for a 64 CE event
that devastated Rome. For 10 points, name this Roman Emperor who supposedly fiddled while Rome burned.
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [or Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus; or Nero Claudius
Caesar Drusus Germanicus]

Packet 8

4

19. People possessed by spirits in this religion are called tongji, and some sects of religion believe that Li Hong will
appear at the apocalypse. Celestial Masters emerged as leaders of one branch of this religion in the Wudoumi (“oodoh-mee”) Movement. One practitioner of this religion accompanied Genghis Khan and convinced him against
trying to attain immortality. In modern times, this religion primarily consists of the Zhengyi and Quanzhen Schools.
This religion’s founder emphasized wuwei and supposedly left his home country on an ox after writing its central
work. For 10 points, name this Chinese religious tradition founded by Lao Tzu.
ANSWER: Taoism [or Daoism; or Daojia; or Daojiao]
20. The remnants of these phenomena may undergo the Sedov-Taylor phase before experiencing the snowplow
phase. Wolf-Rayet stars are the progenitors to one type of these phenomena, and the presence of hydrogen
absorption lines in their spectra leads to their Type II designation. The Type Ia (“one-A”) of these phenomena is
created after the mass of a white dwarf in a binary system exceeds the Chandrasekhar limit. The Crab Nebula is a
remnant of one of these phenomena that occurred in 1054. These phenomena often occur when a lack of electron
degeneracy pressure causes core collapse to a neutron star. For 10 points, name these luminous stellar explosions.
ANSWER: supernovas [or supernovae; or SNe]
TB. In one novel by this author, The Professor always carries a suicide bomb, and Verloc is tasked with destroying
the Greenwich Observatory. In another work by this author, Charles Gould uses his money to support Ribiera's
dictatorship of Costaguana. As well as The Secret Agent and Nostromo, this author wrote of a sailor who abandons a
sinking ship on its way to Mecca. The narrator of that work by this author finds a note reading “Exterminate all the
brutes” in a novel describing an insane ivory trader on the Congo River, whose last words are “The horror! The
horror!” For 10 points, name this author of Lord Jim who wrote of Marlow and Kurtz in Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]

Packet 8

5

Packet 8: Bonuses
1. Answer the following about a specific period of time a looooong time ago, for 10 points each.
[10] This specific geologic period, which lasted from 145 to 66 million years ago, derives its name from the Latin
for chalk. This period ended notably with the disappearance of dinosaurs, as well as high CO concentrations.
ANSWER: Cretaceous period [prompt on “K”]
[10] This type of mammal was the first to develop in the early Cretaceous. They primarily inhabit the Southern
Hemisphere and often give birth to undeveloped young, who reside in their mother’s pouch to complete
development.
ANSWER: marsupials
[10] This body of water existed from the Mesozoic Era before its eventual demise in the Cretaceous period, as the
Indian and Atlantic oceans opened up. It was located between the continents of Gondwana and Laurasia.
ANSWER: Tethys Ocean [or Tethys Sea]
2

2. The site on which this shrine is built is said to be the spot from which Mohammed ascended, as well as where
Abraham was commanded to sacrifice Isaac. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this blue-tiled, octagonal structure, surmounted by a golden dome, that stands atop the Temple Mount in
Jerusalem and protects the Foundation Stone and the Well of Souls.
ANSWER: Dome of the Rock [or Masjid Qubbat As-Sakhrah; or Kipat Hasela]
[10] This shining edifice in Amritsar, India, is the holiest gurdwara in the Sikh religion. Indira Gandhi ordered it
assaulted by Operation Blue Star and was subsequently assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards.
ANSWER: Sri Harmandir Sahib [or Golden Temple]
[10] The modern Bahá’í House of Worship in New Delhi, India, is built in the shape of this flower. The Buddha is
frequently depicted seated upon this flower.
ANSWER: lotus
3. An example of this type of service is PlentyOfFish.com, which was featured in the music video for “Telephone”
by Lady Gaga. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of service that matches people through the namesake virtual medium. Another example of this
type of service is Match.com.
ANSWER: online dating services [or internet dating; accept obvious equivalents]
[10] Headquartered in Santa Monica, California, this site is headed by Dr. Neil Clark Warren matches customers
based on a computerized algorithm, rather than letting them browse potential partners.
ANSWER: eHarmony.com
[10] Owned by Spark Networks, Inc., this online dating site caters to Christians and uses the slogan “Find God’s
match for you.”
ANSWER: ChristianMingle.com
4. This quantity’s operator is negative i times h-bar times the gradient. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this vector quantity, the product of mass and velocity, that is conserved in collisions. Newton’s second
law is more generally stated as the time derivative of this quantity being equal to the net force on a particle.
ANSWER: linear momentum [do not accept “angular momentum”]
[10] This quantity is equal to the change in linear momentum for a collision, and it can alternatively be calculated as
the integral of force with respect to time.
ANSWER: impulse
[10] The conservation of momentum is a consequence of the translational invariance of this function, the difference
between a system’s kinetic and potential energies. The Legendre transform relates this quantity to the Hamiltonian.
ANSWER: Lagrangian

Packet 8

6

5. Robert McClure’s expedition confirmed the existence of this while searching for John Franklin’s expedition,
which was lost while trying to find it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this formerly hypothetical Arctic sea route from Europe to Asia, north of Canada.
ANSWER: Canadian Northwest Passage [do not accept “Northern Sea Route”]
[10] While on an expedition to find the Northwest Passage in the Discovery, this English explorer’s crew mutinied
and set him afloat in his namesake bay. The crew had previously been trapped by ice in James Bay.
ANSWER: Henry Hudson
[10] This Norwegian explorer first successfully navigated the Northwest Passage by ship. He later beat Robert F.
Scott to the South Pole and became the first undisputed person to reach the North Pole.
ANSWER: Roald Engelbregt Gravning Amundsen
6. Answer the following about daredevils, for 10 points each.
[10] While piloting a Bell X-1 at Mach 1.07 in 1947, this Air Force Brigadier General became the first person to
break the sound barrier. After competition with Scott Crossfield, he achieved Mach 2.44 in an X-1A.
ANSWER: Charles Elwood “Chuck” Yeager
[10] In 2012, this Austrian set the world record for highest skydive and broke the sound barrier with his body after
jumping from a balloon in the stratosphere, as part of the Red Bull Stratos Project.
ANSWER: Felix Baumgartner
[10] This American, who comes from a stunt family known for their “flying,” famously tightroped over Niagara
Falls in 2012, a feat broadcast globally on television. In 2013, he tightroped over the Grand Canyon.
ANSWER: Nikolas “Nik” Wallenda
7. It was first observed by its namesake Scottish botanist in pollen grains suspended in water. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this random movement of particles in a fluid caused by particle collisions with the molecules of the fluid,
explained by Einstein in a 1905 paper.
ANSWER: Brownian motion [or pedesis]
[10] This process is the motion of particles from an area of higher to lower concentration. According to Graham’s
law, one form of this process performed by a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of the gas’s molar mass.
ANSWER: diffusion [prompt on “effusion”]
[10] Formulated by a German physiologist, this law relates the diffusive flux to the concentration gradient and crosssectional area of the fluid membrane.
ANSWER: Fick’s first law [do not accept “Fick’s second law”]
8. This British monarch was a notable Nazi sympathizer. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this twentieth century king, the son of George V and Queen Mary. He took the throne in January 1936
but abdicated in December of that year, making him the shortest reigning British monarch.
ANSWER: Edward VIII [or the Duke of Windsor; or Edward Albert Christian George Andrew Patrick David;
prompt on “Edward”]
[10] Edward abdicated in order to marry this American socialite. British traditionalists, including the Church of
England, opposed this marriage, as both of this woman’s previous husbands were still alive.
ANSWER: Wallis Simpson [or Wallis, Duchess of Windsor; or Wallis Spencer; or Bessie Wallis Warfield]
[10] Edward VIII was the last British Monarch to hold this imperial title for the entirety of his reign. It was given to
Queen Victoria at the Proclamation Durbar of 1877, and was surrendered by Edward’s brother, George VI, in 1947.
ANSWER: Emperor of India [or Empress of India; or Badshah-e-Hind; do not accept “King of India” or “Queen
of India”]
9. Yu the Great stopped an event of this type with some magical self-expanding soil. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these destructive events that were survived by Utnapishtim in Sumerian mythology, Deucalion and
Pyrrha in Greek mythology, and Noah in Genesis.
ANSWER: floods
[10] Deucalion survived a flood that Zeus sent to destroy the third of five Ages of Man, which was named for this
material. With this material, men built tools, armor and weapons and waged constant warfare.
ANSWER: bronze [prompt on “metal”]
[10] After the flood, Deucalion was told to form a new human race by throwing the bones of his mother behind him,
which he interpreted to be these objects, with his mother being Gaia.
ANSWER: stones [or rocks; accept obvious equivalents]

Packet 8

7

10. Magnetoencephalography is a technique that records neuronal activity inside parts of this organ. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this organ, the center of the human nervous system. It contains parts such as the hypothalamus and
medulla oblongata and enables humans to think.
ANSWER: the brain
[10] This tissue of the central nervous system forms the cerebral cortex and consists of cell bodies but relatively few
myelinated axons.
ANSWER: gray matter [or grey matter, if they are British; or Substansia grisea]
[10] Split into two lobes by the vermis, this part of the brain contains Purkinje cells and is responsible for
maintaining the body’s fine motor control and balance.
ANSWER: cerebellum [or little brain; do not accept “cerebrum”]
11. For 10 points each, name these Presidents of French Republics.
[10] This leader of the Free French forces during WWII tried to prevent Britain from joining the European
Economic Community and promoted Quebec separatism. He was the founder and first president of the French Fifth
Republic.
ANSWER: Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle
[10] This man forced a retrial of the Dreyfus Affair case after finding new evidence that incriminated Ferdinand
Esterhazy and defeated Georges Clemenceau to win the largely symbolic position of the presidency.
ANSWER: Raymond Poincaré
[10] This first Socialist President of France wrote a “Letter to the French” to explain his shift to the center after
being forced into cohabitation with conservative prime minister Jacques Chirac.
ANSWER: François Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand
12. This painting depicts four men rowing a boat that holds a woman with a white parasol. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Neo-Impressionist painting depicting Parisians relaxing on the River Seine. A woman holds a
monkey on a leash in the right foreground of this work.
ANSWER: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte – 1884 [or Un dimanche après-midi à l’Île de la
Grande Jatte – 1884]
[10] Seurat pioneered the use of this technique in A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte. It involves
painting distinct dots of pure color, which the viewer perceives as a fuller range of tones.
ANSWER: pointillism
[10] This painting by Seurat shows a boy in a red hat cupping both his hands to his mouth. It depicts bourgeoisie on
the bank opposite to the one depicted in A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.
ANSWER: Bathers at Asnières [or Une Baignade, Asnières]
13. One work of this type argues that “Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this form of lyric poetry addressing a serious subject. John Keats wrote these poems “on Melancholy,”
“on Indolence,” “to Psyche” and “on a Grecian Urn.”
ANSWER: odes
[10] This man wrote an “Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat,” criticizing the cat for “[stretching] in vain to reach the
prize,” when “not all that glisters [is] gold.” This man also wrote “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.”
ANSWER: Thomas Gray
[10] Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote an ode to this entity, whom he calls the “breath of Autumn’s being.” This entity is
the “Destroyer and Preserver,” scattering “withered leaves to quicken a new birth.”
ANSWER: the West Wind [prompt on partial answer]

Packet 8

8

14. For 10 points each, name some Native American tribal nations.
[10] This tribe called themselves the “People of the Longhouse” and was known as the League of Five Nations, later
expanding to include six. Nations composing this tribe include the Seneca and the Mohawk.
ANSWER: Iroquois League [or Iroquois Confederacy; or Haudenosaunee]
[10] This tribe was the territorial rival of the Iroquois and allied with the French against them. This group included
the Chippewa and the Powhatan and was led by chiefs such as Metacom and Pontiac.
ANSWER: Algonquin [or Omàmiwinini; or Omàmiwininiwak; or Anicinàpe; accept Wampanoag or Massasoit or
Wôpanâak; accept Ottawa or Odawa]
[10] This Great Plains tribe began using horses after breaking away from the Shoshone tribe in the Rockies. Its last
chief, Quanah Parker, never personally lost a battle but later resigned himself to a reservation.
ANSWER: Comanche Nation [or Nʉmʉnʉ]
15. The first movement in this suite, “Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum,” was modeled after a book of finger exercises
by Muzio Clementi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this six-movement suite for piano dedicated to the composer’s daughter, Chou-Chou. Other movements
include “Jimbo’s Lullaby,” “The Snow is Dancing,” and “Golliwogg’s Cakewalk.”
ANSWER: Children’s Corner
[10] This French Impressionist composer of the Children’s Corner and two Arabesques for piano included “Claire
de lune” in his Suite bergamasque.
ANSWER: Achille-Claude Debussy
[10] This symphonic poem by Debussy begins with the flute playing a descending chromatic scale to a tritone, then
ascending to the original pitch. It depicts the title mythical figure and is based on a Stéphane Mallarmé poem.
ANSWER: Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun [or Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune]
16. In this work, Henry gathers nosegays for the Queen of the Netherlands. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this semi-autobiographical epistolary Sturm und Drang novel about the title artist, who commits suicide
due to his infatuation with Charlotte.
ANSWER: The Sorrows of Young Werther [or Die Leiden des jungen Werthers]
[10] Besides writing Roman Elegies, Venetian Epigrams, and The Elf-King, this German author wrote The Sorrows
of Young Werther.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[10] This novel, Goethe’s second, details the reception of Shakespeare’s dramas in Germany, to which the
protagonist is introduced by Jarno. The protagonist of this novel also plays the title character in Hamlet.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship [or Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre]
17. Answer the following about curves in economics, for 10 points each.
[10] Jude Wanniski coined the name of this curve which depicts the relationship between taxation and government
revenue. It shows that government revenue will be zero at both zero percent and a hundred percent taxation.
ANSWER: Laffer curve
[10] This downward-sloping curve illustrates the amount of a specific good that will be purchased at a given price. It
is named for a quantity contrasted with supply.
ANSWER: demand curve
[10] The Kuznets curve plots economic inequality against this value per capita, and predicts that inequality will
increase up to a certain value of this quantity, after which it will decline.
ANSWER: income per capita [or average income]

Packet 8

9

18. A horse’s hoof rests on a globe, and a commander’s baton rests in the title figure’s right hand. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this statue of Erasmo da Narni, an equestrian monument in the Piazza del Santo in Padua. The name
comes from the title condottiero’s nickname, meaning “Honeyed Cat.”
ANSWER: Equestrian Statue of Gattamelata [or monumento equestre al Gattamelata]
[10] This Renaissance Italian sculptor of the Equestrian Statue of Gattamelata also sculpted the prophet Habbakuk
in Il Zuccone.
ANSWER: Donatello [or Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi]
[10] Donatello created a bronze statue in which this figure stands atop a large severed head. Michelangelo’s marble
depiction of this figure shows him holding a sling over his left shoulder.
ANSWER: David
19. This author completed her final novel Between the Acts shortly before drowning herself in the River Ouse. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this British author who described the title writer’s metamorphosis into a woman in Orlando. She also
wrote To the Lighthouse and a feminist essay titled A Room of One’s Own.
ANSWER: Adeline Virginia Woolf
[10] In this Woolf novel, the title character organizes a party and confronts her old love Peter Walsh. Septimus
Smith commits suicide after William Bradshaw’s attempts to send him to a mental institution.
ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway
[10] This American playwright created the play Zoo Story and depicted George, Martha, Nick and Honey in his play
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
ANSWER: Edward Franklin Albee III
20. Name some winners of the Nebula Award for Best Novel, for 10 points each.
[10] This novel by Daniel Keyes co-won the Nebula in 1966 and is about Charlie Gordon, who undergoes an IQtripling surgery. His last wish is that the title objects be placed daily at the grave of the title mouse.
ANSWER: Flowers for Algernon
[10] The inaugural winner of the Nebula Award was this Frank Herbert novel about Paul Atreides, whose family
takes control of the desert planet Arrakis and its production of the “spice” melange.
ANSWER: Dune
[10] The 1985 award winner was this novel by Orson Scott Card, which follows the life of the title “Third” child,
who is promoted to Command School on 433 Eros during the Bugger War.
ANSWER: Ender’s Game

