Packet 9

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 9: Tossups
1. Isidore of Kiev switched clothes with a corpse in order to survive this event unnoticed. Gennadius Scholarius was
ordained Patriarch three days after this event, at which troops from Chios were led by Giovanni Giustiniani. At this
event, one commander besieged the Platean Wall by dragging his navy across Elaia to circumvent the chain drawn
across the Golden Horn. The victors in this battle used Basilic bombards designed by Orban. After enemy troops
took control of the Kerkoporta during this event, Constantine XI led a cavalry charge against the invading
janissaries. For 10 points, name this event in which Mehmed II successfully invaded the Byzantine capital.
ANSWER: Fall of Constantinople [or Ottoman conquest of Constantinople; or second Ottoman siege of
Constantinople; accept 1453 or Mehmed II or Mehmed the Conqueror for “Ottomans” before mentioned; or
İstanbul’un Fethi; or Alōsē tēs Kōnstantinoupolēs; accept other obvious equivalents; prompt on “Ottoman
conquest of the Byzantine Empire” before mentioned]
2. A concatemer is produced in bacteria and some eukaryotic viruses during the rolling circle variety of this process.
Nitrogen-14 and nitrogen-15 were used to determine that this process is semi-conservative in the Meselson-Stahl
experiment. During this process, Okazaki fragments develop on a lagging strand, which is unwound by
topoisomerase proteins. Helicase creates a namesake fork during this process, which makes use of RNA primase.
Mediated by a polymerase enzyme, this process causes a certain molecule to grow from the 3-prime to 5-prime
direction. For 10 points, name this process that duplicates a double helix and occurs during the S phase of the cell
cycle.
ANSWER: replication of deoxyribonucleic acid [accept equivalents]
3. At the funeral of one of his Cabinet officers in March 2003, this man stated that he is the “Hitler of the time.” This
man addressed protesters during the March of Seven Thousand. He was imprisoned in Sikombela and Hwahwa for
his leadership of ZANU and worked with future rival Joshua Nkomo as a Publicity Secretary of the National
Democratic Party. This successor of Canaan Banana refused to yield power after losing to Morgan Tsvangirai in a
2005 presidential election. In 2000, he pressured Britain to pay land reparations to his country while forcibly
removing a white minority in his country from 10 million hectares of land. For 10 points, name this president of
Zimbabwe.
ANSWER: Robert Gabriel Mugabe
4. Following one war regarding this issue, King David II had to embezzle funds out of his treasury to pay his own
ransom following his capture at the Battle of Neville’s Cross. The first war regarding this issue was ended by the
Declaration of Arbroath and included battles at Stirling Bridge and Bannockburn. Alex Salmond announced his
intention to resign after a referendum on this issue failed to pass in September 2014. This status was first recognized
with the coronation of Robert the Bruce and later denied in the 1707 Acts of Union. For 10 points, name this issue
regarding whether England’s northern neighbor should be separate from the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Scottish independence [or independence of Scotland; or Scots unthirldom; or Neo-eisimeileachd na
h-Alba; accept obvious equivalents]
5. Aldehydes can be treated with cyanide and ammonia, then with an acid, in one method of synthesizing these
molecules. One of these molecules cannot be processed in a genetic disorder, leading to musty-smelling urine in a
condition called PKU. Examples of these molecules are attached to tRNA before it enters the ribosome. These
zwitterions possess a variable side chain and a carboxylic acid functional group. These substances are connected to
each other via peptide bonds, and examples of these molecules include alanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine. For 10
points, name this nitrogen-containing class of molecules that form the building blocks of proteins.
ANSWER: amino acids

Packet 9

2

6. One of this man’s works details the journey of the anarchist thief Said Mahran, who releases the title animals on
his former best friend, who had put him in prison. In another work, the title character attempts to find meaning in
life through his lovers Margaret and Wanda. Besides the novels The Thief and the Dogs and The Beggar, this author
wrote a novel that ends with the barber Abbas beaten to death by British soldiers in Midaq Alley. This author wrote
about the family of Al-Sayyid Ahmed during their struggles between the two World Wars in Palace Walk, Palace of
Desire, and Sugar Street. For 10 points, name this Egyptian author of the “Cairo Trilogy.”
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
7. While in battle off the Madeira Islands, this ship, captained by Charles Stewart, nearly destroyed the HMS Levant
with broadside fire before sailing backward to gun the HMS Cyane. Under William Bainbridge’s command, this ship
forced the British to abandon their strategy of waging one-on-one combat with American vessels after it defeated the
HMS Java. Paul Revere designed this vessel’s protective copper bolts. While under the command of Captain Isaac
Hull, this ship gained its nickname during the War of 1812 when a cannonball from the HMS Guerriere “bounced
harmlessly” off its hull. For 10 points, name this vessel named for a founding document of the United States.
ANSWER: USS Constitution [accept “Old Ironsides”]
8. LU decomposition is one technique used to factorize these entities. The Hermitian example of these objects
consists of complex conjugates. The characteristic polynomial of these objects has solutions equal to eigenvalues,
and their lower left corner is filled with zeros during Gaussian elimination, which converts them to their row echelon
form. A system of linear equations can be solved by finding the determinants of these and applying Cramer’s rule.
Multiplication of two of these objects is defined only when the number of columns in the first matches the number
of rows in the second. For 10 points, name these rectangular arrays of numbers or expressions.
ANSWER: matrices [or matrix]
9. At the beginning of this work, a man praises a hundred-year old bookcase, and another character claims that a
guitar is a mandolin. That character, Yepikhodov, shouts at Vanya during a party after she scolds him for breaking a
billiards stick. One woman returns to the scene of this play after having left after her son’s drowning five years
before this play’s opening. That woman’s daughter, Anya, is in love with Peter, the “eternal student.” At the end of
this play, the servant Firs is locked in Madame Ranevskaya’s house to die, and Lopakhin’s men cut down trees in
the title estate. For 10 points, name this Anton Chekhov play centering on conflict over ownership of the title
location.
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishnevyi sad]
10. In the Hadith, Muhammad recommends a gulp of this substance for healing purposes. Jonathan consumes some
of this substance in the Bible, thus violating an oath that his father Saul had sworn. In Hinduism, this substance is
called madhu and is considered one of the five elixirs of immortality. During Rosh Hashanah, apples dipped in this
substance are considered good luck for the new year. During his stay in the desert, John the Baptist ate only locusts
and this food. The Book of Exodus describes the Promised Land as flowing with milk and this substance. For 10
points, name this sugary substance, which Samson found in a beehive in the carcass of a lion.
ANSWER: honey
11. A specific case of this equation sets velocity equal to the square root of 2gh. Venturi meters and pilot tubes
measure velocity using this equation, which is only applicable to compressible substances with low Mach numbers.
This equation is expressed as Torricelli’s theorem when pressure is constant. This equation can be derived from the
conservation of energy, and it contains terms corresponding to the kinetic and potential energies for fluids. It
explains the net upward force experienced by airplane wings, known as dynamic lift. For 10 points, name this
equation that states that an increase in the speed of a fluid is accompanied by a decrease in pressure, named for a
Swiss scientist.
ANSWER: Bernoulli’s equation [or Bernoulli’s principle]

Packet 9

3

12. Heinrich Sudermann served as the first Syndic of this organization. This organization built a trading center on
the Thames called the Steelyard, employees of which included George Giese. This group’s trading post at Toruń was
founded by the Teutonic Knights, and members of the three Drittels in this polity elected aldermen to lead its
independent trading outposts, called kontors. Waldemar VI of Denmark signed the Treaty of Stralsund with this
polity to give it a monopoly over Scandinavian trade, and the capital of this polity was located in Wendish, the first
of its five quarters; that capital was Lübeck. For 10 points, name this Northern German medieval trade union.
ANSWER: Hanseatic League [accept Hansa; or Dudesche Hanse; or Hansa Teutonica; or Liga Hanseatica]
13. In a painting by this artist, one figure sleeps as bees hover around his head, while his lover watches young satyrs
steal his lance, wear his armor, and blow a conch shell in his ear. In another work, this artist of Venus and Mars
painted himself into a portrait of his Medici patrons, placing them in The Adoration of the Magi. In another work,
Mercury banishes clouds with a caduceus in the upper left, while the Three Graces dance in a circle to celebrate the
coming of the title season. This artist’s most famous work features the title figure standing naked on a seashell and
being blown to shore. For 10 points, name this Florentine painter of La Primavera and The Birth of Venus.
ANSWER: Sandro Botticelli [or Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi]
14. This figure transformed Queen Gerana into a crane and set the queen’s descendants against the Pygmies after
that queen declared herself more beautiful than this figure. This goddess turned Tiresias into a woman after he struck
a pair of mating snakes with his staff. This goddess sent two serpents to kill a young boy, with whom she reconciled
after he became a god by offering her daughter Hebe’s hand in marriage. During the Judgment of Paris, this goddess
offered Paris control of all of Europe and Asia. After Hermes killed Argus, this goddess placed his eyes on her
sacred bird, the peacock. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of marriage and the family, the sister and wife of
Zeus.
ANSWER: Hera [do not prompt on or accept “Juno”]
15. At a party, one character in this work plays Clytemnestra during a game of charades. After giving a note to a
woman at a ball asking her to elope with him, one character in this novel dies at the Battle of Waterloo. Jos dies after
signing a large amount of life insurance money to one character. Rawdon Crawley and George Osborne marry the
two central characters in this work. The action of this novel begins after the central characters have completed their
education at Miss Pinkerton’s Academy for Young Ladies. For 10 points, name this “Novel Without a Hero” about
Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, written by William Makepeace Thackeray.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair: A Novel Without A Hero
16. Poulenc’s last piece was a sonata for this instrument, for which Britten wrote a suite with the movements “Pan”
and “Narcissus,” Six Metamorphoses after Ovid. A variant of this instrument represents a child in Richard Strauss’s
Symphonia Domestica and is the d’amore version. This instrument plays the first theme of the orchestrated version
of Le Tombeau de Couperin. This instrument represents the quail in Beethoven’s Pastoral Symphony. This
instrument is accompanied by harp in the main theme of Swan Lake, and orchestras tune to this instrument. For 10
points, name this double reed woodwind instrument that represents the duck in Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: oboe
17. The Hogup Mountains lie northwest of this body of water. Rivers originating in the Uinta Mountains flow into
this body of water. Crude oil has been extracted from Rozel Point at the north of this body. The Spiral Jetty was
built by Robert Smithson in this endorheic lake. Gunnison Bay is separated from the rest of this body of water by
Lucin Cutoff, which was built across this body of water to replace a railroad line passing through Promontory Point.
Farmington Bay and Antelope Island are features within this body west of the Wasatch front. For 10 points, name
this remnant of the ancient Lake Bonneville bordered to the southeast by a namesake state capital of Utah.
ANSWER: Great Salt Lake
18. This character remembers an all-night arm-wrestling match he won as a young man, giving him the title “The
Champion.” After a long journey, this character dreams of lions on an African beach while recalling his youth. This
character often talks to a young boy about Joe DiMaggio and confides in Manolin that he would sail to Florida in
order to break his eighty-four-day unlucky streak. The blood of a fish caught by this character attracts a shark, which
this character kills with a harpoon before returning home with an eighteen-foot marlin, thus regaining his reputation.
For 10 points, name this fisherman and protagonist of Ernest Hemingway’s novella The Old Man and the Sea.
ANSWER: Santiago [prompt on “the old man” until mentioned]

Packet 9

4

19. One work by Botticelli in this structure features a silhouette of the prelate who commissioned the work as well
as Aaron swinging a thurible and Moses waving a wand. Another painting in this structure which contains
Punishment of the Rebels features an “ideal city” in the background while Christ executes the title action in
Perugino’s Delivery of the Keys. Another fresco in this structure features the artist’s self-portrait as the flayed skin of
St. Bartholomew, and that artist also depicted God in the form of an anatomically correct brain, nearly touching
hands with Adam. For 10 points, name this Papal Chapel in the Vatican with a Last Judgment and ceiling painted by
Michelangelo.
ANSWER: Sistine Chapel [or Cappella Sistina; or Sacellum Sixtinum]
20. Al-Ghazali addressed this problem with his Kalām argument, which stated that a beginning implies a cause.
Descartes gave three solutions to this problem in his Third Meditation on First Philosophy. The answer to this
problem does not matter according to Pascal’s wager, and this problem’s burden of proof is often shifted using
Russell’s teapot. Leibniz argued that we are in the best of all possible worlds in his Theodicy as an attempt to
reconcile this problem with the “problem of evil.” St. Anselm of Canterbury created his ontological argument to
address this issue. For 10 points, name this philosophical problem over whether there is a higher being.
ANSWER: the problem of the existence of God [accept obvious equivalents; accept questions such as “does God
exist?”]
TB. One of these species reacts with fluorine to form square planar tetrafluoride and octahedral hexafluoride
molecules, and another of these can bind with a proton to form a hydride thought to be present in interstellar space.
A shorthand method of writing an atom’s electron configuration involves putting one of these elements in brackets,
followed by any remaining valence electrons. These species’ stability comes from their completely filled p
subshells, an exception being a member of this group with atomic number two. For 10 points, name these chemical
elements which include neon and helium, known for their full valence shells and limited reactivity under standard
conditions.
ANSWER: noble gases [or inert gases; or Group 18]

Packet 9

5

Packet 9: Bonuses
1. This work concludes as the title character weeps and Cornudet (“cor-nooh-DAY”) whistles “Le Marseillaise.” For
10 points:
[10] Name this short story, in which the title French prostitute agrees to sleep with a Prussian officer so that a
carriage will be allowed to continue to Le Havre.
ANSWER: “Ball of Fat” [or “Boule de Suif”; accept “Dumpling” or “Butterball” or “Ball of Lard”]
[10] “Ball of Fat” was the first published story by this French author, whose other works include Pierre et Jean,
“Mother Sauvage,” and “Mademoiselle Fifi.”
ANSWER: Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant
[10] In this Maupassant story, Madame Loisel borrows and loses the title object from Madame Forestier, after which
Loisel spends ten years working to replace the title piece of jewelry, only to discover that it was a cheap fake.
ANSWER: “The Diamond Necklace” [or “La Parure”]
2. Either authorization by Congress or the institution of this action is required for armed forces to occupy an area for
more than sixty days by a 1973 act. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this action that has only formally been done eleven times by the United States.
ANSWER: declaration of war [accept word forms]
[10] When Germany resumed unrestricted submarine warfare in 1917, Americans remembered the sinking of this
British passenger liner by a German U-boat off the coast of Ireland in 1915 and called for war against Germany.
ANSWER: RMS Lusitania
[10] The official protocol for declaring war, along with other rules of war, were discussed at two conferences at this
seat of the Dutch Parliament, which later became the seat of the International Court of Justice.
ANSWER: The Hague [or Den Haag; or ’s-Gravenhage]
3. Bryophytes do not possess true versions of these structures because they lack vascular tissue. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these green organs that are responsible for performing a majority of the photosynthesis in plants. In
monocots, the veins in these structures are parallel, while in dicots they branch out.
ANSWER: leaf blades [or leaves; accept obvious equivalents]
[10] This waxy layer covers the epidermis of the leaf to prevent it from suffering excessive water loss.
ANSWER: plant cuticle
[10] In botany, this is the name given to the stalk that attaches a leaf blade to the stem. Any outgrowths near the
bases of these structures are known as stipules.
ANSWER: petioles [do not accept “leafstalk”]
4. In the closing scene of this film, a child’s sled is thrown into a furnace. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this film starring Orson Welles as the title newspaper tycoon, modeled on William Randolph Hearst, who
dies in the opening scene after uttering his final word, “Rosebud.”
ANSWER: Citizen Kane
[10] In this film, Dustin Hoffman plays title character Benjamin Braddock, who returns from college and is seduced
by his neighbor Mrs. Robinson before eloping with her daughter.
ANSWER: The Graduate
[10] This Francis Ford Coppola-directed film adapts Heart of Darkness to the Vietnam War, with Marlon Brando as
the insane Colonel Kurtz. In a famous scene, helicopters attack a village as “Ride of the Valkyries” plays.
ANSWER: Apocalypse Now

Packet 9

6

5. At the beginning of this work, an acting company prepares to rehearse The Rules of the Game, an actual play by
the author of this work. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which the Manager becomes enraged at the title group that includes the Father and the
Stepdaughter, who rehearse their own play in Madame Pace’s shop.
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d’autore]
[10] This Italian author of Six Characters in Search of an Author also wrote The Late Mattia Pascal and Right You
Are (If You Think You Are).
ANSWER: Luigi Pirandello
[10] Pirandello created a play that depicts a character who falls off his horse and believes he is this Holy Roman
Emperor, who supposedly apologized to Pope Gregory VII for the Investiture Controversy by walking to Canossa
barefoot in snow.
ANSWER: Henry IV [or Enrico IV; or Heinrich IV; prompt on “Henry”]
6. The Oder-Neisse Line separated this nation from its eastern neighbor, Poland. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state that was the successor to the Soviet-occupied sector of its namesake country. In 1961, it built a
wall to surround a democratic enclave within its boundaries.
ANSWER: East Germany [or German Democratic Republic or GDR; or Deutsche Demokratische Republik or
DDR; prompt on “Germany”; do not prompt on or accept “West Germany” or “Westdeutschland” or “Federal
Republic of Germany” or “FRG” or “Bundesrepublik Deutschland” or “BRD”]
[10] This West German Social Democrat chancellor sought to improve ties with the Soviet bloc. He resigned as
chancellor after his advisor Günter Guillaume was discovered to be a member of the East German secret police.
ANSWER: Willy Brandt [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]
[10] This man was the General Secretary of the Socialist Unity Party from 1971 to the weeks preceding the fall of
the Berlin Wall. He refused to implement liberal changes desired by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in his country.
ANSWER: Erich Honecker
7. J.J. Thomson experimented with these entities before formulating his plum pudding model of the atom. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these glowing streams of electrons that appear in vacuum tubes. Early television sets created images
using namesake tubes that contained these entities.
ANSWER: cathode rays
[10] This experiment disproved J.J. Thomson’s plum pudding model by proving the existence of an atomic nucleus.
It involved firing alpha particles at a thin sheet of metal.
ANSWER: Rutherford gold foil experiment [accept either underlined part; accept Geiger–Marsden experiment]
[10] This man calculated the electric charge of the electron by suspending oil drops between charged plates. He
opposed Einstein’s quantum theory of light, but his experiments to prove it wrong only proved it correct.
ANSWER: Robert Andrews Millikan [do not prompt on or accept “Robert Sanderson Mulliken”]
8. This man’s “law of effect” provided the basis for operant conditioning. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Animal Intelligence who conducted experiments that placed cats in puzzle boxes.
ANSWER: Edward Lee Thorndike
[10] This American psychologist and author of Walden Two studied operant conditioning using his namesake box
that rewarded rats with food pellets. He also developed an air crib and a missile guided by pigeons.
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic Skinner
[10] This Russian psychologist won a Nobel Prize for his investigation of the gastric system. He studied classical
conditioning in dogs by inducing a salivary response using conditioned stimuli, such as the ring of a bell.
ANSWER: Ivan Petrovich Pavlov

Packet 9

7

9. The Ishtar Gate was the main entrance to this city. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city-state that revolted against the Assyrian Empire after the death of Ashurbanipal to establish a
namesake empire. This city was later the site of the Temple of Marduk and the Hanging Gardens.
ANSWER: Babylonia [or Bābilim; or Bāḇel; or Bābiru]
[10] This ruler was the last to burn down Babylon. Defeat at the Battle of Salamis ended his conquest of Greece, and
this man commissioned the Hall of a Hundred Columns and the Gate of All Nations.
ANSWER: Xerxes I [or Xerxes the Great; prompt on “Xerxes”]
[10] Xerxes built the Hall of a Hundred Columns and the Gate of All Nations in this capital city of the Achaemenid
Empire, which was founded by Darius I.
ANSWER: Persepolis [or Pārśa]
10. Red-black is an example of a binary search, self-balancing type of this data structure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this data structure that possesses a root node that points to possibly many children nodes. The number of
children each node possesses is known as this data structure’s branching factor.
ANSWER: trees [or any answer that mentions tree]
[10] This data structure, derived from a tree, has parent nodes that are ordered with respect to their children. The min
type has parent nodes less than or equal to their children, while the opposite is true for the max variety.
ANSWER: heaps
[10] This linear data structure implements a “last-in-first-out” ordering. Data may be added or removed from these
structures using operations called “push” and “pop,” respectively, and they may undergo a namesake “overflow”
error.
ANSWER: stacks
11. A subplot in this novel depicts Lydia’s eloping with George Wickham. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel that depicts Charles Bingley’s courting of Jane as well as the eventual engagement of
Elizabeth and Fitzwilliam Darcy.
ANSWER: Pride and Prejudice
[10] Lydia, Jane, and Elizabeth all share this surname. This family lives in the village of Longbourn, and in the
beginning of Pride and Prejudice, all five of its daughters are unmarried.
ANSWER: the Bennets [or any answer that mentions Bennet]
[10] This English author of Pride and Prejudice described Anne Elliot’s marriage to Captain Frederick Wentworth
in Persuasion and wrote of Fanny Price and Edmund Bertram in her novel Mansfield Park.
ANSWER: Jane Austen
12. Following this agreement, the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia was set up and the central country was
divided, with some parts annexed by Hungary and Poland. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this agreement in which Germany was allowed to annex the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia. After
returning to Britain, Neville Chamberlain declared that it constituted “peace for our time.”
ANSWER: Munich Agreement [or Munich Pact; or Mnichovská dohoda; or Munich Dictate; or Mnichovský
diktát; or Munich Betrayal; or Mnichovská zrada; or Münchner Abkommen; or Münchner Frieden; or L’accordo
di Monaco; or Accords de Munich]
[10] The Munich Agreement was an example of this foreign policy of Neville Chamberlain towards the growing
power of Nazi Germany. It was largely a policy of making concessions to avoid war.
ANSWER: appeasement
[10] The secret Hoare–Laval Pact was an attempt to appease Italy by giving Italy parts of this country, then led by
Emperor Haile Selassie I. That pact never went into effect, but Italy subsequently invaded and occupied this country.
ANSWER: Empire of Ethiopia [or Ethiopian Empire; or Mängəәstä Ityop’p’ya; or Abyssinia]

Packet 9

8

13. Sydney Chapman described the generation of this compound. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this allotrope of oxygen that blocks UV rays in the stratosphere. The presence of CFCs depletes the
atmospheric concentration of this compound.
ANSWER: ozone [or O ]
[10] This brownish-black sedimentary material contributes extensively to air pollution. The anthracite form of this
material has a higher calorific content than its bituminous form.
ANSWER: coal
[10] These are hypoxic zones in the world’s water bodies caused by nutrient depletion, often due to an initial excess
of marine life and fertilizer. A notable one of these exists in the Mississippi River Delta.
ANSWER: dead zones
3

14. Theological justifications for wearing this item include reminding oneself of the constant presence of God. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this skullcap traditionally worn by Orthodox Jewish men at all times, except while bathing and sleeping.
ANSWER: yarmulke [or kippah]
[10] In the Roman Catholic tradition, the mitre is the tall, peaked cap ceremonially worn by holders of this position,
who are responsible for the oversight of a diocese. The Pope holds this title with regard to Rome.
ANSWER: bishop [or episcopus; accept archbishop or archiepiscopus]
[10] This Arabic term meaning “veil” can refer specifically to a headscarf worn by Muslim women in public, or
more broadly can refer to the general code regarding modesty in interactions between men and women.
ANSWER: hijab
15. One painting by this man features darkened vertical lines amid a chaotic background of various colors. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this American artist of Number 11, 1952, or Blue Poles, whose works such as Lavender Mist
characterized his style of “action painting.”
ANSWER: Paul Jackson Pollock [prompt on “Jack the Dripper”]
[10] Jackson Pollock belonged to this post-World War II artistic movement, which also included figures such as
Mark Rothko and Willem de Kooning.
ANSWER: abstract expressionism [accept word forms]
[10] This wife of Jackson Pollock created the Little Images series and painted a collection of black and white swirls
in her painting Night Creatures.
ANSWER: Lee Krasner [or Lena Krasner]
16. 2013 was a testy year for the US budget, culminating in a government shutdown. For 10 points each:
[10] This term describes the approximately $85 billion across-the-board spending cuts that went into effect in 2013,
after Congress failed to make budget cuts in accordance with the Budget Control Act of 2011.
ANSWER: budget sequester [or budget sequestration]
[10] This Wisconsin representative, along with Washington Senator Patty Murray, wrote the Bipartisan Budget Act
of 2013, which annulled some sequester cuts. He was also the 2012 Republican Vice Presidential candidate.
ANSWER: Paul Davis Ryan
[10] Some have argued that this constitutional amendment, whose Section 4 declares the validity of the public debt,
would have allowed the President to ignore the debt ceiling.
ANSWER: Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution

Packet 9

9

17. In his Natural History, Pliny the Elder accuses this group of being “wizards and physicians” who practice human
sacrifice and cannibalism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mysterious priestly class of ancient Ireland and Britain, of whom Pliny also describes a fertility ritual
centered around the sacred significance of oak trees and mistletoe.
ANSWER: druids
[10] Though his birth name was Setanta, this hero of Irish mythology was renamed for a dog he slew. He mastered
the gae bolga spear and was famed for his frenzied transformation in battle.
ANSWER: Cuchulainn [or Cu Chulainn; or Cuhullin]
[10] This other Irish hero of a namesake cycle of myths gained immense wisdom when he sucked his thumb after
burning it while cooking the magical Salmon of Knowledge.
ANSWER: Finn MacCoul [accept either underlined name; or Fionn mac Cumhaill (“fin ma-KOOL”); or Finn
McCool; or Fingal; or Deimne; or Find mac Cumail; or Finn mac Umaill; do not accept “Cumhaill” (“KOOL”)]
18. These pieces were dedicated to Clara Schumann as an homage to Robert Schumann. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of piano pieces based on pieces by a certain composer. The third of these pieces, La Campanella,
is based on the last movement of the second violin concerto of the namesake violin prodigy.
ANSWER: Grandes Études de Paganini [or Paganini Etudes; or Études d’exécution transcendante d’après
Paganini; do not accept “Transcendental Etudes”]
[10] In addition to arranging the compositions of Paganini in the Paganini etudes, this composer developed the
symphonic poem form of music and composed a set of pieces for solo piano known as the Transcendental Études.
ANSWER: Franz Ritter von Liszt [or Liszt Ferenc]
[10] Liszt was a composer from this country, whose native folk themes he used in a set of nineteen piano pieces, its
namesake rhapsodies.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Hungary [or Magyarország; or Magyar Királyság; or Regnum Hungariae; or Köningreich
Ungarn]
19. This work begins at College Park Station in San Jose, California. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this naturalist novel about the dog Buck, who is shipped from the Santa Clara Valley to Alaska in the
midst of the Klondike Gold Rush.
ANSWER: Call of the Wild
[10] This American author of White Fang and The Iron Heel also wrote Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: John Griffith “Jack” London
[10] In this short story by Jack London, a chechaquo accompanied only by a dog is going to meet his “boys” at a
Yukon camp. The protagonist dies after falling snow prevents him from performing the title action.
ANSWER: “To Build a Fire”
20. This concept was first described in The Spirit of the Laws by Montesquieu. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this concept that divides the government into multiple branches. It also includes a system of checks and
balances.
ANSWER: separation of powers
[10] The judicial branch has this power to check the other branches by judging the constitutionality of statutes or
treaties. This power was not written into the Constitution, but it was established in Marbury v. Madison.
ANSWER: judicial review
[10] The Chief Justice presides over the Senate during an event of this type. The House of Representatives has the
sole power of calling for this in response to “Treason, Bribery, or other High crimes and Misdemeanors.”
ANSWER: trial for the impeachment of the President of the United States [prompt on “impeachment”]

