 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

ROUND 10
Tossup 1. ​
In this painting, a man on the right puts his arm around a woman with her black-gloved
hands up to her face, while in the back a man in a brown coat converses with a man wearing a top
hat. The actress Ellen Andree drinks from a glass in the center of this painting, across from a man
facing a woman leaning on a railing. This painting features the artist’s​
(*) future wife, Aline Chargot,
wearing a hat covered in flowers and holding a dog up to her face. Bottles of wine and fruit on white
tablecloth comprise the title meal of this painting. For 10 points, name this Pierre-Auguste Renoir work
depicting a feast on the titular conveyance.
ANSWER: ​
Luncheon of the Boating Party​
[or ​
Le ​
déjeuner des canotiers​
]
Bonus 1. After watching The Hunger Games, you become infatuated with archery. For 10 points each:
[10] This type of bow was widely used by Welsh bowman during the Hundred Years’ War and is so named
due to its large height. They were used highly successfully at the battle of Agincourt by the English.
ANSWER: ​
Longbow
[10] The Mongols preferred composite bows with this quality, which indicates that the tips of the bow bend
slightly away from the archer. They are easier to use on horseback.
ANSWER: ​
Recurve​
[do not accept “Reflex”]
[10] Modern-day archery enthusiasts often use this type of bow, which includes a system of pulleys to
make the draw easier.
ANSWER: ​
Compound​
bows
T2. ​
Humans who drink water contaminated with water fleas often get foot sores in a condition
related to one of these animals. In addition to the “Guinea” type, the most anterior appendage on
one of these animals is the prostomium, which contains the brain. (*) ​
Helminthology is the study of
parasitic ones, which includes the“tape” type. Platyhelminthes is a phylum of the flat type while Annelida is
a phylum of the segmented type of this animal. For 10 points, name this invertebrate animal which surfaces
during heavy rain, the “Earth” type of which conditions soil.
ANSWER: ​
worm​
s [accept segmented ​
worm​
s, accept flat​
worm​
s, accept tape​
worm​
s, accept round​
worm​
s,
accept earth​
worm​
s; accept ​
Annelida ​
and ​
Nematoda​
before mention]
​
B2. Doc Daneeka introduces the first variant of the title rule to the protagonist. For 10 points each,
[10] Col. Cathcart volunteers his squadron for the most dangerous missions and constantly raises the
minimum number of missions needed to go home in this novel about Air Force pilot Yossarian, written by
Joseph Heller.
ANSWER: ​
Catch-22
[10] This enterprising mess-hall officer impresses Major [blank] de Coverley with fresh eggs, buys ​
all​
the
Egyptian cotton in the world, and hypocritically bombs his own squadron at the Pianosa base, all to profit
“the Syndicate”.
ANSWER: ​
Milo​
Minderbinder​
​
[accept either underlined portion]
[10] At the end of the novel, Yossarian is given a choice between being court-martialed or approving a new
policy that states men must fly 80 missions. After hearing the fate of Orr, however, Yossarian decides to do
this.​
ANSWER: ​
deserts​
the army [accept synonyms for “desert” such as “leave”, accept “goes to ​
Sweden​
”]
T3. ​
The bulk of ​
St. Jerome’s translations are into this language. Lorenzo Valla showed that one text
in this language used the phrase “people subject” and the word “satrap”, which suggested it was a

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

forgery. The reformation of the​
(*) Julian calendar was undertaken by a text in this language, and the
aforementioned forged text outlined St. Peter’s claim to the lands around Rome. The Second Vatican
Council allowed Mass to be held in vernacular instead of this language. For 10 points, name this language
of the Donation of Constantine, the Vulgate Bible, and all Papal Bulls, which is used by the Catholic
Church.
ANSWER: ​
Latin
B3. The Gathas are believed to be written by this religion’s namesake prophet. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Persian religion which believes the universal, “good” God, Ahura Mazda, will ultimately
prevail over the evil Ahriman or Angra Mainyu.
ANSWER: ​
Zoroastrian​
ism
[10] The aforementioned Gathas are part of this primary sacred collection of texts of Zoroastrianism. The
Venidad, which details how to overcome ​
daevas​
, is another part of this sacred text.
ANSWER: Zend ​
Avesta
[10] Zoroastrians worship at these places, where ​
Atar ​
is built and fueled for rites of purification. White-clad
priests may make a haoma offering of twigs, water and milk at these places, which must be built near
water.
ANSWER: ​
fire temple​
s
T4.​
In one of this author’s plays, Carol accuses John of sexual harassment and attempted rape,
causing John to lose his tenure. Besides ​
Oleanna​
, this author wrote a play where Moss and Levene
rob the office manager Williamson because they think he is holding the best​
(*) leads from them. This
author also wrote about Don, the owner of a re-sale shop, who plots to steal a coin with Teach and Bobby.
In his most famous work, Ricky Roma manipulates James Lingk into signing a contract. For 10 points,
name this author of ​
American Buffalo​
and ​
Glengarry Glen Ross​
.
ANSWER: David ​
Mamet
B4. ​
Answer the following about a certain subatomic particle. For 10 points each,
[10] The “up” and “down” types of these particles are used to create protons and neutrons, and they more
generally combine to form hadrons.
ANSWER​
:​
Quarks
[10] This class of particles, like quarks, are fermions and follow the Pauli Exclusion Principle. Varieties of
them include electrons and muons.
ANSWER​
:​
Leptons
[10] In beta-minus decay, a W-minus boson is emitted when a neutron is converted into a proton. That
W-minus boson then decays into two particles. Name both.
ANSWER​
:​
Electron​
and Electron ​
Antineutrino​
[both answers required, accept in either order, accept
Beta-minus ​
particle in place of “Electron”]
T5. ​
In his ​
Theory of Surplus Value​
, Marx argues that part of the business cycle sees a cut in
aggregate demand causing an increase in this quantity before investment rises. This quantity
fluctuates more when wages are stickier. This quantity varies inversely with​
(*) inflation according to
the Phillips curve. In classical economics, the three types of this quantity are frictional, structural and
cyclical. For 10 points, name this quantity from economics, occurring above its natural rate when an
economy operates in recession.
ANSWER: ​
unemployment​
[accept ​
unemployment rate​
, do not accept or prompt on employment]
B5. ​
One depiction of this god shows him as an adolescent leaning against a tree trunk as a lizard climbs
toward his arm. For 10 points each:

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

[10] Name this god who, along with the ​
Sauroktonos​
version, is shown in the ​
Lykeios​
style with his forearm
touching his braided head and leaning on a tree trunk with a snake crawling up it.
ANSWER: ​
Apollo
[10] This ancient Greek sculptor originated the ​
Sauroktonos ​
and ​
Lykeios ​
styles and sculpted a depiction of
Hermes Bearing the Infant Dionysus.​
ANSWER: ​
Praxiteles
[10] Another Greek sculptor, Phidias, created the enormous statue of Athena that sits in this temple on the
Acropolis. This temple contains predominantly Doric columns, but uses four Ionic columns to support its
roof.
ANSWER: ​
Parthenon
T6. ​
A conservative force is defined as the negative gradient of this quantity, which is subtracted in
the definition of the Lagrangian. The “electric” type of this quantity equals Coulomb’s constant times
the magnitude of the charges divided by the distance between them, while the “elastic” type is equal
to one-half times the spring constant times the deformation squared.​
(*) Force equals the negative
derivative of this quantity with respect to position, while the gravitational type of this is equal to “mgh”. A
rock at the top of a hill has, for 10 points, what type of “stored” energy that contrasts with kinetic?
ANSWER: ​
potential energy
B6. These two countries both claim sovereignty over Crimea. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these two countries, one of which annexed Crimea from the other in March 2014.
ANSWER: ​
Ukraine​
and ​
Russia​
[accept in either order, both required]
[10] ​
This self-proclaimed "People's Republic" was declared in its namesake Ukranian oblast after the
Euromaidan protests in early 2014. Along with Donetsk, it has an Antimaidan, pro-Russia stance, and is
classified by Ukraine as a terrorist organization.
ANSWER: ​
Luhansk​
People’s Republic
[10] The self-proclaimed “People’s Republic of Luhansk” and “People’s Republic of Donetsk” have formed
this confederation, whose name suggests that it wants significant connections to Russia.
ANSWER: ​
Novorossiya ​
or ​
New Russia
T7. ​
One king of this name and number supported Richard the Lionhearted and the future King John
against their father Henry II. Hr later defeated John at the Battle of Bouvines which caused John to
lose Normandy and Brittany. Another ruler of this name and number won the Third Sacred War
against the Phocians as well as the battle of (*)​
Chaeronea for Macedon. Yet another ruler of name and
number sent his half-brother Don Juan of Austria to lead a Holy League against the Ottomans during the
Battle of Lepanto and was married to Mary I of England. For 10 points, give the name and number of the
ruler of Spain who also sent the Spanish Armada.
ANSWER: ​
Philip II​
[Do not prompt on “Philip” since the tossup explicitly requires a name and a number]
B7. Ferdinand and Isabella pardon the villagers of the title town who kill the Commander after he arrests
Laurencia and Frondoso in one work by this man. For 10 points each,
[10] Diana lusts for but cannot have Tristan in this author’s version of “The Dog and the Manger” fable, ​
The
Gardener’s Dog.​
This author also wrote ​
Fuente Ovejuna,​
among thousands of other plays and poems.
ANSWER: Félix Arturo ​
Lope de Vega​
y Carpio
[10] Lope de Vega was a contemporary of this author of the ​
Exemplary Novels​
, who famously wrote about a
gentleman who attacks windmills with his squire Sancho Panza in ​
Don Quixote.​
ANSWER: Miguel de ​
Cervantes​
Saavedra

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

[10] Cervantes and Lope de Vega wrote in this period, which began with the end of the Reconquista and
also saw the output of many great works of art and architecture from their native country.
ANSWER: El ​
Siglo de Oro​
[accept ​
Spanish Golden Age​
, accept ​
Spanish Golden Century​
]
T8. ​
In one play by this man, the title character, a “beach prophet”, finally allows Chume to beat his
wife. In another work by this playwright, village girls stage a play-within-a-play called “The Dance of
the Lost Traveler”, and Baruka lies that he is impotent in order to win​
(*) Sidi from Lakunle. In addition
to ​
The Trials of Brother Jero​
, this man wrote a play in which Simon Pilkings intervenes in a tribal ritual,
leading Elesin to strangle himself after his son Olunde commits suicide. For 10 points, name this Nigerian
author of ​
The Lion and the Jewel​
and ​
Death and the King’s Horseman​
.
ANSWER: Akinwande Oluwole “Wole” ​
Soyinka
B8. Answer the following about the cartoons of Thomas Nast, for 10 points each:
[10] Nast repeatedly attacked this figure, the head of the Tammany Hall political machine. Nast once
depicted him as having a sack of money for a head.
ANSWER: William Magear “Boss” ​
Tweed
[10] Nast published the aforementioned cartoon and many others such as ​
The Usual Irish Way of Doing
Things​
in this political magazine, subtitled “A Journal of Civilization”.
ANSWER: ​
Harper’s Weekly
[10] In order to attack Catholicism, Nast depicted an upside-down American flag, ruins of a public school,
poor, defenseless protestant schoolchildren, and crocodiles with bishop hats for snouts on the banks of an
“American” version of this river.
ANSWER: ​
American River ​
Ganges
T9.​
This figure was raised by multiple women named Liath Luachra. Even though water drunk from
his hands had healing powers, this man refused to help Grianne’s lover, Driarmuid. This figure
defeated Aillen by sticking a​
(*) spear into his own forehead to stay awake. Although he was originally
named Deimne, he received his most widely known name after his hair turned white prematurely. This hero
burned himself while studying under Finnegas. For 10 points, name this Irish hero who could access the
Salmon of Knowledge’s wisdom by sucking his thumb.
ANSWER​
:​
Finn MacCool​
or ​
Fionn mac Cumhaill​
[prompt partial]
B9. For this diagram, squares are used to represent males while circles are used for females. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this type of chart that documents the occurrence of a particular phenotype from one generation
to the next. Heterozygotes are usually represented by a half-shaded circle or square in these charts.
ANSWER: ​
pedigree
[10] This type of disease is usually easy to identify on a pedigree, as many affected males will appear
across the generations. Examples of this type of disorder include hemophilia and color-blindness.
ANSWER: ​
X-linked​
recessive disease/disorder [accept ​
sex-linked​
recessive]
[10] If a man is colorblind and his wife is a carrier for color-blindness, what are the odds that the couple’s
son is also color-blind?
ANSWER: ​
50%​
[accept ​
1/2​
or other clear knowledge-equivalents]
T10. ​
In one scene in this film, the camera cuts away from an empty bar to the protagonist rubbing
his face, but when it cuts back the shelves are stocked and there is a bartender. In a red and white
bathroom in this film, a ghost cleans off the protagonist’s jacket before telling him that he “has
always been the​
(*) caretaker.” In another scene in this film, the camera pans back and forth as the

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

protagonist drives an axe into a door as his wife screams and clutches a kitchen knife, which culminates in
him yelling “Here’s Johnny!” For 10 points, name this Stanley Kubrick film based on a Stephen King novel
in which Jack Torrance goes insane in the Overlook Hotel.
ANSWER: ​
The ​
Shining
B10. It was written while the composer was a music director in New York. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this symphony which was heavily influenced by African-American and Native American themes,
and which was supposed to be a precursor to a work about the Song of Hiawatha that never got written.
ANSWER: Symphony No. ​
9​
, “From the ​
New World​
” [accept number or subtitle]
[10] The New World Symphony was written by this Czech composer, whose other works include the
American String Quartet​
and the opera ​
Rusalka​
.
ANSWER: Antonin ​
Dvoř
ák
[10] The New World Symphony prominently features a solo of this instrument in its second Largo
movement, which eventually was adapted into the song “Goin’ Home”. These instruments are usually in the
key of F.
ANSWER: ​
English Horn​
or ​
Cor Anglais​
(do not prompt nor accept “Horn” or “French Horn”)
T 11. ​
This man created his own notation to visualize molecular structures in his ​
New System of
Chemical Philosophy. ​
He correctly extrapolated that compounds are formed by a combination of
atoms while chemical reactions involve a rearrangement of atoms; however he was wrong about all
atoms of an element having​
(*) identical mass and atoms being indivisible. This man’s namesake law is
used to calculate the total pressure exerted by a mixture of gases, and the atomic mass unit is alternatively
named for him. For 10 points, name this chemist who formulated an atomic theory and a namesake law of
partial pressures.
ANSWER: John ​
Dalton
B11. You are a soldier on the Eastern Front, fighting in the Red Army beginning in 1941. For 10 points
each:
[10] Your main enemy is the German military, known collectively under this name meaning “defense force”.
It formally includes the Army, Navy, and the Luftwaffe, or Air Force.
ANSWER: ​
Wehrmacht
[10] You find yourself in the midst of the Red Army’s Operation Uranus, which led to this bloody five-month
1942-1943 battle. It was a Soviet victory taking place at the city now called Volgograd, and a major turning
point in favor of the Russians.
ANSWER: Battle of ​
Stalingrad
[10] In 1943, after deciding you would rather be in an armored vehicle than out in the open, you get placed
in the crew of a T-34 tank, which was pitted against German Panther and Tiger tanks at this largest tank
battle in history.
ANSWER: Battle of ​
Kursk

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

T12. ​
When someone dies, this practice “of Janazah” is performed. “Tahiyyatul masjid” is a type of
this practice performed upon entering a mosque and consists of two “​
rakahs​
”. This action has
varying obligatory status including “​
fardh​
” and “​
sunnah​
” kinds of it. “[This action] is better than
sleep”, according to the ​
adhaan​
, or ​
(*) call to this action, for the “​
Fajr​
” or “dawn” performance of it.
Before partaking in this practice, one must make “​
wudu​
” or ablution. One must recite “surah al-Fatihah” in
the first section of this practice, before making “​
ruku​
” and “​
sujood​
”. For 10 points, ​
salah​
is the Arabic term
for what practice that Muslims perform 5 times a day?
ANSWER: Islamic ​
prayer​
[accept ​
salah​
or ​
salat​
until mention; accept ​
namaz​
I guess]
B12. Misha Gordon witness the title character’s father commit suicide on a train. For 10 points each,
[10] The title character, Yuri, studies medicine and marries Tonya before he is captured and conscripted
into the army during the Russian Revolution in this novel by Boris Pasternak.
ANSWER: ​
Doctor Zhivago
[10] The killer Strelnikov was formerly married to this woman, with whom Yuri falls in love and shares his
poetry. Their daughter Tanya resurfaces at the end of the novel.
ANSWER: ​
Larissa​
“​
Lara​
” Antipova [accept either underlined portion]
[10] This older character also loves Lara, although she shoots him at a Christmas party. This character
drove Yuri’s father to commit suicide, yet Yuri manipulates Lara into travelling to Vladivostok with this man.
ANSWER: Victor ​
Komarovsky
T13. ​
This composer described the introduction to one of his works as “a swarm of spring pipes”. A
khorovod​
, or Round Dance, is danced by a group of 13 princesses led by the Tsarevna in another
work by this composer. In that work, the breaking of an egg secures victory for the protagonist after
the antagonist’s monsters tire out from an​
(*) “infernal dance”. Another ballet by this composer includes
the sections “Evocation of the Ancestors” and “Glorification of the Chosen One”. That work begins with a
high bassoon solo and caused a riot in Paris during its premiere. For 10 points, name composer of The
Firebird and The Rite of Spring.
ANSWER: Igor ​
Stravinsky
B13. Schopenhauer criticized this man as being a charlatan and for thinking that Prussia was the apex of
historical achievement in his time. For 10 points each,
[10] This German philosopher elaborated on the aesthetic, moral and ethical ‘spheres’ of life in his ​
Elements
of the Philosophy of the Right​
. He posited that the thesis and antithesis merge to form a synthesis in his
The Phenomenology of Spirit.​
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich ​
Hegel
[10] This specific dialectic from ​
The Phenomenology of Spirit​
claims that one must experience a struggle
for freedom with another conscious being in order to experience self-consciousness.
ANSWER: ​
master-slave​
dialectic [accept ​
lordship​
and ​
bondage​
for “master” and “slave”, accept basically
anything that implies a similar relationship]
[10] Hegel was influenced by this earlier German idealist who wrote that self-consciousness was a social
phenomenon. His most famous work, ​
Attempt at a Critique of all Revelation​
, was mistaken for a fourth
critique by Kant.
ANSWER: Johann Gottlieb ​
Fichte

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

T14. ​
The protagonist of this novel suggests that he and his dead fiancé had an affair while he was
married to Valeria, which convinces Jean Farlow that he is the title character’s biological father. The
protagonist’s first love, Annabel Leigh, died of typhus when she was twelve. The narrator removes
the title character from Camp Q and takes her to an inn called “The​
(*) Enchanted Hunters” after
Charlotte gets run over and dies. The protagonist of this novel chases Claire Quilty, who casts the title
character in a lead role in his play. For 10 points, Humbert Humbert is obsessed with “nymphet” Dolores
Haze in what novel by Vladimir Nabokov?
ANSWER: ​
Lolita
B14. It’s not “GIF”, but the battle over how to pronounce this rages on. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this theory that utilizes the number of bonding and lone pairs around the central atom to predict
the geometry of a molecule.
ANSWER: ​
VSEPR​
theory [accept pronunciations like “vesper” or “vuh-sep-er”; accept “​
valence shell
electron pair repulsion​
theory”]
[10] According to VSEPR, ammonia has this molecular geometry because it has three bonded pairs and
one lone pair on the central atom.
ANSWER: ​
trigonal pyramidal​
[do not accept “trigonal bi-pyramidal”]
[10] Methane has tetrahedral geometry, which means it has 4 bonded pairs and no lone pairs. To the first
decimal place, the bond angles between carbon and hydrogen in methane are approximately this value.
ANSWER: ​
109.5​
º
T15. ​
On this island, major buildings were built atop Kephala Hill including a Throne Room with a
griffin fresco that is speculated to have been used for a goddess figure. The motif of a double-axe is
prevalent at archaeological sites on this island which were excavated by Arthur Evans. Those
double-axes have been speculated to be related to a ​
(*) labyrinth supposedly located on this island. An
assortment of tablets written in Linear B and frescoes about bull-leaping have been found on this island.
For 10 points, name this Greek island that served as a center of Minion and Mycenean Culture, and was
supposedly where the Minotaur lived.
ANSWER: ​
Crete
B15. This painting is composed of oil paint with layers of gold leaf applied onto a canvas. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this work that consists of two elaborately gilded figures intertwined in the title action on a
flowery meadow. The man’s robe is covered in black and white rectangles, while the woman’s has colored
circles.
ANSWER: ​
The ​
Kiss​
[or ​
Lovers​
]
[10] This artist of ​
The Kiss​
also painted a series of works for the University of Vienna Ceiling that includes
Medicine​
,​
Philosophy​
, and ​
Jurisprudence​
, which were destroyed by retreating SS forces.
ANSWER: Gustav ​
Klimt
[10] An unfinished painting by Klimt depicts these two people, with the man barely visible hugging the
woman from behind. Michelangelo showed these two figures being expelled from the Garden of Eden in
the Sistine Chapel.
ANSWER: ​
Adam​
and ​
Eve​
[accept in either order]

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

T16. ​
Measures of this value in natural language processing include the Hamming measure and the
more robust Damerau–Levenshtein measure. The Chebyshev measure of this quantity is actually just
the limit of the Minkowski measure of this quantity as the inner exponent goes to infinity, and
measures of this value must satisfy the​
(*) triangle inequality. The “Manhattan” or “Taxicab” type of this
value is so named because it is the sum of the difference of two points’ coordinates, while one could
measure “Euclidean” type of this value with a ruler. For 10 points, name this value that is used to measure
how far apart two objects are.
ANSWER: ​
Distance​
or ​
Metric
B16. In this work, a character kills his son Sohrab in a wrestling match. For 10 points each,
[10] Rostam and his seven labors are depicted in this work, which also contains the stories of Esfandiyar
and other semi-mythical heroes.
ANSWER: ​
Shahnameh​
or the ​
Book of Kings​
or the ​
Epic of Kings
[10] The Shahnameh was written by this poet, who was the major force in preserving the language he
spoke against Arabic and other foreign influences.
ANSWER: ​
Ferdowsi
[10] The Shahnameh is a national epic of this nation. Written in Persian, the Shahnameh helped to preserve
much of the Zoroastrian culture of this nation.
ANSWER: ​
Iran
T17. ​
The Autumn Salon and the Salon of the Independents were founded in this city, whose metro
stations were created by Hector Guimard in the Art Nouveau style. The painting ​
Bathers at Asnières
[ahs-nee-air] supposedly depicts a suburb of this city, near the current location of the la Défense
district. In the painting ​
Dance at le Moulin de la Galette​
, Renoir depicted the​
(*) Montmartre area of
this city. Neoclassical architecture is exhibited by the tomb of the unknown soldier from which radiates the
Champs-Elysées, the Arc de Triomphe. For ten points, name this city, the home of the Louvre museum.
ANSWER: ​
Paris
B17. Give the following about Irish authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This man wrote about Gabriel’s wife Gretta who reminisces about Michael Furey in “The Dead”. In
addition to ​
Dubliners,​
he wrote about his alter-ego Stephen Daedalus in ​
The Portrait of the Artist as a
Young Man.
ANSWER: James ​
Joyce
[10] In this work by Oscar Wilde, Lord Wotton introduces the title character to Basil Hallward who paints
the title object that grows old while its subject does not.
ANSWER: ​
The ​
Picture of Dorian Gray
[10] In this man’s ​
Riders to the Sea​
, Maurya witnesses her last son Bartley tragically die. More famously,
Christy Mahon annoys Shawn Keogh by wooing Pegeen Mike in his ​
The Playboy of the Western World.​
ANSWER: John Millington ​
Synge
T18. ​
Due to a storm, one side in this land battle was unable to retreat to Glouceseter Point. The
Admiral de Grasse’s earlier victory over Thomas Graves effectively trapped one side’s forces before
this battle, which included the 30-minute capture of Redoubts 9 and 10. Preceded by the Battle of
the​
(*) Chesapeake, French artillery commanded by General Rochambeau allowed troops under General
Washington to force a British surrender. For 10 points, name this battle concluded with the surrender of
General Cornwallis, the last major land battle of the American Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Battle of ​
Yorktown

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

B18. You rethink learning web development after you encounter too many acronyms for your own good.
For 10 points each,
[10] To build a website, you have to learn this markup scheme used by the World Wide Web. It uses tags
such as “div”, “span”, and “body”, and most modern browsers support its version 5.
ANSWER​
:​
HTML​
or ​
Hypertext Markup Language
[10] Requests and responses travel across the internet using this protocol, which is often contrasted with
FTP. It uses methods such as GET, POST and HEAD.
ANSWER​
:​
HTTP​
or ​
Hypertext Transfer Protocol
[10] If you are accessing data on your server from the client-side, you might be using this technology,
which uses XML and Javascript to fetch and send data without having to refresh the page.
ANSWER​
:​
AJAX​
or ​
Asynchronous Javascript And XML
T19​
.​
Rick Rubin was enlisted to help produce this album 15 mere days before its release. In line with
its minimalist music, the “album cover” for it was a CD enclosed in a clear CD case with a square
piece of red tape affixed on the right. The music video for the first single off this album features
caricatured, black​
(*) KKK hoods followed by snarling Dobermans, while in another song, the artist raps, “I
wear my heart on the sleeve/ I know that we the new slaves/ I see the blood on the leaves./ I see the blood
on the leaves.” For 10 points, name this 2013 album released by Kanye West which features Kim
Kardashian in the song “Bound 2”.
ANSWER: ​
Yeezus
B19. Answer the following about the magnificent German city of Worms [VURMZ]. For 10 points each:
[10] The Diet of Worms and the Edict of Worms were both centered around this figure, who began the
Protestant Reformation after he pinned the Ninety-Five Theses onto the door of a church.
ANSWER: Martin ​
Luther
[10] Worms also names a document of this type that was signed between Holy Roman Emperor Henry V
and Pope Calixtus II, bringing to an end the Investiture Controversy that had begun under Henry IV.
ANSWER: ​
Concordat
[10] Worms is currently in located in a German state named for the Rhine River and this historic region. The
ascension of Frederick V, elector of this region, to the throne of Bohemia marked the beginning of the
Thirty Years’ War.
ANSWER: ​
Palatinate
T20. ​
The speaker of one of this man’s poems wishes he could have asserted, “Just this/ Or that in
you disgusts me”. In another poem by this author, a character from ​
The Temptest​
muses that his
god “dwelleth i’ the cold o’ the moon”. This author of “Caliban Upon Setebos” wrote a poem in
which the speaker strangles his lover with her own hair, and he penned the lines​
(*) “Grow old with
me!/ The best is yet to be”. In addition writing to “Porphyria’s Lover” and “Rabbi Ben Ezra”, he wrote a
poem in which the Duke of Ferrara reflects on a painting by Fra Pandolf whose subject “was too soon
made glad”. For 10 points, name this poet of “My Last Duchess.”
ANSWER: ​
R​
obert ​
Browning​
[prompt on “Browning”]
B20. Answer the following about the geography of Western and Southwestern China. For 10 points each,
[10] Lhasa is the capital city of this autonomous region in southwestern China, which is the native land of
the Dalai Lama.
ANSWER​
:​
Tibet
[10] The region of Aksai Chin is a disputed region in Xinjiang province between China and this country, who
claims it to be part of its state of Arunachal Pradesh.

 
 
HERMES

Round 10 

ANSWER​
:​
India
[10] The Tarim River in Xinjiang forms a basin that can be described by this term, which means that it does
not flow into an ocean but rather into an inland lake or swamp. Other examples include the basins around
the Caspian and Aral seas.
ANSWER​
:​
Endorheic
_________________________________________________________________________________________
TB. ​
“Patriot Palloy” sold souvenirs after this event as head of demolition. A need for gunpowder to
use with weapons acquired earlier that day from the Invalides [ehn-vah-LEED] spurred this event,
during which the governor Launay was beheaded. This event led to the​
(*) Marquis de Lafayette
becoming head of the National Guard, and it occurred two days after the dismissal of Jacques Necker, the
finance minister. Louis XVI was notified of this event with the phrase “No, Sire, it is a revolution”. For 10
points, name this event during which a group of angry Parisians attacked a notorious prison during the
French Revolution.
ANSWER: ​
Storming of the Bastille​
[accept clear-knowledge equivalents, prompt on ‘​
French Revolution​
”]

