Packet 12

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 12: Tossups
1. Günter Wächtershäuser proposed that this process occurred via catalyzation by iron. One step of this process
probably occurred during the Eoarchean Era and may have been the development of protobionts, and selfreplicating, catalytic ribozymes may have started this process. Alexander Oparin and J.B.S. Haldane theorized that
this process occurred after ultraviolet radiation and lightning reduced simple molecules into organic compounds.
That hypothesis of this process was demonstrated in the abiotic synthesis of amino acids shown by Stanley Miller
and Harold Urey. For 10 points, name this process that may have occurred in the “primordial soup” of early Earth.
ANSWER: abiogenesis [or origin of life on Earth; accept obvious equivalents like the “appearance of first living
cells”; prompt on “life” or equivalents]
2. This man painted the victorious General Eliott on horseback commanding the rescue of Spanish sailors. This artist
of The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar painted a pink-collared subject seated at a table with a water
glass. That painting portrays his half-brother Henry Pelham holding a gold chain attached to the title animal, Boy
with a Squirrel. The subject of another painting by this artist wears a green vest and holds a silver teapot. A different
work by this man is set in Havana harbor and depicts two men on a boat while a boy in the water struggles to evade
the title predator. For 10 points, name this portraitist of Paul Revere who created Watson and the Shark.
ANSWER: John Singleton Copley
3. This man was the father of Euneus by Hypsipyle, the Queen of Lemnos, and later accidentally killed Cyzicus and
gave him a grand funeral. At the advice of Phineus, he sent a dove through the Symplegades. He died after he was
struck by a rotting piece of wood, and he lost a sandal in the River Anavros. This man murdered Apsyrtus and was
absolved of that crime by Circe. His bride-to-be, the princess of Corinth, was burned to death by a cursed dress.
Aeëtes had him plow a field with fire-breathing oxen and sow that field with dragon teeth, which he succeeded in
doing with help from Medea. For 10 points, name this leader of the Argonauts who recovered the Golden Fleece.
ANSWER: Jason [or Iásōn]
4. Palladium is a substance of this type in the Heck reaction, and one named for Raney consists of powdered nickel.
An industrial process that produces ammonia uses one of these substances consisting of iron, and these substances
can be poisoned when species bind to them chemically to block their active sites. The addition of these substances
does not affect the value of a reaction’s equilibrium constant, and they are contrasted with inhibitors, which may
reduce these substances’ activity. These substances in biology are called enzymes, and they work by lowering
activation energy. For 10 points, name these chemical species that speed up a reaction but are not themselves
consumed.
ANSWER: catalysts [do not accept or prompt on “enzymes”]
5. One composer from this country created the virtuosic Zigeunerweisen for violin and orchestra. A work set in this
country features a Ritual Fire Dance, and in another work set in this country, a magistrate imprisons a miller so he
can sleep with his wife. Those ballets are Love, the Magician and The Three Cornered Hat. The French composer
Édouard Lalo wrote a Symphonie for violin and orchestra using themes from this country, and an opera set in this
country includes the Habanera chorus and depicts Don José’s murder of the title gypsy girl, Carmen. For 10 points,
name this home country of Pablo de Sarasate, Manuel de Falla, and the composer of the Tango in D, Isaac Albéniz.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España; accept Republic of Spain or República Española; accept First
Spanish Republic or Primera República Española; accept Second Spanish Republic or Segunda República
Española; accept Spanish State or Estado Español]
6. These figures were only able to realize that a certain man was dead after his staff was gnawed from under his arm,
causing the corpse of that man, Solomon, to fall to the ground. The seventy-second sura of the Qur’an is named for
these beings, and reciting the Throne Verse supposedly wards off these entities. Shaytan was said to have taken the
form of one when he refused to bow to Adam. One class of these figures is ifrit, while “constant companion” group
of them are known as qarin. For 10 points, name these creatures from Arabic tradition which are said to be
composed of smokeless fire, one of which was summoned by Aladdin by rubbing a lamp.
ANSWER: jinns [or djinns; or genies; or al-jinnī]

Packet 12

2

7. Elizabeth Tyler and Edgar Clarke were publicists for this organization, which supported Bibb Graves for governor
of Alabama. This organization almost collapsed after its leader D.C. Stephenson was convicted for murder, and it
supported William McAdoo for President in the 1924 Democratic convention. The Prescript of this organization
was developed by George Gordon, and William Simmons revived this organization after the production of D.W.
Griffith’s film The Birth of a Nation. Its first Grand Wizard was Nathan Bedford Forrest. For 10 points, name this
white supremacist organization that burned crosses at rallies and whose members wore white robes and hoods.
ANSWER: Ku Klux Klan [or the Klan; or the “Hooded Order” before “hoods”]
8. Five bassoons represent the final prayers of five village elders near the end of this work. The composer placed
grace notes in the opening melody to imitate natural breaks in human voices. At the beginning of this work’s
premiere, one audience member called for someone to get a dentist after seeing the initial positions of the dancers.
This work’s last bass notes spell out the word “dead” as the central character’s neck snaps and she is sacrificed. Part
one of this work is titled “The Adoration of the Earth” and begins with a bassoon solo at an unrecognizably high
register. For 10 points, name this ballet by Igor Stravinsky that caused a riot at its premiere.
ANSWER: The Rite of Spring [or Le Sacre du printemps; or Vesna svyashchennaya]
9. These particles are captured in the s-process of asymptotic giant branch stars. The namesake activation analysis of
these particles determines the identity and quantity of elements in a sample. The beta decay of these spin one-half
baryons results in the emission of a proton, an electron, and an antineutrino. Nuclear power plants use these particles
to bombard uranium-235 and induce a chain reaction. These particles consist of an up quark and two down quarks,
and they were discovered by James Chadwick. The number of these particles in an atom determines its isotope. For
10 points, name these chargeless particles that are found together with protons in the nucleus.
ANSWER: neutrons
10. This color describes the mouth of “a beaker full of the warm South” in “Ode to a Nightingale.” A woman whose
fingernail becomes this color after she crushes a creature representing “Our marriage bed” is scolded in John
Donne’s “The Flea.” In Byron’s “The Destruction of Sennacherib,” the attacking Assyrian cohorts gleam in gold
and this color. Shug Avery travels with Germaine after leaving Celie in a novel titled after this color, and “America
the Beautiful” describes “mountain majesties” of this color “above the fruited plains.” For 10 points, name this color
after which Alice Walker named a novel and whose symbolic associations include royalty and wine.
ANSWER: purple [do not prompt on or accept similar colors]
11. An experiment that exposed E. coli to the T1 bacteriophage proved that selection did not give rise to these
entities; that experiment was named for Luria and Delbruck. Salmonella typhimurium is exposed to histidine-free
environments to measure a substance’s ability to cause these in the Ames test. Wobble base pairing can prevent
some of these from resulting in changes in amino acid sequences. Insertion or deletion of nucleotides may cause the
“frameshift” type, while sickle-cell anemia results from the “point” type. Carcinogens are particularly potent at
causing these. For 10 points, name these changes that occur in the nucleotide sequence of a genome.
ANSWER: mutations [accept word forms; accept “mutants” before “changes”]
12. Along the River during the Qingming Festival was originally painted in this dynasty, whose first emperor took
power in a coup at Chenqiao. After much of the imperial family was captured in the Jingkang Incident, this dynasty
moved its capital from present-day Kaifeng to Hangzhou. Cheng Yi and Zhu Xi founded Neo-Confucianism during
this dynasty, during which movable type printing was invented. This dynasty was the first to use gunpowder for
warfare and allied with the Mongols against the Jurchen Jin Dynasty but was later defeated by Kublai Khan. For 10
points, name this Chinese dynasty that followed the Tang and preceded the Yuan.
ANSWER: Song Dynasty [or Song Chao; accept Northern Song Dynasty or Bei Song Chao; accept Southern Song
Dynasty or Nan Song Chao]

Packet 12

3

13. The Twin Peaks and Sunset Tunnels are two major transit arteries in this city, and the Civil War-era Fort Point
lies in the north of this city. The Hunter’s Point Naval Shipyard is located in the southeast of this city. The Farallon
Islands, though lying thirty miles to the west of this city, are still officially part of it. Coit Tower is located on
Telegraph Hill in this city, and Portsmouth Square is at the center of this city’s Chinatown. Ghirardelli Square and
Pier 39 are located on this city’s Fisherman’s Wharf. The only mobile National Historic Landmark in the United
States is this city’s cable car system. For 10 points, name this California city that is the location of the Golden Gate
Bridge.
ANSWER: City and County of San Francisco
14. The narrator of one of this man’s poems declares that “[she’s] still climbin’” although life “ain’t been no crystal
stair.” In another poem, this poet writes that “[he] is the darker brother” but will “eat well, and grow strong.” This
poet of “Mother to Son” and “I, Too, Sing America” describes hearing a man sing “‘Ain’t got nobody in this
world’” before he “stopped playing and went to bed” in a work that titles his collection The Weary Blues. In another
poem, this man states that he “bathed in the Euphrates” and that “[his] soul has grown deep like” the title bodies of
water. For 10 points, name this poet of the Harlem Renaissance who wrote “The Negro Speaks of Rivers.”
ANSWER: James Mercer Langston Hughes
15. In the aftermath of this event, the “Warrior Bishop” Henry le Despenser defeated troops of one faction at the
Battle of North Walsham. This event resulted in the burning of the Savoy Palace and occurred following a meeting
with the sitting monarch at Mile End. The Earl of Arundel was appointed Chancellor after the execution of Simon
Sudbury during this event, which ended at Smithfield after William Walworth, the Lord Mayor of London, killed its
leader. The perpetrators of this rebellion rose up from Kent and Essex after a new poll tax was announced by John of
Gaunt. For 10 points, name this uprising of poor citizens led by Wat Tyler and crushed by Richard II.
ANSWER: Peasants’ Revolt [or The Great Rising; or Wat Tyler’s Rebellion until “Wat Tyler”; accept any
obvious equivalents of “revolt” in the answer line]
16. A controversy regarding this film was whether or not a man in a sauna was a male shopkeeper’s husband or sonin-law. In one scene, the king and queen seek help from a group of trolls to heal their daughter. In one song, that
daughter claims “we used to be best buddies, but now we’re not.” In another song from this movie, the protagonist
declares that “the cold never bothered [her] anyway.” The protagonist of this movie banishes Prince Hans and
creates a cloud that prevents Olaf from melting. For 10 points, name this movie featuring the songs “Do You Want
to Build a Snowman?” and “Let It Go” that details Kristoff and Anna’s pursuit of Elsa after she unleashes a
snowstorm in Arendelle.
ANSWER: Frozen
17. In one work, this man described how boys in a certain society were disciplined by their uncles, rather than their
fathers, leading this man to observe that power, rather than sexual jealousy, is the cause of the Oedipus Complex in
that culture. In the last chapter of one work, this man recorded spells used in growing gardens in Coral Gardens and
their Magic. In another work, this man described how red shell necklaces and white shell armbands are traded in
different directions. That work analyzes the Trobriand Islanders’ exchange of the Kula ring. For 10 points, name this
author of Sex and Repression in Savage Society and Argonauts of the Western Pacific, a Polish-born anthropologist.
ANSWER: Bronisław Kasper Malinowski
18. In one work by this author, the protagonist meets his Aunt Augusta for the first time in fifty years and then
learns of Woodsworth, her lover from Sierra Leone. In another work, this man wrote of Beatrice Severn, the
secretary of the main character who was a retailer of vacuum cleaners before becoming a secret agent. A novel by
him centers on the affair between Sarah Miles and Maurice Bendrix, and another focuses on the journalist Thomas
Fowler. Another work by this author of Our Man in Havana describes the travels of a whiskey priest in Mexico. For
ten points, name this British author of The Power and the Glory, The End of the Affair, and The Quiet American.
ANSWER: Henry Graham Greene

Packet 12

4

19. The cession of Kosovo to Serbia severely hampered Ismail Qemali’s efforts to form a provisional government
for this country in Vlora, which was also the proposed site of a Soviet submarine base that this country’s communist
dictator refused to build. In the fifteenth century, Skanderbeg defended the region that would become this nation
from incursions by the Ottomans. One dictator from this country used the Sigurimi police to control his population
and built seven hundred thousand bunkers in case of invasion. In this country, Fan Noli led the June Revolution in
opposition to King Zog. For 10 points, name this Balkan country which Enver Hoxha once ruled from capital city
Tirana.
ANSWER: Republic of Albania [or Republika e Shqipërisë; accept Provisional Government of Albania or Qeveria
e Përkohshme e Shqipërisë; accept Albanian Republic or Republika Shqiptare; accept Albanian Kingdom or
Mbretnija Shqiptare or Mbretëria Shqiptare; accept People’s Socialist Republic of Albania or Republika Popullore
Socialiste e Shqipërisë]
20. In this book, Madame Schachter repeatedly screams that she has seen fire until her fellow passengers beat and
kill her. At the opening of this novel, the protagonist discusses the Kabbalah with the synagogue’s caretaker, Moshe
the Beadle. While on a “death march” away from Gleiwitz, the main character watches his father, Shlomo, die in his
sleep. Earlier, the protagonist’s family is forced out of the Sighet ghetto and sent to Auschwitz. While in a
concentration camp, the protagonist constantly asks himself “Where is God now?” Narrated by Eliezer, for 10
points, name this first book in a trilogy including Dawn and Day, a Holocaust memoir by Elie Wiesel.
ANSWER: Night [or La Nuit; or Un di Velt Hot Geshvign; or And the World Remained Silent]
TB. A captured helmet originally belonging to a member of this people was found in Olympia, after it was said to
have been taken following this civilization’s defeat at the hands of Hiero of Syracuse.The Sarcophagus of the
Spouses is a product of this civilization, and a history of this civilization as well as a dictionary of its language was
written by the last person known to be able to read this culture’s language, the emperor Claudius. Tarchun and
Tyrrhenus founded this civilization’s league of twelve cities, and Tarquin the Proud, the last king of Rome, was
descended from this culture. For 10 points, name this ancient Italian civilization that preceded the Romans.
ANSWER: Etruscans [or Etruria]

Packet 12

5

Packet 12: Bonuses
1. Name some artists who depicted the Last Supper, for 10 points each.
[10] This artist painted a fresco of the Last Supper in the church of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. His depiction
of the Last Supper portrays a calm Jesus sitting at the center of a table while the disciples actively speak amongst
themselves.
ANSWER: Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci [accept either underlined name]
[10] This man’s Last Supper sets the table diagonally and depicts swirling spirits around the title scene. Other works
by this artist include the St. Mark Cycle and The Origin of the Milky Way.
ANSWER: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin; or Jacopo Robusti]
[10] In this Flemish Baroque painter’s Last Supper, Judas turns to look at the viewer while a dog gnaws a bone
beneath the table. He painted full-figured men fighting the title animals in Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt.
ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens
2. Answer some questions about war in mythology, for 10 points each.
[10] These female Norse shield-maidens choose fallen warriors to take to Valhalla. Members of this group carry
mead and food to Odin and the einherjar.
ANSWER: valkyries [or valkyrja]
[10] This Greek warrior society fought under Achilles at the Siege of Troy, and gets its name, meaning “ant-people,”
from their ancestor Eurymedusa, who was seduced by Zeus while he was in the form of an ant.
ANSWER: Myrmidons [or Myrmidones]
[10] Polynices led an army against his brother Eteocles in this city after Eteocles refused to give up the throne.
Cadmus founded this city after following a cow and sowing dragon teeth into the ground.
ANSWER: Thebes [or Thēbas; accept Seven against Thebes or Hepta epi Thēbas]
3. As of September 2013, this literary prize has been open to all English-language authors published in the United
Kingdom. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this prize that historically honored the year’s best novel written by an author from a Commonwealth
nation, Ireland, or Zimbabwe. Two-time winning authors include J.M. Coetzee, Peter Carey, and Hilary Mantel.
ANSWER: Man Booker Prize for Fiction
[10] This short story author of “The Ransom of Red Chief” names an annual award given to the top twenty short
stories written in English and published in the United States or Canada.
ANSWER: O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter; accept O. Henry Award or O. Henry Prize; prompt on “Henry”]
[10] This literary prize has been awarded by the Swedish Academy since 1901. Its most recent winner is Canadian
short story author Alice Munro.
ANSWER: Nobel Prize in Literature [or Nobel priset i litteratur]
4. This work’s title figure is called Imperatrix Mundi, or “Empress of the World.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Latin poem whose musical setting opens and closes Carl Orff’s Carmina Burana. It laments the
oppressive nature of fate, whose wheel is portrayed in the first few pages of Carmina Burana.
ANSWER: O Fortuna
[10] This Gregorian chant once used in musical settings of the Requiem Mass describes a terrifying Last Judgment.
It was also quoted in Franz Liszt’s Totentanz.
ANSWER: Dies Irae [or “Day of Wrath”]
[10] This Austrian composer used the Latin hymn Veni Creator Spiritus to begin his “Symphony of a Thousand.”
His other works include the “Resurrection” and “Tragic” symphonies, as well as The Song of the Earth.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler

Packet 12

6

5. It contains a legal section known as the Halakha. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work, whose second section is the Gemara. It is a major rabbinical text of Judaism.
ANSWER: Talmud [or Shas]
[10] This first part of the Talmud was written down by Rabbi Yehuda HaNasi and consists of oral law. Those who
helped write it down were known as the Tannaim.
ANSWER: Mishnah
[10] The Talmud is sometimes called the “oral” version of this set of texts, contrasted with the “written” version,
which consists of the first five books of the Old Testament and is the first portion of the Tanakh.
ANSWER: Torah [or Pentateuch]
6. This play begins with a conversation between the valet Jean and the cook Christine. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which the title character attempts to escape with Jean and open a hotel near Lake Como. In
the end, her plans are foiled and she commits suicide using a razor blade.
ANSWER: Miss Julie [or Fröken Julie]
[10] Miss Julie was written by this playwright, who also wrote A Dream Play. He described the vengeful Jacob
Hummel in The Ghost Sonata.
ANSWER: Johan August Strindberg
[10] August Strindberg was from this country with capital Stockholm. This country was also the home of Selma
Lagerlöf, author of The Wonderful Adventures of Nils.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige; prompt on “United Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway”
or “Förenade konungarikena Sverige och Norge” or the “Union between Sweden and Norway” or “Svensk-norska
unionen”]
7. The title object of this painting appears amid pale hues in the left background and towers above a steamboat
spewing smoke. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting that depicts a retired sailing ship, distinguished for its service at the Battle of Trafalgar,
being towed in at sunset to be converted into scrap.
ANSWER: The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up, 1838
[10] This British Romantic artist painted The Fighting Temeraire and The Battle of Trafalgar. His painting The
Slave Ship depicts a departing vessel throwing dying slaves overboard into a raging sea.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
[10] In this highly atmospheric painting by Turner, a small rabbit hops away frantically as a locomotive emerges out
of heavy mist and fog and barrels across the modern Maidenhead Bridge.
ANSWER: Rain, Steam and Speed –The Great Western Railway
8. Vega has a value of zero for this quantity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this measure of star brightness. The absolute type of this quantity measures how bright a star would
appear from ten parsecs, while the apparent type measures how bright a star appears from Earth.
ANSWER: magnitude [or absolute magnitude; or apparent magnitude]
[10] Absolute magnitude is plotted against either spectral type or surface temperature in this diagram, developed by
its two namesake astronomers, which shows most stars along its main sequence.
ANSWER: Hertzsprung–Russell diagram [or H–R diagram; or HRD]
[10] These stars lying on a namesake branch on an H–R diagram have degenerate cores unable to support hydrogen
fusion. The Sun will eventually become a star of this type before dying as a white dwarf.
ANSWER: red giant
9. For 10 points each, answer the following concerning labor history in the United States.
[10] Events such as the Colorado Coal Wars and the Battle of Blair Mountain are examples of this action taken in
which workers usually demand higher wages. They often involve work stoppages and picketing.
ANSWER: labor strike [or workers’ strike; accept obvious equivalents]
[10] This type of strike involves workers occupying their workplace, refusing to work or leave and physically
preventing their employers from replacing them with strikebreakers.
ANSWER: sitdown strike [or sit-in strike]
[10] This 1947 act allows the President to end a strike if he finds it dangerous to the public and prohibits government
employees from striking. Ronald Reagan used it to end a 1981 strike by air-traffic controllers.
ANSWER: Taft–Hartley Act [or Labor Management Relations Act of 1947]

Packet 12

7

10. This man questions humans’ right to control the universe as they do. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French skeptic who emphasized the use of free judgment and asked, “What do I know?” in one of his
Essais.
ANSWER: Michel Eyquem de Montaigne
[10] This man wrote An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, in which he argued that at birth, the mind is a
blank slate, only to be filled with knowledge through experience. This man also wrote Two Treatises on
Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
[10] This man wrote An Essay on Man, in which he argued that man should stay in his place in the universe. He also
wrote An Essay on Criticism, in which he criticizes bad literary critics.
ANSWER: Alexander Pope
11. Charles-Augustin de Coulomb developed a law that governs this phenomenon’s dry form. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this physical force that counteracts motion. This force has a namesake coefficient and comes in static and
kinetic varieties.
ANSWER: frictional force
[10] For an object on an inclined plane, the frictional force is directly proportional to the normal force, whose
magnitude is calculated as the weight of the sliding object times this function of the angle of incline.
ANSWER: cosine
[10] This French scientist formulated two laws governing friction. The first states that the frictional force is
proportional to the applied load, and the second states that it is independent of the apparent area of contact.
ANSWER: Guillaume Amontons
12. This character blows on a conch shell to attract the attention of other boys on an island. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fair-haired character who becomes the first chief of a group of stranded boys. This character loses
support when his red-haired rival, Jack, assumes control and attempts to find and destroy him.
ANSWER: Ralph
[10] Ralph is a character in this novel, which describes a plane crash over a deserted island, leaving many young
boys stranded and forcing them to fend for themselves.
ANSWER: Lord of the Flies
[10] William Golding, author of Lord of the Flies, included his novels Rites of Passage and Fire Down Below in this
trilogy, which follows the life of Edmund Talbot.
ANSWER: To the Ends of the Earth
13. This man was the first to resign from his highest office since Gregory XII. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this pope who resigned in February 2013 due to the fact that his “strengths [were] no longer suited to an
adequate exercise of the Petrine Ministry.”
ANSWER: Benedict XVI [or Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger; prompt on “Benedict”]
[10] Pope Francis, successor to Benedict XVI, was the first person from this Order to be elected to the papacy, and
members of this order swear a vow of special obedience to the Pope. This order was founded by Ignatius of Loyola.
ANSWER: Society of Jesus [or the Jesuits; or Societas Jesu]
[10] This canonized pope was the last before Pope Benedict to resign voluntarily. He did so in protest over the
corruption in the Roman Curia after 5 months of occupying the office in 1294. In 2009, Pope Benedict laid his
pallium on this man’s tomb.
ANSWER: St. Celestine V [or Pietro di Morrone; or Peter Morrone; prompt on “Saint Celestine”; do not accept
or prompt on “Peter” or “Pietro”]

Packet 12

8

14. For 10 points each, name the following about Canadian Arctic geography.
[10] With capital at Whitehorse, this is Canada’s smallest federal territory. Its Klondike region was the site of an
1897 Gold Rush.
ANSWER: Yukon Territory
[10] This is the longest and largest river system in Canada, although it only flows through the country’s Northwest
Territories. Starting at the Great Slave Lake, it empties into the Arctic Ocean near the Kendall Island Bird
Sanctuary.
ANSWER: Mackenzie River [or Deh-Cho]
[10] This large body of water lies north of Alaska, the Yukon, and the Northwest Territories. The MacKenzie River
empties into this body, whose petroleum reserves are now easier to access as a result of climate change.
ANSWER: Beaufort Sea
15. This molecule’s common name serves as the namesake of a class of compounds that consist only of boron and
hydrogen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this compound with the chemical formula BH .
ANSWER: borane [or trihydroboron; or borine; accept boron trihydride]
[10] Because the hydrogens in borane draw electron density away from the boron atom, borane is one of these
substances, which accept electron pairs from an electron donor.
ANSWER: Lewis acid [prompt on “acid”]
[10] Boron often violates this rule because it achieves stability with only six valence electrons. Similarly, hydrogen
violates this rule because it bonds to achieve two valence electrons, rather than this rule’s namesake number.
ANSWER: octet rule
3

16. After her aunt dies, the protagonist of this work receives ten thousand dollars and pays off her debts before
committing suicide. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel that follows the tragedy of Lily Bart, who rejects her true love Lawrence Seldon and descends
into poverty after Bertha Dorset destroys her reputation.
ANSWER: The House of Mirth
[10] In addition to writing The House of Mirth, this American author described Newland Archer and Ellen Olenska’s
affair in her novel The Age of Innocence.
ANSWER: Edith Wharton
[10] This novel by Edith Wharton depicts an affair between the title character and his maid, Mattie Silver. In an
attempt to die together during a sledding accident, however, Mattie ends up paralyzed.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
17. Name the following historical Mesoamerican civilizations, for 10 points each.
[10] This people’s preclassic capital was Mirador, and they were ruled by the kuhul ajaw, mystical kings who
claimed to be divine. They mysteriously disappeared after their capital Tikal collapsed.
ANSWER: Mayans
[10] Itzcoatl allied this civilization with the Texcocans and and Tacubans, and its feudalistic economy was based in
Tenochtitlan. Spanish troops led by Hernan Cortés launched an offensive against this civilization from Veracruz.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] This other Mesoamerican culture was seen as the predecessor to the Aztecs. It had its capital at Tula and a name
meaning “reed people”.
ANSWER: Toltecs
18. This phenomenon can come in allopatric, peripatric, sympatric, and parapatric forms. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process by which portions of a population become unable to breed with other members of that
population, causing the formation of a new species.
ANSWER: speciation
[10] This process occurs when a small number of individuals breaks off from a parent population and establishes a
new isolated population of their own, causing a dramatic shift in allele frequencies.
ANSWER: founder effect
[10] This phenomenon occurs by random chance when allele frequencies in populations change over time to either
increase or decrease genetic variation.
ANSWER: genetic drift [prompt on “drift”]

Packet 12

9

19. Name the following about recent South Carolina politics, for 10 points each.
[10] This object was first hoisted atop the state capitol in 1961 but was moved to a ground-level memorial in 2000
after controversy. Supporters of this claim it’s a demonstration of Southern pride, as opposed to a support of slavery.
ANSWER: flag of the Confederate States of America [or Confederate flag; or flag of the Confederacy; or flag of
the CSA; prompt on “flag”; prompt on “Stars and Bars”]
[10] This former governor was forced to resign in 2011 after allegations of marital infidelity with a mistress in
Argentina arose. He later won a special election in 2013 for a seat in the House of Representatives.
ANSWER: Marshall Clement “Mark” Sanford, Jr.
[10] This person, the first female governor of the state, succeeded Sanford. A staunch supporter of the Tea Party, she
is the second Indian American governor to be elected in the United States.
ANSWER: Nimrata Nikki Randhawa Haley
20. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about conferences held during World War II.
[10] This conference issued a declaration urging the unconditional surrender of Japan. This conference resulted in
the Allied Control Commission, which was tasked with dividing postwar Germany into four zones of occupation.
ANSWER: Potsdam Conference [or Berlin Conference of the Three Heads of Government of the USSR, USA and
UK; prompt on “TERMINAL Conference”]
[10] Russia was promised Port Arthur, the Sakhalin Islands and the Kuril Islands and promised to enter the Pacific
Theater at this last conference attended by FDR, held in a Soviet resort town.
ANSWER: Yalta Conference [or Crimea Conference; or ARGONAUT and MAGNETO; prompt on
“ARGONAUT Conference”; do not prompt on or accept “Malta Conference” or “ARGONAUT and CRICKET”]
[10] During this conference in the capital city of Iran, Stalin promised FDR that he would ensure free elections
regarding the entrances of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia into the Soviet Union.
ANSWER: Tehran Conference [or EUREKA Conference]

