Packet 10

1

2014 BELLum Omnium Contra Omnes
Packet 10: Tossups
1. In this country, Tiradentes was hanged for leading the Minas Gerais Conspiracy. This country’s first head of state
married Maria Leopoldina of Austria and faced a revolt that gave rise to the Cisplatine War. The War of the Triple
Alliance began with the invasion of this country’s state of Mato Grosso by Francisco Solano Lopez. In this nation,
the dictatorial Estado Novo regime was established by Getúlio Vargas in 1937. Slavery was outlawed by the Golden
Law in this nation that was first called Terra de Santa Cruz by Pedro Cabral. The last ruler of its namesake empire
was Pedro II. For 10 points, name this Portuguese-speaking largest nation in South America.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or República Federativa do Brasil]
2. Sufferers with one type of this condition remain immobile due to waxy flexibility. Drugs used to treat this
condition include haloperidol, olanzapine, and clozapine. Symptoms that distinguished this condition from others
were listed by Kurt Schneider. Before attaining its current name, it was known as “dementia praecox.” An
experiment that resulted in participants being misdiagnosed with this disorder was conducted by David Rosenhan,
and it is thought to be caused by overactive dopamine receptors. Its current name was coined by Eugen Bleuler and
comes from the Greek for “split mind.” For 10 points, name this mental disorder characterized by hallucinations,
delusions, and paranoia.
ANSWER: schizophrenia [do not accept “split personality,” “multiple personality,” or “dissociative identity
disorder”]
3. In this work, human excrement is dumped over the title character’s head after he refuses to acknowledge that the
Pope is the Antichrist. After leaving El Dorado with his valet Cacambo, the protagonist meets a man who is unhappy
with his collection of Raphael paintings, Count Pococurante. After Jacques drowns in Lisbon harbor in this novella,
another character is hanged by the Inquisition. The title character is expelled from the castle of Baron Thunder-tenTronckh after he kisses Cunegonde, and his mentor asserts that they live in the “best of all possible worlds.” For 10
points, name this satire whose title character is accompanied by the optimist Pangloss, written by Voltaire.
ANSWER: Candide, ou l’Optimisme [or Candide: or, All for the Best; or Candide: or, The Optimist; or Candide:
or, Optimism]
4. [MODERATOR, please read aloud to teams: “Both type of work and composer required.”]
One of these works by this composer ends with a movement containing a three-voice fugue featuring ascending
fourths in the main theme. András Schiff gave a series of lectures on this set of works, which Hans von Bülow
described as “the New Testament” of music. Another of these works by this composer alternates between
arpeggiated chords and staccato to depict the title storm, “the Tempest.” In another of these works by this composer
in c-sharp minor, the damper pedal is to be sustained for the entire first movement. For 10 points, name these thirtytwo pieces for a solo keyboard instrument that include “Pathétique” and “Moonlight,” written by the composer of
the “Eroica” and “Choral” symphonies.
ANSWER: piano sonatas by Ludwig van Beethoven [prompt on “piano sonatas”]
5. The change in the ratio of this quantity to Gibbs free energy is equal to the negative of enthalpy divided by this
quantity squared. An engine’s maximum efficiency is equal to one minus the ratio of this quantity measured at two
different reservoirs according to Carnot’s theorem. The energy of a blackbody is proportional to the fourth power of
this quantity by the Stefan-Boltzmann law. Three-halves times this quantity times the Boltzmann constant equals a
particle’s average kinetic energy. The third law of thermodynamics states that entropy is zero at the unattainable
lower bound of this quantity, known as absolute zero. For 10 points, name this quantity measured in kelvins.
ANSWER: absolute temperature [prompt on “T”]
6. In a story by this author, William Legrand is bitten by the title insect before embarking on a treasure hunt, while
in his only novel, the title character stows on board the Grampus as it leaves port. This author of “The Gold Bug”
and The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym described Prospero’s attempt to evade the title disease by locking himself
in an abbey, and this man also describes the murder of Fortunato using the title container of wine. This author of
“The Masque of the Red Death” and “The Cask of Amontillado” also describes a murderer who could still hear his
vulture-eyed victim’s beating title object. For 10 points, name this author of “The Tell-Tale Heart” and “The
Raven.”
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe

Packet 10

2

7. In the prelude to this event, protesters at the Writers Union Congress replaced Antonin Novotny with Ludvik
Svoboda. During this period, farmers were allowed to form independent cooperatives and legislators and regained
the ability to vote freely, and in protest of the end of this period, Jan Palach lit himself on fire in Wenceslas Square
in the namesake city. This period included the Action Programme and was ended at the Bratislava Conference by
Brezhnev, and it attempted to install “socialism with a human face.” For 10 points, name this 1968 liberalization
effort led by Alexander Dubček (“DUB-chek”), which ended when Soviet troops marched into the capital of
Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague Spring [or Pražské jaro; or Pražská jar]
8. Before this event, the central figure told his friends to follow a man carrying a water jar, and after this event, the
central figure went to the Valley of Kidron. During this event, which occurred at the Cenacle, the central figure
compared himself to a vine. That figure gave his friends the commandment to “Love one another, as [he] has loved
[them].” Before this event, one man asked to have his head and hands washed, as well as his feet. During this event,
the central figure blessed and shared bread and wine, which he claimed were his Body and Blood. For 10 points,
name this Biblical event commemorated on Holy Thursday, in which Jesus predicted his betrayal the night before
his death.
ANSWER: Last Supper [prompt on the “Lord’s Supper”; prompt on “institution of the Eucharist”; prompt on
“Passion of Christ”; prompt on “Holy Thursday” before mentioned]
9. This man’s A Treatise on the Binomial Theorem gained him a teaching position at the University of Durham. This
man commissioned a German inventor named von Herder to create an air gun disguised as a cane for his assistant,
Moran. A man disguised as a Catholic priest spots this man trying to stop a train out of England toward Belgium,
and this man later pursues that deerstalker-capped investigator to Switzerland. In “The Final Problem,” this
character plummets to his death after a duel above the Reichenbach Falls with a character whom he allows to write a
letter to Watson. For 10 points, name this “Napoleon of crime” and arch-nemesis of Sherlock Holmes.
ANSWER: Professor James Moriarty [prompt on “James”]
10. This man designed a building that looked like a palace but was in fact a prison, called his “hell.” During a revolt
in the Avanti Kingdom, this man concealed his wounds from his brother Susima in order to avoid a war of
succession. After this man invaded Takshashila, his brothers exiled him. This man experienced a religious
conversion after the bloodshed of the Kalinga War and named himself Priyadarsi, or “Beloved of the Gods,” on
many of his new edicts, which he inscribed on stupas featuring his twenty-four-spoked “wheel of righteousness” and
statues of lions. For 10 points, name this Mauryan emperor, the first Indian ruler to adopt Buddhism.
ANSWER: Ashoka Maurya [or Ashoka the Great]
11. This deity’s wife was the personification of Upper Egypt’s seventeenth nome, and his daughter was usually
depicted as a star-bodied snake. During ceremonies worshipping this god, a black-and-white cowhide is carried on a
pole before processions. This god, known as the “subduer of nine bows,” may have been conceived when his mother
Nephthys disguised herself as her sister and conceived this god with Osiris. This deity’s cult was centered at
Cynopolis, and priests performing the Opening of the Mouth ceremony wore the mask of this god. He weighed
hearts against the Feather of Ma’at. For 10 points, name this jackal-headed Egyptian god of embalming and death.
ANSWER: Anubis [or Anpu; or Inpu; or Anapa; or Ienpu; or Yinepu]
12. One novel in this language controversially depicts a crucified figure imagining the life he might have lived by
rejecting God’s plan, including a sexual relationship with Mary Magdalene, in The Last Temptation of Christ. A
poem in this language includes the line, “I woke up with this marble head in my hands.” That George Seferis poem
is titled “Mythistorema” and was used to open the 2004 Olympics. An ancient form of this language was used to
write a play in which a character named for his swollen foot unwittingly commits the sins of patricide and incest.
For 10 points, name this language in which Nikos Kazantzakis wrote of Zorba and Sophocles wrote of Oedipus.
ANSWER: Greek language [or Hellenica; or Hellenikí glóssa; accept Ancient Greek or Hellēnikḗ]

Packet 10

3

13. The initial leaders of both sides in this conflict were in-laws through a woman named Frances Culpeper. John
Ingram later led one side during this conflict, and the leader of the opposing side sought help from chieftess
Cockacoeske. Thomas Grantham suppressed enemy forces during this conflict by tricking his way into their
garrison. This conflict began when colonists conducted a raid on the lands of Doeg Indians and was partially caused
when the Long Assembly ordered traders not to trade with certain groups. The House of Burgesses refused to offer a
pardon for the instigator of this revolt. For 10 points, name this 1676 rebellion against Virginia governor William
Berkeley that burned down Jamestown.
ANSWER: Bacon’s Rebellion
14. A theory governing these materials calculates their free energy as a function of the parameter psi, and one type
of these materials consists of normal cores surrounded by vortices. Described by Ginzburg-Landau theory, these
materials are limited by a factor of one over e, their London penetration depth, and the exchange of phonons in these
causes electrons to form Cooper pairs. These materials are distinguished as Type I or Type II based on the strength
of their critical fields. Substances that transform into these materials eject a magnetic field in the Meissner effect.
For 10 points, name these materials that exhibit zero electrical resistance at low temperatures.
ANSWER: superconductors [do not prompt on or accept “conductors”]
15. This artist designed a bronze funnel lined with redwood, the Listening Cone, as part of the “What is Missing?”
project. This artist is installing seven sites along the Columbia River to commemorate the Native Americans as part
of the Confluence Project. Two of this architect’s works are circular black granite tables, one with inscriptions
spiraling out from the center of the numbers of women who attended Yale each year. This architect of the Women’s
Table designed another memorial with black granite, with two walls cutting into the National Mall in a V-shape. For
10 points, name this Chinese-American designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
ANSWER: Maya Ying Lin [or Lin Ying]
16. In this work, the author describes a degeneration from aristocracy to tyranny starting with a failure to choose the
right successors. One theory in this work describes four distinct models of the world, the models of illusion, the
physical, mathematics, and the highest, philosophy. This work, which contains the Analogy of the Divided Line,
starts with the question of what justice is and whether it is better than injustice. This work also contains a description
of a scenario in which shadows are mistaken for real objects, describing the author’s Theory of Forms. For 10
points, name this philosophical work by Plato that contains the Allegory of the Cave and describes the title ideal
state.
ANSWER: The Republic [or Politeia]
17. Since 2001, Windows has shipped without this programming language preinstalled as a result of Microsoft’s
alleged modified implementation of it. This language lacks pointers, and it does not support multiple inheritance for
classes. A compressed folder containing files written in this language has the extension .jar (“dot-jar”), and Oracle
released JDK to allow for development in this language. This language’s namesake bytecode is executed by its
virtual machine, and this language's namesake applets may be run within web browsers. For 10 points, name this
object-oriented language developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems, whose logo is a coffee mug.
ANSWER: Java [do not accept “JavaScript”]
18. This artist depicted the title subject receiving the ashes of King Mausolus in Artemisia, and he painted a SelfPortrait with Two Circles. The title King of Babylon turns in surprise toward a Hebrew inscription on the wall in
another of this artist’s paintings depicting a scene from the Book of Daniel. In addition to painting Belshazzar’s
Feast, this man depicted the title doctor dissecting the arm of the criminal Aris Kindt. He also painted a man waving
a blue and yellow striped flag while an illuminated girl holds a chicken in a work commissioned by Frans Banning
Cocq. For 10 points, name this Dutch artist of The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp and The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn [accept either underlined name]

Packet 10

4

19. Jacques Justin studied the mathematics of this practice and discovered six of its axioms. This practice was used
by Miura to model solar panel arrays for satellites. Samuel Randlett and Robert Harbin improved a system of
diagrams for this practice. Those diagrams were developed by Akira Yoshizawa, who popularized and gave this
practice its modern name. This practice was originally used at Shinto weddings, and a separate branch of it involves
the use of money. Many people perform this process for good luck by creating the Senbazuru, or a thousand cranes.
For 10 points, name this Japanese art of paperfolding, traditionally without using cuts or glue.
ANSWER: origami [prompt on “paperfolding”; do not accept “kirigami”]
20. Governor John McKeithen declared this structure “would be the greatest building in the history of mankind!”
The 2012 Kentucky men’s basketball team won a championship in this building with a star center who now plays
professionally next door, Anthony Davis. Outside this building, a statue entitled “Rebirth” commemorates a blocked
punt that occurred during this stadium’s reopening in 2006, a year after it suffered wind and water damage and
housed over fifteen thousand refugees. In February 2013, a power outage in this building interrupted Super Bowl
XLVII (“forty-seven”) for over half an hour. For 10 points, name this stadium damaged by Hurricane Katrina, the
home of the New Orleans Saints.
ANSWER: Mercedes-Benz Superdome [or Louisiana Superdome]
TB. At one battle, this man constructed redoubts overlooking Brenton’s Ford but came under artillery fire from
Wilhelm von Knyphausen. At another battle, Adam Stephen’s drunkenness caused this man’s forces to fire upon
each other accidentally. This loser at the battles of Brandywine Creek and Germantown ordered the fortification of
Dorchester Heights with artillery brought from Fort Ticonderoga by Henry Knox. He routed Johann Rall and his
Hessian mercenaries at Trenton and Princeton after crossing the Delaware River. For 10 points, name this
commander of the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War, the first president of the United States.
ANSWER: George Washington

Packet 10

5

Packet 10: Bonuses
1. This organism can only be found either as a hermaphrodite or a true male. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this species from the phylum Nematoda whose use as a model organism was pioneered by Sydney
Brenner.
ANSWER: Caenorhabditis elegans [must have both underlined parts]
[10] This other model organism contains polytene chromosomes in its salivary glands, and it comes in red-eyed wild
types. One mutation in this organism is antennapedia, in which its antennae are replaced by extra legs.
ANSWER: common fruit fly [or common fruit flies; or Drosophila melanogaster]
[10] This model organism is a small flowering plant and a member of the mustard family. The ABC model of flower
development was created through extensive research of this plant.
ANSWER: Arabidopsis thaliana [or Arabidopsis thaliana; or mouse-ear cress; or thale cress]
2. This man established the International Association of the Congo and sent Henry Morton Stanley to explore the
region. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this King of the Belgians who privately controlled the Congo Free State and amassed a fortune by
extracting ivory and rubber through forced labor.
ANSWER: Leopold II [or Léopold Louis Philippe Marie Victor; or Leopold Lodewijk Filips Maria Victor;
prompt on partial answer]
[10] The Congo Free State was recognized as the property of Leopold’s International Association at this 1884 to
1885 conference, which is usually seen as the starting point of the Scramble for Africa.
ANSWER: Berlin Conference [or Congo Conference; or West Africa Conference; or Kongokonferenz; or
Westafrika-Konferenz]
[10] Cecil Rhodes profited from mining diamonds in Cape Colony in what is now this country, where British
colonists and the descendants of Dutch settlers fought in the Boer Wars.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa [or Republiek van Suid-Afrika; or iRiphabliki yeSewula Afrika; or
iRiphabliki yomZantsi Afrika; or iRiphabhuliki yaseNingizimu Afrika; or iRiphabhulikhi yeNingizimu Afrika; or
Repabliki ya Afrika-Borwa; or Rephaboliki ya Afrika Borwa; or Riphabliki ra Afrika Dzonga; or Riphabuḽiki ya
Afurika Tshipembe; accept South African Republic or Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek or ZAR; prompt on the
“Transvaal Republic”]
3. This text opens with the First Book of Nephi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sacred text of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints narrated by its title prophet, who
engraved it onto golden plates which he gave to his son.
ANSWER: Book of Mormon
[10] This son of Mormon and final prophet of the Nephites buried the golden plates on the Hill of Cumorah in what
is now New York State. After his death, he returned as an angel to aid in their rediscovery.
ANSWER: Moroni [do not accept “Captain Moroni”]
[10] The angel Moroni revealed the location of the golden plates to this man, who translated them from the
“reformed Egyptian” and founded the LDS church in 1830.
ANSWER: Joseph Smith, Jr.
4. The narrator of this work claims that he “only [hears] the melancholy, long, withdrawing roar” of the Sea of Faith.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem that starts, “The sea is calm tonight” and asserts that “the world ... / Hath really neither joy, nor
love, nor light.”
ANSWER: “Dover Beach”
[10] “Dover Beach” describes this author hearing “the eternal note of sadness… on the Aegean,” which reminds this
author of “the turbid ebb and flow / Of human misery,” a reference to a passage from this man’s Antigone.
ANSWER: Sophocles
[10] “Dover Beach” was written by this British author who criticized Victorian society in Culture and Anarchy and
told the title figure to flee the “strange disease of modern life” in “The Scholar Gypsy.”
ANSWER: Matthew Arnold

Packet 10

6

5. These devices consist of two half-cells, the anode and cathode. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these devices, often contrasted with electrolytic cells, that are used in oxidation-reduction reactions to
transfer electrons externally.
ANSWER: voltaic cells [or galvanic cells; prompt on “electrochemical cells”]
[10] The oxidation and reduction half-cells in a voltaic cell are connected by this device, which allows for migration
of ions between each cell to neutralize the charge difference and maintain the flow of electrons.
ANSWER: salt bridges
[10] Named for its German formulator, this equation calculates the reduction potential of a voltaic cell by
subtracting a term with the natural logarithm of the reaction quotient from the standard electrode potential.
ANSWER: Nernst equation
6. A French blockade by Paul de Grasse prevented a retreat by sea in this engagement. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this last major engagement of the American Revolutionary War, in which a British general surrendered
to forces under George Washington and the Comte de Rochambeau.
ANSWER: Siege of Yorktown [or Battle of Yorktown]
[10] This British general was besieged at Yorktown for three weeks before his surrender. Previously, this general led
the Redcoats to take back the Carolinas, where he was defeated at Kings Mountain and Cowpens.
ANSWER: Charles Cornwallis, 1st Marquess Cornwallis [or Viscount Brome; or Charles Cornwallis, 2nd Earl
Cornwallis]
[10] Cornwallis failed in his campaign to take back the Carolinas due to the strategy of this American General, who
was defeated by Cornwallis at the Battle of Guilford Courthouse, but forced Cornwallis to attack Virginia instead.
ANSWER: Nathanael Greene
7. Salvador Dalí once said that if the Prado were burning down, the one thing he would save would be the air
contained in this painting. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work, which shows the scene behind the canvas as King Philip IV and his queen have their portrait
painted. Figures in this work include the artist himself, the Infanta Margaret Theresa, two dwarves, and a large dog.
ANSWER: Las Meninas [or The Maids of Honor]
[10] This painter of Las Meninas also depicted the success of General Ambrogio Spinola in capturing the title Dutch
city in the Surrender of Breda and painted a portrait of Pope Innocent X.
ANSWER: Diego Rodríguez de Silva y Velázquez
[10] In this work by Velázquez, the title figure reclines in the nude upon a blue sheet with her back toward the
viewer. Her face is dimly reflected in the mirror into which she gazes, which is held by a Cupid wearing a blue sash.
ANSWER: Rokeby Venus [or Venus at her Mirror; or The Toilet of Venus]
8. The Biot-Savart law relates these objects to their source currents. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects with north and south poles, including one surrounding the Earth. Permeability is the
measure of an object’s ability to support one of these within itself.
ANSWER: magnetic fields
[10] This type of magnetism forms strong magnetic fields below the Curie temperature, often in materials with its
namesake element. Materials with this property exhibit hysteresis loops.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism [accept word forms]
[10] In this effect, used to measure the average drift velocity of charge carriers, a voltage difference is established
across a transverse magnetic field, resulting in an electric field orthogonal to both the current and the magnetic field.
ANSWER: Hall effect [or Hall voltage]

Packet 10

7

9. A notable burial site of these people is located at Sutton Hoo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these people who invaded the British Isles from Jutland and Northern Germany after the withdrawal of
the Romans. Their later kings from the House of Wessex included Aethelred the Unready and Alfred the Great.
ANSWER: Anglo-Saxons [prompt on “Angles” or “Saxons” or “Jutes” or “North Sea Germanic peoples” or
“Ingaevones” or “Ingvaeones”]
[10] The Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex temporarily lost power in England during an invasion of these people led
by Canute the Great.
ANSWER: Danes [or House of Knýtlinga]
[10] Soon after the Anglo-Saxons took back power in England, this man invaded England, defeating Harold
Godwinson at the Battle of Hastings and establishing Norman rule over England.
ANSWER: William I [or William the Conqueror; or William the Bastard; or William II of Normandy; or
Guillaume le Conquérant; or Guillaume le Bâtard; or Guillaume II de Normandie]
10. This man described Aouda’s rescue from a native temple by Passepartout and Phileas Fogg. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Around the World in 80 Days, who wrote about the journey of Professor Arronax and
Captain Nemo on the Nautilus in 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
ANSWER: Jules Gabriel Verne
[10] This other French author wrote about the magical title object, which grants Raphaël de Valentin’s every wish,
in The Wild Ass’s Skin, a part of his series The Human Comedy.
ANSWER: Honoré de Balzac
[10] This French Nobel laureate described the waning romance between Jerome and Alissa in Strait is the Gate as
well as Michel’s succumbing to physical pleasures in his novel The Immoralist.
ANSWER: André Paul Guillaume Gide
11. Two of these creatures sprout from Coatlicue’s neck. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these reptiles, which Medusa’s hair was transformed into after she was raped by Poseidon. The Midgard
one of these is named Jörmungandr, and the Rainbow one is featured in Aboriginal mythology.
ANSWER: snakes [or serpents]
[10] The Celtic war goddess, the Morrigan, often took the form of this animal on the battlefield. In Native American
myth, this bird is the creator and trickster god who stole the Sun and fed berries and salmon to the first humans.
ANSWER: ravens [prompt on “crows”]
[10] The Scottish Selkies could turn into these creatures by putting on their skins, and the Inuit goddess Sedna
generally took the form of them. Loki and Heimdall fought in the form of these animals after Loki stole Freya’s
necklace.
ANSWER: seals
12. Answer the following about the structure of the earth, for 10 points each.
[10] This region of the earth below the crust contains a convective cycle due to a temperature gradient between
layers surrounding it. The lower portion of this thickest region of the earth is called the D double-prime layer.
ANSWER: mantle
[10] This mechanically defined division contains the rocky crust and upper mantle on earth that behaves elastically
over long periods of time. Joseph Barrell coined the term for this layer, which lies above the asthenosphere.
ANSWER: lithosphere
[10] Named for the Croatian seismologist who discovered it, this is the division between the crust and the mantle. It
has been shown that seismic waves accelerate below this layer.
ANSWER: Mohorovičić discontinuity

Packet 10

8

13. After this work’s premiere in 1886, its composer allowed only “The Swan” to be performed during his lifetime.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fourteen-movement suite, which contains a slowed-down version of Offenbach’s Can-Can in the
movement “Tortoises.” Other movements include “The Elephant” and “The Aquarium.”
ANSWER: The Carnival of the Animals [or Le carnaval des animaux]
[10] This French composer of The Carnival of the Animals wrote the “Egyptian” piano concerto while abroad in
Luxor as well as the opera Samson and Delilah.
ANSWER: Charles-Camille Saint-Saëns
[10] This Saint-Saëns tone poem features a motif that appears in the “Fossils” movement of The Carnival of the
Animals. The xylophone represents the rattling bones of the dead, who perform the title action.
ANSWER: Danse Macabre
14. Fascism was very popular Europe during World War II. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this authoritarian Nazi puppet regime in France during World War II. Succeeding the Third Republic, it
was headed by Philippe Pétain.
ANSWER: Vichy France [or l’État français; prompt on “French State”]
[10] This man was Minister-President under Josef Terboven after the Nazis removed him from control of his own
Fascist state. This Norwegian statesman’s surname has become a synonym for “traitor.”
ANSWER: Vidkun Abraham Lauritz Jonssøn Quisling
[10] Ion Antonescu created the National Legionary State after being given control of Romania by a king of this
name. The first king of this name was in power when Romania gained independence in 1878 through the Treaty of
Berlin.
ANSWER: Carol [accept Carol I or Carol II; accept Charles or Charles I or Charles II]
15. This man described the failed rebellion of a group of Jacobites in his novel Waverley. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scottish author who depicted Jeanie Deans’ journey to receive a royal pardon for her sister in The
Heart of Midlothian.
ANSWER: Walter Scott, 1st Baronet
[10] Sir Walter Scott wrote this novel, which depicts the adventures of the title knight as he participates in a
tournament under the name “Desdichado” and rescues Lady Rowena from Sir Brian de Bois-Guilbert.
ANSWER: Ivanhoe
[10] This Sir Walter Scott novel follows Frank Osbaldistone as he pursues the villainous Rashleigh. This story ends
with Frank’s inheritance of Sir Hildebrand’s estate and his marriage to Diana Vernon.
ANSWER: Rob Roy
16. Name the following about anthropology, for 10 points each.
[10] This British primatologist studied chimpanzees such as David Greybeard and discovered their ability to use
tools to collect termites for food. Much of her research was carried out in Tanzania’s Gombe Stream National Park.
ANSWER: Jane Morris Goodall [or Valerie Jane Morris-Goodall]
[10] In 1947, Thor Heyerdahl sailed from South America to Polynesia on this balsa-wood raft to prove that ancient
peoples could have made the trip. His subsequent book and a 2012 Oscar-nominated film are named for this vessel.
ANSWER: Kon-Tiki
[10] This German-American “Founder of American Anthropology” and professor at Columbia University studied
the Kwakiutl tribe of British Columbia and described the potlatch gift-giving ceremony.
ANSWER: Franz Uri Boas

Packet 10

9

17. [NOTE TO MODERATOR: do not reveal the alternate answer in the first part unless necessary]
This man claims that he is the most important man in the city, a point he emphasizes by repeating his name many
times in quick succession in one aria. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this operatic character, written for a baritone, who helps Lindoro woo Rosina. In an opera about this
character’s marriage, he sings the aria “Non più andrai” to Cherubino.
ANSWER: Figaro [accept the Barber of Seville]
[10] Figaro appears in this Rossini opera, in which Rosina communicates with the Count Almaviva by dropping
sheet music out of her window.
ANSWER: The Barber of Seville; or The Futile Precaution [or Il barbiere di Siviglia, ossia L’inutile precauzione]
[10] In The Barber of Seville, this man is Rosina’s guardian, who isolates her in a tower in an attempt to marry her.
In The Marriage of Figaro, this man is revealed to have fathered Figaro with Barbarina.
ANSWER: Don Bartolo
18. Name the following about islands in the United States, for 10 points each.
[10] This most populous American island includes JFK Airport and the Hamptons. This island contains the borough
of Queens, and the Brooklyn Bridge links it to Manhattan.
ANSWER: Long Island [or Paumanok]
[10] The San Juan Islands lie in the Salish Sea, located in the northwest corner of this state. Juan de Fuca Strait lies
to the south of those islands, which are provided ferry service by this state’s Olympic Peninsula and Bellingham.
ANSWER: State of Washington [or Washington State]
[10] This southernmost US territory is made up of five volcanic islands and two coral atolls, including the Rose
Atoll. In 2009, this territory was damaged heavily by a magnitude 8.1 earthquake centered 120 miles away.
ANSWER: American Samoa [or Amerika Sāmoa; or Amelika Sāmoa; or Sāmoa Amelika; prompt on “the
Samoan Islands”; do not accept “Malo Sa‘oloto Tuto‘atasi o Sāmoa”]
19. Call me Ishmael. For 10 points each:
[10] I appear as the narrator of this novel, in which I serve with Queequeg on board the Pequod under Captain Ahab,
on a hunt to kill the title white sperm whale.
ANSWER: Moby-Dick; or, The Whale
[10] This author created me. Besides Moby-Dick, he also wrote such works as White-Jacket, Billy Budd, and Benito
Cereno.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
[10] This creepy, aged Parsee shipmate of mine on the Pequod wears his hair wrapped around his head like a turban,
seems to cast no shadow, and obliquely prophesies Captain Ahab’s doom.
ANSWER: Fedallah
20. Name some things about the 2014 U.S. Gubernatorial Election, for 10 points each
[10] Wendy Davis, a Democrat from Fort Worth famous for filibustering a piece of abortion legislation in 2013, will
attempt to succeed the retiring Rick Perry in this state.
ANSWER: State of Texas
[10] This Tea Party governor of Wisconsin, who first became governor in a 2012 recall election, is up for reelection
in 2014. He has passed stringent voter ID laws and rejected a federal grant to set up Obamacare exchanges.
ANSWER: Scott Kevin Walker
[10] A November 2013 New York Times Op-Ed contrasted Walker’s economic policies with those of this man in a
neighboring state, praising the latter for his success. This incumbent in Minnesota also legalized same-sex marriage.
ANSWER: Mark Brandt Dayton

