Cal Classic IV
Packet by Jon Pennington
Tossups
1. In Article One of this document, the United States and Great Britain agreed to let a
commission determine who had legal ownership of two islands in Passamaquoddy Bay.
Signed on Christmas Eve of 1814, this document, named for the city in Belgium in which
it was signed, reaffirmed the boundary between Canadaandthe United States established
in the 1783 Treaty of Paris. FIP, name this treaty that ended the War of 1812.
Answer: the Treaty of .G.b..e.o1
2. This political group became a part of the German government coalition for the first
time in its history and succeededin getting one of its members appointed as Foreign
Minister. In 1996, the American version of this organization put Ralph Nader on the
ballot as its candidate for president. FIP, name this environmentally conscious political
party with a colorful name.
Answer: the .Gmen Party (also accept the Greens)
3. They can be generated most efficiently by selecting a Mersenne prime, then
multiplying it by the largest power of two smaller than the selected prime. Members of
this exclusive group include 8128, 496, 28, and 6. FIP, identify this term given to any
number that is equal to the sum of all its positive integer divisors.
Answer: perfect number
4. A man scheduled to die by hanging points to his persecutor, Colonel Pyncheon, and
shouts, "God will give him blood to drink!" Centuries later, Holgrave Maule, a direct
descendant of the executed man, gains control of the Pyncheon estate after uncovering an
Indian deed that negates the Pyncheons' claim to the land and marrying Phoebe Pyncheon.
FIP, name this gothic novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
Answer: The House of the Seven Gables
5. If you use calcium chloride to melt the ice off a sidewalk, the calcium chloride will not
erode the sidewalk, because the concentration of calcium ions in the mixture of melting
ice and calcium chloride is too high to erode any calcium from the sidewalk. This is an
example of a chemical phenomenon that occurs whenever identical ions in a solution
come from two different salts. FIP, name this chemical effect that reduces the solubility
of a salt by the addition of another salt with the same ion.
Answer: the common jon effect
6. "We need more generalling and less isimo." Sentiments like this were spoken by an
American general about this Asian leader, who did a great deal of grandstanding, but in
fact was saving his resources for the inevitable Civil War against the Communists. This
conduct frustrated American advisors during World War II, who wanted him to resist the
Japanese more. FIP, who is this nationalist Guomintang leader who fled to Taiwan in
1948 when his isimo failed to defeat Mao?
Answer: Chjang Kai-Shek
7. The creator of this mural originally considered adding a single red tear drop to this

artwork, but then decidedto keep everything black and white. Originally created for the
Spanish pavillion at the 1937 Paris World's Fair, this artwork depicted the bombing of
Basquecivilians by the German Luftwaffe during the Spanish Civil War. FTP, name this
mural depicting the horrors of war created by Pablo Picasso.
Answer: Guernica
8. Before it became extinct in the Permian period, this arthropod survived on food
particles it sucked in from the bottoms of lakes and streams and it was the first living
creature to develop eyesight. American Indians referred to it as "the little water bug
that lives in the rocks," but its proper scientific name refers to the creature's
exoskeleton, which consisted of three lobes. FTP, name this easily recognizable fossil
extremely popular among fossil collectors.
Answer: the trilobite
9. This term originally referred to the impoverished members of society who could not
contribute to the government, except by bearing and raising children. In modern
political theory, it refers to propertyless laborers who sell their labor power to
capitalists in exchange for wages, typically under exploitative conditions. FTP, name
this economic class portrayed in Marxist political theory as opposed to the bourgeoisie.
Answer: the proletariat (also accept proletarians; do not accept working class)
10. Most literary scholars believe that the prototype for this character was Lord
Burghley, a close advisor of Queen Elizabeth. He is portrayed by Shakespeare as an
ineffective meddler who spouts aphorisms such as "Let neither a borrower nor a lender
be" and "To thine own self be true." FTP, name this advisor who makes the fatal mistake
of eavesdropping on Hamlet from behind a tapestry.
Answer: Polonius
11. Her political enemies said that she was a former prostitute and actress from
Constantinople who would parade in the streets wearing nothing but a giant red ribbon.
She crushed the Nika rebellion in 532 A.D. and encouraged her husband to adopt the
doctrine of Monophysitism, which argued that Jesus Christ was divine, but not human.
FTP, name this empress of the Byzantine empire, the wife of Justinian the First.
Answer: Theodora
12. In ballet, it refers to a pose in which the dancer stands on one leg with one arm
extended in front and the other leg and arm extended behind. In music, it refers to a
short decorative piano piece, most closely associated with Claude Debussy. For film
buffs, it refers to a 1966 secret agent thriller starring Gregory Peck and Sophia Loren
that director Stanley Donen made to capitalize on the success of his 1963 movie Charade.
FTP, what is this versatile term that can also be used to refer to ornamental motifs with
undulating lines or a style of architecture common in Islamic countries?
Answer: arabesque
13. He was a Quaker and a fervent abolitionist who denounced Daniel Webster's
acceptance of the Compromise of 1850 in the poem "Ichabod." In one of his most famous
poems, he celebrates a gray-haired woman who valiantly prevented Confederate troops
from shooting at an American flag. FTP, identify this poet who wrote "The Telling of the
Bees," "Barbara Frietchie," and "SnOWbound."

Answer: John Greenleaf Whjttier
14. It is not an independent country, but its parliament, Tynwald, is the oldest in the
world, established over one thousand years ago. Its capital is Douglas and it is home to a
breed of cats born without any tails. FTP, name this island in the United Kingdom whose
name would seem to indicate that its population is entirely male.
Answer: the Isle of Man
15. Minor characters in this literary work include Lucky and Pozzo, but the title
character never arrives. At the end of this play, the two main characters say "Yes, then
let's go," but the stage directions indicate that they cannot move. FTP, name this
absurdist drama with the protagonists Vladimir and Estragon, written by Samuel
Beckett.
Answer: Waiting for Godot(En Attendant GodoO
16. When the body absorbs excess blood from ruptured blood vessels, it can lead to a
disease that produces swollen joints, anemia, inflamed gums, and tooth loss. In 1795,
the British Navy successfully reduced the incidence of this disease among British sailors
by providing all British naval vessels with supplies of lime juice. FTP, what is this
deficiency disease caused by a lack of vitamin c:?
Answer: scurvy
17. He survived being thrown from Mount Olympus on two occasions, once by Zeus and
once by his mother Hera, because she thought he was too weak and ugly. He is the creator
of the twelve golden thrones of the Olympians and, despite his horrible looks, he is the
husband of Aphrodite, the goddessofbeauty. FTP, identify this Greek god of fire, the
equivalent to the Roman god Vulcan.
Answer: Hephaestus
18. This speech saved a 1952 Vice Presidential candidate's career. A pathetic mix of
denial, defensiveness, and desperation, Nixon smarmed his way out of kick-back
accusations, claiming the only gift he had received and not reported was this pet for his
daughter. FTP, by what name is this speech known, most famous for Nixon's finale,
"We're not going to give (him) back."
Answer: Checkers speech
19. This painter, born with the name Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi, depicted the sister
of the explorer Amerigo Vespucci as the embodiment of female beauty in his most famous
painting. His later paintings, such as the Mystic Crucifixion and the Madonna of the
Pomegranate, dealt with religious material, but his earlier paintings, such as
Primavera, were criticized for mixing pagan and Christian symbolism. FTP, name this
Italian Renaissance artist who painted The Birth of Venus.
Answer: Sandro Bottjcelli
20. Cellular phones may malfunction, because high-energy ions and electrons trapped in
the Earth's magnetic field can interfere with satellite transmissions. First detected by
the satellite Explorer I in 1958, this region consists of ions and electrons which emit
intense radiation and can be found in two layers approximately 3000 kilometers and
15,000 kilometers above the Earth's surface. FTP, what is this region of radiation-

emitting particles named after the NASA scientist who discovered it?
Answer: the Van Allen belts (prompt on radiation belts)
21. He mistakes a barber's basin for the golden helmet of the mythical giant Mambrino.
His horse's name is the same as the Spanish word for "nag," but he refers to his lady love
as Dulcinea, which means "sweet woman." FTP, identify this literary character, with
the sidekick Sancho Panza, originally created by Miguel de Cervantes.
Answer: Don Quixote de la Mancha
22. Charles Albert of Bavaria, Augustus the Third of Saxony, and Phillip the Fifth of
Spain all hoped that this war would allow them to take control of the Holy Roman Empire.
The war began in 1740 when Frederick the Second of Prussia invaded Silesia and it ended
in 1748 with the ratification of the treaty of Aix-Ia-Chappelle (eye-Ia-sha-PELL).
FTP, identify this war that began because of opposition to granting leadership of the Holy
Roman Empire to Empress Maria Theresa of Austria.
Answer: the War of Austrian Succession (also accept King George's War)
23. In Nazi Germany, anti-Semitic writers falsely claimed that the composer of this
opera was murdered in 1791 by a conspiracy of Jews and Masons who were outraged at
the opera's exposure of Masonic symbolism and ritual. Characters in this opera include
a high priest of the Holy Brotherhood of Isis and Osiris, Papageno the birdcatcher,
Prince Tamino, and Princess Pam ina. FTP, what is this musical work by Wolfgang
AmadeusMozart often performed today asa "children's opera"?
Answer: The Magic Flute (Die Zauberflote)
24. According to this man's system of classification, Stage 1 is based on obediencethat
derives from a fear of punishment and Stage4 is based on respect for rules and laws.
Feminist Carol Gilligan has sharply criticized him for overemphasizing abstract
principles of justice and ignoring the relational basis of morality. FTP, name this
professor of psychology at Harvard University known for developing six stages of moral
development.
Answer: Lawrence Kohlberg

Cal Classic IV
Packet by Jon Pennington

1. For 30 pts., 5 pts. each, name the current Prime Minister of Great Britain and the
five Prime Ministers who preceded him.
Answers: Tony.Blair, John MajQ[, Margaret Thatcher, James Callaghan, Harold
Wilson, and Edward~
2. Identify the following 20th century sculptors F15PE:
a) This Romanian abstract sculptor is best known for Bird in Spaceand The Kiss.
Answer: Constantin Brancusj
b) He was not a conventional sculptor, but a designer of large mobiles that would hang
from the ceilings of large buildings, such as the National Gallery of Art or the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
Answer: Alexander Qak1er
3. For this grammar bonus, you will have to identify the proper verb tense in the
following sentences. For example, if I said "I got jiggy with it," you. would say "past
tense" or "simple past tense." Identify the verb tense in these similar sentences FTPE:
a) She was getting jiggy with it.
Answer: past progressjye (or jmperfect)
tense
b) He had gotten jiggy with it.
Answer: past perfect tense
c) You will have been getting jiggy with it. Answer: future perfect progressjye or
future pluperfect tense
4. Answer the following questions about countries with unusual flags FTPE:
a) This is the only country with an official flag in the shape of square, instead of a
rectangle.
Answer: Swjtzerland
b) This is the only country with an official flag that is not in shape of either a square or
a rectangle.
Answer: Nella!
c) This Islamic country is the only country with a flag that has only one color, the color
green.
Answer: ~
5. Identify the following famous dancers FTPE:
a) Born in 1880, he was the best Russian ballet dancer of his era and he was a founding
member of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballet Russe.
Answer: Vaslav Njjjnsky
b) Born Margaret Hookham, she was the most successful British ballet dancer of all time
and served as prima ballerina in the British Royal Ballet from 1940 to 1979.
Answer: Dame Margot Fonteyn
c) As a teenager, this dancer was a regular on Sesame Street, but he is best known for
his tap dancing in the Broadway sensation, Bring In Da Noise, Bring In Da Funk.
Answer: Savion ~

6. Identify the following categories of elements from the periodic table FTPE:
a) This group consists of elements such as fluorine, chlorine, and iodine that have seven
electrons in their outer electron shell, which makes it easy for them to form compounds
with metals.
Answer: halogens
b) This group includes all elements except hydrogen with only one electron in its outer
electron shell. Members of this group include lithium, sodium, and potassium and can be
quite volatile when reacting with water.
Answer: alkali metals
c) This category refers to a series of rare earth elements with the atomic numbers 57
through 71, such as neodymium, terbium, and holmium.
Answer: lanthanides or lanthanoids
7. In 1996, the journal Contemporary Sociology published a list of what it viewed as the
top ten most influential books of sociology of all time. Answer the following questions
about books on that list FTPE:
a) This French philosopher and historian who died of AIDS in 1984 was included on the
list for his book Discipline and Punish about the historical development of prison
systems.
Answer: Michel Foucault (pronounced foo-KOH)
b) This sociologist from the University of Chicago was included on the list for his book
The Declining Significance of Race, but not for his book The Truly Disadvantaged. He has
also served as an unofficial advisor to President Clinton on issues of race and poverty.
Answer: William Julius Wilson
c) This book published by the Boston Women's Health Collective was criticized for its
inclusion on the list, because of its lack of connection to sociology, but it is still
noteworthy because it is considered the most successful attempt by the feminist
movement to demystify medicine and health care for women and teenage girls.
Answer: Our Bodies, Our Selves (also accept The New Our Bodies, Our Selves)
8. Answer the following questions about Norse mythology for the stated number of points:
a) For 15 pts., 5 pts. each, name the three days of the week not named after gods fro m
Norse mythology.
Answer: Sunday, Monday. and Saturday
b) Now for 10 points, five per pair, name the four gods who give their names to the
other days of the week.
Answer: llr (or Iu), Wotan (or QWn) IhQr, .Emya
c) For a final five points, the moon and sun were not godsin Norse myth. What sort of
animal chased them through the sky?
Answer: Wolyes
9. For this bonus, I will give you the year of a presidential election and a third-party
candidate who ran during that year. Your task is to provide me with the political party
that nominated him FSNOP:
a) FFP, 1912, Teddy Roosevelt
Answer: Bull Moose or Progressive Party)
b) FTP, 1948, Strom Thurmond
Answer: States' Bights or Dixiecrat Party
Answer: Constitutional Union or
c) F15P 1860, John Bell
Constitutional Unionists

10. Identify the directors of the following numerically titled foreign films FTPE:
a) The Seventh Seal
Answer: Ingmar Bergman
b) The 400 Blows
Answer: Francois Truffaut
c) Eight and a Half
Answer: Federico Billi.ni.
11. Answer the following questions about nucleotides FTPE:
a) What is the only nucleotide that can be found in DNA, but not RNA?
Answer: thymine
b) What is the only nucleotide that can be found in RNA, but not DNA?
Answer: ~
c) Thymine and uracil are both included in what category of nucleotides?
Answer: pyrimidines
12. Identify the philosopher who said the following quotes FSNOP:
a) F5P, I think, therefore I am.
Answer: Rene Descartes
b) FTP, Those who do not learn from the past are condemned to repeat it.
Answer: George Santayana
c) F15P, If Goddid not exist, it would be necessarty to invent Him.
Answer: Voltaire or Francois Marie Arouet
13. Identify the following short stories by Edgar Allan Poe FTPE:
a) A man commits revenge against another man by luring him to his wine cellar and
burying him alive.
Answer: "The Cask of Amontillado"
b) A dwarf jester exacts murderous revenge against the king and the king's advisors who
tease him mercilessly.
Answer: "Hop-Frog"
c) The detective Auguste Dupin solves an unspeakable crime committed by an orangutang.
Answer: "The Murders in the Rue Morgue"
14. Identify the physical quantities measured by the following equations for 10 pts.
each,5 pts. if you need to know the standard unit for measuring that quantity.
a) 10 pts.: the product of force times distance divided by time.
5 pts.: watt
Answer: ~ or radiant flux
b) 10 pts.: force divided by area.
5 pts. : pascal
Answer: pressure
c) 10 pts.: electromotive force divided by electric current.
5 pts.: ohm
Answer: resistance
15. Identify the following poetic terms FTPE:
a) A type of sonnet, also known as an Italian sonnet, that uses the rhyme scheme
ABBAABBACDECDE.
Answer: petrarchan sonnet
b) The verse form, used by Dante, using the rhyme scheme ABA,BCB,CDC, etc.
Answer: Terza rima

c) A form of poetry invented by the Japanese that consists of three lines, with five
syllables in the first line, seven in the second, and five in the third.
Answer: b.alIw
16. Many famous books have taken their titles from lines in Shakespeare plays. Identify
the Shakespeare play that served as the source for the following titles for 15 pts. each,
5pts. if you need additional clue:
a) 15 pt. clue: Brave New World;
5 pt. clue: Miranda says these words in the presence of Prospero, Alonso, and Ferdinand.
Answer: The Tempest
b) 15 pt. clue: Fatal Vision;
5pt. clue: this phrase appears in the "dagger speech" recited by the title character
Answer: Macbeth
17. Provide the more common name for the following medical conditions FTPE:
a) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
Answer: Lou Gehrig's Disease
b) Pertussis
Answer: whooping cough
c) Hansen's disease
Answer: leprosy
18. Answer the following questions about the history of India FTPE:
a) This Mogul emperor built a famous mausoleum for his wife, Mumtaz Mehal, in the
city of Agra. This mausoleum is now a destination for thousands of tourists worldwide.
Answer: Shah J.ab.an
b) This revolt, which lasted from 1857 to 1859, began when the British forced Hindu
and Muslim soldiers to bite cartridges greased with pork fat and beef tallow.
Answer: the Sepoy Mutjny (also acceptthe Sepoy Rebellion; prompt on.lru1ian
Rebellion)
c) This British admiral served as the last governor general of India when India finally
became independent in 1 948.
Answer: Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl of Mountbatten of Burma
19. Identify these factions of the French Revolution FTPE:
a) This term, which derives from the French words for "without britches," referred to
urban radicals in large cities who supported revolutionary methods to establish a
republican government. The term was originally used as an insult by aristocrats to
make fun of the urban poor, but was later adopted by the revolutionaries themselves.
Answer: sans-culottes
b) This group of French radicals promoted the Reign of the Terror and supported the
execution of Louis XVI. Their name is the same as the French term for "Dominicans,"
because they met in a Dominican convent before they came to power.
Answer: the Jacobins
c) This faction was more moderate than the Jacobins and opposed the execution of Louis
XVI. Oneof its most famous members was Charlotte Corday, the assassin of Jean Paul
Marat.
Answer: the Gjrondists

20. Identify the following social science terms that begin with the letter "0" for 10 pts.
each:
a) This term refers to the philosophy that states that it is possible to create accurate
representations of the external physical and social world without any influence from the
observer's perspective. Ayn Rand claimed that her political philosophy was an example
of this.
Answer: objectivism
b) This word derives from the Greek words for "rule by the few." It refers to
organizations or governments that are ruled by a small elite with minimal input from
lower-ranking members or citizens.
Answer: oligarchy
21. Identify the following persons related to the impeachment and trial of President Bill
Clinton FTPE:
a) This Illinois congressman is chairman of the HouseJudiciary Committee, where the
final impeachment resolution originated. Like Bill Clinton, newspaper reports have
accused him of cheating on his wife.
Answer: Henry J:I.yd.e.
b) This Georgia congressman and one of the House managers was the first to file an
impeachment resolution against Bill Clinton, long before the discovery of Monica
Lewinsky.
Answer: Bob Barr
c) He was the only Democratic member of Congress to have the opportunity to vote on
President Clinton's impeachment twice, once as a member of the House 0 f
Representatives and once as a member of the Senate.
Answer: Charles Schumer
22. Identify the following female astronomers for 15 pts. each:
a) She became the first professional female American astronomer after the military
hired her to develop a chart of the position of Venus. She served as professor 0 f
Astronomy at Vassar College from 1865 to 1888 and was the first woman selected as a
member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Answer: Maria Mitchell
b) She discovered eight comets during her career and received a salary of 50 pounds per
year from George III as the assistant to the royal astronomer. In 1781, she assisted her
brother William in discovering the planet Uranus.
Answer: Caroline Herschel
25. Identify the musical compositions based on an incomplete list of sections from the
composition for 15 pts. each, 10 pts. if you need the name of the composer.
a) 15 pts.: the Bringer of Jollity, the Bringer of War, and the Winged Messenger
10 pts.: Gustav Holst
Answer: The Planets
b) 15 pts.: the Gnome, the Promenade, and the Great Gate of Kiev
10 pts.: Modest Mussorgsky
Answer Pictures at an Exhibition

a

