PRISON BOWL IX
Questions written and edited by Hunter College High School (Gilad Avrahami, Sam Brochin, Christopher Chilton, David Godovich,
Lily Goldberg, Ada-Marie Gutierrez, Diane Hwangpo, Joshua Kwan, Chloe Levine, Alice Lin, Brian Lu, Helen Lyons, Daniel Ma,
Albert Tai, Luke Tierney, and Rachel Yang), with contributions from Rohan Nag and Jeff Xie
Round 01
Tossups
1. During this event, many individuals slept on bare mattresses in opposition to a fellow participant being locked in a dark closet.
Several individuals took up fire extinguishers to use as weapons in this event, while another figure in it was nicknamed “John Wayne”
due to his sadistic demeanor. After Christina Maslach questioned this event’s morality, it was terminated after only six days. When
this experiment began, coin flips assigned participants as either guards or prisoners. For 10 points, name this experiment conducted by
Philip Zimbardo in the basement of its namesake California university.
ANSWER: Stanford prison experiment (prompt on Stanford experiment) <AT>
2. This man wrote a cantata about Druids practicing pagan rituals in The First Walpurgis Night, as well as the opera Camacho’s
Wedding. A violin solo rather than an orchestral tutti opens this composer’s Violin Concerto in E minor. Another of this composer’s
works includes the songs “The Removal of the Spells” and “Ye spotted snakes,” and in honor of the Augsburg Confession, he wrote
his Reformation symphony. This composer was inspired by his visit to Fingal’s Cave to write the Hebrides Overture. For 10 points,
name this composer who included a famous wedding march in his incidental music to A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn <AT>
3. The complexometric form of this process depends on the formation of coordinate covalent bonds to metal cations. The Winkler test
uses this process to detect dissolved oxygen, while another type of this process is performed on colloids and emulsions, and seeks to
find those substances’ zeta potentials. A crucial step in this process involves analyzing a sigmoid graph and finding its inflection point.
This process utilizes a burette, which adds a reactant to an analyte until the equivalence point is reached. For 10 points, name this
procedure used to find the concentration of a solution.
ANSWER: titration (accept titrimetry) <AT>
4. When an old man offers $350 to two men in this novel, one character says, “‘Jesus Christ! I bet we could swing her!’” A retired
boxer in this novel often keeps a glove of vaseline on his left hand, and is extremely protective of his wife. In a story that one
character enjoys hearing, he “lives off the fatta’ the land” and when it rains, he says “the hell with goin’ to work.” This novel’s title is
based on a line from a Burns poem. The aforementioned wife “gives the eye” to many of the employees on the ranch, and her neck is
accidentally broken by one of this work’s protagonists. For 10 points, name this novel by John Steinbeck that centers on George and
Lennie.
ANSWER: Of Mice and Men <RY>
5. This man’s attempt to stop a wind farm from being built near a piece of his property was dismissed by five British Supreme Court
justices. Scottish Prime Minister Alex Salmond referred to this man as “three times a loser.” He announced his bid for the presidency
in 2000 on Larry King Live, and in 1988, he made a deal to acquire the Taj Mahal Casino, which generated large debt and filed for
bankruptcy. This man infamously called himself “a nice person,” and after the San Bernardino shootings, proposed a ban on Muslims
entering the U.S.. For 10 points, name this former host of Celebrity Apprentice, the current Republican frontrunner in the 2016
Presidential race.
ANSWER: Donald (John) Trump (grudgingly accept Donald Drumpf, prompt on The Donald) <RY>
6. This work discusses Hannibal’s “inhuman cruelty” toward his army, as well as the “criminal virtue” of Agathocles of Syracuse. A
chapter of this work describes Moses as a conqueror due to his status as an armed prophet. This work begins by discussing the
distinction between “mixed” states and purely new states. It denounces mercenaries as purely money-driven, and portrays fortune as a
woman who must be beaten. This work states that an effective ruler must emulate both the lion and the fox, and praises Cesare Borgia
as one of those rulers. Dedicated to a member of the Medici family, for 10 points, name this political treatise by Niccolo Machiavelli.
ANSWER: The Prince (accept Il Principe) <AT>
7. Early in his political career, this man signed the Mulford Act, and he received controversy after designating deceased Waffen-SS
members as “victims.” After a terrorist attack on a Berlin discotheque, this man ordered the bombing of Libya. This signer of the INF
Treaty gave the “Morning in America” speech, and proposed an elaborate space-based missile defense system that became ridiculed as
“Star Wars.” This leader’s namesake economic policy became closely associated with supply-side economics. For 10 points, name this
Republican U.S. president who ordered Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down this wall,” the predecessor of George H. W. Bush.
ANSWER: Ronald Reagan (accept Ronald Wilson Reagan) <AT>

8. After the protagonist breaks into a hospital room in this film, a patient puts on her glasses and tells him to “stop.” At its beginning, a
man is forced to drink bourbon after being kidnapped in an attempt to stage a drunk driving accident after he is mistaken for “George
Kaplan.” This film’s opening credits are projected along the side of a New York City glass skyscraper. During its climax, Leonard
pursues its main characters down Mount Rushmore. An iconic scene sees the protagonist nearly hit by a crop-duster plane. Starring
James Mason, Cary Grant, and Eva Marie Saint, for 10 points, name this 1959 Alfred Hitchcock spy thriller.
ANSWER: North by Northwest <CL>
9. The childhood girlfriend of this work’s narrator knifes an elderly woman and is sent away to reform school. Another character in
this novel is sent on an errand to allow time for the seduction of Vanita. The narrator of this novel has amnesia until an exile in
Sundarban, and later, this novel criticizes the prime minister’s overreach during the Emergency. Its narrator has a large, dripping nose
and telepathic powers, which he uses to contact others like him, like Shiva “of the Knees” and “Parvati-the-Witch.” Saleem Sinai and
others are the title figures of, for 10 points, what magical realist novel by Salman Rushdie?
ANSWER: Midnight’s Children <CL>
10. This body of water was used to access the Steelyard from Lubeck, a Kontor and member of a noted trading organization on it. The
Kingston Emerald was attacked in this sea during the Cod Wars. Both the scuttling of the German High Seas Fleet in the Scapa Flow
and the Battle of Dogger Bank were in this sea during WWI. Its Roughs Tower claims to be the Principality of Sealand. The Kiel
Canal connects the Baltic Sea to this sea, and the Anglo-Dutch Wars were primarily fought on it. The Hanseatic League often operated
in this sea. For 10 points, name this sea between Britain and Norway that is connected to the Atlantic by the English Channel.
ANSWER: North Sea <CL>
11. One of this man’s paintings features a lightning bolt in the upper left corner, causing the titular horse to twist its neck backwards.
Another of his paintings includes an Assyrian fortress in the background, as well as a bed with elephant heads on its corners. A hand
protrudes through rubble beneath a kneeling woman in his Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi. This artist of The Death of
Sardanapalus used hats to denote social classes in a work which features a Phrygian cap-clad Marianne. That painting centers on a
bare-chested woman waving a French flag amidst the July Revolution. For 10 points, name this artist of Liberty Leading the People.
ANSWER: Eugène Delacroix (accept Ferdinand Victor Eugène Delacroix) <CL>
12.One of these things began in Lumpkin County, Georgia, and ultimately was the cause of Indian removal. Rabbit Creek was
renamed after George Cormack and Skookum Jim began one of these events. Another of these events was initiated on the rancho of
New Helvetia (“hel-VEE-shuh”). Participants in one of these events returned on the Excelsior and the Portland. These events
prompted the Foreign Miners’ Tax on the Chinese and used a technique called panning. An 1849 discovery at Sutter’s Mill in
California prompted one of the largest of these events, which was followed by an explosion in California’s population. For 10 points,
name these migrations, often West, to gather a certain precious metal.
ANSWER: gold rushes [be lenient on word variants]
13. When an object possesses a constant value for this quantity, it can be described with Rindler coordinates, and it will undergo
hyperbolic motion. When repeatedly reflected, particles will undergo an increase in a type of this quantity named after Fermi. The
equivalence principle likens a uniform gravitational field to this quantity, and increases in it will cause increases in g-forces. For an
object undergoing circular motion, this value is equal to velocity squared over the radius of the path, and this value is the derivative of
velocity with respect to time. For 10 points, force equals mass multiplied by what value?
ANSWER: acceleration (accept linear acceleration, do not accept “angular acceleration”) <AT>
14. An unconventional work in this form is “Nothing was ever what it claimed to be” by Karen Volkman, and another work in this
form proclaims that the speaker has “never felt a calm so deep!” That one does not contain a volta, because it is the Italian type.
Another poem in this form, a “Holy” one,” is by John Donne and opens, “Death, be not proud.” Many of these poems, including one
which states, “My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun,” were written for the “Dark Lady.” Containing three quatrains and a
couplet, for 10 points, identify these closed form poems in iambic pentameter, many of which were written by Shakespeare.
ANSWER: sonnets [accept English, Shakespearean or Spenserian sonnet until “never felt” or accept Petrarchan or Italian sonnet
until “Italian”] <CL>
15. Two people with this relationship helped the Argonauts defeat King Amycus and invade the city of Iolcus; those two people were
called the Dioscuri. Two people with this relationship turned their half brothers into the Howler Monkey Gods, and defeated a bird
demon named Vucub-Caquix, or “Seven-Macaw.” A set of these individuals that escaped the underworld by playing a ballgame was
known as the “Hero” example of these entities. One set of these people were suckled by a she-wolf and later founded a city on the
Palatine Hill. For 10 points, name this relation shared by the Greek deities Apollo and Artemis.
ANSWER: twins [prompt on brothers or siblings]

16. Some of these entities decussate at the bases of pyramidal cells. These cells can form tracts and are divided into commissural,
association, and projection fibers. All mechanoreceptors are this type of cell. Some groups of these cells are called ganglia. Reflex arcs
are made from two or more of these cells. Grey matter and white matter, which differ in myelin content, are tissues made of these
cells. For 10 points, name these cells that comprise the brain and spinal cord and transmit electrical impulses through synapses.
ANSWER: neurons (prompt on nerve cells, do not accept “nerves”)
17. The study of Redology is dedicated to a work set primarily in this city. The aftermath of the Northern Expedition saw this city lose
its status as capital. The Macartney expedition unsuccessfully sought to create a British embassy in this city, and the Eight-Nation
Alliance occupied it in 1900. In 1937, the Marco Polo Bridge Incident south of this city caused the start of the second Sino-Japanese
War. In 1860, British and French soldiers burned the Summer Palace in this capital of the Qing Dynasty. For 10 points, name this
home of Tiananmen Square, the current Chinese capital.
ANSWER: Beijing (accept Peking)
18. This writer’s first novel consists of the correspondences of two second cousins, twice removed. That novel is Poor Folk. A work
by this man includes the section “Apropos of the Wet Snow” and is often considered to be the first existential novel. This man was
inspired by his imprisonment to write The House of the Dead. He tried to create “the positively good and beautiful man” in Prince
Myshkin and also created a character who compares himself to Napoleon Bonaparte and murders Alyona [al-YO-na] Ivanovna. That
character is Raskolnikov. For 10 points, name this Russian author of The Idiot and Crime and Punishment.
ANSWER: Fyodor (Mikhailovich) Dostoevsky [accept Fyodor Dostoyevsky, etc.] <CL>
19. Components of this entity classified as beta-spinel and gamma-spinel are wadsleyite and ringwoodite, and it can be studied by
examining the compositions of xenoliths. The bottom portion of this entity’s ultra-low velocity D double-prime layer is marked by a
seismic velocity discontinuity named after Gutenberg. Largely comprised of olivine, this structure’s upper boundary is the
Mohorovicic (Mo-ho-ro-vee-chick) Discontinuity, and its convection currents drive the movements of tectonic plates. For 10 points,
name this region of the earth between the crust and the outer core.
ANSWER: mantle (prompt on lithosphere or asthenosphere) <AT>
20. This healer of Agatha resurrected the generous Tabitha, and along with John, cured a cripple at the Beautiful Gate. While
attempting to flee Rome, this man asked a passerby “quo vadis (“WA-dis”)?,” and after being imprisoned by Herod, he was freed by
an angel. Because he believed himself to be unworthy of dying like Jesus, this man demanded that he be crucified upside-down. This
recipient of the “Rock of my Church” speech had previously denied Jesus three times, and he is commonly depicted holding the keys
to the gates of heaven. For 10 points, name this apostle who is considered to the first Pope.
ANSWER: Saint Peter (accept Simon Peter, prompt on Simon or similar name variants) <AT/JK>
TB. The protagonists of this novel give up their breakfast on Christmas Day to give it to a poor family, the Hummels, and another
character in this novel falls in love with Professor Baehr. One of this novel’s characters struggles to control her anger when her
youngest sister burns a book she had written, and nearly allows that sister to drown during an ice-skating accident. In this novel, Demi
and Daisy are the twin children of John and Meg, and Jo sells her hair to help finance her mother’s trip to Washington, DC to nurse
her sick father. Later, Jo’s little sister Beth catches scarlet fever and dies. For 10 points, name this 19th century novel about the title
four March sisters by Louisa May Alcott.
ANSWER: Little Women <RY>
Bonuses
1. These mostly-paramagnetic elements exhibit at least two oxidation states, and compounds containing them are often bright-colored
due to the movement of their electrons across different energy states. For 10 points:
[10] Name these elements. They include groups 3 to 12 on the periodic table.
ANSWER: transition metals (or transition elements, prompt on metals)
[10] Transition metals exhibit their characteristic properties because these four-lobed entities are only partially filled.
ANSWER: d orbitals
[10] In two transition metals, an electron from the 4s orbital will move to the 3d orbital in order to fill that orbital halfway, stabilizing
the atom but violating the Aufbau principle. Name either of those two elements.
ANSWER: copper or chromium (either acceptable; accept Cu or Cr) <AT>

2. One character in this novel ascends to heaven while sewing sheets, and another has an eating competition with the Elephant. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this novel about the multi-generational Buendía family, penned by Gabriel García Márquez. At one point in this novel, a
machine gun kills three thousand people.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years of Solitude [accept Cien Años de Soledad]
[10] One Hundred Years of Solitude takes place in this city of mirrors, which is eventually destroyed by a hurricane. José Arcadio
Buendía founds this city and imagines it to be surrounded by water.
ANSWER: Macondo
[10] This daughter of Ursula Iguarán and member of the second generation of the Buendía family wears a black bandage that
represents virginity in the novel. She feuds with her adoptive sister Rebeca over Pietro Crespi.
ANSWER: Amaranta Ursula [prompt on Ursula] <CL>
3. This trade route was closed after being captured by Tibetans in 678, but was reopened by Empress Wu during the Second Zhou
(“JOE”) Dynasty in 699. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this route from China to Rome, which Marco Polo traveled.
ANSWER: Silk Road
[10] This city on the Silk Road was the Sogdiana capital, and it had the Greek name of Marakanda. It contains the Registan square and
the Gur-e-Amir Mausoleum. Babur notably lost control of this city three times.
ANSWER: Samarqand
[10] This other Silk Road city, now the capital of Shaanxi province, served as the starting point for the Silk Road. The Terracotta
Army was later discovered here.
ANSWER: Xi’an [accept Sian; accept Chang’an]
4. Don’t throw away your shot to answer these questions about a musical centering on a “ten dollar founding father without a father.”
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 2015 Broadway musical, which opens by describing its title character as a “bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a
Scotsman.” Characters in this musical rap about the American debt plan in “Cabinet Battle #1.”
ANSWER: Hamilton [do not accept or prompt on “Alexander Hamilton”]
[10] In Hamilton, this character’s name is frequently followed by the word “sir.” Played by Leslie Odom Jr., he sings “love doesn’t
discriminate between the sinners and the saints” in “Wait For It” and addresses “Dear Theodosia” to his daughter.
ANSWER: Aaron Burr [accept either underlined portion]
[10] This MacArthur “Genius Grant” Fellow and Hunter College High School graduate served as the librettist, composer, and star of
Hamilton. He set his musical In the Heights in a largely Dominican-American community.
ANSWER: Lin-Manuel Miranda <CL>
5. The gabelle and corvée (“cor-VAY”) were types of these economic measures, and the intendant systems in both Bourbon dynasties
collected them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these government levies on goods like salt, property, and wealth.
ANSWER: taxes
[10] The “robe” and “sword” were two types of this French social group. They were exempt from most taxes and comprised the
Second Estate.
ANSWER: nobility or nobles
[10] Holders of this position, like Richelieu (“ree-SHELL-you”) and Mazarin, sought to protect the French nobility and the Church
from taxes, and ended up taxing the poor.
ANSWER: Cardinal
6. The artist of this painting painted another version of it with its key objects split into fragments, titled “The Disintegration” of this
painting. For 10 points:
[10] Name this painting, which some theorized to represent the Theory of Special Relativity.
ANSWER: The Persistence of Memory
[10] The Persistence of Memory is a painting by this Spanish surrealist artist. He fixed a lobster sculpture atop a telephone in his aptly
named Lobster Telephone.
ANSWER: Salvador Dali
[10] In another painting, Dali drew two of these animals with extremely elongated legs. Another Dali painting features them as the
reflections of swans.
ANSWER: elephants <AT>

7. According to Jesus, “the kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed.” So is getting a 30 on a quiz bowl bonus. Name

some things about the parables of Jesus, for 10 points each:
[10] This figure, a man who helps a Jew who has been beaten along the side of the road, is now used as phrase describing anyone who
helps a stranger.
ANSWER: Good Samaritan
[10] In one parable, Jesus compares the kingdom of Heaven to this plant. It grows to become a tree “so that the birds of the air come
and lodge in its branches."
ANSWER: mustard (accept mustard plants or mustard trees)
[10] This book of the Bible is the only one to depict the mustard seed being grown in a garden as opposed to a field. This book begins
with a preface to Theophilus and features the Parable of the Prodigal Son.
ANSWER: Gospel of Luke <JK>
8. In this novel, Constance Bonacieux, the seamstress of the Austrian Queen of France, is beloved by a main character. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this historical adventure novel about d’Artagnan’s attempts to join a certain group, of which Athos, Porthos, and Aramis
are members. Other characters include Comte de Rochefort and Milady de Winter.
ANSWER: The Three Musketeers [accept Les Trois Mousquetaires]
[10] This author of The Three Musketeers also wrote The Vicomte of Bragelonne: 10 Years Later and a novel about the revengeseeking Edmond Dantes, The Count of Monte Cristo. He had a son with the same name.
ANSWER: Alexandre Dumas [do not accept “Thomas-Alexandre Dumas”]
[10] The final installment of the Three Musketeers saga is given this name, which is also the name of a historic prisoner who was
arrested under the name Eustache Dauger.
ANSWER: The Man in the Iron Mask [accept L’Homme au Masque de Fer] <CL>
9. For 10 points each, name some things about the biology behind the game agar.io (agar-ee-oh).
[10] By pressing the spacebar, one can split their cell into two identical copies of itself via this cellular process. In this process, with
phases like prophase and metaphase, sister chromatids are separated into two daughter cells.
ANSWER: mitosis
[10] Player cells can engulf rainbow food pellets or other players’ cells via this action. Macrophages commonly perform this process,
where vesicles are formed to house foreign objects.
ANSWER: phagocytosis
[10] In agar.io, players move their cell by moving their cursor around the map. Actual amoebas move by extending or retracting these
bulges of cytoplasm, formed by the coordinated pushing action of actin microfilaments.
ANSWER: pseudopods (or pseudopodia) <AT>
10. It’s the city of love but, devastatingly, hatred was brought to this city in November 2015. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this national capital targeted by ISIL in an attack in which over 120 people were killed. President Francois Hollande called
the attack on this city “an act of war” in the following days.
ANSWER: Paris
[10] One targeted site in Paris was this theater, in which gunmen shot at the crowd before holding hostages. The Eagles of Death
Metal were playing at this theater before the attack.
ANSWER: the Bataclan
[10] Controversy arose when one of these objects was found near some suicide bombers’ bodies. An investigation found that up to
eight attackers may have had identical versions of these objects.
ANSWER: Syrian passport [accept equivalents; prompt on any sort of official documentation about travel, asylum, migration, etc.
from Syria] <CL>
11. This poet wrote that “[i]n the hour of darkness and peril and need, / The people will wake and listen to hear / The hurrying hoofbeat of that steed,” which carries the protagonist of his most famous poem. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this poet of “Paul Revere’s Ride.” He also wrote about an Acadian heroine named Evangeline searching for her lover
Gabriel.
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
[10] Longfellow also wrote this epic poem about an Iroquois hero who falls in love with Minnehaha. The poem ends when its title
hero leaves on a canoe, encouraging his people to heed the Christian missionaries who have just arrived.
ANSWER: The Song of Hiawatha
[10] Longfellow based the meter of The Song of Hiawatha on this national epic of Finland by Elias Lonnrot.
ANSWER: The Kalevala <CC>

12. These objects can be longitudinal or transverse, depending on whether the particle displacement is parallel or perpendicular to the
direction of their propagation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects that can be modeled by the sine or cosine functions. They’re defined by quantities such as amplitude and
period.
ANSWER: waves (accept specific types, like sound waves, light waves, or electromagnetic waves)
[10] This phenomenon occurs when a system is exposed to a wave of a certain frequency, causing it to oscillate at a greater amplitude.
On string instruments, this phenomenon causes strings that share overtones to vibrate simultaneously.
ANSWER: resonance (accept acoustic resonance)
[10] A wave will experience resonance when the frequency of the wave is an integer multiple of this quantity. This quantity is also
referred to as the first harmonic.
ANSWER: fundamental frequency <AT>
13. Not surprisingly, unusual climate patterns have greatly impacted history. Name some stuff about historical events impacted by
climate, for 10 points each:
[10] This European climatic change from around 1500 to 1900 created a moral economy in Western Europe and helped end Norse
colonies in Greenland. It caused the average European’s height to shrink by one inch during one century.
ANSWER: little ice age (prompt on ice age)
[10] A harsh winter and a short summer caused a famine among the Third Estate, and prompted the 1789 storming of this Parisian
prison.
ANSWER: the Bastille
[10] Two-thirds of this city burned in 1666 because of a hot summer. Its rebuilding was not planned by Christopher Wren or anyone
else, but its streets got wider.
ANSWER: London
14. This movement began in Northampton, Massachusetts, where Jonathan Edwards preached “fire and brimstone” sermons. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this new wave of Protestantism in Europe and the American colonies during the 1730s and 1740s.
ANSWER: First Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening]
[10] This Edwards sermon emphasized that anyone could be damned. It described a spider held over hell, with God ready to cut its
web at any time.
ANSWER: “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God”
[10] This 18th century Anglican cleric, an open-air orator during the First Great Awakening, had his speeches printed by Benjamin
Franklin. He helped to develop revivalist-style preaching along with Jonathan Edwards, and was a notable advocate for Arminianism.
ANSWER: George Whitefield [or George Whitfield] <AT>
15. This man’s Minute Waltz was inspired by the sight of a dog chasing its own tail, and his Prelude Op. 28 was nicknamed
“Raindrop” from the repeated A-flat which appears throughout it. For 10 points:
[10] Name this Polish composer and virtuoso pianist.
ANSWER: Frederic (Francois) Chopin
[10] This Etude by Chopin got its nickname because it was written at the same time as 1831’s November Uprising, Poland’s failed
uprising against the Russian empire. It begins with several rapid descending runs in the left hand.
ANSWER: Revolutionary Etude (or Etude Op. 10, No. 12 or Etude on the Bombardment of Warsaw)
[10] Chopin also wrote many of these Polish folk dances for Piano. They’re characterized by strong accents placed on the second or
third beat of a measure.
ANSWER: mazurka <AT>
16. The name for this region comes from the Quechua word for “plain”, and its native animals include the rhea as well as several
species of armadillo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this grassland mostly in northern Argentina and southern Uruguay.
ANSWER: The Pampas [accept Las Pampas]
[10] On the other Argentine coast, this region once housed the Mapuche. With its neighbor Los Lagos, this place is part of the Lake
Region of Chile and includes the volcano Villarrica.
ANSWER: La Araucanía Region
[10] These excellent horse-riders and ranchers are called huasos in Araucanía and gauchos in the Pampas.
ANSWER: cowboys [accept vaqueros, prompt on rancheros] <GA>

17. If one knows the lengths of two sides of a triangle and the angle between those legs, they can use this formula to calculate the
length of the remaining side. For 10 points:
[10] Name this trigonometric law named after a function which relates the adjacent side of a right triangle to the hypotenuse.
ANSWER: Law of Cosines (accept cosine formula or cosine rule, prompt on cosine)
[10] For right triangles, the Law of Cosines will simplify to this theorem. This is because the cosine of 90 degrees equals zero.
ANSWER: Pythagorean Theorem
[10] One can also use the Law of Cosines and a bit of algebra to prove this formula named for an Alexandrian mathematician. It
relates a triangle’s semiperimeter and side lengths to its area.
ANSWER: Heron’s formula (or Hero’s formula) <HL>
18. Because her mother is her nurse, this character considers herself Hindley’s foster-brother. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this servant to the Earnshaws and the Lintons, the primary narrator of the work in which she appears. Her given name is
Ellen, which much of the upper class calls her as a sign of respect.
ANSWER: Nelly Dean [accept either]
[10] This landlord, who appears in the same work as Nelly Dean, owns Thrushcross Grange. He is in love with Catherine, but is
enraged with jealousy when she marries Edgar, and disappears several years.
ANSWER: Heathcliff
[10] Nelly Dean, Heathcliff, Catherine, and Edgar appear in this most famous novel by Emily Brontë.
ANSWER: Wuthering Heights <CL>
19. This album includes the twelve-bar blues piece “Freddie Freeloader,” which features an unorthodox A flat 7 chord in its final two
bars. For 10 points:
[10] Name 1959 this album that begins with the track “So What.” It pioneered modal jazz, in contrast to the artist’s earlier work with
hard bop.
ANSWER: Kind of Blue
[10] Kind of Blue is an album by this jazz trumpetist, who often performed with his namesake quintet. He released a compilation
album under the name Birth of the Cool, and experimented with electric instruments on Bitches Brew.
ANSWER: Miles Davis (accept Miles Dewey Davis III)
[10] Davis was inspired by traditional Flamenco themes to write this album’s “Saeta” and “Solea.” This album features a track named
“Will o’ the Wisp,” which was adapted from Manuel de Falla’s ballet El amor brujo.
ANSWER: Sketches of Spain <AT>
20. Greek myth is full of fantastical fauna, but how about the flora? For 10 points each, name some things about plants with peculiar
properties in myth:
[10] The entrance of Hypnos’ palace contained a number of these opiate flowers, whose seeds contain drowsiness-inducing drugs like
morphine. Demeter created them so she could sleep while coping over the loss of Persephone.
ANSWER: poppies
[10] Hermes gave Odysseus the herb moly while he was on the isle of this witch to protect him from her magic. This sorceress
attempted to seduce Odysseus after she turned his men into pigs.
ANSWER: Circe
[10] In the Metamorphoses, Glaucus was given the gift of prophecy by this deity after eating a marine plant that turned him immortal.
In another myth, this Titaness, the wife of Oceanus, caused the constellations to circle the sky.
ANSWER: Tethys <JK>
TB. Proteins are necessary for life, but only if they are built correctly. For 10 points each:
[10] This process is essential for polypeptides to function correctly and creates a 3 dimensional structure. A failure in this process
would result in an inactive polypeptide.
ANSWER: protein folding
[10] These protein complexes degrade partially- or improperly-folded proteins by proteolysis. They are a mechanism in the larger
process of regulating the concentration of proteins within the cell.
ANSWER: proteasomes
[10] Like proteasomes, these organelles break down proteins, using acid hydrolase enzymes. These organelles can induce autolysis by
releasing enzymes into the cytoplasm.
ANSWER: lysosomes <AG>

