PRISON BOWL IX
Questions written and edited by Hunter College High School (Gilad Avrahami, Sam Brochin, Christopher Chilton, David Godovich,
Lily Goldberg, Ada-Marie Gutierrez, Diane Hwangpo, Joshua Kwan, Chloe Levine, Alice Lin, Brian Lu, Helen Lyons, Daniel Ma,
Albert Tai, Luke Tierney, and Rachel Yang), with contributions from Rohan Nag and Jeff Xie
Round 11
Tossups
1. This building was heavily influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright’s hypothetical building, The Illinois. It boasts the world’s largest
choreographed fountain system, whose musical repertoire includes the Mission Impossible theme song. This building’s footprint was
modeled after the desert flower Hymenocallis, leading to its Y-shaped base. Its 27 setbacks are reminiscent of the spiral minarets of
Islamic architecture. For ten points, identify this building in downtown Dubai, currently the tallest man-made structure in the world.
ANSWER: Burj Khalifa [accept Burj Dubai before mention of Dubai; do not accept “Burj Al-Arab”] <CC>
2. This modern country’s province of Ostrobothnia exported “Stockholm tar” under the policies of the “Caps”. It’s not Sweden, but
troops from this country called Hakkapeliitta were at the battle of Breitenfeld. This nation suffered the Greater Wrath under Russian
occupation during the Great Northern War. This was the first European country to allow women to vote and run for Parliament. The
Grand Duchy of this nation was created under Alexander I of Russia after Sweden lost control of it. This nation and Russia fought the
Winter War. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country with its capital at Helsinki.
ANSWER: Finland <LT>
3. This element frequently participates in redox reactions in catalytic converters, and it is the central atom in Zeise’s salt. With small
quantities of rhodium, this element serves as a catalyst in a process that converts ammonia into nitric acid, named for Ostwald. The
international prototype kilogram is mostly comprised of this element. It serves as a reference for the thermodynamic scale of
oxidation-reduction potentials, the standard hydrogen electrode. The least reactive metal, this element names a group of six transition
metals, which contains palladium, iridium, and osmium. For 10 points, name this element symbolized Pt.
ANSWER: platinum (accept Pt before mention) <AT>
4. An Andante in C for this instrument and orchestra was written by Mozart to replace the second movement of an earlier G major
concerto for this instrument. A piece for this instrument featuring innovative key clicks was titled Density 21.5. Debussy’s Syrinx was
the first piece written for the Boehm variety of it. This instrument is the first to be introduced in Peter and the Wolf, and represents the
bird. A theme starting on C sharp played by this instrument opens a symphonic poem by Claude Debussy, Prelude to the Afternoon of
a Faun. For 10 points, name this reedless woodwind instrument, the lower cousin of the piccolo.
ANSWER: flute [do not accept or prompt on “piccolo”] <CL>
5. This deity prophesies that Zeus’ son with Thetis will be greater than Zeus himself. One of his brothers whose name means
“hindsight” caused this figure to play the trick at Mecone. He warns his son to build a chest in order to survive an impending flood;
that son was Deucalion. This deity is blasted into an abyss by a lightning bolt in his namesake play by Aeschylus. This figure notably
sided with the gods in the Titanomachy. Heracles frees him from the rock he is chained to, where an eagle pecks at his liver every day.
For 10 points, name this creator of mankind in Greco-Roman mythology, who was punished for bringing humans fire.
ANSWER: Prometheus <JK>
6. In human experiments, D-T is the most common type of this process, and usually, tokamaks are used to allow this process to
happen without damaging equipment. One type of this process occurs in protostars and stops the rise of temperature in them
temporarily. This process is exothermic when the end product is Nickel-62, based on the mass defect produced as energy. The CNO
cycle and the proton-proton chain use this process to combine elements in stars. For 10 points, name this process in which atoms are
combined together to create energy, the opposite of fission.
ANSWER: fusion <DM>
7. In Catalonia, depictions of this event include a figure called a caganer, who defecates in the background. One account of this event
describes Simeon and Anna’s blessing of this event, and the Massacre of the Innocents occurred after this event. Eastern Orthodox
Christians celebrate a fast, more commonly known as Advent, before this event. The Adoration of the Shepherds happened during this
event, and gifts of frankincense, gold and myrrh were presented by the three Magi to a baby in a manger. For ten points, give the name
for the birth of a certain Biblical figure, which occurred in Bethlehem and is celebrated on Christmas.
ANSWER: Nativity of Jesus Christ [accept birth of Jesus or similar, prompt on “Christmas” before read] <DG>

8. One work of this type features a tiny white cross-holding figure swooping in through a window. Another of these entities includes
two sculptures of its donors painted much larger than its other figures. A portion of that work depicting Just Judges riding on
horseback was stolen in 1934. In another example of this type of work, a man builds a mousetrap in the right-hand portion. One of
these works features nude depictions of Adam and Eve in its upper left and upper right corners, as well as an Adoration of the Mystic
Lamb section. Exemplified by the Merode and Ghent ones, for 10 points, identify this type of work placed behind their namesake
place in a church.
ANSWER: altarpieces [prompt on altar or specific types of altarpieces like pala, diptych, triptych, or polyptych, accept Merode
Altarpiece or Ghent Altarpiece before mention] <CL/AT>
9. In this novel, James Forster is fired when he brings shaving water two degrees too cold. Another episode features a mutiny on the
Henrietta. The protagonist of this novel is arrested by Fix after he is mistaken for a bank robber. At the end of this book, Aouda, who
was supposed to be sacrificed by suttee, marries the protagonist, who is accompanied by a man whose name means “goes
everywhere.” At the beginning of this book, the protagonist argues to the Reform Club that a new railway section in India makes the
title achievement, completed with Passepartout, possible. For 10 points, name this adventure novel by Jules Verne about Phineas
Fogg’s circumnavigation of the globe.
ANSWER: Around the World in Eighty Days [accept Le tour du monde en quatre-vingts jours] <CL>
10. Nouns in this language are often produced by the reduplication of verbs, and verbs can agree with either the subject or the object.
One notation for this language was created by William Stokoe, and it has been proposed that this language is a creole with a French
version of the language as a superstrate. This language is thought to be derived from a version originating in Martha’s Vineyard, and
the first school to use it was founded in Hartford by Thomas Gallaudet. Reciprocity is signified by using two hands for a one-handed
sign in, for 10 points, what language used among the deaf in the United States?
ANSWER: American Sign Language [prompt on sign language]
11. In a set of 124 of these works by one writer, each one begins with “Seneca lucilio suo salutem” (“sen-a-KAH loo-SILL-ee-o SOOoh sa-LOO-tem”) and ends with the word “Vale” (VAH-lay). Cicero wrote 35 books comprising these works, and a similar number of
which are lost, many of which concern his depression during his exile at Thessalonica. Pliny the Younger described the eruption of
Vesuvius in these works, in which he recounts the death of his uncle, Pliny the Elder, and requests advice from the Emperor Trajan
about how to deal with the Christians. For 10 points, name this form of writing which includes those exchanged between Brutus and
Cicero in common resentment of Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: letters [accept messages until mentioned] <GA>
12. This organization’s lawyer Walter White investigated the Elaine Riots. The 1918 “Close Ranks” editorial was published in this
group’s magazine. Detroit’s housing system was the focus of this organization’s defense of Dr. Ossian Sweet. In 1950, this group won
the case Sweatt v. Painter over two law schools’ admissions policies. This organization continues to issue the publication The Crisis.
Ralph David Abernathy was first part of this group before he led the SCLC. This group, preceded by the Niagara Movement,
organized the Montgomery bus boycotts. In 1954, this organization won Brown v. Board. For 10 points, name this organization
founded by W.E.B. Du Bois and others.
ANSWER: NAACP [or the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People]
13. Buys-Ballot’s law describes objects in response to this phenomenon. Objects will feel lighter or heavier as a result of the Eotvos
effect, which is caused by it. Velocity is divided by the product of this phenomenon’s namesake parameter and the length scale to
derive the Rossby number, which measures the prevalence of this effect. This effect causes precession in Foucault’s pendulum, and
causes the deflection of moving objects in a rotating reference frame. For 10 points, name this effect that causes cyclones in different
hemispheres to rotate in different directions.
ANSWER: coriolis effect (accept coriolis forces) <AT>
14. Domingo Mercante made a housing plan for this city before resigning as governor. Cipriano Reyes was detained in a hospitalturned-torture-chamber in this city. Crowds in this city waiting for a man who had declared that “the spilled blood will not be
negotiated” were fired upon at an airport in the Ezeiza massacre. This city was also the first capital of the Viceroyalty of the Rio de la
Plata. The Casa Rosada is located in this city. Atilio Lopez was assassinated here during the Dirty War. The Evita City development is
located south of this city and was named for the wife of President Juan Perón. For 10 points, name this Argentine capital.
ANSWER: Buenos Aires <CL/RN>
15. One poem by this man is “The Fragment,” although its title was later changed to “An Inscription upon the Entrance to a Wood.”
The first published work by this man was “The Embargo; or, Sketches of the Time.” Thomas Holley Chivers accused this man of
“[stealing his most famous poem] line by line from the Spanish.” That poem by this man mentions “The innumerable caravan, which
moves / To that mysterious realm,” and it opens with the lines, “To him who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her visible
forms, she speaks.” For 10 points, name this long-time editor of the New York Evening Post and poet of “Thanatopsis.”
ANSWER: William Cullen Bryant <CL>

16. The Tumen river forms the only border between this country and one neighbor. It’s not Germany, but the historical capital of
Konigsberg is now in this country. A canal in this country connects Lake Onega with the Northern Sea Route, connecting the Pacific
Ocean to the Barents Sea, which is projected to rapidly grow in use due to global warming. Entirely within this country, the Yenisey
river originates at the oldest lake in the world, Lake Baikal. The Trans-Siberian Railway transverses, for 10 points, which country
stretching between Europe and Asia with capital at Moscow?
ANSWER: Russian Federation (do not accept Soviet Union or USSR)
17. According to the Vedantist Swami Vivekananda, the “very words” naming this concept “are a contradiction.” Daniel Dennett’s
Elbow Room is subtitled The Varieties of this concept Worth Wanting, and was based on his John Locke Lectures. Schopenhauer said
that phenomena do not have this concept and wrote an essay titled for it which argues that “in any given moment of your life,” only
one thing is done. Incompatibilism, which addresses the dilemma of determinism, says that this concept is incompatible with the idea
that there is only one possible course of action. For 10 points, name this two-word term for the ability to act contrary to necessity or
fate.
ANSWER: free will [prompt on descriptions and equivalents; prompt on will or freedom] <CL>
18. One poem by this figure titled “On Monsieur’s Departure” contains the line “I love, and yet am forced to seem to hate” and may
have been written about the Duke of Anjou. One poem about this figure ends with the line “Her love hath end; my woe must ever
last.” One allegory for this figure is named Belphoebe, while another has a Court of Pride to hide a dungeon and is named Lucifera. In
that work, another allegory for this figure is named Gloriana, and that work is Spenser’s The Faerie Queene, which is dedicated to her.
Born and christened in Shakespeare’s play King Henry VIII, for 10 points, name this queen of England often memorialized as “Good
Queen Bess.”
ANSWER: Queen Elizabeth I [prompt on “Elizabeth,” accept Elizabeth Tudor] <CC>
19. De la Chapelle syndrome occurs when an SRY region is relocated onto one of these entities. These entities are associated with CT
genes, and the absence of one of them causes a condition characterized by lymphedema and a webbed neck. The lyonization of these
objects forms a Barr body. Other conditions caused by these entities include lower testosterone levels in humans and calico fur
patterns in male cats. A lack of one of these entities in females causes Turner syndrome, while an extra one in males causes Klinefelter
syndrome. For 10 points, name this sex chromosome that women possess two of, contrasted with the Y chromosome.
ANSWER: X chromosome (prompt on allosomes, accept X after end of question, prompt on chromosomes before mention) <AT>
20. Ramon Castilla was a noted liberador in this country, and under Castilla’s rule slavery was abolished in this country. Guano played
a significant role in this nation’s economy until it was supplanted by nitrate production, an industry that was hurt following this nonBolivian nation’s defeat in the War of the Pacific at Chilean hands. This country’s native leader Tupac Amaru rebelled in 1780 and
Jose de San Martin became its Protector in 1821. This country became independent from Spain after the battle of Ayacucho. For 10
points, name this country once home to most of the Incan Empire including Machu Picchu, which has a capital at Lima.
ANSWER: Perú
TB. Lordosis behavior is triggered by this substance, and a precursor to it is produced in the theca interna. The replacement of
serotonin (5-HT) neurons explains how this hormone suppresses binge eating. It’s not progesterone, but this hormone is produced by
granulosa cells and synthesized by aromatase. A spike in luteinizing hormone follows increased amounts of this hormone, which is
responsible for the thickening of the endometrium. The E3 form of this derivative of cholesterol is produced in greater form during
menopause. For 10 points, name this primary female sex hormone produced in the body, contrasted with testosterone.
ANSWER: estrogen <JK>
Bonuses
1. The protagonist of this book moves from Peshawar to Fremont, California. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 2003 best-selling novel about Amir and Hassan. In it, Assef mocks Amir for associating with a Hazara. Ali, Amir’s
father’s servant, is killed by a landmine in this book, according to Rahim Khan.
ANSWER: The Kite Runner
[10] This author of The Kite Runner was a physician until its success led him to pursue writing full-time. His A Thousand Splendid
Suns and And the Mountains Echoed were also best-sellers.
ANSWER: Khaled Hosseini
[10] Khaled Hosseini was born in this country and lived there until he was 11. Part I of The Kite Runner is set in this country’s capital
city of Kabul.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan <CL>

2. One side of this equation features the natural log of the oxidizing agent’s chemical activity over the reducing agent’s chemical
activity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this equation that can be used to find the reduction potential of a half-cell.
ANSWER: Nernst equation
[10] Two half-cells combine to form a galvanic cell, which generates energy via the spontaneous occurrence of this type of reaction.
These reactions involve either the gain or loss of electrons between chemical species.
ANSWER: redox reactions (prompt on oxidation reactions or reduction reactions)
[10] This primitive galvanic cell was comprised of copper and zinc disks, which respectively served as cathodes and anodes. A brine
solution served as the electrolyte for this device.
ANSWER: voltaic pile (accept voltaic cell) <AT>
3. Supreme Court judge (and Hunter College High School alum) Elena Kagan analyzed this text in her journal article about draft-card
burning and flag burning. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this text, relied on in United States v. Alvarez to strike down the Stolen Valor Act, which had prohibited false statements
about military awards.
ANSWER: The First Amendment to the United States Constitution [prompt on Bill of Rights; prompt on U. S. Constitution]
[10] This former Supreme Court judge wrote a scathing dissent to Lee v. Weisman, which held that the establishment clause of the first
amendment prevented religious figures from leading prayers in schools. He also wrote dissents in Lawrence v. Texas and Obergefell
v. Hodges.
ANSWER: Antonin Scalia
[10] This plaintiff in this case, on which the Supreme Court issued a 4-4 split decision in March, claimed the mandatory payment of
union dues violated her first amendment right of free speech. Observers have suggested that Scalia’s death may have prevented a 5-4
decision eliminating mandatory union dues.
ANSWER: Friedrichs v. California Teachers Association <GA>
4. Give complete answers to these questions about famous unfinished works for 10 points each.
[10] George Gordon, Lord Byron, finished sixteen cantos of this epic poem before his death in 1824. Byron depicted the epic’s title
hero as someone easily seduced, rather than a compulsive womanizer.
ANSWER: “Don Juan” (“Don JOO-uhn”)
[10] This prolific author left The Mystery of Edwin Drood unfinished when he died in 1870, dooming readers never to discover who
murdered Edwin, though it was likely his opium-addicted uncle John Jasper.
ANSWER: Charles Dickens
[10] This author died of Addison’s disease in 1817 before she could finish her novel Sanditon. Like another of her characters, Sir
Thomas Bertram, several characters in Sanditon make their fortunes from their financial interests in the West Indies.
ANSWER: Jane Austen <CC>
5. One of these parties was led by Helmut Kohl, while another, the Popular Republican Movement, defeated Charles de Gaulle. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these centrist political parties that took power in France, Germany, and Italy during economic miracles. They promoted
“social-market economies”, and differ in some respects from their “Social” counterparts in Britain and Scandinavia.
ANSWER: Christian Democrat [prompt on “Democratic”]
[10] This nation was reunited with its eastern, Soviet counterpart under Chancellor Helmut Kohl of the Christian Democratic Union.
ANSWER: West Germany or the Federal Republic of Germany
[10] The Christian Democrats were led by Aldo Moro who was killed by the Red Brigades, in this heavily corrupt country. Enrico
Berlinguer (“BUR-ling-er”) created ‘Euro-Communism’ here.
ANSWER: Italy
6. Answer some questions about the prevalence of a certain number in mythology, for 10 points each:
[10] The nine realms of this world-tree include Muspelheim, a realm of fire, and Niflheim, a realm of ice. Odin hung for nine days and
nights from this place to discover the runes.
Answer: Yggdrasil
[10] In his Theogony, Hesiod said that an anvil falling from the earth would take a total of nine days to reach this lowest part of the
underworld, the place of eternal punishment which contains the Titans.
Answer: Tartarus
[10] A variation of Navratri, a nine day Hindu festival, celebrates not only the forms of Durga, but also those of Sarasvati and this
goddess of wealth, who is the wife of Vishnu.
Answer: Lakshmi <JK>

7. This function first proposed by John Napier is the inverse of the exponential function. For 10 points:
[10] Give this operation that gives the exponent to which a base must be raised to produce a number. The “natural” form of this
operation is often used to model continuous growth.
ANSWER: logarithm
[10] If the variable Z equals the natural log of x divided by the natural log of b, express Z in terms of a single function.
ANSWER: log base b of x (accept log of x base b, prompt on unclear answers like log b x)
[10] By using implicit differentiation, one can find this derivative of the natural logarithm of x. This function’s graph has asymptotes
at x equals zero and y equals zero.
ANSWER: one over x (or one divided by x, accept clear equivalents) <AT>
8. This figure was held hostage in Thebes during his rule. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this basileus who developed the sarissa. He won the Battle of Chaeronea (“kay-RAW-knee-uh”) and created the League of
Corinth.
ANSWER: Philip II; prompt on “Philip”
[10] At Chaeronea, Philip II defeated a coalition of these political entities, which were also called poleis (“po-LAY-is”). The Delian
and Peloponnesian Leagues were groups of these political entities.
ANSWER: city-states
[10] This kingdom north of Greece was Philip II’s home. Its capital was Pella during the reigns of Philip II and Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Macedonia
9. Some have claimed that Robert E. Lee’s face can be seen in the subject of this work’s hair. For 10 points:
[10] Name this marble statue located in the National Mall. It features a certain U.S. President sitting atop a circular ceremonial chair.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln (or the statue of Lincoln at the Lincoln Memorial, be lenient with accepting knowledge equivalents)
[10] This man, who frequently depicted scenes from American history, sculpted the aforementioned statue of Abraham Lincoln. He
also created Minuteman in Concord, Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Daniel Chester French
[10] French famously created a seated bronze sculpture of this location’s founder. Other sculptures in this location include Henry
Moore’s Large Four Piece Reclining Figure and a hyper-realistic rhinoceros.
ANSWER: Harvard University (accept Harvard College or Harvard Extension School, do not accept “Harford Community
College”) <AT>
10. You are playing in a quiz bowl tournament, when you are asked to name a novel that you may or may not have read (depending on
your desire to impress fellow bookstore patrons or the attractiveness of the bookseller). For 10 points:
[10] Name this novel, whose “even” passages are the first chapters of ten different novels that break off in the middle of the story. You
may also recall that its protagonist investigates the ancient Cimmerian language with Ludmilla.
ANSWER: If on a winter’s night a traveler [accept Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore]
[10] Now, you have been tasked to name this Italian author of If on a winter’s night a traveler. This postmodernist also wrote the Our
Ancestors trilogy, along with a work featuring Marco Polo and Kublai Khan, Invisible Cities.
ANSWER: Italo Calvino
[10] If on a winter’s night a traveler and this bonus employ this literary technique, where the author directly addresses “you,” the
reader.
ANSWER: second-person narrative <CL/AT>
11. The Ciompi (“chompy”) rebellion was led by workers in this industry, which was governed by the “putting-out system” in
England. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this industry which shears sheep to make fabrics, which was also centered in Toulouse, France. The Etruscans first used
this good to make white togas.
ANSWER: wool [prompt on textiles or cloth]
[10] The Ciompi were from Florence in this wool-gathering region in Italy, earlier home to the Etruscans. The de Medici family later
made Florence into the “Grand Duchy of” this region.
ANSWER: Tuscany
[10] English sheep, which were favored for their thicker wool, were often exported to this region’s cities of Bruges, Ghent, and Ypres
(“EE-pruh”).
ANSWER: Flanders [prompt on Belgium]

12. This collection contains poems such as “Owl,” which is thought to be written by the Duke of Zhou. Since the Qin Dynasty, its
contents’ rhyme patterns have been analyzed in the study of Old Chinese phonology. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the oldest existing collection of Chinese poetry, which contains “Lesser” and “Major Court Hymns,” among other poems.
ANSWER: Classic of Poetry [accept Shijing, Shih-ching, Book of Odes, and Book of Songs; prompt on partial answer]
[10] One part of this large collection contained classic texts such as Great Learning and Analects, and the other part contained Chinese
books such as Classic of Poetry and Spring and Summer Annals.
ANSWER: Four Books and Five Classics [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This Chinese man allegedly compiled the Four Books and Five Classics, and is sometimes thought to have written and edited
parts of it. His teachings were compiled in the Analects.
ANSWER: Confucius [accept Kongzi] <RY>
13. The “Tequila crisis” of 1994 occurred in one signatory of this treaty but was stabilized by another signatory. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this trade agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico, signed in 1992. It led to many maquiladoras being built in
Mexico.
ANSWER: NAFTA or the North American Free Trade Agreement
[10] This President’s first term saw NAFTA ratified. This “New Democrat” who preceded George W. Bush promised the end of big
government as the 42nd president.
ANSWER: William Jefferson Bill Clinton
[10] Clinton heralded the coming of a “New Century” after he supported this nation’s entry into the World Trade Organization, though
it did not join until 2001. It had two exchange rates until 1994.
ANSWER: China or the PRC
14. Minor characters on this show include Bob Vance and a blue-collar worker that the protagonist calls “Pudge.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this show that starred Steve Carell as Michael Scott. It follows the lives of employees like Jim and Pam, and is filmed in
a mockumentary style.
ANSWER: The Office
[10] The title “Office” is the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of this paper company. Throughout the series, corporate workers and
members of “The Office” alike complain that this company is losing business to OfficeMax.
ANSWER: Dunder Mifflin
[10] This writer and executive producer of “The Office” played Ryan, a temp-turned-job-stealer who dumps Kelly Kapoor and leaves
Scranton for corporate headquarters in New York.
ANSWER: Benjamin Joseph Manaly “B.J.” Novak <CL>
15. This quantity is divided by the perpendicular velocity gradient in a certain quantity governing the behavior of fluids. For 10 points:
[10] Name this component of stress that is parallel to the surface of applied force, in contrast to the perpendicular nature of the normal
stress.
ANSWER: shear stress
[10] The aforementioned quantity is this measure of a fluid’s resistance to flow. Fluids that have a constant value for this quantity are
called Newtonian.
ANSWER: viscosity
[10] This quantity, equal to the ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces, is also used to characterize the nature of fluids. The magnitude
of this quantity is an indicator of if a fluid will undergo turbulent or laminar flow.
ANSWER: Reynolds number (accept Re) <AT>
16. This man attempted to depict the struggles of climbing a mountain in his An Alpine Symphony, and drew from Greek mythology to
write his opera Elektra. For 10 points:
[10] Name this German chromaticist composer. He wrote the comic opera Der Rosenkavalier, as well as a tone poem inspired by
Friedrich Nietzsche’s Also Sprach Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Richard (Georg) Strauss [prompt on Strauss; do not accept or prompt on “Johann Strauss”]
[10] This other Richard Strauss tone poem is dedicated to Friedrich Rosch and includes an allegro molto agitato part representing
memories. At the end, a dying artist reaches “the infinite reaches of heaven.”
ANSWER: Death and Transfiguration [accept Tod und Verklärung]
[10] Richard Strauss adapted an Oscar Wilde play to compose this opera, titled for a Biblical character. Featuring the “Dance of the
Seven Veils,” its scandalous nature caused it to be banned in both London and New York.
ANSWER: Salome

17. This process causes humans to have the best coordination at around 2:30 PM and the fastest reaction time at about 3:30 PM. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this process which dictates the patterns of biological processes over a roughly 24-hour cycle. It can be adjusted to different
environments based on changes in light and temperature.
ANSWER: circadian rhythms [prompt on biological clock]
[10] In mammals, circadian rhythms are controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the brain located inside this area. Its name
comes from its location below the brain’s “relay station”, and it is a neuroendocrine area.
ANSWER: hypothalamus
[10] Konopka and Benzer discovered the circadian period gene by testing mutagens on this model insect. Thomas Hunt Morgan used
this organism, called Drosophila melanogaster, in his Columbia experiments.
ANSWER: fruit fly(ies) [prompt on fly(ies)] <GA>
18. North America has some of the world’s oldest rocks. For 10 points each:
[10] This geological region has been the location of the findings of the oldest rocks in the world. It is a large area of Precambrian
rocks surrounding Hudson Bay.
ANSWER: Canadian Shield or Laurentian Plateau or fan
[10] This Eastward mountain range from Georgia to Maine was formed 480 million years ago. It is along a namesake trail.
ANSWER: Appalachians
[10] The Canadian Shield is this type of rock, as are the namesake “Vishnu” ones in Arizona and the Grenville ones below the
Appalachians. This usually-granite rock layer is the oldest and lowest in the crust.
ANSWER: basement rocks <DM>
19. This man’s opera about the hijacking of the Achille Lauro ocean liner by the Palestine Liberation Front recently received criticism
for glorifying terrorism and being anti semitic. For 10 points:
[10] Name this composer of The Death of Klinghoffer. He used a children’s choir and pre-recorded sounds in his composition
commemorating 9/11, On the Transmigration of Souls.
ANSWER: John (Coolidge) Adams
[10] John Coolidge Adams also wrote this two-act opera about the Manhattan Project, with characters such as Robert Oppenheimer
and Edward Teller.
ANSWER: Doctor Atomic
[10] In Act I of Adams’ opera Nixon in China, Mao is visited by representatives from this nation, who arrive in “The Spirit of ‘76.”
Adams himself also hailed from this country.
ANSWER: United States of America [accept either underlined portion, or USA or any other reasonable knowledge equivalents]
<GA>
20. The speaker of this poem ominously says, “They tell me you are wicked and I believe them.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this poem about the “City of the Big Shoulders,” with which its poet tried to found an American version of social
realism. It is addressed to the “Hog Butcher for the World, / Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat.”
ANSWER: Chicago [grudgingly accept Chicago Poems]
[10] This poet of “Chicago” also wrote the collections Cornhuskers, Smoke and Steel, and Good Morning, America.
ANSWER: Carl (August) Sandburg
[10] Sandburg also compiled this very popular anthology of folk music, which was in continuous print for more than 70 years. He said
it was “rich with the diversity of the United States,” and it was regarded as a landmark by folk singer Pete Seeger.
ANSWER: The American Songbag <CL>
TB. This nation designed the “Cultivation System” to control one of its colonies. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this nation, which fully colonized Indonesia. It fought the Aceh (“AH-chay”), Java, and Padri Wars for control over
Indonesia.
ANSWER: the Netherlands or the Dutch
[10] During the Dutch colonization of Indonesia, this current Indonesian capital was its main trading center.
ANSWER: Jakarta or Batavia
[10] During this war, air raids from the Dutch East Indies were conducted against Darwin and Broome. Commandos contested the
island of Timor for one year before it was occupied during the conflict.
ANSWER: World War II or WWII <DM>

