PRISON BOWL IX
Questions written and edited by Hunter College High School (Gilad Avrahami, Sam Brochin, Christopher Chilton, David Godovich,
Lily Goldberg, Ada-Marie Gutierrez, Diane Hwangpo, Joshua Kwan, Chloe Levine, Alice Lin, Brian Lu, Helen Lyons, Daniel Ma,
Albert Tai, Luke Tierney, Rachel Yang), with contributions from Rohan Nag and Jeff Xie
Round 10
Tossups
1. A question whispered in this god’s ear was used in a riddle contest with the giant Vafthrudnir. This deity’s boat was so massive that
it caused earthquakes and fires when the giantess Hyrrokkin pushed it. He is avenged by his brother Vali, who grew to adulthood in a
single day. Hermod’s attempt to resurrect this deity was thwarted when the giantess Thokk refused to weep for him. This god’s mother
protected him from all objects except for a small plant. Hodr will kill this man with a sprig of mistletoe, a sign of Ragnarok. For 10
points, name this son of Odin, the god of light in Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Baldr <JK>
2. This writer described a man “winning thy way / With sad yet patient soul, through evil and pain / And strange calamity!” in “This
Lime-Tree Bower My Prison.” He wrote of “the one life within us and abroad” in “The Eolian Harp,” one of his conversation poems.
This writer of Biographia Literaria wrote a poem opening with the decree of a “stately pleasure-dome” in the fictional Xanadu.
Another work by this man is told to some wedding-guests and includes the line, “Water, water, everywhere, / nor any drop to drink.”
For 10 points, name this co-author of Lyrical Ballads, which includes The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge <CL>
3. One segment of this show featured a man dressed up as either Albert Einstein or Mark Twain. In another episode of this show, Neil
deGrasse Tyson discusses a hypothetical battle between Mr. Peanut and Tony the Tiger. This show’s host occasionally wears a
Mongolian fur hat, and it ran the “Hungry for Power Games” segment each time a candidate dropped out of the 2016 presidential
election. This show features an opening sequence shot with tilt-shift photography, as well as the house band Jon Batiste and Stay
Human. For 10 points, name this CBS talk show hosted by a bespectacled pundit formerly known for his satirical namesake “Report”
(re-PORE).
ANSWER: The Late Show with Stephen Colbert (accept either underlined portion) <AT>
4. An equation governing these objects contains the exponential of voltage divided by thermal voltage times the ideality factor. A
primitive version of one of them simply consisted of a wire touching a galena semiconductor crystal. These objects may exhibit
negative resistance, and the current of one can be found via the Shockley equation. To form one of these devices, electron-rich and
electron hole-rich semiconductors are placed adjacently, thus creating a p-n junction. A 2014 Nobel Prize was awarded for a bright
blue one of these devices. For 10 points, name these devices that only allow current to flow in one direction, which may come in a
“light-emitting” variety.
ANSWER: diodes (accept specific types like light-emitting diodes or LEDs, prompt on rectifier) <AT>
5. One of these symbols representing 60 Hizb is known as the Rub el Hizb, and originally helped in reciting the Quran. In another
religion, one of these symbols called the Haykal represents the human body. A ring bearing one of these symbols gave Solomon the
ability to command the occult. One of these entities was also known as a “shield” because it symbolized the divine protection of God
against the Philistines. One of them guided the Magi to the birthplace of Jesus and was named for Bethlehem. For 10 points, name this
shape associated with King David, which appears alongside a crescent on many Muslim flags.
ANSWER: stars [do not accept “pentagram”] <GA>
6. The "Seventh of March" speech defended one of this type of law, while the 1847 Calhoun Resolutions opposed another. One
example of this type of law created the Texas-New Mexico Act. Congressional “fire-eaters” arose after Lewis Cass proposed "squatter
sovereignty", which was renamed in one of these laws. The Tallmadge Amendment preceded one of these laws which drew a line at
36°30 (“36 degrees 30 minutes”) and admitted Maine as a free state. One 1787 example of this type of law counted slaves as threefifths of a person. Henry Clay drafted laws by this name in 1850 and 1820. For 10 points, name these laws that saw give-and-take
between pro- and antislavery states.
ANSWER: compromises (prompt on fugitive slave acts until mention of slaves) <LT>
7. In one work written in this language, a character tries to use witchcraft to turn himself into a bird, but turns himself into an ass
instead. The “Neoteric” poets wrote in this language, and one poet who wrote in this language claimed his poetry was a “monument
more durable than bronze.” One work in this language depicts an extravagant feast at the house of Trimalchio, and one satirist writing
in this language wrote about “bread and circuses.” Another work in this language begins, “I intend to speak of forms changed into new
entities.” The Eclogues are written in, for 10 points, what language of The Metamorphoses?
ANSWER: Latin <CC>

8. This man wrote a piano suite with movements each dedicated to members of Les Apaches, his Miroirs. This orchestrator of Pictures
at an Exhibition featured an altar to three nymph statues in one of his ballets, which ends in a bacchanale. Another one of his pieces
was purposely difficult to trump Balakirev’s Islamey, and featured the sections “Ondine,” “Le Gibet,” and “Scarbo.” This composer of
Daphnis and Chloe and Gaspard de la Nuit notably featured a composition that repeats two themes without any development. For 10
points, name this French Impressionist composer of Bolero.
ANSWER: Maurice Ravel <AT>
9. Coal miners in this state were killed in the 1914 “Black Hole of Ludlow”. Bent’s Fort was a fur trading center on the Santa Fe Trail
in this state. Many “lungers” (“LUNG-ers”) came here to be treated for tuberculosis, giving it the nickname the “World's Sanatorium”.
Chief Niwot’s Arapaho tribe and Black Kettle’s Cheyenne were attacked in the Sand Creek Massacre in this state. The Fifty-Niners
popularized the slogan “Pike’s Peak or Bust!” for a gold rush in this state. This state is known as the “Centennial State” because of its
date of admission to the Union. For 10 points, name this state in the Rocky Mountains whose capital city is Denver.
ANSWER: Colorado <RY>
10. In this book, a dentist refuses to treat the rotting tooth of the protagonist, even though her mother loaned him money. One
character in this book must hide inside a vegetable bin and another is Mrs. Bertha Flowers, known as “the aristocrat of black Stamps.”
The protagonist of this book is unexpectedly taken by her father to St. Louis, where she is raped by Mr. Freeman. The title of this
book is taken from “Sympathy,” a poem by Paul Laurence Dunbar, where it is followed by: “Ah me, / When his wing is bruised and
his bosom sore.” For 10 points, name this book about a girl and her brother’s childhood after being abandoned by their parents, an
autobiography by Maya Angelou.
ANSWER: I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings <CL>
11. In Fortran, subsets of these entities may be obtained by slicing them. Memory-allocating growth factors correspond to the dynamic
type of these entities, which may be specified via dope vectors. In C++, strings are represented as these entities containing chars, and
these entities can be multidimensional. The list type of these entities do not contain a set number of elements. In Java, these entities
are declared by indicating the type of their elements, followed by square brackets. For 10 points, name these data structures in
computer science that are analogous to matrices.
ANSWER: arrays <AT>
12. One painting by this rival of Pierre Peyron features onlookers clutching the limbs of Seneca the Younger, and his painting
depicting a girl holding a scroll and wearing a crown of pink roses is his The Vestal Virgin. He included an incense lamp mounted atop
a tall shaft and a lute resting on a bed in another work. A painting by this man features some women and children weeping in the
corner while the central figure holds out three swords. He also painted a corpse clutching a quill in a bathtub in The Death of Marat.
For 10 points, name this French painter of The Oath of the Horatii and The Death of Socrates.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David <CL>
13. This nation’s intelligence agency designed the Phoenix Program as a way to root out NLF insurgents in one allied country. A
counterpart to NATO called SEATO, or the Manila Pact, was formed at the urging of this nation’s foreign policy makers. Operation
Menu was a component of this nation’s intervention in Cambodia and Laos during a larger regional conflict. The 1905 Treaty of
Portsmouth was mediated by a leader of this nation. This nation took over the Philippines in 1898, and Douglas MacArthur supervised
this country’s occupation of Japan after World War II. For 10 points, name this country that declared war on Japan after a 1941 attack
on Pearl Harbor.
ANSWER: United States of America (accept obvious equivalents) <LT>
14. This author wrote about a present given to Archduke Maximilian and its keeper, Subhro, in The Elephant’s Journey, and also
wrote a posthumously published novel titled Skylight. Another of his works, featuring purple envelopes which announce their
recipients’ imminent demises, is Death with Interruptions. The title character of one of this man’s novels says, “Men, forgive Him,
for He knows not what He has done”; that novel is The Gospel According to Jesus Christ. In this man’s best known work, the doctor’s
wife miraculously fails to contract the title phenomenon, and that work has a sequel titled Seeing. For 10 points, name this Portuguese
author of Blindness.
ANSWER: José (de Sousa) Saramago <CL>
15. HEPES and Tris are used to create these items. The capacities of these items is symbolized beta, and can be found with an
equation featuring the cologarithm of hydrogen ion concentration in the denominator. If one knows A- (A-minus) and HA, they can
find the pH of these things by the Henderson-Hasselbach Equation. To serve as one of them, blood contains carbonic acid and
bicarbonate anions. These objects are solutions of weak acids and their conjugate bases, or weak bases and their conjugate acids. For
10 points, name these aqueous solutions that resist changes in pH.
ANSWER: buffer solutions (accept buffers) <AT>

16. In an opera from this country, Falstaff accuses Prince Hal of cowardice in the Boar’s Head Tavern. A work by another composer
from this home of Frederick Delius sees Tarquinius Superbus rape Lucretia. A work from this country occasionally performed with
the Four Sea Interludes is Peter Grimes. Other works from here include an opera where Ko-Ko is appointed as High Executioner of
Titipu. The Savoy operas, which include The Mikado, were by a duo of composers from this country, who included the line “I Am the
Very Model of a Modern Major-General” in The Pirates of Penzance. For 10 points, name this home country of Benjamin Britten and
Gilbert and Sullivan.
ANSWER: The United Kingdom [accept Great Britain or England; do not accept “Scotland” or “Wales”] <AT>
17. In the “Year of the Elephant”, an Ethiopian army failed to conquer this city, possibly as the result of an epidemic of some sort. In
930, this city was attacked by the Qarmatians (“CAR-muh-shins”) under Abu Tahir al-Jannabi and one of its notable features was
desecrated by corpses. The Pledge of the Tree occurred in this city. Its native population was made up of the Quraysh, who lost the
battle of Badr in 624. This city was ruled by sharifs descended from Hasan ibn Ali, and it contains the Well of Zamzam. Pilgrims take
hajjs (“HAH-jiz”) to this city. For 10 points, name this city in Saudi Arabia which contains the Kaaba.
ANSWER: Mecca <CC>
18. This work discusses the justitia originalis and gratia gratum faciens. Counter-statements in this work are prefaced with “sed
contra,” and its method was inspired by Averroes, who is called “The Commentator.” This work defends a list by Pope Gregory I
which added envy to the seven deadly sins. This work’s beginning includes a list of ten questions including “Whether [this work] is
necessary?”, and it later cites Aristotle, referred to in this work only as “The Philosopher.” This work is probably most famous for its
“five ways,” arguments for the existence of God. For 10 points, name this important Medieval work of scholasticism, left unfinished
by Thomas Aquinas.
ANSWER: Summa Theologica [accept Summa Theologiae; accept Summa; do not accept “Summa contra Gentiles”] <CL>
19. Peter Singer criticized this figure’s work in A Darwinian Left, and this figure’s findings were also challenged by Derek Freeman.
This author of “The Methodology of Racial Testing” found that in the Chambri Lake region, women are dominant, and this figure
talked for hours with James Baldwin as recorded in A Rap on Race. This figure’s most famous work discusses how the stability of a
monocultural society limits psychological distress for young adults, and how children are largely ignored on the island Ta’u. For 10
points, name this anthropologist, the writer of Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies and Coming of Age in Samoa.
ANSWER: Margaret Mead <CL>
20. Infants with this disease may be unable to absorb vitamin K through the placenta, and experience a congestion of stool in the
intestines known as meconium ileus. This condition most commonly caused by delta-F508 may cause the clubbing of feet and toes
and infertility due to an inability to form the vas deferens. Due to this disease, the pancreas atrophies due to obstructed ducts. This
condition is due to the fact that defective proteins trap chloride ions and thiocyanate inside sweat glands, which leads to a
characteristic unusually salty sweat. For 10 points, name this genetic disorder that causes thickened mucus in the lungs.
ANSWER: cystic fibrosis (accept CF or mucoviscidosis) <AT>
TB. This man’s Othello and Carnival overtures were included in a trilogy called “Nature, Life and Love.” He wrote the opera Rusalka,
and deviated from sonata form in one of his chamber pieces, the Dumky trio. The spiritual “Goin’ Home” was adapted from one of the
symphonies by this composer of eight Humoresques. This composer of an “American” string quartet was inspired by a visit to
America to write his ninth symphony. For 10 points, name this Czech composer of the New World Symphony.
ANSWER: Antonin Dvorak (duh-VOR-jak) <DG>
Bonuses
1. Originally, this island was not considered to be a part of Magna Graecia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this island, whose namesake “Vespers” saw a massacre of Frenchmen and a victory for the Kingdom of Aragon.
ANSWER: Sicily
[10] After the Gothic War, this empire made Sicily’s capital Syracuse and established the Exarchate of Ravenna. Sicily was raided by
Lombards and Aghlabids throughout that period.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire or Eastern Roman Empire
[10] Members of this ethnic group controlled Sicily for a time, beginning with Roger II’s reign. This group’s Hauteville dynasty died
out when Constance married Henry VI.
ANSWER: Normans [accept Normandy I suppose; prompt on Cotentin residents and equivalents]

2. This man included movements like “Infernal Dance” and “The Adoration of the Earth” in a ballet that incited controversy due to its
rapidly-changing meter and unorthodox costumes. For 10 points:
[10] Name this 20th century Russian composer, whose ballet The Rite of Spring incited protests at its 1913 premiere.
ANSWER: Igor (Fyodorovich) Stravinsky
[10] The Rite of Spring opens with a solo for this double-reeded instrument in an unusually high register. It’s much lower in range
than the oboe.
ANSWER: bassoon
[10] Stravinsky also collaborated with impresario Sergei Diaghilev to create this ballet centering on some puppets who come to life.
The title character is represented by a chord consisting of C major and F sharp major triads.
ANSWER: Petrushka <GA/AT>
3. A type of this process mediated by free radicals requires an initiation, propagation, and termination step. For 10 points:
[10] Name this process where small monomer subunits combine to form larger molecules. It can occur in “step-growth” or “chaingrowth” types.
ANSWER: polymerization (accept clear knowledge equivalents, like forming a polymer)
[10] This commonly produced plastic polymer’s monomers are also called chloroethene. It is primarily produced by suspension
polymerization.
ANSWER: PVC (or polyvinyl chloride)
[10] Due to its ability to induce intermolecular cross-linking, this type of electromagnetic radiation is often used in industrial
polymerization processes.
ANSWER: ultraviolet light (or UV light) <AT>
4. Their name comes from a word meaning “string” in Sanskrit, possibly in reference to how they “weave” different teachings
together. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these collections of short rules found commonly in the Vedas. The Lotus one of these texts stresses the potential of anyone
to achieve enlightenment.
ANSWER: sutras
[10] The Lotus Sutra is an important text in the Mahayana branch of this religion. Practitioners of this religion who seek
enlightenment for the benefit of others are called bodhisattvas.
ANSWER: Buddhism
[10] A branch of Buddhism which contrasts Mahayana teachings is this other sect, predominant in Indochina. Its followers use the
teachings of the Pali Canon and adhere only to the original teachings of the Buddha.
ANSWER: Theravada <JK>
5. In this book, Amina faints and is hit by a car, which fractures her collarbone, but the fact that she was outside in the first place gets
her kicked out of the house. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about the family of al-Sayyad Ahmad Abd al-Jawad, which takes place during and just after World War I. Just
as Khadija fears, her younger sister Aisha gets married first in this novel.
ANSWER: Palace Walk [accept Between the Two Palaces or Bayn al-qasrayn]
[10] Palace Walk is the first book in this series, which also includes Palace of Desire and Sugar Street. It is named for the capital of
Egypt.
ANSWER: Cairo Trilogy [accept either]
[10] This Egyptian author of the Cairo Trilogy also wrote Harafish and The Thief and the Dogs. Everyday people live the lives of
Biblical figures in his Children of Gebelawi.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz <GA/CL>
6. This film’s protagonist tests a “feeding machine,” but just ends up getting hit in the face by a spinning corn on the cob. For 10
points:
[10] Name this 1936 film which attempted to satirize the effects of an increasingly industrialized world. An iconic scene in this film
features its protagonist being swallowed by a geared machine.
ANSWER: Modern Times
[10] Modern Times was a film written by this silent-era comedy actor. As his “Little Tramp” character, he wore a signature bowler hat
and toothbrush mustache.
ANSWER: Charlie Chaplin [or Charles (Spencer) Chaplin]
[10] In this film, Chaplin played the autocratic Adenoid Hynkel, a parody of Adolf Hitler. An insignia comprised of two X’s alludes to
the Nazi swastika in this film.
ANSWER: The Great Dictator <AT>

7. Emil Fischer first proposed that these items and their substrates fit together rigidly in his “lock and key model,” but the more
flexible induced fit model is now considered to be more accurate. For 10 points:
[10] Name these biological catalysts that bind to specific molecular substrates. Examples of these substances in the digestive system
include the amylases and catalases.
ANSWER: enzymes
[10] Enzymes increase the rate of a reaction by lowering this quantity, the minimum amount of energy in a system necessary to initiate
a chemical reaction. Adding this amount of energy to a reactant yields its transition state.
ANSWER: activation energy
[10] In this process, an alternate substrate binds to an enzyme’s active site instead of the intended substrate, rendering it ineffective.
An example of this process is carbon monoxide binding to a heme group instead of oxygen.
ANSWER: competitive inhibition (prompt on allosteric inhibition) <AT>
8. Catherine the Great issued a 1765 decree allowing aristocrats to send serfs to this place. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this region east of the Ural River, the site of many gulags and a railway from Moscow to Vladivostok.
ANSWER: Siberia
[10] This section of the Mongol Empire, founded by Batu Khan, ruled western Siberia and extorted money from Muscovy until Ivan
III overthrew them in 1480.
ANSWER: Golden Horde or Kipchak Khanate
[10] This Cossack led the initial stages of the Conquest of Siberia under Ivan IV, and scored a notable victory at Qasliq. He was
enlisted by the Stroganov family, and was killed in 1585 by Tatars.
ANSWER: Vasiliy Timofeyevich Alenin or Yermak
9. The poet performs the title action “to the depth and breadth and height / My soul can reach.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this forty-third sonnet featured in Sonnets from the Portuguese, which asks the title question before saying, “Let me count
the ways.”
ANSWER: “How Do I Love Thee?” [accept “How Do I Love Thee? Let Me Count The Ways”]
[10] This Romantic poet of “How Do I Love Thee?” also published The Seraphim and Other Poems and a translated Prometheus
Bound. This poet’s work became more political in later life after eloping with another poet.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Barrett Browning [accept Elizabeth Browning; prompt on Browning]
[10] This other nine-book-long poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning consists of the blank verse, first-person narrative of the title
character as she describes her past and present. In it, she asserts, “The world of books is still the world.”
ANSWER: Aurora Leigh <CL>
10. This expedition’s namesake ship was given another name for the Incan creator god Viracocha. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1947 expedition where the Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdahl attempted to journey by raft from Peru to French
Polynesia.
ANSWER: Kon-Tiki expedition
[10] Heyerdahl theorized a conflict between South American “long-eared” and Polynesian “short-eared” peoples on this Pacific island,
famous for its colossal moai statues.
ANSWER: Rapa Nui (or Easter Island)
[10] Heyerdahl tried to identify Odin with a chieftain who migrated to Sweden from this modern-day Caucasus nation with capital at
Baku. He examined rock carvings in this nation’s region of Gobustan.
ANSWER: Azerbaijan <CC>
11. In this book, Mr. Shimerda is buried without formal rites because the Catholic priest is too far away. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel with protagonist Jim Burden, which is set in Black Hawk, Nebraska. The last section of this book, “Cuzak’s
Boys,” is named for the husband of the title immigrant from Bohemia, one of Mr. Shimerda’s daughters.
ANSWER: My Ántonia
[10] My Ántonia is the last book in the prairie trilogy of this author. The other books in the prairie trilogy are O Pioneers! and The
Song of the Lark, and she also wrote Death Comes for the Archbishop.
ANSWER: Willa Cather
[10] In My Ántonia, Jim punches this man after he comes home hoping to take advantage of Ántonia. Since she is his housekeeper,
this character assumes that she will be there defenseless.
ANSWER: Mr. Wick Cutter [accept either] <CL>

12. This Secretary of State under William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt was Abraham Lincoln’s private secretary. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this diplomat who, along with Tomas Herran, named a treaty that attempted to lease land from Colombia to build a Central
American canal.
ANSWER: John M. Hay
[10] The Hay-Bunau-Varilla Treaty created this inter-oceanic canal in Central America. It is named for a nation that became
independent from Colombia with US support in 1903.
ANSWER: Panama Canal
[10] Hay also wrote “notes” detailing this so-called “free-market” policy with China. It allowed Western powers equal access to trade
with China in each sphere of influence.
ANSWER: Open Door Policy <LT>
13. This country has produced such works as Utendi wa Tambuka. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country which produced Mwengo’s The Story of Tambuka, one of the earliest known works in Swahili. Weep Not,
Child and A Grain of Wheat, set during the Mau Mau Rebellion, were written by an author from this country.
ANSWER: Republic of Kenya [accept Jamhuri ya Kenya]
[10] This memoir by Karen Blixen details her experience living in Kenya, then British East Africa, after marrying her second cousin.
Much of it takes place on a coffee plantation.
ANSWER: Out of Africa
[10] Karen Blixen used the pseudonyms Tania Blixen, Osceola, and Pierre Andrézel, but published Out of Africa under this pen name.
Blixen also used this pen name to publish Anecdotes of Destiny, which includes “Babette’s Feast.”
ANSWER: Isak Dinesen <CL>
14. This phenomenon is a consequence of effects described by Oersted’s law and Faraday’s law of induction. For 10 points:
[10] Name this phenomenon where a change in current will cause a change in voltage. The rate at which it occurs is measured in
henrys.
ANSWER: inductance (do NOT accept “induction”)
[10] These devices rely on the mutual form of inductance to operate. Coming in step-up and step-down types, these devices either
increase or decrease voltage levels in an electrical circuit.
ANSWER: transformers
[10] Ideal transformer models often neglect this form of energy loss, where current flowing through a conductor will release heat. The
amount of heat released is proportional to the square of the current.
ANSWER: Joule heating (prompt on Joule, accept ohmic heating or resistive heating) <AT>
15. This man was so jealous of his nephew Perdix’s mechanical aptitude that he threw him off of a tower. For 10 points:
[10] Name this Greek craftsman and inventor. In some myths, this architect of the Labyrinth created the giant automaton Talos to
protect Crete from invaders.
ANSWER: Daedalus
[10] This son of Daedalus attempted to escape from a tower by wearing a set of bird wings. After flying too close to the sun, his wings
were melted by intense heat, and he fell into the sea below.
ANSWER: Icarus
[10] Daedalus solved Minos’ challenge of threading a string through a seashell by having one of these animals crawl through the hole.
Zeus created the Myrmidons from these animals in order to repopulate Aegina.
ANSWER: ants <AT/JK>
16. After immense backlash surrounding the nude reclining subject of this work, the artist created an identical version with the subject
wearing clothes. For 10 points:
[10] Name this painting that received great criticism for its secularity and unabashed depiction of the nude female form. It currently
hangs in the Prado next to its “clothed” counterpart.
ANSWER: The Nude Maja [accept La Maja Desnuda]
[10] The Nude Maja is a painting by this Spanish artist. Another of his paintings, The Third of May 1808, features a French firing
squad preparing to shoot at a Spanish man with his arms outstretched.
ANSWER: Francisco Goya [accept Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes]
[10] Goya inserted himself in the corner of a portrait of this King of Spain and his family. In that portrait, the ornately dressed subjects
all look in different directions.
ANSWER: Charles IV <AT>

17. In January 2015, this country elected its first female president, Tsai Ing-wen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state only partially recognized by China. For decades, this island was under martial law by the Nationalist party, or
Kuomintang, which is still one of its two major political parties.
ANSWER: Taiwan [accept Republic of China; do not accept or prompt on “People’s Republic of China”]
[10] The other major Taiwanese political party is this one, formed in the 1980s to oppose the Kuomintang. From 2000 to 2008, this
party in favor of increased independence from China was in control of the presidency.
ANSWER: Democratic Progressive Party
[10] Despite close economic ties with other Asian nations, a “One-China” policy has officially excluded Taiwan from membership in
this political and economic organization which comprises ten Southeast Asian nations.
ANSWER: Association of Southeast Asian Nations or ASEAN <CL>
18. The 1873 Comstock law was named after her prosecutor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first female Presidential candidate. She ran the Equal Rights Party, and was an advocate of “free love” who was later
rejected by the NWSA.
ANSWER: Victoria Woodhull
[10] The NWSA was pro- this right, which was won in the 19th Amendment. That was after it was first popularized at the 1848
Seneca Falls Convention.
ANSWER: women's suffrage (or women’s right to vote)
[10] This suffragist and abolitionist was the president of the National Woman Suffrage Association from 1892 to 1900 and she was the
primary author of the Declaration of Sentiments.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Cady Stanton
19. The West has had its fair share of land use projects. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city, home to the Golden Gate Bridge and high rent prices. It is served by the Sacramento River.
ANSWER: San Francisco
[10] This agency within the U.S. Geological Survey was made in 1902 for federal water development projects. It serves states west of
Kansas and built the Shasta Dam on the Sacramento River.
ANSWER: United States Bureau of Reclamation [accept United States Reclamation Service]
[10] This mountain range from northern California into British Columbia contains Mt. Rainier. The Reclamation Bureau handled
eruptions at Lassen Peak and Mount St. Helens in this range.
ANSWER: Cascade Range [accept Cascades] <AG>
20. The discontinuous branch in this series begins with olivine, while the continuous branch begins with plagioclase. For 10 points:
[10] Name this series formulated by a Canadian petrologist, which indicates the types of rocks formed by cooling magma from
different temperatures. It is explains why certain types of minerals are often found together.
ANSWER: Bowen’s reaction series
[10] This type of rock is formed from the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. These rocks can be further classified into
extrusive or intrusive types, depending on whether they form above or below the surface.
ANSWER: igneous rock(s)
[10] This common igneous rock is largely composed of quartz and feldspar, and forms the majority of the continental crust. Because
this rock is less dense than basalt, oceanic crust subducts underneath continental crust.
ANSWER: granite <AT>
TB. Before Act III of this play, one character tries to commit suicide, but the bullet only grazes his head. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play in which Nina plays "the soul of the world" in a play-within-a-play written in by Konstantin. Medvedenko is in
love with Masha in this play, and Polina and the doctor Dorn are having an affair.
ANSWER: The Seagull
[10] The Seagull was written by this Russian author of Uncle Vanya, Three Sisters, and The Cherry Orchard.
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
[10] In The Seagull, this character is a well-known writer and eventually becomes the father of Nina’s child. This character, after some
convincing, agrees to return to Moscow with Arkadina.
ANSWER: Trigorin <CL>

