PRISON BOWL IX
Questions written and edited by Hunter College High School (Gilad Avrahami, Sam Brochin, Christopher Chilton, David Godovich,
Lily Goldberg, Ada-Marie Gutierrez, Diane Hwangpo, Joshua Kwan, Chloe Levine, Alice Lin, Brian Lu, Helen Lyons, Daniel Ma,
Albert Tai, Luke Tierney, and Rachel Yang), with contributions from Rohan Nag and Jeff Xie
Round 08
Tossups
1. Creuseurs and garimpeiros illegally mine the alluvial type of this substance, which can be found in an area named for Kollur. The
production of these items is regulated by the KPCS rules, and the Fowler Report detailed the means of their distribution. In 2000,
Charles G. Taylor was accused of trading weapons in exchange for these items. A slogan concerning these items was changed to
include “amputation” by disgruntled RUF soldiers in Sierra Leone. The DeBeers corporation of this mineral was founded in
Kimberley, South Africa, where its “conflict” or “blood” type is now banned. For 10 points, name this hardest material.
ANSWER: diamonds
2. LOXL 1 and LOXL 2 form crosslinks between units of this molecule, and the hydroxylation of lysine and proline are a step in its
formation. This molecule’s down synthesis is regulated by cortisol. Created by fibroblasts, it contains glycine at every third residue.
There are 28 types of this molecule, which can further be classified into fibrillar and non-fibrillar types. Vitamin C is an important
cofactor in the synthesis of this protein, which is found in a triple helix structure. Gelatin is composed of this molecule, which is the
most abundant protein in the human body. For 10 points, name this connective protein.
ANSWER: collagen <AT>
3. One player of this instrument led a New York quintet with Al Cohn; that musician was Zoot Sims. Stan Getz played this instrument
in “The Girl from Ipanema.” Another player of this instrument collaborated with Bill Evans on the album Know What I Mean? and
released the single “Mercy, Mercy, Mercy.” “Cannonball” Adderley played this instrument, as did another musician who produced
densely arpeggiated improvisations nicknamed his “sheets of sound.” That man also recorded albums like Giant Steps and A Love
Supreme, which spawned many standards for this instrument’s repertoire. For 10 points, name this wind instrument played by John
Coltrane.
ANSWER: saxophone (accept specific types, like alto saxophone or tenor saxophone) <RY/AT>
4. In D. H. Lawrence’s The Rainbow, Ursula has a lesbian affair with a woman of this profession, and later joins this profession
herself. One character of this profession offers Walter Cunningham a quarter when he does not have enough money for lunch, and this
profession was also held by Ichabod Crane. In The Catcher in the Rye, a character of this profession is introduced wearing a bathrobe
and using Vicks Nose Drops, and Holden may be molested by another. In the graphic novel Persepolis, a character of this profession
threatens to expel Marjane. For 10 points, identify this profession of Mr. Spencer and Mr. Antolini, who work at Pencey Prep.
ANSWER: schoolteachers [accept clear knowledge equivalents; prompt on schoolmaster and equivalents; do not accept teachers of
specific subjects; do not accept “professors”] <CL>
5. When this man was a child, the monk Bahira attempted to prophesize his fate by noting the particular movement of a cloud. His
tactical victory at the Battle of the Trench is attributed to his companion and convert to Islam, Salman the Persian. This man revealed
that he was illiterate in the cave of Hira, and appointed his successor at the pond of Khumm. The death of his wife is known as the
“year of sorrow,” and the sayings of this man are known as the hadiths. Gabriel revealed the Quran to, for 10 points, which founder of
Islam, who is believed by Muslims to be the last prophet?
ANSWER: Muhammad <JK>
6. A work by this writer inspired a Mikhail Glinka opera and described the rescue of Ludmila. This writer created a group of four short
dramas including The Stone Guest and one about two rival composers, Mozart and Salieri. In addition to his “little tragedies,” this
man wrote a historical novel featuring Pyotr and Masha’s romance. A play by this man inspired a Mussorgsky opera about the life of a
Tsar, Boris Godunov. The most famous work by this man features Vladimir Lensky, and almost exclusively is written in iambic
tetrameter. For 10 points, name this Russian Romantic writer of the novel in verse Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Alexander (Sergeyevich) Pushkin <CL>
7. The results of this experiment were generalized in the Englert-Greenberger relation. Extracting information from this experiment
can retroactively influence the behavior of entities involved in it, as proven by both the quantum eraser experiment and Wheeler’s
delayed-choice experiment. In this experiment, the angular spacing of fringes can be found by dividing wavelength by distance. It
demonstrated that the addition of wavefronts of light will cause an interference pattern, and disproved Newton’s corpuscular theory of
light by demonstrating light’s wave-particle duality. For 10 points, name this experiment where a beam of light was passed through
two openings.
ANSWER: Young’s double-slit experiment (accept either underlined portion; accept Young’s interference experiment or Young’s
double-slit interferometer experiment ) <AT>

8. One version of this type of weapon was designed by W.G.K. Kilbourn after being envisioned by George Brighty. JFC Fuller, an
advocate for this type of weapon, created the Plan 1919. Soviet “deep operations” relied on these weapons. Pyramidal dragon’s teeth
were used to destroy these weapons. The “Little Willie” and “Big Willie” were succeeded by the Mark series of these weapons, which
broke the Hindenburg Line. The largest engagement of these weapons was the 1943 battle of Kursk. For 10 points, name these mobile
weapons used in Blitzkrieg tactics, which included the Tigers and Panzers.
ANSWER: tanks; accept specific types of tanks before mentioned <LT>
9. The magician Alidor helps the title character in this composer’s one-act opera Don Sanche. The first movement of one of his piano
pieces opens by mimicking a violin tuning up, and is titled The Dance in the Village Inn. Two symphonic poems comprise this man’s
Dante Symphony, and he included pieces titled Feux Follets and Mazeppa in a series written at age fifteen. This composer of the
Mephisto Waltzes and Liebestraum drew from traditional Gypsy themes to write a series of 19 works named for his home country. For
10 points, name this composer of the Hungarian Rhapsodies and the Transcendental Etudes.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt <GA>
10. A myth in which a bird laid an egg between two branches of a poplar tree is commemorated by this nation’s Bayterek observation
tower. This nation’s highest point is on the Khan Tengri mountain, which is located in the Tian Shan range. The world’s first space
launch facility, the Baikonur Cosmodrome, is located in this country. Seven rivers drain an endorheic basin into this country’s Lake
Balkhash. This country owns the North Aral Sea, and it borders the northeast portion of the Caspian Sea. This country’s capital was
moved from Almaty in 1997. For 10 points, name this largest landlocked country, with capital at Astana.
ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan
11. The head of one goddess in Aztec mythology was used by Huitzilopochtli to create this entity. Feng Meng attempts to steal an
object which turned its user into this type of deity. In Egyptian mythology, Nut gambled with a god of this type for five days of extra
time to birth her children. The wife of a man who shot down nine suns became a goddess of this type after she drank an elixir of
immortality and is the subject of a festival dedicated to this object in Chinese culture. For ten points, name this entity, which is
commonly associated with rabbits and the goddess Selene.
ANSWER: the moon <JK>
12. This man opened one of his songs with the declaration “I’m an alligator.” In another track, this singer of “I’m Afraid of
Americans” and “Moonage Daydream” instructs listeners to “put on your red shoes and dance the blues.” With Mick Jagger, this man
covered “Dancing in the Street.” He sings about “sailors fighting in the dance hall” in his song “Life on Mars,” which was written
shortly before he adopted his Ziggy Stardust persona. In one of this man’s songs, “Ground Control” attempts to reach the astronaut
“Major Tom.” For 10 points, name this British glam rocker, the singer of “Changes,” “Let’s Dance,” and “Space Oddity.”
ANSWER: David Bowie (accept David Robert Jones) <AT>
13. It is revealed in this work that the corpse of the protagonist’s friend “lies out there unburied, / Polluting all your feet with death,”
and this work grimly states, “When gods are contrary / They stand by no one.” One character in this work declares, “[R]ise up from
my bones, avenging spirit,” foreshadowing the figure of Hannibal. With the help of Mezentius, Turnus kills Pallas in this work, and
Helenus tells the protagonist of this work to sail to Ausonia. Another character in this work stabs herself on a funeral pyre after the
protagonist leaves for Italy; that character is Dido [DIE-doh]. For 10 points, name this epic about the legendary Trojan founder of
Rome, written by Virgil.
ANSWER: The Aeneid [do not accept “Aeneas”] <CL>
14. Brian Kenny created a “deconstructed” one of these objects, and many of them feature prominently in an impressionist Childe
Hassam series. One of these objects was comprised entirely of toy soldiers. Another one was created by dipping newspaper clippings
and fabric into beeswax in the encaustic technique, while three of these things are stacked on top of each other in a Jasper Johns
painting. A Joe Rosenthal work depicts the placement of one of them on Mount Suribachi. For 10 points, name this object that is being
raised on Iwo Jima in a famous photograph.
ANSWER: American flag (prompt on flag, accept reasonable equivalents like the flag of the United States of America, Old Glory,
or the Star-Spangled Banner) <CL>
15. In this city, the Kinmon Incident, an attempt by the Choshu Domain to seize control of a sovereign and his palace, occurred in
1864, foreshadowing future conflict. This city was modeled on the city of Chang’an. Henry Stimson, the US Secretary of War, is said
to have honeymooned here, and famously lobbied to have this city taken off the list of bombing targets during the Second World War
despite significant protests from the military. This city was called Saikyo or “Western Capital” after it was replaced as its nation’s
effective capital by city known as the “Eastern Capital” or Tokyo. For 10 points, name this traditional capital of Japan that the Meiji
emperor left in 1869.
ANSWER: Kyoto (accept Kyo, Miyako, Kyō no Miyako; accept “Saikyo” before mention)

16. Green’s theorem expresses the relationship between two different forms of this function. Simpson’s rule approximates this
function using parabolas. A form of this function that partitions the range of a function is named for Lebesgue. When the terms in a
series approach zero, a test named for this function determines if that series converges. A type of this technique attempts to find “v”
and “d u,” and it can be performed via u-substitutions. Using a series of rectangles, one can perform the Riemann form of this
technique, which can be done “by parts.” For 10 points, name this mathematical operation which approximates the area under a curve,
the opposite of differentiation.
ANSWER: integration (accept finding the integral, prompt on antidifferentiation) <AT>
17. One character in this novel remarks, “How often happiness is destroyed by preparation, foolish preparation!” before asking the
protagonist why she is always right. That protagonist, of whom the author of this novel wrote, “I am going to take a heroine whom no
one but myself will much like,” says, “I may have lost my heart, but not my self-control,” when struggling with her feelings for her
friend Harriet’s love interest. In this novel, one character is frustrated because the self-satisfied title character convinces Harriet to
reject Mr. Martin; later the title character realizes she is meant to marry Mr. Knightley. For 10 points, name this novel about the
meddlesome Mrs. Woodhouse by Jane Austen.
ANSWER: Emma <CL>
18. The Dogon people in what is now this country made villages in the shape of humans. The Kaabu Kingdom was at one time a
province, or tinkuru, of the state that became this modern-day nation. This nation was a colony containing the city of Kayes called
French Sudan until Modibo Keita became its first president in 1960. Susan and Roderick McIntosh excavated near Djenné-jeno in this
nation. A ruler named Barmandana brought Islam to this country’s namesake West African empire, whose rulers were notably called
“mansas.” For 10 points, name this West African state housing Timbuktu that named an empire ruled by Sundiata and Mansa Musa.
ANSWER: Mali <CL>
19. The ratio of the isobaric and isochoric values of this quantity is symbolized gamma and is named after Poisson. This quantity is
equal to the one half the degrees of freedom times the ideal gas constant but is closer to 3R for solids, as approximated by Dulong and
Petit. This quantity equals the derivative of enthalpy with respect to temperature, and can be measured by a calorimeter. It is
equivalent to 4.185 Joules per gram-degree Celsius for water. For 10 points, name this quantity, the amount of heat needed to raise the
temperature of a substance by 1 degree Celsius.
ANSWER: specific heat capacity (accept specific heat, do not prompt on or accept “heat”) <AT>
20. While he was Chairman of the Republican National Committee, this man formally asked Nixon to resign following the Watergate
Scandal. He was appointed envoy to the People's Republic of China by Gerald Ford. As president, he signed the Americans with
Disabilities Act into law. This man faced Lloyd Bentsen as the Democratic vice-presidential nominee and Michael Dukakis as the
Democratic nominee for president, while Dan Quayle was his running-mate. For 10 points, name this US President who was elected in
1988, the father of a man who won the controversial 2000 election against Al Gore.
ANSWER: George Herbert Walker Bush <LT>
TB. The earliest known work by this artist is A Boy Peeling Fruit, which features a disproportionately small head. In another work by
this artist, a man is skeptical as a woman in a white headscarf reads his palm. This artist of works like Cardsharps and The Fortune
Teller also painted a shoulder-baring “Boy with a Basket of Fruit.” In another work by this artist, the identity of the title figure is
unknown, and could have been any of the five tax collectors who Jesus points to. His most famous work features light shining through
a window in the dramatic tenebrism style. For 10 points, name this Italian Baroque painter of The Incredulity of St. Thomas and The
Calling of Saint Matthew.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Mersisi da Caravaggio [or Michael Angelo Merigi da Caravaggio or Amerighi da Caravaggio] <CL>
Bonuses
1. This country was in a union with Denmark from 1524 until 1814. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this home country of several kings named Haakon (“HAW-cun”). It has a capital at Oslo.
ANSWER: Norway
[10] This personal union of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden was formed by the 1363 marriage of Margaret I and Haakon VI. It was
created partially to counterbalance the Hanseatic League.
ANSWER: Kalmar Union
[10] The first king of this dynasty, Gustav I, rebelled from the Kalmar Union, making Sweden independent in 1523. Other rulers of
this house were Gustavus Adolphus and Christina.
ANSWER: Vasa

2. After the protagonist is guillotined at the end of this novel, Mathilde kisses his severed head. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this French psychological novel about society under the Bourbon Restoration, which details Julien Sorel’s rise from
humble beginnings to success among the aristocracy. Julien’s inability to control his emotions causes his eventual downfall when he
shoots Madame de Rênal during Mass.
ANSWER: The Red and the Black [accept Le Rouge et le Noir: Chronique du XIXe Siècle]
[10] This author who wrote about the Italian aristocrat Fabrice del Dongo in The Charterhouse of Parma also wrote The Red and the
Black.
ANSWER: Stendhal [accept Marie-Henri Beyle]
[10] The Red and the Black is often called this type of novel, a coming-of-age story emphasizing character change of a sensitive young
person who goes off in search of experience. This German term, coined by Karl Morgenstern, is often applied to James Joyce’s
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Mark Twain’s The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Bildungsroman <CL>
3. Stars seem to twinkle due to our atmosphere, but many other factors actually contribute to variations in their luminosities. For 10
points each:
[10] Stars change slightly in luminosity when these rocky objects pass in the line of vision between them and Earth. The Kepler space
telescope attempts to detect the “exo” ones of these entities by the “transit” method.
ANSWER: planets (do not accept “moons”)
[10] In the “eclipsing” form of these star systems, stars of different luminosities block parts of each other and cause a loss in the
surface area in the line of vision. Stars in these two-star systems orbit the system’s center of mass.
ANSWER: binary (star) system
[10] These radially pulsating stars change in luminosity and size due to the formation and dissipation of doubly ionized helium. They
are used as measures for distance due to a direct relationship between their period and luminosity.
ANSWER: Cepheid variable <DM>
4. Due to this structure’s unconventional design and lack of ornamentation, it was given the derogatory nickname “the black gash of
shame.” For 10 points:
[10] Name this structure located in Washington D.C.’s National Mall. It features the inscribed names of fallen soldiers etched onto
two gabbro walls.
ANSWER: Vietnam Veterans Memorial (accept Vietnam War Memorial or Vietnam Memorial, colloquial names for the
installation)
[10] The Vietnam Veterans Memorial was conceptualized by this American designer, who entered her design in a public competition
as an undergrad. She also designed a disc-shaped Civil Rights Monument.
ANSWER: Maya (Ying) Lin (or Lin Ying)
[10] This controversial Richard Serra sculpture bore similarity to the Vietnam Memorial’s monolithic aesthetic. Formerly installed in
New York City’s Federal Plaza, this curved 12-foot wall of steel was meant to make people aware of their movement.
ANSWER: Tilted Arc <AT>
5, Spread democracy via moral diplomacy, or talk softly and carry a big stick? Name some stuff about historical U.S. foreign policy,
for 10 points each:
[10] Name this two-word phrase describing the U.S. and United Kingdom’s bromance. It was coined by Winston Churchill during his
“Sinews of Peace” Address in Fulton, Missouri.
ANSWER: Special Relationship
[10] This American doctrine stated that any attempt by European nations to colonize states in North or South America would be
viewed as an act of aggression, and deliberately excluded Britain. It was named for the fifth president.
ANSWER: Monroe Doctrine
[10] From 1907 to 1909, Theodore Roosevelt showcased U.S. naval superiority by sending this fleet of ships around the world, partly
to compete with the British stranglehold on the seas.
ANSWER: Great White Fleet <AT>
6. Boluses pass through the esophagus into the stomach, where this process happens with trypsin and several other enzymes. For 10
points:
[10] Name this process, which breaks food into nutrients and puts them into the bloodstream.
ANSWER: digestion
[10] Because of this acid, the stomach has a pH of around 2, the optimal pH of Helicobacter pylori. If there’s too much of this acid,
stomach ulcers can form.
ANSWER: HCl or hydrochloric acid
[10] Several types of this inflammatory disease can be chronic, like Crohn’s disease. Another type of this disease results in the growth
of ulcers, leading to diarrhea and bloody stool.
ANSWER: colitis <DG>

7. According to some accounts, Moctezuma II believed that Hernan Cortes’s arrival in Mesoamerica heralded this god’s return. For 10
points:
[10] Name this Mayan and Aztec god often depicted as a feathered serpent. This deity was the god of the morning star, while his twin
brother Xolotl was the god of the evening star.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl (accept Kukulkan or Ehecatl)
[10] Quetzalcoatl and Xolotl created the fifth-world mankind after visiting one of these places called Mictlan. One of these places in
Mayan mythology was called Xibalba.
ANSWER: underworlds (accept hells)
[10] Quetzalcoatl and this rival often feuded with each other by destroying each others’ creations. This deity’s name translates to
“Smoking Mirror,” and he was often represented as a jaguar.
ANSWER: Tezcatlipoca (tez-cat-li-PO-ca) <AT>
8. This term was first used by the philosopher Longinus, who used it to refer to lofty or elevated language. For ten points,
[10] Name this philosophical concept which describes a greatness beyond the ability of the mind to calculate. Edmund Burke
contrasted it with the concept of beauty in A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of this concept and Beautiful.
ANSWER: the sublime
[10] The concepts of the beautiful and the sublime are instrumental to this school of philosophy, which deals with the nature of art and
taste. Hegel’s lectures on this school of philosophy were published after his death.
ANSWER: aesthetics
[10] In this 1790 work, also known as the Third Critique, Immanuel Kant identified two forms of the sublime: the mathematical and
the dynamical.
ANSWER: The Critique of Judgment [accept The Critique of the Power of Judgment; Kritik der Urteilskraft]
9. Don’t do drugs, kids! For 10 points each, name some questions about literary characters who didn’t heed that advice.
[10] In this Jack Kerouac novel, the narrator Sal Paradise gets high and drunk with regularity. In this novel, Dean Moriarty does not
accompany Sal and Stan Shephard to Mexico, where they are thrilled because cannabis is cheaper.
ANSWER: On the Road
[10] This nonfiction “New Journalism” book by Tom Wolfe follows Ken Kesey and his Merry Pranksters, who travel in a bus named
“Further” and who experiment with the LSD-laced title beverage.
ANSWER: The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test
[10] In Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo are on drugs for most of the book. Gonzo is the namesake of a
type of this practice, done by Nellie Bly.
ANSWER: journalism <CL>
10. This figure defeats the dragon Medeus to save his homeland of Altea. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who is known as the Hero-King. In his game Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon, he wields the sword Falchion
and travels with Caede to retrieve the Fire Emblem from the kingdom of Akaneia.
ANSWER: Marth
[10] Marth is a character from this video game company, which is more famous for its Donkey Kong and Mario series created by
producer Shigeru Miyamoto.
ANSWER: Nintendo
[10] Excellent spacing options and grab range net Marth a top tier position in this second game in a series, whose professional players
such as PPMD and Mew2King utilize Marth’s infamous Ken Combo to great effect.
ANSWER: Super Smash Brothers Melee (or Super Smash Bros. Melee, prompt on Super Smash Bros. or acronyms like SSB or
SSBM, do not accept any other specific games in the series like “64”, “Brawl”, or “Super Smash Bros. for Wii U/3DS”) <JK>
11. The Statute of Westminster established this country’s legislative independence from the British Parliament. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Commonwealth country with capital at Wellington whose current prime minister is John Key.
ANSWER: New Zealand
[10] This captain completed the first recorded circumnavigation and coastline mapping of New Zealand. He names a group of islands
in free association with New Zealand, which contains Rarotonga.
ANSWER: James Cook
[10] These animals were targeted by an American expedition to New Zealand in 1791, and they were hunted by colonizing powers and
some local peoples until that practice was made illegal in 1978.
ANSWER: whales <CL>

12. This book is part of a series with titles like The Sexual Life of Savages in North-Western Melanesia and Coral Gardens and Their
Magic. For 10 points:
[10] Name this book detailing the culture of the Trobriand people, residents of the Kiriwina island chain.
ANSWER: Argonauts of the Western Pacific
[10] Argonauts of the Western Pacific was a study by this Polish anthropologist. He also wrote the psychoanalytical Sex and
Repression in Savage Society.
ANSWER: Bronislaw (Kasper) Malinowski
[10] A section in Argonauts of the West Pacific is concerned with this Papua New Guinean gift-exchanging practice. Malinowski used
this practice as an example of the universality of decision making.
ANSWER: Kula ring (or Kula exchange) <AT>
13. Paintings produced in this 1901 to 1904 period include La Vie and Woman with a Helmet of Hair, as well as a portrait of Suzanne
Bloch. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this part of Pablo Picasso’s career named for the monochromatic works produced during it. Picasso’s depression during
this time was due to the suicide of his friend Carlos Casagemas.
ANSWER: Picasso’s Blue Period [accept El Período Azul; prompt on anything with blue or azul]
[10] Probably the most famous product of Picasso’s Blue Period is this painting, which shows a blind beggar playing the title
instrument in Barcelona.
ANSWER: The Old Guitarist [prompt on translations]
[10] Another Blue Period painting depicts a seated female inmate of the Saint-Lazare hospital-prison performing this title action.
ANSWER: folding her arms (accept Woman with Folded Arms, accept clear knowledge equivalents like crossing her arms) <CL>
14. Trees do more than photosynthesize: they inspire incredible poetry. For 10 points each:
[10] This American poet described “A tree that may in Summer wear / A nest of robins in her hair” in his oft-parodied poem, “Trees.”
He opens it with the lines, “I think that I shall never see / A poem as lovely as a tree.”
ANSWER: Joyce Kilmer [accept Alfred Joyce Kilmer]
[10] In this poem, the speaker likens himself and another character to trees by saying, “He is all pine and I am apple orchard,” before
quoting the other character saying, “‘Good fences make good neighbors.’”
ANSWER: Mending Wall [do not accept “The Mending Wall”]
[10] This poet of “Mending Wall” also described trees in “Birches” and “The Road Not Taken,” which closes, “Two roads diverged in
a wood, and I, / I took the one less traveled by, / And that has made all the difference.”
ANSWER: Robert Frost <CL>
15. “Victorious February” celebrates the 1948 coup that brought Communists to power in this country. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this central European nation that was led by Vaclav Havel after 1989. It included the Sudetenland, which Hitler annexed in
1938.
ANSWER: Czechoslovakia (do not accept “Czech Republic” or “Slovakia”)
[10] This adjective describes the revolution that put Havel in power. It also names the split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia
under a namesake divorce.
ANSWER: velvet
[10] Members of Charter 77 and most rioters of the Velvet Revolution were of this profession. Members of this profession started riots
around the world in 1968.
ANSWER: students (accept clear knowledge equivalents) <LT>
16. This effect does not occur within a distance called the London penetration depth. For 10 points:
[10] Name this effect where magnetic flux is expulsed from a certain type of material, which occurs while the material is being cooled
below a critical temperature.
ANSWER: Meissner effect (accept Meissner-Ochsenfeld effect)
[10] The Meissner effect is primarily exhibited by these materials. Containing pairs of electrons known as Cooper pairs, they exhibit
zero electrical resistance.
ANSWER: superconductors
[10] This doubly-eponymous theory proposed two equations governing superconductor behavior. The first, a Schrodinger-like wave
function, determines an order parameter, while the second provides the superconducting current.
ANSWER: Ginzburg-Landau theory <AT>

17. Throughout history, many musicians have outclassed their peers in fiddling. Name some legendary virtuoso violinists, for 10
points each:
[10] Rumors stated that this Italian violinist’s extremely long fingers were a product of Marfan syndrome. Themes from his 24
Caprices were used in a rhapsody by Rachmaninoff.
ANSWER: Niccolo Paganini
[10] This contemporary Israeli-American is best known for playing the violin solo in the theme from Schindler’s List and performing
with Yo-Yo Ma at Barack Obama’s inauguration. His lifelong polio didn’t stop him from fiddling.
ANSWER: Itzhak Perlman
[10] This Spanish Romantic violinist’s piece Zigeunerweisen (zee-GOO-ner-VI-sen) is now a go-to for violinists who want to show
off their technical skill. Camille Saint-Saens’ Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso was dedicated to him.
ANSWER: Pablo de Sarasate <AT>
18. In Around the Day in Eighty Worlds, he wrote, “In quoting others, we cite ourselves.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Argentinian writer, an important figure in the Latin American boom. One of his collections is called Final de juego,
or Endgame, and he is best known for Hopscotch.
ANSWER: Julio Cortázar [accept Julio Florencio Cortázar]
[10] Hopscotch is written in this narrative style, also known as interior monologue. William Faulkner’s The Sound and the Fury is
written in this style, which attempts to show the narrator’s thought process.
ANSWER: stream-of-consciousness
[10] Cortázar is also known as the modern master of this form. Examples of this form by him include House Taken Over and Blowup.
Another man who worked in this form wrote examples like The Aleph and The Garden of Forking Paths.
ANSWER: short story [or short stories; prompt on story or stories] <CL>
19. One of these two people was fashioned out of a rib bone of the other. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these two Biblical figures which were cast out of the Garden of Eden after eating the Forbidden Fruit.
ANSWER: Adam and Eve (accept in any order)
[10] One of these two children of Adam and Eve was the first human born, while the other was the first to die. In a famous incident,
these two men offered God livestock and fruit. Name both.
ANSWER: Cain and Abel (accept in either order)
[10] After arriving in the Land of Nod, Cain’s wife became pregnant with this child. Another man with this name names three
apocryphal books, and was the great-grandfather of Noah.
ANSWER: Enoch <RY>
20. Member of this class of molecules have entirely sp2-hybridized bonds, and contain pentagonal or hexagonal carbon rings. For 10
points:
[10] Name this class of molecules that includes carbon nanotubes and buckyballs. They’re named after the surname of an architect
known for his geodesic domes.
ANSWER: fullerenes
[10] This term refers to the multiple forms that an element can exist in. It explains why carbon atoms can bond together in the
tetrahedral diamond, planar graphene, or spherical fullerene configurations.
ANSWER: allotropes (or allotropy)
[10] Like phosphorus, this element comes in “red” and “black” allotropes. This element with atomic number 34 is sometimes
recognized as a metalloid, and the sulfur atom in cysteine is occasionally replaced with an atom of it.
ANSWER: selenium (or Se) <AT>
TB. This novel describes the life of an orphan girl who is mistakenly sent to live in the title farm in Avonlea. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this children's book that takes place on Prince Edward Island and whose main characters include Diana Barry and Gertie
Pye, written by Lucy Maud Montgomery.
ANSWER: Anne of Green Gables
[10] Anne Shirley cracks a slate across this boy’s head after he takes a lock of her red hair and whispers “Carrots! Carrots!” In later
books, this character becomes Anne’s husband.
ANSWER: Gilbert Blythe [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Gilbert and Anne had six children, three of which fought in this war. Walter Blythe died in action in this war at Courcelette. All
Silent on the Western Front is also about this war.
ANSWER: World War I [accept WWI and other equivalents] <RY>

