PRISON BOWL IX
Questions written and edited by Hunter College High School (Gilad Avrahami, Sam Brochin, Christopher Chilton, David Godovich,
Lily Goldberg, Ada-Marie Gutierrez, Diane Hwangpo, Joshua Kwan, Chloe Levine, Alice Lin, Brian Lu, Helen Lyons, Daniel Ma,
Albert Tai, Luke Tierney, and Rachel Yang), with contributions from Rohan Nag and Jeff Xie
Round 12
Tossups
1. John Randolph headed the "Old" faction of a party of this name, which believed in strict constructionism. Roscoe Conkling notably
led one faction of this party, of which Charles Guiteau claimed to be a member. One election that saw the rise of the "merit system"
involved the Stalwart and Half-Breed factions of this party. The "National" type of this party ran in the elections of 1828 and 1832.
For 10 points, name this party whose “Democratic” form founded by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison opposed the Federalists,
and whose current form controls both houses of congress.
ANSWER: Republicans
2. This song’s music video features actor Tristan Wilds in an Adidas tracksuit, and opens with a shot of flies next to a windowsill. It
interrupts a family arguing during Thanksgiving dinner in a Saturday Night Live segment, and clips from its music video was spliced
together with footage of Lionel Richie singing “is it me you’re looking for?” In that video for this song, its singer says “I just got here
and I think I’m losing signal already” while talking on a flip phone. It features the lyrics “I’m in California dreaming about who we
used to be.” For 10 points, name this song where Adele sings the title word “from the other side.”
ANSWER: “Hello” <AT>
3. Singer Victor Jara was executed under this man’s regime, an event that notably took place in a stadium. Supporters of this man
shockingly lost a 1988 plebiscite regarding an extension of his rule when American marketers intervened on the behalf of his
opponents, a story chronicled in a 2012 film, No. This man famously brought in Milton Friedman and other “Chicago Boys” to help
reorganize his nation’s economy. For 10 points, name this man who overthrew Salvador Allende in 1973, a longtime Chilean dictator.
ANSWER: Augusto Jose Ramon Pinochet Ugarte (also accept “Ugarte”) <LT>
4. These structures are protected by the chemical oleanane. These objects’ morphologies are classified by four whorls, and the variety
of these structures possessed by individuals characterize whether a species is monoecious or diecious. The perianths of these structures
are comprised of the calyx and corolla. When exposed to a vegetative cell, these structures will open a tube through the style, through
which two sperm cells will then travel. Parts of these structures occur in multiples of threes in monocots, and the presence of them is
one of the key characteristics of angiosperms. For 10 points, name these structures that contain pistils and stamens.
ANSWER: flowers <AT>
5. In Song of Solomon, Robert Smith performs this action while Lena and Corinthians gather rose petals. A former alcoholic in Hedda
Gabler does this action at Hedda’s urging; that figure is named Eilert. The protagonist of Kafka’s story “The Judgement” performs
this action after arguing with his father. Many real life Europeans performed this action, inspired by a work in which Charlotte’s
engagement to Albert devastates the protagonist. This action is foreshadowed in Anna Karenina when a railroad worker accidently
slips in front of a train and dies, which Anna describes as an “evil omen.” For 10 points, name this action that Juliet does in Romeo
and Juliet by stabbing herself.
ANSWER: suicide [accept killing oneself and equivalents; accept jumping off a roof and equivalents until “Hedda Gabler;” prompt
on standing on a roof or flying until “Hedda Gabler”] <RY>
6. This character once captured a man in Cart Castle to seduce him, but he escaped with the help of a servant named Rocedon. One
attempt by this character to assassinate a man using a cursed mantle cloak is thwarted by the Lady of the Lake, and this figure was the
eldest of nine relatives who could all shapeshift and fly. She is sometimes depicted as the mother of Ywain. In Vita Merlini, this
character carries King Arthur away after he was fatally wounded by Mordred, though later accounts made her an enemy of the Knights
of the Round Table. For ten points, name this sorceress of Arthurian legend.
ANSWER: Morgan le Fay (or Morgana) <JK>
7. One recurring character created by this author first appeared in a novel about a trip to a South American plateau where prehistoric
animals survive, The Lost World; that character was named Professor Challenger. Another character created by this author is corrected
about the meaning of “rache” in a work named for the color of the “thread of murder.” That character created by this author goes to
the home of Stapleton in one work, who is to blame for a murder instead of a spectral dog, and is named Inspector Lestrade. For ten
points, name this author who wrote The Hound of the Baskervilles and other detective stories about Dr. Watson and Sherlock Holmes.
ANSWER: Sir Arthur (Ignatius) Conan Doyle <CL>

8. The Moranbong Band, a pop group from this country, is named for a hill where one of this country’s politicians spoke after
returning from exile in the Soviet Union. Otto Warmbier is currently detained in this country, and Kenneth Bae left this country in
2014 with the help of James R. Clapper. On January 6, this country may have conducted its fourth nuclear test, likely targeted at its
southern neighbor, and this country was blamed for hacking SONY preceding the release of The Interview. For 10 points, name this
communist state led by Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un with a capital at Pyongyang.
ANSWER: North Korea [accept Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; prompt on DPRK; prompt on Korea; do not accept or
prompt on “South Korea”] <CL>
9. This phenomenon is largely responsible for deliquescence, and its strongest type occurs when a proton is spaced halfway between
two atoms. Possessing a “symmetric” type, it is responsible for the crystallization of nylon and cellulose. These entities, which
characterize associated liquids, result in cohesion and adhesion, and are the result of the high electronegativity difference between
fluorine, nitrogen, or oxygen and their namesake element. For 10 points, name these intermolecular forces that are responsible for the
high boiling point and surface tension of water.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonds (accept H-bonds) <AT>
10. Swedenborg wrote that these figures “lack nothing that belongs to humans”, and St. Augustine argued that their name described an
“office” rather than their “nature.” One of these figures comforts Jesus at the Garden of Gethsemane, and Pseudo-Dionysius placed
them into groups called Dominions, Powers, and Virtues. One of these figures says, “fear not… for thou hast found favor with God”
when he visits the Virgin Mary; that figure heralds the birth of Jesus Christ. For ten points, name these spiritual beings whose
Christian representations include Michael and Gabriel.
ANSWER: angels (accept archangels) <CC>
11. This man’s Credo was a setting of the Nicene Creed in stile antico, and he included a castrato role for Fernando Cortés in his
opera Motezuma. A movement from another piece by this man opens with the notes G, F, E, D, each followed by many sixteenth-note
Gs. A series by this man features pieces like “Pleasure” and “The Sea Storm.” This composer accompanied a set of pieces with
program music that depicted images like drunkards falling asleep and a “barking dog.” Those pieces were included in his collection
The Contest Between Harmony and Intervention. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of four violin concerti representing
different times of the year, the Four Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio Lucio Vivaldi <GA/AT>
12. The expressions of this work’s subjects were likely inspired by a Charles Le Brun book detailing various facial expressions. It
features Morro Castle in its background, as well as a black man in a pink scarf. The subject of this painting set in Havana would later
become the Lord Mayor of London, and his bloody dismemberment is hidden by water in the lower left of this painting. That subject
is naked and outstretches an arm towards a rope in an attempt to escape the title creature. For 10 points, identify this painting by John
Singleton Copley, in which men on a boat attempt to rescue a man before he is devoured.
ANSWER: Watson and the Shark <CL>
13. One character in this novel has been bedridden with depression since the birth of her youngest son, Kenyon. Two characters in
this book escape with only a portable radio, binoculars, and less than fifty dollars cash. In this book, Mrs. Clutter tells Dick Hickock
and Perry Smith that her family has no safe before she and her family are murdered by the pair in their Kansas home. Research for this
book was completed with the help of the author’s friend Harper Lee. For 10 points, name this so-called “original nonfiction novel”
about four 1959 murders, a true crime work by Truman Capote.
ANSWER: In Cold Blood <CL>
14. A combinatorial proof of one of this man’s theorems by Solomon Golomb is named after necklaces. This man also names a
primality test which was based on the fact that for a prime number p, a to the p is congruent to a mod p. A modularity theorem
involving elliptic curves named after Taniyama and Shimura was used to prove one of this man’s conjectures, which was written in
the margins of Diophantus’ Arithmetica. That theorem states that for any values of n greater than two, the equation “a to the n plus b
to the n equals c to the n” cannot be satisfied by positive integers. Andrew Wiles proved, for 10 points, which Frenchman’s “Last
Theorem?”
ANSWER: Pierre de Fermat <AT>
15. In this work’s prologue, a chandelier is magically restored, and at the beginning of Act One, Carlotta storms offstage. In another
scene in this work, a character faints when a mannequin moves, and she is promised, “Softly, deftly, music shall surround you” with a
song possibly plagiarized from Puccini. Two lovers in this musical sing the song “All I Ask of You,” and its title character sings “The
Music of the Night.” At this work’s end, the title character disappears after the soprano protagonist rejects him, leaving only a white
mask. For 10 points, identify this Andrew Lloyd Webber musical about Raoul, Christine, and the title supernatural being.
ANSWER: The Phantom of the Opera [prompt on Phantom; prompt on Le Fantôme de l’Opéra because that’s the book] <CL>

16. This country contains the salt lakes Eyasi, Manyara, and Natron. Mountain ranges in this country include the Pare and Usambara,
while its Olduvai Gorge is rich in hominin fossils. The Ruaha National Park is found in this country, which is home to the Pemba and
Unguja islands, as well as Africa’s largest lake, Lake Victoria. The Zanzibar Archipelago lies offshore of this country, which contains
the southern part of the Serengeti and Mount Kilimanjaro. For 10 points, name this country whose capital moved from Dar es Salaam
to Dodoma.
ANSWER: United Republic of Tanzania
17. In this book, the female children of one family have been named synonyms of “white” for four generations. A child in this book
enjoys painting the walls of her room. The visiting French count Jean de Satigny reveals one relationship in this book, causing one
man to slap Clara and knock out her front teeth. One character in this book bears the epithet “the Beautiful” and has green hair.
Another character in this book creates a “model hacienda” [ah-see-EN-da] at Tres Marías. That character dies in Alba’s arms after
writing their memoir and is named Esteban. Featuring the Trueba family, for 10 points, name this magical realist novel by the Chilean
author Isabel Allende.
ANSWER: The House of the Spirits [accept La casa de los espíritus] <CL>
18. The trace italienne was an improvement on these buildings and replaced the enceinte version, which contained “dead zones”
created by curved structures. The comte de Vauban (“comb de vo-BAHN”) developed his “third system,” or “perfected Landau
system,” as a designer of these places, like one at Strasbourg. The Bailey, an enclosed courtyard, was a component of an early version
of this kind of structure. Mont Saint-Michel (“moan sant mi-SHELL”) and Neuschwanstein (“NOYSH-von-styne”) are current
popular ones. The Windsor one is located in the United Kingdom. These buildings often had battlements from which archers could
fire, as well as moats. For 10 points, name these buildings that fortified medieval Europe.
ANSWER: castles [accept fortifications until mention; accept châteaus; do not accept or prompt on “palaces”] <CL>
19. To find the total power radiated from an object, irradiance is multiplied by this quantity. According to the second law of black hole
mechanics, a black hole’s entropy is proportional to this value of its event horizon, and to calculate drag, it is multiplied by ½ the drag
coefficient, mass density, and velocity squared. Kepler’s second law concerns equal quantities of this value across time. To find
capacitance, this quantity is multiplied by permittivity and divided by distance, and the product of resistivity and length is divided by
this quantity to find the resistance of a wire. Air resistance increases with this quantity. For 10 points, force is divided by what
quantity to calculate pressure?
ANSWER: area (accept surface area or cross-sectional area) <AT>
20. The crown jewels of this region are said to contain a curse that ultimately led to the death of Reinhard Heydrich (“RINE-hard
HIGH-drick”). The Letter of Majesty was issued by Rudolf II to address religious tensions in this region. Ferdinand II created this
region’s namesake “Estates”. Wagenburg Tactics, including interlocked laager (“logger”), were used by Protestants in this region’s
Hussite Wars. The battle of White Mountain was a loss for Protestant forces in this region during the first phase of the Thirty Years’
War. This region was surrounded on three sides by the Sudetenland. For 10 points, name this western region of the Czech Republic
that contains Prague.
ANSWER: Bohemia <LT>
TB. One poem by this writer calls Triumph and Disaster “impostors” and discusses what will happen “If you can dream -- and not
make dreams your master.” In a novel by this author, a man searching for the River of the Arrow befriends the “Little Friend of all the
World” and this author also published a collection of porquoi [po-KWAH] stories. A poem by this writer famously tells the title water
bearer, “You’re a better man than I am.” Another work by this author features characters like Kaa, who is a python, and Baloo, along
with a story about a heroic mongoose, “Rikki-Tikki-Tavi.” For 10 points, identify this author who wrote about Mowgli in The Jungle
Book.
ANSWER: Joseph Rudyard Kipling <CL>
Bonuses
1. Unlike Friedrich Nietzche’s idea of eternal recurrence, this book posits that everyone only has one life to live. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book about Tomas, a womanizing surgeon, and Tereza, his wife. In this book, Tomas’ mistress Sabina declares war on
kitsch.
ANSWER: The Unbearable Lightness of Being
[10] This contemporary Czech author of Life Is Elsewhere, The Joke and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting also wrote The
Unbearable Lightness of Being.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
[10] In The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Tomas and Tereza own this dog, who has difficulty coping with change and is named as a
reference to a Leo Tolstoy novel. This dog befriends the pig Mefisto in the countryside.
ANSWER: Karenin [do not accept “Karenina” or other wrong things] <CL>

2. It was the first constitutional government in South America. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, a “Gran” version of which gained independence from Spain with Simon Bolivar’s leadership. Its modern day
capital is Bogota.
ANSWER: Colombia
[10] Founded by the Spanish in 1533, this Colombian province was the main target of the War of Jenkins’ Ear and later gained
independence in 1811. It shares its name with the capital of the Bolívar department.
ANSWER: Cartagena [accept Cartagena de Indias]
[10] This two word term identifies the Spanish Empire’s possessions on the continental portions of North and South America. Another
term for the southern part of this area was the Province of Tierra Firme. This term is often used by buccaneers.
ANSWER: Spanish Main <CL/LT>
3. General Howe occupied Philadelphia after this battle and forced Washington’s army to winter at Valley Forge. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British victory and largest battle of the Revolutionary War. It took place along a namesake creek which is a branch of
the Christina River.
ANSWER: Battle of Brandywine
[10] This American artillery commander was present at Brandywine. He is most famous for hauling cannons from Fort Ticonderoga to
an early siege in the war and being the first Secretary of War.
ANSWER: Henry Knox
[10] Knox hauled cannons to this Massachusetts city’s siege. During its siege, the Battle of Bunker Hill occurred outside this city.
ANSWER: Boston <LT>
4. He wrote the lines, “I hate and I love,” and “Hail and farewell!” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman poet, who wrote two poems about his love’s pet sparrow, and a poem that begins “Let us live and love.” His
poems were often addressed to his beloved, whom he called “Lesbia.”
ANSWER: Catullus
[10] “Lesbia” was really a pseudonym for a woman named Claudia, who couldn’t be identified in the poems because she was married.
One theory says that Catullus chose the pseudonym as a reference to this Greek poet who lived 500 years earlier on the island of
Lesbos.
ANSWER: Sappho
[10] Catullus’ Poem 85, “I hate and I love,” is an example of this poetic or prose form, which is characterized by brevity and biting
sarcasm. The poet Martial is often considered the master of this form, and modern practitioners of it include Dorothy Parker.
ANSWER: epigram <CC>
5. The steam type of this process produces carbon monoxide and hydrogen from methane. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this catalytic process, which converts linear hydrocarbons into their branched and cyclic forms. Common molecules
formed during this process include benzene.
Answer: catalytic reforming
[10] Reforming is used in the refining of this substance, which is extracted in hydrofracking. Cracking is another way of treating this
substance by breaking it down into smaller hydrocarbon components.
Answer: crude oil (accept petroleum)
[10] These aluminosilicate minerals are used to remove hydrogens from hydrocarbons in the cracking process. Due to their extremely
porous nature, they are also frequently used as filters.
Answer: zeolites <JK>
6. This architect’s Imperial Hotel in Tokyo notably experienced little damage during a 1923 earthquake. For 10 points:
[10] Name this American architect, who was a proponent of the Prairie School. He also designed his own studio in Taliesin,
Wisconsin.
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd Wright [accept Frank Lincoln Wright]
[10] Wright’s most famous building is perhaps this house in southwestern Pennsylvania. This building reflects his dynamism and
Japanese influence and was designed for the Kaufmann family.
ANSWER: Fallingwater
[10] This adjective is the term Wright used for his vision of the landscape of America. Wright’s sixty houses described by this
adjective include Jacobs House and are small and often L-shaped.
ANSWER: Usonian [accept word forms] <CL>

7. Most developed countries are in stage three or four of its namesake model. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon discovered by Warren Thompson, which correlates industrialization with decreased birth and death rates.
ANSWER: demographic transition [prompt on DT]
[10] One type of this process is urbanization in stage 3 of the demographic transition. It involves “push” and “pull” factors, and is
done by refugees but not by nomads.
ANSWER: migration [be lenient and prompt on descriptions and word forms]
[10] This term refers to the general well-being of societies, which usually increases with urbanization. It is measured by the Human
Development Index and World Happiness Report.
ANSWER: quality of life [do not prompt on “development” or “happiness” as they were mentioned] <CL>
8. New York City’s Le Bernardin and and Per Se are two of thirteen institutions in the United States to be top rated by this
publication. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hotel restaurant guide, which began as a guidebook for European motorists. Particularly excellent establishments are
awarded its namesake “stars.”
ANSWER: Michelin Red Guide
[10] A restaurant in the Michelin Guide with a cluster of grapes next to its name has a “somewhat interesting” collection of these
drinks. French varieties include Chardonnay and Cabernet.
ANSWER: wines
[10] The French AOC system monitors the quality of the Roquefort type of this food. Its flavors range from “mild” to “vintage”, and
most are coagulated with Rennet.
ANSWER: cheeses <CC>
9. In 1795, he began his work on the Large Colour Prints. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this artist who explored Christian themes in The Adoration of the Kings and The Great Red Dragon series. A biography
of this man by Alexander Gilchrist is subtitled “Pictor Ignotus,” or “The Unknown Painter.”
ANSWER: William Blake
[10] This poem by Blake describes the title creature “burning bright, / in the forests of the night” and asks, “What immortal hand or
eye, / Could frame thy fearful symmetry?”
ANSWER: “The Tyger” [accept “Tyger, Tyger”]
[10] This poetry collection in two volumes representing two “Contrary States” includes “Infant Joy” and “Infant Sorrow,” and opens
with, “Piping down the valleys wild / Piping songs of pleasant glee / On a cloud I saw a child.”
ANSWER: Songs of Innocence and (of) Experience [accept Songs of Innocence and (of) Experience Showing the Two Contrary
States of the Human Soul; prompt on Songs of Innocence or Songs of Experience] <CL>
10. Answer some questions about some famous church masses, for 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of mass, the most notable of which is Mozart’s in D minor which was later completed by Franz Xaver Süssmayr.
Tomás Luis de Victoria wrote one of these as part of his Office for the Dead.
ANSWER: requiem mass [prompt on mass of the dead or mass for the dead]
[10] This Classical composer wrote a series of masses for the Esterházy family, including his last major work Harmoniemesse. He also
composed the Farewell Symphony.
ANSWER: (Franz) Joseph Haydn
[10] This Renaissance mass was composed by Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, who is believed to have taught de Victoria. It was
written in honor of the namesake Pope, and this piece may have convinced the Council of Trent to finally accept polyphonic music.
ANSWER: Pope Marcellus Mass [accept Missa Papae Marcelli; prompt on Marcellus] <GA>
11. While he was Richard Nixon’s National Security Advisor, he secretly negotiated with China and conducted “Shuttle Diplomacy”.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American diplomat who served as Secretary of State under Nixon and Ford.
ANSWER: Henry Alfred Kissinger
[10] Kissinger was a founder of this discussion group between North America, Europe, and Japan. Kissinger pressured Carter to
shelter Reza Shah Pahlavi in 1979 through this group, which was established by David Rockefeller.
ANSWER: Trilateral Commission
[10] Four days after Kissinger negotiated a ceasefire with Le Duc Tho in 1973, this agreement was signed to end the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Paris Peace Accords

12. A type of these devices can be used to find the relative location of constellations and star clusters. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these devices used in physical geography, which usually have a key and a legend. Arthur Robinson and Gerardus Mercator
have created types of this device which display varying projections of the Earth.
ANSWER: maps
[10] In this type of map, contour lines show the changes in altitude across an area of land. On these maps, lines spaced closer together
indicate that a region is steeper.
ANSWER: topographic map
[10] This information system plots Earth coordinates of longitude, latitude, and elevation as x, y, and z. It can be applied in GPS
devices to find one’s relative location to other places or objects.
ANSWER: GIS [or geographic information systems, geographical information systems, geospatial information systems] <GA>
13. He’s not William the Conqueror, but this man conquered a country when the opposing commander was killed by an arrow to the
eye. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Mughal Emperor who abolished the jizya tax and added many Rajputs to the ruling class. His court contained “Nine
Jewels” and he promoted a syncretic religion known as Din-i Ilahi.
ANSWER: Akbar
[10] Akbar conquered this merchant sultanate in 1573. Later in the Mughal dynasty, the ports of Diu and Daman in what is now this
Indian state were conquered by Portugal.
ANSWER: Gujarat
[10] Akbar’s guardian Bairam Khan and Babur both won battles in this city northwest of Delhi, while the third battle here ended the
Mughal Empire.
ANSWER: Panipat <DM>
14. This series of artworks was heavily inspired by traditional African art and the artist’s visit to Tahiti. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this series named for the color of the gouache used on the paper cutouts in many of its works. The second work in this
series features a woman with intertwining legs and an arm stretched behind her back.
ANSWER: Blue Nude series [accept Nus bleus]
[10] The Blue Nude series is an example of this style, also exemplified by Pablo Picasso’s use of oilcloth in Still Life with Chair
Caning. A book of these types of works was titled Jazz.
ANSWER: collage [accept cut-outs or decoupage; prompt on paper-cutting]
[10] The Blue Nudes and Jazz were created by this Fauvist artist. He’s more famous for a painting featuring five nude women holding
hands in a circle, The Dance.
ANSWER: Henri Matisse [accept Henri-Émile-Benoît Matisse] <CL>
15. Answer some questions about wedding ceremonies in different world religions, for 10 points each:
[10] Name this metal object worn on the fourth finger by many Christians after marriage to symbolize unity. In some Hindu cultures,
the groom places one of these objects on the toe of his bride.
ANSWER: wedding rings
[10] This paste is painted onto the skin in decorative and ornate patterns during Indian marriage ceremonies. It has historically been
used as a dye for items such as cloth and hair.
ANSWER: henna [accept mehndi]
[10] In traditional Jewish weddings, the bride and groom stand under this structure, literally meaning “canopy.” It’s composed of a
tallit supported by four poles.
ANSWER: chuppah <GA>
16. These processes can be characterized as transitions, like when a purine is replaced with a different purine, or transversions, like
when purines are replaced with pyrimidines. For 10 points:
[10] Name this type of mutation that causes a single nucleotide base change, insertion, or deletion.
ANSWER: point mutation(s)
[10] A point mutation, the replacement of a GAG codon with a GTG codon, causes this disease, where red blood cells become thin
and rigid. In some cases, it notably offers increased resistance to malaria.
ANSWER: sickle-cell disease (accept sickle-cell anemia)
[10] In rare circumstances, point shift mutations can be this type of mutation, where the non-mutated codon and the mutated codon
correspond to the same amino acid.
ANSWER: silent mutations <AT>

17. This first living being’s body turned into various parts of the world after he died. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this deity who created the world by splitting Yin and Yang with his ax, with Yin becoming the Earth and Yang becoming
the sky. Every day, he stood between the two, slowly widening the gap between them.
ANSWER: Pangu
[10] Pangu supposedly created this beast, often depicted with a flaming pearl in its claws. An azure one represents the East, and this
animal often represents masculinity, in contrast to the phoenix’s femininity.
ANSWER: dragon [accept long]
[10] Pangu and the dragon are both mythical figures in this country’s mythology. In this country’s myth system, the Jade Emperor is
the monarch of all the deities in heaven.
ANSWER: China [accept Chinese] <RY>
18. This novel features characters named Chapter Eleven and Julie Kikuchi and details the immigration of the Stephanides family
from Greece to Detroit. For 10 points:
[10] Name this 2002 Pulitzer Prize winning novel about Desdemona and Lefty’s incestuous relationship, which eventually results in
the birth of intersex Calliope “Cal” Stephanides.
ANSWER: Middlesex
[10] Middlesex is this author’s second novel. His debut novel, The Virgin Suicides, chronicles the untimely deaths of the five Lisbon
sisters.
ANSWER: Jeffrey Eugenides
[10] In Middlesex, teenage Calliope has a secret summer romance with a redheaded classmate, who is never named. Instead, Calliope
refers to her by this phrase, taken from the title of a Luis Buñuel [boon-you-EL] film.
ANSWER: The Obscure Object <LG>
19. If this quantity for a solid cylinder is N, it will be 2N for a thin tube of equal mass. For 10 points:
[10] Name this physical quantity, the rotational analogue of mass. It is calculated by adding m r squared for all points in a system.
ANSWER: moment of inertia (accept angular mass or rotational inertia)
[10] This quantity is defined as a system’s moment of inertia times its angular velocity. It is always conserved in a system unless a net
torque is applied, and consequently, is the time derivative of torque.
ANSWER: angular momentum
[10] Because gravity induces a torque on a spinning object resting on a plane, that object will eventually undergo this motion, the
change in the orientation of a rotating object’s rotational axis.
ANSWER: precession (accept torque-induced precession or gyroscopic precession, do not accept “torque-free precession”) <AT>
20. Unlike dictionaries, these texts focus on facts (making them more useful for quiz bowl studying, of course). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of reference book with short entries providing comprehensive summaries of information in a particular area or all
areas of knowledge. A famous example is the Britannica series of them.
ANSWER: encyclopedias [accept encyclopaedias or encyclopædias]
[10] This founder and editor of Encyclopédie wrote Philosophical Thoughts, The Skeptic’s Walk, and a work in which Nicholas
Saunderson argues that except mathematics, knowledge comes from the five senses, Letter on the Blind.
ANSWER: Denis Diderot
[10] This figure bought Diderot’s library to alleviate his financial woes and paid him twenty-five years’ salary in advance, so he went
to visit her in Russia. Voltaire called her “the Star of the North.”
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [accept Catherine II; accept Yekaterina Alexeyevna; prompt on Catherine] <CL>
TB. This first president of the Vienna Secession painted several portraits of Adele Bloch-Bauer. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this artist whose most notable work is in an Art Nouveau style and shows a couple doing the title action, The Kiss.
ANSWER: Gustav Klimt
[10] Most of The Kiss is this color, including the background and many of the rectangles covering the man’s body. This color was also
often used in Byzantine mosaics.
ANSWER: gold [prompt on yellow]
[10] This other work by Klimt uses gold rain between the title figure’s legs to represent Zeus visiting her. The title character in this
work wears a purple veil.
ANSWER: Danaë <CL>

