PRISON BOWL IX
Questions written and edited by Hunter College High School (Gilad Avrahami, Sam Brochin, Christopher Chilton, David Godovich,
Lily Goldberg, Ada-Marie Gutierrez, Diane Hwangpo, Joshua Kwan, Chloe Levine, Alice Lin, Brian Lu, Helen Lyons, Daniel Ma,
Albert Tai, Luke Tierney, and Rachel Yang), with contributions from Rohan Nag and Jeff Xie
Round 07
Tossups
1. A mouse caught in a trap causes one character in this book to weep. Another character in this work shouts, “The devil take you and
the frying pan!” In this work, Nicholas sleeps with Alisoun after convincing her husband to sleep in a bucket hanging from the ceiling,
and one character farts in the hand of a friar. A knight in this work learns that what women really want is control over their husbands
and lovers according to a story told by the Wife of Bath, and the structure of this work is thought to be highly influenced by The
Decameron. For 10 points, name this collection of stories told by a group of pilgrims written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
ANSWER: The Canterbury Tales [accept Tales of Caunterbury] <CL>
2. John Harsanyi addressed people's’ irrational preferences in his preference theory of this concept, while R.M. Hare placed emphasis
on “critical” reasoning in his two-level form of this philosophy. Another advocate of this philosophy featured it prominently in his An
Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation. That man created a felicific calculus, which gauged the moral status of an
action based on factors like the intensity and duration of pleasure derived from that action. For 10 points, name this philosophy that
attempts to maximize happiness for the largest amount of people, championed by Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill.
ANSWER: utilitarianism <AT>
3. Diego Garcia de Moguer (“mo-GARE”) names the largest of the Chagos Islands in this body of water in 1544. On one shore of this
body of water, flush toilets were built of coral stone in the 1300s. The Greeks called it the Erythrean Sea. Cholera and smallpox were
often spread around this ocean by square-rigged ships called dhows. The city of Great Zimbabwe arose due to the gold trade with
towns on this ocean like Kilwa and Zanzibar. The Zamorin of Calicut and Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama met on the shores of
this ocean in 1492. For 10 points, name this ocean to the east of Africa.
ANSWER: Indian Ocean
4. This artist included oriental vases in his paintings Lady of the Land Lijsen and The Little White Girl. He hung his painting The
Princess from the Land of Porcelain Rose and Silver in a room which he decorated with Cuir de Cordoue, gold leaf, and turquoise
paint, The Peacock Room. A series by this man features the Old Battersea Bridge and a display of fireworks in a foggy night sky, and
he was accused of “flinging... paint in the public’s face” by John Ruskin in response to his Nocturne in Black and Gold. For 10 points,
name this painter of Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1, which depicts his mother.
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill Whistler <AG>
5. Rainclouds on brown dwarfs are believed to be composed of sand and this element. Metallicity is sometimes defined by finding the
ratio between hydrogen and this element. The production of hydrogen sulfide by bacteria may have greatly reduced the presence of
this element in early oceans. This element is the lightest element to produce energy from nuclear fission, which is why a supernova
will occur once the particles in a star’s core fuse into this element. The inner core of the Earth mostly consists of nickel and this
element. For 10 points, name this element, the most abundant metal in the universe and the principal component of asteroids, with
symbol Fe.
ANSWER: iron (accept Fe before mention) <GA>
6. The 1954 Doolittle Report strengthened the power of this organization. The so-called “family jewels” refer to reports of illegal
activities by this organization, and it conducted Project MKULTRA. Scooter Libby was imprisoned for outing Valerie Plame Wilson
as a member of this organization. Jacobo Arbenz’s government was overthrown by this group, which helped the United Fruit
Company in Guatemala. This organization has global “black sites,” and President Ford banned its assassinations in 1976. John
McCone and Allen Dulles were some of its early leaders. For 10 points, name this main US intelligence gathering agency.
ANSWER: the CIA or the Central Intelligence Agency
7. The electromagnetic rest mass formula contains a fraction with this number as its numerator, which also names a problem solved by
applying Poincare stresses. The Higgs field has this many components, which are classified as neutral or charged. This number of
dimensions in the Minkowski space is multiplied by pi and epsilon-naught in the denominator of Coulomb’s constant. StefanBoltzmann’s law states that the energy radiated by a blackbody equals temperature raised to the power of it. Atoms with this many
nucleons were used to discover the presence of the atomic nucleus in Rutherford’s gold foil experiment. For 10 points, name this
number of dimensions in spacetime.
ANSWER: four (accept 4/3 before Higgs) <AT>

8. In 2014, Helsinki held a design contest for a museum of this name near its South Harbour. Hilla von Rebay served as director of
another museum named this, formerly known as the “The Museum of Non-Objectivism.” A puppy statue mode of flower patches is
displayed outside another museum of this name. This word names a museum with a famous circular skylight, which was modeled after
an “inverted ziggurat.” A museum of this name is covered in its architect’s signature curved metal plates, while another includes a
ramp gallery arranged in a long, continuous spiral along its outer edges. For 10 points, give this name shared by two museums in
Bilbao and New York.
ANSWER: Guggenheim Museum (accept Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, or Guggenheim
Helsinki) <AT/RY>
9. One character in this play is introduced with the description, “She isn’t a woman, she is a mother.” At the end of this play, one girl
drowns in a fountain, while her stepsister runs out of the theater. After that exit, a man is unsure whether or not the events of this play
were real, but decides either way he has lost a whole day. In one scene in this play, Madame Pace tells a girl she must become a
prostitute to save the Mother’s job. At the beginning of this play, an acting company rehearsing Mixing it Up is interrupted by a group
of strangers. The Father explains the members of the title group are unfinished in, for 10 points, what absurdist metatheatrical play by
Luigi Pirandello?
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author [accept Sei personaggi in cerca d’autore] <CL>
10. The Executive Committee of the NSC was created in response to a crisis in this country. Secretary of State Hamilton Fish resolved
the Virginius Affair in this country during its Ten Years War. The 1902 resignation of Tomas Estrada Palma caused US intervention in
this country using the Platt Amendment. The Ostend Manifesto and Teller Amendment applied to this country. Refugees from this
country went to Miami in the Mariel boatlifts. Operation Mongoose was carried out on this nation, whose Bay of Pigs was later
invaded by exiles. For 10 points, name this Caribbean country once led by Fidel Castro.
ANSWER: Cuba <LT>
11. This country is home to an author of a book in which Anna’s ashes are returned to the farm and only the medical officer realizes
Michael is innocent. One author from this country wrote Burger’s Daughter and a book featuring Bamford and Maureen Smales’ new
life under the protection of their black servant. That book is July’s People. Sam loves the dancing floor because it is “a world without
collisions” in another work from this country, “Master Harold” ...and the Boys. For 10 points, name this country home to authors like
John Coetzee, Athol Fugard, and Nadine Gordimer, where Alan Paton wrote about Msimangu, Gertrude, and Arthur Jarvis in Cry, the
Beloved Country.
ANSWER: South Africa <CL>
12. These objects’ paraspeckles disappear in response to many metabolic stimuli, and SMN is contained in their Gemini of coiled
bodies. Emerin and nesprin are components of lamin, which provides structural integrity to these objects. This organelle is connected
to the endoplasmic reticulum, and importins regulate their pores. Surrounded by a double membrane, this organelle is exclusive to
eukaryotes. For 10 points, name this organelle that contains most of the cell’s genetic material.
ANSWER: nucleus [or nuclei; do not accept or prompt on “nuclear membrane,” “nuclear envelope,” or “atomic nucleus”] <AT>
13. In this state, one river rises west of Mount Gerdine and is called the Kuskokwim River. This state, which is home to Little
Diomede, also contains Amaknak Island, the location of the former base Dutch Harbor. Ashes from the eruption of Novarupta filled a
valley in this state’s Katmai National Park. A notable race in this state passes through Kaltag and ends at Nome. The northernmost
point in this state is Point Barrow. The Alutiiq (ah-LOO-tee-ick) people once lived on this state’s Kodiak Island. This state is home to
Denali, the highest mountain peak in North America. For 10 points, name this state including the Aleutian Islands with its capital at
Juneau.
ANSWER: Alaska <RY/CL/DM>
14. This deity's children with the nymph Cabiero are worshipped at a mystery cult at Lemnos closely associated with this deity.
Another one of his offspring named Erichthonius was created when his semen was wiped away from Athena’s leg onto the ground,
impregnating Gaea. Poseidon pleads for the release of two figures imprisoned by this god in exchange for a guarantee for an
adulterer’s fine. He built a golden net for his unfaithful wife in order to catch her in an illicit affair with Ares, and the Sintians tended
to this god after he was thrown down from Olympus by his mother, Hera. For 10 points, name this crippled god of blacksmiths and
fire.
ANSWER: Hephaestus (accept Vulcan) <RY/JK>
15. This U.S. state is the setting of a Walt Whitman poem in which he is “Inquiring, tireless, seeking what is yet unfound.” The
speaker asks Federico García Lorca, “What were you doing down by the watermelons?” in a poem named for a supermarket in this
state. This state is the setting of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s posthumous novel The Last Tycoon, in which Monroe Stahr must deal with the
consequences of an earthquake. Another novel set in this state features Samuel and Liza Hamilton as well as Cathy Ames and takes
place in Salinas County. That novel is East of Eden. For 10 points, name this state to which the Joads travel in John Steinbeck’s The
Grapes of Wrath.
ANSWER: California <CL>

16. This man’s namesake test attempts to detect differences in treatments across multiple test attempts. He theorized a utility function
with varying curvature according to wealth alongside Leonard J. Savage, and proposed that a central bank should increase its
monetary supply by a constant “k” percentage rate every year. This man characterized the pre-Depression recession as a “Great
Contraction” in a book that followed monetary policy from Reconstruction era, and noted the existence of a “natural rate of
unemployment.” The co-author of A Monetary History of the United States, for 10 points, name this economist who famously opposed
Keynesian theory and advised Ronald Reagan.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman <AT>
17. They’re not determinants, but the Hartree-Fock method is used in the linear combination of the Slater or Gaussian types of these
entities. These objects’ namesake diagrams feature short horizontal lines connected by diagonal dotted lines. Another type of them is
symbolized by an asterisk, and due to the location of their nodes, is classified as antibonding. These objects classified by three
quantum numbers are solutions to the Schrodinger Equation. The Aufbau principle states that they are filled starting with the lowest
energy levels. For 10 points, name these entities that surround atoms, which are comprised of either one or two electrons.
ANSWER: molecular orbitals (accept specific types, like s orbitals, p orbitals, etc.) <AT>
18. Some magnates opposed to this dynasty claimed the “jus resistendi” by the Golden Bull of 1222. The Treaty of Cateau-Cambrésis
(“ca-TOE cam-BRAY-siss”) ended this dynasty’s wars with the Valois. Francis I of this dynasty merged it with the House of Lorraine.
The palace of Schönbrunn (“SHOWN-broon”) was built in its capital by Emperor Leopold. John IV of Portugal became independent
from this dynasty’s rule in 1640, ending the Iberian Union and establishing the rule of the Braganza dynasty in his native Portugal.
The Pragmatic Sanction of 1719 applied to Maria-Theresa of this dynasty. For 10 points, name this Germanic dynasty whose rulers
included Charles V and Joseph I.
ANSWER: Habsburgs [accept Hapsburgs]
19. In a Buddhist tale, one of these animals suddenly becomes aware that it had been beheaded in its last 499 lives. They’re not
wolves, but in the Lupercalia, priests dressed in these animals’ skins. In Rabbinic Judaism, one of these animals was associated with
Azazel. During Yom Kippur, one of them was sacrificed to Yahweh, while the other was sent into the wilderness. In a parable, these
animals were separated from sheep, and according to a superstition from the Middle Ages, they whisper vulgar words into the ears of
saints. For 10 points, name these animals that often symbolize the devil in Christianity.
ANSWER: goats <GA>
20. One composer from this country was inspired by some Peter Altenberg postcard-texts to write Five Orchestral Songs, which
premiered in this country’s “scandal concert.” That composer also wrote the opera Wozzeck. Another composer from this country used
sprechstimme in a poem series with pieces like O Alter Duft and Der Mondfleck. That man pioneered a composition technique that
emphasized using all the notes in a chromatic scale equally. The twelve-tone technique originated in this country, as did the
melodrama Pierrot Lunaire. For 10 points, name this home country of Alban Berg and Arnold Schoenberg, who founded the Second
Viennese School.
ANSWER: Austria <GA>
TB. The St. Scholastica Day Riot occurred here, as did the Huxley-Wilberforce debate. An institution in this city hosted the 1933
“King and Country” debate and had a Holy Club. During the Mad Parliament, the “Provisions of” this city were England’s first
written constitution. This city housed the exiled court of Charles I. Queen Mary had the Anglican bishops Thomas Cranmer, Nicholas
Ridley, and Hugh Latimer burnt at the stake in this city. Newer “redbrick universities” were different from the stone architectures of
Cambridge and this city’s namesake university. For 10 points, name this city that houses the oldest English university.
ANSWER: Oxford
Bonuses
1. Vandino and Ugolino Vivaldi searched for a route from Europe to Asia in search of these goods. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these exotic flavorings that include cayenne, cardamom, and cinnamon. Europeans referred to parts of East Asia as their
namesake islands.
ANSWER: spices [prompt on “condiments”]
[10] This city-state on the Ligurian Sea sponsored the Vivaldi brothers and supported its navy with the spice trade. It lost the War of
Chioggia, and Andrea Doria was from here.
ANSWER: Genoa [accept Genova]
[10] This Genoese colony on the Crimean Peninsula was the origin of the Black Plague’s import into Europe. It dominated Black Sea
trade after Genoa bought it from the Golden Horde.
ANSWER: Kaffa [prompt on Feodosia; prompt on Theodosia; prompt on Kefe] <CL>

2. Increased osmotic pressure and decreased vapor pressure are some examples of these properties. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these properties that depend on the concentration of a solute, rather than the amount of substance present.
ANSWER: colligative properties
[10] This colligative property is caused by the interference of ions with hydrogen bonds. It explains why adding salt to snow-covered
roads will cause the ice to melt faster, and its effects can be estimated with the cryoscopic constant.
ANSWER: freezing-point depression (accept word forms)
[10] One can quantify the effects of a solute on a substance’s colligative properties by finding the Van’t Hoff factor. Give the Van’t
Hoff factor for an ideal solution of sodium chloride.
ANSWER: 2 <AT/JK>
3. One of this man’s characters says, “Talk sense to a fool and he calls you foolish.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ancient Greek tragedian who wrote “Hippolytus,” “The Bacchae,” and a play about a woman whose husband Jason
leaves her for a Corinthian princess, “Medea.”
ANSWER: Euripides
[10] This Euripides play corresponds to Book IX [nine] of The Odyssey, and in it, Odysseus convinces the title figure, who has
imprisoned and devoured much of his crew, that his name is “Nobody.”
ANSWER: Cyclops (accept Polyphemus, even though it’s technically wrong)
[10] Cyclops is this type of work in ancient Greek theater, a mixture of tragedy and comedy that resembles burlesque. This genre
features phallic props and a chorus of the title creatures.
ANSWER: satyr-play [accept satyric drama or really anything about drama with satyr] <CL>
4. Styles originating in this country include the papercutting art kiri-e, as well as the ukiyo-e type of woodblock printing. For 10
points:
[10] Name this country home to an artist who created Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji. Origami was practiced from 1603 to 1867
during its Edo period.
ANSWER: Japan [accept Nippon; accept Nihon]
[10] This Japanese artist created Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji, which includes The Great Wave off Kanagawa. He also created
Fireworks at Ryogoku Bridge and published Quick Lessons in Simplified Drawing.
ANSWER: Katsushika Hokusai
[10] Hokusai first published this 1814 collection of sketches in fifteen volumes, focusing on everyday objects. The works in this
collection do not connect to tell a story, unlike a modern Japanese art form with the same name.
ANSWER: Hokusai Manga [prompt on Hokusai Sketches] <CL>
5. His most famous work is named for a monster from the book of Job. For 10 points:
[10] Name this British philosopher who warned of a life “solitary, nasty, poor, brutish, and short” and advocated for a social contract
and absolutism in that work, Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes
[10] Leviathan was published during this conflict. Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon wrote a history of this conflict and of
Rebellion in the same place as this conflict.
ANSWER: Third English Civil War [prompt on partial; prompt on British instead of “English”; do not accept “First English Civil
War” or “Second English Civil War”]
[10] Hobbes also wrote this historical account of the English Civil War, an essay published in 168, though Charles II prevented its
earlier release. It shows the effects of government abuse, and features the speakers A and B.
ANSWER: Behemoth: the history of the causes of the civil wars of England, and of the counsels and artifices by which they were
carried on from the year 1640 to the year 1660 [yes, that’s the whole title, and yes, it’s uncapitalized; accept The Long Parliament]
<CL>
6. When these organisms undergo sexual reproduction, the cytoplasm of two parent cells fuse during plasmogamy, and their nuclei
fuse during karyogamy. For 10 points:
[10] Name these organisms that reproduce via the ascus and basidium.
ANSWER: fungi (accept fungus or specific types, like mushrooms, molds, or yeast)
[10] Fungi may also reproduce asexually by releasing these small particles containing genetic material. These entities are stored in
fungal caps and are released via lamella, or gills.
ANSWER: spores
[10] Many fungi, like yeast, employ this other mechanism to reproduce asexually. During this process, a smaller, genetically identical
organism splits off of a parent organism.
ANSWER: budding <AT>

7. As of July 2015, there are 1031 of these locations, which include The Leaning Tower of Pisa. For 10 points,
[10] Give this name for tourist sites with cultural or natural significance, which are protected by the Geneva Convention. Other
examples include Machu Picchu and the Taj Mahal, and a UN agency oversees them.
ANSWER: World Heritage Sites (accept UNESCO World Heritage Sites) <RY>
[10] This World Heritage site in Afghanistan consists of notable religious representations. It was partially destroyed in 2001.
ANSWER: Bamiyan Buddhas
[10] This fundamentalist Islamic government of Afghanistan destroyed the Bamiyan Buddhas. They were lead by Mullah Omar and
were fought in that year by the US invasion of Afghanistan.
ANSWER: Taliban <DM>
8. This poet’s major works include a semi-autobiographical novel titled The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Bohemian poet and author of “The Panther” and Letters to a Young Poet who wrote, “Who, if I cried out, would hear
me among the hierarchies of angels?”
ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke
[10] The aformentioned line comes from a work named for this castle near Trieste, where Rilke was a guest of Prince Marie von
Thurn und Taxis. In this work, Rilke defines beauty as “the beginning of terror which we are barely able to endure.”
ANSWER: Duino Castle [accept The Duino Elegies]
[10] Rilke also wrote a series of sonnets to this figure, whom Rilke calls “the god with the lyre.” In the Metamorphoses, Ovid wrote
about this figure’s attempt to rescue his wife, Eurydice, from the Underworld.
ANSWER: Orpheus <CC>
9. These people had a royal umbrella and a Golden Stool as national symbols, and revered Anansi and Nyame (“NAH-may”). For 10
points each:
[10] Name this matrilineal, gold-trading Empire that fought the British in four wars in the 1800s. It included the Fante states at the
time, and was named for a group of the Akan people.
ANSWER: Ashanti
[10] The Ashanti lived in what is now this country. It was called the Gold Coast during British rule and has a capital at Accra.
ANSWER: Ghana
[10] The blue-and-white Ashanti kente was made of this material. Mohammed Ali commercialized this crop in Egypt.
ANSWER: cotton
10. [American] Kids these days. According to Jean Twenge’s analysis of personality surveys, they harbor a sense of entitlement and
narcissism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group born between the 1980s and the 2000s, who are confident and tolerant according to Twenge. Strauss and Howe
wrote [Them] Rising: The Next Great Generation.
ANSWER: millennials [prompt on Generation Y, We, or Next, Global or Net Generation, or New or Echo Boomers; do not accept
or prompt on “Generation 9/11”]
[10] Robert Capa coined this earlier generation’s name, using it in a photo-essay about childhood after WWII. They were happy,
educated, and family-oriented, despite stereotypes of 1970s and 1980s youth.
ANSWER: Generation X
[10] This term refers to a group of people who share a particular event in a specific timeframe. Examples include women who give
birth at age 30, Gen X, and the millennials.
ANSWER: cohort <CL>
11. This word names a symphonic movement that is meant to represent its composer’s love to his wife Alma Schindler. For 10 points:
[10] Name this musical phrase meaning “rather slow.” It titles the fourth movement of a certain composer’s Symphony No. 5.
ANSWER: Adagietto
[10] The aforementioned Symphony No. 5 was by this Austrian composer. He nicknamed his first symphony “Titan” after a Jean Paul
novel, while his second symphony, Resurrection, explored themes of the afterlife.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
[10] Gustav Mahler’s success allowed him to go all-out with this work, which received its nickname from the large chorus that it
demanded. Its Part II is a setting of text from the closing scene of Goethe’s Faust.
ANSWER: “Symphony of a Thousand” (or Mahler’s Symphony No. 8) <AT>

12. His novels include Catherine and The Luck of Barry Lyndon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novelist best known for his novels which satirized English society. In addition to working extensively for Fraser’s
Magazine, he published travel books and works like The Snob Papers, also known as The Book of Snobs.
ANSWER: William Makepeace Thackeray
[10] Thackeray is best known for this novel, which satirizes English society in the 19th century. In it, Amelia Sedley becomes
obsessed with her son after her husband, George Osborne’s, death.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero
[10] Vanity Fair follows the lives of Amelia and this woman, an anti-heroine. She is beautiful and witty but amoral and manipulative,
and she secretly marries Rawdon Crawley and distracts men at card parties while he cheats them.
ANSWER: Rebecca “Becky” Sharp [accept either underlined part; prompt on Rebecca] <CL>
13. Two young girls killed 58 people in a suicide bombing at a refugee camp in this country’s town of Dikwa. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country whose current president, Muhammadu Buhari, defeated Goodluck Jonathan in the 2015 elections and now
lives in the Aso Villa in Abuja.
ANSWER: Nigeria
[10] In December, Buhari declared that his government had “technically” defeated this Nigeria-based Islamic terrorist organization.
Believed to be led by Abubakar Shekau, this group declared a jihad against Christianity and has caused the displacement of 2.3
million Africans since 2009.
ANSWER: Boko Haram [accept Islamic State West Africa Province]
[10] In 2015, Nigeria officially banned this practice, which the UN recognizes as a human-rights violation rooted in gender inequality
and which often includes a procedure called infibulation. The UN estimates 20 million Nigerian women have undergone this practice.
ANSWER: female genital mutilation [or FGM; accept female genital cutting and female circumcision; accept answers that include
descriptions of all three words; prompt on genital mutilation; do not accept “rape”] <GA>
14. The narrator of this work with a Latin name remembers being “Knock-kneed, coughing like hags.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this World War I-era poem which exclaims, “Gas! Gas! Quick, boys!” and describes “An ecstasy of fumbling,”
culminating in the death of a man the narrator sees “guttering, choking, drowning.”
ANSWER: “Dulce et Decorum Est”
[10] This poet of “Dulce et Decorum Est” died in the war one week before the Armistice, after writing other poems like “Anthem for
Doomed Youth.”
ANSWER: Wilfred (Edward Salter) Owen
[10] This friend of Owen wrote Counter-Attack and Other Poems, as well as his autobiographical trilogy, The Complete Memoirs of
George Sherston, which includes Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man and Memoirs of an Infantry Officer.
ANSWER: Siegfried Sassoon <CL>
15. Because the conditions of this problem imply the presence of four nodes of odd degree, there is no solution. For 10 points:
[10] Name this mathematical problem, which involves traversing four landmasses by crossing each of the title entities only once. A
variation of this problem includes “red” and “blue” castles.
ANSWER: Seven Bridges of Konigsberg problem (or Konigsberg Bridges problem)
[10] This Swiss mathematician provided the solution to the Bridges of Konigsberg problem. He also names a formula relating the
faces, vertices, and edges of a polyhedron, as well as a constant equal to about 2.718.
ANSWER: Leonhard Euler
[10] Using Euler’s identity, one can prove this theorem. It states that cosine x plus i sin x to the nth power equals the cosine of nx plus
i times the sin of nx.
ANSWER: de Moivre’s formula (or de Moivre’s theorem or de Moivre’s identity) <AT>
16. The Dakota subset of these people believed in the Sacred Hoop. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tribe that defeated Custer at the Battle of the Little Bighorn. Tribal leaders included Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull.
ANSWER: Lakota or Sioux (“SOO”)
[10] The Lakota fought in the Great Sioux War after being kicked out of this sacred mountain range, the current location of Mount
Rushmore. White settlers became interested in this mountain range following the discovery of gold here.
ANSWER: Black Hills
[10] At this fort, the Lakota were allowed to keep their tribal land around the Black Hills in an 1868 treaty ending Red Cloud’s War.
An earlier treaty at this fort, which is on the Oregon, Mormon, and California trails, was signed in 1851.
ANSWER: Fort Laramie

17. This singer achieved popularity with her recording of “Summertime” from the 1935 opera Porgy and Bess. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this black singer of “Gloomy Sunday” and “Fine and Mellow.” She was influenced by Bessie Smith’s blues singing, and
collaborated with Count Basie.
ANSWER: Billie Holiday [accept Eleanora Fagan]
[10] Holiday used a poem written by Abel Meeropol in this song about black lynching. Featuring the lyrics “blood on the leaves,” it
contrasts the “scent of magnolias, sweet and fresh” with “the sudden smell of burning flesh.”
ANSWER: “Strange Fruit”
[10] Early in her career, Billie Holiday performed at the Apollo Theater in this New York City neighborhood. Duke Ellington instructs
listeners to take the “A” train to this neighborhood, which also names a literary “Renaissance.”
ANSWER: Harlem <GA>
18. Zeus thought he would be rid of this daughter of metis after he swallowed her, but she instead sprang fully formed from his head.
For 10 points:
[10] Name this Greek goddess of wisdom. She’s the namesake of a city whose symbols are the owl and the olive tree.
Answer: Athena
[10] In Norse mythology, the skull of one of these creatures named Ymir was used by Odin to create the heavens. These figures
resided in Jotunheim.
ANSWER: giants (accept variants like frost giants or fire giants)
[10] The skull of Tiamat was smashed by this Babylonian storm god in the Enuma Elish in order to gain the Tablet of Destinies. He
was frequently depicted as the head of the Babylonian pantheon.
Answer: Marduk <JK>
19. Gasses, liquids, and solids aren’t the only states of matter! For 10 points each, name some things about states of matter not
included in the traditional three:
[10] At temperatures very close to absolute zero, a substance’s particles will occupy the lowest constant state, resulting in a transition
to this phase. It was first synthesized by cooling rubidium-87 atoms.
ANSWER: Bose-Einstein condensate
[10] Matter will enter this most abundant phase in the universe if sufficiently energized. Examples of everyday objects in this phase
include electrical sparks and lightning.
ANSWER: plasma
[10] This man names a certain length describing how far the electrical effects of a plasma will persist. This physicist also names a unit
for electric dipole moment.
ANSWER: Peter Joseph Wilhelm Debye (dee-bye) <AT>
20. This empire was expanded southward under Bindusara. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this empire, whose leader Ashoka who spread Buddhism in India after the bloody Kalinga War. It was founded by
Chandragupta.
ANSWER: Mauryan Empire
[10] During his reign, Ashoka ordered the construction of thousands of these dome-like mounds that allegedly housed Buddhist relics.
A “Great” one is located at Sanchi.
ANSWER: stupas
[10] Xuanzang (“schwan-ZANG”) and Yijing visited many stupas during this dynasty, in which Buddhism, Taoism, and
Confucianism coexisted as the “Three Teachings”. It made a new legal code and allowed Islam to spread for a while.
ANSWER: Tang dynasty
TB. Name some stuff about the chemistry of gold and silver, for 10 points each:
[10] Due to their resistance to corrosion and oxidation, gold and silver are classified as a group of metals with this name. This word
also names the elements in Group 18 of the periodic table that have complete octets.
ANSWER: noble (accept noble metals and grudgingly noble gases) <AT>
[10] This solution is notable for its ability to dissolve gold and silver. It is a mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid usually in a
molar ratio of 1:3.
ANSWER: aqua regia
[10] This alloy of gold and silver was frequently used in jewelry in ancient civilizations.
ANSWER: electrum <AT>

