Cavalier Classic 1996
Quarterfinals
Tossups:
1) With the support of the Roman aristocracy, he was elected consul in 63 B.C. In 58 B.C. he was banished by the First
Triumvirate, and he was killed uponorders of the Second Triumvirate in 43 BC. In his literary works he explored such ideas
as friendship, as in De Amicitia, religion, as in De Natura Decorum, and government, as in De Republic. FTP, name this
Roman orator and statesman.

2) This group recently released an enhanced CD album, which allows users to set sail on the Sea of Punch, through Pong
Hell and a Space Farm, which includes flying saucers, chickens and pigs. FTP, name the band responsible for "Tales from the
Punchbowl," whose earlier albums include "Sailing the Seas of Cheese" and "Pork Soda".

3) In the 10th century this region was conquered by the Magyars and in 1526 it became part of the Ottoman Empire.
Transferred from Hungary to Romania at the end of World War II, this area has rich deposits of iron, lead, and natural gas. Its
greatest notoriety, however, results from its being home to Vlad the Impaler. FTP, name this region.
Answer: _Transylvania_
4) For his efforts in support of the Boer War, he was knighted in 1902. After opening a medical practice in 1882, he began
to write while waiting for patients. Beginning with "A Study in Scarlet," he produced 4 novels and 56 short stories about
Sherlock Holmes. FTP, name this author.
Answer: Arthur Conan _Doyle_
5) In most vertebrates it helps regulate daily and seasonal body cycles. In humans it is located near the center of the brain
and has been linked to reproductive processes. FTP, identify this part of the body, a gland which helps the body adjust to
light and time changes by secreting melatonin.
Answer: _pineal_ gland
6) Born in Philadelphia, this performer began a vaudeville career at the age of 14. Although he appeared in silent fIlms, he
gained fame in talkies such as The Old-Fashioned Way, My Little Chickadee, The Bank Dick, and Never Give a Sucker an
Even Break. FTP, name this comedian, known for his huge nose and disdain for children and animals.
Answer: W.C. _Fields_
7) Native to Central America, this fruit grows on thin, palm-like plants that reach heights of 35 feet. Rich in vitamins A
and C, they are cooked like squash when unripe and used in jellies, pies, and salads when mature. The immature fruit is
useful because it contains papain, an enzyme used as a meat tenderizer. FTP, name this fruit with a brown skin and orange
flesh.
Answer: _papaya_
8) In 1969 Richard Nixon appointed her to be the executive director of the President's Committee on Consumer Interests. In
1983 Ronald Reagan named her Secretary of Transportation. In 1989 she became Secretary of Labor. FTP, name this
woman, who married Bob Dole in 1975.
Answer: _Elizabeth Dole_
9) On January 1, 1600, Queen Elizabeth I granted a charter to a group of men who wanted to make money in the spice trade.
After establishing trading centers at Fort St. George and Fort William, this company became dominant under the leadership of
Robert Clive. FTP, name this organization, which lasted until 1833, and was ruled from London and from Calcutta.

Answer: _British East India Company_
10) After graduating from Oxford in 1608, he travelled to Europe where he met Galileo. In the 1650s he published his trilogy
on natural philosophy: Concerning Body, Concerning Man, and Concerning the Citizen. FTP, identify this philosopher, best
known for The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic and Leviathan.
Answer: Thomas _Hobbes_
11) Occuring in minerals such as hutchinsonite and lorandite, this element was discovered by William Crookes in 1861.
While exposure to it may cause nerve damage and death in humans, the element is found in compounds used to detect certain
types of heart disease. FTP, name this bluish-gray metal with atomic number 81 and atomic symbol n .

12) In 1949 he was injured in an automobile crash that fractured his collarbone, ankle, pelvis, and a rib. A year later he won
the U.S. Open while playing heavily bandaged. During his career he won more than 60 tournaments including 4 U.S. Opens,
3 P.G.A. Championships, 2 Masters, and a British
Open. FrP, name this golfer.
Answer: Ben _Hogan_
13) It begins when Harry Bailly, the host of Tabard Inn, agrees to serve as the judge of a story-telling contest whose winner
will receive a free meal. The fIrst to go is the knight, who tells the story of Palamon and Arcite; he is followed by the
Miller, Reeve, and twenty one others. FrP, identify this unfInished collection of poems, written between 1387 and 1400 by
Geoffrey Chaucer.
Answer: the _Canterbury Tales_
14) Although trained as a lawyer, he managed a farm. Arguing that horse-drawn hoes could loosen the soil and aid the
irrigation of crops, he published The New Horse Houghy Husbandry in 1731. In 1701 he produced his greatest innovation, a
seed drill that dropped seeds in uniform rows. FrP, name this English agriculturist, who gave his name to Ian Anderson's
band.

15) The fIrst of these began operating in Wuppertal, Germany in 1902 and is still in use today. The fIrst American one was
built in 1957 at Disneyland. More effIcient than elevated or subway lines, these systems feature cars that run above or below
a single track. FrP, name this type of railroad.
Answer: _monoraie
16) He married Megara, daughter of the king of Thebes, but was driven mad by Juno and killed her along with their children.
To do penance, he served King Eurystheus for twelve years, performing feats such as capturing the Erymanthian boar and
killing the three headed Geryon. FrP, identify this great hero, who also killed the Nemean lion, the Stymphalian birds, and
the Hydra during the course of his twelve labors.
Answer: _Hercules_ (accept _Heracles-.J
17) His lesser known works include The Woods, Lone Canoe, and A Life in the Theater. After making his name with
Sexual Perversity in Chicago, he made his Broadway debut with American Buffalo, the story of the theft of a coin collection.
FrP, name this American playwright, who won a Pulitzer Prize for Glengarry Glen Ross.
Answer: David _Mamec
18) He became a general at the age of 34, following heroic exploits in Morocco. Returning from the Canary Islands, he took
command of all Nationalist forces in Spain in 1936. Leading his forces to victory in the Spanish Civil War, he ruled the
nation as generalissimo until his death in 1975. FTP, name this longtime Spanish dictator.

Answer: Francisco _Franco_
19) FAQTP, what is the number of distinct positive integer divisors of the number obtained by multiplying eight, nine, and
twenty-five?

20) At the age of 15, he was appointed to tune the organ at Westminster Abbey. Appointed an organist of the Chapel Royal
eight years later, he began to write music such as "Welcome Songs" and his odes for St. Cecilia's Day for the royal court. In
1689 he composed the opera Dido and Aeneas. FfP, name this British composer.

Cavalier Classic 1996
Boni for quarterfinals:
1)
a)
b)
c)

Name the authors of these works of children's literature FfP each.
Hans Brinker; or, the Silver Skates
Where the Wild Things Are
Peter Pan

Answers: Mary Maples _Dodge_; Maurice _Sendak_; Sir James
2) Name the African nation associated with the following leaders for 5 points each and a bonus five for all correct.
a) J omo Kenyatta
b) Gamal Nasser
c) Sese Mobutu
d) ldi Amin
e) Mu'ammar Gaddafi

3) Name the Nazis FfP each.
a) This SS officer responsible for transporting Jews to concentration camps was captured in Argentina in 1960 and executed in
Israel in 1962.
b) This leader of the Luftwaffe committed suicide before his scheduled execution in 1946.
c) Hitler's deputy party leader until his 1941 flight to Scotland, he was confined to Spandau prison until his death in 1987.

4) Name the 19th century European novels in which these characters appear, FrP each.
a) Julien Sorel
b) Raskolnikov
c) Miss Havisham
Answers: _The Red and the Black_; _Crime and Punishmenc _Great Expectations_
5) Name the noted African-Americans FfP each.
a) A congresswoman from New Yorlc from 1969 to 1983, she was the first black women to run for the presidency.
b) Field director for the NAACP in Mississipppi, he was assassinated in 1963.
c) Ambassador to the UN in the Carter administration, he served as mayor of Atlanta from 1982 to 1990.
Answers: Shirley _Chisholm_; Medgar _Evers_; Andrew _ Young_
6) Identify the following documents from 19th century American history, FfP each.
a) This 1846 bill excluded slavery from territories won from Mexico.
b) This document, written by three American ministers in 1854, stated that the United States would be justified in taking
Cuba if Spain wouldn't sell.
c) This act repealed the Missouri Compromise and legitimized the doctrine of popular sovereignty.

7) Identify the following .diseases named after people FfP each.
a) A malignant disease of the lymphatic system, it was first described in 1832.
b) Disorder caused by degeneration of the basal ganglia, it is usually associated with muscle tremors.
c) Commonly known as leprosy, this disease is a chronic disorder of the skin and peripheral tissue.
Answers: _Hodgkin's_ Disease; _Parkinson's_ Disease; _Hanson's_ Disease
8) Identify the American poets from works on a 15-10-5 basis.
15) Voices of the Night

10) Tales of a Wayside Inn
5) Evangeline
15) "Sonnet -- To Science"
10) "Israfel"
5) "Annabel Lee"
Answers: Henry Wadsworth _Longfellow_; Edgar Allen _Poe_
9) Name these figures in American religious history for the stated number of points.
5) In 1741 this Congregational theologian delivered his most famous sermon, "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
15) Founder of the International Church of the Foursquare Gospel, she was allegedly kidnapped in 1926.
10) Recovery from neck and back pain helped lead this woman to found the Christian Science movement.
Answers: Jonathan _Edwards_; Aimee Semple _McPherson_; Mary Baker _Eddy_
10) Identify the 19th century artists who painted the following works FTP each.
a) The Raft of the Medusa
b) Luncheon on the Grass
c) Nocturne in Blue and Gold
Answers: Theodore _Gericaule; Edouard _Manec; James
11) Identify the common year, 30-20-10.
30) Salazar begins his dictatorship in Portugal and the Museum of Modem Art is established in New York.
20) The Lateran Treaty between Italy and the Vatican is signed and the St. Valentine's Day Massacre takes place.
10) Hoover takes office and the stock market crashes.
Answer: _1929_
12) Identify the authors of the following philosophical works for the stated number of points.
5) Critique of Pure Reason
10) The Myth of Sisyphus
15) Beyond Good and Evil
Answers: Immanuel_Kane; Albert _Camus_; Friedrich _Nietzsche_
13) Name the inventors of the following forms of transportation FTP each.
a) hot air balloon, first used in 1782.
b) glider, first successfully flown in 1893.
c) helicopter, first produced in 1939.
Answers: _Montgolfiec; Otto _Lilienthal_; Igor _Sikorsky_
14) Identify the states in which the following landmarks are located FTP each.
a) Greenfield Village
b) Fort Worth Stockyards
c) Fort Kearney

15) Answer these questions about blood FTP each.
a) Also known as thrombocytes, these disk-shaped structures help stop bleeding.
b) This type of white blood cell respond to disease bacteria and are divided into 2 major types, B and T cells.
c) This oxygen-carrying protein gives red blood cells their color.

16) Stadiums are getting renamed every day. FrP each, identify the recently-renamed stadium which houses the following
NFL teams.
a) Carolina Panthers
b) San Francisco 4gers
c) Miami Dolphins
Answers: _Ericcson_ Stadium; _3COM_ Park; _Proplayec Park
17) Identify the musical artist 30-20-10 from albums given.
30) For You, Controversy
20) Lovesexy, Around the World in a Day
10) 1999, Purple Rain
Answer: _Prince_ (accept the _artist formerly known as Prince-l
18) FrP each, calculate these integrals.
a) The integral from one to three of one over x, dx.
b) The integral from zero to one of one over the quantity two x plus one.
c) The integral from zero to one of the natural logarithm of x.

19) Name the directors of the following pairs of ftlms for the stated number of points.
10) "Stagecoach", "The Grapes of Wrath"
5) "Citizen Kane," "The Lady from Shanghai"
15) "The Lost Weekend", "Some Like It Hot"

20) Translate the names of these classical works FfP each.
a) Le Quattro Stagioni (LAY KWAH-troe STAH-joe-nee)
b) Eine Kleine Nachtmusik (EYE-nub KLIE-nub NAHCHT-moo-zeek)
c) L'apprenti du Sorcier (LA-praw-ntee DOO sore-syay)
Answers: _The Four Seasons_; _A Little Night Music_; _The Sorceror's Apprentice_

