TOSSUPS - QUARTERFINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
This ballad contains portmanteau words such as slithy, a compound of lithe and slimy. In the second
stanza, a father advises his son to avoid fearsome creatures like the Bandersnatch and the Jubjub bird. The son
then departs on a quest, encounters a monster, and cuts of his head. FTP, name this poem found in Lewis
Carroll's Through the Looking Glass.
Answer: "Jabberwocky"
2.
They can be made from the reaction of Grignard reagents with aldehydes, esters, or ketones; the reaction
of organolithium reagents with aldehydes and ketones; the acid-catalyzed hydration of alkenes, ozymercurationdemecuration of alkenes, or hydrolysis of alkyl halides. They can be converted to dialkyl ethers and are
combined with carboxylic acids to undergo Fischer esterification. FTP name this group of organic compounds,
composed of an OH group attached to a hydrocarbon group and symbolized as R-OH.
Answer:
alcohols
3.
Great-grandson of Giovanni and grandson of Cosimo, he wielded the considerable family fortune and
power without any official title. Tough enough to crush a minor rebellion in nearby Volterra, he preferred
peace and arranged a treaty between Naples and the pope. But this Florentine neglected the family's banking
interests and spent most of the fortune on the scholars and artists to whom he owes his fame. FTP name this
Renaissance statesman and patron nicknamed 'the Magnificent.'
Answer: Lorenzo de Medici
4.
Many claim that Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a ripoff of this show, as it predated the Rangers by a
good 10 years. It originally featured different animals as the vehicles, though, and the evil King Zarkon and
Prince Lotor and the witch Hagar, as the villains. FTP, name this show whose leader Keith used five lions to
form the Defender ofthe Universe.
Answer: Voltron
5.
A waterspout whirls away in the background, while the artist invokes a famous Copley painting by
showing several sharks half out of the water. One shark seems to be caught by the only human, a black man
stripped to the waist aboard a tiny, weather-beaten boat. FTP, identify this Winslow Homer painting, named for
an Atlantic coast weather system that caused the boat's damage.
Answer: The Gulf Stream
6.
In the New Testament, one warned Jesus to flee because Herod desired his death, while earlier several
invited him to a dinner and asked questions, including: "Why do you do that which is not lawful to do on the
Sabbath days?" Historically, they insisted on the use of oral tradition, were the party of laymen and scribes, and
played a large part in the move from Temple to synagogue. FTP, name this Jewish group.
Answer: Pharisees
7.
Edward White, Morrison Waite, Melville Fuller, Frederick Vinson; Harlan Stone, Oliver Ellsworth,
John Rutledge, John Jay, Salmon P. Chase, William Howard Taft; Charles Evans Hughes, Warren Burger; Earl
Warren; Roger B. Taney, John Marshall; and William H. Rehnquist. FTP these men all held what office?
Answer: Chief Justice of the United States (accept Chief Justice of the Supreme Court; prompt on Supreme
Court or Justice)
8.
Its capital, Changchung, was creatively renamed Xinjang (zin-jang), "new capital" in one Chinese
dialect. Henry Pu Yi, the last Chinese emperor, was installed as leader. It all began when the Japanese seized
Mukden, on its coast, in 1931. FTP name either this 13-year puppet state controlled by the Japanese, or the
smiliarly-named northern Chinese region where it was installed.
Answer: Manchukuo or Manchuria

9.
14.28 days. 59.7 days. 24,110 years. One tenth of one millionth of one nanometer. 4.5 billion years
for Uranium-238. 5730 years for Carbon-14's. FTP, what are these times, the rates at which a radioactive
element decays?
Answer: half-life
10.
This 1593 comedy reinforces the idea of the time that woman's place is to be subjugated to man.
Bianca, the younger sister of the "heroine" has many suitors, but she cannot date any of them until her older
sister has a suitor. FTP, name this Shakespearean comedy that ends in the famous line, "Kiss me, Kate."
Answer: The Taming of the Shrew
11.
Get ready for a math question. The sum of two integers, which are in a ratio of 5:4, is 54. FTP, how
much larger than the smaller number is the bigger number? (READER: allow 10 seconds before calling time)
Answer: 6
12.
This shares its name with a Welsh band fronted by Cerys Matthews. Its causes include head trauma,
cerebrovascular disease, and certain metabolic disorders. Its name comes from the Greek word for stretching
tight. FTP, name this form of schizophrenia characterized by a tendency to remain in a fixed and rigid state for
long periods of time.
Answer: Catatonia (be kind and accept catatonic)
13.
His name was originally Lij Tafari Makonnen, and later gave himself the titles Conquering Lion of the
Tribe of Judah, Elect of God, and King of Kings. He assumed the throne in 1930 but fled England in exile to in
1936. He helped plan the British campaign that led to his restoration in 1942, but is best known for his
impassioned plea to the League of Nations against Italy's invasion. FTP name this last emperor of Ethiopia.
Answer: Haile Selassie I
14.
It begins in Richmond during the Civil War, not with a charter boat for a three-hour tour, but with a hotair balloon carrying five passengers and a dog. The balloon escapes and is blown off course to an uncharted
island, where the castaways use their survival skills to build a functional community. After a skirmish with
pirates, one nearly dies but is saved when medicine inexplicably appears. This leads to the discovery of a
surprise benefactor. FTP name this 1874 novel in which Jules Verne found a way to briefly revive his popular
Captain Nemo.
Answer:
The Mysterious Island [L'Ile Mysterieuse]
15.
Born in 1844, this philosopher is often considered one of the first existentialists. His first book, inspired
by the work of Arthur Schopenhauer and Richard Wagner, was The Birth of Tragedy. Despite the heavy
criticism this book received, he continued to write prolifically in order to explicate his idea of the Superman,
until suffering a mental breakdown in 1889. FTP name this author, perhaps most famous for his purely fictional
work, Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
Answer: Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche
16.
He played a wife-killer in the film Monsieur Verdoux. He won an Oscar for best original score for the
film Limelight, which he also directed. He may still be best remembered for his films like City Lights, The Gold
Rush, and Modern Times. FTP, name this filmmaker who is known for his guise of the Little Tramp.
Answer: Charles "Charlie" Chaplin
17.
He was a German meteorologist who proposed his ideas at a time when science did not have the
evidence to prove them, and consequently, he never got the recognition he deserved while still living. He died
on an expedition to Greenland on the behalf of Graz University in 1930. FTP, name this man, who
hypothesized the one-time existence of Pangaea, and whose ideas led to the modern theory of plate tectonics.
Answer: Alfred Wegener

18.
"Faring this many a folk and plowing many a sea plain! These sad funeral rites (Brother!) to deal thee I
comel. ../ And I may vainly address ashes that answer have none." These lines oflament for his dead brother
begin the 101 sl of 121 poems by what Roman poet, who, FTP, concludes by saying "ave atque vale," or "hail
and farewell"?
Answer: Catullus(accept early Catullus 101)
19.
The First lady sings that this will protect you and change the passions of people - the sad will become
joyful and the bachelor accept love. It entrances both Pamina and the Queen of the Night. FTP, name this
object owned by Tamino, the title object of a Mozart opera.
Answer: The Magic Flute (Die Zauberflote)
20.
In settling a border dispute between British Guiana and Venezuela, he was one of the first Presidents to
invoke the Monroe Doctrine. He secured the repeal of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act during the Panic of
1893. After serving as mayor of Buffalo, he defeated James G. Blaine in 1884. FTP, name this president whose
two terms were interrupted by Benjamin Harrison's term.
Answer: (Stephen) Grover Cleveland
21.
Hongi, Te Rauparaha (referred to by the Europeans as "Satan"), and Tu Hawaiki (known as "Bloody
Jack"), were some of the leaders of this group who resisted the initial European incursion onto their territory.
Despite the 1840 Treaty ofWaitangi, the same native group would rise in 1843 and 1860. FTP, name these
traditional inhabitants of New Zealand.
Answer: Maori
22.
His next acting gig might be as Jackson Archer, captain of the upcoming 51h Star Trek TV show. He
was quarterback Paul Blake in the "comedy" Necessary Roughness and one of the two "Jims" in American
Beauty. FTP, who won a 1992 Golden Globe for his earlier sci-fi TV work, portraying Sam Beckett on
Quantum Leap?
Answer: Scott Bakula
23.
For a quick ten points, compute the following implicit derivative. Find the 2 nd derivative ofy in
simplest form, when X2 +y2=25. (READER: allow 10 seconds before calling time)
Answer: y"= _25/y3
24.
Notes added around 950 C.E. indicate that their binding was created by a Bishop nameq Aethelwald.
The scribe was another bishop, Eadfrith, and he was presumably the artist of the Hibemo-Saxon illuminated
text. FTP, name this Biblical text, named for the Celtic monastery at which it was created.
Answer: Lindisfarne Gospels

BONI - QUARTERFINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001- UTe

1.
Name these physicists for 15 points each based on their prurient interests or for 10 pts. from other clues:
(15) He often worked out physics problems graphically on the napkins of strip clubs
(10) Those problems were worked out by this winner of the 1965 Nobel Prize for Physics via his namesake
"diagrams" .
Answer: Richard Feynman
(15) He was given a year's subscription to the porno mag Private Eye from his friend and colleague Roger
Penrose after he discovered the Cygnus X-I black hole.
(10) Not unduly distracted, this Lucasian Professor went on to describe a type of radiation emitted by black
holes.
Answer: Stephen Hawking

2.
Given a novel inspired by the Faust legend, name its author FTP each.
The Picture of Dorian Grey
Answer: Oscar Wilde
The Master and Margarita
Answer: Mikhail Bulgakov
The Devil and Daniel Webster
Answer: Stephen Vincent Benet
3.
Math bonus. FTP each, answer the following questions about "trees":
The "lines" in a tree are given what name?
Answer: edge( s)
The "points" of junction are called what?
Answer: node(s)
This subgraph is a type of "tree" which contains every vertex without cycling. A "minimized" version is useful
for many computer science algorithms.
Answer: spanning tree
4.
Name the following Frankish rulers for ten points each.
This king defeated the last Roman emperor of Gaul, the Alemmani, the Visigoths and other Franks. He
converted to Christianity in 496 A. D.
Answer: Clovis I
He is most famous for defeating the Muslims near Poitiers, thus checking the Muslim advance into Europe.
Answer: Charles Martel
This son of Charles Martel was the first king of the Carolingian dynasty, and ceded lands to the pope that laid
the foundation for the Papal States.
Answer: Pepin the Short
5.
Given the object of the game, name it for ten points each.
The object is to lay down groups (three or more cards ofthe same rank) or sequences (three or more cards of the
same suit in sequence of rank) and by doing so, get the most points.
Answer: rummy
The object is to build sequences in suit from the four aces up to the four kings, thus using all cards of the
original layout as well as the remaining cards.
Answer: solitaire
The object is to accumulate the properties and to drive opposing players into bankruptcy.
Answer: Monopoly

6.
Given their sphere of influence, name the Greek gods or goddesses for ten points each.
God of heaven; father of the Titans
Answer: Uranus
God of wine
Answer: Dionysus
Goddess of victory
Answer: Nike
7.
Answer these questions about mollusks FTP each.
This class of mollusks include the snails and slugs.
Answer: Gastropoda
Members of Class Bivalvia, like oysters, may have this substance, sometimes called mother-of-pearl, which can,
well, create a pearl.
Answer: nacre
Most members of Class Cephalopoda (like octopi) have no true shell, but this member does have a shell that
forms a spiral shape as it grows.
Answer: chambered nautilus
8.
The study of ancient Egypt has its own vocabulary, some of which is kind of cool. Give the term from
definitions FTPE:
1. Script or hieroglyphics of a simplified form, used by literate laymen instead of the more complex hieratic
form
Answer:
demotic script
2. Jar used for holding a mummy's entrails
Answer:
Canopic jar
3. Tomb of oblong shape with sloping sides and a flat roof
mastaba
Answer:
9.
Historians rarely if ever consider them altogether ooky. FTPE, name these famous Adamses.
This Boston brewer organized the Boston Tea Party.
Answer: Samuel Adams
He was an eight term Representative and eight year Secretary of State, in addition to a more famous office.
Answer: John Quincy Adams
This son of John Quincy was a Representative and also was diplomat to Great Britain during the Civil War.
Answer: Charles Francis Adams
10.
Name these types of music FTP each.
"Step, slide, step" and you've got the hang of this 3/4 time dance, whose name means "revolve" in German.
Answer: waltz
This 4/4 dance, popular in the 1930s and 40s, was also know as "jive" or "jump" (but not "wail.")
Answer: jitterbug
This Brazilian dance, also in 4/4 time, eclipsed the jitterbug in popularity by the middle of the 1940s.
Answer: samba

11.

Name the gas from its formula FTPE or from other cIues for 5 pts.:

1. (10 pts.) C4 HIO

(5 pts.) An alkane used in the manufacture of synthetic rubber and in domestic fuels and cigarette lighters
butane
Answer:
2. (10 pts.) C2 H2
(5 pts.) The simplest alkyne, used as a fuel in welding
Answer:
acetylene or ethyne
3. (10 pts.) C CI2 F2
(5 pts.) Nontoxic, and nonreactive, this halo alkane is used as an aerosol propellant and refrigerant
Answer:
Freon-12 or dichlorodifluoromethane
12.
Answer these questions about Germany in the late 1940s FTP each.
Free Democrat Theodor Heuss won the Presidency of West Germany but this Christian Democrat won the more
important Chancellorship.
Answer: Konrad Adenauer
By accepting funds from the Economic Co-operation Administration, West Germany became an official part of
this American plan to rebuild Europe.
Answer: Marshall plan
West Germany was angered by the August 3, 1950 agreement of France with this region, confirming its
autonomy and creating an economic union between it and France.
Answer: the Saar
13.
Last season the Red Men of Saint John's became the Red Storm. This season, two teams at the big
dance have new names. Answer the following questions about them for five points each.
This school's team secured a 13 seed in the east and entered the tournament with an 18-game winning streak,
the longest in the nation. Their coach has since left for the Villanova job.
Answer: Hofstra
Give Hofstra's former and current team names.
Answer: The Flying Dutchmen and The Pride
This school, playing as a 13 seed in the midwest, was the sole representative from its time zone.
Answer: University of Hawaii
Give Hawaii's former and current team names.
Answer: The Rainbow Warriors and The Warriors
14.
Given a National League player on the question writer's fantasy baseball team, identify the team he
plays for and the position he plays in the field for five points per correct answer. Either city or nickname is OK
for the first answer.
Jose Vidro
Answers: Montreal Expos and second base
Sean Casey
Answers: Cincinnati Reds and first base
Shawn Estes
Answers: San Francisco Giants and starting pitcher
15.
Jacobean dramatists often collaborated on plays. FTPE name one of the two authors of these dramas:
The 1609 tragicomedy Philaster: or, Love Lies A-Bleeding
Answer: William Beaumont or John Fletcher
The 1604 play The Honest Whore
Answer: Thomas Dekker or Thomas Middleton
The 1613 romance The Two Noble Kinsmen
Answer: William Shakespeare or John Fletcher

16.
Answer these questions about the early history of Florida, 10 points each.
He was attacked and killed by natives upon landing at Charlotte Harbor - a far cry from the fountain of youth
he had hoped to discover.
Answer: Juan Ponce de Leon
Starting in central Florida in 1539, he explored as far north as present-day Memphis.
Answer: Hernando de Soto
Pedro Mendez de Aviles founded this city on the Atlantic coast, using it as the base to attack and eventually
expel the French from Florida.
Answer: St. Augustine
17.
F or the stated number of points, given the invention that helped advance the cause of science, name the
inventor, after whom are named a unit, a law, and a principle, respectively.
5 points. The barometer.
Answer: Evangelista Torricelli
10 points. Safety matches and litmus.
Answer: Robert Boyle
15 points. The pendulum clock.
Answer: Christiaan Huygens
18.
The national capital on the Tiber River is Rome; on the Thames is London. For ten points each, what
U.S. state capitals are located on the following rivers:
a) Hudson
Answer: Albany, New York
b) Olentangy
Answer: Columbus, Ohio
c) Susquehanna Answer: Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
19.
Name these types of Japanese poetry FTPE.
This form is a three-line stanza of 5-7-5 syllables
Answer: haiku
This stanza is composed of five lines of syllabic structure 5-6-5-7-7
Answer: tanka
Usually, haiku and tanka are excerpts from this style oflinked poetry
Answer: renga (accept: haikai)
20.
Given the definition, name the philosophical term for ten points each.
The philosophy of Rudolf Steiner, it held that cultivating man's spiritual development is humanity's most
important task.
Answer: anthroposophy
It holds that matter is the primary reality and that is obeys the dynamic laws of change. The most fundamental
of these laws is that progress occurs through conflict and struggle between opposing forces.
Answer: dialectical materialism
It attempted to introduce mathematical and scientific methodology into philosophy. Associated with the Vienna
Circle, it rejected metaphysical speculation in favor of a vigorous analysis of experience and language, without
which understanding is not possible.
Answer: logical positivism (do not accept: positivism)
21.
For ten points each, give the name of the following chemical compounds.
Fe203 (F-E-two-O-three)
Answer: iron (III) oxide (Iron-three oxide prompt on iron oxide) or rust
P4 S lO (P-four-S-ten)
Answer: tetraphosphorous decasulfide
HCI0 2 (H-C-L-O-two)
Answer: chlorous acid

22.
Answer these questions about an important international economic agency.
This trade agreement was first concluded in Geneva in 1947.
Answer: GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade)
This organization supplanted GATT in 1995, streamlining its requirements and regulations.
Answer: WTO (World Trade Organization)
The most recent "round" of talks, in spite of its name it too was held in Geneva. It laid out the protocols that
resulted in the change from the GATT to the WTO.
Answer: Uruguay Round

