1. Pop Culture
This show ran on CBS from 1962 to 1971, and it held the record for most watched show
until The Beatles appeared on Ed Sullivan. One of the characters was a banker named
Jane Hathaway who was played by Nancy Kulp. The lead characters were Granny Moses,
Jethro Bodine, and Jed and Elly May Clampett. Name this show about a family that
moves West after discovering oil on their land.
ANSWER: (The) Beverly Hillbillies
2. World Literature
One of his recent protagonists is Willie Somerset Chandran, who, like the author, spends
much of his life in England after being raised elsewhere. Another novel is narrated by
Salim, who has moved to Africa’s interior. The author first gained fame with a novel
about Mohun Biswas, who, like the author, is from Trinidad. Name this 2001 Nobel Prize
recipient who wrote A Bend In The River.
ANSWER: (Sir Vidiadhar Surajprasad) Naipaul
3. Algebra (10 Seconds)
This shortcut is used to evaluate certain functions, test factors, and solve problems in
which the divisor is linear. It is often used in conjunction with the Rational Root Theorem
or the Remainder Theorem. The first step is to get the divisor into the form X minus H. H
is written in the upper left corner, and the coefficients of the dividend are written across
the top. The rest of the problem can be solved through a series of addition and
multiplication. Name this method of polynomial division.
ANSWER: Synthetic (Division or Substitution)
4. Art/Architecture
Some of his woodcuts are titled Puddle, Dolphins, and Metamorphosis. Though he did
not have a significant mathematical background, he was fascinated by figures such as
Necker Cubes that are contradictory. This artist usually made lithographs, including Still
Life with Spherical Mirror, Relativity, and Drawing Hands. Name this 20th Century
Dutch graphic artist whose pictures contained logical contradictions.
ANSWER: (Maurits Cornelis) Escher
5. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
How many electrons can fit into the fourth energy level of an atom? The first level can
hold two electrons, the second level can hold eight electrons, and the third level can hold
eighteen electrons.
ANSWER: 32

6. Religion/Mythology
This group was first officially recognized in 1540. The name they are commonly known
by was originally an insult but soon lost its derogatory connotation. Members are
classified as novices, formed scholastics, formed coadjutors, and the professed. Their
goal is to study what Jesus would have done in today’s world, and their motto is Ad
Majorem Dei Gloriam. Name this Catholic Order in charge of many schools that was
founded by Saint Ignatius Loyola.
ANSWER: Jesuit(s) (or (the) Society of Jesus or Societas Jesu)
7. US History
After completing her national position, she ran and lost a primary campaign for Governor
of Florida. Before the position, she held a smaller elective office in Florida for fourteen
years. Many of her actions were controversial, including those involving Richard Jewell,
David Koresh, Elian Gonzalez, and Microsoft. When she left office, she was replaced by
John Ashcroft. Name the Attorney General during the entire Presidency of Bill Clinton.
ANSWER: (Janet) Reno
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give your answer in radians. Find the angle in the 2nd Quadrant whose Secant equals
negative two.
ANSWER: 2Pi/3 (accept two-thirds pi, do not accept 2/3)
9. Language Arts
This term is derived from Sanskrit, in which it means Lord of the World. It specifically
refers to a huge cart which carries a statue of Krishna. According to legend, Krishna
worshippers used to throw themselves in front of the cart and get crushed by it. In
English, it now refers to an overpowering force such as an army or unbeatable athletic
team. Give this term that begins with the letter J.
ANSWER: Juggernaut
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
It is one thousand, nine hundred kilometers from the nearest inhabited land, which is
Pitcairn Island. Scientists believe that it once held ten thousand people, which caused
severe overpopulation problems. It is made up of three volcanos, most notably Terevaka,
and the first European to visit it was Jacob Roggeven. It is famous for objects on its coast
that weigh over one hundred tons and are fifteen meters tall that were built five hundred
years ago. Name this Pacific Island with large statues.
ANSWER: Easter (Island) (accept Rapa Nui, Te Pito O Te Henua, or Isla de Pascua)

11. World History
There is disagreement whether this term comes from the German word for conspirator,
the name of a Count from Tours, or the name of one of the group’s leaders. Another one
of their leaders was Gaspard de Coligny, who survived an assassin’s bullet but was
among the thousands of people killed two days later. Name this group which played a
major role in the Wars of Religion, which included the Saint Bartholomew’s Day
Massacre and Edict of Nantes.
ANSWER: Huguenot(s)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (10 Seconds)
This is the common name given to calculus problems that often involve right triangles.
One common example involves seeing how quickly the distance between two cars
increases as one heads North and the other heads East. Name these problems in which
values of some derivatives are used to find the value of another derivative.
ANSWER: Related Rate(s)
13. British Literature
One of his poems contains the line, “Drink to me only with thine eyes,” and another
states, “He was not of an age, but for all time!” The first quote comes from “To Celia”,
and the second is from “To the Memory of My Beloved the Author, Mr. William
Shakespeare”. He also wrote several plays, including Every Man in His Humor and Every
Man Out of His Humor. Name this Shakespeare and Marlowe contemporary who wrote
The Alchemist and Volpone.
ANSWER: (Ben) Jonson
14. Music
Many of these can be found in Tchaikovsky’s “Waltz of the Flowers” and Bach’s “WellTempered Clavier”. They are often played by harps, and this term is Italian for ‘in the
manner of a harp.’ Give this term, denoted in sheet music using a vertical squiggly line in
front of a group of notes, for chords played one note at a time.
ANSWER: Arpeggio(s) (prompt Broken Chord)
15. Biology
(Note to moderator: Laryngeal is pronounced lar-en-jee-el, and trachea is pronounced
tray-kee-uh.) Along with parts of the external ear, this is the biggest example of elastic
cartilage in your body. It separates the oral and laryngeal sections of your pharynx and is
located behind the hyoid bone. When it performs the function it is known for, it is almost
horizontal, but most of the time it is not. Name this flap that prevents food from entering
the trachea.
ANSWER: Epiglottis

16. Technology
One of the original partners was Volkswagen. When they backed out, Daimler-Benz
moved in, but they have lost a lot of money on the project. They are hoping the Fortwo,
which will be available in the United States next year, will be more successful. The
Swatch company has always been involved. Name this project that has produced
automobiles less than one hundred inches long so that they can fit sideways in a parking
space.
ANSWER: Smart (Car) (prompt Micro Compact, Supermini, or Micro Car)
17. Current Events
In a handwritten note to his supporters, he claimed: “The world’s elite are busy forming a
North American Union. If they are successful, as they were in forming the European
Union, the good old USA will only be a memory.” He has been in Congress, on and off,
since 1976, and has continued to work as an obstetrician. Name this Republican opposed
to the Iraq War who is running for President.
ANSWER: (Ron) Paul
18. Nonfiction
In an essay titled Life Without Principle, he said, “Do not hire a man who does your work
for money, but him who does it for love of it.” Many of his writings cover excursions to
places near his home such as Canada, Maine, and Cape Cod, and he also wrote in support
of John Brown and other abolitionists. His best-known book contains chapters such as
Solitude, Brute Neighbors, and The Pond In Winter. Name this transcendentalist who
wrote Walden.
ANSWER: (Henry David) Thoreau
19. Physics (30 Seconds)
Include units in your answer. Find the speed of an object moving around a circle if the
centripetal force is 4 Newtons, the radius of the circle is 4 meters, and the object is 4
kilograms.
ANSWER: 2 Meters Per Second
20. US Literature
The middle section of his first novel is titled “Prayers of the Saints” and gives the points
of view of relatives of John Grimes. His later novels include Giovanni’s Room, Another
Country, and If Beale Street Could Talk. He was also a well-known essayist, sometimes
addressing the relationships between Black Christians and Muslims. Name this author of
Go Tell It on the Mountain.
ANSWER: (James) Baldwin

Tiebreakers:
This is a computational tossup, so you are allowed 30 Seconds. Solve the system of
equations: x+y=10 and x+2y=14
ANSWER: (6,4) (order matters, accept x=6 & y=4)
This term is derived from the Sanskrit term for River, and it often is associated with the
term Dharma. It also is associated with the terms Sruti, which means What Is Heard, and
Smriti, which means What Is Remembered. It names a religion that is followed by about
one billion people worldwide. Name this religion originally based on the Vedas that has a
huge following in India.
ANSWER: Hindu(ism) (or Hindu Dharma)
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “We must, indeed, all hang
together or, most assuredly, we shall all hang…
ANSWER: Separately

