1. Pop Culture
The main character in this film is Jeff Jefferies, who is normally a magazine
photographer. He is deciding whether to propose to Lisa Freemont, who is played by
Grace Kelly. He spends the entire movie watching married couples and eventually
becomes obsessed with his theory that a man has killed his invalid wife. Name this movie
starring James Stewart directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
ANSWER: Rear Window
2. World Literature
When he was young, he defeated Amalinze the Cat. As an adult, he has three wives and is
known for his strength of character. He is the son of Unoka and the father of Nwoye.
Name this protagonist of Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Okonkwo
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Give all four solutions to the equation x4-20x2+64=0
ANSWER: -4, -2, 2, 4 (any order, accept +/- 2, +/- 4)
4. Art/Architecture
This art movement began with Hans Richter, Tristan Tzara, and Hans Arp in Zurich. It
spread to Germany, where Max Ernst organized an exhibition which provided weapons to
visitors so they could destroy the works. It also spread to New York City and had an
impact on surrealism. Name this movement active during World War One whose name is
French for 'hobby-horse'.
ANSWER: Dada(ism)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
For iron and sulphur, these are named using greek letters. For phosphorus and arsenic,
they are named using colors. For oxygen, one is given the name oxygen, and the other is
called ozone. There are several examples for carbon, including graphite and diamond.
Give this term beginning with the letter A that is used when an element has more than
one molecular form.
ANSWER: Allotrope(s) (accept different word forms)
6. Religion/Mythology
(Note to moderator: Njord is pronounced Nyord.) This group once made Honir one of its
leaders, but he was unintelligent and indecisive. In their frustration, they killed the wise
man Mimir. This group’s normal leader was Njord. Name this group of Norse gods and
goddesses that later joined the Aesir.
ANSWER: Vanir

7. US History
This act of Congress was meant to clear up Article One, Section Eight, Clause Eleven of
the Constitution, though it has never been tested in the courts. Passed in 1973 over the
veto of President Nixon, it requires the President to deliver a written message to Congress
within 48 hours of taking action, and Congress must act within 60 days to approve the
action. Name this bill designed to make sure that Congress can give input on activities by
our military.
ANSWER: War Powers (Act or Resolution)
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Find all solutions to the following equation in radians between zero and two pi: Sine x
plus cosine x equals zero.
ANSWER: 3Pi/4 & 7Pi/4 (both answers in either order, it is incorrect if only one answer
is given; accept Three-Fourths Pi and Seven-Fourths Pi, answers must include Pi)
9. Language Arts
Named after a luxurious city in Ancient Egypt, this word can be a synonym of parachute
or sky. In a rainforest, it is the thick layer of branches and leaves. Give this term that can
refer to a cloth placed over a bed or the front of a building.
ANSWER: Canopy
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Islands in this body of water include Rugen and Gotland. Towards the West, it is spanned
by Oresund Bridge, which has one end at Malmo. Ports on it include Kaliningrad and
Gdansk, and its arms are the Gulf of Bothnia, Gulf of Riga, and Gulf of Finland. Name
this sea bordered by Poland, Sweden, Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia.
ANSWER: Baltic (Sea)
11. World History
(Note to moderator: Nejd is one syllable, without any silent letters.) In 1744, this family
endorsed a religious group in exchange for political legitimacy. It lost its power in 1818,
when many of its members were executed, but returned to power in 1902, retaking the
capital of the Nejd. The best-known member of the family lived from about 1880 to
1953. His son, who succeeded him as King, was assassinated by a nephew in 1975. For
generations, they have supported Wahabiism in Riyadh. Identify this family that named
the largest country on the Arabian Peninsula after itself.
ANSWER: (Ibn) Saud(i) (accept House of Saud(i))

12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Two integers are chosen at random so that each is greater than or equal to negative one
and less than or equal to positive two. It is possible for them to be equal. Find the
probability that they add up to zero.
ANSWER: 3/16 (accept .1875)
13. British Literature
This play consists of two acts, with a Christmas sermon in between them. There is an
interlude near the end in which Reginald Fitz Urse, Sir Hugh de Morville, Baron William
de Traci, and Richard Brito attempt to justify their actions. The play is set in December,
1170, during the reign of Henry the Second. Name this work by TS Eliot about the death
of Thomas Becket.
ANSWER: Murder in the Cathedral
14. Music
(Note to moderator: Giustino is pronounced Joo-stee-no.) He wrote several operas early
in his career, including Il Giustino at the age of eighteen. Best known for sonatas, most of
his influence during his lifetime came in Portugal and Spain, where he worked for the
royal courts. His influence spread after his death, and his keyboard sonatas influenced the
transition from the Baroque to the Classical Period. One of them is now known as Cat
Fugue. Name this composer of harpsichord pieces.
ANSWER: (Giuseppe Domenico) Scarlatti
15. Biology
His first significant research was on neurological physiology, starting with pancreatic
nerves and then studying the nerves of the heart. His best known studies involved placing
fistulas between the internal organs of animals and outside pouches so that the contents of
their organs could be studied. During the 1890s, he began focusing more on the way
organs could be manipulated. Name this Russian scientist famous for his classical
conditioning experiments on dogs.
ANSWER: (Ivan) Pavlov
16. Technology
This term beginning with the letter M is often associated with Google Maps, JackBe
Presto, Yahoo Pipes, and Microsoft Popfly. It refers to a combination of application
programming interfaces in a single piece of software. Give this sometimes hyphenated
term originally from creole languages that used to apply to certain music.
ANSWER: Mashup(s)

17. Current Events
One recent Supreme Court cases on this topic was Meredith vs. Jefferson. First becoming
federal policy during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, it has been limited by the
courts since the California vs. Bakke decision in 1978. In California, this policy was
eliminated to some extent by Proposition 209. Identify this policy, formerly known as
Compensatory Preferential Treatment, designed to promote women and minorities.
ANSWER: Affirmative Action (prompt related answers such as Job Discrimination)
18. Nonfiction
Originally known as the Book of Winchester, The Great one has 413 pages and the Little
one has 475 pages. The Great one was handwritten by a single person, but his identity is
unknown. The word Waste appears within it many times, often to denote places that
armies had passed through. Name this attempt to assess England’s resources that was
commissioned by William The Conqueror in the 11th Century.
ANSWER: (The) Domesday (Book)
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
This measures the strength of a magnetic field divided by the strength of an auxiliary
magnetic field. It can be measured in Henries per meter or in Newtons per square
Ampere, and its value in a vacuum is equal to four pi times ten to the negative seventh
Newtons per square Ampere. It measures the change in magnetic induction created from
a magnetic material replacing a vacuum. Name this term often associated with the ability
of solids to absorb liquids.
ANSWER: (Magnetic) Permeability (do not accept other word forms)
20. US Literature
This novel is narrated by a 14-year-old inspired to write by an English teacher named Mr.
Syme. The narrator’s brothers are named Darry and Sodapop. Their parents died in a car
accident, and they belong to a group known as greasers. The book was published in 1967
when the author was 18, and her publisher convinced her to use a gender neutral name.
Name the first novel by S.E. Hinton narrated by Ponyboy.
ANSWER: (The) Outsiders
Tiebreakers:
A synonym of vitalism, this term gained its current use thanks to Edward Burnett Taylor,
who based it on the Latin term for soul. It is the belief that natural objects, natural
phenomena, and the universe itself possess souls. Some major religions support the
limited definition of the term, believing that humans, and in some cases animals, possess
souls. Name this term used to describe some religious beliefs in countries such as Laos,
Ghana, Guatemala, Mozambique, and Sudan.
ANSWER: Animism (or Animist)

This play begins with a fight between two pairs of servants when one of them bites his
thumb in the direction of the others. It ends with a Prince stating, “For never was a story
of more woe than this.” The plot hinges on a potion that renders a person lifeless for over
24 hours; it is given out by Friar Laurence. Name this Shakespeare play about the family
feud between the Montagues and the Capulets.
ANSWER: Romeo And Juliet
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “Early to bed and early to rise
makes a man healthy, wealthy, and…
ANSWER: Wise

