1. Pop Culture
(Note to moderator: No singing, please.) The beginning of this song contains several half
notes going down by half steps played simultaneously with eighth notes. The lyrics
mention a brook, a songbird, and rings of smoke, climaxing with the lines, “And if you
listen very hard, The tune will come to you at last, When all are one and one is all, To be
a rock and not to roll.” Name this rock song from 1971 by Led Zeppelin.
ANSWER: Stairway To Heaven
2. World Literature
All written in verse, his books include recipes for cosmetics, advice for getting over love
affairs, and the poem Ibis, which, from beginning to end, attacks an unknown man and
fantasizes about horrible ways he could die. He also wrote a three-volume work on the art
of seduction titled Ars Amatoria. His best-known work, published in 8 CE, is a widely
used source on mythology. Name this poet of Metamorphoses.
ANSWER: (Publius) Ovid(ius Naso)
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Jack runs at 8 meters per second, Jill runs at 6 meters per second, and they are in a race.
How many seconds will it take Jack to catch up to Jill if she is given a five second head
start? Only count the amount of time that Jack spends running.
ANSWER: 15 (Seconds)
4. Art/Architecture
(Note to moderator: The end of the word Generalife is pronounced like Leaf.) One of its
most famous sections contains a fountain surrounded by statues of lions looking
outwards. Begun by the Nasrid Dynasty in the 13th Century, it contains the Royal Palace,
the gardens of Generalife, and the fortress of Alcazaba. Name this example of Islamic
architecture in southern Spain.
ANSWER: Alhambra (prompt Granada)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
First developed in 1908, the important part of this device is a metal tube filled primarily
with an inert gas that contains a metal wire going through it. There must be a large
electric potential difference between the wire and the outside of the tube so that a burst of
current is created when some gas is ionized. One end of the tube is often covered with
mica, which allows the particles being searched for to enter. Name these devices that
often use clicking noises to signify the presence of radiation.
ANSWER: Geiger Counter (or Geiger(-Muller) Tube)

6. Religion/Mythology
Though he worked hard as a doctor near Cairo, he had time to reorganize the ideas of his
religion and write the philosophical work The Guide to the Perplexed. The Yigdal was
inspired by his 13 articles of faith. His Sefer Hamitzvot lists the 613 commandments of
the Jewish religion. Name this 12th Century Jewish scholar.
ANSWER: (Moses ben) Maimon(ides) (accept Rambam)
7. US History
Following the Stamp Act, this man convinced the citizens of Westmoreland County not
to purchase British imports. On June 7th, 1776, he introduced the legislation that led to
The Declaration of Independence, but he did not end up writing that document, perhaps
due to his wife’s illness. Name this political leader who often worked with Thomas
Jefferson and Patrick Henry and who, like them, was from Virginia.
ANSWER: (Richard Henry) Lee
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Find the height of a box if its width is 2 centimeters, its length is 3 centimeters, and its
total surface area is 57 square centimeters. Give your answer in centimeters.
ANSWER: 4.5 (Centimeters) (accept 4½ or 9/2)
9. Language Arts
This term comes from the Latin word meaning ‘to hand over to a trustee’. Its synonyms
include Segregate and Seclude, and it is associated with legal situations. It can refer to the
legal seizure of property or the placement of property into custody. Give this word
meaning ‘to set apart’, which is used with juries when the judge wants to prevent them
from being influenced by outside sources of information.
ANSWER: Sequester (accept Sequestration and other variations)
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
This term translates from Latin as ‘Sun standing still’, and the general trend is for it to get
earlier in the year. It is associated with the measurement 23 degrees, 27 minutes, and the
two types can be classified by season, month, direction, or zodiac sign. Give this term
that marks the beginning of Summer and Winter.
ANSWER: Solstice (accept longer answers)

11. World History
Known as Showa Tenno within his country, he supposedly was buried with a Mickey
Mouse watch on his wrist. He thought his reign was going to end after nineteen years, but
after admitting that he was not descended from a Sun Goddess, he was allowed to rule for
an additional forty-four years. Name this Japanese Emperor who ruled from 1926 until
his death in 1989.
ANSWER: Hirohito
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
At the point (pi/2,0), find the value of the derivative of the graph y equals sine of cosine
of x. You will need to use the Chain Rule.
ANSWER: -1 (do not accept 1)
13. British Literature
The title character of this novel is referred to several different ways, including the little
gent, Doady, Trotwood, and Daisy. His father dies before he is born, his mother Clara
dies while he is young, and he hates his stepfather Edward Murdstone. Name this Charles
Dickens novel that includes the characters James Steerforth, Agnes Wickfield, and Uriah
Heep.
ANSWER: David Copperfield
14. Music
This musician idolized Roy Eldridge, who he replaced in Teddy Hill’s Orchestra. He then
played in Cab Calloway’s band until the two of them got into a knife fight. His
compositions include Manteca and Salt Peanuts. In 1953, somebody fell on his trumpet,
causing it to be bent, and he insisted from that point on that all his trumpets be shaped
like that, with the bell pointing up. Name this jazz artist whose nickname referred to his
wild movements.
ANSWER: (John ‘Dizzy’) Gillespie
15. Biology
(Note to moderator: Indoleacetic is pronounced in-doe-la-see-tik.) The most important
natural one is called Indoleacetic Acid, or IAA. Among other things, they stimulate the
production of ethylene. One of the classes of phytohormones, they cause cell growth and
are responsible for several tropisms. Name this type of plant hormone whose name begins
with the letter A.
ANSWER: Auxin(s) (prompt Phytohormone or Plant Hormone)

16. Technology
This inline HTML tag with a four letter name is frequently used with the style, class, or
ID attributes, and is associated with CSS. It is similar to div, except that this tag does not
start a new paragraph. Identify this tag whose name begins with the letter S.
ANSWER: Span
17. Current Events
(Note to moderator: Kostunica is pronounced Kosh-too-nee-tza, with a long o in the first
syllable.) The status of this province is in the hands of the former President of Finland,
though it has no significant relationship to Finland. Its leaders may claim independence
later this month, though that claim would be opposed by Prime Minister Kostunica. It is
located in southern Serbia. Name this province that borders Montenegro and Macedonia
and contains a large Albanian population.
ANSWER: Kosovo
18. Nonfiction
He claimed that people write because of sheer egoism, aesthetic enthusiasm, historical
impulse, and political purpose in his essay “Why I Write”. He supported Socialism in
“The Lion and the Unicorn”. There is some disagreement about whether an essay he
wrote in 1936 described an incident from his life, though it is known that he worked for
the British Empire in Burma. Name this author of “Shooting an Elephant” who is bestknown for political novels.
ANSWER: (George) Orwell (accept (Eric) Blair)
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
Physicist Roni Harnik proposed an alternative universe where this does not exist, which
would require a lot of initial deuterium if it were to develop stars like the universe we live
in. In reality, this changes the flavors of quarks, which is part of beta decay. It uses W
and Z vector bosons, which keeps its range to about one-tenth the size of a nucleus. Name
this fundamental force.
ANSWER: Weak (Nuclear Force or Interaction) (prompt Electroweak)
20. US Literature
The narrator of this story is spending the winter in Starkfield. The title character falls in
love with Mattie, who is his wife’s cousin. His wife Zeena acts old and sickly when she is
in her thirties. Name this Edith Wharton story involving a sledding injury.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome

Tiebreakers:
(Note to moderator: Stereoisomer is pronounced stereo-isomer.) This term means ‘hand
like’ in Greek. Beginning with the letter C, it is used to described molecules such as
glucose, galactose, and alanine, and it is associated with the terms enantiomer and
stereoisomer. Name this term that refers to a molecule that cannot be superimposed on its
mirror image.
ANSWER: Chiral(ity)
In 1950, Wolfgang Schmieder listed 224 cantatas and 223 works for harpsichord out of
over one thousand pieces by this composer. Many of the pieces were contrapuntal and
included fugues. Name this Baroque composer responsible for Air, The Goldberg
Variations, and The Brandenburg Concertos.
ANSWER: (Johann Sebastian) Bach
Give the word that completes this Bible quote: “The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not…
ANSWER: Want

