The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 11Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) The western border of this body of water is partially formed by island groups which
include the cities of Kirkwall and Lerwick. Underwater features in this body of water
include a sandbank known as central Dogger Bank, and its southeastern portion
includes the Wadden Sea. This sea is connected to another sea to its east by the
artificial Kiel canal, and it is connected by the (∗ ) Strait of Dover to the English Channel.
Site of the mouths of the Thames and Rhine, for ten points, name this European sea bordering
Britain, Scandinavia, and the Netherlands.
ANSWER:

North Sea

(2) One composer from this country wrote an opera about the personification of death
Nekrotzer, Le Grande Macabre, while another created a namesake pedagogical
method redefining solfege with moveable instead of fixed do [pronounced “doh”].
One composer from this country created a work culminating in “Six Dances in
Bulgarian Rhythm”, a set of 153 progressively harder piano pieces. In addition to
that creator of Mikrokosmos, one of this country’s composers created a set of twelve
(∗ ) Transcendental Etudes, as well as setting this country’s native music to a set of “Rhapsodies.”
For ten points, name this home of Bela Bartok and Franz Liszt.
ANSWER:

Hungary

(3) One novel by this author follows the life of Irish nationalist Roger Casement, and in
another novel, Urania Cabral returns to the Dominican Republic thirty-five years
after fleeing the Trujillo regime. This author of The Dream of the Celt and The
Feast of the Goat wrote a novel that follows the conflict between the Brazilian
military and an apocalyptic cult led by Antonio Conselheiro. The Jaguar leads a
group of cadets at Leoncio Prado Military Academy in a novel by this author of (∗ )
The War of the End of the World, and this author created the character of Pedro Camacho.
For ten points, name this Peruvian author of The Time of the Hero and Aunt Julia and the
Scriptwriter.
ANSWER: Mario Vargas Llosa

Round 11- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) An excellent weather forecast by James Stagg enabled this event to begin before
the next full moon, and Hobart’s Funnies proved very successful in it. A rehearsal
for this event that succumbed to friendly fire and enemy ships was Exercise Tiger,
and goods were supplied through Mulberry harbors during this event. One side was
tricked into believing that similar events would take place in Norway and Calais
as part of Operation Fortitude. Large guns at Pointe du Hoc were part of the (∗ )
Atlantic Wall, which contributed to stiff resistance for the U.S. forces at Omaha Beach during
this event. For ten points, name this 1944 event that captured a foothold in France to begin the
process of ending World War II.
ANSWER: D-Day (or Operation Neptune or Operation Overlord or the Normandy invasion
or equivalents)

(5) The Gibbs adsorption isotherm relates how solutes affect this quantity, and it
remains constant after the critical micelle concentration is reached. Its dependence
on temperature is explained by the Eőtvős Rule, and it can be measured with a
Wilhelmy Plate or a Du Nouy ring in units of dynes per centimeter. Capillary
action occurs due to this phenomenon, it results in (∗ ) meniscuses for most liquids, and
detergents lower the value of this quantity because they are surfactants. For ten points, name
this property of liquids which allows small bugs to walk on water.
ANSWER:

surface tension

(6) This doctrine is held to be the first sermon, but not the last, by the Nichiren form of
its religion. A concept mentioned in this doctrine is considered in the metaphor of an
obstructed wheel. One of these tenets refers to the Samudaya, or origin, of another
concept; the former of which is linked to Upadana, one of the three poisons, which
translates to “attachment”. The third of these tenets shows the way to the cessation
of dukkha, while the last includes (∗ ) right speech, right action, and right concentration in
its definition of the Eightfold Path. For ten points, name this group of statements developed by
Buddha, the first of which can be summarized as “Life is suffering”.
ANSWER:
The
Cattari Ariyasaccani)

Four Noble Truths

(accept

Round 11- Page 2

Catvari Aryasatvani

or

IMSANITY 3

(7) Terence Tao used a Selberg sieve to show that this problem could not be solved in
sublinear time. Agrawal, Kayal, and Saxena proved that this problem can be solved
in polynomial time. Algorithms to solve this problem named for Miller-Rabin and
for Lucas are both based on Fermat’s Little Theorem. An early algorithm for this
problem checked if the input survived the (∗ ) Sieve of Eratosthenes, while another checks
all numbers up to the square root of the input to see if they are divisors. Closely related to the
problem of factoring, for ten points, identify this problem which attempts to determine if a given
positive integer has only one proper factor.
ANSWER: primality testing (accept anything about determining whether a number is prime,
do not accept finding primes or equivalents)

(8) This author wrote about Charlotte Henley’s love for George Morton in Heart, which
was collected as part of his Tale for Fifteen. Bob Betts and The Neshamy come to
rescue Mark Woolston, who had been abandoned with the Raucous, in one novel,
and another novel followed the romance between the title character, Jasper Western,
and Mabel Dunham. This author of The Crater wrote a story in which Uncas and
Cora die together, although Duncan Heyward succeeds in rescuing (∗ ) Alice Munro
from Magua. He followed Natty Bumppo in The Pathfinder and The Deerslayer, part of his
Leatherstocking Tales. For ten points, name this author of Last of the Mohicans.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper

(9) One man from this country started the newspaper The Autonomist, and he and
Benjamin Herrera founded the Republican University. After “narco cassettes” were
found, Samper was forced out of office in this country in the 8,000 Process. The
Declaration of Sitges ended a civil war that began when Jorge Eliecer Gaitan was
assassinated, and this country gained its independence at the Battle of Boyaca. In
addition to to the War of a Thousand Days and (∗ ) La Violencia, other problems in this
country include a Medellin drug cartel and the guerrilla group FARC. For ten points, name this
South American nation with capital at Bogotá.
ANSWER: Republic of Colombia

Round 11- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(10) Although it is not the medulla oblongata, this body part’s TIDA neurons in its
arcuate nucleus regulate prolactin secretion. This organ produces two nearly
identical sulfur-bridge-containing hormones, one of which acts by increasing the
number of aquaporin channels in its target tissue. This organ also synthesizes
somatostatin, which acts antagonistically to another hormone produced here,
GHRH. It releases vasopressin and oxytocin and is also a major source of
neurohormones including (∗ ) “releasing hormones” whose target cells lie in the anterior
pituitary gland. For ten points, name this region of the brain responsible for homeostasis.
ANSWER:

hypothalamus

(11) An incompetent general this man refused to fire was known as “Agent 13” to the
Spanish; that general was James Wilkinson. He argued that a large republic could
better protect against factionalism in Federalist No. 10 and argued for a system of
checks and balances in Federalist No. 51. Supporters of nullification cite a document
he wrote, the Virginia Resolution. As (∗ ) President, he signed the charter for the Second
Bank of the United States. His wife saved a portrait of George Washington when the White
House was burned in the War of 1812. For ten points, name this President who is known as the
“Father of the Constitution.”
ANSWER: James Madison

(12) In one myth, Howori uses the jewel shiho-mitsu-tama to create one of these entities
that nearly kills his brother Hoderi. In another myth, Nuwa kills a black dragon
and uses the ashes from the surrounding weeds to end one of these entities. One
of these takes place after after an eel makes the frog Tiddalik laugh, and Dardanus
fled Samothrace after surviving one of these events. All of Cessair’s party except
Fintan is killed by one of these events in Ireland. New (∗ ) humans were created from
stone to replace those killed by one survived by Pyrrha and Deucalion. For ten points, identify
this event which Noah survived by building an ark.
ANSWER:

flood (accept equivalents like deluge)

(13) In 1883, this building saw the removal of its two bell towers nicknamed the “ass’s
ears” that had been designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The original pediment of
this building is still visible, even though certain features being cut too short forced
a new lower pediment to be added; those features were the sixteen Corinthian
columns supporting its portico. Five rows of indentations called coffers appear
below the building’s only source of light, an (∗ ) oculus, which sits at the top of the
world’s largest unreinforced concrete dome. Originally commissioned by Marcus Agrippa and
rebuilt by Hadrian, for ten points, name this temple dedicated to all Roman gods.
ANSWER:

Pantheon

Round 11- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(14) Tears of wine are caused by a form of this process involving surface tension, the
Marangoni effect. In another form of this phenomenon, polymers move inward
toward a rotating rod; that is the Weissenberg effect. The most common form of
this process, which forms namesake cells, is called the Rayleigh-Benard type. This
process can either be forced or natural, with the latter type being significantly
diminished in zero-gravity. Another type of this process occurs due to buoyancy in
the stack effect. This process occurs in the atmosphere to form (∗ ) thunderstorms and
Hadley cells and occurs in the mantle to form hotspots. For ten points, name this type of heat
transfer in which the material itself moves, contrasted with radiation and conduction.
ANSWER:

convection

(15) This author wrote a description of studies in hysteria, titled The Freud Scenario,
and in a story by this author, Pierre Dumaine and Eve Charlier are resurrected for
24 hours to prove their love. This author of The Chips are Down wrote a play
where the title creatures leave after one character kills his mother, and in another
a member of the Proletarian Party of Illyria, Hoederer, is assassinated by Hugo.
In addition to Dirty Hands, he wrote about the “sweetish sickness” of Antoine (∗ )
Roquentin and wrote a play in which Estelle, Inez, and Garcin are trapped in a room before
discovering that “Hell is other people”. For ten points, name this French existentialist author of
The Flies, Nausea, and No Exit.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre

(16) Daniel Webster asked, “Is this, Sir, consistent with the character of a free
Government?” in an 1814 speech opposing this concept. Rostker v. Goldberg
established that the exclusion of women from this practice was legal. Cohen v.
California was ruled in favor of a man who showed up to a courtroom wearing a
jacket making this practice the subject of obscenity. The defendant of Schenk v.
United States passed out leaflets opposing it. In 1863, riots occurred in (∗ ) New
York City against it. In United States v. O’Brien, the Supreme Court ruled it was legal to burn
objects related to it, and this practice last occurred in December 1972. Overseen by the Selective
Service System, for ten points, name this process of forcing people to serve in the military.
ANSWER: the draft in the United States (or involuntary conscription, do not accept “Selective
Service System”)

Round 11- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(17) One poem by this author asks “Will time say nothing but I told you so? / If I could
tell you I would let you know” and he ordered quotations alphabetically by theme
in A Certain World. This poet repeats “What instruments we have agree / The
day of his death was a dark cold day,” in a poem addressed to a man that “Mad
Ireland had hurt into poetry.” This author of In Memory of W.B. Yeats, wrote a
poem begins with the speaker sitting “in one of the dives / on Fifty-second Street,”
and another started “About (∗ ) suffering, they were never wrong, The Old Masters” and
described the Landscape With the Fall of Icarus. For ten points, identify this author of September
1, 1939 and Musée des Beaux Arts.
ANSWER: Wystan Hugh Auden

(18) This man’s legitimacy to fill a certain position was called into doubt by the Tascón
List, which resulted in a recall referendum in 2004 which this man won. In June 2012,
he refused to challenge a political opponent in a public debate because he would be
“ashamed” to debate a “non-entity”. Although he has historically praised atheism,
he wept for Jesus to give him life during Easter Mass in 2012 before traveling to
(∗ ) Cuba for cancer treatment, and on October 8th he defeated a member of the Justice First
Party who is the grandson of Jewish Holocaust survivors. For ten points, name this South
American socialist who defeated Henrique Capriles Radonski to win his fourth term as President
of Venezuela.
ANSWER: Hugo Chavez

(19) A man lying in the lower left of this painting wears only a blue sock and a white
shirt. On the right of this painting can be seen people standing in front of a building
obscured by smoke. On the left, a man with a sword in a blue cap uses a stone to
pull himself up, and near the center, a man stands on his hands and knees staring
up intently. A (∗ ) boy holding two pistols stands next to the central figure, who wears a
Phrygian cap and carries a bayonet. Featuring the bare-breasted title figure carrying a tri-color
flag, for ten points, identify this painting by Eugene Delacroix.
ANSWER:

Liberty Leading the People (or La Liberte Guidant le peuple)

(20) The twinned variety of these objects is hypothesized to be produced by oblate
spheroids, and glass beads make one half of the normal size. Grossmann made
a confirmed observation of its third-order variety, which is often swamped by a
zero-order glow. Alexander’s dark band is a common feature in these phenomena,
and diffraction produces its supernumeraries. Reflection from a (∗ ) body of water can
produce one centered above the horizon, but usually a high sun cannot produce this. For ten
points, name this phenomenon where light is internally reflected inside raindrops, producing a
colorful arc.
ANSWER:

rainbows
Round 11- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

(21) Seven years after one character’s death in this novel, a son is born whose name links
the entire group together. One protagonist of this novel met the title character
because his employer suffered from gout, and another character is proposed to
three times in the same day. One character feeds his fly collection to his spiders,
and his spiders to his sparrows, and after he is refused a kitten, Renfield eats his
sparrows. Although they can’t save the Texan Quincey Morris or the sleep-walking
Lucy Westenra, the characters of Mina Murray, (∗ ) Jonathan Harker and Professor van
Helsing do eventually succeed in killing the title character. For ten points, identify this novel by
Bram Stoker about a Transylvanian vampire.
ANSWER:

Dracula

Round 11- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) In certain molecules, it can result in a glycosidic linkage. For ten points each:
[10] Name this formation of a covalent bond between two monomers that sees removal of a
water molecule.
ANSWER: dehydration synthesis
[10] A repeated chain of monomers joined by dehydration synthesis can result in this type of
macromolecule, examples of which include DNA.
ANSWER: polymer
[10] The backbone of DNA is formed by this type of bond which occurs between two five-carbon
sugars and a phosphate group.
ANSWER: phosphodiester

(2) This philosopher explored knowledge of God in his Critique of Practical Reason. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this philosopher who also attempted to establish a priori knowledge in his Critique
of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
[10] Kant put forth three formulations of this guiding principle of moral philosophy, including
a command to act in accordance with a maxim which one would will to be a universal law.
ANSWER: categorical imperative
[10] Kant described this phrase as the motto of the titular period in his essay What is
Enlightenment? This phrase, borrowed from Horace, describes the desire of man to use reason
and logic to gain understanding.
ANSWER: sapere aude (or dare to know)

(3) Answer the following about pickles in literature for ten points each.
[10] In this novel, Zeena decides to get rid of Mattie Silver, whom the title character loves,
when she discovers that her favorite pickle dish was broken.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
[10] In this play, Dunyasha drops and breaks a dish after Yasha calls her what is translated
as either ’little cucumber’ or ’little pickle’. Both of those characters are servants for Leonid
Gayev.
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard (or Vishnovy Sod)
[10] Saleem Sinai works in a pickle factory in this Salman Rushdie novel. In it, children born
on August 15, 1947 have magical powers.
ANSWER: Midnight’s Children

Round 11- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(4) After a successful attempt to capture Helen, he and his friend Pirithous tried to kidnap
Persephone and were trapped in the underworld. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this Athenian hero who killed the minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
[10] This woman gave Theseus a ball of thread to help him find his way out of the labyrinth.
She was later abandoned on Naxos.
ANSWER: Ariadne
[10] This god fell in love with Ariadne at Naxos and fathered Thoas with her. Ikarios was
murdered after sharing a gift this god had given to him.
ANSWER: Dionysus

(5) Samuel Huntington was the actual First President of the United States. Answer the following
about other stuff we ignore because it happened under the Articles of Confederation for ten
points each.
[10] This man served as President of the United States Congress in 1785. He was the first to
sign the Declaration of Independence, with a famously large signature.
ANSWER: John Hancock
[10] This 1786 Rebellion of Massachusetts farmers highlighted the numerous flaws in the
Articles of Confederation, prompting the writing of the Constitution.
ANSWER: Shays’ Rebellion (do not accept or prompt on “Shay”)
[10] The Newburgh Conspiracy, in which unpaid soldiers planned to force Congress to pay
them, was ended when this man gave a speech that began “Gentlemen, you will permit me to
put on my spectacles, for I have not only grown gray but almost blind in the service of my
country.”
ANSWER: George Washington

(6) These were first developed by John Napier, although Henry Briggs introduced the “common”
form. For ten points each:
[10] Identify these functions which are inverses of exponential functions. The “natural” version
has a base of e and is abbreviated “L-N”.
ANSWER: logarithm
[10] This function is the derivative of the natural logarithm of x. As a result, ln(x) [pronounced
“L N of X”] can be computed by integrating this function from 1 to x.
ANSWER: 1/x (or “one over x” or “1 divided by x” or x−1 )
[10] The difference between ln(k) [pronounced “L N of K”] and the sum over x from 1 to k of
1 over x approaches a constant named for this Greek letter. Euler computed its valued to be
roughly 0.577, and Mascheroni introduced this letter to refer to it.
ANSWER: lowercase gamma

Round 11- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(7) Identify the following composers who wrote about Orpheus for ten points each.
[10] This 16th century Italian composer of nine books of madrigals wrote one of the earliest
operas, L’Orfeo, in addition to one about the crowning of Nero’s mistress, The Coronation of
Poppea.
ANSWER: Claudio Monteverdi
[10] This man’s Infernal Gallop, often simply called “the can-can song”, appears in his operetta
Orpheus in the Underworld. He also wrote of a troubled German writer in his opera The Tales
of Hoffman.
ANSWER: Jacques Offenbach
[10] This composer wrote an opera entitled Orpheus and Eurydice in addition to one based on
a play by Euripides of the same name, Iphigenia in Tauris.
ANSWER: Christoph Willibald Gluck

(8) It predicted the Munich agreement in a scene where Europe decided to give away China. For
ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel, which begins with Captain van Toch discovering the title creatures
and using them for pearl farming. After the Salamander Syndicate is formed, Mr. Povodra
starts collecting newspapers articles.
ANSWER: War with the Newts (or Valka s mloky)
[10] In this play by the author of War with the Newts, Domin proposes to Helena, saying that
if she doesn’t marry him, she’ll marry one of the others. It coined the term “robot.”
ANSWER: R.U.R. (or Rossum’s Universal Robots)
[10] This author wrote War with the Newts and R.U.R, and collaborated with his brother
Josef on The Gardener’s Year.
ANSWER: Karel Capek

(9) He fought in World War II and Vietnam and was honored for his service with a medal in the
Légion d’honneur before returning to his home country. For ten points each:
[10] Name this former sub-Saharan military dictator and contemporary of Idi Amin who was
crowned emperor on a falcon-shaped throne made of pure gold in a manner reminiscent of the
coronation of Napoleon Bonaparte.
ANSWER:
Jean-Bédel Bokassa (or Bokassa I of Central Africa or Salah Eddine Ahmed
Bokassa)
[10] Bokassa was crowned emperor of this nation south of Chad with capital at Bangui. It
was formerly known during colonial rule as Ubangi-Shari, after the two main rivers that flow
through it.
ANSWER: Central African Republic (or Central African Empire, prompt on “C.A.R.” or
“C.A.E.”)
[10] This European country, the former colonial owner of the Central African Republic as well
as Mali and the Ivory Coast, launched Operation Barracuda to remove Bokassa from power.
ANSWER: France

Round 11- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(10) According to webcomics, there are advantages and disadvantages to dating librarians. For ten
points each:
[10] In this webcomic, Dora broke up with Martin Reed and started dating his boss, Tai. This
webcomic was written by Jeph Jacquess and also includes the robots Pintsize and Momo.
ANSWER: Questionable Content
[10] This other webcomic had one character start to destroy a book so he wouldn’t need to visit
his librarian girlfriend’s family. Created by Randall Monroe, it is a webcomic of “romance,
sarcasm, math, and language”.
ANSWER: xkcd
[10] In one panel of this Zach Weiner webcomic, Mr. Sanders states that “Knife goes in. Blood
comes out” as he explains what happens to those who don’t return library books on time.
ANSWER: Saturday Morning Breakfast Cereal (accept SMBC)

(11) Answer the following about the Sermon on the Mount for ten points each:
[10] The Sermon on the Mount opens with this collection of verses including “blessed are the
meek: for they shall inherit the earth”.
ANSWER: Beatitudes
[10] This model prayer was first recited by Jesus during the Sermon on the Mount and includes
requests to “give us our daily bread” and “lead us not into temptation”.
ANSWER: Lord’s Prayer (or Pater Noster or Our Father)
[10] During the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus tells his listeners that they are “[this] of the
earth” in addition to being the “light of the world”.
ANSWER: salt

Round 11- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(12) (Note to moderator: Do not read any alternate answer lines after the first part unless they are
given.)
Voltaire once said, “Nothing is better known than [this battle].” For ten points each:
[10] Dragut Reis and 3,000 janissaries died during the capture of Fort St. Elmo during this
battle. It ended when 8,000 Sicilian reinforcements arrived to reinforce Jean de la Valette’s
Knights of St. John.
ANSWER:
Great Siege of Malta (accept Great Siege of 1565 or anything about the
Ottoman Empire attacking Malta, prompt on “Malta” or “attack on Malta” or equivalents)
[10] This ruler ordered the attack on Malta. He also defeated Louis II at the Battle of Mohacs
and unsuccessfully besieged Vienna.
ANSWER: Suleiman I or Suleiman the Magnificent (or Suleiman the Lawgiver, prompt on
“Suleiman”)
[10] Suleiman the Magnificent ruled this empire from Constantinople. It was later called the
“sick man of Europe” and was dissolved after World War I.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire (prompt on “Turkish Empire”, do not prompt on or accept
“Turkey”)

(13) Identify the following colorful Stephen Crane works for ten points each.
[10] In this novel, Henry Fleming watches Jim Conklin die and finally gets the hoped-for
wound and returns to fight with the Union army.
ANSWER: The Red Badge of Courage
[10] In this short story, the sheriff Jack Potter avoids death because Scratchy Wilson decides
not to shoot an unarmed man.
ANSWER: The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky
[10] This poem lends its title to a collection of poems by Crane. It describes the title entities
who “came from the sea” with a “clang clang of spear and shield” and “clash clash of hoof
and heel.”
ANSWER: The Black Riders

(14) It was found to be highest among members of ingroups. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this effect studied by Solomon Asch by testing whether subjects would give an
obviously incorrect response to a question if peers had first given the same incorrect response.
ANSWER: conformity
[10] In what was ostensibly a vision test, the subjects in Asch’s conformity experiment were
shown pictures of three of these objects and asked which was the largest.
ANSWER: lines or line segments
[10] One common explanation for the results of Asch’s experiment uses this phenomenon,
studied by Leon Festinger, in which a person simultaneously holds two conflicting beliefs.
ANSWER: cognitive dissonance

Round 11- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(15) Amino acids exhibit this phenomenon, in which the same structural formula gives rise to two
versions of the molecule. For ten points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon in which a molecule is not superimposable on its mirror image.
Your hands also exhibit this phenomenon.
ANSWER: chirality
[10] All organic chiral molecules exhibit one of these features, which is usually a carbon atom
with four different substituents but may also be an sp2 hybridized carbon in alkenes.
ANSWER: stereocenters
[10] A pair of enantiomers which each contain two stereocenters are known by this name. They
need not necessarily be chiral if their stereocenters are in opposite configurations.
ANSWER: diastereomers

(16) “To be, or not to be, that is the question.” For ten points each:
[10] Identify this Shakespearean tragedy in which the title character accidentally stabs Polonius
and poisons his mother, then intentionally stabs Claudius, but is killed in the process. He
causes Ophelia to kill herself.
ANSWER: The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
[10] This play featured two minor characters from Hamlet. One character shouts fire to
demonstrate the misuse of free speech, and after a coin comes up heads 92 consecutive times,
one character questions whether he could have avoided being executed in England.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
[10] Tom Stoppard wrote Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead as well as this play which
shared cucumber sandwiches, Gwendolyn, Cecily, and more with The Importance of Being
Earnest. Characters included Vladimir Lenin, James Joyce, and Henry Carr.
ANSWER: Travesties

(17) Joule heating is proportional to this property of a material. For ten points each:
[10] Name this property of a material, the inverse of conductance, which in DC circuits equals
voltage over current according to Ohm’s Law.
ANSWER: electrical resistance
[10] In this type of circuit, the total resistance is equal to the sum of the resistances of its
individual parts.
ANSWER: series circuit
[10] This quantity equals resistance in a “pure resistor”, but it usually has a complex value
including a phase angle.
ANSWER: impedance

Round 11- Page 13

IMSANITY 3

(18) Works in this movement include Antonio Saint’Elia’s design for La Citta Nuova. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this artistic movement exemplified by the painting The Street Enters the House and
the sculpture Unique Forms of Continuity in Space, both by Umberto Boccioni.
ANSWER: futurism
[10] The futurist movement was centered in this country. Boccioni depicted a scene in this
country in his early work The Grand Canal in Venice.
ANSWER: Italy
[10] Another movement centered in Venice was this one, which focused on elongated features
and included the artists Tintoretto and the man who painted Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror
and Madonna with the Long Neck, Parmigianino.
ANSWER: mannerism

(19) This war led to the rise of the Thirty Tyrants. For ten points each:
[10] This war ended with the Battle of Aegospotomai, where Lysander attacked the beached
enemy ships while the sailors were away, winning a decisive naval victory. Unable to bring in
grain by sea, one side was forced to surrender this war.
ANSWER: Second Peloponnesian War
[10] Alcibiades proposed an expedition to capture this largest Mediterranean island, but a
defeat while besieging Syracuse on this island destroyed Athens’ hopes of conquering this
island near Italy.
ANSWER: Sicily
[10] Despite assertions that Spartans always fought to the death, a hundred Spartan elites
surrendered in a 425 BC battle at this location after failed peace negotiations. A major battle
in the War of Greek Independence took place here.
ANSWER: Navarino Bay or Pylos (or Sphacteria)

(20) Answer the following about tilings of the plane for ten points each.
[10] This is the largest regular polygon which can tile the plane. The Honeycomb Conjecture
asserted that this tiling minimized total perimeter.
ANSWER: hexagon
[10] This other regular polygon can tile the plane, and when that tiling is truncated, it becomes
a tiling with this polygon and octagons.
ANSWER: square
[10] This non-periodic tiling of the plane uses irregular quadrilaterals called darts and kites.
ANSWER: Penrose tiling

Round 11- Page 14

IMSANITY 3

(21) Identify the following about Boolean algebra for ten points each.
[10] Boolean algebra attempts to determine when propositions possess this property, denoted
by 1 or the letter T . A namesake table can be used to determine for which inputs a proposition
will have this property.
ANSWER: truth (accept word forms)
[10] In mathematical logic, this term refers to a proposition which is true for all inputs. An
example of one of these is the Law of the Excluded Middle, which asserts p OR NOT p.
ANSWER: tautology
[10] Another example of a tautology is that the proposition p IMPLIES q is equivalent to
this related proposition, NOT q IMPLIES NOT p. A statement can be proved indirectly by
proving this statement instead.
ANSWER: contrapositive

Round 11- Page 15

