1. Pop Culture
You only need to give the last name. This country singer became a huge one-hit wonder
in 1992, and his most successful album was Some Gave All. He also starred in the series
Doc, which aired on Pax TV, and he was a contestant in 2007 on Dancing with the Stars.
He is now less famous than his daughter, who also plays his daughter on television.
Name this singer of Achy Breaky Heart whose daughter is named Miley at home and on
Hannah Montana.
ANSWER: (Billy Ray) Cyrus
2. World Literature
The title character’s brother, Stiva, has an affair endangering his marriage to Dolly.
Dolly’s younger sister chooses a husband, but the title character has an affair with him.
The affair leads to the end of her marriage, and she eventually commits suicide by
jumping in front of a train. Name this Russian novel from the 1870s by Leo Tolstoy.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the only value of x that causes the following fraction to equal zero:
(x2-x-2)/(2x2+x-10)
ANSWER: -1 (do not accept 1 or 2)
4. Art/Architecture
This painting includes five pictures in it, four hanging on the right side and one straight
back that looks like a haystack in two of the three versions. The back wall also contains a
mirror, a window, and clothes on hooks. There are doors on both sides, though it is
difficult to tell whether or not they are blocked. Name these paintings done in 1888 and
1889 by Vincent van Gogh.
ANSWER: (The) Bedroom (at Arles) (or The Bedroom in Arles or La Chambre à Arles)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Solutions of this type are categorized as strong electrolytes, weak electrolytes, and nonelectrolytes. This term is used to refer to solutions that use the most common solvent, and
it is used for solutions that can be classified as acids or bases. Give this term often
abbreviated using the letters A Q.
ANSWER: Aqueous

6. Religion/Mythology
Meaning ‘miraculous sign of God’, this term is applied to religious scholars worthy of
imitation. It is sometimes preceded in English by the word Grand or followed in Semitic
languages by the word Ozma. It is used only in Shia Islam. Name this title which in
recent times has taken on political significance thanks to Ali Sistani and Ruhollah
Khomeini.
ANSWER: Ayatollah
7. US History
In 1669, while imprisoned for a short time in the Tower of London, he wrote No Cross,
No Crown. In 1708, after Philip Ford squandered his money, he spent time in debtor’s
prison. Between those years, however, he had great success, thanks to land given to him
by Charles The Second to cover a family debt and another piece given by James The
Second. The second piece is now Delaware, and the first piece is a state named after him.
Name this famous Quaker.
ANSWER: (William) Penn
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
What number do you get when you subtract the ‘cotangent squared of sixty degrees’
minus the ‘secant squared of thirty degrees’?
ANSWER: -1
9. Language Arts
This term probably is French in origin, and it often replaced the word ‘variety’ in late 19th
Century America. It was popular at the beginning of the 20th Century, but its popularity
declined during the 1920s when movies became popular. Name this word that refers to
theatrical entertainment consisting of a number of individual performances by comedians,
singers, dancers, and/or acrobats.
ANSWER: Vaudeville
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Neighborhoods in this city include The Garden District, Algiers, Gentilly, and Lakeview.
It contains the oldest continually active Catholic Cathedral in the United States
overlooking Jackson Square. It has a major river running through it and is near the Gulf
of Mexico and Lake Pontchartrain. It also contains Preservation Hall, which is famous for
its jazz performances and located in the French Quarter. Name this city that was hit by
Hurricane Katrina.
ANSWER: New Orleans

11. World History
Of this man’s four sons, Shah Rukh was the only one to significantly outlive him. He had
many enemies, including Bajazet, who headed the Ottoman Empire, and Tokhtamysh,
who led the Golden Horde. This ruler was able to defeat the Golden Horde, but he died
while planning to attack the Ming Dynasty. During his lifetime, his attacks damaged
Delhi, Damascus, Baghdad, and several other places. Name this 14th Century ruler from
Samarkand.
ANSWER: Timur (accept Tamerlane and variants)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Your answer needs to be a fully simplified expression. Find the average value of the
function y=1/x2 between x=1 and x=A.
ANSWER: 1/A (accept A-1)
13. British Literature
The main character’s father worked hard for the English government in India, and her
mother was not interested in children. When her parents die, Mary Lennox moves to
England and stays in Misselthwaite Manor. Once there, she finds a key and a bedridden
boy named Colin. Name this 1909 novel by Francis Hodgson Burnett.
ANSWER: (The) Secret Garden
14. Music
This singer is associated with jazz standards such as How High The Moon, Lady Be
Good, and A Tisket A Tasket. She often worked with Count Basie and Duke Ellington,
and a tribute album was released this year in honor of what would have been her 90th
birthday. Name this famous scat singer.
ANSWER: (Ella) Fitzgerald
15. Biology
This phase can be prevented by MAD2, which often prevents the growth of tumors.
Under normal circumstances, this mitosis stage involves the shortening of microtubules
and the separation of daughter chromatids. Name this step in cell division that occurs
between metaphase and telophase.
ANSWER: Anaphase

16. Technology
This is the name of a free website statistics analysis program, but it is better known as a
common adjective. Sound recording of this type is susceptible to wow and flutter but not
dither. It also generally refers to a type of technology that has been decreasing in use over
the past fifty years. Give this term beginning with the letter A that is often contrasted
with digital.
ANSWER: Analog
17. Current Events
The outgoing group consists of Congo-Brazzaville, Ghana, Peru, Qatar and Slovakia,
while the nations staying for one more year are Belgium, Indonesia, Italy, Panama, and
South Africa. The newcomers will include Burkina Faso, Costa Rica, Croatia, Libya, and
Vietnam. In addition, there is also China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the
United States, who are the permanent members. Name this powerful group within the
United Nations.
ANSWER: (United Nations) Security Council (prompt United Nations)
18. Nonfiction
This philosopher once said, “Every existing thing is born without reason, prolongs itself
out of weakness, and dies by chance.” He spent several months as a prisoner of war, and
the lack of freedom influenced his thinking. He thought his best philosophical work was
the 1960 book Critique of Dialectical Reason, but his 1943 work Being And Nothingness
is better known. Name this French existentialist.
ANSWER: (Jean-Paul) Sartre
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: Mach is pronounced Mock.) This varies directly with the square root
of temperature, though under normal circumstances it can be approximated as increasing
by one meter per second for every increase of one-and-a-half Kelvins. It is almost six
thousand meters per second in granite and barely over fifty meters per second in
vulcanized rubber. Its value is commonly given as 344 meters per second, which is
approximately 770 miles per hour. Name this value equivalent to Mach One.
ANSWER: Speed (or Velocity) of Sound (accept equivalents, including Mach 1 before it
is mentioned, do not accept Mach)

20. US Literature
One of his most famous novels was the second book in the Growth trilogy, and another is
about a woman who unsuccessfully tries to impress a wealthy man by inviting him over
for dinner. He was very popular in the first few decades of the 20th Century, writing hit
plays and novels, such as his Penrod series, that were often made into movies. Name this
author from Indianapolis who wrote Alice Adams and The Magnificent Ambersons.
ANSWER: (Newton Booth) Tarkington
Tiebreakers:
The cartoon version of him died soon after saying, “Now, can we meet McBain?” On
Arrested Development, he appeared in a few episodes as Warden Gentles. He considers
one of his biggest successes to be the time he got Robin Williams to demonstrate what is
going on in his head, and he considers one of his failures to be his inability to get Robert
DeNiro to say, “You lookin’ at me?” He often asks people about their most or least
favorite word, and he has been impersonated several times by Will Ferrell. Name the host
of Inside The Actors Studio.
ANSWER: (James) Lipton
Maid Maleen, The Crystal Ball, and The Turnip appeared in Children’s and Household
Tales. The collectors’ interests extended to linguistics, though they are best remembered
for their collecting, which also included The Frog King, Thumbling, and Rumpelstiltskin.
Name these 19th Century brothers who collected German fairy tales such as Rapunzel,
Cinderella, and Snow White.
ANSWER: (Brothers) Grimm (or (Jacob and Wilhelm) Grimm)
Give the word that completes this Bible quote: “If a house be divided against itself, that
house cannot…
ANSWER: Stand

