The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 12Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) During this battle, the losing side stole a crown that belonged to the winning
monarch. The inspiration for the poetry of Charles of Orleans came after his capture
at this battle, in which Sir Thomas Erpingham fought. The Duke of York and Lord
Camoys helped lead the winning side in this battle. This battle resulted in the
signing of the Treaty of Troyes. The forces of Charles d’Albert faced a disadvantage
when (∗ ) deep mud and stakes made them easy targets for longbowmen. Fought on St. Crispin’s
Day, for ten points, name this battle won by the forces of Henry V against the French as part of
the Hundred Years’ War.
ANSWER: Battle of Agincourt

(2) A rogyapa is used to celebrate one of these events in Tibet. The Celts held a ritual
pertaining to one of these events of the Sun god, Samhain, while a similar ceremony
included the performance of “Caoine” [pronounced “KEE-na”]. In Mongolia, doors
may not be used while one of these events is in progress to prevent evil spirits from
entering, while in Hinduism, these events tend to be performed near (∗ ) sacred rivers
such as the Ganges. In Hellenistic culture, warriors were accorded more honor during one, and
this was often performed with a pyre. For ten points, name this type of ritual, examples of which
include burial and cremation.
ANSWER:

death rituals or funerals (accept clear-knowledge equivalents)

(3) This thinker argued that the only truly moral “non-egoist motive” is compassion. In
one work, this thinker espoused the four attributes of human character as individual,
empirical, constant, and inborn. This writer of On the Basis of Morality and On the
Freedom of the Will also criticized Kant’s theory of knowledge before creating four
classes – becoming, knowing, being, and willing – in his dissertation On the Fourfold
Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason. His most famous work notes that one
of the title concepts causes suffering and desire and equates it with “striving,”
“wanting,” and “urging”. (∗ ) For ten points, name this German philosopher who wrote The
World as Will and Representation.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer

Round 12- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) The title character of this novel transposes the first letters of teacher’s names, and
the protagonist keeps a journal with handwriting so small it’s nearly impossible
to read. One character contemplates killing his wife while they are watched by a
watercolor painter, and the wife of Richard Schiller died giving birth to a stillborn
daughter, a fact revealed in an introduction written by John Ray, Jr. The name
of an inn is also shared with a play, The Enchanted Hunters. The protagonist is
haunted by his unconsummated love for Annabel Leigh, and later succeeds in killing
(∗ ) Clare Quilty. For ten points, identify this novel about Humbert Humbert’s obsession with
his stepdaughter Dolores Haze, written by Vladimir Nabokov.
ANSWER:

Lolita

(5) This event is closely linked to the Antarctic Dipole, and it is associated with
eastward-moving Kelvin waves, which may be influenced by the Madden-Julian
Oscillation. The Modoki variant of this event occurs only near the international
date line, and variations in air pressure between Tahiti and Darwin characterize its
expression in the atmosphere, the Southern Oscillation. This event in 1998 caused a
world (∗ ) high temperature record, but its other effects include warm winters in Alaska and dry
ones in Australia. While it decreases the number of Atlantic tropical cyclones, its counterpart
tends to do the opposite. Contrasted with La Nina, for ten points, name this event where warm
water occurs near the Peruvian coast.
ANSWER: El Nino or ENSO or El Nino Southern Oscillation (accept
accept Southern Oscillation before mention)

La Nina in power,

(6) This artist painted a lion pulling a man from a horse’s back in his Lion Hunt
and a similar scene involving an alligator and a hippopotamus. This artist’s The
Disembarkation at Marseilles portrayed Marie de Medici exiting a boat and was
part of a series of paintings she commissioned from him. This man painted a triptych
in which three women and five men (∗ ) lower the central figure into a white sheet called
The Descent from the Cross. For ten points, name this Flemish baroque painter whose The
Judgment of Paris exemplifies his depiction of fleshy nudes.
ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens

Round 12- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(7) One character in this work is inspired into theater by watching the production of
The Laughter of the Gods, a play by Lord Dunsany. Another character in this
novel is a tailor who moves to be an artist, but becomes an actor. Before having
a misinterpreted relationship with Erik Valborg, the main character learned how
to play bridge with the Jolly Seventeen, overpaid her servant Bea Sorenson, and
directed The Girl from Kankakee with the other members of the Thanatopsis club.
The protagonist moves to Washington with Hugh, and is twice charmed by the (∗ )
town doctor, Will. For ten points, identify this novel in which Carol Kennicott attempts to
change Gopher Prairie written by Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER:

Main Street

(8) For developing a theory of these materials with two components, Lev Landau earned
the Nobel Prize, and spin in this material can only attain certain quantized speeds.
Waves of “second sound” carry this material’s extreme thermal conductivity. Its
ability to form Rollin films may, upon heating, cause the fountain effect, and it
leaks out of nanometer-wide crevices. Cooper pairing enables fermions such as (∗ )
Helium-3 to form this material at very low temperatures, whose upper limit is the lambda point.
For ten points, name this state characterized by zero viscosity and entropy.
ANSWER:

superfluids or superfluidity

(9) This man refused to increase funding on a wireless broadcasting tower after the letter
“s” was transmitted by Guglielmo Marconi. In addition to investing in Nikola Tesla’s
Wardenclyffe Tower, during the Civil War this man bought 5000 defective Hall rifles
and sold them back at over six times the original cost. He loaned $65,000,000 worth
of gold to the U.S., and later he convinced other bankers to give their own money
to stop the (∗ ) Panic of 1907. He bought firms from Andrew Carnegie and others to form
U.S. Steel. For ten points, identify this American financier whose namesake bank combined with
Chase.
ANSWER: John Pierpont Morgan

(10) This concept is paired with psychoanalysis in a book by Juliet Mitchell, and this
concept and “the Subversion of Identity” are explored in a work by Judith Butler.
One work in this movement examined the metaphor of “the other”, while another
author confronted “the problem that has no name”. Proponents of the second-wave
of this movement included (∗ ) Simone de Beauvoir and Betty Friedan, while the first-wave
fought for the Nineteenth Amendment. For ten points, name this movement which seeks to
improve society’s role of women.
ANSWER:

feminism

Round 12- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(11) This author said “My camp is like to Julius Caesar’s host / That never fought but
had the victory” in the poem Our Conquering Swords. Though not Shakespeare,
one poem by this author asks “who ever loved, that loved not at first sight?” This
author of Hero and Leander and The Massacre at Paris wrote of Ithamore helping
poison Abigail and other nuns before (∗ ) Barabas is killed in a boiling cauldron in one
work, and the protagonist of another addresses a speech to the image of Helen of Troy after
making a deal with Mephistopheles. Including the line “Come live with me and be my love” in
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love, for ten points, identify this Elizabethan author of The
Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe

(12) The outer region of this structure is defined by the ora serrata. Nerves from this
structure relay at the lateral geniculate body, and it receives signals from layers of
amacrine and bipolar cells. It is in contact with the vitreous humor and is surrounded
by the choroid. A yellow pigmented area on this organ, the macula, is located near
a specialized region known as the fovea. Sensory receptors embedded in it include
opsin and a derivative of beta-carotene. The (∗ ) optic nerve branches off from this tissue,
and it is located behind the lens and iris. For ten points, name the site of light sensing rods and
cones in the eye.
ANSWER:

retina (prompt on “eye” before mention)

(13) In the Odyssey, this man is seen in the underworld wielding an unbreakable bronze
club. In some sources, this man is the son of Hyrieus and was born of an impregnated
bullhide; in others he is the son of Poseidon and Euryale. A Cyclops leads this man
to have his sight restored by Helios after this man was blinded by Oenopion for
assaulting his daughter Merope. Although he is loved by (∗ ) Artemis, either she or a
jealous Apollo sends a monster to kill him. Ultimately felled by a giant scorpion, for ten points,
name this man, a Greek hunter who was made into a constellation after his death.
ANSWER:

Orion

(14) This country experienced the Cavite Mutiny, which prompted the execution of
three priests known as Gomburza. This nation, whose communist forces instigated
the Hukbalahap Rebellion, was subject to the Taft commission. Andres Bonifacio
formed this nation’s Katipunan organization, and the Pact of Biak-na-Bato was
signed between one of its members and Fernando Primo de Rivera. The People
Power Revolution ousted (∗ ) Ferdinand Marcos and installed Corazon Aquino as this
country’s president. For ten points, name this Asian archipelagic nation with capital at Manila.
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines

Round 12- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(15) Every graph has a bipartite subgraph with at least this proportion of its edges.
Pick’s Theorem states that the area of a lattice polygon is equal to I minus one plus
this value times B, and thus this is the smallest possible area of a lattice triangle.
The Riemann Hypothesis conjectures that all non-trivial zeroes of the zeta function
have this number as their real part. This is the maximum value of sine of x times
(∗ ) cosine of x, and this is also the maximum distance from a real number to its nearest integer.
For ten points, name this number which, when used as an exponent, is equivalent to a square
root.
ANSWER: one- half (accept equivalents)

(16) In one of this man’s cantatas, the title character participates in “The Battle of the
Ice” fought against the Teutonic Knights, and in an opera by this man, a prince
finds the Princess Ninetta inside one of the titular fruits. The song “Dance of the
Knights” is taken from this composer’s ballet (∗ ) Romeo and Juliet. This composer of
Alexander Nevsky and The Love of Three Oranges is best known for a work in which the title
characters are represented by the strings and the french horn and with the oboe representing the
duck. For ten points, name this composer of Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev

(17) In one song, this band accuses that “The only thing that you keep changing/is your
name”, and in another, the singer and his love interest “tried to name our babies
but” “forgot all the names we used to know”. In addition to performing Crown of
Love and Neighborhood #1, this band criticized modern technology by singing “I
used to sleep at night/Before the flashing lights settled deep in my brain” and that
(∗ ) “We used to wait for letters to arrive”. In another song, the singer “learned to drive” in
the title location, and laments “when the bombs fell, we were already, already bored.” For ten
points, name this Canadian rock band who won a Grammy for their 2011 album The Suburbs.
ANSWER:

Arcade Fire

(18) One act in support of this group also disenfranchised the “Forty Shilling
Freeholders.” A future monarch illegally married a member of this group, Maria
Fitzherbert. Fictitious documents made by Titus Oates caused this group to be
barred from office under the Test Act. George Gordon led riots against this group
after the passage of a namesake relief act. The Act of Settlement bans members of
this group from (∗ ) ascending to the throne. One ruler was overthrown for being a member
of this group during the Glorious Revolution. Including members such as Mary I and James II,
for ten points, name this religious minority in Britain.
ANSWER: Roman Catholics in the United Kingdom (accept equivalents like British Catholics
or English Catholics)

Round 12- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(19) In one work by this author, the protagonist meets a university student who has
spent eight years trying to extract sunlight from cucumbers. He wrote “Had he but
spared his tongue and pen/ he might have rose like other men” in a poem about
his own death. This man criticized the quality of copper coins minted by William
Wood in Drapier’s Letters and wrote about the brothers Peter, Jack, and Martin,
who each inherit a coat from their father. An essay by this man suggests that (∗ )
poor Irish families should sell their children as food. For ten points, name this satirist author of
A Tale of a Tub and A Modest Proposal who wrote about the title character’s voyage to Lilliput
in Gulliver’s Travels.
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift (or Dean Smith)

(20) The corona of the sun produces mostly this type of radiation, and it comes in
“hard” and “soft” varieties. Inner shell electrons are expelled from atoms to
produce characteristic wavelengths in its namesake fluorescence, and like gamma
rays, radiation of this type undergoes Compton scattering. Formerly known as (∗ )
Roentgen rays, their namesake crystallography enabled Rosalind Franklin to produce the first
image of the DNA double helix. For ten points, name this type of electromagnetic radiation with
frequency between ultraviolet and gamma rays, often used to image broken bones.
ANSWER:

X-rays (accept Roentgen rays before mention)

(21) Diwrnach is killed by Llenlleawg using this object as punishment for stealing a
cauldron. Accolon is given this item while a fake is given to its owner, who blinded
a man the first time he used it. That owner received this item after his previous one
broke in a fight with Pellinor. While its owner died in a monastery, Bedivere claimed
to him that nothing happened while disposing of this object. It was ultimately
returned to the (∗ ) lake, at which point the Lady of the Lake took it back. For ten points,
identify this mythical sword which was possessed by King Arthur.
ANSWER:

Excalibur (or Caledfwlch, prompt on “sword”)

Round 12- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) This country is expected to have the world’s largest population by the year by 2030. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this Asian country with capital at New Delhi. It lies on a namesake tectonic plate,
often refered to as this country’s subcontinent.
ANSWER: India
[10] The Indian city of Jodhpur is the largest city in this desert, which is primarily located in
the western state of Rajasthan. It is located north of the marshy Rann of Kutch and extends
into Pakistan.
ANSWER: Thar desert
[10] This Indian plateau receives little rain because the Western Ghats to its southwest block
precipitation.
ANSWER: Deccan plateau

(2) The “Three Musketeers” opposed the “Four Horsemen” within this group. For ten points each:
[10] Name this nine-member judicial body. Franklin Roosevelt tried to increase its size in 1937
in his plan to “pack” it.
ANSWER: Supreme Court of the United States (also accept SCOTUS)
[10] The “Switch in time that saved nine” was the name given to the vote of Justice Owen
Roberts in West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, which upheld the constitutionality one of these
laws.
ANSWER: minimum wage laws
[10] Justice Owen Roberts had earlier sided with the conservatives in United States v. Butler,
where it struck down this New Deal legislation which paid farmers not to plant crops.
ANSWER: Agricultural Adjustment Act (or AAA)

(3) Those able to benefit from this practice include those in great debt, orphaned children, and
the collectors of this duty themselves. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Islamic Pillar of donating a portion of one’s wealth to charity.
ANSWER: zakat (or alms-giving)
[10] This other Islamic practice involves turning towards Mecca and praying at certain times
of day, including directly before sunrise.
ANSWER: salat
[10] A practicing Muslim is required to perform salat this many times per day. It is also the
number of Pillars of Islam.
ANSWER: five

Round 12- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) This author set a “Play Without a Title” during a rehearsal of A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this playwright who wrote of Leonardo Felix and The Groom killing each other in
Blood Wedding and of the title matriarch in The House of Bernarda Alba.
ANSWER: Federico Garcia Lorca
[10] Garcia Lorca wrote “Enemy of the satyr/ enemy of the vine/ and lover of bodies beneath
rough cloth” in his ode to this poet. This poet was seen by the meats while Garcia Lorca was
by the watermelons in Ginsberg’s A Supermarket in California.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
[10] Garcia Lorca was a native of this country, during whose Civil War he was murdered by
fascists. Other authors from this country include Lope de Vega, Pedro Calderon de la Barca,
and Juan Ramon Jimenez.
ANSWER: Spain

(5) This concept forms the basis for, among other things, a planned gravity-powered fire escape.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this law which describes the phenomenon whereby a non-magnetic metal and a
magnet exert forces on each other as one moves past the other. The symbol for inductance is
chosen in honor of the namesake of this law.
ANSWER: Lenz’s Law
[10] Lenz’s Law holds true because of Newton’s Third Law of motion and this fundamental
concept, which also accounts for the fact that a pendulum dropped with no initial velocity
from the chin of a professor may not hit him on its return.
ANSWER: conservation of energy
[10] This quantity in electroscience is measured in Webers and is equal to the component of
the B-field in a surface. The total of this quantity in a closed surface is zero. The eddies
discussed in Lenz’s Law oppose change in this quantity.
ANSWER: magnetic flux

(6) This group of people was only counted in the census after a 1967 referendum. For ten points
each:
[10] Give this term that collectively refers to tribes such as the Pintupi and Gweagal, the
inhabitants of Australia before James Cook showed up.
ANSWER: Aborigines
[10] In an effort to ostensibly “civilize” them, this group of Aborigines was forcibly removed
from their families and made wards of the state.
ANSWER: Stolen Generations (or Stolen Children)
[10] In 2008, this Australian prime minister formally apologized for the Stolen Generations.
Brendan Nelson, the Opposition Leader, controversially spoke after him, prompting slow
clapping and booing.
ANSWER: Kevin Rudd

Round 12- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) This artist dabbled in sculpture, such as with his The Little Dancer. For ten points each:
[10] Name this artist most famous for paintings like Fin d’Arabesque, Dancers at the Bar, The
Dance Class, and an endless collection of other depictions of ballerinas.
ANSWER: Edgar Degas
[10] One of Degas’s more realist paintings was this one of an office in which a man sits reading
“The Daily Picayune” while his coworkers examine a table full of the titular raw material.
ANSWER: The Cotton Exchange in New Orleans (or A Cotton Office in New Orleans)
[10] Degas painted this artist dressed in blue, seated, and holding cards. This artist painted a
mother holding her child in The Boating Party and a young couple in a canoe in Summertime.
ANSWER: Mary Cassatt

(8) Identify the following control statements in computer science for ten points each:
[10] Edsger Dijkstra wrote that this control statement “should be abolished from all ‘higher
level’ programming languages in his paper [this] Statement Considered Harmful.
ANSWER: goto (or go to)
[10] This type of control structure, which repeats a block of code as long as a certain condition
is true. Examples of this control structure include for, while, and do. . .until.
ANSWER: loops (accept more specific answers like “for loop” and “while loop”)
[10] Languages like Java and C++ provide this command to exit a loop before its condition is
satisfied.
ANSWER: break

(9) He manages to convince his friends that the chore of whitewashing a fence is a great privilege.
For ten points each:
[10] Identify this character who gets lost in McDougal’s cave with Becky Thatcher. He and his
friend manage to discover treasure at the end and become rich.
ANSWER: Tom Sawyer (accept either)
[10] This author created the characters of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn in their
eponymous adventures.
ANSWER: Mark Twain (or Samuel Clemens)
[10] Twain also wrote this book, in which the title character uses his fingerprint collection to
discover that “Tom Driscoll” is actually Chambers, the son of the slave Roxy.
ANSWER: Pudd’nhead Wilson

Round 12- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) He was the last director of the Bauhaus as well as the first Director of Architecture at the
Illinois Institute of Technology. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this architect who collaborated with Philip Johnson on New York City’s Seagram
Building and built the Farnsworth House as a retreat in rural Illinois.
ANSWER: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe (prompt on “van der Rohe”)
[10] Both of those works were constructed in this style, which takes its name from a book
by Henry Russell Hitchcock and Johnson. This style favored open space and balance and
discouraged ornamentation.
ANSWER: International Style
[10] Mies used this three-word phrase to describe his minimalist designs. The phrase can also
refer to his use of negative space, as seen in his Barcelona chair.
ANSWER: Less is More

(11) Answer some questions about traitors in Rome for ten points each.
[10] The most notable traitor might be this man, who was supposedly asked “Et tu?” by
Caesar as this man assassinated him.
ANSWER: Marcus Junius Brutus (accept Brute)
[10] This Roman helped stop the traitor Catiline, who was going to take over Rome with a
tribe of Gauls. He later delivered Philippics against Mark Antony, and so he was killed by the
Second Triumvirate.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero
[10] If you were a traitor in ancient Rome, you might have been thrown off of this rock
overlooking the Roman forum, named after a woman who opened the gates for the Sabines.
ANSWER: Tarpeian Rock

(12) These entities are related to the coastline paradox. For ten points each:
[10] Name these iterated figures of fractional dimension which exhibit self-similarity. Examples
of these figures include the Koch Snowflake and Sierpinski’s Triangle.
ANSWER: fractal
[10] This linear fractal is formed by taking a line segment and iteratively removing middle
thirds. Despite it containing as many points as a continuum, it has zero length.
ANSWER: Cantor Set
[10] This fractal is formed starting from a cube and iteratively removing cubes of one-third the
side length from its center. This fractal exhibits infinite surface area and zero volume.
ANSWER: Menger sponge

Round 12- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) The first of these was a fish named Matsya. For ten points each:
[10] Name these ten manifestations of a Hindu god, the last of which, Kalki, will come on a
white horse and end the present age.
ANSWER: avatars of Vishnu (prompt on “avatars”, do not accept or prompt on Vishnu)
[10] The eighth Avatar of Vishnu is this blue-skinned son of Devaki who delivered a discourse
to Arjuna on a battlefield in the Bhagavad Gita.
ANSWER: Krishna
[10] The fourth Avatar of Vishnu is this man-lion, sometimes known as the “Great Protector”,
who killed Hiranyakashipu.
ANSWER: Narasimha

(14) He wrote that “She loved me sometimes, and I loved her too./ How could one not have loved
those great still eyes./ Tonight I can write the saddest lines”. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this poet who wrote poems to ordinary objects in Elemental Odes and included
Tonight I Can Write in Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda
[10] Pablo Neruda was from this country, which was also home to Isabel Allende.
ANSWER: Chile
[10] Another Chilean author was this female poet, who included The Artist’s Decalogue in
Desolacion.
ANSWER: Gabriela Mistral (or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga)

(15) It is the point at which the molar Gibbs free energy of the solid phase becomes lower than
that of the liquid phase. For ten points each:
[10] Name this temperature, which for water is zero degrees Celsius and for benzene is 5.5
degrees Celsius. It marks the boundary between solid and liquid phases.
ANSWER: melting point or freezing point
[10] At the melting point, the temperature of the solid stays constant until it has absorbed
this amount of energy, which is used to break the intermolecular cohesive forces holding a solid
together.
ANSWER: heat of fusion or enthalpy of fusion
[10] The heat of this process is the sum of the heat of fusion and the heat of vaporization. It
takes place when the molar Gibbs free energy of the liquid is always higher than that of the
both the solid and the gas.
ANSWER: sublimation

Round 12- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) Answer the following about the career of Edward Everett for ten points each.
[10] Everett was the running mate of John Bell on this party’s ticket in the election of 1860.
It advocated compromising to prevent a Civil War.
ANSWER: Constitutional Union Party
[10] While Secretary of State to Millard Fillmore, Everett dispatched this commodore to open
Japan up for trading.
ANSWER: Commodore Matthew C. Perry
[10] Edward Everett delivered an incredible two-hour oration at the dedication of a military
cemetery at this site, which President Lincoln followed up with short remarks that the
“government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
ANSWER: Gettysburg, Pennsylvania

(17) Two characters sit in the billiard room to avoid seeing a performance of Cousin Kate. For ten
points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which Dr. Aziz shows Adela Quested the Marabar caves and is
subsequently accused of rape.
ANSWER: A Passage to India
[10] A Passage to India is a novel by this British author, who wrote the appendix “A View
Without a Room” discussing what happened after Lucy Honeychurch and George Emerson
eloped in A Room With a View.
ANSWER: Edward Morgan Forster
[10] Forster posthumously published this work, in which the main character is advised to
move to some country that has adopted the Code Napoleon, and tells Clive Durham about his
relationship with Alec Scudder.
ANSWER: Maurice

(18) These small organs are located in the male testes. For ten points each:
[10] Name these small tubes which can be convoluted or straight and are the site of meiosis
amidst its Sertoli cells.
ANSWER: seminiferous tubules
[10] Meiosis in seminiferous tubules results in this kind of cells which have only one set of
chromosomes. Examples of this kind of cells include sperm and egg cells.
ANSWER: haploid
[10] Preceded by the acrosome reactions, the fusion of a sperm and egg cell nuclei results in
this event. It usually occurs in the Fallopian tubes.
ANSWER: fertilization

Round 12- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) This conference was criticized for naming its divisions Legends and Leaders. For ten points
each:
[10] Identify this Midwestern conference consisting of two more schools than its name implies.
This conference’s football championship has been won most often by Michigan and Ohio State.
ANSWER: The Big Ten Conference
[10] In 2011, this university left the Big 12 to join the Big Ten, becoming the latter’s twelfth
member school.
ANSWER: University of Nebraska at Lincoln (prompt on abbreviations)
[10] From 1946 to 1950, the Big Ten had only nine member schools following the departure of
this charter member.
ANSWER: University of Chicago

(20) This work intersperses the traditional Latin mass text with poems such as Anthem for Doomed
Youth and Strange Meeting. For ten points each:
[10] Name this musical composition which depicts the senselessness of World War I with
Wilfred Owen poems.
ANSWER: War Requiem
[10] The War Requiem is a work by this British composer who wrote an opera about a
fisherman, Peter Grimes, and The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra.
ANSWER: Benjamin Britten
[10] This instrument begins the fugue in The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra.
ANSWER: piccolo

(21) The INES called it an “Accident With Wider Consequences”, although the Kemeny Commission
reported that radiation levels were too low to cause disease. For ten points each:
[10] Name this nuclear accident which took place at the namesake power plant in Pennsylvania
in 1979. Although radiation released proved relatively small, it remains the worst nuclear
accident in United States history.
ANSWER: Three Mile Island incident or accident
[10] This agency, created by Franklin Roosevelt as part of the New Deal, canceled plans to
build three nuclear power plants in its eponymous state in the wake the Three Mile Island
incident.
ANSWER: Tennessee Valley Authority (or TVA)
[10] The first nuclear accident in the United States took place at the National Reactor Testing
Station in this state. Home to Atomic City, this state’s namesake National Laboratory was
the site of EBR-1, the world’s first nuclear energy plant.
ANSWER: Idaho

Round 12- Page 13

