1. Pop Culture
After the old one was destroyed, a new one was created by Illidan on top of Mount Hyjal.
Though the new one lost its magic, a similar place was created by high elves. The old one
turned into the Maelstrom. Name this lake at the center of Kalimdor in the Warcraft
Universe.
ANSWER: (The) Well of Eternity (prompt answers mentioning Warcraft)
2. World Literature
The first paragraph of this story ends, “And then I was left alone with my ship, anchored
at the head of the Gulf of Siam.” The narrator is a Captain who one night finds a man in
the water who states, “The question for me now is whether I am to let go this ladder and
go on swimming till I sink from exhaustion, or—to come on board here.” The swimmer
is very similar to the Captain, and the Captain hides him on the ship. Name this work by
Joseph Conrad.
ANSWER: (The) Secret Sharer
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Solve for x: the log base x of 256 equals x.
ANSWER: 4
4. Art/Architecture
(Note to moderator: Erechtheum is pronounced er-ik-thee-uhm.) Famous examples of
these are on the Erechtheum in Athens and Saint Pancras Church in London. It is the
female equivalent of an Atlas, and some of them support baskets on their heads in
addition to buildings. Name these carved female characters usually wearing robes that
serve as columns.
ANSWER: Caryatid(s)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
This ion is found in Prussian blue, sodium nitroprusside, Prussiate of Soda, Vitamin B12,
and nitriles. It can also be found in almonds and some medicines, but many compounds
containing it cause cells to stop producing ATP. It consists of two atoms with a triple
bond and has a charge of minus one. Name this ion containing carbon and nitrogen that
can cause death.
ANSWER: Cyanide

6. Religion/Mythology
(Note to moderator: Circe is pronounced Kirkee.) She was the sister of Circe and the
mother of, among others, Phaedra and Ariadne. Her husband was given a beautiful gift by
Poseidon but angered Poseidon by not sacrificing it. In revenge, this Queen was made to
fall madly in love with the white bull. Name this wife of Minos who gave birth to the
minotaur.
ANSWER: Pasiphae
7. US History
As secretary of state, he negotiated a settlement with Britain over our Northwest border.
As minister to Britain, he signed the Ostend Manifesto. As President, he tried to get
Kansas admitted as a slave state, but that did not happen until the end of his Presidency.
By that time, his party had split into Northern and Southern factions, which led to the
election of the first Republican President. Name this Pennsylvanian President who never
married.
ANSWER: (James) Buchanan
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
If theta is restricted to a domain between 0 and 360 degrees, how many solutions are
there to the equation tangent of two theta equals ten?
ANSWER: 4
9. Language Arts
In philosophy, this synonym of naturalism refers to the belief that everything, including
thoughts and feelings, can be explained by physical phenomena. In popular culture, it
also implies a lack of interest in spirituality, but it refers to people who believe they can
achieve happiness through their possessions. Give this synonym of consumerism.
ANSWER: Materialism (accept Materialist(ic))
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
This five letter root word is used to describe areas that have an abrupt change in lapse
rate. They can be found at altitudes of approximately seventeen, fifty, eighty, and several
hundred kilometers. The highest one is sometimes known as the exobase, though usually
it is named using the prefix Thermo. Identify these boundaries between sections of the
Earth’s atmosphere.
ANSWER: Pause(s)

11. World History
Following the failure of the Self-Strengthening Movement, this group started out wanting
to overthrow their own government, but eventually focused more on destroying
foreigners. Many believed that they could not be harmed by foreign-made bullets and that
the dead would rise up and join them. Name this group, also known as The Righteous and
Harmonious Fists, defeated by foreign forces in 1901 in China.
ANSWER: Boxer(s Rebellion) (accept I Ho Ch'uan, accept Righteous and Harmonious
Fists (Society) or equivalents on early buzz)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Express your answer as a simplified fraction. If you roll a standard die three times, what
is the probability that the number six will come up exactly once?
ANSWER: 25/72
13. British Literature
His poems “The Apparition” and “The Funeral” concern events that take place after he
dies. Some of his most quoted lines include “Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies”,
“No man is an island”, and “Death be not proud.” Name this 16th and 17th Century
metaphysical poet.
ANSWER: (John) Donne
14. Music
Before World War One, he completed two Piano Concertos that got positive reviews and
a song based on The Ugly Duckling. His first symphony was nicknamed Classical, and
his second was Iron and Steel. His best known opera, which was not successful at first,
includes a chorus dressed as the audience that occasionally rushes the stage. Name this
composer of The Love for Three Oranges.
ANSWER: (Sergei) Prokofiev
15. Biology
People who do not get enough of this vitamin get a rash, thick tongue, insomnia, nausea,
and memory loss. Its derivatives, created by the citric acid cycle, play an important role
in glycolysis. Some of it is created in the body from tryptophan, but people should eat
grains other than corn to get enough, and it also is found in meat and dairy products.
Name this B vitamin found in NADH.
ANSWER: Niacin (or Nicotinic Acid or Vitamin B3, prompt (Vitamin) B)

16. Technology
Give a one-word answer. This type of binary tree data structure is useful when ordering
the data would be time-consuming, but a program needs to be able to easily find the next
piece of useful information. It is ordered so that finding either the largest or smallest
element is very easy. Name this structure whose name begins with the letter H.
ANSWER: Heap
17. Current Events
This term can be a synonym of B-paper and second chance. It is used to describe
situations in which the customer has a FICO score under 620, and companies involved
with them, such as Fremont General, are now having severe financial problems. These
problems are becoming severe as interest rates rise and housing values drop. Name these
types of mortgages made to people with problematic credit histories.
ANSWER: Subprime (or Near-Prime) (Loan(s) or Mortgage(s))
18. Nonfiction
(Note to moderator: Capote has three syllables.) This book is about Richard Hickock,
Perry Smith, and the Clutter family. It begins, “The village of Holcomb stands on the
high wheat plains of western Kansas, a lonesome area that other Kansans call ‘out
there.’” The first section is called The Last To See Them Alive, and the book is about
some murders and their aftermath. Name this 1965 work by Truman Capote.
ANSWER: In Cold Blood
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
(Note to moderator: Ricci is pronounced Richie.) This theory is sometimes summarized
with the equation the Ricci Tensor minus one-half times the scalar curvature times the
metric tensor equals eight pi times big G times the stress-energy tensor divided by the
speed of light to the fourth power. It involves geodesic paths, and it successfully
predicted gravitational time dilation. It is based on the idea that gravitational forces are in
some ways equivalent to accelerating frames of reference. Name this theory developed by
Albert Einstein that expanded his earlier work.
ANSWER: General (Theory of) Relativity (prompt Relativity and answers involving
Gravity, do not accept Special Relativity)
20. US Literature
One of the characters in this novel is Patterson, who gives a job to Jake Blount. At the
time, Jake is staying with John Singer, who works in a jewelry store and is deaf-mute.
The novel was completed in 1940 by a 23-year-old whose parents were jewelers. Name
this work by Carson McCullers.
ANSWER: (The) Heart Is A Lonely Hunter

Tiebreakers:
As a teenager, his father sent him out of Britain after he set up an extortion racket and
was kicked out of three schools. When the town he was living in was taken over by the
French, he escaped to Fort George and joined a private army. He quickly rose through its
ranks and was described by Prime Minister Pitt as a “heaven-born general”. His most
important military victory was the Battle of Plassey, which led to his appointment as
Governor of Bengal and to British control of India. Name this rescuer of the Black Hole
of Calcutta.
ANSWER: (Robert) Clive
His first Broadway play, The Man Who Had All The Luck, closed after four
performances. His final play, Finishing The Picture, portrayed the filming of The Misfits,
which he wrote and his famous wife starred in. His most successful works were about a
family including Happy and Biff and another play about the Salem Witch Trials. Name
the playwright of Death of a Salesman and The Crucible.
ANSWER: (Arthur) Miller
Give the word that completes this Bible quote: “What is a man profited, if he shall gain
the whole world, and lose his own…
ANSWER: Soul

