The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 13Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) This event inspired one in Edenton that was organized by women. Robert Murray’s
offer to pay for all destruction in this event was refused. The leaders of this event
copied a list of eight resolutions from a similar event in Philadelphia. A meeting in
Old South Meeting House adjourned when they heard that Governor Hutchinson
would not back down. The perpetrators of this act (∗ ) boarded the Dartmouth and two
other vessels in order to carry it out while dressed as Mohawk Indians. Leading to the British
closing of Boston port, Samuel Adams led, for ten points, what colonial protest of a certain tax
by dumping its namesake luxury good in the harbor?
ANSWER:

Boston Tea Party

(2) In this musical, a man sings “Maybe you’re my reward for my efforts here tonight”
to his future wife in I’d Be Surprisingly Good For You. A song in this musical
features the refrain “Eyes! Hair! Mouth! Figure!” and hears the protagonist sing “I
come from the people /they need to adore me /so Christian Dior me” in preparation
for the Rainbow Tour. That protagonist had earlier pled “I kept my promise/ (∗ )
Don’t keep your distance” from the balcony of the Casa Rosada in Don’t Cry For Me Argentina.
For ten points, name this Andrew Lloyd Webber musical about Eva Peron.
ANSWER:

Evita

(3) This equation’s namesake scientist and Planck developed an equation that describes
the flux of ions in solution influenced by an electric field and ionic gradient. This
equation can be used along with the solubility product of mercury-one chloride to
calculate the solution’s pH with digital pH meters. It can be derived by substituting
an expression containing Faraday’s constant into another equation involving Gibb’s
free energy, and in it the (∗ ) natural log of the reaction quotient is divided by the number
of electrons exchanged in a redox reaction. For ten points, name this electrochemical equation
that relates the standard electrode potential to the current electrode potential, named after a
German chemist.
ANSWER:

Nernst equation

Round 13- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) In one novel by this author, Steve cheats on his wife Jabu during a conference in
London, and in another, children collect guinea fowl eggs on the farm of the title
character. This author of No Time Like the Present wrote a novel in which Baasie’s
insult causes Rosa to refuse an invitation from Bernard Chabalier. Jacobus finds a
corpse on the farm of Mehring in one novel by this author, and she wrote a novel
in which the title servant takes the (∗ ) Smales family to live in his village. For ten points,
name this South African author of The Conservationist, Burger’s Daughter, and July’s People.
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer

(5) Yajnavalkya wrote an important work on a prevalent form of this practice.
Important concepts in this practice include dhyana and pranayama. In the Samkhya,
this practice is called as being for the raja, or king, and is described in detail in
the Sutras by Patanjali. Besides the Hatha form, it can be done in the vajrayana
form, although both are involved in activation of chakras. This practice is done by
performing asanas, and one important routine involves a (∗ ) salutation to Surya, the sun.
A fundamental aspect of Hindu philosophy, for ten points, name this practice of demonstrating
a series of specific postures for physical and mental health.
ANSWER:

yoga

(6) The smallest noncyclic group has this many elements and is named for Felix Klein.
Fermat proved his Last Theorem in the case with the exponent equal to this value.
Lagrange proved that all nonnegative integers are a sum of this many squares. This
is the maximum number of intersection points for two (∗ ) conic sections. This is the
period of the function i raised to the k power, since this number is the smallest positive power
of i equal to 1. The x- and y-axes split the plane into, for ten points, this many regions, called
quadrants.
ANSWER:

four

(7) One monarch of this name was injured by a train derailment at Borki. Another
monarch of this name enacted the School Statute and worked with Speransky to
institute reforms. One ruler of this name persecuted the Jews through the May
Laws, and another monarch of this name signed the Treaty of Tilsit on a raft,
making a truce with Napoleon. The (∗ ) third monarch of this name canceled plans for
electing advisors to the monarchy after his father was killed by the second bomb thrown at him
by Narodnaya Volya, or the People’s Will. For ten points, give this name common to three tsars
of Russia, including one who liberated the serfs.
ANSWER:
Alexander (be generous and accept
Nikolayevich or Alexander III Alexandrovich)

Alexander I Pavlovich or

Round 13- Page 2

Alexander II

IMSANITY 3

(8) This artist painted a woman in a gold and burgundy dress holding the titular
mythological animal in Lady with a Unicorn. This artist painted Mary in a red
dress and blue cloak holding a nude baby Jesus as Saint Barbara kneels to the right
and stares down at two cherubs resting their chins on their hands in his Sistine
Madonna. He painted a fresco in the Stanza della Segnetura in the Vatican in
which (∗ ) Ptolemy and Pythagoras are in the foreground and Plato and Aristotle talk and walk
forward toward marble stairs. For ten points, identify this High Renaissance artist of The School
of Athens.
ANSWER:

Raphael (or Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino)

(9) Some examples of these objects, like Amaterasu Patera or Syrtis Major, are
extremely dark, while others are pancake or tick-shaped. Coronae are unique to
this feature, and the Tharsis region has the largest examples of these in the Solar
System. Examples on one moon include Loki and Tvashtar, and others located on
the south pole of another moon are often called “tiger stripes”. This (∗ ) “cryo” type
occurs on Triton. Examples of these on Venus and Mars, like Maat or Olympus Mons, have not
been active recently. For ten points, identify these geological features, including Kilauea and
Mount Vesuvius, that may spew lava.
ANSWER:

volcanoes

(10) One character in this novel is disappointed to learn that sorrel means a color that
isn’t black. The setting is described as a town without inklings. In one scene of this
novel, Mrs. Castel risks death to be reunited with her husband, and in another,
Orpheus collapses during an opera by Gluck. One character who committed a crime
and was terrified of being caught starts a smuggling business and is the only one
not happy when the title event ends. In contrast to Cottard is a character who is
a journalist and meets Gonzales to try and escape named (∗ ) Raymond Rambert. It
begins with rats in Oran and ends with the narrator revealing himself to be Dr. Rieux. For ten
points, identify this novel by Albert Camus.
ANSWER: The Plague (or La Peste)

Round 13- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(11) A modified phrase from this speech was used in Dwight Eisenhower’s “Chance for
Peace”. This speech rejects international agreement by saying “Shall we declare
that we are less independent than our forefathers?” It points out that the speaker’s
opponent was nominated on the anniversary of Waterloo, and commands that “You
shall not (∗ ) press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns.” Given at the 1896
Democratic National Convention, for ten points, name this speech given in support of bimetallism
in which William Jennings Bryan won nomination by claiming that “you shall not crucify
mankind upon” the title object.
ANSWER:

Cross of Gold speech

(12) In one story in this myth system, a woman is impregnated after a decapitated skull
spits on her hand. A hero of this mythology tricks his older brothers into getting
stuck climbing a tree, where they grow tails and become monkeys. According to
this myth system, humans were unsuccessfully created out of mud and wood after
all other animals, and after one god’s teeth are knocked out, he replaces them with
corn. After defeating (∗ ) Seven Macaw and winning a ball game in Xibalba, Hunahpu and
Xbalanque became the sun and moon. For ten points, identify this Mesoamerican myth system
which included the Hero Twins in its Popul Vuh.
ANSWER:

Mayan mythology

(13) This play sees one character whose last words to his daughter are “She’s guilty– not
medicine!” Multiple characters are obsessed with the South Sea Islands, and Seth
appears to sing “Shenandoah” and give backstory. David was evicted after marrying
the nurse Marie Brantome, and the title character had planned on marrying Peter
Niles, but sealed herself in her house after her entire family died. Christine murders
her husband Ezra, then kills herself, and Orin kills Adam Brant before committing
suicide. This play includes sections (∗ ) “Homecoming,” “The Hunted,” and “The Haunted,”
and focuses on Lavinia Mannon. For ten points, name this Eugene O’Neill adaptation of The
Oresteia.
ANSWER:

Mourning Becomes Electra

(14) Off of this country’s coast lie the Marion islands. The northeastern part of this
country contains the Highveld region, which is bordered by the Greater and Lesser
Karoo regions. This country contains the cities of Richards Bay and East London.
Its largest river includes tributaries such as the Vaal, which join near the city of
Kimberley. That larger river, the (∗ ) Orange, arises from this country’s Drakensberg
mountains. For ten points, name this country bordered by Lesotho and Namibia and whose
cities include Cape Town and Johannesburg.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa

Round 13- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(15) This quantity can be measured by length on a Mollier diagram. One device for
producing this quantity is subdivided into “alpha” and “beta” types, which use
different numbers of cylinders. Another design that produces this quantity is the
Otto cycle, whose steps involve isochoric and adiabatic processes, which is a more
practical realization of the (∗ ) Carnot cycle. This quantity is equal to the integral of a curve
on a P-V diagram, and this quantity can be produced from temperature differences by steam or
internal combustion engines. For ten points, name this quantity that is often computed as force
times distance.
ANSWER:

work

(16) During this conflict, a pilot cut a telephone line using the propeller of his plane.
This conflict was triggered by the use of the codeword “de Lesseps” in a speech.
Ariel Sharon caused the bloodiest incident during this conflict by attacking at Jebel
Heitan without orders from Moshe Dayan. One side achieved military success with
Operation Musketeer and Operation Kadesh. Anthony Eden unilaterally declared a
ceasefire during this conflict, and (∗ ) Lester Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for helping to
end this conflict. For ten points, name this conflict that began after Abdul Nasser nationalized
a certain waterway in Egypt.
Suez Canal
Crisis (accept
Suez War,
ANSWER:
Second Arab-Israeli War, prompt on “Arab-Israeli War”)

1956 Arab-Israeli War, and

(17) One outcome of this experiment was a racemic mix of certain monomers resulting in
a disproportionately high amount of D-enantiomers. Important chemical reactions
during this experiment include the formation of sugars from Butlerov’s reaction,
and this experiment was inspired by the work of Alexander Oparin. Electric sparks
represented (∗ ) lightning in this experiment, which contained mixtures of gases such as
ammonia and hydrogen in one chamber. Conducted at the University of Chicago by its two
namesake scientists, for ten points, name this experiment which simulated the synthesis of organic
from inorganic compounds fundamental for early life on Earth.
ANSWER:

Miller-Urey Experiment

(18) One character in this novel is forced to wear a headband declaring her a “slattern,”
and another character bites and stabs her brother, Richard. Edward flirts with
Blanche Ingram to make one character jealous. That character grew up at
Gateshead, and she is sent to the Red Room by Mrs. Reed. The protagonist meets
Helen Burns at Lowood school, and becomes a (∗ ) tutor for Adele Varens. Strange events
in this novel are blamed on the drunkenness of Grace Poole, and Thornfield Manor is burned
downed by Bertha Mason. The title governess marries Mr. Rochester in, for ten points, what
novel by Charlotte Bronte?
ANSWER:

Jane Eyre
Round 13- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(19) In one scene from this opera, a group divides into two, and one character is beat
up with his own weapons. One character in this opera threatens to kill his servant
if he doesn’t invite an inanimate object to dinner. That character threw a party
when singing Fin ch’han dal vino, or the “Champagne Aria.” Massetto and Zerlina
celebrate their betrothal, and Ottavio needs to wait a year before marrying Anna.
Leporello sings the “Catalogue Aria” to Elvira, and this opera ends with the (∗ ) stone
statue of Don Pedro dragging the main character to hell. For ten points, identify this Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart opera about the title womanizer.
ANSWER:

Don Giovanni

(20) In this novel, Walt Feinberg and Max Shea are the authors of the story Tales of the
Black Freighter, and Seymour is left with the final decision surrounding the journal
of Walter Kovacs. Sally Juspeczyk is raped by Edward Blake, whose death opens
this novel. Sally convinces one character to return from a self-imposed exile on
Mars, only to find that New York was destroyed thirty-five minutes before midnight
by (∗ ) Ozymandias. Dr. Manhattan is forced to kill Rorschach because he cannot let crime go
unpunished. The Nite Owl and the Comedian appear in, for ten points, this graphic novel by
Alan Moore about costumed vigilantes.
ANSWER:

Watchmen

(21) This concept is the non-trivial precondition necessary for proving the Poincaré
recurrence theorem. Systems with this property have positive Lyapunov exponents
and include some that exhibit fractal characteristics. In this state, the behavior
of the logistic plot briefly includes three-cycles, and has period-doubling with a
frequency approaching the Feigenbaum constant. Other examples include the nonlinear damping in van der Pol oscillators and the (∗ ) double pendulum. This theory was
inspired by some work regarding the weather performed by Lorentz. For ten points, name this
state experienced by systems extremely sensitive to initial conditions.
ANSWER:

chaos

Round 13- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) Pamphilus argues with Cleanthes in this man’s Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion. For
ten points each:
[10] Name this philosopher who also described a missing shade of blue in his An Enquiry
Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] Hume was a member of this school of thought claiming that knowledge could only be
attained through experience. Another philosopher wrote a work entitled Two Dogmas of [this
concept].
ANSWER: empiricism
[10] The aforementioned Two Dogmas of Empiricism was written by this man, who also
worked on set theory and wrote Word and Object.
ANSWER: Willard van Orman Quine

(2) Testing confirms that Yersinia pestis was indeed the cause of this event. For ten points each:
[10] Name this massive epidemic which was caused by fleas that infested rats and killed almost
one half of the European population.
ANSWER: Black Death or Black Plague (or Bubonic Plague)
[10] Sailors from this city may have introduced the Black Death to Europe after contracting it
from Mongols during the siege of this city’s colony Kaffa. After returning to this port city in
Western Europe, the people on the ship were almost all dead.
ANSWER: Genoa
[10] Trying to protect themselves from disease, members of this cult would publicly whip
themselves in order to display their fervent devotion. It saw its peak activity during the Black
Death.
ANSWER: Flagellants

(3) The first movement of this symphony contains a bassoon solo with a dynamic marking of six
“p”s. For ten points each:
[10] Name this B minor symphony, the sixth of a certain composer. Its second movement
features a “limping waltz” written in 5/4 time.
ANSWER: Pathetique symphony (accept Tchaikovsky’s sixth or equivalents, but DO NOT
read this alternate answer if it is not given, as it gives away the answer to the third part)
[10] The composer of the Pathetique symphony also composed this unnumbered symphony
portraying an antihero created by Lord Byron.
ANSWER: Manfred symphony
[10] This composer wrote the Pathetique and Manfred symphonies as well as a ballet where
Clara is given the title toy by Herr Drosselmeyer, The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky

Round 13- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) One pushes a door handle away from the pivot point while turning it because of this property.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this property, which measures the rotational tendency of an object when a force is
applied.
ANSWER: torque
[10] Torque can be calculated from this operation applied to the displacement vector and force
vector.
ANSWER: cross product
[10] The magnitude of the cross product is calculated by multiplying the magnitude of both
force vectors times this operation on the angle between them.
ANSWER: sine of theta

(5) Answer the following about a certain desired trait in literature for ten points each.
[10] In a novel titled for a pair of these objects, Stephen Smith and Henry Knight meet when
they are both traveling to try to win the affections of the already married, already dead
Elfriede Swancourt.
ANSWER: blue eyes (prompt on a partial answer)
[10] This author cared less about pairs and more about The Bluest Eye. She is more famous for
a novel in which Sethe spoils a girl who shares the same name as her title daughter, Beloved.
ANSWER: Toni Morrison
[10] This author wrote about a man collecting blue eyes for his girlfriend in The Blue Bouquet.
He also wrote a 584-line poem, The Sun Stone, and a collection of nine essays, The Labyrinth
of Solitude.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz

(6) Their lengths are used to determine height for the formula “area equals one-half base times
height”. For ten points each:
[10] Identify these line segments which begin at a vertex of a triangle and which meet the
opposite side at a right angle.
ANSWER: altitudes
[10] The three altitudes of a triangle intersect at a single point given this name.
ANSWER: orthocenter
[10] In a right triangle, the length of the altitude to the hypotenuse can be computed with this
function of the lengths of the legs.
ANSWER: geometric mean

Round 13- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) While he was a steamboat captain, his boss Gibbons brought a successful Supreme Court case
against his competitor Ogden. For ten points each:
[10] Name this early nineteenth-century shipping entrepreneur and transportation magnate,
commonly known as “Commodore”. He was involved in the Erie War, and competed against
Jay Gould and James Fisk.
ANSWER: Cornelius Vanderbilt
[10] Vanderbilt gave Nicaragua advice on how to deal with this military adventurer, since
this guy’s attempts at “filibustering” by conquering Latin American nations interfered with
Vanderbilt’s business there.
ANSWER: William Walker
[10] During the Civil War, Vanderbilt donated a ship to the Union in order to deal with this
Confederate ironclad, which fought in the first ironclad battle at Hampton Roads.
ANSWER: CSS Virginia (or USS Merrimack)

(8) After stopping Yang Sun from hanging himself, the title character falls in love with and is
impregnated by him. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this play where Shen Te pretends to be Shui Ta so she can run a tobacco store
more effectively.
ANSWER:
The Good Woman of Szechwan (or The Good Person of Szechwan or Der
gute Mensch von Sezuan)
[10] In this other work by the author of The Good Woman of Szechwan, one character sings
about a scullery maid who dreams she’s a pirate queen and Polly Peachum marries Mack the
Knife.
ANSWER: The Threepenny Opera
[10] This author wrote The Good Woman of Szechwan and collaborated with the composer
Kurt Weill on The Threepenny Opera in addition to writing The Caucasian Chalk Circle.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht

(9) Answer the following about hypothesis testing in statistics for ten points each.
[10] This quantity, denoted sigma, equals root mean squared error. In a Gaussian distribution,
68.2% of data points are within one of these units from the mean.
ANSWER: standard deviation
[10] This quantity, which measures the number of standard deviations a data point is from the
mean, is often looked up in a table to determine the probability of that data point.
ANSWER: normal score or z-score
[10] Normal scores can be used to form these sets, which will contain the population parameter
with a predetermined probability. The null hypothesis is rejected if this set does not contain
the hypothesized parameter value.
ANSWER: confidence interval

Round 13- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) Allegedly, this work was originally inscribed in Reformed Egyptian on a set of golden plates
before being buried under a hill. For ten points each:
[10] Name this work which depicts a battle between the Nephites and Lamanites and portrays
America as the promised land.
ANSWER: Book of Mormon
[10] This prophet authored the last section of the Book of Mormon before burying it under a
hill. He also served as the angel who revealed the golden plates to Joseph Smith.
ANSWER: Moroni
[10] The fourth chapter of the Book of Moroni describes how this food is to be used in
sacrament in remembrance of the body of Christ, although no wine is used to represent Jesus’s
blood.
ANSWER: bread

(11) Answer the following about some accomplishments of American civilizations for ten points
each.
[10] This civilization, primarily located on the Yucatan peninsula, invented the first symbol for
zero and developed a precise calendar. They also built large pyramids at Uxmal and Chichen
Itza.
ANSWER: Mayans
[10] Besides its members’ oblate skulls, this South American civilization is known for large
zoomorphic figures etched into the coastal desert, many of which depict non-native animals
and prompt speculation into ancient trans-Andean trade routes.
ANSWER: Nazca civilization (or Nazca lines)
[10] “Woodhenge,” a circular arrangement of upright logs, was unearthed near this largest city
of the Mississippian people, which occupies a site north of St. Louis and contains many large
earthen mounds.
ANSWER: Cahokia

(12) When he wasn’t writing about himself or totalitarian states, George Orwell liked critiquing
other writers. For ten points each:
[10] Orwell largely approved of this author, although the only message this author seemed to
have was “Behave decently”, which was shown in the overthrow of the French aristocrats in A
Tale of Two Cities and the ending of David Copperfield.
ANSWER: Charles Dickens
[10] Orwell was more critical of this writer for his flawed worldview, shown in such works as
Barrack Room Ballads, Recessional, Kim, and, of course, White Man’s Burden.
ANSWER: Rudyard Kipling
[10] Orwell derided pretentious words and pointless sentence padding in an essay titled Politics
and [this entity].
ANSWER: the English language (prompt on partial answers)

Round 13- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) Answer the following about comparative mythology for ten points each.
[10] Subtitled “A Study in Magic and Religion”, this work of James Frazer discusses the
similarity between Osiris and Adonis and their cycle of death and rebirth to signal the seasons.
ANSWER: The Golden Bough
[10] This philosopher criticized Frazer’s analysis in his Remarks on Frazer’s Golden Bough,
particularly attacking the distinction between primitive and modern practices.
ANSWER: Ludwig Wittgenstein
[10] This man included the section “Mythology and Ritual” in his book Structural Anthropology,
which sought to explain similarity in the myths of the world. He also wrote the four-volume
collection Mythologiques.
ANSWER: Claude Levi-Strauss

(14) It consists of alternate chains of two monomers which are each composed of carbohydrates and
amino acids. For ten points each:
[10] Name this polymer which surrounds the plasma membrane of a prokaryote and forms the
cell wall.
ANSWER: peptidoglycan
[10] A cell with a large layer of peptidoglycan appears violet or purple after this staining test
is performed. If so, the bacteria is called positive for it.
ANSWER: Gram test (or Gram stain)
[10] Peptidoglycan synthesis can be inhibited by this class of bacteria-fighting compounds
discovered by Alexander Fleming.
ANSWER: penicillin (prompt on “antibiotics”)

(15) He painted churchgoers watching Jacob and an angel wrestling in his The Vision After the
Sermon. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this artist whose other religious scenes include The Yellow Christ. He is
remembered for many paintings of Tahiti, including Where Do We Come From? What Are
We? Where Are We Going?
ANSWER: Paul Gauguin
[10] Paul Gauguin depicted a Night Cafe in [this city]. The same restaurant was painted by
another artist whose works set in this city include The Yellow House and Bedroom in [this
city].
ANSWER: Arles
[10] This Dutch artist of Night Cafe painted those portrayals of Arles in addition to painting
Starry Night.
ANSWER: Vincent van Gogh

Round 13- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) Darl claims that Jewel’s mother is a horse, but Vardaman says that his mother is a fish. For
ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel that tells of Anse Bundren leading his children to Jefferson, the seat of
Yoknapatawpha county, to bury his recently-deceased wife Addie.
ANSWER: As I Lay Dying
[10] This American author won the 1949 Nobel Prize in Literature for works including As I
Lay Dying and his novel about the Compson family, The Sound and the Fury.
ANSWER: William Faulkner
[10] This Faulkner work, told from the perspective of the residents of Jefferson, tells of the
unusual romance between Miss Grierson and Homer Barron.
ANSWER: A Rose for Emily

(17) An opponent criticized one of this group’s protests saying “Some fans say that group sex is
better than one-on-one because – like in any collective work – you can slack off a bit”. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this feminist punk-rock band, three members of which were sentenced to two years
in prison for a performance in the Cathedral of Christ the Savior.
ANSWER: Pussy Riot
[10] Pussy Riot performed the song Mother of God, Put [this Russian leader] Away. He flipped
roles with Dmitry Medvedev a second time after winning in the 2012 Russian elections.
ANSWER: Vladimir Putin
[10] Yulia Tymoshenko, the former leader of this country, was sent to prison for signing a
contract with Vladimir Putin for gas imports after Gazprom ended shipments. This country
held parliamentary elections on October 28.
ANSWER: Ukraine

(18) The basis for this rule is that like charges repel each other and therefore are more stable when
far apart. For ten points each:
[10] Name this rule, named after a German spectroscopist, which states that electrons fill
empty orbitals before forming doubly-occupied orbitals. It also states that electrons in
singly-occupied orbitals have the same spin.
ANSWER: Hund’s rule
[10] This other rule predicts that electrons will always fill the lowest possible energy orbitals
before filling higher energy orbitals.
ANSWER: Aufbau principle
[10] This other rule states that no two electrons in an atom may have the same set of four
quantum numbers, which results in paired electrons having opposite spins.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle

Round 13- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) Four future popes ultimately attended this ecumenical council. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Roman Catholic council, which lent support to religious freedom in Dignitatis
Humanae and revised the liturgy in Sacrosanctum Concilium, leading to the abolishment of
the Tridentine Mass.
ANSWER: Second Vatican Council (accept Vatican II, prompt on “Vatican”)
[10] Another decree passed during the Second Vatican Council was Nostra Aetate, which
stated that this group as a whole was not responsible for the death of Jesus.
ANSWER: Jews (or Judaism)
[10] Presbyterorum Ordinis, also passed in the Second Vatican Council, strongly encourages
priests to perform this action of not having sex or marrying. Some suggest the doctrine be
repealed as a solution to certain priests’ sexual abuse.
ANSWER: celibacy (accept equivalents like being celibate)

(20) The heir of Iolcus returned to his home wearing one of these. For ten points each:
[10] Pelias was warned to beware a man wearing one of these. That man was wearing one
because he helped an old lady, who was actually Hera, across a river.
ANSWER: sandal (prompt on “shoe”)
[10] This aforementioned man was tasked by Pelias to recover the golden fleece, which he did
with a crew of fifty men aboard the Argo.
ANSWER: Jason
[10] Jason and the Argonauts drove these creatures away from Phineas. They had been
preventing him from eating food from the feast laid out for him every day.
ANSWER: Harpies

(21) This work delineates the doctrine of “sola fide”, in which faith alone grants God’s grace. For
ten points each:
[10] Name this work nailed to a church door in Wittenburg.
ANSWER: The Ninety-Five Theses on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences
[10] This German priest authored the Ninety-Five Theses and spearheaded the Protestant
Reformation. He debated Ulrich Zwingli at the Marburg Colloquy.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
[10] In the Ninety-Five Theses, Luther called out this Dominican friar, who sold indulgences
with jingles like “As soon as coin in the coffer rings/The soul from Purgatory springs”.
ANSWER: Johann Tetzel

Round 13- Page 13

