1. Pop Culture
Though he would later play for almost half of the American League teams, his big
success was with the Oakland A’s. He was the 1986 AL Rookie of the Year and 1988
MVP, when he became the first player to join the Forty Forty Club. He was born in Cuba,
and his twin brother Ozzie had a short major league career. Name this player who
admitted to using steroids in his book Juiced.
ANSWER: (Jose) Canseco
2. World Literature
One of the characters in this novel stutters a lot and has the unfortunate name S.S.
Sisodia. The two main characters, Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta, return to India
after spending a lot of time in England. Both somehow survive falling from an airplane.
Published in 1988, this book caused an international controversy and was banned in
several nations. Name this work by Salman Rushdie.
ANSWER: (The) Satanic Verses
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the y-intercept of a line that has a slope of 3 and an x-intercept at 4
ANSWER: -12 (accept (0,-12), do not accept 12)
4. Art/Architecture
Several artists have depicted this, including Bruegel the Elder, who depicted men on
horseback riding into a snow-covered village. It was depicted twice by Rubens, once with
angels in the sky above. The other depiction, showing a woman scratching one man’s
face while another man holds a decapitated baby in the air, is one of the most expensive
paintings ever auctioned. Name this event that, according to the Book of Matthew, took
place after the birth of Jesus.
ANSWER: Massacre of the Innocents (accept Murder of the Innocents)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
This is the brand name for polytetrafluoroethylene. It was originally used by the military
because it is resistant to radar detection and erosion by nitric acid and uranium
hexafluoride. Now sometimes known as silverstone, it is used in consumer products that
take advantage of its very low coefficient of friction. Name this polymer used in cooking
pans.
ANSWER: Teflon (prompt Silverstone)

6. Religion/Mythology
(Note to moderator: Anemone, Persephone, and Aphrodite have four syllables each.)
When he died, each drop of his blood turned into a blood-red anemone. Some stories
claim that he was the product of an incestuous relationship, so his father and grandfather
were Theias. After he was born, Aphrodite put him in a chest and gave him to
Persephone, but soon the two goddesses fought over him. Name this beautiful man who
was killed by a wild boar.
ANSWER: Adonis
7. US History
Her name is well-known because it was first in an alphabetical listing including twelve
other names. She still lives in the town her name will always be linked to, where she runs
an educational consulting firm with her sister. Her father, a welder and assistant pastor
named Oliver, was upset that his daughters had to attend a school four miles away instead
of the school that was four blocks away, and he agreed to join a class-action suit filed by
the NAACP. Name this third grader from Topeka whose name became part of a historic
Supreme Court case in 1954.
ANSWER: (Linda) Brown (Thompson)
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Ignore units. What is the area of a right isosceles triangle if it is inscribed in a circle with
an area of pi?
ANSWER: 1
9. Language Arts
This four-letter word, used in the game of bridge, is a synonym of null, empty, and
vacant. In general, it is used to describe something that legally is without value. Give this
word that is written across useless checks.
ANSWER: Void
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
The chemical name for this mineral is Aluminum silicate fluoride hydroxide. Though it
occurs in different colors, it is associated with yellow. Name this silicate which
represents 8 on the Mohs hardness scale.
ANSWER: Topaz

11. World History
The most famous one happened May 23rd, 1618. Wilhelm Grav Slavata, Jaroslav
Martinic, and Philip Fabricius were all found guilty of violating the Right of Freedom of
Religion because some Protestants were not allowed to complete building their chapels.
The unusual punishment they received helped start the Thirty Years War, but they fared
much better than the seven people found guilty in 1419. The original seven landed on
spears, while the three later ones landed in manure. Name these events that involved
throwing people out of windows.
ANSWER: Defenestration(s) of Prague (prompt Defenestration)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Assume that you are using a system that is not case sensitive and that W, like many other
letters, is always a consonant. If you are only allowed to use letters that are always
consonants, how many passwords are possible that are four letters long? Repetition is
allowed in passwords.
ANSWER: 160,000
13. British Literature
This story opens with a discussion between Mr. Utterson and Mr. Enfield about a very
ugly man who had harmed a little girl. Utterson is further intrigued with the story when
he learns about the murder of Danvers Carew. Utterson eventually reads three letters that
explain the unusual circumstances. Name this work by Robert Louis Stevenson involving
a potion that transforms personalities.
ANSWER: (The Strange Case of) Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde
14. Music
Lillian Hellman originally wanted it to be a play, but a famous composer convinced her
to turn it into an operetta. It has changed several times since its debut in 1956, but its
famous Overture has maintained its references to the songs “Battle Music” and “Oh,
Happy We”. Its other famous song, which contains a lot of laughter, is “Glitter and Be
Gay”. It opens in Westphalia, and near its beginning is the song “The Best of All Possible
Worlds.” Name this work by Leonard Bernstein based on a work by Voltaire.
ANSWER: Candide
15. Biology
In addition to mitochondria, these are the cell organelles that store calcium. These often
separate synthesized materials from the cytoplasm and transport them to the Golgi
complex. Name these eukaryotic organelles classified as rough or smooth.
ANSWER: Endoplasmic Reticulum(s) (or Endoplasmic Reticula)

16. Technology
Current versions of this software include 3D, Professional, Elements, Connect, Connect
Professional, and Standard. Most of them are currently labeled as Version 8. Those
versions cost money, though the companion software has been downloaded for free five
hundred million times. The software allows the user to create documents that look
identical on a wide variety of devices using the Portable Document Format. Name this
software from Adobe.
ANSWER: (Adobe) Acrobat (do not accept answers including the word Reader)
17. Current Events
A bill that would eliminate this agency has been introduced in the House of
Representatives by John Linder, and the corresponding bill in the Senate was introduced
by Saxby Chambliss. In 1997, it was the subject of critical hearings led by Senator
William Roth. It currently is headed by Linda Stiff, and it recently has put out a spam
warning stating that it does not send out e-mails requesting financial information. It has
also recently altered its treatment of deferred compensation and withholdings. Name this
bureau of the Treasury Department responsible for assessments and collections.
ANSWER: IRS (or Internal Revenue Service)
18. Nonfiction
His first book, subtitled Ecology and the Human Spirit, set forth a six-point Global
Marshall Plan. In his latest book, he states, “The persistent and sustained reliance on
falsehoods as the basis of policy, even in the face of massive and well-understood
evidence to the contrary, seems to many Americans to have reached levels that were
previously unimaginable.” These two books are titled Earth in the Balance and The
Assault on Reason. Name this former Vice President who was just awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize.
ANSWER: (Albert) Gore(, Jr)
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
Give a three-word answer. One way to calculate this is to use the formula one-half times
current times the integral of radius cross the differential of length. For coils, a good
approximation can be found by multiplying the number of turns times the current times
the area. It can be used to predict the strength of a field. Name this quantity that can be
represented by the Greek letter mu or the letter M.
ANSWER: Magnet(ic) Dipole Moment

20. US Literature
This novel contains the characters Stilgar and Chani, who are Fremen. The Fremen are
very concerned with water conservation because they live on Arrakis, a desert planet.
Arrakis is important to outsiders because it contains Melange, an important spice. Name
this 1965 novel by Frank Herbert.
ANSWER: Dune
Tiebreakers:
This website was started by Jeremy Stoppelman and Russel Simmons. It contains userwritten reviews of many businesses, and the reviews are often rated as useful, funny, or
cool. The reviews are combined with social networking features, and their slogan is:
“Real people. Real reviews.” Name this Web 2.0 Company whose slogan consists of five
red triangles arranged in a circle.
ANSWER: Yelp(.com)
Who would stoop to the cheapest and lowest of tricks in the book? Who's the swiniest
swine in world? He appeared in a sequel as Ravello, and a prequel by a different author
explained why he named his ship the Jolly Roger. He is always followed by a crocodile
that swallowed a ticking clock. Name this villain who pursues Peter Pan.
ANSWER: (Captain) Hook
Give the word that completes this Bible quote: “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as…
ANSWER: Thyself

