The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 1Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) A goal among members of this religion is to cross the Bridge of Total Freedom. Two
triangles, the KRC and the ARC, model society for this religion. OT levels can be
accessed by more experienced practitioners of this religion, allowing them to read
more confidential aspects of the religion. Volcanoes containing (∗ ) hydrogen bombs
allowed thetans to cluster to living souls in the mythology of this religion, which also includes
alien called Xenu. For ten points, name this religion symbolized by an eight-cornered cross that
was created by L. Ron Hubbard.
ANSWER: Church of Scientology

(2) One poem by this author describes being cast “by as one unfit for light / The
visage was so irksome in my sight,” and in another poem, one character tells her
sister to “Take thou the world, and all that will.” This author of The Flesh and the
Spirit states that “My Hope and Treasure lies above” after describing “That store
I counted best, my pleasant things in ashes lie,” in Verses Upon the (∗ ) Burning of
Our House. She said “If ever two were one, then surely we,” in To My Dear and Loving Husband.
For ten points, identify this author of Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet

(3) The graph of x to a negative power is known as one of these “of Fermat”. This curve
is the circular inverse of a lemniscate of Bernoulli. When this curve is revolved about
an axis, the resulting surface can have one sheet or two depending on whether it
was rotated around the conjugate or transverse axis. The degenerate version of this
shape consists of two intersecting lines, which in the non-degenerate case form its
(∗ ) asymptotes. This curve is the locus of points whose distances to two fixed points have a
constant difference. For ten points, identify this conic section with eccentricity greater than one,
exemplified by the graph of x squared minus y squared equals one.
ANSWER:

hyperbola

Round 1- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) Spain refused to give up the city of Olivença at this event. Krakow became a free
city as a result of this event. One participant increased his power by insisting that
the signatories of the Treaty of Paris should all participate. Joachim Murat fought
the unsuccessful Neapolitan War during this event, which saw Viscount Castlereagh
successfully propose a Congress system. After discovering that (∗ ) Prussia had been
informed differently about Austria’s position, Czar Alexander I considered challenging Klemens
von Metternich to a duel. Talleyrand pointed out that half of Europe was lacking a ruler at, for
ten points, what meeting held after the defeat of Napoleon?
ANSWER: Congress of Vienna (or Vienna Congress or the Final Act of the Vienna Congress,
do not accept or prompt on “Treaty of Vienna”)

(5) The upper limit of this region is formed by the Loa river. A megaport to the east
of this region is Mejillones. The Battle of Topater took place in this region near
the cities of Iquique and Antofagasta, and this region was disputed due to its heavy
deposits of nitrate. Life in this desert is supported by fog due to the cold water of
the (∗ ) Humboldt current, as this region averages less than a millimeter of rain per year. Lying
in the rain shadow of the Andes, for ten points, name this Chilean desert, the driest in the world.
ANSWER:

Atacama desert

(6) Thalassemia is caused by a reduced rate of synthesis of one subunit of this molecule.
A mutation in this protein’s gene causes glutamic acid to be replaced with valine,
resulting in a disease which may give a heterozygous advantage over malaria.
Bilirubin is a compound released by the breakdown of this molecule’s prosthetic
group. That group is surrounded by a porphyrin ring. Its center contains an (∗ ) iron
atom and it consists of two sets of globulin subunits, alpha and beta. For ten points, name this
protein which is found in red blood cells and carries oxygen from the lungs to other cells of the
body.
ANSWER:

hemoglobin

(7) One holder of this position lost a 1930 election after saying he “would not give a
five-cent piece” for unemployment relief, and another put out ads mocking the Bell’s
Palsy of her successor. One holder of this position succeeded in passing Goods and
Services Tax, though his Charlottetown Accord and Meech Lake Accord were both
rejected. The first holder of this position was bribed by Hugh Allen, and in the
ensuing Pacific Scandal, (∗ ) John MacDonald was forced to resign. Held by Kim Campbell,
William Mackenzie King, and Brian Mulroney, for ten points, name this governmental office
currently held by Stephen Harper.
ANSWER:
Prime Minister of Canada (prompt on “Prime Minister”, accept equivalents like
Canadian Prime Minister)
Round 1- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(8) In one work by an author from this country, the fugitive describes the invention of a
device that allows men to spend time with Faustine forever by looping reality; that
machine is the titular Invention of Morel. In another novel, Luis Molina discusses
movies with Valentin Arregui in the hopes of forgetting that they’re in jail. This
setting of Kiss of the Spider Woman was also the birthplace of an author who wrote
a story in which (∗ ) Yu Tsun shoots Dr. Albert to give the location of a British artillery
park. For ten points, identify this country, home to Adolpho Bioy Casares, Manuel Puig, and
the author of The Garden of Forking Paths, Jorge Luis Borges.
ANSWER:

Argentina

(9) One early work of this artist depicts the stabbing of a woman in a green dress
who is being held down by a female accomplice, while another shows his mother
knitting while his sister plays piano. This artist of The Murder and The Overture
to Tannhauser painted trees forming an arch over a dozen nude women in his Les
Grandes Baigneuses. An aqueduct appears in several of his many views of (∗ ) Mont
Sainte-Victoire. In one of his most notable works, a man smoking a pipe sits opposite a man
crouching over a small table as they engage in the titular activity. For ten points, name this
French painter of The Card Players as well as a lot of still lifes of fruit.
ANSWER: Paul Cezanne

(10) One of these objects used in knot theory is named HOMFLY [pronounced “home
fly”]. This type of function can be evaluated using Horner’s method. These functions
form a ring, since they can be added and multiplied but not always divided. The
quotient of two of these functions can be simplifed using the method of partial
fractions and is called a (∗ ) rational function. Synthetic division can be used to find the
roots of this type of function, and the number of roots is at most its degree. Formed as a sum of
coefficients times non-negative powers of x, for ten points, identify these mathematical functions
exemplified by x3 − x and x2 + 1.
ANSWER:

polynomials

(11) Small gaps occur between the Fermi level and the valence band in these entities, and
they exhibit Auger [pronounced “oh-ZHAY”] recombination. Both electrons and
holes carry charge in these devices, and their N and P types can be made through
a process in which relatively electron-rich or -deficient compounds are added to a
metal; that process is called (∗ ) doping. Unlike many metals, their conductivity increases
with temperature, and a naturally occurring example is silicon. For ten points, name these
substances found in transistors with conductivity between that of conductors and insulators.
ANSWER:

semiconductors

Round 1- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(12) This politician used the line “I want to recruit you” to open his “Hope Speech.” He
called himself the “Mayor of Castro Street”, where he owned a camera store. On
a recorded tape he says, “If a bullet should enter my brain, let that bullet destroy
every closet door.” Dianne Feinstein became acting mayor after George Moscone
and this man were killed by a man who used the (∗ ) “Twinkie Defense,” former city
supervisor Dan White. For ten points, name this San Francisco city supervisor, the first openly
gay man elected to public office in the United States.
ANSWER: Harvey Milk

(13) In one myth, this goddess warned Geirroth about the appearance of Grimnir. This
goddess is sometimes identified with Holda, and her daughter-in-law Nanna gives
Hermod a robe for this goddess. One attendant of this goddess is a fertility goddess
with a golden band, and another rides the flying horse Hofvarpnir; they are Fulla
and Gna. Loki accused her of having affairs with her husband’s brothers Vili and
Ve, and she did not obtain a promise from (∗ ) mistletoe, leading to the death of her son
Balder. For ten points, identify this Norse fertility goddess, the wife of Odin.
ANSWER:

Frigga

(14) Several characters in this novel make their home near Castle Rock, and Percival
Wemys Madison automatically recites his name and address. The title character
asks “You knew, didn’t you? I’m part of you”, and another character is told “sucks
to your ass-mar,” but his glasses become highly coveted and are later stolen. A
boy with a mulberry-coloured birthmark is presumably killed in a forest fire. Two
characters mistake a dead parachuter for a beast, and (∗ ) Samneric keep that confusion
to murder Simon. Piggy is killed and the conch is shattered when Roger drops a boulder on him.
For ten points, name this novel about the struggle for control between Ralph and Jack Merridew
written by William Golding.
ANSWER:

Lord of the Flies

(15) One man in this film states that he found business conditions in Europe “with
great difficulty.” This film features a character who is forced to sing at the Chicago
Municipal Opera house and who lives part of her life in Xanadu before leaving her
husband. Jedediah Leland is fired after collapsing drunk while writing a negative
review about that woman, Susan Alexander. The title character’s last words, spoken
while holding a (∗ ) snowglobe, are revealed to refer to his boyhood sled. For ten points, name
this Orson Welles film focusing on the life of a fictitious newspaperman and his dying utterance,
“Rosebud”.
ANSWER:

Citizen Kane

Round 1- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(16) This man described as “history writ with lightning” a film directed by D.W. Griffith
that he showed at the White House. In addition to segregating the navy, this
president appointed Robert Lansing as Secretary of State after his previous secretary
of state resigned in a protest; that man was William Jennings Bryan. This President
reinstated the federal income tax through the Underwood Tariff. This president
narrowly defeated Charles Evans Hughes using the slogan (∗ ) “He kept us out of war,”
and the League of Nations was established as part of this president’s Fourteen Points. For ten
points, name this president who led the United States through World War I.
ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson

(17) In one novel by this author, the daughter of notorious swindler Smith, Flora de
Barral, marries Captain Anthony. This author of Chance wrote a short story in
which John Beard is captain of a ship that is hit by a steamer, barely survives a
storm, and then has the cargo spontaneously combust. In addition to describing The
Judea in Youth, this author created a character who takes a bullet as retribution
for the death of Dain Waris to make up for the shame of abandoning the ship the
(∗ ) Patna. This author of Lord Jim wrote a novel in which Marlow travels the Congo river to
meet Kurtz. For ten points, identify this Polish author of Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad (or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski)

(18) The eigenvalues of the mass matrix of these entities on the Dirac and Majorana
scales explain the seesaw mechanism. One second after the Big Bang, a cosmic
background of these particles formed. The Cowan-Reines experiment confirmed a
hypothesis by Pauli, who postulated the existence of these particles to explain a
disparity in the conservation of energy in beta decay. Lack of these particles coming
from the sun led to the finding that these leptons oscillate between electron, muon,
and tau flavors. A faulty cable led to OPERA’s spurious detection of these particles
moving faster than light. Enrico Fermi named, (∗ ) for ten points, this “small and neutral”
particle.
ANSWER:

neutrinos

Round 1- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(19) This decision established a standard of “unconstitutionally coercive”. The court
ruled that the substantial effect test of Gonzales v. Raich did not extend to this
case. The Supreme Court decided that the 1867 Anti-Injunction Act did not remove
standing in this case. This decision cited a requirement of “activity” from United
States v. Lopez in declining to extend its application of the commerce clause. A
main provision of the central law was upheld as a tax by (∗ ) Chief Justice Roberts.
Fox and CNN erroneously claimed that the individual mandate had been struck down in, for ten
points, this 2012 decision that upheld most provisions of Obamacare.
National Federation of Independent Business v.
Sebelius (accept either side,
ANSWER:
accept NFIB, accept Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Cases or ACA Cases, prompt
on “Healthcare Cases” or “Obamacare Cases” or equivalents)

(20) This composer wrote about the musician Flamand and the poet Oliver competing
for the love of the Countess. In another work by this composer, Annina gets her
children to call a baron “papa” and the main character dressed as Mariandel. In
one work, Chrysothemis begs her sister to leave in the aria Ich hab’s wie Feuer in
der Brust. This composer of Capriccio and Elektra wrote an opera in which Baron
Ochs asks Octavian to deliver a (∗ ) rose to Sophie von Faninal, and an opera in which
one character requests the head of John the Baptist after the Dance of the Seven Veils. For ten
points, identify this composer of Der Rosenkavalier, Salome, and Also Sprach Zarathustra.
ANSWER:

Richard Georg Strauss (prompt on “Strauss”)

(21) This relationship is represented by a non-edge in a Bayesian net. The chi-squared
distribution is a sum of normal random variables in this relationship. When this
condition holds, the covariance is equal to zero and the variance is additive. The
Gambler’s Fallacy arises because the gambler does not realize that separate (∗ ) trials
satisfy this property. Events A and B have this property if the probability of A AND B is the
product of their individual probabilities. For ten points, identify this statistical relationship of
two events that do not influence each other.
ANSWER:
sentence)

independence (accept

conditional independence until the end of the second

Round 1- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) Qushayri wrote a Risala outlining the practices of this sect, whose members show their
devotion through dhikr. For ten points each:
[10] Name this mystic sect known for their whirling dervishes.
ANSWER: Sufism
[10] Sufi is a sect of this religion, whose adherents follow the Quran and venerate Allah.
ANSWER: Islam
[10] This other sect of Islam, prominent in Iran and Azerbaijan, believes Ali to have been
Muhammad’s successor and has denominations including Twelvers and Fivers.
ANSWER: Shia (accept Shiite)

(2) Wilson’s Theorem concerns this type of arithmetic. For ten points each:
[10] Sometimes called clock arithmetic, name this type of arithmetic in which two numbers are
equal if they leave the same remainders.
ANSWER: modular arithmetic
[10] The Chinese Remainder Theorem states that a common solution to a set of modular
equations can be found if the moduli have this property.
ANSWER: coprime (or relatively prime, or something descriptive like “share no common
prime factors”)
[10] This other theorem in modular arithmetic states that a to the p power is congruent to a
mod p if p is prime.
ANSWER: Fermat’s Little Theorem

(3) This law explains why all objects on earth fall with the same acceleration, assuming no drag
force. For ten points each:
[10] Name this law of motion formulated by a British knight that is commonly shortened to F
is equal to m times a.
ANSWER: Newton’s Second Law of Motion
[10] This quantity is the time integral of either side of Newton’s Second Law. In other words,
force is the rate of change of this quantity.
ANSWER: momentum
[10] For a conservative force, this quantity can be defined at any point in space. The integral
of this quantity is path-independent.
ANSWER: potential energy

Round 1- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) The main character compares a poet writing about the multiplication tables to Columbus. For
ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel written in the form of a diary by D-503, which will accompany the
Integral and was actually written by Yevgeny Zamyatin.
ANSWER: We
[10] This novel was derivative of We, despite the author Aldous Huxley’s insistence to the
contrary. In this novel, Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx bring John the Savage back to
civilization.
ANSWER: Brave New World
[10] This author “cheerfully ripped off Brave New World” to write about Paul Proteus in
his first novel, Player Piano. A recurring character in some of his later works is the novelist
Kilgore Trout.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.

(5) These two regions were represented in the Pharaoh’s crown by the White Hedjet crown and
the Red Deshret crown. For ten points each:
[10] Name these two regions, whose names refer to their positions along the Nile river.
Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt (accept in either order, do not prompt on or
ANSWER:
accept “Egypt” or “Northern and Southern Egypt” or equivalents)
[10] The Kingdoms of Kerma, Kush, and Meroe were located in this region in Southern Egypt
and Sudan. The pharaohs of the twenty-fifth dynasty were from this region.
ANSWER: Nubia (do not prompt on or accept “Sudan” or “Ethiopia”)
[10] When the Nubians adapted Egyptian culture, they also built these structures as tombs for
their rulers. Sneferu built a Bent one, and Khufu built a “Great” one.
ANSWER: pyramid

(6) Spectrophotometers use this equation to calculate the concentration of unknown solutions.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this law equating a solution’s photometric absorptivity to the negative log of the
ratio of the transmitted light and the incident light.
ANSWER: Beer’s Law (or Beer-Lambert Law or Beer-Lambert-Bouguer Law or with some
permutation of those names)
[10] In Beer’s Law, the absorbance is inversely related to this measure of concentration which
is measured in units of moles per liter.
ANSWER: molarity (careful: do not accept “molality”)
[10] Unlike molality, molarity is dependent on this variable because it measures the amount of
substance in a given volume rather than dissolved in a given mass.
ANSWER: temperature

Round 1- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) One poem in this collection began by asking the trees of life when they were wintering, and
they responded that they were divided and had no instincts. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this collection, which began by asking “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among
the angelic orders?” and was written in a castle near Trieste.
ANSWER: The Duino Elegies
[10] The Duino Elegies was a work by this German poet who wrote Letters to a Young Poet
and dedicated another collection to Vera Knoop.
ANSWER: Rainer Rilke (or René Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke)
[10] Rilke wrote a series of sonnets to this mythological figure, who went into the underworld
to rescue his love, Eurydice.
ANSWER: Orpheus

(8) A single candle representing unity is lit in its chandelier. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this painting in which a man in blue and a large black hat takes the hand of his
bride in a green dress. The couple can be seen from behind via a convex mirror on the back
wall.
ANSWER: The Arnolfini Wedding or The Arnolfini Portrait
[10] The Arnolfini Wedding is by this artist of Portrait of a Man in a Turban who collaborated
with his brother Hubert on the Ghent Altarpiece.
ANSWER: Jan van Eyck (or Johannes van Eyck)
[10] It has been suggested that this object sitting in the window sill in The Arnolfini Wedding
represents the fall of Adam and Eve.
ANSWER: orange (prompt on ’fruit’)

(9) Answer some questions about people who controlled France for ten points each.
[10] This wife of Henry II orchestrated the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre, beginning the
French Wars of Religion. Henry IV’s second wife Marie was from the same family as this
woman.
ANSWER: Catherine de Medici (prompt on a partial answer)
[10] During the Merovingian Dynasty, Mayors of the Palace held the actual power, and this
one ruled without a king. This grandfather of Charlemagne won the Battle of Tours, earning
him the nickname “The Hammer”.
ANSWER: Charles Martel
[10] This finance minister to Louis XIV helped plan the French East India Company, improved
manufacturing through mercantilist policies, and made sure France didn’t go bankrupt.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Colbert

Round 1- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) Aggressive betting strategies in this game are called martian while conservative ones are
venusian. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this game which sees betting strategies like Faith Love and Crush. A bettingneutral statistic measuring performances in this game is the Coryat score.
ANSWER: Jeopardy!
[10] The highest recorded Coryat score is $39,200, a mark set on June 10, 2004 by this 74-time
Jeopardy champion.
ANSWER: Ken Jennings
[10] Ken Jennings was criticized for blogging that this current Jeopardy host should freshen
things up by ending the show with a tagline and using a ventriloquist dummy to pronounce
foreign words.
ANSWER: Alex Trebek

(11) Name the following battles of Napoleon for ten points each.
[10] This battle fought outside of Moscow was inconclusive, but it caused massive casualties
for the French, partly because of the Bagration fleches.
ANSWER: Battle of Borodino
[10] This 1813 battle fought by the Sixth Coalition encircled Napoleon and ultimately forced
him back to France, though that was impeded due to the early destruction of a bridge over the
Elster river.
ANSWER: Battle of Leipzig (or Battle of the Nations)
[10] This battle fought in Belgium was the last fought by Napoleon after his return from exile
in Elba. After his defeat by the Duke of Wellington in this battle, he was exiled for good on
St. Helena.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo

(12) In one picture in this story, the red coat becomes blue, a sword changes into a scepter, and the
writing underneath changes from “King George III” to “George Washington.” For ten points
each:
[10] Identify this short story in which a man goes to the Kaatskill mountains and falls asleep
for twenty years.
ANSWER: Rip van Winkle
[10] Rip van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow both appear in The Sketchbook of [this
man]. He wrote Bracebridge Hall and was a longtime friend of Diedrich Knickerbocker.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Crayon (prompt on “Crayon”)
[10] Geoffrey Crayon and Diedrich Knickerbocker were both pseudonyms of this American
author, who first published letters under the pseudonym Jonathan Oldstyle.
ANSWER: Washington Irving

Round 1- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) Briseis mourns the death of this hero, claiming he was the only one who ever showed her
kindness. For ten points each:
[10] Name this hero who was killed by Hector after disobeying orders to not pursue the Trojans
farther than the ships.
ANSWER: Patroclus
[10] This man, Patroclus’s cousin, had lent his armor to Patroclus before the fight. He refused
to give up on mourning Patroclus’s body until a ghost told him the body must be cremated.
ANSWER: Achilles
[10] During the funeral games after Patroclus’s death, this hero won the footrace. He earlier
tried to feign madness to avoid the war, and afterward was unable to return to Ithaca for ten
years, following an epic journey.
ANSWER: Odysseus

(14) Its analogue in the United Kingdom is the TORRO scale. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this scale assessing strength of a certain meteorological phenomenon on a scale
up to 5 which takes into account radar accounts, visual damage assessment, and eyewitness
reports.
ANSWER: Fujita scale (or Fujita-Pearson scale)
[10] The Fujita scale measures the strength of these meteorological events in which a rapidly
rotating mesocyclone spawns a violently rotating column of air.
ANSWER: tornadoes (prompt on twisters)
[10] This other meteorological event occurs when a line of thunderstorms begins to arc into
a bow segment and produces very strong winds. They can be serial or progressive, and often
occur in the summer months. A July 2012 example dealt massive damage to Washington, D.C.
ANSWER: derechos

(15) This man organized cognitive development into units called schemes. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this Swiss psychologist who used his studies of children to construct a four-stage
model of cognitive development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
[10] This first stage in Piaget’s model ends with the internalization of schemes and precedes
the preoperational stage.
ANSWER: sensorimotor
[10] This milestone of the sensorimotor stage is the understanding that things still exist even
when they are no longer seen.
ANSWER: object permanence

Round 1- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) It mentions a roar that Sophocles heard on the Aegean. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this poem that begins “The sea is calm tonight,” discusses the Sea of Faith, and
concludes “We are here as on a darkling plain / Swept with confused alarms of struggle and
flight / Where ignorant armies clash by night.”
ANSWER: Dover Beach
[10] This British poet wrote about “this strange disease of modern life/With its sick hurry, its
divided aims” in The Scholar-Gipsy in addition to writing Dover Beach.
ANSWER: Matthew Arnold
[10] This Arnold poem notes that “the mass of men conceal’d/Their thoughts, for fear” but
yet “often, in the din of strife/There rises an unspeakable desire” to know this title entity.
ANSWER: The Buried Life

(17) This piece was originally written in a letter to the composer’s sister. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this work, sometimes called Fingal’s Cave, whose main theme was written on the
composer’s trip to the titular Scottish islands.
ANSWER: Hebrides Overture, Opus 26
[10] This German composer of the Hebrides Overture also wrote five symphonies including the
Scottish.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn
[10] This Mendelssohn symphony was inspired by his trip to its namesake country. Its first
movement is an impression of a religious procession while the fourth incorporates saltarello
and tarantella dance figures.
ANSWER: Italian symphony (or Symphony No. 4 in A Major)

(18) Two major forms of this disease are Variola major and minor. For ten points each:
[10] Name this disease, eradicated by the W.H.O., which had its last recorded case in 1978.
Although it can cause severe complications such as blindness, a much more common symptom
is an encrusting pink rash.
ANSWER: smallpox
[10] This scientist developed the first vaccine for smallpox by studying milkmaids who were
immune to smallpox after contracting cowpox.
ANSWER: Edward Jenner
[10] Smallpox and cowpox are both caused by these disease-causing agents, which consist of
nucleic acid surrounded by a coat of protein. They can only reproduce in the presence of a
host cell.
ANSWER: viruses

Round 1- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) Answer the following about the battles of the American Revolution for ten points each.
[10] This battle, regarded as the first armed conflict between the colonist militias and British
troops, took place immediately before the battle in the nearby city of Concord. It is sometimes
associated with “the shot heard ’round the world.”
ANSWER: Battle of Lexington
[10] William Prescott led the colonial troops in this battle which mainly took place on nearby
Breed’s Hill outside of Boston. The battle resulted in its capture by the British, although they
suffered heavy casualties.
ANSWER: Battle of Bunker Hill
[10] Led by Ethan Allen and Benedict Arnold, a small colonial force was able to capture this
fort from the British and provide crucial supplies to troops in Boston. It was later recaptured
by John Burgoyne after a July 1777 siege.
ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga

(20) Epictetus’ thoughts on this philosophy were recorded in the Discourses. For ten points each:
[10] Name this philosophical school founded by Zeno of Citium, which claimed that happiness
could be achieved through virtue.
ANSWER: stoicism
[10] The most famous text of Stoicism is the Meditations of this man, also one of the Five
Good Emperors.
ANSWER: Marcus Aurelius
[10] Another Stoic philosopher was this man, who claimed that the point of life was “not how
long you live, but how nobly.” He also was a playwright of tragedies such as Phaedra.
ANSWER: Seneca the Younger

(21) During Napoleon’s invasion of this country, he made the hilarious claim that most French were
Muslim. For ten points each:
[10] Name this country which, at various times, went under the rule of the Ptolemies, the
Ayyubids, and the British. More recently, it was led by Anwar Sadat.
ANSWER: Egypt
[10] These enslaved soldiers overthrew the Ayyubids in the 13th century and checked the
Mongols at Ain Jalut. They eventually were conquered by the Ottoman Turks.
ANSWER: Mamluks (or Mamluk Sultanate)
[10] This Albanian expelled the French, then took control of Egypt by inviting the Mamluks
to a feast and murdering them. He modernized the country and began a dynasty lasting into
the mid-20th century.
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali Pasha (or Mehmet Ali Pasha)

Round 1- Page 13

