1. Pop Culture
She was the inspiration behind Elton John’s song Philadelphia Freedom. Her most
famous match was in the Astrodome on September 20th, 1973. The first female athlete to
make one hundred thousand dollars in a year, she won twelve Grand Slam singles titles,
including six at Wimbledon, from 1966 through 1975. Name this tennis player who
defeated Bobby Riggs in the Battle of the Sexes.
ANSWER: (Billie Jean) King (accept Moffit)
2. World Literature
After her mother commits suicide, one of the main characters in this novel marries a
shoemaker named Rasheed. The other main character, after her parents are killed by a
rocket and she hears about another rocket killing her boyfriend, also marries Rasheed.
The two women, Mariam and Laila, become friends. Name this 2007 novel set in
Afghanistan by Khaled Hosseini.
ANSWER: (A) Thousand Splendid Suns
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Solve for x, giving your answer as a simplified fraction: Five raised to the x power equals
‘the square root of five’ times ‘the cube root of five’. The cube root is not inside the
square root.
ANSWER: 5/6
4. Art/Architecture
His works can be found on many college campuses, including Brown, MIT, Princeton,
Hofstra, and Yale. His sculpture on the University of Chicago campus commemorates the
development of nuclear energy. Many of his sculptures show reclining people in a
modernist style. Name this 20th Century British sculptor.
ANSWER: (Henry) Moore
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
This law involves constants that are measured either in moles per cubic decimeter
atmosphere or in liter atmospheres per mole. These so-called constants change for
different temperatures and gases. The law is often used to determine whether a gas is
saturated in a particular solvent. Name this law in which the constant is multiplied by the
partial pressure of the gas near the solution to determine the concentration of the gas in
the solution.
ANSWER: Henry’s (Law)

6. Religion/Mythology
Her daughter Pyrrha survived a great flood by staying in a wooden chest. She was a gift
from Zeus to her husband Epimetheus, who was warned by Prometheus not to accept her.
Her name means the gift of all, which is fitting because according to some stories she was
given gifts by all the Gods. Name this maiden whose curiosity brought sorrow to
mankind when she opened her box.
ANSWER: Pandora
7. US History
Some people claim that The United States started using this in 1873, while others claim it
began in 1900. People also argue whether it ended in 1933 or 1971, since for many of the
later years we used a modified version known as the Bretton Woods System. We now use
a fiat system instead, which is generally believed to increase stability and lower
unemployment. Arguments against this system were a central part of William Jennings
Bryan’s Presidential campaigns. Name this monetary system which replaced bimetallism
and the Silver Standard.
ANSWER: Gold (Standard)
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Ignore units. One circle lies inside a larger circle with a radius that is twice as big. Find
the radius of the smaller circle if the area of the space in between them is twelve pi.
ANSWER: 2
9. Language Arts
This adjective started in the French language, meaning noble, generous, and pertaining to
a free man. It had a negative connotation in English for many years, but that changed
when it became associated with people who are tolerant. It was used to describe people
who favor freedom, which could be considered a contradiction compared to its more
recent usage describing people who favor government action. Give this adjective
beginning with the letter L that is an antonym of Conservative.
ANSWER: Liberal
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
(Note to moderator: Biya is pronounced Bee-yah.) The capital of Chad borders this
nation. The combination of a former French colony and the Christian section of a former
British colony, it contains a narrow strip stretching North to Lake Chad. Its most
populous city, Douala, is on the Bight of Bonny, an arm of the Gulf of Guinea. Name this
nation Southeast of Nigeria ruled by Paul Biya.
ANSWER: Cameroon

11. World History
Major actions in this war included attempted British invasions of what are now Panama
and Cuba. It eventually became a part of The War of the Austrian Succession, and it
included fighting between Georgia and Florida. The war started when British nationalism
was inflamed by a visit by the captain of the Rebecca to the House of Commons. Identify
this war named after a body part.
ANSWER: (War of) Jenkins' Ear (or King George’s War)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
What is the probability of having heads come up every time if you toss a coin four times?
ANSWER: 1/16 (or .0625)
13. British Literature
He is described as a limping lump of brick-dust and a squidgy-nosed old idol. However,
after his heroic performance in battle and his death, the poet treats him with respect. He is
the title character in an 1892 poem by Rudyard Kipling. Name this water bearer
addressed with the line, “You’re a better man than I am.”
ANSWER: Gunga Din
14. Music
In 1931, he wrote music for a movie titled The Bells which was never released. He also
composed the operas Savitri and The Wandering Scholar. He attained fame through a
piece he originally titled Seven Orchestral Pieces, though he hated the fame so much that
he carried around typed pieces of paper stating that he did not give out autographs. Those
seven pieces had nicknames such as The Magician, The Mystic, and The Bringer of War.
Name this early 20th Century British composer of The Planets.
ANSWER: (Gustav) Holst
15. Biology
He took a two-week vacation in 1928 that had a profound effect on medicine. While he
was gone, he left an open culture plate with Staph bacteria on it, and when he returned
there was a halo-shaped gap in the bacteria. The gap was caused by mold. Name this
Scottish bacteriologist whose study of the mold led to the discovery of penicillin.
ANSWER: (Alexander) Fleming

16. Technology
This is the most common language in the DML family. One of its dialects is Jet, which is
used by Microsoft Access. Developed by IBM during the 1970s, it was standardized by
ANSI in 1986. The most common command used in it is Select, which is used to choose
items from tables. Name this language with a three-letter name used to manage databases.
ANSWER: SQL (accept Sequel or Structured Query Language)
17. Current Events
This organization was started in 1998 by Joan Blades and Wes Boyd. Its controversies
have included an attempt to air a commercial during the 2004 Super Bowl, its refusal to
allow attacks against it at Café Press, and its placement of an ad in the New York Times
two months ago. The New York Times ad was officially condemned by both chambers of
Congress. The ad criticized General Petraeus. Name this liberal organization that has
received a lot of money from billionaire George Soros.
ANSWER: MoveOn(.org)
18. Nonfiction
This work covers the period from 1918 to 1956, and a New York Times book review said
it was about the other Holocaust of the 20th Century. Though the author won a Nobel
Prize for his fiction writing, he considered this nonfiction book to be his main work. It
begins with a description of what it is like to get arrested, and it ends with Khrushchev
denouncing Stalin. Name this description of the secret Soviet prison system written by
Alexander Solzhenitsyn.
ANSWER: (The) Gulag Archipelago (or Archipelag Gulag, do not accept Gulag)
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
The answer begins with the letter D. This quantity is measured by the Abbe Number,
which is also known as the V Number. These numbers are used to distinguish flint from
crown glasses. The term is used to answer questions about why the sky is blue and how
prisms are able to separate colors. Name this phenomenon in which white light is
separated into a spectrum.
ANSWER: Dispersion
20. US Literature
His first major novel, about a Harvard student disillusioned through his army service in
World War One, was titled Three Soldiers. A few years later, he wrote Manhattan
Transfer. Though he continued writing until his death in 1970, most critics agree that his
best works were produced in the 1920s and ‘30s. Some of his novels included collections
of news clippings and song lyrics. Name this author of The Big Money, 1919, and The
42nd Parallel, which together comprise the USA Trilogy.
ANSWER: (John Dos) Passos

Tiebreakers:
This is a computational tossup, so you are allowed 30 seconds. Ignore units. Find the
length of the diagonal through the center of a cube if its volume is 8.
ANSWER: 2 Root 3
Give a one word answer. Early in its history, this country had what is now known as the
Several States Period and, like China, it had a Three Kingdoms Period. Its trade with
Western countries increased after an incident involving a ship called General Sherman in
1866. This country was controlled by Japan for much of the first half of the 20th Century,
and its status was debated between the United States and Soviet Union after World War
Two. A new war eventually broke out, splitting the nation in two. Name this country
currently headed by Roh Moo-hyun and Kim Jong-il.
ANSWER: Korea
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “A penny saved is a penny…
ANSWER: Earned

