1. Pop Culture
Characters included Thaddeus Harris, Zed, Larvell Jones, and Carey Mahoney.
Installments included Mission to Moscow, City Under Siege, Assignment Miami Beach,
Citizens on Patrol, Back in Training, and Their First Assignment. Name this group of
horrible comedy movies from the 1980s and 1990s about new cops.
ANSWER: Police Academy (accept longer answers)
2. World Literature
(Note to moderator: Gunter is pronounced Goonter.) The main character of this novel
begins his autobiography with a description of his grandmother Anna Bronski in
Kashubia cooking potatoes. People in his family, which moves to Danzig, generally don’t
live very long, sometimes because of World War Two. The protagonist, who is barely
over four feet tall, received a special gift when he was three-years-old. Name this novel
about Oskar Matzerath written by Gunter Grass.
ANSWER: (The) Tin Drum (or (Die) Blechtrommel)
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the 20th term of the sequence that begins 4, 7, 6, 9, 8, 11, 10, 13, 12, 15
ANSWER: 25
4. Art/Architecture
(Note to moderator: Faberge is three syllables.) Its Ground and First Floors, including the
Hall of Heracles, focus on works from before the 19th Century. On its Second Floor, it
has separate rooms dedicated to the works of Renoir, Monet, Rodin, Gauguin, Matisse,
Picasso, and Kandinsky. It also contains much of the jewelry created by Faberge. The
largest museum in the world, its primary building is the Winter Palace. Name this
museum started by Catherine The Great in Saint Petersburg.
ANSWER: (The State) Hermitage (Museum)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
Your answer must include a person’s name. This law can be used to predict how much
force will be exerted on the side of a container after water vapor is removed, and it is
often expressed using simple addition. Identify this law named after a famous British
chemist.
ANSWER: Dalton's Law (of Partial Pressures)

6. Religion/Mythology
He had the power to revive dead warriors, and the ones he did not revive were entertained
by him at Svarga. His greatest victory was over Vritra, who took the form of a dragon
after gathering all the water in the world. He is the most important god in the Rig Veda
and other ancient epics. Name this god who over time stopped being the most important
Hindu deity.
ANSWER: Indra (accept Indhor or Sakra)
7. US History
He graduated from Hampton Institute in 1875 and later taught there. He then took over
another school but got off to a slow start because, though it focused on agriculture, the
school owned only one tool and its only mule was blind. By the time he died, the school’s
endowment was over one million dollars. Name this author of Up From Slavery who
oversaw the development of Tuskegee University.
ANSWER: (Booker Taliaferro) Washington
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (10 Seconds)
Some of these quadrilaterals are not parallelograms, but other ones are squares. They can
be combined with darts to form Penrose tiles, and their area is often found using a
formula that also works for rhombuses. They have two diagonals, one of which divides
the shape into two isosceles triangles and the other of which divides the shape into two
congruent triangles. Name these shapes that have two pairs of congruent adjacent sides.
ANSWER: Kite(s) (or Deltoid(s))
9. Language Arts
This adjective originally referred to a group of doctors who paid no attention to theories.
It is derived from Greek and Latin words meaning Experienced. It now refers to ideas
that can be verified through observations or experiments. Name this adjective beginning
with the letter E.
ANSWER: Empiric(al) (or Empiricist)
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
These galaxies are characterized by low amounts of dust and gas, which in turn means
that they have less star formation than other galaxies. Though they have a shape, most
stellar motion within them seems random. They are generally small and faint, and they
are classified by how closely they approach being perfect spheres. Name these galaxies
that are not irregular nor spiral.
ANSWER: Elliptical (Galaxy) (accept different word forms)

11. World History
His ideas led to the Carlsbad Decrees, which increased censorship in Germany.
Following the July Revolution, he stated, “When France has a cold, all Europe sneezes.”
He spent many of the last years of his life in England after a series of revolutions was
seen as the failure of his ideas. Name this advisor to the first Emperor of Austria who
organized the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: (Prince Klemens von) Metternich
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Rounded to the nearest whole number, evaluate the derivative at x=1 of the function
y=20x. As a hint, the natural log of twenty is approximately 2.9957. Remember to round
your answer to the nearest whole number.
ANSWER: 60
13. British Literature
This novel is about the end of an estate with a butler named Frith. It is haunted by the title
character, who died about a year before most of the novel takes place. The estate, owned
by Maxim de Winter, is called Manderlay. Name this novel by Daphne Du Maurier.
ANSWER: Rebecca
14. Music
One of his compositions is a song cycle titled Detskaya, which means Nursery, and
another cycle is titled Sunless. In 1874, he wrote a piano suite inspired by the artwork of
his late friend Viktor Hartmann. In 1867, he composed a piece that inspired a similar
piece with a similar name by Rimsky-Korsakov. Name this member of The Five who
composed Pictures at an Exhibition and Night on Bald Mountain.
ANSWER: (Modest) Mussorgsky
15. Biology
(Note to moderator: Batesian is pronounced BATE-see-an.) This phenomenon can be
found in the relationship between the Tiger Swallowtail and the Pipevine Swallowtail.
The aggressive type, exemplified in frogfishes, is used to lure prey. When it is done by
two species both good at avoiding predators, it is classified as Mullerian. When only one
species is by itself good at avoiding predators, it is classified as Batesian. Name this
situation in which an organism evolves to share characteristics with others.
ANSWER: Mimic(ry) (or Mimetism, accept longer answers or other word forms)

16. Technology
Version 5 now allows users to make directory creation recursive, and it switched to Zend
Engine 2. Programs using it can now be debugged using APD. Identify this reflective
programming language created by a man born in Greenland to design dynamic web
pages.
ANSWER: PHP (or Personal Home Page)
17. Current Events
Thanks to last month’s referendum, the successor to this country’s President Abdullah
Gul will be elected by popular vote. Gul, who was chosen by Parliament, supported the
change along with Prime Minister Erdogan. This nation recently was unhappy with calls
in the US Congress to pass a measure about genocide in Armenia. It also is moving
troops to its border in order to threaten foreign Kurds. Name this nation that borders
Syria, Iran, and Iraq.
ANSWER: Turkey
18. Nonfiction
He wrote a book titled The World which expressed a heliocentric view of the universe,
but he chose not to publish it upon hearing of Galileo’s legal problems. He sometimes
wrote math books, such as Geometry, and he played a major role in moving mathematics
forward during the 17th Century. His best-known philosophical works are Discourse on
the Method and Meditations on First Philosophy. Name this Frenchman who wrote, “I
think, therefore I am.”
ANSWER: (Rene) DesCartes
19. Physics (30 Seconds)
Find the total amount of charge in coulombs that can be stored on two capacitors
connected in parallel to a battery if one of the capacitors is one farad, the other capacitor
is two farads, and the battery is nine volts.
ANSWER: 27 (Coulombs)
20. US Literature
This story begins, “In the very olden time there lived a semi-barbaric king.” This king
discovers that his daughter is in a love affair, and he decides to punish her lover using a
method that the king is famous for. The story ends with a question, and the way a reader
answers that question can tell you what that reader thinks about women. Name this story
by Frank Stockton about a young man who must open one of two doors.
ANSWER: (The) Lady, or the Tiger?

Tiebreakers:
This word comes from ancient Greek and Latin and translates literally as ‘to show side by
side’. It sometimes refers to a type of conjugation, but it more commonly refers to
something that serves as an example. Scientists started using it in the 1960s, and the
business community soon followed. They use it to refer to prevailing views. Give this
term that often precedes the word Shift.
ANSWER: Paradigm
New research suggests that this disease may be due to a lack of balance between
Neuroligin One and Neuroligin Two. It is the primary Pervasive Developmental
Disorder, a group of diseases estimated to affect one out of every 150 people, and more
common in boys than girls. Some people believe that vaccinations are a cause of it, but
most scientists disagree. Name this disease, whose spectrum includes Asperger’s
Syndrome, which affects communication and social interactions.
ANSWER: Autism (Disorder)
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “Certainty? In this world nothing
is certain but death and…
ANSWER: Taxes

