The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 3Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) A motto in this person’s newspaper read “Principle, not policy, Justice, not
favors,” and was financed by George Francis Train. This person acquired huge
amounts of debt from that newspaper, The Revolution. This person split from an
organization when it supported the 15th amendment called the American Equal
Rights Association. Justice Ward Hunt ordered her to pay a hundred dollar fine
for (∗ ) voting in the 1872 Presidential Election. Along with Elizabeth Cady Stanton, for ten
points, which American women’s civil rights advocate founded the National Woman Suffrage
Association?
ANSWER: Susan B. Anthony

(2) This river is joined to another river system to its north by the Casiquiare canal.
At the mouth of this river are the island of Marajo and the city of Belem, while a
major city on this river is Iquitos. It is formed by the confluence of the Maranon
and Ucayali rivers, and it is joined by a the blackwater Rio Negro at the city of
Manaus. This river is home to a namesake species of (∗ ) dolphin. Flowing from the
Andes to the Atlantic Ocean, for ten points, name this largest river in the world by volume found
in South America.
ANSWER:

Amazon River

(3) One of this author’s characters finds a diary in his room about the previous
occupant’s experiences with two pretty widows. This author of My Twenty-Five
Days wrote about a nun who says “The end justifies the means.” One of his
characters is left an inheritance by Leon Maréchal, and in another story, Rachel
hides in a bell tower after killing the title officer. This author of Pierre et Jean
and Mademoiselle Fifi wrote about Elisabeth Rousset agreeing to (∗ ) sleep with a
Prussian officer, and a short story where Mathilde Loisel works hard to buy a replacement for a
piece of Jeanne Forestier’s jewellery. For ten points, identify this author of Ball of Fat and The
Necklace.
ANSWER: Guy de Maupassant

Round 3- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) This property with respect to concatenation results from the Kleene operator. In
topology, intersections of sets of this type are always of this type, but only finite
unions of these sets are of this type. A set has this property if every convergent
sequence from the set has its limit in the set. The complex numbers have the
algebraic variety of this property since every complex polynomial has a complex
root. The Extreme Value Theorem states that continuous functions have maxima
if their domains are bounded intervals with this property, and (∗ ) intervals with this
property are represented using square brackets. For ten points, identify this type of set whose
complement is open.
ANSWER:

closedness (accept word forms like closure)

(5) In Twelver Shi’a, one who travels more than forty miles in one day may be exempt
from this practice. This practice was instituted in the second year of the Hijrah and
it is generally considered to be “wajib”. This may also be performed as kaffarah,
or atonement. According to some schools, such acts as vomiting or (∗ ) having sex
invalidate this practice. This practice supposedly teaches man a love for God and demonstrates
willpower. This is the pillar of Islam known as sawm. For ten points, name this action practiced
by Muslims from sunrise to sunset during Ramadan.
ANSWER:

fasting (prompt on anything similar, accept sawm before mention)

(6) This country lost land at the Second Vienna Award, and one government of this
country was known as the National Legionary State and was controlled by the farright Iron Guard. King Michael led a coup against a dictator of this country who
regained the region of Bessarabia. Another leader of this country declared women
who had more than ten children “heroine mothers,” and made his wife Elena deputy
prime minister, although later they were both executed on (∗ ) Christmas on national
television. Home of General Antonescu and once led by Nicolae Ceausescu, for ten points, name
this Eastern European nation with capital at Bucharest.
ANSWER:

Romania

(7) One artist from this country painted a man in a black suit holding hands with a
floating woman in a purple dress, while another artist from this country painted an
abstract work of a string band. Those works–The Walk and Composition VI –as
well as another work modeled on a jeweled casket, the Renaissance Egg, can be
found in the (∗ ) Winter Palace of this country’s largest art museum. This is the home country
of the painters of The Blue Rider and I and the Village, Wassily Kandinsky and Marc Chagall.
For ten points, name this European country, whose Faberge eggs can be found in the Hermitage
museum in St. Petersburg.
ANSWER:

Russia
Round 3- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(8) A figure in the bottom left of this painting is naked except for bandages on both
his feet, and to the left of that man lies the upper half of a corpse. Just above the
horizon appears the mast of the Argus, prompting excitement from four men under
a white sheet and causing a black man standing on a (∗ ) barrel to wave a red piece of
cloth. In the bottom right, a corpse lies with its head under water as it hangs off of the titular
vessel. Depicting the aftermath of a shipwreck, for ten points, name this painting by Theodore
Gericault.
ANSWER: The Raft of the Medusa (or Le Radeau de la Méduse)

(9) The Schlenk variety of this property is found in solutions of Grignard reagents,
and the temperature dependence of this condition is modeled by the van’t Hoff
equation. The standard Gibbs free energy of reaction is the product of negative
one, the gas constant, temperature, and the natural log of this state’s namesake
constant. Guldberg and Waage discovered the mathematical expression describing
it, the (∗ ) Law of Mass Action. Coming in solubility, vapor, and dynamic forms, for ten points,
name this chemical state in which the forward and reverse reactions occur at the same rate.
ANSWER: chemical equilibrium

(10) This author claimed that “to marvel at nothing” is “the only thing that can make and
maintain happiness” in a work addressed to Numicius. He claimed that “The true
poets...who powered the Old Comedy” such as Eupolis and Cratinus freely employed
the title device in his Satires. In one work, this man comments that Homer did not
begin The Odyssey with the birth of Helen, and another tells Leuconoë not to waste
time with “futile Babylonian calculations” but to (∗ ) “seize the day”. Coiner of the term
“in medias res,” for ten points, name this Roman author of Ars Poetica and multiple books of
Odes.
ANSWER:

Horace (or Quintus Horatius Flaccus)

(11) The large underground city of Blackreach in this game is reminiscent of an extinct
race, the Dwemer. A recent expansion to this game includes a crossbow and vampire
faction titled Dawnguard. New features to this game include the Radiant Story
system, which enables the player to engage in randomly generated quests from
cities such as Morthal and Winterhold. Its protagonist has the ability to absorb
souls from certain enemies to increase Thu’um, earning the title (∗ ) Dragonborn. Set
in its namesake province in Tamriel, for ten points, name this 2011 video game by Bethesda
Softworks in which the player attempts to defeat the dragon Alduin.
ANSWER: Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim (prompt on partial answer)

Round 3- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(12) The fifth book of Plutarch’s Moralia recounts stories of this god and his wife.
According to one story, this god kicked his brother, prompting retribution; in
another, he slept with his brother’s wife instead. This god was syncretized with
Ptah-Seker and his cult was centered around Abydos. In a major story, this god
was (∗ ) tricked into entering a box before being drowned in the Nile, and afterward, his corpse
was torn into fourteen pieces and had to be reconstructed by his wife, Isis. For ten points, name
this Egyptian deity of the underworld who was murdered by Set.
ANSWER:

Osiris

(13) Dividing the pressure gradient by viscosity returns the Laplacian of this quantity.
One version of this quantity is equal to the square root of the quantity 2 G M over
r end quantity. The drag force can be computed as this quantity squared times the
drag coefficient times this value squared times the reference area times the fluid
density. The oil-drop experiment determined the charge of the electron using the
(∗ ) “terminal” kind of this quantity. This value is the first derivative of position with respect to
time. For ten points, name the vector incorporating speed and direction.
velocity (accept
ANSWER:
terminal velocity)

speed before “Laplacian”, accept

escape velocity or

(14) This man stated that “we are now free of that inordinate fear of communism” in
a commencement speech at Notre Dame which pushed for arms reduction, a feat
this man later accomplished as part of the SALT II talks with Leonid Brezhnev.
He ordered the failed Operation Eagle Claw, but successfully negotiated with Begin
and Arafat in the Camp David Accords. He ordered an American boycott of the
Moscow Olympics in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and his (∗ ) poor
handling of the Iran Hostage Crisis caused him to be replaced by Ronald Reagan. For ten points,
identify this Democratic President from Georgia.
ANSWER: James Earl “Jimmy” Carter

(15) One character in this novel gives the majority of a piece of chocolate to her son, but
he steals the rest from his younger sister. Another character begins a diary on April
4 with a description of movies he saw the night before. Other books to appear are a
dictionary that Syme was working on and The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical
Collectivism, purportedly written by Emmanuel Goldstein. The protagonist works
at the (∗ ) Ministry of Truth, but is caught with Julia. He is put in Room 101 with rats, one
of the methods through which O’Brien brainwashes Winston Smith. “Big Brother is watching
you” in, for ten points, what novel by George Orwell?
ANSWER:

1984

Round 3- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(16) This man proved that the sum of the reciprocals of the prime numbers diverged,
which was the key to his proof of the infinitude of primes. This man used an
infinite product representation of the sine function to solve the Basel Problem. This
mathematician defined a function counting the numbers smaller than and relatively
prime to the input and used it to generalize Fermat’s Little Theorem; that function
is his (∗ ) totient function. This man related sine and cosine to imaginary powers of his namesake
constant. For ten points, name this Swiss mathematician after whom the constant e is named.
ANSWER: Leonhard Euler [pronounced “oiler”]

(17) One pathway in this process sees DISC formation after binding of the Fas ligand,
and early on in this process MAC channels and the proteins Bak and Bcl-2 become
activated. In nematodes, this process can occur by activating Ced-4 and Ced-3, and
it can also be triggered by an increase in p53 molecules. A common indicator of
this process is the presence of (∗ ) cytochrome c outside the mitochondria. Caspases play
an integral role in this process which results in non-webbed digits in some animals and in most
cases features a distinct lobing process known as blebbing. For ten points, name this biological
process of programmed cell death.
ANSWER:

apoptosis

(18) After Masoud Barzani chose the opposite side in a war, this man had 8,000 of his
clan members killed. After a failed uprising against this man, he dried marshes
thereby forcing refugees to leave. Three months after Operation Scorch Sword
against this man, Osirak was destroyed in Operation Opera. April Glaspie may
have not discouraged this leader to launch an attack against Halabja as part of his
al-anfal campaign. Operations (∗ ) Desert Shield and Desert Storm were launched after this
man’s invasion of Kuwait, as part of the First Gulf War. For ten points, identify this Ba’ath
dictator of Iraq until 2003.
ANSWER: Saddam Hussein Abd al-Majid al-Tikriti

(19) One character in this opera tries to find proof he doesn’t need to house a drunken
soldier. Another character in this opera breaks dishes because it’s too dark with the
shutters closed and bribes a tutor into going home sick. One character sings from
“The Vain Precaution” during a music lesson, and another is advised to make up
rumors about a rival in the aria La calunnia e un venticello, sung by Don Basilio.
The main character enters singing (∗ ) Largo al factotum. One character disguises himself
both as a music tutor Don Alonso and Lindoro, and Dr. Bartolo is tricked when Count Almaviva
marries Rosino. For ten points, identify this Gioachino Rossini opera about Figaro.
ANSWER: The Barber of Seville (or Il Barbiere di Siviglia)

Round 3- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(20) This author wrote a novel in which two children try to stick an invitation to have
ice cream to a window with a fishing pole. One character created by this author
is the town garbage collector Zeebo, who leads Reverend Sykes’ church in reading
hymnals. In that novel, two Indian-head pennies and chewing gum are found in
a knothole and the protagonist finds a blanket placed around her at a fire at Miss
Maudie Atkinson’s house. That novel also saw a trial prompted by (∗ ) Mayella Ewell’s
claims that Tom Robinson raped her. For ten points, name this author who created Boo Radley,
Scout, and Atticus Finch in her novel To Kill a Mockingbird.
ANSWER: Nelle Harper Lee

(21) This instrument plays alone in the third movement of Quartet for the End of Time,
“Abyss of the Birds”, and Debussy composed a “Premiére Rhapsodie” for orchestra
and this instrument. Copland wrote a work in which this instrument plays a cadenza
between the two movements, supplemented by a string orchestra and a harp. Brahms
featured this instrument playing “with motion” in a quintet in B minor, which was
inspired by an A major quintet by Mozart, who composed that piece and an A Minor
concerto for Anton Stadler. (∗ ) Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue opens with a glissando from,
for ten points, what single-reed woodwind instrument?
ANSWER:

clarinet

Round 3- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) He once said that “If a man has not made a million dollars by the time he is forty, he is not
worth much.” For ten points each:
[10] Name this American president who oversaw the Stock Market Crash of 1929 and the onset
of the Great Depression before being replaced by Franklin Roosevelt.
ANSWER: Herbert Hoover
[10] During Hoover’s tenure, this group of disgruntled World War I veterans marched on
Washington to demand immediate payment of their Certificates of Service.
ANSWER: Bonus Army or Bonus Expeditionary Force
[10] To deal with the Bonus Army, Hoover told this American general to “surround the affected
area and clear it without delay”. This general used tear gas against them, leading to fires and
dozens of casualties.
ANSWER: Douglas MacArthur

(2) This goddess passed on a jewel, a mirror, and a sword as Imperial Regalia. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this sun goddess who hid in a cave after her brother threw a flayed horse at her.
ANSWER: Amaterasu
[10] Amaterasu is a deity of the myth system of this country, whose myths are recorded in the
Kojiki.
ANSWER: Japan (or Nippon or Nihon)
[10] When Amaterasu hid from her brother Susano’o, this goddess of festivities danced in front
of the cave to convince her to come out.
ANSWER: Ame-no-Uzume

(3) Identify the following about crippling bone disorders for ten points each.
[10] In one episode of this show, Peter Griffin travels around Quahog, Rhode Island listening
to his own theme music before a genie turns him into a blob when he wishes that he had no
bones.
ANSWER: Family Guy
[10] In 22 Short Films About Springfield, this man diagnoses Abe Simpson with bonus eruptus,
a condition in which the skeleton tries to jump out of the body, and prescribes transdental
electromicide.
ANSWER: Dr. Nick Riviera (accept either)
[10] One episode of Futurama saw Steve Castle become CEO of this delivery company and
arrange its hostile takeover by Mom before dying of boneitis.
ANSWER: Planet Express

Round 3- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) Its namesake “Armada” investigated it during its 1986 perihelion. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this comet with a 76-year orbital period, the first periodic comet ascertained.
ANSWER: Halley’s Comet (or 1P/Halley)
[10] This other comet reached perihelion in 1997, but was visible for many months on end.
Its last perihelion was possibly observed by the Egyptians. It gained notoriety after a mass
suicide by the Heaven’s Gate cult, who thought a spaceship was following it.
ANSWER: Comet Hale-Bopp (or C/1995 O1)
[10] This comet was observed in the SOHO spacecraft in December 2011. Although it was the
largest the probe had seen, experts expected it to disintegrate at perihelion. They were wrong.
ANSWER: Comet Lovejoy (or C/2011 W3)

(5) Answer the following about authors seeking El Dorado for ten points each.
[10] This author wrote about “a gallant knight” seeking Eldorado “Over the Mountains Of
the Moon, Down the Valley of the Shadow.” He also wrote a popular story describing William
Legrand being bitten by a titular gold bug.
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe
[10] The title character of this novella by Voltaire visits El Dorado with Cacambo, but misses
Cunegonde and leaves with riches and a hundred red sheep.
ANSWER: Candide, or Optimism (or Candide, ou L’Optimisme)
[10] Eliza Sommers searches futilely for Joaquin Andieta in “El Dorado”, a section of this
author’s Daughter of Fortune.
ANSWER: Isabel Allende

(6) In most cases, it is caused by a major disturbance in habitat, such as wildfire or flooding. For
ten points each:
[10] Name this process characterized by a change in the variety and number of species
occupying a certain community.
ANSWER: ecological succession
[10] When succession occurs in a habitat previously barren of life, this term is given to the
first organisms to colonize it. These organisms often include algae or lichen.
ANSWER: pioneer organism
[10] This term is given to communities that are occupied by organisms best suited to living in
them when ecological succession has reached an equilibrium.
ANSWER: climax communities

Round 3- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) The main character keeps repeating “Free. Body and soul free.” For ten points each:
[10] Identify this short story in which Mrs. Mallard drops dead of a heart attack when her
husband- who did not die in a railroad accident- walks in the door.
ANSWER: Story of an Hour
[10] In this novel by the author of Story of an Hour, Edna Pontellier falls in love with Robert
Lebrun, although she’s already married to Léonce. At the end of the novel, she drowns herself.
ANSWER: The Awakening
[10] The Awakening and Story of an Hour were both written by this American author who
wrote about Armand sending his wife and child to the Valmondes in Desiree’s Baby.
ANSWER: Kate Chopin

(8) It is speculated to have occurred on Ambion Hill. For ten points each:
[10] The Stanleys decided to support Henry VII in this battle after Richard III left most of his
army behind in a charge, leading to his own death.
ANSWER: Battle of Bosworth Field
[10] The Battle of Bosworth Field was one of the final battles in this civil war which pitted the
House of Lancaster against the House of York, ending with a victory for the Lancastrians.
ANSWER: War of the Roses (or Wars of the Roses)
[10] The death of this monarch is attributed to his uncle Richard III as he tried to secure his
succession of power on the English throne prior to his death at Bosworth Field. Along with
his brother, he was one of the Princes in the Tower.
ANSWER: Edward V (prompt on “Edward”)

(9) His Gassed showed World War I soldiers in the aftermath of a mustard gas attack. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this artist who painted two girls lighting lanterns among flowers in Carnation, Lily,
Lily, Rose and a Parisian socialite in a black dress in his Portrait of Madame X.
ANSWER: John Singer Sargent
[10] Sargent painted [this artist] Painting by the Edge of a Wood. This artist was shown
painting a scene of trees, as in his The Harbour at Argenteuil and Poplars on the Epte.
ANSWER: Oscar-Claude Monet
[10] Monet was a member of this artistic movement, whose name derives from his painting of
the Le Havre harbor at dawn.
ANSWER: impressionism (accept Impression, sunrise or Impression, soleil levant)

Round 3- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) The major tenet behind this philosophy is called the hedonic calculus. For ten points each:
[10] Name this doctrine espousing actions that cause the greatest amount of happiness for the
greatest number of people.
ANSWER: utilitarianism
[10] In this writer’s book Utilitarianism, he explores the intrinsic values of different forms of
happiness, claiming it is “better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a fool satisfied”.
ANSWER: John Stuart Mill
[10] This author of The Logic of Scientific Discovery argued that minimizing pain was a better
definition of utilitarianism than maximizing pleasure in his The Open Society and its Enemies.
ANSWER: Karl Popper

(11) Name these World War II generals for ten points each.
[10] This German leader of the Afrikakorps was nicknamed the “Desert Fox”. After a failed
plot to assassinate Hitler, he agreed to take a cyanide pill.
ANSWER: Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel
[10] Rommel fought in the Battle of El Alamein against this British commander, who also
later commanded troops in Sicily and during D-Day. He also coordinated the failed attempt
to bridge the Rhine in Operation Market Garden.
ANSWER: Bernard Montgomery
[10] This Soviet General successfully defended Stalingrad and launched the Operation Uranus
counteroffensive in addition to winning the Battles of Moscow and Kursk.
ANSWER: Georgy Zhukov

(12) In one of its stories, Eveline hoped to escape the fates of Ernest and Harry by marrying Frank.
For ten points each:
[10] Identify this collection of short stories about the title locale, including one in which Gabriel
Conroy goes to a party and confronts his wife Greta about her old love for Michael Furey, The
Dead.
ANSWER: Dubliners
[10] Dubliners was written by this author, who wrote about Stephen Dedalus leaving Ireland
to explore his ambitions in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and about Leopold and
Molly Bloom in Ulysses.
ANSWER: James Joyce
[10] Richard Rowan, Bertha, and Robert Hand are caught up in a love triangle in this only
play by James Joyce.
ANSWER: Exiles

Round 3- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) It was argued that this process leads to the “mental mutilation” of the masses. For ten points
each:
[10] Identify this concept exemplified by the workers of a pin factory specializing in such tasks
as drawing wire, sharpening the point, and attaching the head.
ANSWER: division of labor
[10] This Scottish economist claimed that “the greatest improvements of the productive powers
. . . have been effects of the division of labor” in his book The Wealth of Nations, which
included his example of the pin factory.
ANSWER: Adam Smith
[10] In his book The Division of Labor in Society, this thinker discussed individuals losing their
sense of societal identity in a phenomenon he called “anomic division of labor”.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim

(14) They are only around one-twentieth as strong as common covalent bonds. For ten points each:
[10] Name this interaction between atoms of its namesake element and highly electronegative
atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen, and fluorine in different molecules.
ANSWER: Hydrogen bonds
[10] These entities around highly electronegative atoms are responsible for hydrogen bonding.
Ligands form coordinate bonds in transition metal complexes using these, and they are written
as two dots in Lewis diagrams.
ANSWER: lone pairs (prompt on “electron pair(s)”)
[10] This cation with formula NH4+ cannot hydrogen bond because it has no lone pairs. Its
conjugate base is produced en masse through the Haber-Bosch process.
ANSWER: ammonium (careful: do not accept “ammonia”)

(15) John Adams composed a concerto for this instrument titled The Dharma at Big Sur. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this instrument for which Vivaldi wrote many works, including L’Estro Armonico.
This instrument has a solo in Saint-Saens’ Danse Macabre set in scordatura tuning.
ANSWER: violin
[10] This Italian violin virtuoso was rumored to have sold his soul to the devil for his skills. He
wrote many pieces for solo violin, including twenty-four Caprices.
ANSWER: Niccolo Paganini
[10] Dvorak and Schumann both wrote concertos for this violinist, neither of which he actually
played. Schumann, Brahms, and Albert Dietrich collaborated on the F-A-E Sonata, which
was dedicated to him.
ANSWER: Joseph Joachim

Round 3- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) The speaker of one of her poems confesses “I think I made you up inside my head” and another
concludes “There is nothing more for me to say.” For ten points each:
[10] Identify this author of Mad Girl’s Love Song and Denouement who collected some of her
poems in Ariel.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
[10] Mad Girl’s Love Song and Denouement are examples of this poetic form, which repeats
the first and third lines of the first stanza as the final line of the remaining five stanzas.
ANSWER: villanelle
[10] This poet, who warned to “Rage, rage against the dying of the light” in his villanelle “Do
not go gentle into that good night.”
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas

(17) The absolute monarchy in this kingdom was replaced by a constitutional monarchy in 1932
when activists launched a coup against King Rama VII. For ten points each:
[10] Name this former southeast Asian nation, now known as Thailand, which was ruled by
monarchs such as Mongkut and Chulalongkorn.
ANSWER: Siam
[10] Siam finished off this empire founded by Jayavarman II. This empire’s ruler of Suryavarman
II built Angkor Wat.
ANSWER: Khmer
[10] Jayavarman VII reconquered Angkor from this Hindu kingdom, and proceeded to conquer
that kingdom to the east. It was located in modern day south-central Vietnam.
ANSWER: Champa

(18) Fluids moving in well-defined spaces such as pipes exert forces on the walls of their containers.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this law that inversely relates speed and pressure in a confined space, such as a pipe
or in the immediate vicinity of an airplane’s wing. A Venturi Tube makes use of this principle
to measure liquid flow.
ANSWER: Bernoulli’s Principle or Equation
[10] This upward force in aerodynamics is often falsely attributed to Bernoulli’s Principle. In
reality, it is mostly caused by the Coanda effect at subsonic speeds.
ANSWER: lift
[10] Also not creating lift are small wings at the front of planes called canards, which provide
stability against this rotational force, which leans the aircraft to the left or right.
ANSWER: roll

Round 3- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) Conditionally convergent series show that infinite addition lacks this property. For ten points
each:
[10] Identify this property of an operation in which the order of the inputs does not affect the
output. Addition and multiplication notably have this property, but subtraction and division
do not.
ANSWER: commutative (accept word forms like “commutativity”)
[10] This adjective describes a group whose operation is commutative.
ANSWER: abelian
[10] This operation between two vectors is anticommutative, meaning that switching the order
of inputs changes the sign of the output.
ANSWER: cross product

(20) Answer the following about Japanese religion for ten points each.
[10] When visiting a “jinja” shrine in this religion, worshipers are supposed to clap twice to
wake up the kami housed within.
ANSWER: Shinto
[10] Kanichi Yamamoto was the first Japanese practitioner of this faith headquartered in Haifa,
Israel. The son of this faith’s founder wrote 18 tablets to the Japanese, and another to the
Koreans.
ANSWER: Baha’i
[10] The Japanese Buddhist sect of Soka Gakkai was inspired by this document. A major text
of Mahayana Buddhism, it contains the Parable of the Burning House.
ANSWER: Lotus Sutra (or Saddharma Pundarika Sutra or myoho-renge-kyo or hokke-kyo)

(21) The main character runs away from Logan Killicks to marry Joe Starks. After his death, she
marries Tea Cake, but needs to shoot him when he gets rabies. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel about Janie Crawford reminiscing about her life.
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God
[10] Their Eyes Were Watching God is a novel by this American author who wrote about
Arvay Henson, Jim Meserve, and their son Earl in Seraph on the Suwanee.
ANSWER: Zora Neale Hurston
[10] Zora Neale Hurston was a writer in this movement, originating from a namesake part of
New York, which included such African American writers as Countee Cullen, Claude McKay,
and W.E.B. Du Bois.
ANSWER: Harlem Renaissance

Round 3- Page 13

