1. Pop Culture
His first singles were “What’s Your Fantasy” and “Southern Hospitality” from the
albums Incognegro and Back For The First Time. He has appeared in several movies,
playing Tej in 2 Fast 2 Furious and Anthony in Crash. Name this rapper from Oak Park
whose hits have included “Stand Up”, “Splash Waterfalls”, “Money Maker”, and
“Runaway Love”.
ANSWER: Ludacris (or (Chris) Bridges)
2. World Literature
At the beginning of this novel, Charles introduces himself at a new school. The novel
follows Charles as he grows up and becomes a doctor. His first wife dies, and he then
marries a daughter of one of his patients. His second wife, who is the title character, has
some affairs and bankrupts him. Name this 19th Century French novel by Gustave
Flaubert.
ANSWER: Madame Bovary
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the largest of the four consecutive integers that add up to 294.
ANSWER: 75
4. Art/Architecture
One well-known example was moved from Alexandria to London in 1877. Many were
moved to Rome after its military successes in ancient Egypt. In Egypt, they probably
were used to worship the Sun. These sculptures get slightly thinner as you go up them
and have a pyramid at the top. Name these works exemplified by The Washington
Monument.
ANSWER: Obelisk(s) (prompt Stele or Stela)
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
In Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion theory, this shape corresponds to sp3d2
hybridization. Like a square planar molecule, it gives bond angles of 90 degrees. The
most common example is sulfur hexachloride. Name this shape which corresponds to one
of the five Platonic solids.
ANSWER: Octahedron (or Octahedral)

6. Religion/Mythology
His helmet, armor, and javelin were all made out of bronze, though the javelin tip was
iron. Described in First Samuel, Chapter 17, he asks, “Am I a dog, that you come at me
with sticks?” Soon afterwards, he is struck on the forehead and killed. Name this nine
foot tall Philistine.
ANSWER: Goliath
7. US History
He lived in England with Ferdinando Gorges after sailing on George Weymouth’s ship.
After returning to America, he was kidnapped and brought to Spain, but he was able to
return to America again. A member of the Patuxet tribe, he was a friend of Samoset.
Name this 16th and 17th Century Native American who assisted the Pilgrims.
ANSWER: Squanto (or Tisquantum)
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (10 Seconds)
This function can be evaluated on the unit circle by finding the length of a segment
starting at the origin, going through the point on the unit circle, and ending when it
intersects the line y=1. It is also equal to the reciprocal of the distance from the point on
the unit circle to the x-axis. On a right triangle, it is equal to the length of the hypotenuse
divided by the length of the leg opposite the angle. Name this function that is the
reciprocal of the sine function.
ANSWER: Cosecant (do not accept Secant or Cosine)
9. Language Arts
This term has been in use since the 16th Century, when it referred to anything after the
Middle Ages. It appears several times in Shakespeare’s plays, where it refers to ordinary
objects and people. It often is associated with art and literary movements that began in
the Late 19th and Early 20th Centuries. Give this synonym of Recent that begins with the
letter M.
ANSWER: Modern (accept additional suffixes)
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
This region takes its name from the color of hydrogen alpha emission. About ten
thousand kilometers deep, it is found between the photosphere and corona. Identify this
region of the Sun’s atmosphere with a prefix that means ‘color’.
ANSWER: Chromosphere

11. World History
When this politician challenged Edward Heath for the Tory leadership, Heath said
without looking up, “You’ll lose; good day to you.” This Prime Minister eventually
became known for fighting unions, privatizing government functions, not being able to
control interest rates, fighting Argentina, and building an alliance with Ronald Reagan.
Identify this leader nicknamed Iron Lady.
ANSWER: (Margaret) Thatcher (accept Roberts)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Find the value of k if the function y=kx2 plus the natural log of x [y=kx2+ln x] has a
maximum value when x equals one-fourth
ANSWER: -8 (do not accept 8)
13. British Literature
In the Second Act of this play, Jacques describes the seven stages of a man’s life. His
description begins, “All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players.”
Name this Shakespeare play that also involves the characters Orlando, Touchstone, and
Rosalind.
ANSWER: As You Like It
14. Music
(Note to moderator: Radames is pronounced RAH-duh-mees.) This opera contains the
aria “O Patria Mia”, in which the main character expresses her love for her homeland.
She escapes slavery with her father, King Amanasro, but returns to spend eternity with
her lover, Radames. Name this Verdi work about an Ethiopian princess in Egypt.
ANSWER: Aida
15. Biology
Some of the famous studies of this phenomenon have been on muskrats, songbirds, and
humans. An example of intraspecific competition, it is often considered a male behavior
even though there are many examples from both genders. The behavior often involves
bright colors, unusual sounds, or strong odors. Name this behavior pattern that consists of
occupying a specific area.
ANSWER: Territorial(ity)

16. Technology
This term first got its current form as a prefix for the word assembler, and it can be
thought of as a program or command. These have been used to embed viruses in Word
documents. Many pieces of software, including Excel, allow you to create your own in
order to automate repetitive tasks. Name this term that also is used as a prefix in the name
of the company that originally created Flash.
ANSWER: Macro(s) (do not accept Macromedia)
17. Current Events
Over the summer, this nation was the site of Lal Masjid Siege, which is sometimes
referred to as the Red Mosque Incident. Students from the mosque fought the
government, and a few hundred people died when the government took over the building.
Additionally, one former Prime Minister of this country made a brief return in September
before being returned to Saudi Arabia, and another former Prime Minister survived a
bombing that killed over one hundred people after her return in October. Name this
nation headed by Pervez Musharraf.
ANSWER: Pakistan
18. Nonfiction
They begin with the narrator asking: “Isn't it a pleasure to study and practice what you
have learned? Isn't it also great when friends visit from distant places? If people do not
recognize me and it doesn't bother me, am I not a Superior Man?” Usually broken down
into twenty sections, it joins with the Great Learning, the Doctrine of the Mean, and the
Mencius to form the Four Books. Though a well-known philosopher is credited for it, this
work was compiled by his student Zengzi and several people after him. Name this
collection of the ideas of Confucius.
ANSWER: (The) Analects (of Confucius) (accept Lun Yu or Lun Yi, prompt answers
that mention Confucius but not Analects)
19. Physics (30 Seconds)
Include units. Find the average power of an alternating current circuit that has a peak
voltage of 120 Volts and a peak current of 10 Amperes. You need to use the average, or
root mean square, voltage and current, each of which can be found by dividing the peak
values by the square root of two.
ANSWER: 600 Watts (prompt Volt Ampers, Joules Per Second, or no units; accept 600
Kilogram Meters Squared Per Second Cubed)

20. US Literature
His first novel was titled Not Without Laughter, and his last poetry collection was titled
The Panther and The Lash. Lines from his poems include, “They'll see how beautiful I
am and be ashamed”, “My soul has grown deep like the rivers”, and “Maybe it just sags
like a heavy load.” Those line are taken from “I, Too, Sing America”, “The Negro Speaks
of Rivers”, and “Dream Deferred”. Name this Harlem Renaissance poet.
ANSWER: (Langston) Hughes
Tiebreakers:
This is a computational tossup, so you are allowed 30 Seconds. How many individual
socks do you have to pick out of a drawer without replacement to guarantee a matching
pair if there are seven unique matching pairs?
ANSWER: 8
It includes Uncle Jim Point, Cape Royal, and Tuweep. Native Americans called it
Kaibab, which means mountain lying down, and it was first seen by Spaniards in 1540.
Stretching from Lees Ferry to Grand Wash Cliffs, it is 277 miles long and 18 miles wide.
Located about ninety miles from Flagstaff, it attracts over four million visitors each year.
Name this huge hole containing the Colorado River in Northern Arizona.
ANSWER: Grand Canyon
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “God helps those who help…
ANSWER: Themselves

