The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 4Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) One advisor to this monarch was the Duke of Alba, who led the Council of Blood
and helped him win the Battle of Muhlberg against the Schmalkaldic League. One
of this man’s enemies joined the League of Cognac only weeks after being released
after signing the Treaty of Madrid. That enemy had been captured at the Battle of
Pavia, where this leader defeated Francis I. The son of Joanna the Mad, his reign
saw the conquest of the Aztec and Inca empires. He called the (∗ ) Diet of Worms
against Martin Luther. For ten points, name this Hapsburg King of Spain and Holy Roman
Emperor.
ANSWER: Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire (accept Charles I of Spain but do not accept
or prompt “Charles I”, prompt on “Charles”, accept Karl or Carlos in place of “Charles”)

(2) In this work, after misinterpreting their discussion on how to kill a pig, a pair of
characters massacre a family. A magician in this work builds the stone sentinel maze
and acquires a hundred thousand arrows in three days by borrowing them from an
enemy. After the antagonist is caught sneaking up on someone with the Seven Gems
sword, he claims he was presenting it as a gift. In this novel, the Peach Garden oath
is sworn by Liu Bei, and (∗ ) Cao Cao is defeated at the Battle of Red Cliffs. Describing the
wars after the fall of the Han Dynasty, for ten points, name this Chinese classic written by Luo
Guanzhong.
ANSWER:

Romance of the Three Kingdoms (or Sanguó Yanyı̀)

(3) This process can mistake improperly located wind turbines for tornados. In this
process, a thermal inversion can cause ducting, leading to anomalous propagation,
and range folding occurs at large distances. Melting snow under this process can
show up as a “bright band”, and high values of its Vertically Integrated Liquid
product can indicate hail. Attenuation by (∗ ) thunderstorms is a common problem with
using a 5 mm wavelength, and velocity couplets are detected using its Doppler variety. For ten
points, identify this process which uses radio waves to study weather.
ANSWER: weather radar

Round 4- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) This shape can be represented in cylindrical coordinates with the equation the
logarithm of r times the sine of theta over 2 equals z times the cosine of theta over 2.
This shape can be topologically represented using a cross-cap. This nonorientable
surface has a boundary and Euler characteristic 0. (∗ ) Cutting this surface along a line
through the middle produces a paradromic ring, and attaching two of these shapes together along
their edges produces a Klein bottle. For ten points, identify this one-sided shape constructed as
a loop with a half-twist.
ANSWER:

Möbius strip or Möbius band or Möbius surface

(5) One of these works has the text to its first movement unusually written in Greek; that
one is by Gabriel Fauré. One of these begins, “Blessed are those who mourn: They
shall be comforted” and was written in its composer’s vernacular German. Another
of these works includes a movement which bids “Gentle Lord Jesus, grant them
eternal rest”; that movement, the Lacrimosa, was finished by Franz (∗ ) Sussmayer,.
These works often include the Dies Irae, and a famous one was left unfinished after Mozart’s
death. Including a “German” one by Brahms, for ten points, name these musical settings of the
liturgical mass for the dead.
ANSWER:

Requiem mass

(6) This man described how one of his works began with hearing the doorbell ring
in Memories, Dreams, and Reflections. This scientist wrote Seven Sermons to
the Dead and his Red Book in addition to writing about Eve, Helen, Mary, and
Sophia as stages of male development. He used the term “syzygy” to describe the
contra-sexual opposites anima and animus. This man laid the groundwork for the
Myers-Briggs test by describing (∗ ) introverts and extroverts in his work Psychological
Types. For ten points, identify this founder of analytical psychology who studied archetypes and
the collective unconscious.
ANSWER: Carl Jung

(7) In one work by this author, Raban journeys to his future wife, Betty, and in another,
a trapeze artist never wants to come back to ground. This author of Wedding
Preparations in the Country and First Sorrow wrote a story where the Officer
has the phrase “Be just” inscribed on his back by his own torture machine. The
protagonist of another buys three identical paintings from Titorelli and hears the
parable “Before the Law” about a doorkeeper. This author of (∗ ) In the Penal Colony
wrote an unfinished novel where Joseph K is arrested for no reason, and a novella where Gregor
Samsa turns into a giant insect. For ten points, identify this author of The Trial and The
Metamorphosis.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka

Round 4- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(8) In the Aeneid, Evander recounts how this man set up an altar in a grove after
strangling a fire-breathing son of Vulcan, Cacus. This man killed a beast with
a fishhook to rescue Hesione prior to his sack of Troy. After killing the centaur
Nessus, this hero was accidentally poisoned by his wife Deianeira. This man took
(∗ ) Atlas’ place holding up the sky while Atlas retrieved the Apples of the Hesperides for him,
but he is most famous for killing monsters such as the Hydra and the Nemean lion in order to
satisfy Eurystheus. For ten points, name this Greek hero who performed twelve labors.
ANSWER:

Heracles (or Hercules)

(9) One leader with this last name launched the Baroda dynamite case against George
Fernandes. Another leader with this surname dismantled his country’s economic
licensing system, and another organized a strike in response to the Rowlatt Act.
One was assassinated after walking the “Path of Light”. Another leader with this
name signed the Shimla Agreement and was assassinated in response to Operation
Blue Star. Another led a (∗ ) protest that ended in Dandi in response to a British colonial tax;
that Salt March exemplified his “satyagraha” method of nonviolent resistance. For ten points,
name this surname shared by Rajiv, Indira, and Mohandas, who was known as Mahatma.
ANSWER:

Gandhi

(10) This process includes the sub-stages pachytene and zygotene. Mistakes during this
process can result in Edward and Turner syndromes, while others are caused by
trisomies. Organisms that undergo parthenogenesis do not carry out this process.
The formation and organization of a bivalent is aided by the protein cohesin in this
process. The Laws of (∗ ) Independent Assortment and Segregation pertain to stages in this
process, which sees the formation of spindle fibers and the pairing of homologous chromosomes
during crossing over. For ten points, name this special form of cell division which produces four
daughter cells from one cell.
ANSWER:

meiosis (accept prophase 1 until “syndromes”)

Round 4- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(Note to moderator: Please look over the answer line carefully before reading the next tossup.)
(11) Greenland reversed this action in 1985, and Norway started to take this action three
times. One attempt to complete this action is stalled due to the Cyprus dispute.
Charles De Gaulle once said “Non” to prevent the United Kingdom from taking this
action. The Copenhagen Criteria determine whether a country can complete this
action. After settling a border dispute with Slovenia, Croatia will take this action in
2013. Governed by the Treaty of (∗ ) Maastricht and the Treaty of Lisbon, for ten points,
name this action of becoming part of a continental economic and political union.
joining the
European Community (accept equivalents for “joining” such as
ANSWER:
acceding, accept European Union or EU or European Economic Community or EEC in
place of “European Community”)

(12) Jesus healed the blind man Bartimaeus in this city, in which Jesus later visited the
house of the sycamore-climbing Zacchaeus. Just outside this city, Israelites following
the Ark of the Covenant crossed the flooded Jordan river on dry land. Two spies
were housed by Rahab in this city. She was later saved when this city was burned
to the ground after it was breached by an army (∗ ) walking around it for seven days
blowing trumpets. For ten points, name this city attacked by Joshua whose walls came down.
ANSWER:

Jericho

(13) Superoscillation can circumvent one effect of this process, and the Cornu spiral can
aid the computation of this effect. To find the angle resolution in this effect, one uses
a formulation involving a constant of 1.22 and the wavelength over the diameter.
The Fraunhofer type of this effect is contrasted with the Fresnel type. The Rayleigh
Criterion is used to find the effect of this process in the case of a round aperture.
Two effects of this phenomenon are (∗ ) Newton’s rings and Airy discs. For ten points,
name this phenomenon in which light bends around an object or through a small opening.
ANSWER:

diffraction

(14) One character in this novel breaks A. Hopkins Parker’s swimming record, but doesn’t
tell anyone, and another becomes Assistant Crew Manager to Quackenbush. One
character is nicknamed “The Yellow Peril,” and Elwin leaves the ski troops before
getting a Section Eight discharge and is nicknamed “Leper.” During a meeting of
the Super Suicide Society of the Summer Session, one character falls from a tree
and (∗ ) breaks his leg, and the protagonist admits to shaking the branch when Brinker Hadley
confronts him. Set in Devon and focused on the friendship and jealousy between Phineas and
Gene Forrester, for ten points, identify this novel taking place during World War II written by
John Knowles.
ANSWER: A Separate Peace
Round 4- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(15) This man described a technique for maintaining integrity and meeting constraints
in a concept he called the “organization of the artist”. One work by this architect
is scheduled to be opened in Washington D.C. on Memorial Day 2015; that work is
the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial. This man’s design for the Hotel Marques De
Riscal in Elciego, Spain features a large metallic purple ribbon. Another building
by this architect stands next to the Space Needle with a (∗ ) monorail passing through
it. For ten points, name this Canadian-American architect of the Experience Music Project as
well as the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles and the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao.
ANSWER: Frank Gehry (or Ephraim Owen Goldberg)

(16) The namesake dehydrogenase of this class of molecules makes molecules with this
functional group while oxidizing NADH. Jones’s reagent can be used to convert
primary types of these molecules into carboxylic acids and secondary types into
ketones. Grignard reagents produce them by reacting with carbonyl groups, and
(∗ ) yeast can be used to produce the ethyl variety of these substances, excessive consumption
of which can cause cirrhosis of the liver. For ten points, name this class of organic molecules
distinguished by a hydroxyl group.
ANSWER:

alcohols

(17) Equipment for this sport is produced by Empacher. It’s not skiing, but the company
Concept 2 manufactures ergometers for this sport. This sport has a U23 division,
which is currently led by Andrew Campbell in the USA. Allegations of having a
Nazi boyfriend caused Germany’s Nadja Drygalla quit this sport, and the current
world champion in one variant is the Czech Ondrej Synek. The London Olympics
hosted events in this at the 2 kilometer course at Eton Dorney. Events in this sport
can be performed with or without a (∗ ) coxswain, and some are performed in sculls. For
ten points, name this aquatic sport in which athletes race boats.
ANSWER:

rowing (accept crew)

(18) While serving as Colonel, he delivered a speech to the Senate describing the state
of the nation as a “fried eel...upon the steam of a tea kettle.” He defeated William
Butler for a spot in the Tennessee legislature. After participating in the Creek War,
he joined Congress and started to oppose Andrew Jackson, exemplified by his and
Senator Frelinghuysen’s opposition of the Indian Removal Act. He brought a fiddle
to play at the battle where he met his end. (∗ ) For ten points, name this American “King
of the Wild Frontier” who died at the Battle of the Alamo.
ANSWER: David “Davy” Crockett

Round 4- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(19) This man painted people standing on the beach watching the titular event in his
Mount Vesuvius in Eruption, and he depicted onlookers of another disaster in
Burning of the Houses of Parliament. One painting by this artist sees a war-worn
ship from the Battle of Trafalgar being tugged by a boat with a tall smokestack. In
another of his paintings, a farmer can be seen on the right side and a rower on the
left while a barely-visible rabbit runs ahead of a (∗ ) train on the Maidenhead Railway
Bridge. For ten points, name this British artist of works like The Fighting Temeraire and Rain,
Steam and Speed in addition to his The Slave Ship.
ANSWER: John Mallord William Turner

(20) One author with this last name wrote about Mr. Bertram “born of English peasants”
and a woman “sprung of English nobles” in Lady Geraldine’s Courtship. An author
with the same last name wrote about a poem that begins “Grow old with me! The
best is yet to come!” In addition to Rabbi Ben Ezra, he wrote about a silk-winder
and the “happiest four in Asolo” in Pippa Passes. One author with this last name
wrote (∗ ) “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways,” in Sonnets from the Portuguese, and
another wrote about a painting by Fra Pandolf and a woman with a heart “too soon made glad,”
in My Last Duchess. For ten points, name this surname shared by Robert and Elizabeth Barrett.
ANSWER:

Browning

(21) This character asks a friend to whisper “Norbury” in his ear if he ever gets too
cocky. Stamford imagines him giving a pinch of an alkaloid to a friend to see what
happens, and in another appearance this character ends up being a witness at Godrey
Norton’s wedding. This character works with Detective Lestrade, has a brother who
occasionally works for the British government, and refers to another character as
“The Women.” This brother of Mycroft worked against Irene Adler in (∗ ) A Scandal
in Bohemia, was temporarily killed by Professor Moriarty, and lives in 221b Baker Street. For
ten points, identify this Sir Arthur Conan Doyle character, a detective whose stories are told by
John Watson.
ANSWER:

Sherlock Holmes (accept either)

Round 4- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) It consists of a vestibular and tympanic canal, while its mechanoreceptors are held by the
basilar membrane. For ten points each:
[10] Name this bony coiled structure in the inner ear. It is connected to the stapes by the oval
window.
ANSWER: cochlea
[10] The cochlea contains the organ of corti, which houses many of these specialized cells. They
are anchored along the tympanic membrane and convert vibrations to electrical impulses.
ANSWER: hair cells
[10] Electrical signals from hair cells travel through the auditory nerve to the temporal lobe of
the brain, where they are perceived as this sense.
ANSWER: hearing (accept equivalents)

(2) One character says God “requires / Glory from men, from all men, good or bad / Wise or
unwise, no difference, no exemption.” For ten points each:
[10] Identify this poem which follows Jesus fasting in the desert for forty days and resisting
temptation.
ANSWER: Paradise Regained
[10] This author wrote Paradise Regained, but was more famous for a poem that described
the fall of man and featured Lucifer saying “tis better to reign in Hell than Serve in Heaven,”
Paradise Lost.
ANSWER: John Milton
[10] This city, which appeared in Paradise Lost, was designed by Mulciber, and was raised on
a hill “whose grisly top belch’d fire and rolling smoke.” It was the capital of Hell.
ANSWER: Pandemonium

(3) He recorded accounts of his journeys in the Rihla. For ten points each:
[10] Name this 14th-century Moroccan traveler. A Muslim, his travels began with his first
Hajj, although he later traveled to central Asia, India, and China.
ANSWER: Ibn Battuta (or Shams ad-Din)
[10] Ibn Battuta described visiting this large Chinese landmark, perhaps confusing it for one
of Gog and Magog mentioned in the Quran. Marco Polo never described it, leading some to
doubt that Polo ever visited China.
ANSWER: Great Wall of China
[10] Ibn Battuta was a member of this ethnic group of northwest Africa. This group controlled
the ancient kingdom of Numidia and comprised the Almoravid dynasty.
ANSWER: Berbers

Round 4- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) This video ends with the lead singer beating himself against the wall to turn normal again.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this A-Ha song in which the singer claims “I’ll be gone in a day or two”. The singer
in this song’s music video alternatingly appears normally and as a cartoon, and it was the
subject of the first literal music video.
ANSWER: Take on Me
[10] Steve Barron, who directed the video for Take on Me, also created the first animated
music video for this Dire Straits song, which laments how rock stars get “the chicks for free”.
ANSWER: Money for Nothing
[10] This band walks into a swarm of paper airplanes in the video for their song Pale Shelter,
also directed by Barron. They more famously claimed “nothing ever lasts forever” in Everybody
Wants to Rule the World.
ANSWER: Tears for Fears

(5) This figure’s brother Lakshmana accompanied him into the forest during his fourteen year
exile. For ten points each:
[10] Name this king of Ayodhya and avatar of Vishnu whose wife Sita was abducted by the
demon Ravana.
ANSWER: Ramachandra
[10] Rama was helped by this deity, a member of the half-monkey half-human vanaras,
sometimes regarded as a reincarnation of Shiva.
ANSWER: Hanuman
[10] This Hindu festival celebrates the defeat of the demon Ravana by Rama. It is also the end
of a ten day festival celebrating the victories of Durga.
ANSWER: Dasara (or Vijayadashami)

(6) One character in this play accidentally confides to Monsieur de la Souche. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this play in which Arnolphe is spurned when Horace marries Enrique’s daughter,
Agnès.
ANSWER: School for Wives (or L’école des femmes, accept School for Women)
[10] School for Wives is a play by this French author, who wrote about Orgon and Elmire in
Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Molière (or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin)
[10] Molière died shortly after playing this character of his, who resists his daughter Angelique’s
marriage to Cleante, but then accepts it and becomes a doctor.
ANSWER: Argan (accept Imaginary Invalid or Malade imaginaire)

Round 4- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) It begins with maidens guarding the title object, which can be made into a ring. For ten points
each:
[10] Identify this opera that introduces the “Death Curse” leitmotif. It is the first section of
the Ring Cycle.
ANSWER: Das Rheingold (or The Rhine Gold)
[10] This dwarf is the antagonist of The Rhine Gold and places the “Death Curse”. He is
caught by Loge, and in Twilight of the Gods, he makes his son Hagen promise to kill Siegfried.
ANSWER: Alberich
[10] This German composer of the Ring Cycle also wrote an opera in which a knight defeats
Telramund and marries Elsa, Lohengrin.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Richard Wagner

(8) Answer some question about the world’s smallest continent for ten points each.
[10] Identify this Australian state, an island with capital at Hobart. It is named in honor
of the Dutch explorer who became the first European to sight this island, and is home to a
namesake “devil”.
ANSWER: Tasmania
[10] The eastern edge of Australia is marked by this long mountain range, which includes the
much shorter Snowy Mountains and its highest peak, Mount Kosciuszko.
ANSWER: Great Dividing Range
[10] Off of the eastern coast of Queensland, just beyond the Great Dividing Range, is this sea.
Brisbane lies on the waters of this sea, which extend to New Caledonia and Vanuatu.
ANSWER: Coral Sea

(9) These numbers were introduced in their namesake’s book Liber Abaci. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this sequence of numbers in which each term is the sum of the two previous ones
and which begins 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, . . ..
ANSWER: Fibonacci sequence (or Fibonacci numbers)
[10] The ratio between consecutive Fibonacci numbers approaches this value, often symbolized
phi and equal to 1 plus the square root of 5 all over 2.
ANSWER: golden ratio or golden mean
[10] In this other sequence of numbers, each term is equal to the sum of the previous two terms,
but it starts 1, 3, 4, 7, 11, 18, . . .. Its nth term is the closest integer to phi to the n power.
ANSWER: Lucas numbers or Lucas sequence

Round 4- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) Answer the following about W.E.B. DuBois for ten points each.
[10] DuBois advocated that blacks agitate for civil rights in contrast to this man who designed
the Atlanta Compromise and was the first Principal of the Tuskegee Institute.
ANSWER: Booker T. Washington
[10] Along with William Monroe Trotter, DuBois founded this group which urged for universal
suffrage and the end of segregation. It was named for the Canadian location in which it first
met.
ANSWER: Niagara Movement
[10] The Niagara Movement was absorbed into this still prominent civil rights group founded
in 1909. DuBois served as the editor of its newspaper, The Crisis.
ANSWER: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (or NAACP)

(11) This artist included his etching Black Lion Wharf in the background of his most famous
painting. For ten points each:
[10] Name this artist who depicted a seated older woman in his Arrangement in Grey and
Black, colloquially known as [his] Mother.
ANSWER: James Whistler
[10] Whistler painted several of this type of work, including [one] in Blue and Silver showing
a lagoon in Venice at night and [one] in Black and Gold showing fireworks in London.
ANSWER: nocturne
[10] Whistler was the most notable member of this artistic movement which focused on
dampened landscapes. Other members included George Inness and Albert Pinkham Ryder.
ANSWER: tonalism

(12) Identify the following programming languages for ten points each.
[10] This scripting language calls itself an “extraction and reporting language” in reference to
its support of regular expressions. The motto of this language is “There’s more than one way
to do it”.
ANSWER: Perl
[10] This object-oriented programming language was developed by Sun Microsystems. It runs
on bytecode in its own virtual machine, which makes it highly platform-independent.
ANSWER: Java (do not prompt on or accept “JavaScript”)
[10] This language by Guido van Rossum combines object-oriented and scripting paradigms.
Its dynamic and duck typing make it flexible, but its delimiting of blocks with whitespace
enforces readability.
ANSWER: Python

Round 4- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) His daughter Christina converted to Catholicism and abdicated. For ten points each:
[10] Name this ruler who prevailed at the Battles of Lech and Breitenfield and who died at the
Battle of Lutzen during the Thirty Years’ War.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus (or Gustav II or Gustav Adolf, prompt on “Gustav”)
[10] Gustavus Adolphus ruled this country, which reached its zenith starting with his rule,
controlling Finland, Livonia, and Pomerania.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden (or Swedish Empire)
[10] Gustavus Adolphus also commissioned a ship named after this dynasty, of which he was a
member. The senior branch of this dynasty also ruled Poland and Lithuania.
ANSWER: Vasa (or Wasa)

(14) A stanza from four different of his poems were combined to form the lyrics of “Guantanamera.”
For ten points each:
[10] Identify this author of Our America, Versos Sencillos, and Versos Libres.
ANSWER: José Julián Martı́ Pérez
[10] “Guantanamera” refers to a woman from this country. It is the birthplace of José Martı́
and is also the setting of novel where James Wormold pretends sketches of vacuum cleaner
parts are sketches of military bases, Our Man in Havana.
ANSWER: Cuba
[10] This British author of Our Man In Havana and The Power and the Glory also wrote
about Maurice Bendrix and Sarah Miles in The End of the Affair.
ANSWER: Graham Greene

(15) Analytical chemists often use burets when performing this procedure. For ten points each:
[10] Name this technique, which comes in acid-base and redox varieties, which can be used to
determine the concentration of an analyte by reacting it with a measured amount of another
substance.
ANSWER: titration
[10] A titration is said to be complete when it reaches this point on a titration curve, the point
at which all of the analyte has been reacted. In weak acid-strong base titrations, the pH at
this point is the average of the pKas.
ANSWER: equivalence point or stoichiometric point
[10] When titrant has been added past the equivalence point, one can perform this procedure
in which more analyte is added to react with the excess titrant.
ANSWER: back-titration

Round 4- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) He said that “I had thought that the house was on fire, and not the prairie” in his abolitionist
essay Slavery in Massachusetts. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this author and transcendentalist philosopher who wrote that “That government
is best which governs least” in his essay Civil Disobedience.
ANSWER: Henry David Thoreau
[10] In this work, Thoreau describes planting a bean-field and building a house as he lives
self-sufficiently for two years near the title pond.
ANSWER: Walden, or Life in the Woods
[10] William Butler Yeats expressed his desire to live “in imitation of Thoreau” in this poem.
In it, he declares that he will build a “small cabin” and have “nine bean rows.”
ANSWER: The Lake Isle of Innisfree

(17) Answer the following about angular forces for ten points each.
[10] Name this force that causes an object to accelerate around a central point with a constant
magnitude but changing direction. By pulling the object toward the point, this force causes
motion in curved paths.
ANSWER: centripetal force
[10] This device used precession of its plane of motion to demonstrate the rotation of the Earth.
Its speed is measured in degrees per sidereal day and is dependent on the sine of latitude.
ANSWER: Foucault’s Pendulum (prompt on “pendulum”)
[10] This device, whose motion is derived from conservation of angular momentum, was named
by Foucault. Often consisting of a rotating disc attached to gimbals, six examples of these
objects can be found in the Hubble Space Telescope.
ANSWER: gyroscopes

(18) This man’s three conditions for just war were having a righteous cause, a central authority,
and a desire for peace. For ten points each:
[10] Name this thinker who outlined a defense of Christian doctrine in Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Thomas Aquinas (or Thomas of Aquino)
[10] Aquinas was a member of this school of thought, which emphasized critical thinking and
logic. Other members included St. Anselm and John Duns Scotus.
ANSWER: scholasticism
[10] This scholastic thinker posed 158 questions about theology in his work Sic et Non.
ANSWER: Peter Abelard (or Pierre Abélard)

Round 4- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) He and Dolores Huerta came up with the slogan “Si se puede” during his 24 day fast in
Phoenix, Arizona. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Latino civil rights activist and supporter of collective bargaining who supported
the Delano grape strike in California.
ANSWER: Cesar E. Chavez
[10] Chavez and Dolores Huerta were co-founders of this national organization which organized
migrant laborers to collectively bargain for rights and reasonable wages. It later merged with
the AWOC to become the United Farm Workers.
ANSWER: National Farm Workers Association or NFWA
[10] NFWA support among lettuce growers in the Salinas Valley was almost destroyed when
farm workers reluctant to sign on with the NFWA signed contracts with this group, which was
founded in 1903.
ANSWER: The International Brotherhood of Teamsters

(20) By tricking the goddess Sekhmet with red beer that looked like blood, this god prevented her
from destroying humanity. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this Egyptian god of the sun, often combined with Atum and Amun.
ANSWER: Ra (or Re, accept combinations like Atum-Ra)
[10] Every day, Ra fights this giant serpent which lives just beneath the horizon. Solar eclipses
are allegedly caused when this monster swallows Ra.
ANSWER: Apep (or Apophis)
[10] In some myths, Apep was killed by this cat-headed Egyptian goddess, who was tasked
with defending Ra and the pharaohs.
ANSWER: Bastet (or Baast or Ubasti or Baset)

(21) The Holy Land is so far away. Let’s just attack some places closer to home. For ten points
each:
[10] In this 1208 crusade, the Venetians attacked Catholics along the Dalmatian coast, and
then sacked Constantinople.
ANSWER: Fourth Crusade
[10] One commander said “Kill them all, God will know his own.” during the Albigensian
Crusade against Cathars in this country. Louis IX of this country went on the Seventh and
Eight Crusades.
ANSWER: France
[10] Mistranslations have exaggerated the youth of the participants in this crusade, but
Nicholas and Stephen of Cloyes led many participants onto ships that sold them into slavery.
ANSWER: Children’s Crusade

Round 4- Page 13

