1. Pop Culture
This team’s initial season in 1976 was the worst year by any team in modern NFL
history. However, they made it to the NFC Championship in their fourth season thanks to
Defensive MVP Lee Roy Selmon. They won their only Super Bowl appearance,
defeating the Raiders in 2003. Its leading rusher this year is Earnest Graham thanks to
injuries to Cadillac Williams and Michael Pittman. Name this team now quarterbacked
by Jeff Garcia and coached by Jon Gruden.
ANSWER: Tampa Bay Buccaneers (accept either half of name or Bucs)
2. World Literature
Near the beginning of this play, the actor Montfleury is interrupted from performing La
Clorise. The main character promises his cousin that he will protect Christian, though
that becomes difficult when Christian repeatedly makes fun of him. The task is also
confusing because the main character loves his cousin, Roxane. Name this play by
Edmond Rostand about a man with a large nose.
ANSWER: Cyrano de Bergerac (prompt Cyrano)
3. Algebra (10 Seconds)
These are associated with Brun’s constant, which is found by adding all of their
reciprocals and is equal to slightly less than two. Most mathematicians believe that there
is an infinite number of them, though that has never been proven. These numbers come in
pairs, and other than the first, each pair consists of a number one less than a multiple of
six and a number one more than a multiple of six. The first pair is three and five. Name
these pairs, neither one of which is composite.
ANSWER: Twin Prime(s) (prompt Prime)
4. Art/Architecture
Grey weather, in the Sun, Symphony in Grey and Rose, Morning Effect, and Morning
Fog are labels given to these paintings. Set in a city in Normandy, they depict a doorway.
Part of the Impressionist movement, they were completed in the early 1890s. Name this
series by Monet showing a Gothic building at different times of the day under different
weather conditions.
ANSWER: Rouen Cathedral (prompt either half of answer)
5. Chemistry (30 Seconds)
Rounded to the nearest whole number, what is the molar mass of lithium sulfate, a drug
used to treat bipolar disorder? It is helpful to know that the atomic weight of lithium is
about seven, the atomic weight of oxygen is about sixteen, and the atomic weight of
sulfur is about thirty-two. It also helps to know that lithium is an alkali metal.
ANSWER: 110

6. Religion/Mythology
He was disguised as a girl in Scyros, but that did not prevent him from fathering Pyrrhus.
His disguise was undone by Odysseus, who took him to Troy. He was a great warrior for
the Greeks until he had a dispute with Agamemnon. Name this son of Peleus and Thetis
killed by an arrow to his heel.
ANSWER: Achilles
7. US History
Because he did not get along with leaders in his home state of New York, this man
attended the 1860 Republican Convention as a delegate from Oregon. His popularity in
New York decreased further after the Civil War when he signed the bond to release
Jefferson Davis from prison. Even though he never joined it, the Democratic Party
endorsed him in the Presidential Election of 1872. Name this founder of the New York
Tribune famous for saying, “Go West, young man, go West.”
ANSWER: (Horace) Greeley
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Give both of your answers in degrees. A circle is drawn on a piece of paper so that Point
A is the topmost point and Point B is the rightmost point. Find the two possible measures
of Angle ACB if Point C is another point on the circle.
ANSWER: 45 & 135 (both answers in either order, it is incorrect if only one answer is
given)
9. Language Arts
This term originally referred to doctors but now has a very negative connotation. A few
hundred years ago, people started using it to refer to a type of worm, and from there it
came to mean a person who behaves like a parasite. Give this term associated with
bloodsucking.
ANSWER: Leech(es)
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
The type used to create rhyolite generally is very viscous and contains a lot of water. This
substance can be classified as mafic, intermediate, or felsic, and it generally exists at
temperatures over one thousand Kelvins. Name this underground material which can
solidify into igneous rock or erupt into lava.
ANSWER: Magma (prompt Molten Rock)

11. World History
The only statue ever found depicting him is less than four inches tall and shows him
sitting down. He was the son of Snefru and Hetepheres and the father of Khafre. Though
Herodotus claimed he used slave labor, historians now believe that he accepted labor as a
type of tax payment. Name this Egyptian ruler who died in 2584 BCE and was buried
under the Great Pyramid of Giza.
ANSWER: Khufu (or Cheops, (Khnum-)Khufwy, or Suphis)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (10 Seconds)
This adjective beginning with the letter C is used for probability situations involving false
positive tests, Venn diagrams, or any dependent situation. It often is calculated by
dividing the probability of an intersection by the probability of one of the events in the
intersection. Give this term often associated with the word If.
ANSWER: Conditional (accept longer answers but not shorter answers)
13. British Literature
This character says, “Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind.” She says this after
Lysander says he wants Demetrius to fall in love with her, though Lysander at one point
loves her in addition to Demetrius. Name this character from A Midsummer Night’s
Dream who is not Hermia.
ANSWER: Helena
14. Music
This instrument is a tanpura with frets. The frets are curved and movable. Some of its
strings are drones, which should be strummed but not fretted, and others are sympathetic,
which usually are neither strummed nor fretted. A few strings are meant to be strummed
and fretted. This instrument became well-known in the West when it was used on some
Beatles and Rolling Stones songs. Name this instrument from India played by Ravi
Shankar.
ANSWER: Sitar
15. Biology
It has chemical formula C8H11NO2, and it is transported by VMAT2. Mice with too much
of this substance in their bodies have no desire to eat or drink, so they starve to death. In
the past few years, research has linked it to drug abuse. This neurotransmitter is necessary
in sufficient amounts to avoid schizophrenia and Parkinson’s disease. Name this chemical
whose name begins with the letter D.
ANSWER: Dopamine

16. Technology
Grace Hopper is sometimes credited with being the first person to oversee the
development of this type of program, and the first fully developed example was for
FORTRAN. One improvement in the implementation of this type of program is the just
in time version used by Java. Name this program that takes source code from an editor
and converts it into machine language.
ANSWER: Compiler(s)
17. Current Events
This was the subject of House Resolution Two this year, but in order to get their changes
through a Senate filibuster, Democrats eventually combined it with an Iraq War
supplemental and tax cuts for small businesses. Debate over this issue occasionally
focused on the Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa. Because the legislation
passed, this value changed in July, and further increases will be made during each of the
next two years. Name this quantity that by the end of 2009 will be set at seven dollars and
twenty-five cents.
ANSWER: (Federal or National) Minimum Wage
18. Nonfiction
Some of this man’s books were co-written with his brother-in-law L. Brent Bozell. One
of those books defends charges made by Joseph McCarthy. This man’s reputation grew in
1951, when he published a book stating that liberal secularism had harmed his alma
mater, Yale University. He also hosted a long-running series of debates called Firing
Line. Name this Conservative writer who started National Review magazine.
ANSWER: (William ‘Bill’ Francis) Buckley(, Jr.)
19. Physics (30 Seconds)
Include units in your answer. An object with constant acceleration begins with a speed of
four meters per second and ends with a speed of ten meters per second. How far will it
move in ten seconds?
ANSWER: 70 Meters
20. US Literature
This story begins, “I am a rather elderly man.” The narrator, who already employs Ginger
Nut, Turkey, and Nippers, decides to hire a fourth person. The new hire moves into the
office and stays there even after he is fired. He is fired because whenever any request is
made of him, he responds by stating, “I would prefer not to.” Name this work by Herman
Melville subtitled A Story of Wall Street.
ANSWER: Bartleby The Scrivener(: A Story of Wall Street) (prompt Bartleby)

Tiebreakers:
Most of his writings, including his Discourse on Livy, were written right after he was
tortured and exiled. He also wrote a history book that covered the Visigoth invasion
through the death of Lorenzo the Magnificent. He is often quoted, and a saying typical of
his beliefs is, “It is better to be feared than loved, if you cannot be both.” Name this 15th
and 16th Century political philosopher from Florence who wrote The Prince.
ANSWER: (Niccolo) Machiavelli
(Note to moderator: Solder is pronounced Sodder.) This metallic element is a major
component of calamine, which is used to treat rashes. It can be used to coat steel, and it is
often combined with copper, with which it can make solder, brass, or a penny. Name
Element 30, which is abbreviated Zn.
ANSWER: Zinc
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “Never leave that till tomorrow
which you can do…
ANSWER: Today

