1. Pop Culture
He was a soap opera star from 1975 to 1982 and a prime time star for the next four years.
He played himself in Kickin’ It Old Skool, A Dirty Shame, Dodgeball, and The
Spongebob Squarepants Movie, and he acted in Click. Thanks to an internet drive, his
song “Jump In My Car” almost made it to Number One recently in Britain. Unfortunately
for him, the internet also houses a video showing him trying to eat a hamburger. Name
this star of Knight Rider and Baywatch.
ANSWER: (David) Hasselhoff (prompt The Hoff)
2. World Literature
This novel includes a bloody plantation strike followed by severe floods. One of the
characters is an Italian musician named Pietro Crespi, and the novel takes place almost
entirely in the town of Macondo. Name this work about the Buendia family written by
Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
ANSWER: (One) Hundred Years of Solitude (accept Cien Años de Soledad)
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the value of x in any solution of the following system: 3x+2y+z=10 and x-4y-2z=8
ANSWER: 4
4. Art/Architecture
Scientists discovered in 1972 that his body is buried beneath the work he is famous for.
Under instructions to best Santa Sophia, he designed a structure thirty meters across that
contains four million bricks. This goldsmith turned architect was a friend of Donatello
and rival of Ghiberti. Name this 15th Century Florence artist who designed its largest
dome.
ANSWER: (Filippo) Brunelleschi
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
He coined the word photon and was the first scientist to produce heavy water. For a
while, he represented atoms as cubes, and he developed his theories further with the help
of Irving Langmuir. His name is now associated with electron-pair acceptors and donors.
Name this chemist who developed dot structures.
ANSWER: (Gilbert Norton) Lewis

6. Religion/Mythology
Along with the Ren, Ba, Sheut, and Ib, this helped make human souls. It sometimes was
represented by a person with upraised arms on top of his head. Formed by Khnum on his
potter’s wheel when babies are created, it remained youthful and perfect even after
people died. Name this life force believed in by ancient Egyptians.
ANSWER: Ka
7. US History
The US discovered the enemy’s code word for this location by sending a false message
stating that it was low on water and then intercepting reports about water shortages.
These messages were sent in the middle of May, 1942, giving us time to prepare for the
attack in early June. Following our success at Coral Sea, this battle destroyed four
Japanese carriers and ended Japanese naval superiority. Name this battle that took place
near an atoll Northwest of Hawaii.
ANSWER: (Battle of) Midway
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
A convex pentagon is drawn so that its base is horizontal and the two sides adjacent to
the base are vertical. Those two sides are congruent to each other but not the base. What
is the length of the base if those two sides are each six units, the height of the entire
pentagon is ten units, and the area of the entire pentagon is forty square units?
ANSWER: 5 (Units)
9. Language Arts
This term was taken from mythology because original versions could make noise, and
thus draw attention, under water. The 19th and 20th Century versions used rotating disks
with holes. The mythological creatures are in The Odyssey; because of them, Odysseus
had his men tie him to his mast. Name these devices used on ambulances.
ANSWER: Siren(s)
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
Many of the residents of this city live in townhouses called shikumen. Its Western border
contains Dian Shan Lake, and it includes Chongming Island and the Huangpu River. It is
located at the Yangtze River Delta, and its population is very close to ten million. Its one
hundred and one story World Financial Center will be completed soon. Name this home
of the Oriental Pearl TV Tower, which was one of the sites of the Live Earth concert.
ANSWER: Shanghai

11. World History
Recalled to service after three years in retirement, he led his armies to victory at the
Battles of the Masurian Lakes and the Battle of Tannenberg. With Erich von Ludendorff
and Max Hoffmann under him, he led the early successes for Germany against Russia in
World War One. He later became the 2nd President of Germany, serving from 1925 to
1934. Despite failing mental health in his final years, he served until his death. Name this
leader who was succeeded by Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: (Paul von) Hindenburg (accept Beneckendorff)
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Express your answer as a simplified fraction. Find the area of the confined region
between the graphs of y=x2 and y=the square root of x.
ANSWER: 1/3 (do not accept -1/3)
13. British Literature
He gives a speech that begins, “And these few precepts in thy memory see thou
character.” Absurdly, his first precept is, “Give thy thought no tongue,” while his last is,
“To thine own self be true.” In the middle, he adds, “Neither a borrower nor a lender be.”
Name this father of Laertes and Ophelia in Hamlet.
ANSWER: Polonius
14. Music
This musical features the songs “The Feeling We Once Had”, “I Was Born on the Day
Before Yesterday”, and “Funky Monkeys”. It started on Broadway in 1975 and was made
into a film in 1978. Based on a 1900 book and 1939 film, it includes crows and field mice
as characters. It starred Stephanie Mills on stage and Diana Ross, along with Michael
Jackson, on film. Name this musical that includes the song “Ease On Down The Road”.
ANSWER: (The) Wiz
15. Biology
These organelles are targeted by ketolides, tygacil, and many other new antibiotics. They
are associated with Svedberg units and are often classified as seventy S or eighty S.
These structures are about 20 nanometers in diameter and consist of proteins and RNA.
Name these tiny structures that build proteins.
ANSWER: Ribosome(s)

16. Technology
This name came about in 1995 when eight people updated the work of Rob McCool. The
group soon became the market share leader in their field, and their free software
competes with Microsoft Internet Information Server. Identify this HTTP software which
takes its name from an Indian tribe.
ANSWER: Apache
17. Current Events
In the middle of August, this nation suddenly removed all fuel subsidies, causing prices
to double. The government reacted to complaints by having opposition leaders arrested,
and the country is now undergoing its biggest controversy since 1988. The unrest is
becoming known as The Saffron Revolution. Name this nation in which protesters are
being joined by monks.
ANSWER: Burma (accept Myanmar)
18. Nonfiction
Many of his works started with the word ‘of’, such as Of Cannibals, Of Thumbs, and Of
The Education of Children. He once wrote, “I study myself more than any other subject,”
which is fitting because he became famous for his personal essays. Name this 16th
Century Frenchman.
ANSWER: (Michel Eyquen de) Montaigne (or (Jeu Bon) Seur-Atis)
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
These particles have slightly more than two hundred times the mass of electrons and are
unstable, but they also have a lot in common with electrons and can replace them in
atoms. Created by the decay of pions, which in turn are usually created by cosmic rays in
an atmosphere, one of these items in turn decays into two neutrinos and an electron.
Along with electrons and tau leptons, they form the lepton family. Name these
elementary particles that used to be classified as mesons.
ANSWER: Muon(s) (accept Mu Meson, do not accept Meson)
20. US Literature
This poem is about things that intimately live with rain and that look at God all day. In
Summer, they wear a nest of robins in their hair. The poem is written by a self-described
fool who considers his creation far inferior to the objects he is describing. Identify this
work by Joyce Kilmer whose first line is, “I think that I shall never see.”
ANSWER: Trees

Tiebreakers:
His first book described his experiences teaching fourth graders in Boston until he was
fired for buying poetry books for his students. It is titled Death At An Early Age. His
latest book, which parallels a work by a German poet, is titled Letters to a Young
Teacher. Name this author of Savage Inequalities.
ANSWER: (Jonathan) Kozol
This word means Likeness in Greek, and it used to be most heavily associated with the
Eastern Orthodox Church. It is used for images that represent certain items. Its more
recent usage was influenced by Jerome Bruner and Alan Kay, and it is now often
associated with small pictures. Name this word for a computer image that represents a
piece of software.
ANSWER: Icon
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “Take time for all things: great
haste makes great…
ANSWER: Waste

