The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 7Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) This chemical property has been linearly related to chemical shifts in NMR spectra,
and Sanderson’s calculations of this property uses the reciprocal of atomic volume.
Another model of this quantity uses Slater’s rules and divides the effective nuclear
charge of the atom divided by covalent radius squared; that model is named after
Allred and Rochow. Another scale used to measure this calculates the average of (∗ )
ionization energy and electron affinity, but a more popular scale uses puts fluorine’s value of this
at 4. For ten points, name this quantity measured on Mulliken or Pauling scales that measures
the electron-pulling power of an atom.
ANSWER:

electronegativity

(2) This composer completed Carl Maria von Weber’s unfinished opera The Three
Pintos, and Alfred Schnittke completed a scherzo movement for his unfinished Piano
Quartet in A minor. The “Primeval Light” movement is in one of his symphonies
that begins with an adaptation of his tone poem Totenfeier, while he also set the
closing scene of Goethe’s Faust to music in a symphony containing the theme (∗ ) Veni
Creator Spiritus. For ten points, name this Austrian composer of the Resurrection Symphony
and the Symphony of a Thousand.
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler

(3) One work by this author describes the oar that Odysseus carries before he is killed
by his son, Telegonus. In addition to Odysseus Acanthoplex, this author wrote a
play where the title character mistakenly slaughters a herd of cattle before falling
onto his sword, and in another work, a prophecy leads Odysseus and Neoptolemus
to retrieve the title character from Lemnos in order to obtain his bow. In addition
to Ajax and Philoctetes, one of this man’s characters (∗ ) solves the riddle of the Sphinx
before killing Laius, and that character puts his eyes out after discovering that he has killed his
father and married his mother. For ten points, name this Greek playwright of a trilogy including
Oedipus Rex.
ANSWER:

Sophocles

Round 7- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) President Truman supposedly formed the Majestic 12 committee to investigate this
event. A witness to this event, who lost credibility after describing a seemingly
non-existent nurse, was Glenn Dennis and was described in the report Crash at
Corona. Examined at Wright Field, the remnants were described as “very thin but
awfully strong,” and were recovered near the namesake Air Force field. Mac Brazel
discovered the (∗ ) wreckage of what was described as a crashed weather balloon, prompting
military intervention. For ten points, name this 1947 incident where air force pilots supposedly
recovered a crashed flying saucer in New Mexico.
ANSWER:

Roswell Incident

(5) This philosopher claimed that consciousness considers itself alongside objects it
observes in the “Zusehen” method. This philosopher argued that the “spirit” of one
concept had not yet come to Africa, and that being, essence, and comprehension
form the basis of one field. In addition to writing Lectures on the Philosophy of
History and The Science of Logic, his most famous idea states that history is created
by a set of theses which then form syntheses with their (∗ ) opposing antitheses. For ten
points, name this German Idealist philosopher who discussed the dialectic in The Phenomenology
of Spirit.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel

(6) The Treaty of Passarowitz reversed the gains this polity made in the Treaty of
Karlowitz. Manuel II exiled all citizens of this polity and revoked a Golden Bull
granted by Basil II. A group known as “the Ten” held power in this state. Julius II
created the League of Cambrai to oppose this polity. This state held a “Marriage
of the Sea” ceremony each year, and galleys produced by the arsenal in this state’s
capital fought against (∗ ) Genoa and dominated the Eastern Mediterranean. Officially the
“Most Serene Republic”, for ten points, name this maritime Italian city-state ruled by a Doge.
ANSWER: Most Serene Republic of Venice (or La Serenissima)

(7) These objects cannot tile space exactly, but a 2010 paper by Chen, Engel, and
Glotzer shows that they can pack at least eighty-five percent of space. Hilbert’s
Third Problem asked whether two of these objects with the same volume could be
sliced and rearranged into each other. Any polyhedron can be decomposed into
copies of this shape. The vertices of an icosahedron can be partitioned into five
copies of the vertices of this shape, whose regular version has symmetry group (∗ )
S4 . For ten points, identify this smallest Platonic solid, a polyhedron with four triangular sides.
ANSWER: tetrahedron (do not accept “regular tetrahedron” after the second sentence)

Round 7- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(8) One character in this TV show runs an experiment that consists of telling the
subjects the experiment will start in a few minutes, and another character discovers
he has a locker full of hate notes from Kim. In one scene, “Big Cheddar” and
“Tinkletown” see each other again, and another character gains a lizard and a top
hat, but everyone else continues to refer to him as (∗ ) Starburns. Other characters
include the fake Spanish teacher Ben Chang and dean Craig Pelton. For 10 points, identify this
TV show about Troy, Shirley, Annie, Pierce, Brita, Abed, and Jeff, the “Greendale Seven”.
ANSWER:

Community

(9) The protagonist of this work rejects the lawyer Guillaumin’s offer of financial
assistance for sexual favors. One character is a new student who is ridiculed by
his classmates when he fails to pronounce his name correctly. That character moves
to Tostes after marrying a woman who later dies of a hemorrhage, Heloise Dubec. In
Yonville, one character gets arsenic from the chemist Homais, and the title character
is rejected by (∗ ) Rodolphe Boulanger, but has an affair with Leon Dupuis. For ten points,
name this novel about the doctor Charles and his adulterous wife, Emma, written by Gustave
Flaubert.
ANSWER:

Madame Bovary

(10) A cloud constantly shadowing this man allowed the monk Bahira to predict his
future, and this man adopted Zaid after he chose this man over his father Haritha.
Ghwarath attempted to assassinate this man, and he won the Battle of the
Confederates by digging a trench. This man died at the house of his wife, Aisha,
after delivering the Farewell Sermon. He was nicknamed “faithful, trustworthy” and
“truthful.” This man’s sira and sunnah are studied, and he (∗ ) traveled to Medina as
part of his hegira. At a cave in Hira, the angel Gabriel came to him, and this man was and will
always be the only prophet after Jesus. For ten points, identify this founder of Islam.
ANSWER: Abu al-Qasim Muhammad (accept Mohammed or Muhammed)

(11) The tus protein results in the termination of this process. James Wang discovered
a protein group involved in this process called topoisomerase. An experiment done
using nitrogen-14 and nitrogen-15 proved this process to be semi-conservative. The
Hayflick limit is caused by shortening of molecules added after this process which
are called telomeres. The enzyme ligase joins (∗ ) Okazaki fragments, which are preceded
by primers and compose the lagging strand. It can be artificially recreated using PCR and its
main enzyme is the namesake polymerase. For ten points, name this process of duplicating a
cell’s genetic material.
ANSWER:

DNA replication (accept equivalents)

Round 7- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(12) One of the preliminary moves in this battle was the taking of Assunpink Creek, and
one of the sides was denied reinforcements by James Grant. The victorious side
in this battle launched its attack with the phrase “Victory or Death,” leading to a
surrender in an orchard after the death of Johann Rall. Nathanael Greene assisted
the victorious commander in this battle, who crossed the (∗ ) Delaware river prior to
launching his attack. For ten points, name this battle in which the victorious Continental Army
led by George Washington defeated Hessian soldiers on Christmas Eve.
ANSWER:
mention)

Battle of

Trenton (prompt on “Washington crossing the Delaware” before

(13) In this myth system, the sun was created when an egg sets fire to a stack of wood
gathered by Ngoudenout (NOO-deh-noo). This myth system depicts two children
killed by Thoorkook’s dogs whose voices live on in a wooden instrument called a
Bullroarer. Believers of this myth system ideally spend their lives in (∗ ) Dreamtime.
This mythology depicts an animal which represents rivers and rain vying with the sun called
the Rainbow Serpent. Viewing Uluru as a sacred site, for ten points, name these myths of the
natives of Australia.
ANSWER:

Aboriginal myth (accept word forms of “Aborigenes”)

(14) Andrew Yao proved an upper bound on the amount of data on which this task could
be performed with a fixed amount of storage and one query. A quantum computing
algorithm to achieve this task quickly is named for Lov Grover. This task requires
linear time to perform in a linked list. In a graph, this task can be performed either
depth-first or breadth-first. Storing data in namesake trees speeds up this task,
which can be performed in log(n) [log of n] time on a sorted array using a (∗ ) “binary”
approach. For ten points, identify this task in computer science in which a datum is sought.
ANSWER:

search

(15) In this poem, the speaker asks if it would “have been worthwhile. . . if one, settling
a pillow... should say ’That’s not what I meant at all. That is not it, at all.’”
Another section describes “restless nights in one-night cheap hotels / And sawdust
restaurants with oyster-shells.” The speaker has seen “the eternal Footman hold my
coat, and snicker,” “heard the mermaids singing, each to each,” “measured out [his]
life in coffee spoons,” and wonders “do I dare to (∗ ) eat a peach?” This poem begins
“Let us go then, you and I / When the evening is spread out against the sky/ Like a patient
etherized upon a table.” “In the room, women come and go / talking of Michelangelo” in, for
ten points, what poem by T.S. Eliot?
ANSWER: The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock

Round 7- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(16) This phenomenon, in conjunction with the emission and absorption of gamma rays,
are subject of the Mössbauer effect. One striking example of this phenomenon is
visible at the Bay of Fundy, and this may cause seiches to form and persist in other
bodies of water. Magnetic forms of this phenomenon allow for several types of
imaging, including a kind of nuclear spectroscopy. Galileo was the first to recognize
this phenomenon, which he observed in musical instruments. In physical chemistry,
this term denotes the capability of (∗ ) double bonds to shift in some molecules. Often falsely
thought to have caused the fall of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge, for ten points, identify this term
describing the tendency of systems to oscillate at higher amplitudes at certain frequencies.
ANSWER:

resonance

(17) This region’s Albertine subregion contains Lake Albert and Lake Kivu. The northern
portion of this region contains active volcanoes such as Erta Ale, which lies near a
tectonic triple-junction in the Afar Depression. Its southern region, named for
Gregory, includes the Ngorongoro Crater. This region contains the stratovolcano
Mount (∗ ) Kilimanjaro, and the part of this region between the African and Arabian plates
may have formed the Red Sea. Stretching from the Middle East to southeastern Africa, for ten
points, name this large rift zone splitting the African plate.
ANSWER:

Great Rift Valley (accept East African Rift)

(18) The second ruler of this empire was born after poisoned food intended by an advisor
to build the founding ruler’s immunity was accidentally eaten by his pregnant wife
instead. That chief advisor, Chanakya, convinced the king to attack the forces of
King Dhana in addition to writing a manual on politics as Kautilya. After conquering
that kingdom of Magadha, this empire defeated the forces of Seleucus I. During the
conquest of (∗ ) Kalinga, another king of this empire adopted the principles of ahimsa by
converting to Buddhism. For ten points, name this ancient Indian empire led by Ashoka.
ANSWER:

Mauryan Empire

(19) This artist painted a man in a feathered cap standing while a woman reads his palm
in The Fortune Teller, and he showed a boy wincing in his Boy Bitten by a Lizard.
This artist of David with the Head of Goliath depicted a stoic woman performing
the deed on an Assyrian general in his Judith Beheading Holofernes. In his most
famous painting, (∗ ) light shines in from a window on the right and the titular figure sits with
his head down as three men point to him. For ten points, identify this Italian painter of The
Calling of St. Matthew.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio

Round 7- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(20) To atone for ignoring his wife’s fatal stomach ache, one character created by this
author gives candy to children. One work by this author recasts Saul and Victor
as trapeze artists, farmers, and sailors, and in one of his stories, a tinker throws
away the flowers that Elisa Allen gave him. This author of Burning Bright and
Chrysanthemums echoed Cain and Abel in a novel about the Trask family. In one
novella by this author, George Milton shoots (∗ ) Lennie Small so the latter is not lynched
for murder, and in another the Joad family moves to California during the Great Depression.
For ten points, identify this author who wrote , East of Eden, Of Mice and Men, and The Grapes
of Wrath.
ANSWER: John Ernst Steinbeck

(21) Twelve of these substances collected by Norman Good are used extensively in
biological research and were selected based on nine criteria including stability and
ease of preparation. Although not a base, an example of these substances is a
molecule containing 3 hydroxyl and 1 amino groups, Tris, and it is commonly used
to stabilize nucleotides. Their capacity is greatest when the components are in
a one-to-one ratio as determined by the (∗ ) Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, and their
namesake region precedes the equivalence point in a titration curve. For ten points, name these
mixtures of acids and their conjugate bases that resist changes in pH.
ANSWER:

buffers

Round 7- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) This area of the solar system contains several Hirayama families, but has portions cleared out
by resonances with Jupiter. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this area containing Kirkwood gaps and rubble piles, located between Mars and
Jupiter.
ANSWER: Asteroid Belt or Main Belt
[10] This asteroid’s orbit was calculated by a newly invented method of Gauss. It is the largest
within the Main Belt and was discovered in 1801 by Giuseppe Piazzi.
ANSWER: 1 Ceres
[10] This other asteroid is the source of HED meteorites, possibly ejected from its largest
crater, Rheasilvia. It is the brightest asteroid as seen from earth, and is being explored by the
Dawn spacecraft.
ANSWER: 4 Vesta

(2) Although the footnotes explain what happened to most characters, even the ones the narrator
didn’t know the fates of, the novel ends without revealing how the protagonist died. For ten
points each:
[10] Identify this novel, ostensibly written by Avis Everhard and primarily about her husband,
Ernest. Although an unimportant historical document, it gives a feel of the time before the
First Revolution and Chicago commune.
ANSWER: The Iron Heel
[10] The author of The Iron Heel is more famous for this novel, in which Buck is sold as a sled
dog, kills Spitz to become leader of the pack, and follows a wolf after John Thornton is killed.
ANSWER: The Call of the Wild
[10] This author wrote The Call of the Wild as well as its sort-of opposite, White Fang, in
which the dog-wolf is tamed by Weedon Scott.
ANSWER: Jack London

(3) His Le Bateau is said to have hung upside down for over a month at the Museum of Modern
Art without anyone noticing. For ten points each:
[10] Identify that artist, whose other collages include The Snail and Blue Nude II.
ANSWER: Henri Matisse
[10] Henri Matisse, along with Andre Derain, was a leader of this artistic movement which
favored bold and bright colors over realistic representation. Its name is derived from the
French for “wild beasts”.
ANSWER: fauvism (or Les Fauves)
[10] This Matisse painting features five nude red figures linking hands in a circle and performing
the titular action.
ANSWER: The Dance

Round 7- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) Answer the following about Early Chinese History for ten points each.
[10] The first Chinese dynasty of which there are historical records was this one, which
succeeded the Xia and preceded the Zhou. Most records consist of oracles divined on turtle
shells.
ANSWER: Shang
[10] Going back earlier, the Xia dynasty was established along this river, the second-longest in
China after the Yangtze.
ANSWER: Yellow River (or Huang He)
[10] Going back even earlier, Yao and Shun were the last of this semi-mythological group of
rulers that were preceded by the “Three Sovereigns”. Shun’s successor, Yu, founded the Xia
dynasty.
ANSWER: Five Emperors

(5) Rock-Paper-Scissors strategy would be simpler if the game obeyed this property. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this relationship in which, if a is related to b and b is related to c, then a is related
to c. For example, 5 is greater than 4 and 4 is greater than 2, so 5 is greater than 2.
ANSWER: transitivity (accept word forms like “transitive”)
[10] The “greater than” relationship also obeys this property in which a being related to b
implies that b cannot be related to a.
ANSWER: antisymmetry (accept word forms like “antisymmetric”)
[10] A relationship which is transitive, antisymmetric, and also reflexive is this type of ordering.
This adjective also describes derivatives with respect to one variable in multi-variable calculus.
ANSWER: partial (accept partial order, partially ordered set, poset, or partial derivative)

(6) He argued that chicken could be served with milk because it could be considered pareve. For
ten points each:
[10] Identify this Jewish scholar who believed that the number of Hanukkah lights should go
from eight to one, and that one should only be allowed to divorce his wife for grave offences.
ANSWER: Shammai
[10] This contemporary of Shammai advocated divorce for offenses like burning a meal, as well
as looser restrictions on those who could study, demonstrated when he taught someone the
entire Torah while standing on one foot.
ANSWER: Hillel the Elder
[10] Hillel and Shammai were both this kind of scholar. In modern Judaism, they lead the
congregation in the same role as a minister.
ANSWER: Rabbi

Round 7- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) Crystallins are present in this structure in the eye. For ten points each:
[10] Name these objects, commonly made of glass, that focus light.
ANSWER: lenses
[10] This type of image defect results from lenses bringing different wavelengths of light to
different focuses. It causes colored fringes on objects, which led to the invention of reflecting
telescopes to avoid this problem.
ANSWER: chromatic aberration
[10] One solution to chromatic aberration is to use multiple lenses with different dispersions.
This type of refracting telescopes that bring three wavelengths to a focus are unfortunately
very expensive.
ANSWER: apochromatic (accept apo, but be careful to not accept “achromat(ic)”)

(8) “Each Morn a thousand Roses brings, you say; Yes, but where leaves the Rose of Yesterday?”
For ten points each:
[10] Identify this eleventh-century Persian poem written by Omar Khayyam. Its quatrains
were famously translated by Edward FitzGerald.
ANSWER: The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
[10] One quatrain of the Rubaiyat describes paradise as sharing a “book of verses” as well as
“A Jug of Wine, A Loaf of Bread” with this figure.
ANSWER: Thou (accept any second-person singular pronoun, prompt on “the reader”)
[10] The Rubaiyat tells that this “Eternal” cupbearer “has pour’d/ Millions of Bubbles like
us”. This is also the pen name of the author of The Interlopers and Esme, H.H. Munro.
ANSWER: Saki

(9) This Roman Emperor ended a period with 25 emperors in 50 years. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Roman Emperor who reorganized the empire and founded the Tetrarchy with
two Augustuses and two Caesars. He eventually retired to his palace in Split, Dalmatia.
ANSWER: Diocletian
[10] Just a year after Diocletian retired, a civil war broke out between Maxentius and this
man, who made a cross his army’s symbol before he won the Battle of Milvian Bridge and
issued the Edict of Milan legalizing Christianity.
ANSWER: Constantine I or Constantine the Great
[10] This last pagan Emperor pushed back German barbarians and reunified the Empire before
dying in a campaign against the Sassanids. He attempted to bring back the old Roman religion
and values to reverse the empire’s decline.
ANSWER: Julian the Apostate

Round 7- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) Answer the following about photographer Robert Mapplethorpe for ten points each.
[10] Robert Mapplethorpe famously photographed this artist whose own photography includes
the Photo Booth Project. He is best-remembered for his pop art, including Marilyn Diptych
and Campbell’s Soup Cans.
ANSWER: Andy Warhol (or Andrew Warhola)
[10] Robert Mapplethorpe’s provocative X Portfolio created controversy over public funding of
art when it was revealed that this government agency had partially supported the work.
ANSWER: National Endowment for the Arts (or NEA)
[10] This U.S. President said that no government should “seek to restrict the freedom of the
artist to pursue his own goals in his own way” when he created the National Endowment for
the Arts.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson (or LBJ, prompt on a partial answer)

(11) Eastern Europe was really screwed up after World War I. For ten points each:
[10] One cause of the mess was this 1917 treaty, in which Russia allowed Germany to occupy
much if its territory in return for allowing Russia out of the war.
ANSWER: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
[10] This leader led Poland through the Polish-Soviet war, and later retook power in a 1926
coup. He defeated the Russians in the “Miracle at the Vistula”.
ANSWER: Józef Pilsudski
[10] Gustav Mannerheim led the Whites to victory in this nation’s civil war. This Scandinavian
country later fought the Soviets in the Winter War and the Continuation War.
ANSWER: Finland

(12) Crystals with this type of bonding are usually brittle and have high melting points. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this type of bond between its namesake charged entities. Table salt exhibits this
type of bonding between sodium and chlorine.
ANSWER: ionic bonding
[10] This is the amount of energy needed to vaporize an ionically-bonded substance. It is
defined as the molar enthalpy difference between the ions in solid and gas phase.
ANSWER: lattice enthalpy or lattice energy
[10] Since it is difficult to calculate the lattice enthalpy directly, one must use Hess’s law in
this thermodynamic procedure which calculates the lattice enthalpy as the missing part of its
namesake construct.
ANSWER: Born-Haber cycle

Round 7- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) One of her characters is a boy who liked eating, sleeping, and making mischief, in that order.
For ten points each:
[10] Identify this first female recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature who wrote about Nils
Holgersson in The Wonderful Adventures of Nils and also wrote Gosta Berling’s Saga.
ANSWER: Selma Lagerlof
[10] Selma Lagerlof is a resident of this country, which is home to more Nobel Laureates than
it deserves, mainly because it’s the headquarters of the Nobel Prize Committee.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden
[10] For some reason, this Swede never received a Nobel Prize, despite writing plays like The
Father, Ghost Sonata, and Miss Julie.
ANSWER: Johan August Strindberg

(14) Answer the following about memorable lines by Mitt Romney for ten points each.
[10] Mitt Romney claimed he was “completely wrong” after he said at a private fundraiser that
this amount of people “are dependent upon government, who believe that they are victims”.
ANSWER: 47% of the American People
[10] In the second presidential debate, Mitt Romney said that, while filling cabinet positions
as Governor of Massachusetts, he asked for these objects to be brought to him to help him find
qualified candidates.
ANSWER: Binders full of women (prompt on partial answer)
[10] After Ann Romney was endangered by a fire, Mitt said “It’s a real problem” that these
objects did not open.
ANSWER: airplane windows (prompt on “windows”, accept equivalents)

(15) One piece in this work depicts a Stormy Evening on the Sea for the title character’s
homecoming. For ten points each:
[10] Name this musical suite including pieces such as Ase’s Death and Anitra’s Dance.
ANSWER: Peer Gynt Suite
[10] This most famous song from the Peer Gynt Suite features a melody repeated in a perfect
fifth, gradually getting louder and faster, as Peer meets the titular monster.
ANSWER: In the Hall of the Mountain King (or I Dovregubbens hall)
[10] The Peer Gynt Suite was written by this Norwegian composer, who also composed a Piano
Concerto in A minor and sixty-six Lyric Pieces.
ANSWER: Edvard Grieg

Round 7- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) He lost against Ulysses S. Grant in the 1872 election, although he died before the vote was
counted. For ten points each:
[10] Name this American politician who is credited with founding the New York Tribune and
was the first presidential candidate nominated by the Liberal Republican party.
ANSWER: Horace Greeley
[10] Greeley is controversially credited with telling a “young man” to do this action, where
he can “grow up with the country.” Popularized in one of his editorials, the phrase is also
attributed to John Soule.
ANSWER: Go West
[10] The long friendship with Greeley and this man was strained after Greeley’s support of
Edward Bates for the 1860 Republican Party nomination. Later, this man helped bar Greeley’s
election to the Senate.
ANSWER: William Henry Seward

(17) A “Great Shift” in these coinciding with the advent of printing presses has been linked to
irregular English spelling. For ten points each:
[10] Name these sounds in a language produced by an open vocal tract. English contains five
and sometimes a sixth one, and every English syllable is spelled with at least one.
ANSWER: vowel
[10] This term describes two vowels occurring in the same syllable, or the sound produced by
combining two vowels.
ANSWER: diphthong
[10] Vowels, diphthongs, and consonants make up these entities in English. These entities are
the most basic unit of differentiated speech in a language.
ANSWER: phoneme

(18) The most common symptom of this disease is spasms in the jaw muscles and other body parts.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this disease that primarily affects muscles and nerves and is also called lockjaw.
ANSWER: tetanus
[10] Tetanus is caused by this type of single-celled organism which contrasts with other
prokaryotes such as archaea.
ANSWER: bacteria or bacterium
[10] A toxin in this class, contrasted with lipopolysaccharides, is released by tetanus-causing
bacteria and inhibits acetylcholine release.
ANSWER: exotoxins

Round 7- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) Dr. Vilbert uses rock salt to attract pigeons so he can make a love potion which he sells to
Arabella Donn. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which Little Father Time kills his two siblings and himself, prompting
Sue Bridehead to return to her husband, Phillotson.
ANSWER: Jude the Obscure
[10] The author of Jude the Obscure also wrote this novel in which, in the space of a year,
Clym Yeobright marries Eustacia Vye, Damon Wildeve marries Thomasin, affairs happen, and
Eustacia and Wildeve both die.
ANSWER: The Return of the Native
[10] This author wrote Jude the Obscure and The Return of the Native, in addition to a novel
in which Gabriel Oak and Bathsheba Everdene marry, Far From the Madding Crowd.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy

(20) The dwarf Sindri created this weapon and the spear Gungnir in a contest with Loki. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this hammer which can shatter mountains and represents a thunderclap.
ANSWER: Mjolnir
[10] Mjolnir is used by this Norse thunder god, who disguised himself as the goddess Freyja to
steal the weapon back from the giant Prymir.
ANSWER: Thor
[10] In addition to Mjolnir and Gungnir, this boat was also constructed by Sindri. It can be
folded up to fit in one’s pocket and is owned by Tyr.
ANSWER: Skidbladnir

(21) The protagonist mistakes a washbasin for the Helmet of Mambrino and wears it on his head.
For ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which the title character rides Rocinante and tries to win the hand
of Dulcinea.
ANSWER: The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha
[10] Don Quixote is the most famous work of this author, who collected several of his short
stories in Exemplary Novels.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes
[10] Cervantes’s first novel was this one, in which Elicio and Erastro both love the title
character. En route to the wedding between Daranio and Silveria, they hear many stories of
lovers who have things much worse.
ANSWER: La Galatea

Round 7- Page 13

