1. Pop Culture
Her latest album includes the songs “Sell Me Candy”, “Haunted”, and “Question
Existing”. Born nineteen years ago, the name of her first hit song translated into English
is “Play It Again”. That was followed with “If It’s Lovin’ That You Want”. Her albums
are titled Music of the Sun, A Girl Like Me, and Good Girl Gone Bad. Name this singer
who teamed up with Jay-Z on the song “Umbrella”.
ANSWER: Rihanna (accept (Robyn Rihanna) Fenty)
2. World Literature
This author wrote, “For a long time I used to go to bed early. Sometimes, when I had put
out my candle, my eyes would close so quickly that I had not even time to say to myself:
‘I’m falling asleep.’” These are the opening lines in Swann’s Way, which in turn is the
first volume in his seven volume masterpiece. Name this author of À la recherche du
temps perdu, a title which has been translated as In Search of Lost Time and
Remembrance of Things Past.
ANSWER: (Marcel) Proust
3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find the two points of intersection between the circle x2+y2=4 and the ellipse x2+4y2=16.
ANSWER: (0,2) and (0,-2) (either order as long as the zeroes come before the twos,
accept any way of expressing those points)
4. Art/Architecture
This six-letter Italian term refers to a type of art that involves powdered pigments mixed
only in water. It works best in dry climates, and several famous recent practitioners are
Mexican. Ancient examples can be found in Pompeii and several other places. Name this
type of painting done on wet plaster, which is why its name is the Italian word for 'fresh'.
ANSWER: Fresco
5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
The answer is a letter. With a subscript E, it is equal to dividing the value with subscript
F by the value with subscript B. With a subscript W, it has a value of 10-14. The subscript
C represents the same thing as the subscript E Q. When the subscript is A, it represents
acid dissociation. When the subscript is S P, it represents the solubility product. Name
this letter often used for constants which in chemistry denotes the dissociation constant
for a system in equilibrium.
ANSWER: K

6. Religion/Mythology
Its enemies include weasels, who are immune to it. One way to kill it is to hold a mirror
up to it, but people must be careful not to look at it. Its poison is strong enough to kill a
person and the horse he is on with one bite. Roosters can kill it by crowing, but its eggs
are laid by roosters. Name this monster with the head of a rooster and body of a snake.
ANSWER: Basilisk (or Cockatrice)
7. US History
Key points included Fort Bridger, Whitman Mission, and Fort Kearney. The Platte River
also played a major role, and several people died trying to cross the Green River. Its use
peaked in the 1840s, ‘50s, and ‘60s until the completion of the transcontinental railroad.
Name this route that went West from Missouri.
ANSWER: (The) Oregon Trail
8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Ignore units, and give your answer in simple radical form. Find the length of the side of a
square if it has the same area as an equilateral triangle with side length one.
ANSWER: 4th Root of 3 Over 2 (do not accept Root 3 Over 2)
9. Language Arts
This four-letter word is used in the fields of psychology, chemistry, and finance. It can
follow the words bail, convertible, or municipal, and it refers to a financial arrangement
in which investors essentially loan money to a government or corporate entity. Give this
term beginning with the letter B.
ANSWER: Bond
10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
It often contains the letters O B A F G K M to denote different spectral classes. The side
contains a decreasing linear scale or an increasing logarithmic scale, depending on
whether magnitude or luminosity is used. The x-axis contains a decreasing logarithmic
scale measuring temperature. Giants tend to fall to the upper right, while dwarfs are in the
lower left. Name this diagram, named after a Danish and an American astronomer, used
to catalog stars.
ANSWER: Hertzsprung-Russell (Diagram) (or H-R Diagram)

11. World History
Throughout much of the 1950s, this country suffered through a period known as The
Violence after the assassination of Presidential Candidate Gaitán. It also had a Civil War
at the beginning of the 20th Century which killed about one hundred thousand people. At
the end of the war, Panama declared its independence. The country still suffers from
violence, thanks in large part to drug trafficking. Name this country whose capital is
Bogota.
ANSWER: Colombia
12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
Find the x-coordinate of the maximum of the function y equals one over the quantity
x2+x+1
ANSWER: -1/2 (or -.5, do not accept positive answers)
13. British Literature
One of the protagonists of this novel is a lawyer. When he leaves England on a business
trip, he keeps a diary for his fiancée, Mina. Mina is a close friend of Lucy Westenra, who
is eventually killed by a wolf after suffering from several bizarre symptoms. Before being
killed, Lucy is helped by a Dutch professor named Van Helsing. Name this novel written
in 1897 by Bram Stoker.
ANSWER: Dracula
14. Music
This musical is based on a Margaret Landon novel. One of the lead characters, a widow,
sings “This Is a Man”, and eventually agrees not to return to England. The two bestknown songs are “Getting To Know You” and “Shall We Dance?” This Rodgers and
Hammerstein work often featured Yul Brynner. Name this musical about a British
teacher in Siam.
ANSWER: (The) King And I
15. Biology
(Note to moderator: Oocytes is pronounce oh-oh-sites.) Some people are born with about
one million of these. Many contain an antrum and are classified as Graafian. These
groups of cells include granulosa which contain oocytes. Name these units found in the
ovaries, each of which contains a potential egg.
ANSWER: (Ovarian) Follicle(s)

16. Technology
This keyword can be used to make sure that a variable only gets initiated once even if the
instruction to initiate it occurs within a loop. It is also used to define a class for which the
variables can retain their values outside the class. Give this term beginning with the letter
S that is associated with things that do not change.
ANSWER: Static
17. Current Events
Researchers are hopeful that RTS S AS02D will prevent it, and Bill Gates has committed
about one billion dollars to eradicate it. Consensus estimates claim that it kills about one
million people each year and that the vast majority of the victims are young children.
Name this disease common in sub-Saharan Africa whose prevalence can be lessened by
ten dollar nets.
ANSWER: Malaria
18. Nonfiction
Some of his best-selling books have been based on interviews he conducted, including
one with British nun Wendy Becket and another involving discussions about the Book of
Genesis. He started out as a journalist before working for the Kennedy and Johnson
administrations, and he often appears on PBS. His most recent book, from 2004, is
subtitled A Journalist and His Times. Name this reporter who interviewed Joseph
Campbell in The Power of Myth.
ANSWER: (Bill) Moyers
19. Physics (10 Seconds)
His name is used to describe enclosed spatial surfaces. These surfaces are used in the law
named after him, which relates the source of a field inside an object and the flux through
its surface. His name is also used for the c g s measurement of a magnetic field. Name
this 19th Century German physicist and mathematician.
ANSWER: (Carl Friedrich) Gauss
20. US Literature
He is the protagonist in A Way You’ll Never Be, The Indian Camp, The End of Something,
and In Another Country. The son of a doctor, he serves as a Red Cross ambulance driver
during World War One. All of the stories about him were compiled into a book in 1972,
eleven years after the death of his creator. Name this short story character created by
Ernest Hemingway.
ANSWER: Nick Adams (prompt on half the answer)

Tiebreakers:
This is equal to the time derivative of momentum. In classical physics, it is equal to the
distance derivative of potential energy, though it is treated differently by modern physics.
For pendulums, it varies directly with the sine of the angle between the string and the
vertical, and for ideal springs it varies directly with the distance from equilibrium. One
example of it is weight, and it can be measured using pounds. Name this quantity which
equals mass times acceleration.
ANSWER: (Net) Force
(Note to moderator: Duquesne is pronounced Doo-Cane.) Early in his career, he
surrendered Fort Necessity and helped capture Fort Duquesne. At the end of his political
career, he gave a speech supporting unity and warning against permanent alliances, and
he then became a farmer. He presided over the Philadelphia Constitutional Convention in
1787. Name this Revolutionary War General who became the 1st President.
ANSWER: (George) Washington
Give the word that completes this Ben Franklin quote: “The definition of insanity is
doing the same thing over and over and expecting different…
ANSWER: Results

