The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 8Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) CT scans have linked this disease to enlarged Sylvian fissure. This disease has
been historically treated with chlorpromazine, although clozapine has been used
more recently to treat suicidal behaviors. Incoherent speech and illogical thoughts
characterize its disorganized, or (∗ ) hebephrenic, type. Other types include one marked by
posturing and stupor and another defined by delusion and auditory hallucinations. Coming in
catatonic and paranoid varieties, for ten points, name this psychological disorder whose name
means “split mind”.
ANSWER:

schizophrenia

(2) This artist painted a dog sleeping at the head of a bed in an otherwise-empty room
with a single window in The Master’s Bedroom. This man painted a blonde woman
with her hair down and topped with a bouquet in Crown of Flowers, and painted
the same woman in a gray turtleneck sweater and a different hairstyle in Braids;
those two are among over two hundred of his paintings of (∗ ) Helga Testorf. In his
most famous work, a grey house atop a grassy hill is approached by a disabled woman in a pink
dress crawling. For ten points, name this American realist painter of Christina’s World.
ANSWER: Andrew Wyeth

(3) Tushratta married his daughter to this leader hoping to ally against Suppiluliuma
I. That daughter, Tadukhipa, is speculated to be the same person as either Kiya or
this leader’s main wife, while another theory about that main wife is that she was
the daughter of Ay, an advisor who succeeded this ruler’s son. His correspondence
with the Hittites is recorded in the Amarna letters. After (∗ ) changing his name from
Amenhotep IV, he suppressed the worship of Amon. Called “the first individual in history”, for
ten points, name this husband of Nefertiti and predecessor of Tutankhamen who converted to
the monotheistic religion of Aton.
ANSWER:
mentioned)

Akhenaten (accept Amenhotep IV until mentioned, prompt on Amenhotep until

Round 8- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) In one novel set in this city, Daniel Quinn draws a map of the wandering of Peter
Stillman as he spells out “The Tower of Babel.” This setting of Paul Auster’s City
of Glass was also the setting of a novel where the only place quieter than Sherry’s
to go for tea was the house of Lawrence Sheldon. In another novel set here, Ellen
Thatcher marries George Baldwin after she divorces Jimmy Herf. Lily Bart lives
here in Edith Wharton’s The House of Mirth, and in a short story set in this city,
Della (∗ ) sells her hair and Jim sells his watch. The setting of The Gift of the Magi, for ten
points, identify this city, setting of O. Henry’s collection The Four Million and John Dos Passos’s
Manhattan Transfer.
ANSWER:

New York City

(5) Svante Arrhenius convinced the Nobel Prize committee not to award the prize to this
scientist because he claimed that man’s invention was too old. A proponent of the
abiogenic theory of petroleum, this scientist also invented a gunpowder substitute,
pyrocollodion, for his country’s navy using nitrocellulose. He used Sanskrit prefixes
in naming eight undiscovered elements, as in (∗ ) ekasilicon, which was later renamed
germanium. His most famous invention was improved by Henry Mosley who used atomic number
instead of atomic weight. For ten points, name this Russian chemist who invented the periodic
table of the elements.
ANSWER: Dmitri Mendeleev

(6) A recent battle in the Salaheddin district of one this country’s major cities was
won in favor of rebel forces after the intervention of a group with ties to alQaida. That group, the Jabhat al-Nusra, has been responsible for the murder of
Mohammed al-Saeed and a mass execution at Deiz ez-Zor. This country also saw a
January suicide bombing in its capital city’s district of al-Midan. A ceasefire was
announced in response to the four day (∗ ) Eid al-Adha holiday, although doubts arose
after government attacks in the cities of Duma and Aleppo. For ten points, name this country
currently experiencing a civil war led by Bashar al-Asad.
ANSWER:

Syrian Arab Republic

(7) According to Apollodorus, one of this figure’s sons was Parthenopaeus, one of the
Seven Against Thebes, and Medea healed a wound this Argonaut took while escaping
Colchis. This figure defeated Peleus in a wrestling match at the funeral games of
Pelias and prevented a rape by killing the centaurs Rhoecus and Hylaeus for an
attempted rape. This figure (∗ ) refused to wed anyone who could not win a footrace, but
was married after being distracted by golden apples. Turned into a lion, for ten points, name
this Greek huntress who married Melanion.
ANSWER:

Atalanta

Round 8- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(8) This author wrote a poem about the love Anelida had for a false knight, and in a
short story by this author, Canace uses a ring to talk to birds and build a cage for
a falcon whose lover left her for a kite. He called Jason the “root of false lovers”
in The Legend of Good Women and Scipio Africanus guides the narrator through
Venus’s temple and outside in this author’s Parlement of Foules. Phoebus kills his
wife and turns his pet crow’s feathers black in one story, and in another (∗ ) Arcite
and Philamon fight over the hand of Emily. He included the Squire’s Tale, Manciple’s Tale, and
Knight’s Tale with stories of 26 other pilgrims in his most famous work. For ten points, identify
this author of The Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer

(9) An 1890 Harvard Law Review article titled after this concept was cited by the
majority in Kyllo v. United States and was written by Samuel Warren and Louis
Brandeis. Harry Blackmun claimed that the majority ignored this concept in his
dissent in Bowers v. Hardwick. Hugo Black argued against this right because it is
not enumerated in the constitution in his dissent in Griswold v. Connecticut, when
this right was first (∗ ) cited by the Supreme Court. The basis for the decision in Lawrence
v. Texas and the right to abortion in Roe v. Wade, for ten points, name this concept vaguely
defined as the “right to be let alone.”
ANSWER: Right to Privacy

(10) Alternating groups consist of permutations with this property. A connected graph
with this property has an Eulerian circuit. This property names a part of a function
found by averaging f of x and f of minus x. Euler found a formula for all perfect
numbers with this property, and all known perfect numbers have this property.
A function satisfying f of x equals (∗ ) f of negative x has this property, which causes
reflectional symmetry over the y-axis in the graphs of cosine of x and x squared. For ten points,
name this property of integers which are divisible by 2.
ANSWER:

even

Round 8- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(11) This figure names a Jackson Pollack painting with red, yellow, and white streaks
against a brown background entitled The Wooden [one]. These figures are the
foremost in Alfred Stieglitz’s photograph Winter, Fifth Avenue. One of these figures
peeks through curtains in Henry Fuseli’s The Nightmare. Leonardo da Vinci never
completed his sculpture of one of these figures, and a statue in Padua sculpted
by Donatello features one of these figures with (∗ ) Gattamelata. The first two title
characters of Albrecht Dürer’s Knight, Death, and the Devil appear on these figures, as does the
title character of Frederick Remington’s The Bronco Buster. For ten points, identify this type of
animal featured in equestrian statues.
ANSWER:

horse (accept The Wooden Horse on an early buzz)

(12) One form of this process can be used in image processing to remove noise; this is
the Perona-Malik type. A characterization of this process involving mobility and
the Boltzmann constant was named after Smoluchowski and Einstein. Separate
coefficients of this process are given by the Maxwell-Stefan model and by (∗ ) Fick’s
Laws, where its rate is proportional to the square of velocity. This process is used to separate
isotopes of uranium, and proteins in the cell membrane give rise to its facilitated type. This
process is characterized by Brownian motion, and this process occurring to water is called osmosis.
For ten points, name this process where molecules move from an area of high concentration to
low concentration.
ANSWER:

diffusion

(13) In one story by this author, the title characters live in a cylinder fifty meters in
circumference and sixteen meters high. This author of The Lost Ones wrote about
a man who notices dangling objects when a whistle rings in Act Without Words,
and in a novel, Jacques Moran attempts to track down the titular figure, Molloy.
One character of his needs to look up “viduity,” a word he’d known thirty years
before, and another discusses divine apathia, divine athambia, and divine aphasia
when commanded to “think.” This author of (∗ ) Krapp’s Last Tape wrote a play in which
Nell and Nagg live in trash cans and Clom serves Hamm, Endgame. For ten points, identify this
author of Waiting for Godot.
ANSWER: Samuel Barclay Beckett

Round 8- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(14) One character in this opera empties her sleeves to show her possessions to her fiance,
but doesn’t show him her most prized possession, the knife her father used to kill
himself. One character realizes marriage isn’t like buying a house in Io so che
dolore, and he’d earlier promised to return “with the roses... when the robins make
their nest.” After one character converts to Christianity, her uncle Bonze curses her,
and she later sings the aria Un bel di. After Sharpless introduces the protagonist
to her husband’s (∗ ) new wife Kate, she blindfolds her son Sorrow and kills herself. For ten
points, identify this opera in which Pinkerton marries and then abandons Cio-Cio San, a work
by Giacomo Puccini.
ANSWER:

Madama Butterfly (or Madame Butterfly)

(15) The longest-lasting dynasty of these people was founded in Antioch by Bohemund,
and Roger of these people conquered Sicily. Another leader of these people pushed
the Byzantines out of Italy by conquering Bari; that man was Robert Guiscard. In
addition to those members of the Hauteville family that founded the Kingdom of
Sicily, another leader of these people married Matilda of Flanders and won a battle
by capturing Senlac Hill. That leader of these people was nicknamed “The Bastard”
and commissioned the (∗ ) Domesday Book and the Bayeux Tapestry, which depicted his
victory over Harold Godwinson at the battle of Hastings. For ten points, name these people
descended from Vikings whose leader William the Conqueror conquered England.
ANSWER:

Normans

(16) One clade in this group of organisms, xenarthra, only has one species naturally
found in the United States. This group of organisms contain two bones important
in sensing that are derived from the quadrate and articular bones of a related group
of vertebrate. In addition to comprising all known amniotes with reptiles, they
contain a temporal fenestra, which labels them as synapsids. Convergent evolution
resulted in similarities between the two largest clades of this class, the eutherians
and (∗ ) marsupials. For ten points, name this vertebrate class whose members are characterized
by hair and milk production.
ANSWER:

Mammalia or mammals

Round 8- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(17) One character in this novel correctly guesses that a previous occupant of her room
had freckles, and in one scene, the government stops announcing the crime people
were arrested for because they found it led to copy-cats. One character in this novel
gets the translation “Nolite te bastardes carborundorum” and hand lotion from her
employer. At the Rachel and Leah Re-Education Center, Moira escapes, and the
protagonist doesn’t see her again until she goes to Jezebel’s. The main character
has an affair with Nick and plays (∗ ) Scrabble with the Commander, and keeps both secrets
from Serena Joy. Set in Gilead with a main character called Offred, for ten points, identify this
novel by Margaret Atwood.
ANSWER: The Handmaid’s Tale

(18) A theorem of Koebe states that all finite simple planar graphs can be represented
by tangencies of these objects. An Apollonian gasket is a fractal made up of these
objects. The midpoints of the sides of a triangle and the feet of its altitudes all
lie on one of these objects named for Feuerbach. A cycloid is traced by a point on
this shape as it moves along a line. For shapes with a (∗ ) fixed perimeter, this shape
maximizes area. These shapes are described by the polar equation r equals cosine theta and by
r equals a constant. For ten points, name this shape consisting of all points at a given distance
from its center.
ANSWER:

circle

(19) The main perpetrator of this legislation met with Philip Phillips and Archibald
Dixon to ensure its passing. The Peoria Speech arguing against this legislation was
given by Abraham Lincoln. After a Massachusetts senator denounced the “Crime
against” one of its states, he was nearly beaten to death by Preston Brooks of South
Carolina. The Lecompton Constitution was issued in one of its states in response to
violence perpetrated by (∗ ) “Border Ruffians.” For ten points, Stephen Douglas urged for
the passing of which act that advocated for the use of popular sovereignty to organize its two
namesake states.
ANSWER:

Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854 (do not prompt on a partial answer)

(20) This system of beliefs is associated with a feast at which bills of Joss paper are
burned. A scholar of this faith stated that a turtle preferred living in the mud
to being dead but venerated. Some important works to this religion include Great
Peace, Treasury, and its namesake text. Iron Crutch Li is one of this religion’s Eight
Immortals. Virtues form this religion’s (∗ ) Three Jewels, and its Supreme being in the
Jade Emperor. Doing without doing, or wu-wei, is a principle upheld by, for ten points, which
Chinese religion founded by Laozi?
ANSWER:

Daoism (or Taoism)

Round 8- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

(21) General linear groups are made up of these objects, which are the subject of the
Rank-Nullity Theorem. The Cayley-Hamilton Theorem states that these objects
satisfy their own characteristic polynomial, whose roots are this object’s eigenvalues.
These objects can be put into reduced row echelon form through (∗ ) Gaussian
elimination, which can be used to find an inverse if it has a nonzero determinant. The transpose
operation swaps the rows and columns of, for ten points, these rectangular arrays of numbers.
ANSWER:

matrix or matrices (accept additional adjectives “square” or “invertible”)

Round 8- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) It states, “Tis our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the
foreign world.” For ten points each:
[10] Name this speech which also warns that political parties alternating in power is just a
different form of despotism.
ANSWER: Washington’s Farewell Address
[10] In Dwight Eisenhower’s farewell address, he warned against the growing influence of this
entity. He believed that its growing influence would cause wars and create debt for future
generations.
ANSWER: Military-Industrial Complex (prompt on “Defense Budget”, do not prompt on
or accept “military complex” or “industrial complex”)
[10] This president delivered a weird farewell address where he said “Au revoir” and started
rambling about random stuff, including a dead little girl. It came the day after he resigned on
national television.
ANSWER: Richard M. Nixon

(2) He wrote about kringle makers and Tanya in Twenty Six Men and a Girl. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this author who wrote a play about Luka and Vaska renting rooms in a boarding
house from Kostilyov, The Lower Depths.
ANSWER: Maxim Gorky (or Alexei Maximovich Peshkov)
[10] Maxim Gorky was the first chair of this organization, which formed after the demise of
Proletkult.
ANSWER: USSR Union of Writers or Union of Soviet Writers
[10] The Union of Soviet Writers formed to keep strict control on literature in the U.S.S.R.,
including refusing publication of this author’s Doctor Zhivago. When he was offered the Nobel
Prize in literature, they made this author refuse it.
ANSWER: Boris Leonidovich Pasternak

Round 8- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(3) After a performance of this song, The Ed Sullivan Show refused to let the band return due to
the lyrics “Girl, we couldn’t get much higher”. For ten points each:
[10] Name this 1967 single in which “the time to hesitate is through” and the listener is
exhorted to perform the title action.
ANSWER: Light My Fire
[10] This band fronted by Jim Morrison performed Light My Fire, as well as Touch Me and
Break on Through (To the Other Side).
ANSWER: The Doors
[10] This Doors song begins with a minor transposition of My Country ’Tis of Thee and uses
an anagram of Jim Morrison’s name, Mr. Mojo Risin. It asks if the title girl is in “the city of
light” or “just another lost angel” in the “city of night”.
ANSWER: L.A. Woman

(4) Three-body scatter spikes are a common indicator of this phenomenon. For ten points each:
[10] Name this type of precipitation formed in powerful updrafts from large thunderstorms.
These balls of ice tend to damage crops and cars.
ANSWER: hail
[10] Although similar in appearance, this type of precipitation is not related to hail, as it is
produced from the melting and refreezing of snowflakes.
ANSWER: sleet (or ice pellets)
[10] This type of ice crystal is formed close to the ground. It is fine, very effective at producing
halos, and occasionally produced from snow machines.
ANSWER: diamond dust

(5) This opera was amended to include a “Polish” scene to add more female vocalists. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this opera based on a Pushkin play of the same name about the title Russian tsar.
It features a Pretender seeking the throne and the love of Marina.
ANSWER: Boris Godunov
[10] This composer of Boris Godunov, one of the Mighty Five, depicted a witches’ sabbath in
Night on Bald Mountain and walking through a gallery in Pictures at an Exhibition.
ANSWER: Modest Mussorgsky
[10] In this other Mussorgsky opera, Peter the Great destroys the rebellion of the Streltsy,
leading to a mass suicide.
ANSWER: Khovanshchina

Round 8- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(6) This woman dances the tarantella in order to distract her husband from a letter. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this character who refuses the love of Dr. Rank and is the friend of Christine Linde,
though she can’t help Krogstad keep his job.
ANSWER: Nora Helmer (accept either portion)
[10] Nora Helmer appears in this play, where she forges a signature to borrow money for a
trip to restore her husband Torvald’s health. Nora ultimately leaves Torvald for not equally
sharing the burdens of marriage.
ANSWER: A Doll’s House (or Et dukkehjem)
[10] This Norwegian playwright wrote A Doll’s House in addition to writing about the title
character and her new husband Jorgen Tesman in Hedda Gabler.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen

(7) They have a compression factor of one which is constant at all pressures. For ten points each:
[10] Name this class of gases which have not been observed experimentally. Molecules in these
gases experience no attractive or repulsive forces.
ANSWER: ideal gases
[10] The temperature of an ideal gas is proportional to the molecules’ energy of this type.
Measuring energy of motion, it is calculated as half the product of a gas molecule’s mass and
the square of its velocity.
ANSWER: kinetic energy
[10] Gases whose molecules have more of these entities possess higher heat capacities than
those with fewer. Linear molecules possess the vibrational variety and nonlinear ones also
possess the rotational variety.
ANSWER: degrees of freedom

(8) The Iron Throne for the King of the Seven Kingdoms is pretty awesome. Answer the following
about some real thrones from history for ten points each.
[10] Holders of this position sit on the Chrysanthemum Throne. One of them, Hirohito,
delivered the Jewel Voice Broadcast, and supposedly they are all descended from the sun god
Amaterasu.
ANSWER: Emperor of Japan (prompt on partial answer, accept equivalents)
[10] The Pahlavi dynasty claimed that their throne was reconstructed from the Peacock Throne
of this empire. The original Peacock Throne was built by Shah Jahan, who also built the Taj
Mahal while leading this empire.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire
[10] This throne descended from heaven to the founder of the Ashanti empire, Osei Tutu. The
British annexed the Ashanti after the governor of the Golden Coast wanted to sit on this
throne.
ANSWER: Golden Stool

Round 8- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(9) It sees the youngest child at the table recite the Ma Nishtana, or Four Questions. For ten
points each:
[10] Identify this Jewish meal which takes place on the 15th of Nisan. It traditionally includes
six symbolic foods and its participants eat matzo, or unleavened bread, and drink four cups of
wine.
ANSWER: seder
[10] Seders are conducted during this holiday commemorating God’s exempting Israelites
from the tenth Egyptian plague, the slaughter of the firstborn, leading to their delivery from
captivity.
ANSWER: Passover (or Pesach)
[10] This Passover song, which sometimes involves participants hitting each other with green
onions, translates as “It would have been enough” and recounts the blessings of God on the
Israelites, such as feeding them manna and giving them the Torah.
ANSWER: Dayenu

(10) This region is bounded to the north by the Taklamakan desert and the Himalayas to the south.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this Chinese autonomous region, nicknamed the “Roof of the World,” with
administrative capital at Lhasa.
ANSWER: Tibetan Plateau
[10] The Tibetan plateau gives rise to this Chinese river which empties into the Bohai Sea, an
inlet of its namesake sea. Its tributaries include the Wei, regarded as the birthplace of ancient
Chinese civilizations.
ANSWER: Yellow River (or Huang-He)
[10] Another river which rises in the Tibetan plateau is this one which flows through the
Chinese province of Yunnan before finally emptying into the Gulf of Martaban.
ANSWER: Salween River

(11) Name the following proteins for ten points each.
[10] This protein forms microfilaments in a cell’s cytoskeletons. It works alongside myosin in
muscle cell contraction.
ANSWER: actin
[10] An important component of connective tissue, this protein returns body tissue such as
skin to its original form after applying tension. This protein also allows the carrying of heavy
weights without permanently deforming tissue.
ANSWER: elastin
[10] Fibrin is an example of this kind of protein, which may also describe the appearance of
connective tissue very dense in proteins, such as collagen.
ANSWER: fibrous

Round 8- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(12) In this work, the Earth is born from a duck egg and the first man, Väinämöinen, is born from
the sea. For ten points each:
[10] Name this epic of folklore and mythology that is considered a cornerstone of Finnish
literature and nationalism.
ANSWER: Kalevala
[10] Like Väinämöinen, another key figure in the Kalevala is this Finnish hero, who attempts
to win the daughter of Louhi by capturing a black swan, but fails and drowns in the river
Tuonela.
ANSWER: Lemminkäinen
[10] In the Kalevala, this magical artifact forged by Ilmarinen is stolen by the sorceress Louhi
and Väinämöinen attempts to recover it. Louhi is killed, but this artifact is destroyed in the
struggle.
ANSWER: Sampo

(13) Name these pragmatist philosophers for ten points each.
[10] This man wrote an essay referring to pragmatism as “A new name for some old ways of
thinking” as well as The Will to Believe.
ANSWER: William James
[10] This philosopher applied pragmatism to reforming the education system in works such as
Democracy and Education.
ANSWER: John Dewey
[10] This modern philosopher redefined pragmatism in works such as Feminism and Pragmatism
and Pragmatism as Romantic Polytheism.
ANSWER: Richard Rorty

(14) Identify the following about the poetry of Alfred, Lord Tennyson for ten points each.
[10] This poem concludes “To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield,” and was written about
a namesake Greek hero.
ANSWER: Ulysses
[10] This poem states “Theirs was not to reason why / Theirs was but to do or die / Into the
valley of Death / rode the six hundred” about a certain group at the Battle of Balaclava.
ANSWER: Charge of the Light Brigade
[10] “When every morning brought a noble chance, / And every chance brought out a noble
knight,” describes King Arthur and his knights in this cycle of Tennyson poems.
ANSWER: Idylls of the King

Round 8- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(15) Jean-Paul Sartre once said “I would rather vote for God” than support this man. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this first president of France, who led the Free French forces during World War II.
ANSWER: Charles de Gaulle
[10] This only Socialist President of France opposed de Gaulle. He later ruled jointly with his
successor Jacques Chirac.
ANSWER: Francois Mitterrand
[10] Mitterrand gave the order to sink this international environmental organization’s ship
Rainbow Warrior, which was protesting French nuclear testing.
ANSWER: Greenpeace

(16) These can be computed using the Squeeze Theorem. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this mathematical operation that gives the value that a function is approaching.
ANSWER: limit
[10] Limits of indeterminate forms can be computed using this rule, which states that a limit
of the form zero over zero is equal to the limit gotten after taking derivatives in the numerator
and denominator.
ANSWER: L’Hôpital’s Rule (or L’Hôpital’s Theorem)
[10] The proof of L’Hôpital’s Rule makes use of this theorem which states that, for a
differentiable function on an interval, there is a point at which the derivative equals the average
rate of change.
ANSWER: Mean Value Theorem (prompt on MVT)

(17) Identify the following about the beat generation for ten points each.
[10] This beat author wrote about those “who threw potato salad at CCNY lectures on
Dadaism” and “came back to Denver & waited in vain” in his poem about “the best minds”
of his generation.
ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg
[10] Ginsberg referred to this man as the “secret hero” of that poem, Howl. This author of
The First Third was also the inspiration for the character Dean Moriarty.
ANSWER: Neal Cassady
[10] Dean Moriarty appeared in this novel, where he journeyed to Denver and met up with
Carlo Marx, based on Allen Ginsberg. They were joined by Sal Paradise, who was based on
this novel’s author, Jack Kerouac.
ANSWER: On the Road

Round 8- Page 13

IMSANITY 3

(18) Examples of these include the capillary bowl and the overbalanced wheel. For ten points each:
[10] Name this type of device which claim to output as much or more energy than is put in,
allowing them to run forever. These devices violate the Laws of Thermodynamics.
ANSWER: perpetual motion machine (accept over-unity or free energy devices)
[10] This thought experiment attempts to violate the Second Law of Thermodynamics by
postulating a creature that lets hot molecules in but keeps cold ones out. However, the energy
is required to observe the molecules disproves the claim.
ANSWER: Maxwell’s Demon
[10] This exception to the Third Law of Thermodynamics occurs in imperfect crystals or
amorphous solids as they are cooled to absolute zero.
ANSWER: residual entropy

(19) One of the leaders of this empire was known as the Slit-Nosed. For ten points each:
[10] Name this empire, whose Heraclian dynasty was founded by a man who won the Battle of
Ninevah but lost the battle of Yarmouk. The Varangian guard served as bodyguards of this
empire’s leaders.
Byzantine Empire or Eastern Roman Empire (do not prompt on or accept
ANSWER:
“Roman Empire”)
[10] This Byzantine emperor compiled a namesake code. He married the prostitute Theodora,
and his general Belisarius reconquered much of Italy and Dalmatia.
ANSWER: Justinian I or Justinian the Great
[10] After Justinian II the Slit-Nosed, when Byzantine Emperors were overthrown, their
successors usually did this to them to disqualify them from ever recovering the throne, since
the Emperor was supposed to be perfect.
ANSWER: blinding (accept equivalents, prompt on “mutilating” or “mutilating the face”)

(20) It is illuminated through a hidden window at the top of the Cornaro Chapel. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this sculpture in which an angel with a golden arrow stands ready to pierce the
titular figure as she lies on a cloud. Golden rays from the sky top the scene.
ANSWER: The Ecstasy of Saint Theresa (or L’Estasi di Santa Teresa)
[10] This Italian artist created The Ecstasy of Saint Theresa in addition to a work in which
Ganges, Nile, Platte, and Danube surround the base of an obelisk, The Fountain of the Four
Rivers.
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo Bernini
[10] This other Bernini sculpture sees a male figure lifting the titular female over a barking
Cerberus. Thomas Hart Benton painted the same scene with a farmer in place of the male
figure.
ANSWER: The Rape of Proserpina (accept “Persephone” in place of “Proserpina”)

Round 8- Page 14

IMSANITY 3

(21) Clarissa kissed Sally Seton and married Richard instead of Peter Walsh. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which Septimus Smith jumps out a window when the title character
throws a party.
ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway
[10] This author wrote Mrs. Dalloway and an essay concluding women writers must have
money and the titular Room of One’s Own, as well as describing the Ramsay family in To the
Lighthouse.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf
[10] Woolf wrote this novel in which Bernard, Susan, Rhoda, Neville, Jinny, and Louis each
monologue and reflect on Percival.
ANSWER: The Waves

Round 8- Page 15

