The Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy of Aurora, IL,

in partnership with Loyola Academy of Wilmette, IL, present

IMSANITY 3
-ROUND 9Editors

Writers

Noah Prince

Lael Costa
Siva Gangavarapu
Webster Guan
Adam Kalinich
Anton Karpovich
Sabrina Lato

Adam Kalinich
Sabrina Lato
Morgan Venkus

with special contributions from. . .
Brad Fischer
Jacob O’Rourke

Nolan Maloney
Eric Ordonez
Noah Prince
Saieesh Rao
Ian Torres
Morgan Venkus

IMSANITY 3

Tossups
(1) At the end of one novella by this author, the protagonist says that he and his wife
will eat mierda if his pension does not arrive. In addition to No One Writes to
the Colonel, this author penned a short story in which a couple grows wealthy by
charging people to see what is believed to be an angel. This author compiled A Very
Old Man with Enormous Wings alongside other short stories into his novella Leaf
Storm, but he is more famous for a novel that follows the love between (∗ ) Florentino
and Fermina and another novel chronicling the Buendia family in the village of Macondo. For
ten points, name this Colombian author of Love in the Time of Cholera and One Hundred Years
of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia Marquez

(2) One thinker of this movement used the terms “encompassing” to represent
determinate objects and “transcendence” as nothingness. In this movement, the
concept of being “thrown into the world” of facts that already exist is known as
“facticity”. This school of thought, which included Martin Buber and Karl Jaspers,
also introduced the concept of the objectivity of the “Look” experienced by the
“Other”. One work in this movement contrasts the “being-in-itself” and “being-foritself;” that work also discusses (∗ ) “bad faith” and is titled Being and Nothingness. For
ten points, name this philosophy of Martin Heidegger and Jean-Paul Sartre that focuses on the
human condition.
ANSWER:

existentialism or existentialist

(3) In the Ramayana, Vishvamitra uses one of these weapons created by Brahma against
Vasishta, who survives nonetheless. The Norse god Ullr is usually depicted wearing
skis and holding one of these weapons. One of these objects made of sugarcane and
honeybees is owned by the Hindu love god, Kama, and Sita married Rama after he
was able to use one of these objects belonging to Shiva. Iphitus gave Odysseus one
of these weapons which (∗ ) Penelope used to determine which of her suitors she would marry.
Wielded by Apollo and Artemis, for ten points, name this object from which Cupid often fired
arrows of love.
ANSWER:

bows (accept answers like “bow and arrow”)

Round 9- Page 1

IMSANITY 3

(4) Thorismund defeated this leader’s left flank and captured an important hill, but
instead of pursuing this leader, secured his own succession at Toulouse under the
advice of Flavius Aetius. Valentinian III’s sister, Honoria, sent this man a ring
shortly before he was defeated by Roman and Visigoth forces–but killed Theodoric–
at the Battle of (∗ ) Chalons. This man later went to Mantua, where Pope Leo the Great
convinced him to not sack Rome. For ten points, name this brother of Bleda, a man nicknamed
the “Scourge of God”, who led the Huns on an invasion of Europe.
ANSWER:

Attila the Hun

(5) These entities are produced by Park and Miller’s MINSTD method. One way to
produce these entities is the middle-square method of John von Neumann. These
entities are often created using a linear congruence method. Suboptimal ones of
these exhibit serial correlation, whereas optimal ones pass the next-bit test. Nuclear
decay or shot noise can form the basis of hardware methods for these objects, and
software methods use generation from an (∗ ) initial seed. Often used for cryptographic or
statistical purposes, for ten points, identify these unpredictable quantities.
ANSWER:

random numbers (accept pseudorandom numbers)

(6) This artist showed a blind-folded lady playfully reaching at a circle of friends with
a spoon in Blind Man’s Bluff. This artist painted naked and non-naked works
depicting the same reclining woman in addition to an etching of himself resting his
head on a desk as bats and owls swarm him. This artist of clothed and nude (∗ )
Majas included The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters in his series “Los Caprichos”. In his
most famous painting, a black sky overlooks a man in yellow pants with arms outstretched facing
a firing squad on the right. For ten points, name this Spanish artist of Third of May 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco Goya y Lucientes

(7) This man’s father names the cooperativity of oxygen binding to hemoglobin,
and electron magnetic dipole moments are measured in units of this man’s
namesake magneton. This man’s correspondence principle states that the results
of quantum mechanics must approach those of classical mechanics in sufficiently
large calculations, and 0.53 angstroms is the length of his namesake (∗ ) radius, the
most likely distance between the hydrogen nucleus and its electron. Helping to formulate the
Copenhagen interpretation, for ten points, name this Danish physicist who posited than electrons
travel in circular orbits around a dense nucleus.
ANSWER: Niehls Henrik David Bohr

Round 9- Page 2

IMSANITY 3

(8) The winning side of this conflict gained a short-lived upperhand at the Battle of
Elandslaagte. That army also faced hard losses during the Black Week in this
conflict. A telegram of congratulations sent by Wilhelm II led to this war. Robert
Baden-Powell prevented his side from losing in the Siege of Mafeking, and an
investigation on concentration camps resulting from this war was led by the Fawcett
commission. Ending with the Treaty of (∗ ) Vereenging, one side of this conflict was led by
Lord Kitchener and was partly instigated by the Jameson raid. Resulting in the dissolution of
states under Paul Kruger, for ten points, name this South African conflict between the British
and the namesake ethnic Dutch.
ANSWER: Second Boer War

(9) In 2012, this state’s capital announced a beautification project that would remove
the Main Street Dam from its Scioto River. One river in this state was described
as “ooz[ing] rather than flow[ing]” and having “no visible life” in a Time magazine
article written after it caught fire; that river is the Cuyahoga. The western border
of this state is defined by the Miami River, and the southern border of this state is
formed by a river which meets the (∗ ) Allegheny and Monongahela just east of this state.
For ten points, name this state, the namesake of the largest tributary of the Mississippi River.
ANSWER:

Ohio

(10) In this novel, a prostitute is held hostage in a hotel room until she says “uncle”,
and one character is indignant that, instead of syphilis or the clap, he contracted
malaria while fornicating. Another character in this novel commits suicide after the
propeller of his plane kills Kid Sampson; that character is McWatt. A mother dies
upon learning the middle name of her son, and one character buys eggs for (∗ ) seven
cents and sells them for five to earn huge profits for his syndicate. Featuring characters such
as Major Major and Milo Minderbinder, for ten points, identify this World War II novel which
follows its protagonist Yossarian in Pianosa, a novel by Joseph Heller.
ANSWER:

Catch-22

(11) One character in this film hates it when her family members put weapons on tables,
and the most moving speech in this film came out of charade-like motions of the
protagonist’s mother. Two characters in this film sneak into the palace to steal a
tapestry, and another character has a wooden leg after fighting a bear. One character
follows Will O’Wisps to find her destiny and later splits an (∗ ) arrow through the middle
to win her own hand. Elinor, along with the triplets Harris, Hubert, and Hamish, are all turned
into bears, the same way Mor’du had been. For ten points, identify this Pixar film about the
Scottish princess Merida.
ANSWER:

Brave

Round 9- Page 3

IMSANITY 3

(12) One conflict between these two nations almost occurred over an incident caused by
Captain Charles Wilkes of the San Jacinto. In addition to that incident where James
Mason and John Slidell were arrested, another conflict between these two nations
occurred after a fight between the Leopard and the Chesapeake. The Hartford
Convention discussed ending a conflict between these two nations, and the (∗ ) War
Hawks in Congress advocated conflict between these nations. During another conflict between
these countries, the Battle of New Orleans occurred after it was ended by the Treaty of Ghent.
For ten points, name these two countries that fought in the War of 1812 and the Revolutionary
War.
ANSWER: United States of America (or USA) and Great Britain (or United Kingdom)

(13) Beethoven composed the third movement of one of these works in Lydian F, which
he labeled “Heiliger Dankgesang”. One of these works in which the recapitulation
directly follows the exposition is Alban Berg’s Lyric Suite, and a high E depicts
the composer’s deafness in one of these by Smetana titled “In My Life”. Mozart
composed a “Dissonant” one and Schubert adapted one of his lieder into one named
(∗ ) Death and the Maiden. One man who composed examples of these works titled “Sunrise”
and “Emperor” was considered the “father” of this form; that man was Joseph Haydn. For ten
points, name these works for a chamber ensemble consisting of two violins, a viola, and a cello.
ANSWER:

string quartet

(14) One author from this country wrote about three friends inventing a conspiracy
theory involving the Knights Templar called “The Plan”. Another novel from this
country features reader Ludmilla, and uses the odd-numbered chapters to prepare
the reader for the upcoming chapter. In addition to the the authors of Foucault’s
Pendulum and If on a Winter’s Night a Traveler, this country is home to an author
who wrote about a family interrupting a play to perform their own story in (∗ ) Six
Characters in Search of an Author. This country also served as the setting of Taming of the
Shrew and Romeo and Juliet. For ten points, name this country, home to the authors Umberto
Eco, Italo Calvino, and Luigi Pirandello.
ANSWER: Republic of Italy

Round 9- Page 4

IMSANITY 3

(15) Bennettitales, an extinct line of these organisms with recessed microsporangia,
is theorized to be a sister group to this monophyletic group. This group’s most
distant-living relative is endemic to New Caledonia and is called Amborella. Their
integuments have two layers, and the megasporangia of members of this group
become triploid after undergoing a process called double fertilization. They can
be classified into (∗ ) monocots and eudicots, but are most easily distinguished from another
phylum of seed bearing plants by the presence of stamens and carpels. For ten points, name
these often fruit bearing plants that have flowers and which are contrasted with gymnosperms.
ANSWER:

angiosperms

(16) One character in this novel impregnated and abandoned Eliza Williams, and after
eloping, two characters go to Dawlish. One character thought himself in love because
he spent a boring year at Longstaple, and another relationship begins when one
character sprains her ankle. Lucy Steele marries her fiance’s older brother, Robert,
and the protagonists move to Barton Cottage after Fanny makes them leave Norland
Park. After being rejected by John (∗ ) Willoughby, Marriane marries Colonel Brandon,
and Edward Ferrars marries Elinor. For ten points, identify this first work about the Dashwood
sisters, the first published novel of Jane Austen.
ANSWER:

Sense and Sensibility

(17) One of these events in the second chapter of Acts involved three thousand people in
Jerusalem. After an earthquake freed Paul and Silas from prison, his jailor’s family
took part in one of these events. It’s not the transfiguration, but one of these events
caused God to respond “This is my beloved son, in whom I am well-pleased.” The
most famous performer of this practice was said to be the reincarnation of Elijah, was
imprisoned for calling out the incentuous marriage of (∗ ) Antipas, and died when Salome
ordered his head on a platter. For ten points, name this Christian ritual notably performed in
the Jordan River by Jesus’s cousin John in which a person is covered in water.
ANSWER:

baptism

(18) This man presented his paper Rotating Universes in General Relativity Theory
at the 1950 International Congress of Mathematicians. This man’s dissertation,
completed under Hans Hahn, proved that first-order logic was complete. This man
proved that the axioms of set theory were consistent with the Axiom of Choice.
His paper On Formally Undecidable Propositions in Principia Mathematica and
Related Systems showed that there were true statements which could not be proven.
(∗ ) For ten points, name this Austrian logician who proved a namesake Incompleteness Theorem.
ANSWER: Kurt Gödel

Round 9- Page 5

IMSANITY 3

(19) After signing the Peace of Abo, Russia entered this war too late to affect the
outcome. This war included battles to take Fort St. David although the invading
French forces were then forced to defend Pondicherry. William Shirley and his forces
took Louisbourg fortress from the French in the North American theatre of this war,
named after the king who led his forces in this conflict’s Battle of Dettingen. This
conflict arose due to violation of the (∗ ) Pragmatic Sanction of 1713 and ended with the
Prussian annexation of Silesia by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. For ten points, name this war
instigated over disagreement of the ascension of Maria Theresa to the Hapsburg throne.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession

(20) The velocity of particles in this state can be characterized by the Vlasov equation,
and another aspect of this state is characterized by the Saha-Langmuir equation.
Instabilities in these substances are often caused by Birkeland currents, and one form
of oscillations in these are called Alfven waves. Rarefied forms of these substances
are insulated by a Debye sheath. Other varieties found in space containing large
particles are called “grain” and “dusty”. A form of this on ships is called (∗ ) St.
Elmo’s fire. This state was first discovered in a Crookes tube, but it is more commonly found
in lightning and TV displays. Flame is an instance of, for ten points, this fourth state of matter
composed of partially ionized gas.
ANSWER:

plasma

(21) This process is started by the reduction of thioredoxin by ferrodoxin, and in some
organisms, this process is preceded by a step in which PEP carboxylase catalyzes the
addition of a certain molecule to another for storage purposes. In other organisms,
this process is inhibited by the presence of oxygen, which inhibits a certain enzyme
in a process known as photorespiration; that enzyme is (∗ ) rubisco. Its most notable
step results in the production of two molecules of glyeceraldehyde-3-phosphate from an unstable
intermediate, and it takes place in the stroma. For ten points, name these “dark reactions” of
photosynthesis which produce glucose from carbon dioxide.
ANSWER:
mention)

Calvin-Benson

cycle (prompt “dark reactions” or “light-independent” before

Round 9- Page 6

IMSANITY 3

Bonuses
(1) He discussed the Aborigines’ avoidance of incest in his work Totem and Taboo. For ten points
each:
[10] Identify this Austrian psychologist who founded psychoanalysis. He split the psyche into
id, ego, and superego and wrote The Interpretation of Dreams.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
[10] This thinker claimed that Freud’s concept of the Oedipus complex was limited to Western
culture in his book Sex and Repression in Savage Society, which was based on his studies of
the Trobriand Islanders.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
[10] According to Freud, the Oedipus complex arises in the phallic stage, the third of five
stages in this theory of development he created.
ANSWER: psychosexual theory of development

(2) They can be either intrinsic or extrinsic, and their UV Ceti type stems from very high flare
activity in red dwarfs. For ten points each:
[10] Identify these stars, including Algol and Mira, which exhibit alterations in luminosity.
ANSWER: variable stars
[10] These variable stars were commonly used as standard candles by Hubble to discover the
expansion of the universe. They lie on the instability strip, and can be distinguished from the
Delta Scuti and RR Lyrae varieties.
ANSWER: Cepheid variables
[10] These variable stars, consisting of very massive supergiants, have bright, irregular
outbursts. They later evolve to Wolf-Rayet stars, and include Eta Carinae, P Cygni, and their
namesake in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
ANSWER: S Doradus variables or Luminous Blue Variables or LBVs

(3) The acts of this work are interrupted by “knee plays”. For ten points each:
[10] Name this plotless opera about the titular scientist, containing movements such as “Mr.
Bojangles” and “I Feel the Earth Move”.
ANSWER: Einstein on the Beach
[10] This American minimalist composer created Einstein on the Beach as the first piece in his
Portrait Trilogy.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] The third opera of Glass’s Portrait Trilogy is this one, which ends with the title character
in a funeral procession as a bass theme from Einstein on the Beach is played.
ANSWER: Akhnaten

Round 9- Page 7

IMSANITY 3

(4) Answer the following about providing medicine to war casualties for ten points each.
[10] The first of these agreements that established humanitarian law during war, notably for
victims and prisoners, was made in 1864 and amended three times.
ANSWER: Geneva Conventions (do not accept “Geneva Protocol”)
[10] The International Red Cross was founded by Henry Durant after seeing the aftermath of
this battle in the Second Italian War of Independence that followed the Battle of Magenta.
ANSWER: Battle of Solferino
[10] This nurse developed new methods for collecting and representing statistics while earning
the nickname “Lady with the Lamp” during the Crimean War.
ANSWER: Florence Nightingale

(5) Mr. Rosier seeks permission to marry Pansy, but her father doesn’t even allow her to dance
with him. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel, in which the protagonist visits her dying cousin Ralph Touchett, but
returns to Rome and her husband, Gilbert Osmond.
ANSWER: The Portrait of a Lady
[10] In this novel by the author of The Portrait of a Lady, the governess tries to free Miles and
Flora from the ghosts of Miss Jessup and Peter Quint.
ANSWER: The Turn of the Screw
[10] This author of The Portrait of a Lady and The Turn of the Screw wrote about Maggie
Verner in The Golden Bowl.
ANSWER: Henry James

(6) One man’s improvisation on this instrument was described as “sheets of sound”. For ten points
each:
[10] First, identify this man whose bands released the albums My Favorite Things and A Love
Supreme.
ANSWER: John William Coltrane
[10] John Coltrane is best known as a player of this jazz instrument. He played its soprano
version in My Favorite Things, but later switched to the tenor variety.
ANSWER: saxophone
[10] This movement of Aram Khachaturian’s ballet Gayane features a solo on tenor saxophone.
ANSWER: Sabre Dance

Round 9- Page 8

IMSANITY 3

(7) While “at her needle,” she embroiders beautifully for the rich and makes clothing to donate to
the poor. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this character, the wife of Roger Chillingworth, who must live with an embroidered
“A” because of her affair with Arthur Dimmesdale.
ANSWER: Hester Prynne (accept either)
[10] Hester Prynne is the protagonist of this author’s The Scarlet Letter. He wrote about the
Pyncheon family in The House of the Seven Gables.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
[10] In The Scarlet Letter, the women of Boston were willing to accept Hester’s embroidery for
all but this one occasion.
marriage (accept common-knowledge equivalents like wedding or anything
ANSWER:
involving a bride)

(8) Answer the following about the Mexican-American War for ten points each.
[10] One American goal in the war was to gain this region on the Pacific coast from Mexico.
Shortly before the War, American settlers here declared the Bear Flag Republic, and shortly
after the War, this region became the thirty-first state of the United States.
ANSWER: California
[10] This United States President oversaw the Mexican-American War in addition to signing the
Oregon Treaty with Britain to establish borders on American claims in the Pacific Northwest.
ANSWER: James Knox Polk
[10] Critical of Polk’s pretext for war, Representative Abraham Lincoln proposed this measure
demanding to know the location of the Thornton Affair, at which Americans had supposedly
been provoked by Mexican forces.
ANSWER: Spot Resolutions

(9) Yeasts do not grow these structures, which can be divided into smaller compartments by septa.
For ten points each:
[10] Name these filamentous structures which can conglomerate and form a body called a
mycelium.
ANSWER: hyphae
[10] Hyphae are characteristic of this kingdom of organisms which include mushrooms and
bread molds.
ANSWER: fungus or fungi
[10] Hyphae can form this symbiotic relationship with vascular plant roots by exchanging
nutrients. This relationship can be classified as arbuscular if the hyphae penetrate plant cell
wall.
ANSWER: mycorrhizae

Round 9- Page 9

IMSANITY 3

(10) This religion’s right to sacrifice animals was upheld in Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City
of Hialeah. For ten points each:
[10] Name this west African and Caribbean religion based on Yoruba myth which venerates
orishas.
ANSWER: Santeria
[10] Santeria blends aspects of Yoruba culture with Roman Catholicism, identifying saints
with the orishas, and thus making Santeria this kind of religion that combines aspects from
multiple beliefs.
ANSWER: syncretic religion
[10] The highest ranked priests in Santeria are associated with this method of divination which
uses palm nuts to obtain knowledge from Orunmila.
ANSWER: Ifa

(11) This force often confounded designers of long-range guns. For ten points each:
[10] Name this force responsible for introducing the counterclockwise spin of cyclones in the
Northern hemisphere, and much less responsible for the direction of toilet flushing.
ANSWER: Coriolis force
[10] This other force is an acceleration felt in the direction of apparent motion when the speed
of rotation of a rotating body varies. It is experienced as the backwards push when a carousel
spins up.
ANSWER: Euler force
[10] The preceding two forces are only experienced in rotating reference frames. This term
refers to reference frames that do not experience these forces.
ANSWER: inertial reference frames

(12) Answer the following about equilateral parallelograms for ten points each.
[10] This type of quadrilateral, of which squares are a special example, has equal opposite
angles and four equal side lengths.
ANSWER: rhombus
[10] In every rhombus, these features perpendicularly bisect each other.
ANSWER: diagonals
[10] The dual of a cuboctahedron is a polyhedron with this number of faces, all of which are
rhombuses.
ANSWER: 12

Round 9- Page 10

IMSANITY 3

(13) He retrieved bones from Mictlan and used them to create humans. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this Aztec god, who was depicted as a plumed serpent. He was exiled by
Tezcatlipoca, and left on a raft of snakes.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl
[10] This god created fire, from which Quetzalcoatl made a half sun. This god killed his sister
Coyolxauhqui and made her head into the moon, and is depicted as a hummingbird.
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli
[10] Another story tells of this goddess of worms, who attempted to throw herself into a fire to
become the sun goddess but was too scared of the fire to carry through.
ANSWER: Metzli

(14) Answer the following about homecomings for ten points each.
[10] This author wrote about Ruth deciding to stay with Teddy’s family, leaving Teddy to
return to their three children alone in The Homecoming. He also wrote a play where Ben and
Gus receive orders from the title Dumbwaiter.
ANSWER: Harold Pinter
[10] This American wrote The Homecoming about a blues musician and the man who steals
his songs, which was not included in his Pittsburgh Cycle.
ANSWER: August Wilson
[10] Homecoming is a collection of essays written by Ngugi wa Thiong’o, who was an author
from this country. His A Grain of Wheat is set during the preparations for this country’s
independence day celebration.
ANSWER: Kenya

(15) Answer the following about Amendments with odd ratification processes for ten points each.
[10] This most recently ratified amendment was pending before the states from 1789 until
1992. It prevents congressional pay raises from taking effect until after the next election.
ANSWER: 27th Amendment (or Article the second)
[10] Article the first, which is still pending before the states, was introduced in 1789 along with
the 27th amendment and this first group of amendments, ten of which were quickly approved.
ANSWER: Bill of Rights
[10] The Corwin Amendment, also still pending before the states, would make slavery legal
again. It was proposed as part of an 1860 Compromise by this Kentucky senator and was
designed to prevent the Civil War.
ANSWER: John J. Crittenden

Round 9- Page 11

IMSANITY 3

(16) The King of Ward Six is killed with a pair of scissors, and the Girl With Dark Glasses looks
after an orphaned boy. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which everyone except the doctor’s wife suffers from the title
condition.
ANSWER: Essay on Blindess (or Ensaio sobre a Cegueira)
[10] Blindness is a novel by this Protuguese author who wrote about the Iberian peninusla
breaking off from Europe in The Stone Raft.
ANSWER: José de Sousa Saramago
[10] Jose Saramago also wrote this novel, where Senhor Jose works at the Central Registry of
Births, Marriages, and Deaths and becomes obsessed with finding an “unknown woman.”
ANSWER: All the Names (or Todos os nomes)

(17) One of its most successful leaders was Hammurabi, who wrote his namesake code to govern it.
For ten points each:
[10] Name this ancient Mesopotamian city-state and empire which built the Hanging Gardens.
ANSWER: Babylon
[10] After destroying the city of Babylon, a ruler of this empire, Sennacherib, was murdered by
his two sons in this empire’s city of Ninevah.
ANSWER: Assyria
[10] The first ruler with this name expanded Assyrian power into Anatolia and the
Mediterranean during the Middle period. The third ruler with this name founded the
Neo-Assyrian empire and conquered Babylon, Phoenicia, and Syria.
ANSWER: Tiglath-Pileser

(18) Pi-orbitals do not allow rotation about their characteristic double bond, thus usually making
them planar. For ten points each:
[10] Name this class of organic molecules identified by the presence of a double bond between
two carbon atoms. They can undergo addition reactions in which diatomic reagents can add
to each side of the double bond.
ANSWER: alkenes
[10] When the reagent in an addition reaction is an unsymmetrical protic acid, this rule named
after a Russian chemist states that the hydrogen attaches to the carbon with fewer alkyl
substituents.
ANSWER: Markovnikov’s Rule
[10] Markovnikov’s Rule is unnecessary to determine the outcome of hydrogenation reactions,
in which symmetrical hydrogen gas is used to reduce alkenes to this class of organic compounds
that do not contain multiple bonds.
ANSWER: alkanes

Round 9- Page 12

IMSANITY 3

(19) Far-right parties in Europe have had mixed success in recent elections. For ten points each:
[10] Geert Wilders’ Party for Freedom lost seats in this country’s parliament, although 11
parties entered won seats.
ANSWER: Netherlands
[10] Although the National Front won seats in the National Assembly of this country, its
leader, Marine Le Pen, narrowly lost election. Her father Jean-Marie had previously lost this
country’s presidential election to Jacques Chirac.
ANSWER: France
[10] This far-right Greek party kept most of its seats in May and June elections for the Hellenic
Parliament, even after party spokesman Ilias Kasidiaris started hitting a female MP during a
debate.
ANSWER: Golden Dawn

(20) Identify the following about blue and yellow things in art for ten points each.
[10] This artist painted a girl wearing a blue and yellow headdress and the titular piece of
jewelry in his Girl with the Pearl Earring.
ANSWER: Jan Vermeer (or Johan Vermeer)
[10] In 1990, the Bulgarian artist Christo installed thousands of these objects into the
landscape, with blue ones used in Japan and yellow ones used in California.
ANSWER: umbrella
[10] Kurt Schwitters wrote “Blue is the color of your yellow hair” in his poem An Anne Blume;
Schwitters was a member of this post-World-War-I anti-art art movement which included
Hannah Hoch and Marcel Duchamp.
ANSWER: dadaism

(21) Identify the following about doctors in art for ten points each.
[10] This artist portrayed a doctor explaining the musculature of a dissected human arm in his
The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp.
ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn (accept either)
[10] This work by Thomas Eakins shows the titular professor overseeing a leg surgery in
Jefferson Medical College.
ANSWER: The Gross Clinic
[10] This American artist showed two hands holding a stethoscope and thermometer as his
pocket watch read three o’clock in his lithograph The Family Doctor.
ANSWER: Grant DeVolson Wood

Round 9- Page 13

