VHSL Regionals 2010-2011
Round 1
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This ion is combined with iron in Prussian blue. Compounds of this ion are used in the standard process
for extracting gold and silver from ore. When this is not an ion, but instead covalently bonded in an organic
molecule, the molecule is called a nitrile. Since it inhibits cytochrome c (SITE-oh-chrome see) oxidase, it is
capable of stopping aerobic cellular respiration. That is the mechanism behind its most common usages,
including insecticides. For 10 points, name this ion with formula CN minus that is poisonous and is
consequently used in suicide pills.
ANSWER: cyanide [or CN- before it is read]
001-10-24-01101

2. The advisor Aeschere (ASH-er-uh) is killed in an act of retribution for the death of this character. His
slayer is rewarded with a necklace by Queen Wealtheow (WEE-al-thow) and this character is apparently
provoked by the sound of singing soldiers. He is killed by a warrior from Geatland (GAT-land) who fights
unarmed and tears off his shoulder. He attacks the mead hall Heorot (HAIR-ut) of the Danish King
Hrothgar (ROTH-har), and his death provokes the wrath of his mother, who lives at the bottom of a lake.
For 10 points, name this monster who is killed in the first part of Beowulf.
ANSWER: Grendel
064-10-24-01102

3. This poet states that "Life is real! Life is earnest!" in his poem "A Psalm of Life." He wrote "The Jewish
Cemetery at Newport," and his poetry collections include Voices of the Night and Tales of a Wayside Inn.
In another of his poems, John Alden loves Priscilla, but his friend, the title character, is also in love with
her. That poem, "The Courtship of Miles Standish," was written after his poem about Minnehaha
(MIN-ee-HA-ha), who lives near Gitche Gumee along with her husband Hiawatha. For 10 points, name this
poet of Evangeline and "Paul Revere's Ride."
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
001-10-24-01103

4. This organ has been studied in the Aplysia genus of slugs by Eric Kandel. It is home to the
suprachiasmatic (SOOP-ruhk-eye-as-MAT-ic) nucleus. It was divided into fifty-two regions by Korbinian
Brodmann, and other regions of this organ include Wernicke's (VERN-ick-eez) area and Broca's area. It is
surrounded by three membranes collectively known as the meninges (men-IN-jeez), and its stem is home to
the pons and the medulla oblongata. For 10 points, name this organ which contains the temporal and frontal
lobes.
ANSWER: brain
024-10-24-01104

5. As Duane Jackson, this actor attends Sam the Lion’s cinema in The Last Picture Show. He dates Maggie
Gyllenhaal in his Oscar-winning turn as fading country star “Bad” Blake in Crazy Heart. A girl named
Mattie Ross hires his character, “Rooster” Cogburn, to track her father’s killer in the Coen brothers’ True
Grit. In another film, he plays a bowler named “The Dude” who must deliver a million dollar ransom. For
10 points, name this star of Tron and The Big Lebowski.
ANSWER: Jeff Bridges
079-10-24-01105

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 1 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One minor character in this work has the ability to understand birdsong but must not tell anyone what he
hears under penalty of death. After that character banishes his wife for insolence, his daughter falls under
the care of the evil hunchback Manthara (mon-TAR-ah). Later in this poem, Manthara suggests to Kaikeyi
(kai-KAY-ee) that she demand her son Bharata (bah-RAH-tah) be installed as the next king. The main
conflict of this work begins when a demon disguised as a golden deer helps capture Sita. For 10 points,
identify this Hindu epic in which the title hero defeats Ravana(rah-VAH-nah).
ANSWER: the Ramayana
079-10-24-01106

7. This man blasted the "empty and heartless" sound of rejoicing in his Fourth of July speech delivered in
Rochester in 1852. He merged his newspaper with Gerrit Smith's Liberty Party Paper shortly before the
Seneca Falls Convention, were he presented a passionate argument for women's suffrage. This man started
that newspaper after reading William Lloyd Garrison's The Liberator. For 10 points, name this author of
The North Star and My Bondage and My Freedom, who was a runaway slave and prominent abolitionist.
ANSWER: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
064-10-24-01107

8. This man addressed his aesthetic theories in his public lecture "Ten O'Clock," which was collected in his
book The Gentle Art of Making Enemies. Many of the letters in that work address those who attacked his
work known as The White Girl and a painting that was likened to "flinging a pot of paint in the public's
face." This painter of Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket is better known for a painting of a
woman seated in a chair against a wall. For 10 points, name this painter of Arrangement in Grey and Black:
The Artist's Mother.
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill Whistler
003-10-24-01108

9. At the end of this story, the narrator attempts to calm down his friend by reading a story about a knight
named Ethelred who kills a dragon in order to obtain a large amount of gold, a work called The Mad Trist.
Earlier, one character in this work sings about “evil things, in robes of sorrow” which “assailed the
monarch’s high estate” in a poem titled “The Haunted Palace.” The end of this work sees the death of
Madeleine and the narrator’s friend Roderick. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe short story which
ends with the collapse of the title estate.
ANSWER: “The Fall of the House of Usher”
064-10-24-01109

10. The group of this name is the set of all loop equivalence classes on a surface. This word names Fisher's
theorem that the rate of increase in fitness is proportional to the genetic variation. This word refers to the
lowest resonance frequency of an oscillating system. One theorem of this type states that definite integral of
a function over an interval a to b is equal to the value of the function's antiderivative at b minus the value at
a. For 10 points, give this word that names an important theorems from calculus, arithmetic, and algebra,
the later of which implies that every polynomial of degree n has n complex roots.
ANSWER: fundamental
001-10-24-01110

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 2 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. A backwards question mark has often been proposed as a symbol for this term. The cosmic form of this
term refers to when a god or other greater being is toying with fate of a human being. The dramatic form of
this term occurs when the audience knows something that a character does not, as seen in Othello and
Oedipus Rex. An example is in Rime of the Ancient Mariner in which there is water everywhere but not a
drop to drink. For 10 points, name this literary device in which there is a sharp difference between what a
character says and what actually happens.
ANSWER: irony
064-10-24-01111

12. In C# (c sharp), delegates act as references to these things. Their contents are duplicated for increased
performance at the cost of size when they are inlined. Closures are examples of these that can be treated
like objects. Virtual ones can be overridden in object oriented programming. These have a return type
which can be void. For 10 points, name these sections of code that are called to accomplish a task, an
example of which is the "main" one seen in Java and C.
ANSWER: function [or method; or procedure; or subroutine]
001-10-24-01112

13. These characters are admonished that "security is mortals' chiefest enemy." One of these characters
notes that "By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes" just before the entrance of
the title figure of the play in which they appear. In their best-known scene, they add "scale of dragon, tooth
of wolf," "eye of newt and toe of frog," among other ingredients, to a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name
these prophetesses who chant, "Double, double toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble" in Act IV,
Scene I of Macbeth.
ANSWER: the witches from Macbeth [or the Weird Sisters]
003-10-24-01113

14. The characteristic feature of this phylum of animals is composed of a matrix of conchiolin
(conk-EYE-o-lin) which binds to aragonite. The ctenidia (ten-ID-ee-uh) are a breathing apparatus in this
phylum which includes periwinkles and conniwinks. The chiton (KAI-ton) is an extremely primitive
member of this phylum, whose members possess a scraping feature used for collecting food called the
radula (RAD-yoo-luh). Among the classes found in this phylum are cephalopods, gastropods, and bivalves.
For 10 points, name this class of shelled invertebrates that includes mussels and clams.
ANSWER: mollusca [or mollusks]
064-10-24-01114

15. One of this man’s operas ends in the Louisiana desert as a woman dies in the arms of her lover, the
Chevalier des Grieux (shev-AHL-ee-ey day GROO). In addition to Manon Lescaut, (les-COW) this man
also composed an opera about two men competing for the love of Minnie, entitled The Girl of the Golden
West. Another of his works ends with Cio-Cio San (cho-cho san) stabbing herself with a sword. The
seamstress Mimì dies in the presence of poor students in another work by him. For 10 points, name this
Italian composer of Madama Butterfly and La Bohème.
ANSWER: Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini
030-10-24-01115

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 3 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011
Round 1
Directed Round
1A. Name the last major battle of the American Revolution, during which Lord Cornwallis surrendered.
ANSWER: Siege of Yorktown
1B. What band, led by Mark Knopfler, has produced albums such as Making Movies and Brothers in
Arms?
ANSWER: Dire Straits
2A. What falcon-headed Egyptian god was the rival of Set?
ANSWER: Horus
2B. What Japanese emperor was forced to officially renounce his divine status after World War II?
ANSWER: Hirohito [or the Showa Emperor]
3A. This is a 10-second calculation question. A magician has 3,000 bunnies in his hat. If one fourth of the
bunnies are black, one third are red and the remaining are chartreuse, what is the probability of choosing a
chartreuse rabbit?
ANSWER: 5/12
3B. This is a 10-second calculation question. A beehive's honeycomb has 400 individual cells. It takes one
day for one worker bee to fill one cell. If the beehive is currently 40% full and houses 3 worker bees, how
many days will it takes to completely fill the remaining honeycomb?
ANSWER: 80 days
4A. Name the San Francisco bridge which is the second-longest suspension bridge in the United States,
after the Verrazano-Narrows.
ANSWER: Golden Gate Bridge
4B. What Roman poet wrote about the founding of Rome in his epic work the Aeneid (uh-NEE-id)?
ANSWER: Virgil [or Publius Vergilius Maro]
5A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the median of the Fibonacci sequence from 1 to 89,
inclusive?
ANSWER: 8
5B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If the shortest leg of a 30-60-90 triangle has length 8, and the
shortest leg of a 45-45-90 triangle has length 4 divided by square root of 2, what is the product of those two
triangle's hypotenuses?
ANSWER: 64
6A. What American sculptor invented two forms of three-dimensional art, mobiles and stabiles?
ANSWER: Alexander Calder
6B. Name the Peter Carey novel in which the two gambling-addicted title characters make a bet regarding
the transportation of a glass cathedral across Australia.
ANSWER: Oscar and Lucinda
7A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the absolute value of the difference between 48
squared and 49 squared?
ANSWER: 97
7B. This is a 30-second calculation question. In terms of x, what is the difference between the volume of a
cube with radius x + 1 and the volume of a cube with radius x + 2?
ANSWER: 3 x2 + 9 x + 7
VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 4 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8A. Name the versatile athlete who is the only man to have played in both a World Series and a Super
Bowl.
ANSWER: Deion Luwynn Sanders
8B. What special case of the mean value theorem states that, for a differentiable function f, if f of a equals
f of b, then there exists a number c between a and b such that f prime of c equals zero?
ANSWER: Rolle's Theorem
9A. What river flows into the Atlantic river from Africa after passing between the capital cities of
Kinshasa and Brazzaville?
ANSWER: Congo River [or Zaire River]
9B. What French composer used the Devil's chord and imitated rattling bones in his symphonic poem
Danse Macabre, and also wrote the piece The Carnival of the Animals?
ANSWER: Charles Camille Saint-Saëns
10A. What hypothetical language is the ancestor of most of the languages of Europe, including the
Romance languages and the Germanic languages?
ANSWER: Proto-Indo-European [or PIE]
10B. What Eastern European country was led until 1989 by its Communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu
(chou-SHESS-koo)?
ANSWER: Romania

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 5 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011
Round 1
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This man's earliest political post was Governor of Seringapatam (ser-in-GAH-pah-tam), to which he was
appointed by his older brother, Lord Mornington. Under this man's government, the Test Act was repealed
and the Catholic Emancipation Act was passed. He succeeded Castlereagh as Britain's delegate to the
Congress of Vienna. He is the only man to have concurrently held the offices of Prime Minister and
Commander-in-Chief of the British Army. For 10 points, name this politician, who was given a dukedom a
year before he ended the Napoleonic Wars with a victory at Waterloo.
ANSWER: Duke of Wellington [or Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington]
003-10-24-01117

2. This state was home to Lonnie Smith, a black man who successfully sued for the ability to vote in the
Democratic primary. Another Supreme Court case held that this state's anti-sodomy law was invalid and
overturned Bowers v. Hardwick. In addition to the Lawrence case, this state was also home to the 1984
Republican National Convention at which Gregory Lee Johnson burned an American flag. For 10 points,
Henry Wade, sued by "Jane Roe" over this state's anti-abortion law, was the Dallas County District
Attorney in what state?
ANSWER: Texas
003-10-24-01118

3. In this language, the sound corresponding to “h” is rendered by a breath mark above the first vowel. This
language uses acute, grave, and circumflex accents above vowels to denote different musical tones. Its
word for sea can be rendered as either thalatta or thalassa. This language’s Koine [COY-nay] dialect is
used for its version of the New Testament. This language’s primary dialects include Attic and Homeric.
For 10 points, name this language, whose alphabet contains the letters alpha and beta.
ANSWER: Ancient Greek [or Hellenike]
080-10-24-01119

4. His surgical skills were said to be so precise that he could insert a catheter into a femoral artery without
anesthesia and produce no pain. This researcher used that technique on a procedure that maintains blood
flow to a pouch which is isolated from the influence of food. He used that pouch to show how secretions
from digestive glands facilitate digestion, as well as in an experiment where he caused those glands to
secrete fluid without introducing any food. For 10 points, name this man whose experiments with dogs
showed that ringing a bell could cause salivation, establishing the basics of classical conditioning.
ANSWER: Ivan Petrovich Pavlov
019-10-24-01120

5. One idea proposed by this theorist is the spectacle, or opsis. He also discussed the idea of simulated
representation, which he referred to by a term later used to title a book by Erich Auerbach, mimesis
(mim-EE-sis). He also identified the anagnorisis (aa-nag-nor-EE-sis), or moment of recognition, and the
peripeteia (per-uh-pit-EY-uh), or reversal of circumstances, as elements of drama. Other elements include
hamartia (hah-MARSH-uh), a character's tragic flaw, and catharsis. For 10 points, name this ancient Greek
philosopher who analyzed drama in his Poetics.
ANSWER: Aristotle
024-10-24-01121

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 6 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. A man in this country known as the "general of the streets" was appointed in 2010 as Minister of Youth.
That man, Charles Blé Goudé (BLAY goo-DAY), was appointed despite the difference in opinion between
this country's Electoral Commission and Constitutional Council about a 2010 presidential election. The
internationally recognized winner of that election, Alassane Ouattara (ahl-a-SAN wah-TAR-a), has
protested the awarding of the election in this country to the incumbent president. For 10 points, name this
West African country currently led by Laurent Gbagbo (gih-BAHG-bo).
ANSWER: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire [or Ivory Coast; or Republique de Cote d'Ivoire]
023-10-24-01122

7. This man names a problem which asks how many integer pairs are contained within a circle of radius r.
A function equal to the integral of e to the negative x squared is his namesake error function. He also names
one of Maxwell's equations that shows that magnetic monopoles do not exist. A method of getting a matrix
in reduced row echelon form was developed by both Wilhelm Jordan and this man. This scientist developed
a law which relates the electric flux to the enclosed charge. For 10 points, what German scientist names a
type of statistical distribution known as the bell curve?
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich Gauss
064-10-24-01123

8. After World War II, this man was sent to China to try to reach an agreement between Communist and
Nationalist forces. One program created by this man was announced during a speech at Harvard and led to
the creation of the OECD. This man was chief of staff of the U.S. army during World War II. He developed
a program which was a follow up to the U.S. policy of supplying Turkey and Greece with economic aid.
For 10 points, name this Secretary of State under Harry Truman who names a plan that delivered American
humanitarian aid to Europe following World War II.
ANSWER: George Catlett Marshall
064-10-24-01124

9. A more advanced form of this quantity is symbolized J and is called the density of this. In one case that
density is equal to the permittivity of free space times the time derivative of the electric field. That case was
introduced by Maxwell and is called the displacement of this quantity. One law states that its sum about at
a junction is zero. It is measured by an ammeter (AM-ee-ter) and is equal to voltage divided by resistance
according to Ohm's Law. This quantity is measured in amperes. For 10 points, name this rate of charge,
which can be viewed as direct or alternating.
ANSWER: current [or current density]
001-10-24-01125

10. Holy Roman Emperor Sigismund presided over this meeting, which produced a proclamation of papal
infallibility called Haec santa. This meeting was a follow up to the previous Council of Pisa and was called
by supporters of Anti-Pope John XXIII. Pope Gregory XII abdicated during this meeting, which sought to
end a church divide started by the Avignon Papacy. Pope Martin V was elected during this meeting, which
also saw a Bohemian heretic burned at the stake. For 10 points, name this church council of the early 1400's
that executed Jan Hus (yawn HOOS) and ended the Western Schism.
ANSWER: Council of Constance
064-10-24-01126

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 7 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This Greek deity is frequently referred to as Kore (KOR-ay). The attempt by Pirithous (PEER-ith-oos)
and Thesus to marry this woman led to their feet being coiled with snakes. One incident involving this
woman led to the creation of the Sirens; that incident started with this woman picking flowers on the plain
of Enna. This woman’s consumption of pomegranate seeds bound her to her captor for one third of each
year, explaining the origins of winter. For 10 points, name this woman abducted by Hades and made Queen
of the underworld, the daughter of Demeter.
ANSWER: Persephone
064-10-24-01127

12. This politician's appointment in 2002 to a vacant Senate seat led to that power being removed from the
governor in this politician's state. In 2010, this incumbent Senator failed to gain a nomination on either the
Republican or Libertarian ticket for the upcoming election. The Republican nomination went to Joe Miller,
who received support in that race against this politician from the Tea Party movement and Sarah Palin. For
10 points, name this Senator whose father used to be governor of Alaska and who won a 2010 election as a
write-in candidate.
ANSWER: Lisa Ann Murkowski
023-10-24-01128

13. The b parameter in the Van der Waals equation represents a correction factor for this quantity. The
Gay-Lussac law is valid when this quantity is held constant. In thermodynamics, work is equal to the
negative integral of pressure times the change in this quantity. This quantity is held constant in isochoric
(ICE-oh-KOR-ic) processes, and most versions of the ideal gas law have the left side equal to pressure
times this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity that can be measured in liters.
ANSWER: volume
064-10-24-01129

14. The remolding action of polycomb proteins prevents this process and the homeodomain is found in
"factors" of it. This process often ends with the addition of a poly(A) tail. The removal of exons, in a
process called splicing, also occurs at the end of this process. Retroviruses such as HIV are named for their
ability to perform this process in reverse. The product of this process is subsequently shipped off to the
ribosome. For 10 points, name this biological process in which a DNA sequence is used to create a
sequence of messenger RNA.
ANSWER: transcription
064-10-24-01130

15. In this work, Katerina Ivanovna (EE-vah-NAHV-na) throws a banquet for her husband, who stumbles
into a police station after drunkenly running in front of a carriage and dies in the arms of his daughter
Sonia. A side plot in this work concerns the pedophile Svidrigaylov (svid-rah-GUY-lov), who, like Pyotr
Luzhin, courts the main character's sister Dounia (DOON-yuh). However, Dounia ends up with
Razumikhin (rah-zoo-MIK-in) at the end of the novel. For 10 points, name this Fyodor Dostoevsky novel
about Raskolnikov's murder of an old moneylender.
ANSWER: Crime and Punishment [or Prestuplenye i Nakazanye]
003-10-24-01131

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 8 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011
Round 1
Tiebreaker Questions
1. When performing the Born-Haber cycle for sodium chloride, the steps solely involving chlorine are the
breaking of the chlorine-chlorine bond and a process whose energy gain is equal to this quantity. For
nitrogen, this quantity is close to zero; that is a result of Hund’s rule since nitrogen has a single electron in
each of the three P orbital subshells. The largest values for this quantity are found in the halogens, since
they are one electron short of forming a complete octet. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to the
amount of energy given off when a neutral atom gains an electron.
ANSWER: electron affinity
064-10-24-01132

2. This character wears a red hunting hat that he bought after losing the fencing team's foils, and wonders
where the ducks in Central Park go in the winter. Carl recommends that this character see a psychiatrist, to
whom he tells "the first thing you'll probably want to know is where I was born" and rails against
"phonies." Still not over the death of his brother Allie, he decides to become a deaf-mute hermit, but rejects
his sister Phoebe's wish to run away with him. For 10 points, name this main character of The Catcher in
the Rye.
ANSWER: Holden Caulfield [or Holden Caulfield]
003-10-24-01133

3. The hypothesis that this structure consists of two separate parts was put forth by Inge Lehmann. Some
scientists believe that it rotates at a different speed than the rest of the Earth. S-waves cannot travel through
one part of this structure. Convention in one part of this structure creates a magnetic field which deflects
the solar wind. That part of this structure consists of nickel and iron and lies beneath the mantle. For 10
points, name this innermost layer of the Earth.
ANSWER: core
024-10-24-01134

4. In a poem by this man, Mary and Warren discuss an unreliable farm hand named Silas. Another poem by
this man, published in North of Boston, describes apple trees that will never “eat the cones” of pine trees.
In one poem, this man described the world ending in either fire or ice while another work states that “good
fences make good neighbors.” This poet of “Mending Wall” wrote a work in which the speaker chose a
path that was “grassy and wanted wear,” noting that he chose the one “less traveled by.” For 10 points,
name this American poet of “The Road Not Taken.”
ANSWER: Robert Frost
064-10-24-01135

5. When these entities are extremely weak, their strength is often measure using a device called a SQUID.
NMR spectroscopy involves chemical shift when a sample is placed in one of these entities. A current that
is perpendicular to one of those entities produces a potential difference known as the Hall Effect.
According to Ampere’s law their strength is proportional to the electrical current. Their strength, which is a
measured in a unit called Teslas, can be determined using the Biot-Savart law. For 10 points, name this
type of vector field caused by moving electric charges.
ANSWER: magnetic field
064-10-24-01136

What nation has been in the international spotlight since the November 23rd deaths of four of its citizens
near Yonphyong Island?
ANSWER: South Korea [or Republic of Korea; do not accept or prompt on "Korea"]
064-10-24-01137
VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 9 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

This is a calculation question. Solve for x in x + 10 = 2 x - 25.
ANSWER: x = 35
064-10-24-01137

VHSL Regionals 2010-2011 Round 1 Page 10 of 10
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

