Illinois High School Association
2009-2010

Scholastic Bowl State Series

Regional Replacements

Replacement/Tie Breaker Question Set
1. If a question needs to be thrown out, replace the discarded question with the first question
from the Replacement/Tie Breaker Set that is of the same general category as the discarded
question. If a similar-category question is not available, use the first available question in the
Replacement/Tiebreaker Set.
2. The Replacement/Tie Breaker questions were collated in a random order. In the event of a tie
at the end of regulation play, use the first available toss-up question and the first available
bonus question in the order they are printed.
3. Moderators must meet between rounds to update information on which replacement
questions were used and should therefore be eliminated from the pool of available questions
in the Replacement/Tie Breaker Question Set.
4. As a last resort, a moderator may choose to use an un-read bonus question from the Question
Set used in the round that is tied, adapting the Bonus to Toss-up format when necessary.
Notation Guide to Moderators
The following styles and notations were used to facilitate the oral presentation of the questions,
even though the style might not follow "correct English" at all times.
1. Commas not usually considered grammatically necessary are often used to facilitate the oral
presentation of the questions.
2. Helps for reading, such as pronunciation guides, and directions relative to interpreting
answers are in [bracketed italics].
3. Titles of all types in questions are underlined.
4. Other than dates, numbers within questions are presented in prose form to standardize their
reading.
5. [Boxed| reference material, such as math work, is provided in case an answer is challenged. It
is not necessary to refer to references unless an answer is challenged.
6. Only the bold words in answers are required. All non-bold words are optional. Plural forms
are ordinarily accepted as correct, even if not indicated as such in bold letters.

These questions are the intellectual property of the Illinois High School Association (IHSA). Unauthorized
duplication, transmission, or distribution is prohibited. Those interested in obtaining copies of these questions should
contact the IHSA by visiting their web page at www.ihsa.org.

© 2010 Illinois High School Association

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Toss Up #1

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Mathematics: Geometry, Trig and Analytic Geometry - 10 seconds

Classify triangle ABC based on the following description. ABC is a nonequilateral acute triangle. If X is on segment BC, and if segment AX not only
bisects angle A, but is also the perpendicular bisector of segment BC, what type of
triangle is triangle ABC?
Answer:
isosceles
Toss Up #2

Science: Biology

The IUPAC [eye-you-pak] name of this amino acid is S-two-amino-fourmethylsulfanyl [meth-ul-SUL-fuh-nol] butanoic [byou-tuh-NOY-ik] acid. This
amino acid and tryptophan [TRIP-toh-fan] are the only two amino acids with a
single RNA codon [KOH-dun]. This amino acid and cysteine [SIGH-tuh-seen] are
the only two amino acids to contain a sulfur atom. This amino acid has the RNA
codon: A-U-G. Name the amino acid whose genetic code is the start codon [KOHdun] for all eukaryotic [yew-KARE-ee-OT-ik] proteins.
Answer:
methionine
[muh-THIGH-uh-nine]
Toss Up #3 Language Arts: British Literature
[NOTE: The awkward wording is the result of a segmented quote with selected words deleted or
replaced. We suggest the moderator use pauses and voice tone-changes to convey the meaning.]

Name this work, dedicated to R. Hamilton Bruce, that reflects the author's hope to
save his remaining leg from amputation. It was written while the author was
hospitalized, and was published in the collection Echoes. The speaker of this poem
is proud to "have not winced nor cried aloud," and is sure that, "the menace of the
years / Finds and shall find," him "unafraid" as he emerges "Out of the night that
covers" him, "Black as the pit from pole to pole." The title is from the Latin for
"unconquerable." Name this poem by William Ernest Henley that concludes "I am
the master of my fate: /1 am the captain of my soul."
Answer:
Invictus
Toss Up #4

Fine Arts: Art History

A predecessor to this work featured two lovers in the foreground, but it was
different in that it was a depiction of the titular entity over the Rhone River. This
work depicts the Alpilles [ahl-PEE-yuh] mountain range in its upper right, while
its foreground features the tops of two cypress trees. A church spire is prominent in
the background and it depicts a view from outside of the artist's room in a
sanitarium in Saint-Remy [SAN ray-MEE]. Identify this painting of a nocturnal
cityscape by van Gogh.
Answer:
[Accept either.]
The Starry Night
De Sterrennacht

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Toss Up #5

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Social Studies: Geography

It was designed by Irving Morrow, Charles Alton Ellis, and Joseph Strauss. In
1932, Amadeo [ah-mah-DAY-oh] Giannini [jee-ah-NEE-nee], the founder of Bank
of America, bought the bonds to start its construction. Only twenty-six people have
survived a jump from it. There are suicide prevention hotline telephones all along
its two point seven five mile length. Due to local fog conditions, Morrow chose to
paint this structure in international orange Name the bridge that connects Marin
County to the city of San Francisco.
Answer:
Golden Gate Bridge
Toss Up #6

Miscellaneous: Technology

Launched in 1998, this company is best known for a network of sixty-six
communication satellites that covers the entire earth, transmitting voice and data
messages via handheld satellite phones. Identify this company, which derived its
name from a transition element of the platinum family.
Answer:
Iridium Communications Incorporated
Toss Up #7

Language Arts: Grammar and Usage

Because these adjectives build their meaning in one particular order within a
sentence, they are not separated by a comma. For example, "Jack wore his black
basketball shoes" would not make sense if the adjectives were re-ordered. What
term describes such adjectives?
Answer:
cumulative adjectives
Toss Up #8
Mathematics: General Math - 30 seconds
[NOTE: Each "I" is to be read "eye " — there are no "ones " in the question.]

Spell out the letters in the Roman numeral that states the value of Z, if Z equals the
Roman numeral fraction, the quantity MCCXVI plus CII, over the quantity, DCLX
minus I.
, ^ MCCXVI + Cn 1216 + 102 1318 . „
Answer:
II
[eye eye]
Work: Z =
=
=
= 2 = 11
DCLX—I

Toss Up #9

660-1

259

Fine Arts: Opera

This opera by Wagner [VAHG-ner] contains a reference to another of Wagner's
works, Tristan und Isolde. If you count the Ring Cycle as four operas, then this
opera is Wagner's longest. Its protagonist, Walther von Stolzing, must join a guild
in order to win the hand of his beloved in marriage. Name this opera named for the
guild and the Imperial German City in which the characters reside.
Answer: [Accept either.]
The Master-singers of Nuremberg
Die Meistersinger von Niirnberg

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Toss Up #10

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Social Studies: U.S. History

After he had been forced into bankruptcy, California belatedly granted this
German immigrant a monthly pension of two hundred fifty dollars for his
services in settling the state, but his claim for compensation by the federal
government for lands he lost to squatters was never acknowledged. Workers
hired by this man and his partner, James Wilson Marshall, for a building project
made a discovery that changed the history of California. Name the man on whose
property the 1848 gold strike occurred.
Answer:

John Augustus Sutter

Toss Up #11

Science: Physics

Doppler shift in this type of wave arises from relativistic time dilation, and specific
types of these include Alfven and S-waves. These can be modeled by sine or
cosine functions and their sums, and polarization is possible on waves only of this
type. They have displacement perpendicular to the direction of propagation. Name
this type of wave exemplified by light and contrasted with longitudinal waves.
Answer:
transverse waves
[Accept variations of transverse.]

Bonus #1

Language Arts: U.S. Literature - 4 parts

Answer these about an author and his works.
1. The Escapist was a comic book created by the titular pair of this 2000 Pulitzer
Prize-winning novel.
2. Grady Tripp, a professor and writer, and James Leer are the protagonists of this
1995 novel.
3. A recent work by this same author is set in Alaska but in an alternate universe.
Meyer Landsman is a detective investigating a series of murders. Name the
work.
4. Name the author of these works.
Answers:

1.
2.
3.
4.

The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay
Wonder Boys
The Yiddish Policeman's Union
Michael Chabon

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Bonus #2

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Science: Chemistry - 5 parts

What is the average atomic mass, rounded to the nearest integer, in grams per
mole, for each of the following elements so often used in molar calculations?
1. hydrogen
4. nitrogen
2. helium
5. oxygen
3. carbon
Answers:

1.1

2. 4

3. 12

Bonus #3

Social Studies: World History - 4 parts

4. 14

5. 16

Answer the following regarding international piracy.
1. Edward Teach, master of the Queen Anne's Revenge and blockader of
Charleston harbor in 1718, is better known by this name.
2. This English pirate hijacked Spain's Silver Train in 1573 and plundered a
fortune before going on to defeat the Spanish Armada.
3. What geography-like term identifies the African pirates who used slaves to
crew their galleys on the Mediterranean, preying on the shipping of Christian
nations.
4. This Scottish-born privateer turned pirate in the Indian Ocean. He buried a
small treasure on an island off Long Island, and was hanged by order of the
High Court of the Admiralty in 1701.
Answers: 1. Blackbeard
2. Sir Francis Drake
Bonus #4

3. Barbary corsairs/pirates
4. Captain William Kidd

Fine Arts: Classical Music History - 4 parts

Name the German or Austrian composers of these works.
1. Carmina Burana [KAR-min-uh buh-RAH-nuh]
2. Alpine Symphony
3. On the Beautiful Blue Danube
4. Tannhauser
Answers:

1.
2.

3.

Carl Orff
Richard Georg Strauss [Prompt to get "Richard. "]
[Accept any of these. Prompt on Strauss and on Johann
Strauss, but prompt only once.]
Johann Baptist Strauss
Johann Strauss, Junior
Johann Strauss the Younger
Richard Wagner [probably: VAHG-ner]

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Bonus #5

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Miscellaneous: Agriculture - 4 parts

Answer these about some inventions that changed agriculture.
1. This implement was developed with the help of a slave, Jo Anderson, from
preliminary designs made by the inventor's father. Name this horse-drawn farm
tool that replaced the scythe.
2. This man's steel plow featured a revolutionary moldboard design; his name
lives on in a tractor company.
3. This device, invented before the one named in part two, separated the fibers
from the seeds of a specific short-staple product.
4. Andrew Meikle invented this machine for removing the husks and stalks from
grains, but it has since been supplanted by combine harvesters.
Answers: 1. McCormick reaper [Prompt an incomplete answer.]
2. John Deere
3. [Accept either]
cotton engine
cotton gin
4. [Accept variations such as: threshing machine, thrasher, etc.]
thresher
Bonus #6

Mathematics: Calculus - 4 parts

Calculate these derivatives.
1. the ninety-ninth derivative of the negative sine of X
2. the four hundred twenty-third derivative of E to the X power
3. the two hundredth derivative of the quantity X minus seventy-nine, to the one
hundred sixty-third power
4. the fifth derivative of X to the sixth power
Answers:

1. cosine a;
2.

3. 0
4. 720*

Bonus #7

Social Studies: Geography - 4 parts

Answer these questions about New York City.
1. What borough is by far the smallest in population?
2. Luna Park, Steeplechase Park, and Dreamland were the amusement parks on
what island, now a peninsula, off the shore of Brooklyn?
3. This uninhabited island was formerly called Bedloe's Island.
4. What island, located between the Bronx and Queens, is the site of New York
City's jail?
Answers:

1. Staten Island
2. Coney Island

3. Liberty Island
4. Rikers Island

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Bonus #8

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Mathematics: Geometry, Trig and Analytic Geometry - 4 parts

Assume the terms "point,", "line," and "plane" are used as they are commonly
understood in spherical geometry.
1. Two lines intersect in exactly how many points?
2. What shape is used to represent the shortest distance between any two points?
3. What name is given to a closed figure with only two sides?
4. The degree sum of the angles of a spherical triangle must be between what two
numbers?
Reference: A "plane" is equivalent to a "sphere" and a
"line" is equivalent to a "great circle."
Answers: 1. two points
2. arc of a great circle [Prompt arc; "great circle " is wrong.]
3. lune
4. [Be reasonable, but do not prompt an incomplete answer.]
between 180 degrees and 540 degrees
Bonus #9

Language Arts: Spelling - 4 parts

Spell these words related to foods.
1. chutney [CHUT-nee] - a jam-like condiment
2. cruller [KRUH-ler] - a sweet pastry
3. croquette [kroh-KETT] - a deep fried ball of meat or vegetable
4. cilantro [suh-LAHN-tro] - a garnish
Answers:
1.
CHUTNEY
2.
CRULLER
[Upper case is irrelevant.]
3.
CROQUETTE
4.
CILANTRO
Bonus #10

Fine Arts: Art History - 4 parts

Identify the following about Roman architecture.
1. The Romans were able to build curved elements like arches due to the advent of
this material, which is made up mostly of gravel, sand, and cement.
2. This complex, located in the Palatine and Capitoline hills, featured a gate for
Janus.
3. This structure's dome has the same diameter as height. The dome features
hollow elements, and its thickness decreases as it rises towards the oculus [OKyou-lus].
4. The construction of this structure was begun by Caesar Vespasianus Augustus.
It was capable of seating up to fifty thousand spectators.
Answers:
1. Roman concrete ["Cement" is wrong.]
2. the Forum
3. the Pantheon
4. the Coliseum

Illinois High School Association
2009-2010 Scholastic Bowl State Series
REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Bonus #11

REGIONAL REPLACEMENTS

Science: Physics - 4 parts

Answer these about pendulums.
1. It is the maximum displacement of the pendulum during its swing.
2. Pendulums of a given length have a constant value of this property, which is
equal to two pi times the square root of the rod's length, over, the acceleration
due to gravity. I need a one-word answer.
3. If air resistance and the mass of the rod are neglected, pendulums swinging
through small angles approximate this type of movement, the solution to a
second-order differential equation.
4. The small-angle simplification assumption works because it lets sine theta equal
theta, where theta is the angle of displacement - a simplification that follows
from this calculus result about the sine function.
Answers:

1.
2.
3.
4.

amplitude
[Accept either.]
period
frequency
simple harmonic motion [Prompt an incomplete answer]
[Accept either. Prompt on "the first term of its Taylor series "]
the first term of its Taylor series about theta equals zero
the first term of its Maclaurin series

