REPLACEMENT 1. Pop Culture
His real name is Daniel Whitney. On his website, you can play Whack-A-Mole on his
sister’s face, but the moles are not animals. He starred in a movie last year with the tag
‘They’ll give anyone a badge’ in which he solves food poisoning cases. This year, he
starred with Bill Engvall in Delta Farce, and he is part of Blue Collar TV. He also
supplied the voice of Mater in the movie Cars. Name this comedian known for the phrase
Git-R-Done.
ANSWER: Larry the Cable Guy (prompt partial answers)
REPLACEMENT 2. World Literature
This writer’s best known novel is about large amphibians found in Indonesia who are
educated and eventually cause great harm. It is titled War with the Newts. His most
famous play raised the issue as to whether or not human-created objects might deserve
rights. It was titled Rossum’s Universal Robots, which is usually abbreviated RUR. Name
this Czech writer.
ANSWER: (Karel) Capek (can be pronounced Chapek)
REPLACEMENT 3. Algebra (30 Seconds)
Find both solutions to the equation: 20/x = 12-x
ANSWER: 2 & 10 (either order, do not accept negative numbers)
REPLACEMENT 4. Art/Architecture
This sculpture is located at the top of the main staircase of the Louvre. It probably was
built after a sea battle around 200 BC, and it was discovered on a Greek Island in 1863.
Name this work portraying Nike.
ANSWER: (Winged) Victory of Samothrace (prompt Nike of Samothrace or (Winged)
Victory)
REPLACEMENT 5. Chemistry (10 Seconds)
The answer is a 13-letter word. This phenomenon is taken advantage of with Nitrogendoped Gallium Phosphide. The term sometimes applies to pairs of molecules, such as
carbon monoxide and nitrogen gas. Many examples compare ions of elements to Noble
gases, such as Sulfur two minus and Argon. Give this term used to describe a pair of
molecules, atoms, or ions that have the same structure and the same number of valence
electrons.
ANSWER: Isoelectronic

REPLACEMENT 6. Religion/Mythology
Jesus does this in Chapter 8 of Mark, Chapter 18 of Luke, and Chapter 9 of John, and he
does it to two people in Chapter 29 of Matthew. According to Mark, it was done to
Bartimaeus. At another point in Mark, it is done in the town of Bethsaida. According to
John, the act is investigated because it is done on the Sabbath; his account inspired the
song Amazing Grace. Name this miracle performed several times in the Gospels.
ANSWER: Heal Blindness (accept equivalent, prompt healing or its equivalents)
REPLACEMENT 7. US History
This phrase first came to prominence during a State of the Union Speech and is
associated with the creation of the Community Action Program, VISTA, and Head Start.
A major part of the Great Society, it was administered by the Office of Economic
Opportunity. Name this effort by President Lyndon Johnson to decrease the number of
extremely poor people in The United States.
ANSWER: War On Poverty (accept War On The Source of Poverty or War Against
Poverty)
REPLACEMENT 8. Geometry/Trigonometry (30 Seconds)
Ignore units, but listen closely. What do you multiply the cube of the diameter of a sphere
by if you want to find the sphere’s volume?
ANSWER: Pi/6 (accept one-sixth pi, but not one-sixth)
REPLACEMENT 9. Language Arts
A clause of this type often is put into a home purchase contract, allowing the prospective
buyer to call off the deal. A variation of the term is used to describe an agreement in
which a lawyer is paid only if the case is won. In common English, it refers to an event
that might happen, and it often refers to possibilities that should be planned for. Give this
term beginning with the letter C.
ANSWER: Contingency (accept Contingent)
REPLACEMENT 10. Astronomy/Earth Science/Geography
The Press-Ewing version, developed during the 1940s, uses an elastic wire to lessen
friction. The first modern types were developed by British scientists in Japan around
1880 using horizontal pendulums. Most contain a mass unaffected by movements of the
base. Name these instruments which are now used in networks to measure the epicenters
and strengths of earthquakes.
ANSWER: Seismograph (or Seismometer)

REPLACEMENT 11. World History
Plutarch contrasted the hatred of Romans for this man’s father with the love they had for
him, and he also was compared to a lame Spartan King. Early in his career, he took over
Sicily and killed Carbo. His career ended when he was beheaded on the coast of Egypt
and his head was offered as a gift to Julius Caesar. The gift angered Caesar, since the two
of them had once been allies. Name this son of Strabo who, along with Caesar and
Crassus, was in the First Triumvirate.
ANSWER: Pompey (The Great or The Triumvir)
REPLACEMENT 12. Calculus/Combinatorics (30 Seconds)
If you start with a standard deck of playing cards and pick three without replacement,
what is the probability that they are all red?
ANSWER: 2/17
REPLACEMENT 13. British Literature
This man once wrote, “There are no hard distinctions between what is real and what is
unreal, nor between what is true and what is false.” He has written screenplays based on
other writers’ novels, such as The Last Tycoon and The French Lieutenant’s Woman. One
of his best known plays is about a philosophy professor who returns to London. Name
this playwright who created The Dumb Waiter, The Birthday Party, and The
Homecoming.
ANSWER: (Harold) Pinter
REPLACEMENT 14. Music
Give a three-part answer. These three notes in the scale of D Major make up the tonic
triad chord. Tonic triad chords start with the first note, and they include the major third
and perfect fifth. Name the first, third, and fifth notes in D Major.
ANSWER: D, F Sharp, and A (any order) (do not accept D, F, and A) (the sharp must be
with the F, G Flat or Sharped F is equivalent to F Sharp)
REPLACEMENT 15. Biology
This amino acid is highly concentrated in collagen. Though this is commonly listed as
one of the twenty amino acids, some people argue that it is not an amino acid. Its
structure contains an inflexible ring that causes bends in proteins. Name this amino acid
with a seven-letter name beginning with the letter P.
ANSWER: Proline

REPLACEMENT 16. Technology
(Note to moderator: Intuit is three syllables.) A Russian company recently announced that
there is a backdoor method to open password-protected files using this software, and that
the backdoor allows the US government to learn personal information. The software has
many versions, including Deluxe, Premier, Kids & Money, Rental Property Manager, and
Medical Expense Manager. Name this finance management tool from Intuit.
ANSWER: Quicken
REPLACEMENT 17. Current Events
At the age of twenty-four, he was appointed to head his state’s Department of Health &
Hospitals. He soon became a politician, replacing David Vitter in the US House of
Representatives. In his most recent election, he was criticized for complaining about
negative campaigning and then running an ad portraying his opponents as clowns. He
won and is about to become the first Asian Indian American Governor in United States
history. Name this politician from Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
ANSWER: (Piyush Bobby) Jindal
REPLACEMENT 18. Nonfiction
Matt Eversmann is the leader in this book. Things start to go wrong when Todd
Blackburn falls and breaks his back. Begun as a series of Philadelphia Enquirer articles,
the book was published in 1999. It describes what was originally known as Operation
Code Irene, which took place in 1993. Name this Mark Bowden book set in Somalia that
was turned into a Ridley Scott film.
ANSWER: Black Hawk Down
REPLACEMENT 19. Physics (10 Seconds)
For electricity, these can be created by applying a magnetic field to part of a spinning
wheel. Engineers generally try to avoid them because they waste energy, though they can
be used to dampen the needle on a galvanometer or bring other movements to a halt. For
fluids, these often exist behind obstacles because water moves towards low pressure.
Name these whirlpools that go against the main current.
ANSWER: Eddy (Currents) (or Eddies) (prompt Turbulence)
REPLACEMENT 20. US Literature
In this novel, Jake Spoon convinces Woodrow Call and Gus McCrae to leave town. The
small town they start in gives the novel its name. This book was written during the 1980s,
and the author wrote a sequel titled Streets of Laredo and two prequels to it during the
1990s. Name this work which takes place on the road between Texas and Montana
written by Larry McMurtry.
ANSWER: Lonesome Dove

