TOSSUP 1
Prophesied to be his grandfather’s murderer, he was conceived when Zeus appeared as a shower of
golden rain to his mother. Later, he was sent on a quest designed to be fatal, but with the help of
Hermes, Athena, and some winged sandals, he succeeded. When he returned victorious, he used
his trophy to petrify Polydectes. FTP, identify this Greek hero who beheaded Medusa.
Perseus
BONUS 1
Identify these people and things related to Perseus’ adventure FTPE.
10:

King Polydectes admired this woman, Perseus’ mother, which is why
he wanted Perseus dead.
Danaë

10:

These three hags had one eye and one tooth between them, and Perseus
stolethem both to learn some valuable information.
The Gray Sisters or Women, or the Graeae

10:

On his way home, Perseus rescued and married this woman, who
claimed greater beauty than the nereids.
Andromeda

TOSSUP 2
Pencil and paper ready. A 6 ohm resistor is placed in series with two resistors in parallel, one of
which has resistance 3 ohms. The total resistance of the circuit is 8 ohms. Remembering that the
total resistance of resistors in parallel is equal to the reciprocal of the sum of the reciprocal of the
resistances, FTP, give the value of the third resistor.
6 ohms
BONUS 2
Pencil and paper ready. For each of the following circuits, give the total resistance FTPE.
10:

Two 3 ohm resistors in parallel, in series with two 4 ohm resistors in
parallel.
7/2 or 3.5 ohms

10:

A 12 ohm and a 6 ohm resistor in parallel, in series with a 1 ohm
resistor, all in parallel with a 10 ohm resistor.
10/3 ohms

10:

Six 6 ohm resistors in parallel.
1 ohm

1

TOSSUP 3
Its origins are unknown, though it became clearly defined after the marriage of its first emperor to
Kumaradevi, a princess of the Lichchhavi. Following the marriage, the founder, named after the
first emperor of the Mauryan Empire, declared himself the “supreme King of great Kings”. After
his death, his son, Sumadra, expanded the empire, which led to its “Golden Age.” FTP, name this
empire, which ruled most of India 500 years after the death of Asoka.
Gupta Empire
BONUS 3
Name these rulers of the Gupta Empire FTPE.
10:

The ruler during what is considered the height of the Gupta Empire.
Chandragupta II

10:

Chandragupta II’s successor, at the end of his reign invaders began
attacking.
Kumaragupta

10:

He fought the Hunas, or white huns, and his death brought the end of
the Gupta Empire.
Skandagupta

TOSSUP 4
Thomas Winter, Thomas Percy, and Christopher Wright were among the key planners of it, along
with their leader Robert Catesby. The first step, carried out by Percy, was to acquire lodgings next
to the target location and commence digging. A conspirator warned Lord Monteagle not to go to
Parliament on the appointed day, but even after learning of this betrayal his fellow conspirators
decided to move ahead with the plot. FTP, this describes what 1605 plot in which Guy Fawkes
attempted to blow up Parliament and was executed for it?
Gunpowder Plot
BONUS 4
Answer these questions about Guy Fawkes, FTPE.
10:

Fawkes was brought to this King, whom he tried to kill, at one o’clock
in the morning, and defiantly told him that “dangerous diseases require
desperate remedies.”
King James I

10:

Upon his refusal to confess, Fawkes was taken to this home of the
Crown Jewels for torture.
Tower of London

10:

In this dystopian comic book series, later made into a movie of the
same name, the title character wears a Guy Fawkes mask.
V For Vendetta

2

TOSSUP 5
After Mission Control asked that the crew stir the oxygen tanks toprevent stratification, an
electrical wire caught fire, increasing the pressurein the tank and caused an oxygen tank to
explode. Because of the significantpower loss in the service module, the crew would only have been
able to returnto Earth safely by using the Moon’s gravity to propel the spacecraft towardEarth.
They were forced to move into the lunar module to save energy in thecommand module. FTP,
identify this ill-fated mission to the moon beginning onApril 13th, 1970.
Apollo 13
BONUS 5
FTPE, name the causes of these other space disasters.
10:

While training at the launchpad for Apollo 1, this caused a fire
thatquickly spread throughout the oxygen-filled capsule, killing astronauts GusGrissom, Ed White and Roger Chafee.
Spark from a poorly insulated wire (accept equivalents)

10:

After Grissom’s splashdown on Liberty Bell 7 six years earlier, theexplosive bolts on this piece of equipment this exploded too early, sinking
thespacecraft. However, Grissom was able to escape and was rescued
before hedrowned.
Hatch or Hatch cover

10:

The Challenger exploded shortly after liftoff in 1986 after low temperaturesbefore the launch caused this part on the right Solid Rocket
Booster to deform,enabling hot gases to escape.
O-ring

TOSSUP 6
In 1991 it developed a new constitution, formign a unicameral parliament. Government policies
are determined by the Politburo and Central Committee. Its history can be traced to the kingdom
of Lan Xang in the 14th century and was then taken over by the Siamese in the 18th century.
After a Japanese occupation during World War II, it became a colony under France. It gained
independence in 1949 and was established as a country in 1975 by Pathet Lao. FTP, name this
landlocked socialist republic in South-Eastern Asian.
Laos
BONUS 6
FTPE, name these other South-Eastern Asian by the border they share with Laos. For example,
the answer to ”North” would be China.
10:

East
Vietnam

10:

South
Cambodia

3

10:

West
Thailand

TOSSUP 7
Mr. Turkle and Colonel Matterson are minor characters. The protagonist is widely considered
to be a Christ-figure despite having committed crimes including battery and statuatory rape.
Important parts of the book include the time a party of characters goes fishing, the time that the
antagonist takes away the TV privileges of the characters, and when Billy Bibbit commits suicide
near the end. Other important characters include Harding, Cheswick, and the ”black boys.” FTP,
name this novel that takes place in an Oregon insane asylum written by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
BONUS 7
FTPE, name these characters from One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest :
10:

This man is the protagonist who becomes the leader of the ward, he
was played by Jack Nicholson in the movie version.
Randle Patrick McMurphy

10:

She is the antagonist who, for much of the book, wields dictatorial
power.
Nurse Ratched or Big Nurse

10:

This Indian is the narrator of the book
Chief Bromden (either is acceptable)

TOSSUP 8
His employer is a rich, foolish, post World War I bachelor. He uses his immense knowledge to get
his masterr out of tricky situations, which are usually unsuitable engagements. A member of the
Junior Ganymede Club, he writes down all of his employer Bertie’s wrongdoings. Stephen Fry
and Dennis Price have both played him on TV. This is, FTP, what memorable P.G. Wodehouse
character, butler to Bertie Wooster?
Jeeves
BONUS 8
Answer the following about critics and fans of P.G. Wodehouse.
10:

This author of the Winnie the Pooh books was foremost among
Wodehouse’s critics.
A.A. Milne

10:

This English satirist authored “Brideshead Revisited” and was Wodehouse’s staunchest supporter.
Evelyn Waugh

4

10:

This British author, amateur musician, and radio comedian and author
of a five-book trilogy cites Wodehouse as a primary influence on his
work.
Douglas Adams

TOSSUP 9
He has indeed broken the law, for example burgling the house of Charles Augustus Milverton
during an attempt to preserve Eva Blackwell’s honor. Apparently he charges on his clients’ ability
to pay; the royal houses of Scandinavia and France paid him enough to retire handsomely, but
he would also work for local pawnbrokers and debutantes. He uses a riding- crop as a weapon
normally, but also shot an Andaman Islander in an attempt to retrieve the Agra treasure of the
Sholtos. FTP name this literary detective from works by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who lives at
221B Baker Street.
Sherlock Holmes
BONUS 9
FTPE given a description of a Holmes case, give the work in which it appears.
10:

A large mastiff preys upon the family of a country squire in Dartmoor.
The Hound of the Baskervilles

10:

Holmes chases Dr. James Moriarty across France to Switzerland; it
culminates in a fight in which both fall over Reichenbach Falls.
The Final Problem

10:

A remnant of the Ku Klux Klan visits vengeance on the family of one
of its former members. Holmes is unable to defeat them as they are
lost at sea before they can be arrested.
The Five Orange Pips

TOSSUP 10
Nouns are inflected so much that theoretically, one noun could have over 450,000 different inflections. Up to 1964, it had no standard orthography. Its standardized dialect is known as ”Batua”,
meaning ”unified” in that language. Links have been established between it and the Aquitanian
language, which was spoken in roughly the same region. FTP, name this languagespoken in the
Pyrenees between Spain and France, unrelated to the neighboring Indo-European languages.
Basque or Euskara
BONUS 10
FTPE name these other language isolates.

5

10:

The peninsula containing most of Basque Country is named after this
civilization and language, spoken from the seventh to first century
BCE.
Iberian

10:

This language, spoken by 78 million people worldwide, may be a member of the hypothetical group of Altaic languages. Dialects of it include
Hamgyong and Gyeongsang.
Korean

10:

This language is spoken in the island of Hokkaido, by its namesake
indigenous people of Japan.
Ainu

TOSSUP 11
Some of his earliest works were derived from Hindu traditions, for which he taught himself Sanskrit
in order to translate his source material himself. An extensive traveler, he covered much of Europe
and parts of North Africa, engaging in debates about music with the locals. His works are not well
knownin the present day with the exception of a single suite that has been extensively recorded
and is often used in modern music. FTP, name this Britishcomposer, creator of the seven-part
suite The Planets.
Gustav Holst
BONUS 11
Holst’s The Planets included seven parts. Each part had a description attached to it; for example,
Venus is the Bringer of Peace. FTPE, give thosedescriptions.
10:

Mars
The Bringer of War

10:

Jupiter
The Bringer of Jollity

10:

Uranus
The Mystic

TOSSUP 12
Originally the process used osmium and uranium catalysts, but now iron III isused for its low
cost. The process is reversible, so Le Chatelier’s Principleapplies. Because it is also exothermic,
it produces more reactant at lowertemperatures. In the forward reaction there are four moles of
gas on thereactant side, three of hydrogen and one of nitrogen, and two on the productside, so
high pressure would create more of the desired product. FTP, name this process developed by a
namesake German chemist that is used to synthesizeammonia.
Haber-Bosch process
BONUS 12
FTPE name these other chemical processes.

6

10:

This process converts ammonia, usually from the Haber process, to
nitricacid.
Ostwald process

10:

This organometallic reaction helps to form bonds between carbon and
itselfor atoms that are not carbon or hydrogen.
Grignard reaction

10:

This major industrial process produces aluminum from alumina and
cryolite.
Hall-Heroult process

TOSSUP 13
Seeing the potential benefit in the Khwarezmian Empire as a trading partner, he dispatched a
500-man caravan there to establish a good relationship. Unluckily for Khwarezm, the governor of
Otrar had the caravan attacked and looted, prompting a campaign ranked as one of the bloodiest
and most efficient in history, taking only two years to wipe out that Empire. This was the
penultimate conquest of a career that saw the unification of the various steppe tribes of Asia and
the seizure of most of China. FTP name this Great Captain of History, first Khagan of the Mongol
Empire.
Genghis Khan (accept Temujin)
BONUS 13
FTPE name these successor states of the Mongol Empire.
10:

They ruled Persia and the former Khwarezmian lands for a hundred
years; Tamurlane briefly used their state as an excuse for his conquests.
Il-Khanate (accept variants)

10:

It lasted from its establishment in southern Russia in the 1240s in various forms through domination by first the Ottomans and then Russia
until 1783.
Khanate of the Golden Horde

10:

The Central Asian successor state, it lasted until 1369, when Tamerlane
conquered it during his rampage. It was named after its first Khan,
the second son of Genghis Khan.
Chagatai Khanate (accept variant pronunciations)

TOSSUP 14
She was educated at home, and at 15 started teaching school. Her most notable antebellum
achievement was the establishment of a free public school in Bordentown, New Jersey. Her only
prewar medical experience came when she nursed an invalid brother and her only formal Civil
War connection with any organization was when she served as superintendent of nurses in Maj.
Gen. Benjamin F. Butlers command. As a result of her campaigning, the United States signed
the Geneva Convention. FTP, name this woman who in 1881 founded the American Red Cross.
Clara Barton

7

BONUS 14
FTPE, name these individuals for whom, like Barton, rest stops are named on the New Jersey
Turnpike:
10:

He was an assistant high school football coach in Englewood, New
Jersey, but is better known for leading the Green Bay Packers to five
league titles and two Super Bowls:
Vince Lombardi

10:

This novelist was born in New Jersey but is best known for frontier
adventures such as The Last of the Mohicans :
James Fenimore Cooper

10:

This man was living in Mahwah, New Jersey when he wrote his bestknown poem, “Trees”.
Joyce Kilmer

TOSSUP 15
He was born into a very multicultural family; his heritage included British,Spanish, and Portuguese, and he was bilingual from childhood. He translatedmany famous works into Spanish, by
such authors as Poe, Browne, Kipling, Hesse,and Woolf. He became blind due to glaucoma, and
his most famous works weremostly written after he became completely blind. FTP, name this
famous Argentine writer, author of such works as The Library of Babel and The Bookof Sand.
Jorge Luis Borges
BONUS 15
Borges’ style was sometimes described as ”magic realism”. FTPE, name these other ”magic realist”
authors from works.
10:

His unifinished works include The Trial and The Castle .
Franz Kafka

10:

Works include The Moor’s Last Sigh ,
Children .
Salman Rushdie

10:

Works include The Green House , The Time of the Hero , and Aunt
Juliaand the Scriptwriter .
Mario Vargas Llosa

Shame , and Midnight’s

TOSSUP 16
Born in Nice, France in 1857, this psychologist abandoned his goal of obtaining a medical degree
when he dropped out of college. He began the work which made him famous by studying
the cognitive ability of his young daughters. At the Sorbonne he studied memory, thinking,
handwriting, and perception. In 1904 he began work on developing a test to identify students who
needed special education because of their low level of intellectual functioning. FTP, name this
man who, with his colleague, Theodore Simon, published the first intelligence scale in 1905.
Alfred Binet

8

BONUS 16
FTPE, identify these milestones in educational testing:
10:

This organization was founded in 1900 by leaders of Harvard University
and Columbia University to create a standard exam for all colleges:
College Entrance Examination Board

10:

This multiple-choice exam was first administered in 1926 as a fast way
of testing college applicants:
SAT

10:

This group was founded in 1947 to design and administer the SAT and
other standardized tests:
Educational Testing Service

TOSSUP 17
Although it is believed to be zoonotic, no animal carrier has yet been confirmed, but it is thought
that the fruit bat is a likely reservoir. Since no treatment is currently available, it is classified as a
bioterrorism agent by the CDC. Recent outbreaks of this virus have been in Reston, Virginia, and
also in Sudan and Zaire. FTP, name this hemorrhagic fever, described in Richard Preston’s “The
Hot Zone”.
Ebola virus
BONUS 17
BONUS FTPE name the described hemorrhagic fever.
10:

This virus, belonging to the Arenaviridae family, is spread from rodents
to man. It is endemic in West African countries.
Lassa fever

10:

In 2005 an outbreak of this virus in Angola attracted press attention.
It is named after a German town.
Marburg virus

10:

This virus belongs to the Bunyavirus family. Its name comes from the
river where it was first discovered.
Hantavirus

TOSSUP 18
Pencil and paper ready. A student writes out the binomial expansion of .(x + 1)8 , and wants to
determine the sum of the coefficients of that expansion. One way of solving this problem is to
remember the Binomial Theorem, and apply the simple formula for summing those coefficients. A
slightly less clever solution, though, would be to look at the sum of the coefficients of (x + 1)2 and
(x + 1)3 and find a pattern. FTP what is the sum of the coefficients of the expansion of (x + 1)8 ?
You will have 10 seconds.
256 (or 28 )
BONUS 18
FTPE, find the desired value. You will have 10 seconds per part.

9

10:

The coefficient of x3 in the expansion of (x + 1)4 .
4

10:

The coefficient of x3 in the expansion of (2x + 1)4 .
32

10:

The coefficient of x3 in the expansion of (3x + 2)4 .
216

TOSSUP 19
It represented a major shift in style for its artist. Though the palette is as restricted as usual,
the lines criss-crossing its canvas are comparatively numerous, and aren’t black. Instead, they are
composed of blocks of red, yellow, and blue, the colors the artist previously reserved for larger
fields of color. FTP, identify this painting, the last completed work of Piet Mondrian.
Broadway Boogie Woogie
BONUS 19
Identify these art movements and artists related to the Netherlands FTPE.
10:

Mondrian was the most famous artist of this movement, which he
helped to found in the Netherlands in 1917. Its works attempt to
reveal the underlying order of the world.
De Stijl [duh style] (accept neoplasticism)

10:

Theo van Doesburg was the principal Dutch exponent of this absurdist
cultural movement, which originated in Zurich under the guidance of
the likes of Tristan Tzara and Hans Arp.
Dada(ism)

10:

This Netherlander is best known for his tesselations and works containing optical illusions like Waterfall .
M(aurits) C(ornelis) Escher

TOSSUP 20
Wind Cave National Park is located in this state, as well as the JewelCave and Fossil Cycad
National Monuments. The Belle Fourche dam harnessesthe Missouri River for irrigation and
hydroelectricity, whilst the Angosturadam is largely used for flood control on the Cheyenne. The
Crow Creek and Lower Brule Indian reservations are also in, FTP, the state whose capitalis Pierre.
South Dakota
BONUS 20
For ten points each, name these other northwestern states.

10

10:

This state, nicknamed the ”beaver state”, is directly above California
with Salem as its capital.
Oregon

10:

This is the least populous state, located to the south of Montana withthe capital at Cheyenne.
Wyoming

10:

This is the most northwest of the states with Olympia, Tacoma, and
Seattle being its principal cities.
Washington

11

