NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Tossups
1. A woman from this kingdom swallows a butterfly sent a thousand years forward in time by a jealous witch. A
king of this region grows so angry at hearing about Jesus's death that his head explodes. Because a pregnant
woman from this region is forced to race against some horses, she curses the men of this kingdom to suffer
labor pains in their hour of greatest need. A hero from this kingdom curses his infant son to never reveal his
name or refuse a duel and later straps himself to a tall rock as he is killed by Lugaid's men. This province's king
Conchobar mac Nessa fails to lead it against the warriors of Connacht during the Cattle Raid of Cooley. For 10
points, name this Irish province which titles a mythic cycle about Cú Chulainn.
ANSWER: Ulster [or Ulaidh; or Cúige Uladh; prompt on Ireland] <Kim>
2. A character in this novel has a statue built of an old servant whom he had angrily killed with a lantern. In
this novel, the protagonist plans to free a woman from prison by having her brought to the Putrid Pits in a
coffin. In this novel, a Greek merchant with two missing fingers is killed by a bear on the orders of a man
nicknamed "Bronzebeard." At the climax of this novel, the giant Ursus grips the horns of a charging bull and
breaks its neck. In this novel, a character known as the "arbiter of elegance," Petronius, owns a Christian slave
girl named Ligeia with whom the protagonist, Marcus Vinicius, falls in love. For 10 points, name this
"Narrative of the Time of Nero," a biblically-titled novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz.
ANSWER: Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero <Brownstein>
3. This type of event titles a piece whose G minor Allegro ridicolo movement quotes "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little
Star" in its middle section. An overture on this subject is the most famous piece in Dvorak's trilogy Nature, Life,
and Love. This event is the subject of a piano piece that ends with a "March of the Davidsbündler against the
Philistines," and uses a recurring "A, E-flat, C, B" motif also found in the movements "Eusebius" and
"Florestan." Besides that Robert Schumann piece, a musical depiction of one of these events quotes the
composer's own Danse Macabre in the movement "Fossils," which follows movements such as "The Elephant."
For 10 points, name this event which titles a Camille Saint-Saens piece about animals.
ANSWER: carnivals [or carnavals; or Karnevals; or The Carnival of the Animals; or Le carnaval des animaux; or
Carnaval] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 1 of 14 

4. As in nonlinear optics, four-wave mixing occurs in these substances, because the Hamiltonian of their
wavefunctions includes a term for the wavefunction amplitude squared, times the wavefunction. The critical
density for these substances includes a constant factor of the zeta function of three-halves. The expected
particle number is proportional to the exponential of non-dimensionalized energy, minus one, in these
substances. They form if the de Broglie thermal wavelength becomes larger than the interatomic distance.
NIST first produced one using rubidium atoms. For 10 points, name these collections of integer-spin particles
that collapse into a single quantum state at very low temperatures, the so-called "fifth state" of matter.
ANSWER: Bose-Einstein condensates [or BE condensates; or BECs] <Silverman>
5. Placidus Fixlmillner calculated the orbit of this object based on data collected by John Flamsteed and Tobias
Mayer. Anders Lexell computed the orbit of this entity and mathematically proved it was not a comet. Because
of its limb darkening, the radius of this object was not correctly calculated until its 1977 stellar occultation. Like
the asteroid Ceres, the existence of this planet was predicted by the empirical Titius-Bode law. A sea of water
and ammonia gives rise to its magnetic field, which is unusual for not originating from its interior. William
Herschel discovered this planet, whose moons include Titania and Umbriel. For 10 points, name this tilted gas
giant between Neptune and Saturn.
ANSWER: Uranus <Jose>
6. During his country's lustration period, this leader was accused of having informed to the SB secret police
with the pseudonym "Bolek." This leader often threatened to dissolve parliament after it was won in 1993 by a
coalition of the Peasants' Party and the Democratic Left Alliance. A list of 21 demands, including the
application of Convention 87, was made by a group that this man led after he climbed over a fence to join
them. This man negotiated in the Round Table Talks with Wojciech Jaruzelski's regime. In response to the
firing of Anna Walentynowicz, this electrician led Lenin Shipyard workers in protest to form a labor union in
Gdansk. For 10 points, name this founder of Solidarity and first democratically elected President of Poland.
ANSWER: Lech Walesa (va-WEN-za) <Yu>
7. In one rendition of this scene, a white rider in the upper left sky cuts a cloud with a scythe. To outdo
Michelangelo's Last Judgment, El Greco painted a version of this scene featuring his first life-size male nude.
Guido Reni started the trend of homoeroticizing its subject in his seven renditions of this scene. Hendrick ter
Brugghen is one of few artists who painted this scene's aftermath, in which Irene of Rome tends to its subject.
This scene and the Temptation of Saint Anthony flank the Crucifixion in the Isenheim Altarpiece. This scene,
painted thrice by Andrea Mantegna to ward off the plague in Mantua, features a man tied to a tree by Roman
soldiers. For 10 points, name this common scene in art, in which a saint gets stuck with arrows.
ANSWER: Saint Sebastian being hit with arrows [or the torture of Sebastian; or similar answers; accept the
martyrdom of Sebastian or related answers even though the arrows don't kill him] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 2 of 14 

8. Violence against Native Americans during this event culminated in the Bridge Gulch Massacre. During this
event, devices such as the Long Tom were used extensively for the first time. The land where this event began
was granted to its owner by Juan Alvarado, the local governor, and was known as New Helvetia. Samuel
Brannan started this event by being very indiscreet with a discovery that was made by James W. Marshall. A
massive influx of prospectors ruined the lands of John Sutter during this event, causing him to go bankrupt.
For 10 points, name this event in which "forty-niners" descended upon a newly acquired American territory in
search of a precious metal.
ANSWER: California Gold Rush [or Gold Rush of 1849; prompt on the Gold Rush] <Clarke>
9. At this location, a teenager named Liz Seccuro found out the name of Will Beebe by flipping through his
mail. Investigations of this location could not find anyone named "Haven Monahan," whose forwarded love
letters seem to be plagiarized from the show Dawson's Creek. An article about this place is bracketed with lyrics
from the song "Rugby Road," which urges listeners to "fill up your cups, your loving cups" and claims "all the
first-year women are morally uptight." Sabrina Erdely wrote about this place by telling the story of "Jackie,"
who claimed to be viciously assaulted by the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity house. For 10 points, name this university
that was the subject of the now retracted Rolling Stone article "A Rape on Campus."
ANSWER: University of Virginia [prompt on Phi Kappa Psi fraternity house] <Cheyne>
10. This author wrote a story in which a hospitalized motorcyclist intermittently dreams of being a sacrificial
victim. The protagonist of a novel by him barricades himself in a room filled with traps consisting of yarn and
basins of water to protect himself from a circus worker. While walking along the Seine, the protagonist of
another story by this author observes a woman seducing a teenage boy, and then enlarges a photograph he
takes of the scene. He wrote a novel in which the protagonist confuses Talita, the wife of Traveler, with La
Maga, a member of the bohemian Serpent Club. That book by him is about Horacio Oliveira, contains 99
expendable chapters, and can be read nonlinearly. For 10 points, name this Argentine author of Hopscotch.
ANSWER: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar] <Gupta>
11. This man opened one text by distinguishing society, which promotes well-being positively by uniting
affections, from government, which works negatively to restrain vices. James Chalmers used the pseudonym
Candidus to rebut writings by this man, who was tried in absentia for libel against Edmund Burke for a work
sharply critical of Reflections on the Revolution in France. This man wrote that "Tyranny, like hell, is not easily
conquered." Before writing The Rights of Man, he claimed that it is unreasonable for an island to rule a whole
continent apart from itself and that "These are the times that try men's souls". For 10 points, name this author
whose pamphlets The American Crisis and Common Sense supported American independence.
ANSWER: Thomas Paine <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 3 of 14 

12. During a masked ball in the final scene of this opera's Act I, the orchestra plays a minuet in 3/4 time as two
onstage ensembles simultaneously play a "contradance" in 2/4 time and a waltz in 3/8 time. A peasant wedding
in this opera features a duettino whose two singers come together on the words "Let's go, let's go, my love!" In
this opera, Anna and Elvira swear vengeance on the title character, who sings the duet "Là ci darem la mano"
with Zerlina and has his sexual exploits recounted in Leporello's "Catalogue Aria." At the end of this opera, the
title character is dragged to hell by a statue of the Commendatore, whom he murdered at the start of the
opera. For 10 points, name this Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart opera about a seducer.
ANSWER: Don Giovanni [or The Rake Punished, or Don Giovanni; or Il dissoluto punito, ossia il Don Giovanni]
<Kim>
13. At the request of his mother, this king built a castle for unmarried daughters of the nobility at Quedlinburg.
Archbishop William of Mainz oversaw the compilation of a liturgical book commissioned by this king, the
Romano-German Pontifical. This man was assisted in one battle by a son-in-law whose death was related in a
chronicle by Widukind of Corvey. After Conrad the Red helped him to defeat the chieftains Bulcsu, Lel and
Sur, this king married his son to the Byzantine princess Theopanu. This son of Henry the Fowler defeated the
Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld. For 10 points, name this German crowned by Pope John XII as the first Holy
Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Otto the Great [or Otto I; prompt on Otto] <O'Rourke>
14. In syntax, this letter denotes "thematic roles" such as agent, experiencer, source, and goal, which are
assigned by verbs to nouns in a namesake "grid." The sound denoted in IPA by this letter emerged in Germanic
languages as a sound shift from voiceless dental stops in the last stage described by Grimm's Law. In the
International Phonetic Alphabet and the alphabet from which it originated, this letter now denotes a voiceless
dental fricative. Originally derived from a Phoenician letter resembling a wheel, this letter has a value of 9 in
Greek numerals. For 10 points, name this consonant found before iota in the Greek alphabet, which represents
in one letter a sound that English requires two consonants to spell.
ANSWER: theta [or theta-roles; or theta-grid] <Jackson>
15. It's not trivial, but the module generated by the empty set is referred to by this word, and is the identity of
modules under direct product. In a field, the object referred to by this word is the only one that does not have a
multiplicative inverse. This word describes the image of the kernel of a linear transformation. The Riemann
hypothesis is about the nature of numbers which output this value when input into the zeta function. When
this number is taken as a polynomial, it has degree negative infinity, though other constants considered as
polynomials have degree equal to this number. The y-intercept of a function is its value at this x-coordinate.
For 10 points, the roots of a polynomial are where it takes on what value?
ANSWER: zero <Schindler>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 4 of 14 

16. This character is described as having a "sharp and biting way with hypocrites," and is said to be the type of
man in whose presence "a fool felt his foolishness instantly." After being asked to say "a soft word," this man
swears that he will cut off his hand before touching a girl whom he calls "Child." Near the end of the play he
appears in, this man argues that "God does not need my name nailed upon the church!" When asked to recite
the Ten Commandments, this man only forgets the one about adultery. Ezekiel Cheever enters this man's
house to look for poppets owned by his wife, who is accused of witchcraft by Abigail Williams. For 10 points,
name this husband of Elizabeth, a resident of Salem in The Crucible.
ANSWER: John Proctor [or John Proctor] <Sy>
17. This city banned the sale of alcohol in response to a riot that erupted over the death of a construction
worker in Little India. A man known as "the Messiah" hacked the webpages of a community foundation in this
city, as well as a blog post published by its Straits Times. A complex in this city was constructed to look like a left
hand from above, with the Fountain of Wealth making up its palm. People leaving this city via causeway arrive
at the Sultan Iskandar Building, a checkpoint in Johor Bahru. This city still uses caning as a method of
corporal punishment. Concerns over subway door sensors led this city to ban the sale of chewing gum. For 10
points, name this city-state found at the tip of the Malay peninsula.
ANSWER: Singapore [or Republic of Singapore; or Republik Singapura] <Golimlim>
18. In a poem by this writer, the refrain "Children dear, was it yesterday?" is repeated by the speaker, who calls,
"Margaret! Margaret!" This poet wrote about a man who, "tired of knocking at preferment's door, roamed the
world with that wild brotherhood," and lamented "this strange disease of modern life" in a poem inspired by a
tale from Joseph Glanvill's The Vanity of Dogmatizing. This author of "The Forsaken Merman" coined the modern
usage of the word "Philistine" in his major work of criticism. The speaker of another of his poems notes that
"Sophocles long ago heard it on the Aegean" before exclaiming, "Ah, love, let us be true to one another!" For 10
points, name this author of "The Scholar Gipsy," Culture and Anarchy, and "Dover Beach."
ANSWER: Matthew Arnold <Sy>
19. Some of these substances such as EPTC prevent kaurene formation by inhibiting GGPP cyclization. They're
not diabetes drugs, but acetolactate synthase is inhibited by a substituted urea group of these substances
called sulfonylureas. Variant EPSPS genes provide resistance to a type of these compounds derived from a
strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The phenoxy class of these substances act as analogs of IAA and include 2,4D and 2,4,5-T, which can be contaminated with dioxins. Those postemergence examples of these substances
overstimulate ethylene production and cause unsustainable growth by mimicking auxins in dicots. For 10
points, name these commercial chemicals such as Agent Orange and Roundup that are used to kill weeds.
ANSWER: herbicides [or defoliants; or weedkillers until "kill weeds" is read] <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 5 of 14 

20. The author of this book critiques complicated definitions by imagining a Dutchman defining the word
"beweeginge" as "actus entis in potentia quantenus in potentia." Its second book refers to an Indian
philosopher who said the world rested on an elephant resting on a turtle resting on an unknown body to
describe our understanding of "substance." This book's author distinguishes simple ideas from complex ones,
and argues that objects have both primary and secondary qualities. In its first book, the author refutes the
theory of innate qualities and compares the mind of man to a tabula rasa. For 10 points, name this study on the
origins and nature of knowledge by John Locke.
ANSWER: An Essay Concerning Human Understanding <Sy>
21. Malignant tumors often express higher levels of the AgNOR proteins found in this structure. Barbara
McClintock was the first to describe this structure's formation around a namesake organizer region. A
hairpin-hinge-hairpin-tail motif containing ANANNA and ACA consensus sequences is found in a molecule
specific to this structure called box H-slash-ACA, which guides pseudouridylation. The granular region
encapsulates its fibrillar and dense fibrillar centers. This structure's snoRNAs process the rRNA transcribed
within it. It is typically spherical and stains darker than the surrounding nucleoplasm. For 10 points, name this
structure that synthesizes ribosomes and is found in the nucleus.
ANSWER: nucleolus [prompt on nucleus before "organizer" is read] <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 6 of 14 

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Bonuses
1. Hans Georg Dehmelt won the 1989 Nobel Prize in Physics for developing a type of this device. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this kind of device that utilizes electromagnetic fields to capture charged particles. CERN uses a
type of them named for Frans Michel Penning.
ANSWER: ion trap [prompt on partial answer]
[10] CERN's ALPHA experiment uses a decelerator to bring this particle to a low enough kinetic energy to be
contained within a Penning trap. Antihydrogen consists of this particle orbited by a positron.
ANSWER: antiproton [do not accept "proton"]
[10] The existence of the antiproton was predicted by this scientist's namesake equation. This man names a
distribution of particles with Enrico Fermi.
ANSWER: Paul Dirac [or Paul Adrien Maurice Dirac] <Golimlim>
2. Many historical records of this dynasty were found in its city of Khara-Khoto, and its capital of Xingqing is
now the modern-day city of Yinchuan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dynasty that was ruled by the Tangut people, although it was founded by the Xianbei Tuoba
clan. It gained recognition from the Song dynasty by allying with the Khitan people.
ANSWER: Western Xia dynasty [or Xi Xia chao]
[10] The Khitan people ruled this dynasty of northern China that was paid off by the Song dynasty before the
northern Jurchen people overthrew this dynasty to establish the Jin dynasty.
ANSWER: Liao dynasty
[10] After the 1004 Chanyuan treaty, the Song dynasty paid tribute to the Liao, and later to the Jin, in the form
of silver and this good. It was distributed across Eurasia by a namesake trade network.
ANSWER: silk [or sichou] <Yu>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 7 of 14 

3. David Graham compared this man to "Herman Cain, without the skeletons." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this retired African American neurosurgeon and outspoken conservative, who is mounting a
campaign for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.
ANSWER: Benjamin "Ben" Carson Sr.
[10] Carson infamously gave a conservative speech at the February 2013 iteration of this event, claiming he had
"to stand up to the bullies." Republican columnist Cal Thomas grumbled that Carson was adding politics to a
religious event, though.
ANSWER: National Prayer Breakfast
[10] This pastor of the Dove World Outreach Center in Gainesville is also considering running for President.
He might be best known for proposing a plan to burn Korans on the ninth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks.
ANSWER: Terry Jones <Cheyne>
4. In one philosophical text, this claim is made by a madman who walks through town with a lantern. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this single-sentence claim, which roughly means that Western civilization has no more need for the
moral dictates of organized religion.
ANSWER: "God is dead! God remains dead! And we have killed him" [or Gott ist tot; or the death of God]
[10] The madman's exclamation of "God is dead!" appears in this Friedrich Nietzsche book, whose title refers to
poetry.
ANSWER: The Gay Science [or The Joyful Wisdom; or Die Frohliche Wissenschaft]
[10] The preface to Nietzsche's The Gay Science compares the happy reception of poetry to this physical process,
which he notes often occurs with "gratitude".
ANSWER: convalescence [or convalescing; or recovering from illness; accept descriptive answers indicating
the idea of getting well when one was once sick] <Jackson>
5. This artist painted his second wife, the newspaper cartoonist Marjorie Organ, against a plain black
background in his portrait The Masquerade Dress. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artist who collected his teachings in his book The Art Spirit, and painted a carriage rolling down
a street surrounded by brownstone apartment buildings in Snow in New York. He organized "The Eight."
ANSWER: Robert Henri [or Robert Earle Henri]
[10] "The Eight" later developed into this realistic American art movement, best-known for its gritty depictions
of lower-class New York City.
ANSWER: Ashcan School
[10] Henri organized the Exhibition of Independent Artists with the help of this fellow member of "The Eight,"
whose sympathetic portrayals of working-class New Yorkers include Wake of the Ferry and McSorley's Bar.
ANSWER: John Sloan [or John French Sloan] <Saric>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 8 of 14 

6. This man expanded on the reforms of Solon by increasing the size of the boule to 500 men. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this politician who reformed the Athenian constitution and is credited as the "father of Athenian
democracy."
ANSWER: Cleisthenes
[10] Cleisthenes's niece was Agariste, the mother of this later statesman. He presided over a "Golden Age" of
Athens and gave a notable funeral oration at the onset of the Peloponnesian War.
ANSWER: Pericles
[10] In order to overthrow the tyrant Hippias, Cleisthenes and the Alcmaeonid family were able to recruit
Spartan forces under Cleomenes I by doing this specific action.
ANSWER: bribing the Oracle of Delphi [or bribing Pythia; or equivalents for "bribing"; prompt on partial
answer] <Golimlim>
7. A patient of this man once recalled his bedroom window opening on its own, and seeing a pack of white
wolves outside. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this psychologist who envisioned looking at another of his patients at a formal party and seeing
large white patches in her mouth after a botched surgery.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud [or Sigmund Schlomo Freud]
[10] The aforementioned patient was given this alias by Freud. Freud dreamt about his friend Otto giving this
woman her namesake propyl "injection."
ANSWER: Irma [or Irma's injection]
[10] "Irma's Injection" is a section of this book in which Freud describes dreams as "the royal road to the
unconscious."
ANSWER: The Interpretation of Dreams <Saric>
8. This book claims that "death as nostalgia, rather than as the fruition or end of life, is death as origin" in a
discussion of Nostalgia for Death by Xavier Villaurrutia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this essay collection that discusses how the author's country's identity is influenced by Spanish and
indigenous culture. This collection includes "The Conquest and Colonialism" and "The Day of the Dead."
ANSWER: The Labyrinth of Solitude [or El Laberinto de la Soledad]
[10] This Mexican author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude and was inspired by the Aztec calendar to write his 584line poem "Sunstone."
ANSWER: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]
[10] The first chapter of The Labyrinth of Solitude discusses the clothing worn by this title subculture, described
by Paz as "youths who form gangs in Southern cities."
ANSWER: Pachuco [or Pachuca; or "The Pachuco and Other Extremes"] <O'Rourke>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 9 of 14 

9. Pierre Duhem and Annaliese Maier debated whether this concept was a precursor to conservation of
momentum. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property that a mover imparts to a moving body according to medieval natural philosophers
like Nicolas Oresme. It was introduced by John Philoponus.
ANSWER: impetus
[10] This 14th century Parisian philosopher supported impetus theory with a thought experiment involving a
tunnel dug through the Earth. His namesake "ass" starves, being unable to choose between two equidistant
bales of hay.
ANSWER: Jean Buridan
[10] Proponents of impetus theory rejected the principle of antiperistasis introduced by this Greek founder of
the peripatetic school. This author of Physics and De Caelo posited that aether was the fifth element.
ANSWER: Aristotle <Kothari>
10. Acclaimed novels in this type of setting include Donna Tartt's The Secret History, Kingsley Amis's Lucky Jim,
and Richard Powers's Galatea 2.2. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these institutions where English professors often set their novels, since they employ English
professors.
ANSWER: university campuses [or universities; or colleges; prompt on schools]
[10] In this campus novel, Nathan Zuckerman's neighbor Coleman Silk resigns after he calls two of his black
students "spooks." Zuckerman eventually reveals that Silk, himself, is a black man passing as white.
ANSWER: The Human Stain
[10] This 2011 campus novel by Chad Harbach follows Henry Skrimshander, an elite shortstop for Westish
College's baseball team who suffers through a prolonged defensive slump.
ANSWER: The Art of Fielding <Bollinger>
11. Answer the following about ligands, for 10 points each:
[10] Functionally, they are examples of these compounds which donate electron pairs, according to the Lewis
definition. Ammonia is a Bronsted-Lowry example of these compounds.
ANSWER: bases [or Lewis bases; or Bronsted-Lowry bases]
[10] A very common organic ligand is composed of an atom of this element bonded to three phenyl groups.
This element is normally found in a tetrahedral, four-atom allotrope, though in compounds, it usually forms
either three or five bonds.
ANSWER: phosphorus [or P]
[10] According to crystal field theory, in octahedral complexes, ligands raise the energy of two d orbitals; name
either. One of them has two pairs of lobes extending along the x and y axes, while the other has a pair of lobes
on the z-axis surrounded by a donut at its center.
ANSWER: d-sub-x squared minus y squared or d-sub-z-squared <Silverman>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 10 of 14 

12. In this novel, the private investigator Alfred Parkis discovers that Sarah Miles has been meeting Richard
Smythe, giving this information to one of Sarah's ex-lovers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Maurice Bendix survives a bomb blast in his building, prompting Sarah to effect
the title event as part of a promise to God.
ANSWER: The End of the Affair
[10] This character created by the author of The End of the Affair is invited to Mr. Tench's home while he waits
for a boat to Veracruz. He has an illegitimate daughter whom he searches for in Mexico.
ANSWER: the Whiskey Priest
[10] This English novelist wrote The End of the Affair and about the Whiskey Priest in The Power and the Glory.
ANSWER: Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene] <Sy>
13. Most members of this institution are either married supernumeraries or celibate, devoted numeraries. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this Catholic prelature founded by Josemaría Escrivá, controversial for practices such as
mortification of the flesh. It was depicted, rather inaccurately, through the character Silas in The Da Vinci Code.
ANSWER: The Prelature of the Holy Cross and Opus Dei [or Praelatura Sancti Crucis et Operis Dei]
[10] This pope canonized Escrivá and turned Opus Dei into a personal prelature. This Polish predecessor of
Pope Benedict XVI was himself canonized in 2014.
ANSWER: Pope John Paul II [or Karol Wojtyła; prompt on Pope John Paul]
[10] On Thursdays, members of Opus Dei focus on "Adoro te devote," which like "Pange lingua gloriosi" and
"Sacris solemniis" is one of the Corpus Christi hymns written by this Dominican theologian known as Doctor
Angelicus.
ANSWER: St. Thomas Aquinas [or St. Thomas of Aquino; prompt on Thomas] <Kothari>
14. The final composition in this collection, Remembrances, is a waltz variant of the theme of its first
composition, Arietta. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of 66 short piano works published in ten volumes over the course of its composer's lifetime.
ANSWER: Lyric Pieces [or Lyriske stykker]
[10] The Lyric Pieces were written by what composer who extracted two suites of music from his incidental
music to Henrik Ibsen's Peer Gynt?
ANSWER: Edvard Hagerup Grieg
[10] This Lyric Piece from the fifth book uses runs of staccato notes to depict the title supernatural creatures.
Along with "Shepherd's March," "Notturno," and "Norwegian March," this piece was later orchestrated and
published in Grieg's Lyric Suite.
ANSWER: "March of the Trolls" [or "March of the Dwarves"; or "Trolltog"] <White>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 11 of 14 

15. This man's son died in a 1979 plane crash and was the director of the film Super Fly. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who himself directed the film Shaft, but more importantly was a photographer for the
Farm Security Administration, taking an iconic photograph of a black cleaning lady striking the pose of the
subject in Grant Wood's American Gothic painting.
ANSWER: Gordon Parks
[10] Parks took many photographs for Life magazine, which also printed Alfred Eisenstaedt's photograph of a
woman in a white dress kissing this type of person to celebrate the end of World War II.
ANSWER: sailor [or Navy personnel; prompt on soldier]
[10] Eisenstaedt was one of the first four staff photographers on Life. Another member of that group was this
female photographer who took the first cover image for Life and who photographed Gandhi at his spinning
wheel in 1946.
ANSWER: Margaret Bourke-White [or Margaret White] <Cheyne>
16. While Ambassador to India, this man gave the "world's largest check" to Indira Gandhi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who, while Assistant Secretary of Labor in 1965, produced a controversial namesake report
claiming that the relative absence of nuclear families was a major factor in the creation of black poverty.
ANSWER: Daniel Patrick Moynihan
[10] Moynihan's report was denounced by this African American minister and civil rights activist, who
organized the Rainbow Coalition and was D.C.'s "shadow Senator" in the 1990's. His eldest son was an Illinois
Congressman.
ANSWER: Jesse Louis Jackson Sr. [or Jesse Louis Burns]
[10] Moynihan was a longtime Senator from New York and was succeeded in that post by this politician.
Despite "carpetbagger" accusations, this person defeated Rick Lazio to win the Senate seat in 2000.
ANSWER: Hillary Clinton [or Hillary Rodham] <Cheyne>
17. The mythical Termilae settled in this place after their expulsion from Crete. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kingdom within Anatolia, which was threatened by the Chimera during the reign of king
Iobates. Iobates received an exile from Tiryns who showed up in this place with a tablet of false rape
accusations from Sthenoboea.
ANSWER: Lycia [or Lycians]
[10] This hero slew the Chimera to aid the Lycians while riding on Pegasus's back.
ANSWER: Bellerophontes [or Hipponous]
[10] This son of Zeus, a later king of Lycia, fought alongside his cousin Glaucus for the Trojans. His death late
in the Iliad causes Zeus to cover the battlefield in a black cloud as Sleep and Death carry his body away.
ANSWER: Sarpedon <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 12 of 14 

18. The asymmetrical ear placement that assists hearing in the vertical plane has been extensively studied in
this common species in the family Tytonidae. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this nocturnal avian species with a heart-shaped face that doesn't make the hooting sound
characteristic of members of the "true" family such as tawny, screech, and snowy species.
ANSWER: barn owls [or Tyto alba]
[10] The interaural difference in this parameter is processed in the nucleus magnocellularis, which receives
primary auditory fibers that encode this information by phase-locking to a stimulus. The nucleus angularis
processes the similar ILD, or intensity, parameter.
ANSWER: time [or interaural time difference; prompt on ITD]
[10] Temporal information is processed by octopus cells in this structure's cochlear nucleus, which straddles
the pons and medulla. This structure relays signals from the body to the cerebrum and cerebellum and is
continuous with the spinal cord.
ANSWER: brainstem <Smart>
19. The speaker of this poem imagines a woman "turning toward the window" and saying, "That is not it at all,
that is not what I meant, at all." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this T. S. Eliot dramatic monologue that begins, "Let us go then, you and I, when the evening is
spread out against the sky."
ANSWER: "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"
[10] After describing his morning coat and necktie, Prufrock hyperbolically asks if he dares to perform this
action, probably referring to making a romantic overture.
ANSWER: disturb the universe
[10] At the end of the poem, Prufrock hears these creatures "singing, each to each," but admits, "I do not think
that they will sing to me."
ANSWER: the mermaids <Sy>
20. Answer the following about women under the rule of the Soviet Union, for 10 points each.
[10] Starting in 1944, the USSR gave a medal to women who did this action ten or more times. In Communist
Romania, the bans in Decree 770 led more women to do this act, resulting in a surge of occupancy in
orphanages.
ANSWER: gave birth to a live child [or bear a child; or raise a child; accept word forms]
[10] Women's resistance to this Stalin policy included claims that it wouldn't just come for farmland, but also
for prized possessions like women's hair. This policy reorganized much of Ukraine into kolkhozes.
ANSWER: collectivization of farmland [accept answers such as collectivization of Ukraine]
[10] The Nazis gave this pejorative nickname to an all-female regiment of bomber pilots led by Marina Raskova
during the latter half of World War II.
ANSWER: Night Witches [or Nachthexen] <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 13 of 14 

21. When he was shot, this man told police "you stick to your trade, I'll stick to mine" and refused to name his
killer. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Jewish-American mobster known as the "Brain." He helped fix the 1919 World Series, was the
inspiration for Meyer Wolfsheim in The Great Gatsby, and may have been killed by Dutch Schultz.
ANSWER: Arnold Rothstein
[10] Rothstein was killed in 1928, shortly before he expected to win over $500,000 for successfully backing this
Republican for President. This man was in office during the 1929 stock market crash.
ANSWER: Herbert Hoover
[10] Rothstein profited from Prohibition, a period that began with the passage of a 1919 act named for this
Minnesota Republican from Granite Falls.
ANSWER: Andrew Volstead <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 12 - Page 14 of 14 

