2013 Fall Kickoff Tournament – Round 12 (Finals Packet 2)
1. This man’s achievements include the signing of the Cyprus Convention with the Ottoman Empire, which handed
control of the island to Great Britain. In 1876, this man’s Royal Titles Act enabled Queen Victoria to be proclaimed
as Empress of India, and his Reform Act of 1867 nearly doubled the British electorate, which later lead to his
Conservative party’s defeat in the 1868 election. Prior to this man becoming prime minister, he wrote the novels
Vivien Grey and Venetia. For 10 points, name this Prime Minister of Great Britain with Jewish roots who engaged
in a notorious feud with William Gladstone.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli
BONUS: President Obama recently argued that a raise in this would help restore a higher standard of living, For 10
points each:
[10] Name this limit which establishes the lowest level at which employees can be paid.
ANSWER: minimum wage [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Another economic limit is this term which is set by the Federal Reserve and defines the minimum amount of
money which must be retained by banks at the end of each day.
ANSWER: reserve requirement
[10] All economic limits are derived from the dilemma of solving this fundamental economic problem which is
defined as having seemingly unlimited human wants and needs in a world of limited resources.
ANSWER: scarcity
2. This land was ruled over by King Borgas until he died in the Great Hunt, causing this land’s War of Succession.
The ancestors of this land’s current inhabitants were massacred in the Night of Tears, when they tried to settle at
Sarthal. The rightful ruler of this land served in the Great War, before breaking the terms of the White-Gold
Concordat in the Markarth Incident. The current civil war in this land is being waged over many issues, foremost
among them being the influence of the Third Aldmeri Dominion, otherwise known as the Thalmor, and the freedom
to worship Talos. For 10 points, name this land in northern Tamriel, where Ulfric Stormcloak is the true High King,
the title locale of the fifth Elder Scrolls game.
ANSWER: Skyrim [accept the Province of Skyrim or the Kingdom of Skyrim; do not prompt on “Tamriel,”
“Nirn,” “Mundus,” or “The Empire”]
BONUS: Don’t you find it irritating when people answer a question with a question? For 10 points each:
[10] What exact five words begin “Sonnet 43,” by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, which continues “let me count the
ways”?
ANSWER: “How do I love thee?”
[10] In what play by Edward Albee do a young married couple, Nick and Honey, accept a dinner invitation from
the profoundly unhappily married George and Martha?
ANSWER: Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
[10] What is the title of the short story by Leo Tolstoy in which Pakhom, a peasant obsessed with gaining real
estate, makes a deal with the Devil and discovers after dropping dead that the answer to the title query is “six feet”?
ANSWER: “How Much Land Does a Man Need?”

3. One character in this novel proclaims to another that they look like “the change of life.” After watching bees
pollinate a pear tree, the protagonist of this novel is forced to marry Logan Killicks, a man she soon leaves. The
protagonist is not allowed to join the social life taking place on a store's front porch and let her hair down by her
second husband, who treats her as a trophy wife. After the death of that husband, Jody Starks, the protagonist
moves out of Eatonville into the Muck to marry a man by the name of Tea Cake. For 10 points, name this novel
detailing the life and loves of Janie Crawford, written by Zora Neale Hurston .
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these questions about tall buildings.
[10] While no longer the tallest building in the world, this New York City landmark is still visited by many tourists
every year. It is named after the official nickname of New York.
ANSWER: Empire State Building
[10] This building is built next to a memorial featuring two square holes, lined with black granite, with tearlike
drops of water falling into them. Its external construction was just finished with the mounting of a one thousand
seven hundred seventy-six foot high spire on its top.
ANSWER: One World Trade Center [also accept 1 WTC or Freedom Tower, prompt on “World Trade
Center”]
[10] This building was the tallest in the world until it was surpassed by the Burj Dubai. It features a gigantic steel
pendulum to maintain stability and an outside facade reminiscent of a pagoda.
ANSWER: Taipei 101 [prompt on “Taipei World Financial Center” or “Taipei International Financial Center”]
4. This function is approximated for large numbers by Stirling’s approximation. The traveling salesman problem
can be solved in Big O of this function. The pi function and gamma function extend this function to complex
numbers. This function appears in the denominator of the Taylor series of polynomials, and this function is said to
grow faster than all polynomial and exponential functions. Often used with combinations and permutations, for 10
points, name this mathematical function, defined as the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n,
denoted by an exclamation point.
ANSWER: Factorial [prompt on “exclamation point/mark” before read]
BONUS: Plant hormones regulate the growth of plants. For 10 points each:
[10] Indole-3-acetic acid is one example of this type of plant hormone. These hormones have a positive effect on
root initiation, cell enlargement, and bud formation.
ANSWER: Auxins
[10] This class of hormones was discovered by Japanese researchers who were studying “foolish seedling” disease
in rice. Their primary function is to promote stem elongation.
ANSWER: Gibberellins
[10] Once known as dormin, this plant hormone is responsible for the inhibition of seed germination, fruit ripening,
and budding.
ANSWER: Abscisic Acid [or Abscicin II]

5. The founder of this dynasty was threatened with having his father boiled alive, to which he responded “Send me
a cup of the soup.” Following the death of Emperor Hui of this dynasty, Hui’s mother instituted a reign of terror
against anyone who dared to oppose her own clan of Lu. This dynasty is separated into eastern and western periods
by an interregnum caused by Wang Mang. This dynasty was founded after Xiang Yu and his Kingdom of Chu were
defeated by Liu Bang. For 10 points, name this dynasty which succeeded the Qin [CHIN] Dynasty and was
followed by the Era of the Three Kingdoms.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
BONUS: This method of data collection was furthered by the students of Franz Boas and the Chicago School of
sociology.
[10] Name this method, in which the researcher involves themselves with a group of individuals and a culture to
attain an intimate familiarity to aid study.
ANSWER: Participant Observation [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This anthropologist, who was a chair at the London School of Economics, pioneered participant observation
and extensively studied the Kula ring of Papua New Guinea.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Kasper Malinowski
[10] This work, arguably Malinowski’s most famous, studies the Trobriand people of the Kiriwana Islands and
served to distinguish ethnography from documentation of foreign places.
ANSWER: Argonauts of the Western Pacific
6. The UV light initiated reaction of hydrocarbons with this group is commonly used to functionalize hydrocarbons,
and the Finkelstein reaction exchanges these elements. All elements in this group, except the radioactive one, are
found diatomically in their pure state and are found in all three states of matter in standard conditions. One member
of this group, found in Lugol’s solution, is used to detect starches. Elements in this group react with metals to form
salts, giving their name. For 10 points, name this group of highly reactive elements which includes astatine, iodine,
and fluorine.
ANSWER: Halogens
BONUS: Answer the following related mythology questions, for 10 points each:
[10] This figure from mythology changed his name from Setanta after serving as a guard dog in order to replace
one he killed. He wielded the spear Gae Bulg, and defended Ulster in the Cattle Raid of Cooley.
ANSWER: Cú Chulainn [pronounced Koo-Ka-Lin, be very forgiving on pronunciation; accept Cuhullin, Cu
Chulaind, or Cuchulainn]
[10] This figure from mythology was prophesied to grow up to be so beautiful that Kings and Lords would go to
war over her. She fulfilled expectations and capped that feat off by throwing herself to her death from a chariot.
ANSWER: Deirdre of the Sorrows [or Derdriu]
[10] Both Cú Chulainn and Deirdre come from this Emerald Isle’s mythology.
ANSWER: Ireland [prompt on “Celtic” myth]

7. This writer’s most recent work, Luka and the Fire of Life, is a sequel to one of his previous works, Haroun and
the Sea of Stories. His first novel, Grimus, follows Flapping Eagle, who roams the Earth for seven hundred seventyseven years, seven months, and seven days in search of his sister. In another of his novels, one of the characters has
the habit of calling things “whatitsname,” and Parvati the Witch is killed during a raid by Indira Gandhi. One of his
most famous novels follows Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha after a plane crash over the English Channel.
For 10 points, name this British-Indian writer who received a fatwa for his novel The Satanic Verses, and who also
wrote Midnight’s Children.
ANSWER: Salman Rushdie
BONUS: Beginning in Rome, the Baroque art style was characterized by exaggerated motion and clear, easily
interpreted details. For 10 points each:
[10] What Baroque, Italian artist created a sculpture of two figures and Cerberus, titled The Rape of Proserpina?
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo Bernini
[10] This piece depicts an angel piercing the title figure with an arrow as golden rays reach toward them and is
Bernini’s most famous.
ANSWER: The Ecstasy of Saint Theresa [or Saint Theresa in Ecstasy; or L'Estasi di Santa Teresa; or Santa
Teresa in estasi]
[10] This other Bernini work is done in marble and shows a man and woman, one of which is turning into a tree.
ANSWER: Apollo and Daphne
8. A figurine of Saint Margaret emerges from a dragon in this work. A single lit candle appears on a chandelier at
the top of this painting, and a table on the left holds three fruits while another sits on the windowsill. A pair of
wooden clogs and a brown dog are near the bottom of this painting, which also features a convex mirror showing
the artist and a priest. A large, red bed is on the right of the two main figures. The man wears a fur-trimmed coat
while the woman wears a green dress. For ten points, name this portrait of an Italian merchant and his wife, by Jan
van Eyck.
ANSWER: The Arnolfini Wedding [also accept The Arnolfini Portrait or The Arnolfini Marriage or Giovanni
Arnolfini and His Wife]
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these questions about the Texan War of Independence.
[10] This is perhaps the most famous battle of the Texan War of Independence. It occurred when the Mexicans
under Santa Anna besieged a Texan force in a mission-turned-fort near San Antonio.
ANSWER: Battle of the Alamo
[10] This was the decisive battle of the war. In this battle, Sam Houston ambushed Santa Anna during the Mexican
Army’s siesta.
ANSWER: Battle of San Jacinto
[10] This was a massacre that occurred prior to San Jacinto. The cry to remember this, as well as the Alamo,
became a Texan battlecry later on in the war.
ANSWER: Massacre at Goliad

9. The Statue of Decebalus is located on the banks of this river nearby an ancient structure called the Tabula
Traiana, which is the primary ruin left from a bridge believed to be the longest arch bridge for a millenium. The
primary sources of this river are the Brigach and Berg Rivers. Tributaries of this river include the Drava River in
Croatia and the Tisza River in Serbia. A notable gorge on this river is called the Iron Gates. This river flows
through the capital cities of Belgrade, Bratislava, Budapest, and Vienna. For 10 points, name this second longest
river of Europe that starts in the Black Forest of Germany and flows into the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Danube River
BONUS: Carbonate is a molecule that exhibits this property because it has one double bond and two single bonds.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon which requires drawing more than one Lewis structure to show a molecule.
ANSWER: Resonance
[10] Lewis dot structures are the first step in drawing molecular shapes. This theory used to predict molecular
geometries posits that electrons want to be as far away from each other as possible.
ANSWER: VSEPR [VESPER] Theory [or Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion Theory]
[10] VSEPR Theory predicts this shape for water, as well as nitrogen dioxide.
ANSWER: Bent
10. This man proposed his theory of “binding” in a series of lectures in Pisa, and he wrote the essay “The
Responsibility of Intellectuals.” This thinker also proposed a gap between the exposure of children to language and
the rate and depth to which they learn language, which he called “the poverty of the stimulus.” He also proposed
that the abstract “deep structure” of sentences could relate to their “surface structure.” He presented the idea of
transformational-generative grammar in Syntactic Structures and composed the grammatically correct but
meaningless sentence “colorless green ideas sleep furiously.” For 10 points, name this MIT linguist.
ANSWER: Noam Chomsky
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these question about a certain “chief of brigands” in Scotland.
[10] This man led a rebellion against English rule in Scotland, temporarily expelling the English after the Battle of
Stirling Bridge.
ANSWER: Sir William Wallace
[10] This was the King of England at the time of Wallace’s rebellion. He had taken control of Scotland during a
succession dispute between Clan Balliol and Clan Bruce.
ANSWER: King Edward I of England [or King Edward Longshanks; prompt on “Edward”]
[10] William Wallace was defeated at this battle, leaving England to temporarily reconquer Scotland. Here, the
Scottish Schiltroms were annihilated where they stood by volleys from English longbowmen.
ANSWER: Battle of Falkirk

HALFTIME – Announce the score and allow teams to substitute

11. In solution, this molecule assumes a pyranose structure though it exists in equilibrium with its cyclical isomers.
This molecule is converted to ascorbic acid or vitamin C in the Reichstein Process. A radioactive analogue of this
molecule called FDG is used in PET scans. The amount of this molecule present in the bloodstream is increased by
a hormone produced in the alpha cells of the islets of Langerhans and is decreased by insulin. Polymers of this
molecule include chitin, amylose, and cellulose. For 10 points, name this molecule, which is the starting point of
aerobic respiration with a chemical formula C6H12O6.
ANSWER: glucose [prompt on “C6H12O6” before mentioned]
BONUS: The protagonist of this work meets Margherita Erdman in The Zone. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel that follows Tyrone Slothrop, whose sexual encounters presage V2 rocket strikes.
ANSWER: Gravity’s Rainbow
[10] Gravity’s Rainbow is a novel by this postmodern American author who wrote about Oedipa Maas in The
Crying of Lot 49.
ANSWER: Thomas Pynchon
[10] This other postmodernist author wrote a colonial epic about Ebeneezer Cooke, the “Poet Laureate of
Maryland” in his novel The Sot-Weed Factor in addition to penning Giles Goat-Boy.
ANSWER: John Barth
12. This writer, whose poems “Big Space” and “King of Harlem” were included in his poetry collection, Poet In
New York, was a member of the Generation of ‘27. Along with his first play, The Butterfly’s Evil Spell, this poet
and dramatist wrote another in which death is personified by a beggar. Killed by Nationalist forces at the age of
thirty-six, this poet and dramatist wrote a play in which Pepe El Romano is a suitor of Angustias, the daughter of a
widow. Another of this author’s plays, Yerma, was part of his best known play collection, the Rural Trilogy. For 10
points, name this Spanish writer of The House of Bernarda Alba and Blood Wedding.
ANSWER: Federico Garcia Lorca [prompt on partial answer]
BONUS: Answer some questions related to some recent Oscar-winning directors, for 10 points each:
[10] The darling of the 2011 awards was this black-and-white French film directed by Michael Hazanavicius, who
won Best Director for the effort. Jean Dujardin won Best Actor for his role in as a silent actor who struggles to
adapt to the change to talkies.
ANSWER: The Artist
[10] The 2012 award for Best Director went to this man who had previously won in 2005 for Brokeback Mountain.
His films such as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Life of Pi almost make up for his awful, terrible Hulk
movie.
ANSWER: Ang Lee
[10] Among Lee’s competition in 2012 was this director of Lincoln who had previously won the award for Saving
Private Ryan and Schindler’s List. Much like Lee’s Hulk, this man’s direction of Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of
the Crystal Skull proves that sometimes even the best directors can create horrible films.
ANSWER: Steven Spielberg

13. According to legend, this man proved his intelligence by melting a lion made of wax. According to Plutarch,
this man is believed to have met Alexander the Great at Taxila and killed two Greek satraps. He gained much of his
territory through a peace treaty with Seleucus I, in which he offered five hundred war elephants. His mentor,
Chanakya, was regarded as the Indian Machiavelli, and the extent of his rule was as far as modern day Balochistan.
This ruler abdicated his throne for his son Bindusara in accordance with Jain tradition and became an ascetic. For
10 points, name this grandfather of Ashoka who founded the Maurya empire.
ANSWER: Chandragupta Maurya [prompt on Maurya]
BONUS: For 10 points each, name the following related to finding the area of a triangle.
[10] The area of an equilateral triangle can be determined by dividing the square of the length of one side by 4, then
multiplying by this irrational number equal to approximately 1.73.
ANSWER: square root of 3 [or radical 3; do not prompt on or accept “3” by itself]
[10] Heron’s formula determines the area of any triangle by making use of four variables: the lengths of each side
of the triangle, and this property of a triangle most commonly symbolized lowercase “s.”
ANSWER: semiperimeter [accept half of perimeter and other equivalents]
[10] The area of a triangle can also be determined by multiplying the semiperimeter of the triangle by the radius of
this figure, the existence of which is what classifies all triangles as tangential polygons.
ANSWER: incircle [or inscribed circle; prompt on “circle”]
14. The finale of this man’s third symphony sets a text by Kirsanov to music, praising May Day and the revolution.
In one of this man’s ballets, Lyonka hates working at a factory and plans to sabotage the machinery by putting a
namesake “bolt” in it. This composer’s thirteenth symphony sets Yevtushenko’s poetry to music to denounce antisemitism. His seventh symphony, written in C major, was initially dedicated to the first communist leader of the
USSR, and then to a city named after that man. For 10 points, name this Soviet-era Russian composer of the BabiYar and Leningrad symphonies.
ANSWER: Dmitri Shostakovich
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer the following about a certain Indian writer.
[10] This poet, novelist, lyricist, and playwright was the first non-European to win the Nobel Prize in Literature in
1913 and is credited with writing the Indian National Anthem, Jana Gana Mana.
ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore
[10] Tagore won the Nobel Prize largely for this poetry collection, his most well-known work. Its notable
introduction was written by the Irish poet, William Butler Yeats.
ANSWER: Gitanjali [or Song Offerings]
[10] Gitanjali was originally written in this Indian language before being translated into English.
ANSWER: Bengali [accept Bangla]

15. This holiday begins on the day of Dhanteras and ends on Bhaubeej on the lunar calendar. Patterns of rangoli are
often etched on the ground during this holiday, marking the start of Kartik, and Sikhs call this holiday Bandi
Chhorh Divas. One significant reason for this holiday is to celebrate Atman, which is found in every human being,
and in Jainism, this holiday commemorates Mahavira achieving Nirvana. One day in this holiday celebrates the
killing of Karakasura, and another celebrates the return of Rama after defeating Ravana. Often celebrated with
fireworks and oil lamps, for 10 points, name this five-day Indian festival, known as the “Festival of Lights.”
ANSWER: Diwali [or Deepavali; prompt on “Festival of Lights” before mentioned]
BONUS: Objects seen in this painting include a sundial, a crucifix, a globe, and a lute. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting, which features Georges de Selve and Jean de Dinteville, resting their arms on a table
holding items representing science and knowledge.
ANSWER: The Ambassadors
[10] The Ambassadors is the best known work of what Flemish artist?
ANSWER: Hans Holbein the Younger
[10] The Ambassadors also features one of these objects at the bottom of the painting, which has undergone
anamorphosis.
ANSWER: human skull
16. Allan Franklin and Gerald Holton argued over the statistical validity of this experiment, and a modified version
of Stoke’s Law was used to calculate drag in this experiment. The results of this experiment were somewhat
inaccurate due to an incorrect value for the viscosity of air. Parallel voltage plates formed a uniform electric field in
order to provide enough buoyant force for the particles in this experiment to resist gravity. For 10 points, name this
experiment, conducted in 1909, that accurately measured the elementary charge of an electron, in which the
namesake particles were suspended in air.
ANSWER: Millikan’s Oil Drop Experiment [or Millikan’s Experiment or Oil Drop Experiment or FletcherMillikan Oil Drop Experiment]
BONUS: One character in this play, Bernard Nightingale, theorizes that Ezra Chater was killed while dueling with
Lord Byron. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1993 play that alternates between two different time periods at the same English residence, Sidley
Park.
ANSWER: Arcadia
[10] Arcadia was written by this British playwright better known for using two minor Hamlet characters as the
subject of his play Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.
ANSWER: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
[10] Stoppard is often associated with this nonsensical literary movement also tied to dramatists Harold Pinter and
Samuel Beckett.
ANSWER: Theatre of the Absurd [accept word forms]

17. This goddess, whose cultural center was located at Erech, was subjected to sixty diseases before being revived
by the water of life obtained for her by Asushu-Namir from her sister Ereshkigal (AY-RESH-KEY-GUL). Before
being imprisoned, this goddess represented by a six, eight, or sixteen pointed star was forced to pass through seven
gates by removing a piece of clothing at each in an attempt to save her husband, Tammuz. She sent the Bull of
Heaven after Gilgamesh when he rejected this goddess’s advances. Associated with the planet Venus is, for 10
points, what Babylonian goddess of fertility and war?
ANSWER: Ishtar [accept Inanna]
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these questions about Japanese history
[10] This battle saw the defeat of Ishida Mitsunari. It brought about the end of the Sengoku Jedai and the creation
of a new shogunate
ANSWER: Battle of Sekigahara
[10] This victor of Sekigahara created that new shogunate and moved the capital from Kyoto to Edo, soon renamed
Tokyo. His line would rule as shogun until the Meiji Restoration
ANSWER: Tokugawa Ieyasu
[10] The defeated Ishida said that he fought for the heir of this man. Known by the nicknames of “the monkey” and
“the bald rat” because of his looks, his actions included the reunification of Japan and the invasion of Japan.
ANSWER: Toyotomi Hideyoshi.
18. The only immediate survivors of this event were a German shepherd named Highball and a man who insisted
“nobody shot me” even though he died a few hours later from over a dozen bullet wounds. Frank Gusenberg and
optician Reinhardt Schwimmer were two of the victims of this event performed by four men, two of whom were
disguised as policemen. The killing of seven members of Bugs Moran’s gang gave complete control of Chicago
bootlegging to Al Capone in, for 10 points, what incident that took place February 14th, 1929?
ANSWER: St. Valentine’s Day Massacre
BONUS: This work was adapted in a Piano Guys video, combining it with a David Guetta song. For 10 points,
[10] Name this piano solo dedicated to the Princesse de Polignac, a celebration of Spanish customs and culture,
released while the composer was studying under Gabriel Faure.
ANSWER: Pavane for a Dead Princess [or Pavane pour une infante defunte]
[10] This composer created the Pavane for a Dead Princess, along with Gaspard de La Nuit.
ANSWER: Joseph-Maurice Ravel
[10] One of Ravel's concertos for this instrument begins with a whipcrack. Another, commissioned by Paul
Wittgenstein, was written for the left hand.
ANSWER: piano

19. In one of this man’s plays, a deaf mute man called the Orator attempts to deliver a message to the Old Man and
the Old Woman. They become so frustrated with his attempts to communicate they both jump out of windows. In
addition to The Chairs, this author wrote a play in which the Fire Chief interrupts a dinner party in which one of the
women in attendance always wears her hair in the same style. Berenger is the only person in the town who refuses
to turn into the title animal. For 10 points, name this Romanian playwright of The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these questions about a certain group of devices that change the direction or
magnitude of a force.
[10] Identify this group of devices, which includes levers, inclined planes, and screws.
ANSWER: Simple machines [prompt on partial answer]
[10] A simple machine’s efficiency can be determined by calculating this property, which for a lever is the ratio of
the output force to the input force.
ANSWER: Mechanical Advantage [prompt on “MA” or “advantage”]
[10] This special simple machine, used to verify physical laws, ideally consists of two masses connected by a
massless string on a massless pulley.
ANSWER: Atwood Machine
20. This artist depicted a woman wearing a red belt and black dress in his portrait of the Duchess of Alba. Another
work by him shows owls and bats flying around a sleeping man, The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters. This
artist showed dark and haunting themes in his series known as the Black Paintings. One well known work by him
shows a titan afraid of being overthrown eating a child, his Saturn Devouring His Son. For 10 points, name this
Spanish romantic painter who showed Spanish resistance to Napoleon’s armies in The Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes
BONUS: While in Sicily, this man famously slapped shell-shocked soldiers, thinking them cowards. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this American general who served in both North Africa and the invasion of Sicily before taking over the
Third Army in Normandy, with which he pull off a risky wheel to the north during the Battle of the Bulge.
ANSWER: George Smith Patton Jr.
[10] Throughout World War II, Patton’s primary competitor for glory was this British Field Marshal, the victor at
El Alamein.
ANSWER: Bernard Montgomery, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein
[10] Prior to the D-Day Landings, Patton was “placed” as leader of the 1st U.S. Army Group, a fictitious unit used
to misinform the Germans as a part of this larger operation, which used rubber tanks and false radio messages to
make it seem like the invasion of France would occur at Calais, not Normandy.
ANSWER: Operation Fortitude

END OF MATCH – Announce final score and do not read tiebreaker tossup(s) unless
the score is tied

Tiebreaker Tossups – If the match is tied, read one tossup at a time until the score changes (correct answer
or neg).
21. The person at the center of this scandal re-enlisted at the start of the First World War, rising to the rank of
Lieutenant-Colonel by war’s end. Major Henry created a fake document to incriminate the man at the center of this
scandal, going on to commit suicide when discovered. The crime at the center of this scandal was really committed
by Major Esterhazy, who was never prosecuted for his treason. Emile Zola turned this scandal into a national
firestorm by denouncing the military in his J’accuse. For 10 points, name this scandal in which its namesake was
falsely accused of treason by the anti-semitic French military, becoming an issue that would ravage the Third
French Republic.
ANSWER: Dreyfus Affair
22. Adam, Moses, and Buddha are considered celebrities in heaven in one work by this author that also wrote a
story in which cranberry farmer Sandy McWilliams answers questions about heaven from the title character. This
co-author of The Gilded Age and author of Pudd'nhead Wilson wrote a novel in which Edward VI rescues Tom
Canty from a beating by royal guards. This author was called "the father of American literature" by William
Faulkner and wrote short stories such as “Innocents Abroad” and “The Man that Corrupted Hadleyburg”. For ten
points, name this author of The Prince and the Pauper, The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, and The Adventures of
Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]

