Round 3
WinterBowl 2009
Questions © Academic Hallmarks
Revised for pyramidality by Matthew Dirks
Warm-Up 1. What is the adjective phrase in this line? “The mime with the golden tooth is my friend.”
with the golden tooth
Warm-Up 2. What are the names of the seven dwarves in the Disney movie “Snow White”?
Bashful, Doc, Dopey, Grumpy, Happy, Sleepy, Sneezy
1. Math. Barnum starts work at 8 a.m. and Bailey begins at 9 a.m. If they both finish at the same
time and Barnum worked y hours, how many hours did Bailey work?
y -1
2. What is the sound which accompanies the breaking of the sound barrier by aircraft?
sonic boom
3. Math. How many fish are in two tons of salmon averaging twenty pounds each?
200
4. The Bay of Pigs fiasco was a botched attempt to overthrow the government of this country. The
man who was president at that time came to power after overthrowing the dictator Batista, and
has been succeeded by his brother Raúl. Fidel Castro was president of what Caribbean country
south of Florida?
Cuba
5. Math. A ladder leans against a wall. Its top lies 12 feet up the wall, and its base is 5 feet away
from the wall. How many feet long is the ladder?
13 (feet)
6. What is the official language of Oman and Kuwait?
Arabic
7. For any number x, the number which gives zero when added to x is known as what type of
inverse?
additive
8. This property can be transferred by radiation, conduction, and convection. When this property
increases beyond a certain level, many solids become liquid. What is this property, one type of
energy?
heat (I guess you can accept “thermal energy”)
9. This river passes through Arizona, New Mexico, and the state for which it is named. Its mouth
is in the Gulf of California. What is this river which lies between Zion National Park and the
Petrified Forest, and flows through the Grand Canyon?
Colorado
10. These biomes contain five different zones, including the Tree Stratum zone and the Herb zone.
Contrasting with Conifer forests, what is this biome dominated by trees which shed their
leaves?
deciduous forest
11. With a name coming from the Latin word for fire, what kind of rock is formed from cooled
magma?
igneous
12. A minor character in this work, Tommy Djilas, has a secret relationship with the mayor's
daughter Zaneeta. The Buffalo Bills appeared in the original Broadway production as the school
board, and sang such songs as “Lida Rose.” What is this Meridith Wilson musical, set in River
City, Iowa, in which Marian the Librarian falls in love with Harold Hill, the title character?
The Music Man

13. A word or group of words that receives the action of a transitive verb in a sentence is called a …
direct object
14. How many helping verbs are in this sentence? “A new ad for a part-time sardine packer might
have been placed in the paper today.”
three
15. This document contained some of the earliest references to habeas corpus, and was signed by
King John of England. What is this charter, which in 1215 transformed the English absolute
monarchy into a limited monarchy?
Magna Carta
Half Time! Ask for substitutions.
16. In this example, what is shifted? “So we go into the forest looking for something to nibble on
because we're starving and we came upon an exceptionally dazzling cottage made entirely of
gingerbread.”
verb tense
17. The larvae are free-swimming, but when they find a suitable hard surface, they permanently
glue themselves to it by means of a gland on their heads. Small cirri protruding from their head
help them filter food. What are these small marine crustaceans?
barnacles
18. What is the truth value of this statement? “Socrates was either male or female.”
true
19. In Isaac Bashevis Singer's Stories for Children, this figure can allegedly change children into
hedgehogs, rats, or frogs. This Slavic folk character flies in a mortar and steals little children.
Who is this Slavic folk character who lives in a chicken-legged house?
Baba Yaga
20. Math. A refrigerator contains roaches and centipedes. The ratio of roaches to centipedes is 5 to
1, and there are 300 bugs total in the fridge. How many roaches are there?
250
21. This word comes from an Algonquin word meaning “kinship group.” Often made from cedar,
one of the tallest, at 173 feet, is in British Columbia. What are these tribal emblems of Pacific
Northwest Indians consisting of pillars carved and painted with animal figures?
totems (totem poles)
22. Math. A kayaker completed 3/5 of her trip up the Amazon after paddling 174 kilometers. How
far does she have left to go?
116 km
23. During the Reagan administration, the US government sold arms to this country in order to fund
rebel groups in Nicaragua. Its president, Ahmadinejad, is know for denying the Holocaust.
What is this country, which George Bush placed along side Iraq and North Korea in his “Axis
of Evil”?
Iran
24. Feel like doing more math? Find the least common multiple of 12 and 16.
48 (do not accept yes/no answers. Smart alecks.)
25. Three types of this structure are bunker, tower, and bag. What are these tall, cylindrical towers
in which fodder and silage are stored?
silo(s)
26. Tribes described by this term include the Baka, the Bambuti, and the Twa. Theories for their
unusual characteristic include a lack of food or Vitamin D. Name these groups, found in Africa
and other places, whose adult members are usually less than 59 inches tall.
Pygmy

27. A type of vulture, only 20 of these remained in the wild in the early 1980s. Though their
Andean cousins are among the world's largest birds, their wingspan grows to “only” ten feet.
What are these critically endangered Californian birds?
(Californian) condors
28. Theodore Roosevelt won the Nobel Peace Prize for ending a war between Japan and this
country, home to such writers as Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky. In 2008, Dmitri Medvedev became
president of this country, with Putin as his prime minister. What is this country, the largest
republic in the USSR, in which the Bolshevik Revolution led to its first Communist
government?
Russia
29. The Loop Quantum theory of this force attempts to unify it with the other three fundamental
forces, as does String Theory. On Earth, acceleration due to this force is about 9.8 meters per
second squared. What is this force, believed to be enormously strong in black holes?
gravity
30. Perhaps his most famous opera is “Eugene Onegin,” which contains a fifteen-minute long letter
aria. He also wrote ballets like “Swan Lake” and orchestral pieces like the “1812 Overture.”
Who is this Russian composer of “The Nutcracker”?
(Pyotr Ilyich) Tchaikovsky
Alternates
Alt 1. The person who holds this position casts the tie-breaking vote in the Senate. Ones who have had
sudden promotions include Chester Arthur, Andrew Johnson, Theodore Roosevelt, and Lyndon B.
Johnson. What is this position, currently held by Joe Biden, whose main job is to take over if the
president dies?
Vice President (of the USA)
Alt 2. This city had seven kings, but they were driven out following the rape of Lucretia. Its founders,
Romulus and Remus, were the twin sons of Rhea Silvia. What is this city on the banks of the Tiber,
home to people like Cicero and Julius Caesar?
Rome
Alt 3. Their teeth tend to have fairly flat crowns, and they do not have canines for biting meat.
Contrasted with carnivores and omnivores, what are these animals which basically eat only plants?
herbivores
Alt 4. Seven months after the ratification of the Articles of Confederation, the Americans handed the
British their final defeat at what battle where Cornwallis surrendered to American and French troops?
(The Battle of) Yorktown
Alt 5. In human nutrition, necessary bulk minerals beginning with “p” are phosphorous and this
element. However, its atomic symbol is K, from the Latin kalium. What is this element, found in
bananas and seawater?
Potassium

