2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 8
Tossups

1. One of this man’s books contains chapters titled “Why I am so clever” and “Why I
write such good books.” Apart from writing Ecce Homo, this man divided art into
Dionysian and Apollonian in The Birth of Tragedy. This man divided morality into
slave and master forms and believed that humans were motivated by the Will to
Power, and in another book he famously said that “God is dead.” For 10 points,
name this author of On the Geneology of Morals, Beyond Good and Evil, and Thus
Spake Zarathustra, a late nineteenth-century German philosopher.
ANSWER: Frederich Nietzsche
2. This molecule has Portland and Gower types found in embryos, and the Bohr
effect can be seen when it is in unusually acidic environments. A genetic mutation
that replaces a glutamate with valine in part of this molecule causes a disease that
makes carriers resistant to malaria. This protein contains an iron ion coordinated
with four nitrogen atoms in a porphyrin ring, and that beta chain defect causes
deformed erythrocytes in sickle-cell anemia. For 10 points, name this oxygenbinding protein found in red blood cells.
ANSWER: hemoglobin
3. This man was opposed by the League of Cognac, whose leader agreed to the
“Ladies’ Peace” of Cambrai after this man’s mercenaries sacked Rome. He was
largely responsible for the placement of an ecumenical council at Trent, and Martin
Luther appeared before this man at the Diet of Worms. This man outlived his main
rival, Francis I of France, but abdicated in 1556, splitting his possessions between
his brother Ferdinand I and his son Philip II. For 10 points, name this Holy Roman
Emperor of the Hapsburg dynasty who was also king of Spain.
ANSWER: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; or Charles I of Austria; prompt on
Charles]
4. In one play, Mrs. Chevely tries to blackmail the politician Robert Chiltern. Besides
his An Ideal Husband, the illegitimate Gerald Arbuthnot meets his father Lord
Illingworth in his A Woman of No Importance. This author of “De Profundis” created
Mrs. Erlynne, who is secretly the mother of the title character, in his Lady
Windemere’s Fan. Basil Halward creates the title object in his novel about a man
who does not physically age. For 10 points, name this author of The Picture of
Dorian Gray as well as The Importance of Being Earnest.
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 1 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. The Gaving Point Dam is located on its northeastern border, east of the meeting
point of the Keya Puha and the Niobrara. The Elkhorn and Loup Rivers join a
waterway that earlier passes through the Kingsley Dam. Much of this state’s
northwestern area is covered with rangeland over hills and varying elevations
known as the Sand Hills Region, the source of many Platte tributaries. For 10 points,
name this state whose eastern boundary is the Missouri River, with capital at
Lincoln and largest city at Omaha.
ANSWER: Nebraska
6. This man stated that corporate executives do not receive compensation as a
reward for achievement but as “a warm personal gesture by the individual to
himself” in his work Annals of an Abiding Liberal, and he stated that individuals
serve industrial capitalism not through saving and investing but through
consumption in his The New Industrial State. In one of his works, he argued for the
redirection of resources from private consumption to public works. For 10 points
name this economist, the author of The Affluent Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith
7. This compound reacts with the substrate in the first step of the Mannich reaction,
and it serves as a nucleophile in its reaction with esters to form amides. This
compound reacts with carbon dioxide in a process that eventually produces sodium
carbonate and is used to produce nitric oxide in another process. In addition to its
use in the Ostwald and Solvay processes, this compound is produced using an iron
catalyst at high temperatures and pressures. For 10 points, name this compound
produced in the Haber process that has formula NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia [or NH3 before mention]
8. He supported Arturo Jauretche’s youth movement, FORJA, and advocated a “Third
Position” between communism and capitalism known as justicialism. He advocated
aguinaldo, or the thirteenth month bonus, but was the subject of the Liberating
Revolution in 1955. He had been supported by the descamisados and served a third
term in office beginning in 1973 but died the next year. He was succeeded by his
wife Isabel, whom he married after the death of his previous wife Eva. For 10 points,
name this former President of Argentina.
ANSWER: Juan Perón
9. One character in this short story describes his family motto, Nemo me impune
lacessit, and another calls Luchesi an ignoramus. That character insists that he
“shall not die of a cough” and continues on into the catacombs after leaving a
carnival dressed in a jester costume. The sounds of rattling chains and the cry “For
the love of God!” do not dissuade his companion from a grisly task in this story. At
this work’s end, the promise of the titular beverage allows Montresor to seal
Fortunato in a wine cellar. For 10 points, name this short story by Edgar Allan Poe.
ANSWER: “The Cask of Amontillado”

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 2 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. This former governor served as an attorney for Anita Hill during the Clarence
Thomas hearings, and in 2006, she broke Bruce Babbit’s record for the most vetoes
issued in her state. She declared a state of emergency along her state’s border with
Mexico in 2005, and Ed Rendell received criticism for stating that this politician
would be perfect for her current position because of her status as a single woman.
For 10 points, name this former Arizona governor who currently serves as Secretary
of Homeland Security.
ANSWER: Janet Napolitano
11. Among the artworks housed at this location are Cellini’s white marble Christ on
the Cross and Bosch’s Haywain. Claudio Coello’s Adoration of the Sacred Form is
located in its sacristy. Its building plan is shaped like a gridiron in homage to St.
Lawrence, and it is located on the southeastern slope of the Sierra Guadarrama.
Designed by Juan Bautista de Toledo, for 10 points, name this complex outside of
Madrid that was commissioned by Philip II as a monastery, residence, and royal
mausoleum.
ANSWER: El Escorial
12. One opponent of this quantity tried to adopt the degeneracy formula for high
densities, and it includes an important mu-squared quantity in its denominator. A
star exceeding the Roche lobe may have led one body to violate this. Landau
calculated it along with its namesake, and this value is sometimes also named after
Schonberg. The Champagne Supernova violates it, and stars above it become either
black holes or neutron stars. For 10 points, name this quantity of about 1.4 solar
masses, the maximum mass a white dwarf can have, named after an Indian
physicist.
ANSWER: Chandrasekhar limit
13. This man successfully laid siege to Saguntum, and he faced the delaying tactics
of Fabius Maximus. His brother’s head was thrown into his camp after that brother
was defeated at the Metaurus River, while this man’s own victories included Lake
Trasimene and Trebia. He was eventually defeated at Zama by Scipio Africanus, but
earlier he had used a crescent formation to envelop the Roman army at Cannae. For
10 points, name this major figure of the Second Punic War, a Carthaginian general
who crossed the Alps with war elephants.
ANSWER: Hannibal Barca
14. A tale within this work describes how its teller was spoken for by the handsome
prince of Massa-Carrara until a Negro captain “ravished” her reserved “flower.” The
protagonist loses two sheep to Dutch scam artist Captain Vanderdendur, and he
then listens to twenty stories over supper before deciding Eldorado is the only place
suitable for the theories of his professor of metaphysico-theologico-cosmolonigology
from the castle Thunder-ten-tronckh. For 10 points, name this work that features
Cunegonde and Dr. Pangloss, written by Voltaire.
ANSWER: Candide, ou l’Optimisme [or Candide, or Optimism]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 3 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. According to legend, this figure ordered the beheading of Huail. Nennius wrote
that this figure won the Battle of Mount Badon to repel a Saxon invasion. Known as
the Boar of Cornwall, this hero died at the Battle of Camlann, where he fought a son
he conceived with Morgause. This hero was raised by Ector, although he was the
son of Ygraine and Uther Pendragon. Thomas Malory compiled legends about this
hero in a book named for his death. For 10 points, name this husband of Guinevere
who ruled the Knight of the Round Table at Camelot.
ANSWER: King Arthur
16. On the right of this painting a woman in a white dress rests her head on the
shoulder of a woman sitting on a pedestal next to a woman in black comforting two
small children. This painting is divided into three sections by the pillars and arches
in the background, and the left section depicts a man holding a spear joining two
other helmeted men with arms outstretched. The center shows an old bearded man
holding out three swords. For 10 points, name this painting that shows the title
Roman triplets about to fight the Curiatii, a work of Jacques Louis David.
ANSWER: The Oath of the Horatii [or Le Serment des Horaces]
17. SpikeFORCE and Tensor Network Theory were two attempts to model the
function of this region. It contains a dentate area that decussates in one of its
peduncles, and the molecular layer of this region contains stellates and basket cells.
Its center contains four deep nuclei, and two pathways for adherence to this region
are the climbing fiber and mossy fiber-parallel fiber systems. Its cortex contains
granule cell axons that stimulate its output, the Purkinje cells. For 10 points, name
this “little brain,” a portion of the back brain responsible for motor output.
ANSWER: cerebellum
18. One king of this country carved the Jelling Stone, and another signed the Treaty
of Stralsund. After the St. Brice’s Day Massacre, Sweyn Forkbeard of this country
invaded England. Under King Christian IV, this country joined the Thirty Years’ War,
whose second phase is named for it. This country made England pay a tax known as
its “geld” before it was defeated by Alfred the Great. In 1864, this country lost
Schleswig-Holstein following the first war planned by Bismarck. For 10 points, name
this Scandinavian country with capital at Copenhagen.
ANSWER: Denmark [or Danmark; or Dane-land]
19. In one of this man’s novels the title sailor is inspired by his love for Ruth Morse
to rise to the top of the literary world, and another of his novels sees Avis Everhard
relate how the dystopian title oligarchy was replaced by the Brotherhood of Man. In
addition to Martin Eden and The Iron Heel, he wrote about Humphrey van Weyden,
who meets the tyrannical captain of the Ghost after being washed overboard in The
Sea-Wolf. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote about the kidnapped
sled dog Buck in The Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: Jack London

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 4 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. This word describes a work that includes a second movement larghetto in E flat
major that is a portrait of the composer’s wife Clara. In addition to that first
symphony by Schumann, this word names a concerto in E major that depicts
thunder with a tremolo and lightning with a fast ascending scale in the violins. That
work by Vivaldi is named for this season and features three violins playing trills in a
high range to imitate birdsongs. For 10 points, name this period of time that is
described in the Vivaldi concerto La primavera.
ANSWER: spring
21. The number of odd alternating permutations of a set are given by this man’s
namesake numbers, and he names an iterative method for solving differential
equations. The number of integers less than or equal to and coprime to an integer is
given by his totient function, and for a polyhedron, vertices minus edges plus faces
gives his namesake characteristic number. He names a formula that relates “cosine
x plus i sine x” to a constant named for him that is the base of the natural logarithm
and symbolized by e. For 10 points, name this Swiss mathematician.
ANSWER: Leonhard Paul Euler
22. In 1975, this agency was beset by an accident at Browns Ferry. In recent
decades, it has fostered the establishment of recreational facilities in the Land
Between the Lakes. This agency was sponsored by Nebraska Senator George Norris
and was inspired by a visit to Muscle Shoals. Enacted in 1933, its success became
the “yardstick” by which all other New Deal projects were measured. For 10 points,
name this government agency that constructed dams and hydroelectric plants in
and around its namesake southern state.
ANSWER: Tennessee Valley Authority
23. This novel sees Mr. Herbert set up a company that ships off massacred corpses
via a secret train that dumps them in the sea. One character, Gaston, makes an
airplane from mail-order parts. The end of this novel sees a strong wind blow the
central locale away after a baby born with a curly tail is commandeered by ants.
Remedios the Beauty floats up to heaven in this novel, which sees indelible Ash
Wednesday crosses condemn seventeen Aurelianos to death. For 10 points, name
this chronicle of the Buendia family, a novel set in Macondo by Gabriel Garcia
Marquez.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien años de soledad; accept
close translations]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 5 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 8
Bonuses

1. For 10 points each, answer the following related to the concentration of a
dissolved substance in a solvent.
[10] This measure of concentration is proportional to the number of solute
molecules present in one kilogram of solvent and is often given in moles of solute
per kilogram of solvent.
ANSWER: molality [do not accept “molarity”]
[10] Since most solutions are not ideal solutions, this concept often replaces
concentration. It represents the “effective concentration” and can be obtained from
the Gibbs-Duhem relation.
ANSWER: activity
[10] Stating this law in terms of chemical potentials uses activity coefficients. This
law states for dilute solutions that the pressure of a gas on a liquid is proportional to
its concentration.
ANSWER: Henry’s law
2. It was lampooned as “Wheezy, Breezy, Sneezy, Slippy, Drippy, Nippy, Showery,
Flowery, Bowery, Hoppy, Croppy, and Poppy.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this calendar that included months like Germinal and Fructidor and was
used between 1793 and 1805 after its namesake event.
ANSWER: French Revolutionary calendar
[10] One event taking its name from the French Revolutionary calendar was the
Thermidorean Reaction, during which this leader of the Reign of Terror was deposed
and promptly executed.
ANSWER: Maximilien François de Robespierre
[10] Also taking its name from the Revolutionary calendar was the coup in which
Napoleon overthrew the Directory, an event taking place on the eighteenth day of
this month.
ANSWER: Brumaire

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 6 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

3. It begins with quotes from Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa and Ralph Waldo Emerson
and is subtitled “A Winter Idyll.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1866 poem that contrasts the “whirl-dance of the blinding storm”
outside with the security and comfort of the author and his family inside.
ANSWER: “Snow-Bound”
[10] “Snow-Bound” was written by this Massachusetts poet, who wrote “For of all
sad words of tongue or pen / The saddest are these: ‘It might have been!’” in his
poem “Maud Muller.”
ANSWER: John Greenleaf Whittier
[10] A later Massachusetts poet was this author of “After Apple-Picking,” “The Road
Not Taken,” and “Home Burial.”
ANSWER: Robert Frost
4. This deity fathers a deformed creature because he appears second before the
gods while on his island. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this male half of the first Japanese kamis who created the Japanese
islands with Izanami and fathered Susano’o, Tsukuyomi, and Amaterasu.
ANSWER: Izanagi
[10] Izanagi used one form of this tool to raise the Japanese islands out of the
primordial foam. Another version, Gae Bolg, was the weapon of Cu Chulainn.
ANSWER: spears
[10] Due to his journey to the underworld Yomi to try and bring back Izanami,
Izanagi is paralleled with this grief-stricken Greek hero whose lover Eurydice died of
a snakebite.
ANSWER: Orpheus
5. It is an artistic rearrangement of a view at Cremorne. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting that represents nighttime fireworks. It was criticized by John
Ruskin.
ANSWER: Nocturne in Black and Gold [or The Falling Rocket]
[10] Nocturne in Black and Gold was painted by this American whose other works
include The Peacock Room and an arrangement and portrait of his mother.
ANSWER: James Abbot McNeill Whistler
[10] Ruskin had earlier expressed his praise for this British artist, whose famous
works include Rain, Steam, and Speed, The Fighting Temeraire, and Snow Storm:
Hannibal Crossing the Alps.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 7 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This branch of physics is among the first studied in any physics class. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this branch of mechanics that describes an object’s motion without
regard to the impetus for that motion, unlike dynamics, which concerns the forces
generating that motion.
ANSWER: kinematics [do not accept “kinetics”]
[10] A key concept in kinematics is this derivative of velocity with respect to time,
which in dynamics is equal to the force vector divided by the mass.
ANSWER: linear acceleration [do not accept “angular acceleration”]
[10] This principle of general relativity states that an object undergoing uniform
linear acceleration behaves the same way as it would in a uniform gravitational
field.
ANSWER: equivalence principle
7. The Bayeux Tapestry includes a sighting of Halley’s Comet from this year. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this year that also featured William the Conqueror’s victory at the Battle
of Hastings.
ANSWER: 1066
[10] William invaded England after Edward revoked an earlier promise and gave the
throne to this man, who was defeated and allegedly killed at Hastings by an arrow
through the eye.
ANSWER: Harold Godwinson [or Harold II]
[10] Harold Godwinson had been coming off a victory over the combined armies of
Tostig and this “ruthless” king of Norway at Stamford Bridge. He had earlier failed
to conquer Denmark.
ANSWER: Harald Hardraade [or Harald III; or Harald Sigurdsson]
8. This author paired his poems in competitions against each other in his The
Seashell Game. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese poet of Records of a Travel-Worn Satchel.
ANSWER: Matsuo Basho
[10] Basho was a renowned master of this poetic form; one of his works in this form
tells of a frog that jumped into the “old pond.”
ANSWER: haiku
[10] Another of Basho’s works tells of a “Narrow” one of these “to the Deep North.”
Orwell wrote about the one “to Wigan Pier.”
ANSWER: roads

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 8 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. For 10 points each, recall the following about memory.
[10] Coming in retrograde and anterograde forms, this is the term for the inability
either to remember old memories or to form new ones.
ANSWER: amnesia
[10] George Miller observed that people are typically capable of holding this many
units of information in short-term memory, though he stopped short of turning it
into a full-blown theory.
ANSWER: seven plus or minus two [do not accept numbers other than seven]
[10] These types of memories are unusually vivid and generally center around a
moment of great emotional impact, such as when one first heard about the
Kennedy assassination.
ANSWER: flashbulb memories
10. Brahms recognized this man’s talent, and his compositions include the oratorio
St. Ludmila, the
opera Rusalka and the Dumky piano trio. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer whose work The Water Goblin was based on Czech folk
tales.
ANSWER: Antonín Dvořák
[10] This symphony in E minor by Antonin Dvořák was inspired by The Song of
Hiawatha as well as African-American spirituals. It was written during a trip to the
United States.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 9 [or Symphony “From the New World”]
[10] This title is shared by Dvořák’s Opus 46 and Opus 72. Collectively, there are
sixteen of these nationalistic pieces for orchestra, the first of which is in C major
and labeled “Furiant.”
ANSWER: Slavonic Dances
11. The Chandra observatory is dedicated to this kind of astronomy. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this electromagnetic wavelength, falling between the ultraviolet and
gamma.
ANSWER: X-ray
[10] The strongest X-ray emitter known is a star in this constellation named for that
constellation and “X-1.” This constellation is also known for the Butterfly cluster and
its brightest star, a red supergiant called Antares.
ANSWER: Scorpius
[10] One may also use X-ray astronomy to observe these objects, extremely bright
emission regions at the centers of some galaxies, which may be caused by matter
falling into a supermassive black hole. Types of their “radio-quiet” varieties include
LINERs and Seyferts.
ANSWER: active galactic nuclei [or AGNs]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 9 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. It rises in Tibet, and after flowing through Kashmir, it joins with the Zaskar. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this river whose banks gave birth to Asia’s Harrapan civilization.
ANSWER: Indus River [or Sindhu River; or Sindh River]
[10] Flowing from a glacier near the Chinese border, this holiest Indian river meets
the Ghaghara near Patna before meeting the Brahmaputra in Bangladesh.
ANSWER: Ganges River [or Ganga River]
[10] Among the major cities on the banks of the Ganges is this holy city in Uttar
Pradesh, which is sometimes referred to as Benares.
ANSWER: Varanasi
13. He ran against Abraham Lincoln as the Democratic nominee for president in the
election of 1864. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this infamously over-cautious Union general of the Civil War who was
named commander-in-chief of the Union army following the First Battle of Bull Run.
ANSWER: George Brinton McClellan
[10] President Lincoln removed McClellan from command following this failed
campaign of April to June of 1862. It attempted to capture Richmond by marching
up from the Chesapeake Bay.
ANSWER: Peninsular Campaign
[10] McClellan later commanded Union forces to a draw at this September 17, 1862
battle near Sharpsburg, Maryland. It is cited as the bloodiest single-day battle of the
Civil War.
ANSWER: Battle of Antietam
14. His brother Mycroft works for the government, and he appears in “A Scandal in
Bohemia” and The Hound of the Baskervilles. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this iconic detective created by Sir. Arthur Conan Doyle.
ANSWER: Sherlock Holmes
[10] This doctor and longtime friend of Holmes narrates most of Doyle’s stories and
novels.
ANSWER: Dr. John H. Watson
[10] In this novel, Sherlock Holmes discovers that the title marker signifies a pact
made by a group of criminals over a treasure in colonial India.
ANSWER: The Sign of the Four
15. Dan Didio hinted that a recent arc named for this character could stand for
“Replacement Is Possible.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this DC Comics central character.
ANSWER: Batman (prompt on Bruce Wayne)
[10] This creator of Morpheus and the other Endless in his Sandman comic
eulogized Batman in his 2009 special “Whatever Happened to the Caped
Crusader?” He also wrote the novels Good Omens and American Gods.
ANSWER: Neil Gaiman
[10] This man revamped Batman into a gritty, darker character in his The Dark
Knight Returns. In addition to directing the ridiculously bad adaptation of The Spirit,
he is also the writer responsible for those people shouting “This is Sparta!” after
seeing 300.
ANSWER: Frank Miller
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 10 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. The sum of the reciprocals of the lengths of these gives the reciprocal of the
inradius. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these lines that go through the vertices of a triangle and are
perpendicular to the opposite sides.
ANSWER: altitudes
[10] The altitudes of a triangle meet at this point. It is located inside of acute
triangles but outside of obtuse triangles.
ANSWER: orthocenter
[10] The point inside a triangle that minimizes the sum of the distances to the
vertices is named for this Frenchman, who also named a theorem that states “a to
the p is equivalent to a mod p.”
ANSWER: Pierre de Fermat
17. Name some American religions that derive from African practices for 10 points
each:
[10] Alfred Metraux wrote a study of this religion in Haiti, which incorporates
Catholic elements into the worship of loa like Baron Samedi.
ANSWER: voodoo [or voudon]
[10] This Yoruban-based Cuban religion worships orishas at dances called bembes
and is most notable to the outside world for its chicken sacrifices.
ANSWER: Santeria
[10] This religion views the King James Bible as a corruption, mandates the
vegetarian I-tal diet, and worships the emperor Haile Selassie. It also promotes
marijuana use.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism
18. This war saw the Battle of Medina Ridge, in which the Republican Guard was
decimated by American forces just outside of Basra. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war, which was prompted by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August of
1990.
ANSWER: First Persian Gulf War [prompt on Operation Desert Storm]
[10] Preceding the actual invasion of Iraq in the Gulf War was this operation, a
defensive deployment designed to prevent a possible Iraqi invasion of Saudi Arabia.
ANSWER: Operation Desert Shield [do not accept “Desert Storm”]
[10] American forces were led throughout the Gulf War by this four-star general,
who also served as deputy commander during America’s 1983 invasion of Granada.
ANSWER: Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr.
19. This work sees the title character fall in love with Albert’s fiancée. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this novel that sees the title character shoot himself out of unrequited
love, inspiring a rash of copycat suicides across Europe.
ANSWER: The Sorrows of Young Werther [or Die Leiden des jungen Werthers]
[10] This German author of Faust and Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship penned The
Sorrows of Young Werther.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[10] The Sorrows of Young Werther is exemplary of this genre of German literature
that emphasized extreme fits of passion.
ANSWER: Sturm und Drang [or Storm and Stress; accept urge, drive, or similar
for “stress”]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 11 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20.”Ecstasy” and “Yearning” are leitmotifs that appear in this opera’s “Liebestod,”
or “Love-Death,” in which one title character embraces the body of her dead lover.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera whose two title characters are a knight and a princess from
Celtic legend.
ANSWER: Tristan and Isolde [or Tristan und Isolde]
[10] Tristan and Isolde is an opera by this German, who also composed The Flying
Dutchman and a cycle of music dramas called The Ring of the Nibelung.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[10] This German city is home to the opera house designed by Wagner, the
Festspielhaus.
ANSWER: Bayreuth
21. Edward Drinker Cope based his theory of “accelerated growth” on the ideas of
this French scientist. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who proposed that anatomical structures grow or shrink based
on use and that all such changes are heritable; a theory known as the “inheritance
of acquired traits.”
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lamarck
[10] A less-discredited theory of evolution was proposed by this author of On the
Origin of Species and The Descent of Man.
ANSWER: Charles Robert Darwin
[10] The “biogenetic law,” which states that a developing organism goes through
stages that represent the adults of its evolutionary ancestors, is often described
with this three-word phrase.
ANSWER: ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny
22. In this play the Stage Manager explains the actions of the residents of Grover’s
Corners. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which Emily Webb dies in childbirth.
ANSWER: Our Town
[10] This author of Theophilus North and The Ides of March wrote Our Town.
ANSWER: Thornton Niven Wilder
[10] In this Thornton Wilder novel, Brother Juniper writes a book about the death of
five people in the collapse of the title structure.
ANSWER: The Bridge of San Luis Rey
23. The Duke of Cumberland fought in this war prior to his victory at Culloden, and
it began with the seizure of Silesia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war fought over the legality of the Pragmatic Sanction and whether
Maria Theresa was the rightful ruler of the namesake country.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession
[10] The war was ended by a treaty signed in this French town, sometimes known
as Aachen, such as when it was Charlemagne’s capital.
ANSWER: Aix-la-Chapelle
[10] A treaty signed in Aix-la-Chapelle also ended this war, which saw Louis XIV
attempt to seize the Spanish Netherlands.
ANSWER: War of Devolution

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 8

Page 12 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

