Round # 5

HAVOC

1.

The title character of this poem was painted by Fra Pandolf, as revealed in its
opening. It concludes with the speaker seeking to arrange a new marriage, and the
implication of murder in the middle is dealt with in only two lines. This poem may
be patterned after an actual incident involving Alfonso, the Duke of Ferrara. FTP
name this poem by Robert Browning about a young wife who was killed for having
a heart “too soon made glad.”
A: My Last Duchess

2.

Lesser known sculptures of his include Rebellious and Dying Slaves and Bacchus.
This artist began working for the Medici family at the age of sixteen. He signed only
one work, depicting Jesus in his mother’s arms, after hearing someone say that Pieta
was a work of Solari. He joins several other Renaissance artists in having sculpted
David, though his is of marble. FTP name this painter of the Sistine Chapel
ceiling.
A: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni Accept Buonarroti

3.

Vocal in their beliefs, in England this group caused trouble by interrupting church
services, refusing to pay tithes, and holding illegal meetings of their own. In 1827,
this denomination split between followers of Elias Hicks and the conservative
Orthodox ones. Their survival in America was largely due to William Penn, who
declared religious tolerance in Pennsylvania. FTP name this Christian sect founded
by George Fox.
A: Quakers or Religious Society of Friends

4.

The younger sister of the main character of this novella plays the violin for three
lodgers in the parlor whereupon they view the “monstrous vermin,” refuse to pay the
rent, and leave the next day. The family then locks their son, who is unable to speak,
in his room where he willingly dies of starvation with an apple lodged in his back.
FTP name this novella by Franz Kafka about Gregor Samsa who wakes up one
morning from unsettling dreams to find himself changed into a large bug.
A: The Metamorphosis or Die Verwandlung

5.

This point’s coordinates in two-space may be found through double integration of a
density function and division of the result into corresponding moments, which factor
in direction. This point’s path may be substituted into F equals M A as it feels the
effects of all external forces on its system. When the density function is constant, as
in the standard triangle in geometry class, a special variety of this may be found.
FTP, name this point in a system, which in triangles of constant density is the
intersection of the three medians, in which context it is known as a centroid.
A: Center of Mass Accept Center of Gravity and early Centroid
grudgingly

6.

This programming language was developed by John Kemeny and Eugene
Kurtz in 1964. Since most programming languages required a high degree of
mathematical ability, the original intention of the language was to be accessible to
the common students of Dartmouth College. It came to prominence with the rise of

1 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

home computers in the 1970’s, and the Altair interpreter for it was designed by Bill
Gates and Paul Allen in 1975. Name this simplistic programming language denoted
by a five-letter acronym.
A: Beginner’s All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code
7.

To the north of this island lies the Tsugaru Strait, while the Kii Channel, the Suo
Sea, and the Inland Sea separate it from two smaller islands to the south. Its lakes
include Inawashiro and Biwa, which lies to the northwest of Osaka Bay. Cities on
this large island include Kobe, Nagoya, and Yokohama. FTP name this island, home
to Mount Fuji, the largest island of Japan.
A: Honshu

8.

Temple was the first winner of this intercollegiate athletic competition traditionally
held in March of each year. The record for most appearances, 27, is held by St.
John’s University. Originally staged entirely in Madison Square Garden, FTP, name
this college basketball tournament that started in 1938, one year before the NCAA
tournament now popularly known as “March Madness.”
A: National Invitational Tournament

9.

The current holder is Robert F. Byrd, and before this the office was held by Strom
Thurmond, Henry Cabot Lodge, and Benjamin F. Wade. This position is addressed
in the constitution in Article 1 Section 3, although it was originally chosen each time
the Vice President was absent instead of constantly holding the office. The first one
was John Langdon. FTP, name this person who is in line for the presidency after the
Secretary of State and whose name means “for the time being.”
A: President Pro Tempore, accept Senator for West Virginia before
“Strom Thurmond” Prompt on Senator

10. By the time he was eight, this man could read verses in Latin bestowed upon him by
Erasmus, as well as works written in Greek and French. He also was a great patron
of music and the arts, with musicians like Thomas Wyatt and artists like Hans
Holbein at his future court. On the death of his older brother, this man married his
widow, Catherine of Aragon. FTP name this second Tudor king of England, known
for his six wives.
A: Henry VIII Prompt on Henry
11. Although he lived to the age of 76, he retired from writing operas in his late thirties,
having already completed thirty-nine of them. Together with Gaetano Donizetti and
Vincenzo Bellini, he was one of the leading composers of “bel canto” opera. One of
his operas is an adaptation of the Cinderella fairy tale, La Cenerentola, and his The
Barber of Seville was completed in only two weeks. FTP name this Italian composer
of William Tell.
A: Giaocchino Rossini
12. Victims of this class of diseases have a mutation in the RUNX-1 binding site which
could explain why joint pain is such a common symptom. Often called “The Great

2 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

Imitator,” its symptoms vary widely but often include persistent joint pain, alopecia,
malar or butterfly rash, and anemia. FTP, name this group of chronic autoimmune
diseases that are especially common in young women of non-European descent.
A: Lupus
13. The flame test for this element is a light purple color, but it can be masked by other
colors. Common salts of this element include carnallite and sylvite. This element has
the fourth lowest first ionization energy due to its placement on the periodic table,
and, after lithium, the second lowest density for metals. It is important for proper
cell function, nerve impulses, and muscle contraction. It can be found in bananas
and orange juice. FTP, name this element with an atomic number of 19 that is found
in potash.
A: Potassium
14. Before settling this city, its inhabitants worked as mercenaries for nearby tribes. It is
well known for its chinampas, or raised areas of farmland surrounded by shallow
water. According to legend, after being driven into the swamps of Lake Texcoco, a
symbol was seen by its founders, causing them to build this city in the middle of the
lake. Several causeways connected this city to the mainland. FTP name this Aztec
capital, whose ruins are now buried beneath Mexico City.
A: Tenochtitlán
15. His image first became known to the world on December 13, 1968, when he
appeared on the cover of Time Magazine. The event covered was the Battle of
Karemeh, in which Israeli Defense Forces attacked Fatah’s headquarters in Jordan.
In 1970, he was forced by Arab leaders to apologize for his role in the Black
September uprisings. Over twenty years later, he shared the Nobel Peace Prize with
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin for his peace-making efforts in the Oslo
Accords. FTP name this longtime Chairman of the PLO.
A: Yasser Arafat
16. This poem depicts the moon as a ghostly ship, while the road is a piece of ribbon.
Jealous Tim the Ostler overhears the title character and his sweetheart, and arranges
a trap with King George’s men. Bess, the landlord’s daughter, kills herself with the
musket to which she is tied in order to warn the title character, who escapes.
However, he returns when he learns of her death and also dies. FTP name this poem
by Alfred Noyes.
A: The Highwayman
17. This battle begun on February 21, 1916 was designed by the Germans to cause
France to sustain massive casualties as they struggled to defend about 60 forts in the
area. This battle also saw the first use of large amounts of flame throwers which
were used to aid the German advance. Combined casualties are estimated at around
700,000 men. FTP name this longest battle of WWI fought near the Battle of the
Somme.
A: Battle of Verdun

3 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

18. Its publication in 1852 intensified sectional conflicts but it was also the best-selling
novel of the century. Minor characters include the little girl Eva as well as Cassy and
Emmeline, who meet Eliza’s family in Canada before continuing on to France and
later Liberia. Meanwhile, the title character is killed by Simon Legree for keeping
their secret. FTP name this influential anti-slavery novel written by Harriet Beecher
Stowe.
A: Uncle Tom’s Cabin
19. It is also found in eggplants, tomatoes and green peppers, but it is more prevalent in
other plants. It is generally a liquid at room temperature, yet it can burn at 95°F.This
chemical is able to penetrate the blood brain barrier where it can act as a stimulant in
small doses by activating the pleasure circuits. This makes it a very addictive
chemical with a formula of C10H14N2. For ten points, name this chemical that is
found in tobacco and cigarettes.
A: Nicotine
20. Their name comes from the Latin for “little cavity”, which is appropriate because
they have a radius of 0.1 millimeters. There are hundreds of millions of these small
spherical structures in the body, and they have a total surface area of almost 100
square meters. Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) is a serious disease,
which can lead to the collapse of these structures, which are surrounded by
capillaries. FTP, name these parts of the lungs, which are the site of gas exchange in
humans
A: Alveoli

STOP HERE
You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless a question
was thrown out or the game is tied.

21. In 1954, Salvador Dalí painted himself as this famous woman, and in 1919 Marcel
Duchamp gave her a moustache and added the initials L.H.O.O.Q. to the bottom of
her portrait, through which a winding road curves. She has attracted millions at the
Louvre. FTP name this famous woman painted by Leonardo da Vinci.
A: Mona Lisa Accept La Gioconda or La Joconde or Lisa del Giocondo

Bonuses
1. FTPE answer the following about the 1812 Overture.
1) This Russian composed it.
A: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
2) It commemorated a key Russian victory over this invading French Emperor.
A: Napoleon I or Napoleon Bonaparte

4 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

3) The 1812 Overture features these military devices in its finale.
A: Cannons
2. FTPE answer these questions about Washington Irving.
1) This story features Brom Bones, Katrina, and schoolteacher Ichabod Crane.
A: The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
2) Irving also wrote this tale of a man who slept for twenty years.
A: Rip van Winkle
3) The “sketchbook” of this man includes both Sleepy Hollow and Rip van Winkle.
A: Geoffrey Crayon, Gentleman Prompt on Crayon
3. FTPE identify these works of H.G. Wells.
1) Griffin, the title character, conducts a disastrous experiment.
A: The Invisible Man Do not accept Invisible Man
2) This novel features the Eloi and Morlocks.
A: The Time Machine
3) Prendick and the Beast Folk are among the inhabitants of the titular location.
A: The Island of Dr. Moreau
4. FTPE identify the following works of art from the Italian Renaissance.
1) Donatello’s bronze depiction of this biblical youth wears only a hat and boots.
A: David
2) This Botticelli painting, similar to his Primavera, depicts the emergence of the
titular Roman goddess from the sea.
A: The Birth of Venus
3) This Masaccio fresco depicts a scene from the Gospel of Matthew. Peter is seen
finding the title commodity in a fish’s mouth in the background.
A: The Tribute Money
5. FTPE, name these French dynasties/ruling families.
1) Little is known about the namesake of this dynasty. A better known ruler is Clovis
I, the first king to unite all the Frankish tribes.
A: Merovingians
2) The Merovingian’s rule officially ended when Pepin the Short deposed its final
ruler and replaced it with this ruling family that also included Charlemagne.
A: Carolingians
3) After the death of Louis V, the son of Hugh the Great, the namesake founder of
this dynasty, was elected by the nobility. Two of its notable branches are the House
of Bourbon and the House of Valois.
A: Capetians Accept Capets or Direct Capetians or Carpetians
6. FTPE name the following races from the Metroid series.
1) Bounty hunter Samus Aran belongs to this race and uses a Power Suit.
A: Human Accept equivalents
2) These perpetual enemies of Samus massacred her colony when she was an infant,
and they are known for their scientific brilliance.

5 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

A: Space Pirates
3) Samus’s Power Suit was made by these bird-like aliens who raised her on planet
Zebes and trained her to be their greatest warrior.
A: Chozo
7. FTPE identify these Shakespearean plays given their ending lines. You will receive
only five points if you need the character who speaks the line.
1) 10 – “Give me your hands, if we be friends, And Robin shall restore amends.”
5 – Puck
A: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
2) 10 -“So, call the field to rest: and let’s away, To part the glories of this happy
day.”
5 - Octavian
A: Julius Caesar
3) 10 – “Go, bid the soldiers shoot.”
5 – Young Fortinbras
A: Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
8. FTPE identify the following related to Mohs hardness scale.
1) All or nothing, name both the mineral with a hardness of 1 used in chalk and baby
powder and number 10, used in jewelry as well as industry.
A: Talc and Diamond
2) This copper coin has a hardness of about 3.5.
A: Copper Penny Accept One Cent
3) This silicate with a hardness of 7 is the most abundant mineral in the Earth's crust.
A: Quartz
9. FTPE, name these things related to a Byzantine emperor.
1) This comprehensive law code included all imperial laws from the time of
Hadrian. It later led to a revival of Roman law in Europe.
A: Corpus Iuris (Juris) Civilis Accept Body of Civil Law Begrudgingly accept a
mixed translation (part Latin, part English) Prompt on Justinian’s Code
2) The emperor who created this law code, he suppressed the Nika riots and retook
much of the old Roman Empire.
A: Justinian I
3) She was an actress and courtesan before marrying Justinian in 523. Her
exceptional intelligence probably saved Justinian during the Nika riots.
A: Theodora
10. FTPE, identify these cities of Australia.
1) Botany Bay, as well as a famous Opera House, lies within the boundaries of this
New South Wales city.
A: Sydney
2) The capital of Australia, it lies on the Murrumbidgee River in the Great Dividing
Range.
A: Canberra

6 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

3) This provincial capital of Western Australia lies on its west coast, and is named
for a Scottish city.
A: Perth
11. FTPE answer the following about the Six Day War.
1) This Egyptian President closed the Straits of Tiran in the course of events leading
to the 1967 war. He also nationalized the Suez Canal.
A: Gamal Abdel Nasser
2) This female Israeli Prime Minister ordered the preemptive air-strike which
crippled the unified Arab forces.
A: Golda Meir Accept Goldie Myerson
3) Among the territories seized by Israel were these Syrian lands which remain
unreturned.
A: Golan Heights
12. FTPE, name these artists who painted series.
1) This woman painted the Sky Above the Clouds as well as other works depicting
the American southwest.
A: Georgia O’Keeffe
2) This artist of Impression: Sunrise painted several series, including Water Lilies.
A: Claude Monet Accept the addition of “Oscar” before or after “Claude”
3) This Abstract Expressionist from Rotterdam is known for his Woman series.
A: Willem De Kooning
13. FTPE, name these things related to Civil Rights and the Supreme Court.
1) This 1896 case upheld the constitutionality of racial segregation under the notion
of “separate but equal.”
A: Plessy v. Ferguson
2) Plessy v. Ferguson was ultimately overturned by this landmark 1954 case in
which the Warren court unanimously stated that “separate educational facilities are
inherently unequal.”
A: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka
3) Its constitutionality was upheld in Regents of the Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke when the
court stated that upholding the quota in university applicants was unconstitutional
but that race could be used as a factor in applications.
A: Affirmative Action
14. FTPE, name the following states based upon the results of their Primaries in the
2008 election.
1) This was the first state to hold a caucus for both parties in 2008. On the
Democratic side, Barack Obama won and John Edwards got second place, while on
the Republican side Mike Huckabee won but John McCain won a surprise 4th place.
A: Iowa
2) This state was seen as re-starting Barack Obama’s momentum, beating Hillary
Clinton and the state’s “Native Son” of John Edwards. John McCain won a close
victory in this state over Mike Huckabee and Fred Thompson.

7 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

A: South Carolina
3) The Democratic Primary in this state led to no allocation of delegates, although
Hillary Clinton won with 56% above such choices of Uncommitted, Dennis
Kucinich, and Mike Gravel. On the Republican side, Mitt Romney won his first state
in the campaign with John McCain wining second.
A: Michigan
15. FTPE, name these acid-base theories based on a description of each
1) This acid-base theory is the most broad, as anything that changes its electron
configuration can be classified as either a base or acid.
Answer: Lewis
2) This acid-base theory deals with protons instead of electrons, and polyprotic
acids donate more protons under this definition.
Answer: Bronsted-Lowry
3) This is the most narrow class of acid-base definition, and it mentions that the
taste of the substance would be able to tell if it were an acid or a base.
Answer: Arrhenius
16. FTPE, identify these genocides of the 20th Century.
1) Death tolls in this 1915 genocide in the Ottoman Empire run to up to two million.
Turkey has yet to recognize its occurrence.
A: Armenian Genocide
2) This small African country suffered fighting and genocides in 1994 between the
Hutus and Tutsis.
A: Rwanda
3) As part of Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge’s plans to form a utopian Communist
society, this country was “cleansed” of various minorities, including Chinese and
Muslims.
A: Cambodia Accept Kampuchea
17. FTPE, name these artists who painted series.
1) This woman painted the Sky Above the Clouds as well as other works depicting
the American southwest.
A: Georgia O’Keeffe
2) This artist of Impression: Sunrise painted several series, including Water Lilies.
A: Claude Monet Accept the addition of “Oscar” before or after “Claude”
3) This Abstract Expressionist from Rotterdam is known for his Woman series.
A: Willem De Kooning
18. FTPE answer these questions about traditional Japanese religions.
1) This animist faith was the state religion of Japan until the end of WWII.
A: Shinto Accept word forms
2) These spirits are worshipped in Shinto.
A: Kami
3) This form of Mahayana Buddhism was popular among samurai.
A: Zen Buddhism

8 of 9

Round # 5

HAVOC

19. FFPE, name the taxonomic classification given an organism and a grouping.
For example, Brown bears + genus A: Ursus
1. Earthworms and leeches + phylum:
A: Annelida
2. Mice, Komodo Dragons, and swordfish + phylum:
A: Chordata (do not accept Vertebrata)
3. Birds + class:
A: Aves
4. Bats + order:
A: Chiroptera
5. Humans + family:
A: Hominidae
6. Domestic cats + genus:
A: Felis
20. FTPE identify these developers of atomic theory.
1) This Greek and student of Leucippus is credited with naming indivisible elements
atoma.
A: Democritus
2) This Danish scientist is known for a model of the atom with electrons circling the
nucleus in orbits.
A: Niels Bohr
3) This British physicist discovered the electron and isotopes.
A: Sir Joseph John “J.J.” Thomson

9 of 9

