Bergen Academies Spring Quizbowl Tournament 2016
Written by Zachary Stier, Rebecca Rosenthal, David Song, Alon Millet, Ryan Murphy, Michael Gleyzer, Bergen Academies
Quizbowl Team; Trent Kannegieter, Bayside Academy; Alex Katz, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Special thanks to Alex Dzurick, Ben Zhang and Jon Pinyan.

Round 7: Tossups
1. One person with this name was the first Windsor monarch, a house he renamed from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
Another king of this name ascended to the throne due to his brother’s marriage to divorcée (*) Wallis Simpson. The
first king of this name in Great Britain was from the house of Hanover, and the fourth with this name became prince
regent due to his father’s insanity. For ten points, give this name of six English kings, the third of whom lost in the
American War for Independence.
ANSWER: George
2. Miles Davis first met this musician as a third trumpet in Billy Eckstine’s band, and later joined his quintet. The
album titled for this man “with Strings” was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1988, and significant
compositions by this man include “Now’s the Time” and (*) “Ornithology.” At one recording session, he forgot how to
play his instrument, which prompted his band mates to instruct him to “Blow!” At the famed Jazz at Massey Hall concert,
he played a plastic horn, and he died in 1955 due to a heroin overdose. For ten points, name this jazz saxophonist who was
known by the nicknames “Yardbird” and “Bird.”
ANSWER: Charlie Parker, prompt on “Bird” or “Yardbird” before mention
3.One of these structures is the Prasat Thom, one of the only structures that is fully intact at the Cambodian site of
Koh Ker [“ko-kaye”]. They evolved from structures called mastabas in one culture. Two of these, “of the Moon”
and “of the Sun,” are located at the site of (*) Tenochtitlan, while Chichen Itza is the site of another step one. The most
famous examples of these structures were originally covered in white limestone, and were first designed by the architect
Imhotep. For ten points, name these buildings exemplified by the tombs of Djoser and Khufu in Egypt.
ANSWER: pyramids, accept step pyramids
4. This man’s widow heavily edited his Economy and Society, though that work still serves as the foundation for
rationalism. It was in that work as well as Politics as a Vocation that he introduced his notion of the three types of
justification for domination; in the latter, he also wrote that the government has the “right to use violence.” His
most famous work ends with the description of an (*) “iron cage” and discussed the “polar night of icy darkness” that
is bureaucracy. For ten points, name this German sociologist who took a non-Marxist viewpoint when discussing
capitalism in The Protestant Ethic.
ANSWER: Max Weber
5. In one work, this author described Sybil Carpenter’s encounter with the veteran Seymour. That story, “A
Perfect Day for Bananafish” was the first to feature members of this author’s Glass family, which includes the title
characters of one of his novels, Franny and Zooey. This author wrote of the history teacher (*) Mr. Spencer, the
unsanitary Ackley and two nuns who know a surprisingly large amount about Romeo and Juliet in one novel. That novel’s
protagonist takes his younger sister Phoebe to a carousel in Central Park and wears a red hunting cap. For ten points, name
this creator of Holden Caulfield and The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: J.D. Salinger
6. Branches of this religion are termed “mansions” and include Bobo Shanti and Niyabinghi. Although it is not
Judaism, it forbids the consumption of shellfish as per the I-tal dietary code. One text promoting this religion is the
(*) Holy Piby. It is based on the teachings of Howell and its holy days are named Groundations. The focal spiritual figure
of this religious will lead followers to a second Zion in Lalibela, and that leader is the former Ethiopian Emperor Haile
Selassie. For ten points, name this religion that promotes Afrocentrism, founded in Jamaica.
ANSWER: Rastafarianism or Rastafari movement

1

7. The sonic hedgehog protein was first discovered in this organism’s embryonic cells, while Calvin Bridges is
notable for discovering that chromosomes in this organism’s saliva are exceptionally large. George Beadle found
that eye color in this organism is dependent on a series of complex organic chemicals, while another scientist
determined the basis of (*) heredity with these model organisms. That study investigated genetic linkage and was led by
Thomas Hunt Morgan. For ten points, name this insect whose studied features include bristles, ommatidia [“om-muhTID-ee-uh”], and wings, and whose scientific name is Drosophila melanogaster [“dro-SOH-fi-lah meh-LAN-oh-gas-ter”].
ANSWER: fruit fly or Drosophila melanogaster before mention (prompt on “fly”, do not accept or prompt on any other
specific species of fly)
8. Law firm Ruskin Moscou Faltischek is located in this state and allegedly funneled insurance work to Adam
Skelos, son of former Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos, who himself is currently on trial for illicitly
orchestrating hydrofracking business opportunities. Real estate firm Glenwood Management is also involved in
both the Skelos case and the trial of onetime Speaker Sheldon (*) Silver. Silver’s corruption is one such “Albanyism”
that this state’s Governor Andrew Cuomo has vowed to shut down. Bill de Blasio is the mayor of the largest city in, for 10
points, what U.S. state with the largest city in the nation?
ANSWER: New York State, or N.Y. (do not accept or prompt on “New York City”)
9. This man once called Werner Heisenberg his father, and he created an Homage to Newton with an open head
and torso. With Luis Buñuel, he made the film Un Chien Andalou, and one of this man’s works is a plaster Venus
de Milo with Drawers. In another work the Venus de Milo is seen many times; that painting is The Hallucinogenic
Toreador. The landscape of (*) Cadaqués appears floating in the background of one of this man’s paintings, which also
contains a fish floating above an array of bricks. That painting is “The Disintegration of” one of this man’s other works,
which features ants crawling around a melting clock. For ten points, name this Spanish surrealist painter of The
Persistence of Memory.
ANSWER: Salvador Dalí
10. According to Lakota legend, Iktomi most often takes the form of one of these creatures. In Islam, Allah sent
one of these animals to save Muhammad from Quraysh soldiers. After seeing one of these animals falling and
falling again, (*) Robert the Bruce was inspired to keep on fighting the English. One of these animals obtained all of the
stories in the world from Nyame; his name is Anansi. In Greek mythology, the first one of these animals was created after
a weaving contest. Athena turned Arachne into – for ten points – what eight-legged arthropod that spins webs?
ANSWER: spiders (prompt on “arachnids”)
11. This physical quantity is reduced by bubble density in the hot chocolate effect, and the Prandtl-Glauert
[“PRAHN-tal GLAW-ert”] singularity proposes that an object approaching this physical quantity would
experience an infinite range of pressures. For an ideal gas, it is approximated by the square root of the adiabatic
index times pressure divided by density, but in general it is equal to the square root of the ratio of (*) bulk modulus
to density. A shock wave occurs when this physical quantity is exceeded, as was done by the Bell XS-1 and ThrustSSC.
For ten points, name this quantity equal to about 340 meters per second at sea level, synonymous with Mach 1.
ANSWER: speed of sound
12. “The Kiln” is a poem that has been falsely attributed to Hesiod or this figure, and the “Lives of” this figure
places his birthplace at any of Ionia, Chios or Babylon. He is crowned by an allegorical Victory in a painting by
Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres titled The Apotheosis of this figure. In one of his works, (*) Patroclus wears the
armor of his friend, a legendary warrior. In that work, this author invokes the muse to “sing of” the rage of Achilles in the
Trojan War, and another of his works describes its title character’s quest home from that same conflict. For ten points,
name this supposedly blind ancient Greek poet to whom the Iliad and Odyssey are attributed.
ANSWER: Homer

2

13. In one section of this work, set in the Bering Sea, the names and some vernacular are adapted from phonetic
spellings of Russian terms. The characters in that section are led by Kotick, the title “White Seal.” In another
story, a soldier of the Viceroy listens in on a conversation between some animals. (*) Bagheera’s time as a caged
panther leads him to befriend one character in this collection, and one character in this work is the cobra-vanquishing
mongoose Rikki-Tikki-Tavi. Baloo helps to raise Mowgli in, for ten points, what collection of stories and poems by
Rudyard Kipling?
ANSWER: The Jungle Book
14. The probability that a randomly selected permutation is a derangement approaches the reciprocal of this
number, and its reciprocal is also used in the solution to the interview problem. It can be expressed as the infinite
sum 1/0!+1/1!+1/2!+… [“one over zero factorial plus one over one factorial plus one over two factorial and so on”],
and the (*) exponential function with this number as a base is its own derivative. Though sometimes called Napier’s
constant, it was first explicitly discovered by Bernoulli, who analyzed this number’s connection to continuous compound
interest. For ten points, name this mathematical constant, whose decimal expansion begins 2.718.
ANSWER: e (accept Euler’s number; accept Napier’s constant before mention; do NOT accept “Euler’s constant”)
15. This artist’s promoter was the writer Pietro Aretino, who placed him in contact with the Holy Roman Emperor
Charles V. Along with his paintings of Philip II and numerous doges [“do-jhez”], this painter’s portrait of Paul III
was supposedly so realistic that passerby paid their respects as it dried on a balcony. He painted two women by a
well with Cupid in (*) Sacred and Profane Love. His mythically inspired paintings include one of the title figures
catching sight of a naked goddess of the hunt, as well as the supposed goddess of love reclining on a sofa with a dog at her
feet. For ten points name this Venetian artist who painted Diana and Actaeon and Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian or Tiziano Vecellio
16. Coupled enzyme forms of this type require cofactor recycling to operate successfully, and they can be achieved
either via the outer sphere or inner sphere mechanism. Balancing of this kind of reaction involves addition of water
to either side of the equation and then counterbalancing with protons. (*) Galvanic cells operate by means of these
reactions, which occur spontaneously only if their cell potential is positive, determined from half-reaction analysis. For
ten points, name this type of reaction involving a gain of electrons in one reactant and a loss in another.
ANSWER: redox reaction (accept oxidation-reduction or reduction-oxidation)
17. A 2003 court decision discredited Job Charnock with establishing this city, and a defensive fortification here
came to be known as Fort William. It was in this city that Siraj al-Dawlah was vanquished by Robert Clive after
that nawab’s rebellion and (*) imprisonment of almost 150 men in a small, dark room. Rabindranath Tagore lived in this
city on the Hoogli branch of the Ganges River that was once the capital of British India, and the present capital of West
Bengal. For ten points, name this third-most populous Indian city, which was the site of a 1756 “Black Hole.”
ANSWER: Kolkata or Calcutta or Kalikata
18. The corpse of one character in this novel has a shoulder of “sculpted marble” and is surrounded by glowing
fish with “fiery eyes” as it washes out to sea. Another character in this novel constantly refers to his Auntie and his
spectacles are highly coveted as the only means of starting a fire at “the scar”. A (*) conch shell is used to elect the
protagonist as “chief” in this novel, although his power is later challenged by the choirboy Jack Merridew. Simon is
terrorized by hallucinations of the title object, which is actually a decaying pig’s head. For ten points name this William
Golding novel wherein Ralph attempts to lead a group of English schoolboys on a deserted island.
ANSWER: Lord of the Flies

3

19. Pauline Kael alleged that the entirety of this film’s script was written by Herman Mankiewicz [“MANK-eevich”]. One scene in this film parodied newsreels like The March of Time with cameos by Theodore Roosevelt and
Adolf Hitler lookalikes, and cinematographer Gregg Toland pioneered the use of deep focus in this film. Locations
in this film include the El Rancho bar and the (*) Xanadu estate, and Susan Alexander completes many jigsaw puzzles
at the latter. Other characters in this film included the protagonist’s business partners Jedediah Leland and Mr. Bernstein,
both of whom worked at the New York Inquirer. For ten points, name this 1941 Orson Welles film about a Hearst-esque
newspaper magnate.
ANSWER: Citizen Kane
20. Senator Robert LaFolette and Representative Charles Randall were among the few who voted against this
policy, though it cleared both chambers of Congress by a wide margin. The Nye Committee found that this action
was taken in the interest of business rather than policy. This action was undertaken following a longstanding policy
of (*) “neutrality in thought and deed.” The Rape of Belgium coerced public opinion in favor of this action, which was
requested in April 1917 by Woodrow Wilson. For ten points, name this event that followed the Zimmerman Telegram and
the sinking of the Lusitania.
ANSWER: United States entry into World War I (accept “1917 United States Declaration of War against Germany;
prompt on just “entry into World War I” or equivalents)
Tiebreaker Question:
This event is correlated with stark changes in foraminiferal trends. One theory to explain this event was developed
through work at Gubbio, Italy inspired by unusual iridium concentrations. Yet another theory to explain it is
called the (*) Deccan Trap hypothesis, while the aforementioned Alvarez hypothesis was validated by the crater at
Chicxulub [“CHIC-shoo-loob”], dated to be 65 million years old. For ten points, name this event which caused the
eradication of the Triceratops and Tyrannosaurus rex.
ANSWER: anything pertaining to the extinction of the dinosaurs (or Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction, or K-T
extinction, or Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction, or K-Pg extinction, prompt on “Cretaceous-Tertiary/K-T/CretaceousPaleogene/K-Pg boundary”; prompt on descriptions of events described that do not rely too heavily on information
already provided)

4

Round 7 Bonuses
1. In this play, Abigail Williams proclaims in a courtroom that Mary Warren is sending her spirit at her and her
companions. For ten points each:
[10] Name this play in which John Proctor is hanged.
ANSWER: The Crucible
[10] The Crucible was written by this American author of plays such as Death of a Salesman and Broken Glass.
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
[10] In this allegorical Miller play, Quentin debates marrying Holga, and the deterioration of Quentin and Maggie’s
marriage parallels that of Miller and his wife Marilyn Monroe.
ANSWER: After the Fall
2. For ten points each, name the following about events in the timeline of the universe:
[10] This event, which occurred approximately 13 billion years ago, began with the rapid expansion of all matter and
energy in what has become the universe.
ANSWER: the Big Bang
[10] It is believed that this event will occur when the universe’s entropy reaches its maximum, and there is no available
free energy. It is an alternative to the hypothesis of a Big Crunch.
ANSWER: heat death of the universe
[10] The expansion of the universe is believed to be driven by forces generated by this hypothesized entity.
ANSWER: dark energy, prompt on “energy”, do not accept or prompt on “dark matter”
3. An Orson Welles radio adaptation of one of this man’s works caused a public frenzy. For ten points each:
[10] What author wrote the novel The War of the Worlds, as well as The Invisible Man?
ANSWER: H(erbert) G(eorge) Wells
[10] In this Wells novella, the unnamed protagonist travels 800 thousand years into the future and meets the Eloi and
Morlocks.
ANSWER: The Time Machine
[10] In this other Wells novel, the title character uses vivisection to create humanoid animals. Edward Prendick, the
protagonist, meets that character’s assistant Montgomery.
ANSWER: The Island of Doctor Moreau, do not accept “The Isle of Doctor Moreau”
4. Wyatt Earp was involved in a conflict at this location. For ten points each:
[10] Name this city that was the location of the OK Corral gunfight.
ANSWER: Tombstone, AZ
[10] The tombstone of this American statesman deliberately did not mention his Presidency from 1801 to 1809.
ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson
[10] In what he considered his proudest accomplishment, Archimedes proved that this figure’s volume is two-thirds that
of the smallest cylinder that contains it; his tombstone featured the corresponding diagram.
ANSWER: sphere
5. For ten points each, name the following about a certain cult of personality.
[10] Kim Jong-Un sustains this country’s cult of personality as he rules from Pyongyang.
ANSWER: North Korea or DPRK or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
[10] According to legend, Kim Jong-Il’s birth at this location was signaled by a season change and a double rainbow.
ANSWER: a secret hideout at Mount Paektu (accept Paektusan)
[10] It is currently year 105 in the official juche calendar system, with year 1 marking this event.
ANSWER: Kim Il-Sung’s birth, accept equivalents

5

6. This artist created the Beethoven Frieze for the Secession Building in Vienna. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Austrian artist who utilized the color gold and abstract decorative patterns in his portraits of Adele BlochBauer.
ANSWER: Gustav Klimt
[10] This Klimt painting heavily utilizes similar gold designs in its depiction of a man and woman embracing and
performing the title action.
ANSWER: The Kiss
[10] Klimt also used gold in his portrayal of this mythological woman in fetal position. Rembrandt and Titian also painted
similar scenes of this woman being impregnated by a golden rain.
ANSWER: Danaë
7. Yee-haw! For ten points each, name the following men of the American frontier:
[10] This “King of the Wild Frontier” died at the Alamo, and represented Tennessee in the House of Representatives.
ANSWER: Davy Crockett
[10] This frontiersman, who also died at the Battle of the Alamo, is best remembered for a knife named for him.
ANSWER: Jim Bowie
[10] This author formulated his “Frontier Thesis,” which stated that Westward expansion had been essential to the
formation of American democracy.
ANSWER: Frederick Jackson Turner
8. For ten points each, answer some questions about a class of people often found in imperial courts.
[10] These men commonly served as political advisors, although their lack of testicles also made them suitable to become
guardians of women.
ANSWER: eunuchs [“YOU-nucks”]
[10] The Chief Black Eunuch was the guardian of the Ottoman Imperial one of these. Ibrahim the Mad had one, but
supposedly drowned all of its members in the Bosporus.
ANSWER: harems
[10] The low testosterone levels of eunuchs meant that the pitch of their voices would be higher. In Europe, singers
whose testicles were removed from childhood for that purpose were known by this term.
ANSWER: castrato (accept castrati)
9. This son of Mary, Queen of Scots was succeeded by Charles I. For ten points each:
[10] Name this King of England who began the Plantation of Ulster and who took the throne after the death of the
childless Elizabeth I.
ANSWER: James I of England or James VI of Scotland, prompt on just “James”
[10] This failed 1605 plot attempted to undermine the reign of James by destroying the House of Lords.
ANSWER: Gunpowder Plot
[10] This man orchestrated the Gunpowder Plot and after its failure, refused to be taken prisoner. Instead, he was shot,
killed, and then exhumed and decapitated.
ANSWER: Robert Catesby
10. This space probe began observing Jupiter in January 1979 while its sister began doing the same that April. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this probe that is now in interstellar space, the furthest manmade object from Earth. Along with its scientific
instruments, it has a golden record featuring Blind Willie Johnson’s “Dark was the Night, Cold was the Ground.”
ANSWER: Voyager 1, do not accept or prompt on “Voyager 2”
[10] The record was curated by this scientist and public educator. This writer and presenter of Cosmos is famous for the
line “billions and billions.”
ANSWER: Carl Sagan
[10] Sagan also penned several novels, including this one about Ellie Arroway’s attempts to decode messages coming
from extraterrestrial intelligence. It was eventually adapted into a film starring Jodie Foster.
ANSWER: Contact

6

11. Spillville, Iowa provided the inspiration for this piece while its composer was on holiday in the United States. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this symphony whose 3rd movement was later developed into the spiritual “Goin’ Home”.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 9, “From the New World” or New World Symphony
[10] Name this Czech composer of the New World Symphony, also famous for his Slavonic Dances.
ANSWER: Antonin Dvořák [“dah-VORE-jack”]
[10] Dvořák also wrote this opera in 3 acts about a water nymph who sings the aria “Song to the Moon” to the Prince.
ANSWER: Rusalka
12. AMC called the 7th season of this show “the end of an era”. For ten points each:
[10] Name this show set in 1960s-era New York City which describes the life of advertising executive Don Draper who is
portrayed by Jon Hamm.
ANSWER: Mad Men
[10] This Mad Men character receives a bribe from Roger Sterling to write an advertisement for an aviation company. At
one point, this former secretary leaves SCDP and joins the rival advertising agency Cutler, Gleason and Chaough.
ANSWER: Peggy Olsen
[10] On the phone, Don’s daughter Sally calls this historical event a “waste of money,” to which Don replies, “stop being
so cynical”.
ANSWER: Apollo 11 mission (prompt on general answers such as “moon landing,” prompt on just “Apollo” or “Apollo
mission”)
13. For ten points each, answer some questions about the Pillars of Islam.
[10] The hajj is a mandatory pilgrimage for all able-bodied Muslims to this city. During Salat, worshippers face the Kaaba
in this holiest city of Islam.
ANSWER: Mecca
[10] This term refers to the profession of faith that claims the oneness of God and the acceptance of Muhammad as his
messenger.
ANSWER: as-shahadatan
[10] Although not included in the Five Pillars of Sunni Islam, this term, meaning “struggle”, is the Seventh Pillar for the
Ismaili sects.
ANSWER: jihad
14. He once suggested that Irish babies could be used to alleviate famine. For ten points each:
[10] Name this author of An Argument against Abolishing Christianity and the satirical essay A Modest Proposal.
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
[10] Swift’s most famous work is this novel, about the title character’s escapades in Brobdingnag, where he meet giants,
and Lilliput, where he is the giant.
ANSWER: Gulliver’s Travels or Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World. In Four Parts. By Lemuel Gulliver,
First a Surgeon, and then a Captain of Several Ships
[10] The fourth section of Gulliver’s Travels tells of Lemuel Gulliver in the land of the Houyhnhnms, talking animals of
what species?
ANSWER: horses
15. This work’s first part includes characters like Mr. Worldly Wiseman and the two false travellers, Formalist and
Hypocrisy. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Christian allegory about a man literally named Christian who travels to the Celestial City.
ANSWER: The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come; Delivered under the Similitude of a
Dream
[10] Pilgrim’s Progress was written by this preacher while in Bedfordshire prison, who created an autobiography titled
Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, also while in prison.
ANSWER: John Bunyan
[10] An excerpt from Pilgrim’s Progress prefaces this novel about the March sisters by Louisa May Alcott.
ANSWER: Little Women

7

16. Answer these questions about something which shares a vital property with taxes, for ten points each:
[10] Name this process that occurs at the end of life.
ANSWER: death or dying or equivalents
[10] This 1927 existentialist text introduced the phrase “being-towards-death”, in which its author argues that one exists
for Dasein.
ANSWER: Being and Time or Sein und Zeit
[10] Being and Time is considered the most important work of this German philosopher who never publicly renounced
Nazism.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
17. Name these organelles, for ten points each:
[10] This organelle derives its name from the molecule it is responsible for breaking down. Its failure is the cause of
Zellweger syndrome.
ANSWER: peroxisome
[10] This organelle, consisting of many interconnected membrane infoldings, comes in rough and smooth varieties; in the
rough kind, ribosomes line it.
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum or ER
[10] This organelle, common in flower petals, is the variety of plastid that stores pigments. One step in ripening is the
conversion of chloroplasts to these organelles.
ANSWER: chromoplast
18. Its relationship with electricity took a long time and many bright minds to decipher. For ten points each:
[10] Name this property which gives rise to its own field and lends its name to a class of objects with north and south
poles.
ANSWER: magnetism
[10] Some metals, including iron, demonstrate this form of magnetism. It is naturally occurring in these metals and does
not need to be induced.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism
[10] According to this effect, when the magnetising force to a ferromagnet is changed, the ferromagnet’s magnetic output
produces “noise” - in other words, the magnetic output changes in discrete steps rather than a smooth curve.
ANSWER: Barkhausen effect
19. His Sonatas and Interludes exemplifies his avant-garde musical style. For ten points each:
[10] Name this American experimental composer of works such as Cheap Imitation and The Wonderful Widow of
Eighteen Springs.
ANSWER: John Cage
[10] Cage is perhaps better known for this piece, in which the performer is required to be present for the title duration.
Instead of silence, it is actually meant to be a performance of environment sounds.
ANSWER: 4’33” (said 4 minutes 33 seconds or 4 33)
[10] Cage invented this alteration of the piano. It involves placing objects between the strings, causing the sound to be
changed.
ANSWER: prepared piano
20. Martin O’Malley, in the first Democratic Presidential debate, named this organization as the enemy he is “most proud
of.” For ten points each:
[10] Name this guns-rights lobbying organization.
ANSWER: the National Rifle Association (NRA)
[10] The NRA’s executive vice president and most public spokesman is this figure, who in the wake of the Sandy Hook
massacre called for armed security in every American school.
ANSWER: Wayne LaPierre
[10] LaPierre was particularly outspoken about the Assault Weapons Ban of 2013 that entered deliberations in Congress,
which was proposed by this Democratic California senator and former Mayor of San Francisco.
ANSWER: Dianne Feinstein

8

21. We pillage we plunder, we rifle and loot, drink up me hearties, yo ho! Answer these questions about female pirates,
for ten points each:
[10] This Irish pirate married “Calico Jack” Rackham, and she is often paired with her shipmate Mary Read. She appears
in Assassins Creed IV and the television program Black Sails.
ANSWER: Anne Bonny or Anne McCormac
[10] This fictional English pirate, portrayed by Keira Knightley, marries Will Turner and was elected Pirate King in the
franchise in which she appears.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Swann or Elizabeth Turner
[10] Both Anne and Elizabeth operated in this Western hemisphere sea, the namesake of the franchise containing both
Elizabeth Swann and Jack Sparrow, containing islands such as Cuba and Hispaniola.
ANSWER: Caribbean Sea

9

