Round # 7

HAVOC

1.

That of Tennessee Senator William Blount was the first, although it was thrown out
due to constitutional questions about congress’s power to do so. The next was of
New Hampshire Judge John Pickering in 1804, followed closely by that of Supreme
Court Justice Samuel Chase in 1805. Although Judge Walter Nixon was subject to
one in 1989, contrary to popular belief President Richard Nixon was not. FTP name
this indictment for high crimes and misdemeanors, which was declared against
President Andrew Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998.
A: Impeachment accept word forms

2.

Opal, ochre, and amber describe the “stop” or “termination” forms of these. The
second most famous of these might be the one for Phenylalanine, which is UUU.
Another, for the amino acid Valine is GUA. They are coded for in the 5’ to 3’ [Five
Prime to Three Prime] direction, with each separate transcription starting with
Methionene, or AUG. FTP, name these sets of three RNA nucleotides transcribed
from DNA, each of which codes for a different amino acid.
A: RNA Codon prompt on RNA

3.

There are six species of these birds, in the family Phoenicopteridae. When feeding,
rows of lamellae on the edges of the bill filter water pumped through the bill for
small aquatic organisms. They build cone-shaped nest mounds of mud, and breed in
large colonies, as at Great Inagua in the Bahamas. Three species live on alkaline
lakes in the Andes, while only one, the Greater, is found in the U.S., in southern
Florida. FTP, name these tall birds whose diet of carotenoids gives them their
pinkish color.
A: Flamingos

4.

The fourth part of this stream of consciousness novel follows Dilsey, who helped to
raise the other three narrators. The plot jumps between 1910 and 1928 as three
brothers alternate in telling their story, reflecting mainly on their sister Caddy.
Mentally retarded Benjy, tragic, neurotic Quentin, and bitter, harsh Jason each have
a different take on the problems faced by the Compson family. Despite earlier chaos,
the novel ends peacefully with Dilsey attending Easter church services. FTP name
this William Faulkner novel.
A: The Sound and the Fury

5.

This artist, whose alter ego is Mimi, made her recording debut under the guidance of
Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, whom this singer married in 1993 but
separated from in 1997. She starred in the critically panned movie Glitter, which
began a relatively unsuccessful period in her career that ended with her return to the
top of the U.S. charts in 2005. FTP name this singer who, with the release of her
single “Touch My Body” off of her recent album E=MC2, surpassed Elvis for
holding the greatest number of number-one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100
charts.
A: Mariah Carey

6.

For a slender rod, the value of this force’s moment is the product of the square of the

1 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

length of the rod and the mass divided by twelve, while a solid cylinder yields the
familiar one half the product of mass and the square of the radius. Because angular
velocity is constant within a rigid body, its moment may be derived from the
equation for kinetic energy of rotation, while its linear variety is simply mass. FTP,
name this physical entity resistant to change in motion.
A: Inertia accept Moment of Inertia until “linear”
7.

This man’s father married a hunchback woman due to a hunter’s prophecy saying
that she would bear him a great king. As a child, he was sick but began working as a
griot. In 1230, he founded a new kingdom and became the historical lion king.
During his reign he encouraged his nation’s growing gold trade, and eventually
became the granduncle of Mansa Musa. FTP, name this founder of the empire of
Mali.
A: Sundiata Keita Accept Mari Djata I, Sogolon Djata, or Son-Jara

8.

Bertrand Russell was a fierce critic of this philosophy, calling it an “engineer’s
philosophy” which would inevitably lead to fascism. One concept of this doctrine is
“contrite fallibilism,” which states that absolute certainty about knowledge is
impossible. This belief contradicts the ideas of Descartes, who was heavily attacked
by this school of thought. FTP name this philosophical school associated with
Charles Sanders Pierce, John Dewey, and William James.
A: Pragmatism Accept word forms

9.

The events of this novel are set in motion by the arrival of Paul D, whom the
protagonist had known at Sweet Home plantation. Her daughter Denver hates Paul D
for chasing away the ghost of what may be her dead sister. Her mother killed her
sister, the title character, with a handsaw to prevent her from being taken back to the
plantation. FTP name this novel by Toni Morrison which sees Sethe haunted by the
materialization of the title character.
A: Beloved

10. This novel opens as the main character spends a night at the Spouter Inn in the same
bed as a cannibal, Queequeg, due to overcrowding. They join a voyage along with
Starbuck, Fedallah, Pip, and others on the Pequod. The narrator Ishmael is rescued
by the Rachel when the title character rams the ship. FTP name this novel by
Herman Melville about Captain Ahab's search for an elusive white whale.
A: Moby Dick
11. Although only 20,000 Americans died during this conflict, over 100,000 died in the
ensuing Bolo War. Origins of this war included outrage over General Weyler’s
creation of concentration camps and the outrage over the De Lôme Letter. In the
end, the Treaty of Paris ended the war, giving payments to the European belligerent
but giving America Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines. FTP; name this war
which began in the McKinley Administration after the sinking of the USS Maine.
A: Spanish-American War

2 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

12. The Limfjorden separates several islands in the northern part of this peninsula from
the rest of it. Its northernmost point is The Skaw, which juts into the Skagerrak, the
body of water to its north. To the east of this peninsula lies the Kattegat, as well as
the islands of Fyn and Sjaelland. The Kiel Canal, in Germany, lies near the southern
boundary of it. FTP name this peninsula, belonging mostly to Denmark, to the east
of the North Sea.
A: Jutland Peninsula
13. This party originally consisted of members of the Revolutionary Alliance, an antimonarchist society. It currently holds the largest number of seats in Yuan although it
supports Taiwanese reunification with the mainland. FTP name this Chinese
political party that was founded by Sun Yat-Sen and later led by Chiang Kai-Shek.
A: Kuomintang Prompt on KMT Accept Chinese Nationalist Party
14. In 1943, this man was inspired by a speech by FDR to paint his Four Freedoms
series, which included Freedom of Speech, Freedom from Want, Freedom to
Worship, and Freedom from Fear. He also painted the Willie Gillis series and
worked for Look magazine in his later career. He painted 322 covers for The
Saturday Evening Post over 47 years. FTP name this artist known for such
illustrations as Rosie the Riveter.
A: Norman Rockwell
15. Discovered on November 24, 1974, this fossil is believed to be about 3.18 million
years old. The lack of repeated bones suggests that it is in fact a single skeleton. She
was found in Ethiopia by Tom Gray and Donald Johanson and today resides in the
laboratory of a museum in Addis Ababa. FTP name this Australopithecus named for
the Beatles song that was playing the night of her discovery.
A: Lucy the Australopithecus Afarensis
16. Blood from the Splenic vein joins the mesenteric veins before flowing into this
organ. This organ is one of the only internal organs that is capable of regeneration if
a large part of it is removed, making it easier to transplant. In addition to being the
largest gland in the human body, this organ is also the largest internal organ. For ten
points, name this four-lobed organ that is responsible for releasing bile and breaking
down toxic substances and is the target of the hepatitis disease.
A: Liver
17. Aside from an unfinished piano quartet and early cantata, this man wrote only song
cycles and symphonies. He conducted the New York Philharmonic from 1909-1911,
when he suffered a physical collapse and demanded to be returned to Vienna.
Terrified of writing a ninth symphony, he gave no number to The Song of the Earth.
His Resurrection Symphony is similar to Beethoven’s Ninth and has a massive
choral finale. FTP name this Austrian composer of Symphony of a Thousand.
A: Gustav Mahler
18. When it was first published, this book was heavily criticized for its use of phonetic

3 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

spelling. It only received acclaim after being rediscovered by Alice Walker. This
1937 novel tells about Janie Crawford’s life and her quest to find love; she describes
her three marriages in flashbacks. FTP name this Harlem Renaissance novel by Zora
Neale Hurston which was turned into a movie starring Halle Berry.
A: Their Eyes Were Watching God
19. This Baroque artist’s David depicts the youth about to hurl his stone. Pope Urban
VIII placed him in charge of architectural works at St. Peter’s Basilica, and his
religious works include the allegorical Damned Soul and Blessed Soul, as well as a
controversial depiction of a saint. Mythological works include Apollo and Daphne
and the Rape of Proserpina, as well as Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius. FTP name
this sculptor of The Ecstasy of Saint Theresa.
A: Gianlorenzo Bernini Accept Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini
20. Plagioclase is one division of this family of mineral. Its other division is found only
in felsic rocks. Plagioclase contains calcium and sodium in addition to the two
elements characteristic of the entire class, while the other division, orthoclase, adds
potassium. Varieties of plagioclase include anorthite and albite, and orthoclase is
generally pink. The other two main constituent elements are oxygen and silicon. FTP
name this family of silicates which may comprise up to 60% of the earth’s crust.
A: Feldspar

STOP HERE
You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless a question
was thrown out or the game is tied.

21. The Clapeyron equation relates the rate of change of this point to the change in
volume and the heat absorbed, where volume often increases, with the notable
exception of H2O. According to the colligative property concerning its exothermic
synonym, a decrease in the vapor pressure of a solution would lower the temperature
of this point, as with boiling. FTP, name this point on a phase diagram marking the
point at which a material goes from a solid to a liquid.
A: Melting Point accept Freezing Point before “increases”

Bonuses
1. FTPE, name these peaks of the Cascade Range.
1) This volcano of more than 8,000 ft. notably erupted in 1980.
A: Mt. St. Helens
2) North of Mt. St. Helens is this 14,410 ft. volcano, home to several large glaciers
and a namesake national park.
A: Mt. Rainier
3) This northern California peak in the southern Cascades is over 14,000 ft. tall, and

4 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

gives its name to a nearby lake and national recreation area.
A: Mt. Shasta
2. FTPE name the following works of Jules Verne.
1) Pierre Aronnax is among the passengers of Captain Nemo on the Nautilus in this
work.
A: Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea Accept Vingt Mille Lieues Sous les
mers
2) Professor Lidenbrock and his nephew Axel travel to Iceland to begin the title trip.
A: A Journey to the Center/Interior of the Earth Accept Voyage au Centre de la
Terre
3) Phileas Fogg and his French valet Passepartout attempt to win a bet by
completing the title journey.
A: Around the World in 80 Days Accept Le Tour du Monde en Quatre-vingts
Jours
3. FTPE name the following figures from Norse mythology.
1) This one-eyed chief god had two ravens, two wolves, and an eight-legged horse.
A: Odin Accept Woden
2) This god of thunder wields the hammer Mjolnir.
A: Thor
3) This trickster is believed to be a giant who was allowed to live among the Aesir
due to being Odin's blood-brother. His children include Fenrir and the Midgard
Serpent.
A: Loki
4. FTPE name the following derived SI units.
1) Named for a radio pioneer, this unit of frequency represents one cycle per second.
A: Hertz
2) This unit of capacitance named for a British physicist combines seconds, amperes,
meters, and kilograms.
A: Farad
3) This unit of electric conductance named for a German inventor combines the
same units as a Farad raised to different powers.
A: Siemens
5. FTPE name the following museums.
1) The glass pyramid outside this Paris museum was designed by I.M. Pei.
A: the Louvre Accept Musée du Louvre
2) A number of museums, including ones in New York, Venice, and Bilbao, are
named for this family and run by a foundation named for Solomon of this name.
A: Guggenheim
3) Located on the eastern edge of New York's Central Park, this museum's large
collection includes John Singer Sargent's Madame X as well as photographs and
instruments.
A: The Metropolitan Museum of Art

5 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

6. FTPE answer these questions about a Greek epic.
1) This epic poem written around 700 BC details a Trojan War hero’s attempts to
return home to his wife Penelope and son Telemachus.
A: The Odyssey
2) This blind author of the Odyssey also wrote the Iliad about the Trojan War.
A: Homer
3) Odysseus angered Poseidon when he blinded this Cyclops.
A: Polyphemus
7. FTPE name these composers who used atonalism.
1) This Austrian-American composer developed the twelve-tone technique for
writing atonal music.
A: Arnold Schoenberg
2) This Russian composer of The Rite of Spring and the Firebird began using
Schoenberg’s method in the last stage of his career.
A: Igor Stravinsky
3) One composition of this student of Schoenberg involves tuning twelve radios to
different stations and letting them play together in discord. Another employs 4
minutes and 33 seconds of silence.
A: John Cage
8. FTPE, identify these devices from what each measures.
Identify the following about astronomical objects FTSNOP.
1) For ten, also known as minor planets, these objects are abundant between Mars
and Jupiter, in their “main belt”.
A: Asteroids
2) For ten, members of this belt are often known as trans-Neptunian objects,
referring to their positions. Although currently classed as asteroids, its namesake
scientists theoretically predicted their location as a source of comets.
A: Edgeworth-Kuiper Belt
3) For five points each, name two of the three largest asteroids: one is named for the
Latin equivalent of Demeter, one for Athena, and the third for a goddess of the
hearth.
A: TWO from (order does not matter): Ceres, Pallas, Vesta
9. FTPE, indentify the following European soccer teams given the names of players
currently on the team.
1) Gary Neville, Wayne Rooney, Cristiano Ronaldo
A: Manchester United do not accept Manchester City
2) Paolo Maldini, Kaká, Ronaldo
A: Associazione Calcio Milan
3) Sergio Ramos, Fabio Cannavaro, Ruud van Nistelrooy
A: Real Madrid
10. FTPE name these members of the civil rights movement.

6 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

1) This Baptist minister assassinated in 1968 was known for advocating nonviolence
as well as for his “I Have a Dream” speech.
A: Reverend Doctor Martin Luther King, Junior Accept MLK
2) This activist author of an autobiography was assassinated a year after leaving the
Nation of Islam.
A: Malcolm X Accept Malcolm Little or Malik Shabazz
3) This woman became famous for refusing to give up her bus seat to a white man,
leading to the Montgomery Bus Boycott.
A: Rosa Parks
11. FTPE name these U.S. presidential policies.
1) This series of programs was launched by Franklin Roosevelt as his plan to end the
Great Depression.
A: The New Deal
2) This domestic policy of Theodore Roosevelt was aimed at helping the working
class and enforcing anti-trust legislation.
A: The Square Deal
3) This social improvement policy of Harry Truman was highlighted by equality for
citizens regardless of demographics and included a call for universal healthcare.
A: The Fair Deal
12. FTPE identify the following paintings.
1) This fresco by Leonardo da Vinci depicts Jesus and his disciples.
A: The Last Supper
2) This painting by David [da-VEED] shows the titular figure in a tub with a letter in
his hand after being stabbed by Charlotte Corday.
A: The Death of Marat
3) This Watteau work shows young couples and cupids either arriving at or
departing from the titular location, the birthplace of Venus.
A: The Embarkation for Cythera or The Pilgrimmage to Cythera Prompt on
Cythera
13. FTPE name the following types of transport through a cell.
1) This is the process by which water moves through a cell.
A: Osmosis Prompt on Diffusion
2) This general term encompasses diffusion, facilitated diffusion, osmosis, and
filtration. It does not require chemical energy.
A: Passive Transport
3) This type of diffusion sees particles move down a concentration gradient without
assistance.
A: Simple Diffusion
14. FTPE name the following inventors.
1) This namesake of an agricultural equipment company invented the steel plow.
A: John Deere
2) This man invented the cotton gin.
7 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

A: Eli Whitney
3) This man developed the first commercially successful steamboat and also
designed a steam warship as well as the Nautilus, the first practical submarine.
A: Robert Fulton
15. FTPE name the following tectonic plates.
1) Named for a region of Peru, this oceanic plate borders the Antarctic, Pacific, and
Cocos plates.
A: Nazca plate
2) This primarily oceanic plate lies under Central America and its namesake sea.
A: Caribbean plate
3) This plate named for an explorer borders the North American and Pacific plates.
A: Juan de Fuca plate
16. FTPE answer these related literature questions.
1) A fatwa was issued against this man by Ayatollah Khomeini in 1989 for a novel
which introduced a new myth of the origin of Islam, angering many Muslims.
A: Ahmed Salman Rushdie
2) Name that 1988 novel.
A: The Satanic Verses
3) This Rushdie novel follows two of the children born during the hour after India’s
independence.
A: Midnight’s Children
17. FTPE, identify these pieces of lab equipment from their uses in chemistry.
1) A pair of these may hold hot crucibles and evaporating dishes.
A: Tongs
2) This variety of flask includes a wide base with increased surface area for heating
liquids.
A: Erlenmeyer flask
3) Differing from a graduated cylinder in its counting down nature, this liquid
measurer is often employed in titrations.
A: Buret
18. Name these major language families of the world, FTPE.
1) Containing the Romance and Balto-Slavic languages, as well as many others, this
family is spread throughout a namesake continent and subcontinent.
A: Indo-European
2) This family, named for two continents, includes the Semitic languages such as
Arabic.
A: Afro-Asiatic
3) Named for two African rivers, this family contains the majority of Sub-Saharan
languages, including the Bantu tongues.
A: Niger-Congo
19. FTPE answer the following questions about a novel by J.D. Salinger.

8 of 9

Round # 7

HAVOC

1) This novel is narrated by teenager Holden Caulfield.
A: The Catcher in the Rye
2) Besides alcohol and girls, Holden spends much time thinking about this younger
sister.
A: Phoebe Caulfield Prompt on Caulfield
3) Holden interrogates this roommate after he goes out with Holden’s ex-girlfriend.
He later beats Holden up.
A: Stradlater
20. FTPE name these three-dimensional regular solids
1) This six-sided figure has square faces and eight edges.
A: Cube
2) This figure has twelve sides, which are shaped as pentagons.
A: Dodecahedron
3) Placing two square pyramids together, with the square sides touching, can create
this regular solid, forming the eight-faced figure.
A: Octahedron

9 of 9

