NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Tossups
1. A reservoir in this state, which flooded the former villages of Ashland and Kent, supplies sixty percent of its
drinking water. In 2011, its city of Central Falls declared bankruptcy and has contemplated merging with its
southern neighbor, whose namesake "Falls" mark the boundary between the estuarine Seekonk and the
Blackstone River. This home of Scituate Reservoir is also home to a city which was the epicenter of the colonial
slave trade and whose "cottages" include Land's End and The Breakers. Pawtucket is found in this state, whose
Aquidneck Island is home to Newport and is situated in Narragansett Bay. For 10 points, what Ocean State is
the smallest by area in the U.S., and has its capital at Providence?
ANSWER: Rhode Island [or Rhode Island and Providence Plantations] <White>
2. This composer reluctantly added titles such as "The Obbligato Recitative" to a piece whose third movement
is based around a namesake "Farben" chord. His Op. 9 is a one-movement chamber piece with five distinct
sections comprising an exposition, scherzo, development, slow movement, and recapitulation. He is not
Anton Webern, but he wrote an E major Chamber Symphony No. 1 and a set of Five Pieces for Orchestra. The
movement "Moondrunk" opens his setting of twenty-one poems sung in the Sprechstimme style. A woman
reveals she is pregnant with another man's child in this composer's setting of a Richard Dehmel poem. For 10
points, name this composer of Pierrot Lunaire and Transfigured Night, who invented the twelve-tone technique.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg <Kim>
3. This man created the Caisse des Travaux as a way to finance his undertakings, and his successor was JeanCharles Alphand. He was satirized in Le Temps by future Prime Minister Jules Ferry. One of this man's goals
may have been to prevent the creation of barricades, which had been used during the June Days Uprising. He
also replaced a system built by Pierre Bruneseau with one that had separate pipes for drinking water and
sewage. He supervised the creation of the Bois de Vincennes, and this man cleared medieval streets to create
boulevards in his role as prefect of the Seine. For 10 points, name this man who rebuilt Paris during the reign
of Napoleon III.
ANSWER: Baron Haussmann [or Georges-Eugène Haussmann] <White>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 1 of 13 

4. These people destroyed a group of settlements called the "seven cities" after winning the 1598 Battle of
Curalaba. These people were led by chieftains called lonco, who appointed military leaders called toqui, who
defeated and killed the conquistador Pedro de Valdivia. These speakers of the Mapudungun language refer to
descendants of Spanish colonists as wingka, a term derived from "new Incas". These people live mostly south of
the Bio-Bio River in the Araucania region, and they have also lived in the Chiloe Archipelago. These people
have protested the use of Pinochet-era anti-terrorism laws against them. For 10 points, name these indigenous
people of southern Argentina and Chile.
ANSWER: Mapuche [or Araucanians until "Araucania" is read] <Yu>
5. All exact differential forms can be described by this word, since their second exterior derivative is zero. A set
is Hausdorff if and only if the diagonal can be described by this word. The union of a set and its boundary
always has this property. Arbitrary intersections, but not arbitrary unions, of sets of this type produce another
set of this type. A topological set is described by this word if it contains all of its limit points. If an operation
applied to two members of a set always remains in that set, the set is said to have this property with respect to
that operation. For 10 points, give this word which describes intervals that contain both of their endpoints.
ANSWER: closed [or word forms, such as closure] <Schindler>
6. In this poem, the endlessly-flowing red, black, and white breastmilk of three sisters gives rise to three types
of iron, which spread across the land to escape from fire. A blind shepherd in this poem throws a serpent
through the heart of a man whose comb then starts to drip blood. At this poem's end, a man sails off into the
sunset after he is chastised by a thinly-veiled Christ. In this poem, a many-colored lid covers a money-printing
device that fails to win a beautiful wife for its creator. This poem's title "land of heroes" opposes the northern
land of Pohjola. In this epic, the Sampo is destroyed in a battle between Louhi and the trio of Lemminkainen,
Ilmarinen, and Vainamoinen. For 10 points, name this national epic of Finland.
ANSWER: The Kalevala <Yu>
7. The plea "Let me be numbered among your sheep" is carved beneath a kneeling man below this building's
tympanum showing the Last Judgment. Bernard de Montfaucon made drawings of the now-destroyed thin
statues of Old Testament prophets and kings that flanked this building's portals. The west facade of this
building has one surviving southern tower and three portals topped by a rose window. This building is best
known for the slender-columned ambulatory consisting of nine chapels radiating around an apse. Many
Carolingian features of this building were demolished during the renovation of its choir, which concluded in
1144 under the direction of Abbot Suger. (soo-ZHAY) For 10 points, name this French church, the first in the
Gothic style.
ANSWER: Basilica of Saint Denis [or Basilique royale de Saint-Denis; or Basilique Saint-Denis] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 2 of 13 

8. This character tries to defend a captured servant who, after being fired by the widow with whom he was in
love, murdered his successor. A poem by William Thackeray about this character alludes to a scene in which he
first sees his love interest, who is wearing a pink ribbon and cutting a loaf of bread for her eight younger
siblings. After playing a party game where guests have their ears boxed for making counting mistakes, this
character bursts out crying when a woman says "Klopstock!" This character reads a lengthy excerpt from his
translation of Ossian during a visit to Wahlheim. He shoots himself with a pistol lent to him by Albert, who
had married his beloved Lotte. For 10 points, name this youth whose "sorrows" are the subject of a novel by
Goethe.
ANSWER: Werther [or Young Werther] <Brownstein>
9. This author wrote about the Great Groby Tree, which symbolizes a family's curse, in a novel about the
godson of General Campion. In an oft-quoted comment, this novelist's friend John Rodker called one of his
novels "the finest French novel in the English language." A woman created by this writer is averse to sex due to
a strict Catholic upbringing, leading her to suggest the sexual union of her ward Nancy and her husband. This
writer created a man called "the last English Tory," who is constantly cheated on by his wife Sylvia, named
Christopher Tietjens. The narrator says, "This is the saddest story I have ever heard," at the beginning of his
novel about Edward Ashburnham. For 10 points, name this English author of Parade's End and The Good Soldier.
ANSWER: Ford Madox Ford <Sy>
10. A strong predictor of this disease is the Arg-80-Gly variant of the complement C3 gene. Basal linear and
basal laminar deposits appear in this disease between the RPE and Bruch's membrane, which may be
disrupted with neovascularization. People with this disease perceive wavy lines on an Amsler grid. It may
advance to central geographic atrophy in a type characterized by buildup of drusen. The abnormal
angiogenesis in the "wet" form of this disease can be inhibited by injecting drugs directly into the vitreous
humor. The namesake affected structure in this disorder is a yellow spot in the center of the retina, so
peripheral vision is usually retained. For 10 points, name this age-related disease that manifests as progressive
central vision loss.
ANSWER: age-related macular degeneration <Smart>
11. In a religious painting by this artist, a woman flees on a black donkey and an angel holds open a large green
scroll. This artist created a gouache painting in which a man stabs a boy and an inverted clock falls out of the
sky. This artist's illustrations of scenes from the Song of Songs, Genesis, and Exodus are located in a national
museum dedicated to him in Nice (NIECE). This artist depicted his wife towering over a meadow in Bella With
White Collar. Two upside down houses share the background with a female violinist and a man carrying a
scythe in a painting this artist set in his hometown of Vitebsk, Belarus. For 10 points, name this artist who
painted a green-skinned man staring down a goat in I and the Village.
ANSWER: Marc Chagall [or Marc Zakharovich Chagall] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 3 of 13 

12. The imaginary part of the propagation constant is this quantity's namesake constant. This quantity is
plotted against frequency on the second, or lower, Bode plot. A form of this quantity symbolized gamma may
be nonzero after a cyclic adiabatic process, or if an electron passes near a solenoid even where no magnetic
field is present. The wavelength over the period is its namesake velocity, which contrasts with the group
velocity. For AC quantities such as current and voltage, this quantity is symbolized by a vector rotating around
a circular plot. A difference in it for two equal-frequency waves can lead to destructive interference. For 10
points, name this quantity symbolized phi in the wave equation, the geometrical shift to where a wave begins.
ANSWER: phase [or phase constant; or phase velocity; or phase ratio; or Berry phase; or phase shift]
<Silverman>
13. The Shetland Bus was a network of vessels that transported individuals out of this country. Operation
Freshman was a British airborne mission undertaken within this country. Agents in this country sunk the SF
Hydro, which prevented the removal of heavy water from this country. Josef Terboven was the
Reichskommisaar of this country and was responsible for the destruction of the town of Telavag here. This
country was the location of the Falstad concentration camp, and its King Haakon VII fled the country in 1940.
For 10 points, identify this Scandinavian country that was led by the puppet regime of Vidkun Quisling after
falling to Nazi Germany in World War II.
ANSWER: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway; or Kongeriket Norge] <Douglass>
14. A member of this school compared life to a dinner party in a book that ends with a "maxim" from Crito. This
school believed the souls of the wise are destroyed by a conflagration, or ekpyrosis. This school had a member
who advised removing one's aversions to things like sickness and death, and who frequently used a term
meaning "volition." A member of this school had a name meaning "acquired," referring to his enslavement,
and his student Arrian compiled the Discourses and Enchiridion. Epictetus taught this school's idea of
prohairesis. Proper action in accordance with nature, or kathekon, was taught by this school's founder from a
"painted porch" in Athens. For 10 points, name this ancient school of philosophy founded by Zeno of Citium.
ANSWER: Stoicism <Yu>
15. A Deepwater, New Jersey facility that made this substance was dubbed the "House of Butterflies." Robert
Kehoe was the foremost proponent of the safety of this material, whose use was opposed by Clair Cameron
Patterson after finding large traces of it in ocean water and ice cores. Its most prominent manufacturer was
Ethyl Corporation. Herbert Needleman's studies of children's teeth and mental development led him to
advocate Clean Air Act regulation of this material. While working under Charles Kettering at General Motors,
Thomas Midgley discovered this substance's anti-knock properties and lied about its toxicity. This additive is
now largely replaced with ethanol. For 10 points, name this octane-boosting gasoline additive banned in most
of the world for containing a toxic heavy metal.
ANSWER: tetraethyl lead [or leaded gasoline] <Kothari>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 4 of 13 

16. When this character is introduced, she is described as having eyes like "two small pieces of coal pressed into
a lump of dough." This character explains to the Board of Aldermen that she has been granted an exemption
from paying taxes by Colonel Sartoris. Later, the Board of Aldermen sends four men to sprinkle lime on this
character's property in response to complaints of an odor coming from her house. This woman is rumored to
be suicidal after she purchases arsenic that is labeled for rats. In this character's bedroom, townspeople
eventually find a strand of her gray hair next to the rotting corpse of Homer Barron. For 10 points, name this
reclusive title character of a short story by William Faulkner titled "A Rose for" her.
ANSWER: Emily Grierson [or Emily Grierson] <Saric>
17. While a man performs this action, the protagonist comes "so near laughing" to that man's "solemn
composure" that she cannot use a short pause in his speech to interrupt this act. In that action of this type, the
speaker says that he is setting an example as a clergyman and following the advice of a woman from
Hunsford. Another man begins this action by saying, "In vain I have struggled...my feelings will not be
repressed," and does it a chapter before he delivers a letter concerning George Wickham's attempt to elope
with his sister. Because he is thought to have ruined Jane's chances with Mr. Bingley, Mr. Darcy is rejected in
his first attempt to do this. For 10 points, name this action in which marriage is offered to the protagonist of
Pride and Prejudice.
ANSWER: proposing to Elizabeth Bennet [or obvious equivalents; prompt on partial answers like proposing]
<Sy>
18. In April 2015, a group of artists placed a bust of this person at a prison ship memorial in Brooklyn. This
man called the attendees of the 2014 South by Southwest festival "firefighters." This man performed his most
famous act after watching James Clapper lie under oath. Suspicions surrounding this man caused the
rerouting of Evo Morales's plane to Austria. This man used the aliases "Cincinnatus" and "Citizen Four" when
contacting Laura Poitras and Glenn Greenwald, two journalists who later met him in Hong Kong. This man
was interviewed by John Oliver in Moscow, where he sought asylum after exposing the PRISM surveillance
program. For 10 points, name this man who became a fugitive after leaking classified NSA information in
2013.
ANSWER: Edward Snowden [or Edward Joseph Snowden] <Golimlim>
19. A bill named for this location sticks out of a man's pocket in the political cartoon "The Able Doctor," in
which that man forces a drink down a restrained woman's throat. A "vile procession" of half a mile from a
courthouse to this location included flags hung upside down, a coffin labeled "Liberty," and a crowd of as many
as 50,000 people, when Anthony Burns lost a court case under the Fugitive Slave Law. Members of the Rotch
family unsuccessfully tried to have cargo removed from this location after the cargo was brought on the
Eleanor, Beaver, and Dartmouth. The first of the Intolerable Acts to be passed was named for this location, which
was closed by that act. For 10 points, name this location where, in 1773, men dressed as Mohawks dumped
chests full of tea.
ANSWER: Boston Harbor [or Port of Boston; or Boston Port; prompt on Boston] <Gehring>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 5 of 13 

20. An article by Thomas Grey asks if we have an unwritten version of this thing in addition to the written one.
In Freedom's Law, Ronald Dworkin proposed a "moral reading" of this thing, which is also the subject of
Commentaries by Joseph Story. An argument that its writers were driven by financial interests forms Charles
Beard's "Economic Interpretation" of it. The "living" view of this document is supported by loose
constructionists, who dispute originalist claims that its meaning is fixed. This document's first three articles
outline the legislative, executive, and judicial branches. For 10 points, name this document amended twentyseven times and ratified in 1788, the supreme law of the United States.
ANSWER: The Constitution of the United States of America <Kothari>
21. This artist depicted a man sleeping with a washbasin tied to his belt and a skull next to his cardinal hat, at
the bottom of a painting that he stopped working on during a siege. This artist's portrait of a young woman
with a headdress, ostrich fan, and Pegasus pendant was long mistitled Turkish Slave. At the age of twenty-one,
this artist painted himself with a greatly distorted and elongated hand. This artist painted a small, thin St.
Jerome at the bottom right of a painting in which Mary rests her right foot on two cushions, cradling a
gigantic infant Jesus in her lap. For 10 points, name this Mannerist painter of Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror
and Madonna with the Long Neck.
ANSWER: Parmigianino [or Francesco Mazzola; or Girolamo Francesco Maria Mazzola] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 6 of 13 

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Bonuses
1. Tissue engineering focuses on using examples of these mixtures that self-assemble after physical stress. For
10 points each:
[10] Name these dispersions of very polar, very dilute, polymer chains in water, where they form crosslinks.
ANSWER: hydrogels [prompt on gels]
[10] Hydrogels, like all gels, are examples of these mixtures, which have a dispersed phase and a continuous
phase which are mutually insoluble. Light scattering in these substances is termed the Tyndall effect.
ANSWER: colloids [prompt on suspensions]
[10] A polymer of this molecule is often used to make hydrogels or just to make molecules more water-soluble
in general. This molecule is the simplest vicinal diol, and is produced from opening the simplest epoxide ring.
ANSWER: polyethylene glycol [or ethane-1,2-diol; or PEG] <Silverman>
2. This movement's name was first proposed by Francis Dalton, who drew on the genetics research of his halfcousin Charles Darwin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this movement that seeks to improve humanity by selectively breeding the fit and preventing the
unfit from breeding.
ANSWER: eugenics
[10] This 1927 case in Virginia strengthened the eugenics movement by allowing compulsory sterilization. In
this case's majority opinion, Oliver Wendell Holmes declared that "three generations of imbeciles are enough."
ANSWER: Buck v. Bell [or Bell v. Buck; prompt on Buck or Bell by themselves-they need both names to get
points]
[10] In a case originating from this state, the Supreme Court ruled that an exclusion of white-collar crime from
the Habitual Criminal Sterilization Act violated the 14th Amendment's Equal Protection Clause.
ANSWER: Oklahoma [or Skinner v. Oklahoma] <O'Rourke>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 7 of 13 

3. Answer the following about the bandits that Theseus meets and kills, for 10 points each.
[10] Near an entrances to Hades, Theseus encounters Sinis, whose modus operandi is to rip travelers apart by
tying them to two of these objects. Daphne escapes Apollo's harassment by transforming into one of these
objects.
ANSWER: trees [or pine trees; or oak trees; or laurel trees]
[10] After killing the Crommyonian Sow, Theseus defeats Sciron, a bandit who throws people into the ocean
while he occupies them with this activity.
ANSWER: washing his feet [or washing Sciron's feet; or obvious equivalents]
[10] The last bandit that Theseus meets is this son of Poseidon, who kills travelers by forcing them into a stiff
bed by either sawing off their legs or stretching out their bodies.
ANSWER: Procrustes [or Damastes; or Polypemon] <Kim>
4. This woman emotionally addressed her country after a 2009 attempt on her family's life in which Karst
Tates drove his car into a parade. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman who abdicated the throne in 2013 and was succeeded by her son, Willem-Alexander.
ANSWER: Beatrix Wilhelmina Armgard
[10] Until 2013, Beatrix was the queen of this European country.
ANSWER: The Kingdom of the Netherlands
[10] In the Netherlands, this colorful adjective was used to describe government coalitions of social democrats
and liberals that did not include Christian democrats. The Wim Kok ministries were known by this name.
ANSWER: purple [or paars; or purple-plus] <Cheyne>
5. A character with this profession is nearly arrested after Fred leaves two ten-dollar bills on a dresser. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this profession. In a French play, a character with this profession is convinced by Senator Clarke
into signing a false statement saying a black man attempted to rape her.
ANSWER: a prostitute [or The Respectful Prostitute; or La Putain respectueuse]
[10] The Respectful Prostitute was written by Jean-Paul Sartre, who also wrote this adaptation of the Oresteia, in
which the gods send the title creatures to punish the people of Argos for not preventing the death of
Agamemnon.
ANSWER: The Flies [or Les Mouches]
[10] In this other play by Sartre, Garcin declares that "hell is other people" after he, Inez, and Estelle are
trapped in a room with Second Empire furniture.
ANSWER: No Exit [or Huis Clos; or Dead End; or In Camera] <O'Rourke>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 8 of 13 

6. This character tries to explain the plot of "The Way of a Pilgrim" to her boyfriend Lane Coutell, but she is
ignored and eventually faints. For 10 points:
[10] Name this title character of a 1955 short story included in a book co-titled for a novella about her brother.
ANSWER: Franny Glass [prompt on Glass]
[10] In this other story by the same author, the death in Japan of Franny's soldier brother Walt is mourned by
Eloise, who is unhappily married to Lew Wengler.
ANSWER: "Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut"
[10] "Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut" appears in this author's collection Nine Stories. He created the phonyhating Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: J. D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger] <Saric>
7. Musicologist Richard Hudson divides this musical theme into "early" and "late" versions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theme, variations on which became popular during the Baroque era. Possibly the most famous
such music to use this theme was a violin sonata by Arcangelo Corelli.
ANSWER: La Folia [or folies d'Espagne; or Follies of Spain]
[10] This composer likely laid the framework for the "late Folia" by giving it a defined chord progression. He
contracted gangrene and died after striking himself with a baton.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lully
[10] This composer wrote Variations on a Theme of Corelli off of a Corelli violin sonata that used La Folia as its
theme. He also composed Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.
ANSWER: Sergei Rachmaninoff [or Sergei Vasilievich Rachmaninoff] <Lee>
8. A modern version of this tradition was begun by 16th century Syrian rabbi Isaac Luria. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this esoteric tradition of Jewish mysticism that seeks to explicate the relationship between the
world and the infinite, or Ein Sof.
ANSWER: Kabbalah
[10] A key text of early Kabbalah is this book attributed to Shimon bar Yochai. It describes four pardes, or levels,
of Biblical exegesis.
ANSWER: The Zohar
[10] In Lurianic Kabbalah, the first act of God is to contract his infinite nature to make room for his finite
creation, an act given this Hebrew name. A book on marriage by Rob Bell is titled for this concept "of Love."
ANSWER: tzimtzum [or zimzum] <Kothari>
9. One of these particles reacts with an electron in the mechanism for Glashow resonance. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these particles, one of which is produced alongside a proton and an electron in beta decay of a
neutron. These right-handed particles are neutral.
ANSWER: electron antineutrinos [do not accept "neutrinos"]
[10] A proposed reaction scheme for beta decay was theorized by this physicist, but Nature rejected his paper.
This Italian lends his name to half-spin particles.
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi
[10] Antineutrinos are represented with the Greek letter nu, but with this notation to indicate that they are
antiparticles. This notation is used to symbolize charge conjugation.
ANSWER: a bar is drawn over it [or obvious equivalents] <Silverman>
NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 9 of 13 

10. At the end of this film, its protagonist plays Russian roulette with Count Malcolm using a gun loaded with
soot. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1956 comedy about Fredrik Egerman. This film's success at Cannes provided the necessary
funds for the production of The Seventh Seal.
ANSWER: Smiles of a Summer Night [or Sommarnattens Leende]
[10] This director of Smiles of a Summer Night frequently cast Max von Sydow in his films, including The Seventh
Seal, in which von Sydow portrays a knight who plays a chess game with Death.
ANSWER: Ingmar Bergman [Ernst Ingmar Bergman]
[10] This man directed a loose adaptation of Smiles of a Summer Night called A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy.
The protagonist of another of his films records himself mulling over a list of things that "make life worth
living," including the face of his seventeen-year old lover Tracy.
ANSWER: Woody Allen [or Heywood Allen; or Allan Stewart Konigsberg] <Golimlim>
11. In geodynamics, this construct is useful for all sorts of deformation problems involving faults. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this graphical representation that, in 2D, represents the possible combinations of normal and shear
stress given the principal stress.
ANSWER: Mohr's circle
[10] In geodynamics, the stress is represented as a second-order one of these mathematical objects and named
for Cauchy. The number of directions needed to describe these generalizations of scalars and vectors is their
rank.
ANSWER: tensor
[10] For crustal rock, Byerlee's law relates the shear stress required for faulting to the normal stress, as a
function of this parameter. This dimensionless parameter is symbolized mu and is the ratio of the force
necessary to move a surface in contact with another surface, over the force holding them together.
ANSWER: coefficient of friction [or COF; or coefficient of static friction; or COSF; do not accept "coefficient
of kinetic friction"] <Voight>
12. Franklin Fisher showed that conditions under which these functions exist are so stringent as to be unlikely.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these functions that map the total amount of capital and labor in an economy to its output.
ANSWER: aggregate production function
[10] In Capital in the 21st Century, Thomas Piketty argues that this value in the production function is greater
than one. When this curvature of the isoquant is high, it is easy to switch from labor to capital in production.
ANSWER: elasticity of substitution between labor and capital
[10] The Cobb-Douglas production function displays this property if the sum of the exponents equals one.
When all factors are multiplied by the same number, the output is multiplied by that number.
ANSWER: constant returns to scale <Bailey>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 10 of 13 

13. Michael Sandel's popular Harvard course on this subject is available for free online. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this subject in law and ethics. John Rawls's "Theory" of this subject argues for the "difference
principle," that inequalities should benefit those worst off.
ANSWER: justice
[10] This tome by Immanuel Kant argues that an action is just if it fulfills the "categorical imperative" that Kant
laid out earlier in Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals.
ANSWER: Critique of Practical Reason [or Kritik der praktischen Vernunft]
[10] This Australian philosopher argued that utilitarian ideas of justice should be extended to animals in his
book Animal Liberation.
ANSWER: Peter Singer <Bollinger>
14. VDRL, FTA-ABS, and the rapid plasma reagin test are used to detect the spirochetes (SPEE-ro-keets)
responsible for this disease. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this disease caused by Treponema pallidum that may be spread through contact with its primary
stage chancres. Its "neuro" form can result in general paresis of the insane.
ANSWER: syphilis [or neurosyphilis; prompt on the great pox]
[10] Julius Wagner-Jauregg won the Nobel Prize for using this disease to induce a therapeutic fever in patients
with neurosyphilis. This endemic tropical disease is caused by Plasmodium parasites carried by mosquitoes.
ANSWER: malaria
[10] This facial deformity can arise from physical trauma, cocaine abuse, and diseases such as syphilis and
granulomatosis, and is characterized by the collapse of a namesake structure's bridge.
ANSWER: saddle nose <Smart>
15. This poem uses the conceit of the legs of a compass to represent the speaker and his beloved. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this poem whose speaker urges his lover to accept his parting "as virtuous men pass mildly away."
ANSWER: "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"
[10] This Metaphysical poet of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" described a creature who "sucked me
first, and now sucks thee" in "The Flea" and wrote "Death, be not proud," in one of his Holy Sonnets.
ANSWER: John Donne
[10] This Donne poem opens with the query, "I wonder, by my troth, what thou and I did, till we loved?" Its
third and final stanza begins, "My face in thine eye, thine in mine appears."
ANSWER: "The Good-Morrow" <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 11 of 13 

16. When European countries tried to colonize the rest of the world, they frequently ended up threatening to
go to war about it. For 10 points each:
[10] In this 1789 incident, Spanish ships seized British ships near Vancouver Island. It was eventually resolved
when the countries agreed to share fur trading rights.
ANSWER: Nootka Crisis [or Nootka Sound Crisis; or synonyms for Crisis such as "Incident" or "Controversy";
or the Great Spanish Armament]
[10] In this 1898 incident, British and French forces lined up before the French agreed to withdraw and cede
control of Sudan and the Upper Nile to Britain.
ANSWER: Fashoda Incident
[10] In 1911, Germany sent the SMS Panther to Agadir after a revolt against France in this country. With British
support, France managed to keep colonial control over this country.
ANSWER: Morocco [or Kingdom of Morocco; or al-Magrib; or Lmagrib; or Maroc] <Nutter>
17. The only person in the central group in this painting who is looking upward is a youth, the only person
portrayed in bright colors. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting in which a group of men pull a boat to shore.
ANSWER: Barge Haulers on the Volga [or The Volga Boatmen; or Burlaki na Volge]
[10] Ilya Repin, the painter of Barge Haulers on the Volga, painted scenes from this country, such as a religion
procession in Kursk and a depiction of Ivan the Terrible holding his dead son.
ANSWER: Russia [or Rossiya; or Russian Federation; or Rossiyskaya Federatsiya]
[10] Ilya Repin belonged to this group of Russian artists who sought to depict contemporary Russian life. Isaac
Levitan and Nikolai Ge belonged to this movement, which formed in rebellion against the restrictions on
academic painting at the time.
ANSWER: The Wanderers [or The Itinerants; or Peredvizhniki] <Lee>
18. This character offers the Mormon Joe Pitt a job. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character, who falsely insists he is dying of liver cancer. He is disbarred before his death and is
sung a Yiddish lullaby by the ghost of a woman he helped execute.
ANSWER: Roy Cohn [or Roy Cohn]
[10] Roy Cohn appears in this play divided into two parts titled Millennium Approaches and Perestroika.
ANSWER: Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia of National Themes
[10] Roy Cohn is actually dying of this disease, a fact he tries to keep quiet because he does not want to be seen
as a gay man.
ANSWER: AIDS [or acquired immune deficiency syndrome; prompt on HIV; prompt on human
immunodeficiency virus infection] <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 12 of 13 

19. This institution was founded by Captain Richard Henry Pratt. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this boarding school founded in 1879 in Pennsylvania. Its basic idea was, as Pratt put it, to "kill the
Indian and save the man" through mass assimilation of American Indian youths.
ANSWER: Carlisle Indian Industrial School [or United States Indian Industrial School]
[10] Pratt was ordered to recruit Lakota for the school less than three years after the Lakota thrashed George
Custer at this 1876 battle in Montana.
ANSWER: Battle of the Little Bighorn [or Battle of the Greasy Grass; prompt on Custer's Last Stand]
[10] This Carlisle alum went on to win two gold medals at the 1912 Olympics, only to have them stripped
because of his semi-professional baseball experience. He has been hailed as one of the most versatile athletes
of the 20th century.
ANSWER: James Francis Thorpe [or Wa-Tho-Huk] <Cheyne>
20. In 2006, volunteers discovered a buried piano at the summit of this mountain. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mountain that inspired the creation of the cloud chamber. This peak is the tallest in the
Grampian Mountains.
ANSWER: Ben Nevis
[10] The Grampian Mountains form a large part of this island's northern Highland region. This island
comprises most of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Great Britain
[10] Another peak named Ben Nevis is located in this island group. The Global Seed Vault is found on its
largest island, Spitsbergen.
ANSWER: Svalbard <Golimlim>
21. This poet wrote, "I'm a riddle in nine syllables" in the syllabic poem "Metaphors." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American poet who declared, "I am the arrow, the dew that flies suicidal," in the title poem of a
collection that also contains "Tulips."
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
[10] In this poem, Plath hysterically compares her genteel bumblebee-loving father to a sadistic Nazi officer
and compares herself, as usual, to Holocaust victims. It includes the line, "Every woman adores a Fascist."
ANSWER: "Daddy"
[10] In "Daddy," Plath identifies her father as a devil after pointing out this facial feature of his, which is visible
in the photograph she has of him standing at the blackboard.
ANSWER: a cleft chin [prompt on chin] <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 03 - Page 13 of 13 

