2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 12
Tossups

1. Primitive members of this phylum contain pairs of gills called ctenidia, and the organs of smell in
this phylum are known as osphradia. Most members of this phylum contain an odontophore, which
supports a ridged tonguelike structure known as the (*) radula, or the mantle, which is modified into
an organ of propulsion in order Cephalopoda but secretes an external shell in most other orders. For 10
points, name this phylum that contains octopi, clams, and snails.
ANSWER: Mollusca [accept Mollusks]
2. This man adapted John Fletcher’s Beggars’ Bush into a play about Leonidas and Palmyra, Marriage
à la mode. One of his poems chronicles the Battles of Lowestoft and St. James Day, in addition to the
disastrous London Fire and is called “Annus Mirabilis.” Nahum Tate likely wrote the second part of his
satire of the (*) Duke of Monmouth Rebellion, and this author lampooned Thomas Shadwell as the heir
to the kingdom of dullness in another poem. For 10 points, name this British poet of “MacFlecknoe” and
“Absalom and Achitophel.”
ANSWER: John Dryden
3. In this play, the deeply in debt schoolteacher Simon Medviedenko is married to Masha, who is in
love with the protagonist. Masha is the daughter of Paulina and Ilya Shamraef, who is the manager of
the estate where this play is set. The estate central to this work belongs to (*) Sorin, whose sister is
the aging actress Arkadina. Arkadina belittles her son, who desperately wants to join the intelligentsia
that she and Trigorin belong to. For 10 points, name this Chekhov play in which Treplev shoots himself
after shooting the title bird.
ANSWER: The Seagull [or Chayka]
4. One variation of this process is known as the Leloir pathway. It ends with the transfer of a
phosphate group from PEP. Earlier in this process, dihydroxyacetone phosphate is converted to
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate. This pathway, which usually begins with the (*) phosphorylation of the
starting material by the enzyme hexokinase, occurs in the cytosol. It is also known as the EmbdenMeyerhof pathway, and it yields a net total of two ATP molecules. For 10 points, name this series of
anaerobic reactions in which glucose is split into two molecules of pyruvate.
ANSWER: glycolysis [accept Embden-Meyerhof pathway early]
5. One member of this house, a constable, was made governor of Milan by Holy Roman Emperor
Charles V. In compensation for annexing Parma, the French created Etruria for this house to rule.
Antoine, Duke of Vendome was the head of this house, and that man’s son became king of (*) Navarre
before fighting in the War of the Three Henrys. This house produced the lover of Madame du Barry, as
well a monarch dubbed the “Sun King.” For 10 points, name this house of Henry IV and Louis XIV.
ANSWER: house of Bourbon

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. One of his symphonies ends with a “saltarello” movement, and his Fantasia in F-sharp minor for
piano was originally entitled Sonate Écossaise. His fifth symphony quotes “A Mighty Fortress is our
God” and is nicknamed Reformation. This man wrote a symphony inspired by a visit to Holyrood
Castle, as well as the (*) Hebrides Overture. His wedding march was added to music he wrote to a
Shakespeare play. For 10 points, name this German composer of incidental music for A Midsummer
Night’s Dream, as well as the Scottish and Italian symphonies
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy [prompt on Bartholdy]
7. In one of this author’s works, an approaching hurricane causes Paul Ackermann and the rest of the
title town to become hedonistic. In another of his works, Judge Azdak rules that Grusche, and not
Natella, is the mother of a child. This author of The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahoganny and The (*)
Caucasian Chalk Circle wrote of Anna Fierling and her offspring Kattrin, Eilif, and Swiss Cheese and a
musical based on a John Gay work with a score by Kurt Weill. For 10 points, name this German
playwright of Mother Courage and her Children and The Threepenny Opera.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht
8. The strength of this force increases for systems with a high Keulegan-Carpenter number, and
d’Alembert’s paradox deals with when it is zero. Its magnitude acting on spheres is given as 6 pi v R
mu by Stokes’ law. In general it is one-half rho A v squared times its namesake (*) coefficient, which is
generally a function of the Reynolds number and symbolized C sub D. When setting the sum of this and
the buoyant force equal to weight, a particle’s terminal velocity can be found. For 10 points, name this
force that opposes an object’s movement through a fluid.
ANSWER: drag force
9. This island’s Minami Alps and Akaishi Mountain Range are found within the Chudu region, which is
bounded to the north by the Kiso and Hido Mountain Ranges. The island’s Shiga ken prefecture is the
location of Lake Biwa. This island is bounded to the north by the (*) Tsugaru Strait. The Misaka-Tenshu
Range contains Lake Yamanaka, Lake Sai, and three other lakes that surround Mount Fuji, which is
located on this island. For 10 points, Osaka and Hiroshima as well as the capital, Tokyo, are located on
which island, the largest of Japan’s four main islands?
ANSWER: Honshu
10. Sir William Phips led an unsuccessful attempt to capture this place during King William’s War, and
Aaron Burr distinguished himself in battle here by trying to carry the corpse of General Richard
Montgomery from the field. Guy (*) Carleton led the successful British defense of this city during the
American Revolution, and the Plains of Abraham near this city were the site of a battle of the French and
Indian War. For 10 points, General Wolfe and General Montcalm died in the battle over what city in
French Canada in 1759?
ANSWER: Quebec
11. One painting of this event has cattails in its lower left, and the woman on the right is wearing a full
dress with a repeated blue flower design and extends a red cloth with different plants and flower
designs on it. Alexandre Cabanel’s version of the scene has five cupids flying around blowing (*)
conchs, and the most famous one has pink flowers hovering around the left. A horae greets the title
figure of this painting, who is being blown to Cyprus by a zephyr. For 10 points, name this painting by
Sandro Botticelli of the goddess of love standing on a half-shell.
ANSWER: The Birth of Venus

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. G. Q. Heather-Greener studied them in migraine headache sufferers. One of them involved the
formula for trimethylamin and a dose of propyl and was known as Irma's Injection. A biological view
of them states they reflect cortical explanations of (*) random neural signals, while a psychodynamic
view distinguishes their “manifest content” and “latent content” and was studied by an Austrian who
wrote “The Interpretation of” them. For 10 points, name these nighttime events that occur during REM
sleep.
ANSWER: dreams
13. In this work, the misogynistic telegraph operator Wash Williams is scarred by his unfaithful wife,
and the four-part story “Godliness” depicts the fanatical Jesse Bentley and his descendents. Other
characters in this work include Dr. Reefy, who balls up pieces of paper, and (*) Wing Biddlebaum,
whose past as a suspected child molester haunts him in the story “Hands.” For 10 points, name this
book in which George Willard connects stories about residents of the title town, a work by Sherwood
Anderson.
ANSWER: Winesburg, Ohio
14. After leading a siege of Chippenham, this ruler negotiated the conversion of King Guthrum in the
Treaty of Wedmore. That treaty established an eastern boundary on his territory at Watling Street,
separating this man’s kingdom from the Danelaw, the (*) Viking territory that once fought his kingdom
of Wessex. Bishop Asser chronicled such achievements in the reign of this man, who also translated The
Consolation of Philosophy into Old English. For 10 points, name this ninth-century Anglo-Saxon king who
earned his epithet “the Great” by unifying England.
ANSWER: Alfred the Great
15. Penn and Teller appear in this group’s video for the song “It’s Tricky,” and Pete Rock and C.L.
Smooth appear on their “Down With The King.” One of their songs references ordering a Big Mac in a
KFC, and another is about objects which “walk (*) through concert doors / and roam all over coliseum
floors.” In addition to “You Be Illin’” and “My Adidas,” they collaborated with Aerosmith on a rap version
of “Walk This Way.” For 10 points, name this rap trio consisting of Jam-Master Jay, Darryl McDaniels,
and DJ Run.
ANSWER: Run-D.M.C.
16. When sandwiched between lithium and a hydride group, this element is part of a powerful
reducing agent. Ziegler-Natta catalysts typically consist of a mixture of titanium compounds and
compounds of this element. It was first isolated by Hans Christian (*) Oersted, and commercial
production of this element uses the Bayer process followed by the Hall-Heroult process to refine this
element’s principle ore, bauxite. For 10 points, name this most abundant metal in the earth’s crust with
atomic number 13 and symbol Al.
ANSWER: aluminum [or aluminium; or Al before mention]
17. Some legends state that this figure inhabited the White Island after his death. This man could not
stop himself from killing the Amazon Penthesilea, and he fell in love with and got to keep a concubine
named Briseis. His son Neoptolemus received his armor after his death, and he earlier commanded
the (*) Myrmidon tribe, which also saw command by his companion Patroclus. He feuded with
Agamemnon, slew Hector, and was dipped into the waters of the Styx by Thetis. For 10 points, name this
near-immortal warrior with a namesake heel.
ANSWER: Achilles [or Akhilleus; or Achilleus]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. This architect developed purism with Amédée Ozenfant, and his works include the brick-walled
Museum at Ahmedabad and a multimedia tent with flowing curves built for the World Exposition in
Brussels, the Philips Pavilion. He created a chapel with a pointed dark concrete roof at (*) Ronchamp,
as well as a house situated above a glass ground floor and supported by white pilotis, one of the “Five
Points” he extolled in his Towards a New Architecture. For 10 points, name this Swiss-French designer
of the Notre Dame du Haut and the Villa Savoye.
ANSWER: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]
19. One perpetrator of this incident screamed “By God, his Mary has helped!” after mocking the
prayers of one of its victims. The people responsible for this event supported the “Winter King”
Frederick V, who was defeated the next year at White Mountain. It occurred because the Letter of (*)
Majesty was violated by the closing of Calvinist chapels at Broumov. Its victims, emissaries of the
Hapsburg emperor, were saved by a pile of manure. For 10 points, name this Thirty Years’ War-sparking
event in which two men were thrown from a Central European window.
ANSWER: 1618 Defenestration of Prague [or Second Defenestration of Prague]
20. One poem in this book is depicted in a two-column, alternating style in the Sefer Torah and is the
poem “The Song of the Sea.” Chapter thirty of this book tells of the construction of an altar of incense
as part of the story of the construction of the tabernacle. In chapter twenty, (*) Moses receives the
Ten Commandments, and chapters seven through ten tell of God unleashing a series of plagues when a
pharaoh refuses to let his people go free. Detailing the story of Moses leading the Israelites from Egypt,
for 10 points, name this second book of the Old Testament.
ANSWER: Exodus
21. In one of this author's plays, a master of philosophy tells Jourdain that he speaks in prose instead
of verse. His version of Don Juan depicts him as a hypocritical atheist who is swallowed up by an abyss
from Heaven. This author's title characters include a man who attempts to seduce (*) Elmire while
living in the home of Orgon, and Alceste, who despises the conventions of French society. For 10 points,
name this French playwright of The Bourgeois Gentleman, Tartuffe, and The Misanthrope.
ANSWER: Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
22. This ruler’s ministers included Wilhelm Haugwitz, who ended the tax exemptions of the nobility,
and the public health advisor Gerhard van Swieten, who introduced textbooks to universities. She
pursued the “reversal of alliances,” abandoning England’s help for France, and she lost (*) Silesia after
decades of strife with Frederick the Great of Prussia. Her throne was guaranteed by Charles VI’s
Pragmatic Sanction, but she had to rely on the War of the Austrian Succession to secure her rule. For 10
points, name this mother of Joseph II and longtime queen of Austria.
ANSWER: Maria Theresa
23. B over u is equal to the longitudinal diffusion of particles undergoing one type of this process in
the hyperbolic Van Deemter equation. One version uses silica gel and chloroform and is an a
modification of the variety invented by Mikhail Tsvet known as the (*) partition type, to which was
later added a glass plate. In addition to the ion-exchange and high-performance liquid types employed
today, other common varieties include the paper and thin-layer varieties. For 10 points, name this
method for separating solutes into mobile and stationary phases.
ANSWER: chromatography

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 12
Bonuses

1. Its founder characterized it as a “philosophy for living on earth.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophy, which is largely about following one’s “rational self-interest” and is strongly
libertarian, with an emphasis on pure laissez-faire capitalism.
ANSWER: objectivism [accept word forms]
[10] Objectivism was founded by this woman, who expounded it in works such as one asking “Who is
John Galt?,” as well as Anthem, We the Living, and The Fountainhead.
ANSWER: Ayn Rand [or Alisa Zinov’yevna Rosenbaum]
[10] Rand acknowledged a kinship with this philosopher, who posited the tabula rasa, helped draft the
Fundamental Constitution of the Carolinas, and wrote Two Treatises of Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
2. This composer used the same overture in La pietra del paragon and Tancredi, the latter of which
features the love song “Di tanti palpiti.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Italian composer, who stopped writing operas after the public disapproved of his opera
about a Swiss patriot, William Tell.
ANSWER: Gioacchino Antonio Rossini
[10] Rossini’s biggest success was this opera buffa in which Count Almaviva disguises himself as Lindoro
and enlists the help of the title character, Figaro, in wooing Rosina.
ANSWER: The Barber of Seville [accept Il Barbiere di Siviglia]
[10] Rossini also composed an opera about a “thieving” type of this bird. Ninetta is blamed for this title
bird’s swiping of a silver spoon.
ANSWER: a magpie [or gazza; accept The Thieving Magpie; or La gazza ladra]
3. One deity of this type is half Tuatha Dé Danaan and is so good at the spear that he is named Lugh the
Long-handed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kind of god, represented in various myth systems as Amaterasu, Surya, and Elagabalus. A
famous example of one once disastrously let his son Phaethon ride his chariot.
ANSWER: sun gods [or solar deities; accept equivalents]
[10] This Aztec sun god’s name means “the Hummingbird of the South,” and he emerged fully armed
from his mother Coatlicue’s womb, killing Coyolxauhqui and his 400 siblings.
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli
[10] This other sun god was attacked by Apep every night while on his solar barge and was merged with
Amun and Atum. He fathered Shu and Tefnut and had a cult center at Heliopolis.
ANSWER: Ra [or Ré]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. According to the second law of thermodynamics, this quantity must increase for any isolated system
in which a spontaneous irreversible process occurs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity that represents the thermal energy that is unavailable for useful work in a
system and also measures the disorder or randomness of the system.
ANSWER: entropy
[10] The entropy is proportional to the natural logarithm of the microstates of a system by this constant
of proportionality.
ANSWER: Boltzmann’s constant
[10] Boltzmann’s constant is equal to the ideal gas constant divided by this other number, which is equal
to the number of atoms of carbon-12 in a gram of carbon-12.
ANSWER Avogadro’s number
5. It occurred the year after the similar Rose Revolution in Georgia and a year before the Tulip
Revolution in Kyrgyzstan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this colorful 2004 event in which protestors camping out in Kiev caused the election of Viktor
Yanukovych to be overturned, leading to Viktor Yushchenko becoming president.
ANSWER: Orange Revolution
[10] The Orange Revolution occurred in this country, whose pro-Russian east largely supported
Yanukovych.
ANSWER: Ukraine
[10] This former energy company president, known as “the gas princess,” is the prime minister of
Ukraine. After a falling-out with Yushchenko, she has advocated abolishing the presidency.
ANSWER: Yuliya Volodymyrivna Tymoshenko
6. Godfrey Ablewhite is murdered over possession of the titular gem. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which the title diamond is stolen from a Hindu shrine and then stolen from Lady
Verinder’s cabinet, a crime investigated by Sergeant Cuff.
ANSWER: The Moonstone
[10] This British author of Armadale and No Name penned The Moonstone.
ANSWER: William Wilkie Collins
[10] Anne Catherick is the mysterious title female of this Collins novel in which Walter Hartright lusts
after Laura Fairlie.
ANSWER: The Woman in White
7. He signed the Treaty of Eternal Peace with Khosrow I to settle a war with Persia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sixth-century Byzantine emperor, who also married Theodora, survived the Nika Revolt,
and patronized a namesake compilation of laws.
ANSWER: Justinian I [or Flavius Justinianus]
[10] This general defeated the Vandals on behalf of Justinian, though the emperor trusted the eunuch
Narses more than this man.
ANSWER: Belisarius
[10] Belisarius’ loyalty is praised in the Secret History, a book by this assistant to Belisarius, who
condemned the excesses of Justinian and Theodora.
ANSWER: Procopius

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. One character encountered in this novel is the loquacious Denver D. Doll. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty travel from New York to Mexico.
ANSWER: On the Road
[10] On the Road is a novel by this author of The Town and the City, Dharma Bums, and Big Sur.
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac
[10] On the Road fictionalizes this author as Bull Lee. This author wrote himself into his most famous
novel as junkie Bill Lee, who travels to the Interzone in his Naked Lunch.
ANSWER: William Seward Burroughs II
9. Located in the left frontal lobe, this area of the brain is specialized for movements of the mouth and
tongue, and damage to it results in difficulty producing speech. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this area of the brain that is located a few centimeters in front of Wernicke’s area.
ANSWER: Broca’s area
[10] Often caused by a lesion to a part of the brain, such as Broca’s area or Wernicke’s area, this sevenletter term refers to any language disorder.
ANSWER: aphasia
[10] In 1848, an explosion sent a metal bar through the skull of this construction worker. He survived
despite severe frontal lobe damage, which led to a dramatic change in his personality.
ANSWER: Phineas Gage
10. He painted a nude backside of a man in a section of his Beethoven Frieze, and he painted a house in
Schlob Kammer on the Attersee. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Austrian painter of a portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer.
ANSWER: Gustav Klimt
[10] Gustav Klimt painted this woman twice, the first time with a gold brooch and one breast exposed.
She was also painted by Artemisia Gentileschi holding the head of Holofernes.
ANSWER: Judith
[10] Klimt’s best-known work may be an example of this type of amorous embrace, also depicted in
sculptures by Brancusi and Rodin.
ANSWER: a kiss [accept The Kiss]
11. This city is known as Elephant’s Trunk in Arabic, and its sister town of Omdurman can be accessed
through a bridge connection. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this African capital city that was rebuilt by Governor-General Lord Kitchener, home to a
namesake university previously known as the Gordon Memorial College.
ANSWER: Khartoum [or Al-Khurtum]
[10] Khartoum sits at the confluence of the Blue and White branches of this African river, which was
dammed by the Aswan High Dam.
ANSWER: Nile [or Bahr an-Nil]
[10] This western region of Sudan is bounded by the Gazelle River and the Libyan Desert and is the site
of war between the Janjaweed and rebel groups such as the Sudan Liberation Army.
ANSWER: Western Darfur

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. The capital of this state from 1804 to 1868 was Milledgeville. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state that was the home of the infamous Andersonville prison during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Georgia
[10] This founder of the British colony of Georgia failed to capture St. Augustine from the Spanish but
successfully repelled a Spanish attack on Fort Frederica in 1742.
ANSWER: James Oglethorpe
[10] The 1810 case of Fletcher v. Peck resolved the issue of this land fraud named for this river, in which
Georgia legislators were bribed to sell Georgia's western claims to four land companies.
ANSWER: Yazoo land fraud [accept reasonable equivalents mentioning Yazoo]
13. When two of these devices are separated by a thin insulating layer, a Josephson junction is formed
and a current is generated in the absence of a voltage. For 10 points:
[10] Name these devices that, when cooled to very low temperatures, do not display electrical
resistance.
ANSWER: superconductor
[10] A superconducting quantum interference device, or SQUID, is composed of two parallel Josephson
junctions and can be used to measure the change in these types of fields.
ANSWER: magnetic field
[10] According to this effect, as a material becomes a superconductor when it excludes magnetic fields
from its interior in proportion to the London penetration depth.
ANSWER: Meissner effect
14. This play centers on the wife of Torvald. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play, whose protagonist Nora Helmer leaves her husband after falling victim to
Krogstad’s blackmail.
ANSWER: A Doll’s House [or Et dukkehjem; accept A/The Doll House]
[10] This Norwegian playwright of Rosmersholm and Pillars of Society penned A Doll’s House.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen
[10] This Ibsen play centers on Halvard Solness, the title architect who is afraid of heights and plummets
to his death trying to climb up a tower in his home.
ANSWER: The Master Builder [or Bygmester Solness]
15. For 10 points each, name these scales.
[10] Sometimes called twelve-tone, this scale consists of all twelve notes in the octave, each separated
by a half step.
ANSWER: chromatic scale
[10] This scale consists of two whole-step intervals, then a half-step interval, then three whole-step
intervals, then a half-step interval. It uses all white keys on the piano if the tonic is at C.
ANSWER: major scale [accept Ionian scale or mode]
[10] Transposition from a major scale to the relative minor requires going from Ionian mode to this
mode. It uses all white keys on the piano if the tonic is at A.
ANSWER: Aeolian

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. He was appointed foreign minister of the Norwegian government-in-exile after Norway fell to
Germany in 1940. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who was forced to resign his position as the first secretary general of the United
Nations due to Soviet opposition.
ANSWER: Trygve Lie
[10] Trygve Lie was succeeded by this Swede, who was killed in a plane crash while trying to mediate
civil war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1960.
ANSWER: Dag Hammarskjold
[10] After serving as secretary general of the U.N. from 1972 to 1981, this former Nazi soldier served as
president of Austria from 1986 to 1992.
ANSWER: Kurt Waldheim
17. This revolution prompted Tsar Nicholas II to try to transform Russia into a constitutional monarchy.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Russian revolution, named for the year in which it occurred, that was prompted by the
defeat in the Russo-Japanese War.
ANSWER: Revolution of 1905
[10] In response to the Revolution of 1905, Nicholas II issued this document on the advice of Sergey
Witte. It promised a popularly elected Duma and the guarantee of civil liberties.
ANSWER: October Manifesto [or Oktyabrsky Manifest]
[10] One of the centers of the Revolution of 1905 was this Ukrainian port city, which was the site of the
Potemkin Mutiny.
ANSWER: Odessa
18. The Columbia River gives some of the best evidence for the existence of one of them, and another
one was known as Rodinia and existed about a billion years ago. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these giant landmasses, the best-known of which is Pangaea.
ANSWER: supercontinent
[10] Pangaea broke up into two smaller supercontinents, Laurasia in the north and this one in the south,
consisting of Australia, Antarctica, South America, Africa, and India.
ANSWER: Gondwanaland
[10] This Austrian scientist was the first to propose the existence of a supercontinent, which he named
“Gondwanaland.”
ANSWER: Edward Suess
19. For 10 points each, name these William Faulkner novels.
[10] In this biblically titled work, Thomas Sutpen is killed by Wash Jones after building a Mississippi
plantation.
ANSWER: Absalom, Absalom!
[10] In this novel, Quentin Compson commits suicide after his family sells a pasture to send him to
Harvard.
ANSWER: The Sound and the Fury
[10] This work follows the Bundren family’s attempt to bury Addie Bundren’s body in Jefferson, as told
from several points of view.
ANSWER: As I Lay Dying

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. Screens for cystic fibrosis in newborns include a test for the presence of a precursor to a molecule of
this class, trypsin, in blood. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of biological catalysts that also includes pepsin and amylase.
ANSWER: enzymes
[10] This is the site at which an enzyme binds to a substrate and thus where enzyme-catalyzed reactions
take place.
ANSWER: active site
[10] This type of enzymatic inhibition occurs when a molecule with similar chemical properties to the
substrate binds to the active site of the enzyme instead of the substrate.
ANSWER: competitive inhibition
21. One of the title characters gets stronger toward midday, and the other turns out to be Bertilak. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this medieval poem that pits an Arthurian knight against a colorful foe.
ANSWER: Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
[10] Sir Gawain and the Green Knight was written by this mysterious poet, who may have been John
Massey. He is usually named after another work in Middle English.
ANSWER: Pearl Poet [prompt on Gawain poet]
[10] Another source for Arthurian legend was this English account written partly in jail by Thomas
Mallory.
ANSWER: Le Morte d'Arthur [or The Death of Arthur]
22. This incident escalated when Peter Kakhovsky shot Count Miloradovich, who had been sent to
attempt to peacefully disperse the demonstrators. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this uprising, largely of the Russian military, which took place after the death of Alexander I
and whose members supported making Constantine tsar.
ANSWER: Decembrists uprising or revolt
[10] The Decembrists were opposed to the rule of this younger brother of Constantine. During his reign
he won some victories over the Ottomans, securing land on the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Nicholas I
[10] Despite being elected dictator by the Decembrists, this man failed to show up to the Senate Square
demonstration. He’s loosely related to the Prague School author of Principles of Phonology.
ANSWER: Sergei Petrovich Troubetzkoy
23. The Davisson-Germer experiment verified that this law holds for electrons. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this law usually applied to X-rays that can be stated “n lambda equals 2d sine theta” and
deals with diffraction off certain surfaces.
ANSWER: Bragg’s law
[10] Bragg’s law deals with these solid materials, whose bond strength is measured by lattice energy and
which come in varieties like face-centered cubic.
ANSWER: crystals
[10] Some crystals, such as quartz, exhibit this property by which applying a mechanical force induces a
voltage across the crystal.
ANSWER: piezoelectricity

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 12

Page 10 of 10 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

