Harvard Fall Tournament IX
Edited by Will Holub-Moorman and Raynor Kuang
Questions by Will Holub-Moorman, Raynor Kuang, Sriram Pendyala, Robert Chu, Mark Arildsen,
Catherine Wu, Roger Jin, and Vimal Konduri
Round 15
Tossups
1. This man ordered Ezra Lee to attempt a submarine explosive attack on the HMS Eagle. Tanacharison
allied with this man at the Battle of Jumonville Glen, and an anonymous letter by John Armstrong led to a
conspiracy that this man put down by dramatically donning reading glasses before delivering the (*)
Newburgh Address. This man accompanied an expedition to capture Fort Duquesne led by John Forbes. This earlier
target of the Conway Cabal surprised a garrison of Hessian soldiers at a garrison in Trenton with an early-morning
river crossing in 1776. For 10 points, name this Revolutionary War general and first president of the United States.
ANSWER: George Washington
2. The entirety of Johannes Ockeghem’s Missa Prolationum utilizes the “mensuration” type of this musical
form. The most famous musical work in this form features the note sequence “D, A, B, F-sharp, G, D, G, A”
throughout and is in D major. This musical form uses the notation of “dux” and “comes,” and in his Musical
Offering, Johann Sebastian Bach included an example of the (*) “crab” variety of this musical form. When all
the parts of this musical form are exactly the same, it is called a “round.” For 10 points, name this musical form, a
famous example of which was composed by Pachelbel.
ANSWER: canons [prompt on “round”]
3. In one of this author’s novels, the protagonist drinks a bottle of whiskey after the birth of his child, leading
him to throw up while teaching a class. In another novel by this author, fifteen reform school boys are sent to
a plague-infested village. The narrator of a novel by this author recounts how his brother organized a youth
rebellion against a Korean grocery store-owner nicknamed “The (*) Emperor.” This author created a character
who dreams of travelling to Africa and whose son is diagnosed with a brain hernia. For 10 points, name this
Japanese author of Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids and A Silent Cry, who wrote about Bird in A Personal Matter.
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe [either order]
4. A group of Icelandic settlers established New Iceland in this province in 1875, and a general strike
occurred in this province’s capital city during the premiership of Robert Borden in 1919. This province’s
northeastern portion contained the Hudson’s Bay Company trading post of York Factory, which sat at the
mouth of the Hayes River. This province was admitted to Canada after a rebellion of the (*) Métis led by
Louis Riel. This province became a province following that Red River Rebellion of 1870. This province sits to the
north of North Dakota and Minnesota. For 10 points, name this Canadian province with capital at Winnipeg.
ANSWER: Manitoba

5. If every irreducible polynomial over one of these structures has distinct roots, then it is said to be perfect. If
the only irreducible polynomials over one of these objects are of degree one, then it is algebraically closed.
Galois theory is concerned with the properties of the algebraic extensions of these objects. The quotients (*) Z
mod p Z for any prime p are examples of finite varieties of these objects. In linear algebra, vector spaces are defined
over these objects. In these commutative rings, each nonzero object has a multiplicative inverse. For 10 points, name
these mathematical objects where multiplication distributes over addition, examples of which include the reals,
rationals, and complex numbers.
ANSWER: fields [prompt on “groups”]
6. Jacob Burckhardt compares this entity to a “work of art” in the first chapter of his The Civilization of the
Renaissance. Kenneth Waltz described how these entities engage in “bandwagoning,” and wrote a book titled
for “Man, [this entity], and War.” Herbert Spencer argued for a “right to ignore” this entity, and also penned
a work titled “Man versus [this entity].” Max Weber [VAY-bur] defined this entity as having a (*) “monopoly
on the legitimate use of force.” For 10 points, name these sometimes sovereign entities which, today, usually exist in
geographical combination with nations.
ANSWER: states [accept nation-states, prompt on “country,” “nation,” or “government” until after “Herbert
Spencer” is read.]
7. The unofficial anthem of an event in this country was the song “Rais Lebled,” which was released by the
rapper El General. This country’s Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi removed all members of the
Democratic Constitutional Rally from its government shortly before the (*) Ennahda Movement was legalized
in this nation. This country currently led by Moncef Marzouki ousted its president in 2011 in the so-called “Jasmine
Revolution.” For 10 points, name this country formerly ruled by Ben Ali, a North African nation whose 2011
revolution kicked off the Arab Spring.
ANSWER: Tunisian Republic
8. One character in this novel praises his cook Serle’s ability to boil legs of lamb and eggs, and has difficulty
remembering a series of riddles opening with the phrase “Kitty, a fair but frozen maid.” In this novel, a pair
of gypsies chases after a group of women after a ball at the Crown Inn, and a (*) piano is anonymously gifted
to Miss Bates’ niece. That niece, Jane Fairfax, is secretly engaged with Frank Churchill in this novel. This novel’s
title character lives in Highbury with her hypochondriac father, and marries Mr. Knightley at the end of this novel.
For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel centering on the title matchmaking daughter of Mr. Woodhouse.
ANSWER: Emma
9. This thinker declared that “there is no fate that cannot be surmounted by scorn” in a work that features a
section written from the perspective of a “conquerer,” who is contrasted with the “seducer” and “actor.”
Those three archetypes are given by this thinker as human responses to a discrepancy between human desire
for reason and the universe’s irrationality, which he termed “the (*) absurd.” In that essay by this thinker, he
compared the human condition to the title mythological figure rolling a rock up a hill. For 10 points, name this
author of The Myth of Sisyphus, as well as the novel The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus

10. Coordination compounds with this geometry undergo ligand exchange by an associative mechanism, with
their kinetics mostly influenced by the “trans effect”. d8 complex ions with 4th and 5th period transition metal
centers are the most likely to have this geometry. The d-orbitals of complex ions with this geometry are split
into (*) four energy levels, and this geometry is sterically disfavored when compared to the tetrahedral molecular
geometry. Examples of compounds with this geometry include cisplatin and xenon tetrafluoride, and by the AXE
model, compounds with this geometry are bonded to four atoms and have two lone pairs. For 10 points, name this
geometry consisting of four planar right angles.
ANSWER: square planar
11. This poem is the best-known in its author’s in the Teddy Roosevelt-dedicated collection The Town Down
The River. The image of “the medieval grace / of iron clothing” appears in this poem, in which “Romance” is
described as “now on the town” and “Art” is termed “a vagrant.” The title character of this poem “dreamed
of Thebes and Camelot,” and “grew (*) lean while he assailed the seasons.” This last stanza of this poem ends by
describing how its title character “kept on drinking,” and describes him as “born too late.” For 10 points, name this
narrative poem about a “child of scorn” by the author of “Richard Cory,” Edward Arlington Robinson.
ANSWER: “Miniver Cheevy”
12. One painting by this artist depicts a nude man facing away from the viewer and toward a motorcycle with
a headlight shining to the right. Another painting by this artist shows a large cross made of two sticks with
white cloth wrapped around it. This creator of Man and the Moon and Dodges Ridge painted a nude blonde
woman sitting on a stool next to an open window in Lovers, one of over 240 works he made depicting his (*)
neighbor Helga Testorf. This artist’s best-known work shows a woman in a pink dress looking up at two buildings
while crawling in a field due to her polio. For 10 points, name this American realist artist of Christina’s World.
ANSWER: Andrew Wyeth
13. An orchestral “outtake” from this opera ends with the sound of a gramophone winding down and depicts
two characters dancing after one descends from a portrait on the wall. After a performance of a ballet in this
opera, a character rushes onstage and sings about her husband, a man “who raised the weak above the
strong.” Another woman in this opera sings the aria “This is (*) Prophetic” while in a palace. This opera
includes a performance of The Red Detachment of Women, and opens with the title character arriving on the Spirit of
‘76 with his wife, Pat. For 10 points, name this John Adams opera based on an American president’s visit to a
country ruled by Mao Zedong.
ANSWER: Nixon in China
14. In the leadup to this battle, one commander wrote to Emma Hamilton that an explanation of the strategy
he would use in this battle was like “an electric shock” to his officers; that commander’s tactic consisted of
splitting his forces into two columns and was known as his “touch.” One message sent during this battle
originally included the word “confides,” but was changed to simplify the (*) semaphore signal to “England
expects that every man will do his duty.” The commander of one side during this battle was killed by a sniper on the
Redoubtable; that death occurred on his flagship, the Victory. For 10 points, identify this crucial 1805 naval battle in
which Napoleon’s fleet was defeated despite the death of Admiral Horatio Nelson.
ANSWER: Battle of Trafalgar

15. Sessha and masha are miniature versions of these places located inside larger, more typical versions. By
one system, twenty-two of these places are divided into an upper and middle seven and a lower eight. These
locations feature buildings known as honden that house mirrors. A common type of these locations is guarded
by white fox statues and is associated with (*) Inari. The most important of these places is rebuilt every twenty
years, and is located in the city of Ise. The entrances to these places are demarcated by horseshoe-shaped gates
known as torii. For 10 points, name these locations of enshrined kami, the places of worship in a Japanese religion.
ANSWER: Shinto shrines [accept synonyms like temple for shrine, though give a warning that shrine is more
correct; prompt on partial answer; do not accept “Buddhist” in place of Shinto]
16. These particles are generated in the Fermilab g-2 [“g minus two”] experiment by collision of particle beams
that form pions, which then decay into these particles. Quantum electrodynamic corrections to the energy levels
of the atom, like the Lamb shift, are amplified in exotic atoms containing these particles. These particles are
predicted to catalyze hydrogen fusion at low temperatures. Although the proper lifetime of these particles is
only (*) 2.2 microseconds, due to special relativity Rossi and Hall observed much longer lifetimes for atmospheric
ones. For 10 points, name these leptons that are heavier than electrons but lighter than tauons.
ANSWER: muons
17. One political party in this modern-day country issued the “Seventeen Principles” in 1933, and had an
emblem consisting of a grenade exploding inside a large “U.” The siege of Bihac was lifted by this country’s
forces during Operation Storm, which brought an end to this country’s war for independence. Separatists in
this modern-day country blockaded roads using trees in the so-called (*) “Log Revolution.” During World War
II, this country was ruled by a fascist regime known as the Ustase, and Franjo Tudjman led this country after it
became the second state to secede from Yugoslavia after Slovenia. For 10 points, name this Balkan state governed
from Zagreb.
ANSWER: Republic of Croatia [accept Republika Hrvatska]
18. One class of highly-conserved proteins involved in this process contain a protein domain with long repeats
of serine and arginine residues; those are the SR proteins. The trans-type of this process is used almost
exclusively in trypanosomes. In one form of this process, the 2-prime hydroxyl of an in-sequence adenine
nucleotide nucleophilically attacks a 5’-site, forming a (*) lariat that is liberated by a second trans-esterification.
Sections to undergo this process are marked by a 3-prime AG and a 5-prime GU, and ribozymes can perform this
process on themselves. This process is catalyzed by snRNPs and preserves the exons. For 10 points, name this process
in which the introns are removed from the pre-mRNA.
ANSWER: splicing
19. This poet described a “shooting-gallery’s targets of bedizened happiness” in a poem which ends with the
image of an emotion “that almost overwhelms us / whenever a happy thing falls.” Another poem by this
author describes the “tensed, arrested muscles” of an animal which paces “in cramped circles” behind bars.
The declaration “You must change your (*) life” ends a third poem by this author, who wrote a collection of ten
poems, the first of which begins with the line “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angels’ hierarchies?”
For 10 points, name this German author of “The Panther,” “The Archaic Torso of Apollo,” and the Duino Elegies.
ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke

20. This hero accidentally hit Derbforgaill [DEV-or-gill] with a sling and sucked the stone out of her side,
then collapsed a house on 150 women after they jealously killed Derbforgaill. Fand, the wife of Manannan
mac Lir, nearly stole this man away from his wife Emer before Manannan caused him to forget her. This
hero’s death came after (*) Lugaid took revenge for the death of his father Cu Roi. This hero was mentored by
Scathach, who gave him a spear made of the bones of a sea monster. This man resisted the temptations of the
Morrigan while fighting off Queen Medb when she attempted the Cattle Raid of Cooley. For 10 points, name this
hero of the Ulster cycle of Irish mythology.
ANSWER: Cuchulainn [accept Sétanta]
21. One character of this profession refers to his sexual conquests as “subjects,” takes it up to get closer to
Joelle van Dyne, and is named Orin Incandenza. In The World According to Garp, Roberta Muldoon was a
member of this profession before undergoing a sex change. An alcoholic character formerly of this profession
met Skipper while doing it, and is the son of Big Daddy in (*) Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. Leigh Anne Tuohy’s
adoption of Michael Oher [OAR], a member of this profession, is described in Michael Lewis’ book The Blind Side.
For 10 points, name this profession of people who work for organizations like the Baltimore Ravens.
ANSWER: Professional American football player [accept more specific answers, like punters]

Bonuses
1. Answer the following questions about the geologic time scale. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this geological period that saw the extinction of the dinosaurs. It was the last period of the Mesozoic era,
and preceded the Tertiary period.
ANSWER: Cretaceous
[10] This earlier geologic period, which occurred between 416 and 359 million years ago, saw the diversification of
the fishes. During the latter half of this period, lobe-finned fishes evolved into the first land-dwelling tetrapods.
ANSWER: Devonian
[10] This Precambrian period saw the Snowball Earth glaciations and the evolution of the first metazoans. It preceded
the Ediacaran.
ANSWER: Cryogenian
2. After the Battle of Kleidion, this man blinded 99 out of every 100 prisoners, while the 100th was blinded in one
eye and told to lead the rest home. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this emperor of the Macedonian dynasty, best-known for conquering an empire whose resistance was led
by the Cometopuli Brothers until 1018.
ANSWER: Basil II (accept Basil the Bulgar-Slayer, Basil the Young, and Basil the Porphyrogenitus, prompt on
just “Basil”)
[10] Basil the Bulgar-Slayer was a leader of this empire. Later on in the 11th century, its forces were crushed by the
Seljuk Turks at the Battle of Manzikert, and it was earlier led by Justinian the Great.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire (accept Eastern Roman Empire)
[10] Basil’s sister Anna married Vladimir I, bringing Christianity to this federation of tribes. Things went south
quickly for this entity after the Golden Horde captured their capital, which currently serves as the capital of Ukraine.
ANSWER: Kievan Rus’
3. This text lays blame at the feet of “one evil man,” Lt. Colonel du Paty de Clam, and makes reference to a “ghastly
miscarriage of justice.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this open letter penned by Emile Zola about the Dreyfus Affair.
ANSWER: J’accuse…! [or I accuse!]
[10] This English author of Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man penned a famous open letter during World War I titled
Finished With the War: A Soldier’s Declaration, in which he declined to return to duty.
ANSWER: Siegfried Sassoon
[10] This man founded the literary journal McSweeney’s, which has a recurring feature of “Open Letters to People or
Entities Who Are Unlikely to Respond,” a shining example of which is the one to the “Hot Canadian Zumba
Teacher Who Pulled Me Onstage After My Mother Died.” This contemporary American author also wrote the
memoir A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.
ANSWER: Dave Eggers

4. In West Bengal, this goddess is worshipped on the day that most of the rest of India celebrates Lakshmi, Diwali
[di-VAL-ee]. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this goddess. This manifestation of shakti frequently portrayed wearing a belt of human limbs and a
garland of human heads and stepping on her consort.
ANSWER: Kali
[10] Kali is the consort of this “Destroyer” god of Hindiusm, who is often depicted in meditation.
ANSWER: Shiva
[10] The “Nataraja” depiction of Shiva shows him performing this action, a statue of which inspired a Christian
hymn titled for the “Lord” of this action. A “Ghost” form of this practice spread among Native Americans following
an 1889 vision by Jack Wilson.
ANSWER: dance [accept “Lord of the Dance” or Ghost Dance]
5. One aria in this opera, “When I am laid in earth,” is popularly known as one of its title characters’ “lament.” For
10 points each:
[10] Name this Henry Purcell opera based on Book IV of a work by Virgil.
ANSWER: Dido and Aeneas
[10] This later English opera composer collaborated on works like The Mikado and The Pirates of Penzance with W.
S. Gilbert.
ANSWER: Arthur Seymour Sullivan
[10] Opera isn’t dead in England! This contemporary English composer penned the music for Powder Her Face, an
opera about the “Dirty Duchess” Margaret Campbell, as well as a 2004 adaptation of The Tempest.
ANSWER: Thomas Ades
6. These equations set the density of a fluid times the material derivative of its velocity field as equal to the summation
of body forces acting on the fluid, and the divergence of stress. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these equations whose solutions in three dimensions have not yet been proven to exist. They are a
restatement of Newton’s second law for fluids.
ANSWER: Navier-Stokes equations
[10] This dimensionless quantity is the ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces. At low values of this quantity, laminar
flow predominates whereas at high values, turbulent flow predominates.
ANSWER: Reynolds number
[10] In the case of laminar fluid flow through a circular pipe of constant cross-section, this law predicts the pressure
loss of the fluid as proportional to the volumetric flow rate over the radius to the fourth power. It is often used in
quantitative descriptions of flow within blood vessels.
ANSWER: Hagen-Poiseuille equation
7. The Prasthanatrayi, or “three sources,” are the three canonical texts of this philosophical school, whose
“Advaita” subschool was popuarlized by Adi Shankara. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this orthodox school of Hindu philosophy frequently concerned with interpreting the Brahma Sutras, and
the Bhagavad Gita.
ANSWER: Vedanta [prompt on “Vedic”]
[10] This collection of Vedic texts is the third core text of Vedanta philosophy. This collection contrasts Brahman
and Atman, frequently repeats the mantra “Aum shanti shanti shanti,” and heavily influenced the later philosophy of
Arnold Schopenhauer.
ANSWER: the Upanishads
[10] This other school of Hindu philosophy is derived from a text ascribed to Patanjali. In the West, its name is
frequently used to describe a set of physical exercises divorced from their spiritual context.
ANSWER: raja yoga

8. The Mohatta Palace in this city once had a secret tunnel to a nearby Hindu temple. For 10 points each:
[10]Manora Island shelters the harbor of this largest Pakistani city from the Arabian Sea.
ANSWER: Karachi
[10] Like all of Pakistan, this language is spoken in Pakistan. This derivate of Khariboli is mutually intelligible with
Hindi.
ANSWER: Modern Standard Urdu
[10] Karachi is the capital of this province of Pakistan. This province contains the ruins of the ancient city of
Mohenjo-Daro, as well as the Mouths of the Indus River.
ANSWER: Sindh
9. One essay by this author is framed as a letter to his nephew on the hundredth anniversary of emancipation in
America. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of “My Dungeon Shook,” who criticized Uncle Tom’s Cabin in his essay “Everybody’s
Protest Novel.” He also wrote the novel Go Tell It on the Mountain.
ANSWER: James Baldwin
[10] “Everybody’s Protest Novel,” as well as “Many Thousands Gone,” appear in a collection titled for “Notes” on
this Richard Wright novel centering on Bigger Thomas, and criticize this novel heavily.
ANSWER: Native Son
[10] In this short story by Baldwin, a sheriff becomes sexually aroused while lying in bed next to his wife after
remembering a lynching he witnessed as a child.
ANSWER: “Going to Meet the Man”
10. One ruler of this dynasty ordered the completion of the Grand Canal, and may have ordered the murder of his
father, Emperor Wen, who founded this dynasty. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dynasty centered at Chang’an that was ruled by Emperor Yang and succeeded by the Tang and Song
dynasties.
ANSWER: Sui Dynasty [sway]
[10] Emperor Yang was responsible for standardizing the imperial examination system used to select members of
the bureaucracy, but the practice probably originated during this earlier dynasty, which lends its name to China’s
most populous ethnic group.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
[10] The Sui Dynasty launched a series of invasions against this Korean kingdom between 598 and 612. This
kingdom was earlier ruled by the conquerer Gwanggaeto the Great.
ANSWER: Goguryeo [or Koguryeo]
11. A common sweetener is formed by processing corn syrup in order to enrich it in this molecule. For 10 points each:
[10] Sucrose is a disaccharide formed by an alpha-1,2-glycosidic linkage between glucose and this molecule. This
monosaccharide can be incorporated into glycolysis at an intermediate step involving a phosphate bound to this
molecule.
ANSWER: fructose
[10] This enzyme catalyzes the rate determining step of the investment phase of glycolysis. It forms fructose-1,6bisphosphate from fructose-6-phosphate and ATP.
ANSWER: phosphofructokinase-1
[10] This compound has the highest-energy phosphate bond formed in living organisms. It is formed from the action of
enolase on 2-phosphoglycerate in glycolysis, and by the decarboxylation of oxaloacetate in gluconeogenesis.
ANSWER: phosphoenolpyruvate

12. Chopin’s Opus 57 is a work in this form that consists of variations in D-flat major. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this musical form akin to a lullaby. Compositions in this form are usually in 6/8 time.
ANSWER: berceuse
[10] This composer included a famous Berceuse movement depicting the “awakening” of Kashchei the Immortal in
a ballet in which Prince Ivan defeats Kashchei by destroying a giant egg, The Firebird.
ANSWER: Igor Stravinsky
[10] This composer included an A-flat major Berceuse for solo piano in his Six Romances. This Russian is better
known for writing the 1812 Overture.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
13. At one point, Will Ladislaw remarks that this work is obsolete because its author “has not read the Germans.”
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this research project of Edward Casaubon, who attempts to get his wife Dorothea Brooke to finish it
upon his death.
ANSWER: The Key to All Mythologies
[10] Edward Casaubon and Dorothea Brooke appear in this “study of provincial life” written by George Eliot.
ANSWER: Middlemarch
[10] Eliot also penned this work, which ends with the siblings Tom and Maggie Tulliver embracing, and then
drowning, after their boat capsizes.
ANSWER: The Mill on the Floss
14. To accurately depict resonance, one needs to use a combination of these structures. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these diagrams in which lone pairs are represented by dots on their respective atoms, and bonding pairs are
represented by lines between atoms. They are usually drawn for covalently-bonded molecules.
ANSWER: Lewis dot diagrams
[10] For an atom in a Lewis structure, this value is equal to the number of valence electrons in the neutral atom, minus
the number of nonbonding electrons and one-half the bonding electrons.
ANSWER: formal charge
[10] In organic chemistry, this phenomenon is the delocalization of the electrons in a carbon-hydrogen or carboncarbon sigma bond into an adjacent p-orbital or antibonding pi-orbital.
ANSWER: hyperconjugation
15. Thucydides survived this 430 BCE epidemic, which allowed him to write about it in his History of the
Peloponnesian War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this epidemic that may have entered a certain city through the port of Piraeus, and which caused invading
Spartans to turn around at the site of burning funeral pyres.
ANSWER: the Plague of Athens
[10] This Athenian politician, as well as his family, died in the Plague of Athens. He delivered a notable funeral
oration during the Peloponnesian War, and oversaw the construction of the Acropolis.
ANSWER: Pericles
[10] This companion-slash-mistress of Pericles may have actually written the Funeral Oration as recorded in
Thucydides, according to Plato.
ANSWER: Aspasia

16. U.S. Secretary of State Frank Kellogg hailed from this state, as did the presidential candidate Eugene McCarthy.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this US state in which the Democratic and Farmer-Labor parties merged in 1944.
ANSWER: Minnesota
[10] This Minnesota politician oversaw the fusion of the Democratic and Farmer-Labor parties. He went on to serve
as Vice President under LBJ before becoming the 1968 Democratic nominee for the presidency.
ANSWER: Hubert H. Humphrey
[10] This was the election year in which McCarthy and Humphrey vied for the Democratic nomination, following
the assassination of Robert Kennedy. The Democratic National Convention in Chicago in this year was marred by
riots, and Richard Nixon ultimately won the general election.
ANSWER: 1968
17. This king of Pisa wins a chariot race against Oenomaus to win the hand of Oenomaus’s daughter Hippodamia.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this figure who has an ivory left shoulder because Demeter ate his real one after this figure was served as
a meal to the gods.
ANSWER: Pelops
[10] This father of Pelops was responsible for attempting to serve Pelops as a meal. For that crime and others, this
man was condemned to eternally desire food and water just out of reach.
ANSWER: Tantalus
[10] Pelops won the chariot race with the help of this charioteer of Oenomaus, who replaced the metal lynchpins of
Oenomaus’s chariot with beeswax. In thanks to this man, Pelops threw him off a cliff.
ANSWER: Myrtilus
18. One author from this country introduced the sort-of Existentialist genre of tremendismo with his novel The
Family of Pascual Duarte. For 10 points each:
[10] This home country of Camilo Jose Cela was also the home of an author who described some of his works as
nivolas, Miguel de Unamuno. Unamuno was a member of this European country’s literary Generation of ‘98.
ANSWER: Spain
[10] This Spanish Golden Age poet and advocate of culteranismo penned his 1613 collection Soledades entirely in
silva strophes, and was a major rival of Francisco de Quevedo.
ANSWER: Luis de Gongora
[10] Another key literary work of Golden Age Spain is this one about Segismundo, a fictional prince of Poland who
is imprisoned in a tower by his father, King Basilio.
ANSWER: Life is a Dream [or La vida es sueno]
19. In 1805, Joseph Hamilton Daviess accused a vice president of conspiring to invade this country, but the case was
dismissed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country. During another instance of this country being invaded, the French Foreign Legion held off a
force of three thousand soldiers at the Battle of Camaron.
ANSWER: Mexico
[10] General Dewey Haik orders an invasion of Mexico in order to inspire patriotism in this author’s anti-fascist
novel It Can’t Happen Here. This man also wrote Babbitt and Main Street.
ANSWER: Sinclair Lewis
[10] An actual United States invasion of Mexico was ended by this 1848 treaty negotiated by Nicholas Trist.
ANSWER: Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo

20. A cycle of frescoes by this artist in the Basilica of San Francesco includes a depiction of the battle between
Heraclius and Khosrau, and is titled The History of the True Cross. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this heavily geometrical artist who depicted Jesus strapped to a pillar topped by a golden statue in his The
Flagellation of Christ.
ANSWER: Piero della Francesca
[10] This later Italian painted the interior of the Scuola Grande di San Rocco, as well as four paintings from the life
of St. Mark and a dim, diagonally oriented depiction of the Last Supper.
ANSWER: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin]
[10] The Scuola Grande di San Rocco also includes a work by this painter of the Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecelli]

