2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 10
Tossups

1. This case prompted two vehement dissents from Benjamin Curtis and John McLean. One
party was the brother of Irene Emerson, whose late husband had moved the family from
Missouri to the free territory of Wisconsin. It concluded with Chief Justice Roger Taney
declaring the Missouri Compromise to be unconstitutional, and thus Congress had no power
to prohibit slavery in the territories. For 10 points, name this 1857 Supreme Court case in
which a black slave unsuccessfully attempted to gain his freedom.
ANSWER: Dred Scott case [or Dred Scott v. Sanford; or Sanford v. Dred Scott]
2. An author from this country told of a title character who strangles her husband at the
Ermita after he refuses to have children. Another author from here wrote of Prince
Sigismund, who claims that living is a “frenzy” and an “illusion” after being drugged and
installed on the Polish throne. Another play from this home country of the author of Yerma
tells of a commander who is killed by the residents of the title town. For 10 points, name this
country, home to the authors of The Sheep Well and Life is a Dream, Lope de Vega and
Calderon de la Barca.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or España]
3. This phenomenon can gather interstellar helium together in the so-called helium focusing
cone. This phenomenon interacts with a large magnetic field to produce the Parker spiral. The
effect of ICMEs can disrupt its formation, and when this phenomenon slows to below the
speed of sound, it produces the termination shock. This phenomenon interacts with the
magnetosphere to produce geomagnetic storms and auroras. For 10 points, name this stream
of charged particles emitted from the star closest to Earth.
ANSWER: the solar wind
4. An early portrait of this artist was mistakenly identified as that of Ludovico Ariosto, and his
woodcuts include the Crossing of the Red Sea. This painter of frescoes for the Santo Spirito
completed an equestrian portrait of Charles V and mythological scenes such as Bacchus and
Ariadne. The title family kneels before Saint Peter and the title figure in his Pesaro Madonna,
and he also painted Sacred and Profane Love. A dog lies at the foot of a bed occupied by a
nude in, for 10 points, the Venus of Urbino by what Italian artist?
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 1 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. Clark Hull charged that these organisms were left “buried in thought” by Edward Tolman,
who analyzed their ability to form cognitive maps in Purposive Behavior in Animals and Men.
Harvey Carr and John Watson placed a barrier in front of them in the “Kerplunk” experiment,
and their spatial memory is tested in the Morris water maze. Donaldson, Greenman, and King
developed the Wister strain, which displaced the common house mouse as a model organism.
For 10 points, name this type of rodent.
ANSWER: laboratory rats
6. This man allied his country with France via the Treaty of Bärwalde, and his cavalry turned
captured artillery on the opposing forces to help him win the Battle of Breitenfeld. He failed
to lift the siege of Magdeburg, one of his few defeats to Tilly, and this “father of modern
warfare” was succeeded by his chief minister, Axel Oxenstierna. Sometimes called the Lion of
the North, he was killed while opposing Wallenstein at the Battle of Lutzen. For 10 points,
name this king of Sweden during the Thirty Years’ War.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf]
7. The Lithuanian god of this, Perkunas, resembles the name linguists reconstructed for an
early god of this entity, Perkwunos, to whom the oak tree was sacred. In the Kalevala, Ukko is
the god of this, and the Japanese god of this, Raijin, is the brother of Fujin the wind god. In
Hindu mythology, this phenomenon is caused by the vajra, a weapon owned by Indra, the
chief god of the Vedas. The Norse god of this owns Mjollnir, a hammer. For 10 points, name
this weather phenomenon associated with Thor and Zeus.
ANSWER: thunder [or lightning]
8. Much of this nation’s northern border is formed by the Hondo River, which empties into
Chetumal Bay. In 1961, Hurricane Hattie prompted the relocation of its capital to a planned
inland city on its namesake river. This nation’s Caribbean coastline is marked by the secondlargest barrier reef in the world. The only Central American nation not derived from a Spanish
colony, it was known as British Honduras until 1981. For 10 points, name this small Central
American nation with capital Belmopan.
ANSWER: Belize
9. With his father, this man designed Crow Osland School in Winetka, Illinois. Kevin Roche and
John Dinkeloo completed this man’s projects following his death. His only skyscraper was the
CBS headquarters in New York, and he designed the Ingalls Hockey Rink for Yale University.
The handkerchief dome characterizes his Kresge Auditorium at MIT, and his airport designs
include the Dulles International Airport terminal and the TWA terminal for JFK Airport. For 10
points name this Finnish-born American architect who also designed St. Louis’ Gateway Arch.
ANSWER: Eero Saarinen

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 2 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. One step in this process is the reaction of succinate and ubiquinone, while an enzyme key
to another step is fumarase. Another step in this set of reactions is an aldol condensation of
oxaloacetic acid to give a namesake six-carbon compound. This process, which follows
glycolysis, begins by converting pyruvate to acetyl CoA, and some reactions require FADH2 as
a prosthetic group. Its end products include two net ATP, and it is carried out in the
mitochondrial matrix. For 10 points, name this stage of cellular respiration also called the
citric acid cycle.
ANSWER: Krebs cycle [or citric acid cycle before the end]
11. This man’s successor moved up from Secretary of War following a treaty that rejected his
country’s claims on the Dodecanese and Cyprus. A treaty that recognized his government
gave him the cities of Ardahan and Kars. His success at a battle that led to an armistice at
Mudanya also led him to gain the title of Gazi. This friend of Ismet Inonu aided in negotiations
at Lausanne, and he counted among his enemies the CUP leader Enver Pasha. For 10 points,
name this late Ottoman figure who gained the title “Father of the Turks.”
ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk [accept either]
12. This work’s protagonist visits a retired English teacher who gives him an earphone
transmitter and prophesies the destruction of society through atomic war. The protagonist
drives away his wife’s friends by reading Matthew Arnold’s “Dover Beach,” and Mildred
informs him of their neighbor Clarisse’s death. After killing the fire chief Captain Beatty and
escaping the Mechanical Hound, Guy Montag attempts to become a “living book.” For 10
points, name this Ray Bradbury novel in which firefighters burn books at the title
temperature.
ANSWER: Fahrenheit 451
13. One adherent of this philosophical idea wrote Man Against Mass Society and Mystery of
Being. In addition to Gabriel Marcel, another proponent of this belief contrasted the states of
being-in-itself and being-for-itself. An essay promoting this belief argued that the
meaninglessness of life should lead people to revolt instead of committing suicide. For 10
points, name this philosophical belief promoted in The Myth of Sisyphus by Albert Camus and
Being and Nothingness by Jean-Paul Sartre.
ANSWER: existentialism
14. The Legendre variety of these mathematical objects appears when solving Laplace’s
equation, and eigenvalues can be identified via the characteristic variety of these objects.
Those that contain an infinite number of terms are known as a power series, and a fraction of
two of them is known as a rational function. Although there is no general formula to solve
quintic ones, those of smaller degree can always be solved for x via the quartic, cubic, and
quadratic equations. For 10 points, name these functions, a sum of terms with constants
multiplied by powers of x.
ANSWER: polynomial functions [or polynomials; prompt on function]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 3 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. One character in this novel figures out the answer to a riddle is the word “courtship” and
adds that to her friend’s riddle book. Augusta marries the vicar Phillip Elton after he is refused
by the title character, and that character advises her friend not to marry the farmer Robert
Martin. Jane Fairfax marries Frank Churchill in this novel, and the protagonist finally marries
George Knightly after playing matchmaker for most of the other characters in this novel. For
10 points, name this work by Jane Austen
ANSWER: Emma
16. This man formed the province of Arabia Petraea from the conquered kingdom of
Nabataea, and he commissioned the building of Apollodorus of Damascus’ massive new
forum back in Rome. More famous was this man’s victory at the Second Battle of Tapae,
defeating Decebalus and thus ending the Dacian Wars. This ruler deified his predecessor
Nerva, and this Spanish-born “Good Emperor” was the first Roman emperor born outside of
Italy. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor who preceeded Hadrian, the namesake of a
famous column.
ANSWER: Trajan [or Caesar Divi Nervae Filius Nerva Traianus Optimus Augustus]
17. The movement titles of this piece may have come from Le portrait musical de la nature by
Justin Knecht, and the coda of its final movement is described as “the tail that wags the dog.”
The second movement contains a cadenza for woodwind trio that imitates birdsong and is
titled “By the Brook.” A thunderstorm and dancing peasants are depicted in other movements
of this work, which follows a notable C-minor piece by its composer. For 10 points, identify
this symphony, a work in F major by Beethoven that depicts events in the countryside.
ANSWER: Pastoral Symphony [or Symphony No. 6; accept equivalents]
18. Prior to coming to power, this man signed a peace deal with John Garang to end a long
civil war, and he married the widow of war hero Ibrahim Sham al-Din. He has put forth a
policy of encouraging others in his country to marry war widows. Known for waving a walking
stick in public appearances, in March 2009, he ordered U.N. peacekeepers out of his nation.
He has been accused of aiding the Janjaweed militia in committing war crimes in Darfur. For
10 points, name this president of Sudan.
ANSWER: Omar al-Bashir
19. She created Bartholomew Oliver, who hosts a pageant by Miss La Trobe in the novel
Between the Acts. This author was fictionalized in a work in which Clarissa Vaughan’s poet
friend Richard has AIDS. The focus of The Hours, this author appears in the title of a work
whose central characters are George and Martha. This author wrote about a man who turns
into a woman and has also created the characters Septimus Smith and Lily Briscoe. For 10
points, name this author of Orlando, To The Lighthouse, and Mrs. Dalloway.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 4 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. The Schrödinger–Riccati equation finds curves of this quantity for hydrogen, and the first
step of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation yields surfaces of this quantity. It is the
negative moment dot the electric field for an electric dipole, and for two charged particles, it
equals the product of the charges and a constant over distance. The Lagrangian of a system
equals kinetic energy minus this quantity, and for a spring this quantity equals half the spring
constant times the displacement squared. For 10 points, name this quantity, the energy of a
system due to position.
ANSWER: potential energy
21. This nation suffered defeat in the Thirty Days’ War of 1897. It was ruled by the Colonels
between 1967 and 1974, and was led into World War II by John Metaxas. This nation gained
independence following a revolution led by the Ypsilanti brothers, a conflict against the
Ottoman empire that witnessed the Battle of Navarino, the Massacre at Chios, and the death
of Lord Byron. Currently struggling for control of Cyprus with Turkey, for 10 points, name this
southernmost nation of the Balkan peninsula, home to the cities of Thessaloniki and Athens.
ANSWER: Greece [or the Hellenic Republic]
22. One character in this work is a governess named Charlotta who can do magic tricks.
Another character in this work is kissed by Yasha despite a marriage proposal from
Yepikhodov. At the end of this work, Firs is accidentally boarded up into a house. Varya will
not marry Lopakhin for money in this work, which also sees Madame Ranevskaya fall into
debt and become forced to sell the title estate. For 10 points, name this play in which
Lopakhin has the title wooded area chopped down, by Anton Chekhov.
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishniovy sad]
23. The properties of elastomers used in thermoplastics rely on this force giving way at high
temperatures. An interaction named for Hoogsteen requires an unusual number of these to
form, and the Pauling-Corey rules concern the role of this force in secondary structure. This
force is responsible for water’s ability to solvate anions, and it is modeled as the interaction
between a bonding or nonbonding orbitals with an antibonding orbital. For 10 points, name
this force between electronegative atoms and its namesake element with atomic number
one.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonding

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 5 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 10
Bonuses

1. Laurent is the servant of the title character, who steals some documents from Argas. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this play in which Orgon is convinced that the title character is a deeply pious man.
Turns out, he is a religious hypocrite.
ANSWER: Tartuffe, or the Hypocrite [or Tartuffe, ou l’Imposteur]
[10] Name the French author of Tartuffe who collapsed on stage and later died while
performing another of his plays, The Imaginary Invalid.
ANSWER:Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
[10] Alceste, the title character of this other Molière play, is hated for his impoliteness, which
manifests itself when he refuses to compliment a sonnet written by Oronte.
ANSWER: The Misanthrope [or Le Misanthrope]
2. For 10 points each, name the following types of mixtures.
[10] In this type, dispersed particles are too large to dissolve but will not easily settle out if the
mixture is left undisturbed. Their properties are between those of solutions and suspensions.
ANSWER: colloids
[10] In this type of colloid, both the dispersed and continuous phase are liquids. The most
common example is mayonnaise.
ANSWER: emulsions
[10] In this other type of colloid, the dispersed phase is solid and the continuous phase is
liquid. Examples include blood and most pigmented liquids.
ANSWER: sols
3. Austrian Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg organized a desperate popular vote in a last-ditch
effort to keep his country sovereign. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this incorporation of Austria into Germany in 1938.
ANSWER: Anschluss
[10] After basically giving Hitler Czechoslovakia in exchange for a weak promise of peace, this
British Prime Minister promised “peace for our time.”
ANSWER: Neville Chamberlain
[10] This term is associated with Nazi Germany’s belief that additional territory was necessary
for national survival.
ANSWER: Lebensraum

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 6 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. This genre introduced the ensemble finale, and the first example of it is often considered to
be Giovanni Battista Pergolesi’s La serva padrona. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of comic opera that is often contrasted with opera seria.
ANSWER: opera buffa [or opera bouffe]
[10] This German composer’s The Unexpected Encounter is an example of another genre,
opera comique. Other works by this rival of Piccinni include Alceste and Orfeo et Euridice.
ANSWER: Christopher Willibald Gluck
[10] Another example of opera comique is The Village Soothsayer, by this Frenchman. He may
be better known for written works such as Émile and The Social Contract.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
5. Every night, this god changes into a giant cat so he can slay the evil serpent Apophis. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Egyptian sun god.
ANSWER: Ra
[10] The “eye of Ra” is an epithet given to the destroyer goddess Sekhmet, who is actually an
aspect of this more gentle cow-headed fertility goddess of Egypt.
ANSWER: Hathor
[10] In slaying Apophis, Ra is sometimes helped by this god, who attacks Apophis with a spear.
He also murdered his brother Osiris.
ANSWER: Seth [or Set; or Sutekh; or Setech; or Setesh]
6. This poem notes “Water, water everywhere,/ nor any drop to drink.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem about a man who stops wedding guests to tell them about how he killed
an albatross. It is collected in Lyrical Ballads.
ANSWER: The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
[10] A poem addressed to Charles Lamb entitled “This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison” was also
written by this author of The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
[10] Coleridge laments “My genial spirits fail / And what can these avail / To lift the
smothering weight from off my breast?” in this poem that was written to Sara Hutchinson.
ANSWER: Dejection: An Ode
7. The Danube River flows by one end of it at the Iron Gate. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this mountain range of eastern Europe that encircles the Pannonian Basin and
runs from southern Poland through the Ukraine and into Romania.
ANSWER: Carpathian Mountains
[10] The Carpathian Mountains separate this plateau region of Romania from Moldavia and
Wallachia. It also identifies the primary setting of Bram Stoker’s Dracula.
ANSWER: Transylvania
[10] This European capital is located where the Danube meets the Little Carpathian
Mountains. It was once known by its German name of Pressburg.
ANSWER: Bratislava
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 7 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. Answer the following about the study of American history for 10 points each:
[10] A panic arose from the results of the 1890 census due to this popular idea advanced by
Frederick Turner, which stated that the title region birthed American ingenuity.
ANSWER: frontier thesis
[10] This historian analyzed one motive for American entry into World War I in The
Zimmerman Telegram and covered the first month of that war in her Guns of August.
ANSWER: Barbara Tuchman
[10] This modern-day professor and political scientist is best known for his pessimistic
depiction of the American downtrodden in A People’s History of the United States.
ANSWER: Howard Zinn
9. He wrote an opera called The Maiden in the Tower. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man whose compositions were often inspired by his country’s national epic,
the Kalevala. Examples include the Karelia Suite and The Swan of Tuonela.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius
[10] Sibelius wrote this tone poem in homage to his homeland, a country in northern Europe
with capital at Helsinki.
ANSWER: Finlandia
[10] Sibelius composed a concerto in D minor for this string instrument. Notable performers
of this instrument include Joshua Bell and Itzhak Perlman.
ANSWER: violin
10. Drugs like AZT are used to treat this disease, and it is transmitted through contact with
infected fluids. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this disease that leads to opportunistic infection and immune system collapse, or
AIDS.
ANSWER: Human immunideficiency virus [or HIV]
[10] HIV falls into this class of virus. These viruses use reverse transcriptase to transcribe viral
RNA into DNA, which is then incorporated into the host cell’s genome.
ANSWER: retrovirus
[10] Along with macrophages, HIV infects this type of CD4-positive immune cell. It stimulates
macrophages and cytotoxic T cells to kill infected cells and stimulates antibody secretion from
B-cells.
ANSWER: helper T cell [prompt on T cell]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 8 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This battle marked the end of the Persian Empire. For 10 points each:
[10] Taking place near Arbela, Darius III was routed by the smaller army of a Macedonian
conqueror in this 331 B.C.E. battle.
ANSWER: Gaugamela
[10] This man was the victor at Gaugamela. The son of Philip of Macedon, he rode the horse
Bucephalus and supposedly cut the Gordian Knot.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III]
[10] Including the Ptolemids, Seleucids, and Antigonids, this is the collective name of the
Macedonian generals who succeeded Alexander the Great and who quarreled over the
remnants of his empire.
ANSWER: Diadochi
12. The detective novels of Adolfo Bioy Casares are part of this country’s literary tradition. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this country, whose “gaucho literature” describes the inhabitants of the pampas.
ANSWER: Argentina
[10] This author of Betrayed By Rita Hayworth told of a man imprisoned with the effeminate
Molina in Kiss of the Spider Woman.
ANSWER: Manuel Puig
[10] An enlarged photograph comes to life in this author’s “Blow Up,” and he also wrote of
Hector Oliveira’s wanderings in the nonlinear Hopscotch.
ANSWER: Julio Cortázar
13. This figure meditated underneath the Bodhi tree for a long time, during which he was
repeatedly tempted by Mara, the Lord of the Senses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this founder of a major Asian religion, who was born Siddhartha Gautama.
ANSWER: Siddhartha Gautama Buddha
[10] Buddha finally attained enlightenment under the Bodhi tree, allowing him to attain this
state of freedom from desire and the cycle of rebirth. Its Hindu equivalent is moksha.
ANSWER: nirvana
[10] Buddha’s enlightenment came from his realization of this quartet of basic facts. The last
one states that suffering can be overcame via the Eightfold Way.
ANSWER: The Four Noble Truths [or Cattari Ariyasaccani]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 9 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

14. At its bottom, two darkened rocks overlook a small stream. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting featuring the poet Bryant and another figure. It is set in the Catskill
Mountains and was painted by Asher Durand.
ANSWER: Kindred Spirits
[10] The other figure in Kindred Spirits is this painter, whose series include The Course of
Empire and The Voyage of Life. He is also known for his painting The Oxbow.
ANSWER: Thomas Cole
[10] Cole was the founder of this artistic school, which included Frederic Church and Albert
Bierstadt. They painted landscapes, especially around the title waterway.
ANSWER: Hudson River School
15. The Weibel model divides the airway into twenty-three generations. For 10 points each:
[10] Generation zero is this tube that begins just below the larynx. It is sometimes called the
windpipe.
ANSWER: trachea
[10] The trachea splits into two of these tubes, which further divide in generations one
through four.
ANSWER: mainstem bronchi [or mainstem bronchus]
[10] Generation twenty-three consists of “sacs” that contain many of these structures, the
main sites of gas exchange.
ANSWER: alveoli
16. This French emperor attempted to prompt up Emperor Maximilian in Mexico and he
sponsored the construction of the Suez Canal. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who returned to France following the downfall of Louis-Philippe.
ANSWER: Napoleon III [or Louis Napoleon; prompt on Napoleon]
[10] Napoleon III and over one hundred thousand French troops were captured in this battle
of the Franco-Prussian War, a smashing victory for Helmuth von Moltke’s troops.
ANSWER: Sedan
[10] The Franco-Prussian War was instigated by this communication in which King Wilhelm
rejected a French request. Otto von Bismarck doctored it to provoke France.
ANSWER: Ems Dispatch [accept equivalents for “dispatch”]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 10 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. This author told of a man birthing a son from memory, only to find out that he was
similarly conceived, in his “The Circular Ruins.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Argentine author of “The Garden of Forking Paths” and “The Lottery of
Babylon.”
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges
[10] This Borges story has bookkeepers wander through the title structure, which contains
hexagonal rooms filled with tomes containing different permutations of the same letters.
ANSWER: “The Library of Babel” [or “La Biblioteca de Babel”]
[10] Many of Borges’ finest short stories, including those above as well as “Tlon, Uqbar, Orbus
Tertius” and “Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote” are found in this anthology.
ANSWER: Ficciones [or Fictions]
18. Its video featuring a bunch of flown-in YouTube stars debuted, where else, on YouTube.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Weezer song whose singer says he will eat his candy with the title foods.
ANSWER: “Pork and Beans”
[10] “Pork and Beans” was written as an angry response to executives who wanted this latest
Weezer album to feature more commercial material.
ANSWER: The Red Album
[10] This second single off The Red Album calls movies “as bad as eating chocolate ice cream”
The singer says that he is going to “play some heavy metal riffs for you, and you will die.”
ANSWER: “Troublemaker”
19. It was drafted by a committee that included John Dickinson of Delaware. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this first governing document of the United States. It was ratified in 1781 but was
replaced in 1789 by the current constitution.
ANSWER: Articles of Confederation
[10] Perhaps the most important law passed under the Articles of Confederation was this
ordinance, which established territorial government for the regions north of the Ohio River.
ANSWER: Northwest Ordinance [or Freedom Ordinance; prompt on Ordinance of 1787]
[10] The first president of Congress under the Articles of Confederation was this Maryland
politician. As such, he is cited by some as the first President of the United States.
ANSWER: John Hanson

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 11 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. Answer the following about changes in weather as air comes in from the ocean for 10
points each.
[10] This term for a seasonal prevailing wind first gained use on the Indian subcontinent,
getting its name from the alternating winds blowing in from and out to the Indian Ocean.
ANSWER:monsoons
[10] This sudden unseasonal heating of water in the Pacific Ocean may be tied to global
warming and has a name from the Spanish for “the boy.”
ANSWER: El Niño Southern Oscillation
[10] As warm moist winds from the Pacific cross the windward side of mountains, they often
come down as this adiabatically heated wind system named for a Native American tribe.
ANSWER: Chinook
21. Armand Fizeau made the first non-astronomical measurement of it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this value that Jean Foucault also tried to measure by using a rotating mirror.
ANSWER: speed of light [prompt on c]
[10] In 1880, this man also measured the speed of light with a rotating mirror. Together with
Morley, he names an experiment that refuted the ether hypothesis.
ANSWER: Albert Abraham Michelson
[10] This eponymous radiation is a bluish light that is emitted by charged particles moving
near the speed of light. The total power emitted is given by the Frank-Tamm formula.
ANSWER: Cherenkov radiation [or Cerenkov radiation]
22. He is lambasted by an imaginary version of his deceased Aunt Clara, who tells him he will
no longer be able to tend the rabbits. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character, physically powerful but mentally challenged, the companion to
George Milton in Of Mice and Men.
ANSWER: Lennie Small [accept either]
[10] Of Mice and Men was written by this author of East of Eden and The Grapes of Wrath.
ANSWER: John Steinbeck
[10] Lennie gets into a tussle with this character and promptly smashes his hand. Later in the
work, Lennie accidentally kills his nameless wife.
ANSWER: Curley

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 12 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

23. The governments of Chile and Argetina believe that it gives them claims to parts of
Antarctica and the Falklands, respectively. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1494 treaty that was designed to split the world between Spain and Portugal
using a papal line of demarcation.
ANSWER: Treaty of Tordesillas
[10] The Treaty of Tordesillas was extended to the Eastern hemisphere by this treaty after the
discovery of cloves in the Portuguese Moluccas.
ANSWER: Treaty of Zaragosa [or Saragossa]
[10] This Borgia pope, who approved the Treaty of Tordesillas, had previously tried to resolve
the issue with the bull Inter Caetara.
ANSWER: Alexander VI [or Roderigo Borgia; prompt on Alexander]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 10

Page 13 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

