TOSSUP 1
When his predecessor died suddenly, he became head of his party in 1994, and then led Labour
to control of Parliament for the first time in over fifteenyears. His popularity has waned in the
decade he has resided at 10 Downing Street, and he is almost certain to step down for Gordon
Brown later this year, but for now he is, FTP, the current Prime Minister of Great Britain.
Tony Blair
BONUS 1
Identify these British Prime Ministers FTPE.
10:

Known as the “Iron Lady,” she was a formidable Tory who held the
office for 11 years.
Margaret Thatcher

10:

This much-criticized PM is infamous for his policy of appeasement
toward Nazi Germany.
Neville Chamberlain

10:

This son of a previous PM did his best to reduce the national debt and
eliminate rotten boroughs at the close of the 18th Century.
William Pitt the Younger (Prompt on Pitt)

TOSSUP 2
Pencil and paper ready. An ant wants to walk from one corner of a cube of side length 2 inches to
the opposite corner across the cube’s surface. The minimum distance the ant must travel is less
than six inches, because once it reaches the top of the cube, it may walk diagonally across the
cube’s face. FTP,
how far does the ant walk?
√
2 + 2 2 inches
BONUS 2
Give the volumes of the follwing shapes FTPE.
10:

A sphere with radius r.
4
3
3 πr

10:

A circular cone of base radius r and height h.
1
2
3 πr h

10:

A triangular prism with base width b, base height h, and length l
1
2 bhl

TOSSUP 3
Ones that are both this and onto are called bijections. y = 2x + 3 and y = x3 − 2 both are. y = x2
and the absolute value function are not. Ones that are can’t be even, but ones that aren’t may be
odd. FTP, identify this type of function, which maps every value in the range to exactly one value
in the domain.
One-to-one or injective
BONUS 3
FTPE, classify these functions as odd, even, both, or neither.
1

10:

sin x
odd

10:

Absolute value of x
even

10:

quantity x plus two squared
neither

TOSSUP 4
Between 1735 and 1745, this disease was responsible for over 80 percent of the deaths of children
under the age of 10. A more mild form of it is limited to the skin. The first affective treatment
against it started in 1880 with the use of respiratory tubes to prevent asphyxiation due to swelling
of the lymph nodes. FTP, name this disease that is distinguished by the leathery membrane it
produces covering the tonsils, throat, and nose.
Diptheria or Corynebacterium diphtheriae (prompt on respiratory tract illness)
BONUS 4
Name these agents used in chemical warfare, FTPE.
10:

This is the common name for Varicella simplex, it is classically one of
the childhood infectious diseases caught and survived by most children.
Chicken Pox or Chickenpox

10:

Classified as epidemic parotitis, the most common symptoms include
a painful swelling of the salivary glands and a fever.
Mumps

10:

Also knows as German measles due to its similarity to the measles
virus, common symptoms include abdomenal rashes, swollen glands,
and conjunctivitis.
Rubella (prompt on liberty measles or three day measles,
accept epidemic roseola)

TOSSUP 5
Two characters wake up in the middle of the night after falling asleep while onguard duty and
see a large silhouette which they mistake for a beast. Later, acharacter who represents innate
goodness finds the figure after hallucinatingthat a pig’s head is talking and realizes that the beast
is not a physical beingbut exists within everyone. He goes back to the camp but after emerging
from theforest they kill him because they have become a violent mob. Simon is murderedbefore he
can tell the others that the beast does not exist in, FTP, what novelby William Golding?
Lord of the Flies
BONUS 5
Name these characters from Lord of the Flies FTPE.

2

10:

He is elected the leader of the boys and tries to build a functionalsociety.
Ralph

10:

Initiallly he is the leader of the hunters but he gets all the boys exceptRalph on his side by the end of the book.
Jack

10:

He is not liked by the others even though most of the good ideas come
fromhim. He wears glasses which are used to start a fire.
Piggy

TOSSUP 6
His Theory of Colours was an early description of optics and color, and heis also credited with the
discovery of the human intermaxillary bone. A leading figure in the Sturm und Drang movement,
he was also a poet, scientist, painter, minister of state, and most famously, author. A noted friend
ofSchiller, he was a key member of the “Weimar Classical” movement. His worksoften reflected an
introspective view of the human character, such as the early work The Sorrows of Young Werther.
FTP, name this German author of Faust.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
BONUS 6
Name these other German authors from the year they won the Nobel Prizefor 10 points each; 5
points each if you require works.
10:

1946

5:

Siddartha , Steppenwolf
Hermann Hesse

10:

1999

5:

Cat and Mouse , Dog Years , The Tin Drum
Gunter Grass

10:

1929

5:

Buddenbrooks , Death in Venice
Thomas Mann

TOSSUP 7
This name was applied by the Swedish chemist Berzelius to describe the property of certain pure
substances that can exist with different chemical structures. The property can be applied to the
chemical series graphite, diamond, and fullerenes. FTP, name this property that can also describe
the series oxygen, ozone, and tetraoxygen.
Allotropy (accept Allotrope)
BONUS 7

3

BONUS FTPE, name the element given a description of its allotropes.
10:

This element has three allotropes; red, white, and black. The red form
is used in fireworks and pesticides.
Phophorous

10:

This element’s most common allotrope has 8 atoms, but others have
been found to have 12 or 18 atoms. The 7-atom allotrope is responsible
for this element’s yellow color.
Sulfur

10:

This element has gray and alpha allotropes. Objects made of it slowly
deteriorate when the alpha allotropes transform into gray ones.
Tin

TOSSUP 8
The artist claimed that they were never really intended for public consumption, but they became
the most notorious of his works. The originals have mostly been lost to damage, but the more
popular ones survive as replicas. The most famous one was submitted to test an art show’s claim
that it would accept all entries. A bottle rack and a snow shovel are among the objects in, FTP,
what group of works by Marcel Duchamp, most famously including Bicycle Wheel and Fountain.
Readymades
BONUS 8
Name these other works of Duchamp FTPE.
10:

This cubist work caused an uproar when it was shown at the 1913
Armory Show.
Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2

10:

The letters scrawled by Duchamp on this tiny reproduction of the Mona
Lisa, when read in French, mean something along the lines of “she has
hot pants.”
L.H.O.O.Q. (Accept spelled or pronounced)

10:

Later in his career, Duchamp became an aficionado of this board game,
and manufactured a portable version of it as a readymade.
Chess

TOSSUP 9
Its name means ”land of fire”, as hills in this land are known to spontaneously burst into flame
due to huge reserves of oil in the area. It has been invaded by many peoples throughout its long
history, including the Medes, the Persians, and the Turks. Like many countries in the Middle
East, Islam is its dominant religion, although before it became part of the Soviet Union its oil-rich
capital was a haven for both Judaism and Christianity. FTP, name this Caucasian republic
bordering the Caspian Sea with capital at Baku.
Azerbaijan
BONUS 9

4

FTPE, name any three of the four countries bordering Azerbaijan.
101010:
Armenia, Iran, Russia, Georgia
TOSSUP 10
Its namesake project proposed drilling on the ocean floor, but was abandoned due to a drop in
funding. Its discovery helped scientists discover different types of rocks in areas that were difficult
to drill. Yugoslavian earthquake records were used to identify its existence by its discoverer, a
Croatian meteorologist fascinated by faults and movements in the earth’s infrastructure. FTP,
name this layer which exists between the Earth’s mantle and crust.
Mohorovicic Discontinuity or Moho
BONUS 10
Name these other layers of the mantle FTPE.
10:

The outermost shell of the mantle, it goes to a depth of approximately
100 km.
Lithosphere

10:

The lithisphere is broken up into these, which can cause earthquakes
and volcanic activity.
Tectonic Plates

10:

The region directly below the lithosphere, it goes to a depth of 250 km.
Asthenosphere

TOSSUP 11
After moving to London, he joined the Vegetarian Society and was elected to its executive
committee. Son of the Prime Minister of Porbander, he was born into the vaishya caste. After
being turned down by the bar of England, he went back to India but failed to establish a
successful law practice. He then journeyed to South Africa, where he developed his philosophy of
“satyagraha”. In 1930 he launched a protest on high salt taxes by marching to a river to make
salt himself. FTP, name this leader of the Indian Independence movement who was assassinated
in 1948.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
BONUS 11
Gandhi opposed the caste system, and his actions against it contributed heavily to its official
abolition in 1947. FTPE, identify the Indian caste from descriptions.
10:

Gandhi called them the “harijan”, or “Children of God”.
Untouchables

10:

This highest class consists of scholars and priests.
Brahmins

5

10:

This class consists of Kings and warriors, and all of the main characters
of the “Mahabharatha” come from it.
Kshatriya [Sheh-THREE-ya]

TOSSUP 12
Each has a color, a property invented to account for the fact that they otherwise may be found
together in the same quantum state, which would violate a certain principle of quantum mechanics.
They are never found singly, but always bound together in hadrons made of two quarks, known as
mesons, or three, known as baryons, like protons and neutrons.FTP, identify these fundamental
particles that come in six flavors, including up, top, and strange.
quark
BONUS 12
FTPE, name these principles of Quantum Mechanics.
10:

Only two electrons can occupy a given orbital, and both must have
opposite spins.
Pauli Exclusion Principle

10:

There is a limit to which we can know the position and momentum of
a particle at a given time.
Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle

10:

As protons are added to the nucleus to build up the elements, electrons
must also be added to the lowest energy orbital.
Aufbau Principle

TOSSUP 13
This book, which was based largely on bedtime stories and letters the author wrote to his son, was
never intended to become a published work. Its author was born in Edinburgh, became Secretary
of The Bank of England, and was also known for writing The Golden Age, and its continuation,
Dream Days. The book was eventually published in England in 1908, however its reception
was lukewarm, and it was some years before this story of life by a river became established as
a childrens classic. FTP name this tale of Rat, Mole, Badger and Toad which was penned by
Kenneth Grahame.
The Wind in The Willows
BONUS 13
FTPE, name the authors of these British children’s classics:
10:

The Railway Children
Edith Nesbit

10:

The Water-Babies
Charles Kingsley

6

10:

Swallows and Amazons
Arthur Ransome

TOSSUP 14
She was the daughter of Chrysaor and Callirhoe and the brother of Geryon and is often depicted
as a figure with the head and torso of a nymph and the lower body of a snake. Among her prodigy
include the Nemean lion, the sphinx, the hydra, the chimaera, and Cerberus. FTP, name this wife
of Typhon, who happens to share her name with the spiny anteater.
Echidna
BONUS 14
FTP, name these other characters related to Greek mythology.
10:

This winged ram was famous for its golden fleece, which Jason and his
argonauts sought; it saved the lives of Phrixus but not his sister Helle.
Chrysomallos

10:

Part man, part bull, this monster resided in an elaborate labrynith
designed by Daedalus.
The Minotaur

10:

This centaur carried off Dejanara, the bride of Heracles and fooled
her into poisoning her husband; he became famous when Giambologna
sculpted 4 lavish statues of him.
Nessus

TOSSUP 15
It was constructed in 1869, and its first inductees were from the Boshin War. Its name means
”Peaceful Nation”, and does not include anyone who has died after 1951. Its Book of Souls
includes 12 people guilty of crimes against peace, from World War II. Because of this, former
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has been criticized for paying visits to it since 2001. For ten
points, name this Shinto shrine in Tokyo dedicated to the spirits of soldiers who died fighting for
Japan.
Yasukuni Shrine
BONUS 15
FTPE, name these Japanese convicted for crimes against peace at the International Military Tribunal for the Far East.
10:

He served as the Prime Minister from 1941 to 1944.
Hideki Tojo

10:

He was the commander of the Japanese expeditionary force responsible
for the Rape of Nanking.
Iwane Matsui

7

10:

He was the Foreign Minister from 1940 to 1941 who announced Japan’s
departure from the League of Nations.
Yosuke Matsuoka

TOSSUP 16
Oliver Sacks in his “The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat” characterizes two individuals
as having this. Damage to the fornix or hippocampus can result in this condition, as can binge
drinking. Date rape drugs also cause it because victims suffer memory gaps for short periods of
time. FTP, name this form of amnesia in which new events cannot be transferred to long-term
memory, the opposite of retrograde amnesia.
Anterograde amnesia (Prompt on Short-term-memory loss)
BONUS 16
Name these famous people who suffered brain damage FTPE.
10:

This “other Steve” of Apple suffered anterograde amnesia after crashing an ultralight plane in 1981.
Steve Wozniak

10:

This anonymous patient called by his initials has been widely studied
since the 1950’s and has been very important in the study of amnesia.
HM (accept Henry M)

10:

The main character of this movie developed anterograde amnesia the
night that his wife was raped.
Memento

TOSSUP 17
As a young man he held positions as an organist, chief musician, and cantor. He taught at the
St. Thomas School in Leipzig, where he composed five cantatas. Becoming an orphan at 10,
he went to live with his older brother in Ohrdruf [OR-droof], who eventually became jealous of
his musical talent. He was married twice and was the father of 20 children. He gave his second
wife, Anna Magdalena, a notebook in which family members wrote many pieces. FTP, name this
Baroque composer who is best known for his inventions, preludes and fugues, and the Brandenburg
Concerti.
Johann Sebastian Bach (accept J.S. Bach, prompt on Bach)
BONUS 17
FTPE, identify these ornaments used by Bach from clues.
10:

This is a quick alternation between the note and the note above it.
Trill

10:

Indicated by a trill sign with a line through it, this alternates the
written note with the diatonic tone below.
Mordent

8

10:

It is much like a grace note, but takes up half the value of the note
with which it appears.
Appoggiatura

TOSSUP 18
The eldest of twelve children, she became seriously ill as a result of a broken blood-vessel and
spent her life as an invalid. A fellow poet began a correspondence with her which led to their
meeting and marriage in secret, since her father forbade any of his children to marry. She and
her husband moved to Florence, where they lived for the rest of her life. FTP name this author
of Sonnets from the Portuguese whose poetic reputation actually stood higher than that of her
husband, Robert Browning, during her married life:
Elizabeth Barrett Browning
BONUS 18
FTPE, name these female poets from works FTPE.
10:

Ariel , The Bell Jar
Sylvia Plath

10:

“On the Burning of our House”
Anne Bradstreet

10:

“First Fig,” “Resonance”
Edna St. Vincent Millay

TOSSUP 19
In his 40-year movie-making career, this man was notorious for taking great financial risks resulting
in highly innovative and influential films, many of which were later remade by American directors
into popular adventure movies. He is well-known for his adaptations of two Shakespeare plays
into his native Japanese: his “Throne of Blood” was based on “Macbeth,” and his “Ran” on
“King Lear.” FTP name this director, perhaps the most famous Japanese filmmaker to American
audiences.
Akira Kurosawa.
BONUS 19
FTPE name the earliest American remakes of the following Kurosawa films, based on descriptions
of the originals.
10:

“The Seventh Samurai,” in which seven itinerant samurai join forces
to protect a small village against marauders.
“The Magnificent Seven.”

10:

“Yojimbo,” in which a samurai arrives in a town where two rival factions are at war. The samurai engages in repeated side-switching to
play one against the other until both are defeated.
“A Fistful of Dollars.”

9

10:

“The Hidden Fortress,” in which two greedy peasants escort a man and
woman across enemy lines. The peasants do not realize that theircompanions are actually a princess and her general.
Star Wars : Episode IV - A New Hope.

TOSSUP 20
In the Al Pacino film “A Dog Day Afternoon”, Sonny, who is holding hostages in a bank, rouses
the crowd outside by screaming the name of this incident repeatedly. Beginning in 1971, this
collection of revolts was finally ended when police stormed the prison, killing ten hostages and 29
inmates. It began after a request by the prisoners for better living conditions and facilities was
ignored. FTP, give the name of these incidents, which sparked hostility at the brutality of the
police and are named after both the New York town and prison in which they were located.
Attica
BONUS 20
BONUS Name these other famous prisons FTPE.
10:

The world’s first official penitentiary, this Philadelphia prison was the
setting for the film “Twelve Monkeys”.
Eastern State Penitentiary

10:

This former prison in the San Francisco Bay once held Al Capone.
Alcatraz

10:

This New York prison off the banks of the Hudson River in a town
called Mount Pleasant enforced solitary confinement.
Sing Sing

10

