2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 9
Tossups

1. The Carnarvon Range is a plateau region of this larger mountain range that reaches its
northernmost point on the Cape York Peninsula. The Lachlan and Darling rivers flow down this range’s
western slope before joining the (*) Murray River, and this range contains Mount Kosciusko. This range
terminates at Grampians in Victoria prior to reemerging across the Bass Strait in Tasmania. For 10
points, name this mountain range containing the Australian Alps that is located along the eastern coast
of Australia.
ANSWER: Great Dividing Range [or Great Divide; or Eastern Highlands; or Eastern Cordillera]
2. A satrap of this name fought a power struggle with Tissaphernes before dying at the Battle of
Cunaxa as described in the Anabasis of Xenophon. That younger brother of Artaxerxes II was known
as “the Younger,” while another man with this name fought against (*) Nabonidus and was King of
Anshan. That man built Pasargadae after overthrowing the Medes, and was succeeded by his son
Cambyses II, and eventually by Darius the Great. For 10 points, name the man who brought the
Achaemenid Dynasty to power by founding the Persian Empire.
ANSWER: Cyrus [or Cyrus the Younger; or Cyrus II; or Cyrus the Great]
3. One of his poems discusses a “blood red thing that writhes from out” and ends with the assertion
that “the play is the tragedy, ‘Man.’” Another of his poems tells of a “gallant knight” who “had
journeyed long / singing a song” and grows old before learning that the title place is “over the (*)
mountains of the moon.” In another poem, a wind from a cloud kills the title character in a “kingdom by
the sea,” and in yet another, a bird is perched on a pallid bust of Pallas. For 10 points, name this
American poet of “The Conqueror Worm,” “Annabel Lee,” and “The Raven.”
ANSWER: Edgar Allen Poe
4. Antonio and Louisa ask for Don Jerome's blessing at the end of this man's opera Betrothal in a
Monastery, and he also composed The Fiery Angel. Another opera by this composer is based on a play
by Carlo Gozzi and features the hypochondriac son of the King of (*) Clubs. Another of this man’s works
features a dialogue between a duck and the title character, represented by an oboe and the strings,
respectively. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of The Love for Three Oranges, whose other
works include the Classical Symphony and Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev
5. This thinker outlined the formation of a global republic in his work Perpetual Peace, while he
defended against attacks on his most famous work in his Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics. He
divided all objects into a phenomenon and noumenon, with the latter being associated with the (*)
“thing-in-itself,” and asserted that everyone should act only in such a way that they could will it to
become a universal law, a maxim known as the categorical imperative. For 10 points, name this German
philosopher of Critique of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 1 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Stories about this figure are collected in the Harivamsa, which tells how King Kamsa attempted to
kill all the children of Devaki. This figure escaped to Gokula, where he was raised by Yasod and Nanda
among the gopis, or (*) cowherds, loyal to this deity. Preceded by Rama and succeeded by Buddha as an
avatar of Vishnu, this god serves as the charioteer for Arjuna in the Mahabharata. In that role, he
narrates the Bhagavad-Gita. For 10 points, name this blue-skinned god, the namesake of the
proselytizing “Hare” (HAH-ray) sect.
ANSWER: Krishna
7. One character in this novel is ashamed that he drank too much punch at a party in Vauxhall. One of
the central characters carries on an affair with Lord Steyne. The Duchess of Richmond gives a fantastic
ball in Brussels in this work, which sees Jos (JOZE) mysteriously die in Aix-la-chappelle after taking out
an insurance policy. George (*) Osborne dies at Waterloo after marrying a former student of the
Pinkerton School for Girls in this work. For 10 points, name this novel about Amelia Sedley and Becky
Sharp, by William Thackeray.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair
8. A simplification of this law for an ion that is brought from infinity and placed within a crystal lattice
is seen in the portion of the Born-Landé equation that incorporates Madelung constants. Electron
pairing energy is given by the exchange energy and the repulsion between spin-paired (*) electrons
that this law predicts. It contains a namesake constant that incorporates the permittivity of space, and it
can be used to explain why like charges repel. For 10 points, name this law in which the force and
distance between two point charges share an inverse square relationship.
ANSWER: Coulomb’s law
9. Early foreboding signs in this novel include a painting in the Spouter Inn and a sermon by Father
Mapple. One character discards a three-part prophesy given by a man with a braided beard, Parsee
Fedallah. This novel includes Pip and (*) Stubb, and opens in New Bedford, where its protagonist meets
a prince of Kokovoko with an idol named Yojo, the harpooner Queequeg. For 10 points, name this novel
narrated by Ishmael that describes Captain Ahab’s monomaniacal chase of the title white whale, a work
of Herman Melville.
ANSWER: Moby-Dick
10. This work contains excerpts from the text In My Father’s House by Princess Irulan and its central
family is betrayed by the Suk Doctor Wellington Yueh. The Ginaz swordsman Duncan Idaho dies
during a raid of Empirial Sardaukar, but his reincarnated (*) ghola is revealed to be the true Kwisatz
Haderach sought by the Bene Gesserit. Its main characters include Lady Jessica and her son Paul
Atreides, who settle on the titular planet, Arrakis. For 10 points, name this science fiction novel that
centers on the spice produced by giant sandworms, a work by Frank Herbert.
ANSWER: Dune
11. Ducts in this organ become inflamed in primary sclerosing cholangitis. Glisson’s capsule surrounds
this organ, and two of its sections are separated by the falciform ligament. People with Wilson’s
disease cannot excrete copper properly from this organ, and it features star-shaped cells responsible
for removing particulate (*) contaminants from blood known as Kuppfer cells. Other functions include
the storing of iron. Jaundice, cirrhosis, and hepatitis are diseases of this organ that secretes bile. For 10
points, name this largest organ inside the human body.
ANSWER: liver
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 2 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. A tropical waterfall dominates Frederic Church’s The Heart of the Andes, a painting from an
offshoot of this movement, Luminism. One member of this group painted The Savage State and
Desolation for the five-part Course of Empire series. Another member of this school depicted (*)
William Cullen Bryant and another painter in the Catskills in the work Kindred Spirits. For 10 points,
name this group of American landscape artists that included Asher Durand and Thomas Cole, named for
the New York area they often painted.
ANSWER: Hudson River School [accept Luminism, early]
13. Suetonius claimed that this man’s last words were, “Damn, I think I am becoming a god.” As
commander of the Legio II Augusta, this man captured the Isle of Wight. He closed the gates to the
temple of Janus and built the temple of Pax, and he had previously put down the (*) Jewish rebellion
in Judea. He oversaw the construction of the Coliseum, and he was the father of Domitian and Titus. For
10 points, name this man who came to power during the Year of the Four Emperors, the founder of the
Flavian Dynasty.
ANSWER: Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Vespasianus]
14. This author of Treatise on Probability promoted “compulsory saving” to prevent inflation in his
How to Pay for the War, and warned that excessive reparations against Germany following World War
I would be disastrous in his The Economic Consequences (*) of the Peace. He also wrote about the
multiplier effect and aggregate demand in a work arguing that governments should operate under
deficits when the economy is slow. For 10 points, name this author of The General Theory of
Employment, Interest, and Money, a British economist.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
15. This composer wrote a work that includes a trio sonata for flute, violin, and continuo and a sixpart ricercare based on a theme by Frederick the Great. This composer of the Musical Offering
included the movement “O Haupt voll Blut und Wunden” in his (*) St. Matthew Passion. He composed
two sets of twenty-four preludes and fugues in each key, The Well-Tempered Clavier, and wrote a series
of six concertos dedicated to a Margrave. For 10 points, name this German Baroque composer of The
Brandenburg Concertos.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach [prompt on Bach]
16. Selectivity coefficients for these devices give their relative responsivity to different analyte ions.
Ion-selective ones can have crystalline or noncrystalline membranes, and glass pH meters possess a
silver and silver chloride reference device of this type. (*) Reduction potentials are typically given with
respect to the standard hydrogen type of this device, and other standards include the calomel type of
this device. For 10 points, name these devices at which oxidation and reduction occur, termed anodes
when they gain electrons and cathodes when they lose electrons.
ANSWER: electrode
17. One member of this group names a law that all members of the group follow, specifying that
lamellar crystal twins are formed in stacks. That member, albite, falls with anorthite and oligoclase
into one variety of this group, while the most prominent member of its other group is (*) orthoclase. It
is classified around six on the Mohs scale, and all examples are aluminum-containing silicate minerals.
For 10 points, name this group of minerals, classified into potassium and plagioclase varieties, the most
abundant mineral group on Earth.
ANSWER: feldspars
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 3 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. The father of this work’s protagonist gets a job as a bank guard, and the central family moves to a
smaller apartment after three bearded boarders leave. The main character’s sister aspires to be a
violinist, and the protagonist of this work catches the five AM train every morning to work as a
salesman to pay off his (*) father’s debt. The protagonist eventually dies after an apple thrown by his
father becomes lodged in his back. For 10 points, name this novella in which Gregor Samsa is changed
into a bug, a work of Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: The Metamorphosis [or Die Verwandlung]
19. This city's independence was recognized in the 1183 Peace of Constance, and Napoleon made it
the capital of the Cisalpine Republic in 1797. From 305 to 402 CE, it served as the capital of the
Western Roman Empire, and it was destroyed in 1183 by Frederick I. Its namesake (*) edict from
Constantine I granted religious toleration, and it was plagued by the feud of the Guelfs and Ghibellines.
For 10 points, name this northern Italian city that was ruled from 1450 to 1535 by the Sforza family.
ANSWER: Milan [or Milano]
20. In one of them, their speaker noted that “the arc of the moral universe...bends toward justice.” In
another, the speaker claimed that the U.S. government was “the greatest purveyor of violence in the
world today.” In addition to “How Long, Not Long” and one called “Beyond Vietnam,” one of them
quotes the Battle Hymn of the Republic in support of (*) sanitation works and is titled “I’ve been to the
mountaintop.” Another of them seeks judgment by the content of character and exalts “Let freedom
ring!” and “Free at last!” For 10 points, name these orations, exemplified by “I have a dream.”
ANSWER: speeches of Martin Luther King, Jr. [accept clear equivalents]
21. A. D. Fortes claims that an ammonia-water ocean under the ice on this body is capable of
sustaining life. Features on it include a cryovolcanic dome known as Ganesa Macula, a dark region
known as Shangri-la, and a reflective region known as (*) Xanadu. In 2005, the Huygens probe landed
on the surface of this body. It is the only moon known to have clouds and a planet-like atmosphere. For
10 points, name this second-largest moon in the solar system, the largest moon of Saturn.
ANSWER: Titan
22. This man served as finance minister for Arthur Griffith, and he became Sinn Fein's first minister of
home affairs. He arranged for Eamon De Valera's escape from Lincoln jail in 1919, and, as the director
of intelligence for the IRA, he directed guerilla war against British forces. In 1921, he negotiated the
truce that gave Ireland (*) dominion status, but provisions requiring an oath to the crown and the
partitioning of Ulster led to his death. For 10 points, name this leader of the Irish war for independence
who was assassinated near Cork in 1922.
ANSWER: Michael Collins

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 4 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

23. The protagonist’s land lady is the peppermint-popping Mrs. Crupp, and the protagonist works for
Mr. Spenlow, whose prissy daughter Dora is his first wife. While at Salem House, the protagonist
meets James Steerforth, who goes on to seduce his first love (*) Little Em’ly. The title character lives
with Mr. Micawber who eventually unmasks the villainy of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this Dickens
novel in which the titular protagonist marries Agnes Wickfield and lives happily ever after.
ANSWER: David Copperfield

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 5 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 9
Bonuses

1. Its introduction begins "We are people of this generation, bred in at least modest comfort, housed
now in universities, looking uncomfortably to the world we inherit." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leftist manifesto largely written by Tom Hayden, named for a city in Michigan.
ANSWER: Port Huron Statement
[10] The Port Huron Statement was issued by this left-wing student organization, whose members
Bernardine Dohrn and Bill Ayers left to found the Weathermen.
ANSWER: SDS [or Students for a Democratic Society]
[10] Hayden was one of these defendants charged with conspiracy after the 1968 Democratic National
Convention in a large Illinois city.
ANSWER: Chicago Seven [or the Chicago Eight]
2. This programming paradigm allows for polymorphism, and it is used by creating class files that define
the namesake constructs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this programming paradigm, abbreviated OOP, exemplified by Java and C++.
ANSWER: object-oriented programming
[10] Object-oriented programming lets new classes take the fields and methods of a parent class
through this concept, which uses an is-a relation.
ANSWER: inheritance
[10] Getters and setters are used in OOP to implement this concept, which entails classes hiding design
information from other classes in order to allow easy change of design implementation.
ANSWER: encapsulation
3. This event was promoted via the “Two Thousand Words” article and attempted to achieve “socialism
with a human face.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1968 liberalization movement, which ended when Soviet troops deposed Alexander
Dubcek in favor of Gustav Husak.
ANSWER: Prague Spring
[10] Prague Spring took place in this erstwhile Central European country, which split into two
components in 1993 after electing Vaclav Havel as its first post-communist President.
ANSWER: Czechoslovakia
[10] Havel led the 1989 democratic transition in Czechoslovakia that was given this name in honor of its
relative “smoothness.”
ANSWER: Velvet Revolution

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 6 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. This work sees the title character brought a razor on a dish. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play whose title female has an affair with her servant Jean before deciding to commit
suicide.
ANSWER: Miss Julie [or Froken Julie]
[10] This author told of mummies in closets in Ghost Sonata and of Arvind Falk in The Red Room in
addition to writing Miss Julie.
ANSWER: Johan August Strindberg
[10] Strindberg is from this Scandinavian country, also home to Nobel Laureates Salma Lagerlof and Par
Lagerkvist.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Sweden
5. Its standard value is equal to the amount of energy absorbed when a compound is produced from its
constituent elements. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity that represents the energy needed during a chemical reaction to maintain all
substances at the same temperature.
ANSWER: standard heat of formation [or standard enthalpy of formation]
[10] This law states that the heat of formation of a reaction is the same regardless of the number of
steps it involves and can be found by summing individual heats of formation for each step.
ANSWER: Hess’s law
[10] The enthalpy of formation of an ionic lattice can be calculated using this thermochemical cycle that
applies Hess’s law. One of its two namesakes names a process for making ammonia.
ANSWER: Born-Haber cycle
6. These three composers all drew inspiration from their native regions in Czechoslovakia. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name the composer who probably quoted “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot” in his Symphony From the
New World.
ANSWER: Antonin Dvorak
[10] This Moravian composer wrote the Glagolitic Mass using the local text, and may be better known
for operatic works like Jenufa.
ANSWER: Leos Janacek
[10] This deaf composer wrote a six-movement suite with movements depicting Vysebrad, “Bohemia’s
Woods and Fields,” and “The Moldau,” entitled Ma Vlast.
ANSWER: Bedrich Smetana
7. In this work, the author claims that Calvinist ideas played a large role in creating one of the titular
concepts. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this work, which explores the relationship business involvement and economic conditions
have with religion.
ANSWER: The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism [or Die protestantische Ethik und der ‘Geist’
des Kapitalismus]
[10] This twentieth century German sociologist and professor at Freiburg University wrote The Religion
of China and The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
ANSWER: Max Weber
[10] Weber examined bureaucracy in a work named after the economy and this concept. Karl Popper
wrote about the open one and its enemies, and Emile Durkheim wrote about the division of labor in
one.
ANSWER: society
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 7 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Notable battles in this war included Malplaquet and Ramillies, and its theatre in the new world was
known as Queen Anne’s War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war that began with the death of Charles II and saw the Bourbons and the Hapsburgs
fight for the throne of the namesake country.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
[10] This peace ended the war by confirming Philip of Anjou as the new king of Spain. The Hapsburgs got
the better of the deal, gaining the Spanish Netherlands, Naples, and Sardinia.
ANSWER: Peace/Treaty of Utrecht
[10] This battle was a decisive victory for the Duke of Marlborough, seeing the capture of the Duc de
Tallard in a disastrous attempt to take Vienna.
ANSWER: Battle of Blenheim
9. Frequently seen in Eastern European Jews, this disease is characterized by impaired neural
development as a result of a buildup of GM2 gangliosides. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this doubly-eponymous disease caused by a defective hexosaminidase enzyme, characterized
by a “cherry red” spot in the eye.
ANSWER: Tay-Sachs disease
[10] GM2 gangliosides are this type of membrane lipids that are derived from an amino alcohol. The
most common example of them is cerebrosides.
ANSWER: sphingolipids
[10] GM2 gangliosides build up in this organelle of the neuron. Its acidic interior helps hydrolytic
enzymes digest particles.
ANSWER: lysosome
10. This artist depicted the title figure wearing a red toga and laurel crown on a glowing head in The
Forge of Vulcan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this court painter of Philip IV who also painted the Rokeby Venus, the Surrender of Breda, and
a notable portrait of Pope Innocent X.
ANSWER: Diego Velazquez
[10] In this painting by Velazquez, the Infanta Margarita is depicted along with her attendants, while a
mirror in the back center of this work shows the onlooking king and queen.
ANSWER: Las Meninas [or The Maids of Honour]
[10] This British painter created a series of grotesque interpretations of Velázquez’s portrait of Pope
Innocent X. He also painted Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion.
ANSWER: Francis Bacon
11. The Deccan Mujahideen initially claimed responsibility for the attacks in this city, which may have
been perpetrated by the group Lashkar-e-Taiba. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Indian city in which ten terrorist attacks occurred in November of 2008.
ANSWER: Mumbai Terrorist Attacks [accept Bombay]
[10] Among the sites hit during the Mumbai terrorist attacks were two hotels frequented by foreigners,
the Oberoi Trident and this other hotel named for an Indian landmark.
ANSWER: Taj Mahal Place and Tower
[10] Shortly after the terrorist attacks, this Indian Prime Minister identified the gunman involved in the
attack as coming from “outside the country.”
ANSWER: Manmohan Singh

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 8 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Cao Cao’s defeat at the Battle of Red Cliff is a central event in this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, one of its country’s “four classics,” which tells the military exploits of such figures
as Liu Pei and Sun Ch’uan.
ANSWER: The Romance of the Three Kingdoms [accept San kuo chih yen-i]
[10] The Romance of the Three Kingdoms is by Luo Guanzhong, an author from this country.
ANSWER: China [accept People’s Republic of China; do not accept “Republic of China”]
[10] This contemporary Chinese author, now living in France, won a recent Nobel for his works like Bus
Stop and Soul Mountain.
ANSWER: Gao Xingjian
13. The intensity of this property is given by Malus’ law. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this effect in which the waves in a beam of light align in orientation.
ANSWER: polarization
[10] When unpolarized light hits a boundary between two transparent materials at this angle, named for
a Scottish physicist, polarized light is reflected.
ANSWER: Brewster’s angle
[10] Brewster’s angle can be computed as the arctangent of this value. This quantity also appears in
Snell’s law and is a measure of the relative speed of light in the material.
ANSWER: index of refraction
14. This author narrated a "Romantic tale by Milton left unsung" in his autobiographical poem "The
Prelude." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet of "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" and "Tintern Abbey."
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
[10] Wordsworth lamented that the "celestial light" surrounding the world dies away as children grow
up in a poem of this form about "intimations of immortality from recollections of early childhood."
ANSWER: odes
[10] Five of Wordsworth's poems are named for this woman. Their speaker rides to her cottage at
midnight in "Strange Fits of Passion Have I Known," and cries "But she is in her grave, and, oh, / The
difference to me!" in "She Dwelt Among the Untrodden Ways."
ANSWER: Lucy poems
15. This man composed the dramatic cantata The Duel between Tancred and Clorinda, and the only
extant portion of his opera Arianna is a lament. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this early 17th century Italian composer whose other operas include The Return of Ulysses,
and one set in Rome during Nero's reign, The Coronation of Poppea.
ANSWER: Claudio Monteverdi
[10] Alessandro Striggio provided the libretto to this Monteverdi opera, in which the title character sings
the aria "Rosa del ciel" and travels to Hades to rescue his wife.
ANSWER: L’Orfeo [or Orpheus; or La Favola d'Orfeo ; or The Legend of Orpheus]
[10] Monteverdi was one of the first composers to make use of this instrumental effect, which is the
opposite of arco. This term indicates that the strings are to be plucked by the fingers.
ANSWER: pizzicato

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 9 of 11

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. This man’s most notable achievement was inspired by Johann Tetzel, a Dominican who sold
indulgences to pay for St. Peter’s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Protestant reformer who famously nailed his 95 Theses to the door of a church in
Wittenberg.
ANSWER: Martin Luther
[10] Luther proclaimed, “Here I stand. I can do no other,” at this 1521 assembly in Germany, which
outlawed his teachings.
ANSWER: Diet of Worms
[10] In 1529, Luther met with this Swiss theologian at the Marburg Colloquy, where they agreed on all
issues except the Eucharist.
ANSWER: Huldrych Zwingli [or Ulrich Zwingli]
17. He fought on behalf of Conchobar mac Nessa as a member of the Knights of the Red Branch. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this mythical Irish hero who protected Ulster from Queen Maeve.
ANSWER: Cú Chulainn [or Setanta]
[10] Cú Chulainn’s primary weapon was the Gae Bulg, one of these. A bejeweled one was used to create
the islands of Japan in Shinto myth.
ANSWER: spear
[10] One Ulster Cycle text describes a raid on Cooley aimed at capturing this type of animal. The
primordial Norse Audhumla was also one of these, and in Greek myth Io was turned into one.
ANSWER: cattle [or cow]
18. The speaker of this poem instructs to “tear her tattered ensign down!” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem about a “shattered hulk” of a ship about to be scuttled, a work that takes its name
from the nickname of the USS Constitution.
ANSWER: “Old Ironsides”
[10] This father of a Supreme Court justice wrote “Old Ironsides,” “The Chambered Nautilus,” and a
series of essays called The Autocrat at the Breakfast Table.
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
[10] This member of a notable New England family satirized Poe and other well known poets in A Fable
for Critics and also wrote The Biglow Papers.
[10] ANSWER: James Russell Lowell
19. A protégé of longtime prime minister Tage Erlander, this politician served two terms as premier on
the ticket of the Social Democratic Workers Party. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scandinavian figure, known for his pacifism, who was assassinated in 1986.
ANSWER: Olof Palme
[10] Olof Palme was prime minister of this country, which was earlier led by the Vasa dynasty, and
recently saw another killing of a sitting politician, foreign minister Anna Lindh.
ANSWER: Sweden
[10] On the day of Palme’s assassination, he met with Muhammad Saeed al-Sahhaf, later the notorious
“information minister” in the government of this man, who employed “Chemical Ali.”
ANSWER: Saddam Hussein Abd al-Majid al-Tikriti

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 10 of 11 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. Name some rivers that flow through Pennsylvania, for 10 points each.
[10] This river forms in Pittsburgh from the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers before
flowing past Cincinnati in its namesake state.
ANSWER: Ohio River
[10] This river flows past Harrisburg after its western and eastern branches meet, before it flows into
Maryland and becomes the principle inflow of the Chesapeake Bay.
ANSWER: Susquehanna River
[10] This river flows past Pottsville and Reading before it enters the Delaware River, of which it is the
largest tributary, in Philadelphia.
ANSWER: Schuylkill River
21. In one novel, he befriends two Englishmen who are captured at Fort William Henry. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this frontiersman who appears in The Last of the Mohicans and other Leatherstocking Tales.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Natty Bumppo [accept either name; accept Hawkeye Pierce; accept “The
Pathfinder”; accept “the Trapper”; accept “the Deerslayer”]
[10] Natty Bumppo was created by this author whose “literary offenses” were enumerated by Mark
Twain.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
[10] This novel was the last written, but first in the chronological order of the Leatherstocking Tales. In
it, Natty Bumppo helps rescue Chingachgook’s brother.
ANSWER: The Deerslayer: or The First Warpath
22. This act was supported by a Michigander and a North Dakotan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1922 tariff levied in the wake of World War I, which raised the rates from the earlier
Underwood Tariff.
ANSWER: Fordney-McCumber Tariff
[10] This defeater of James Cox in the 1920 election and President during the Teapot Dome Scandal
signed the Fordney-McCumber Tariff.
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel Harding
[10] Gerardo Machado lost power in Cuba as a result of this 1930 tariff signed by Herbert Hoover which
raised tariff levels higher than the previous Fordney-McCumber.
ANSWER: Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act [or Hawley-Smoot]
23. One centered at the origin is given in parametric coordinates by x equals r cosine of t, y equals r sine
of t. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this conic section.
ANSWER: circle [do not accept “ellipse”]
[10] A circle is a special type of ellipse with eccentricity 0. This other conic section occurs when the
eccentricity equals 1. In physics, all projectiles follow this sort of trajectory.
ANSWER: parabola [do not accept “hyperbola”]
[10] Any conic section can be defined as the set of all points located in a fixed ratio between a point and
a line. That point is known as the focus, while that line is known as this.
ANSWER: directrix

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 9

Page 11 of 11 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

