TOSSUP 1
An excess of it will result in increased blood pH, potassium depletion, and chlorine depletion.
Many stimuli can trigger it, including migraines and kidney stones. In children, it is usually caused
by gastroenteritis, better known as the stomach flu. The study of it is known as emetology. For
ten points, name this medical symptom preceded by nausea.
Vomiting (prompt on emesis after emetology is mentioned)
BONUS 1
FTPE, name these diseases that cause vomiting.
10:

People with this eating disorder try to regulate weight by binging and
purging.
Bulimia nervosa

10:

This disease is caused by cerebrospinal fluid accumulating in the skull.
Hydrocephalus

10:

This disease is characterized by liver inflammation, loss of appetite,
jaundice, fever, and of course, vomiting several times per day.
Hepatitis

TOSSUP 2
No sovereign state has recognized its independence. It has the lowest GDP per capita in Europe,
followed by Moldova, the country from which it split in 1990. Although it is obviously no longer a
Soviet Socialist Republic, its flag still retains the hammer and sickle. The population is only about
30 percent Moldovan, with the majority of citizens being Russian and Ukrainian immigrants. The
Dniester river seaparates it from Bessarabia. FTP, name this republic led by Igor Smirnov, with
capital at Tiraspol.
Transnistria or Pridnestrovie
BONUS 2
For fifteen points each, name these other unrecognized states.
15:

This state was established by the Liberation Tigers in Sri Lanka. It
has its own air force and navy.
Tamil Eelam

15:

This sparsely-populated former Spanish colony is partially controlled
by the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.
Western Sahara

1

TOSSUP 3
Born in 1805 in Vermont, he received his first calling as a prophet in his teens. Later he was
told of a hidden Gospel on golden plates and in 1827, the sacred records were delivered into his
hands. This Book contains a history of America to the fifth century of the Christian era, during
which Jesus Christ is said to have appeared and established his Church in the New World. He
was ordained as a priest, and was intended be the instrument of the Church’s reestablishment. He
ran for U. S. President and started a practice of “spiritual wives”. Despite ridicule and hostility,
his new Church of the Latter-day Saints rapidly gained converts. FTP, name this founder of the
Mormons.
Joseph Smith
BONUS 3
FTPE, name these individuals with whom religious movements or sects are associated:
10:

The 17th century Swiss bishop whose followers in the Anabaptist movement were persecuted for their belief that infant baptism was invalid;
the Amish are named for him:
Jacob Amman

10:

An evangelist and founder of Methodism:

10:

She had little formal education because of ill health, and she founded
the Christian Science Church:
Mary Baker Eddy or Mary Baker Eddy Glover

TOSSUP 4
In 1868, French sailors called off the execution of nine Japanese because of it. The name used
by the Japanese is the same one more commonly known to Westerners, except with the kanji in
reversed order. Minamoto no Yorimasa performed the first recorded one in the Genpei Wars in
1180. The female equivalent of it was known as jigai, a jugular-slashing ritual. The FTP, name
this form of suicide by disembowlment used by samurai.
Seppuku (accept hara kiri)
BONUS 4
FTPE name these methods of suicide.
10:

The deaths due to this are usually due to accidents. It involves cutting
off one’s own oxygen supply during sexual stimulation.
autoerotic asphyxiation

10:

Malcolm Browne famously photographed a monk performing this, in
protest of the oppression of Buddhism in Vietnam.
self-immolation

10:

This method involves dying slowly of blood loss from the radial and
ulnar arteries.
wrist slashing (accept equivalents)

2

TOSSUP 5
Pembroke’s army, moving from Wales, was defeated in Herefordshire at the Battle of Mortimer’s
Cross by Edward’s army, which was inspired by the apparent appearance of three suns at dawn,
a phenomenon called parhelion. Shortly thereafter, the Battle of Towton was fought, the largest
battle in the war so far, in which Margaret of Anjou’s army was annihilated and Edward IV
solidified his control over the country. However, his party would later lose the throne with the
defeat of Richard III at Bosworth Field in 1485. FTP, name the major English civil war of the
last half of the fifteenth century, in which the Yorkists and Lancastrians were pitted against each
other and the Tudors came out the winner.
Wars of the Roses (prompt on Roses and equivalent answers)
BONUS 5
FTPE name these ancestors of Edward IV and Richard III.
10:

The legitimate descendants of this fabulously wealthy duke became the
House of Lancaster
John of Gaunt (prompt on John)

10:

John of Gaunt was a member of this meta-house of English nobles
descended from Geoffrey of Anjou.
Plantagenet

10:

This earlier Plantagenet is cast as the villian in the Robin Hood legend,
usurping his brother Richard’s throne as Richard fights in the Crusades.
King John, Lackland

TOSSUP 6
In the 4th century it was divided into Eastern and Western languages. All members of the
Western half are extinct. The two surviving members of the Eastern half were proto-dialects
of the same language until around the 9th century CE. Today, the surviving languages are not
mutually intelligible. Despite geographical grouping with these languages, Estonian is not a
member of it, instead being a Finno-Ugric language. For ten points, name this family related
to the Slavic languages consisting of Galindan, Sudovian, Curonian, Selonian, Semigallian, Old
Prussian, Lithuanian, and Latvian.
Baltic Languages
BONUS 6
For ten points each, given the language, name the Indo-European language family to which it
belongs.
10:

Afrikaans
Germanic

10:

Welsh
Celtic

10:

Hittite
Anatolian

3

TOSSUP 7
An odd one would have to be at least 300 digits long and have at least 8 different prime factors.
All of the known ones are the product of a power of two and a Mersenne prime. Only the first
four were known to the ancients, probably because the 5th has 25 factors. Numbers not in this set
are either abundant or deficient. Six and 28 are the smallest of, FTP, what set of numbers that
are equal to the sum of their proper divisors?
Perfect numbers
BONUS 7
Identify these interesting integer sequences from their first terms, FTPE.
10:

1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13
Fibbonaci sequence or numbers

10:

2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13
Prime numbers

10:

1, 3, 6, 10, 15, 21
Triangular numbers

TOSSUP 8
Contrary to rumors implying that he was rich, a posthumous search of his living quarters yielded
$2.50, a collection of walking sticks, a worn-down saber, and records of his correspondence with
Queen Victoria. The King in Huckleberry Finn is reportedly based off this man, a celebrated
citizen of San Francisco in the mid-19th century. His most famous acts include quelling a riot
against Chinese citizens by standing in the middle of the fray and reciting the Lord’s Prayer
and also issuing an “imperial decree” demanding the dissolution of Congress. FTP, name this
self-proclaimed Emperor of the United States.
Emperor Joshua A. Norton I
BONUS 8
BONUS Answer these questions relating to 19th century San Francisco, FTPE.
10:

This park, San Francisco’s equivalent to Central Park, was designed in
1870 over ocean dunes by William Hammond Hall.
Golden Gate Park

10:

This business tycoon was the president of the Central Pacific Railroad
company and has a university named for him.
Leland Stanford

10:

Beginning in 1848 with an important discovery at Sutter’s Mill, this
led to a huge population boom in San Francisco.
California Gold Rush

4

TOSSUP 9
The first volume was published under the name Alcofribas Nasier, and in one of this volume’s
chapters the narrator was able to fit in a nation founded on one of the titular character’s teeth.
The fifth and last volume is closed by a scene in which one of the title giants produces a giant
turd. FTP, name this series of books starring two giants and written by Francois Rabelais.
Gargantua and Pantagruel
BONUS 9
FTPE answer these questions on a philosophy that first appeared in “Gargantua and Pantagruel”.
10:

This philosophy’s basic principle was summarized by Rabelais as “Do
what thou wilt.”
Thelema

10:

This occultist revived Thelema in 1904 when he wrote “The Book Of
Law”.
Aleister Crowley

10:

After leaving the Golden Dawn, Crowley founded this organization
featuring thelema as its central principle.
Ordo Templi Orientlis

TOSSUP 10
Its name is derived from the Latin word for “sausage” because it can grow inill-prepared meats. It
is a strong nerve agent, but it would be impractical foruse in biological warfare because it grows
in anaerobic conditions anddecomposes after contact with air. However, it is still the most toxic
naturalsubstance; a lethal dose of it is as little as 200 picograms per kilogram.Despite the danger,
it is approved by the FDA to treat certain conditions, manyinvolving spasms or control problems.
FTP, name this toxin that is used mostoften to eliminate wrinkles on the face.
Botulin (accept Botulinum toxin, accept Botox reluctantly, prompt on Dysport,
Myobloc, or Neurobloc)
BONUS 10
Name these agents used in chemical warfare, FTPE.
10:

Within one day of exposure, it causes large blisters to appear. It was
usedby the Germans against the Canadians and French in World War
I.
Mustard gas or Sulfur mustard HD

10:

It was used heavily by the United States in the Vietnam War and was
the mostcommon “rainbow herbicide.”
Agent Orange

10:

It works very quickly and can kill within one minute of ingestion. It
wasreleased in a Tokyo subway by the cult Aum Shinrikyo in 1995.
Sarin

5

TOSSUP 11
A versatile performer, in 1937 he became the voice of “The Shadow” in the radio show of the
same, and he is remembered for a famous radio hoax based on H.G. Wells’ The War of the Worlds
in which he convinced thousands of people that the world was being invaded by Martians. FTP
name this man, most famous for co-writing, directing, and starring in a film depicting the rise and
fall of a megalomaniacal newspaper magnate.
Orson Welles.
BONUS 11
FTPE answer these other questions about Orson Welles.
10:

Name that most famous film, often described as the quintessential
American saga.
“Citizen Kane.”

10:

Name the real-life newspaper magnate and occasional polititian, known
as the father of “yellow journalism,” upon whose career “Citizen Kane”
was reputed to have been based.
William Randolph Hearst.

10:

Name Welles’ co-star in “Citizen Kane,” a co-member of the Mercury
Players, who would later become more famous as the witch-mother
Endora in the T.V. show “Bewitched.”
Agnes Moorehead.

TOSSUP 12
Pencil and paper ready. Paco is playing a simplified game of darts with a circular dartboard with
a rings of radii 3, 5, and 6. Paco wants to know the probability of hitting the middle ring of the
board if he has an equal chance of hitting every point on the board. He realizes that all he has to
do is subtract the area of the bullseye from the area of the middle ring and divide by the area of
the outer ring. FTP, what is Paco’s probability of hitting the middle ring, but not the bullseye?
4
9 (Accept unsimplified forms)
BONUS 12
Consider the same dartboard. FTPE, what is the probability that Paco hits...
10:

The outer ring or the bullsey, but not the inner ring?
5
9

10:

The outer ring only?
11
36

10:

The bullseye?
1
4

6

TOSSUP 13
The defendant had circulated flyers which urged drafted men to petition to repeal the conscription
act, making reference to the Thirteenth Amendment and its provision forbiding ”involuntary
servitude.” FTP Name this landmark court case, where the defendant was a Socialist charged with
violating the Espionage Act of 1917 and the Chief Justice, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., upheld the
conviction deciding that free speech could be limited if there is “clear and present danger.”
A:Schenck v. the United States
BONUS 13
FTPE identify these Latin phrases related to the Supreme Court.
10:

The precedent system is summed up in this two-word phrase meaning
“let the decision stand.”
stare decisis

10:

The Supreme Court doesn’t have to hear every case; when they take
up a case, they are granting it this writ.
Certiorari

10:

Briefs filed by third parties to assist court rulings are known by this
friendly name.
amicus curiae (“friend of the court”)

TOSSUP 14
Its name is commonly translated as ”Divine Vessel.” Made up of two pairsof solar panels and
three modules–the forward orbital module, a reentrycapsule, and an aft service module–its design
resembles the Russian Soyuzcraft. Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center, in the Gobi Desert, is used
to launchcraft of this type. A seventh mission is planned for 2008, when the crew willattempt a
spacewalk. FTP, identify this Chinese spacecraft, the fifth of whichput the first taikonaut into
space on October 15, 2003.
Shenzhou spacecraft
BONUS 14
For five points each, name the six shuttles that were built for the spaceshuttle program–five were
used, and one was a prototype. You will have ten seconds.
30:
¡++¿

Enterprise, Challenger, Atlantis, Discovery, Columbia, Endeavor

TOSSUP 15
This book consists entirely of letters and journals of which the author presents himself as the
editor. One of the first epistolary novels, it features the writings of six correspondents with their
own point of view, with the heroine for which the book is named providing most of the writings.
This young lady is a girl of 15 who is pursued by the hero, Mr. B, when her kind employer—the
heros mother, Lady B—dies. The book was followed by a sequel and a parody, probably written
by Fielding and called Shamela. FTP name this Samuel Richardson novel, the alternate title of
which is Virtue Rewarded.
Pamela

7

BONUS 15
FTPE, name the authors of these works which were milestones in the development of the English
novel:
10:

This work purports to be the autobiography of the daughter of a woman
who had been transported to Virginia for theft soon after her childs
birth, written by Daniel Defoe
Moll Flanders

10:

This allegory takes the form of a dream by the author, John Bunyan,
in which he encounters Mr. Worldly Wiseman:
The Pilgrims Progress

10:

This work is generally regarded as the progenitor of the 20th-century
stream of consciousness novel and was penned by Laurence Sterne:
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy

TOSSUP 16
Born in 1632, this painter’s first work was “Christ in the House of Martha and Mary”. Historians
have speculated that he used a camera obscura because lenses produce the same effects as seen on
his paintings. Hans van Meegeren, another Dutch painter, forged this artist’s works, contributing
to the problem of assessing authenticity. FTP, name this artist who is best known for “View Of
Delft”.
Johannes Vermeer
BONUS 16
BONUS FTPE, name these other works by Vermeer given descriptions.
10:

The focal point of this painting is a piece of jewelry, and it is sometimes
called the “Dutch Mona Lisa”.
Girl with a Pearl Earring

10:

This largest and most complex of Vermeer’s works shows a painter
drawing a portrait of a young lady in a studio, and behind the painter
is a large map of the Netherlands.
The Art of Painting (accept The Allegory of Painting)

10:

This painting is currently on display at the National Gallery of Art and
was originally called “The Goldweigher” before a microscopic study
showed that there is no gold in the title object.
A Woman Holding A Balance

8

TOSSUP 17
TOSSUP Queen Christina of Sweden liked these people so much she stopped a war with Poland
so she could borrow one from the Polish king. In 1870 Italy became the last country to outlaw the
procedure that characterizes them. Some people, however, are endocrinologically able to imitate
the trademark high pitches. FTP, name these male singers known for their high voices lack of
genitals.
Castrati
BONUS 17
BONUS Name these other types of voices.
10:

This term refers to a female voice from the A below middle C to the A
two octaves above middle C. A famous example is the title character
in Bizet’s Carmen .
Mezzo Soprano

10:

This is the lowest female and highest male singing voice.
Alto (accept Contralto)

10:

Famous men who sing in this voice are Luciano Pavarotti and Placido
Domingo.
Tenor

TOSSUP 18
The title characters take a boat to England, lose their pants, and are ambushed by pirates
throughout the course of this play. The roles of the characters are switched around from those in
the Shakespeare play which they had been taken from, with Shakespeare’s title character playing
a minimal role. It is often compared to Beckett’s “Waiting for Godot”, and its main theme
is existentialism. FTP, name this 1967 play by Tom Stoppard featuring two characters from
“Hamlet”.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
BONUS 18
FTPE identify these other works by Tom Stoppard.
10:

Stoppard returned to the Shakespeare theme by writing the script for
this 1998 best picture winner.
Shakespeare in Love

10:

This play concerns itself with the titular type of music and its involvement in Eastern Bloc Czechoslovakia between 1968 and 1989.
Rock ’n’ Roll

10:

This play features as protagonist Alexander Ivanov, who is locked up
in a mental asylum for making statements against the government. It
is named after a mnemonic used to remember the line notes on the
treble clef.
Every Good Boy Deserves Favour

9

TOSSUP 19
His father was a Unitarian minister, and he attended Harvard. During World War I, he served
in an ambulance company in France. During the war, he was imprisoned; he later wrote a novel
about his imprisonment titled The Enormous Room. While he did write prose, he is most famous
for his contributions as a poet, including such works as the sky was candy luminous and anyone
lived in a pretty how town. FTP, name this American jazz writer known for odd typography and
a completely uncapitalized name.
e e cummings
BONUS 19
Cummings belonged to a small group of American writers who were influenced by jazz music.
FTPE, name these other ”jazz poets” from works.
10:

“Hugh Selwyn Mauberley”, “The Cantos”
Ezra Pound

10:

“Yet Do I Marvel”, “Incident”
Countee Cullen

10:

“Bryan, Bryan, Bryan, Bryan”, “Euclid”, “The Congo: A Study of the
Negro Race”
Vachel Lindsay

10

