NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Tossups
1. This attorney prosecuted Arthur Bowen, a young slave, for the attempted murder of his owner Anna
Thornton in a trial that took place in the aftermath of a destructive race riot. Another person prosecuted by
this man was a house-painter named Richard Lawrence, who arrived at the funeral of Warren Davis and tried
to use two malfunctioning firearms to kill Andrew Jackson. While attempting to secure the release of Dr. William Beanes, this man was detained aboard the HMS Tonnant, where he wrote a poem that mentions in its later
stanzas "the terror of flight" and "the gloom of the grave." For 10 points, name this author of "The Defense of
Fort M'Henry," which was set to music as "The Star-Spangled Banner."
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key <Clarke>
2. The largest of these structures stretches half a mile and is located in the very remote Wood Buffalo National
Park in Canada. The construction of these structures has devastated Tierra del Fuego, because local flora aren't
amenable to coppicing, and has led to one of the largest fauna eradication programs in history. Secondary examples of these structures can provide counterpressure to shore up their primary structure or protect food
caches. These structures are often designed to protect a "lodge" that's used for shelter. They're the original example of allogenic ecosystem engineering and are anchored by poles and branches set up parallel to a body of
water's current and pointing upstream. For 10 points, name these structures that are created on streams by a
large aquatic rodent.
ANSWER: beaver dams [or beaver ponds until it is read; prompt on dams] <Voight>
3. This man used the term "signa beneplaciti" to refer to the voluntary will of God, which he separated from the
"absolute uncaused will" that cannot be countermanded. This man was attacked for his doctrine of the "common substance," which Joachim of Fiore said made a "quaternity" out of the trinity. This man, whose list of
seven sacraments became authoritative, wrote a text in four books that discuss God, angels, Christ, and the
sacraments. This man was put on trial at the Fourth Lateran Council but was vindicated, allowing his major
text to become the standard textbook at the University of Paris. For 10 points, name this early twelfth century
author of the Sentences.
ANSWER: Peter Lombard <Bollinger>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 1 of 14 

4. A poem in this language ends by noting "we shall have early fruit this year" after describing the title "Autopsy." A poet who wrote in this language tried to captured the "metaphysics of the sun" in long poems like
Worthy It Is. A poem in this language instructs the addressee to listen to the "exquisite music of that strange
procession" outside his window. In a poem in this language, the speaker asks questions like, "Why do the senators sit there without legislating?" A poet who used this language advised, "pray that the road is long, full of
adventure, full of knowledge," and wrote, "They were, those people, a kind of solution," in his poem "Waiting
for the Barbarians." For 10 points, name this language used by Odysseas Elytis and by Constantine Cavafy.
ANSWER: Greek [or Hellenica] <Brownstein>
5. In this play, a man claims that "almost all the wise world is little else but parasites." Another character in this
play is forced to wear donkey ears and paraded around the city. Earlier in this play, that character orders his
wife to perform all things backwards after she throws her handkerchief at a man who sells a panacea while disguised as a mountebank named Scoto. In this play, Peregrine is thought to be a courtesan in disguise by the
talkative Lady Politic Would-Be. This play centers on the attempts by Voltore, Corvino, and Corbaccio to win
the inheritance of the title character, who pretends to be on his deathbed and is served by Mosca. For 10
points, name this play about a "Sly Fox" by Ben Jonson.
ANSWER: Volpone <Sy>
6. An orator of this ethnicity asked why he was the first in his family "in a thousand generations to be able to
get to university," in a speech plagiarized by Joe Biden. A man of this ethnicity claimed he appeased the BMA
by "[stuffing] their mouths with gold," and names a leftist faction of his party that opposed the Gaitskellites. A
man with this ethnicity proposed high taxes on the rich in the 1909 "People's Budget" while he was Chancellor
of the Exchequer. Labour luminaries of this ethnicity include Neil Kinnock and NHS godfather Nye Bevan,
both of whom hailed from the coal-mining town of Tredegar. The only Prime Minister of this ethnicity represented Britain at Versailles. For 10 points, give this ethnicity of David Lloyd George.
ANSWER: Welsh people [or Cymry] <Yu>
7. The DAG complex links the cytoskeleton to costameres to couple this multi-protein structure with the cell
membrane. CapZ localizes to a region of this structure with the help of nebulin, which also serves as a "molecular ruler." The poly-Ig chains and PEVK region motifs account for the differential elasticity of titin at various
extensions of this structure, which may be represented on a force-length plot. At the center of this structure is
a pale region named for the German word heller that contains the M-line. Intercalated discs are found at this
structure's Z lines. It consists of thick and thin filaments that slide during contraction. For 10 points, name
this basic myofibrillar structural unit of striated muscles that contains actin and myosin.
ANSWER: sarcomeres [or Z line and Z disk until "extensions" is read; prompt on skeletal or cardiac muscle,
myocytes, muscle cells, and cross-bridges; prompt on myofibrils, thin filaments, and thick filaments until
they are read; do not accept "sacromeres"] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 2 of 14 

8. In one of these paintings by this artist, the subject wears an over-sized suit and a bar of music at the top accompanies the lyrics "Look, if I loved you it was because of your hair." A propeller plane loops around the subject's head in one of these paintings titled "Time Flies." One of these paintings, which shows the subject in a
wheelchair, is a double portrait with the surgeon Dr. Farill. One of these paintings called "The Broken Column"
reflects the damage its subject suffered from a horrific bus crash at age eighteen. A cat and a monkey sit on the
subject's shoulders in one of these paintings depicting a thorn and hummingbird necklace. For 10 points,
name these paintings by and of the unibrowed wife of Diego Rivera.
ANSWER: Frida Kahlo's self-portraits [or self-portraits by Frida Kahlo de Rivera; or self-portraits by Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon; prompt on self-portraits; prompt on portraits by Kahlo; prompt on
Frida Kahlo] <Gupta>
9. This country's Fly River was affected by a large influx of mining waste from the Ok Tedi Mine near its western border. The nut tree Canarium indicum was domesticated by this country's highland farmers, who were famously studied by Jared Diamond. An English-derived creole known as Tok Pisin is the most widely spoken of
over eight hundred languages spoken by this country's residents. Some of this country's residents have escaped to the Torres Strait Islands, which are owned by a country to its south. This country shares an island
with a province formerly known as Irian Jaya. For 10 points, name this Oceanic country whose capital, Port
Moresby, was used in World War II as a base to protect nearby Australia.
ANSWER: Papua New Guinea [or Independent State of Papua New Guinea] <White>
10. John Reekie's image of men gathering the remains of fellow soldiers during this period was partly titled A
Burial Party and was included in a namesake Sketch Book produced during this conflict. View in wheatfield opposite our extreme left, "Slaughter pen" on left wing, and The Harvest of Death were created during this period by Timothy O'Sullivan after joining the studio of Alexander Gardner. George S. Cook took the first-ever combat photo
during this conflict. Many of the images of this era were delegated out by Mathew Brady, whose photograph of
the president during this conflict is used on the $5 bill. For 10 points, name this war memorialized in the photography exhibition "The Dead of Antietam".
ANSWER: American Civil War <Smart>
11. In the Alexander Mosaic, this object appears on Alexander's breastplate. This object appears during a battle
with the angered suitor Phineus and his one thousand men. This object is demanded as compensation from
the only man who fails to provide some horses to prepare a wedding gift for Hippodamia. This object, most
frequently kept in a kibisis, is used to transform the titan Atlas into an enormous mountain. Pegasus and
Chrysaor are born in the immediate aftermath of the retrieval of this object. The hero that retrieves this object
keeps his eye on the reflection of the Aegis in order to avoid the petrifying gaze of its snake-haired owner. For
10 points, identify this body part which Perseus obtains by decapitating a Gorgon.
ANSWER: the head of Medusa <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 3 of 14 

12. A member of this family founded a large mining firm with James B.A. Haggin and Lloyd Tevis, which
bought out South Dakota's Homestake mine. That man jumpstarted his career after paying Patrick McLaughlin three thousand dollars for part of the Comstock Lode. A man in this family told Frederick Remington to
"furnish the pictures" and owned a mansion in San Simeon. As repayment for a gambling debt, a member of
this family, George, acquired the San Francisco Examiner, which would later achieve success under his son's
control. That son later controlled the New York Morning Journal, which competed with Joseph Pulitzer's New
York World. For 10 points, name this family whose members include journalism mogul William Randolph.
ANSWER: Hearst family <Golimlim>
13. The generating function for these numbers is x over quantity one minus x, cubed. Gauss's "Eureka Theorem" is about expressing numbers as sums of three of these numbers. The sum of the first n cubes is the
square of one of these numbers. All even perfect numbers are this type of number that can be written as a
function of a Mersenne prime. The number of edges in a complete graph is one of these numbers. By looking
at a geometric representation of these numbers, one sees that the sum of two consecutive ones is a perfect
square. Numbers of this form can be written as n plus 1 choose 2, or n times n plus 1 over 2. For 10 points, identify these numbers like 15, which can be written as 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5.
ANSWER: triangular numbers [or n plus 1 choose 2 or n times n plus 1 over 2 until they are read] <Schindler>
14. A poem of this title describes a painting "about the size of an old-style dollar bill" executed by Uncle George,
and was included in Geography III by Elizabeth Bishop. Another poem of this title describes a cat stepping
down "into the pit of the empty flowerpot." That poem was written by William Carlos Williams, who also wrote
that "it is difficult to get the news from" these things, "yet men die miserably every day for lack of what is
found there." These things are compared to "imaginary gardens with real toads in them" in a poem by Marianne Moore. A rather stupid poem says that these things "should be equal to: not true," and that they "should
not mean but be." For 10 points, name these artworks described by Archibald MacLeish's "Ars Poetica."
ANSWER: poems [prompt on poetry] <Casalaspi>
15. As this quantity increases, a plot of its counterpart gives serrated bands in the Portevin-Le Chatelier effect.
The gauge factor is the change in resistance, over resistance, divided by this quantity. Cold working results in
the tangling of grain dislocations in this quantity's namesake "hardening". The time derivative of this quantity
multiplied by viscosity equals the viscous force over area. The Poisson ratio is the negative ratio of it in the
transverse and axial directions. The Cauchy, or engineering, definition of this quantity is the change in length
over the original length. For 10 points, name this dimensionless quantity symbolized epsilon, which is often
plotted against stress.
ANSWER: engineering strain [or strain rate] <Silverman>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 4 of 14 

16. An anthropologist from this country described how enclaved commodities are hedged from pathway diversion in The Social Life of Things and noted the role of social imaginaries in globalization in Modernity at Large. A
man from this country described how people convert endowments into entitlements in an analysis of mass
starvation. The roles of moral, technical, and ceremonial customs in reinforcing social cohesion on an archipelago in this country were described by Alfred Radcliffe-Brown. The creator of the capability approach, an
economist from this country, wrote Poverty and Famines and Development as Freedom. A system from this country
had thousands of divisions called jatis and four major ranks called varnas. For 10 points, name this home
country of Arjun Appadurai and Amartya Sen, which had a noted caste system.
ANSWER: India <Kothari>
17. A concerto for this instrument, titled The Harmonic Labyrinth, was published in a collection on The Art of this
instrument, by Pietro Locatelli. A G minor sonata for this instrument begins with a Larghetto affettuoso in 12/8
time. Two of these instruments feature in Arcangelo Corelli's trio sonatas. A dream of Satan's virtuosic skill on
this instrument inspired Giuseppe Tartini's Devil's Trill Sonata. This instrument plays the D minor chaconne
that ends J.S. Bach's Partita No. 2 for it. A set of concertos for this instrument was paired with sonnets about
harvests, thunderstorms, and chirping birds in spring. For 10 points, name this instrument for which Antonio
Vivaldi wrote The Four Seasons.
ANSWER: violins <Kim>
18. This country executed a schizophrenic Brazilian man who was unaware that he was about to be executed
until the day it happened. This country's current vice president chastised neighbors for being ungrateful for
eleven months of clean air and complaining about one month of haze. This country banned its citizens from
working in the Middle East after two maids from here were executed in Saudi Arabia. In April 2015, Australian
citizens Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran were among seven people killed by firing squad in this country. Prabowo Subianto rejected the results of this country's 2014 presidential election, which brought Joko
Widodo to power. For 10 points, name this country that executed members of a drug-smuggling ring on Bali.
ANSWER: Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia] <Golimlim>
19. While hiding in a tree, two characters created by this author watch a man dressed as a stag chop another
person's finger off. In a novel by this author, a lame man is murdered and buried with a sprig of mistletoe by
some workmen, allowing his wife Goody Pangall to pursue an affair with the master builder Roger Mason. In a
novel by this author, Fa is swept down a waterfall on a log and Lok is unable to save a baby called the New One.
This author wrote a novel about Dean Jocelin's renovation of a cathedral and a novel about a tribe of Neanderthals. In one of his novels, the corpse of a parachuter is mistaken for the Beast, and a conch shell and Piggy's
glasses are symbols of order. For 10 points, name this author of The Spire, The Inheritors, and Lord of the Flies.
ANSWER: William Golding [or William Gerald Golding] <Brownstein>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 5 of 14 

20. During these conflicts, a British Auxiliary Legion led by Sir George de Lacy Evans assisted in lifting the
siege of Bilbao. In one of these conflicts, 118 prisoners of war were shot by a firing squad at Heredia, an event
that inspired the signing of the Lord Eliot Convention. During these wars, the aduaneros military force was
founded by Tomas de Zumalacarregui. During the first of these wars, nearly 1,000 surrendering officers kept
their ranks after Rafael Maroto and Baldomero Espartero signed the Convention of Vergara. These wars
started after Ferdinand VII convinced the Cortes Generales to set aside Salic law and allow his daughter Isabella
II to succeed him. For 10 points, name this series of civil wars in 19th century Spain named for the supporters
of Ferdinand VII's brother.
ANSWER: Carlist Wars [or First Carlist War] <O'Rourke>
21. In February 2015, two women at Melbourne's Flemington Racecourse were hospitalized during a recreation
of a festival involving these objects. Participants in a festival involving these items must first remove a piece of
meat from a greased pole, which is the signal to begin throwing these items. The Socialist Party of the Netherlands uses one of these objects in its logo. The Italian name for this plant is derived from the words for "golden
apple." A festival involving these plants is held every August in Buñol, Spain, where they are thrown for fun.
This plant is the main ingredient of pico de gallo and the soup base for gazpacho. For 10 points, name this red
member of the nightshade family typically used in pizza sauce and ketchup.
ANSWER: tomatoes [or Solanum lycopersicum] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 6 of 14 

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Bonuses
1. Functionals of this quantity are used in the Kohn-Sham equations in order to estimate the energy of multielectronic wavefunctions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scalar quantity which, according to the Hohenberg-Kohn theorems, can be used to accurately
predict ground-state energies.
ANSWER: electron charge density
[10] Electron charge density is visualized using electrostatic potential maps, which represent regions of high
density with this color. In CPK model kits, this color represents oxygen.
ANSWER: red
[10] In systems with more than one molecule, electron density rapidly fluctuates due to induced dipoles, leading to these intermolecular attractive forces which exist even in nonpolar molecules.
ANSWER: London dispersion forces [or London dispersion forces] <Silverman>
2. John Locke's letter on this policy, addressed to his friend Philipp van Limborch, argues that princes should
enforce it for all denominations except for atheists and Catholics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Enlightenment-era idea of allowing different religious groups to coexist peacefully in one state.
ANSWER: religious toleration [or religious tolerance; or equivalents]
[10] This Baruch Spinoza text argues for religious toleration as a necessity for a free state. It also argues that
Moses did not author the Torah, which it considers as a civil constitution.
ANSWER: Tractatus Theologico-Politicus [or the Theologico-Political Treatise]
[10] This French Enlightenment thinker also defended religious toleration on scriptural grounds in his Historical and Critical Dictionary.
ANSWER: Pierre Bayle <Bollinger>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 7 of 14 

3. A procession leaves this city's Imperial Palace and walks to the Kamo shrines of Shimogamo and Kamigamo
in one of its "three great festivals" referenced in Kawabata's The Old Capital. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Honshu city, home to the Aoi Matsuri and the capital of Japan until the imperial court moved to
Tokyo in 1869.
ANSWER: Kyoto
[10] The nights leading up to the "former" and "latter" yamaboko parades of this Kyoto festival are designated
"yoiyama," "yoiyoiyama," and "yoiyoiyoiyama." This festival also names a district home to the Yasaka Shrine.
ANSWER: Gion Festival
[10] This holiday begins with Buddhist temples ringing their bells 108 times and is celebrated with osechi-ryori
dishes such as the tangerine-topped kagami mochi. Kids receive money in envelopes in its ritual of
otoshidama.
ANSWER: Japanese New Year <Smart>
4. This statesman desperately tried to import a moose carcass into France to disprove Buffon's theory that
American animals are degenerate compared to their Old World counterparts. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this politician who also attacked Buffon's theory in Notes on the State of Virginia. During his term as
U.S. president, he commissioned the Lewis and Clark Expedition.
ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson
[10] Buffon was a major influence on this French naturalist, an opponent of Lamarck's evolutionary theories.
He established the reality of extinction and described genera like Pterodactylus and Megatherium.
ANSWER: Georges Cuvier [or Jean Léopold Nicolas Frédéric Cuvier]
[10] Cuvier's catastrophism is contrasted with this position established by James Hutton and popularized in
Charles Lyell's Principles of Geology. It assumes that natural processes occurring now are the same ones that occurred in the past.
ANSWER: uniformitarianism [or gradualism] <Kothari>
5. This fiend is currently locked away in an "electronic mountain trap." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this former dictator of the Galactic Confederacy who kidnapped billions of people, took them to the
planet Teegeeack, and destroyed them with hydrogen bombs, which released their thetans to be captured by
this dude's forces.
ANSWER: Xenu [or Xemu]
[10] If you know the story about Xenu, you might be a high-ranking member of this religion founded by science fiction author L. Ron Hubbard.
ANSWER: Church of Scientology
[10] Dedicated Scientologists sign billion year contracts to work in a fraternal order of the Church that basically serves as this type of organization. Disobedient members of this type of organization are sent to the Rehabilitation Project Force.
ANSWER: navy [or Sea Organization; or fleet; prompt on military; prompt on paramilitary] <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 8 of 14 

6. This man led a group of four men in a three-day hunger strike to protest the government's response to the
Tiananmen Square protests. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Chinese political prisoner who was unable to claim his Nobel Peace Prize in 2010.
ANSWER: Liu Xiaobo
[10] In 2009, Liu was imprisoned for the fourth time after being one of the over 350 luminaries to sign this
document. It was modeled on a 1977 anti-Soviet manifesto signed in Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Charter 08
[10] Like Liu, this politician was unable to accept her Nobel Peace Prize. She has frequently been placed under
house arrest by the ruling junta of Myanmar.
ANSWER: Aung San Suu Kyi <Golimlim>
7. Name some novels that discuss cloning, for 10 points each.
[10] The Bokanovsky Process is used to produce massive numbers of Gammas, Deltas, and Epsilons in this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley, in which women wear a Malthusian belt filled with contraceptives.
ANSWER: Brave New World
[10] Sonmi-451 is a fabricant in the state of Nea So Copros in one of the many nested plotlines of this David
Mitchell novel.
ANSWER: Cloud Atlas
[10] Michel discovers the Djerzinsky algorithm and promotes the perfection of humanity through cloning in
this writer's book The Elementary Particles. He imagines a Muslim president of France, Mohammed Ben Abbes,
in his latest novel, Submission.
ANSWER: Michel Houellebecq [or Michel Thomas] <Kothari>
8. This painter created a series of seven paintings depicting the interplay of light and space in the Gothic
church of Saint-Severin. For 10 points:
[10] Name this man who exhibited at the Herbst Salon paintings from a new movement he co-founded with
his wife Sonia Terk.
ANSWER: Robert Delaunay [or Robert-Victor-Felix Delaunay]
[10] Delaunay and Terk created this colorful offshoot of Cubism, which was given its mythological name by the
poet Guillaume Apollinaire.
ANSWER: Orphism [or word forms, such as Orphist]
[10] Delaunay's Champ des Mars fancifully depicts this monument in red. This iron lattice tower was originally
built as the entrance arch for the 1889 World's Fair.
ANSWER: Eiffel Tower [or La tour Eiffel] <White>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 9 of 14 

9. This activist used the pseudonym Junius to author "The Crisis in Social Democracy." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Marxist founder of Red Flag who rejected the Revisionism of Eduard Bernstein in works like
The Accumulation of Capital.
ANSWER: Rosa Luxemburg
[10] Rosa Luxemburg was a leader of this Communist league, named for a Thracian rebel, that objected to Weimar Germany's Burgfriedenspolitik and was crushed in 1919.
ANSWER: Spartacist League [or Spartacus League; or Spartakusbund]
[10] This man, the namesake of an ill-fated airship, succeeded Friedrich Ebert as President of the Weimar Republic.
ANSWER: Paul von Hindenburg <Ray>
10. This author's debut novel, which opens with the death of the drag queen Divine, was burned by a prison
guard who discovered an "unauthorized" use of brown paper. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author and playwright of Our Lady of the Flowers, who wrote about the thief Said marrying the
"ugliest woman in town" in his play The Screens.
ANSWER: Jean Genet
[10] In this play by Genet, the patrons of Madame Irma's brothel use her props and costumes to pose as authority figures and stifle a revolution after Chantal becomes the revolution's spirit.
ANSWER: The Balcony [or Le Balcon]
[10] The Screens is set in this country. Frantz Fanon wrote The Wretched of the Earth during this country's war of
independence against France, and Camus's The Plague is set in its city of Oran.
ANSWER: Algeria [or People's Democratic Republic of Algeria; or Al-Jumhuriyyah al-Jaza'iriyyah al-Dimuqratiyyah al-Sha'biyyah] <O'Rourke>
11. Answer the following about Nazi officer Otto Skorzeny's many plans, for 10 points each.
[10] Skorzeny led a raid into the Apennines to rescue this dictator, who was unseated in 1943. His body was
hung upside down from a Milan gas station toward the end of World War II.
ANSWER: Benito Mussolini [or Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini; prompt on Il Duce]
[10] Skorzeny was charged for violating the laws of war for disguising his soldiers as Allies during this battle.
Another atrocious act during this battle was the killing of 84 American POWs in the Malmedy Massacre.
ANSWER: Battle of the Bulge
[10] Skorzeny's forces executed this action as part of Operation Panzerfaust in response to the secret signing
of a Soviet armistice. It involved rolling its target up in a carpet and was followed up by the rise of the Arrow
Cross Party to power.
ANSWER: the kidnapping of Miklos Horthy, Jr. [or the kidnapping of Miklos Horthy's son; or equivalents for
"kidnapping"; do not accept "the kidnapping of Miklos Horthy"] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 10 of 14 

12. Answer the following about fiendish Republican strategist Lee Atwater, for 10 points each.
[10] Atwater infamously targeted Michael Dukakis in the 1988 presidential election by making him look soft on
crime. While he did not originate the ad, Atwater approved of ads prominently featuring this black convict
who committed a rape while on a weekend prison furlough.
ANSWER: William "Willie" Horton
[10] Atwater's targeting of Dukakis helped this Republican, Ronald Reagan's Vice-President, win the 1988 election.
ANSWER: George Herbert Walker Bush [or Bush the elder; or Bush 41; prompt on George Bush; do not accept
"George W. Bush"]
[10] This conservative columnist claimed Atwater requested he spread rumors about Dukakis. He is better
known for partnering with Rowland Evans and for outing Valerie Plame as a CIA operative in 2003.
ANSWER: Robert "Bob" Novak <Cheyne>
13. Unlike its predecessors, this book ditched its multi-axis format and it now recognizes hoarding as an obsessive-compulsive disorder. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this manual published by the American Psychiatric Association in 2013 that provides criteria for the
diagnosis of mental disorders.
ANSWER: DSM-5 [Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition; prompt on DSM]
[10] The DSM-5 dropped all subclasses of this disorder. Waxy flexibility is a symptom of the "catatonic" type of
this disorder, though most patients exhibit its "paranoid" type.
ANSWER: schizophrenia
[10] Medications such as clozapine treat schizophrenia by blocking receptors of this neurotransmitter whose
precursor is L-dopa.
ANSWER: dopamine <Saric>
14. The protagonist of this story has firecrackers thrown in her room at 6:30 AM by Uncle Rondo. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this short story in which multiple altercations with Stella-Rondo cause Sister to move to the title
location.
ANSWER: "Why I Live at the P.O."
[10] "Why I Live at the P.O." was written by this Southern author who created Judge McKelva's caretaker, Laurel, in The Optimist's Daughter. She also created Phoenix Jackson in "A Worn Path."
ANSWER: Eudora Welty
[10] "Why I Live at the P.O." and "A Worn Path" appear in this short story collection by Welty.
ANSWER: A Curtain of Green <Saric>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 11 of 14 

15. Answer the following about the Tablet of Destinies, for 10 points each.
[10] The Enuma Elish recounts how this patron god of Babylon defeats Tiamat and retrieves the Tablet of Destinies from Kingu in order to create the world.
ANSWER: Marduk
[10] This son of Enlil uses the mace Sharur to defeat the Anzu bird and retrieve the Tablet of Destinies.
ANSWER: Ninurta
[10] Similar to the Tablet of Destinies in function are the me, a series of divine decrees taken by Inanna from
this patron god of Eridu and husband of Ninhursag.
ANSWER: Enki [or Ea] <Kim>
16. Consider a conducting shell surrounding a positive point charge. For 10 points each:
[10] The inner surface of the shell gains a negative charge because of this phenomenon, in which charges redistribute themselves across the surface of a conductor. It is demonstrated by a van de Graaff generator.
ANSWER: electrostatic induction
[10] Although the electric field is zero inside the conductor, it varies inversely with this power of the radius far
away from the shell.
ANSWER: 2 [or squared; do not accept "negative 2", "minus 2", or "inverse square"]
[10] For a point charge located a distance outside and away from a grounded, conducting sphere, one can use
expansion of these polynomials to find the potential at the exterior of the sphere. They can appear in solutions
to Laplace's equation in spherical coordinates.
ANSWER: Legendre polynomials <Silverman>
17. The vellus form of these structures usually replaces the lanugo type found in fetuses after birth. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these structures whose terminal form is promoted in places like the axilla by pubertal androgenic
hormones.
ANSWER: hair
[10] The five stages of development of pubic hair and genitals are defined by this eponymous scale based on
primary and secondary sexual characteristics.
ANSWER: Tanner scale
[10] This structure undergoes thelarche (thee-LAR-key) in Tanner stage 2, and abnormal development of it in
males is termed gynecomastia. Lactiferous ducts transport milk in this structure to the nipple.
ANSWER: breast <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 12 of 14 

18. This composer's students included Elliot Carter and Philip Glass. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this champion of Igor Stravinsky, whose younger sister Lili was the first woman to win the Prix de
Rome. She taught many, many twentieth century composers.
ANSWER: Nadia Boulanger
[10] This student of Nadia Boulanger first came to prominence with the folk-inspired El Salon Mexico and also
wrote a Fanfare For The Common Man.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] This Romanian pianist recorded some of Brahms's opus 39 Waltzes with Boulanger, but is better known for
his recordings of Chopin, and for tragically dying of Hodgkin's lymphoma at age thirty-three.
ANSWER: Dinu Lipatti <White>
19. Among the couplets that compose this poem is the prediction, "If the Sun and Moon should doubt, they'd
immediately go out." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem, which is largely a collection of aphoristic couplets. It opens, "To see a World in a Grain of
Sand, and a Heaven in a Wild Flower."
ANSWER: "Auguries of Innocence"
[10] "Auguries of Innocence" was written by this English poet better known for describing a creature "burning
bright" in "The Tyger."
ANSWER: William Blake
[10] The third stanza of Blake's poem "London" opens with the image of members of this profession crying. In
another Blake poem, "Dick, Joe, Ned and Jack" are members of this profession who are "locked up in coffins of
block."
ANSWER: chimney sweepers <Sy>
20. At the start of Act Two in this opera, two characters entertain guests at a wedding feast by singing a barcarolle that starts, "I am rich and you are beautiful." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this comic opera by Gaetano Donizetti in which Nemorino unwittingly buys wine from Dulcamara
to try and win the heart of Adina and keep her from marrying Sergeant Belcore.
ANSWER: The Elixir of Love [or L'Elisir d'Amore]
[10] The libretto of The Elixir of Love is an Italian translation of a French libretto by this dramatist, who closely
collaborated with Giacomo Meyerbeer on projects such as Le Prophete and Les Huguenots.
ANSWER: Eugene Scribe [or Augustin Eugene Scribe]
[10] Nemorino finally knows that Adina cares for him when he notices this object, about which he sings an
aria. This object is caused by Adina seeing Nemorino surrounded by girls.
ANSWER: a furtive tear [or una furtiva lagrima] <Gehring>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 13 of 14 

21. In Ace in the Hole, Kirk Douglas plays Chuck Tatum, a man of this profession who convinces Sheriff Ketzer
to drill from above while rescuing Leo Minosa from a cave collapse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this profession also held by Hildy Johnson, who tries to free convicted murderer Earl Williams from
prison, in His Girl Friday. Ranse Stoddard has this profession in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.
ANSWER: journalist [or newspaper reporter]
[10] In this Frank Capra romantic comedy, Peter Warne is a newspaper reporter who helps Ellie Andrews escape from her father in an attempt to marry the gold digger King Westley.
ANSWER: It Happened One Night
[10] The reporter Jerry Thompson is told to figure out the meaning of the word "rosebud" in this Orson Welles
movie about the life of a newspaper magnate.
ANSWER: Citizen Kane <Kothari>

NASAT 2015 - Round 16 - Page 14 of 14 

