Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 14
Tossups

1. This band covered John Lennon’s “Working Class Hero” for the compilation Instant Karma: Campaign
to Save Darfur. One of its current members left The Lookouts to join this band after its original
drummer, Joe Kriftmeyer, quit. Their first major-label album, Dookie, contains songs such as “Basket
Case” and “Welcome to Paradise,” and their most recent album describes St. Jimmy and Jesus of
Suburbia. For 10 points, identify this band consisting of Mike Dirnt, Tre Cool, and Billie Joe Armstrong,
whose songs include “Boulevard of Broken Dreams.”
ANSWER: Green Day
2. One type of these is connected in reverse bias and conducts current above a certain breakdown point
into the ground. In an ideal one of these, the current in terms of the voltage across them can be found
using the Shockley equation. Besides the avalanche and Zener types, another kind can be used as
capacitors whose capacitance depends on voltage, which are called varactors. For 10 points, name these
two-electrode devices which traditionally only admit current in one direction, best known for a lightemitting variety.
ANSWER: diode
3. The family curse of his mother Agariste was used against him by his enemies, and he unsuccessfully
prosecuted Cimon for failing to conquer Macedonia. He led the campaign to expel barbarians from
Gallipoli, and he was a pupil of Anaxagoras. He oversaw the moving of the Delian League to Athens, and
his famous funeral oration may have been written by his mistress Aspasia. For 10 points, name this
Athenian statesman of the fifth century BCE who oversaw the construction of the Acropolis.
ANSWER: Pericles
4. In this novel, Roth's fall to his death causes Red Valsen to refuse to continue climbing Mount Anoka.
Another character is humiliated when he is forced to pick up a discarded cigarette from the floor by
General Cummings. That character, Robert Hearn, is killed after unwittingly walking into an enemy trap
when Sam Croft lies about Martinez’ scouting report to regain command of the platoon on Anopopei.
For 10 points, name this novel about an invasion of a fictional Pacific island, written by Norman Mailer.
ANSWER: The Naked and the Dead
5. One problem associated with this technique is known as tailing, but can be avoided by increasing the
polarity of the solvent. The flash type of this technique uses air pressure, and the most common variety
usually begins with spotting and is used to calculate the retardation factor, or the R-sub-f value. In
general, this technique uses two phases, one of which is stationary and the other moving, in order to
separate components of a mixture. For 10 points, name this laboratory technique, types of which
include column and thin-layer.
ANSWER: chromatography

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Due to a tryst with the Oceanid Philyra, this figure was the father of the wise centaur Chiron, and he
eventually became the ruler of the Islands of the Blest. In conspiracy with this god, Gaia commissioned
the Telchines to make an adamantine sickle, which he used to castrate his father. He was made to vomit
up Hestia, Demeter, and Hades, among others, after the substitution of a stone thwarted his plan to eat
all of his children. For 10 points, name this husband of Rhea and leader of the Titans, whose rule was
overthrown by the Olympian gods led by his son Zeus.
ANSWER: Cronos
7. This man revolted against the mismanagement of Colonel George Crook, and he joined the Dutch
Reformed Church in an attempt to “take the white man’s road” but was expelled for gambling.
Previously placed on a reservation known as “Hell’s Forty Acres,” and he surrendered at the Skeleton
Canyon conference to General Nelson Miles under the condition that he be allowed to return to Arizona,
but that promise was not kept. For 10 points, name this leader of the Chiricahua Apache whose name
has become associated with parachuting.
ANSWER: Geronimo [or Goyathlay]
8. This man supplemented his income by teaching the piano, inventing a method that emphasized the
freedom to flex the wrist and arm. His second piano sonata contains a passage known as his “Funeral
March,” and he created his Fantaisie-Impromptu three years after settling in Paris. He commented on
the politics of his native country with the “Revolutionary Etude.” For 10 points, name this composer of a
piece designed to be “small” rather than performed in a short amount of time, the “Minute Waltz,”
whose mazurkas and polonaises honored his Polish homeland.
ANSWER: Frédéric François Chopin [or Fryderyk Franciszek Szopen]
9. This city’s suburbs include Southaven, Collierville, Olive Branch, and Horn Lake. It is the home of the
Stax Records museum, and The Pyramid was once this city’s premier sports venue. This city is located on
the Chickasaw Bluffs and serves as the seat of Shelby County. Located along the Mississippi River, its
metro area spans three states, including Arkansas and Mississippi. For 10 points, name this largest city
of Tennessee, named for an ancient capital of Egypt.
ANSWER: Memphis
10. Hilda Wangel is the title character of an Ibsen play titled “The Lady from” this location, while Maurya
and her children find out Michael has perished in a John Millington Synge work about “Riders to” this
place. “The Alph” runs down to a “sunless” one in “Kubla Khan." Maud Brewster and Humphrey van
Weyden are main characters in a novel about this type of “wolf.” The favorite hangout of Manolin and a
DiMaggio fan, Santiago, for 10 points, name this entity, paired with an “Old Man” in a book by Ernest
Hemingway.
ANSWER: the sea [exact word required; accept The Lady from the Sea before “Maurya” is read]
11. This religion’s prayers are called “ardas”, and its practitioners are required to have a positive attitude
called “Chardi Kalah.” A khanda is used to stir the amrit that is consumed during initiation into this
religion and its members wear a kangha in their kesha and carry a ceremonial dagger called the kirpan,
which are a part of the Five Ks. This religion’s sacred text is called the Adi Granth, and is regarded as its
current Guru after the death of Guru Gobind Singh. For 10 points, identify this religion, which was
founded in the Punjab by Guru Nanak.
ANSWER: Sikhism

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. One of his early paintings is a self-portrait depicting himself smoking a pipe. He became notorious
for erotic works like Nude Reclining Woman and The Origin of the World. He sits in front of a nude
woman in his painting of his studio, which depicts admirers like George Sand and Charles Baudelaire,
and another of his paintings depicts four men carrying a coffin draped with a sheet while a priest
officiates at a funeral. For 10 points, name this French realist painter of The Stone Breakers and Burial at
Ornans.
ANSWER: Jean Désiré Gustave Courbet
13. Gnaeus Julius Agricola defeated the natives here at Mons Graupius in 84 CE, and the Beaker Folk
migrated here around 1800 BCE. Somerled led a revolt against the Norse here, and the 1320 Declaration
of Arbroath committed nobles to its independence. This region’s King Aidan was supported by St.
Columba, who converted its population, and its king was captured at the 1341 Battle of Neville’s Cross.
In 843, this region’s King Kenneth I became the king of the Picts, and King David I united it in 1124. For
10 points, name this polity, the home to Robert the Bruce.
ANSWER: Scotland
14. A being able to perceive which particles are moving quickly and which are moving slowly would be
able to open and close a gate in violation of this principle, but such a being would need to expend a
great deal of energy to operate. The integral of dQ over T is set equal to the opposite of E in one
formation of this principle. It cannot be violated by that demon, since the demon would eventually have
to erase information, which irreversibly decreases information entropy. For 10 points, identify this basic
thermodynamic principle, stating that entropy tends to increase.
ANSWER: second law of thermodynamics [accept slight variations in phrasing; accept Maxwell's demon
before “this principle” is read]
15. He wrote about Colonel Burmin, who loves Marya, in “The Blizzard,” while he wrote about the
Cossack rebel Pougachev and Piotr Grineff 's love for Maria Ivanovna in his short story “The Captain’s
Daughter.” He wrote about Parasha and her lover Evgeny, who is chased by a statue of Peter the Great,
in “The Bronze Horseman.” His title characters include the father of Feodor, who plans to kill Dmitri and
becomes Tsar, and a man who duels with Vladimir Lensky and loves Tatyana. For 10 points, name this
Russian poet of Boris Gudonov and Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Alexander Pushkin
16. The tallest building in this city has three chevrons in a hexagonal logo built on its roof and is called
Tower 42. A seventy-two story building resembling a shard of glass is approved for construction in this
city, which also contains the gherkin-shaped Swiss Re Building. This city has notable Georgian houses,
and contains a column topped by a statue of Lord Nelson in Trafalgar Square. For 10 points, identify this
city, which has many buildings designed by Christopher Wren, in addition to Big Ben and a notable
Tower.
ANSWER: London
17. This country's president Hilla Limann was overthrown in a 1981 military coup by Jerry Rawlings. An
empire centered in this country's city of Kumasi was founded by Osei Tutu and based on allegiance to
the Golden Stool. It first gained independence with the support of the Convention People's Party in
1957, making it the first African country to become independent from England. For 10 points, name this
country whose first president was Kwame Nkrumah, once known as the Gold Coast.
ANSWER: Ghana [prompt on Gold Coast before it is read]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. The demerit type of this concept produces a negative externality, while the private type has the
characteristics of excludability and rivalry. The substitute type of this concept can decrease demand for
other types of this, while the complement will increase demand. The ordinary type of this sees demand
decrease with price, while the Veblen type of this is one for which price rises along with demand.
Consumption of the public type of these does not decrease the supply. For 10 points, identify this
economic concept, which refers to any item that producers produce.
ANSWER: goods
19. It was elucidated at Berkeley by exposing Chlorella pyrenoidosa to a radioactive substance and killing
its cells with boiling methanol. Noted for using sedheptulose-1,7-bisphosphate phosphatase, this
process uses five molecules of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate to regenerate the starting material. This
process occurs in the stroma of chloroplasts, and is associated with the most abundant protein on Earth,
rubisco. For 10 points, name this eponymous cycle that is part of the light independent reactions of
photosynthesis.
ANSWER: Calvin-Benson cycle
20. This man wrote about an event that happened "while birds of calm sit brooding on the charmed
wave" in his poem "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity." He wrote a masque where the Lady is assaulted
by the offspring of Bacchus and Circe, Comus, and the companion poems "L'Allegro” and "Il Penseroso."
The drowning death of Edward King is remembered in this man’s elegy “Lycidas,” and he concluded
"they also serve who only stand and wait" in his sonnet "When I Consider How My Light is Spent," which
refers to his own blindness. For 10 points, name this Briton, whose longest poem was Paradise Lost.
ANSWER: John Milton
21. For a symmetric group of degree n, this function gives the order of the permutation group, and the
Pochammer symbol is a rising type of this function. The Taylor approximation for e to the x contains this
function in the denominator of each term. One approximation of it often used to calculate entropy is
named after Stirling, while it can be generalized to complex numbers using the gamma function. For 10
points, identify this function which for a natural number n gives the product of all natural numbers from
1 to n and is represented by an exclamation mark.
ANSWER: factorial
22. Two of the intended victims of this novel's title character, Mrs. Maylie and Mr. Brownlow, end up
taking him in. He briefly finds work at the same workhouse that killed his mother, but he soon is
employed by the undertaker Mr. Sowerbury. In this novel, Nancy is abused by the criminal Bill Sikes, and
the title character joins a gang of pickpockets led by Fagin and the Artful Dodger. For 10 points, name
this Charles Dickens novel about an orphan who leaves Mr. Bumble's orphanage after impertinently
asking, “please, sir, I want some more.”
ANSWER: Oliver Twist

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 14
Bonuses

1. Identify the following about the United States' involvement in Latin America in the 19th century, for
10 points each.
[10] This future president drew up the Ostend Manifesto in 1854, which discussed buying Cuba from
Spain. He was later known for doing absolutely nothing on the eve of the Civil War.
ANSWER: James Buchanan
[10] This 1850 treaty stated that neither the U.S. or Britain would gain exclusive control over a potential
canal through South America. It was abrogated by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty of 1901.
ANSWER: Clayton-Bulwer treaty
[10] The United States gained Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, Texas, part of Colorado, Arizona, and
California in this 1848 treaty that ended the Mexican War.
ANSWER: Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo
2. This character works in a gang led by Tyurin as he serves a ten-year sentence for having contact with
the West in a German POW camp. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this prisoner, the subject of a 1962 novel showing “one day in” his life.
ANSWER: Ivan Denisovich [or Ivan Denisovich Shukov]
[10] One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich was written by this author of We Never Make Mistakes and
Cancer Ward, who was exiled from the Soviet Union for his dissident writings.
ANSWER: Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn
[10] This multivolume Solzhenitsyn work on the Soviet political imprisonment system describes the
confinement of the zeks within the title geographic metaphor.
ANSWER The Gulag Archipelago [or Arkhipelag GULag]
3. The lambda bacteriophage infects this organism. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this bacterial species, commonly found in the gut, whose O157:H7 strain is virulent.
ANSWER: Escherichia coli
[10] E. coli contains this specific genetic structure that allows it to metabolize a namesake five carbon
sugar. It contains three structural genes, a promoter, an operator, and a terminator.
ANSWER: lac operon [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This frequently used model organism has about 2000 genes which are found in operons. This
nematode is also widely used to study RNA interference.
ANSWER: Caenorhabditis elegans

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. Identify these economists, for 10 points each.
[10] This economist wrote a Theory of Moral Sentiments, but may be better known for proposing the
invisible hand in The Wealth of Nations.
ANSWER: Adam Smith
[10] This economist developed the ideas of the alienation of the working class and the fetishism of
commodities. He predicted that capitalism would be overthrown by a dictatorship of the proletariat.
ANSWER: Karl Marx
[10] This economist loved entrepreneurs, developed the concept of creative destruction, and wrote
Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy.
ANSWER: Joseph Schumpeter
5. Identify the following people from Japanese history, for 10 points each.
[10] In 1600, this man defeated the forces of Ishida Mitshunari at the battle of Sekigahara and
established a namesake shogunate.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Ieyasu [accept either or both names]
[10] This man became emperor in 1868 in his namesake restoration. His reign saw the adoption of the
Charter Oath of Five Principles and the growth of Japan into a modern power.
ANSWER: Meji [or Mutsuhito]
[10] This member of the Fujiwara clan attempted to unify Japan and overthrew the Ashikaga shogunate.
Tokugawa Ieyasu and Toyotomi Hideyoshi were followers of this man.
ANSWER: Oda Nobunaga [accept either or both names]
6. Three arches appear in this painting's background. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting whose title figures reach out to take swords from their father in order to fight a
group from Alba Longa.
ANSWER: The Oath of the Horatii
[10] This neoclassical artist of The Intervention of the Sabine Women and The Death of Marat painted
The Oath of the Horatii.
ANSWER: Jacque-Louis David
[10] In this David painting, the title figure's disciples grieve around him. He points skyward while holding
a cup of hemlock.
ANSWER: The Death of Socrates
7. Answer the following about authors from non-Western countries who won Nobel Prizes in Literature,
for 10 points each:
[10] Orhan Pamuk, the winner of the 2007 Nobel Prize, violated Article 301 of Turkey's constitution for
stating that this crime against humanity occurred.
ANSWER: the Armenian genocide [or very similar equivalents; or Medz Yeghern]
[10] Naguib Mahfouz, a writer from this country, won the prize in 1988. Several centuries earlier,
embalmers from this country consulted the Book of the Dead for proper mummification.
ANSWER: Egypt
[10] This first non-Western Nobel Laureate for literature won for his collection of “song offerings,”
Gitanjali. He also wrote national anthems for India and Bangladesh.
ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore [prompt on Gurudev]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. An example of one in the Haber process is iron. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these substances that speed up a chemical reaction and are known as enzymes in biology.
ANSWER: catalysts
[10] Enzymes are often described via this hypothesis that has replaced the lock-and-key mechanism. It
states that enzymes go through a minor conformational change prior to accepting a substrate.
ANSWER: induced-fit hypothesis
[10] In this type of inhibition, molecules have shapes that are similar enough to that of a substrate that
they can challenge for the active site.
ANSWER: competitive inhibition
9. The signing of this document followed the disastrous Battle of Bouvines. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1215 document signed at Runnymede by King John.
ANSWER: Magna Carta Libertatum [or Great Charter of Freedoms, or Great Paper of Freedoms]
[10] King John made the controversial appointment of Hubert Walter to this position. Other notable
men to serve this position include William Laud and Thomas Cranmer.
ANSWER: Archbishop of Canterbury [prompt on partial answer]
[10] King John was excommunicated in 1209, and Pope Innocent III also placed England under this type
of sanction, in which no public church ceremonies may take place.
ANSWER: interdict
10. This leader is stepping down because of connections to a 1999 arms deal. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this leader of South Africa, who was said to deal unfairly with Jacob Zuma.
ANSWER: Thabo Mbeki
[10] Jacob Zuma is the President of this political party, which holds the great majority of political power
in South Africa.
ANSWER: ANC [or African National Congress]
[10] One of Thabo Mbeki’s more interesting positions was that this disease is the result of retroviral
poisoning by white pharmaceutical companies, instead of the HIV virus.
ANSWER: AIDS [or Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome]
11. No extant works have been authoritatively attributed to this son of Charmides (KAR-mih-deez). For
10 points each:
[10] Name this ancient Greek sculptor of the Athena Parthenos on the Acropolis and the humongous
seated Zeus of Olympia.
ANSWER: Phidias
[10] The ancient Greek sculptor Praxiteles sculpted this God as "Sauraktonos," or a lizard-killer. A Roman
copy of a Leochares sculpture is known as the "Belvedere" version of this god.
ANSWER: Apollo
[10] The Greek sculptor Myron is best-known for sculpting a nude athlete throwing one of these objects.
ANSWER: a discus

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. It can be described by the differential equation x double prime plus omega squared x equals zero.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this type of motion where acceleration is proportional to displacement, that is followed by
all objects obeying Hooke’s Law.
ANSWER: simple harmonic motion [or shm; prompt on partial answer]
[10] When a spring or pendulum encounters friction or air resistance, and thus loses energy over time, it
is known as this kind of harmonic oscillator.
ANSWER: damped harmonic oscillator
[10] This type of damping results in an asymptotic decay of motion. It occurs when beta squared minus
four omega squared is zero.
ANSWER: critical damping
13. Name these mythological figures who enjoyed the rare privilege of returning from the underworld,
for 10 points each.
[10] This slayer of the pugilistic king Amycus swaps places with his brother Castor every day, splitting his
time between Hades and Olympus.
ANSWER: Pollux [or Polydeuces]
[10] This daughter of Demeter was kidnapped by Hades and made the mistake of eating a pomegranate,
which means she has to spend four months of each year in the underworld.
ANSWER: Persephone [or Kore]
[10] This fertility goddess steadily removed her clothing while trying to retrieve her lover Tammuz from
the Sumerian underworld, but came back empty-handed.
ANSWER: Ishtar
14. Name these works of Stephen Crane, for 10 points each.
[10] This novel’s title “girl of the streets” is ejected from her home after being seduced by Pete and is
killed by a man with a pink face, leading her mother Mary to cry over her baby shoes.
ANSWER: Maggie: A Girl of the Streets
[10] The “Tattered Man” and Henry Fleming see Jim Conklin die during the Battle of Chancellorsville in
this Civil War novel by Crane.
ANSWER: The Red Badge of Courage
[10] In this short story, the cowboy Bill and a small, knife-wielding gambler cause the death of an
enormous Swede following a card game at the title establishment, owned by Pat Scully.
ANSWER: “The Blue Hotel”
15. Identify the following people involved in the Protestant Reformation, for 10 points each.
[10] This Swiss reformer began the Swiss Reformation with his 1519 lectures on the New Testament. His
Architeles argued against the control of Rome, and he wrote 67 theses.
ANSWER: Huldreich Zwingli
[10] The Reformation was preceded by this Czech reformer, who preached against indulgences and was
executed in 1415 by the Council of Constance.
ANSWER: John Hus [or Jan Hus]
[10] This author of the First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women also wrote
A History of the Reformation in Scotland, an event for which he was responsible.
ANSWER: John Knox

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. Chemistry is lots of fun when you double up. For 10 points each:
[10] This is the term for an organic compound with two hydroxyl groups. They are called Geminal when
the two hydroxyl groups are located on the same carbon
ANSWER: diol
[10] Naphthalene consists of two fused rings of this simplest aromatic compound, with formula C6H6,
whose other derivatives include phenol and toluene.
ANSWER: benzene
[10] Dienes, molecules with two double bonds, often react with these compounds to form
cyclohexadienes. These organic compounds consist of one triple bond.
ANSWER: alkynes
17. East of this country’s Southern Alps are the Canterbury Plains, and it also includes the Tasman and
Fox Glaciers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, mostly composed of North and South Islands.
ANSWER: New Zealand
[10] Both New Zealand’s highest mountain and the strait separating North and South Islands are named
after this explorer.
ANSWER: James Cook
[10] This capital of New Zealand is the southernmost national capital in the world.
ANSWER: Wellington
18. Along with the mystery plays and the miracle plays, this genre made up the popular theater of the
Middle Ages. For 10 points each:
[10] The Castle of Perseverance and The Miraculous Apple Tree are examples of what vernacular dramas,
which showed generic figures struggling with temptation?
ANSWER: morality plays
[10] Abandoned by the Five Wits, the title character of this English morality play gets varying degrees of
help from Good Deeds, Confession, and Knowledge in a journey to be judged.
ANSWER: Everyman
[10] Everyman was originally translated from this language, the original tongue used by such figures as
Multatuli and Anne Frank.
ANSWER: Dutch
19. Willard van Orman Quine wrote about “two dogmas” of this philosophy, which counted such British
adherents as David Hume. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophical approach, which claims that all knowledge must be derived from sensory
experience.
ANSWER: empiricism
[10] A major empiricist text is the Essay Concerning Human Understanding by this philosopher, who
greatly influenced the U.S. Constitution with his Second Treatise on Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
[10] This Irish bishop and empiricist claimed that objects which are not being perceived by a human do
not actually exist in his Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge.
ANSWER: George Berkeley

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. He composed “Golliwog’s Cakewalk” as part of his Children’s Corner suite. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French composer who used a flute glissando to begin his Prelude to the Afternoon of a
Faun.
ANSWER: Achille-Claude Debussy
[10] This 3-part symphonic poem by Debussy includes a section entitled “Jeux de Vagues,” or "Play of
the Waves.”
ANSWER: La Mer
[10] Debussy's two books of these include “The Girl With the Flaxen Hair” and "The Sunken Cathedral."
Both books of The Well-Tempered Clavier include 24 ones paired with fugues.
ANSWER: preludes
21. The speaker sees a "golden" "host" of ten thousand of these items, which causes his heart to dance.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these title flowers of an 1804 poem which begins with the speaker wandering “lonely as a
cloud.”
ANSWER: “Daffodils”
[10] This author of Tintern Abbey, “We Are Seven,” and The Prelude, who collaborated with fellow
Romantic Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads, wrote “Daffodils.”
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
[10] Wordsworth wrote five poems known for this feminine name, including “A Slumber Did My Spirit
Seal” and “Strange Fits of Passion Have I Known.”
ANSWER: the Lucy poems
22. Name these chemical elements, for 10 points each.
[10] Most automobile airbags are inflated with the gaseous form of this element, which is triple bonded
to carbon in cyanide.
ANSWER: nitrogen
[10] This alkaline earth element is responsible for the red color of fireworks, and is found above barium
on the periodic table.
ANSWER: strontium
[10] Its tetroxide is capable of oxidizing alkenes to ketones. Known for its pungent odor, this transition
element is one of the densest elements, along with its neighbor iridium.
ANSWER: osmium

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 14

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

