Round 2
WinterBowl 2009
Questions © Academic Hallmarks
Revised for pyramidality by Matthew Dirks
Warm-Up 1. George McClellan was a commander of an army named for this river. John Brown
crossed it in his attempted raid on Harper's Ferry. What is this river near the U. S. Capitol?
Potomac
Warm-Up 2. Blood can leave this organ through the pulmonary artery or the aorta. To help stop
bleeding, the wounded area should be raised against this organ. What is this organ, which pumps blood
to the rest of your body?
heart
1. American colonists used this process to crystallize the saline content of seawater in marshes.
Unlike boiling, which occurs on a liquid's entire mass, this process occurs only on a liquid's
surface. What is this natural process which, in the water cycle, moves water from the ocean to
the atmosphere?
evaporation
2. The three parts of this organ are the duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum. About twenty feet
in length, this organ is primarily involved in digestion and absorption of food. What is this
organ, which, in the digestive tract, is located between the stomach and the large intestine?
small intestine
3. This mountain may be seen from the Johnston Ridge Observatory. The 84-year old Harry
Truman refused to abandon his home and so was killed when this volcano erupted. What is this
mountain in Washington which erupted in May 1980?
Mount St. Helens
4. Perhaps the most famous authors of this genre is Bashō. This type of Japanese poetry often
describes nature. What is this type of three-line poetry, in which the first and last line have five
syllables and the middle line has seven?
haiku
5. How many prepositional phrases are in this sentence? “The funny thing about narwhals is that
they have horns on their heads, and the funny thing about horns is that they have narwhals on
their bottoms.”
4
6. This man led an army to crush the Whiskey Rebellion, perhaps a bit of an overreaction. He also
led his troops to victory at the Battle of Trenton after crossing the Delaware. Who is this
American politician, the first president of the United States of America?
(George) Washington
7. What word in this line is in the possessive case? “The Queen of Hearts sent Alice a tart message
after the croquet match.”
(of) Hearts
8. In 2008, Texan authorities removed children from a ranch in which this type of marriage was
practiced. A defining characteristic of Mormon fundamentalism, what is this practice in which a
man has multiple wives?
polygamy (polygamous)
9. Juan Ponce de León called these “The Martyrs.” The Dry Tortugas National Park is the closest
national park to this archipelago. What are these islands, which stretch about 105 miles into the
sea from mainland Florida?
(Florida) Keys

10. First and middle initials required. Some of this composer's better-known works include the
Goldbach Variations and the “Toccata and Fugue in D Minor”. He also wrote the collections
The Well-Tempered Clavier and The Art of Fugue. Who is this German composer, a master of
the baroque style, and, along with Beethoven and Brahms, one of the three B's of classical
music?
J.S. (Johann Sebastian) Bach
11. The US annexed this polity under William McKinley, after which Stanford Dole became the
president of its provisional government. Kamehameha the Great (ka-MAY-ha-MAY-ha) was its
first monarch, and Lili`uokalani (LEE-lee-oo-OH-kah-LAH-nee) was its last. What is this onetime kingdom, a chain of Polynesian islands which became a US state in 1959?
Hawaii
12. This division of the earth's interior is made mostly of an iron-nickel alloy. Its temperature is
approximately equal to that of the outer visible layer of the sun, and it is divided into a liquid
outer part and a solid inner part. Name this innermost layer of the Earth.
(inner) core
13. This phenomenon is transmitted through all materials by molecular collisions. The speed
named for this phenomenon is equal to Mach 1. What is this phenomenon, measured in
decibels?
sound
14. Some of these bodies include one in Spokane named for Rathdrum Prarie and one in Federal
Way named for Mirror Lake. Good sources of groundwater, they are sometimes confused with
underground rivers. What are these bodies of rock which water can easily pass through?
aquifer(s)
15. A 1755 earthquake in this country destroyed records of the voyages of Vasco de Gama. In 1654,
this European country took control of Brazil from the Dutch. What is this country, whose
capitol is Lisbon, and which borders Spain?
Portugal
Half Time! Ask for substitutions.
16. In quantum mechanics, these subatomic particles are said to travel in orbitals. Their flow causes
incandescence in light bulbs. What are these particles, which carry a negative charge?
electron(s)
17. In the 1850s, one member of this body bludgeoned another with a cane. In 2005, this body
confirmed John Roberts as chief justice of the United States. What is this body in which Barack
Obama served for almost three years before being elected president?
(United States) Senate
18. Major earthquakes devastated this city in 1906, when 23,000 water service pipes were
destroyed, and in 1989, when the Cypress Street Viaduct collapsed. Both of those earthquakes
were caused by the San Andreas Fault. A famous skyscraper in this city is the Transamerica
Pyramid. What is this city, the location of the Golden Gate Bridge?
San Francisco
19. This document complains that a certain king had “constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive
on the high Seas to bear Arms against their Country.” Its preamble begins with a clause about
the course of human events, and the second paragraph discusses certain unalienable rights.
What is this document, written primarily by Thomas Jefferson?
Declaration of Independence
20. Math. Continued ratios. Express this ratio in lowest terms: 36 to 30 to 24 to 6.
6 to 5 to 4 to 1

21. Jorge Luis Borges is a native of this country, which borders Paraguay, Bolivia, Brazil, Uruguay,
and Chile. One famous president was Juan Perón, married to Eva. What is this country, whose
capitol is Buenos Aires?
Argentina
22. Math. Evaluate 7+8, modulo twelve. In other words, what time is it eight hours after seven
o'clock?
three (o'clock)
23. Along with Leibniz, this man is credited with discovering calculus. His third law of motion
states that every action has an equal and opposite reaction. Who is this scientist who, according
to legend, discovered gravity when an apple fell on his head?
(Sir Isaac) Newton
24. By committing this crime, some chief priests convinced Judas Iscariot to betray Jesus of
Nazareth. In 2009, Rod Blagojevich was arrested for solicitation of this crime. What is this
crime, in which money or some other favor is offered in return for a service?
bribery
25. Diamonds are an allotrope of this element, and this element is the primary ingredient of coal.
This versatile element can form four bonds and is the subject of organic chemistry. What is this
element, whose atomic symbol is C, and which, along with oxygen and hydrogen, makes up
carbohydrates?
carbon
26. His vice president, Andrew Johnson, succeeded him as president after this man was assassinated
by John Wilkes Booth. Who is this man, the 16th president of the United States, who signed the
Emancipation Proclamation during the Civil War?
(Abraham) Lincoln
27. The Medici were an important family during this period in European history. Its name, French
for “rebirth,” refers to the reemerging popularity of Greek and Roman styles. What is this
period, which saw artists such as da Vinci and Michelangelo?
Renaissance
28. This organelle is present in eukaryotic cells, but not prokaryotic cells. It contains the cell's
DNA. What is this organelle, whose name is Latin for “nut,” the cellular control center?
nucleus
29. Hey, more stuff related to Abraham Lincoln! As a senator, Lincoln was known for his “spot
resolutions,” by which he voiced objection to this war declared by James K. Polk. Battles in this
war include Veracruz and the Alamo. What was this war, ended by the 1848 Treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, fought between the United States and its southern neighbor?
Mexican-American War
30. Math. What is the sum of the composite numbers greater than 10 and less than 20?
75
Alternates
Alt 1. One major setback in the wars named for this man was his army's invasion of Russia in 1812. In
1801, President Jefferson learned that this leader had secretly reacquired the Louisiana Territory from
Spain. Who is this short French man who had a crushing defeat at Waterloo?
Napoleon Bonaparte (accept either name) (Napoleon I of France)
Alt 2. Math. The half-life of a radioactive isotope is 12 years. What fraction of the original substance
will still be radioactive at the end of 60 years?
1/32
Alt 3. When Darwin studied Galapagos finches, he noticed differences in these structures
corresponding to the birds' diets. What are these structures which birds use for eating, grooming, et
cetera?
beaks
Alt. 4 Math. The area of a circle is given by pi times the square of what quantity?
(the length of the) radius
Alt. 5 At the outset of the Civil War, the Confederacy knew it had to take what fort that guarded
Charleston harbor?
Fort Sumter

