TOSSUP 1
Developed by such authors as Congreve, Etherege, Vanbrugh and Wycherly, it was generally
written in prose, with romantic moments in verse, and it can be described as bawdy, cynical, and
amoral. Its primary subject matter is romantic intrigue, and it featured such standard characters
as scheming valets, young widows, country squires, and elderly ladies. It was named agter the
re-establishment of the English monarchy when Charles II returned to the throne in 1660, when
theatres across the country re-opened. FTP name this dramatic genre of such plays as The
Country Wife, The Comical Revenge, or Love in a Tub, and The Old Bachelor.
Restoration Comedy.
BONUS 1
FTPE name these other comedic genres.
10:

This form of improvisational theatre originated in 16th century Italy.
Its stock characters included the Harlequin, Pulcinella the hunchback,
the fat and hungry Figaro, and the rogue Scaramouche.
Comedia dell Arte.

10:

This puppet theatre comedy form evolved from Comedia dell Arte,
featuring a hunch-backed puppet in a jester’s motley and his wife.
Punch and Judy.

10:

This American entertainment with strongly racist aspects consisted of
comic skits, variety acts, dancing, and music performed either by white
people in blackface or, after the Civil War, by African Americans in
blackface.
Minstrel Show.

TOSSUP 2
The American authority on measurements and standards has declared thismeasurement obsolete,
due to the fact that volume measurements are lessprecise than mass measurements. Despite this, it
is still a more commonlyused measurement than formal, volume-volume percentage, or normality.
FTP,name this measure of concentration, defined as moles per liter of solution,and with symbol
M.
Molarity
BONUS 2
FTPE, give the molarity of the following solutions. You will have 10 seconds per part.
10:

248 grams of nitrate ion in 4 liters of water. The molecular mass
ofnitrate is 62.
1 molar (moles per liter)

10:

207 grams of sodium ion in 3 liters of water. The atomic mass of
sodium is 23.
3 molar

1

10:

1278 grams of chlorine in 2 liters of water. The atomic mass of chlorine
is 35.5.
9 molar

TOSSUP 3
In short games like tic-tac-toe, the result can be known from the start if both players play perfectly.
In most interesting games, however, the full game tree cannot be expanded, and AI players use
techniques such as alpha-beta pruning to increase the number of states that can be checked in
advance. FTP, identify this strategy in game theory in which each player assumes optimal play on
the part of their opponent, and attempts to secure the best possible outcome.
Minimax
BONUS 3
Identify these related concepts from game theory FTPE.
10:

In this classic two-player game, cooperation brings reward to both
players, but a higher reward is on offer for the player that defects. If
both players defect, both lose.
The Prisoner’s Dilemma

10:

When playing the Prisoner’s game repeatedly, using this strategy,
where you make the move your opponent just made, is optimal.
Tit for tat

10:

When playing once, defecting is the optimal strategy, because any
change in strategy could be worse for you, a state of affairs known
as this.
Nash equilibrium (Prompt on equilibrium)

TOSSUP 4
He is a minor character in Pynchon’s “Gravity’s Rainbow”, and Carlos Santana claims that he
visits him during meditations and has a white beard. There are no references to him in the Old or
New Testaments, or in any Islamic source, but the Talmud says that when Elisha entered Paradise
he saw this angel sitting down. However, he is better known for appearing to abortion clinic
worker Bethany and telling her that she is the last living relative of Jesus. FTP, name this angel,
the voice of God, played by Alan Rickman in “Dogma”.
Metatron
BONUS 4
In “Dogma”, Rickman played Metatron alongside Chris Rock, who played Rufus, the thirteenth
apostle who was excluded from the Bible because he was black. Name these other Apostles FTPE.
10:

This son of Alphaeus was the tax-collector at Capernaum.
Matthew

10:

This apostle betrayed Jesus for thirty pieces of silver.
Judas Iscariot

2

10:

This apostle was selected to replace Judas Iscariot after the betrayal
of Jesus.
Matthias

TOSSUP 5
Pencil and paper ready. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are flipping coins and they want to know
the probability of flipping tails at least once over the course of 5 flips. They realize that all they
have to do is subtract the probability of flipping heads five times from one. FTP, what is the
probability of getting at least one tails in five flips?
31
32

BONUS 5
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern fail to flip tails, of course, but you might have a shot. FTPE:
10:

What is the probability of flipping tails twice in a row?
1
4

10:

What is the probability of flippint tails at least twice in five throws?
15
16

10:

What is the probability of flipping tails exactly 3 times out of 4 flips?
1
4

TOSSUP 6
Created on the banks of the Vitava with the power of a secret ritual, it originally is benign and
helpful to the Jews of the ghetto, feching water and running errands. When it goes berserk, Rabbi
Loew is forced to destroy it by changing the word on its forhead from “truth” to “death.” FTP,
identify this creature of Jewish legend, a man made of clay and brought to life by the power of
God.
Golem
BONUS 6
Identify these elements of the golem legend FTPE.
10:

The classic golem story takes place in this Czech city.
Prague

10:

The rituals are derived from this system of Jewish mysticism that arose
during the Middle Ages.
Kabbalah

10:

The legend was retold by this Nobel Prize-winning Jewish American
author of novels and short stories for children and adults.
Isaac Bashevis Singer

3

TOSSUP 7
It is losing some credibility in the face of archaeological evidence of human settlements appearing
while it was still covered with glacial ice. Still,dating techniques have revealed that it had plants
and animals living on it as recently as 11,000 years ago, making it feasible for migrating humans
to have crossed it. FTP, identify this feature on which the first Americans crossed the Bering Sea
after the end of the last Ice Age.
Land bridge
BONUS 7
Identify these early North American communities FTPE.
10:

They are the first community to appear in the archaeological record of
the Americas, and probably crossed the land bridge.
Clovis people

10:

This culture had essentially disappeared by the time of European contact, but the Cahokia site reveals a fondness for mound-building.
Mississippian culture

10:

This Central American civilization is best known for leaving behind a
large number of giant stone heads.
Olmecs

TOSSUP 8
First inhabited by Native Americans of the Arawak and Carib tribes, this nation was the subject
of several attempts by the Dutch and the English to colonize it. The Dutch finally gained control
of it and set up a slave system which was abolished in 1863, making it the last country to do so.
Sharing its southern border with Brazil and its northern border with the Atlantic Ocean and lying
between French Guiana and Guyana, this is FTP what smallest South American country with
capital at Paramaribo?
Suriname
BONUS 8
Identify these other South American countries from their capitals, FTPE.
10:

Bogota
Colombia

10:

Quito
Ecuador

10:

Stanley
Falkland Islands

4

TOSSUP 9
First officially used by the US in 1992, it can be computed using compensation of employees,
operating surplus, mixed income and taxless subsidies. This indicator, however, is more commonly
divided into consumption, investment, net exports, and government spending. FTP give this
economic term for the total market value of all goods and services produced within the borders of
a nation during a specified period.
Gross Domestic Product or GDP
BONUS 9
Name these other economic indicators FTPE.
10:

Often mistaken with GDP, it is not limited to the borders of the nation.
Gross National Product or GNP

10:

The measurement is determined using samples of urban family purchases relative to a previous period.
Consumer Price Index or CPI

10:

Since it is made almost identically around the world, international
variations in the cost of this McDonald’s product have been used to
measure purchasing power parity.
Big Mac

TOSSUP 10
Numerous urban legends say that the acidity of this can dissolve a tooth or clean highways of
blood. Many advertising campaigns have appeared throughout the years, including slogans like
”Always the Real Thing”, or ”The pause that refreshes”. A new version was introduced in the
1980s, but was quickly rejected by consumers. Its company, established in 1892, is now based in
Atlanta, where the drink was invented by John Stith Pemberton in 1886. Now, it boasts many
varieties, including a cherry and lemon flavor. FTP, name this most popular soft drink in the
world, whose main competitor is Pepsi.
Coca-Cola (accept coke)
BONUS 10
FTPE, name these other Coca-Cola Company products.
10:

This lemon-lime flavored soft drink is the company’s second most popular product.
Sprite

10:

This drink was created to compete against Dr. Pepper.
Pibb Xtra ( accept Mr. Pibb)

10:

This mango juice drink is popular in Bangladesh and India.
Maaza

5

TOSSUP 11
These were originally discovered in the E. coli cell, but were found to be inmost organisms. They
are shorter in prokaryotes, as long as 2000 base pairsin length, while the are only about 400 base
pairs in eukaryotes. They arecreated because DNA polymerase can only synthesize DNA from the
5 prime end to the 3 prime end. FTP name these short segments of DNA that are created on the
lagging strand during DNA replication.
Okazaki fragments
BONUS 11
Name these other things from DNA replication, FTPE.
10:

This enzyme seals DNA.
DNA ligase

10:

This enzyme unzips the DNA.
helicase

10:

DNA polymerase 3 can synthesize both the leading and lagging strandsof DNA because it is this type of molecule.
dimer

TOSSUP 12
This man once said ”There are three side effects of acid: enhanced long-term memory, decreased
short-term memory, and I forget the third.” In 1966, he founded the ”League For Spiritual
Discovery,” which was an attempt to provide constitutional protection for the right to take LSD
as a sacramental substance. He administered acid to hundreds of people at Harvard in the name
of research. FTP, name this drug enthusiast who coined the phrase “Tune in, turn on, drop out.”
Timothy Leary
BONUS 12
BONUS FTPE identify these hippie movement icons.
10:

The followers of this founder of Transcendental Meditation at one point
included the Beatles.
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi

10:

This outdoor festival was held on a farm in Bethel, New York in 1969;
it featured such performers as the Grateful Dead and Jimi Hendrix
Woodstock

10:

A giant wooden sculpture of a human figure is set alight every year at
this festival in the Nevada desert.
Burning Man

6

TOSSUP 13
His talent for composing may have been influenced by synaesthesia [sin-ess-THEE-zhia], a
neurological mixing of senses. He became professor of composition and orchestration at the St.
Petersburg Conservatory in 1871, but was fired after expressing anti-czar political views. He
continued to criticize the monarchy in Russia in his opera The Golden Cockerel. FTP, name this
Russian musician who composed such works as ”Scheherezade” [sheh-heh-reh-ZAHD] and ”Flight
of the Bumblebee.”
Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
BONUS 13
FTPE, identify these pieces from Modest Mussorgsky’s ”Pictures at an Exhibition.”
10:

This recurring theme is used as a transition between paintings and
describes the composer walking through the exhibition.
Promenade

10:

This work is based on the Russian legend of an old witch who lives in
the forest.
(also
accept
The Hut on Chickens’ Legs
The Hut of Baba Yaga or equivalents)

10:

Viktor Hartmann’s painting of this titular structure commemorated
Tsar Alexander II’s escape from an assassination attempt in the capital
of the Ukraine.
The Great Gate of Kiev

TOSSUP 14
Despite not really believing in Catholicism, he was appointedBishop of Autun in 1789 and shortly
thereafter represented theFirst Estate at the Estates General of that year. He wasbriefly exiled by
the National Convention, and stayed at AaronBurr’s house to wait it out. Napoleon made him his
ForeignMinister for the Consulate and up to 1807, when he resigned toprotest the Treaty of Tilsit.
FTP name this French statesman,who represented France at the Congress of Vienna.
Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord
BONUS 14
Robert Benchley once said, ”The surest way to make a monkeyof a man is to quote him.” We get
to do that with this othergreat statesman of history. 30-20-10, given the quote, name the speaker.
30:

”A Bavarian is halfway between an Austrian and a human being.”

20:

”If the British Army landed in Europe, I’d get the Belgian police to
arrest them.”

10:

”Not by speeches and votes of the majority are the great questions of
the time decided, but by iron and blood.”
Otto von Bismarck

7

TOSSUP 15
After recovering from a year-long sickness, the protagonist is about to returnhome when he learns
that his youngest brother has been murdered. Before arrivinghe sees a familiar shadow and
immediately knows who the killer was. However,when he gets home he finds that the family’s
maid, Justine Moritz, has beenaccused of the crime and made a false confession. The murderer
strikes twicemore, but the death of Elizabeth Lavenza drives the protagonist over the edgeand
makes him determined to destroy his creation. FTP, name this novel by MaryShelley about a man
and the creature that he creates.
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
BONUS 15
Name these characters from Frankenstein FTPE.
10:

Victor Frankenstein’s youngest brother who is killed by The Creature.
William Frankenstein

10:

The captain of the ship who saves Victor and recounts the story in
lettersto his sister.
Robert Walton

10:

Victor’s best friend who is killed while the two are in Scotland.
Henry Clerval

TOSSUP 16
Capacitors create a difference in it across the dielectric. It drops across resistors, producing a
current. Its negative gradient gives the electric field that defines in. FTP, identify this measure of
energy per unit of charge, measured in volts.
Electric potential (accept Electromotive force Prompt on potential, accept
voltage before “measured”)
BONUS 16
Identify these physical quantities FTPE.
10:

The strength of the electric field between two charges depends partly
on this constant, symbolized epsilon naught.
Permittivity of free space

10:

Measured in webers, a change in this quantity through a loop of wire
can induce a current.
Magnetic flux (Do not accept magnetic field)

10:

It is the rate of change of charge with respect to time.
Electric current

8

TOSSUP 17
The title refers to successive shots from a double-barreled shotgun. A plume of smoke is the
only evidence the weapon exists, with its owner barely visible in a boat being tossed on a stormy
sea. The shots are aimed at the painting’s central subjects, a pair of waterfowl. FTP, name this
painting by Winslow Homer of two dying ducks.
Right and Left
BONUS 17
Identify these 19th century American artists FTPE.
10:

She worked with the Impressionists in Paris for over a decade.
Mary Cassat

10:

This Philadelphian is best known for medical paintings like The Gross
Clinic
Thomas Eakins

10:

His concern for the arrangement of color over the depiction of the natural world is made apparent by titles such as Symphony in White and
Arrangement in Grey and Black
James MacNeill Whistler

TOSSUP 18
It was first recorded in 1054 and called a “guest star by Chinese and Arabastronomers. Soon after
its formation it had an apparent magnitude between -7and -4.5, meaning that it was brighter than
everything in the night sky exceptfor the Moon. The mass of progenitor stars, stars that form
nebulas, must be atleast eight solar masses, but the mass of it and its pulsar add up to much
less,but investigation has failed to determine what happened to the “missing mass.”FTP, name
this nebula in the constellation Taurus named for a crustacean.
Crab Nebula
BONUS 18
Name these constellations, FTPE.
10:

This other crab is one of the Zodiac constellations.
Cancer

10:

South of Cancer lies this many-headed serpent defeated by Heracles.
Hydra

10:

This constellation represents many different swans of legend.
Cygnus

9

TOSSUP 19
His book Seven Pillars of Wisdom weaves his experiences in with possible fabrication, and it is in
fact difficult to know what exactly he did or didn’t do while fighting the Ottomans in the desert
alongside Prince Faisal and his camel-mounted army. It is clear, however, that he had the respect
of the Arabs he spent time with and even wore Arab clothing. FTP, name this British Army
officer who led and fought with Arab rebels during the Arab Revolt of 1916-1918, portrayed on
film by Peter O’Toole.
T.E. Lawrence “of Arabia”
BONUS 19
Answer these questions about Lawrence of Arabia, the man and the film, FTPE.
10:

Lawrence died in a crash while driving one of these vehicles, seen in
the opening sequence of the film.
Motorcycle

10:

The film was directed by this man, who also directed
Zhivago and Bridge over the River Kwai.
David Lean

10:

The film focuses much of its attention on Lawrence’s attack on this
Syrian capital.
Damascus

Doctor

TOSSUP 20
The main character carries on an affair with Sabina, his long-time lover and a talented painter.
After his wife Tereza finds out, she becomes friends with Sabina but still harbors feelings of
jealousy towards Tomas, the main character. After Soviet occupation ends the Prague Spring,
both Tereza and Tomas, who have finally forgiven each other, die in a car crash, and Sabina
continues her erotic adventures with another professor. This describes the plot of, FTP, what
most famous novel of Milan Kundera?
The Unbearable Lightness of Being
BONUS 20
Identify these other famous Czech works FTPE.
10:

This play by Karel Capek introduced the word “robot” to the English
language.
R.U.R. (accept Rossum’s Universal Robots)

10:

This play by former Czech president Vaclav Havel was inspired by a
type of outdoor celebration thrown by Karel Capek.
The Garden Party

10:

This unfinished novel by Jaroslav Hasek tells the story of a Czech
veteran’s adventures in the army.
The Good Soldier Svejk

10

