Bergen Academies Spring Quizbowl Tournament 2016
Written by Zachary Stier, Rebecca Rosenthal, David Song, Alon Millet, Ryan Murphy, Michael Gleyzer, Bergen Academies
Quizbowl Team; Trent Kannegieter, Bayside Academy; Alex Katz, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Special thanks to Alex Dzurick, Ben Zhang and Jon Pinyan.

Round 13: Tossups
1. Usmen Hasan crashed his car at this location, in an attack for which the East Turkestan Islamic Movement
claimed responsibility. The Legation Quarter was to the east of this site, while the Great Hall of the People lines its
western edge. On the day of the Qingming Festival in 1976, (*) Deng Xiaoping was arrested for allegedly organizing
demonstrations here; later, this location was the site of Jeff Wideman’s picture of the Tank Man. A portrait of Mao
Zedong watches over – for ten points – what plaza in Beijing, the site of student protests in 1989?
ANSWER: Tiananmen Square
2. This entity can warm suddenly if it absorbs Rossby waves. Nitric or sulfuric acid can condense with water to
form nacreous clouds in this region, which is home to quasi-biennial oscillations in tropical latitudes. Temperature
(*) increases with height in this layer of the atmosphere, due to solar ultraviolet rays captured by a high concentration of
ozone. Felix Baumgartner jumped from this layer, and most commercial flights cruise in this layer to avoid turbulence and
weather. For ten points, name this layer of the atmosphere between the mesosphere and the troposphere.
ANSWER: stratosphere
3. In order to obey God’s command to rebuild a church, this man stole from his wealthy cloth-merchant father; his
father’s retaliation led him to marry “Lady Poverty”, and he later composed the “Canticle of the Sun”. The nuns
who subscribe to this man’s religious order are known as “Poor (*) Clares,” and in one anecdote, this man received
the stigmata and retreated from a leper, only to return and give away the contents of his purse. He is one of the patron
saints of Italy, and this patron saint of ecology called all creatures “brother” or “sister.” For ten points, name this patron
saint of animals from Assisi.
ANSWER: Saint Francis of Assisi or Francis Bernadone, accept Franciscan monks
4. Sexual encounters precede V-2 bombings in this city in a Thomas Pynchon novel, and in Hanif Kureishi’s semiautobiographical The Buddha of Suburbia, Karim returns to this city from New York. In Dracula, the Count chases
Mina Harker in this city, and William Morel accepts a job in this city in D.H. (*) Lawrence’s Sons and Lovers. A
P.G. Wodehouse character is a member of this city’s Junior Ganymede Club. P.L. Travers created the Banks family, who
hires the nanny Mary Poppins in, for ten points, what city where one can find 221B Baker Street, the home of Sherlock
Holmes?
ANSWER: London
5. A crucifix is hidden behind a green damask curtain in this work. The two central figures of this work stand on
an example of the artist’s namesake carpet and are Georges de Selve, the Bishop of Lavaur and Jean de Dinteville.
This painting shows a sundial, a lute with a (*) broken string, Lutheran hymn book and globe on a set of shelves behind
its two subjects, envoys to the court of its artist’s main patron, whom he painted in 1540 before his fourth marriage. On
the floor of this painting is an anamorphic skull. For ten points, name this painting of the title men to Henry VIII’s court
by Hans Holbein the Younger.
ANSWER: The Ambassadors
6. This author played The White Queen in Jean Genet’s The Blacks, and noted in one poem “I walk like I've got oil
wells / Pumping in my living room”. In another poem by this author, the speaker notes that “I am that Tree
planted by a River” and she read that poem, (*) “On the Pulse of Morning”, at Bill Clinton’s inauguration. She wrote
her memoir as an answer to a challenge from James Baldwin, and it tells primarily of her childhood with her brother
Bailey in Stamps, Arkansas. That book ends with the birth of this author’s own child. For ten points, name this poet and
author of the autobiography I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings.
ANSWER: Maya Angelou

1

7. The chemist Christopher Kirkby delivered a letter naming one hundred Jesuits to this leader who sold Dunkirk
to France, and the Treaty of Dover made him convert to Catholicism and join a fight against the Dutch. After
losing the Battle of Worcester, he spent nine years in (*) exile. Two trade laws passed by this husband of Catherine of
Braganza “enumerated” certain goods, restricting their shipping, and were further installments of the Navigation Acts.
Titus Oates fabricated the Popish Plot against, for ten points, what English king who was restored to the throne after the
end of Oliver Cromwell’s Commonwealth?
ANSWER: Charles II, prompt on “Merry Monarch”
8. This opera has scenes titled “Old Melchtal’s House” and “The Main Square at Altdorf”, and in its beginning,
Roudi sings a love song from his boat. Arnold falls in love with Princess Mathilde in this opera, which has one
section composed of four movements, including “The Storm” and “Call to the Dairy Cows”; that section is its
famous (*) Overture. After the title character refuses to bow to a hat, the governor Gesler forces him to perform a
dangerous feat to his son, Jemmy. For ten points, name this Rossini opera based on a play by Friedrich Schiller, where
the title character shoots an arrow through an apple on his son’s head.
ANSWER: William Tell or Guillaume Tell
9. Charles Darwin’s theory about the “Structure and Distribution” of these regions was challenged by John
Murray’s theory that these formed after sufficient calcareous accumulation. Upwelling inhibits the growth of these
structures, which primarily exist in the photic zone, and the fringe variety of these lack deep (*) lagoons and are
prevalent in the Caribbean. Higher ocean temperatures and pollution have caused large portions of these structures to
undergo bleaching. Crown-of-thorns starfish threaten the calcium carbonate exoskeletons of, for ten points, what colorful
aquatic ecosystems include atolls and barrier types?
ANSWER: coral reefs, prompt on “reef” or “reefs”
10. One character appears in this work when coats and hats are hung on a rack, and then begins extorting one
character. One character in this play notes that “he can’t get hold of good French plays anymore”, so he tries to
stages a fictional play by this work’s author called (*) Mixing it Up. Madame Pace forces one character to have sex
with her stepfather in this work. The Little Girl drowns in a fountain and The Boy shoots himself in this play. The
Director stages a play about the title people who are looking for someone to tell their story in, for ten points, what play by
Italian author Luigi Pirandello?
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore
11. Amos Durfee was killed at this location during the Caroline Affair. The Skylon Tower and Rainbow Bridge
overlook this location, which names a 1950 treaty that led to the establishment of its International Board of
Control. The Cave of the Winds was behind the (*) Bridal Veil, which was separated by Luna and Goat Islands from
the two major portions of this location. Its American section may dry up in 2,000 years, while heavy erosion means that
the Horseshoe portion of this location will recede to Lake Erie in 50,000 years. For ten points, what major set of waterfalls
is located between New York and Ontario?
ANSWER: Niagara Falls
12. One painting by this artist was dedicated to his friend Carlos Casagemas, who committed suicide after an
unsuccessful relationship with Germaine Pichot. That painting by this artist features an old man hunched over the
title (*) instrument and uses many shades of blue. He showed Pichot with four other nude women in work created in his
African period. A more famous painting by this man features a flower growing from a sword as well as a screaming horse
and a light bulb at its top; that mural depicts the bombing of the title Basque town. For ten points, name this Spanish
painter of Les Demoiselles D’Avignon and Guernica.
ANSWER: Pablo Ruiz y Picasso

2

13. In this author’s first novel, Flapping Eagle searches for his immortal sister for 777 years, 7 months and 7 days.
While working as a copywriter, he won the Man Booker Prize for a novel in which a boy “of the knees” is switched
with the (*) the protagonist and narrator of the novel, who has supernatural powers from his oversized nose. In another of
his works, Gibreel and Saladin survive an explosion above the English Channel; in response to that novel, a fatwa was
issued calling for this author’s death. For ten points, name this British-Indian author of Midnight’s Children and The
Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: Salman Rushdie
14. This man’s ship was moored in a harbor for centuries, creating a paradox that questioned the legitimacy of an
object that been entirely rebuilt. He joined the Calydonian Boar Hunt with Pirithous before they were both fused
to a stone in Hades. He’s not Paris, but he returned home to find that his mother had been kidnapped in retaliation
for his abduction of (*) Helen. In one voyage, this man left his lover on Naxos before returning home with a black flag
on the mast of his ship. That lover was Ariadne, who helped this Athenian escape the Labyrinth. For ten points, name this
Greek hero who killed the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
15. Maxwell’s Code was the first written law of this region, which had subdivisions such as Randolph, Ross, and
Wayne. Marietta was the first permanent American settlement in this territory, part of which was previously
annexed into (*) Quebec in 1774. Arthur St. Clair was appointed this territory’s first governor by the Continental
Congress, and in 1803 Ohio was split off it to become the 17th state. A 1787 Ordinance created – for ten points – what
organized territory that also contained the modern-day states of Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin?
ANSWER: Northwest Territory (accept Territory Northwest of the Ohio River; prompt on “Ohio” until “Randolph”; do
not accept “Northwest Territories”)
16. Norman Good outlined 10 criteria used to judge the quality of biological ones of these systems. TAE and TBE
are combinations of Tris and EDTA that form one of these, and the LB/SB varieties of them are used in gel
electrophoresis. Only functional in a certain range called the (*) capacity, an example of these systems is bicarbonate
in blood. Their effectiveness can be determined through pKa by using the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. For ten
points, name these systems, commonly composed of weak acids and their conjugate base, that can resist changes in pH.
ANSWER: buffers
17. Recurring columns on this website include “Point/Counterpoint” and “American Voices”, in which one
interviewee is always a systems analyst. This past November, this organization reported that the NFL was
beginning its “Summer League, for suspended players to make up games”, and this organization’s Person of the
Year 2014 was Malala Yousafzai and (*) John Cena. In 2012, this website published its Book of Known Knowledge, and
Its Film Standard’s resident critic, Peter K. Rosenthal, has a past with the Symbionese Liberation Army, and in 2014, it
launched a spinoff website parodying Buzzfeed, called Clickhole.com. For ten points, name this satirical online newspaper.
ANSWER: The Onion or theonion.com or onion.com
18. Although not the Moche [“moh-chay”], one of their ancestors was the Chauvin people. Looking at their ruler
would yield a death sentence, and their large bureaucracy was founded upon the mit’a system. In 2013,
archaeologists uncovered one of their warehouses that might give insight into deciphering their (*) quipu recordkeeping system. This civilization used a system of terrace farming and made their first contact with Europeans soon after
a civil war by Atahualpa. They were eventually conquered by the forces of Francisco Pizarro, although this civilization’s
ruins of Machu Picchu still stand today. For ten points, name this Andean South American civilization, with capital at
Cuzco.
ANSWER: Incan civilization
19. While a student at MIT, this man was sent to work for the Central Bank of Portugal following the Carnation
Revolution. This saltwater economist wrote The Return of Depression Economics, in which he argued that Japan
was stuck in a Keynesian liquidity trap. He formulated the New Economic (*) Geography, where he argued that
production tends to remain localized, and his New York Times blog shares its name with one of his books, The Conscience
of a Liberal. For ten points, name this Nobel Prize-winning economist, a current professor at Princeton, who developed
the New Trade Theory.
ANSWER: Paul Krugman

3

20. Scuba divers wear a compensator that allows them to modulate this phenomenon while underwater. A
dasymeter [“dah-SIM-uh-ter”] is a device based on a thin glass ball that uses its force to determine the density of a
gas. It regulates isostasy in the Earth’s crust, and it is best demonstrated by the Cartesian Devil. One man allegedly
used this force to determine if a (*) crown was made of pure gold; that man’s Principle states that the magnitude of this
force is equal to the weight of the displaced fluid. For ten points, name this force discovered by Archimedes that causes
objects to float.
ANSWER: buoyancy
Tiebreaker Question:
This author partially expanded his unfinished novel Jean Santeuil into Sodom and Gomorrah, in which the
narrator of one of this author’s novels compares “inverts”, a term he uses for homosexuals, to flowers. After
hearing a “little phrase” in a sonata, the title character of one of his works falls in love with a courtesan named (*)
Odette de Crecy. His magnum opus was given one of its English titles by C.K. Montcrieff, and in the first part of his
longest work, Swann’s Way, the narrator of is reminded of his childhood in Combray after eating a madeleine dipped in
tea. For ten points name this French author of In Search of Lost Time.
ANSWER: Marcel Proust

4

Round 13: Bonuses
1. This man’s “compositions” use only white, black and the primary colors. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Dutch artist whose work with the simplest elements became progressively more complex when he moved
to New York in 1938.
ANSWER: Piet Mondrian
[10] Mondrian’s created one painting titled this “Boogie Woogie”, whose yellow, red and blue stripes are inspired by this
title theatrical street in Manhattan.
ANSWER: Broadway
[10] Mondrian was a founding member of this abstract art movement in the Netherlands. Mondrian alternatively referred
to it as “neoplasticism”.
ANSWER: De Stijl or The Style
2. Name these common chemistry lab procedures, for ten points each:
[10] This lab procedure often involves a burette. Someone performing it would be interested in the equivalence point,
identifiable via a color change thanks to phenolphthalein [“FEEN-ol-thay-leen”].
ANSWER: titration
[10] This lab procedure has many forms, including its vacuum type. Unfortunately, azeotropes cannot be subjects of this
procedure.
ANSWER: distillation
[10] This lab procedure is used to separate two stereoisomers, or chiral forms, of a molecule. It is essential in producing
commercial ibuprofen, since only its (+) form is active in vivo.
ANSWER: resolution
3. For ten points each, answer these questions about American short stories.
[10] This author created “A Story of an Hour” but is perhaps better known for her novel about Edna Pontellier, The
Awakening.
ANSWER: Kate Chopin
[10] This short story by Shirley Jackson takes place on June 27th. In it, the folks of a small town select Tessie Hutchinson
to be stoned to death.
ANSWER: “The Lottery”
[10] In this James Baldwin short story, the narrator struggles to understand his brother’s addiction to heroin and jazz
career.
ANSWER: “Sonny’s Blues”
4. Although genetics tell us a lot about an organism, they rarely tell the whole story. For ten points each:
[10] Name this field in biology that studies external and environmental modifications to the genome of an organism
during its lifetime.
ANSWER: epigenetics
[10] One form of epigenetic modification is this, in which the addition of a namesake functional group to DNA inactivates
the expression of a gene.
ANSWER: DNA methylation
[10] This epigenetic phenomenon involves nucleic acids silencing genes post-transcriptionally. The name of this
phenomenon combines the type of nucleic acids involved and their size.
ANSWER: microRNA or miRNA, do not accept or prompt on “mRNA”

5

5. The United Nations Development Group was formed in 1997 to unite multiple UN agencies. For ten points each:
[10] This program was established in 1946 to aid mothers and their youth. In North America, it is famed for distributing
small orange boxes with which trick-or-treaters can ask for donations.
ANSWER: United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF, accept United Nations Children’s
Fund or United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund)
[10] This body is responsible for public well-being, and helped eradicate smallpox. It came under scrutiny in 2015 for
labeling processed meats as carcinogenic.
ANSWER: World Health Organization (WHO)
[10] The Development Group operates under this principal organ of the United Nations, established by Chapter X [“ten”]
of the UN Charter. Under Article 62, this body is to promote respect for, and observance of, “human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all.”
ANSWER: Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)
6. The first of these was built by Theodore Maiman in 1960. For ten points each:
[10] Name this device that emits a beam of narrow light, whose name is actually an acronym.
ANSWER: light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (laser)
[10] The beam of light emitted by a laser can remain narrow and steady for a long distance because it has this property,
which means that its rays are all precisely parallel.
ANSWER: collimated
[10] This laser technique allows for short bursts of ultra-high power. In the mid-1960s it was used commonly to
synthetically increase the strength of a laser.
ANSWER: Q-switching
7. Americans have so much to remember, it makes sense that they’re sometimes ignorant about foreign nations. For ten
points each:
[10] “Remember the Maine and to hell with” this country was a common cry during William McKinley’s administration.
ANSWER: Spain
[10] “Remember the Alamo” was a popular cry by U.S. soldiers during the Mexican-American War, but many also cried
to remember this battle that took place four months before the Alamo.
ANSWER: The Battle of Goliad
[10] Spanish-American philosopher George Santayana noted that “those who do not remember the past are condemned to
repeat it” in this work of his.
ANSWER: The Life of Reason
8. The palace at this site was rebuilt after a volcanic eruption on the island of Thera. For ten points each:
[10] Name this archeological site on the island of Crete, home to one of the earliest Greek civilizations.
ANSWER: Knossos
[10] That civilization was this one, named by Sir Arthur Evans and which wrote in Linear A and Linear B. These people
lost dominance in the 15th century B.C.E., and were replaced by the Myceneans.
ANSWER: the Minoans
[10] The Minoans got their mythological name due to the large number of art works that depict this type of animal. One
wall painting shows several youths leaping over one of these in a “flying-gallop” pose.
ANSWER: bulls, prompt on “cows” or “cattle”
9. Animals do many things for humans. Answer these questions about some of the hardest working vertebra in the
business, for ten points each.
[10] These simians are sometimes trained to perform household tasks, including the Capuchin type that was involved in
Argentina’s space program and held a role in Night at the Museum.
ANSWER: monkeys (accept Capuchin monkeys)
[10] Capuchin monkeys can be trained to prepare coffee, such as the Kopi Luwak variety, the beans of which are
distinguished by passing through the digestive track of this cat-like species before human consumption.
ANSWER: Asian Palm civet or Paradoxurus hermaphroditus
[10] Civets have been compared to these aquatic avian barnyard producers of foie gras, as they both may be subjected to
force-feeding.
ANSWER: ducks or geese

6

10. This author took his pseudonym from a greeting meaning “peace be upon you” in Hebrew. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Jewish-Russian author whose short stories include “On Account of a Hat” and several stories about Tevye
the Dairyman.
ANSWER: Sholem Aleichem or Solomon Naumovich Rabinovich
[10] Aleichem’s stories about Tevye and his daughters are perhaps more famous for their adaptation into this 1964
musical, titled from a Chagall painting, which includes songs like “Tradition” and “Sunrise, Sunset”.
ANSWER: Fiddler on the Roof
[10] Aleichem wrote in this language. Although it is more closely related to German, it uses the Hebrew alphabet. English
words like “kvetch” and “chutzpah” come from this language.
ANSWER: Yiddish
11. He carried a lantern while looking for an honest man. For ten points each:
[10] Name this ancient Greek philosopher, who lived on the streets of Athens in a barrel, and whose sole request of
Alexander the Great was to “stand out of my light.”
ANSWER: Diogenes of Sinope
[10] Diogenes was a preeminent figure in this school of thought, which was followed by stoicism. Followers in this school
rejected society and lived in a “dog-like” state, giving rise to the name of this philosophic tradition.
ANSWER: cynicism
[10] Both the cynics and the stoics greatly admired this Greek hero; Lucian’s Philosophies for Sale recounts Diogenes,
about to be sold into slavery, likening his cloak to the hide that this figure wore.
ANSWER: Heracles or Hercules
12. Its title was inspired by a Paul Verlaine poem and names dozens of classical pieces. For ten points each:
[10] Give the name of the third movement of Suite bergamasque, Beethoven’s Piano Sonata No. 14, and one of Fauré’s
[“foe-RAYS”] Two Songs. Its name refers to a nighttime celestial object.
ANSWER: Clair de Lune
[10] This French Impressionist composer of Suite bergamasque is also famous for his Golliwogg’s Cakewalk. He often
wrote with the whole-tone scale, leading to his characteristic atonality.
ANSWER: Claude Debussy
[10] Golliwogg’s Cakewalk is the last movement of this Debussy piano suite. He dedicated the work to his 3-year-old
daughter, Claude-Emma, who passed away only a year after Debussy’s death.
ANSWER: Children’s Corner
13. This battle has been called its victor’s magnum opus. For ten points each:
[10] Name this decisive 1805 battle in which an outnumbered Napoleon Bonaparte successfully defeated the Austrian
army by evacuating the Pratzen Plateau, just north of Vienna.
ANSWER: the Battle of Austerlitz or the Battle of the Three Emperors
[10] In this other battle from the Napoleonic Wars, the French defeat of the Russian General Kutuzov led to Napoleon’s
capture of Moscow.
ANSWER: the Battle of Borodino
[10] After being driven out of Russia, Napoleon’s slide was compounded by this decisive defeat off the shore of the Elbe
in Saxony. In its aftermath, Napoleon lost all holdings east of the Rhine.
ANSWER: the Battle of Leipzig or the Battle of the Nations
14. For ten points each, name these works of literature considered to be their nation’s epic.
[10] This work, hailing 16th century explorers like Vasco de Gama in Homeric fashion and chronicling the House of
Aviz, is considered to be the national epic of Portugal.
ANSWER: The Lusiads or Os Lusíadas
[10] This Finnish epic includes stories of the first man, Väinämoïnen [“VIE-nah-MOY-nen”]. The works of Jean Sibelius
were highly influenced by this epic.
ANSWER: Kalevala
[10] The title character of this epic, a soldier in Charlemagne’s army, blows a horn made from the tusk of an elephant
during a battle at Roncevaux [“RON-suh-voe”] Pass.
ANSWER: The Song of Roland or La Chanson de Roland

7

15. For ten points each, name the following programming languages.
[10] This object-oriented language was created by Bjarne Stroustrup in the 1980s, and was originally named “C with
Classes.” The latest update was released in December 2014.
ANSWER: C++
[10] This other object-oriented language was developed by James Gosling and Sun Microsystems, and is similar to C++ in
that lines end in semicolons, but differs in that whitespace is not necessary for compiling.
ANSWER: Java
[10] This functional programming language is named for the logician who invented the currying technique, and has strong
static typing.
ANSWER: Haskell, prompt on “Haskell Curry”
16. For ten points each, name some key common figures from the three Abrahamic religions from before the
establishment of those religions.
[10] This first son of Abraham is largely ignored in Judaism and Christianity after he was expelled into the desert by
Sarah with his mother, Hagar. However, he is a main patriarch in Islam, and is buried with Hagar next to the Kaaba.
ANSWER: Ishmael
[10] Another great patriarch of those religions is this man, the original drunken sailor, whose ark housed seven of every
kosher animal during a great flood.
ANSWER: Noah
[10] While drunk, Noah was uncovered by this son of his, leading to his namesake curse being placed not on him but on
his own son Canaan.
ANSWER: Ham
17. This body of water borders Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. For ten points each:
[10] Name this body of water that borders both the Bay of Bothnia and Helsinki.
ANSWER: Baltic Sea
[10] Helsinki is the capital of this nation, the belligerent that opposed Russia in the Winter War.
ANSWER: Finland
[10] In the Winter War, Finland fought the Soviet Union and lost considerable swaths of land north of this largest lake in
Europe.
ANSWER: Lake Ladoga
18. His first symphony is often nicknamed “Beethoven’s Tenth”. For ten points each:
[10] Name this German composer, the third chronologically of Hans von Bülow’s “Three Bs”, who created a famous
lullaby.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
[10] Brahms also transcribed and composed in total 21 of these nationally named works, the most famous of which is in
F# minor.
ANSWER: Hungarian Dances
[10] Among Brahms’ orchestral works is his Violin Concerto in D major, which he dedicated to this friend of his, a violin
virtuoso.
ANSWER: Joseph Joachim
19. The title character of this novel journeys with his mother Anna from Cape Town to Prince Albert. For ten points each:
[10] Name this novel about a gardener with a cleft-lip.
ANSWER: Life & Times of Michael K
[10] Life & Times of Michael K was written by this reclusive South African author of Dutch heritage who also wrote
Waiting for the Barbarians.
ANSWER: J(ohn) M(axwell/ichael) Coetzee
[10] After Life & Times of Michael K, Coetzee wrote this novel about the professor David Lurie who loses his job after he
has an affair his student Melanie Isaacs.
ANSWER: Disgrace

8

20. This river’s tributaries include the Chenab and the Kabul. For ten points each:
[10] Name this major river that flows into the Arabian Sea and with the Ganges names a plain that spans most of northern
India.
ANSWER: Indus River
[10] The Indus River Delta lies to the southeast of this capital of Sindh Province, which is the largest Muslim-majority
city in the world. It served as capital of Pakistan until the establishment of Islamabad.
ANSWER: Karachi
[10] Also in what is now Sindh was this ancient city, whose name means “mound of the dead”. Part of the greater Indus
Valley Civilization, it was known for its sewage system and the Great Bath.
ANSWER: Mohenjo-daro
21. This painting appears on the cover of Coldplay’s album Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this painting depicting the brief revolution overthrowing the French king Charles X, led by an allegorical barebreasted woman.
ANSWER: Liberty Leading the People: July 28, 1830
[10] Liberty Leading the People was painted by this Romantic French artist of Scenes from the Massacre at Chios.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Victor Eugène Delacroix
[10] In addition to scenes from Chios, Delacroix also painted an allegorical depiction of this country on the Ruins of
Missolonghi. Both Chios and Missolonghi are found in this country.
ANSWER: Greece or Elláda

9

