2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 5
Tossups

1. This actor played a man who uses Healthy Choice products and dates Lena, played by Emily Watson.
In another film, he plays Harvey Keitel’s son, who is Satan, and in another role, he performs in a band
with a Boy George lookalike and proposes on a plane to the waitress Julia Sullivan. He plays a failed
hockey player who rivals Shooter McGavin and attacks Bob Barker in one film and pretended to be Kevin
James’ gay husband in another. For 10 points, name this star of Little Nicky, The Wedding Singer, and
Happy Gilmore.
ANSWER: Adam Sandler
2. While working for Simon Kuznets, this man proposed that the AMA’s barriers to entry resulted in
artificially high incomes for physicians, and he argued that the Phillips curve resulted from workers being
temporarily fooled by nominally higher incomes. His permanent income hypothesis is found in A Theory
of the Consumption Function, and he argued that the Fed was responsible for the duration of the Great
Depression in A Monetary History of the United States. For 10 points, name this Chicago School
economist and author of Free to Choose.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman
3. Minimizing this quantity for a superconductor gives the Landau-Ginzburg equations. In statistical
mechanics, it can be defined as the negative log of the partition function divided by beta. One of its
forms is analogous to the internal energy of a system with variable entropy, and another form can be
expressed as the difference between enthalpy and entropy times temperature. For 10 points, name
these energy-like state functions for a system in thermodynamic equilibrium, which have forms named
after Helmholtz and Gibbs.
ANSWER: free energy [accept Helmholtz free energy before “another form”]
4. This man defeated Radbod at the Battle of Amblève, and his father ruled from Herstal. This man faced
opposition from his father’s widow, Plectrude, as well as from Ragenfrid and the forces of Neustria.
Eudes, Duke of Aquitaine, swore an oath to this man, and he served as Mayor of the Palace. He defeated
the forces of Abd-ar-Rahman, thus stopping a Muslim invasion of Europe at the Battle of Tours. For 10
points, name this French leader, the father of Pippin the Short and grandfather of Charlemagne, known
as “The Hammer.”
ANSWER: Charles “The Hammer” Martel

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 1 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. A male chorus sings the Jewish prayer Shema Yisrael in this composer’s Survivor From Warsaw.
Movements called “Der kranke Mond” and “Der Mondfleck” appear in his setting of poems by Albert
Giraud. This composer of the unfinished opera Moses und Aron, as well as Pierrot Lunaire and the string
sextet Transfigured Night, may be most famous for inventing a serialist technique that influenced
students like Anton Webern. For 10 points, name this Second Viennese School composer who developed
twelve-tonality.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
6. In a dream, this man embraces an axe that appears at his doorstep, but his mother makes it compete
with him. Seven loaves of bread are used to prove to this figure that he has slept for seven days, and
one quest takes him to the Cedar Forest. The Bull of Heaven is sent against this figure, who is two-thirds
divine and one-third mortal. This figure slays Humbaba before traveling to see Utnapishtim, the survivor
of the great flood. For 10 points, name this king of Uruk who befriends the wild man Enkidu in a
namesake Sumerian epic.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh
7. This author collaborated on a play based on Lemaitre’s Auberges des Arets entitled Macaire and a
ghost story about Markheim. He penned a work in whose chapter “Incident at the Window” Utterson
introduces Enfield to one title character. A sequel by this author, who had followed the Duries of
Durisdeer in The Master of Ballantrae, focuses on James’ trial and the marriage of the two alternate title
characters, Catriona and David Balfour. For 10 points, name this author of Kidnapped who wrote The
Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde and Treasure Island.
ANSWER: Robert Louis Balfour Stevenson
8. This equation derives from the mass action expression given in logarithmic form and arose from work
dealing with the conversion of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate in the body. For a weak acid or base, this
equation governs the titration mixture until the end point of a titration. When the ratio of acid to
conjugate base is unity, this equation states that the logarithm of the reciprocal of the acid dissociation
constant equals the pH. For 10 points, name this equation that governs acid-base equilibrium and gives
the pH of buffer systems.
ANSWER: Henderson-Hasselbalch equation
9. This man’s first political appointment was as interim Secretary of War following the removal of Edwin
Stanton. The foremost diplomat of his administration was Hamilton Fish, who resolved both the
Virginius affair and the Alabama claims. Less distinguished was his first vice president, Schuyler Colfax,
who became implicated in the Crédit Mobilier scandal. Also the victor at Chattanooga and Shiloh, he
accepted the surrender of Robert E. Lee at Appomattox in 1865. For 10 points, name this Union general
who served as President from 1869 to 1877.
ANSWER: Ulysses Simpson Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 2 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. A woman leans out of a gas station window in this artist’s Four Lane Road. Two rows of ceiling lights
are reflected in the window behind a woman with a coffee cup in one of his works, while another shows
a barber’s pole and a row of storefronts. This student of Robert Henri painted Automat and Early
Sunday Morning and showed two nearly identical women eating the titular food in Chop Suey. His most
famous work includes an ad for five-cent Phillies cigars and shows three diner patrons at night. For 10
points, name this artist of Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
11. This country is home to the Rufiji River, which empties into the ocean near Mafia Island. This nation
has regions named for its cities of Mwanza and Arusha, the latter of which contains Mount Meru and
the Ngorongoro Crater. This nation is currently attempting to move its capital to the centrally located
Dodoma, and it was formed via the unification of Zanzibar and Tanganyika. For 10 points, name this East
African nation that is home to Olduvai Gorge and Mount Kilimanjaro and has its de facto capital at Dar
es Salaam.
ANSWER: United Republic of Tanzania [or Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania]
12. The narrator of this work bids goodbye to Spring and complains of “a burning forehead, and a
parching tongue.” The narrator speaks of a “Bold Lover” who can never kiss and of legends that have
taken place in Tempe and the “dales of Arcady.” The work’s last two lines were criticized by T. S. Eliot as
a blight upon an otherwise beautiful poem. The titular object is described as a “Cold Pastoral,” a “fosterchild of Silence,” and a “Sylvan historian.” For 10 points, name this Keats poem that concludes “beauty is
truth, truth beauty” and is addressed to an ancient vessel.
ANSWER: “Ode on a Grecian Urn”
13. One version of this structure has an inner skeletal structure called an axoneme. In bacteria, these
structures are often seen in conjunction with a polar membrane. In eukaryotes, they are powered by a
protein called dyenin, and they are composed of a characteristic “9 plus 2” arrangement. These
structures are anchored to a cell via a basal body. This structure’s movement is powered by the
acrosome in the sperm cell, which it allows to be motile. For 10 points, name this whip-like cell structure
functioning in unicellular organism motion.
ANSWER: flagella [or flagellum]
14. The beginnings of this event included the resignation of Antonin Novotny as first secretary. Gustav
Husak implemented a process of “normalization” that intended to undo its effects. A meeting at
Bratislava decided that the Soviets had a right to interfere and put down this movement, and Jan Palach
set himself on fire in protest. It would ultimately be crushed by a full-scale Soviet invasion of
Czechoslovakia on August 21st, 1968. For 10 points, name this brief period of political liberation led by
Alexander Dubcek and named for a Czech city.
ANSWER: Prague Spring

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 3 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. This god of this name absorbed the qualities of Prajapati. Early myths claim he was created in a
golden egg, and his number of faces is reflected in the yugas, varnas, and Vedas. His mount is a goose,
and he is often shown with a lotus throne. Often holding an alms bowl, a bow, a book, and prayer beads,
this four-faced god’s consort is Savitri. No cults worship him, but any temple of Vishnu or Shiva must
have his image. For 10 points, name this member of the Trimurti, a Hindu creator god.
ANSWER: Brahma
16. A composition named for this painter includes the movements “The Straw Mannequin” and “The
Maiden and the Nightingale.” Besides that work by Enrique Granados, this painter's works include
Courtyard with Lunatics, a small painting on tin like the rest of Fantasy and Invention. Bats, owls, and a
cat creep up behind a napping man in The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters, which is found in his
collection Caprichos, and he painted the same woman clothed and nude. For 10 points, name this
Spanish artist of The Nude Maja and The Third of May 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco Goya
17. The protagonist of this work has a strained relationship with Otto Zbinden. Other characters in this
work include the author of The Apogee and Decline of Counterpoint, Bastian Perrot, and Carlo
Ferromonte, who is interested in Slavic folk music. This work’s protagonist is assigned to mend relations
between Castalia and a monastery. After assuming a position held by Thomas von der Trave, the
protagonist retires and tutors Tito but drowns shortly thereafter. Joseph Knecht masters the title activity
in, for 10 points, what Hermann Hesse novel?
ANSWER: The Glass Bead Game [or Magister Ludi; or Das Glasperlenspiel]
18. Theories about the formation of this region were proposed by Cameron and Safronov. Part of this
area is named for J. G. Hills, who theorized that it may have inner and outer parts. This area may be
disturbed by gravity from Nemesis, which is a hypothesized brown dwarf in a binary relationship with
the sun. This area may have been the original home of Sedna, and it was first proposed by the Estonian
scientist Ernst Opik. For 10 points, name this region at the edge of the solar system, the hypothesized
source of long-period comets.
ANSWER: Oort Cloud [or Opik-Oort Cloud before mentioned]
19. This conflict began with a document that protested against Ramon Corral as successor to the man
who had imprisoned its author before the previous election. That Plan of San Luis Potosi called for this
event, which contained the “Ten Tragic Days” under the command of Victoriano Huerta against Felix,
the nephew of the existing autocrat. For 10 points, name this event encompassing the second decade of
the twentieth century, which concerned the overthrow of the dictator Porfirio Diaz and was urged by
Francisco Madero.
ANSWER: Mexican Revolution [or Revolución Mexicana]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 4 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. One author from this country wrote of half-brothers Zachariah and Morris, whose fight over pen pal
Ethel Lange and their differently colored skin is resolved by the titular Blood Knot, as well as of Sam
Semela, who is called a kaffir by the title character. “Men from the woods” lead to the downfall of
professor David Lurie in Disgrace, a novel written by an author from this country who told of a
simpleminded farmer in Life & Times of Michael K. For 10 points, name this country, home to Master
Harold…and the Boys author Athol Fugard, as well as J. M. Coetzee.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa
21. This novel sees Here Boy disappear after the arrival of another character, and in one scene, a
character observes shadows holding hands as he walks home from a fair. The title character insists that
another “tell me your diamonds,” and that character has a network of scars on her back that resembles
a chokecherry tree. Stamp Paid changed his name after he had to give his wife to his owner’s son, and
Denver admits that she thought the title character was her sister after Sethe nearly dies of selfstarvation. For 10 points, name this novel by Toni Morrison.
ANSWER: Beloved
22. The bull In Apostolice dignitatis specula appointed him head of the Order of Christ, as per a petition
from his father. He convinced his father to send an expedition to Ceuta, possibly in search of Prester
John. After a further campaign against Gibralter, he traveled to Sagres, where he is alleged to have
created a school responsible for the invention of the caravel. For 10 points, name this son of the founder
of the House of Aviz, a Portuguese prince known for the voyages he financed and organized.
ANSWER: Prince Henry the Navigator
23. These have been shown to contribute to normal hippocampal development in mice, and they may
be beneficial to certain fungi. One pathogenic type has extra beta pleated sheets in its structure.
Astrogliosis occurs as a result of a protease-resistant form of these in disorders like scrapie and fatal
familial insomnia. Discovered by Stanley Prusiner, these entities can form amyloid plaques in brain, and
they cause a disease that required the slaughter of millions of infected cattle in Britain. For 10 points,
name these infectious proteins that cause ailments like mad cow disease and Creutzfeld-Jakob disease.
ANSWER: prions [or protineacous infectious particles]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 5 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 5
Bonuses

1. Name these theorems related to integration, for 10 points each.
[10] Differentiation is shown to be the opposite of integration by this kind of theorem of calculus. The
one of arithmetic says that any integer has a prime factorization.
ANSWER: fundamental theorem
[10] Integration can be done by approximating the area under a curve with this man’s namesake sums.
He also names a zeta function that is associated with the distribution of prime numbers.
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann
[10] This theorem relates the line integral over a curve to the double integral over the region enclosed
by the curve. It is a special case of Stokes’ theorem.
ANSWER: Green’s theorem
2. He demonstrated that all Boolean operators could be expressed in terms of the NOR gate. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this thinker who wrote many articles for Popular Science, including “How to Make Our Ideas
Clear.”
ANSWER: Charles Sanders Peirce
[10] Peirce and William James developed this type of philosophy focusing on practical truths over
abstract systems. It titles a William James book subtitled “A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking.”
ANSWER: pragmatism
[10] This American pragmatist proposed that the mind interacts with its environment in works like
Experience and Nature and Democracy and Education.
ANSWER: John Dewey

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 6 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

3. Its eventual settlers stopped near the tip of Cape Cod, and those settlers included Myles Standish and
John Alden. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this location where the Pilgrims landed their ship The Mayflower.
ANSWER: Plymouth colony
[10] This later colony in that region was created out of John Winthrop’s desire for a “city on a hill,”
which became Boston.
ANSWER: Massachusetts Bay Colony
[10] This early governor of the Plymouth Colony helped establish their town meetings, but is most
remembered for writing History of Plymouth Plantation, 1620–47.
ANSWER: William Bradford
4. Name these opera composers for 10 points each.
[10] This Frenchman included Zurga and Nadir in The Pearl Fishers but is best known for his opera about
Don Jose and the title gypsy, Carmen.
ANSWER: Georges Bizet
[10] This bel canto composer of Lucia di Lammermoor wrote about a title beverage that turns out to be
wine in The Elixir of Love.
ANSWER: Gaetano Donizetti
[10] This other Italian composer of The Sleepwalker also wrote an opera named for a jealous druidess,
Norma.
ANSWER: Vincenzo Bellini
5. This man has a dog named Karenin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this surgeon who, along with his wife Tereza, dies while changing a truck tire in a novel set
partly in Prague.
ANSWER: Tomas
[10] Tomas and Tereza feature in this novel, which sees Tomas get in trouble after writing a newspaper
column critical of the Soviet actions during the Prague Spring.
ANSWER: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelna lekhost byti]
[10] The Unbearable Lightness of Being was written by this Czech author, who also wrote The Joke and
The Postcard.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 7 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. For 10 points each, identify these model organisms.
[10] This bacterium’s O157:H7 strain is virulent in humans. It was notably used in researching the lac
operon, and Meselson and Stahl used it to show that DNA replication was semi-conservative.
ANSWER: Escherichia coli
[10] Gregor Mendel’s studies of flower color and pod type in this plant set down several foundational
genetic principles.
ANSWER: Pisum sativum [accept pea plant]
[10] This commonly studied fly, which only has four chromosomes, had its entire genome sequenced in
2000.
ANSWER: Drosophila melanogaster [or D. melanogaster; prompt on fruit fly]
7. This figure knows the future of the world but doesn’t reveal it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Norse goddess who lives in the hall Fensalir, and is married to Odin.
ANSWER: Frigg [or Frigga]
[10] Frigg tried to prevent the death of this son of hers by extracting oaths from every living thing not to
harm him, but she missed mistletoe.
ANSWER: Baldur
[10] In the part of the Poetic Edda known as the Lokasenna, Loki claims that Frigg cuckolded Odin with
two brothers of Odin. Name either.
ANSWER: Vili and Ve
8. His economic advisors were known as the Chicago Boys. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Chilean president who ruled for most of the 1980s until the election of Patricio Aylwin.
However, he continued to be commander of the army until his detainment in Britain.
ANSWER: Augusto Pinochet
[10] Pinochet had taken over the government of this earlier president, who had lost elections to Jorge
Alessandri and Eduardo Frei. A 1973 coup resulted in his controversial death.
ANSWER: Salvador Allende
[10] In the 1930s, Allende had helped found this party in Chile. In his successful campaign, Allende
brought together Radicals, Communists and this party under the Popular Unity Party.
ANSWER: Socialist Party
9. It shares its name with a Spanish dance invented by Sebastian Cerezo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this very repetitive 1928 orchestral work that features the snare drum playing an ostinato
rhythm.
ANSWER: Bolero
[10] Bolero was composed by this French composer, whose other works include the piano piece
Gaspard de la nuit and the ballet Daphnis et Chloé.
ANSWER: Maurice Ravel
[10] Ravel composed a work titled “The Tomb of” this French composer, whose suites include The
Benevolent Cuckold. His keyboard pieces in the Rococo style include “Le tic-toc-choc.”
ANSWER: Francois Couperin
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 8 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. This nephew of the regent has his plans of an invasion of Denmark halted when King Claudius works
out a negotiation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this prince of Norway who is named king of Denmark by the murderer of Claudius in a
Shakespeare play.
ANSWER: Fortinbras
[10] Fortinbras is a character in this play. Its title character tells Ophelia “get thee to a nunnery” and says
“To be or not to be, that is the question.”
ANSWER: Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
[10] In this Tom Stoppard play, a troupe of actors acts out the final scene of Hamlet during a trip by the
title characters to England. It opens with them flipping coins and getting heads repeatedly.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz And Guildenstern Are Dead
11. For 10 points each, identify the following concerning fluid equations.
[10] The subject of Archimedes’ principle, this force is equal to the weight of the fluid displaced by a
body in that fluid.
ANSWER: buoyancy [accept word forms]
[10] Equations from fluid statics may be derived from this theorem, which explains lift and the Venturi
effect, by setting velocity to zero.
ANSWER: Bernoulli’s principle [accept anything that suggests an assertion put forth by Bernoulli]
[10] The Navier-Stokes equation adds a term due to shear stress to these three coupled equations of
fluid mechanics, named for a mathematician who was a student with Daniel Bernoulli.
ANSWER: Euler’s Equations
12. Elementary schools often use blocks to teach addition, subtraction, and multiplication because their
students are in this stage and are not yet capable of abstract thought. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this stage that precedes the formal operational stage in a certain model of cognitive
development in children.
ANSWER: concrete operational stage [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This Swiss psychologist posited the four-stage theory of cognitive development that includes the
concrete operational and preoperational stages.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
[10] This earliest of the four stages involves such concepts as object permanence, the capacity for
infants to realize that objects still exist when hidden.
ANSWER: sensorimotor

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 9 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. Its North American theater was known as Queen Anne’s War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this conflict that saw Britain ally with the Netherlands, Denmark, and Austria against France
and the eponymous country.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
[10] France was very concerned about the possible death of this Spanish king, specifically the possibility
of an Austrian Hapsburg taking the throne and threatening him.
ANSWER: Charles II
[10] Charles II instead surprised everyone by naming this man as his successor. The treaty of Utrecht saw
him take the throne by promising never to unite France and Spain.
ANSWER: Philip V of Anjou
14. The title figure of this work is located in a bath, holding a pen and paper. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1793 painting which shows the victim Charlotte Corday.
ANSWER: The Death of Marat [La Mort de Marat]
[10] The Death of Marat was painted by this French artist, who created several depictions of Napoleon
in addition to The Death of Socrates.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
[10] David painted a woman keeping two armies apart in his Intervention of these figures. A sculpture by
Giambalogna and a painting by Nicolas Poussin show The Rape of these figures.
ANSWER: the Sabine Women
15. He often wrote about the fools of Chelm, and many of his works were first translated into English by
Saul Bellow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Jewish author of “Shadows on the Hudson,” and “Satan in Goray.”
ANSWER: Issac Bashevis Singer
[10] The title character of this Singer work is turned over as an orphan to a baker, which allows people
to constantly mock him.
ANSWER: Gimpel the Fool
[10] Singer was the first writer in this language to be awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. It is written
in Hebrew letters.
ANSWER: Yiddish
16. When they possess double or triple bonds they are referred to as unsaturated. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of organic compounds that are found within petroleum and consist of connected
carbon atoms. Simple examples include methane, ethane, and propane.
ANSWER: hydrocarbons [prompt on alkanes]
[10] Zeolite catalysts can be employed in this type of reaction used in petroleum refining in which large
hydrocarbon are broken into smaller hydrocarbons using heat and pressure.
ANSWER: cracking
[10] In internal combustion engines, the ability of gasoline to avoid premature combustion of the air-fuel
mixture, known as knocking, is given a number based on this eight-carbon hydrocarbon.
ANSWER: octane number [or octane rating]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 10 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Identify the following pertaining to occurrences at the World Economic Forum meeting held in
Davos, Switzerland, for 10 points each.
[10] This man invoked Titian’s work to describe how history offered “no clear map” to deal with the
current economic crisis. He is the current prime minister of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Gordon Brown
[10] Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of this country, stormed out of a panel after a heated
discussion with Israeli PM Shimon Peres. His decision to run for president on the AKP ticket was met
with protests in 2007.
ANSWER: Republic of Turkey
[10] This current president of the Geneva-based Global Humanitarian Forum and predecessor of Ban Ki
Moon described corruption as a “real cancer” in a meeting at Davos.
ANSWER: Kofi Atta Annan
18. Its features include the hills known as the Bluff as well as the Umgeni River. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this city on the Indian Ocean, the busiest port in all of Africa.
ANSWER: Durban
[10] Durban is the third-largest city in this African nation, as well as the major metropolitan center of its
KwaZulu-Natal province. Its capitals include Pretoria and Cape Town.
ANSWER: South Africa
[10] Another major city of South Africa is this former capital of the Orange Free State. It currently
functions as the nation’s judicial capital.
ANSWER: Bloemfontein
19. This ruler signed the Treaty of Kuchuk Karainja, thus gaining control of the Crimean peninsula. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796.
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]
[10] Catherine the Great signed the Treaty of Varala after winning a war against this country, which
more famously fought Russia in the Great Northern War against Peter the Great.
ANSWER: Sweden
[10] Catherine the Great might have had an affair with this advisor of hers, who famously created fake
villages in the Ukraine to make it look like people had moved there.
ANSWER: Gregory Potemkin

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 11 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. He grew up on the Spokane Indian reservation and wrote the novel Reservation Blues, in which a
demonic guitar helps a rock band temporarily succeed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven.
ANSWER: Sherman Alexie
[10] Sherman Alexie’s portrayal of Native American life is probably more realistic than is this author’s
work. He wrote about Natty Bumppo in The Deerslayer.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
[10] This author maligned The Deerslayer in the essay “Fenimore Cooper’s Literary Offenses.” He also
collaborated with Charles Dudley Warner on The Gilded Age.
ANSWER: Mark Twain
21. They are typically surrounded by a layer of connective tissue known as a capsule, and their inner
medulla region contains activated plasma cells that secrete antibodies. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these masses of tissue that screen a namesake fluid for the presence of antigens and allow
those antigens to react with cells of the immune system.
ANSWER: lymph nodes
[10] Nodules of lymph tissue known as Peyer’s patch are located within the ileum of this structure,
which also contains the jejunum and duodenum.
ANSWER: small intestine
[10] The adenoids comprise one set of these other lymphoid structures that are located beneath the
tongue and along the wall of the pharynx. They are often surgically removed when infected.
ANSWER: tonsils
22. This novel begins with Chamcha and Farishta falling out of the sky from a plane explosion. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this novel that also features mountain climber Alleluia Cone’s death.
ANSWER: The Satanic Verses
[10] The Satanic Verses earned this author a fatwa from the Ayatollah Khomeini. He also wrote The
Ground Beneath Their Feet and Shalimar the Clown.
ANSWER: Sir Salman Rushdie
[10] Salman Rushdie also wrote this novel featuring Shiva, the Brass Monkey, and Saleem Sinai, who was
born at the exact moment of the partition of India.
ANSWER: Midnight’s Children

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 12 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

23. This man took control of his party after the unexpected death of John Smith from a heart attack. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this British prime minister from 1997 to 2007, who founded the New Labour movement and
involved Britain in the Iraq War.
ANSWER: Tony Blair
[10] This “Iron Lady,” the only female Prime Minister of Britain, decreased state control of Britain’s
economy with her conservative policies.
ANSWER: Margaret Thatcher
[10]Tony Blair became Prime Minister by beating this bespectacled Conservative prime minister, who
had replaced Margret Thatcher in 1990.
ANSWER: John Major

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 5

Page 13 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

