2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 2
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. The optimal velocity for running this technique can be found using the van Deemter equation, and
certain values for it can be found using the Kovats index. One useful value for this technique, the
retardation factor, can be found by taking the ratio of two migratory distances. In the “gas” type of it, an
inert gas like helium is often used as the mobile phase, which along with the stationary phase is used in
this technique to separate components of a mixture. For 10 points, name this technique with column
and thin-layer varieties.
ANSWER: chromatography
Bonus: These diagrams graph pressure versus temperature, and can be used to determine the
temperature and pressure at which processes such as sublimation and condensation occur. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these diagrams that consist of a series of curves that meet at a triple point; at that point,
equilibrium between three different states occurs.
ANSWER: phase diagram
[10] At this point on a phase diagram, the density of the liquid and gas phases becomes equal, making
the two phases identical.
ANSWER: critical point
2. In some stories, this god kicks Littur onto the funeral pyre of Baldur. This god protects his daughter
from having to marry Alvis by asking Alvis questions until sunrise, at which point he is turned to stone.
His possessions include a chariot pulled by goats, as well as a belt and special gloves. While visiting
Utgard-Loki, this god fails to pick up a cat, which is later revealed to be his nemesis, Jormungand. The
sons of Ivaldi made this husband of Sif a tool he uses to slay many giants, Mjollnir the hammer. For 10
points, name this Norse god of thunder.
ANSWER: Thor [or Donar]
Bonus: This building is next door to the tree of Lared, and on top of it you can find Eikthrynir the deer
and Heidrun the goat. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hall from Norse mythology, where the Einherjar feast every night until they are called to
battle at Ragnarok.
ANSWER: Valhalla
[10] When they are not out choosing which warriors die in battle and bringing them to Valhalla, these
female figures serve as barmaids in Valhalla.
ANSWER: valkyries

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 1 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. Military victories of this ruler include General Bibikov's defeat of rebels at Tatishchevo, and a victory
at the Battle of Cheshme led to the signing of the Treaty of Kuchuk Kainarji. This ruler exiled A.N.
Radishchev, and put Stanislaw Poniatowski on a neighboring throne. Better known for defeating
Pugachov's rebellion and annexing the Crimea, this ruler came to power after Orlov succeeded in a coup
against Peter III. For 10 points, name this ruler of Russia from 1762 to 1796.
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; or Yekaterina Velikaya; prompt on Catherine]
Bonus: He took over in Spain after his father abdicated to join a monastery; his uncle Ferdinand took
that father’s throne as Holy Roman Emperor. For 10 points each.
[10] Name this king of Spain who signed the Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis in 1559, ending war with
France, and built the Escorial.
ANSWER: Philip II [or Felipe II; prompt on Philip]
[10] Philip II received Naples and Sicily upon marrying this English queen; after she died, he was far less
successful in wooing her half-sister Elizabeth.
ANSWER: Mary I [or Mary Tudor; or Bloody Mary]
4. Several years after the Paris Salon rejected this artist’s painting At the Piano, he began using a
butterfly monogram. This artist’s painting The Princess from the Land of Porcelain was included in a work
commissioned by his patron Frederick Leyland and now found in the Freer Gallery, his Peacock Room.
One of his works, a depiction of Cremorne Gardens, instigated a lawsuit by John Ruskin; that work was
his Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket. For 10 points, name this artist whose Arrangement in
Grey and Black No. 1 was a portrait of his mother.
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill Whistler
Bonus: This painting depicts a plowman in red undersleeves facing away from the viewer. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this painting in which the title character plummets into the ocean with a splash in the lower
right-hand corner.
ANSWER: Landscape with the Fall of Icarus
[10] Landscape with the Fall of Icarus is generally attributed to this Dutch artist of The Triumph of Death,
Hunters in the Snow, and Peasant Wedding.
ANSWER: Pieter Breughel the Elder [or Peasant Breughel; prompt on Brueghel; do not accept any other
“Breughels”]
5. This politician first assumed party leadership by defeating William Whitelaw, having gained fame as
Secretary of State for Education and Science under Edward Heath. Following the “Winter of Discontent,”
this individual defeated Labour leader James Callaghan. Although widely praised in the wake of the
Falklands War, a 1989 poll tax was so unpopular that she was replaced as Conservative Party leader by
John Major. For 10 points, name this “Iron Lady,” the first female prime minister of Great Britain.
ANSWER: Margaret Thatcher, Baroness of Kesteven

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 2 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: According to legend, news of this Greek victory came to Athens with the runner Pheidippides.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 490 BC Greek victory in the Persian Wars, which took place about twenty-six miles from
Athens.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
[10] The victorious Athenian commander at the Battle of Marathon was this general, the father of
Cimon.
ANSWER: Miltiades the Younger
6. This object can form a tuya when it is found underneath a glacier. The “cryo” type of this object is
most famously found on the largest moon of Neptune, Triton. Lake Toba in Sumatra was created by the
“super” kind of this object, one of which can also be found in Yellowstone National Park. This object can
produce a pyroclastic flow, as well as a’a, pahoehoe, basalt, pumice, and igneous rock. For 10 points,
name this object that expels lava, examples of which include Vesuvius and Mount St. Helens.
ANSWER: volcanoes
Bonus: This diagram explains why certain minerals form near other minerals. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tuning fork-shaped diagram with quartz at its bottom. It has a continuous and a
discontinuous branch.
ANSWER: Bowen’s Reaction Series [accept Bowen’s Diagram, etc.]
[10] The continuous branch of the Bowen’s series ranges from sodium- to calcium rich varieties of this
type of feldspar, often contrasted with orthoclase.
ANSWER: plagioclase feldspar
7. Polish scholars in this field include Maria Czaplicka (chap-litch-ka), who wrote two books about
Siberians. An important work in this field was named for the Andaman Islands and written by Alfred
Radcliffe-Brown. Major schools of thought in this field include Structural Functionalism, developed by
Bronislaw Malinowski, who studied the Kula Ring, and another led by Franz Boas, who studied potlatch
among Pacific Indians. For 10 points, name this field of social science, whose name translates as “the
study of man.”
ANSWER: anthropology
Bonus: The text of this amendment includes a mysterious comma splice, and there is a dispute over
whether it creates a collective or individual right. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this amendment to the Constitution that addresses bearing and having arms.
ANSWER: second amendment
[10] In this 2008 case, the Supreme Court ruled that the Second Amendment created an individual right
to have guns in one’s house for self-defense.
ANSWER: Heller v. District of Columbia
8. In one of this man's stories, Mr. Bons travels to Heaven with Dante, who drives the titular
conveyance. He wrote about Harriet and Philip Herriton's attempts to retrieve their sister-in-law's baby
from Italy in a novel named for a quotation from Alexander Pope. In addition to "The Celestial Omnibus"
and Where Angels Fear to Tread, he wrote novels about Leonard Bast's involvement with the Schlegels,
the Wilcoxes, and the titular estate, and about Adela Quested and Dr. Aziz's trip to the Malabar Caves.
For 10 points, name this author of Howard's End and A Passage to India.
ANSWER: Edward Morgan Forster
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 3 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: This work sees three Hindus attempt to recover the titular gem. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this early work of detective fiction. It ends with the discovery that Rachel Verinder's love
interest Franklin stole the titular diamond while sleepwalking.
ANSWER: The Moonstone
[10] The Moonstone was written by this British author, who also penned such detective works as The
Woman in White and No Name.
ANSWER: Wilkie Collins

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 4 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 2
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Religion
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Religion
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 5 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 2
Category Quiz Tossups

9. The island of Rotuma in this country is located far to the north of this country's main islands. The
town of Levuka, on Ovalau Island, was capital of this country from 1874-1882, and the Koro Sea is
located in this country. Mount Tomanivi is the highest mountain on the main island of this country,
which has an international airport at Nadi. It contains the Lau group, Vanua Levu, and Viti Levu, site of
this country's capital, Suva. For 10 points, name this Pacific island nation.
ANSWER: Fiji
10. With quarterback Shawn Jones, this team shared the 1990 National Championship in football with
Colorado, and this school defeated Cumberland University two hundred and twenty two to nothing in a
1916 football game. This school's basketball court is named for former coach Bobby Cremins, and a 1930
Model A called the Ramblin' Wreck is present at this school's football games. For 10 points, name this
Atlanta-based institution, whose mascot is the Yellow Jackets.
ANSWER: Georgia Tech [do not accept or prompt on just "Georgia"]
11. This hormone regulates clotting by controlling production of thromboxane A2 receptors, and this
hormone can be converted to estradiol. It can also be converted to DHT, a stronger version of this
hormone. LH stimulates Leydig cells to produce it, and it prompts embryonic development of
seminiferous tubules. Sertoli cells use it for spermatogenesis, and this anabolic steroid also causes the
growth of facial hair and deepening of the voice. For 10 points, name this hormone responsible for
development of the male sex organs.
ANSWER: testosterone
12. This kingdom included the modern provinces of Malaga and Almeria, and adopted an isolationist
policy after the Battle of Rio Salado. Its last king was Boabdil, and it formed out of the remnants of the
Almoravid Dynasty. It was led by the Nasrid Dynasty, and Yusuf I and Muhammad V of this kingdom
oversaw the building of the Alhambra. For 10 points, name this Muslim kingdom of Spain, which was
defeated in 1492 in the culmination of the Reconquista.
ANSWER: Granada
13. The title character of this film completes a devastating critical review about an opera singer before
firing its original author. Its main character’s obsession with building Xanadu alienates his second wife,
Susan Alexander. This movie’s title character is based on William Randolph Hearst, and it is revealed that
the last words of that title character refer to a childhood possession, a sled called Rosebud. For 10
points, name this movie about a newspaper mogul, directed by and starring Orson Welles.
ANSWER: Citizen Kane

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 6 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. In a flashback, the protagonist of this novel reflects on meeting the Russian journalist Karkov while
dining at Gaylord's. The protagonist tries to communicate with General Golz, but is forced to act ahead
of schedule after the last stand and death of El Sordo. Eladio, Fernando, and Agustin are all part of the
central group, which is led by Pablo. Pablo steals some detonators, forcing the protagonist to use
grenades to complete his objective. For 10 points, name this Hemingway novel in which Robert Jordan
blows up a bridge in Spain.
ANSWER: For Whom the Bell Tolls

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 7 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 2
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: He sculpted Apollo killing a lizard, and used the courtesan Phryne as a model for his most famous
work. For 15 points, name this Attic Greek sculptor of Aphrodite of Knidos.
ANSWER: Praxiteles
Current Events: Ministers of this country proposed in March 2009 to create a new international reserve
“super currency.” For 15 points, name this country, whose own currency is known as the renminbi.
ANSWER: the People’s Republic of China [or PRC; or Zhongua Renmin Gongheguo; do not accept
“Republic of China”]
Geography: The Boston Mountains are a subset of this chain, and the Little Red River forms in its
namesake National Forest. For 15 points, name this limestone mountain chain home to Branson, found
in Missouri, Oklahoma, and Arkansas.
ANSWER: Ozarks
History: One man with this surname negotiated a treaty with Spain also known as the Treaty of San
Lorenzo, and another joined Elbridge Gerry and John Marshall in being asked for bribes in the XYZ affair.
For 15 points, name this family of diplomats like Thomas and Charles Cotesworth.
ANSWER: Pinckney
Literature: For 15 points, name the John Keats poem that false-imagines Cortes with "eagle eyes" first
viewing the Pacific Ocean in a gap in Darién. This poem begins "Long have I traveled in realms of gold."
ANSWER: "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer"
Math Calculation: For 15 points, find the remainder when the quantity x3+7x2+4x+2 is divided by the
quantity x+6.
ANSWER: 14
Religion: According to one story, this saint removed a thorn from the paw of a lion. For 15 points, name
this man who wrote the Vulgate, the first Latin translation of the Bible.
ANSWER: Saint Jerome
Social Science: This teacher of G. Stanley Hall founded the first journal of psychology, and advocated the
use of introspection in his Principles of Physiological Psychology. For 15 points, name this German, who
established the world's first psychological laboratory.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Wundt

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 8 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 2
Stretch Phase

15. Mutations in the Too Many Mouths and YODA genes can lead to elevated numbers of these
structures, and in addition to coining the term “protoplasm,” Hugo von Mohl gave the first explanation
for how these structures work. Cytosolic calcium ion concentration increases due to abscisic acid’s
effect on these structures. The fama mutation results in immature guard cells, and when these
structures are open, there is a slight decrease in turgor pressure. For 10 points, name these structures
that allow for exchange of gases in plants.
ANSWER: stomata [accept stomates]
Bonus: Ieyasu led it to victory over Toyotomi Hideyori and many other clans at the Battle of Sekigahara.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this final Japanese Shogunate that lasted until 1863.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate
[10] The Tokugawa was replaced in 1868 by this period of modernization led by a namesake emperor.
ANSWER: Meiji Restoration [or Meiji Ishin]
[10] This document laid out the five tenets of the Meiji, including the pursuit of knowledge and allowing
the common people to choose their own callings.
ANSWER: Charter Oath [or Gokajō no Goseimon; or Oath in Five Articles]
16. This section of a longer work exhorts its readers not to “throw pearls before swine, lest they…turn to
attack you.” One episode in it deals with five virgins who forget oil for their lamp and five others who
remember it. This book also relates the washing of Pilate’s hands and the massacre of the innocents,
and contains phrases like “Blessed are the meek” as part of the Beatitude section of its Sermon on the
Mount. It opens with a long genealogy of Jesus. For 10 points, name this synoptic gospel, the first book
of the New Testament.
ANSWER: Gospel of Matthew [or Book of Matthew]
Bonus: The grandfather of one character in this novel was killed while stealing chickens. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this novel featuring Reverend Gail Hightower and Lucas Branch, the father of Lena Grove's
child, as well as Joanna Burden's relationship with the black and white Joe Christmas.
ANSWER: Light in August
[10] Light in August was written by this author of "Barn Burning" and "A Rose for Emily," whose other
novels include Absalom, Absalom! and As I Lay Dying.
ANSWER: William Faulkner
[10] Faulkner took the title of this novel from a Macbeth soliloquy. Its major characters include the
servant Dilsey, the suicidal Quentin, and the retarded Benjy.
ANSWER: The Sound and the Fury

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 9 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. This author wrote a short story in which the title character sees himself being buried alive, only to
escape and find his wife remarried a few weeks later, "The Death of Olivier Becaille." This author wrote
novels about a woman who drives Georges Hugon to suicide and about Etienne Lantier, who survives
the collapse of a mine. His novel Nana is part of his cycle of twenty-one novels called Les RougonMacquart. For 10 points, name this French author and founder of naturalism, the author of Germinal
and a letter protesting the Dreyfus affair, J'Accuse!
ANSWER: Emile Zola
Bonus: This piece shows a man with a triple-decker crown in its upper middle panel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this altarpiece that contains a central Adoration of the Lamb panel.
ANSWER: the Ghent Altarpiece
[10] The Ghent Altarpiece was a collaboration between Hubert and Jan, two Dutch brothers with this
last name. Jan also painted The Arnolfini Marriage.
ANSWER: van Eyck
[10] Another notable altarpiece is the Isenheim Altarpiece, which was painted by this German
Renaissance artist.
ANSWER: Matthias Grunwald [or Matthis der Mahler; accept “Mathis” for “Matthias” in all instances]
18. Members of this political party took over the Washington Monument design committee after
throwing part of that monument into the Potomac. One member of this party, Chicago Mayor Levi
Boone, incited the Lager Beer Riot by raising the price of a liquor license. Led by people like William
Pool, it was also known as the American Party, and its only major presidential candidate was Millard
Fillmore in the election of 1856. For 10 points, name this racist, anti-immigration party which took its
nickname from members’ supposed response to queries about secret activity.
ANSWER: Know Nothing Party [accept early American Party]
Bonus: These objects are color-coded with five bands; the first two represent two significant digits, and
the third represents a power of ten. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these devices that cause a voltage drop when a current runs through them.
ANSWER: resistors
[10] The magnitude of that voltage drop is equal to the product of the current and the resistance of the
resistor by this law.
ANSWER: Ohm’s Law
[10] This bridge circuit contains two resistors with known resistance and one resistor with variable
resistance, and is used to find the resistance of a fourth resistor.
ANSWER: Wheatstone bridge
19. Excerpts from this composer's cantatas include "Sheep May Safely Graze." This composer created six
English Suites for harpsichord, and composed educational pieces such as fifteen Two-Part Inventions. His
vocal pieces include the St. Matthew Passion, and his mastery of counterpoint can be seen in The Art of
the Fugue. Glenn Gould specialized in recording the works of this composer, especially his Goldberg
Variations. For 10 points, name this German composer of The Well-Tempered Clavier and the
Brandenburg Concertos.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach [prompt on Bach; prompt on Johann Bach]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 10 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: It contradicts the Cartesian doctrine of innate ideas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theory of John Locke that states that the human mind is born with no knowledge or preexisting mental conditions.
ANSWER: tabula rasa [accept blank slate]
[10] Locke put forward the idea of the tabula rasa in this 1689 work. It also distinguishes between
simple and complex ideas and primary and secondary qualities.
ANSWER: An Essay Concerning Human Understanding
[10] This other natural law philosopher advocated concession of rights to the state. He described life in
the state of nature as “nasty, brutish, and short,” and he wrote Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes
20. The operation of this interaction was predicted by Hideki Yukawa to involve pions. The SU(3) [S-U-3]
gauge theory that models this interaction predicts that it diminishes at short distances and that it
decreases as distance increases; those properties are asymptotic freedom and confinement. Modeled
by quantum chromodynamics, this force acts on fermions that have color-charge. It is mediated by
gluons. For 10 points, name this fundamental force that binds an atom’s nucleus together.
ANSWER: strong force [accept strong interaction; accept color force or interaction before it is read]
Bonus: It was perpetrated by the house of Guise, and one of its first victims was Gaspard II of Coligny,
who had been wounded four days earlier in an assassination attempt. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this event, which was approved by Charles IX, and saw the death of thousands of Huguenots
throughout France.
ANSWER: Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre
[10] This mother of Charles IX conspired with Henry of Guise and other nobles at the Tuileries Palace to
bring about the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre.
ANSWER: Catherine de Médici [or Catherine de Medici; prompt on Catherine; prompt on de Medici]
[10] The Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre took place after the marriage of this first Bourbon King of
France to Catherine’s daughter Margaret of France.
ANSWER: Henry of Navarre [or Henry IV; prompt on Henry]
21. This poet wrote of a man who drinks a draught of wormwood in "Cliff Klingenhagen." He described
an aging woman who chooses to continue an awful relationship to avoid loneliness in "Eros Turannos,"
which appears in his collection The Man Against the Sky. He asked a character to "go to the western
gate" in "Luke Havergal," a poem about one of many inhabitants of Tilbury town. In another of his
poems, the titular rich "gentleman from sole to crown" "went home and put a bullet through his head."
For 10 points, name this poet of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory."
ANSWER: Edwin Arlington Robinson

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 11 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Name the following phyla of worms, for 10 points each.
[10] Also called roundworms, this phylum of worms contains hookworms and the model organism C.
elegans.
ANSWER: Nematoda [accept nematodes]
[10] Also called “segmented worms”, these worms with a primitive circulatory system include the
common earthworm.
ANSWER: Annelida [accept annelids]
[10] Members of this phylum have primitive eyespots that detect light, and include the planarians and
all other flatworms.
ANSWER: Platyhelminthes
22. One king of this name was restored to the throne of Castille by Edward the Black Prince following the
battle of Najera, and fought a namesake war with a king of Aragon with the same name. Another king of
this name uttered the Cry of Ipiranga after his father John VI departed for Europe. Yet another king of
this name fought the Paraguayan War of 1865 to 1870, and issued the Golden Law which abolished
slavery in his country. For 10 points, give this name shared by two nineteenth-century emperors of
Brazil.
ANSWER: Pedro [or Peter]
Bonus: At a hacienda in Northern Mexico, the protagonist loses his virginity to Alejandra Rocha, which
leads to his arrest and the eventual death of Blevins. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, which chronicles the adventures of Lacey Rawlins, John Grady Cole, and Redbo, a
member of the title group.
ANSWER: All the Pretty Horses
[10] This novel, which takes its name from the first line of Yeats' "Sailing to Byzantium," deals with the
Sheriff Ed Tom Bell, the welder Llewelyn Moss, and the killer Anton Chigurh.
ANSWER: No Country for Old Men
[10] Both All the Pretty Horses and No Country for Old Men were written by this author of Child of God
and Blood Meridian.
ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 12 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 2
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. The Poisson-Boltzmann equation computes the electrostatic potential given the density of this
quantity; linearization of that equation yields the Debye-Huckel equation. Magnetic force is equal to
this quantity times the cross product of velocity and magnetic field, and the electric flux is equal to this
quantity over epsilon-naught. For 10 points, name this quantity that is measured in coulombs,
symbolized q, and comes in positive and negative forms.
ANSWER: electric charge
2. This author wrote about a party held by Meatball Mulligan in a short story about a dying bird
observed by Callisto and the alien Aubude. He wrote a novel in which the ninja DL Chastain and Prairie
Wheeler search for Frenesi Gates, and a novel narrated by the Reverend Wicks Cherrycoke. In addition
to Vineland and Mason & Dixon, this author wrote a novel about Roger Mexico's discovery that Tyrone
Slothrop can predict where V-2 rockets will land. For 10 points, name this American author of The Crying
of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
ANSWER: Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr.
3. Samuel Aba wrested the throne of this country from its second king, Peter, but was deposed three
years later. Andrew II of this country issued the Golden Bull of 1222 and expelled the Teutonic Knights
from his lands. The 4-year-old Ladislas Postumus was named king of this country in 1444 after the death
of a king at Varna, and the twentieth century saw leaders such as Bela Kun, Imre Nagy, Janos Kadar, and
Admiral Horthy. For 10 points, name this Central European country founded by Stephen Arpad.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyaroszag]
Extra 20-point bonus:
It is a vital component of both porphyrin rings and Grignard reagents. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this metallic element.
ANSWER: magnesium [or Mg]
[10] Magnesium is a member of this family, which also includes strontium and radium.
ANSWER: alkaline earth metals [or Group 2; or Group IIB; do not accept “alkali”]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 13 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
For 10 points each, name these Baroque composers.
[10] This red-haired priest wrote dozens of concerti for instruments like the bassoon and mandolin, as
well as a set of violin concerti called The Four Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio Vivaldi
[10] This English composer of incidental music to Oedipus is probably most famous for his opera Dido
and Aeneas.
ANSWER: Henry Purcell
[10] This French composer, who died of blood poisoning after impaling his foot with a conducting staff,
wrote incidental music for many Molière plays.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lully

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 14 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

