Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 6
Tossups

1. While hunting for the killer of Johnny Viti and the “Irish gang,” this character ties up a family and
steals their Christmas presents in The Long Halloween. In one film, he holds a parade where a balloon
emits poison and is named Jack Napier, killing his boss after falling in a chemical vat. In another, he
claims that either his wife got cut up by gambling sharks or his father cut a smile onto his face, which
happens before he blows up Rachel Dawes and burns Harvey Dent’s face. For 10 points, name this
Gotham criminal played by Jack Nicholson and Heath Ledger, a clown-dressed enemy of Batman.
ANSWER: The Joker
2. One person working in this artistic form depicted a boy with one suspender strap dropped, clutching
a toy hand grenade. One artist in this medium rankled N.E.A. brass with his lewd art featuring
depictions of bullwhips in naughty places. Another man who worked in this medium created The PondMoonlight. In addition to Diane Arbus, Robert Mapplethorpe and Edward Steichen, others who worked
in this medium include Annie Leobovitz and Dorothy Lange. For 10 points, name this form employed to
depict Yosemite Valley by Ansel Adams.
ANSWER: photography [accept word forms and equivalents]
3. Strangely, her epithets include “Tymborychos,” or gravedigger, and “Anosia,” or unholy, and the
Athenians considered her a fourth Fate. One of her lovers was allegedly blinded by bees, while another
was killed by a boar and spent one-third of the year with her and one-third of the year with
Persephone. Those lovers were Anchises and Adonis. Harmonia, Deimos, and Phobos resulted from her
affairs with Ares, who was trapped in bed with her by her husband Hephaestus. For 10 points, name
this mother of Aeneas and Eros, a Greek goddess of love and beauty.
ANSWER: Aphrodite
4. In this author's first novel, Paul Proteus leads a rebellion of the Ghost Shirt Society against the Ilium
Works. This author wrote about Howard Campbell, who poses as a Nazi to spy for the United States, in
Mother Night, and recounted Malachi Constant's journey to a moon of Saturn in The Sirens of Titan.
Another of his novels ends with a bird saying “Po-tee-weet,” repeats the phrase “so it goes,” and
focuses on a optometrist unstuck in time, Billy Pilgrim. For 10 points, name this author who wrote
about the firebombing of Dresden in Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
5. Two of these which contain aromatic groups are characterized by a strong UV absorption peak at 280
nanometers, while two other ones sometimes see their central sulfur atom replaced by selenium. The
dihedral angles between them can be shown on a Ramachandran Plot. The simplest one of the does
not show optical activity, and is called glycine. The bond between these objects’ COOH group and NH2
group are known as peptide bonds. For 10 points, identify these molecules which are the basic building
blocks of proteins.
ANSWER: amino acids
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This author wrote a work in which a Carbonari member named Pietro Missirilli scorns the title
character after she inadvertently reveals his revolutionary leanings, and in his first novel, Octave loves
the title character but suffers from embarrassing bouts of impotence. In addition to Vanina Vanini and
Armance, this author wrote about a man who is caught in between Clelia and Gina, while in another
work, he wrote about the protagonist’s affair with Madame de Renal. For 10 points, name this French
author of The Charter House of Parma and The Red and the Black.
ANSWER: Stendahl [or Henri-Marie Beyle]
7. This religion uses three calendars, with the Fasli the most widely accepted. The fire altar is an
important symbol in this religion, which does not accept converts, and an important concept is Asha, or
righteous law. This religion focuses partially on the conflict between the Daevas and the Amesha
Spentas, who serve Angra Mainyu and Ahura Mazda, respectively. Its holy books include the Gathas
and the Avesta. For 10 points, name this indigenous Persian religion founded by Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism
8. An empire centered in this city was established by Theodore Lascaris and along with Trebizond and
Epirus was one of the Byzantine successor states. A church council here during the reign of Pope Adrian
I ended a controversy started by Patriarch Leo III, the ban on icons. Another council here dealt with the
Meletian schism, set the date of Easter, and condemned Arianism. For 10 points, name this city home
to a church council called by Constantine that established a namesake creed.
ANSWER: Nicaea [accept Iznik before “namesake creed”]
9. Scharnhorst calculated that this phenomenon occurs as a result of the Casimir effect. The EPR
Paradox noted that this must happen in an entangled system, and for larger systems it would require
the presence of either negative energy or tachyons. Cerenkov radiation is emitted when this occurs in a
medium with a high index of refraction, and in special relativity it is equivalent to traveling backwards
in time. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which a particle travels faster than three times ten to
the eighth meters per second.
ANSWER: faster-than-light travel [accept FTL; accept supraluminal travel; accept other reasonable
equivalents]
10. Friedrich von Holstein made unofficial diplomatic overtures to it, and Edouard-Marie Vaillant was
exiled for his role in it. Its factions included the Blanquistes and the Proudhonists, and it resulted in the
burning of the Hotel de Ville and the Tuileries Palace. Georges Clemenceau tried to mediate between
its leaders and the National Assembly, and it was ended during the Bloody Week. For 10 points, name
this 1871 radical uprising in Paris that occurred following the defeat of France in the Franco-Prussian
War and the fall of Napoleon III.
ANSWER: Paris Commune
11. Most lenses with a negative index of refraction are made from the oxides of this element, and the
satellites known as LAGEOS are covered with this element. The earliest Ziegler-Natta catalyst was a
combination of titanium chloride and alkyl halides consisting of this element, whose chloride is often
used in the Friedel-Crafts reaction. Found in feldspars along with silicates, this element is also found in
corundum along with oxygen. For 10 points, name this element whose chief ore is bauxite, and which is
produced in the Hall-Héroult process.
ANSWER: aluminum [or aluminium]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Antoine Weerts’s version of this work features a mob with outstretched arms on the right, while a
Munch painting of it shows a red-headed nude standing beside the title figure lying on a bed. In the
most famous depiction of this scene, the title figure’s left hand rests on a green sheet and holds a piece
of paper, while his right hand holds a quill and hangs down to the floor. The figure’s head leans to the
right and is wrapped in white bandages. For 10 points, name this painting of a dead man in a bathtub,
by Jacques-Louis David.
ANSWER: The Death of Marat [or Le Mort de Marat; or The Assassination of Marat]
13. The existence of this phenomenon is measured using a TAO array, and corresponds to a
temperature change. Gilbert Walker made the first study of this component of the Southern Oscillation
by noting that droughts in India and sub-Saharan Africa corresponded to mild winters in Canada. Jakob
Bjerknes hypothesized that the monsoon rains of the Indian Ocean were “stolen” to provide rainstorms
along the Pacific Coast of North and South America. For 10 points, name this weather pattern that is
often contrasted with La Nina.
ANSWER: El Nino [accept La Nina before “India”]
14. The eastern part of this sea includes a basin containing the Reed and Tizard banks. Also within this
sea are the Paracel Islands, and the the Sunda Platform is found at the bottom of its southwestern
section. Rivers draining into it include the Xi, Red, and Mekong, and its chief embayments include the
Gulf of Thailand and the Gulf of Tonkin. For 10 points identify this sea that borders the mainland of
Southeast Asia which the Taiwan Strait connects to the East China Sea.
ANSWER: South China Sea
15. The protagonist of this work is taken in at the House of the Interpreter and House Beautiful after
passing through the Wicket Gate. In this work, a faithful man is sentenced to death by Judge Hate-Good
in the town of Vanity Fair, after the protagonist battles Apollyon in the Valley of Humiliation. The
protagonist sinks into the Slough of Despond after leaving the City of Destruction, but eventually he
reaches the Celestial City. For 10 points, name this religious allegory about the journey of Christian,
written by John Bunyan.
ANSWER: The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come
16. This work uses mistuned violins in its eighth movement to depict “People With Long Ears,” and this
work includes a xylophone to parody a work that depicts dancing dead people, “Danse Macabre.” A
double bass plays a waltz in movement five, while badly played scales depict “Pianists.” Along with
“Fossils,” a cello plays the part of a swan. Opening with a piano tremolo in the movement “Introduction
and Royal March of the Lion,” for 10 points, name this Grand Zoological Fantasy by Camille Saint-Saens.
ANSWER: The Carnival of the Animals [or Le Carnaval des Animaux]
17. This man gave the televised pro-Goldwater speech “A Time For Choosing,” and one man
campaigning against him coined the phrase “voodoo economics” to attack him. During a strike of Air
Traffic Controllers, he fired all that did not return to the job in 48 hours. Oliver North had his hearings
for the Iran-Contra affair during this man’s presidency, where he proposed the Strategic Defense
Initiative, or “Star Wars.” For 10 points, name this president who told Gorbachev to tear down the
Berlin wall, whose vice president was George H.W. Bush.
ANSWER: Ronald Reagan

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. Along with Piola, this man names two stress tensors. He theorized that hot gases produce discrete
spectral lines, and that hot solid objects surrounded by cool gases produce spectra with gaps in his
namesake laws of spectroscopy. This man’s namesake law of thermal radiation states that at thermal
equilibrium, the emissivity of a surface equals its absorptivity. For 10 points, name this German
physicist who coined the term “black body” and has a namesake “loop rule” and “junction rule” for
circuits.
ANSWER: Gustav Robert Kirchoff
19. In one of this writer’s novels, the wolf Homo helps Gwynplaine find the blind girl Dea. In addition to
The Man Who Laughs, this author wrote a novel in which Griffenfield imprisons the pure maiden Ethel
and is defeated by Ordener Guldenlew, Hans of Iceland. One of this author’s books focuses on the
escaped convict and caretaker of Collette, Jean Valjean, while another features the character
Esmeralda and is about the bellringer Quasimodo. For ten points, identify this author of Les Miserables
and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
ANSWER: Victor Hugo
20. One character in this novel eventually marries a vulgar Bristol actress named Augusta Hawkins. A
character assents to marry Robert Martin in this novel, which also contains a secret affair between Jane
Fairfax and Frank Churchill. The title character attempts to play matchmaker for Harriet Smith, and
ends up married to Mr. Knightley. For 10 points, name this novel whose title character is the meddling
Ms. Woodhouse, written by Jane Austen.
ANSWER: Emma
21. This man published two articles on “learning by doing,” and with Pratt, this man names a measure
of risk aversion. Independently of Gerard Debreu, he proved the First and Second Welfare Theorems of
general equilibrium theory, and with Debreu, he proved the existence of a competitive equilibrium. For
10 points, name this 1972 Nobel Laureate in Economics, who showed that no voting system can
accurately reflect the ranking preferences of the voters in his “Impossibility Theorem”.
ANSWER: Kenneth Joseph Arrow
22. These peoples participated in the First Taranaki War following Te Teira's sale of his land, and the
Ratana Church was founded by a Methodist member of this group. Sir Apirana Turupa Ngata was a key
leader of them in the early 20th century who served as minister of native affairs, and Te Wherowhero
was crowned Potatau I as a result of the King Movement among these peoples. Abel Tasman was the
first European to contact them, and some of them agreed to the 1840 Treaty of Waitangi with Great
Britain. For 10 points, name these native peoples of New Zealand.
ANSWER: Maori

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 6
Bonuses

1. Jim Conklin comforts the protagonist of this novel, who becomes scared in battle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Henry Fleming’s Civil War experience.
ANSWER: The Red Badge of Courage
[10] This American author who wrote the poetry collection The Black Riders and the short story “The
Open Boat” wrote The Red Badge of Courage.
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
[10] The gambler kills the Swede in this short Crane work named after a colorful structure.
ANSWER: “The Blue Hotel”
2. Name these novelists who wrote about war, for 10 points each.
[10] Septimus Smith kills himself after World War I in this author's novel Mrs. Dalloway. This
Bloomsbury Group author also wrote To the Lighthouse and A Room of One’s Own.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf
[10] This author described his experiences fighting in World War I in Goodbye to All That. His novels set
in Rome include I, Claudius.
ANSWER: Robert Graves
[10] The world is plunged into a third global war at the end of The Four-Gated City, the final book in this
author's Children of Violence series. She also wrote The Golden Notebook.
ANSWER: Doris Lessing
3. It was ended by the Treaty of Paris of 1854. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war in which Russia fought Britain, France, and the Ottoman Empire over a namesake
peninsula.
ANSWER: Crimean War
[10] In the Crimean War, this naval base of the Russian Black Sea Fleet was beseiged from 1854 to 1855
by the forces of Lord Raglan and Francois Canrobert.
ANSWER: Sevastopol
[10] This man led the Charge of the Light Brigade at the Battle of Balaklava, and he became the
namesake of a type of jacket.
ANSWER: James Thomas Brudenell, 7th earl of Cardigan [accept either]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. In this religion, Papa Legba serves as an intermediary between humans and the spirits. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Haitian religion derived from Yoruban culture that is only loosely related to the practice
of cursing individuals by sticking pins into dolls.
ANSWER: Voodoo
[10] These are the spirits of Voodoo, who serve the god Bondye. Their ranks include the
aforementioned Papa Legba as well as Baron Samedi, Ayizan, and Ogoun.
ANSWER: loas
[10] This other Caribbean religion is also derived from Yoruban culture. It believes in Orishas, spirits
that serve the god Olodumare, and is notable for its animal sacrifices.
ANSWER: Santeria
5. The Federal Reserve manipulates the general level of this quantity through such factors as the
federal funds rate and the discount rate. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this economic ratio, which is found along with “employment” and “money” in the title
Keynes’s General Theory.
ANSWER: interest
[10] Interest rates are inverse to the levels of this phenomenon. Along with consumption, government
spending, and net exports, it is one of the four components of GDP.
ANSWER: net investment
[10] In this situation, interest rates are so close to zero that the rate can no longer be lowered in order
to stimulate investment. It affected Japan in the 1990s.
ANSWER: liquidity trap
6. At the beginning of this story, a barber finds the title object in his bread. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story whose title object disappears from Major Kovalyov's face.
ANSWER: “The Nose” [or “Nos”]
[10] This Russian author of Dead Souls wrote “The Nose.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Gogol
[10] This Japanese author also wrote a short story titled “The Nose,” as well as “Hell Screen,” “In a
Grove," and “Rashomon.”
ANSWER: Ryunosuke Akutagawa [accept in either order]
7. The following battles of the American Revolution led directly to Cornwallis' surrender at Yorktown.
For 10 points each:
[10] In this October 7, 1780 battle in South Carolina, the "Over Mountain Men" defeated a force of Tory
militia led by Patrick Ferguson, who died in this battle.
ANSWER: King's Mountain
[10] In this January 17, 1781 battle that also took place in South Carolina, Morgan's forces got revenge
for the American defeat at Camden by defeating the forces of Banastre Tarleton.
ANSWER: Cowpens
[10] After Cowpens, Cornwallis' forces won this battle in North Carolina named for a governmental
structure. Cornwallis' losses were so great that he was forced to retreat.
ANSWER: Guilford Courthouse

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. The aufbau principle holds that these elements add electrons to their 5f subshells. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this series that encompasses elements 89-103.
ANSWER: actinides [or actinide series; or actinoids; prompt on An]
[10] One of the two actinides found in the earth’s crust is this metal, whose 235 and 238 isotopes are
important in nuclear fission.
ANSWER: uranium [or U]
[10] This inventor of the cyclotron got element 103, an actinide, named after him.
ANSWER: Ernest Orlando Lawrence [accept lawrencium]
9. Its second largest city is Launceston. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Austrailian state that includes King Island, Bruny Island, the Furneaux Group, and the
Hunter Islands, as well as Great Lake and Mount Wellington.
ANSWER: Tasmania
[10] Tasmania is separated from the state of Victoria by this strait.
ANSWER: Davis Strait
[10] Located on the west bank of the Derwent River, this city is the capital of Tasmania.
ANSWER: Hobart
10. John Bright and Richard Cobden led a group opposed to them, and David Ricardo was famously
against them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these British laws that established tariffs on the import of grain.
ANSWER: Corn Laws
[10] The Corn Laws were officially repealed by this prime minister from 1841 to 1846 who founded the
modern Conservative Party with the Tamworth Manifesto.
ANSWER: Robert Peel
[10] Dissatisfaction with the corn laws led to this massacre in Manchester that occurred at a
demonstration featuring a speech by Henry Hunt.
ANSWER: Peterloo Massacre
11. He used the octatonic mode in his “symphonic suite” Antar. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer who used orthodox hymns in his Russian Easter Overture as well as extensive
triplets in the violin solos of his Scheherezade.
ANSWER: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov
[10] Rimsky-Korsakov may be best known for and interlude in The Tale of Tsar Saltan where a violin
plays chromatic scales up and down to represent “The Flight of” this kind of animal.
ANSWER: bumblebee [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This Rimsky-Korsakov work uses the same Alborada in its first and third movement, although one
uses a clarinet solo and another uses a violin. It ends with a Fandango, where part of the Alborada is
recapitulated.
ANSWER: Cappricio Espagnol

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Possibly originating as a goddess of the night, this daughter of Agenor was carried off by Zeus in the
form of a bull. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Phoenician princess later wed to Asterius, the king of Crete.
ANSWER: Europa
[10] Among the sons of Europa and Zeus was this legendary Cretan king who judges the dead along
with his brother Rhadamanthys and Aeacus.
ANSWER: Minos
[10] At the wedding of Europa and Asterius, Zeus presented the couple with this bronze robot that
hurled stones and fire at unwanted visitors to the island.
ANSWER: Talos
13. It is the language of the Mahabharata and the Vedas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ancient Indian language.
ANSWER: Sanskrit
[10] This section of the Mahabharata consists of Krishna allaying Arjuna’s fears about going into battle.
ANSWER: Bhagavad Gita
[10] This Sanskrit playwright and poet wrote of a king who has a curse cast on him that makes him only
able to remember the title character from her ring, in The Recognition of Shakuntala.
ANSWER: Kalidasa
14. The narrator of this poem hears “one clear call” at “sunset and evening star.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem whose narrator says “I hope to see my Pilot face to face” after completing the
title action.
ANSWER: “Crossing the Bar”
[10] This British poet who wrote of the Crimean War in “Charge of the Light Brigade” and a series about
King Arthur in Idylls of the King penned “Crossing the Bar.”
ANSWER: Alfred Lord Tennyson
[10] Tennyson returned to Authurian legend in this poem whose title weaver has her “mirror crack'd
from side to side” after seeing Sir Lancelot.
ANSWER: “The Lady of Shalott”
15. This entity voted on the 2009 draft budget in October 2008. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this legislative body, whose president is Hans-Gert Pottering.
ANSWER: the European Parliament [or Europarl; or EP; prompt on Common Assembly]
[10] Pottering hails from this country whose current Chancellor is Angela Merkel.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland]
[10] Previous to Pottering, the last President of the Europarl was a Socialist Workers’ Party head
honcho and aeronautical engineer named Josep Borrell, who hails from this country.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. His nickname was “the Hammer.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this father of Carloman who was the mayor of the palace of Austrasia and who supported
the efforts of Saint Boniface to convert German tribes.
ANSWER: Charles Martel
[10] This son of Charles Martel went on to become the first King of the Franks and was the father of
Charlemagne.
ANSWER: Pippin III [or Peppin III; or Pepin the Short; or Pippin the Short]
[10] Charles Martel was victorious in this 732 battle against Moorish raiders from Spain that ended the
expansion of Islam into Western Europe.
ANSWER: Tours [or Poitiers]
17. Name these parts of a neuron, for 10 points each:
[10] Action potentials are passed along this part of the neuron, which synapses with dendrites.
ANSWER: axon
[10] A “sheath” of this fatty molecule produced by Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes surrounds the
axon, improving conduction velocity.
ANSWER: myelin
[10] These are places along the membrane of the axon that are unmyelinated, resulting in saltatory
conduction.
ANSWER: nodes of Ranvier
18. This man sure did love painting bowler hats. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this surrealist painter whose Golconda has a lot of people wearing those hats falling from
the sky and who showed a dude with his face obscured by an apple in another work.
ANSWER: René François Ghislain Magritte
[10] Magritte may be best known for his Treachery of Images, a depiction of this object with the
caption “Ceci n'est pas une” it, which means that “this is not” this implement.
ANSWER: a pipe [only accept exact wording]
[10] A clock reflected by a mirror is flanked evenly by two candlestick holders in this Magritte work,
where a locomotive juts out of the fireplace parallel to the wooden boards on the ground.
ANSWER: Time Transfixed [or La Durée poignardée]
19. It used an interferometer developed by one of its namesakes. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this experiment which showed that lack of a luminiferous aether.
ANSWER: Michelson-Morley experiment
[10] The Trouton-Noble experiment, which also showed a null result for the aether, used one of these
devices made of two parallel plates which store charge between them.
ANSWER: capacitor
[10] The Michelson-Morley experiment ultimately showed that this quantity is independent of the
observer.
ANSWER: speed of light [prompt on c]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. “Machine code” is one term for the string of zeroes and ones used at the core of any computing
language. For 10 points each:
[10] This type of low-level language uses symbolic representation of machine code to instruct a
computer what to do.
ANSWER: assembly language
[10] Many higher-level programming languages, such as Pascal and C, use this program instead of an
assembler. It parses the programming language and converts it into machine code.
ANSWER: compiler
[10] The “Hex” version of this command displays the machine code of a program in hexadecimal.
Generally this term refers to any such printout of the machine code.
ANSWER: dump
21. For a monoatomic ion, this value is exactly equal to the charge on that ion. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this term which is defined as zero for an element bound only to itself, for instance in diatomic
oxygen.
ANSWER: oxidation number [accept oxidation state]
[10] While oxidation numbers are usually integers, nitrogen has an oxidation number of negative onethird in this anion which consists of two nitrogens each double-bonded to a central nitrogen.
ANSWER: azide
[10] An atom both increases and decreases its oxidation number in this kind of redox reaction, in which
the same atom is both oxidized and reduced.
ANSWER: disproportionation

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 6

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

