Round # 2

HAVOC

1.

From 1717-1723, he served as Kapellmeister for Prince Leopold of Anhalt-Cothen.
During this time, he married his second wife, Anna Magdalena Wilcke, for whom he
filled a famous notebook with miniature keyboard pieces such as polonaises and
marches. Also completed in Cothen were his fugal Two-Part Inventions for
harpsichord. FTP name this German composer of the Brandenburg Concertos and
The Well-Tempered Clavier.
A: Johann Sebastian Bach Prompt on Bach

2.

This complicated romance is mentioned several times in The Catcher in the Rye.
Damon Wildeve marries Thomasin, whose cousin Clym then marries Eustacia Vye.
Eustacia’s affair with Wildeve indirectly causes the death of Mrs. Yeobright when
she turns her away. Wildeve and Eustacia later drown attempting to escape the heath
together. FTP name this Thomas Hardy novel in which Clym Yeobright is saved
from a similar fate by Diggory Venn.
A: The Return of the Native

3.

A city can vaguely be seen in the background of this painting, behind the mob in the
foreground. The mob marches on over several dead bodies. A man to the left of the
title figure wearing a top hat and carrying a rifle is believed to be the artist himself.
A boy to the right of the title figure carries two pistols. FTP name this painting by
Eugene Delacroix whose title figure waves a French flag while marching with her
breasts exposed.
A: Liberty Leading the People Accept La Liberté guidant le peuple

4.

As of 2007, Richmond, Virginia has the highest incidence of this disease, whose
many asymptomatic cases are often underreported. If left untreated, it can lead to
pelvic inflammatory disease in females and infertility in both sexes. When active,
some common symptoms are discharge from the urinary tract. One of the most
defining symptoms is painful burning upon urination found in both sexes. Name,
FTP, this sexually transmitted disease closely related to gonorrhea.
A: Chlamydia

5.

The text of this decree was actually contained in a collaborative letter which was
sent to many important governors. A predecessor to this declaration was seen several
years earlier when Galerius issued a similar one to his territories, which was seen as
the definitive end of the Diocletian Persecution. FTP name this proclamation issued
in 313 by Licinius and Constantine I which announced universal religious tolerance
in the Roman Empire.
A: Edict of Milan

6.

This hero’s many exploits include defending Oedipus, going on the voyage of the
Argonauts, and hunting the Calydonian boar. His second wife Phaedra’s love for his
son Hippolytus is his chief cause of misfortune. He also killed such bandits as
Procrustes and married the Amazon queen Hippolyta. Traditionally the hero of
Attica, in literature he appears as the duke of Athens. FTP name this Greek hero who
abandoned Ariadne after slaying the Minotaur.

1 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC
A: Theseus

7.

Point Pelee juts south into this body of water, which contains Kelley’s Island and the
Bass Islands, as well as Long Point. It lies downstream from Lake St. Clair. Near the
Bass Islands is Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial, commemorating
an 1813 battle in this lake. To its north lies Ontario, while four U.S. states border it
to the south and west. FTP name this Great Lake which lies upstream from Niagara
Falls.
A: Lake Erie

8.

This actor voiced Sparky, Stan Marsh’s gay dog, on an episode of South Park. He
was more successful as Dr. Doug Ross on ER. His first significant movie role was
in From Dusk Till Dawn, and his directorial debut was Confessions of a Dangerous
Mind. FTP name this actor who, along with Brad Pitt, is the only man to have been
twice named People Magazine’s Sexiest Man Alive.
A: George Clooney

9.

A gray farmhouse stands in the background of this painting. On the yellow field lies
a girl inspired by the artist’s neighbor but modeled by his wife. She wears a pink
dress and is dragging herself across the field due to muscular deterioration. FTP
name this 1948 work by Andrew Wyeth set at the Olson house.
A: Christina’s World

10. Over one thousand years ago, the Persian Al-Sufi noted a “little cloud”, but the
shape of the object was not properly identified until the nineteenth century. Named
for its proximity to a star itself named for a daughter of Cassiopeia, this entity was
the source of the first observed extrasolar supernova. Edwin Hubble located
Cepheid variables within this entity, thus proving it was not part of the Milky Way.
FTP, name the closest neighboring spiral galaxy.
A: Andromeda Galaxy
11. Working at BASF, one of its namesakes successfully commercialized it in 1910, and
later received new patents and a Nobel prize as a result. In addition to that 1931
Nobel, the 2007 Nobel winner, Gerhard Ertl was recognised for his determining the
detailed molecular mechanisms of this process. Without its byproduct, Germany
would have likely run out of ammunition by 1916. An iron catalyst leads to the final
reaction of, for ten points, what doubly eponymous reaction of hydrogen and
nitrogen to form ammonia?
A: Haber-Bosch Process
12. While working with Joseph Breuer he published Studies on Hysteria, which was
notable for containing the case study of Anna O. His essay “On Narcissism”
attacked the libidinal theories of both Jung and Adler. He divided the psyche into
three parts in his paper “The Ego and the Id” and outlined the five stages of
psychosexual development. Name this psychologist who founded psychoanalysis
with his seminal work The Interpretation of Dreams.

2 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC
A: Sigmund Freud

13. This number is an eigenvalue of the matrix with top row 1 1 and bottom row 1 0,
which is associated with the Fibonacci recurrence relation, meaning that this value is
the limit of the ratio of adjacent terms in the Fibonacci series. A rectangle whose two
sides quotient to this number can be partitioned into a square and a new rectangle
similar to the original with a single line, which gives it its aesthetic qualities. FTP
name this valuable irrational number equal to the one half the quantity square root of
five plus one.
A: Golden Ratio or Phi Prompt on 1.618
14. Its architects were Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles, and it was built on
the site of an earlier church, called the Great Church. The dome of this building
collapsed several times, including in 558 AD as a result of a 557 earthquake. The
largest church in the world until the completion of the Cathedral in Seville, it was
converted by Mehmet II into a mosque. FTP name this Church of Holy Wisdom in
Constantinople, built under Justinian.
A: Hagia Sophia Prompt on Holy Wisdom before mentioned
15. It follows from the wave nature of particles in that a particle is most likely found
where waves have the most intense amplitudes, a location which coincides with
locations where wavelength is difficult too ascertain. The mathematical equation
modeling this principle states that a constant value of a slashed h, over 2 pi, equals
the product of delta p and delta x, where p is momentum, x is position, and delta
signifies the possible variance from the expected value. Name, FTP, this principle,
which states how an electron’s path may not be determined with certainty.
A: Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle (Prompt on partial)
16. When the initial attack began, Erwin Rommel believed it to be a diversion and did
not mobilize his troops. Bernard Montgomery was Commander-in-Chief of all
ground forces. His brother-in-law, Percy Hobart, oversaw development of several
amphibious vehicles specifically for the initial assault. Bertram Ramsay directed
Operation Neptune, a subset of this attack, which used 6,900 vessels, of which 4,100
were landing craft. FTP name this Allied invasion of Normandy during WWII begun
on June 6, 1944.
A: Operation Overlord or D-Day Accept Normandy Invasion before
“Invasion of Normandy”
17. This novel’s title character is best friends with Paul Riesling, who is also dissatisfied
with his comfortable but boring life. Paul eventually shoots his wife, making the title
character more open to rebellion. He then finds the materialization of his “fairy girl”
in Tanis Judique and begins an affair with her. Eventually he returns to his wife
Myra and his job as a real estate agent but warns his son Ted to rebel while he has
time. FTP name this novel by Sinclair Lewis which takes place in Zenith.
A: Babbitt

3 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC

18. Despite being away from his wife for many years, the protagonist of this novel is
unable to embrace her upon returning, finding her odor noxious. His adventures
include talking with Alexander the Great, entertaining the queen of Brobdingnag,
capturing the fleet of Blefuscu, being mistaken for a Yahoo by the Houyhnhnms,
and fleeing Lilliput for its rival kingdom after learning of a plot to kill him. FTP
name this work by Jonathan Swift about Lemuel’s journeys.
A: Gulliver's Travels
19. This conflict concluded with the Treaty of Ramia, which made generous provisions
for the losing side. The violence which incurred the war was provoked by Raynald
de Chatillon, who repeatedly broke truces made by his superiors. Among the first to
respond to Pope Gregory VIII’s call for war was Holy Roman Emperor Frederick
Barbarossa, who drowned in the Saleph River along the way. The most critical battle
of the war was the 1191 Battle of Arsuf, in which Richard I decisively defeated the
ambushing forces of the great Syrian general Saladin. FTP name this failed early
Crusade.
A: Third Crusade Accept Three
20. This man served as the last director of the Bauhaus School of Architecture before
moving to America. Lesser known works of his include the Barcelona Pavilion and
the Farnsworth House in Illinois. He taught at the Illinois Institute of Technology for
20 years and believed that architects must fully understand their materials before
they can design. FTP name this man who believed that “less is more” and designed
the Lake Shore Drive apartments in Chicago and New York’s Seagram Building.
A: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Prompt on partial last name

STOP HERE
You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless a question
was thrown out or the game is tied.

21. In Book III of this novel, Jarvis’ father brings milk to the village, and after
Margaret’s death, the women of Ndotsheni make a wreath of condolence on the
same day as the confirmation ceremony at the church. Soon after, plans for a new
church are designed and a kraal is built to hold the village’s cattle. FTP name this
novel by Alan Paton centered around the Reverend Stephen Kumalo and his son
Absalom.
A: Cry, the Beloved Country

1.

Bonuses
FTPE, name these elements based on properties they have.
1) This diatomic element is the most electronegative of all the elements and is the lightest
halogen.

4 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC

A: Fluorine Prompt on F
2) This is the lightest alkali metal and therefore has the fourth smallest ionic radius.
A: Lithium Prompt on Li
3) This alkaline earth metal is one of the two elements that have incomplete octets, as it
only needs four electrons to fill its valence shell.
A: Beryllium Prompt on Be
2.

FTPE name these characters from Robert Louis Stevenson’s Treasure Island.
1) This boy discovers a treasure map at his mother’s inn, the Admiral Benbow.
A: Jim Hawkins Accept partial name
2) This marooned sailor is obsessed with cheese.
A: Ben Gunn Accept partial name
3) Jim retrieves the treasure map from this deceased pirate.
A: Captain Billy Bones Accept partial name

3.

FTPE answer these questions about Andrew Lloyd Webber’s Phantom of the Opera.
1) This soprano is aided by the phantom, who she initially believes to have been sent by
her dead father. She sings the aria Think of Me.
A: Christine
2) Christine and the phantom alternately refer to each other as this, the title of another
song in which the phantom denounces Christine’s fiancée as an “insolent boy.”
A: Angel of Music
3) Give either the name of Christine’s fiancée or the real name of the phantom.
A: Raoul or Erik

4.

FTPE identify these characters from Alexandre Dumas’ The Three Musketeers.
1) This youth, the central character, comes to Paris wishing to join the musketeers.
A: D’Artagnan
2) Name any one of the title characters.
A: Athos or Aramis or Porthos
3) This female Cardinalist is branded with the Fleur-de-Lis.
A: Lady de Winter Accept Milady, Charlotte Backson, Anne de Breuil, Comtesse de
La Fere; Milady de Winter, Baroness of Sheffield; or Milady Clarick

5.

FTPE, name these Italian rivers.
1) This longest Italian river runs throughout northern Italy, emptying into the Adriatic
south of Venice.
A: Po River
2) It runs through Rome and empties into the Tyrrhenian Sea at Ostia.
A: Tiber River
3) Florence and Pisa both lie on this river, which empties into the Ligurian Sea.
A: Arno River

6.

FTPE identify the following symphonies by Franz Joseph Haydn.
1) This symphony earned its nickname from a sudden loud chord in the middle of the
tranquil second movement. Variations then continue as if no interruption had occurred.

5 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC

A: Symphony No. 94 “Surprise” Accept 94
2) Also a member of the “London Symphonies,” this symphony is nicknamed for its use
of instruments associated with Turkish Janissary bands.
A: Symphony No. 100 “Military” Accept 100
3) The manner in which the musicians leave the stage in the last movement of this early
symphony indicated to Haydn’s patron Nikolaus Esterhazy that the musicians wished to
return to Eisenstadt.
A: Symphony No. 45 “Farewell” Accept 45
7.

FTPE identify the following paintings.
1) The titular woman sits facing the viewer’s left with her hands in her lap, and another
painting by the same artist hangs on the wall.
A: Arrangement in Grey and Black, No. 1: The Artist’s Mother Accept Whistler’s
Mother Prompt on The Artist’s Mother or Arrangement in Grey and Black
2) This Duchamp painting shows the titular figure performing the titular action; it was
compared by a critic to “an explosion in a shingle factory.”
A: Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2
3) This Realist work by Thomas Eakins depicts the titular surgical theater.
A: The Gross Clinic

8.

Answer these questions about an African country’s path to independence FTPE.
1) Led by the Kikuyu Central Association, this revolt lasted from 1952 until 1960.
A: Mau Mau Rebellion/Uprising/Revolt/etc.
2) This east African nation in which the Mau Mau Rebellion took place gained its
independence from Britain in 1963.
A: Kenya
3) These campaigns for independence were centered in East Africa. Their name comes
from the Swahili word for freedom.
A: Uhuru

9.

FTPE answer the following about the French Revolution.
1) The storming of this prison is thought to mark the beginning of the French Revolution.
A: Bastille Saint-Antoine
2) Under this revolutionary’s Reign of Terror, over 16,000 people were executed by the
guillotine, which came to symbolize his rule.
A: Maximilien Robespierre
3) This revolt of the Committee of Public Safety in response to the Reign of Terror led to
the execution of Robespierre and several of his associates.
A: Thermidorian Reaction

10. FTPE name the following programming languages.
1) Developed by Sun Microsystems, this object-oriented language has a cup of coffee as
its logo.
A: Java
2) This language was developed by Bell Labs in 1979 as an improved version of a
similarly named earlier language.

6 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC

A: C++ Do Not Prompt on C or C+
3) This language was developed in the 1950s by IBM for use in science and engineering.
A: FORmulaTRANslating System
11. Name these members of the Beatles, FFPE.
1) The original Bass player, this Beatle and painter died of a brain hemorrhage in
Germany in April 1962.
A: Stuart Sutcliffe
2) He took over Bass duties after the death of Sutcliffe; the only left-handed Beatle, he
later formed the band Wings.
A: Paul McCartney
3) The youngest of the Beatles, he is also known for playing the sitar.
A: George Harrison
4) This drummer was the oldest of the Beatles.
A: Ringo Starr Accept Richard Starkey
5) The drummer prior to Starr, he joined soon before the Beatles’ Hamburg tour in 1960.
He was asked to leave the group in August, 1962.
A: Pete Best
6) This Beatle was assassinated by Mark David Chapman in December, 1980.
A: John Lennon
12. FTPE identify these characters from Steinbeck’s Of Mice and Men.
1) This large companion to George often unintentionally kills things.
A: Lennie Small Accept partial name
2) Lennie accidentally kills the wife of this man, the boss’s son.
A: Curley
3) This old ranch hand fears becoming useless like his dog, which is shot by Carlson.
A: Candy
13. FTPE identify the following related to Gabriel García Márquez.
1) This work follows several generations of the Buendia family in the town of Macondo.
A: One Hundred Years of Solitude Accept Cien años de soledad
2) This novel told largely in flashbacks follows a love triangle over 50 years. A yellow
flag signaling the title disease is raised at the novel’s end to bring isolation.
A: Love in the Time of Cholera Accept El amor en los tiempos del cólera
3) Garcia Marquez wrote in this style in which strange occurrences that would otherwise
be treated as fantasy are part of everyday life.
A: Magical realism Prompt on Magical
14. FTPE identify the following about a restoration in Japan.
1) The restoration begun by this emperor saw a move towards industrialization.
A: Emperor Meiji Accept Mutsuhito
2) This document outlined Meiji’s plans.
A: Charter Oath Accept Oath in Five Articles or reasonable equivalents
3) The Meiji Restoration began in response to the opening of Japan by the arrival of
Commodore Matthew Perry in 1853, who brought a letter from this U.S. president.

7 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC

A: Millard Fillmore
15. It has been conjectured to become constant regardless of material as temperature
approaches absolute zero. FTPE:
1) First, name this characteristic of a material, which is the amount of energy needed to
raise a single unit of mass one unit of temperature?
A: Specific Heat Capacity
2) The idea that the specific heat at absolute zero must be zero stems from the definition
of this quantity, also known as delta S, as it would be infinite otherwise, thus violating
the third law of thermodynamics.
A: Entropy
3) This thought experiment creates the idea of something sorting particles by speed
therefore decreasing the entropy of a system and violating the second law of
thermodynamics.
A: Maxwell's Demon
16. This genetic disease is caused by a repeating genetic disease and results in abnormal body
movements called chorea.
A: Huntington’s disease
This disease is the most common form of dementia and results in a gradual loss of
cognitive abilities.
A: Alzheimer’s disease
This disease is caused by low amounts of dopamine in the body, and it is accompanied by
an inability to initiate movement.
A: Parkinson’s disease
17. Identify these American Civil War battles, FTPE.
1) This 1863 battle near Spotsylvania saw the defeat of Hooker and the death of Jackson.
A: Battle of Chancellorsville
2) Occurring in August 1862, this northern Virginia battle was a defeat for Pope and a
victory for the Confederacy, who had fought at this site before.
A: Second Battle of Manassas/Bull Run Prompt on Manassas or Bull Run
3) Although Lee was thwarted here and lost the prospect of foreign aid, McClellan’s utter
failure to capitalize on the Confederate lost orders would cost him the command of the
Army of the Potomac. It was also the bloodiest single day of the war.
A: Battle of Antietam / Sharpsburg
18. FTPE, name these terms associated with cell division:
1) This process has four steps, and interphase occurs between those steps.
A: Mitosis
2) This event occurs right after telephase and involves the dividing of the cytoplasm.
A: Cytokinesis
3) This stage occurs when the sister chromatids line up along the middle of the cell
before division.
A: Metaphase

8 of 9

Round # 2

HAVOC

19. FTPE identify these holy cities of Islam.
1) Muslims pray facing this city, the birthplace of Muhammad and site of the Kaaba.
A: Mecca
2) Muhammad and his followers made the Hegira from Mecca to Medina, a city
originally called this.
A: Yathrib
3) Muhammad ascended to heaven from this city, site of the Dome of the Rock.
A: Jerusalem
20. FTPE answer the following related art questions.
1) This Vermeer painting looks out over the town in which he lived and worked. The
spires in the background are separated from the painter by a river.
A: View of Delft
2) This Mannerist painting of the namesake Spanish city appears at first glance to be full
of ruins, built among hills. Several castle-like buildings can be seen.
A: A View of Toledo Accept Toledo in a Storm
3) This artist of A View of Toledo was originally from Crete, explaining the name by
which he is known, but moved to Italy and later Spain.
A: El Greco Accept Doménicos Theotokópoulos

9 of 9

