Bergen Academies Spring Quizbowl Tournament 2016
Written by Zachary Stier, Rebecca Rosenthal, David Song, Alon Millet, Ryan Murphy, Michael Gleyzer, Bergen Academies
Quizbowl Team; Trent Kannegieter, Bayside Academy; Alex Katz, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Special thanks to Alex Dzurick, Ben Zhang and Jon Pinyan.

Round 10: Tossups
1. After she characterized this man’s country as a “Failed Democracy”, Anna Politkovskaya was murdered on his
birthday in 2006. Although this person called communism a “blind alley, far away from the mainstream of
civilization,” he lamented the collapse of the his country of birth as the (*) “greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th
century.” He was stationed in Leningrad before being transferred to Dresden during his time as a KGB agent, and he
served as Prime Minister to his predecessor and successor, Dmitry Medvedev. Denying the involvement of his military in
eastern Ukraine is – for ten points – what President of Russia?
ANSWER: Vladimir Putin
2. This composer’s first symphony was modeled after one by Haydn and is known as “the Classical”. This
composer included a tenor saxophone solo and the celesta in The Dance of the Knights, a piece also known as (*)
“Montagues and Capulets”. One of his operas features the son of the King of Clubs as Fata Morganna causes him to
become obsessed with some fruit. In his Opus 67, three French horns and the string section represent the two title
characters, while an oboe represents its duck. For ten points, name this Russian composer of the opera Love for Three
Oranges, the ballet Romeo and Juliet and Peter and the Wolf.
Answer: Sergei Prokofiev
3. As a child, this man won his freedom at the Boonta Eve Classic. In the Petranaki arena, he gained control of a
Reek before fighting in the Battle of Geonosis. This character’s pupils included the Inquisitor and Ahsoka Tano.
He left his home in the Outer Rim and his mother, (*) Shmi, after he was revealed to have an extraordinary midichlorian count by Qui-Gon Jinn. This man cut off the arm of Mace Windu, and had his own legs severed by Obi-Wan
Kenobi. For ten points, name this Tatooine native and father of Luke and Leia, who later became known as Darth Vader.
ANSWER: Anakin Skywalker or Anakin Skywalker (prompt on “Skywalker”; prompt on “Darth Vader” before
mentioned)
4. Sievert’s Law predicts the values of this quantity for metallurgy and alloying, while the square root of the
cohesive energy density gives the Hildebrand parameter for it. The Hume-Rothery rules determine whether two
solids will both have high values for this quantity. A high value of this quantity usually implies similar (*) polarities,
and the common ion effect describes how this quantity can be lowered. Heating a solution can allow for its limit to be
exceeded, although that super- form of saturation is only temporary. For ten points, name this quantity describing how
well one substance dissolves in another.
ANSWER: solubility (accept answers describing ability to go into solution)
5. Beauchamp reveals Albert’s father’s betrayal of Ali Pacha in this work. The protagonist of this work adopts the
pseudonym Lord Wilmore, and as Sinbad the Sailor saves Pierre Morrel from ruin. Noirtier blinks to
communicate with his granddaughter (*) Valentine, whose father, Gérard, prosecutes this novel’s protagonist. While
they are imprisoned, Abbé Faria reveals to this novel’s protagonist directions to vast fortune. Edmond Dantès escapes
from the Château d'If [“deef”] in, for ten points, what Alexandre Dumas novel?
ANSWER: The Count of Monte Cristo or Le Comte de Monte-Cristo
6. In one criticism of this work whose original frame story is set on a docked ship in the Thames, the author comes
to realize that he is one of the “dog[s] wearing trousers”. In one adaptation of this work, set partly in Cambodia,
Martin Sheen’s character punches a glass mirror and the line “Drop the bomb. (*) Exterminate them all!” replaces
the original “Exterminate the brutes!” An Image of Africa calls this work “offensive and deplorable”, and its author,
Chinua Achebe, is not “on Marlow’s ship.” In Francis Ford Coppola’s adaptation of this work, Apocalypse Now, Marlon
Brando portrayed Kurtz, whose last words are “the horror, the horror.” For ten points, name this Joseph Conrad novella
set in the Congo Free State.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness, do not accept or prompt on “Apocalypse Now”

1

7. While in Paris, this man was inspired by his encounter with Alexander von Humboldt, and this man’s tutor
Simon Rodriguez was a disciple of Jean-Jacques Rousseau. With the help of llaneros [“YAN-air-ohs”] under José
Antonio Páez, this man was victorious at the Battle of (*) Carabobo. He replaced Francisco de Miranda as leader of
military forces vying for the independence of Gran Colombia, achieved with his victory at Boyacá. For ten points, name
this Venezuelan-born “Liberator” who freed several South American nations and is the namesake of one of those
countries.
ANSWER: Simón Bolivar
8. Donald Knuth read one of this man’s books while on his honeymoon, appreciating it for its mathematical
approach to the subject. This thinker likened the acquisition of knowledge by children even with a “poverty of
stimulus” to a comparable phenomenon observed by Plato, and he formulated the (*) sentence “colorless green ideas
sleep furiously” as an example of a grammatically correct yet meaningless phrase. His PhD thesis was composed of an
excerpt from his book Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory. For ten points, name this MIT professor who has written
about human use of language.
ANSWER: (Avram) Noam Chomsky
9. In the 1870’s, this scientist published two papers on cross-pollination, and earlier he sent copies of a
controversial manuscript with a letter noting “how you will long to crucify me alive”. Inspired by Alexander von
Humboldt, this man joined Robert Fitzroy on his most famous journey. Herbert (*) Spencer and Alfred Russel
Wallace earlier published ideas similar to his, and despite great opposition, he saw support from Thomas Henry Huxley,
nicknamed this man’s “bulldog”. While on the HMS Beagle, this scientist studied the finches of the Galapagos Islands,
work that culminated in his publication of On the Origin of Species. For ten points, name this naturalist who developed
the theory of evolution.
ANSWER: Charles Darwin
10. The djed is the pillar of continuity that is the backbone of this figure, whose soul had its own cult at the city of
Mendes. Medjed was a minor deity in the House of this god, who possessed the Atef crown and the crook and flail
to signify his relationship to the Egyptian (*) throne. This deity is removed from that throne after he is accused of
sleeping with Nephthys and is subsequently cut into pieces by Set. He is restored to life by his wife Isis and avenged by
his son Horus. For ten points, name this Egyptian god, the ruler of the dead.
ANSWER: Osiris
11. An experiment based on this one involved the realignment of a parallel-plate capacitor at the surface of the
Earth. That Trouton-Noble experiment achieved results similar to those of this experiment. However, Dayton
Miller’s replication of it achieved erroneous results instead. This experiment involved a (*) marble slab floating on a
pool of liquid mercury, and it used a mirror to split a light beam. Its results were explained by Lorentz and Fitzgerald via
length contraction. For ten points, name this experiment at Case Western where use of an interferometer disproved the
existence of the luminiferous ether.
ANSWER: Michelson-Morley experiment (accept Morley-Michelson experiment)
12. Robert Sampson wrote about the “Enduring Neighborhood Effect” of this “Great American City”. This
birthplace of the Ferris wheel and location of protests during the 1968 Democratic National Convention was where
Enrico Fermi taught physics, and was also the site of (*) Jane Addams’ Hull House. It was the location of the St.
Valentine’s Day Massacre, and saw the political dominance of the Daley family from the 1950s through the 1980s.
Nicknamed the “Windy City”, it played host to the 1893 World’s Columbian Exhibition. For ten points, name this seat of
Cook County, Illinois with mayor Rahm Emanuel.
ANSWER: Chicago
13. Each movement in this piece comes with an accompanying comment from Vladimir Stasov, a critic who
followed the composer’s career. One movement in this piece depicts a town in France excited over great news,
while another is titled simply “Cattle”. This piece opens with a movement in 11/4 time, but this is usually (*) split
into two measures of 5/4 and 6/4. One of its themes, “Promenade”, depicts the composer moving about; that theme was
later orchestrated by Ravel. Its most known movement is its ending, “The Great Gate of Kiev”. An art gallery by Viktor
Hartmann was the inspiration of, for ten points, what 10 movement Modest Mussorgsky piano suite?
ANSWER: Pictures at an Exhibition - A Remembrance of Viktor Hartmann

2

14. The center of this object is formed from 5 sandstone trilithons and an outer sarsen circle was joined together
using mortise-and-tenon joints. Jim Reinders created a version of this structure in Alliance, Nebraska where a key
component was replaced by a 1962 Cadillac. Its (*) altar stone was misnamed because it was thought to be built by
Merlin or used in rituals by druids. This structure is located on Salisbury Plain, although the materials used to build it
were transported 150 miles from Wales. For ten points, name this circular Neolithic monument in Southern England, with
a heel stone that aligns with the sun on the summer solstice.
ANSWER: Stonehenge
15. In one of this man’s novels, the protagonist’s best friend is incarcerated after shooting his wife, Zilla. That title
character later has an affair with Tanis Judique but ultimately does not change and continues conforming to his
life as a (*) real-estate agent in the fictional city of Zenith. Carol Kennicott joins a club named for the William Cullen
Bryant poem “Thanatopsis” in one of this man’s novels set in Gopher Prairie, Minnesota. For ten points, name this
American author of Babbitt and Main Street.
ANSWER: Sinclair Lewis
16. This nation’s first ruling family was the Piast dynasty. The Jagiellon dynasty was founded when Jogaila
married Jadwiga, queen of this nation. 1916’s Two Emperors’ Manifesto concerned the fate of this nation, which
later saw strikes by its (*) United Workers Party. The Nazi-operated Auschwitz death camp was situated in this country.
This nation was partitioned into areas ruled by Russia, Prussia and Austria, and it was the home of Lech Walesa and the
Solidarity movement. For ten points, name this European nation with capital at Warsaw.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland
17. The religious community of this philosopher’s home city excommunicated him after he declined an offer of
1000 florin to keep his radical ideas quiet; these ideas eventually were published in works like his TheologicalPolitical Treatise. Subsequently, he worked in isolation in Rijnsburg and the (*) Hague. A different work of his opens
with a section entitled “God or Nature” and rejects many Judeo-Christian ideals. The mathematical structure of that work
was inspired by Euclid and Descartes, and that work’s fourth section titles a W. Somerset Maugham novel, Of Human
Bondage. For ten points, name this Portuguese-Dutch-Jewish author of Ethics.
ANSWER: Baruch de Spinoza or Benedito de Spinoza or Benedict de Spinoza
18. On a directed acyclic graph, this can be done by topologically sorting then running a linear dynamic
programming solution. When the graph in question is unweighted, this process is equivalent to a breadth-firstsearch. If visiting every vertex is necessary, this process becomes equivalent to finding the cheapest (*) Hamiltonian
cycle, a task better known as the travelling salesman problem. It can be performed heuristically using the A-star
algorithm, which is equivalent to Dijkstra's [“DIKE-stra’s”] algorithm under certain conditions. For ten points, name this
task, whose objective is to find the minimal distance that must be travelled between two nodes on a graph.
ANSWER: (finding a) shortest path or equivalents (prompt on “Dijkstra's algorithm”, “A-star” or “traveling salesman”
before mention, prompt on “Bellman-Ford”, do not accept “finding the shortest Hamiltonian cycle”)
19. This artist showed Mary in a pink robe in a round painting for the Doni family. He created two versions of the
same subject 57 years apart; the latter, left unfinished, includes Saint Joseph as well as the title scene on the (*)
rock of Golgotha. A mistranslation of the Old Testament resulted in his sculpting of Moses with horns. His most famous
sculpture stands outside the Palazzo della Signoria and symbolizes the power of the Medici. For ten points, name this
Italian sculptor of Pietá in Saint Peter’s Basilica and the marble David.
ANSWER: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti (accept either underlined portion)
20. In a scene in this novel, one character replaces his father’s Pushkin book with the German book “Stoff und
Kraft”. At Nikolskoe, the main character of this novel gives a woman his chemistry textbook. In another scene in
this novel, (*) Arkady is introduced to his friend’s comrade Sitnikov and his wife Kushina. At the end of this novel,
Bazarov dies after performing a faulty autopsy and getting septicemia. On his deathbed he confesses that he loved
Madame Odintsova. For ten points, name this novel by Ivan Turgenev.
ANSWER: Fathers and Sons or Otsi I Deti

3

Tiebreaker Question:
Keeping with the theme of this work’s title, it is divided into five staves. Its main character neglects his fiancée
Belle, and attends a party hosted by his boss Mr. Fezziwig. That protagonist declines a meal with his brother Fred
and refuses to aid his clerk, Bob (*) Cratchit, and Bob’s son, who requires crutches; he also decries Yuletide as
“humbug”. The protagonist of this work is visited by his deceased business partner, Jacob Marley, and subsequently the
Ghosts of Christmas Past, Present and Future. For ten points, name this Charles Dickens novella about Ebenezer Scrooge.
ANSWER: A Christmas Carol

4

Round 10: Bonuses
1. This king was portrayed “in three positions” and “hunting” by Anthony van Dyck. For ten points each:
[10] Name this “cavalier” king of England who was known for his flamboyant style. He was executed by Parliamentarians
in 1649.
ANSWER: King Charles I of England (prompt on “Charles”)
[10] This artist portrayed King Charles as Saint George but is perhaps better known for his cycle of works for Marie de
Medici and his voluptuous nudes.
ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens
[10] Rubens exemplified the baroque era of art in this region known for its wool exports, where he and Anthony van Dyck
both hail from. The city of Antwerp, in this area of the Netherlands, was home to Rubens’ studio.
ANSWER: Flanders (or Flemish baroque painting)
2. In this novella, Old Major’s skull is preserved after his death. For ten points each:
[10] In what allegorical work does Napoleon the pig change the name of the Manor Farm, only to adopt an autocratic rule
over Boxer, Muriel and the other livestock?
ANSWER: Animal Farm
[10] Animal Farm was written by this man, who described Winston Smith’s experiences in Oceania in his novel 1984.
ANSWER: George Orwell (or Eric Arthur Blair)
[10] In 1984, Winston and the other Ministry of Truth employees participate in this daily event where they shout
obscenities at the image of Emmanuel Goldstein on a television screen.
ANSWER: Two Minutes Hate
3. These people believed the current world was preceded by four other “Suns”. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Mesoamerican civilization that built its capital where an eagle perched on a cactus ate a rattlesnake.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] The Aztecs worshipped this son of Coatlicue, who was often portrayed as dog-like as the God of the Evening Star
and lightning.
ANSWER: Xolotl [“zuh-lot-uhl”]
[10] Perhaps more well known is this god, Xolotl’s twin brother, depicted as a feathered serpent. It is dubious as to
whether or not the Aztecs truly believed that Hernan Cortes was this god.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl
4. She mentored Margaret Mead while at Columbia University and was herself a student of Franz Boas. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this anthropologist who authored Patterns of Culture and The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
ANSWER: Ruth Benedict
[10] Although she was unable to perform field research in this nation during World War 2, Benedict proposed the
existence of a “shame culture” in this Asian country in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
ANSWER: Japan
[10] This other student of Boas, a French anthropologist, held his teacher as he died. One of his most influential studies
was The Savage Mind.
ANSWER: Claude Levi-Strauss, do not accept or prompt on partial answer
5. He sponsored the artist Sandro Botticelli. For ten points each:
[10] Name this 15th century Florentine patriarch, who succeeded Piero the Gouty and who was attacked in the Pazzi
Conspiracy, which took the life of his brother Giuliano.
ANSWER: Lorenzo de’ Medici or Lorenzo the Magnificent, prompt on “Lorenzo” or “de’ Medici”
[10] This writer dedicated his work The Prince to Lorenzo the Magnificent’s grandson, also named Lorenzo. In that work,
this man wrote “it is much safer to be feared than loved.”
ANSWER: Niccolo Machiavelli
[10] This Dominican monk instigated revolt against the role of the Medici in Florence, and his Bonfire of the Vanities saw
Botticelli burning his own paintings.
ANSWER: Girolamo Savonarola

5

6. His early novels included Typee and Redburn. For ten points each:
[10] Name this American author of who wrote of the title clerk who works with men named Turkey and Nippers.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
[10] That short story by Melville is this one, narrated by “The Lawyer”, which is about the aforementioned clerk on Wall
Street who “would prefer not to”.
ANSWER: “Bartleby, the Scrivener”
[10] Melville’s most famous novel, Moby-Dick was extensively referenced in The Grim Grotto, the 11th book in this
children’s series by Lemony Snicket wherein Sunny, Klaus and Violet travel on the submarine Queequeg.
ANSWER: A Series of Unfortunate Events
7. One of their axiom systems is named for Ernst Zermelo and Abraham Fraenkel. For ten points each:
[10] Name these mathematical objects that can be thought of as a collection of elements.
ANSWER: sets
[10] A controversial axiom is this one, which states that from an uncountably infinite collection of sets, it is possible to
select a representative element from each set. ZFC is used to represent the Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms used in conjunction
with this one.
ANSWER: axiom of choice
[10] Another infamous area of foundational mathematics is in arithmetic, where this man’s Incompleteness Theorems
hold. This man proved that any arithmetic system cannot be both consistent and complete.
ANSWER: Kurt Gödel
8. One type of these is often used to indicate the arrival of a hero. For ten points each:
[10] Give this name for a short musical concept that reappears throughout a work, occasionally with variations. Wagner
commonly used the leit [“leet”] variety.
ANSWER: motif (accept leitmotif)
[10] Berlioz gave this name to a motif that he used in his Symphonie Fantastique to describe his love for a woman he was
pursuing.
ANSWER: idée fixe [“eeday fees”]
[10] Liszt wrote a collection of works that included such pieces as Prometheus and Hamlet entirely in this motif-driven
style. Intended to follow a literary or mythological story, the concept later inspired its own musical genre, one
demonstrated by Smetana in his Ma Vlast.
ANSWER: tone poem or symphonic poem
9. Answer these questions about influential men of the Elizabethan Era, for ten points each:
[10] This man was highly instrumental in the colonization of the New World, especially Virginia, and he was famous for
popularizing tobacco in England. He also searched for the legendary city of El Dorado in Venezuela.
ANSWER: Walter Raleigh
[10] This man, who circumnavigated the globe and helped raid numerous Spanish treasure ships, was apocryphally
notified about the threat of the Spanish Armada while he played bowls on Plymouth Hoe.
ANSWER: Francis Drake
[10] This man wrote the poetry collection Complaints and the allegorical poem “Faerie Queene” about Elizabeth herself.
ANSWER: Edmund Spenser
10. This character can shatter glass when he shrieks. For ten points each:
[10] Name this character whose father, Alfred Matzerath, states that this character is destined to become a grocer,
prompting his decision to never grow up.
ANSWER: Oskar Matzerath
[10] Oskar appears in this novel. This novel begins with his grandmother, Anna Bronski, eating potatoes but being
interrupted by his grandfather, Joseph Koljaiczek.
ANSWER: The Tin Drum or Die Blechtrommel
[10] The Tin Drum was written by this author of Cat and Mouse and Dog Years, the other two books in his Danzig
trilogy.
ANSWER: Gunter Grass

6

11. Craig Kilborn was the first host of this television program. For ten points each:
[10] Name this program that airs on Comedy Central. Its longtime host Jon Stewart preceded the former correspondent
currently in front of camera 3, Trevor Noah.
ANSWER: The Daily Show
[10] This other former correspondent filled in for Stewart while he was directing the film Rosewater. He currently hosts
his program Last Week Tonight on HBO.
ANSWER: John Oliver
[10] This actor is yet another correspondent who has moved on, to recently starring in such films as Foxcatcher and
Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day.
ANSWER: Steve Carell
12. This artist created a watercolor Train at Night in the Desert with a smoke stack that resembles one of her most famous
subjects, flowers. For ten points each:
[10] This artist was known for her brightly colored paintings of flowers and animal skulls in New Mexico.
ANSWER: Georgia Totto O’Keeffe
[10] Georgia O’Keeffe was married to this photographer, who created a picture of The Steerage showing immigrant
passengers on a large ship as well as several portraits of O’Keeffe.
ANSWER: Alfred Stieglitz
[10] Stieglitz and O’Keeffe lived together in this city. The ship of The Steerage had left from this city and O’Keeffe’s
painting Radiator Building portrays skyscraper in this city’s borough of Manhattan.
ANSWER: New York City
13. The Métis [“MAY-tee”] are mixed-race descendants of this country’s native peoples and white settlers. For ten points
each:
[10] Half of this country’s First Nations groups are centered in the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia.
ANSWER: Canada
[10] This Canadian aboriginal group is not considered as part of the First Nations. They inhabit the Arctic regions of
Yukon, the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Québec, as well as Alaska and Greenland.
ANSWER: Inuit or Inuk (prompt on “Eskimo”)
[10] Before the Inuit, this culture inhabited northern Canada. The Norse encountered this civilization, which was extinct
by 1500 and was replaced by the Thule.
ANSWER: Dorset
14. The Ideal Gas Law gives that this value is equal to pressure over R times temperature. For ten points each:
[10] Name this value, given by moles of solute per liter of solution, which is perhaps the most widely-used measure of
concentration.
ANSWER: molarity or molar concentration, prompt on “M” or “molar”
[10] This value for an atom or species that is part of a solvent is computed by multiplying the solution’s molarity by the
frequency of the species per mole of solvent.
ANSWER: normality or equivalent concentration, prompt on “N”
[10] In a mixture, this value for a constituent, denoted χ [“kai”], is the number of moles of that species divided by the total
number of moles.
ANSWER: mole fraction
15. Although a novel, it is one of the most notable works from the Silver Age of Russian Literature. For ten points each:
[10] A poem begins “The candle burned, the candle burned…” in this novel featuring a romance between Yuri and Lara
during the Russian revolution.
ANSWER: Dr. Zhivago
[10] This author of Dr. Zhivago once received a phone call from Joseph Stalin concerning the arrest of his friend Osip
Mandelstam, and he translated plays by Goethe and Shakespeare into Russian.
Answer: Boris Pasternak
[10] This allegorical poem by Anna Akhmatova, also from the Silver Age of Russian literature, was partially dedicated
those who perished during the siege of Leningrad.
Answer: Poem Without a Hero

7

16. This religion is led from Vatican City. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Christian denomination which is led by a Pope who is the successor to Saint Peter and the Bishop of
Rome.
ANSWER: Catholicism or the Catholic Church
[10] Throughout its history, other religions have adopted some elements of the Catholic Church, exemplifying this process
wherein contradictory belief systems combine. In another example of this process, Akbar created the religion Din-il-Llahi
to further unify the Mughal Empire.
ANSWER: syncretism, accept word forms
[10] This syncretic religion practices animal sacrifice, which led to its involvement in the Supreme Court case Church of
Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah.
ANSWER: Santería
17. Its linear analogue can be used to express Newton’s second law. For ten points each:
[10] Name this physical quantity, whose spin variety is of critical importance in quantum mechanics.
ANSWER: angular momentum (do not accept or prompt on “linear momentum”)
[10] This physical quantity is the angular analogue of force and the first time derivative of angular momentum. If this
physical quantity does not act upon a system, its total angular momentum does not change.
ANSWER: torque
[10] This theorem, proved by a French physicist in 1687, states that the sum of the torques due to many forces at a point is
equal to the torque of the sum of the forces. It is also known as the Principle of Moments.
ANSWER: Varignon’s theorem
18. This case overturned Minnesota’s Baker v. Nelson. For ten points each:
[10] Name this June 2015 case in which the majority argued that “If rights were defined by who exercised them in the
past,” then “new groups could not invoke rights once denied”.
ANSWER: Obergefell v. Hodges
[10] Obergefell v. Hodges ruled that bans of this activity were unconstitutional. It was also the subject of United States v.
Windsor, wherein Edith Windsor filed a lawsuit after the death of her wife.
ANSWER: same-sex marriage (accept gay marriage)
[10] This Kentucky clerk refused to sign all marriage licenses after the ruling, and was jailed for contempt of court. It was
also revealed that she had a meeting with the Pope in September 2015.
ANSWER: Kim Davis
19. This venue’s architect was William Tuthill. For ten points each:
[10] Name this famed New York City concert hall whose 1891 opening night featured a Tchaikovsky performance.
ANSWER: Carnegie Hall
[10] Carnegie Hall’s construction was financed by Andrew Carnegie, who gained his wealth via the steel industry of this
city. He would later found an institute in this city.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh, PA
[10] Later in life, Carnegie penned this essay, which encouraged philanthropy by self-made billionaires.
ANSWER: “The Gospel of Wealth”
20. This stage of development occurs approximately 3 weeks after fertilization in humans. For ten points each:
[10] Name this stage of development that follows the zygote and precedes the fetus, which also lends its name to a
controversial type of stem cell.
ANSWER: embryo (accept embryonic stem cells)
[10] Further along in development, following gastrulation, this structure is created, a small dimple that can develop into
either a mouth or anus depending on the organism.
ANSWER: blastopore
[10] In these animals, the blastopore develops into the mouth. Animals in this class, the name of which literally means
“mouth first”, include arthropods and molluscs.
ANSWER: protostome

8

21. An orchestral piece often paired with The Unanswered Question is titled for this place “in the Dark”. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this New York City landmark that contains Belvedere Castle and the memorial to John Lennon at Strawberry
Fields.
ANSWER: Central Park
[10] This American modernist composer of Central Park in the Dark also created the unfinished Universe Symphony. He
is particularly well known for his polytonal writing style.
ANSWER: Charles Ives
[10] This most famous Ives piece utilized chromaticism and musical quotation to represent various locations in the United
States. Ives meant it to encapsulate American patriotism at the turn of the century.
ANSWER: 3 Places in New England

9

