Round # 1

HAVOC

1.

This novel begins with the paradoxical statement that it is the author's favorite book
although he has never read it. During the book the prince pleads out of torturing the
Dread Pirate Roberts because he is already swamped with planning his country's five
hundredth anniversary, plotting his wife's murder, and blaming rival nation Gilder
for it. FTP name this book by William Goldman featuring Westley, Buttercup,
Prince Humperdinck, and Inigo Montoya.
A: The Princess Bride

2.

He dreams of being a great chef, but his food is often quite toxic and kills most
living things. This may occur because he has no taste buds and cannot taste how
poor his dishes really are. He once asked his best friend to take a dive in a fight,
even though it was a fight to the death. Further examples of his disregard for human
life stem from his repeated statement "Kill all humans!" FTP name this robot, one of
the main characters of the TV series Futurama.
A: Bender Bending Rodriguez Accept Bending Unit 22

3.

This sixteenth century fresco is located across from La Disputa in the Stanza della
Segnatura [SEN-ya-tura]. The artist himself appears in the far right, and many of the
artist’s contemporaries, including Leonardo da Vinci, are depicted as the gathered
philosophers. FTP identify this fresco by Raphael whose central figures are Plato
and Aristotle.
A: The School of Athens Accept Scuola di Atene

4.

This architect’s first major work was the Sheldonian Theatre at Oxford, which was
based on the Theater of Marcellus in Rome. Other notable works include the Chelsea
Hospital and the Greenwich Observatory. After the Great Fire in 1666, he designed
51 churches in the city of London. FTP name this British architect who rebuilt St.
Paul’s Cathedral in London.
A: Sir Christopher Wren

5.

Mount Greylock, this state’s tallest mountain, lies in the Berkshire Hills, in its west.
Its rivers include the Merrimack, in the north, the Charles, and the Connecticut,
which cuts off the western portion of the state. Off the southern coast of the state lie
the Elizabeth Islands and Nantucket Island. FTP name this U.S state containing the
cities of Lowell, Springfield, and Boston.
A: Massachusetts

6.

Tanha is the root of dukkha, which can only be alleviated by nirodha, through
marga. At the foot of the bodhi tree by Neranjana River, Buddha experienced these
as realities and attained enlightenment. During his first discourse after his
enlightenment, Buddha emphasized these as “actual, unerring, not otherwise.”
Suffering is attachment and craving, and only the way leading to craving’s cessation
can end suffering. FTP name this set of core beliefs, the foundation of Buddhism.
A: Four Noble Truths

7.

Goodbye Bafana, a book written about this man by one of his former prison guards,

1 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

is considered to be inaccurate. It was based on this man’s time in the Robben Island
Prison for crimes associated with his leadership of the armed wing of the African
National Congress. FTP name this president of South Africa who was the first to be
elected in a fully democratic election.
A: Nelson Rohihlahla Mandela
8.

To isolate volatile compounds from nonvolatile impurities, the steam form of this
process is used when the compounds decompose at standard temperatures and
pressures. Two miscible liquids are heated under a Liebig condenser to increase the
concentration of the liquid with the lower boiling point in a common type of this
process. FTP, name this separation method by boiling point, whose fractional
variety yields cosmetics from petroleum and alcohol from a water mixture.
A: Distillation (Accept word forms)

9.

The Creek War was a subconflict of this war. A major cause of this war was the
Chesapeake-Leopard Affair, which involved the controversial drafting technique of
impressment. The Battle of New Orleans only took place because combatants on
both sides were unaware that the Treaty of Ghent had been signed. FTP name this
war between during which Washington, D.C. was burned and Francis Scott Key
wrote The Star-Spangled Banner.
A: War of 1812

10. Non-Newtonian fluids are able to exhibit this property under certain conditions, but
it is mostly solids that show this property. If a substance exhibiting this property is
stressed past the limit, the substance instead exhibits plasticity. The amount of
deformation caused by a stress is called a strain with this property. For ten points,
name this property characterized by Robert Hooke, where a substance is able to
reform after being exposed to a stressor.
A: Elasticity
11. Near the end of this novel, the main character is hunted by Roger, who intends to
post his decapitated head on a stick in the ground. A sow’s head was posted in the
same manner, and later “spoke” to Simon, who was killed by Jack and his gang.
Order disappears completely after the loss of the conch and the death of Piggy, and
all but Ralph come under the control of Jack. FTP identify this William Golding
novel which involves a group of boys stranded on a desert island.
A: Lord of the Flies
12. The main character of this novel is corrupted by the ideas of Lord Henry Wotton and
later causes the death of Sibyl Vane, a Shakespearean actress. She commits suicide
after he rejects her because she can no longer act well. Her brother attempts to kill
him, but is deceived, since the title character has not aged in eighteen years. The
namesake portrait was created by Basil Hallward, who is killed by the main
character. FTP name this novel by Oscar Wilde about a man who remains young
while his portrait ages.
A: The Picture of Dorian Gray Do not accept The Portrait of Dorian Gray

2 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

13. Early in his career, he wrote a large body of concertos for varying instruments
including bassoon, oboe, recorder, and mandolin. These were written during his
many years at the Ospedale della Pieta, a Venetian orphanage where he was violin
master. Later he served as Maestro di Cappella in Mantua, where the countryside
inspired his most famous work. FTP name this man known as the Red Priest, the
composer of The Four Seasons.
A: Antonio Vivaldi
14. The main character of this novel falls in love with a golfer named Jordan, while his
friend Tom Buchanan has an affair with a car salesman's wife. The title character
eventually takes the blame for killing Tom’s lover Myrtle in a hit and run, leading to
his own death. She was actually killed by Tom’s wife Daisy. FTP name this novel
about Nick Carraway and the titular Jay by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
A: The Great Gatsby
15. The Confederate forces in this battle failed to drive the Union troops into the Owl
Creek swamps on the first day, although they had the element of surprise. That
night, General Buell reinforced the Union army, and Grant was able to push
Beauregard’s troops back to the Corinth rail junction. The Confederate General
Johnston was killed in this battle, also known as Pittsburg Landing. FTP name this
April 1862 Civil War battle in southwestern Tennessee.
A: Battle of Shiloh Accept Battle of Pittsburg Landing before mentioned
16. Three men can be seen climbing a staircase in the background of this painting. Nine
figures are gathered around the central figure, and no more than four are looking at
him. A boy in a red toga presents poison to the central reclining figure, who gestures
upwards. FTP name this work about the titular Greek philosopher by Jacques-Louis
David [dah-VEED].
A: The Death of Socrates
17. After a request from Antoine Gambaud [gam-BO], he began a correspondence with
Fermat to establish a new field of mathematics. Throughout this foundation, this
mathematician and philosopher relied on a preexisting arrangement of numbers,
which gave coefficients to the types of equations with which he dealt. FTP, name
this philosopher author of Pensées and Provincial Letters, and mathematician, whose
co-founding of probability employed a triangle now named in honor of him.
A: Blaise Pascal
18. An early discovery of one spurred thoughts of extraterrestrials leading to the name
of this first one, LGM-1, or Little Green Men. Theorized in 1969 by a graduate
student, these objects have misaligned magnetic and rotational poles, which causes a
movement like the beam of a lighthouse. They can be powered either by spin or
accretion, a process that involves material being attracted to the magnetic poles of
the neutron star. FTP name this object discovered by Jocelyn Bell Burnell as a
source of radio waves that is capable of emitting any wavelength of light.

3 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC
A: Pulsar Prompt on Neutron Star, Grudgingly Accept Magnetar

19. Due to persistent stagflation in the 1970’s, he led the attack on the controversial
Phillip’s curve, which was a tool often used to promote Keynesian economics.
While teaching economics at the University of Chicago, he published the essay “The
Methodology of Positive Economics”. In A Monetary History of the United States,
he argued that government intervention and federal banking caused the Great
Depression. That book established him as the leading proponent of monetarism.
FTP name this American economist, one of the leading advocates of laissez-faire
economies and author of Capitalism and Freedom.
A: Milton Friedman
20. His final expedition was to Gran Quivira [key-VEE-ra], and with little success there,
he returned to Nueva Galicia to serve as governor again. Earlier, he sent his
lieutenant Garcia Lopez de Cardenas to explore northwest of his encampment, but
only Hopi villages and the Grand Canyon were discovered. FTP name this Spanish
conquistador who never found the Seven Golden Cities of Cibola.
A: Francisco Vasquez de Coronado

STOP HERE
You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless a question
was thrown out or the game is tied.

21. In 2007, a fear arose concerning this disease when Andrew Speaker traveled
throughout Europe and then returned to the U.S. while actively infected by a drugresistant strain. A single antibiotic such as rifampicin may be used to treat the latent
form, which only progresses to the active form in ten percent of cases. In the less
common variety, infection spreads to cause inflammation of the lymphatic system
and pleural cavity. Symptoms of the most common variety include chest pain, fever,
fatigue, and the iconic coughing up blood. FTP, name this deadly disease with
pulmonary and extrapulmonary varieties commonly known as consumption.
A: Tuberculosis (prompt on consumption early)

Bonuses
1. FTPE identify these treaties.
1) Signed on June 28, 1919, this treaty officially ended World War I. Despite Woodrow
Wilson’s objections, it instituted heavy reparations for Germany.
A: Treaty of Versailles
2) In this 1819 treaty, Spain ceded Florida to America and established the Sabine River as
the Texas boundary.
A: Adams-Onís Treaty
3) This 1848 treaty ended the Mexican-American War and provided for the Mexican

4 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

cession of California, Nevada, and Utah.
A: Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
2. Name these African leaders FTPE.
1) He served as the Prime Minister when Kenya gained autonomy and later was the first
President when Kenya became a republic.
A: Jomo Kenyatta
2) President of Uganda from 1971 to 1979 after deposing Obote, he was accused of
numerous human rights violations during his rule.
A: Idi Amin Dada
3) He unified Ghana and served as its prime minister from 1952 to 1966.
A: Kwame Nkrumah
3. FTPE name the following related to plants.
1) This is the outermost layer of the roots and stems of woody plants.
A: Bark Accept Periderm
2) Flowering plants whose seeds have two embryonic leaves are referred to as this.
A: Dicotyledons
3) The circles within circles that appear in the bark of plants are referred to as this, a term
once used in astronomy.
A: Epicycles
4. FTPE answer the following about counterpoint in music.
1) This type of contrapuntal composition similar to a round is written for several melodic
“voices” and may be vocal or instrumental.
A: Fugue
2) This type of fugue is characterized by one or more secondary voices imitating the
initial melody after a set duration. One example is Pachelbel’s in D Major.
A: Canon
3) All contrapuntal passages begin and end on one of these, which are contrasted with
dissonances.
A: Consonances
5. Name these poems by Robert Frost from notable lines FTPE.
1) “On, I kept the first for another day! Yet knowing how way leads onto way, I doubted
if I should ever come back.”
A: The Road Not Taken
2) “But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I
sleep.”
A: Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening
3) “Good fences make good neighbors.”
A: Mending Wall

5 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

6. FTPE name the following paintings from a short description.
1) There are three figures in this Edvard Munch work, although only one is usually noted.
A: The Scream
2) The two figures in this Rousseau painting are the titular resting musician and a lion.
A: The Sleeping Gypsy
3) This painting by Kandinsky shows the titular figure going through a forest. It is the
namesake of a group of German Expressionists.
A: The Blue Rider Accept Der Blaue Reiter
7. FTPE name these Grimm Brothers fairy tales from descriptions.
1) This title character is nearly killed twice by an evil queen before finally succumbing to
a poisoned apple.
A: Snow White
2) These children are forced to escape from a witch after their trail of breadcrumbs is
eaten by forest creatures and they become lost.
A: Hansel and Gretel
3) When seven brothers spill water needed for their sister's baptism, they are cursed and
changed into the title birds. This story tells of their sister's search for them.
A: The Seven Ravens
8. FTPE, identify these aspects of the consort of Shiva.
1) She is the aspect associated with motherhood and joyful marriage. Her children by
Shiva include Ganesh.
A: Parvati
2) This goddess of destruction, whose name means “black,” was, with Durga, a killer of
demons.
A: Kali
3) She is known for throwing herself on a fire after humiliation of both her and Shiva by
her father at a feast. Her name was given to the self-immolation practiced by many Hindu
wives after their husband’s death. She is reincarnated as Parvati.
A: Sati Accept Shakti or other equivalents
9. FTPE name the following scientists given a description of a namesake law.
1) This Swiss scientist’s principle states that with negligible viscosity, an increase in fluid
speed occurs along with a decrease in either pressure or gravitational potential energy.
A: Daniel Bernoulli
2) This British scientist’s law of elasticity states that strain is linearly related to stress.
A: Robert Hooke
3) This German has namesake laws of electricity, magnetism, and gravity, as well as a
divergence theorem.
A: Carl Friedrich Gauss

6 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

10. On a 30-20-10 basis, name the architect from his projects.
30- Hollyhock House and Taliesin West
Note to moderator: Do NOT read the answer if given an incorrect one.
20- Robie House and the Guggenheim Museum
10- Fallingwater
A: Frank Lloyd Wright
11.

Identify these very small European countries, FTPE.
1) This 24 square mile Most Serene Republic is also most diminutive. It lies in Italy, near
the Adriatic.
A: Most Serene Republic of San Marino
2) It is a mere 0.7 square miles in size, and lies in the south of France on the
Mediterranean Sea.
A: Principality of Monaco
3) At 175 square miles, it is a veritable giant compared to the others; however, this
principality in the Pyrenees is smaller than Rhode Island.
A: Principality of Andorra

12. The collapse of the Kamakura shogunate led to a Warring States Period with clashes
between conflicting daimyo. FTPE, name these prominent daimyo.
1) The first of the three unifying daimyos, his decisive victory at the Battle of Nagashino
would have enabled him to unify all of Japan, if not for his untimely death.
A: Oda Nobunaga
2) He began as a peasant but eventually became Oda’s leading general. He later avenged
Oda by uniting Japan and ending the Warring States period, but he died shortly after.
A: Toyotomi Hideyoshi Accept Hashiba Hideyoshi Prompt on Toyotomi
3) The final unifying daimyo, he was the victor at the Battle of Sekigahara and became
ruler of Japan after Hideyoshi. He was given the title of shogun and his namesake
shogunate would rule Japan until a nineteenth century restoration.
A: Tokugawa Ieyasu
13. FTPE answer these questions related to the 1932 novel Brave New World.
1) The author, he also wrote Point Counter Point and Crome Yellow.
A: Aldous Huxley
2) Although raised on the Savage Reservation, he was born to Linda and Thomas, both of
whom are from London. He participates in self-flagellation before committing suicide.
A: John Prompt on the Savage or Mr. Savage
3) This Shakespearean play is alluded to often in Brave New World, whose title comes
from Miranda’s reaction upon seeing Ferdinand.
A: The Tempest

7 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

14. FTPE name these villains from the AFI's 100 Heroes and Villains List.
1) This villain made the top of the list from a 1991 film. His nemesis Clarice Starling was
number 6 on the Heroes list.
A: Hannibal Lecter Accept partial name
2) He came in at Number 2 for an appearance in a 1960 film, Psycho. Before the end of
the film, it appeared that his mother was the villain.
A: Norman Bates Accept partial name
3) This character was Number 17 on the list. She originally came from a novel by
Stephen King, although she cut off a man's foot in that novel, Misery, instead of taking a
sledgehammer to them as in the movie of the same name.
A: Annie Wilkes Accept partial name
15. FTPE answer these questions about the Punic Wars.
1) In the Second Punic War, Scipio Africanus defeated this leader known for crossing the
Alps with elephants.
A: Hannibal Barca
2) Hannibal was defeated at this battle.
A: Zama
3) The First Punic War was fought after Rome and Carthage both meddled in a conflict in
modern Messina on this largest Mediterranean island.
A: Sicily Accept Sicilia

16. FTPE answer the following related art questions.
1) In this 1770 painting, the titular figure stands in a field wearing a certain color.
A: The Blue Boy
2) This Englishman painted The Blue Boy.
A: Thomas Gainsborough
3) The Blue Boy is often seen as “homage” to this Flemish court painter for Charles I and
his family.
A: Anthony Van Dyck
17. FTPE name the following conic sections.
1) This section is created when a conical surface is cut by a plane that does not intersect
the cone's base.
A: Ellipse Accept word forms
2) This is formed when a plane cuts through both halves of a right circular cone.
A: Hyperbola Accept word forms
3) This value measures how much a conic section deviates from being circular.
A: Eccentricity

8 of 9

Round # 1

HAVOC

18. FTPE identify the following eye conditions.
1) An irregular curvature of the lens or cornea causes blurred vision in this condition.
A: Astigmatism
2) Also known as farsightedness, this defect is caused by the eyeball being too short or
the inability of a lens to become round enough and prevents focusing on near objects.
A: Hyperopia or Hypermetropia Prompt on Long- or Farsightedness
3) This condition also inhibits the ability to focus on near objects but is merely caused by
age.
A: Presbyopia
19. FTPE given a description of a member of the March family from Louisa May Alcott’s
Little Women, name her.
1) This quick-tempered tomboy is based on the author and grows up to found a boys’
boarding school.
A: Josephine March
2) This second-youngest sister, who is close to Jo, dies of scarlet fever.
A: Elizabeth March
3) This is the mother of Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy.
A: Marmee March
20. FTPE, name these amendments to the U.S. constitution.
1. This amendment was the first reconstruction amendment, whcih forbade slavery in the
United States.
Answer: 13th Amendment
2. This amendment was ratified in 1920, and it gave all women the right to vote.
Answer: 19th Amendment
3. This amendment was another reconstruction amendment, most famous for the "equal
protection under the law" clause.
Answer: 14th Amendment

9 of 9

