NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Tossups
1. In the Iliad, this man recounts how Hera influenced both the premature birth of Eurystheus and the delayed
birth of Heracles, which caused Zeus to banish the goddess Ate (AH-tee) from Olympus. This warrior remains
unharmed when a spear strikes his silver belt and its point uselessly bends. This man kills Iphidamas, but is
wounded by his brother Coön (coh-AHN). This hero's arrogance is rebuked by the repugnant Thersites. This
warrior ends Apollo's plague by returning Chryseis to the Trojans, but fuels the rage of Achilles when he seizes
Briseis as compensation. Electra and Orestes avenge this man's death, brought on in part by his wife
Clytemnestra. For 10 points, name this Mycenaean king who leads the Greek army in the Trojan War.
ANSWER: Agamemnon <Kim>
2. In a novel, these objects are variously described as Ee Gee, the amazing editor, an Olympic lady crew
champion, and a brilliant professor. Esther says, "I saw my life branching out before me" and describes "every
branch, like a fat purple" one of these objects in The Bell Jar. These objects name a collection containing the
line, "We were very tired, we were very merry," that ends with a sonnet opening, "I shall forget you presently,
my dear." "Recuerdo" and a two-line poem beginning, "Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand," follow a
poem that opens, "My candle burns at both ends," in that collection titled after this fruit. For 10 points, name
these fruits, "a few" of which title a collection by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
ANSWER: figs <Smart>
3. This phenomenon gives rises to the inversion of the nitrogen atom in an ammonia molecule, splitting the
ground state vibrational level. In a device that relies on this process, an increase in voltage is accompanied by a
decrease in current, forming a region of negative resistance. This process is responsible for a form of
magnetoresistance used by the read heads of hard drives. Finding the probability of this phenomenon is a
prime application of the WKB approximation because it can be exact for this phenomenon. George Gamow
was able to calculate the correct rate of alpha decay by supposing that this phenomenon was responsible. For
10 points, name this purely quantum phenomenon in which a particle traverses a classically impenetrable
barrier without going over it.
ANSWER: quantum mechanical tunneling [or tunnel effect] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 1 of 13 

4. This composer included a duet between a clarinet and the soloist in the second cadenza of the "Allegro con
fermezza" first movement of his violin concerto. Performances of a concerto by this composer made pianist
William Kapell famous. That piece uses an F-B double-flat-A flat theme and includes a flexatone part. His
Violin Concerto was written for David Oistrakh. An adagio depicting carpet weavers appears in a ballet by this
composer whose title character marries Kazakov after her husband Giko sets fire to a cotton warehouse. An
excerpt from that ballet about workers on a collective farm begins with the xylophone playing F-sharp eighth
notes. For 10 points, name this Armenian Soviet composer whose Gayane includes the "Sabre Dance."
ANSWER: Aram Khachaturian [or Aram Il'yich Khachaturian] <Kothari>
5. L.G. Freeman argued that the Spanish sites of Ambrona and Torralba provide evidence that this species
could organize to hunt large animals. This species developed teardrop-shaped hand axes while being the first
to use the Acheulean tool making tradition. The name for this species was first proposed by Ernst Haeckel, the
teacher of Eugene Dubois. A site with fossils of this species was excavated by Pierre Teilhard de Chardin and
Franz Weidenreich. This hominid species, which lived about 1.8 million years ago, was the first to appear
outside of Africa. Examples of this extinct species include Peking Man and Turkana Boy. For 10 points, name
this hominid species whose name is Latin for "upright man."
ANSWER: Homo erectus [or H. erectus; or Pithecanthropus erectus; or P. erectus; or Homo ergaster; or H. ergaster]
<O'Rourke>
6. This town's inhabitants include a woman who insists on wearing the same clothes as her sister, because
otherwise they will look "as if [they] were no kin to one another." Mr. Snell and Mr. Macey are among the
common visitors to this town's tavern, the Rainbow. A man from this town offers lard cakes to his future sonin-law, Aaron Winthrop. This town's best-known denizen moved here from Lantern Yard. This town's Red
House is home to a man who marries Nancy Lammeter, Godfrey Cass. In a pivotal scene, a character who lives
in this town reaches out for what he thinks is his stolen gold, only to grab the hair of the infant Eppie. For 10
points, name this town created by George Eliot which is home to the weaver Silas Marner.
ANSWER: Raveloe <Sy>
7. To boost interest in this group, James Colescott lowered membership fees to six dollars. Elizabeth Tyler and
Edward Clarke were two public relations agents that improved this group's image, with Tyler publishing its
newspaper, The Searchlight. This organization's "northern realm" was led by a rival of its leader Hiram Wesley
Evans. This group sagged in popularity after the conviction of D.C. Stephenson for rape and murder. Its
second incarnation was founded by William Simmons at Stone Mountain in 1915. Interest in this group
exploded after the success of D.W. Griffith's film The Birth of a Nation. For 10 points, name this group of white
hooded nativists who burn crosses.
ANSWER: Ku Klux Klan [or KKK; or the Klan] <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 2 of 13 

8. The van Laar equation defines the excess of this quantity based on component mole fractions. In protein
folding calculations, the phi value is a ratio of two forms of this quantity, preceded by two deltas. The
definition of exergy is nearly identical to this other quantity. Phase equilibrium occurs where two surfaces for
this property, in different phases, intersect. This quantity uses temperature and pressure as its natural
variables. Any thermodynamic driving force must cause this quantity to decrease. At standard state, the cell
voltage times nF equals this quantity. It is defined as the enthalpy minus temperature times entropy. For 10
points, name this quantity whose change is negative in spontaneous processes, which is symbolized G.
ANSWER: Gibbs free energy [or G until "symbolized" is read; prompt on free energy; prompt on chemical
potential or mu] <Silverman>
9. This artist depicted numerous bowler hatted men sitting under a pier in a work titled "The Short Tail Gang."
This artist wrote a very short children's book titled Is There a Santa Claus? In one work of art by this man, at
least ten threatening looking toughs stare at the viewer while standing in a back alley at 59 ½ Mulberry Street.
Another of his artworks, subtitled "Five Cents a Spot," is set at Bayard Street and shows lodgers crammed into
a dirty bedroom. This artist created works like "Bandit's Roost" using a magnesium flash. His best known work
is subtitled "studies among the tenements of New York." For 10 points, name this photographer and journalist
who wrote How the Other Half Lives.
ANSWER: Jacob Riis <Cheyne>
10. An argument between two native women in this country over Captain William Darby Brind led to the Girls'
War. This country is where the missionary Carl Volkner was beheaded by members of the Pai Marire
movement. A conflict in this country was sparked by the cutting of a flagstaff. Nearly seventy crew members of
the Boyd were eaten by this country's natives. After captaining the HMS Beagle, Robert FitzRoy served two
years as this country's governor. The Musket Wars took place in this country, where William Hobson met with
native leaders to sign the Treaty of Waitangi. For 10 points, name this Pacific country home to the Maori.
ANSWER: New Zealand [or Aotearoa] <Golimlim>
11. Early 20th century politics in this country were dominated by its Agrarian National Union. A blind faith
healer and mystic from this country, Baba Vanga, had a controversial relationship with Lyudmila, the
daughter of its longtime ruler. This country pursued the Treaty of Craiova to recover territory lost in the
Treaty of Neuilly, its "second national catastrophe," which saw it lose Southern Dobruja. A ricin-injecting
umbrella was used to kill Georgi Markov, who fled this country's communist regime under Todor Zhivkov. For
10 points, name this eastern European country with capital at Sofia.
ANSWER: Bulgaria <Ray>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 3 of 13 

12. This man commissioned Christian Wilhelm Dohm to write a book on "civil improvement" and wrote a nonKantian essay entitled "What is Enlightenment," which answers the question with "bildung" or the cultivation
of human talents. This man responded to rumors that his friend had made a deathbed confession to being a
follower of Spinoza by writing Morning Hours and To Lessing's Friends in denunciation of pantheism. This man
began to doubt the possibility of assimilation after engaging in a debate with Johann Caspar Lavater in which
he promised to convert to Christianity if he did not prevail. For 10 points, name this author of Jerusalem: Or, on
religious power and Judaism, who was a leading member of the "haskala" movement and grandfather of
composer Felix.
ANSWER: Moses Mendelssohn [or Moshe ben Mendel mi-Dessau] <Bollinger>
13. In this novel, a man hanging onto a branch is mercifully killed with the last bullet of a character who
constantly calls himself a "man of no cross." A soldier in this novel pretends to be a doctor so that he can save
his beloved by wrapping her in a blanket and running away with a man dressed up as a bear. A man known as
"Le Renard Subtil" in this novel lost his position after becoming an alcoholic. Near its end, a crowd awaits the
verdict concerning "La Longue Carabine" given by the elder Tamanend. It opens as General Webb organizes a
march toward Fort William Henry, while Duncan Heyward accompanies the Munro sisters. For 10 points,
name this novel in which Uncas and Hawk-Eye fight the Hurons in upstate New York, by James Fenimore
Cooper.
ANSWER: The Last of the Mohicans <Sy>
14. The bregma is the intersection of two regions of this structure. Battle's sign may arise from the basilar type
of damage to this structure. Diploe [dip-lo-ee] forms a cancellous region between the outer and vitreous tables
of this structure. It's not the tooth, but Sharpey's fibers bind a type of synarthrodial fibrous joint only found in
this structure. A gland is positioned in a depression in this bony structure known as the sella turcica, which is
a region of its sphenoid bone. In infancy, this structure's calvaria normally has fontanelles, or "soft spots," due
to incomplete fusion of sutures, which join parts of it such as the parietal and frontal bones. For 10 points,
name this bony structure that encases the brain.
ANSWER: cranium [or skull cap; or word forms, such as cranial] <Smart>
15. The 1963 murder of Edmund Assare-Addo prompted African students to protest in this area. In 2013, as part
of an act titled Fixation, a performance artist sat naked in this area with a nail driven through his scrotum.
Orthodox Patriarchs once rode through this present-day area on a donkey during Palm Sunday. Mathias Rust
landed a Cessna plane in this area in 1987. Tanks and missiles were paraded through this place on Victory Day.
The quote "Lazar! Put it back!" is attributed to a premier seeing a model of this area that omitted St. Basil's
Cathedral. For 10 points, name this area next to the Kremlin, the central square of Moscow, Russia.
ANSWER: Red Square [or Krasnaya Ploshchad; prompt on descriptive answers that mention Moscow until
"Moscow" is read; do not accept "the Kremlin"] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 4 of 13 

16. In a play by this author, a huge effigy of the title character shaking his head and carrying a Bible with
crossed-out pages is paraded around in a float. A series of characters draw lots and receive the black cross of
death at the start of a play by this author interspersed with musical numbers like the "Fraternization Song,"
sung by the army camp prostitute Yvette. In another of his plays, Andrea visits his former master, who is living
under house arrest despite having recanted his scientific beliefs. The title character of his best-known play
resolutely pulls the wagon despite the murder of Kattrin and the executions of Eilif and Swiss Cheese during
the Thirty Years War. For 10 points, name this German dramatist of Mother Courage and Her Children.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht <Gupta>
17. This action was similar to one which occurred in Syracuse and used leaves, or petala. An illiterate farmer once called
for this action because he was sick of hearing a leader referred to as "the Just." An instance of this action occurred after a
man built a sanctuary to Artemis of the Best Advice and put a statue of himself inside it. Aristotle claims that, for its first
three years, the targets of this action were exclusively "friends of the tyrants," the relations of Pisistratus. At least 6,000
pottery shards had to be collected for this practice to occur. This practice did not deprive its victims of property rights or
citizenship during the ten year period it imposed. For 10 points, name this Athenian practice by which citizens could be
banished by popular vote.
ANSWER: ostracism [or other word forms; prompt on answers like banishment or exile] <Brownstein>

18. This artist's brother was an inept painter nicknamed "The Splinter." This artist depicted the infant Jesus
eating grapes in his earliest-attested painting, the San Giovenale Triptych. This artist carved a Latin inscription
reading "I once was what you are and what I am you also will be" atop a skeleton resting on a cadaver tomb in a
version of the Crucifixion under a Roman-style coffered barrel vault in the church of Santa Maria Novella. He
painted an angel with a flaming sword chasing Adam and Eve in one painting, and depicted St. Peter
extracting a coin from a fish's mouth in another. For 10 points, name this Renaissance artist whose Brancacci
Chapel paintings include The Expulsion from the Garden of Eden and The Tribute Money.
ANSWER: Masaccio [or Tonmaso di Ser Giovanni di Simone Cassai] <Lee>
19. This prophet cuts his hair into three parts and burns one portion, cuts up the second portion, and scatters
the third portion in the wind; he also spends a year lying on his side. This prophet envisions a new city named
"The Lord Is There" and details the architecture of a Third Temple. He declares that that God will strike down
Gog, ruler of Magog (MAY-gog), and bury his army in the Valley of Hamon-Gog. This prophet witnesses four
creatures, each with faces of a human, a lion, an ox, and an eagle, who are carrying a flaming chariot. Later, he
travels to a valley where he brings dry bones to life. For 10 points, name this third of the Major Prophets whose
book follows those by Isaiah and Jeremiah.
ANSWER: Ezekiel [or Y'hez'qel; or Duhl-Kifl] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 5 of 13 

20. This phenomenon occurs when free flow transitions to synchronized flow, which can further transition
into its wide-moving form, according to Boris Kerner's three phase theory. In a famous example of induced
demand, increasing capacity does not, in the long-term, decrease the incidence of this phenomenon because
additional peak-period trips take place until its incidence is back to previous levels. Some theories about this
phenomenon were formulated based on data collected from the Bundesautobahn 5. HOV lanes are designed to
decrease the incidence of this phenomenon. For 10 points, name this transportation phenomenon often
encountered during rush hour, in which an excess of cars leads to a slowdown in travel times.
ANSWER: traffic congestion [or traffic jams; or traffic congestion; or traffic jams] <Smart>
21. During a conflict over this resource, the Numancia became the first ironclad ship to circumnavigate the
world. This resource was mined on Navassa Island, which is now disputed by the United States and Haiti.
Isabella II warred with former Spanish colonies in the Chincha Islands, a center for mining this resource. An
1856 act passed by James Buchanan allowed American citizens to seize islands abundant in this resource,
including the Swan Islands now owned by Honduras. Peru heavily exported this nitrogen-rich resource in the
nineteenth century. For 10 points, name this fertilizer produced from the droppings of bats and seabirds.
ANSWER: guano [prompt on excrement or equivalents] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 6 of 13 

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Bonuses
1. Giuseppe Garibaldi lived on this island with the inventor Antonio Meucci. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this borough of New York City that is linked to Brooklyn via the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
ANSWER: Staten Island
[10] Staten Island's Fresh Kills estuary was once home to a large one of these sites. Other examples of these
sites in New York include 102nd Street and Love Canal, both of which are now Superfund sites.
ANSWER: landfills [or dumps; or obvious equivalents]
[10] A large Sri Lankan population inhabits this neighborhood of Staten Island, which is named for a man who
unsuccessfully ran for governorship against DeWitt Clinton while he was James Monroe's Vice President.
Daniel Pantaleo put Eric Garner in a chokehold in this neighborhood.
ANSWER: Tompkinsville <Golimlim>
2. This character is starved by the idiotic trio of Hal, Charles, and Mercedes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who is kidnapped by a gardener in the Santa Clara Valley before being forced to work
for the Canadians Francois and Perrault.
ANSWER: Buck
[10] Buck is a sled-dog in the Klondike Gold Rush in this Jack London novel.
ANSWER: The Call of the Wild
[10] This nonfiction book by Jack London, which opens with a chapter titled "The Descent," details his
observations of the London slums in the summer of 1902.
ANSWER: The People of the Abyss <Sy>
3. Judy Kaplan and Linn Shapiro collected memoirs from dozens of people who identified with this pejorative,
including Watergate reporter Carl Bernstein. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this pejorative phrase which denotes children raised by Communists or other radical-leftists in mid20th-century America. It implies that such children, many of them also of Jewish descent, were raised with farleft ideas from shortly after birth.
ANSWER: red-diaper babies [or Red Diapers]
[10] Another man often dubbed a "red-diaper baby," Abel Meeropol, wrote this anti-lynching song which
contrasts the scent of "magnolia, sweet and fresh" with the smell of "burning flesh".
ANSWER: "Strange Fruit"
[10] A third so-called "red diaper baby," Robert Meeropol, was the child of this husband-wife spy duo who were
sent to the electric chair in 1953 for leaking secrets about the U.S. nuclear program.
ANSWER: Julius and Ethel Rosenberg [or the Rosenbergs] <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 7 of 13 

4. This technique is a first-order Runge-Kutta method and is thus the simplest method of numerical
integration for solving ODEs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this method that boils down to adding a small amount to the dependent variable when the
derivative is positive and subtracting a small amount when the derivative is negative. It's named for the
prolific mathematician who explicated it in Institutionum calculi integralis.
ANSWER: Euler's method [or Euler's formula]
[10] Due to it's all-around-decent properties, the Runge-Kutta method of this order, in conjunction with an
adaptative step-size algorithm, is the most commonly used. The Euler-Bernoulli differential equation for the
deflection of a beam has this order.
ANSWER: fourth order
[10] The error in the Euler method is proportional to this power of the step size used. Many physical systems
that we care about, including the harmonic oscillator, are described by a differential equation of this order.
ANSWER: second [or two; or square; or obvious equivalents] <Voight>
5. One of these two men gossiped that Michel Foucault had called the other's writing style "terrorist
obscurantism", prompting the latter to add "Afterword: Toward An Ethic of Discussion" to his essay collection.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these two philosophers whose disagreements over the permanence of intentionality in a speech-act
arose from a critique one of them wrote on J.L. Austin's How to Do Things with Words, which the other criticized
in "Reiterating the Differences". Some of their exchanges are presented in the collection Limited Inc.
ANSWER: Jacques Derrida and John Searle [accept in either order]
[10] The serial misunderstanding of each other's points may be partly attributed to Derrida belonging to the
continental tradition while Searle held strongly to this philosophical school articulated by G.E. Moore and
Bertrand Russell.
ANSWER: analytic philosophy
[10] Searle also expressed derision at this style of critical analysis formulated in Derrida's On Grammatology,
which aims to undermine the binary oppositions and implicit assumptions of "logocentric" traditional
philosophy.
ANSWER: deconstruction <Smart>
6. The AATSR instrument was designed primarily to measure this variable and shows big improvements in
accuracy over the MODIS and AVHRR instruments. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this variable whose extended elevation and depression off the west coast of South America is
characteristic of El Niño and La Niña, respectively.
ANSWER: sea surface temperature [or SST; prompt on surface temperature]
[10] A cool sea surface temperature can be indicative of this process, which is suppressed off Peru by El Niño.
This process's occurrence off the west coast of Peru is responsible for their rich anchovy harvests.
ANSWER: upwelling
[10] Upwelling is induced in the east of ocean basins near this latitude because the oceans here are subject to a
primarily easterly wind stress. The ITCZ is heavily associated with this latitude, which is where the trade
winds converge.
ANSWER: equator [or zero degrees] <Voight>
NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 8 of 13 

7. This country's worst nuclear accident came in 1957. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country which suffered the Windscale Fire while engaging in an attempt to build nuclear
weapons. Despite the event ranking a 5 on the 7 point Nuclear Event Scale, no long term health effects took
place.
ANSWER: United Kingdom [or UK; or England; or Great Britain]
[10] The Windscale Fire did not result in as devastating an impact as this 1986 disaster in the Soviet Union,
which was classified as a 7 and killed at least 31 people immediately.
ANSWER: Chernobyl disaster
[10] Another deadly environmental disaster in Great Britain was the "Great Storm of 1987," a cyclone that killed
at least 20 people. Michael Fish, a BBC weatherman working for this national weather service of Britain, was
criticized for jokingly telling viewers not to worry about hurricanes.
ANSWER: Met Office [or Meteorological Office] <Cheyne>
8. This character claims to be a "society vampire" and tries to impress Warren McIntyre by making a
scandalous fashion statement. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who returns to Eau Claire at the end of the story named for her, but not before
cutting off her cousin Marjorie's pigtails during her sleep.
ANSWER: Bernice
[10] The story "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" appears in this author's first story collection, Flappers and Philosophers.
This author also wrote "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" and The Great Gatsby.
ANSWER: F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
[10] This other story from Flappers and Philosophers follows Evylyn and Harold Piper, who receive the title piece
of kitchenware as a wedding gift.
ANSWER: "The Cut-Glass Bowl" <Golimlim>
9. This opera's first act closes with the title character rejecting a potential lover in the aria "Sempre libera." For
10 points each:
[10] Name this Giuseppe Verdi opera which ends with the death of Violetta due to tuberculosis.
ANSWER: La traviata [or The Fallen Woman]
[10] La traviata opens with a party in which Violetta and Alfredo join in a duet to sing this drinking song
beckoning others to enjoy wine, song, laughter, and the beautiful night.
ANSWER: "Libiamo ne' lieti calici" [prompt on brandisi]
[10] At the end of the first act of La Traviata, Violetta gives Alfredo this specific flower and tells him to return it
to her when it has wilted. The original novel by Alexandre Dumas, fils that the opera is based on contains this
flower in the title.
ANSWER: camellia <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 9 of 13 

10. This man was the uncle of Marcel Mauss. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French sociologist who penned The Rules of Sociological Method as well as a seminal study on
suicide.
ANSWER: David Emile Durkheim
[10] Durkheim's study on suicide concluded that higher social control among this religious subgroup resulted
in a lower suicide rate than other faiths.
ANSWER: Roman Catholics [prompt on Christians]
[10] Durkheim described this type of suicide as taking place when people felt excessively regulated or
oppressed. This type of suicide frequently takes place in prisons where people can no longer take abuse.
ANSWER: fatalistic suicide <Cheyne>
11. This hero enlists the help of Mabon ap Modron, the only man capable of taming Drudwyn (DROOD-"win"),
the only hound capable of hunting the boar Twrch Trwyth (TOORK troo-"WITH"). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this cousin of King Arthur, who is given an absurd amount of tasks to complete before he is
permitted to marry Ysbaddaden's (ISS-bah-DAH-den's) daughter.
ANSWER: Culhwch ("KILL hook")
[10] Among the men in Culhwch's army is the knight Bedivere, who is later tasked with returning this sword to
the Lady of the Lake.
ANSWER: Excalibur [or Caliburn]
[10] This knight, originally a kitchen boy, defeats the Red Knight of the Red Lands and wins the heart of
Lyonesse. Later, he unknowingly defeats his own brother Gawain in single combat.
ANSWER: Gareth [or Guerrehet; prompt on Beaumains] <Kim>
12. Answer the following about Lake Champlain's storied military history, for 10 points each:
[10] This fort on the southern end of Lake Champlain was captured by Ethan Allen's Green Mountain Boys in
an early Revolutionary War action.
ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga
[10] This general assisted Ethan Allen during the capture of Fort Ticonderoga. He also commanded a fleet in
Lake Champlain that was decisively defeated, but was successful in stalling Guy Carleton's plans to take the
Hudson River valley.
ANSWER: Benedict Arnold
[10] During the French and Indian War, Robert Rogers allegedly escaped a battle near Lake Champlain by
sliding 400 feet down a rock face. That battle is nicknamed for these pieces of clothing worn by Rogers'
Rangers.
ANSWER: snowshoes <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 10 of 13 

13. This composer was one of the first to write serious wind ensemble music, with his two suites for military
band. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Englishman who adapted the finale of his Second Suite in F for Military Band, "Fantasia on the
Dargason", for his later St. Paul's Suite.
ANSWER: Gustav Holst
[10] This composer, who attempted to write a sonata for every instrument of the orchestra, wrote his Symphony
in B Flat for wind band.
ANSWER: Paul Hindemith
[10] This march for wind band, written by John Philip Sousa in tribute to the American flag, may be bestknown for the piccolo solo in its trio section.
ANSWER: The Stars And Stripes Forever <White>
14. Patients with chronic granulomatous disease have difficulty producing an anion of this element. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this element whose reactive minus-one diatomic anion is partitioned by a namesake dismutase.
Three of this element are in ozone.
ANSWER: oxygen [or O2; or superoxide; or peroxide]
[10] A namesake oxidase of this compound produces superoxides. This reducing agent is made in the oxidative
phase of the pentose phosphate pathway.
ANSWER: NADPH [or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate; or NADP-plus]
[10] Superoxides can lead to this disease by oxidizing intima lipoproteins, which macrophages then engulf to
turn into foam cells.
ANSWER: atherosclerosis [or atherosclerotic plaques; or plaque buildup in arteries] <Smart>
15. The first king of this dynasty fathered Prince Henry the Navigator. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dynasty that ended when a neighboring country's Philip II absorbed the country it ruled into
the Iberian Union.
ANSWER: House of Aviz [or Aviz Dynasty]
[10] This country, which was ruled by the Houses of Aviz and Braganza, abolished its monarchy in 1910.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]
[10] At this battle that secured Portuguese independence, the founder of the Aviz Dynasty, John I, defeated
Castilian forces sent by a different John I.
ANSWER: Battle of Aljubarrota <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 11 of 13 

16. Betz's law calculates the maximum power that can be extracted using these structures, which are termed
VAWT or HAWT depending on their rotational axis. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these structures that convert energy from a renewable resource into electricity using aerodynamic
rotor blades. Groups of these structures are found on namesake onshore and offshore farms.
ANSWER: wind turbines [or aerofoil-powered generators; prompt on windmills]
[10] Blade pitch is controlled by adjusting this quantity representing the relationship between a reference line
and flow direction. The maximum lift coefficient is produced by its "critical" value, above which stalling
occurs.
ANSWER: angle of attack [or critical angle of attack; or attack angle; prompt on angle]
[10] At high angles of attack, the speed of the fluid in this viscous region relative to the blade can reverse due to
an adverse pressure gradient, resulting in flow separation and von Karman vortex streets.
ANSWER: boundary layer <Smart>
17. In this novel, the inhabitant of Satis House wears the dress from her wedding, where she was abandoned by
Compeyson. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Pip, who falls in love with Estella but is spurned by her because she has been
trained to hate men by Miss Havisham.
ANSWER: Great Expectations
[10] In Great Expectations, Abel Magwich is able to become Pip's benefactor after making his fortune in this
modern-day country.
ANSWER: Australia
[10] Dickens's own travels brought him to this country in 1842, writing an unflattering "Notes for General
Circulation" about his trip, which included a visit to Pete Williams's dance house.
ANSWER: United States of America [or United States of America] <Sy>
18. This nickname is given to the confluence of the Ruak and Mekong Rivers in northern Thailand. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this nickname that describes the collective countries of Thailand, Laos, and Myanmar, known for their lucrative
production of opium.
ANSWER: Golden Triangle
[10] The delta of this major Chinese river is also nicknamed the "Golden Triangle." The Three Gorges Dam on this river is
the world's largest source of hydroelectric power.
ANSWER: Yangtze River [or Chang Jiang]
[10] Delhi, Agra, and the "pink city" Jaipur, the capital of this state, comprise India's "Golden Triangle" of tourism. This
state contains most of the Thar Desert.
ANSWER: Rajasthan <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 12 of 13 

19. This man was "obsessed by this image of pain" from a 1905 photo of the lingchi execution method shown in
his last book, The Tears of Eros. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French intellectual who described the sexual adventures of Simone and Marcelle in a novella
titled for the body part removed from a strangled priest, Story of the Eye.
ANSWER: Georges Bataille [or Georges Albert Maurice Victor Bataille]
[10] Bataille called himself an "enemy within" this European artistic movement, whose founder called it "pure
psychic automatism." This movement seeks to represent the logic of dreams.
ANSWER: surrealism
[10] This founder of surrealism and author of the Surrealist Manifesto used automatic writing to pen The
Magnetic Fields with Philippe Soupault.
ANSWER: Andre Breton <Yu>
20. Swans swim amidst an embracing naked old man and young beauty in the counterpart to this painting, to
which a coffin was added for the smaller "New York" version painted for the widow Marie Berna. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this painting, in which precipitous cliffs surround tall dark cypresses, the masterwork of Swiss
artist Arnold Bocklin.
ANSWER: The Isle of the Dead [or Die Toteninsel]
[10] The Isle of the Dead was part of this loosely-defined mid to late-nineteenth century artistic tradition, whose
painters heavily used dream imagery and employed obscure mythological allusions. Gustave Moreau was part
of this tradition, which was coterminous with a literary movement of the same name.
ANSWER: Symbolism [or word forms, such as Symbolist]
[10] The Frieze of Life series by this Symbolist artist includes vaguely mythological and dream-like images like
Ashes and The Scream.
ANSWER: Edvard Munch <Gupta>
21. Quartet puzzling can interpret larger data sets of taxa than the stepwise addition and branch swapping
used in other maximum-likelihood heuristic search algorithms for these objects. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these branching evolutionary diagrams that may be rooted using a molecular clock or outgroups.
ANSWER: phylogenetic tree [or evolutionary tree; or directed tree; or dendrogram; or cladogram; or
phylogeny]
[10] The posterior probability of a tree being "true" equals the product of the prior probability P of A of a tree
and the likelihood of data B given A according to an interpretation of this man's namesake theorem.
ANSWER: Thomas Bayes [or Bayesian]
[10] 15 unrooted binary trees can be constructed from five tips. Give the number of unrooted binary trees that can
be constructed out of three tips.
ANSWER: one <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 02 - Page 13 of 13 

