NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Tossups
1. In 2004, this leader asked Elliot Morley to focus on suppressing illegal fishing of the Patagonian toothfish.
This self-described "dissident" once claimed that if rural people were "any other minority" they would have
been treated differently by the government. This supporter of the Cumbrian farmers and critic of the Chelsea
Barracks development plan had some of his correspondence published after a Freedom of Information request
by journalists at The Guardian. This author of the "black spider" memos became the first member of the British
Royal Family to have a civil marriage after divorcing a woman who later began a relationship with Dodi Fayed.
For 10 points, name this ex-husband of Princess Diana, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II.
ANSWER: Charles, Prince of Wales <Clarke>
2. This man gives instructions to dress a departing hero in a robe that does not discolor until he arrives back at
his home city. He is the intended recipient of a series of instructions directed at a wall in a reed hut. In his first
appearance, this man wonders why "stone things" have been destroyed, and sees a man approach him by using
punting poles to cross a sea of death. This man and his wife are assisted by Ea in persevering through an event
brought on by Enlil's anger. His wife lays out a loaf of bread for each of the seven days that a hero spends
sleeping. Later, this man informs that hero about an immortality-granting plant at the bottom of a pool. For 10
points, name this immortal flood survivor in the Epic of Gilgamesh.
ANSWER: Utnapishtim [or Atrahasis; or Ziusudra; or Xisuthrus; or Sisithrus] <Kim>
3. A moralizing epitaph drawing from its author's earlier Poemata is carved into the base of this sculpture. That
couplet defending this sculpture's piety reads "Those who love to pursue fleeting forms of pleasure, in the end
only find leaves and bitter berries in their hands" and was composed by Maffeo Barberini. This sculpture was
commissioned to replace Pluto and Proserpina, which had been regifted to Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi by
Scipione Borghese. This sculpture of a scene from Ovid's Metamorphoses depicts bark creeping up the legs of
the female character as her fingertips transform into laurel leaves. For 10 points, name this marble Bernini
sculpture of the lovestruck god of light and poetry pursuing the title nymph.
ANSWER: Apollo and Daphne <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 1 of 13 

4. A piece with this nickname is Muzio Clementi's Piano Sonata Op. 13, No. 6. Another symphony with this
nickname contains a repeated motif of an A major chord turning into A minor over the timpani, and debate
exists over whether its Scherzo movement is performed before the Andante. Schubert himself gave his fourth
symphony this title. A symphony with this nickname contains the Alma theme. An orchestral piece with this
title was written as a companion piece to reflect themes opposite that of the Academic Festival Overture. In a
symphony with this nickname, a hammer is used to signal three "blows of fate." For 10 points, name this word,
which titles an overture by Brahms and Mahler's sixth symphony.
ANSWER: tragic [or tragische] <Lee>
5. In this novel, the protagonist demonstrates his renewed faculties by bailing out two women who get
arrested dressing up as sailors to pick up French girls. In another scene from this novel, the North African
Conte di Minghetti becomes irate when his sister is asked to clean out dirty bathwater. In this novel, a woman
damaged by sexual abuse from her father, Devereux Warren, recovers and enters into an affair with Tommy
Barban. When this novel's protagonist loses his personal charm to alcoholism, he alienates the star of Daddy's
Girl, Rosemary Hoyt. This novel details the decline of the psychologist Dick Diver, whose failed marriage to
Nicole Warren is based on the author's own marriage to his wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this final
completed novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: Tender Is the Night <Bollinger>
6. An unsuccessful rebellion against a ruler of this name aimed to install Stephen of Aumale in his place, and
was led by Robert de Mowbray. An earlier ruler with this name deposed the Archbishop Stigand in favor of his
trusted adviser, Lanfranc of Pavia. Notable monarchs with this given name include one who was fatally shot by
Walter Tirel and one who suffered a postmortem stomach rupture at his funeral due to an incorrectly sized
coffin. This was the name of a king whose wars with Edwin, Morcar, and Edgar the Ætheling led to the
Harrowing of the North. For 10 points, give this name shared by several Kings of England, the first of whom
defeated Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Hastings and was thereafter known as "the Conqueror."
ANSWER: William <Clarke>
7. During this event, a doctor relates how he taught the man at the center of this event to say "Gott der
Vater...Gott der Sohn" after giving him a pound of nuts. In another speech during this event, the speaker's
country is compared to a galloping troika. A man at the center of this event exclaims, "He was a dog and died
like a dog!" when he hears that his brother has hung himself. Towards the end of this event, Ippolit Kirillovich
and Fetyukovitch give their concluding speeches. Katerina Ivanovna's presentation of a letter is central to the
outcome of this event, in which a torn envelope shifts blame away from Smerdyakov. For 10 points, name this
event from a Dostoevsky novel in which the brother of Ivan and Alyosha is convicted of parricide.
ANSWER: the trial of Dmitri Karamazov [or obvious equivalents mentioning Dmitri Karamazov; prompt on
the trial of Karamazov] <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 2 of 13 

8. As a professor, this psychologist had his students look up at a building, and found that over three-fourths of
passersby would look up with them. A clothing merchant named "Mr. Jones" would prove instrumental in
another of his experiments. An experiment by this man asked individuals in Wichita and Omaha if they knew
a person in Boston. That experiment studied the idea of a "small world" where any two people are linked by a
maximum of "six degrees of separation." In another experiment, verbal cues such as "please continue" were
used to encourage participants into delivering electric shocks to an unseen stranger taking a false memory
test. For 10 points, name this Yale psychologist who conducted a namesake "obedience to authority"
experiment.
ANSWER: Stanley Milgram <Saric>
9. Two of these particles would be excited in a giant pairing vibration. In-beam and bottle experiments differ
on the value of this particle's average lifetime by almost four standard deviations. The z-component of this
particle's isospin is negative one-half. Calculating the beta factor requires the number of these particles that
are "prompt". The r- and s-processes, both important to nucleosynthesis, involve the capture of this particle.
The experiment that discovered these particles fired them into a sheet of paraffin wax. Water or graphite are
commonly used to slow down "fast" examples of these particles in nuclear reactors. For 10 points, name these
neutral nucleons.
ANSWER: neutrons <Silverman>
10. The Circe effect is the large increase in this quantity due to electrostatic attractions. This quantity
represents the x-axis of an Eadie-Hofstee plot. It can be estimated at first pass as k-cat divided by K-sub-m.
One over this quantity is plotted on the y-axis of a Lineweaver-Burke plot. This quantity is limited by the rate
of diffusion in carbonic anhydrase, which has an extremely high turnover number. This quantity's
concentration at its half-maximum is called the Michaelis constant. For 10 points, name this quantity given by
the Michaelis-Menten equation, the speed at which an enzyme converts substrate into product.
ANSWER: catalytic velocity [or v; or catalytic rate; or catalytic efficiency; accept "enzyme" in place of
"catalytic;" or the effective rate constant; or obvious equivalents; prompt on turnover number; prompt on
binding affinity] <Silverman>
11. Ernst Gombrich popularized the idea that the characters in this painting represent different Neo-Platonist
ideals. The most popular theory behind this painting's creation is that it was made for the marriage of Lorenzo
di Pierfrancesco. At the left of this painting, clouds are broken up by a man waving a staff. The character in the
middle of this painting is surrounded by a myrtle plant taking an arch-like shape. Zephrus grasps Chloris at
the right side of this painting, near the top of which a putto aims an arrow at the three Graces. The backdrop
of this painting is formed by an orange grove. For 10 points, name this painting by Sandro Botticelli, in which
Venus and other mythological characters celebrate spring.
ANSWER: La Primavera [or The Allegory of Spring before the end of the question] <Lee>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 3 of 13 

12. The wheel spider, which is named for its tendency to rapidly cartwheel down sand dunes, is native to this
desert. This desert includes a salt pan named "Dead Marsh," named for the dead acacia trees that litter its
landscape. The Welwitschia plant, known for its long lifespan, is native to this desert. With the nearby Naukluft
Mountains, this desert is part of the largest game reserve in Africa. The whaling hub of Walvis Bay sits on the
edge of this desert. The meeting of a Hadley cell and the Benguela current envelops this desert in fog. A
collection of shipwrecks and whalebones lies on the aptly-named Skeleton Coast along this desert. For 10
points, name this desert that runs along the coast of southwestern Africa.
ANSWER: Namib Desert <Golimlim>
13. Anomalies in this phenomenon are addressed with Rabbi Zeira's stringency. This phenomenon is
established by a veset, and a bedikah cloth is used to assess it in the ritual hefsek tahara. The states of zavah
ktanah and zavah gedolah arise when this phenomenon occurs during the days of zivah instead of the days of
niddah. A metzorah, a person in the state of zav, or someone undergoing this phenomenon can cause an object
to become a midras, and those people must purify by immersing in a mikveh. Special huts are constructed to
house people during it to prevent contamination with their uncleanness, and sexual intercourse is strictly
forbidden during this monthly phenomenon. For 10 points, name this normal physiological process
considered "impure" by many religions during which the uterine lining is shed.
ANSWER: menstruation [or being on your period; accept word forms and equivalent answers] <Smart>
14. After leaving this position, a man claimed he was leading an expedition to look for tree-climbing fish. A
man who held this post was mocked with the line "Tony, Tony, where's your pushcart?" and the slur "Bohunk"
by corrupt rival William Hale Thompson. Disgruntled office seeker Patrick Prendergast murdered a man
holding this position in the 1870s, named Carter Harrison Sr. In 1933, a man holding this position was critically
wounded by Giuseppe Zangara in Miami; that man, Anton Cermak, was shot while shaking hands with actual
target Franklin Roosevelt. For 10 points, name this political position whose 1893 occupant led his city in
hosting the World's Columbian Exposition.
ANSWER: Mayor of Chicago <Cheyne>
15. The long flexible tail ejection system is used by some of these pathogens. The N proteins of some of them
form a complex with Nus that acts as an antiterminator. The proteins Gam, Exo, and Beta derived from one of
these pathogens form the basis of the Red recombineering system. Some types use a cos site for DNA
circularization. A namesake ATP-dependent DNA ligase is derived from a T-even type of these pathogens.
Esther Lederberg discovered a species of them now used in specialized transduction. Their DNA was labeled
with radioactive phosphorus in the Hershey-Chase experiment, which used the T2 species. For 10 points, name
these viruses such as lambda that infect bacteria.
ANSWER: bacteriophage [or coliphage; or Enterobacteria phage lambda; or lambda phage; or T4 phage]
<Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 4 of 13 

16. The German KTB program conducted seminal follow-up research using this technique. If not using a
continuous process, pipe tripping is required when using this technique, in order to conduct well logging.
Some data falsification aside, the crowning example of this technique occurred on the Kola Peninsula, which
probably reached the brittle-ductile transition zone. This type of research is often followed by seismometer
readings since resolution is greatly increased compared to surface measurements. Most typically, it pumps in
a namesake "mud" to reduce viscosity and provide cooling, and uses a rotary drive on a derrick or rig. For 10
points, name this technique that involves removing a thin column of crustal rock, typically with a hollow-cored
bit, in order to study the interior of the Earth.
ANSWER: scientific drilling deep into the Earth's crust [or boring deep into the Earth's crust; or obvious
equivalents; or coring until "hollow-cored" is read; prompt on oil, gas, groundwater, mineral, geothermal, or
geotechnical explorations; prompt on geotechnical, geological, or environmental studies] <Voight>
17. This philosopher once attended a conference on homelessness to dispute that homelessness is a political
issue, leading to a public argument with Albrecht Wellmer over the distinction between social and political
concerns. This philosopher found an "unwritten political philosophy" within Kant's Critique of Judgement, which
was expanded into a theory of "reflective judgment" of particular situations as the basis of values. This
philosopher defined action as equivalent to freedom and used the terms "animal laborans," "homo faber," and
"zoon politikon" to describe laboring, working, and active lives in The Human Condition. This writer of The Life of
the Mind criticized a user of "officialese" and "stock phrases" for abrogating moral responsibility in a 1963 book
written on assignment from The New Yorker. For 10 points, name this philosopher who reported on the trial of a
Nazi official in Eichmann in Jerusalem.
ANSWER: Hannah Arendt <Bollinger>
18. This character is taught how to play chess by Jose Moncada after he allows the delivery of a letter to
Moncada's wife. This man is assisted by Roque Carnicero, who had earlier tried to shoot him. This man
negotiates a peace at Neerlandia after he loses all thirty-two of the civil wars he starts, after which he retires to
making golden fish in his workshop. All but one of this man's seventeen sons are found assassinated with
permanent Ash Wednesday crosses on their foreheads. This character, while facing a firing squad, remembers
"that distant afternoon when his father," Jose Arcadio, "took him to discover ice." For 10 points, name this
liberal colonel from One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Colonel Aureliano Buendia [or Coronel Aureliano Buendia; or any answer indicating that it's the
first Aureliano; prompt on Buendia; do not accept "Aureliano Segundo" or "Aureliano Babilonia" or "Aureliano
Arcadio"] <O'Rourke>
19. Donaldina Cameron was a missionary in this city known as "Jesus Woman" or the "Angry Angel." A criminal
in this city, "Little Pete," walked around in chain mail armor until he was shot in the spine at a barbershop.
Governor Henry Gage denied there was an epidemic in this city, a disease Mayor James Phelan blamed on
certain "filthy" immigrants. In 1900, the first bubonic plague epidemic in the continental U.S. broke out in this
city. A brothel owner in this city, Ah Toy, was frequently harassed by gangs committing "slave girl" raids
during the Tong Wars. For 10 points, name this California city with the oldest Chinatown in North America,
which was ravaged by a 1906 earthquake.
ANSWER: San Francisco [prompt on Chinatown] <Cheyne>
NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 5 of 13 

20. This character's hair is very black on his chest, somewhat lighter on his head, and golden in the lower parts
of his body. Hilda leaves cigarettes on the floor of this man's house, where he defends his switch between
"proper" English and the Derby accent. At the end of the novel he appears in, this man writes that a part of his
body named John Thomas says goodbye to Lady Jane. As he looks upon an estate at night, this man is noticed
by Ivy Bolton, a woman who takes care of the owner of Wragby. This character is unable to divorce Bertha
Coutts and is the father of a child claimed by Duncan Forbes. For 10 points, name this gamekeeper who, in a D.
H. Lawrence novel, carries on an affair with Constance Chatterley.
ANSWER: Oliver Mellors [or Oliver Mellors; prompt on Lady Chatterley's lover] <Sy>
21. In a play by this author, a man slashes his chest and denounces his religion after learning the "song of selfsufficiency." In another of his plays, a man named Booster returns from a jail term he received for killing a
woman who accused him of rape and takes his father's place as the manager of the title unlicensed taxi
business. The washed-up musician Wining Boy sells his clothes to Lymon in a play by this author in which the
central family is haunted by Sutter's ghost as Boy Willie attempts to sell the title object. In another play, he
wrote about Cory, who is forbidden to play football by his father, Troy Maxson. For 10 points, name this
African-American playwright of the "Pittsburgh Cycle," which includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
ANSWER: August Wilson <Casalaspi>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 6 of 13 

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Bonuses
1. A "pan-" form of this process occurs in the kinetoplasts of trypanosomes and begins with a guide RNA basepairing with a transcript. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this uncommon process in which specific nucleotides are inserted, substituted, or deleted. ADARs
catalyze deamination of adenosine to inosine in the A-I form of this process.
ANSWER: RNA editing [or pan-editing]
[10] In another type of editing, cytidine is deaminated into the nucleoside version of this pyrimidine base.
Nirenberg and Matthaei used repeating units of this base to crack the genetic code.
ANSWER: uracil [or uridine; or U]
[10] Kinetoplasts consist of maxicircles and minicircles of kDNA containing multiple copies of this organelle's
37-gene genome, which is maternally-inherited.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion] <Smart>
2. This poetry cycle opens with a section titled "Instead of a Foreword." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this collection of ten short poems, inspired by the author's experiences with the arrest of her son
Lev Gumilev and other events of the State Terror under Stalin.
ANSWER: Requiem [or Rekviem]
[10] Requiem is a collection by this female Russian poet whose uncharacteristically long Poem Without a Hero is
narrated by a woman in Sheremet'ev Palace.
ANSWER: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreevna Akhmatova]
[10] This other 20th-century Russian poet included the garden and mirror cycles in his collection My Sister, Life.
In the West, he's better known for writing Doctor Zhivago.
ANSWER: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak] <Sy>
3. Zeus took pity on this woman and her son Arcas by turning them into constellations. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman or nymph, a follower of Artemis who was seduced by Zeus and later turned into a bear.
ANSWER: Callisto
[10] Zeus took on this disguise to seduce Callisto.
ANSWER: he disguised as Artemis herself
[10] In Ovid's Metamorphoses, the story of Callisto ends with a command to this god from Juno never to let the
new constellations touch his domain.
ANSWER: Oceanus <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 7 of 13 

4. James Thomson, the author of "Rule, Britannia," wrote a poem "sacred to the memory" of this man upon his
death in 1727. For 10 points each:
[10] "Name this Englishman whose epigraph claims God said this thinker's name when "Nature and Nature's
laws lay hid in night."
ANSWER: Sir Isaac Newton
[10] The aforementioned epitaph was penned by this translator of Homer who wrote of the "dire offence" of
the theft of Belinda's hair in The Rape of the Lock.
ANSWER: Alexander Pope
[10] Pope's essay "Peri Bathous," which describes a number of ways to "sink," or write poor poetry, was a parody
of this Greek author's Peri Hypsous, or On the Sublime.
ANSWER: Longinus [or Pseudo-Longinus] <Sy>
5. This party's leaders included Yitzhak Shamir, one of the four men who authorized the assassination of Folke
Bernadotte. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this right-wing party that was formed by an alliance of the Herut, Liberal Party, the Free Centre, the
National List and the Movement for Greater Israel before the 1973 election.
ANSWER: Likud party [or Likud-Liberalim Leumi; or Unity-National Liberals]
[10] This former Prime Minister of Israel founded the Likud party. This opponent of David Ben-Gurion led
Irgun when it massacred about 600 Arabs at Deir Yassein village.
ANSWER: Menachem Begin [or Menachem Wolfovitch Begin]
[10] Begin signed this agreement in 1978 with Anwar Sadat. This agreement set the precedent for the Oslo
Accords and was facilitated by Jimmy Carter at the namesake presidential retreat.
ANSWER: Camp David Accords <O'Rourke>
6. In motion of this type, an observer from Earth will see a planet such as Mars appear to move in a loop in the
sky. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this adjective that describes the rotation of Venus and Uranus as well as the revolution of Triton
around Neptune.
ANSWER: retrograde
[10] Satellites undergoing retrograde revolution are considered captured bodies. Bodies can be captured when
they fall into this region where an object exerts gravitational domination on a smaller body even though both
bodies are under the gravitational influence of a more massive object.
ANSWER: Hill sphere [or Roche sphere]
[10] Smaller bodies in a three-body system can stably reside at these points, where they are in gravitational
equilibrium with two larger bodies. A prominent example of such a situation is the Trojan asteroids in
Jupiter's orbit.
ANSWER: Lagrange points <Lee>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 8 of 13 

7. An Andante. Nobilmente e semplice theme begins this composer's Symphony No. 1, written in the unusual key of
A-flat major. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of a B minor violin concerto and a choral piece that ends with the Angel singing
"Softly and gently, dearly-ransomed soul" after a man journeys into Purgatory.
ANSWER: Edward Elgar
[10] Elgar also composed this set of six marches most often heard at graduation ceremonies.
ANSWER: Pomp and Circumstance Marches [or Pomp and Circumstance Military Marches]
[10] This tenth of Elgar's Enigma Variations includes a melody played by solo viola and has the woodwinds
parody the stutter of the composer's title female friend.
ANSWER: "Dorabella" [or "Intermezzo: Allegretto"] <Kim>
8. Portraits of musicians by an artist from this group include King David Playing the Harp and The Happy
Violinist with a Glass of Wine. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this pan-European set of artists represented in Spain by Francisco Ribalta and in Utretcht by Gerrit
van Honthorst and Hendrick ter Brugghen. These painters adopted the tenebrism of their namesake painter.
ANSWER: Caravaggisti [or Caravagesques; or descriptive answers akin to followers of Caravaggio]
[10] The Caravaggisti also made heavy use of this technique of strongly contrasting light and dark.
Appropriately, this term is Italian for "light-dark."
ANSWER: chiaroscuro
[10] Though not a member of the Caravaggisti, this French artist from the generation after Caravaggio's used
chiaroscuro in religious scenes like The Penitent Magdalene, which are all illuminated by a single candle.
ANSWER: Georges de la Tour <Gupta>
9. Answer the following about the Ural Mountains, for 10 points each.
[10] This vast region lies to the east of the Ural Mountains. It is crossed by a namesake railway, which is also
the longest in the world.
ANSWER: Siberia
[10] This island group, which separates the Kara and Barents Seas, is geologically an extension of the Ural
Mountains. Tsar Bomba, the most powerful nuclear test in history, was conducted on this island group's
Severny portion.
ANSWER: Novaya Zemlya [or Nova Zembla; or New Land]
[10] Nine skiers in the Ural Mountains died after fleeing their camp during this 1959 incident. The unusual
condition of the recovered bodies have led to several theories about its causes, which are still unknown.
ANSWER: Dyatlov Pass incident <Ray>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 9 of 13 

10. Answer the following about some British battles that took place at bridges, for 10 points each.
[10] This 1066 victory for Harold Godwinson took the life of Harald Hardrada and ended the Viking invasion of
Britain.
ANSWER: Battle of Stamford Bridge
[10] The poet Blind Harry chronicled the life of this man, who won a decisive victory with Andrew de Moray at
Stirling Bridge. This Scotsman later lost at Falkirk and was hanged, drawn, and quartered on the orders of
Edward Longshanks.
ANSWER: William Wallace
[10] This king's favored nobleman, Robert de Vere, led his forces at the Battle of Radcot Bridge, which resulted
in few casualties. Earlier, this king resisted the Wonderful Parliament's demands to dismiss Michael de la
Pole.
ANSWER: Richard II [prompt on Richard] <Golimlim>
11. This philosopher was never able to enroll enough students to complete one of his courses at the University
of Berlin, since he repeatedly scheduled his lectures at the same time as Hegel's in an effort to spite him. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this pessimistic author of The World as Will and Idea.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
[10] Schopenhauer equates his idea of the "will" with this Kantian concept, an unknowable "real" substance
that is separate from the object of perception.
ANSWER: the thing-in-itself [or the ding an sich; or the noumenon]
[10] According to the third book of The World as Will and Idea, humans can mitigate their suffering by
becoming temporarily "will-less" in the contemplation of this thing. Schopenhauer considered this thing the
purest embodiment of "will" itself.
ANSWER: music [prompt on art] <Bollinger>
12. Answer the following about the Fock operator, for 10 points each.
[10] The Fock operator includes a term for electronic repulsion named for this Frenchman, whose namesake
law gives the electrostatic force between two charges.
ANSWER: Charles Coulomb
[10] The Fock operator also includes the exchange operator, which swaps the positions of two particles and
evaluates the energy. A fermionic wavefunction must be antisymmetric with respect to the exchange operator
according to this rule.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle [or Pauli exclusion principle]
[10] The inadequacies of Hartree-Fock are usually due to this phenomenon, in which Coulombic repulsion
reduces the interaction energy because the electrons "coordinate" their spatial positions to be further apart in
the orbital.
ANSWER: electron correlation <Silverman>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 10 of 13 

13. In an oft-anthologized section of this book, lawyers convince an Easterner that his client's ranch is lost
because another man's ranch has slid down a hill and covered it intact. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Mark Twain travelogue that details his travels with his brother Orion in Nevada, California, and
Hawaii. Its events precede his travels to the Holy Land, which are the subject of The Innocents Abroad.
ANSWER: Roughing It
[10] In a more famous Mark Twain work, Huck Finn helps this slave, who runs away from Miss Watson.
ANSWER: Jim
[10] In a famous passage from Huck Finn, Huck rips up a letter to Miss Watson, says, "All right then," and
proclaims his willingness to suffer this punishment as a consequence of helping Jim.
ANSWER: go to hell [or obvious equivalents mentioning hell] <Sy>
14. This character's commanding officer is a "trig westpointer most succinctly bred." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man "whose warmest heart recoiled at war." At the end of the poem about him, the speaker calls
him "more brave than me, more blond than you."
ANSWER: Olaf
[10] This poet of "i sing of Olaf glad and big" eschewed ordinary grammar and typography in his poems, such
as "anyone lived in a pretty how town" and "i carry your heart with me."
ANSWER: E. E. Cummings [Edward Estlin Cummings]
[10] In the final line of Cummings's poem "somewhere i have never traveled,gladly beyond," he states that not
even this phenomenon has hands as small as his beloved's.
ANSWER: the rain <Sy>
15. During this year, protesters chanted "We are all German Jews," reflecting the heritage of Daniel CohnBendit, the leader of the March 22 Movement. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this year in which a widespread wildcat strike occurred, inspired by student protests at the Sorbonne.
Those strikes and protests threatened the administration of Charles de Gaulle.
ANSWER: 1968
[10] In another 1968 event, the Soviets put an abrupt stop to Alexander Dubcek's reforms by invading this
capital of Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague [or Praha]
[10] The dismissal of this politician from Edward Heath's cabinet triggered an eruption of 1968 strikes. Those
events occurred after he gave his controversial "Rivers of Blood" speech against immigration.
ANSWER: Enoch Powell [or John Enoch Powell] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 11 of 13 

16. This ballet, which was staged completely from memory for its Bolshoi Theater premiere, includes perhaps
the most famous ballet blanc in its second act. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ballet, composed by Adolphe Adam, in which the power of the title peasant girl's love saves
Albrecht from the wrath of the Wilis, a group of powerful supernatural nymphs.
ANSWER: Giselle
[10] This ballerina, who along with Dame Margot Fonteyn was one of only two to be recognized as a prima
ballerina assoluta, was renowned for her interpretation of Giselle. With Sir Anton Dolin, she co-founded the
English National Ballet.
ANSWER: Dame Alicia Markova
[10] In Giselle, the Wilis kill men by forcing them to perform this action to exhaustion. This is also the manner
of death of the Chosen One at the end of The Rite of Spring.
ANSWER: dancing [accept word forms] <Gupta>
17. Dental employee Elton Simpson was killed in this state while trying to attack the Curtis Culwell Center. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this state where Simpson and a partner were slain while engaging in a violent protest of an event
organized by Pamela Geller. While a security officer was shot in the ankle, both Simpson and his associate
died.
ANSWER: Texas
[10] Simpson and roommate Nadir Hamid Soofi attacked the Texas event which Geller organized to promote
the controversial and blasphemous drawing of this religious figure.
ANSWER: Muhammad
[10] Geller is the head of this organization which has been described as an anti-Islam hate group. Its European
equivalent is led by Anders Pedersen.
ANSWER: Stop Islamization of America [or SIOA; or American Freedom Defense Initiative; or AFDI]
<Cheyne>
18. Spirit Airlines successfully accused Northwest Airlines of this practice in the Detroit market. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this practice of selling goods below cost in order to force another firm out of the market. The
"theory of the long purse" was an early explanation for it.
ANSWER: predatory pricing
[10] Firms use predatory pricing to maintain this type of market, where there is only one seller.
ANSWER: monopoly [do not accept "oligopoly"]
[10] Natural monopolies may exist when the industry displays this feature, in which long-run average costs are
decreasing up to a quantity that exceeds market demand.
ANSWER: economies of scale [do not accept "economies of scope"] <Bailey>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 12 of 13 

19. The validity of this statement is undecidable as a result of Gödel showing that no contradiction arises when
adding it to Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory, but Paul Cohen showing that no contradiction arises when the
negation of this statement is added. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this statement, which says that there is no set whose cardinality is between the integers and the
reals.
ANSWER: continuum hypothesis
[10] The continuum hypothesis was proposed by this German mathematician and developer of transfinite
numbers. His namesake set is a fractal formed by repeatedly removing the middle third of line segments.
ANSWER: Georg Cantor
[10] The continuum hypothesis is the first of Hilbert's 23 problems. Hilbert's 7th problem asks whether
numbers of the form alpha to the beta, where alpha is algebraic and beta irrational, have this property, which
is possessed by e, pi, and e to the pi.
ANSWER: transcendental [or word forms] <Schindler>
20. Two cannons known as the "Twin Sisters" were used in this battle against an enemy who failed to post
sentries as his men slept. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this decisive victory for the Republic of Texas, in which the capture of Antonio López de Santa Anna
prompted a quick end to further hostilities.
ANSWER: Battle of San Jacinto
[10] This politician and military leader, who triggered the Archive War by attempting to relocate the capital of
Texas, commanded Texan forces at the Battle of San Jacinto.
ANSWER: Samuel "Sam" Houston
[10] Houston's victory at San Jacinto came after this desperate campaign, during which news of the massacres
at the Alamo and Goliad caused the provisional government of Texas to flee from Santa Anna's advancing
army.
ANSWER: Runaway Scrape <Clarke>
21. The first of these paintings by this artist was created after the artist decided to visit war-torn Valparaiso in
Chile. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these paintings by a specific artist, which include a depiction of the "Old Battersea Bridge" in "blue
and gold," as well as one that led the artist to be accused of "flinging a pot of paint in the public's face."
ANSWER: James McNeill Whistler's nocturnes [or nocturnes by James Abbott McNeill Whistler; prompt on
Whistler; prompt on nocturnes]
[10] In Whistler's Nocturne: Blue and Gold - Old Battersea Bridge, the "old church" from this London neighborhood
is visible. Nocturne: Blue and Silver depicts the waterfront of this area, the site of the pleasure gardens where
Whistler painted the notorious Falling Rocket.
ANSWER: Chelsea, London
[10] Whistler is of course best known for his Arrangement in Grey and Black, No. 1, a painting of this person. A
description is acceptable.
ANSWER: his mother [or Anna Matilda Whistler; or Anna McNeill; prompt on Whistler] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 17 - Page 13 of 13 

