2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 5
Tossups

1. A mosaic of the Annunciation by Ghirlandaio is in this building, as is the Assumption of the Virgin of
Nanni di Banco and Tino di Camaino’s Tomb of Bishop Orso. Its construction was begun by Arnolfo di
Cambio, and Federico Zuccari and Giorgio Vasari created its fresco of The Last Judgment. Giotto
designed this building’s accompanying (*) bell tower, and a nearby baptistry features doors decorated
by Andrea Pisano and Lorenzo Ghiberti as The Gates of Paradise. For 10 points, name this cathedral
featuring a gigantic dome designed by Filippo Brunelleschi.
ANSWER: Florence Cathedral [accept Duomo of Florence; or Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore]
2. This man’s son argued for the legalization of suicide in his opera Der Friedensengel and tackled
abortion in Der Kobold. One of his own operas sees the dueling arias “Blick’ ich umher” and “Dir
Göttin der Liebe”; another song contest by this man sees Sixtus Beckmesser self-destruct while trying
to perform the “Prize Song.” (*) Elsa and a knight celebrate their marriage in this man’s oft-performed
Wedding March. For 10 points, name this composer of Tannhäuser, The Mastersingers of Nuremberg,
Lohengrin, and four operas comprising his Ring Cycle.
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
3. This ruler erected the Sainte-Chapelle to house relics he bought off of Baldwin II. The revolts of
Pierre Mauclerc and Duke Raymond of Toulouse were suppressed early in his reign, and, later, he
unsuccessfully tried to settle a controversy between Henry III and the English barons. He was
succeeded by Philip III and captured at (*) al-Mansurah in 1250. His mother, Blanche of Castile, served
as his regent. For 10 points, name this French king who took part in the Seventh and Eighth Crusades,
canonized in 1297.
ANSWER: Louis IX [or Saint Louis]
4. One candidate in this election declared “You can’t shoot an idea with a gun” in the first ever radio
debate between candidates. In this election, Minnesotan Harold Statten had an early lead in the
Republican primary but lost to Robert Taft in Ohio. The Democrats chose Alben (*) Barkley as VP but
suffered a split when a civil rights platform caused Strom Thurmond to storm out of the convention. For
10 points, name this election that saw the continued domination of the Democrats, despite a Chicago
Tribune headline claiming “Dewey Defeats Truman.”
ANSWER: Election of 1948
5. This artist painted a house with nine columns from an angle that obscures the bottom with brownorange metal strips, in a work titled House by the Railroad. A barber pole and a fire hydrant cast long
shadows in front of a row of shops in his Early Sunday Morning, and two women sit at a table with a
blue bowl and red teapot with a visible sign for (*) the title food of his Chop Suey. This man also
advertised five-cent Phillies in a painting of two men and a red-haired woman sitting at a diner. For 10
points, name this painter of Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Lines of springs are characteristic of these objects, and the classic theory of their formation is
named after Anderson. One type of these objects is divided into “leaky” and “transpressional” types,
and in a “reverse” one, the hade is toward the upthrow side. A “reverse” one is almost always a (*)
dip-slip type, since in the strike-slip type the walls move horizontally rather than vertically. For 10 points,
name these “cracks” in the Earth’s crust where one part of the crust moves against another part, a
prominent example of which is the San Andreas.
ANSWER: faults [or faultlines; prompt on transverse plate boundaries]
7. In a play by this man, Bertha turns to Robert Hand after feeling neglected by the writer Richard
Rowan. One of his stories focuses on the death of the priest Father Flynn, and another of his stories
concerns a party hosted by Julia and Kate Morkan at which Greta reveals her love for the (*) dead
Michael Furey. In addition to that story about Gabriel Conroy, he wrote a novel which takes place on
June 16, 1904, and follows Leopold Bloom’s journey through Dublin. For 10 points, name this author of
Exiles, Dubliners, and Ulysses.
ANSWER: James Augustine Aloysius Joyce
8. This scientist lends his name to a theory of dilute colloidal solutions. Vacuum fluctuations at a
length scale named for him result in quantum foam. He sought to overcome the deficiencies of the
Rayleigh-Jeans law and Wien’s law to develop a universal law governing the (*) quantized emission of
radiation from a perfect emitter. For 10 points, name this individual who developed a law relating
blackbody radiation to temperature, and whose namesake constant, symbolized h, relates the energy of
a photon to its frequency.
ANSWER: Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck
9. This river passes through Ponca State Park, and it ultimately begins at Brower’s Spring. The PickSloan program developed this river, resulting in the creation of Lake Sharpe behind Big Bend Dam, as
well as Fort Peck Dam. It forms near Three Forks where the (*) Gallatin, Jefferson, and Madison rivers
meet, and its tributaries include the Yellowstone and Platte rivers. It passes by the state capitals of
Bismarck and Pierre after beginning in Montana. For 10 points, name this river that flows past St. Louis
before entering the Mississippi in its namesake state.
ANSWER: Missouri River
10. The title character of this novel dreams that his grandfather makes him look inside a calfskin
briefcase, revealing a slur-containing note. Dr. Bledsoe expels the protagonist after he shows Mr.
Norton the “seamy” campus. The title character imitates Rinehart and fights Ras the (*) Destroyer
after he joins the Brotherhood, and he earlier worked at Liberty Paints. The first chapter of this novel
details how black students fight and pick up coins on an electrified mat in the “Battle Royal.” For 10
points, name this novel about an identity-less narrator, by Ralph Ellison.
ANSWER: Invisible Man [do not accept “The Invisible Man”]
11. Deviations from this equation can be found by plotting the compressibility factor against pressure;
the virial expansion is often used to measure those deviations. The Peng-Robinson equation is a good
alternative to this equation at low pressures and the Redlich-Kwong equation is a better alternative at
high pressures. A more common alternative is an equation that introduces parameters (*) a and b, the
van der Waals equation. For 10 points, name this equation of state describing the behavior of a
sufficiently dilute gas, which states that PV equals nRT.
ANSWER: ideal gas equation or law
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. In the Qur’an, he is referred to as the prophet Yahyá and is imprisoned in the citadel Machaerus
prior to his death. An angel strikes Zacharias dumb for doubting that this figure will be born. His
condemnation of the marriage between Herodias and her brother-in-law Herod Antipas results in his
(*) death at the behest of Herodias’ daughter Salome. He subsists off locusts and wild honey, and, in
Isaiah, he is described as “a voice that crieth out in the wilderness.” For 10 points, name this son of
Elizabeth who blessed Jesus by immersing him in the River Jordan.
ANSWER: John the Baptist [prompt on John]
13. One type of this was measured on the "F-scale" in a book which found that "anti-intraception,"
superstition, and obsession with sex and power comprised its "authoritarian" type. Histrionic,
dependent, and schizoid are among the types of disorders that can affect it. Tests which attempt to
categorize this include the TAT and the Minnesota-developed (*) MMPI. Another test divides it into
sixteen “types” based on such qualities as "judgment" and "introversion." For 10 points, a Myers-Briggs
test evaluates what thing, the sum of an individual’s behavioral characteristics?
ANSWER: personality
14. This character is the only known client of the “Parental Revenge Center,” and, in another episode,
he becomes the only friend of the Arab student Bahir. In one episode, he is repeatedly mistaken for a
dog after getting a ninja star stuck in his eye, and he also fakes his own death so he can return as the
“new girl” (*) Marjorine. As the “creator,” he thinks everyone back into existence at the end of the
Imaginationland epic, and he is the creator of Professor Chaos. For 10 points, name this naïve blondehaired kid from South Park.
ANSWER: “Butters” Stotch [accept either part]
15. Monoclonal antibody A33/22 recognizes a protein on the loop of the “lampbrush” type of these
objects. Treating them in hot alkaline solution before staining them with Giemsa reagent produces R
bands, and the presence of Bcr-Abl diagnoses one of these named for (*) Philadelphia. Missing or extra
ones of these objects is usually due to nondisjunction, and a karyotype portrays all of them. For 10
points, name this structure visible during metaphase consisting of two sister chromatids, of which
humans have 23 pairs.
ANSWER: chromosomes
16. The Bar-le-Duc road became known as the Sacred Way due to its vital role in this battle, and Fort
Douamont and Fort Vaux both fell during it. Eric von Falkenhayn was dismissed as chief of the General
Staff by Kaiser Wilhelm for his failure to win this battle, and Philippe (*) Petain became a national hero
in France for his role in stopping the German advance in this battle. For 10 points, name this devastating
1916 battle of World War I in which French forces repulsed a German offensive on the namesake
fortress on the Meuse River.
ANSWER: Verdun
17. This word names a Christopher Okigbo poem usually published with “Path of Thunder,” and
Robbe-Grillet wrote a novel titled for being in one. A work with this title is a sampling of stories from
works like Doctor Brodie’s Report and Ficciones by (*) Jorge Luis Borges, and this word describes the
title place of a Borges short story about Yu Tsun. The title character learns that Sucre has been killed in a
Garcia Marquez novel about “The General in His” one of these. For 10 points, Octavio Paz wrote about
Mexican culture in a work about what entity “of Solitude”?
ANSWER: labyrinths [accept laberintos]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. The first of these conflicts included the battles of Laing's Nek and Majuba Hill. The second one was
orchestrated by Viscount Milner and Joseph Chamberlain, and attempted to raise the status of the
“Uitlanders” within a state governed by Paul Kruger. After “Black Week,” Lord Kitchener instituted a
scorched-earth policy to capture (*) Bloemfontein in these wars. The Peace of Vereeniging ended the
second of these wars and allowed Britain to occupy the Transvaal. For 10 points, name these conflicts
between Britain and the namesake Dutch-descended South Africans.
ANSWER: Boer Wars
19. Agnar gave this figure drink while he was the prisoner of Geirröd, and this figure turned into a
snake to seduce Gunnlöd and gain the mead of Kvasir. With his brothers Vili and Ve he slew the giant
Ymir, and his sons include Vali and Vidar. He sacrificed himself to himself when for nine days he hung
from (*) Yggdrasil, and, in order to drink from Mimir’s well, he gave up his eye. The owner of the spear
Gungnir and the eight-legged horse Sleipnir, he will be eaten by Fenrir at Ragnarok. For 10 points, name
this All-Father, the leader of the Norse gods.
ANSWER: Odin [or Wodin or Wotan]
20. This author wrote a story in which the title character prepares a meal for Norwegians named
Martine and Philippa. That story, “Babette’s Feast,” is found with “The Deluge at Norderney” in one of
this author’s collections. A novel by this author tells of a hunter named Denys Finch-Hatton who dies
when his “moth machine” airplane crashes. That (*) autobiographical novel by this author of the Seven
Gothic Tales tells of her divorce from Bror on a Kenyan coffee plantation. For 10 points, name this
Danish author of Out of Africa whose real name was Karen Blixen.
ANSWER: Isak Denisen [accept Karen Blixen before it is mentioned]
21. The area under the reversible magnetization curve of a superconductor is equal to the difference
in one type of this quantity between the normal and superconducting states. The change in another
type of this quantity is equal to negative R T times the natural log of the equilibrium constant by the
(*) Nernst equation. Both types equal the change in either internal energy or enthalpy minus the
product of temperature and the change in entropy. For 10 points, name this kind of energy that comes
in Helmholtz and Gibbs types, the energy available to do work.
ANSWER: free energy [accept condensation energy until “difference”; accept Helmholtz free energy
before “another type”]
22. This man successfully opposed the Radowitz Plan and bribed reporters to support his government
with the Reptile Fund. He implemented the first state old-age pension in modern history, and his
subordinate Adalbert Falk issued the May Laws, part of this man’s (*) struggle with Pope Pius IX, the
anti-Catholic Kulturkampf. He also altered the Ems Dispatch to provoke a war with Napoleon III’s France,
which led to the declaration of Wilhelm I as Emperor. For 10 points, name this Prussian politician who
engineered the creation of Germany.
ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck
23. The title character of this work laments that he is “pigeon-liver’d” and a “rogue and peasant
slave.” One character sends Reynaldo to spy on his son, and the courtier Osiric serves as a messenger
in this play. The title character ponders shuffling off of “this (*) mortal coil,” and this work ends with a
call to put the title character’s body on a platform by Horatio, who tells the invading Fortinbras the
story. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Claudio kills his brother and Ophelia drowns.
ANSWER: Hamlet
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #3
Round 5
Bonuses

1. The first chapter of this work was previously published as the short story The Stoker. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this work about Karl Rossman’s arrival in New York and disappearance on his way to
Oklahoma.
ANSWER: Amerika
[10] Amerika is a work by this Austrian author of The Castle, A Hunger Artist, and In the Penal Colony.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10] Kafka also wrote this novel which includes the short story Before the Law. In it, Josef K. is arrested
for an unspecified crime, and forced to undergo the title legal proceedings.
ANSWER: The Trial [accept Der Process]
2. At the end of the work he appears in, he sings a copper boat into existence and sails away across the
see. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this figure of Finnish mythology who protects the Sampo of the smith Ilmarinen in the
Kalevala.
ANSWER: Väinämöinen
[10] Väinämöinen was killed by Louhi while hunting one of these birds in the Tuonela River. In Greek
myth, Zeus took the form of ones of these birds to seduce Leda.
ANSWER: swans
[10] Väinämöinen’s fate of having his body dismembered and scattered in the river only to later be
resurrected mirrors that of this Egyptian god of the underworld, whose wife Isis revived him after he
was killed by his brother Set.
ANSWER: Osiris
3. Marco Polo went searching for this man in Nestorian regions of Asia, and he was later thought to be
Ethiopian. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this legendary Christian king, whom medieval Crusaders thought to be the ruler of a remote
Christian kingdom that could be called upon for aid in battle.
ANSWER: Prester John
[10] This actual African king was a ruler of Mali who built the Great Mosque of Timbuktu and
inadvertently debased the gold coins of Egypt during a lavish pilgrimage to Mecca in the 1310s.
ANSWER: Mansa Musa
[10] Mansa Musa briefly conquered the city of Gao, the seat of this other empire, which became
prominent again in the 1490s when it was led by Sonni Ali and Muhammed Askia.
ANSWER: Songhai

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. In order to have a baby, Serena Joy makes this novel's protagonist sleep with Nick. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Offred, who is forced to perform the title occupation in the Republic of
Gilead.
ANSWER: The Handmaid's Tale
[10] This Canadian author of Oryx and Crake wrote The Handmaid's Tale.
ANSWER: Margaret Atwood
[10] This other Canadian author grew up in Sri Lanka. His novels include In the Skin of a Lion, Anil’s
Ghost, and The English Patient.
ANSWER: Michael Ondaatje
5. As carbon dioxide levels increase, the rate of this process decreases. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process that only occurs when the stomata are open, the evaporation of water as water
vapor from plant leaves.
ANSWER: transpiration
[10] Before being transpired, water is carried from the roots to the leaves via this vascular tissue,
contrasted with phloem.
ANSWER: xylem
[10] Water is transported up the xylem against gravity by this principle, the tendency of liquids to drag
upwards as a result of surface tension and adhesion to the walls of narrow tubes.
ANSWER: capillary action
6. This man received his byname at the Battle of Graus, and he later fought for Sancho II of Castile. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this figure, whose exploits in both internecine wars among Christian Spanish kingdoms and
the ongoing war against Muslim Spain made him the Spanish national hero.
ANSWER: El Cid [or Rodrigo/Ruy Díaz de Vivar]
[10] This Spanish name is given to the campaign to overtake the Muslim kingdoms, which ended in 1492
when Ferdinand and Isabella conquered the last Almohad outpost.
ANSWER: La Reconquista [or Reconquest]
[10] This was the final kingdom conquered by Ferdinand and Isabella. The Alhambra is located here.
ANSWER: Granada
7. He defeated Jack Nelson-Pallmeyer to win the nomination of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this satirist and 2008 senate candidate who passed his opponent Norm Coleman in votes
after a recount.
ANSWER: Alan Stuart Franken
[10] Franken is attempting to gain a senate seat from this state, whose governor is Tim Pawlenty.
Notable politicians from this state have included Hubert Humphrey and Walter Mondale.
ANSWER: Minnesota
[10] Coleman first gained his seat in the 2002 election when this DFL senator and author of Conscience
of a Liberal died in a plane crash less than two weeks before the election.
ANSWER: Paul David Wellstone

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. This sociologist studied natives of Australia to write The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this French thinker, who also studied four reasons for the title phenomenon in his book
Suicide.
ANSWER: Émile Durkheim
[10] One of the reasons that Durkheim identified for suicide was this condition of being disconnected
from any meaningful social norms.
ANSWER: anomie
[10] Robert Merton applied the theory of anomie to this field. Its other theorists include Jeremy
Bentham, whose work in this discipline discussed the “panopticon,” and Cesare Baccaria.
ANSWER: criminology [prompt on penology]
9. He analyzed the causes and types of emotions in his 1649 work The Passions of the Soul. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this French philosopher of Meditations on First Philosophy.
ANSWER: René Descartes
[10] Descartes may be best known for this three-word Latin phrase, a single undeniable truth that he
used as a foundation for his theory of knowledge.
ANSWER: “cogito ergo sum” [prompt on “I think, therefore I am”]
[10] The French equivalent of “cogito ergo sum,” “Je pense, donc je suis”, first appeared in this 1637
Descartes tract, which also introduced Cartesian geometry in the appendix La Géométrie.
ANSWER: Discourse on Method [or Discours de la méthode; or Discourse on the Method]
10. Orin shoots himself at the end of this work. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this series of three dramas, “Homecoming,” “The Hunted,” and “The Haunted,” a retelling of
the Orestes story involving the Mannon family.
ANSWER: Mourning Becomes Electra
[10] This American playwright of The Emperor Jones, Desire Under the Elms, and The Hairy Ape penned
Mourning Becomes Electra.
ANSWER: Eugene Gladstone O’Neill
[10] This O’Neill work sees patrons of Harry Hope’s bar gradually abandon their “pipe dreams” after
“Hickey” Hickman kills his wife.
ANSWER: The Iceman Cometh
11. Its tallest peak, Vinson Massif, is located within the Sentinel Range of the Ellsworth Mountains, and it
contains the sub-glacial Lake Vostok. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fifth-largest continent that is a demilitarized zone allocated for scientific research.
ANSWER: Antarctica
[10] Along with the Weddell Sea, this body of water is one of the two major embayments of Antarctica
and has a namesake ice shelf located at its head.
ANSWER: Ross Sea
[10] Ross Island is home to Mount Terror and this other mountain, which, like Deception Island, is an
active volcano of Antarctica.
ANSWER: Mount Erebus

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. For a first order reaction, it is equal to the natural logarithm of two divided by the rate constant. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this time necessary for half the original concentration of reactants in a chemical reaction to
be used.
ANSWER: half-life
[10] This method of determining the age of fossils and other once-living material relies on the fact that
the half-life of a certain isotope is approximately 5,730 years.
ANSWER: radiocarbon dating
[10] This man used a “Curve of Knowns” to test radiocarbon dating against the known age of historical
artifacts. He won the 1960 Nobel in Chemistry for his work on carbon dating.
ANSWER: Willard Frank Libby
13. Identify these constellations, for 10 points each.
[10] Murzim and Mulliphem are the beta and gamma stars, respectively, of this constellation, whose
alpha star is Sirius.
ANSWER: Canis Major
[10] This constellation is named because of its resemblance to a swan. Albireo is at its head, and Deneb
is at its tail.
ANSWER: Cygnus
[10] The Lagoon, Horseshoe, and Trifid nebulas lie in this constellation that also contains the center of
the Milky Way.
ANSWER: Sagittarius
14. One character in this work invents a sickly friend named Bunbury to avoid his aunt Lady Bracknell’s
parties. For 10 points each:
[10] Algernon Montcrieff is a character in this play, in which Gwendolyn Fairfax learns that Jack
Worthing actually was christened with the titular name.
ANSWER: The Importance of being Earnest
[10] The Importance of being Earnest is a play by this author of Lady Windemere’s Fan and The Picture of
Dorian Gray.
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde
[10] Oscar Wilde also wrote this poem, which contains the line “each man kills the thing he loves,” about
being locked up in the title prison on sodomy charges.
ANSWER: “The Ballad of Reading Gaol” (pronounced “jail”)
15. Name these battles of the U.S. Civil War, for 10 points each.
[10] This July, 1863, Pennsylvania battle included Pickett’s charge and is often seen as the turning point
of the Civil War.
ANSWER: Gettysburg
[10] This 1862 Maryland battle, also known as Sharpsburg, was the single bloodiest day of the Civil War.
It saw the cautious McClellan defeated by Lee despite intercepted intelligence.
ANSWER: Antietam
[10] George Thomas replaced Rosecrans as head of the Army of the Cumberland before this late 1863
Tennessee battle that included fights at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge.
ANSWER: Chattanooga

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. On the lower left-hand corner is a basket with food, a hat with a blue ribbon around it, and
a discarded dress. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting that shows a woman in white bending over in the background. In the
foreground, a man in a turban and a man in a brown suit sit with a naked woman.
ANSWER: The Luncheon on the Grass [or Le Dejeuner sur l’herbe]
[10] The Luncheon on the Grass was painted by this creator of Woman with Parrot. He painted a
reclining nude woman in Olympia.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet
[10] This sister in law of Manet is depicted in The Balcony. She painted children in Hide and Seek and
Butterfly Hunt.
ANSWER: Berthe Morisot
17. It can be described via the equation x of t equals A times the cosine of omega t plus phi. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this variety of un-damped, un-driven oscillatory motion, undergone by an ideal spring or
pendulum in two dimensions.
ANSWER: simple harmonic motion [prompt on harmonic motion]
[10] In simple harmonic motion, the restoring force on an object is linearly dependent upon its
displacement from the equilibrium position, which describes this law that states that F equals negative
kx.
ANSWER: Hooke’s law
[10] In the equation for simple harmonic motion, A is amplitude and omega is frequency, while the phi
term is known as this constant. It specifies where the object is at time zero.
ANSWER: phase constant
18. Opponents of this policy introduced high taxes on voluntary cooperatives in order to discredit it. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this initiative of Mikhail Gorbachev which allowed the leasing of land and an increased
freedom for private business as part of a “restructuring” of the Soviet economy.
ANSWER: perestroika
[10] Another reform program under Gorbachev was this initiative for “openness” in government and
freedom of speech.
ANSWER: glasnost
[10] One beneficiary of glasnost was this human rights activist, who was released from his longtime
house arrest. He was the father of the Soviet hydrogen bomb.
ANSWER: Andrey Dmitriyevich Sakharov
19. For 10 points each, name these similar brass instruments.
[10] This instrument has three valves and a cylindrical bore, as opposed to its close relative, the cornet,
which has a conical bore instead.
ANSWER: trumpet
[10] Trumpets evolved from valveless trumpets; cornets, however, evolved from this valveless
instrument, which is still used to play songs like "Taps" in military bands.
ANSWER: bugle
[10] Another instrument that evolved from the bugle is this mellower instrument, first developed in
Germany, which plays mainly in the alto range.
ANSWER: flugelhorn [accept fluegelhorn]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. During live performances of this song, the band members would leave the stage one at a time until
only drummer Joe Morello was left. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this jazz standard recorded by the Dave Brubeck Quartet on Time Out, which is notably
written in 5/4 time.
ANSWER: “Take Five”
[10] The opening track on Time Out utilizes a 9/8 time reminiscent of the karsilama rhythm of the
namesake country.
ANSWER: “Blue Rondo a la Turk”
[10] “Blue Rondo a la Turk”’s title is a play on this composer’s Rondo alla Turca. He also composed the
Jupiter symphony and Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
21. The "mise" of this place was a document in which French King Louis IX nullified the Provisions of
Oxford. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this home city of France's largest cathedral, also the site of an 1802 treaty with England that
secured a fourteen-month break in the Napoleonic Wars.
ANSWER: Amiens
[10] The British negotiator at the 1802 Treaty of Amiens was this former general, whose loss at
Yorktown ended the American Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Charles Cornwallis
[10] When the Amiens peace failed, George III called on this prime minister, the son of the Great
Commoner, to form a government in 1804.
ANSWER: William Pitt the Younger [prompt on Pitt]
22. This man developed three basic laws of inheritance while studying characteristics of pea plants. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this Austrian monk, often called the father of genetics.
ANSWER: Gregor Johann Mendel
[10] One of Mendel’s laws refers to this phenomenon, in which the presence or absence of an allele for
one trait does not affect the presence or absence of an allele for a different trait.
ANSWER: law of independent assortment [accept equivalents for “law”]
[10] The exception to Mendel’s law of independent assortment occurs in this situation, in which two
genes are found on the same chromosome, and thus are more likely to be inherited together.
ANSWER: genetic linkage [accept word forms like linked genes]
23. He wrote about a Swiss mercenary in Arms and the Man. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Irish playwright of Saint Joan and John Bull’s Other Island.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] In this Shaw play, Henry Higgins bets Colonel Pickering that he can pass the cockney Eliza Doolittle
off as a duchess.
ANSWER: Pygmalion
[10] In this Shaw play, Vivie is shocked to learn that her mother used to be a prostitute and has run
successful brothels all across Europe.
ANSWER: Mrs. Warren’s Profession

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3

Round 5

Page 10 of 10 © 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

