NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Tossups
1. The change in this quantity multiplies i in the exponential of the integral giving the atomic form factor.
Einstein suggested that the change in this quantity for the far screen would determine which slit a photon
passes through. The "transfer" of this quantity, symbolized q, is a common term in scattering experiments.
This quantity, divided by h-bar, gives the wavevector. The commutator of this quantity with x is i times h-bar.
The energy of a photon equals the speed of light times this quantity. The Hamiltonian of a particle in a box is
the square of its operator, over twice the mass. The de Broglie wavelength is Planck's constant over this
quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity which, classically, equals mass times velocity.
ANSWER: linear momentum <Silverman>
2. In the first scene of this play, a woman inquires of a messenger, "how many hath he killed? for indeed I
promised to eat all of his killing." A man in this play regrets that his friend would now rather hear "the tabour
and the pipe" than "the drum and the fife." In a climactic confrontation in this play, a man exclaims, "Is this the
prince? Is this the prince's brother?...Are our eyes our own?" Women are told to convert all their "sounds of woe
into hey nonny nonny" in a song in this play urging them to "sigh no more." In this play, Borachio and
Margaret become part of a scheme by Don John that leads to the faked death of Hero, who is in love with
Claudio. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play featuring a "merry war" between Beatrice and Benedick.
ANSWER: Much Ado About Nothing <Gehring>
3. In a story by this author, a woman begins a relationship with her stepson after breastfeeding him, but
eventually dies of shock when a centipede bites her. A novel by this author ends with the protagonist
contemplating one of his father-in-law's puppets while awaiting the return of his estranged wife. In a novel by
this author, a firefly hunt is contrasted with a family's annual cherry blossom-viewing trips. A novel by this
author follows an engineer who molds the title teen waitress into a "modern girl." In one of his novels, the
beauty parlor owner Itani suggests various marriage prospects for one of the title characters, Yukiko. For 10
points, name this Japanese author of Naomi, Some Prefer Nettles, and The Makioka Sisters.
ANSWER: Jun'ichiro Tanizaki [or Tanizaki Jun'ichiro] <Brownstein>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 1 of 13 

4. A painting identified at the Prado in 2010 as being by this artist features a saint dividing his cloak on the
right. Another of this artist's four surviving paintings in distemper includes a man who has just fallen on his
back in a ditch at the head of a diagonally-oriented procession connected by their staffs. He also depicted that
parable from Matthew at the background of a canvas in which a woman puts a blue cloak on her husband,
indicating that he is a cuckold, one of many illustrations of idioms. In another of his paintings, a farmer,
shepherd, and angler fail to notice a boy dangling his legs, about to drown. For 10 points, name this Flemish
artist of Netherlandish Proverbs and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.
ANSWER: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or Peasant Bruegel] <Saric>
5. In 2014, the Fresno City Council agreed to remove one of these places designed by Garrett Eckbo on Fulton
Street. Victor Gruen built one for Kalamazoo, the first in the United States. Mayor Jane Byrne turned nine
blocks of State Street in Chicago into one of these places in an unsuccessful attempt to keep businesses from
leaving the city center. In the 1960s and 70s, many were built in hopes of revitalizing downtowns and
competing with places like the Southdale Center in the Minneapolis suburbs. More successful examples have
been built in college towns, like the one in Charlotttesville, Virginia or on Pearl Street in Boulder, Colorado.
For 10 points, name these shopping areas where cars are prohibited.
ANSWER: pedestrian malls [or pedestrian zones; prompt on "mall"] <Bailey>
6. This hero strikes the ground with an arrow to bring forth water for a dying enemy, whom this hero had
previously struck with so many arrows that his fallen body appears to be resting on a bed of arrows. This man
wins a battle against a warrior whose chariot becomes stuck in some mud. This slayer of Bhishma and rival of
Karna wins the hand of his wife after he shoots the eye of a golden fish while staring only at its reflection in a
bowl of oil. This hero is reluctant to fight Duryodhana in the Kurukshetra War until his companion declares
"Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds." For 10 points, name this Pandava prince whose charioteer
Krishna delivers the Bhagavad Gita in the Mahabharata.
ANSWER: Arjuna [or Arjun] <Kim>
7. The Suppressor-of-White-APricot domain regulates this process. Prp24 helps form a duplex during this
process, which is promoted by serine/arginine-rich SR proteins binding to ESEs. Parts for this process are
stored in namesake speckles. This process starts with an attack on a namesake donor site by the branchpoint,
which then attacks the 3-prime acceptor site adjacent to a polypyrimidine tract in a second transesterification.
Its "alternative" type produces protein isoforms. U4, U5, and U6 snRNAs form a triple-snurp complex during it.
The reading frame can be restored in this process by skipping over exons. For 10 points, name this process in
which introns are excised from pre-mRNA.
ANSWER: RNA splicing [or splice; or alternative splicing; prompt on pre-messenger RNA processing and
spliceosome formation] <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 2 of 13 

8. This man is baffled when he observes a mysterious figure that "looks like a son of the gods" walking amongst
a group of prisoners. This man is described as "drenched with the dew of heaven" and eating "grass like an ox"
after he is punished with seven years of madness, as prophesied by a dream in which a bountiful tree is
ordered to be chopped down. This man has a dream in which a statue is made of various precious metals but
has feet made of iron and clay. Three servants of this ruler are re-named Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego
and ordered to be thrown into a fiery furnace. Daniel interprets the dreams of this emperor, who orders the
destruction of the First Temple in Jerusalem. For 10 points, name this emperor who initiates the Babylonian
Captivity.
ANSWER: Nebuchadnezzar II <Kim>
9. The AK-47 was first used on a wide scale during this event. During this event, the Dudas Group attacked
members of the AVH Secret Police. Its leader was deported to Romania after leaving the Yugoslavian embassy
despite a promise of safe conduct. Tensions resulting from this event spilled over into an a Olympic water polo
match that became known as the "Blood in the Water Match." It was inspired in part by the Secret Speech of
Nikita Khrushchev, and following it, premier Janos Kadar instituted the system of "goulash communism." For
10 points, name this 1956 revolution in which Imre Nagy's attempt to withdraw a Central European country
from the Warsaw Pact was quelled by a Soviet invasion.
ANSWER: Hungarian Revolution of 1956 [or anything indicating an uprising in Hungary in 1956] <Douglass>
10. In this period, Ishida Baigan's religion of "Heart Learning" was among the various movements to
legitimize business. During this period, nobles were forced to leave their families in the imperial capital as
hostages when they were at their castles in the sankin-kotai, or alternate attendance, policy. In the later part of
this period, known as the Bakumatsu, the Convention of Kanagawa was signed, signaling the reversal of this
period's sakoku isolationist policy. The founder of this government defeated an alliance led by Ishida Mitsunari
at the Battle of Sekigahara, and this shogunate was ended by the restoration to power of the Meiji Emperor.
For 10 points, name this last shogunate of Japan that was founded by Ieyasu.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate [or Tokugawa bakufu; or Edo bakufu] <O'Rourke>
11. Goursat's theorem makes it easy to check differentiability of a function over this set. If a function over this
set is bounded and entire, then it is constant by Liouville's theorem. Fractional linear transformations named
for Mobius take this set to itself. Extending this set by adjoining a point at infinity in this set allows for it to be
mapped to a sphere via stereographic projection. Differentiable functions from this set to itself satisfy the
Cauchy-Riemann equations and are referred to as holomorphic. This field is the algebraic closure of the real
numbers, and numbers of this type can be written in the form r times e to the i times theta. For 10 points,
name this set of numbers which can be written in the form a + bi.
ANSWER: complex numbers <Schindler>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 3 of 13 

12. This book credits a Prince Lichnowsky with coining the phrase "hasn't go no date" to describe historical
existence transcending specific circumstances. A section of this book that argues against Nassau Senior's
conception of the crucial "last hour" says that all goods, and not just those produced at the point of
profitability, contain "c," "v," and "s" values. This book introduces the "MCM" and "CMC" paradigms for the flow
of money into commodities, and it claims that the "use-value" of every good is objective and inherent. This
book's labor theory of value blames a class of "accumulators" for creating a class of wage-dependents. For 10
points, name this book which was redacted by Friedrich Engels following the death of its primary author, Karl
Marx.
ANSWER: Capital [or Das Kapital, Kritik der politischen Ökonomie; or Capital: A Critique of Political Economy]
<Bollinger>
13. The penultimate chapter of this novel is a police report which describes how two men call each other names
like "Teresa" and "Perla." In a section of this novel set in Paris, a man with a clubfoot runs over a chorus girl
with his car. The lengthy footnotes of this novel describe the theories of psychologists like D. J. West, Lang,
and Freud. This novel ends with the protagonist being tortured and having a morphine-induced dream in
which he lands on a tropical island and meets his lover Marta. Stories told in this novel include one set on a
zombie-infested island and one featuring a woman who can turn into a "cat person." For 10 points, name this
novel in which the homosexual Molina relates the plots of movies to his cellmate Valentine, a work of Manuel
Puig.
ANSWER: The Kiss of the Spider Woman [or El beso de la mujer arana] <Brownstein>
14. Scientists observing this region once thought an odd green emission line from it was due to a new element
called "newtonium", but later discovered it was due to highly ionized iron—Fe thirteen plus. Phenomena
observed in this region include polar plumes and helmet streamers. Alfven waves have been proposed as an
energy source for this region, and the magnetic reconnection theory makes use of spicules that extend into it.
X-ray telescopes first discovered its namesake holes, which are the origins of solar wind. Huge amounts of
plasma can be released in its "mass ejections." Scientists are still confused as to why this region is so much
hotter than the Sun's surface. For 10 points, name this outermost layer of the Sun that's usually only visible
during a solar eclipse.
ANSWER: corona [prompt on the Sun's atmosphere] <Lee>
15. In a novel by this man, the phrase "Tekeli-li" is cried by natives of an island off the coast of Antarctica, who
gleefully set fire to the Jane Guy. In that novel by this man, the half-Indian Dirk Peters launches a rebellion
with Augustus and the title character on the Grampus. In a story by this author, the title creature's image
appears on a wall with a hangman's noose around its head. At the end of that story of his, the police are alerted
to the location of the narrator's wife's corpse by the cries of Pluto. General Lasalle rescues the narrator from
the Spanish Inquisition in another of his stories. For 10 points, name this author of The Narrative of Arthur
Gordon Pym who also wrote "The Black Cat" and "The Pit and the Pendulum."
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 4 of 13 

16. After this emperor appointed his former tutor as the "Prince-Pope" of a group of his drinking buddies, he
decided to have his "Drunken Synod" parody the sviatki folk custom. This emperor allowed the black general
Abram Gannibal, the grandfather of a famous poet, to rise to a position of power in his court. During a power
struggle between the Naryshkin and Miloslavsky families, this ruler's sister Sophia encouraged a rebellion of
the musket-wielding streltsy regiments. This ruler learned shipbuilding in the Netherlands as part of his
"Grand Embassy," and he attempted to westernize his country by making the boyars shave their beards. For 10
points, name this modernizing tsar of Russia who won the Great Northern War.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I; or Pyotr the Great; or Pyotr I; prompt on Peter or Pyotr Alexeyevich
Romanov] <O'Rourke>
17. A 2011 Criterion Collection special release of this film bundled it with the thematically-similar King, Queen,
Joker, which stars its lead actor's brother. A character in this film shaves a man to the tune of Brahms's
Hungarian Dance No. 5. The prelude to Lohengrin is played over both this film's closing speech and a scene in
which the title character tosses around an inflatable globe. This film's closing speech addresses soldiers who
are controlled by "machine men with machine minds and machine hearts," and is given by a Jewish barber
who looks identical to the title character. For 10 points, name this film in which Charlie Chaplin plays Adenoid
Hynkel, a parody of Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: The Great Dictator <Golimlim>
18. The opening movement of this piece begins with the quarter notes "G, F, B-flat," then the rising eighth
notes "C, F," then a quarter note "D." In a movement of this piece, a quivering theme depicting the destitute
man Schmuÿle follows a Jewish theme that depicts Samuel Goldenberg. A section to be played "with the dead
in a dead language" ends this piece's "Catacombs" movement, which follows a portrayal of French women
arguing at "The Market at Limoges." This piece closes with depictions of "The Hut on Fowl's Legs" and "The
Great Gate of Kiev," and contains multiple "Promenade" movements that depict the composer walking
between museum displays. For 10 points, name this suite by Modest Mussorgsky.
ANSWER: Pictures at an Exhibition [or Kartinki s vystavki] <Kim>
19. Dwight Waldo criticized this man's reliance on Rudolf Carnap's logical positivism in a protracted debate in
the American Political Science Review. He developed a theorem on the existence of solutions to input-output
matrices along with David Hawkins. With Allen Newell, this man won the Turing Prize for creating the Logic
Theorist, potentially the first program of artificial intelligence. This author's major work proposes a "hierarchy
of judgments" in which "value judgments" are above "factual judgments," and rejects the idea of an "economic
man." In that book, Administrative Behavior, this man argued that when an optimal solution cannot be
determined, decision-makers instead seek out the first solution that meets most needs at hand. For 10 points,
name this polymath from Carnegie Mellon who theorized "bounded rationality" and "satisficing."
ANSWER: Herbert Simon <Bollinger>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 5 of 13 

20. During debates, Congressman William Barksdale once drew a knife on this politician. Abraham Lincoln
once told this man the country was trying to catch a "pretty big hog." He reportedly sneered "the country is
going to the devil" after Senator Edmund Ross broke with his party during a crucial vote. This man insisted "if
you don't kill the beast, it will kill you" after Edwin Stanton was removed. The New York Herald claimed this
clubfooted man had a "face of corpselike color" during the impeachment of his nemesis, Andrew Johnson. For
10 points, name this Pennsylvania Congressman who was one of the main Radical Republican leaders during
Reconstruction.
ANSWER: Thaddeus Stevens <Cheyne>
21. This statement's demonstration of the existence of a Hamel basis allows for non-linear solutions to
Cauchy's functional equation. This statement is equivalent to Tychonoff's theorem, the fact that the product of
any number of compact spaces is compact, or to the fact that any vector space has a basis. In graph theory, this
fact allows for the finding of a spanning tree in any connected graph. It means that, given a partially ordered
set where every chain has an upper bound, there is a maximal element, a statement known as Zorn's lemma.
It's often combined with the Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory axioms to create ZFC. For 10 points, identify this
axiom which, informally, says that one can select from a given collection of objects.
ANSWER: axiom of choice [accept anything mentioned in the question before it is mentioned, since they are
all equivalent] <Schindler>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 6 of 13 

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Bonuses
1. These areas were formally created following the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify these areas that generally extend 200 miles from a country's coastline. They guarantee a country's
right to resource exploration and energy production within their extent.
ANSWER: Exclusive Economic Zones [or EEZs]
[10] The establishment of EEZs helped resolve the Cod Wars between this country and the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Iceland
[10] This country marks its maritime claims with the "nine-dotted line," which extends into several countries'
EEZs. In May 2014, ships from this country confronted ships from its southern neighbor, Vietnam, over an oil
rig.
ANSWER: China [or People's Republic of China; or PRC; or Zhongguo; or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo; do
not accept "Republic of China"] <Golimlim>
2. Answer the following questions about the properties of peptide bonds, for 10 points each:
[10] Peptide bonds are stabilized by resonance, in which the delocalization of these particles lowers the overall
energy of the system.
ANSWER: pi electrons
[10] Because of resonance, the nitrogen atom is considered not to have trigonal pyramidal geometry, and
instead, forms this bond angle. Give your answer in degrees.
ANSWER: 120 degrees
[10] Peptide bonds interact strongly with this blue dye in the Bradford assay for protein concentration. This
dye is commonly used to stain protein gels, as well.
ANSWER: Coomassie Brilliant Blue <Silverman>
3. Artemis performs this transformation on the nymph Arethusa after Alpheus discovers her hiding in a cloud.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this transformation which Galatea performs on her dead lover Acis.
ANSWER: they are turned into rivers [or obvious equivalents]
[10] Acis is killed by a boulder hurled by one of these giants named Polyphemus, who is more famously blinded
when Odysseus drives a stake through his single eye.
ANSWER: cyclops [or cyclopes]
[10] In another incident of hurling boulders, Odysseus's ship is the only one to escape the barrage thrown by
this race of giant cannibals.
ANSWER: Laestrygonians <Kim>
NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 7 of 13 

4. The narrator of this novel seems to believe he has a "pensum to discharge" before he can be free. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this final novel in a trilogy that also includes Molloy and Malone Dies. It ends with the words, "you
must go on, I can't go on, I'll go on."
ANSWER: The Unnamable [or L'Innomable]
[10] This author of The Unnamable also wrote plays including Endgame. Lucky gives an incomprehensible
speech in his play Waiting for Godot.
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett]
[10] Waiting for Godot opens with Estragon attempting to do this, using both of his hands and panting.
Estragon's inability to do this leads him to resignedly say the opening line of the play, "Nothing to be done."
ANSWER: remove his boot [or obvious equivalents] <Sy>
5. Answer the following about taxes in European history, for 10 points each.
[10] In the Roman Empire, Vespasian imposed the "temple tax" on members of this religion. Members of this
religion later rebelled under Roman rule while led by Simon bar Kokhba.
ANSWER: Judaism [or Jewish people]
[10] This Anglo-Saxon king of England was advised by Sigeric the Serious, the Archbishop of Canterbury, to
stop Viking raids by starting to pay the danegeld.
ANSWER: Aethelred the Unready [or Aethelred II; prompt on Aethelred]
[10] In France, the tax on this commodity was expanded by Charles I, the brother of Saint Louis. Philip VI first
instituted that unpopular tax on this substance, which was called the gabelle.
ANSWER: salt <O'Rourke>
6. This principle suggests that as the pressure of a compressible fluid decreases, its velocity should increase if
the flow is steady. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this principle that is a restatement of energy conservation as applied to fluids.
ANSWER: Bernoulli's principle [or Bernoulli's equation]
[10] As cross-sectional area decreases, a flow eventually achieves this quality, in which the exit velocity is sonic
and the downstream pressure is minimized. Gas escaping a small aperture in a pipe is often at these
conditions.
ANSWER: choked flow
[10] Incompressible fluids don't undergo choked flow because they have a constant value for this quantity. The
static pressure head equals this quantity times gravity times the height of fluid.
ANSWER: density [or rho] <Silverman>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 8 of 13 

7. After exploring the Strait of Tartary, this man sailed through a strait that now bears his name between
Sakhalin and Hokkaido. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French explorer whose lost expedition was eventually discovered to have been shipwrecked on
Vanikoro in the Solomon Islands.
ANSWER: Jean Francois de Galaup, comte de La Perouse
[10] La Perouse served under this king, who was guillotined during the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Louis XVI
[10] This earlier French explorer voyaged to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and first used the name Canada to refer
to the region he visited.
ANSWER: Jacques Cartier <Yu>
8. This opera is preceded by a spoken "Prologue of the Bard," which asks "Where is the stage? Is it outside, or
inside?" For 10 points each:
[10] Name this one-act opera in which Judith discovers a torture chamber and a pool of tears in her new
husband's abode.
ANSWER: Duke Bluebeard's Castle [or A kékszakállú herceg vára]
[10] Duke Bluebeard's Castle was the only opera of this Hungarian, whose characteristic "night music" can be
found in his Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta.
ANSWER: Bela Bartok
[10] The recurring "blood motif" in Duke Bluebeard's Castle consists of this disquieting interval, which is formed
by note pairs such as B and C. The major seventh is the inversion of this interval.
ANSWER: minor second [or diatonic semitone] <White>
9. This story's narrator cuts his forehead on a door jamb while rushing to examine his copy of the Arabian
Nights. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this story about Juan Dahlmann, who gets into an argument with some drunken farmers at a store.
This story ends before Dahlmann and a farmer engage in a knife fight.
ANSWER: "The South" [or "El Sur"]
[10] The author of "The South" also wrote this story about a point in space from which one can see everything
in the universe all at once. It is found in the basement of Beatriz Viterbo's cousin, Daneri.
ANSWER: "The Aleph" [or "El Aleph"]
[10] "The Aleph" and "The South" are stories by this Argentine author, who included "Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis
Tertius" and "The Library of Babel" in his Ficciones.
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 9 of 13 

10. This adjective appears in the title of a painting of a coppice near Warter that the artist created using both
en plein air and digital photography. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this adjective which precedes "picture" in the name of a popular 2012 exhibition at the Guggenheim
Bilbao. It also appears in the title of a Pop Art painting of a swimming pool in a modern house.
ANSWER: bigger [accept Bigger Trees Near Warter; accept A Bigger Picture; accept A Bigger Splash; do not accept
or prompt on "big" or other wrong answers]
[10] A Bigger Splash is a painting by this English-born California artist of Mr. and Mrs. Clark and Percy, who
together with physicist Charles Falco theorized that optical aids like the camera obscura made advances in
realism in Western art possible.
ANSWER: David Hockney
[10] A key example Hockney used to support his thesis was the chandelier in this van Eyck painting of an
Italian merchant and his presumed wife.
ANSWER: The Arnolfini Portrait [or The Arnolfini Wedding; The Arnolfini Marriage; or The Arnolfini Double
Portrait; or Portrait of Giovanni Arnolfini and his Wife] <Saric>
11. This woman helped Dolly Madison fundraise for the Washington Monument, and took a step towards
providing better care for orphans in her home state by founding the New York Orphan Asylum Society. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this socialite who died in 1854. Virtually all her correspondence with a husband who cheated on her
with Maria Reynolds is now lost.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton [or Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton; accept answers with "Eliza" in place
of "Elizabeth"]
[10] Elizabeth Schuyler's husband, Alexander Hamilton, inaugurated this Cabinet position in part by
supporting the First Bank of the United States.
ANSWER: United States Secretary of the Treasury
[10] This later Treasury secretary presided over, and protested, the expiration of the First Bank of the United
States a year before managing the country's finances during the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Albert Gallatin <Jackson>
12. Harrison Gray Otis claimed this event was perpetrated by "anarchic scum." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1910 event, an explosion that killed 21 people. It resulted in the arrest and trial of the labor
activists J.J. and J.B. McNamara.
ANSWER: the bombing of the Los Angeles Times building [or the bombing of the L.A. Times building]
[10] This famous lawyer reluctantly agreed to serve as the lead defense attorney in the McNamaras' trial
despite his ill health. He would later defend John Scopes during the "Monkey Trial."
ANSWER: Clarence Darrow
[10] This muckraker and author of the The Shame of the Cities was sympathetic to the McNamaras' cause but
claimed they confessed their guilt in the bombing to him. He was a staunch supporter of the Soviet
Revolution.
ANSWER: Lincoln Steffens <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 10 of 13 

13. Layers of this material called visual microlaminations (VMLs) can reveal changes in the aridity of a region.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name these paper-thin coatings on rocks in arid environments, especially deserts, that appear reddishblack. It is especially common on desert pavement.
ANSWER: desert varnish [or rock varnish; or rock dust; or desert patina]
[10] Wetter climates favor the creation of layers rich in this element's oxide, with VMLs appearing black, while
drier climates with alkaline dust favor layers poor in this element's oxide, with VMLs appearing orange-yellow.
This element's oxides and iron oxides are important components of varnish.
ANSWER: manganese [or Mn]
[10] Manganese nodules are rock concretions found in this place, where stromatolites also formed. This
location bounds the benthic zone and most of it, globally, is classified as abyssal plain.
ANSWER: ocean floors [or sea floors; or obvious equivalents; prompt on oceans or seas or obvious equivalents
of such] <Voight>
14. This document poignantly ends with the declaration, "I don't think two people could have been happier
than we have been." For 10 points each:
[10] "Name this document written to the author's husband Leonard right before she walked into the River
Ouse. It pessimistically declares "I shan't recover this time...I am doing what seems the best thing to do."
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf's suicide note [or obvious equivalents]
[10] In this Virginia Woolf novel, a man suffering from PTSD named Septimus Smith kills himself by leaping
from a window. Its title character, Clarissa, hosts a house party.
ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway
[10] This character from Mrs. Dalloway was once rejected by Clarissa. At the time of Mrs. Dalloway's party, he
has recently returned from India and has arranged to marry Daisy.
ANSWER: Peter Walsh [or Peter Walsh] <Sy>
15. In this novel, Llewelyn Moss finds a load of heroin after meeting a Mexican man who is in desperate need
of water. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which the killer Anton Chigurh is hunted by Sheriff Ed Bell.
ANSWER: No Country for Old Men
[10] This author of No Country for Old Men created the brutal Judge Holden in his novel Blood Meridian, and
depicted John Grady Cole's adventure in Mexico in All the Pretty Horses.
ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]
[10] In All the Pretty Horses, John Grady Cole meets this fellow teenager, who kills a man during the retrieval of
his beloved Colt pistol. In the final parts of the novel, John Grady travels around Texas trying to find the owner
of this boy's stolen horse.
ANSWER: Jimmy Blevins [or Jimmy Blevins] <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 11 of 13 

16. A study done on this group involved a checkered floor with Plexiglas suspended over a four-foot drop, and
was a test on depth perception. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this group of people who participated in Eleanor Gibson's visual cliff experiment.
ANSWER: infants [or obvious equivalents, such as toddlers or children]
[10] In another study, children were shown videos of adults beating up these inflatable toys. After watching the
videos, children acted violently towards these toys.
ANSWER: bobo dolls
[10] This Stanford professor conducted the bobo doll experiment.
ANSWER: Albert Bandura <Saric>
17. This book skeptically claims that causality can be inferred from empirical observation, since the idea that
two ideas are causally related only comes from the impression of frequent association.
[10] Name this 18th-century work of philosophy, written as a better follow-up to its author's earlier Treatise of
Human Nature. It contains the section "Of Miracles."
ANSWER: An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding
[10] An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding is a major work by this Scottish empiricist philosopher.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] Hume's Enquiry argues that all objects of human reason can be divided into these two categories, in a
dichotomy later termed "Hume's Fork." Hume places geometry into the first of these categories and physics
into the second. Hume's specific terminology is required.
ANSWER: relations of ideas and matters of fact [prompt on general answers, like statements about ideas and
statements about the world] <Bollinger>
18. Ludwig van Beethoven's piece of this type and number unusually begins its slow introduction with a C
dominant seventh chord moving to an F major chord. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this genre and number shared by a Gustav Mahler piece whose third movement funeral march is
interrupted by an unexpected section of klezmer music.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 1 [or obvious equivalents]
[10] Beethoven's Symphony No. 1 was strongly influenced by this other C major symphony, whose coda is
characterized by a large fugue in five voices.
ANSWER: Jupiter Symphony [or Mozart's Symphony No. 41; or obvious equivalents]
[10] Indicative of a transition between Beethoven's early and middle periods is this piano sonata said to evoke
the image of the title object shimmering over a lake at night.
ANSWER: Moonlight Sonata [or Beethoven's Piano Sonata No. 14; or obvious equivalents] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 12 of 13 

19. Memories Pizza in this state was targeted with numerous overly negative Yelp reviews. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state whose largest newspaper published the headline "Fix This Now," urging the repeal of
Senate Bill 101.
ANSWER: Indiana
[10] This was the full name of SB 101. A 1993 national version of this law with the same name was signed into
law by Bill Clinton. Twenty one states have passed laws with this name, which many people claim could be
unfairly used to target gay Americans.
ANSWER: Religious Freedom Restoration Acts
[10] SB 101 was similar to this southwestern state's SB 1062, which was vetoed by Governor Jan Brewer.
ANSWER: Arizona <Cheyne>
20. The lateral and medial giant interneurons mediate the caridoid response of some members of this
subphylum. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this arthropod taxon that includes decapods such as crayfish and shrimp.
ANSWER: crustacean
[10] This group of shrimp comprises the order Stomatopoda and is classified into "smashers" and "spearers".
Some species in this group possess sixteen different photoreceptor pigments, and their raptorial claws are
similar to those of a namesake insect order.
ANSWER: mantis shrimp
[10] The cavitation generated by mantis shrimp produces these structures, which can also sometimes emit
sonoluminescence.
ANSWER: bubbles <Smart>
21. The difference of these two values can be written as a term multiplied by the square of the thermal
expansion coefficient, divided by the isothermal compressibility. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these two values for a substance, whose ratio is the substance's adiabatic index.
ANSWER: constant-pressure heat capacity and constant-volume heat capacity [or Cp and Cv; or obvious
equivalents]
[10] The adiabatic index appears in the equation for this quantity in a gas. This value is related to flow speed by
the Mach number.
ANSWER: speed of sound
[10] For a monatomic ideal gas, the constant pressure heat capacity is the sum of the constant volume heat
capacity and this value, which when divided by Avogadro's number yields Boltzmann's constant.
ANSWER: ideal gas constant [or R] <Yu>

NASAT 2015 - Round 06 - Page 13 of 13 

