NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Tossups
1. This poem describes "fine rosettes of lime" and "shapes like full-blown roses stained and lost through age."
The speaker of this poem stares into eyes that have irises "backed and packed with tarnished tinfoil seen
through the lenses of old scratched isinglass." In this poem, brown skin is compared to "ancient wallpaper,"
and the narrator describes a "five-haired beard of wisdom" made of objects "like medals with their ribbons
frayed." Near the end of this poem, the speaker recalls how "victory filled up" her little rented vehicle and
exclaims, "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!", after which she lets the title animal go. For 10 points,
name this Elizabeth Bishop poem about an aquatic catch.
ANSWER: "The Fish" <Sy>
2. This country was home to a sect which raised children to the sky instead of baptizing them, the
Theophilanthropists. A ceremony conducted in this country centered on an artificial mountain topped by a
gigantic statue of Hercules. Sophie Momoro helped found a religion in this country which inscribed "death is
an eternal sleep" on cemetery gates. Priests were targeted by the September Massacres in this country, where
the Civil Constitution of the Clergy was implemented. The Cult of Reason was promoted in this country, but
was eventually replaced with the Cult of the Supreme Being. In this country, a calendar with divisions like
Fructidor, Prairial, and Thermidor was created to replace the Gregorian one. For 10 points, name this country
where Maximilien Robespierre led a "Reign of Terror" during its revolution.
ANSWER: Revolutionary France [or French Republic; or Republique Francaise] <Brownstein>
3. T.J. Clark argued that this painting forced viewers to confront difficult aspects of modernity in an essay
titled for this painting's "choice." This painting inspired a canvas in which a balding, bearded man in black
watches a cloud-like sheet being removed from the subject. The subject of this painting wears a gold ribbon
with a black tassel, and has a black ribbon tied around her neck. At the right of this painting, a black cat with
raised tail sits at the foot of a bed, and a bouquet of flowers is being presented by a black servant. The subject
of this painting covers her pubic area with her left hand, which critics have interpreted as a mark of defiance.
For 10 points, name this scandalous painting by Edouard Manet of a prostitute.
ANSWER: Olympia <Lee>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 1 of 14 

4. This element reacts directly with chloromethane in the aptly named direct process, discovered by Rochow
and Müller. This element is the second-lightest to take on, in pure form, the crystal described as two
interpenetrating fcc lattices. A very pure form of this element is created using the Siemens process. TBS and
TIPS belong to a class of protecting groups characterized by an ether of this element. This element, boron, and
oxygen constitutes Pyrex glass. It's the element most commonly crystallized using the Czochralski (chokhRAL-skee) process. Because it has the same number of valence electrons, it can replace carbon in compounds.
For 10 points, identify this semiconductor with atomic number 14.
ANSWER: silicon [or Si] <Prieto>
5. This effect manifests alongside absent deep tendon reflexes and anhidrosis in Adie syndrome. Lesions on
third-order neurons may be detected using the paredrine test for this effect in Horner's syndrome. This effect
is caused by sympathetic stimulation of the radial muscle. When non-physiological, this response is also called
mydriasis and can result from damage to cranial nerve 3. Women sometimes induced this response to appear
more seductive by putting drops of deadly nightshade over their eyes. This response is opposed by the action
of the iris sphincter and is usually reversed upon exposure to bright light. For 10 points, name this process in
which the eye lets in more light by expanding the pupil.
ANSWER: pupillary dilation [or light-near dissociation until "Horner's" is read; or mydriasis until it is read]
<Smart>
6. Paul Samuelson showed how this thing could resolve Pareto inefficiencies in an overlapping generations
model where interest rates are below the population growth rate. Karl Polanyi called this thing, along with
land and labor, one of the three "commodity fictions" in The Great Transformation. The set of interest rateoutput combinations where the demand for this equals its supply traces out the LM curve in the IS-LM model.
Stone wheels on the island of Yap are a famous example of an early "fiat" type. Its supply is directly
proportional to the price level according to the "quantity theory" of it, and in most countries the supply is
controlled by a central bank like the Federal Reserve. For 10 points, name this thing used in exchange.
ANSWER: money <Bailey>
7. The main speaker of this work recalls being ordered to summon Leon the Salaminian after he is elected
senator as a member of the Antiochis tribe. In this text, a man asks whether anyone believes in horsemanship
but not horses, or flute-playing but not flute-players, in order to show how his belief in spiritual agency
implies a belief in spirits. The primary speaker of this text posits that death leads to either an eternal sleep or
an afterlife where one can talk to Homer and Orpheus. In this text, Meletus is embarrassed after his disregard
for the youth is revealed by a man who characterizes himself as a gadfly to the state. For 10 points, name this
Platonic text which details Socrates's speech before his execution.
ANSWER: Apology [or Apologia Socratis] <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 2 of 14 

8. When leading his country, this man's government introduced the H.O.R.S.A. and S.F.O.R.S.A. schemes to
prevent children from leaving school. During an especially cold winter, he was forced to dismiss Emanuel
Shinwell as Minister of Fuel and Power. This man's government ended the failed Tanganyika Groundnut
Scheme. This man was the first ever Deputy Prime Minister, and he won his highest position after his party
used the slogan "Let Us Face the Future." During this man's ministry, Aneurin Bevan fought to enact the
Beveridge Report's recommendations by creating the National Health Service. For 10 points, name this Labour
Party Prime Minister who succeeded Winston Churchill in 1945.
ANSWER: Clement Attlee [or Earl Attlee] <Cheyne>
9. A character in this novel meticulously splits the household bills equally with her husband, but gets paid less
at their shared architectural firm, Livotny and Associates. The protagonist of this novel finds a similarity
between two Schumann piano pieces years after being proclaimed a prodigy by her mother, who was inspired
by a girl playing "Anitra's Dance" on television. In this novel, Waverly quits playing chess after her mother, a
former child bride named Lindo, brags about her excessively. This novel opens after the death of Suyuan Woo.
This novel is named for the group of "aunties" who played Mah-jongg with the protagonist's mother. For 10
points, name this novel by the Chinese-American writer Amy Tan.
ANSWER: The Joy Luck Club <Sy>
10. In 85 BC, Fimbria besieged this city for supporting Sulla. A collection of artifacts from this city
mysteriously showed up at the Pushkin Museum in 1993. This city, which the Hittites called Wilusa, is divided
into nine archaeological layers, the seventh of which is most likely identical to a fictional depiction of this city.
Frank Calvert performed preliminary surveys of this city on a mound at Hisarlik. Before working on Mycenae,
Heinrich Schliemann examined this city's ruins and, in the process, smuggled out a collection of artifacts now
known as "Priam's Treasure." For 10 points, name this city whose siege is the subject of Homer's Iliad.
ANSWER: Troy [or Troia; or Ilium; or Ilion; or Hisarlik until it is read; or Wilusa until it is read] <Golimlim>
11. Carter and Wegman proposed a method of creating these structures that randomly selects one of a family
of sequences. That method is "universal", and a "perfect" method can be used when the set they contain is
static. Primary clustering in these structures can be avoided using quadratic probing. Assuming simple
uniform conditions for one of these structures gives big theta of alpha plus one average-case search time,
where alpha is these structures's load factor. Chaining and open addressing are two methods of preventing
collisions in these data structures. They can be searched in average-case constant time. For 10 points, name
these data structures that store keys in array indices given by their namesake functions.
ANSWER: hash tables <Yu>
12. A man who once held this Cabinet position later founded the group "VotetoImpeach" directed against
George W. Bush. Another man who held it was married to a woman who names an effect in which
psychiatrists mistake patients' perception of real events as delusions. A man in this position quoted Romeo
and Juliet's lines about the world being in "love with night" in a speech at the Democratic National Convention
and had earlier investigated Jimmy Hoffa and the Teamsters. This was the Cabinet position held by the future
head of CREEP. Elliot Richardson resigned this position in the Saturday Night Massacre. It was held in 1962 by
the President's brother. For 10 points, name this Cabinet position held by Robert F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Attorney General [or Department of Justice] <Cheyne>
NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 3 of 14 

13. A major early collection of medieval French prose relates "ancient history until" this man. In a literary
appearance, this man is unmoved by Theodotus's pleas about burning books and is given dates by Rufio while
waiting in a lighthouse during a siege in Egypt. This figure ascends into heaven at the close of Ovid's
Metamorphoses. In one of Shaw's Three Plays for Puritans, this man receives a rug that conceals the other title
character rolled up inside. This subject of Lucan's Pharsalia is targeted by a man with a "lean and hungry look"
in a namesake Shakespeare play. For 10 points, name this Roman who cries, "Et tu, brute?" after being stabbed
in the Senate.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar [or Gaius Julius Caesar] <Ray>
14. A big reasons to construct active filters, usually with op-amps, is that you can eliminate this element, which
you'll very rarely see in an op-amp circuit. Transforming these elements to the s-domain requires representing
them in parallel with a current source that has a value of the initial current over s. In lumped element models
of transmission lines, these elements occur in series with resistors. Under DC conditions, they act as a short
circuit. The current in these devices cannot undergo an instantaneous change and must be continuous. They
have memory because their branch current depends on the history of their branch voltage. These energystorage elements are the magnetic duals of capacitors. For 10 points, name these coiled devices whose
namesake property is measured in Henrys.
ANSWER: ideal inductors <Golimlim>
15. The "pack journalism" surrounding this election was critiqued in Timothy Crouse's The Boys on the Bus. Prior
to a primary in this election, a forged letter deriding French-Canadians as "Canucks" was used to ruin the
chances of candidate Edmund Muskie. Pauline Kael supposedly claimed that "everyone I know voted" for this
election's loser. A candidate in this election used the phrase "1000 percent" after it emerged that his running
mate had received electric shock therapy, leading that running mate, Thomas Eagleton, to be replaced with
Sargent Shriver. The incumbent in this election was popular for his policy of Vietnamization, which involved
withdrawal of US troops. For 10 points, name this election in which George McGovern was defeated by
incumbent Richard Nixon.
ANSWER: U.S. Presidential Election of 1972 <Brownstein>
16. A brick wall in this film has graffiti reading "Tawana told the truth!" A character in this movie is shot from
below with a fish-eye lens as he orders twenty D batteries from Asian grocers. In the opening credits, Rosie
Perez dances against monochrome backgrounds while wearing boxing trunks and a one-piece. Mister Señor
Love Daddy interrupts a montage in this movie, in which characters like Pino shout slurs. A character in this
film has four-fingered rings that say "Love" and "Hate," and carries a boom box blasting Public Enemy's "Fight
the Power." The death of that character, Radio Raheem, at the hands of police causes Mookie to throw a trash
can through the window of Sal's Pizzeria. For 10 points, name this film set on a hot day in Bed-Stuy by Spike
Lee.
ANSWER: Do the Right Thing <Kothari>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 4 of 14 

17. This composer depicted "The Fairy Garden" in a piano four hands suite whose third movement is based on
the tale of Laideronnette. He included a D minor, 6/8 time fourth movement to be played "dry, the arpeggios
very taut" in a suite that includes "Sad Birds." He ended another piano suite with a sixth-movement toccata in
E minor and 2/4 time. This composer of Mother Goose included "Alborada del gracioso" in his Miroirs and
collected "Ondine," "Le Gibet," and "Scarbo" into another piano piece. For friends who died in World War I, he
wrote Le tombeau de Couperin. This composer of Gaspard de la nuit wrote a piece in which the same two melodies
repeat over a crescendoing snare drum rhythm. For 10 points, name this composer of Boléro.
ANSWER: Maurice Ravel [or Joseph-Maurice Ravel] <Kim>
18. During a battle between these two beings, one of them fights so fiercely that his feet break through the boat
he is standing in and reach the seafloor. At a contest, one of these beings repeatedly lifts up its body into an
arch shape whenever the other reaches out to grab it, to the point that the two almost reach the heavens. One
of them uses an ox head to bait out the other during a fishing trip with the giant Hymir. At Utgard-Loki's
castle, one of them takes the form of a large grey cat as the other tries to lift it. At Ragnarok, one of these
beings succumbs to the poison of the other, nine steps after slaying it with the hammer Mjolnir. For 10 points,
name this monstrous snake in Norse mythology, and the thunder god who slays him.
ANSWER: Thor and Jormungandr [or Thor and the Midgard Serpent; or Thor and the World Serpent; or
Thor and Midgardsormr] <Kim>
19. During marriages in this religion, the father of the bride presents the two ends of a pink or red scarf to the
bride and groom, who do not directly talk or gesture for the entire ceremony. Practitioners of this religion are
obliged to engage in seva, or community service, and sacred gatherings called sangat. According to one story, a
leader of this religion prepared liquid in a bowl with his wife and drank from it with five men from different
social classes, purifying all of them. When adherents of this religion die, the bhog ceremony is held by the
deceased's family, who then supply langar, or a meal for the gurdwara. For 10 points, name this religion which
follows the teachings of its spiritual leaders, called gurus.
ANSWER: Sikhism <Sy>
20. The first verse line of The Winter's Tale describes "nine changes" of a metaphorical "watery" one of these
objects. Lear's Fool quips that the reason why seven of these things "are no more than seven is a pretty reason."
In the graveyard scene, Hamlet claims that Laertes's "phrase of grief" makes these things "stand like wonderwounded hearers." In Sonnet 116, love is said to be one of these objects for "every wandering bark." Hamlet
sends a quatrain to Ophelia that begins by telling her to doubt that these objects are fire and to doubt that the
nearest of them moves. For 10 points, name these bodies of which Cassius says, "The fault, dear Brutus, is not
in" them, "but in ourselves."
ANSWER: stars <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 5 of 14 

21. In a film by this man, Pachelbel's Canon plays as the protagonist describes his vision of a procession
climbing a fog-covered hill to meet death. One of his films ends with the camera panning up a ski lift as a
single shot rings out, fired by a man who activated a coin-operated dancing chicken. The protagonist of
another film by this man proclaims that he will marry his daughter and found a pure dynasty, after he is left
alone standing on a raft overtaken by monkeys. This director of Stroszek created movies about a mysterious
youth who was imprisoned for twenty years and a rogue conquistador in the Amazon jungle. For 10 points,
name this German director of The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser and Aguirre, the Wrath of God.
ANSWER: Werner Herzog [or Werner Herzog Stipetic] <Prieto>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 6 of 14 

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Bonuses
1. This battle came to an end on May 17, 2015, with the death of about 500 civilians and security personnel. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this battle which resulted in ISIL successfully capturing a key stronghold in the Anbar province of a
Middle Eastern country. The loss of this battle has caused American military leaders to consider arming local
tribes.
ANSWER: Battle of Ramadi
[10] Ramadi is in this country currently led by President Fuad Masum.
ANSWER: Republic of Iraq
[10] A conspiracy theory claims the head of ISIL is actually Simon Elliot, an agent of this foreign agency.
ANSWER: Mossad [or the Institute for Intelligence and Special Operations; or HaMossad leModiʿin
uleTafkidim Meyuḥadim] <Cheyne>
2. This author imagined Charles Lindbergh winning the 1940 presidential election in The Plot Against America.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Jewish-American writer whose works narrated by Nathan Zuckerman include American Pastoral.
ANSWER: Philip Roth [Philip Milton Roth]
[10] In this first Roth novella, Neil Klugman woos Brenda Patimkin, who runs into trouble when her mother
discovers her diaphragm. Its title comes from lyrics on a record played by Brenda's brother Ron.
ANSWER: Goodbye, Columbus
[10] The volume Goodbye, Columbus also included this Roth short story about the boy Ozzie Freedman, who is
slapped by Rabbi Binder for asking about the possibility of Mary's virgin birth.
ANSWER: "The Conversion of the Jews" <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 7 of 14 

3. Unprecedented quantities of oil dispersants manufactured by Corexit were applied in response to this
event. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 2010 environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico.
ANSWER: Deepwater Horizon oil spill [or the Macondo well blowout; or obvious equivalents that include the
required parts; prompt on BP oil spill]
[10] These floating barriers are often deployed during oil spills to protect areas from advancing oil slicks.
They're often used in conjunction with skimmers or in situ burning as they can corral oil.
ANSWER: containment booms
[10] After oil spills, this phenomenon can produce thick streaks of oil, separated by thin sheens of oil. It's more
commonly encountered in the context of windrows of flotsam or seaweed because wind blowing across an
ocean's surface creates oppositely rotating cylindrical "tubes" of water.
ANSWER: Langmuir circulation <Voight>
4. A popular treatise by this thinker criticized a certain product as originating from the "barbarous Indians"
and condemned it as "lothsome to the eye, hatefull to the Nose, harmefull to the braine, dangerous to the
Lungs." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of A Counterblaste to Tobacco.
ANSWER: James I of England [or James VI of Scotland; prompt on James]
[10] This American colonist and husband of Pocahontas was one of the first people to successfully cultivate
tobacco in the New World.
ANSWER: John Rolfe
[10] Although it never reached the popularity of tobacco, the cultivation of this cash crop by Eliza Pinckney
brought great profit to the state of South Carolina.
ANSWER: indigo <Clarke>
5. The Carnot efficiency is given by the net amount of this quantity divided by the heat input. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this quantity that, like heat, is not a state function. It is added to heat to calculate the change in
internal energy in the first law of thermodynamics.
ANSWER: work
[10] The Carnot efficiency is also equal to one minus the ratio of the temperature for two of these things.
Extraction of heat from these constant-temperature bodies leads to the inefficiency in a Carnot engine.
ANSWER: cold and hot reservoirs
[10] Analogous to the Carnot efficiency, the amount of lost work for any process is equal to the entropy
generation times this other quantity, which is usually symbolized by a subscript sigma.
ANSWER: temperature of the surroundings [prompt on partial answers] <Silverman>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 8 of 14 

6. The dolomite marble sculpture of this type named for the Getty museum rests upon an unusually oval
plinth. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these Greek sculptures of free-standing male nudes, exemplified by the Kritios Boy excavated from
the Acropolis. Its female equivalent was called the kore.
ANSWER: kouros [or kouroi]
[10] Many kouros sculptures from the Archaic period possess this odd feature, suggesting vitality and good
health. This feature is especially out of place on the dying warrior in the west pediment of the Temple of
Aphaia in Aegina.
ANSWER: the archaic smile
[10] The Kritios Boy is famous for being the first known statue to place most of its weight on one foot so that it
can dynamically twist off-axis, achieving this pose with an Italian name.
ANSWER: contrapposto <Gupta>
7. This movement relies extensively on the auditing website GiveWell. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophical and social movement, which seeks to focus charitable resources and ethical
obligations towards the largest and least expensive relief of global harm, such as malaria nets.
ANSWER: effective altruism movement [or effective altruists]
[10] A prominent academic supporter of effective altruism, Peter Singer, is also a member of this ethical school
which seeks the greatest good for the greatest number.
ANSWER: utilitarianism
[10] In this decade, Peter Singer first came to public attention with his book Animal Liberation. Robert Nozick
published Anarchy, State, and Utopia in response to A Theory of Justice in this decade.
ANSWER: 1970s CE <Jackson>
8. Answer the following about women in Victorian England, for 10 points each.
[10] The activities of women in this profession were restricted by the Contagious Diseases Acts. Prime
Minister William Gladstone often walked about at night to "rescue" these people, who were euphemistically
dubbed "fallen women."
ANSWER: prostitutes [or sex workers]
[10] The doctrine of "coverture," from this type of law, restricted women's property ownership until late in
Victoria's reign. This type of law is based on judicial decisions and precedent rather than a constitution or
fixed legal code.
ANSWER: common law
[10] Upper-class Victorian women wore lavender or grey clothing to show that they were in this state, which
came after a state in which they wore all black.
ANSWER: half-mourning <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 9 of 14 

9. Name these recurring items in the paintings of Magritte, for 10 points each.
[10] Two of these fruits wear masks in Magritte's Le Pretre Marie. Much more famously, one of them obscures a
man's face in The Son of Man.
ANSWER: green apples
[10] In numerous canvases, such as The Call of the Peaks, The Fair Captive, Euclidean Walks, and The Human
Condition, Magritte painted these objects blending into the background scenery.
ANSWER: paintings [or canvases; or artworks; or easels; prompt on images]
[10] Magritte studies one of these objects but draws a bird instead in his self-portrait Clairvoyance. A larger one
is enclosed in a cage in his Elective Affinities.
ANSWER: an egg <Saric>
10. Cecil Parrott included a map in his translation of a chapter charting the "Anabasis" of the title character of
this novel, who abets the chaplain Otto Katz's love of booze. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this darkly comic novel about a dog trader roped into fighting in the First World War, which was
written by Jaroslav Hasek.
ANSWER: The Good Soldier Svejk [or The Good Soldier Schweik; or The Fateful Adventures of the Good Soldier Svejk
During the World War; or Osudy dobreho vojaka Svejka za svetove valky]
[10] This other World War I novel concerns the enlistment of Paul Baumer and his schoolmates. It was written
by Erich Maria Remarque.
ANSWER: All Quiet on the Western Front
[10] A Russian perspective on the war is provided by this author's novel August 1914. He is better known for a
novel in which the radiotherapist Vera Gangart and the nurse Zoya stave off the advances of the infirm Oleg
Kostoglotov.
ANSWER: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn] <Gupta>
11. This piece's third-movement rondo-minuet suddenly shifts from A major and 3/4 time into A minor and 2/4
time in a section evocative of a style of exotic music popular when it was composed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this violin concerto, the last to be composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
ANSWER: Turkish Concerto [or Violin Concerto No. 5]
[10] Of Mozart's twenty-seven concertos for this instrument, the best-known individual movement is the F
major Andante second movement of the Elvira Madigan.
ANSWER: pianos [or pianofortes; or piano concertos; or piano concerti]
[10] Mozart also wrote a B-flat major concerto for this double-reed woodwind instrument, whose "contra"
variety is the lowest-pitched woodwind instrument in the standard orchestra.
ANSWER: bassoons <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 10 of 14 

12. Marshall Sahlins resigned from the National Academy of Sciences in protest of this man's induction. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this controversial anthropologist best known for his 1967 study Yanomamo: The Fierce People, which
argued that violence among those indigenous peoples served as a form of social evolution.
ANSWER: Napoleon Alphonseau Chagnon
[10] The Yanomamo live in the rainforest located within the main basin of this South American river that is
mostly in Brazil.
ANSWER: Amazon River
[10] Chagnon made a 1975 film about the Yanomamo which is widely screened in anthropology classes.
Showing a ten minute long battle featuring clubs and machetes, the film is named for this other weapon used
during the fight.
ANSWER: ax [or The Ax Fight] <Cheyne>
13. This speech declares that "we shall never allow that torch of freedom to be blown out, however high the
wind or stormy the tempest." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this inaugural address given in 1947. This speech describes a moment which "comes but rarely in
history", "when an age ends, and the soul of a nation finds utterance."
ANSWER: "Tryst with Destiny" speech
[10] This first Prime Minister of India delivered the "Tryst with Destiny" speech. He declared that "the light has
gone out of our lives" after Gandhi was assassinated.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru [or Pandit Nehru; or Panditji]
[10] This former compatriot of Nehru's demands for an independent nation for Muslims led to the formation
of Pakistan. He served as Pakistan's first Governor-General.
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali Jinnah [or Mahomedali Jinnahbhai] <O'Rourke>
14. News of this event prompted a politician to deliver a speech atop a tank calling for the military to go on
strike. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1991 event in which the anti-perestroika Gang of Eight attempted to seize control of a nonAmerican White House.
ANSWER: the attempted coup d'etat against Mikhail Gorbachev [or obvious equivalents for "coup"; or the
August Putsch]
[10] This first post-Cold War President of Russia gave that "tank speech" denouncing the coup. He released the
black box tapes of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 in 1993, nearly a decade after it was shot down.
ANSWER: Boris Yeltsin [or Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin]
[10] Days after the coup attempt, demonstrators dismantled a statue of Felix Dzerzhinsky in front of the
headquarters of the KGB. Dzerzhinsky was the head of this other secret police force, which was established
after Vladimir Lenin's rise to power.
ANSWER: Cheka [or Chrezvychaynaya Komissiya; or the Emergency Committee] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 11 of 14 

15. This goddess and Aphrodite agree to spend a portion of the year with the handsome youth Adonis. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this daughter of Demeter who becomes the queen of the underworld after she is kidnapped by
Hades.
ANSWER: Persephone [or Kore; do not accept "Proserpina"]
[10] This Lapith king becomes bound to a chair of forgetfulness when he tries to kidnap Persephone. The
Centauromachy breaks out at his wedding to Hippodamia.
ANSWER: Pirithous
[10] During the Centauromachy, the warrior Caeneus is killed in this manner when he proves to be
invulnerable to all other weapons.
ANSWER: he is crushed to death with tree trunks and stones [or obvious equivalents] <Kim>
16. Adenomas of this structure can be imaged using a Tc-99m sestamibi scan, which shows avidity for its
oxyphil cells. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this structure whose chief cells release a hormone that counters the effects of calcitonin.
ANSWER: parathyroid [or parathyroid hormone; prompt on parathormone]
[10] Calcitonin is secreted by these large, pale-staining neuroendocrine cells of the thyroid.
ANSWER: parafollicular cells
[10] Four atoms of this halogen are attached to tyrosine in thyroxine, a thyroid hormone released from its
follicular cells. Salt is treated with this halogen to prevent goiter.
ANSWER: iodine [or I; or iodide] <Smart>
17. Answer the following about the life of Esther Szekeres, for 10 points each.
[10] While in college, Szekeres befriended this incredibly prolific Hungarian mathematician, who is basically
responsible for the probabilistic method and extremal combinatorics. Since she worked with this man, her
value of his namesake number is one.
ANSWER: Paul Erdős (ehr-dursh)
[10] Before marrying mathematician George Szekeres, Esther had this last name. Another mathematician with
this last name names a group isomorphic to Z2 times Z2, and a non-orientable surface often visualized in four
dimensions.
ANSWER: Esther Klein [or Felix Klein]
[10] Esther and George got married after working together on what Erdos dubbed the "Happy Ending"
Problem, which can be considered a problem in this combinatorial field. Other coloring problems in this
discipline include van der Waerden's theorem.
ANSWER: Ramsey theory <Schindler>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 12 of 14 

18. Also known as the Trembling Giant, it occupies 107 acres of Fishlake National Park and weighs over six
thousand tons. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this clonal colony of approximately 47,000 quaking aspen which share a single root system, and was
once thought to be the world's largest organism.
ANSWER: Pando
[10] Pando is found in this Western state, where hoodoos can be found in Bryce Canyon National Park and
land speed records are set at the Bonneville Salt Flats.
ANSWER: Utah
[10] The current record holder for "world's largest organism" is a 3.7 square mile honey fungus in this state's
Malheur National Forest. Wizard Island is located in a lake in this state that formed in a volcanic caldera.
ANSWER: Oregon <White>
19. This poem begins with an invocation of the "Heav'nly Muse" who inspired Moses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this epic poem about the Fall of Man written by John Milton.
ANSWER: Paradise Lost
[10] The fall of the rebel angels is narrated to Adam by this angel, who instructs him in matters theological and
sexual as they dine on paradisal fruits.
ANSWER: Raphael
[10] This book of Paradise Lost begins with the invocation, "Hail holy light," and features a dialogue between
God and the Son of God in which the former acquits himself of guilt for the impending Fall of Man.
ANSWER: Book III [or the third book] <Casalaspi>
20. The speaker of this poem notes, "Helen being chosen found life flat and dull, and later had much trouble
from a fool." For 10 points each:
[10] "Name this poem from the collection Michael Robartes and the Dancer about the poet's newborn Anne. Its
speaker hopes that she may "be granted beauty and yet not beauty to make a stranger's eye distraught."
ANSWER: "A Prayer for My Daughter"
[10] This other poem by the author of "A Prayer for My Daughter" addresses "sages standing in God's holy fire"
in the title city in its penultimate stanza, which says of the speaker's heart, "sick with desire and fastened to a
dying animal it knows not what it is."
ANSWER: "Sailing to Byzantium"
[10] "This Irish poet of "A Prayer for My Daughter" and "Sailing to Byzantium" also wrote "The Second
Coming."
ANSWER: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats] <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 13 of 14 

21. Many countries wanted to control Corsica. For 10 points each:
[10] While commanding the Agamemnon, this British sailor was shot and lost his right eye while trying to
capture Corsica. He later captured two Spanish ships at the Battle of Cape St. Vincent.
ANSWER: Horatio Nelson
[10] This Corsican general served as president of the Corsican Republic before it was captured by France. He
later fought with the British to free Corsica from French occupation.
ANSWER: Pasquale Paoli
[10] This man was born on Corsica while it was controlled by France. Despite leading riots against French
troops there, he later became emperor of France and invaded Russia before losing at Waterloo.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte <Nutter>

NASAT 2015 - Round 10 - Page 14 of 14 

