2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 7
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. The magnitude of one type of this phenomenon is governed by a namesake v-parameter given by the
Cornu Spiral, and its Fraunhofer type occurs for Fresnel number less than one. Bragg’s law explains how
x-rays experience it when meeting crystals, and the Davisson-Germer experiment showed that electrons
experience it. It can be explained by Huygens ’ Principle, and constructive interference illustrated that it
happens to light in Young’s double-slit experiment, showing its wave nature. For 10 points, name this
phenomenon in which a wave bends around an obstacle.
ANSWER: diffraction [accept Fresnel diffraction before “Fraunhofer”]
Bonus: One novel application of these devices is in a namesake kind of “tweezers” that can move small
molecules. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these devices that use population inversion to generate a beam of coherent light.
ANSWER: lasers [or Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation, but do not reveal]
[10] Lasers work by this kind of emission, in which a photon causes an excited electron to transition to
ground state, producing another photon. It is contrasted with spontaneous emission.
ANSWER: stimulated emission
2. This poet wrote "Pretty women wonder where my secret lies" in Phenomenal Woman, and the birth
of her son and her drug addiction feature in her autobiography Gather Together In My Name. Her other
poetry collections include Now Sheba Sings the Song and Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'Fore I Die.
She read her poem "On the Pulse of Morning" at Bill Clinton's inauguration, and another of her works
was inspired by her recovery from childhood sexual abuse. For 10 points, name this poet of I Know Why
the Caged Bird Sings.
ANSWER: Maya Angelou
Bonus: The chauffeur Henry Simpson has an affair with Albertine in her Toys in the Attic. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this playwright who wrote about Mary's accusations of lesbianism between two boarding
school headmistresses in The Children's Hour.
ANSWER: Lillian Florence Hellman
[10] This poet also created a work titled "The Children's Hour," but is better known for "Evangeline,"
"The Song of Hiawatha," and "Paul Revere's Ride."
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 1 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. According to some sources, the first man in this belief system was Gayomard, and its founder was first
patronized by Vishtaspa. All souls must cross the Chinvat Bridge in this faith, and the dead are laid out
on Dakhmas, or Towers of Silence, to keep earth and fire uncontaminated. This religion’s Gathas tell of
malevolent spirits called Daevas, who are opposed by the Amesha Spentas. Its main scripture is known
as the Avesta. For 10 points, name this religion in which Ahriman is opposed by Ahura Mazda, a Persian
religion founded by Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism
Bonus: Male members of this religion are not allowed to cut their hair, and need to carry a dagger and
wear a turban. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Indian religion founded by Nanak, popular in the Punjab region, where you can find its
Golden Temple at Amritsar.
ANSWER: Sikhism
[10] Nanak, along with Gobind Singh, is one of these people, wise teachers who reveal the Name, or
Nam, and the Word, or Sabad, of God.
ANSWER: gurus
4. Engagements in this conflict included the Battle of Gravelotte, in which the losing side was led by
Marshal François Bazaine, and a two month siege of Metz. The victorious side was marshaled
throughout this conflict by the elder Helmuth von Moltke, who succeeded in capturing Napoleon III at
the Battle of Sedan. Ended by the Treaty of Frankfurt, it prompted the cessation of Alsace-Lorraine as
well as Wilhelm I’s coronation as German Kaiser in the Palace of Versailles. For 10 points, name this
1870 to 1871 conflict, the final war of Otto von Bismarck.
ANSWER: Franco-Prussian War [or Franco-German War]
Bonus: He proposed to restructure his Empire as a triple monarchy, giving equal weight to the Germans,
Magyars, and Slavs. For 10 points:
[10] Name this archduke, who exclaimed, “I come to Sarajevo…and I get bombs thrown at me. It is
outrageous!” shortly before he and his wife Sophie were shot.
ANSWER: Archduke Franz Ferdinand [or Francis Ferdinand; prompt on Franz; prompt on Francis;
prompt on Ferdinand]
[10] That bomb-thrower was Nedjelko Cabrinovic, a member of this secret society led by a colonel codenamed Apis (“OP-ee”).
ANSWER: Black Hand Society [or Union or Death; or Ujedinjenje ili Smrt]
5. This work opens with a pianissimo on A and E, and at the end of the movement that theme returns in
a major key. The third movement in B flat major includes a solo horn and a fanfare in E flat, and the
scherzo second movement of this work has a notable timpani solo and a D major trio using trombones.
Premiered in Vienna in 1824, this work’s final movement is a “symphony within a symphony,” and that
movement includes text from a Friedrich Schiller poem, “Ode to Joy.” For 10 points, name this
composition, the last of its kind by Beethoven.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 9 in D minor by Ludwig van Beethoven, “Choral,” [accept any combination]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 2 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: This composer wrote the scores for such films as Koyaanisqatsi and The Hours. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this composer, who included several “knee plays” in his massive opera Einstein on the Beach.
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] Philip Glass primarily composes music of this genre. Steve Reich and Terry Riley also write music of
this style, which is characterized by repetition of simple musical motifs.
ANSWER: minimalism [or word forms]
6. In International Relations Theory, this university is home to suicide bombing expert Robert Pape, as
well as the founder of “Offensive Realism,” John J. Mearsheimer. This university’s law school lost Cass
Sunstein to Harvard and is home to Richard Posner. One professor from this school developed capture
theory, while another developed the concept of rational expectations. Apart from Robert Lucas and
George Stigler, this school is associated with a man who pioneered the wealth effect and wrote Free to
Choose to oppose government regulation. For 10 points, name this university best known for its
namesake school of free market economics, located in the Windy City.
ANSWER: University of Chicago
Bonus: This language’s closest living relative is Frisian. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Germanic language that underwent the Great Vowel Shift.
ANSWER: English
[10] Like all Germanic languages, English is subject to this Linguistic rule, which is named for a German
linguist who also collected fairytales.
ANSWER: Grimm’s Law
7. Joseph Ritner's refusal to accept his defeat by David Porter led to this state's bloodless Buckshot War.
Charles Willson Peale established the first American museum in this state, whose founder signed a
treaty with the Lenape tribe. In this state's Conestoga Massacre, many Native Americans were murdered
by the Paxton Boys. The Battles of Germantown and Brandywine occurred in this state, where George
Washington led troops to put down the Whiskey Rebellion. For 10 points, name this state founded as a
Quaker colony by William Penn.
ANSWER: Pennsylvania
Bonus: This president was advised by Colonel House. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Democrat who asserted "the world must be made safe for democracy" and issued
Fourteen Points after entering the United States into World War I.
ANSWER: Thomas Woodrow Wilson
[10] This Republican was the leading opponent of the League of Nations, and succeeded in preventing
the United States from joining it.
ANSWER: Henry Cabot Lodge, Sr.
8. One of these compounds alternates between martensite and austenite phases and is the most widely
used of the “shape-memory” variety. The Hume-Rothery rules state that these compounds can only
form if its constituent elements are of similar size and electronegativity, though one involving cesium
and aluminum was formed in violation of those rules. For 10 points, name these compounds that
include Nitinol, pewter, brass, and bronze, which are all mixtures of multiple metals.
ANSWER: alloys [accept early shape-memory alloys; accept Nitinol or Nickel-Titanium Naval Ordnance
Laboratory before “Hume-Rothery”]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 3 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: It is responsible for carbon’s ability to form so many compounds, and it can be calculated using
the Lewis electron dot structure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process in which atomic orbitals overlap to form the namesake type of orbitals; for
instance, in carbon dioxide, this process produces two sp orbitals.
ANSWER: hybridization
[10] This common form of hybridization in carbon is found in methane and other compounds in which
carbon forms four single bonds.
ANSWER: sp3 (“s p three”)

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 4 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 7
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Mythology
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 5 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 7
Category Quiz Tossups

9. This author wrote about the simpleminded Sufiya, who beheads two hundred eighteen turkeys and
turns into the Beast of violence against the backdrop of the Hyder and Harrapa families, in the novel
Shame. In another of this author's works, Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha survive the terrorist
attack on an Air India flight. He created a character who can read thoughts with his nose, and who was
born at the moment of India's independence, in his novel Midnight's Children. For 10 points, name this
author whose The Satanic Verses earned a fatwa from Ayatollah Khomeini.
ANSWER: Salmon Rushdie
10. A key point in this musical occurs when Lyman Hall switches allegiances, and this musical's song
"Cool, Cool Considerate Men" was removed from the film version due to the objections of President
Nixon. "Molasses to Rum" is sung by Edward Rutledge and describes the triangle trade, and John
Dickinson leaves the Congress at the end of this musical to fight for the new nation despite not
supporting the cause of independence. For 10 points, name this musical about the events leading up to
the signing of the Declaration of Independence, named for the year in which that event occurred.
ANSWER: 1776
11. The works of this artist inspired Rilke to write "thing-poems" such as "The Panther." He used a
handyman as the model for his realistic The Man with the Broken Nose, and created an enormous statue
of the novelist Balzac. Another of his works includes The Three Shades and a sculpture of Paolo
embracing Francesca inspired by The Divine Comedy. That work, The Gates of Hell, includes The Kiss, as
well as a sculpture of a seated man resting his head on his fist. For 10 points, name this French sculptor
of The Thinker.
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
12. Foster resonance energy transfer between fluorogenic dyes allows for quantification of the products
of this technique in a real-time variant. This technique consists of denaturation, annealing, and
elongation steps, and was developed by Kary Mullis. The bacterium Thermus aquaticus provides a
necessary heat-stable DNA polymerase known as Taq. The presence of free primers and nucleotides is
also necessarily in this technique. For 10 points, name this biological technique used to create numerous
copies of segments of DNA.
ANSWER: PCR [or polymerase chain reaction]
13. Bays of this lake include Michipicoten Bay, and one national park on this bay is Pukaskwa. Islands in
this lake include the Slate Islands and St. Ignace Island, and its waters surround the large Keweenaw
Peninsula. Also the site of the Apostle Islands and Whitefish Bay, cities on this lake include Grand
Marais, Munising, Thunder Bay, and Superior. For 10 points, name this lake to the north of Michigan's
Upper Peninsula, the largest Great Lake.
ANSWER: Lake Superior
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 6 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. This empire conquered Takrur, and Wolof fought for independence from this polity. During this
empire’s reign by Mahmud III, Askia Ishaq sacked its capital at Niani. Growing out of the state of
Kangaba as a revolt against Sumanguru, its creation was described in a namesake epic of its founder,
Sundiata. Home to the trading city Timbuktu, it was ruled by a man who gave away vast amounts of
gold while undertaking a hajj, Mansa Musa. For 10 points, name this West African empire whose peak
followed the Ghana and preceded the Songhai.
ANSWER: Mali empire [or Malinke empire]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 7 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 7
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: A Richard Dehmel poem provides the basis for this composition, in which a woman tells her lover
that she is pregnant with someone else’s child. For 15 points, name this string sextet by Arnold
Schoenberg.
ANSWER: Transfigured Night [or Verklarte Nacht]
Current Events: In March 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York provided this firm with an
emergency loan, but that loan failed to prevent this firm's collapse. For 15 points, name this investment
bank bought by JPMorgan Chase for two dollars a share thanks to the subprime mortgage crisis.
ANSWER: Bear Stearns
Geography: A suburb of this city, Sri Jayawendarapura Kotte, is its country's legislative and judicial
capital, and old districts of this city are the Fort and the Pettah. For 15 points, name this administrative
capital of the former Ceylon.
ANSWER: Colombo
History: He commissioned the African expedition of Henry Stanley, and in 1885 established the Congo
Free State under his personal autocratic rule. For 15 points, name this king of Belgium, who ruled from
1865 to 1909.
ANSWER: Leopold II [prompt on Leopold]
Literature: This author adapted Sophocles’ Antigone as The Burial at Thebes, and he wrote that “the
great slime kings / were gathered there for vengeance” in “Death of a Naturalist.” For 15 points, name
this Irish Nobel laureate, who created a modern translation of Beowulf.
ANSWER: Seamus Heaney
Math Calculation: For 15 points, find the limit of the function quantity x squared minus one, all over the
natural log of x, as x approaches 1.
ANSWER: 2
Mythology: She consorted with her son Kingu after the death of her first consort Apsu, the embodiment
of primordial fresh water. For 15 points, name this dragon killed by Marduk to create the world.
ANSWER: Tiamat
Social Science: He used the philosophy of Nietzsche to give root to his ideas on power dynamics. For 15
points, name this psychologist who broke from Freud and formulated the concept of the inferiority
complex.
ANSWER: Alfred Adler

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 8 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 7
Stretch Phase

15. D. S. Wilson divided this concept into strong and weak forms, and this concept may also explain the
sterility of most female social insects. Hamilton’s Rule, which governs the degree to which it occurs, has
been generalized as “kin selection” theory. Richard Dawkins argued that it was subject to “subversion
from within” in The Selfish Gene. For 10 points, name this activity in which an individual sacrifices its
own reproductive success for that of others, exhibited by prairie dogs giving off a warning signal instead
of running from predators.
ANSWER: altruism [accept word forms like altruistic]
Bonus: She was assassinated by two of her Sikh bodyguards in October 1984, after she ordered troops to
storm the Sikh holy site of Amritsar. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Indian prime minister, whose son Rajiv was also assassinated seven years later.
ANSWER: Indira Gandhi [prompt on Gandhi]
[10] Indira Gandhi was the daughter of this “pandit,” the Congress Party leader who was the longserving first prime minister of independent India.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru
[10] During this period from 1975 to 1977, Indira Gandhi ruled by decree and imprisoned political
opponents, following an attempt to unseat her by court ruling.
ANSWER: The Emergency
16. Stribog is the god of this thing in Slavic mythology, while the antelope-riding father of Hanumna,
Vayu, is the Hindu god of it. The Shinto god of this carries a large bag and has a brother named Raijin,
who is the thunder god. Apart from Fujin, gods of this include the Anemoi of the Greeks and the Venti of
the Romans. Another Greek god of it gave Odysseus a bag which, when opened, released it in all
directions. For 10 points, name this phenomenon whose gods include Aeolus, Zephyrus, and Boreas.
ANSWER: winds
Bonus: He wrote about the dictator Sam in Anthills of the Savannah. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of a book in which Okonkwo helps kill Ikemefuna, Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Chinua Achebe
[10] Chinua Achebe is from this African nation, also home to authors like Christopher Okigbo and Wole
Soyinka.
ANSWER: Nigeria
[10] In this sequel to Things Fall Apart, Okonkwo's grandson Obi is convicted of taking bribes in order to
keep up his Western lifestyle.
ANSWER: No Longer At Ease

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 9 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. This man oversaw the execution of his son Crispus on adultery charges, and ordered the exile of St.
Athanasius. He defeated Licinius at Chrysopolis, and his mother Helen was said to have found the
location of the Holy Sepulcher. He defeated Maxentius in a 312 AD battle, and convened the First
Council of Nicaea. For 10 points, name this victor at the Battle of Milvian Bridge, whose signing of the
Edict of Milan made Christianity legal in the Roman Empire.
ANSWER: Constantine I [or Constantine the Great]
Bonus: George Santayana wrote about realms of it, and it is paired with nothingness in a work that
discusses the concept of bad faith. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this concept, which along with “time” names a work that introduces the concept of dasein.
ANSWER: “being”
[10] This philosopher wrote Being and Time, as well as Introduction to Metaphysics.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
[10] Being and Nothingness is a work of this French author and philosopher. This existentialist also wrote
fiction like Nausea and No Exit.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
18. This work was written by the author of Patience and Cleanness. Its protagonist has a pentacle
emblazoned upon his shield, and is forced to give his host multiple kisses as part of their bartering
arrangement, for which he receives the spoils of the host's hunt. The host's wife gives that character a
belt that will protect him from his opponent when he meets him in the Green Chapel. For 10 points,
name this medieval British poem by the Pearl poet about a beheading contest between the title
characters, named for a nephew of King Arthur and a colorful antagonist.
ANSWER: Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these things about DNA replication.
[10] One of the four bases found in DNA, this pyrimidine pairs with guanine.
ANSWER: cytosine
[10] These enzymes “unwind” DNA, breaking hydrogen bonds between bases so that replication can
occur.
ANSWER: DNA helicase
[10] This is the structure formed when helicase separates DNA into two “tines,” known as the lagging
and leading strands.
ANSWER: replication fork
19. A classification known as the Inuit Group contains five of these objects named for Inuit gods. One of
these bodies is theorized by Kieffer to produce cryovolcanic effects via a clathrate mechanism, and
another of these bodies has a giant crater that makes it look like the Death Star. The only irregular one
of these objects is Phoebe. The largest of these bodies is the only moon known to have a dense
atmosphere. For 10 points, name these objects including Enceladus, Mimas, and Titan, all of which orbit
the second-largest planet in the solar system.
ANSWER: Saturn’s moons [accept equivalents like Saturn’s satellites; prompt on moons or similar
answers that do not mention Saturn]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 10 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Written in iambic pentameter with an a-b-a-b rhyme scheme, this poem describes a "mute
inglorious Milton" buried in the title location. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem, which begins "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day."
ANSWER: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
[10] "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" was written by this British author of "Ode on the Death of
a Favourite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes."
ANSWER: Thomas Gray
[10] Gray addresses "Father Thames" as having seen "full many a sprightly race" before claiming "where
ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise" in an ode on a "distant prospect" of this place.
ANSWER: Eton College [accept “Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College”]
20. His pupil Egbert founded a school in York, and as a youth he was cared for by Benedict Biscop. The
reckoning of Easter was the subject of this man's "Of Times" and "On the Reckoning of Time," and he
wrote on the life of St. Cuthbert. His most noted work traced the history of a certain polity to the arrival
of St. Augustine in Kent, and he originated the practice of dating events from the time of Christ's birth.
For 10 points, name this Anglo-Saxon author of the Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
ANSWER: the Venerable Bede
Bonus: They were first discovered by Carl Anderson during cloud chamber studies of cosmic rays. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this class of subatomic particle which has the same mass and charge magnitude as the
electron.
ANSWER: positron [or positive electron]
[10] The positron is an example of this type of matter, which annihilates when it comes into contact with
ordinary matter.
ANSWER: antimatter
[10] In a type of decay that is the opposite of annihilation, a positron and electron can be created from
this form of high energy radiation.
ANSWER: gamma ray
21. One character in this novel sports a monkey on his shoulder, and announces the performance of
"The Tale of Melisendra." It opens with a dedication to the Duke of Bejar, and at one point the
storytelling goatherd Peter is interrupted by the title character for poor use of grammar. Its title
character is defeated by the Knight of the White Moon after becoming obsessed with chivalric
romances. For 10 points, name this novel about a knight who rides Rocinante, loves Dulcinea, and is
served by Sancho Panza, a work by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: The Ingenious Hidalgo Don Quixote of La Mancha [or El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quijote de la
Mancha]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 11 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: His first symphony was nicknamed “Beethoven’s Tenth,” and he wrote twenty-four Variations on
a Theme by Paganini. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this composer of a notable Lullaby and some Hungarian Dances.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
[10] This Brahms piece commemorated his honorary degree from the University of Breslau. He also
wrote a “Tragic” one of the same type of composition.
ANSWER: Academic Festival Overture
[10] After the death of his mother, Brahms wrote a “German” one of these. Verdi wrote one with a
famous “Dies Irae,” and Mozart’s was completed after his death.
ANSWER: requiem
22. In an Edvard Munch painting of this name, a naked woman with red hair stands in front of a blue
bed, which the title figure lies on. In another painting of this name, a green sheet appears behind a
square wooden stool holding ink and a quill. That painting of this name includes a bloody knife in the
lower left corner, as well as the dangling right arm of a corpse whose right hand grasps a petition from
Charlotte Corday. For 10 points, name this Jean-Louis David painting of the assassination of a leader of
the French Revolution.
ANSWER: The Death of Marat
Bonus: Much of our knowledge of his early reign comes from his biographer and uncle, Otto of Freising.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Holy Roman Emperor who captured Rome after being excommunicated by Alexander III,
and had a notably red beard.
ANSWER: Frederick I Hohenstaufen [or Frederick Barbarossa; prompt on Frederick; prompt on
Barbarossa; prompt on Frederick, Duke of Swabia]
[10] Frederick gave this cousin of his and Duke of Saxony the Duchy of Bavaria, but later exiled him after
a civil war.
ANSWER: Henry the Lion [prompt on Henry]
[10] Frederick allegedly died attempting to swim the Calycadmus River, thus impeding this event that
saw several European kings face off against Saladin.
ANSWER: Third Crusade [prompt on crusades]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 12 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 7
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. The Stark-Einstein photochemical equivalence law uses this value to relate mass to the quanta of
radiation it absorbs. The first attempt to calculate this value resulted in the similar Loschmidt constant,
and it is multiplied by the elementary charge to produce the Faraday constant. The Boltzmann constant
is a ratio of the universal gas constant to this other value, and inverting this number yields the atomic
mass unit. For 10 points, name this number that represents the number of atoms or molecules present
in a mole of a substance.
ANSWER: Avogadro’s constant [prompt on mole before mentioned]
2. One character in this novel mocks another for having no front teeth in a chapter about his "inactivity."
That female character had sold her teeth after being abandoned by Felix. Another sells his books to
survive, and that man, Mabeuf, subsequently joins the Friends of the ABC. Later in the novel, Enjolas
leads a June 5 revolt with a man who rejects a street girl. That character, Marius, is in love with Cosette,
the adopted daughter of a man initially imprisoned for stealing a loaf of bread. For 10 points, name this
work by Victor Hugo about former prisoner Jean Valjean.
ANSWER: Les Miserables
3. This event caused the cancellation of the “Peoples’ Olympiad,” and this conflict also saw the first
racially integrated American battalion to be commanded by an African-American. In addition to that
International Brigade, another group involved in this war was the German Condor Legion, which
bombed a town of little military significance while attempting to subdue the Basques. For 10 points,
name this conflict of the 1930’s in which Francisco Franco overthrew his country’s government, which
saw the bombing of Guernica.
ANSWER: Spanish Civil War
Extra 20-point bonus:
This series culminates in the terrifying Saturn Devouring His Sons. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this series of paintings that includes The Witches’ Sabbath, executed on the walls of the
Quinta del Sordo.
ANSWER: the Black Paintings [or Las pinturas negras]
[10] The Black Paintings were created by this Spanish artist of Los Caprichos as well as the Nude Maja
and Clothed Maja.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 13 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point bonus:
This layer is found above the Gutenberg Discontinuity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this largest layer of the Earth, which can be found between the crust and the outer core.
ANSWER: mantle
[10] This is the uppermost part of the mantle. Because of the pressure of having to carry the crust, it is
made out of liquid rock, and continental plates float on it.
ANSWER: aesthenosphere
[10] This is the boundary between the crust and the asthenosphere. It is named for the Croatian
seismologist who discovered it.
ANSWER: Mohorovicic Discontinuity

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 7

Page 14 of 14

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

