2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 8
First Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. He divided his country up into twelve districts so that every district would spend one month
supporting him. His father-in-law, a pharaoh, burned down the Canaanite city Gezer as a gift for this
man, and he gave advice such as “the treacherous shall be uprooted from the land.” He is attributed to
writing a song about “the rose of sharon and the lily of the valleys,” and in a dispute between two
harlots he decided to cut their child in half. For 10 points, name this king, visited by the queen of Sheba,
who succeeded his father David.
ANSWER: King Solomon
2. He played the detective in the music video for Cameo’s hit "Word Up!," and one of the characters he
portrayed was born in the African Confederation and attended Zefram Cochrane High School. The voice
of Kwame in Captain Planet and the Planeteers, he played Martin Luther King, Jr. in Ali, and he became
famous for playing Kunta Kinte in the landmark television series Roots. For 10 points name this
longtime host of Reading Rainbow who played the blind Geordie La Forge on Star Trek: The Next
Generation.
ANSWER: Levar Burton
3. A conspiracy to assassinate this man was formed by Bannister Truelock and nearly carried out by the
religious fanatic James Hadfield, who shot him at Drury Lane Theater. The Marquis of Rockingham and
the Duke of Grafton were two of the Prime Ministers during his reign. The husband of Charlotte of
Mecklenburg-Strelitz, this man was treated by Francis Willis for a condition believed to be porphyria,
which led to his son taking power in the Regency. For 10 points, name this British monarch during the
Napoleonic Wars and the American Revolution.
ANSWER: George III
4. The most highly substituted type of these compounds forms alkyl halides when reacted with
hydrobromic acid. Formed from alkenes by hydroboration and oxidation, these compounds can also be
synthesized by reducing aldehydes and ketones. The simplest variety of these compounds can be
formed from the distillation of wood. Common types include the three-carbon isopropyl and the two
carbon ethyl type produced by fermentation. For 10 points, name this class of compounds, the simplest
of which is methanol.
ANSWER: alcohols
5. Early tributaries of this waterway include the Ock, Pang, Wey, and Mole rivers, while oddly-named
islands in it include Headpile Eyot, Eel Pie, and one not named after Taiwan called Formosa. During
World War II, the Maunsell fortifications were built along this river for defense and recently the Jubilee
canal has been built to control flooding. With landmarks including Fry, Canvey and Sheppey islands, this
waterway begins in the Cotswolds near Kemble in Gloucestershire. For 10 points, name this river which
flows through Windsor, Oxford and London.
ANSWER: River Thames
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 1 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This author wrote about Georgie Cottar meeting Miriam Lacy in England in his The Brushwood Boy.
He wrote a short story about Daniel Dravot and Peachy Carnihan, who take over the throne of
Kafiristan, and a novel about Harvey Cheyne, a millionaire’s son who is rescued by a fishing boat. In
addition to “The Man Who Would Be King” and Captains Courageous, he wrote a novel about a boy
who grows up on the streets of Lahore and ends up as a British secret service agent. For 10 points
name this author of Kim and The Jungle Book.
ANSWER: Joseph Rudyard Kipling
7. Langevin’s law says that the magnetic force on a membrane with this property is always attractive,
and the deflection of a membrane with this property is proportional to the gradient of the square of an
external magnetic field. Above the Curie point, ferromagnetic substances have this property, which also
applies to liquid oxygen and other molecules with unpaired electrons. For 10 points, name this type of
magnetism in which a material becomes magnetic in the presence of an external magnetic field, which
is stronger than diamagnetism.
ANSWER: paramagnetism [or paramagnetic; prompt on magnetism]
8. One character in this work reveals that he has “tuberculosis of the spine” and promises to send a card
with a black cross on it. Doctor Rank falls in love with the main character, who, in order to finance a trip
to Italy, forged her father’s signature to borrow money from a man embittered by the loss of Christine
Linde. That man, Nils Krogstad, blackmails the title character and is later appeased by Torvald, who
apologizes for his treatment of his wife at the end of this play. Nora Helmer walks out at the end of, for
10 points, what play by Henrik Ibsen?
ANSWER: A Doll’s House [or Et dukkehjem]
9. William Cushing held this position for only two days, and other men who have held it include the first
non-colonial Governor of South Carolina and the man who proposed the Connecticut Compromise with
Roger Sherman. In addition to John Rutledge and Oliver Ellsworth, one man to hold this post co-wrote
the Federalist Papers with James Madison and Alexander Hamilton, while another presided over
Marbury v. Madison. For 10 points, name this position occupied by John Jay and John Marshall,
currently held by John Roberts.
ANSWER: Chief Justice of the United States
10. A chiaroscuro version of this medium was first invented by Hans Burgkmair, and it was used by
Edvard Munch for his work Two People, The Lonely. Titian used it for Saint Jerome in the Wilderness,
and another artist used it for The Harrowing of Hell. It was also used to create The Fifty-Three Stations
of the Tokaido and Thirty Six Views of Mount Fuji. Hiroshige, Hokusai, and other ukiyo-e creators
frequently used, for 10 points, what medium, also employed by Albrecht Dürer, which makes prints
using relief on a chunk of the namesake organic material?
ANSWER: woodblock printing [or woodcuts; accept word forms]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 2 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 8
Second Quarter:
Ten Tossups
with Bonuses

1. In one of this author’s short stories, a fishing village mistakes the title figure for a ship and a whale
before naming him Esteban. Santiago Nasar is killed by Pablo and Pedro after supposedly deflowering
Angela Vicario in another of his novels, and this man wrote of Fermina Daza’s marriage to Dr. Urbino.
For 10 points name this author of “The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World,” Chronicle of a Death
Foretold, and Love in the Time of Cholera, who wrote about the Buendia family of Macondo in One
Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez
BONUS. Name these battles of the War of 1812, for 10 points each.
[10] This 1815 battle, fought after the signing of the treaty of Ghent, saw Andrew Jackson and some
pirates demolish the British forces led by Pakenham.
ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans
[10] Also called Moraviantown, William Henry Harrison destroyed the Shawnee under Tecumseh at this
1813 battle.
ANSWER: Battle of the Thames
2. This composer shares his name with the Alaskan composer of In the White Silence. His opera about
the transforming Indian girl Kumudha is called A Flowering Tree, and he wrote about a 1994 earthquake
in I Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then I Saw the Sky. He also composed an opera set during the
preparation for the Trinity test and one about the hijacking of the Achille Lauro, as well as one which
features the "Chairman Dances." For 10 points, identify this American minimalist composer of Doctor
Atomic, The Death of Klinghoffer, and Nixon in China.
ANSWER: John Coolidge Adams
BONUS. The author of the memoirs Another World and The Gathering Storm, this man released Nazi
war criminal Albert Kesselring during his time as Foreign Secretary. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man, who held the position of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1955 to
1957.
ANSWER: Robert Anthony Eden, first Earl of Avon
[10] Anthony Eden served as Prime Minister during this international debacle. It began when funding
for the Aswan Dam was cut and Gamal Nasser nationalized a certain waterway.
ANSWER: Suez Crisis

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 3 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. This conflict was precipitated by an alliance formed at the Convention of Gastein, and minor battles
in it include Langensalza and Trautenau. Opening with the victory of Karl von Steinmitz at the Battle of
Nachod, the last engagement of this conflict was a victory for the Hunters of the Alps at Bezzeca. Its
most notable battle saw Ludwig von Benedek lose to Helmut von Moltke at Koniggratz. Ended by the
Peace of Prague in 1866, and resulting in the Ausgleich a year later, for 10 points, name this short war
pivotal to the unification of both Italy and Germany.
ANSWER: Seven Weeks War [or Austro-Prussian War]
BONUS. Mountain Creek Lake lies to this city’s southwest and its Northern suburbs include Plano. For
10 points each:
[10] Identify this city that forms a large metropolitan area with Arlington and Fort Worth.
ANSWER: Dallas, Texas
[10] This seat of Taylor County is located about 200 miles west of Dallas along Interstate 20. It shares its
name with a city in Kansas which marked the end of the Chisholm Trail.
ANSWER: Abilene, Texas
4. One participant in this event likened another to a bloated frog and, during it, James McGee was
threatened with expulsion. The An Yue Jiang incident created controversy during this, and minor
participants in it included Langton Towungana, Abel Muzorewa and John Nkomo. Arthur Mutambara’s
support of Simba Makoni cost the Movement for Democratic Change a majority, which eventually led to
victory for the ZANU. For 10 points, name this event which saw Morgan Tsvangirai allegedly lose to
Robert Mugabe in an African leadership contest.
ANSWER: 2008 Presidential Election in the Republic of Zimbabwe [accept anything with the words
election and Zimbabwe in it]
BONUS. He was born when Loki transformed into a mare and seduced Svadilfari, a gray stallion brought
by a giant who volunteered to build a wall around Asgard. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this eight-legged horse of Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Sleipnir
[10] This father of Thor was a wise Norse god who wielded the spear Gungnir and received information
from two talking ravens. He rode Sleipnir.
ANSWER: Odin
5. He commissioned Abu-Ishaq Ibrahim-es-Saheli to construct his royal palace and a great mosque
called the Djingareyber Mosque. He initiated building projects in Niani and Gao and stabilized the
empire his grandfather Sundiata established. He left the gold prices in Egypt deflated for long after his
lavish stop there during his legendary Hajj. For 10 points, name this ruler who built up Timbuktu as a
center of learning in his time as the ruler of the Mali.
ANSWER: Mansa Kankan Musa
BONUS. If this quantity is uniform, the position-time plot of a body’s motion is parabolic. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this derivative of velocity.
ANSWER: linear acceleration
[10] Acceleration is important in this branch of physics, which studies the motion of objects.
ANSWER: kinematics

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 4 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. Daniel Bell described this country's change to a service economy in The Coming of Post-Industrial
Society. A book coauthored by Nathan Glazer and Reuel Denney analyzes this country's shift from an
inner-directed to an other-directed character. This country's interlocking economic, political, and
military circles are analyzed in The Power Elite. According to the frontier thesis, this country's expansion
westward encouraged its development of democracy. For 10 points, name this country whose system
of government is analyzed in the Federalist Papers.
ANSWER: the United States of America [or USA or America or other clear equivalents]
BONUS. A man and a woman on the right are shown in profile, looking towards the left, while on the
left two men and a woman recline on the grass. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1884 pointillist painting, which used yellow, orange, and blue to create the hue of the
grass.
ANSWER: A Sunday Afternoon on La Grande Jatte [or A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande
Jatte or Un Dimanche après-midi à l'Ile de la Grande Jatte]
[10] Sunday Afternoon is the masterpiece of this pioneering neo-Impressionist, also known for Le
Chahut and Bathers at Asnières.
ANSWER: Georges-Pierre Seurat
7. Myron Good argued that because there is insufficient CP violation in anomalous kaon regeneration,
this material was not affected by gravity. The first example of it was discovered by Carl Anderson in
observations of cosmic rays, and the ATHENA and ATRAP projects are attempting to isolate this
material. It was predicted by Dirac, who dubbed it a "hole" of negative energy. For 10 points, name this
material that undergoes annihilation when combined with regular matter.
ANSWER: antimatter [prompt on antiparticle]
BONUS. Name these Russian authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of The Bronze Horseman wrote about a duel over Tatiana in Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin
[10] This twentieth-century author of Summerfolk and Children of the Sun wrote about some extremely
poor residents of a boarding-house in The Lower Depths.
ANSWER: Maxim Gorky [or Aleksey Maksimovich Peshkov]
8. This man discusses the violation of the law of the excluded middle in the theories of Meinong and
Frege in his “On Denoting.” He recanted his earlier belief that one can arrive at a single elementary
fact, a belief he explicated in “The Philosophy of Logical Atomism.” In one essay, he answers the title
religious inquiry by stating that it “has been and still is the principal enemy of moral progress in the
world.” Author of A History of Western Philosophy and “Why I Am Not a Christian,” for 10 points, name
this co-author of Principia Mathematica with Alfred Whitehead.
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell
BONUS. This man studied the Kwakiutl Indians in British Columbia, and his time on Baffin Island led to
his work The Central Eskimo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of The Mind of Primitive Man, regarded as the father of American anthropology.
ANSWER: Franz Boas
[10] Boas founded the school of anthropology at this university, where he would teach many important
anthropologists as well as figures like Edward Sapir and Zora Neale Hurston.
ANSWER: Columbia University
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 5 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

9. A feedback loop in this structure is completed by the interplexiform cells, which synapse with
amacrine, bipolar, and horizontal cells. The bipolar cells transmit information to the ganglion cells,
except in the fovea centralis of this structure. Other specialized cells in this structure contain opsin
proteins, and the lack of a pigment in cells of this structure results in color blindness. For 10 points,
name this part of the eye that contains rods and cones.
ANSWER: retina
BONUS. The two main characters of this play fight over the phrase "light the kettle." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Harold Pinter play about Ben and Gus, hired killers who are given assignments through
the title device.
ANSWER: The Dumb Waiter
[10] Pinter wrote a screenplay based on The Trial, a novel by this author of The Castle and "The
Metamorphosis."
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
10. Two shepherds argue over who won the title fight in his poem “The Battle of Sherramuir.” He uses
the title insect’s criticism to wish that humans could see themselves the way others see them in “To a
Louse.” He is better known for a poem in which the title figure stays out late at a pub and has an
eventful ride home, and one in which the title “timorous beastie” has its home upturned by a farmer. In
addition to “Tam O’ Shanter” and “To a Mouse,” he wrote that his “luve is like a red, red rose.” For 10
points name this Scottish-dialect poet of “Auld Lang Syne”.
ANSWER: Robert Burns
BONUS. These substances consist of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or a weak base and its
conjugate acid. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these aqueous solutions that can keep the pH at a very stable level.
ANSWER: buffers [or buffer solutions]
[10] Weak acids will not dissociate as much in solutions in which a similar strong acid has already
dissociated because of this analogue of Le Chatelier's Principle.
ANSWER: common ion effect

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 6 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 8
Third Quarter:
Team Rounds

Choices:

THE YEAR 1913
HARVARD

THE YEAR 1913
This round is about things that happened in the year 1913.
[10] After studying law in London, Mohandas Gandhi lived in this nation, where he was arrested for
leading a march of Indian miners in 1913.
ANSWER: South Africa
[10] This Constitutional Amendment overruled Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Co. by authorizing the
federal government to levy an income tax.
ANSWER: Sixteenth Amendment
[10] This building was the world's tallest until it was overtaken by 40 Wall Street and the Chrysler
Building in 1930, opened to the public in 1913.
ANSWER: Woolworth Building
[10] This physicist, known for his Exclusion Principle and his use of namesake two by two matrices to
model spin operators, was born in Vienna.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Ernst Pauli
[10] This biologist, who published a theory of natural selection before Charles Darwin’s publication of
The Origin of Species, died in 1913.
ANSWER: Alfred Wallace
[10] This California location reached 134 degrees Fahrenheit, the highest temperature ever recorded in
the United States.
ANSWER: Death Valley
[10] Ezra Pound traveled to London to meet this poet, whom he called “the only poet worthy of
serious study.” He is known for poems like The Second Coming and Sailing to Byzantium.
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] The Armoy Show of 1913 debuted Nude Descending a Staircase, and important work of this Dadist
who also created The Large Glass and Fountain.
ANSWER: Marchel Duchamp
[10] In 1913, this American poet started writing The Man Against the Sky. His earlier work included
“Miniver Cheevy,” “Luke Havergal,” and “Richard Cory.”
ANSWER: Edwin Arlington Robinson
[10] Edmund Husserl published a book on this philosophical approach, which is associated with Sartre
and Heidegger and addresses the manner of perceiving.
ANSWER: phenomenology

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 7 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

HARVARD
This round is about Harvard University and related people.
[10] In 1879, this man, who was called the Father of Psychology along with William James, created the
world's first psychological research lab in Leipzig.
ANSWER: Wilhelm Wundt
[10] The Fogg Art Museum at Harvard contains many of the works of this French movement, whose
members included Renoir and Cassatt.
ANSWER: Impressionism
[10] This poet, known for “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”, “Le Monocle de Mon Oncle”, and
“The Emperor of Ice-Cream” attended Harvard.
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens
[10] This writer and Harvard graduate is known for essays like “Self-Reliance” and “The Over-Soul,” as
well as poems like “Concord Hymn” and “The Rhodora.”
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
[10] There has been recent controversy at Harvard over whether members of this faith are entitled to
having a Harvard muezzin or reserved gym hours for women.
ANSWER: Islam
[10] Bernard Rands, composer and Harvard alum, studied in this Italian city, ruled by the Sforza family
during the Renaissance.
ANSWER: Milano
[10] Pierre Trudeau earned his Master’s degree at Harvard but was born and died in this city, located at
the confluence of the Ottawa River and the St. Lawrence Seaway.
ANSWER: Montreal
[10] Harvard historian Niall Ferguson suggests that a speedy German victory in World War I would have
led to a Europe free of this ideology, championed by Hitler and Mussolini.
ANSWER: fascism
[10] Harvard's faculty includes E. J. Corey, famous for his work on retrosynthesis and his development
of reactions in this field of chemistry.
ANSWER: organic chemistry [prompt on chemistry]
[10] Grigori Perelman spoke at Harvard after proving this statement that all manifolds sufficiently like
spheres and with a trivial fundamental group must be spheres.
ANSWER: the Poincaré conjecture

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 8 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
Four Quarter Set
Round 8
Fourth Quarter:
Ten Tossups

1. Laurence Thompson claimed that this poem was meant as a satire of the indecisiveness of the poet’s
friend Edward Thomas. The narrator claims that the title object “lay in leaves no step had trodden
black.” This poem is set in a “yellow wood” and the speaker will be “telling this with a sigh” because
“somewhere ages and ages hence” he made a choice which “has made all the difference.” For 10 points
name this Robert Frost poem, in which the narrator takes the path “less travelled by.”
ANSWER: “The Road Not Taken”
2. This property is utilized in the most common alternative to a table-based parser in context-free
grammars, a certain type of "descent parser." This property is central to the Kleene-Rosser paradox in
the original lambda calculus, and the Ackermann function has the mu form of this property, but not the
primitive type. For 10 points, name this property used to solve the Tower of Hanoi problem, defined as
the application of a function within its own definition.
ANSWER: recursion [accept word forms]
3. Prior to this battle, scouting reports from Deaf Smith told that retreat was impossible due to the
burning of Vince’s Bridge. George Hockley was in command of the artillery pieces of one side, known as
the “Twin Sisters.” Before this battle, reinforcements had arrived from Martin Perfecto de Cos and
during it, general Manuel Fernandez Castillon was the only defender to put up a fight. For 10 points,
name this battle which lasted only eighteen minutes on April 21, 1836, a victory for Sam Houston over
Santa Anna during the Texan Revolution.
ANSWER: Battle of San Jacinto
4. One of this man’s paintings shows the one-eyed leader of a rebellion against Vespasian in The
Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis. This painter of The Hundred Guilder Print showed a banquet from the Book
of Daniel in Belshazzar’s Feast and a Spanish sugar merchant’s marriage scene in The Jewish Bride. Other
paintings by him focus on the corpse of Aris Kindt and the militia company of Frans Banning Cocq. For 10
points, name this artist of The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp and The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn
5. Hermes took him to be raised by the thyiads of Nysa, and in one alternate myth he was born to
Persephone under the name Zagreus and was ripped apart and eaten by the Titans. He punished the
men of Athens with impotence for refusing to worship him, and he was kidnapped by Tyrrhenian
pirates before being opposed by Lycurgus and Pentheus. His mother died after Hera tricked her into
seeing Zeus in full glory, and Zeus then sewed him up into his thigh. For 10 points, name this son of
Semele, the Greek god of wine.
ANSWER: Dionysus [do not accept or prompt on Bacchus]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 9 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. During this man’s coronation, the Khodynka Tragedy occurred in his capital. He had earlier been the
target of an assassination attempt by Tsuda Sanzo in Otsu. The Kishinev pogrom occurred during this
man’s reign and he led his nation into a war which resulted in defeats at Mukden and the Yalu River.
Served by ministers Sergei Witte and Pyotr Stolypin, this man issued the October Manifesto and
established the first Duma in the wake of Bloody Sunday. For 10 points, name this man who was
executed after the October Revolution, the last tsar of Russia.
ANSWER: Nicholas II [prompt on Nicholas]
7. The reduction of thioredoxin by ferrodoxin activates many enzymes in this process, while another
enzyme central to it is activated by the binding of magnesium ions to a carbamate group. It also sees
the epimerization of Xylulose-5-phosphate to Ru5P. Its second stage sees phosphorylation of 3-PGA to
yield six glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate molecules, only one of which is later used to produce glucose. For
10 points, name this carbon-fixing pathway which occurs in the stroma of chloroplasts, a cycle
sometimes called the “dark” reactions.
ANSWER: Calvin-Benson cycle [prompt on “dark reactions” until mentioned]
8. One of his works has a men’s chorus sing the Sh’ma Yisroel, while another of his works used violin,
cello, clarinet, flute, piano, and a singer using Sprechstimme. This composer of A Survivor from Warsaw
and the Gurrelieder wrote a string sextet inspired by a poem about a woman whose lover is not the
father of her child, written by Dehmel. This teacher of Alban Berg composed works such as Pierrot
Lunaire and Transfigured Night. For 10 points, identify this composer who developed serialism and
atonality in such works as Moses and Aron and devised the twelve-tone technique.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
9. Joseph Wolpe pioneered a version of this process reliant on systematic desensitization, and another
type of this process uses the A-B-C theory of irrationality. Arthur Janov developed the "primal scream"
type of this process. The rational-emotive type developed by Albert Ellis is a subset of the cognitivebehavioral type. One type of this process employs the principles of non-direction and empathy, and is
known as the "client-centered" type. For 10 points, name this process, which refers to any treatment
used by psychiatrists to cure mental disorders.
ANSWER: therapy [accept word forms]
10. A collaboration with Edward Moulton resulted in this poet’s epic The Battle of Marathon. This poet
compares “the patriot’s voice” to the title condition of “He Giveth His Beloved Sleep,” and Lady
Waldemar is in a love triangle with Marian and Romney in her verse novel Aurora Leigh. A speaker of
one of her poems commands her lover to “go from me”, and the speaker of another wants you to love
her “for love’s sake.” She also penned the lines “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.” For 10
points, name this wife of poet Robert and author of Sonnets from the Portuguese.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett; prompt on Browning]

2008-2009 Four Quarter Set

Round 8

Page 10 of 10

© 2009 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

