Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 5
Tossups

1. Subtracting the magnetic pressure from this quantity gives the Lorentz force, and Laplace’s Law states
that pressure is equal to twice this quantity over the radius. In free-body diagrams, it must be
represented as a vector pointing away from the object of interest because it can never push, only pull. A
two-dimensional form allows small animals to walk on water and is known as the “surface” variety. For
10 points, identify this type of force exerted by taut strings, cables, and cords.
ANSWER: tension [accept magnetic tension before “Laplace” is read; prompt on force]
2. In this conflict, one general the siege of Turin, and its main peace was supplemented by the treaties of
Rastatt and Baden following victories by Eugene of Savoy. Queen Anne’s War was its American
analogue, and John Churchill gained renown with his victory at Blenheim in this conflict, and this war
was preceded by a will granting Philip V the throne following the death of Charles II. For 10 points, name
this war that lasted from 1701 to 1714 that was ended by the Peace of Utrecht which dealt with who
would rule the namesake Iberian country.
ANSWER: War of the Spanish Succession
3. In one of his plays, a magnifying glass reveals that the text on a toothbrush reads, “Fully
guaranteed…hog’s setae.” That play ends with Winnie buried up to her neck in a mound of earth. In
addition to Happy Days, he wrote a trilogy of novels including Molloy,Malone Dies, and The Unnamable.
In another of his plays, Nagg and Nell live in trash cans while Clov serves Hamm. For 10 points, name this
author of Endgame, who wrote about Vladimir and Estragon in Waiting for Godot.
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett
4. This thinker portrayed himself as "Theophilus" and his interlocutor as "Philalethe" in a chapter-bychapter rebuttal of a work by John Locke. In addition to his Discourse on Metaphysics and the
posthumously printed "New Essays on Human Understanding," he inspired Schopenhauer's discourse on
the "Fourfold Root" of an idea that he devised, the "principle of Sufficient Reason." For 10 points, name
this author of the Monadologie, a philosopher parodied as Pangloss in Candide and co-inventor of
calculus.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
5. This civilization's government was ruled by a leader called the halach uinic and a head priest called the
Ah Kin Mai. Its kings included Chan-Balum and Pacal, and it used the milpa system of agriculture. This
civilization built cities at Uxqal and Palenque, and adopted a base-twenty system of mathematics. They
used the tzolkin, a 260-day calendar, and suddenly abandoned their cities in the 9th century. For 10
points, name this Pre-Columbian civilization that built Chichen Itza and was based in the Yucatan
Peninsula.
ANSWER: Maya civilization/empire

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. A “prisoner’s dilemma” situation can determine their level under an oligopoly, and companies which
cannot affect their general level are “takers” of these. Thorstein Veblen advocated technocracy in a
book about “The Engineers and” the “system” of these. Market segmentation is one reason for their
namesake “discrimination.” In basic economic graphs, demand increases, and supply decreases, as these
rise. For 10 points, what are these values, which are often plotted against quantity on supply-demand
graphs, and which rise in periods of inflation?
ANSWER: prices [or the price level; do not accept “costs”]
7. The suicide of this artist's friend Casagemas inspired him to paint La Vie. He designed the sets and
costumes for the ballet Parade, and depicted a man wearing a bright red costume next to a harlequin in
his 1905 painting The Family of Saltimbanques. This artist of The Old Guitarist painted a screaming
horse, an arm holding a candle, and a bull in a work commemorating the bombing of a Basque village.
Along with Georges Braque, he developed Analytic Cubism. For 10 points, name this Spanish painter of
Les Demoiselles d'Avignon and Guernica.
ANSWER: Pablo Picasso
8. In one poem by the author, the speaker asserts that when “seraphs swing their snowy hats,” he will
drink from “tankards scooped in pearl.” This poet wrote “Diadems drop and Doges surrender /
Soundless as dots on a disk of snow” after describing people “safe in their alabaster chambers.” In
another of this author's poems, the speaker says the title creature came “between the light and me” so
“I could not see to see.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died” and
"Because I Could Not Stop For Death."
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson
9. In 1448, residents of this city rebelled against Frederick II Irontooth. One meeting here was convoked
by Count Gyula Andrassy and revised the Treaty of San Stefano. Another meeting here established free
navigation on the Niger, created the Congo Free State, and sparked the scramble for Africa. In addition
to that 1885 conference, this capital of the kingdom of Prussia was divided into four quadrants among
the Allies after World War II. For 10 points, name this German city, the location of a wall torn down in
1989.
ANSWER: Berlin
10. The Zundel cation displays a symmetric example of these structures that have been studied in the
bifluoride ion, and those structures possess significantly higher energies than asymmetric ones.. The
existence of these between every nth carbonyl group and n+4 th amino group imparts the alpha-helical
structure to amino acid chains, and they are also responsible for causing the crystalline arrangement of
water molecules in ice. For 10 points, identify these structures which impart greater stability to
compounds containing the lightest element.
ANSWER: Hydrogen bonds
11. The protagonist of this work imagines an ugly Socrates lecturing Phaedrus. The protagonist is
inspired to go on a journey when he encounters a red haired man in a Byzantine graveyard, and is later
disgusted by an old fop he meets on a boat, who pretends to be young with painted cheeks and a dyed
wig. Despite being warned that the sirocco was aggravating the cholera epidemic on Lido, the title event
happens while the protagonist observes Tadzio on an Italian beach. For 10 points, name this novella
about the demise of Gustav von Aschenbach, written by Thomas Mann.
ANSWER: Death in Venice [or Der Todig in Venedig]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Members of this phylum contain a network of birefringent calcium carbonate crystals along its
skeleton, and the structure of the ossicles in it is called the stereom. The madreporite is a perforated
plate which is connected to the stone canal in the water vascular system of these organisms, which
usually move using five rows of tubed feet. This phylum includes classes like Asteroidia and
Holothuroidea, and all members exhibit radial symmetry. For 10 points, identify this phylum, whose
name means “spiny skinned” and is exemplified by sea urchins and starfish.
ANSWER: echinodermata
13. One of the two mainstream theories about this work notes that sketches for a scherzo part of it
exist, and the ending of its slow second movement in E major clashes with the first movement in B
minor. The other theory states that this work was purposely broken up in order to create the entr'acte
for the Rosamunde incidental music. Whether this 1828 work was ever intended to have more than two
movements is still the subject of debate. For 10 points, name this work which was followed by the Great
Symphony, a piece by Franz Schubert named for its incomplete status.
ANSWER: Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony [or Schubert’s Eighth Symphony; accept equivalents such as
Schubert’s Symphony Number Eight; prompt on partial answer]
14. Her son Max was wrapped in a flag in an advertisement wherein she sang “America the Beautiful”
for the Rock the Vote campaign. Along with Missy Elliot, she sang “Car Wash” for Shark Tale. Her self
titled album contains a song which asks “Who is that girl I see staring straight back at me?” which also
appeared on the Mulan soundtrack, and another of her songs describes a character who is “sweet
talking” and “sugar coated.” For 10 points, identify this singer best known for songs like “What a Girl
Wants,” “Genie in a Bottle,” and “Candyman.”
ANSWER: Christina Aguilera
15. This country’s west portion includes a river formed from salt lakes near Peak Hill in the south edge of
its Robinson Ranges, and which flows to the sea at Kalbarri. Northwest of its town of Meekatharra is
Mount Augustus, one of the claimants to the title of “world’s largest monolith.” Jervis Bay Territory is
often considered a state on its east seaboard, which also features the Great Dividing Range. Also
featuring the Yarra River, Ayers Rock, Darwin, and Alice Springs, for 10 points, name this country next to
the Great Barrier Reef, whose capital is Canberra.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
16. At one point in this work, a woman is concerned that people might hear her having sex with the title
character, who replies “I can go anywhere and do anything.” It opens with an excerpt from the “Song of
Everlasting Sorrow” before transitioning to the “Paulownia Court,” and at one point, the title character
is exiled to the town of Suma. His descendents, Niou and Kaoru, both love Ukifune, while the title
character has an affair with his mother-in-law, Fujitsubo. For 10 points, name this Heian Era novel by
Murasaki Shikibu about an amorous prince.
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji
17. In base 2, these objects are designated primitive if they generate maximum period linear feedback
shift registers. The Chebyshev ones are a special case of the Jacobi ones, as are the Legendre ones. A
Taylor series of order n corresponds to one of these with degree n, and irreducible ones cannot be
factored, though the fundamental theorem of algebra guarantees they have at least one complex root.
For 10 points, identify these mathematical objects whose terms are all proportional to a power of a
variable, examples of which include 3y and x squared plus 1.
ANSWER: polynomials
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. One character in this opera asserts in the aria “Non mi dir” that she cannot yet marry Ottavio, and
the title character sings about hosting a wedding party in “Fin ch’han dal vino,” the champagne aria. One
character switches cloaks to mislead a murderous mob led by Massetto, who is infuriated by the
treatment of his new wife Zerlina, and earlier Elvira learns about the title figure's history in Leporello’s
“catalogue” aria. The statue of the Commendatore drags the title character down to Hell at the end of,
for 10 points, what opera about a womanizer, by Mozart?
ANSWER: Don Giovanni
19. According to Apollodorus, the first king of this city and his goddess-wife turned into dragons after
conquering Illyria. One myth holds that the first king of this city had a daughter named Agave who gored
her son Pentheus to death during a Dionysiac festival. This city was punished after the young boy
Chrysippus was raped by its king, Laius. Argive commanders join Polynices in battle against this city's
leader Eteocles, the son of Oedipus, in an Aeschylus play about "Seven Against" this city. For 10 points,
name this Greek city founded by Cadmus.
ANSWER: Thebes
20. Samuel Curtis introduced the bill proposing this idea, which was planned by Theodore Judah. It was
financed by the "Big Four," who included Mark Hopkins, Charles Crocker, and Collis Huntington. It led to
the creation of "Hell on Wheels" towns, and was constructed by companies owned by Thomas Durant
and Leland Stanford. It was finally completed at Promontory Point, Utah with a golden spike. Built by the
Union Pacific and the Central Pacific, for 10 points, name this route which connected Omaha and
Sacramento.
ANSWER: Transcontinental Railroad
21. A spiral associated with it is named for Eugene Parker who noted the similarity between Biermann
and Chapman’s theories for this phenomenon. First observed by the Lunik II satellite, comprehensive
information about it was gathered by Mariner 2, which noted the direction of the flux of positive ions.
The discontinuity formed by its interaction with a planetary magnetic field is called the bow shock, and
its radiation pressure causes comets to have tails. For 10 points, identify this two word term which
describes the stream of particles ejected by the sun’s corona.
ANSWER: solar wind
22. Works by this man include The Story of the Malakand Field Force, which was derived from his service
in India, and The River War. He lost his admiralty post due to his championing of the disastrous
Dardanelles expedition during World War I, and as Colonial Secretary, he negotiated the treaty that
created the Irish Free State. For 10 points, name this man whose 1946 speech in Fulton, Missouri
warned against the Soviet Iron Curtain and who, as Prime Minister, rallied the British against Nazi
Germany during World War II.
ANSWER: Winston Churchill

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 5
Bonuses

1. They are collected in works such as The Gateless Gate. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these irrational statements which are used in a certain sect of Buddhism to help
demonstrate the limit of analysis and attain satori or enlightenment.
ANSWER: koan
[10] Name that Buddhist sect, which was brought to America by Dr. T. Suzuki. It is immensely popular in
Japan, and is split into the Soto and Rinzai schools.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhism.
[10] This sect of Buddhism is more common in Southeast Asia, and the Tipitaka is an important set of
scriptures in it. It focuses on the ideal of arhat.
ANSWER: Theravada [or sthaviravada]
2. They mediate interactions between the nervous system and the rest of the body, and GABA is the
chief inhibitory one. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these signaling chemicals, other examples of which include acetylcholine.
ANSWER: neurotransmitters
[10] The gap between a neuron and another cell across which neurotransmitters travel to open ion
channels is called this.
ANSWER: synapse
[10] This neurotransmitter modulates anger, body temperature, metabolism, and the sleep cycle. Some
antidepressant medications seek to inhibit its reuptake.
ANSWER: serotonin
3. The signing of this document followed the disastrous Battle of Bouvines. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1215 document signed at Runnymede by King John.
ANSWER: Magna Carta Libertatum [or Great Charter of Freedoms, or Great Paper of Freedoms]
[10] This Francophone King of England was John's older brother. He spent only six months of his reign in
England and he fought in the Third Crusade.
ANSWER: Richard I or Richard the Lion-Hearted [accept Richard Coeur de Leon]
[10] This Ayubid ruler gained respect for Richard I’s skill in battle and successfully fought the Crusaders,
forcing the 1192 Peace of Ramla.
ANSWER: Saladin

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. This set of fossils was discovered in 1974 in the Afar Depression. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this skeleton of a female Australopithecus afarensis who lived 3.2 million years ago, the
earliest known hominid skeleton.
ANSWER: Lucy [or AL 288-1]
[10] This other species of hominid evolved into Homo ergaster, and lived from approximately 2.2 to 1.6
million years ago.
ANSWER: Homo habilus
[10] The first Homo habilus fossils were discovered by the husband and wife archaeologists Mary and
Louis, who share this surname with their son Richard.
ANSWER: Leakey
5. Answer these questions about a playwright and his plays, for 10 points each.
[10] In this play, Krogstad blackmails Nora by reminding her of a note that she forged after her father’s
death. Nora later becomes upset at the misogyny of her husband Torvald, causing her to leave him.
ANSWER: A Doll’s House [or Et dukkehjem]
[10] This Norwegian playwright wrote John Gabriel Borkman, The Wild Duck, and A Doll’s House
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen
[10] Ibsen also wrote this play about Mrs. Alving, who helps builds an orphanage after her husband’s
death, but can't prevent her son Oswald from contracting hereditary syphilis.
ANSWER: Ghosts [or Gengangere]
6. This symphony's first movement quotes "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this symphony in E minor intended to be a manual for American composers, whose second
movement includes a famous largo.
ANSWER: Symphony number 9 “From the New World” [accept any combination of underlined parts]
[10] Name this composer of the Symphony “From the New World,” a Czech composer who wrote the
Slavonic Dances.
ANSWER: Antonin Leopold Dvorak
[10] Dvorak’s opus 90 is this piano trio in E minor that abandoned sonata form to use 6 movements. It
takes its name from a Ukranian folk style.
ANSWER: Dumky trio [or Piano Trio no. 4 in E minor]
7. Identify the following ways of expressing concentration, for 10 points each.
[10] Denoted with a lowercase m, this quantity is the number of moles of solute per kilogram of solvent.
ANSWER: molality [do not accept molarity]
[10] Unlike molality, this quantity is denoted with an uppercase M, and is the number of moles of solute
per liter of solution.
ANSWER: molarity [obviously do not accept molality]
[10] Expressed in mole equivalents per liter, this quantity used to measure concentrations of acids is
found by multiplying the molarity by the number of “reactive units” in the compound.
ANSWER: normality

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Answer the following questions about prohibition, for 10 points each.
[10] In 1919, this amendment to the Constitution made prohibition the law of the land.
ANSWER: Eighteenth Amendment
[10] Also known as the National Prohibition Act and named for its sponsor, this 1919 act established
enforcement guidelines for prohibition.
ANSWER: Volstead Act
[10] The publisher of newsletters such as the Smasher’s Mail and The Hatchet, this woman was known
for, you guessed it, traveling the country and using a hatchet to smash up saloons.
ANSWER: Carry Amelia Moore Nation
9. This author’s books include The Unvanquished and Intruders in the Dust. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this author, who wrote about the Snopes family in a trilogy which includes The Hamlet, The
Town, and The Mansion.
ANSWER: William Faulkner
[10] This William Faulkner novel follows the Compson family, whose members include Quentin and the
mentally handicapped Benjy. It takes its title from a line in Macbeth.
ANSWER: The Sound and the Fury
[10] William Faulkner also wrote this novel about a journey to Jefferson in order to bury Addie Bunden.
Its characters include Cash, who breaks his leg, and Darl, who goes insane.
ANSWER: As I Lay Dying
10. It depicts Zephyrus blowing towards the title character. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 15th century painting of a Roman goddess standing on a seashell.
ANSWER: The Birth of Venus
[10] This Italian artist of Primavera painted The Birth of Venus.
ANSWER: Sandro Botticelli
[10] This Italian artist wrote biographies of painters like Botticelli and Fra Angelico in his Lives of the
Artists.
ANSWER: Giorgio Vasari
11. Identify the following types of forces, for 10 points each:
[10] This force occurs when a particle undergoes uniform circular motion. It always points inward.
Answer: centripetal force
[10] This force is exerted perpendicular to a surface. It is often used to represent the force exerted by
the ground that counteracts gravitational forces.
Answer: normal force
[10] This force, which acts between surfaces in motion relative to each other, is proportional to the
normal force. This force causes a block sliding across a table to slow down.
Answer: kinetic friction [prompt on friction]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. Answer the following about mountains in Africa, for 10 points each.
[10] Mount Stanley is the highest point in both this country and Uganda. It was formerly known as Zaire.
ANSWER: Democratic Republic of the Congo [prompt on Congo; do not accept Republic of the Congo]
[10] The area surrounding this large extinct shield volcano is the traditional homeland of the Kikuyu
people. It is also the namesake of its country, and is located in the city of Mombasa.
ANSWER: Mt. Kenya
[10] This term refers to a region of North Africa in Morocco, Tunisia, and Algeria, but more specifically
refers to the area between the Atlas Mountains and the Mediterranean Sea.
ANSWER: Maghreb
13. Name these ancient Greek authors, for 10 points each.
[10] After a lawsuit with his brother Perses over some sheep, this poet wrote the farming instruction
Works and Days. He also summarized existing myths in his Theogony.
ANSWER: Hesiod
[10] Also credited with writing some namesake hymns and the Battle of the Frogs and Mice, this
legendary blind epicist is called the author of the Iliad and the Odyssey.
ANSWER: Homer
[10] This Athenian dramatist of The Suppliant Women and Prometheus Bound wrote a trilogy, the
Oresteia, which includes Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers, and The Eumenides.
ANSWER: Aeschylus
14. Answer the following about some guys with the same surname, for 10 points each.
[10] Passages in this thirteenth-century English scholar’s Opus maius, Perspectiva and De scientia
experimentali support the idea that this man originated the scientific method.
Answer: Roger Bacon [prompt on Bacon]
[10] In a utopian work by Francis Bacon, Bensalem is the “New” version of this lost continent, which
according to Plato sank into the sea. It gives its name to an ocean.
Answer: Atlantis
[10] The twentieth-century British artist Francis Bacon was known for his Screaming Popes paintings,
inspired by this Spanish artist's earlier paintings of Innocent X.
Answer: Diego Velazquez
15. The Egyptian pharaoh was considered the son of this god. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this god, who was later combined with Amun.
ANSWER: Ra
[10] Ra was primarily a deity of this entity. In Chinese myth, there were initially ten of these, but Shen Yi
shot nine of them with arrows.
ANSWER: the sun
[10] This later Egyptian sun-disk god was worshiped monotheistically under the reign of Amenhotep IV,
who later took a name that included this god's name.
ANSWER: Aten [do not accept Akhenaten]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. Identify the following about some minerals, for 10 points each.
[10] This group of aluminosilicate minerals is important to the glass industry. Orthoclase and microcline
are examples of it.
ANSWER: feldspar
[10] This magnesium silicate is one of the softest minerals known and has a hardness of 1 on the Mohs
scale.
ANSWER: talc
[10] Often used to distinguish minerals is this property, which is the ratio of a density of a substance at a
given temperature to the density of water at that temperature.
ANSWER: specific gravity
17. This poem imagines “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi” and asks “what rough beast” “slouches
toward Bethlehem to be born.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem in which “Things fall apart; the center cannot hold.”
ANSWER: “The Second Coming”
[10] This poet of “The Circus Animal’s Desertion” and “Sailing to Byzantium” wrote “The Second
Coming”
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] This author of “The Unknown Citizen” and “Musee des Beaux Arts” described the day of Yeats’s
death as “a cold, cold day.”
ANSWER: Wystan Hugh Auden
18. Name the following about anti-Semitism in European history, for 10 points each.
[10] This episode in French history occurred when a Jewish military officer was accused of giving secrets
to the Germans. Its namesake was exonerated thanks to Georges Picquart.
ANSWER: Dreyfus Affair
[10] These 1935 laws passed by the Nazi Party Congress deprived Jews of civil rights and forbade
marriage between Jews and non-Jews.
ANSWER: Nuremberg Laws
[10] Many of these mass attacks on Jews occurred following the assassination of Alexander II in 1881.
The 1903 one at Chisinau resulted in the death of 45 Jews.
ANSWER: Pogroms
19. His plan for the League of Nations center in Geneva was disqualified because it wasn't drawn in India
Ink. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Swiss-born “International Style” architect who created a “unite d’habitation” in Marseille
and who wrote Towards a New Architecture, which proclaimed that "a house is a machine for living in."
ANSWER: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Eduard Jenneret-Gris]
[10] Le Corbusier designed this house in Poissy, which is supported by thin concrete pillars and contains
a roof garden.
ANSWER: Villa Savoye
[10] Le Corbusier designed a church named this “du Haut” in Ronchamp. A more famous church with
this name has flying buttresses and is located on an island in Paris.
ANSWER: Notre Dame

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. It was first synthetically produced by Friedrich Wohler. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this compound, sometimes called carbamide, which is used in fertilizers, and is excreted from
the human body through urine.
ANSWER: urea
[10] Urea has two of these functional groups, symbolized NH2, attached to a central carbonyl group.
ANSWER: amine
[10] This class of polymers can be synthesized from the reaction of a di-isocyanate and an alcohol, and is
used in foams, and spandex fiber.
ANSWER: polyurethanes
21. The title character ruins his relationship with his wife Elizabeth. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story, in which the title character, Reverend Hooper, puts on the title vestment one
day and never takes it off.
ANSWER: “The Minister's Black Veil”
[10] This author of “The Minister's Black Veil” also wrote The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
[10] “The Minister's Black Veil” appears in this Hawthorne collection of stories that had already been
published elsewhere.
ANSWER: Twice-Told Tales
22. Their initial division was based on support of the pope or the Holy Roman Empire, though eventually
their rivalry centered more on ties to families or cities. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify either of these two factions, which divided Genoa from Pisa, among a number of other
states.
ANSWER: Ghibellines or Guelphs
[10] In this city, home to the Uffizi, the Guelphs won out but eventually separated into warring Black and
White factions, which respectively supported and rejected Pope Boniface VIII.
ANSWER: Florence
[10] While the Golden Ambrosian Republic ruled Milan, Guelph aristocrats dominated the Ghibellines,
until this man captured it.
ANSWER: Francesco Sforza

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 5

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

