Round 4
WinterBowl 2009
Questions © Academic Hallmarks
Revised for pyramidality by Matthew Dirks
Warm-Ups
Warm-Up 1. Whether prose, poetry, or drama, all imagined stories are broadly classified as …
fiction
Warm-Up 2. Though officially called “The Weightless Wonder,” what more amusing term is often used
for NASA's weightlessness simulators?
Vomit Comet
1. In his best-known book, Candaules brags to Gyges about the beauty of his wife, who later convinces
Gyges to kill him. Though Thucydides (thoo-SID-id-ees) believed history should be recorded as
accurately as possible, this author believed it should be interesting and morally instructive. Who was
this first Greek historian?
Herodotus (of Halicarnassus; Hēródotos Halikarnāsseús)
2. Math. At zero degrees Celsius, hydrogen weighs 9.0 times 10 to the negative five grams per cubic
centimeter while air weighs 1.29 times 10 to the negative 3 grams per cubic centimeter. To the nearest
whole number, how many times heavier is the air?
14 (it's about 14.33)
3. This is what type of poem invented by E. C. Bentley? “John Stuart Mill, / By a mighty effort of
will, / Overcame his natural bonhomie / And wrote Principles of Political Economy"
clerihew
4. These animals usually have moist skin to help them respirate. Their name comes from the Greek for
“double life,” since they live both in water and on land. What are these vertebrates, examples of which
include salamanders and frogs?
amphibians
5. Darzee the tailor-bird and Chuchundra the muskrat help this character, though he does “the real
fighting,” and defeats the cobra Nagaina (nuh-JEE-nuh). Who is this mongoose, the titular protagonist
of a Rudyard Kipling story?
Rikki-tikki-tavi
6. In the early 1900s, this tribe was essentially forced from their land to live on Ballast Island. Their
logo is a killer whale whose dorsal fin is an eagle, whose pectoral fin is a raven, and whose tail ovoid
represents the white man. Their new longhouse sits near the mouth of the Pacific Northwest river with
which they share an Anglicized name. What is this tribe, whose most famous chief was Chief Seattle?
Duwamish (Dkhw’Duw’Absh)
7. This pamphlet argues that in “no instance hath nature made the satellite larger than its primary
planet,” so it is nonsensical that an island should rule a continent. What is this revolutionary pamphlet
by Thomas Paine?
Common Sense
8. In Shakespeare's, he gives his wife their second-best bed. What is this document, an individual's
declaration of how he wants his property disposed after his (or her) death?
will (last will and testament)
9. He became president after Leon Czolgosz (TCHOL-gosh) assassinated his predecessor, William
McKinley. During the Spanish-American war, he led the Rough Riders, who were victorious at the
Battle of San Juan Hill. Who is this president, the 1912 nominee of the Bull Moose party, who refused
to shoot a tied-up bear cub?
(Theodore) (Teddy) Roosevelt

10. The Treaty of Tordesillas divided South America between Spain and its eastern neighbor, giving
them the land that later became this country. Occupying half of the South American landmass, it is the
only South American country with widespread use of Portuguese. What is this country, with capital
Brasília?
Brazil (Federative Republic of Brazil, República Federativa do Brasil)
11. This musical is a modernized version of the Puccini opera La bohème. One character, Collins,
teaches computer-age philosophy, as he mentions in the song “Santa Fe.” What is this musical,
featuring the song “Seasons of Love”?
Rent
12. Evil math. Muahahaha. Evaluate
(“the limit as x tends to 2 of <quantity> x squared
minus 4 <end quantity> over <quantity> x minus two <end quantity>”).
4
13. Which two European countries have names beginning with “F”?
Finland and France
14. Born Elizabeth Griscom, she made flags for the Pennsylvania navy. However, she is better known
for doing something she may not have, sewing the first American flag. Who was this American
seamstress?
(Betsy) Ross
15. A national park in this desert includes sites like the Racetrack Playa and the Eureka Sand Dunes, the
tallest sand dunes in California. According to Encyclopedia Britannica, this desert “forms part of the
southwestern border of the Great Basin.” What is this desert, the lowest and hottest area in North
America?
Death Valley
Half Time! Ask for substitutions.
16. This compound consists of three oxygen atoms, and in the earth's atmosphere it absorbs ultraviolet
radiation. What is this compound which forms a layer of the atmosphere with a large hole in it?
ozone
17. Math. Reduce this ratio to its simplest form. 1/2 to 4.
1/8 (one to eight)
18. Even when this body is hidden, it has an observable sodium tail. In Roman mythology, the Titan
Pheobe was identified with this body, which has locations like the the Mare Tranquillitatis, where the
Apollo 11 mission landed. What is this body, which Frank Borman, James Lovell, and William Anders
were the first mortals to see the dark side of?
moon
19. One composer from this country wrote the opera “Tale of Tsar Saltan,” which contains the
orchestral “Flight of the Bumblebee.” Another composer from this country wrote operas like “The
Nose,” while a third wrote “The Love for Three Oranges.” What is this country, home of RimskyKorsakov, Shostakovich, and Prokofiev, as well as that Tchaikovsky dude mentioned in the last round?
Russia
20. The heavily-polluted Ganges river flows through this country, whose capital is New Delhi. Another
river, the Indus, nursed a Bronze Age civilization. What is this country, birthplace of Mohandas
Gandhi?
(Republic of) India
21. In this country's mythology, Set was the god of Chaos. It occupies the northeastern corner of Africa.
What is this country, location of the Nile river?
Egypt

22. Perhaps its most powerful and ambitious ruler was Suleiman the first. Along with the Persian
empire, this empire dominated much of the Middle East during the 16 th century, and the Treaty of
Versailles dissolved it in the 20th. Name this empire, the birthplace of Mother Theresa, which basically
became Turkey.
Ottoman Empire
23. Who was hanged in 1776 for spying on the British and regretted that he had but one life to lose for
his country?
Nathan Hale
24. What figure of speech besides anaphora and simile is found in this poem? “The ice was here, the ice
was there, / The ice was all around : / It cracked and growled, and roared and howled, / Like noises in a
swound!”
onomatopoeia
25. At age 15 he wrote his first song, the “Soda Fountain Rag.” The first African-American to be
featured by himself on a US coin, he appears on the obverse of the District of Columbia quarter along
with a piano. Who is this jazz musician, known for pieces like “It Don't Mean A Thing (If It Ain't got
that Swing)” and “Take the 'A' Train,” a member of jazz royalty?
(Edward Kennedy “Duke”) Ellington
26. Math. In lowest terms, express this continued ratio. 24 inches to 3 feet to 2 yards.
2 to 3 to 6 (do not accept any units – the answer is wrong if it includes units)
27. Scott Engle and others recently discovered that this star is 1.5 times brighter than it was when first
observed by Ptolemy. What is this star which lies almost directly above the North Pole?
Polaris (North Star, Northern Star, Pole Star)
28. Math. Emily starts biking at ten miles per hour. One hour later, Richard starts biking at fifteen miles
per hour in the same direction. How long does it take Richard to catch up with Emily?
two hours (120 minutes)
29. In the Good Friday Alaskan earthquake of 1964, the main quake with a magnitude of about 8.3 was
soon followed by another 28 tremors with Richter magnitudes up to 6.0 called ...
aftershock(s)
30. One example occurs at the end of Euripides' Medea, when that character is carried away on the
chariot of a sun god. What is this literary device by which a quandary is miraculously resolved at the
last minute, coming from the Latin for “God out of a machine”?
deus ex machina
Alternates
Alt 1. Characters in this novel include St. Claire, Eliza and Simon Legree, who owns the titular
character. What is this novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe, credited with helping to start the American
Civil War?
Uncle Tom's Cabin
Alt 2. In The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Slartibartfast says he won an award for designing these
structures. What do Norwegians call these deep grooves cut in the coastline by prehistoric glaciers that
are now filled with seawater?
fjords
Alt 3. The first head of this branch of the US government was John Jay, a position now held by John
Roberts. What is this branch of U.S. government which has the power to make decisions ranging from
the guilt or innocence of a suspect to determining if a law is constitutional?
judicial
Alt 4. What structures cover most of a coelacanth's body?
scales
Alt 5. Mikhail Gorbachev resigned his presidency when what nation dissolved in 1991?
Soviet Union (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, USSR, Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh
Respublik, SSSR, CCCP, Sovetskiy Soyuz)

