TOSSUP 1
They are equal to the negative gradient of potential energy when they are conservative. The dot
product of one with a velocity gives power; dotting with distance yields work. They are defined as
the rate of change of momentum with respect to time. FTP, what are these vector quantities, best
known as the product of mass and acceleration?
Forces
BONUS 1
Identify these types of forces FTPE.
10:

The component of a contact force between an object and a surface that
is perpendicular to the surface.
Normal force

10:

The force that draws an object in circular motion towards the center
of the circle.
Centripetal force

10:

The fundamental force that acts on quarks and gluons, holding hadrons
together.
Strong (nuclear) force or interatction

TOSSUP 2
It began when the Nawab of Bengal became suspicious of the British Company in his country,
perceiving them as a threat to Bengal’s independence. His concerns rested mainly in the British
escalation of military presence in Fort William. The Nawab laid seige to the fort after the British
refused to stop enhancing their military and finally captured it, along with 65 of the British
garrison force. After the prisoners began rebelling, they were placed in a 14 by 18 foot guard
room. In the morning 43 of the British were dead in, FTP, what 1756 incident occuring in a city
in India?
Black Hole of Calcutta
BONUS 2
Answer the following questions about other war crimes, FTPE.
10:

Beginning in 2004, abuse at this Iraqi prison, also known as the Baghdad correctional facility, was made known to the public.
Abu Ghraib

10:

George Patton ordered that American soldiers receive no punishment
for killing 50 to 120 SS soldiers at this concentration camp, which
was constructed in a used gunpowder factory in a town just outside of
Munich.
Dachau massacre

1

10:

US Army Lieutenant William Calley was convicted of massacring hundreds of Vietnamese civilians in this village, and then released from
prison by Richard Nixon.
My Lai

TOSSUP 3
The young man being adressed will not be swelling the rout of his colleagues who outlasted their
names. It contrasts the glories of success, like being borne through town on a chair, with the
indifference of the grave. FTP, name this poem about an expiring runner by A. E. Housman.
To an Athlete Dying Young
BONUS 3
Identify the British poets who wrote these lines FTPE.
10:

“What immortal hand or eye/Could frame thy fearful symmetry?”
William Blake

10:

“Beauty is truth, truth beaty.”
John Keats

10:

“Rage, rage against the dying of the light.”
Dylan Thomas

TOSSUP 4
Francis Bacon described this man as ”of a high mind, and loved his own will and his own way.” He
married off his eldest son for peace with Spain, and his eldest daughter for peace with Scotland.
Following his victory in the Battle of Bosworth Field, he was proclaimed king in 1485. FTP, name
this man who ruled for 24 years as the first monarch of the Tudor dynasty.
Henry VII
BONUS 4
FTPE, name these female Tudor monarchs.
10:

She ruled for 45 years, and was the last of the Tudor monarchs.
Elizabeth I

10:

She revived Roman Catholicism in England, and was succeeded by
Elizabeth.
Mary I or Bloody Mary

10:

She ruled for nine days, between Edward VI and Mary I.
Jane Grey

2

TOSSUP 5
Hepzibah, an old woman fallen on hard times; Clifford, her weak brother; and Phoebe, who
comes from New England to help her feeble relatives, are the main characters in this novel. The
antagonist of the story is a smooth talking judge, a relative of Hepzibah and Clifford, who wants
to acquire the house. The family lives in a cursed house that has passed through numerous
generations. FTP, name this 1851 novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables
BONUS 5
BONUS FTPE, answer the following questions about The House of Seven Gables.
10:

This family has lived in the house ever since its construction.
Pyncheon

10:

This man owned the land that the house was built on before he was
hanged for witchcraft.
Matthew Maule

10:

This lodger at the house, also a descendant of Matthew Maule, possesses hypnotic powers.
Holgrave

TOSSUP 6
This character briefly appeared in Alan Moore’s comic book series The League Of Extraordinary
Gentlemen. He lives in an old house in Paris, and was one of the first of his kind in literature.
Arthur Conan Doyle used him as a blueprint for Sherlock Holmes, even though Holmes belittles
him in “A Study In Scarlet”. FTP, name this detective who famously appeared in “The Murders
in the Rue Morgue” and was created by Edgar Allan Poe.
Auguste Dupin
BONUS 6
BONUS FTPE name these other Edgar Allan Poe works.
10:

This haunted house story tells the tale of an unnamed narrator who
visits Roderick and his sister Madeline.
The Fall of the House of Usher

10:

The title objects “jingle and tinkle” in the beginning before “moaning
and groaning” at the end
The Bells

10:

This short story takes place at an abbey, in which people have crowded
in to escape a plague.
The Masque of the Red Death

3

TOSSUP 7
Although he was king of one of the most powerful empires of his time, he neglected much of it.
This led to trouble along the frontiers, especially those bordering land claimed by the Mitanni.
After his death, all the changes he had made to his empire’s religion were undone and his young
successor, Tutankhaten, was persuaded by priests to change his name to Tutankhamun. FTP,
name this ancient Egyptian Pharaoh who declared that all of his subjects must worship Aten, the
sun god, which forms part of his name.
Akhenaten (or Amenhotep IV)
BONUS 7
FTPE, name these Egyptian deities other than Aten.
10:

This sun god disappeared at sunset, then reappeared each morning
after defeating Apep, the god of darkness and chaos.
Ra

10:

Depicted with the head of an ibis, he was the god of writing.
Thoth

10:

He embodied the Nile’s fertile yield and was represented with the head
of a crocodile.
Sobek

TOSSUP 8
Due to its constant o(n2 ) [oh of en squared] time for unsorted lists, this algorithm is inefficient
for sorting large amounts of data. It works by comparing adjacent elements and swapping them
if the first is greater than the second, and then keeps repeating for one fewer element each time,
until no more pairs are left to compare. FTP, name this sorting algorithm, one of the easiest to
implement.
Bubble Sort (accept Exchange Sort)
BONUS 8
BONUS FTPE, identify these other sorting algorithms from their given descriptions.
10:

This sorting algorithm finds the minimum value in a list and swaps it
with the first value, and so on.
Selection Sort

10:

Choosing a pivot point and arranging elements into two sub-lists and
then recursively sorting them, this sort has an average of O(n log n)
[oh of en log en] time.
Quick Sort

10:

This sort, despite its O(n2 ) time, is more efficient than selection or
bubble sorts. It is especially fast at sorting lists that are almost in
order.
Insertion Sort

4

TOSSUP 9
According to the second Merseburg Charm, the German name for this god war Phol. Odin defeats
the giant Vafthruthnir in a game of riddles by asking him what he - Odin - whispered in this
god’s ear at his funeral pyre, a thing only Odin himself would know. He will be resurrected after
Ragnarok and will rule the new earth, reconciled with Hod, his accidental murderer by mistletoe.
FTP name this Norse god of innocence, joy, purity, beauty, and peace, murdered in a plot by Loki.
Baldur
BONUS 9
Name all of these things about Ragnarok FTPE.
10:

Immediately preceding Ragnarok, there will be three successivewinters
with no other seasons in between. Name this time during which there
will be much internecine strife in the human race.
Fimbulwinter

10:

The ”world tree”, called this, will shake the universe from Asgard to
Hel prior to the battle.
Yggdrasil

10:

Thor uses this hammer.
Mjollnir

TOSSUP 10
This element has several extremely rare compounds- all of which are highly unstable. It is
the second most abundant element in the universe as well as the second lightest element and
almost always exists as a gas. It is used in cryogenics, deep-sea breathing systems, and as a
superconducting magnet coolant but perhaps its most famous use is in inflating baloons. FTP,
name this noble gas whose atomic number is two.
Helium
BONUS 10
FTPE, answer the following about noble gases:
10:

This element has the atomic number 10 and gives off a distinctive red
glow when used in vaccum tubes and its eponymous lights.
Neon

10:

This noble gas has no known industrial purposes but does form compounds with fluorine, its atomic number is 36.
Krypton

10:

Name the last of the noble gases, which forms from the disintegration
of radium with atomic number 86.
Radon

5

TOSSUP 11
In German, adjective endings for both definite and indefinite articles will be “-en”. In Latin, it
is identical to the ablative in the plural for all declensions. In the sentence “To whom did you
send the letter?” the word “whom” is in this case. FTP, name this case used for indirect objects,
which, in chemistry, also refers to a covalent bond where one atom donates both electrons.
Dative
BONUS 11
FTPE, name these other grammatical cases, given their part of speech.
10:

Possessive noun
Genitive

10:

Direct object
Accusative

10:

Subject
Nominative

TOSSUP 12
Its name means ”deer hunter” in Sanskrit, and takes its modern name from the Greek ”glowing”.
The smaller of the two bodies is not visible to the naked eye because its companion is one of the
brightest stars in the night sky. Only 8.6 light years away from Earth, this pair is known for its
vivid blue-white color. FTP, identify this binary star, located in the constellation Canis Major,
which is also known as the ”Dog Star.”
Sirius
BONUS 12
FTPE, name the brightest star in the following constellations.
10:

Taurus
Aldebaran

10:

Scorpio
Antares

10:

Aquila
Altair

TOSSUP 13
Pencil and paper ready. A garden is in the shape of an isoceles triangle with side lengths 10, 13,
and 13. To determine the area of this garden, one could use Heron’s formula, or one could realize
that the altitude of the triangle to the side of length 10 can be found using a Pythagorean Triple.
FTP, find the area of a triangle with side lengths 10,13, and 13.
60
BONUS 13
FTPE, find the area of the following triangles:

6

10:

A triangle with sides 6, 8, and 10.
24

10:

A triangle with sides 9, 40, and 41.
180

10:

A√triangle with sides 4, 4, and 4.
4 3

TOSSUP 14
Before explorers arrived there in the 1600s, it was home to numerous indigenous peoples including
the Chukchi [CHUCK-chee] and the Koryak. Kurilsky Lake, in the south, is the largest salmon
breeding ground in Eurasia. It contains over 160 volcanoes, more than 20 of which are active.
FTP, name this Russian peninsula located between the Sea of Okhotsk [ok-HOT-sk] and the
Pacific Ocean.
Kamchatka Peninsula
BONUS 14
FTPE, name these other peninsulas.
10:

Myanmar, Thailand, and a country that closely shares its name all
have possession of a portion of it.
Malay Peninsula

10:

It is shared by Germany and Denmark and separates the North Sea
from the Baltic Sea.
Jutland Peninsula

10:

Located at the mouth of the St. Lawrence River, its name comes from
a Micmac word meaning ”Land’s End.”
Gaspé Peninsula

TOSSUP 15
In his twenties, this man worked in a chemical factory in the Urals. Stalin exempted him from
arrest during the great purges, saying “Don’t touch this cloud dweller.” At the same time, this
man had been translating works of Shakespeare, which he altered slightly. FTP, name this Russian
author, who was forced by the Soviet government to decline the 1958 Nobel Prize for his novel
Doctor Zhivago.
Boris Leonidovich Pasternak
BONUS 15
FTPE, name these characters from Doctor Zhivago .

7

10:

Doctor Zhivago’s wife, who is exiled to France.
Tonya

10:

The woman Doctor Zhivago truly loves.
Lara Antipov

10:

Lara’s husband, who disappears during World WAr I and reemerges
during the Civil War.
Pasha Antipov or Strelnikov

TOSSUP 16
He studied lyric-writing with Oscar Hammerstein. He first came to public attention as the lyricist
for Leonard Bernstein’s West Side Story, but soon moved to writing both words and music in a
series of productions which redefined American musical theater. His own highly successful musicals
included A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum and A Little Night Music. FTP,
name this American composer and lyricist who combined opera, musical comedy, and cabaret in
Sweeney Todd.
Stephen Sondheim
BONUS 16
FTPE, name these composers of musicals.
10:

He collaborated with lyricist Lorenz Hart on Pal Joey and later with
Oscar Hammerstein on The Sound of Music .
Richard Rodgers

10:

Hammerstein wrote the book and lyrics to Show Boat in collaboration
with this man.
Jerome Kern

10:

Although usually associated with its director and choreographer,
Michael Bennett, A Chorus Line was actually composed by this man.
Marvin Hamlisch

TOSSUP 17
His early experiments involved a device to convert electromagnetic waves into electricity. He
conducted successful tests with transmitting signals across the English Channel and later across
the Atlantic Ocean and formed the company which bore his name in London, England. He
established a worldwide radio telegraph network for the British government. FTP, name this
inventor of short-wave radio equipment.
Guglielmo Marconi
BONUS 17
FTPE, name these pioneers of radio:

8

10:

This man left his family business to invest in several radio stations
which became the Columbia Broadcasting System, or CBS:
William S. Paley

10:

A telegraph operator who helped the Titanic rescue effort by informing other ships about the accident, he is credited with creating the
National Broadcasting Network, or NBC from the Radio Corporation
of America, or RCA:
David Sarnoff

10:

He made broadcast history with William Shirer in 1938 when they
organized a special broadcast with European reaction to the seizure of
Austria by Nazi Germany:
Edward R. Murrow

TOSSUP 18
Its name comes from a Native American leader of the Lenape tribe. The political activities it is
well known for started in the late 1700’s when Aaron Burr became the leader. Burr used it to
become Vice President in 1800. In the 1840’s, people of Irish descent began joining it, providing
bribes in exchange for votes. It achieved one of its greatest successes when Al Smith won the 1928
Presidential nomination. FTP, identify this political group whose most famous boss was William
Tweed.
Tammany Hall
BONUS 18
Name these political parties and organizations FTPE.
10:

Though Kennedy won Illinois by only 9,000 votes, he won Cook County
by 450,000 thanks to this machine at the time led by Richard Daley.
Chicago machine (accept Cook County Democratic Organization)

10:

This is the largest political party in Japan and holds an absolute majority in the House of Representatives.
Liberal Democratic Party (accept LDP)

10:

This political movement was mainly made up of Republicans that supported the Democrat Grover Cleveland in the 1884 election.
Mugwumps

9

TOSSUP 19
His paintings mainly depict people in small towns even though he lived most ofhis life in New
York City. The first of these paintings to appear in themagazine for which he was best known was
titled “Boy with Baby Carriage.”Others in 1916 included “Gramps at the Plate” and “Redhead
Loves HattyPerkins.” However, he had many other famous paintings including portraits offour
presidents, a series of “Rosie the Riveter” images, “The FourFreedoms,” and “The Golden Rule.”
FTP name this American artist who paintedcovers for The Saturday Evening Post from 1916 to
1963.
Norman Rockwell
BONUS 19
For 5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, or 30 for all four, name the fourfreedoms Norman Rockwell
painted that were originally in Franklin D.Roosevelt’s 1941 State of the Union Address.
30:
Freedom from want, freedom from fear, freedom of worship
(accept religion), freedom of speech
TOSSUP 20
Its name in Greek means ”up state”. It is triggered when fully condensed sister chromatids are
arranged into pairs by the spindle in the metaplate. Motor proteins play a vital role as they pull
on the kinetochore microtubules to separate the chromatids to their respective spindle poles. FTP,
name this penultimate stage of mitosis.
Anaphase
BONUS 20
FTPE, name these other phases of mitosis
10:

This last stage of mitosis occurs after anaphase and cleaves the cell in
half.
Telophase

10:

Occurring right before anaphase, this stage is responsible for the convening of centromeres at the centre of the dividing cell.
Metaphase

10:

This stage of the cell cycle is where the cell spends most of its life and
is defined only by the absence of cell division.
Interphase

10

