Round #8

HAVOC

1.

One leader in this conflict, Nicias, arranged for a fifty-year truce, however, this was
broken when Alcibiades convinced one side to launch the Sicilian Expedition. Partly
because of the removal of Alcibiades from the expedition, it utterly failed, and much
of the Athenian navy was lost. Earlier, in the second year of this war, a plague struck
Athens, killing Pericles. FTP identify this war between the Delian League and Sparta
and her allies.
A: Peloponnesian War

2.

This text is thought to have been the primary influence on the non-canonical Gospel
of the Ebionites [EBB-ee-oh-nights] and was likely written around 85 AD.
Differences from the other synoptic gospels include the visit of the magi and the
massacre of the innocents. It was primarily directed toward a Jewish-Christian
audience and begins with a genealogy of Jesus. FTP name this first book in the New
Testament.
A: Gospel of/According to Matthew

3.

During this war, the Earl of Warwick became known as the “Kingmaker” for his
services to both sides. The first battle in it occurred at St. Alban’s in 1455, after
Henry VI regained his sanity and removed Richard, a duke, from the post of regent.
The conflict was brought to France when Charles the Bold of Burgundy allied with
the Yorks. FTP name this thirty-year war ending with the defeat of Richard III by
Henry Tudor at Bosworth Field.
A: War of the Roses

4.

This Dancing Elk High School student’s problem, partly caused by orange tic tacobsessed Paulie Bleeker, seems solved when she and her best friend Leah discover a
want ad in the Pennysaver placed by the Lorings. Later, however, only Vanessa
Loring is able to fulfill the original agreement between this titular teenager and the
couple. For ten points, name this pregnant, teenage creation of Diablo Cody played
by Ellen Page in a 2007 movie which won Cody the Academy Award for Best
Original Screenplay.
A: Juno MacGuff (prompt on MacGuff)

5.

This caliphate had its first capital at Harran. Notable caliphs include Harun alRashid, Al-Mamun, and its namesake. Though they received extensive aid from the
Shiites during their overthrow of the Umayyads and their claim to the throne was
based on relation to the prophet Muhammad, this caliphate espoused Sunni Islam.
FTP name this caliphate of Baghdad that ruled much of the Middle East and
Northern Africa from 750 to 1258.
A: Abbasids Accept al-‘Abbāsīyūn

6.

The narrator of this novel about a futuristic society blind to its violent youth culture
becomes involved in a political struggle after being brainwashed in prison, leaving
him unable to enjoy classical music as well as engage in violence. The narrator
returns to his old ways when the government reverses Ludovico's Treatment in
exchange for his support, but in the end thinks about changing his ways when he

1 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

sees the life that one of his friends, Pete, has built. FTP name this novel by Anthony
Burgess whose narrator is the Nadsat-speaking Alex Delarge.
A: A Clockwork Orange
7.

One siege in this war occurred at Khe Sanh, while another was at An Loc, where the
Easter Offensive of one of the combatants failed to defeat the ARVN forces.
Another offensive by the same belligerent occurred during a holiday in 1968. During
the same year, a massacre of civilians occurred at My Lai. In the U.S. Operation
Rolling Thunder, bombing missions attempted to destroy the morale of the north in
this war. FTP, name this conflict in Southeast Asia in which the communist north
was victorious.
A: Vietnam War

8.

A small, silver crucifix can be seen in the top left of this painting, and items on the
table include two globes and an astrolabe. Inscriptions on one figure's book and the
other's dagger declare their ages to be 25 and 29, respectively. Their dress is vastly
different, with the man on the left in secular clothing and the man on the right in
clerical attire. The background consists of a large green curtain while the foreground
is a mosaic floor. FTP name this Hans Holbein painting that includes a notable
anamorphic skull.
A: The Ambassadors

9.

While teaching at the St. Petersburg Conservatory, he instructed such notable pupils
as Sergei Prokofiev and Igor Stravinsky. His final opera, The Golden Cockerel, was
suppressed by the government for its anti-tsarist themes. Among his greatest
orchestral works are the Capriccio Espagnol and the symphonic suite Scheherezade.
He completed Borodin’s opera Prince Igor as well as editing and orchestrating many
works of fellow members of The Five. FTP name this Russian composer of The Tale
of Tsar Sultan which contains the famous “Flight of the Bumblebee.”
A: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov

10. The narrator of this novel ends up in his predicament due to the speeches of his
schoolmaster, Kantorek. To the amusement of the narrator and his friends, Kantorek
is later drafted. Corporal Himmelstoss is the other main antagonist of the narrator
and his friends, including Tjaden and Katczinsky, besides the French army. FTP
name this Erich Maria Remarque novel in which the narrator Paul Baumer dies on
the day of the title report.
A: All Quiet on the Western Front
11. This Baroque artist was born in Westphalia and practiced the Catholic CounterReformation style. Early works of this friend of Jan Brueghel the Elder include
Prometheus Bound, The Raising of the Cross, and The Descent From the Cross.
Heavily influenced by Italian Renaissance artists, he worked for several rulers,
including Marie de' Medici. FTP name this Flemish artist known for painting large
women.
A: Peter Paul Rubens

2 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

12. Islands off the coast of this nation include Stewart, separated from it by the Foveaux
Strait, and Chatham, to the east. The Bay of Plenty is on this nation’s north coast,
while Pegasus Bay is to the north of Christchurch. Its capital lies on Port Nicholson,
which empties into the Cook Strait. Its major mountain range, Southern Alps, is on
its South Island. FTP name this Pacific island nation whose cities include Auckland
and Wellington.
A: New Zealand
13. People who have only received one include David Davis, Walter B. Jones, and John
Hospers. Long-time South Carolina Senator Strom Thurmond had 39, and Virginia
governor Harry F. Byrd Sr. had 15. In 2000, Barbara Lett-Simons of the District of
Columbia refused to give hers to anyone, and in 2004, one was given to John
Edwards by accident. Walter Mondale only got 13, and Samuel Tilden notably
couldn’t get a 185th in 1876. FTP, name these selections, 270 of which are
necessary to win the United States Presidential election.
A: Electoral Vote Accept Electoral College
14. This theory was developed in 1912 by the German meteorologist Alfred Wegener,
and the findings of Eduard Suess helped support it. Suess concluded, mainly as a
result of fossil evidence, that a land mass containing several present continents
existed in the south in the Jurassic period. This mass was named Gondwanaland, and
broke apart into smaller plates according to a related theory developed in the 1960’s.
FTP, name this theory related to plate tectonics which states that continents float
atop a liquid layer of the earth.
A: Continental Drift (do not accept plate tectonics)
15. This play takes place in one night, during which one character's cancer is intended to
be revealed by his two sons to their mother. However, their father is not fond of
Gooper and Mae and the other couple hopes to inherit the estate. Most of the play
follows the marital troubles of the other couple, including Brick's supposed love for
his deceased friend Skipper, which disgusts Big Daddy. FTP name this Tennessee
Williams play in which Maggie declares that she feels like the title feline.
A: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
16. This Greek was often seen with a lantern in daylight, searching for an honest man.
Born in Sinope, he relocated to Athens for disputed reasons. Described by Plato as
“a Socrates gone mad,” he was a student of Antisthenes (an-tis-thuh-nees). He was
in turn a harsh critic of Plato, making a fowl fit Plato’s definition of human by
plucking its feathers. He is known for having asked Alexander the Great to get out of
his sunshine. FTP, identify this Cynic who lived in a tub.
A: Diogenes
17. Multiplying the moment arm times the force of an object will only give the
magnitude of this quantity. The total amount of this quantity, along with force, must
be equal to zero for something to be at static equilibrium. Power can be calculated

3 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

by multiplying this quantity by angular velocity and a constant of 2π. For ten points,
name this quantity which is the rotational analog of force, equal to moment of inertia
multiplied by angular acceleration.
A: Torque
18. The homogenous variety often consists of the reaction, the product, and this material
in the liquid phase, while “heterogeneous” usually signifies that it is a solid and
reactants and products are liquids or gases. In either case, the material creates new,
faster steps in the reaction mechanism. A common example of this material is a
protein that lowers the EA [Big E sub Big A] of metabolic processes. FTP, name this
foreign material, an example of which is the enzyme, which speeds up chemical
reactions.
A: Catalysts
19. His cousin, Francis Galton pioneered the field of eugenics using information
collected by this man on his most famous project. He married his cousin, Emma
Wedgewood, granddaughter of the rich merchant Josiah Wedgewood. One of his
most famous adventures occurred between 1831 and 1836 while he was a naturalist
on a certain ship. That ship, the HMS Beagle, took a trip to the Galapagos Islands.
FTP, name the author of On the Origin of Species.
A: Charles Robert Darwin
20. Bombs in World War II destroyed two of the originals, leaving only five standing in
the current day. In the eponymous problem, three of the nodes have degrees of
three, with a fourth having a degree of five, and the recognition of the irrelevance of
the position of the namesake nodes is considered the precursor to the field of
topology, as well as the first example of Graph theory. Solved by Leonhard Euler
by showing it was impossible to make a complete circuit due to the odd degrees of
the namesake nodes. FTP, name+ this problem, is named for a Prussian city and its
crossings of the Pregel River.
A: Seven Bridges of Königsberg Problem Prompt on Königsberg

STOP HERE
You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless a question
was thrown out or the game is tied.
21. This play centers on the question of what to do with a $10,000 life insurance check.
Beneatha wants to use the money for medical school tuition, while Walter wishes to
invest in a liquor store. However, Ruth and Mama want to buy a house, and Mama
puts a down payment on a home in an all-white neighborhood. Walter loses the
remainder of the money when his investment fails, but the play ends optimistically.
FTP name this play by Lorraine Hansberry about the Younger Family which takes
its title from a poem by Langston Hughes.
A: A Raisin in the Sun

4 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

22. This British scientist proved that diamonds were composed only of carbon. He is
also credited with disproving Lavoisier’s theory that oxygen causes acidity. He is
more famous for using the newly developed principles of electrochemistry to isolate
alkaline and alkali earth metals. FTP, name this chemist who lends his name to a
lamp used by miners.
A: Sir Humphry Davy

Bonuses
1. FTPE answer these related literature questions.
1) This man wrote The Maltese Falcon and The Thin Man.
A: Samuel Dashiell Hammett
2) This private detective is hired by Brigid O’Shaughnessy in The Maltese Falcon.
A: Sam Spade Accept partial name
3) The detectives in The Thin Man are Nick and Nora, a couple with this last name.
A: Charles
2. FTPE name the following works of art.
1) This marble statue by Myron supposedly features its title figure using an incorrect
technique.
A: Discobolus Accept The Discus Thrower and reasonable equivalents
2) This painting by Winslow Homer depicts an African American man in a small
boat around which several sharks are swimming. A ship and a water spout can be
seen in the background.
A: The Gulf Stream
3) This Durer engraving has its title in the upper left near a rainbow and a comet and
the year 1514 in a 4x4 magic square. A sad winged figure sits next to a curled up
dog.
A: Melancholia 1
3. FTPE identify the following SI prefixes.
1) Symbolized by the Greek letter mu, this prefix denotes a factor of 10-6.
A: micro2) Symbolized T, it comes from the Greek for monster and denotes 1012.
A: tera3) Derived from the Italian for small, this prefix represents 10-12.
A: pico4. FTPE answer these related questions about a female author.
1) Sharing her birth and death years with James Joyce, this woman known for such
works as Jacob’s Room and Mrs. Dalloway was a member of the Bloomsbury
Group.
A: Virginia Woolf
2) This feminist essay by Virginia Woolf discusses the role of women in literature
and states that they must have money and the titular commodity in order to write
fiction.

5 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

A: A Room of One’s Own
3) This Woolf novel about the Ramsay family is divided into three sections: The
Window, Time Passes, and the titular location.
A: To the Lighthouse
5. FTPE name these World War II battles.
1) This battle marked the turning point in Africa when British Lieutenant-General
Bernard Montgomery defeated German Field Marshal Erwin Rommel and drove the
Nazis back into Tunisia.
A: Battle of El Alamein
2) One of the first battles fought almost entirely by aircraft carriers, this battle was a
crucial Japanese defeat and marked the turning point in the Pacific.
A: Battle of Midway
3) Georgy Zhukov’s deadly counterattack was the turning point in this bloodiest
battle of the war, also the turning point on the Russian front.
A: Battle of Stalingrad
6. FTPE name the following novels by Charles Dickens.
1) The title entities are contrasted in Charles Darnay and Sydney Carton in this
novel.
A: A Tale of Two Cities
2) In this novel the convict Magwitch is revealed to be Pip's mysterious benefactor.
A: Great Expectations
3) This novel's title character is sent to school by the Murdstones and later moves in
with Mr. Micawber. He also lives with Mr. Wickfield, among whose other tenants is
Uriah Heep.
A: David Copperfield
7. FTPE identify the following Greek heroes of the Trojan War.
1) This son of Peleus and Thetis was killed when Paris shot an arrow into his heel.
A: Achilles Accept Akhilleus
2) This king of Mycenae commanded the Greeks at Troy and was killed by his wife
Clytemnestra.
A: Agamemnon
3) Agamemnon's brother and king of Sparta, this man was Helen's husband.
A: Menelaus
8. FTPE, identify these devices from what each measures.
1) This measures atmospheric pressure and is often used to gauge altitude.
A: Barometer
2) This device measures humidity.
A: Hygrometer
3) Named for a competitor of Volta, this device measures small currents.
A: Galvanometer
9. FTPE name the following Impressionist and Post-Impressionist artists from works.

6 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

1) The Dance Lesson and other paintings of ballerinas.
A: Edgar Degas
2) Yellow Christ and Spirit of the Dead Watching
A: Eugène Henri Paul Gauguin
3) Mount St. Victoire and The Card Players
A: Paul Cézanne
10. FTPE name the following Roman poets who wrote during the reign of Augustus.
1) This man wrote the Eclogues, the Georgics, and the Aeneid.
A: Virgil Accept Publius Vergilius Maro
2) This man is known for his Odes and Epodes, as well as the Ars Poetica.
A: Horace Accept Quintus Horatius Flaccus
3) This poet of the Metamorphoses also wrote the Amores and Ars Amatoria.
A: Ovid Accept Publius Ovidius Naso
11. Name the following reality TV shows FTPE.
1) In this show, 25 women try to avoid getting a rose from the title character.
A: The Bachelor
2) A professional teaches a celebrity and performs with him or her in front of a panel
of judges.
A: Dancing With The Stars
3) This show features trainers Jillian Michaels and Bob Harper helping overweight
contestants get into shape.
A: The Biggest Loser
12. FTPE identify the following characters from Georges Bizet’s final opera.
1) This titular gypsy causes the ruin of her lovers and sings the “Habanera.”
A: Carmen
2) This soldier is seduced by Carmen and driven to madness when she leaves him.
A: Don Jose
3) This bullfighter sings the “Toreador Song” and becomes Carmen’s new lover.
A: Escamillo
13. FTPE name these mathematical properties.
1) Multiplication and addition in both matrices and scalars have this property. An
expression using only one operation that has this property may be written without
parentheses unambiguously.
A: Associative
2) The sum of a number and the additive kind of this element is always 0. The
product of a number and the multiplicative kind of this element is always 1. It exists
for square matrices only when the determinant is nonzero.
A: Inverse
3) It is the analogue for relations of the commutative property for operations. For a
relation with this property, if x is related to y, then y is related to x.
A: Symmetric or Symmetry

7 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

14. FTPE identify the following cell organelles.
1) Referred to as "free" when floating in cytoplasm, these organelles synthesize
proteins.
A: Ribosomes
2) Named for its Italian discoverer, this organelle processes and packages
macromolecules.
A: Golgi Apparatus (accept Body/Complex/Dictyosome and other equivalents for
apparatus)
3) These organelles rid the cell of namesake toxins and metabolize fatty acids.
A: Peroxisomes
15. FTPE name these emperors of the Mughal Empire.
1) This founder of the Mughal Empire was incredibly strong: he was said to have
swam across every river he met, including the Ganges.
A: Babur
2) This greatest Mughal emperor rose to the throne at age 14 and was a renowned
animal trainer, in addition to conquering the Afghans and defeating the insurgent
Hindu emperor Hemu.
A: Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbar the Great
3) This emperor presided over the a golden age of Mughal architecture and built the
Taj Mahal in honor of his favorite wife Mumtaz Mahal.
A: Shah Jahan
16. FTPE, name these Antarctic explorers.
1) This Norwegian was the first to reach the South Pole, on Dec. 14, 1911. He also
traveled in the Arctic.
A: Roald Amundsen
2) At the same time as Amundsen’s expedition, this Englishman attempted to reach
the Pole, which he did a month after the Norwegian expedition. He died on his
return trip.
A: Robert Falcon Scott
3. He journeyed to Antarctica several times, notably in the Endurance, which was
trapped in ice in the fall of 1915. He and his crew had to then travel over a thousand
miles over ice and sea in open boats to reach safety.
A: Ernest Shackleton
17. FTPE name the following Athenian tyrants.
1) An English adjective is derived from the name of this lawgiver known for his
harsh punishments.
A: Draco
2) This reformer was succeeded by Peisistratus.
A: Solon
3) This grandfather of Alcibiades introduced ostracism.
A: Cleisthenes
18. FTPE, name these mountain ranges of the Indian subcontinent.

8 of 9

Round #8

HAVOC

1) This range to the south of Tibet includes such peaks as Lhotse and Mount Everest.
A: Himalayas
2) Kabul and the Khyber Pass lie in this mountain range northwest of the Indus
River Valley.
A: Hindu Kush
3) The second-highest peak in the world, K2, lies in this range north of Kashmir,
often considered a sub-range of the Himalaya.
A: Karakoram Range
19. Identify these Greek Letters used in the sciences on a 10-5 basis.
1) For 10: Paired with a small phi [fee], this letter indicates an angle in the spherical
coordinate system.
For 5: The spherical usage follows from its usage to mark the angle in cylindrical
and polar coordinates.
A: Theta
2) For 10: The lowercase is used interchangeably with mu for density functions and
the limit of the capital may be represented as the integral.
For 5: The integral from its limit follows from the capital’s usage as a summation
device as in series; the lowercase commonly denotes standard deviation in statistics.
A: Sigma
3) For 10: When upside down and capital, it represents the gradient vector of a
function, while the lowercase is often used with a small epsilon for a definition of
the limit.
For 5: The capital of this letter represents “the change in” as when it is used in
slope.
A: Delta
20. FTPE name these parts of the circulatory system
1) This chamber of the heart receives blood from the superior vena cava before it
transfers to the same-sided ventricle.
A: Right Atrium
2) This artery receives blood from the left ventricle and is responsible for sending
blood throughout the rest of the body.
A: Aorta
3) This is the only vein in the human body that carries oxygenated blood back to the
heart.
A: Pulmonary Vein

9 of 9

