2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 3
Tossups

1. In one disorder affecting this entity, mutation in the FMR1 gene causes an increase in CGG repeats.
Histone 4 acetylation does not occur during a crucial process involving these that is sometimes named
after Mary Lyon. Horseshoe kidneys and webbed necks are common signs of a disease sometimes
named after Ullrich that results in the deletion of one of these. Men with two of these suffer from
Klinefelter’s syndrome, and inactivated ones of these condense to form Barr bodies. For 10 points, name
these genetic entities, of which two are possessed by females but only one by males.
ANSWER: X chromosome
2. He served as superintendent of West Point from 1919 to 1922 and provided the nickname for the
Rainbow Division. After a letter from this man to Joseph Martin was published, he was replaced by
Matthew Ridgway. He sought permission to bomb Manchuria by arguing there was “no substitute for
victory.” In an earlier command, he used the leapfrogging strategy and promised “I shall return.” For 10
points, name this general who led the eviction of the Bonus Army and served as supreme commander of
Allied forces in the Pacific during World War II.
ANSWER: Douglas MacArthur
3. The protagonist of this work “opined that nothing equaled the Abbé Delille’s translation” of Virgil’s
Georgics and learns Bible verses to impress important people. The protagonist of this work is banished
to a seminary after the maid Elisa exposes an affair and is prevented from marrying Mathilde de Mole
due to a letter which was written by a woman who gets shot during mass, Madame de Renal. The
ambitious Julien Sorel is the protagonist of, for 10 points, this Stendhal novel, whose two titular colors
represent the clergy and the military.
ANSWER: The Red and the Black [or Le Rouge et le Noir]
4. This man created Camacho’s Wedding from a scene in Don Quixote, and the “Dresden Amen” appears
throughout his fifth symphony, which is nicknamed “Reformation.” He depicted a water spirit in his
overture Fair Melusine, and one of his other overtures was inspired by a visit to a cave and named after
a location in Scotland, the Hebrides Overture. This composer of Songs Without Words also wrote
incidental music to A Midsummer Night’s Dream. For 10 points, name this German-Jewish composer of
the “Scottish” and “Italian” symphonies.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 1 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In one ritual of this religion, adherents pour water into a large bowl and stir sweets in it with a
double-edged sword to represent nectar. A holiday of this religion commemorates the martyrdom of
Tegh Bahadur, and the practice of langwar shows the rejection of caste. Adherents practice the five Ks,
including not cutting the hair, and their leader Arjan organized the hymns of their founder Nanak. This
religion’s major holy text is the Adi Granth. For 10 points, name this monotheistic Indian religion that
was led by gurus in Punjab whose followers often wear turbans.
ANSWER: Sikhism
6. She is a featured guest on the song “Big Girl Now” by New Kids on the Block, and in February of 2009
she released The Cherrytree Sessions, which includes “Eh, Eh (Nothing Else I Can Say).” One song by her
was produced by RedOne, features Colby O’Donis, and states “I love this record, baby, but I can’t see
straight anymore.” A music video by this artist begins with her emerging from a pool and states “I wanna
hold ’em like they do in Texas.” For 10 points, name this pop singer whose album The Fame includes the
songs “Poker Face” and “Just Dance.”
ANSWER: Lady Gaga [or Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta]
7. The youngest son of Henry II, this man became heir to the throne after the capture of his nephew,
Arthur. His marriage to a woman betrothed to Hugh de Lusignan and his subsequent failure to appear
before Philip II led his country to war. He was excommunicated for refusing to appoint Stephen Langdon
as Archbishop of Canterbury, and he received the epithet “Lackland.” This monarch was also forced by a
collection of nobles to sign a document at Runnymede. For 10 points, name this English king who was
forced to sign the Magna Carta in 1215.
ANSWER: John I [or John Lackland before mention; prompt on John]
8. This man stated that people construe life events to fit a narrative that proceeds to a conclusion in his
theory of fictional finalism, and he believed that the purpose of life was to fulfill occupational,
associational, and sexual tasks. His theory of individual psychology was outlined in his book The Neurotic
Constitution, and his work The Study of Organ Inferiority and Its Psychical Compensation resulted in his
break with Sigmund Freud. For 10 points, name this psychologist, the formulator of the inferiority
complex.
ANSWER: Alfred Adler
9. One of his sculptures depicts an anguished man clutching his head with one hand and his chest with
the other, and another of his sculptures shows a seated bearded man with a pair of horns on his head
holding some tablets. In addition to sculpting The Dying Slave and Moses, he painted a scene in which a
beardless Jesus presides over the end of the world and a painting in which the hand of God stretches to
give life to Adam. For 10 points, name this Renaissance sculptor and painter of The Last Judgment and
the ceiling of the Sistine chapel.
ANSWER: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 2 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. In medicine, Korotkoff sounds are used to guide the procedure for measuring this quantity, which is
increased by aldosterone and decreased by nitric oxide. Poiseuille’s Law can be used to model this
quantity, and ACE inhibitors are commonly prescribed to decrease this value. The body detects this
quantity with baroreceptors in the carotid sinuses and aortic arch, and it is measured using a
sphygmomanometer. For 10 points, name this quantity, a ratio of systolic and diastolic values
representing the force circulating blood exerts on vessel walls.
ANSWER: blood pressure
11. He wrote of the incestuous siblings Rinthy and Culla in his novel Outer Dark, and McAnally Flats is
the setting of his novel that is named for Cornelius Suttree. One novel by this author includes a scalp
hunter named Judge Holden, and another features John Grady Cole, who travels to Mexico on the titular
animals. In addition to Blood Meridian and All the Pretty Horses, this author wrote a novel in which
Llewelyn Moss finds $2.4 million and tries to evade Anton Chigurh. For 10 points, name this author of
No Country for Old Men.
ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy
12. Literature bloomed during this government in the Genroku period. One ruler of this period
introduced a law code that became the Kansei code. The founder of this government originally had his
headquarters at Sumpu to avoid a follower of Nobunaga. That founder moved to Edo, gathered an army,
and defeated the forces of Hideyoshi at Sekigahara. The founder of this shogunate established a
government that would end with Yoshinobu, who cooperated with the Meiji reformers. For 10 points,
name this Japanese shogunate founded by Ieyasu.
ANSWER: Tokugawa shogunate [or Tokugawa period]
13. He was the honoree of a yearly festival on the Alban mount, the Feriae Latinae. A trilithon sits
beneath the ruins of a temple to an amalgam of Baal and this figure. Numa dedicated an altar on the
Aventine to his aspect of Elicius, and Augustus built a temple to his aspect of Tonans. Oaths were sworn
on this god’s stone, which was kept in his massive temple on the Capitoline Hill dedicated to his role as
Optimus Maximus. Part of a triad with Juno and Minerva, his children included Mars. For 10 points,
name this chief god of the Roman pantheon.
ANSWER: Jupiter [or Zeus; or Jove]
14. In 1963, this artist created the mixed media project Autobodies, and his first environment work is
entitled The Street. Minneapolis is home to this man’s Spoonbridge and Cherry, and Yale University is
home to a work by this artist in which the title object stands on a tank, Lipstick Ascending on Caterpillar
Tracks. Married to Coosje van Bruggen, this man has created numerous “soft sculptures,” including Soft
Hamburger. For 10 points, name this Swedish-born sculptor best known for giant sculptures of common
objects, such as a clothespin.
ANSWER: Claes Oldenburg

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 3 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. Cahn-Ingold-Prelog notation is used to differentiate between two members of one type of these sets
of molecules. Members of that type that also contain an internal plane of symmetry are known as meso
compounds. The presence of anti and gauche conformations can produce rotational ones, and another
type exists in cis and trans forms, while isobutane and n-butane are constitutional ones. For 10 points,
name these compounds with the same molecular formula but different chemical and physical properties
due to the arrangement of their atoms.
ANSWER: isomers [accept enantiomers before “meso” is read; accept stereoisomers before n-butane]
16. The namesake of a chapter in this work cries, “Oh, the river!” when caught off-guard by the narrator,
who proceeds to label her “in a state of frenzy.” That suicidal woman, Martha Endell, travels to
Australia, where a debtor’s jail inhabitant becomes a magistrate. Elsewhere, the titular narrator studies
under Dr. Strong and is disappointed upon leaving to hear Uriah Heep is in his old bedroom. For 10
points, name this novel featuring the title character’s wives, Dora and Agnes, as well as the Micawbers, a
work by Charles Dickens.
ANSWER: David Copperfield
17. A castle was built on the site of this city by John de Courci in 1177, and its modern history began
with the establishment of fortifications by Arthur Chichester. Through the patronage of William III, this
city became a center of linen production developed by Huguenot refugees. In this city, Harland and
Wolff designed the Titanic, and Ian Paisley opposed a 1998 agreement named for this city signed on
Good Friday. For 10 points, name this city that was plagued by sectarian fighting during a period known
as “the Troubles,” the capital of Northern Ireland.
ANSWER: Belfast
18. The River Ock joins this body of water at Abingdon, roughly forty miles southwest of the River Churn,
another tributary that is likely this river’s source on the western edge of the Cotswolds. Downstream,
this waterway passes through Goring Gap between the Chiltern Hills and Berkshire Downs then joins the
Rivers Pang and Kennet in Pangbourne and Reading, respectively. For 10 points, name this river, which is
known as the Isis in Oxford, and which comes to an end as an estuary at The Nore sandbank after
flowing through London.
ANSWER: River Thames (or Tamesis; or Tamesa; prompt on River Isis before mention)
19. A strong version of this entity splits spectral lines in the Paschen-Back effect, and one is gradually
excluded as temperature decreases from superconductors in the Meissner effect. In the absence of
current it is equal to the gradient of the scalar potential. It may be calculated using one form of the BiotSavart law, and its loop integral is proportional to the enclosed current by Ampere’s law. The force it
exerts on a charge is proportional to the cross product of velocity with it. For 10 points, identify this
divergence-free vector field often paired with an electric one.
ANSWER: magnetic field [do not accept “magnetic potential”; do not accept “vector potential”]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 4 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. Two Mutability cantos were posthumously added to this work. Maleger and Acrasy are enemies of
Temperance who are defeated Guyon, but Guyon is himself defeated by the enchanted female knight
Britomart in this work. The treachery of Duessa and Archimago results in the betrayal of Lady Una, but
then the giant Orgoglio is defeated through the intervention of Prince Arthur and the Red Cross Knight is
rescued. For 10 points name this work that opens during a feast in Gloriana, the court of the titular
ruler, a work by Edmund Spencer.
ANSWER: The Faerie Queen
21. One poet from this country wrote a satiric long poem during a visit here titled “[this country]: A
Winter’s Tale.” Another poet from this country noted “You must change your life” at the end of a poem
that describes a “legendary head / with eyes like ripened fruit.” That poet from this country also wrote
“who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angels’ hierarchies?” in addition to “The Archaic Torso of
Apollo” and Sonnets to Orpheus. For 10 points, name this country, home to “Dei Lorelei” author Heinrich
Heine and Duino Elegies author Reiner Rilke.
ANSWER: Germany [or Deutschland]
22. This man was sent by Robert Dinwiddle to the Ohio Valley to tell the French not to settle there. This
aide-de-camp to Edward Braddock capitulated at Fort Necessity. He left nine thousand men under Israel
Putnam on Brooklyn Heights in the Battle of Long Island, and he helped boost morale with two wins in
New Jersey over Hessian mercenaries. He recommended against involvement in foreign affairs in his
farewell address. For 10 points, name this commander at Trenton and Princeton who led the
Continental Army, and also served as the first U.S. president.
ANSWER: George Washington
23. The first step of this process is divided into five named sub-steps, four of which contain the Greek
root for “thread.” One version of this process is regulated by folliculogenesis and sees the formation of
three polar bodies in addition to one final product. Failure of separation in this process is known as
nondisjunction. “Crossing over” takes place during Prophase I of this cycle, and the four cells of this
process have half of the DNA of the parent cell. For 10 points, name this process that results in gamete
formation.
ANSWER: meiosis [do not accept “mitosis”; prompt on gamete formation or equivalents; prompt on
spermatogensis; prompt on oogenesis; prompt on spore genesis]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 5 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 3
Bonuses

1. Students often rationalize them before giving a final answer. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this part of a fraction, which always sits underneath the numerator.
ANSWER: denominators
[10] In order to add two fractions, a mathematician can use common denominators in this process,
which rewrites a over b plus c over d as a times d plus b times c over b times d.
ANSWER: cross multiplication [or cross multiply]
[10] When a fraction is in lowest terms, the numerator and denominator have this property. This term
signifies that two numbers have a greatest common divisor of 1.
ANSWER: relatively prime [do not accept “prime”]
2. Identify the following about unrelated “fidels” for 10 points each.
[10] This man overthrew Fulgencio Batista in 1959 and became the prime minister of Cuba. His brother
Raul currently serves as the president of Cuba.
ANSWER: Fidel Castro
[10] Pope Alexander VI, who issued the bull Piis fidelium, belonged to this family. Pope Calixtus III also
belonged to this family, while another member is thought to have killed his brother Giovanni.
ANSWER: Borgia
[10] Leonore, disguised as the title character, saves her husband Florestan in this composer’s only opera,
Fidelio. He also composed The Creatures of Prometheus and the Kreutzer Sonata.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven
3. This state’s highest point was first climbed by Hudson Stuck. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state that is home to the highest point in North America.
ANSWER: Alaska
[10] Mount McKinley is the centerpiece of this national park in Alaska. It shares its name with the native
Athabaskan term for Mount McKinley.
ANSWER: Denali National Park and Preserve
[10] This second-highest peak in both the U. S. and Canada is the namesake of the range in which Mount
Logan is located. Along with the Wrangell range, its name is found in another national park.
ANSWER: Mount Saint Elias

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 6 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. After a skirmish with Indians, Reuben Bourne takes an oath, but he never performs the titular task in
this author's short story “Roger Malvin’s Burial.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Fanshawe and a novel centering on the cursed Pyncheon family.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
[10] The titular symbol of this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel is worn on the chest of Hester Prynne, who
committed adultery with Arthur Dimmesdale.
ANSWER: The Scarlet Letter
[10] In this Hawthorne short story, the titular Puritan has a mysterious vision in which he sees his wife
Faith at a witches’ Sabbath.
ANSWER: “Young Goodman Brown”
5. The Persians had over six thousand casualties at this battle, compared to the mere 194 Greek
casualties. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 490 B.C. battle fought north of Athens. It saw Miltiades order his army to make a huge
line after convincing Callimachus that they needed to defend themselves.
ANSWER: Battle of Marathon
[10] Despite a general peace, Alcibiades stated that this Sicilian city was aiding Sparta and needed to be
destroyed, as victory would allow for the creation of an Athenian empire.
ANSWER: Syracuse
[10] Pausanias led a unified Greek army against the Persians in this final battle of the Persian Wars.
ANSWER: Battle of Plataea
6. It is essential for free radical detoxification, and oxidation reactions that occur here during lipid
metabolism result in a product that gives this structure its name. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this eukaryotic organelle in which the enzyme catalase converts a certain compound into
water and oxygen.
ANSWER: peroxisome
[10] Similar to the peroxisome is this other cellular structure, which contains hydrolytic enzymes used
for digesting cell waste. It maintains an acidic environment through proton pumps.
ANSWER: lysosome
[10] Lysosomes are present in these mature monocytes that ingest foreign materials. They can function
as antigen-presenting cells in the immune system.
ANSWER: macrophages
7. This figure caused Medea’s love for Jason and Dido’s love for Aeneas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this son of Venus who shoots arrows that cause people to fall in love.
ANSWER: Cupid [or Eros]
[10] Cupid fell in love with this mortal maiden to whom Venus gave several impossible tasks, such as
sorting a pile of seeds. Zeus eventually made her immortal.
ANSWER: Psyche
[10] Psyche was originally brought to Cupid by this figure, the personification of the west wind.
ANSWER: Zephyr [or Zephyrus]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 7 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. He called his compositions Amadis and Amide “tragédies lyriques.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this court composer to Louis XIV who developed gangrene and died after crushing his toe
with his conducting staff.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Lully [or Giovanni Battista Lulli]
[10] Jean-Baptiste Lully often wrote incidental music for this playwright, whose comedies include The
Bourgeois Gentleman, The Misanthrope, and Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
[10] Lully made extensive use of this instrument, whose strings are plucked when a key is depressed. A
smaller version of it is known as a virginal.
ANSWER: harpsichord
9. This author wrote a verse drama about the rivalry between two composers in Mozart and Salieri and
about the wink of the titular card in The Queen of Spades. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Russian author who wrote about the clerk Evgeny, who is haunted by the titular statue of
Peter the Great in The Bronze Horseman.
ANSWER: Alexander Pushkin
[10] This Pushkin work deals with the titular czar’s confrontation with the pretender Grigory Otrepyev.
As a character in this work, Pushkin convinces General Basmanov to support Grigory.
ANSWER: Boris Godunov
[10] In this other Pushkin work, the titular Russian dandy kills Vladimir in a duel and wanders for two
years, only to return to Moscow and find Tatyana married to a prince.
ANSWER: Eugene Onegin
10. Robert of Artois died during this conflict at Al Mansurah. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this crusade that included action at the port city Damietta in Egypt.
ANSWER: Seventh Crusade
[10] The Seventh Crusade was the first of two led by this king of France, who built the Sainte-Chapelle.
He is the only one ever to be canonized.
ANSWER: Louis IX [prompt on Saint Louis]
[10] The ultimate object of the Seventh Crusade was this large city located near the apex of the Nile
delta. It now serves as Egypt’s capital.
ANSWER: Cairo
11. Talc is rated “one” and diamond is a “ten” on this scale. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scale of mineral hardness ranked by scratch tests.
ANSWER: Mohs scale
[10] This mineral is a nine on the Mohs scale. It is a form of aluminum oxide, and impurities in its
formation lead to rubies and sapphires.
ANSWER: corundum
[10] This phosphate mineral is a five on the Mohs scale. Its hydroxyl form is found in tooth enamel, and
it can also form with chlorine and fluorine anions.
ANSWER: apatite
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 8 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This philosopher believed that the universe’s matter was cyclically brought together by Love and
torn apart by Strife. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Greek philosopher who divided matter into the four elements of earth, air, water, and
fire. He allegedly hurled himself into a volcano.
ANSWER: Empedocles
[10] Like Empedocles, this Greek philosopher wrote a work titled On Nature. This leading figure of the
Eleatic school taught Zeno of Elea.
ANSWER: Parmenides
[10] This tutor of Alexander the Great wrote that Empedocles was the father of rhetoric. His works
include the Poetics and Nicomachean Ethics.
ANSWER: Aristotle
13. A lone candle burns in the chandelier, and a dog and some discarded sandals lie next to the feet of
the happy couple. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting in which a woman in a rich green dress holds the title merchant’s hand.
ANSWER: The Arnolfini Wedding [accept equivalents]
[10] This Dutch painter included himself in the convex mirror in The Arnolfini Wedding.
ANSWER: Jan van Eyck
[10] Along with his brother Hubert, Jan van Eyck painted the Adoration of the Lamb for this altarpiece.
ANSWER: Ghent Altarpiece
14. This author wrote about Ahab’s attempts to take Kiguunda’s land in I Will Marry When I Want. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this author who told of four suspects being held in suspicion of arson in Petals of Blood and
wrote of Kihika’s betrayal during the Mau Mau revolution in his A Grain of Wheat.
ANSWER: Ngugi wa Thionga [or James Ngugi]
[10] Ngugi hails from this African country that experienced the Mau Mau rebellion and has its capital at
Nairobi.
ANSWER: Kenya
[10] Ngugi railed against this tongue in his essay “Decolonizing the Mind. ” George Orwell wrote about
Politics and this.
ANSWER: the English language [accept equivalents]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 9 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. At some point in one’s life, it’s a good idea to consider making wills. For 10 points each:
[10] This term refers to proceedings in Anglo-American law that determine the legal validity of
documents purporting to be a person’s last will.
ANSWER: probate
[10] Property that has not been disposed of by a valid last will and testament will be vetted through this
type of succession, in which property is devolved through kinship with the deceased.
ANSWER: intestate succession [or intestacy]
[10] This type of will provides instructions for medical care in the event that one is unable to
communicate due to a medical condition.
ANSWER: living will
16. Answer the following about disastrous errors in judgment, all of which came during fighting in
southeast Europe, for 10 points each.
[10] This battle, an attempt to capture the Dardanelles, was almost a career-ending disaster for Winston
Churchill.
ANSWER: Battle of Gallipoli [or Gallipoli Campaign]
[10] Lord Cardigan messed up at the Battle of Balaklava, which took place during this war, fought
between the British and Russians.
ANSWER: Crimean War
[10] The Ottoman forces foolishly trusted their composite bowmen at this naval battle that was fought
off the coast of Greece in 1571. It stopped Ottoman expansion into Europe.
ANSWER: Battle of Lepanto
17. The omega-minus particle of this type is composed of three strange quarks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of subatomic particles that are made up of three quarks.
ANSWER: baryons
[10] This baryon is made up of two up quarks and a down quark. The number of them in a single atom
defines the atom’s atomic number.
ANSWER: protons
[10] Both baryons and mesons are classified as hadrons, meaning that they interact via this fundamental
force mediated by gluons.
ANSWER: strong force
18. Harrison Birtwhistle titled an opera after the “mask” of this figure, and Jacopo Peri wrote about his
wife in the opera Euridice. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this figure from Greek myth.
ANSWER: Orpheus
[10] This early Italian operatic composer included the role of the messenger Sylvia in his Orfeo.
ANSWER: Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi
[10] Another opera about Orpheus, Les malheurs d'Orphée, was created by this composer of Le boeuf
sur le toit, The Creation of the World, Death of a Tyrant, and Suite provençale.
ANSWER: Darius Milhaud
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 10 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. Scorned by his family and digusted with what he has become, he finds himself useless and dies after
an apple is lodged in his back. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this traveling salesman who awakes one morning to find himself transformed into an insect.
ANSWER: Gregor Samsa [accept either]
[10] This author of The Trial wrote about Gregor Samsa in The Metamorphosis.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10] This violin-playing sister of Gregor feeds him and cleans his room.
ANSWER: Grete
20. His killer, Dan White, was acquitted by using the so-called “Twinkie Defense,” which held that he was
eating so much junk food he could not think properly. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who was assassinated along with Mayor George Moscone and who represented the
Castro and Haight-Ashbury areas on a city council.
ANSWER: Harvey Milk
[10] Harvey Milk was a politician in this California city, where he became the first elected official to
represent its large gay population more directly.
ANSWER: San Francisco
[10] San Francisco was home to some of the first gay pride marches in response to this event, which
involved 400 gay people reacting to a police raid of a New York City bar.
ANSWER: Stonewall riots
21. The total number of atoms in a crystal can be obtained by multiplying the number of atoms in these
structures times the number of these structures in the crystal. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these subdivisions of crystal structure that represent the smallest volume that can be stacked
to fill all space and construct the entire crystal lattice.
ANSWER: unit cell
[10] This is the simplest unit cell structure. When there is a single atom at each corner of this type of
unit cell and a single atom in the center, this unit cell is known as body-centered.
ANSWER: cubic
[10] Copper, silver, and gold crystallize into this type of lattice structure in which an atom located on
each side of the cubic unit cell contributes one half of its volume to the cell.
ANSWER: face centered cubic [or cubic closed packed; or fcc]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 11 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

22. Ben Gunn, the titular location’s sole inhabitant, gives Dr. Livesey information that prompts Squire
Trelawney to abandon the stockade in favor of Gunn’s quarters. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Robert Louis Stevenson novel in which the crew of the Hispaniola attempts to reach the
titular location, only to face a mutiny against Captain Smollett led by Long John Silver.
ANSWER: Treasure Island
[10] The events of Treasure Island are triggered when this cabin boy of the Hispaniola obtains a treasure
map from the sea chest of the pirate Billy Bones.
ANSWER: Jim Hawkins [accept either part]
[10] The treasure map in Billy Bones’ possession leads to the treasure of this captain of the Walrus. Long
John Silver and Ben Gunn were members of this man’s crew.
ANSWER: Captain J. Flint
23. It used the slogan “work, family, fatherland” and lost its remaining autonomy following Operation
Anton. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Nazi collaborationist government that ruled France from 1940 to 1944.
ANSWER: Vichy France
[10] This man served as chief of state for the duration of the Vichy regime.
ANSWER: Henri Philippe Pétain [or Marshal Pétain]
[10] This man organized the rise of Vichy by persuading the Assembly of the Third Republic to dissolve,
and he served as Prime Minister from 1942 onward.
ANSWER: Pierre Laval

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 3

Page 12 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

