Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 9
Tossups

1. The narrator of this poem says the world “seems to lie before us like a land of dreams” and claims
that the “turbid ebb and flow of human misery” was brought to mind when “Sophocles long ago,
heard it on the Aegean.” Beginning with “the sea is calm tonight,” it goes on to describe the setting as
a “distant northern sea.” For 10 points, name this poem which ends by describing a “darkling plain /
Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight, / Where ignorant armies clash by night,” written by
Matthew Arnold.
ANSWER: "Dover Beach"
2. This artist painted works like Going West as a student of Thomas Hart Benton. He painted Orange
Head during his nervous breakdown, and cave paintings inspired his works The She-Wolf and
Guardians of the Secret. The husband of painter Lee Krasner, his paintings Autumn Rhythm, Blue Poles,
and Lavender Mist demonstrate his characteristic style of "action painting." For 10 points, name this
American abstract expressionist, who created many works by dripping paint directly onto the canvas.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollock
3. The first four varieties of these were named based on the properties of their spectroscopic lines,
and the Hartree-Fock method concerns another type. Doubling the azimuthal quantum number and
adding one gives the number of these in a subshell. Molecular ones may be approximated by linear
combination of atomic ones, while the Pauli exclusion principle states that their contents must have
opposite spin. “Hybridized” according to the number of atoms to which an atom must bond, for 10
points, give this term for the regions in which an electron is likely to be found.
ANSWER: orbitals
4. Following the declilne of the Silingi and Alani branches of this group, the Asdingi became its
dominant branch, and they were Arian Christians. They were destroyed by the Byzantines following
the deposition of the usurper Gelimer, and their prominent leaders included Gaiseroc and Gunderic.
For 10 points, indentify this Germanic group that settled North Africa, whose name has become
synonymous for willful destruction.
ANSWER: Vandals
5. At a sleepover in this movie, one of the central characters confesses "I love you" and then "boops"
another character on the nose. This movie ends with four characters splitting up to buy cosmetic
coverup and a blanket, while another episode in this film features a purchase made with an eightydollar bill. A masked bandit punches Fogell at a liquor store in this movie, leading to his meeting with
officers Michaels and Slater, who later burn their squad car in a parking lot after shooting it. For 10
points, name this Judd Apatow flick featuring McLovin.
ANSWER: Superbad

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. One measure of this is Kendall’s tau, and one form of this can be used to estimate the periodicity of
a signal. A rank-order version coefficient for this is named for Spearman, though a statistic introduced
by Francis Galton, Pearson’s r coefficient, is the most widely used. When r equals negative one, this is
said to be completely negative; this is completely positive when r equals one. For 10 points, name this
measure of association between two variables, which often implies but does not equal causation.
ANSWER: correlation coefficient
7. Like Thomas Paine, he wrote a pamphlet entitled “The Crisis,” though his was in support of building
workhouses. He joined with such men as Charles Babbage to found the Statistical Society of London,
though his major work uses little data. That work argues that vice, misery, and self-restraint are the
only ways to prevent the arithmetic increase of food supplies from being outstripped by the geometric
increase of food consumers. For 10 points, name this author of An Essay on the Principle of Population,
who predicted inevitable starvation of the poor.
ANSWER: Thomas Malthus
8. Possibly at the suggestion of Nicholas Rubinstein, this piece was commissioned for the dedication of
the Church of Christ the Savior. It starts with the melody of “save the people,” a church chant, and
uses a diminuendo to represent casualties. The Marseillaise (mar-say-AZE) heard near the start is
countered later by "God save the Tsar," which is then topped by the cannon bursts in the finale. For 10
points, name this piece commemorating the Russian victory over Napoleon in the namesake year,
written by Pyotr Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: The 1812 Overture [or Festival Overture: The Year 1812; prompt on Festival Overture]
9. The idea for making this object came from Helenus, who realized his cause was lost after the theft
of the Palladium. Epeius supervised its creation, and after this item was finished, its creators retreated
to Tenedos and burned their tents. Sinon’s explanation of this item was challenged by Laocoon (layAH-koh-awn), who was quickly killed by a sea serpent. Such figures as Ajax the Lesser, Menelaus, and
Odysseus were concealed inside it. For 10 points, name this wooden animal idol in which Greek
soldiers hid, leading to the end of a mythical ten-year war.
ANSWER: the Trojan Horse
10. He accepted a three hundred and twenty nine dollar loan from the Credit Mobilier, and his
campaign biography was written by Horatio Alger. His administration was plagued by the Star Routes
scandal, and this man’s appointment of William H. Robertson to run the New York Customs House
angered Roscoe Conkling. He defeated Winfield Scott Hancock in the general election, and he was
opposed by the Stalwarts. For 10 points, name this President, who was assassinated by Charles
Guiteau in 1881.
ANSWER: James Garfield
11. Professor Nikolai Stepanovitch reunites with the failed actress Katya in Harkov in this author's
work "A Boring Story." One of this author's title characters declares his love for Yelena, who instead
pursues Astrov. That character was first introduced in "The Wood Demon," and unsuccessfully shoots
Professor Serebrakov. In another of his works, Lopakhin chops down the estate of Madame
Ranevskaya. For 10 points, name this Russian author of Uncle Vanya, The Cherry Orchard, and The
Seagull.
ANSWER: Anton Chekov

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. The Bergeron diagram method calculates the effects of one phenomenon called this which occurs
in electrical circuits. A model named for Lambert is useful for its diffuse type, and Phong shading
simulates the luminance effects related to its specular type. The total internal type occurs above the
critical angle, while another law states that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of this. For 10
points, identify this optical phenomenon whose "retro" type reverses the direction of light entirely.
ANSWER: reflection
13. This thinker used the example of a Jew failing a French poetry exam to contrast the views of the
two title people in his work Anti-Semite and Jew. He broke from Husserl's description of the self in his
The Transcendence of the Ego. In another of his works, historian Antoine Roquentin feels that
inanimate objects encroach on his freedom and cause the title sensation. Another of his works
describes "the history of negation" and "bad faith." For 10 points, name this existential philosopher of
the novel Nausea and Being and Nothingness who also wrote plays like No Exit.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
14. One of its few opponents in Parliament was Helen Suzman, and the BOSS bureau helped enforce it.
The Sullivan Rules were an exception to it, and it was instituted by Daniel Malan. Enforced by the
Population Registration Act and Group Areas Act, it was sometimes known as “separate
development”, and F.W. de Klerk repealed most of the legislation supporting it. For 10 points, name
this state-sanctioned policy of racial segregation that was opposed by the African National Congress
and Nelson Mandela in South Africa.
ANSWER: Apartheid [prompt on separate development before it is read]
15. An unattributable work by this author, “The Mosquito,” comprises a namesake appendix along
with the Catalepton. He wrote of the love between Corydon and Alexis as well as a prophecy of the
coming of a Messiah in two of his Eclogues. Hesiod's Works and Days formed the basis for another of
his works, which deals with cures for goat diseases, strong thoroughbred horses, and mythological
bees. In addition to The Georgics, he wrote of Evander, Lavinia and Dido in an epic poem about the
founding of Rome. For 10 points, name this author of The Aeneid.
ANSWER: Publius Virgilius Maro
16. A deficiency of this element results in the weakness of elastin, and can promote the formation of
aneurysms, and retention of this element in the liver causes Wilson’s disease. This element’s sulfate
salt is reduced to its corresponding oxide in the presence of aldehydes in the Benedict’s test. Along
with arsenic, this element is found in compounds such as Paris green, and is found along with tin in
bronze. For 10 points, identify this element whose latin name is cuprum.
ANSWER: copper [accept Cu; accept cuprum before it is read]
17. It contains the islands of Olkhon and Bolshoy, and this lake’s Proval Bay was created by an 1862
earthquake in the Selenga Delta. This lake is fed by the Selenga River, and the town of Listvyanka is
located on it. The Angara River flows from this lake, and this lake is the home of the golomyanka fish,
which gives birth to live young. Containing one fifth of the world’s surface fresh water, for 10 points,
name this Siberian lake, the oldest and deepest lake in the world.
ANSWER: Lake Baikal [accept Ozero Baykal; or Ozero Bajkal]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. Conrad Grebel exposited their beliefs to Ulrich Zwingli, who allowed the Zurich council to decide
between them, while Martin Luther, speaking from Wartburg, provided stiffer resistance to the
ministry of the Zwickau Prophets. Under the leadership of Melchior Hoffman they orchestrated the
Munster Rebellion in an attempt to establish a theocracy. For 10 points, identify this religious group
that sprung out of the Radical Protestant Reformation, whose central tenet arose from the idea that
religious initiation should be deferred until after infancy.
ANSWER: Anabaptists
19. One character in this work bemoans “these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these perdonami's.” When that character dies, another exclaims “fire-eyed fury be my conduct now.” Balthasar
unwittingly provided that character with false information, causing him to purchase poison from an
apothecary. In act one, a character delivers a speech about Queen Mab on the way to a ball. The title
character's refusal to duel the “prince of cats,” Tybalt, leads to Mercutio's death. For 10 points, name
this Shakespeare play which ends with the suicide of the title "star-crossed lovers."
ANSWER: Romeo and Juliet
20. In this opera’s aria “Vecchia Zimara,” Colline sings about his sorrow for selling his coat, and in “Che
Gelida Manina” the tenor says he will help the soprano who cames to his apartment to find a light for
her candle. Alcindoro is left with the bill at Café Momus after the mezzo-soprano sings the aria
“Quando M’en Vo” where she regains the affections of Marcello, and later Musetta sells her earrings
to buy medicine to help a character dying of tuberculosis in Latin Quarter. Ending with Mimi dying in
the hands of Rodolfo, for 10 points, name this opera by Puccini.
ANSWER: La Boheme
21. The gene SLC2A9 encodes a transporter of this molecule, which is the starting material in the
Reichstein process. Unlike humans, most animals can synthesize vitamin C in a four step process
starting with it, and PET scans often use a fluorinated analog of this molecule. Together with
galactose, it makes up the dissacharide lactose, and numerous molecules of this hexose make up the
storage molecules cellulose and starch. For 10 points, name this sugar that is broken down into two
molecules of pyruvate in glycolysis.
ANSWER: glucose [or C6 H12 O6]
22. The main character of this novel borrows a book by the Brothers Goncourt from a woman who
makes her black servants do her sewing because she believes it is unhealthy. That character had
eloped from her strict Kentucky family to marry a man who gets angry when she ignores Reception
Day. The protagonist rejects Mademoiselle Reisz’s attempt to temper family obligations with an
artistic talent, and has affairs with Alcée Arobin and Robert LeBrun before walking into the sea. For 10
points, name this novel about Edna Pontellier by Kate Chopin.
ANSWER: The Awakening

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #1
Round 9
Bonuses

1. Answer the following about comets, for 10 points each.
[10] This comet which appears every 75-76 years features in many Chinese and Babylonian records,
but is perhaps better known for being seen in 1066 and depicted on the Bayeux Tapesty.
ANSWER: Halley’s comet
[10] The outer extent of this region defines the boundary of the Solar System. Named for a Dutch
astronomer, it is the source of many long-period comets.
ANSWER: Öpik-Oort Cloud
[10] This term refers to the tenuous atmosphere of a comet which forms from the dust and gas
around the nucleus.
ANSWER: coma
2. It can occur with or without “remainder,” the latter only possible upon death. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this state in Buddhist theology, whose name means “extinguishing,” in which suffering
and desire end.
ANSWER: nirvana [or nibbana]
[10] The pursuit of nirvana is laid out as the third of these fundamental tenets of Buddhism, the first of
which is that existence causes suffering.
ANSWER: the Four Noble Truths [or Catvari-arya-satyani; or Cattari-ariya-saccani]
[10] In Mahayana Buddhism, those who achieve nirvana "with remainder" become these teachers,
who can remain on earth after enlightenment to guide others.
ANSWER: bodhisattvas
3. This city was briefly ruled by the Albizzi family and it was home to Girolama Savonarola and the
1497 bonfire of the vanities. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Italian city state ruled by the Medicis.
ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze or Florentia or Fiorenza]
[10] Between 1338 and 1351 Florence’s population was almost halved by this event which killed
approximately 25 million Europeans.
ANSWER: Black Death [accept Black Plague, prompt on Bubonic Plague]
[10] In the fourteenth century most of Florence’s wealth came from this material. The 1378 Ciompi
Revolt was a rebellion by people who worked with this product.
ANSWER: wool [accept sheep]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. For 10 points each, name these people who broke with Freud.
[10] This Austrian author of Understanding Human Nature coined the term inferiority complex.
ANSWER: Alfred Adler
[10] This Swiss founder of analytical psychology wrote Modern Man in Search of a Soul, and
introduced the concepts of introverted and extroverted types, as well as the collective unconscious.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung
[10] This psychoanalyst, who wrote The Myth of the Birth of the Hero, broke with Freud after being
accused of “anti-Oedipal heresy” in his book The Trauma of Birth.
ANSWER: Otto Rank
5. They peaked around the 16th century BC and are known for their intricate pottery and cult of bull
leaping. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Bronze Age civilization, named after a legendary Labyrinth owner.
ANSWER: Minoans
[10] The Minoan civilization was mainly based on this fifth largest Mediterranean island, with sites like
Phaistos.
ANSWER: Crete
[10] This main site of Minoan excavation and likely political center, famed for its palace, was excavated
by Arthur Evans.
ANSWER: Knossos
6. One piece of art in this form, In Advance of a Broken Arm, is merely a snow shovel. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this type of "Found art," examples of which include Bicycle Wheel and L.H.O.O.Q., which is
a copy of the Mona Lisa with a mustache drawn on it.
ANSWER: readymades
[10] Those readymades were created by this French artist of a work dismissed as an "explosion in a
shingle factory," Nude Descending a Staircase.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp
[10] This Duchamp readymade was simply a urinal signed "R. Mutt."
ANSWER: Fountain
7. His plays include Murder in the Cathedral. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this poet, playwright, and critic, best known for poems like “Gerontion” and “The Hollow
Men.”
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot
[10] This man edited Eliot's masterpiece “The Waste Land.” His own poetry includes "Hugh Selwyn
Mauberley" and the Cantos.
ANSWER: Ezra Pound
[10] A modernist from the same period, this gay poet of The Broken Tower, White Buildings, and The
Bridge endured frequent scathing criticism from Pound.
ANSWER: Hart Crane [prompt on Crane]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Just prior to the 2002 election, this state’s incumbent Senator Paul Wellstone died in a plane crash,
and replacement candidate Walter Mondale lost to Norm Coleman. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state, where the Republican Coleman shares the delegation with Democrat Amy
Klobuchar.
ANSWER: Minnesota
[10] This Republican governor of Minnesota was once considered as a Vice-Presidential possibility on
the McCain ticket, due to his popularity in a frequently Democratic state.
ANSWER: Timothy James Pawlenty
[10] This author of Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them and former Saturday Night Live writer
moved back to his home state of Minnesota to challenge Coleman’s re-election in 2008.
ANSWER: Al Franken
9. They are involved in both Raman scattering and Rayleigh scattering. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these particles that are the quantum of electromagnetic radiation.
ANSWER: photons
[10] Photons are an example of the “gauge” type of these particles named after an Indian scientist,
and which obey a namesake distribution in contrast to the Fermi-Dirac distribution.
ANSWER: bosons
[10] The energy of a photon can be determined by multiplying Planck's constant and this value, and
dividing the product by the wavelength.
ANSWER: speed of light [prompt on c]
10. Identify these things about music around the late Renaissance. For 10 points each:
[10] This composer wrote Vespro della Beata Vergine in 1610. He composed the first extant opera,
Orfeo.
ANSWER: Claudio Monteverdi
[10] This Italian composer allegedly convinced the council of Trent not to ban polyphonic music with
his Pope Marcellus Mass.
ANSWER: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina (accept either underlined answer)
[10] Both Palestrina and Monteverdi wrote many works in this secular vocal form contrasting with
motets. Monteverdi’s Combat of Tancred and Clorinda is a theatrical example.
ANSWER: madrigal
11. Answer the following about British Overseas Territories, for 10 points each.
[10] While Argentina also invaded the South Sandwich Islands, these islands lend their name to the
undeclared 1982 war over the sovereignty of Britain’s South Atlantic possessions.
ANSWER: Falkland Islands [or The Falklands; or Islas Malvinas]
[10] Britain also owns this territory in the North Atlantic with capital Hamilton, the northeastern
vertex of a mysterious maritime triangle.
ANSWER: Bermuda [or Somers Islands]
[10] The Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia are located on this Mediterranean island, which
has a UN Buffer Zone between its Turk and Greek controlled areas.
ANSWER: Cyprus [or Kypros; or Kibris]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. He only has one eye because he sacrificed the other to drink from Mimir's well. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this "all father," the husband of Frey and chief god of the Norse pantheon.
ANSWER: Odin [or Woden, Woten, or Wodinaz]
[10] Odin's faithful steed Sleipnir had this many legs. It is also the number of replicas of itself that
Odin's magic ring Draupnir would spawn every nine nights.
ANSWER: eight
[10] Odin once pierced himself with his spear Gungnir and hung from the world tree Yggdrasil in order
to understand this sacred writing system.
ANSWER: runes
13. Known as “The Incorruptible”, he was the most famous head of the Committee for Public Safety.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this French revolutionary leader who was responsible for the Reign of Terror.
ANSWER: Maximillian Robespierre
[10] Also once the Committee head, this man later got on Robespierre’s bad side for leading the
Indulgents. He was charged with a conspiracy against the government in 1794 and guillotined.
ANSWER: Georges Danton
[10] Robespierre met his end during this month of the Revolutionary calendar. Its namesake 1795
“reaction” led to a suppression of the Jacobins and the establishment of the Directory.
ANSWER: Thermidor [or Thermidorian]
14. Answer the following questions about literature set in Los Angeles, for 10 points each.
[10] In this unfinished novel, Cecilia Brady pursues the title character, movie producer Monroe Stahr.
He pursues Kathleen Turner because she looks like his dead wife Minna Davis.
ANSWER: The Love of the Last Tycoon
[10] This author wrote about painter Tod Hackett, who is injured at a riot during a Hollywood
premiere, in The Day of the Locust. He also wrote Miss Lonelyhearts.
ANSWER: Nathanael West
[10] Jeremy Pordage is hired to find the secret of eternal life, in this author's novel After Many a
Summer Dies the Swan. He wrote about John the Savage in Brave New World.
ANSWER: Aldous Huxley
15. Name these biological objects sometimes used in genetic engineering, for 10 points each.
[10] Also called jumping genes, these movable genetic elements were discovered by Barbara
McClintock in maize, an organism in which they can account for more than half of the genome.
ANSWER: transposons
[10] Found in bacteria, these rings of extra-chromosomal DNA are often used in recombinant DNA
research in order to transfer genes between cells.
ANSWER: plasmids
[10] Plasmids can also be found in S. cerevisiae, which is often known as the baker's type of this.
ANSWER: yeast

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. This country's independence movement was led by Alexander Ypsilanti. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country which won its independence after a coalition of forces destroyed the Ottoman
fleet at the Battle of Navarino.
ANSWER: Greece
[10] In 1822, Ottoman soldiers killed nearly all of the Greeks living on this island. Eugene Delacroix
memorialized the carnage in a painting titled "the massacre at" this location.
ANSWER: Chios
[10] Greek independence was finally granted by an 1832 treaty named for this city, the capital of the
Byzantine empire. In 1930, Kemal Ataturk renamed it Istanbul.
ANSWER: Constantinople
17. A follow-up to this work replaces the first word with Victory. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1943 painting that uses multicolored segments to represent the grid and traffic
movements of New York City.
ANSWER: Broadway Boogie-Woogie
[10] This artist of Broadway Boogie-Woogie is best remembered for paintings consisting of
perpendicular black lines dividing squares of primary colors.
ANSWER: Piet Mondrian
[10] Piet Mondrian was born in this nation, which is also the birthplace of such artists as Gerrard van
Honthorst, Dirk Bouts, Willem de Kooning, and Jan Vermeer.
ANSWER: the Netherlands
18. It names the process by which one may calculate the relative amounts of reactants and products
participating in a chemical reaction. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the term for this process, which hinges upon determining mol ratios and using formula
masses.
ANSWER: reaction stoichiometry
[10] One may apply the methods of stoichiometry to determine the reagent of lower equivalent
weight, also called this.
ANSWER: limiting reagent
[10] If one wished to convert from mols to particle number, one would invoke this constant, the
number of atoms in twelve grams of carbon-12.
ANSWER: Avogadro's number or constant
19. Of the characters on the Nellie, only the narrator is at all interested in this man’s story. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this man who tells of his time traveling up the Congo in Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Charlie Marlow
[10] This Polish-born British author wrote Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
[10] Marlow discovers this manager of an inland trading station to be gravely ill and converted to
savagery. His last words are “The horror! The horror!”
ANSWER: Georges-Antoine Kurtz

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. Identify the following regarding the history of civil service in the United States, for 10 points each.
[10] Sponsored by a New Mexico senator, this 1940 act was passed after a scandal in the Works
Progress Administration. It restricts the political activities of federal employees.
ANSWER: Hatch Act
[10] Although only covering ten percent of federal employees when passed in 1883, this law
attempted to undermine the spoils system by installing a merit based employee selection.
ANSWER: Pendleton Civil Service Act
[10] Known for hosting the chaotic 1968 Democratic Convention, this mayor of Chicago controlled the
city through strongarm methods and widespread use of patronage in civil service.
ANSWER: Richard Daley
21. The first one suggests that the sum of currents approaching a point in a circuit equals the sum of
currents leaving. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this pair of rules, named for current and voltage or for points and loops.
ANSWER: Kirchhoff's circuit laws
[10] Kirchhoff's current law relies on the conservation of this quantity, a property which controls an
object's electromagnetic interactions.
ANSWER: charge
[10] Kirchoff is known for his pioneering work in spectroscopy along with this namesake of a heating
device common in chemistry labs.
ANSWER: Robert William Eberhard Bunsen

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #1

Round 9

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

