2013 Fall Kickoff Tournament – Round 9
1. This President ordered the gag rule on petitions from abolitionists. His administration established the
Smithsonian and the Naval Academy and passed the pro-South Walker Tariff. During his presidency, Abraham
Lincoln demanded this President show the exact location where American blood had been spilled. This former
Speaker of the House was a “dark horse” who defeated Van Buren at the Democratic Convention and later Henry
Clay in the Election of 1844 with the slogan “Fifty Four Forty or Fight.” For 10 points, name this expansionist
President who acquired part of the Oregon Territory and Texas after winning the Mexican-American War.
ANSWER: James K. Polk
BONUS: This author’s After The Fall was a fictionalization of his real-life marriage to Marilyn Monroe. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this author who wrote of Willy Loman’s suicide in Death of a Salesman.
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
[10] Meant to be an allegory of McCarthyism, this Miller play includes the characters Abigail Williams and John
Proctor. It is set during the Salem witch trials.
ANSWER: The Crucible
[10] In The Crucible, this man is pressed to death by stones after refusing to plea “aye or nay” to the charge of
witchcraft levied against him.
ANSWER: Giles Corey [accept either underlined part]
2. Louis Hammett developed a function relating their strength to thermodynamic activity coefficients. The pH of a
solution is related to the negative log of their namesake equilibrium constant by the Henderson-Hasselbalch
equation. Boron triflouride has an unpaired p orbital, which makes it the Lewis variety of these chemical substances
because it readily accepts electrons. According to the Bronsted-Lowry definition, they donate protons. These
produce hydronium in water according to the Arrhenius definition. For 10 points, name these chemicals which have
a pH less than seven.
ANSWER: Acids
BONUS: After killing his wife Megara and his children, this man became Eurystheus’ slave. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Greek hero who defeated the Stymphalian birds, stole the flesh-eating mares of Diomedes, and
captured Cerberus alive.
ANSWER: Hercules [or Heracles]
[10] Hercules’ first labor was to slay this beast that took women as hostages to its lair in a cave.
ANSWER: Nemean Lion [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Hercules’ fifth labor was to clean the stables of this King of Elis who was the father of Agamede.
ANSWER: Augeas [do not accept or prompt on “Augean”]

3. Before leaving his home, this character’s mother implores him to not do anything he would regret telling her.
This character scares a squirrel to prove to himself that running from danger is natural. This character is given a
yellow envelope before battle by a friend but that friend asks for it back later. This character and his unit eventually
distinguish themselves in battle despite the general claiming they “fight like a lot ‘a mule drivers.” The tattered
soldier presses this character about his injury. This character’s friends in his regiment include Jim Conklin and
Wilson. For 10 points, name this Stephen Crane character from A Red Badge of Courage.
ANSWER: Henry Fleming [accept either underlined part]
BONUS: During the 1500’s and 1600’s, America was being settled. For 10 points each:
[10] This first permanent English settlement in the Americas was led by John Smith.
ANSWER: Jamestown
[10] John White was unable to get supplies for this colony for three years. Upon his arrival, he found the settlement
deserted with no sign of a struggle and the word “Croatoan” carved into a tree.
ANSWER: Roanoke
[10] Originally intended as a fort to protect the Dutch West India Company’s fur interests in the area, this
settlement was handed over to the British in exchange for a tiny island near Suriname in the Treaty of Breda. This
settlement was later renamed New York City.
ANSWER: New Amsterdam [do not prompt on “Amsterdam”]
4. This man recently designed a seventy-six story residential skyscraper with an ornate exterior in Manhattan on 8
Spruce Street. This architect designed a building named after a pair of dancers in Prague to represent the Czech
Republic’s transition from communism. This man designed a Paul Allen-founded museum with a notable “Sky
Church,” which he modeled on an electric guitar called the Experience Music Project Museum. This architect has
repeatedly used a shiny, metal exterior in works such as the Stata Center at MIT and the Walt Disney Musical Hall.
For 10 points, name this Canadian architect who designed the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao.
ANSWER: Frank Gehry
BONUS: For 10 points each, name some types of chemical reactions.
[10] This exothermic reaction often produces carbon dioxide, water, and heat when a hydrocarbon fuel reacts with
oxygen. It names a type of engine.
ANSWER: Combustion
[10] Combustion is one example of this type of reaction, in which the elements have their oxidations state changed
due to the transfer of electrons.
ANSWER: Redox [also accept reduction-oxidation reaction or oxidation-reduction reaction; prompt on
“oxidation” or “reduction”]
[10] This type of chemical reaction involves the exchanging of bonds between two reactants and no transfer of
electrons. Examples include neutralization and precipitation.
ANSWER: Double displacement [or double replacement]

5. This thinker claimed something is beautiful if it seems to have been designed with purpose despite any obvious
practical use, a term called the “form of finality.” In another work, this thinker argues that mathematics and science
contain synthetic a priori knowledge because scientific truths are universally true, independent of experience. He
introduced a concept that states people should act only according to that maxim, which they will to become a
universal law without contradiction. This concept, true in and of-itself, is called the categorical imperative. For 10
points, name this philosopher who authored The Critique of Judgment, Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals,
and the Critique of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
BONUS: This novel is set in Puritan Boston and was the inspiration for the 2010 film Easy A. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this novel in which Hester Prynne is forced to wear an ‘A’ because of her crime of adultery.
ANSWER: The Scarlet Letter
[10] The Scarlet Letter was written by this American novelist of The House of the Seven Gables and The Marble
Faun.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
[10] This man is Hester Prynne’s husband. He takes this name in America and becomes the town physician taking
care of Arthur Dimmesdale, Hester’s former lover.
ANSWER: Roger Chillingworth [accept either underlined part; do not accept “Chillingsworth”]
6. This singer warns that “it’s my life and I’m not waiting on the sidelines” in one song, and in another, she
compares a lover to an Indian summer. One single features Rebecca Black and an alter ego in an eighties party
inspired video. In another track on that same album, this singer wants to see a colorful bird that is described as
“jaw-dropping.” This former Christian gospel singer is known for singing about alien relationships, making out in
mustangs, and going “all the way tonight” highlighted by her unique contralto range. For 10 points, name this hit
pop singer of “Fingerprints,” “Thinking of You,” “Peacock,” “Last Friday Night,” “The One That Got Away,”
“E.T,” and “Teenage Dream.”
ANSWER: Katy Perry [or Kathryn Hudson]
BONUS: Answer some questions about famous American sculptors. For ten point each:
[10] This man sculpted a sitting Abraham Lincoln for the Lincoln Memorial, the Minuteman statue in Concord,
Massachusetts, and various sculptures on college campuses such as the John Harvard sculpture.
ANSWER: Daniel Chester French
[10] This man also designed sculptures for campuses such as Aviator for the University of Virginia. He is probably
more famous for sculpting Mount Rushmore.
ANSWER: Gutzon Borglum
[10] Gutzon Borglum also sculpted this memorial to Confederate heroes Jefferson Davis, Robert E. Lee, and
Stonewall Jackson. It is located near Atlanta, Georgia.
ANSWER: Stone Mountain

7. When the general tasked with the defense of the city of this namesake battle was asked how he interpreted his
assignment, he said “We will defend the city or die in the attempt.” That man was General Chuikov. One site of
heavy fighting in this battle was Pavlov’s House, and forty Soviet soldiers held back hundreds of German tanks and
troops for five days hiding in a grain silo. The German Sixth Army under General Paulus saw its offensive grind to
a halt and then found themselves surrounded by a winter counterattack led by General Zhukov. For 10 points, name
this Eastern front battle of World War II that changed the tide of the war and left over two million casualties.
ANSWER: Battle of Stalingrad
BONUS: According to this work, there are four types of the title action: egoistic, altruistic, fatalistic, and anomic
types. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work that explains the title phenomenon typically seen in young males due to a lack of social
integration.
ANSWER: Suicide
[10] This French sociologist wrote Suicide. He also wrote a work called The Elementary Forms of Religious Life, in
which he classified totemism as a type of religion.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim
[10] Durkheim also penned a work which examined how the division of this concept affected capitalist life.
ANSWER: labor [or The Division of Labor in Society]
8. In this novel, Gintz tries to persuade the army deserters to continue fighting but they turn against him and murder
him. The title character’s father who blew the family fortune commits suicide by jumping off a train. A recurring
character in this novel is a lawyer who seduces Amalia, survives an assassination attempt, and becomes the
Minister of Justice of the Far Eastern Republic. That character is Komarovsky. The title character marries his foster
sister Tania before being drafted into World War I and meeting Pasha Antipov’s wife. For 10 points, name this
novel in which Lara falls in love with Yurii during the Russian Civil War, written by Boris Pasternak.
ANSWER: Doctor Zhivago
BONUS: Name these classic horror movies. For 10 points each:
[10] Featuring Robert Englund in one of the most iconic horror villain roles ever and a then fresh faced Johnny
Depp as the male protagonist, this 1984 classic features the mayhem of a janitor killed by an angry mob of parents
after he was rumored of killing children.
ANSWER: A Nightmare On Elm Street
[10] Rumors circulated that this 1973 movie was cursed, and several actors did get injured on set. Some notable
scenes in this movie feature a crucifix, some impressive contortionist skills, and special effects involving pea soup,
all involving the problem child, Regan, played by Linda Blair.
ANSWER: The Exorcist
[10] Guy has relations with the title character, played by Mia Farrow, so he does not miss an opportunity to
conceive in this 1968 film where the denouement includes a group of people surrounding the crib of a child with
oddly colored eyes.
ANSWER: Rosemary’s Baby

9. A mutation of the FMR1 gene can result in Martin-Bell syndrome, also named for the “fragile” form of this
structure. These are inactivated in females in a process called lyonization, resulting in the formation of Barr bodies.
Klinefelter syndrome sees the presence of one or more extra copies of this chromosome in males, resulting in
reduced levels of testosterone. Turner syndrome is a condition in which females may only have one of these
chromosomes. For 10 points, identify this sex chromosome that is present in both males and females.
ANSWER: X chromosome
BONUS: This King is probably most famous for having six wives, two of which he beheaded, notably Anne
Boleyn. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king who established the Church of England after the Roman Catholic Church refused to annul his
marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
ANSWER: Henry VIII [prompt on “Henry”]
[10] This man refused to recognize Henry VIII as the Supreme Head of the Church of England and was beheaded
as a result. He may be more famous for penning the work Utopia.
ANSWER: Sir Thomas More
[10] This successor of Henry VIII continued to push the Church of England towards Protestantism with the
abolition of celibacy and the introduction of the Book of Common Prayer.
ANSWER: Edward VI [prompt on “Edward”]
10. This painter’s last great work was Mars Being Disarmed by Venus. This painter also completed a work in which
Hersilia tries to prevent conflict between the Romans and the Sabines called The Intervention of the Sabine Women.
He painted a work in which the number of arches in the background match the number of swords held by three
soldiers swearing to fight for Rome. This artist also painted a French revolutionary holding a petition from
Charlotte Corday as he bleeds to death in his bathtub. For 10 points, name this French neoclassical painter of Oath
of the Horatii and The Death of Marat.
ANSWER: Jacques Louis David
BONUS: In this play, Henry Higgins makes a bet that he can teach a Cockney girl to pass for a duchess. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this play in which Eliza decides to marry Freddy after she explains that she only learned to be a lady
thanks to Colonel Pickering.
ANSWER: Pygmalion
[10] This man wrote Pygmalion along with Mrs. Warren’s Profession and Man and Superman. He was a noted
socialist who co-founded the London School of Economics.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] Shaw also wrote this play in which the title character becomes disillusioned with the Salvation Army after the
Christian organization accepts money from her father Mr. Undershaft, who is an arms manufacturer.
ANSWER: Major Barbara

HALFTIME – Announce the score and allow teams to substitute

11. The retirement of a politician with this surname led to the 2010 election of current U.S. Representative David
Cicilline. One politician with this surname caused the death of Mary Jo Kopechne in the Chappaquiddick incident.
Another politician with this surname was killed at the Ambassador Hotel by Sirhan Sirhan during a 1968
presidential campaign. The death of another politician with this surname was investigated by the Warren
Commission and occurred in Dallas, Texas at the hands of Lee Harvey Oswald. For 10 points, give this last name of
assassinated U.S. President John Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: Kennedy [accept Patrick Joseph Kennedy II or Edward Moore “Ted” Kennedy or Robert Francis
“Bobby” Kennedy or John Fitzgerald “Jack” Kennedy]
BONUS: These organisms consist of RNA or DNA surrounded by a capsid. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these organisms, which can cause diseases in humans such as the common cold and influenza.
ANSWER: viruses
[10] Viruses that infect bacteria are known by this term.
ANSWER: bacteriophages
[10] The life cycle of a virus can either be lytic, in which it replicates immediately, or this type, where it stays
hidden in the host cell's genome until activated.
ANSWER: lysogenic cycle
12. This quantity is given by Dirac’s constant over i times the gradient in quantum mechanics, and it is the
conjugate variable of position. A particle’s wavelength is equal to Planck’s constant over this quantity according to
de Broglie’s law. Change in this quantity is called impulse, and in both elastic and inelastic collisions, this quantity
is conserved. Its time derivative is force. For 10 points, name this quantity from mechanics that is the product of
mass and velocity.
ANSWER: Linear momentum [do not accept “angular momentum”]
BONUS: This painter created a work featuring a bend in the Connecticut River called The Oxbow. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this early American painter of works such as The Titan’s Goblet and an allegorical work The Voyage of
Life.
ANSWER: Thomas Cole
[10] Thomas Cole completed this series of paintings which depicts the same landscape over the course of
civilization’s rise and fall. Paintings in this series include The Savage Stage and Desolation.
ANSWER: The Course of Empire
[10] Thomas Cole is regarded as the founder of this American school of art. This art movement frequently featured
landscape paintings and included artists such as Asher Durand and Frederic Edwin Church.
ANSWER: Hudson River School

13. Menestheus became king of Athens after slandering this figure, while for a time this figure was trapped in the
underworld along with his friend Pirithous. This figure had originally traveled to the underworld to capture
Persephone for his friend after they had kidnapped Helen, and on another famous journey, he defeated Cercyon in
wrestling, stretched Sinis between his two trees, and placed Procrustes in his own torturous bed. This is, for 10
points, what hero who slew the Minotaur and caused his father's death by raising a black sail?
ANSWER: Theseus
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these questions about African Imperialism.
[10] This man was discovered in Africa by Henry Morton Stanley following his disappearance. Name this explorer
and missionary who was the first Westerner to see the Victoria Falls and travel across Africa from east to west.
ANSWER: David Livingstone
[10] A meeting of European powers in this capital city of Germany was organized by Otto von Bismarck, set off the
Scramble for Africa, and established rules for the colonization of Africa.
ANSWER: Berlin
[10] This battle was a part of Britain’s attempt to reconquer Sudan. General Herbert Kitchener defeated a much
larger Sudanese army with help of modern weapons such as the Gatling Gun.
ANSWER: Battle of Omdurman
14. The speaker of this poem states “Yet knowing how way leads on to way, I doubted if I should ever come back.”
Written for the poet’s friend Edward Thomas, this poem was first published alongside “Bond and Free” and “Outout” in the collection Mountain Interval. One line in this poem states that the speaker made his choice because “it
was grassy and wanted wear.” Ending with the line “and that has made all the difference,” for 10 points, identify
this Robert Frost poem that opens “Two roads diverged in a yellow wood.”
ANSWER: “The Road Not Taken”
BONUS: This law can be used to explain why like charges repel one another, and it is the electrical analog of
Newton’s Law of Universal Gravitation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this inverse square law relating an electric force to point charges. It is named after a French scientist.
ANSWER: Coulomb’s Law
[10] This other law states that the electric flux through any closed surface is proportional to the electric charge in
that place. It is named after a German scientist who lends his name to the normal distribution.
ANSWER: Gauss’s Law of Electricity [do not accept “Gauss’s Law of Magnetism”]
[10] Gauss’s Law is a part of this set of four equations that also contains Ampere’s Law.
ANSWER: Maxwell’s Equations

15. Manacapuru and Obidos are cities along this river that is formed by the confluence of the Ucayli and Maranon
rivers. The confluence of the largest blackwater river in the world and this river is located at the Meeting of Waters
in the city of Manaus, and it is connected by the Casiquiare canal to the Orinoco River. This river is home to a
namesake river dolphin, and the Rio Negro is one of its biggest tributaries. Containing one-fifth of the world’s total
river flow, making it the world’s most voluminous river, is, for 10 points, what longest river of South America?
ANSWER: Amazon River
BONUS: Identify these American historical figures who share a first name, for 10 points each:
[10] This man earned the nickname “Hero of Lake Erie” after leading a decisive victory against the British there
during the War of 1812.
ANSWER: Oliver Hazard Perry [prompt on “Perry”]
[10] This former Supreme Court justice famously coined the phrase “clear and present danger” in the 1919 case
Schenck v. United States.
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.
[10] After leaving the Marine Corps because of his involvement in the Iran-Contra affair, this man ran for the U.S.
Senate in 1994 from Virginia and lost to incumbent Democrat Charles Robb.
ANSWER: Oliver North
16. One severe disorder affecting this gland is called myxedema coma, and a severe overproduction of hormone
here results in its namesake "storm." One way to calm an overproduction of hormone here is by creating a WolffChaikoff block using an overabundance of a necessary ion, and that overproduction most notably results in a
protrusion of the eyeballs. This is, for 10 points, what gland affected by diseases like Plummer's, Hashimoto's, and
Grave's disease and requires iodine to synthesize its namesake hormone?
ANSWER: Thyroid gland
BONUS: Answer the following questions about Russian literature, for 10 points each:
[10] This Russian novel opens with the line “Happy families are all alike” before the protagonist abandons her
family and engages in an affair with Count Vronsky before jumping in front of a train.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
[10] Anna Karenina is a novel by this Russian author who also wrote War and Peace.
ANSWER: Leo Tolstoy
[10] In this novel by Ivan Turgenev, Pavel is shot in the leg during a duel while his father Nikolai marries Fenichka,
and his brother marries Katya. The main characters in this work include Arkady Kirsanov and the nihilist Bazarov.
ANSWER: Fathers and Sons [or Otsy i Deti]

17. A comic opera by this man sees the Marquis de Lavarre plan to marry the title character and leave her a widow.
This composer of Desiree wrote about Viceroy Enrico Medigua disguising himself as a Peruvian rebel in his
operetta El Capitan. He titled pieces after the Washington Post and the Liberty Bell and based a piece on the
“Caisson Song.” This composer of “U.S. Field Artillery” also composed “Semper Fidelis” for the Marine Corps.
For 10 points, identify this “March King” best known for his “Stars and Stripes Forever.”
ANSWER: John Philip Sousa
BONUS: The Bandra-Worli Sea Link between this Indian city’s center and its western suburbs was supposed to
reduce traffic but largely failed to do so. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this capital of Maharashtra that was a series of islands on the Arabian Sea until those islands were
connected by the Hornby Vellard project.
ANSWER: Bombay [or Mumbai]
[10] Name this longest river of India which is the most sacred river in Hinduism and has an enormous delta which
includes the cities of Dhaka and Calcutta.
ANSWER: Ganges River
[10] Bordered by the Eastern and Western Ghats is this major plateau of India which has a roughly triangular shape.
ANSWER: Deccan Plateau
18. Inventory control is modeled by the Markovian type of this concept, and in the Keynesian Cross, this equals the
total output of an economy at efficiency. The Slutsky equation relates two forms of this. The Hicksian form of it
assumes constant utility and is usually contrasted with the Marshallian form. Say’s Law states that this is created by
the presence of goods, and Keynes did work on the “aggregate” form of it. This quantity has a downward sloping
curve and can be defined as the amount of a good or service consumers are willing to buy at a given price. For 10
points, identify this economic concept, commonly contrasted with supply.
ANSWER: Demand
BONUS: Answer some questions about digestion. For 10 points each:
[10] Peristalsis moves a bolus through this muscular tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach.
ANSWER: Esophagus
[10] Partially digested food, or chyme, passes through the pyloric sphincter, from the stomach into this part of the
small intestine.
ANSWER: Duodenum
[10] Because chyme is extremely acidic, the pancreas secretes this basic molecule into the duodenum to neutralize
it so that proteins can function properly. It’s chemical formula is HCO3-.
ANSWER: Bicarbonate ion

19. During this war, the English had constant control over the English Channel thanks to the early victory at the
Battle of Sluys. England also claimed Calais during this war, which they held onto even after the war ended. The
English king was descended from the female side of Charles IV, and was disqualified from rule according to Salic
law. The English pulled off victories early in the war at Crecy and Poitiers thanks to the longbow, and in 1415, the
English army under Henry V won again over the French in the Battle of Agincourt. For 10 points, name this war in
which Joan of Arc helped rally the French at the Siege of Orleans and did not actually last the stated amount of
time.
ANSWER: Hundred Years’ War
BONUS: One person with this surname composed the operas Der Rosenkavalier and Salome. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this surname that is shared with the the Waltz King who composed the operetta Die Fledermaus.
ANSWER: Strauss [referring to Richard Strauss and Johann Strauss II, respectively]
[10] This tone poem by Richard Strauss was used in the film 2001: A Space Odyssey and is titled after a Friedrich
Nietzsche work.
ANSWER: Also sprach Zarathustra [or Thus spoke Zarathustra or Thus spake Zarathustra]
[10] This most famous waltz by Johann Strauss II was first performed at a concert of the Vienna Men’s Choral
Association and is often played at midnight on New Year’s Eve.
ANSWER: The Blue Danube [also accept By the Beautiful Blue Danube or On the Beautiful Blue Danube]
20. This man wrote the lines “My life is dreary, he cometh not” to describe a woman’s mourning while she waits
for Angelo in his poem “Mariana.” He also wrote of a creature whom “only cruel immortality consumes” in “The
Kraken.” “I hope to see my Pilot face to face” is included in the work that most of his collections end with,
“Crossing the Bar.” Arthurian legend caused this man to pen Idylls of the King, and the death of Arthur Hallam led
him to write another work. His most famous work describes the Battle of Balaclava and includes the line “half a
league, half a league, half a league onward.” For 10 points, identify this author of “In Memoriam” and “The Charge
of the Light Brigade.”
ANSWER: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
BONUS: Many holidays in many faiths involve fasting. For 10 points each:
[10] One of this holy day’s central themes is repentance. This important holy day for Jews includes fasting for
twenty-five hours. It is also known as the Day of Atonement.
ANSWER: Yom Kippur
[10] This ninth month of the Islamic calendar sees daily fasting. It is commemorated at its end by Eid-al-Fitr.
ANSWER: Ramadan
[10] Youth, the elderly, and nursing women are welcomed to abstain from fasting during Ala, a nineteen day fast
associated with this faith. Ala marks the nineteenth month of their calendar.
ANSWER: Baha’i

END OF MATCH – Announce final score and do not read tiebreaker tossup(s) unless
the score is tied

Tiebreaker Tossups – If the match is tied, read one tossup at a time until the score changes (correct answer
or neg).
21. This event was the cause for the creation of the Ervin Committee. During this event, security guard Frank Willis
discovered that several door latches had been taped down before he got to work. Later that night, Bernard Barker
and Frank Sturgis, among three others, were charged with attempted burglary linked to this event. Woodward and
Bernstein were reporters investigating this debacle, and The Saturday Night Massacre was the result of this event.
Deep Throat was the main source of information in what political scandal where, for 10 points, Richard Nixon
ordered the bugging of the Democratic Party headquarters.
ANSWER: Watergate Scandal
22. In one of this author’s works, everything related to arts and humanities is ignored in favor of technology and
commerce, going so far as needing to visit an Imperial Library just to find books by Balzac. Another one of his
works involves the Abraham Lincoln and her voyage to track down and destroy a kraken, which turns out to be a
metal vessel led by Captain Nemo. In another novel, Phileas Fogg makes it around the world in the title time to win
a bet. For 10 points, name this French author of Paris in the Twentieth Century, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under
the Sea, and Around the World in Eighty Days
ANSWER: Jules Verne

