2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 15
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. A C. L. James work examines Haitian revolutionaries as the “Black” version of this group, which took
its name from a Dominican monastery. One radical faction of this group allied with the Cordeliers to
form the Montagnards, and vociferously supported the execution of Louis XVI. One of their leaders was
killed in his bathtub, and another instituted the Reign of Terror. For 10 points, name this French
Revolutionary faction whose leaders included Jean-Paul Marat and Maximillian de Robespierre, whose
time in power came after the fall of the Girondins.
ANSWER: Jacobins
Bonus: The treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle was signed in the aftermath of this conflict. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this war fought under the pretext that Maria Theresa was unable to ascend to the throne of
the namesake country.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession
[10] This decree that gave Maria Theresa the right to Hapsburg lands was issued in 1713 by Charles VI,
and was the central point of contention in the War of the Austrian Succession.
ANSWER: the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713
2. A variant of the sandwich ELISA uses TMB and horseradish peroxidase in the “surface” type of this
kind of reaction. This reaction commonly occurs in supersaturated solutions, because a certain factor is
exceeded, and in soils, this kind of reaction produces crystal growth. This reaction does not occur in
solutions containing ammonium ions or nitrate ions, according to the solubility rules. For 10 points,
name this kind of reaction in which two dissolved ions form an insoluble compound.
ANSWER: precipitation reaction
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer the following about solubility rules.
[10] In addition to ammonium, the +1 cations of elements in this group almost always form soluble
compounds.
ANSWER: alkali metals [accept Group 1; accept Group IA (“one a”)]
[10] The hydroxide of this element, whose major ore is bauxite and which is produced via the HallHeroult process, is insoluble.
ANSWER: aluminum [accept Al]
3. This man wrote an eight-part "Choric Song" in a poem describing the "languid air" in a land "in which
it seemed always afternoon." This poet of "The Lotos-Eaters" described the title objects rising "from the
depth of some divine despair" in his "Tears, Ideal Tears" and wrote "after many a summer dies a swan"
in another poem. This poet of "Tithonus" and "Locksley Hall" wrote a poem whose speaker wishes to
"see his pilot face to face" and a suicide ride by "the six hundred." He wrote about a man who desires
"to strive, to seek, to find, but not to yield." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Charge of the Light
Brigade" and "Ulysses."
ANSWER: Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: The title character of his Shamela wants to entrap Squire Booby into marriage. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this British comic author who wrote of Lady Booby's unsuccessful attempts to woo Joseph
Andrews, and about Squire Allworthy, who raises a foundling in Tom Jones.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding
[10] Fielding's Shamela was a parody of this author's Pamela: Or Virtue Rewarded. His other epistolary
novels include Clarissa and Sir Charles Grandison.
ANSWER: Samuel Richardson
4. One composer from this country wrote a "serenade concerto" for harp, as well as a concerto called
Fantasy for a Gentleman. One composer from here created a ballet in which the ghost of Candela's
former lover tries to keep her from Carmelo, Love, the Magician. That composer also wrote a work
called Nights in the Gardens of this country, and another composer wrote a piece about it called Iberia.
For 10 points, name this country, home to composers like Pablo Sarasate and Manuel de Falla.
ANSWER: Spain [or Espana]
Bonus: His eighth symphony was notably unfinished, and he wrote an extremely challenging Wanderer
Fantasy in C major for piano. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Austrian composer whose ninth symphony in C major is nicknamed “Great.”
ANSWER: Franz Schubert
[10] This Schubert composition replaces one violin with a bass and includes a set of variations on
another composition, “Die Forelle.”
ANSWER: Piano Quintet in A major, “Trout” [accept either; or Trout Quintet]
5. One major artwork of this religion was a statue of Bahubali, built by the ruler Chamundaraya in
Shravana Begola. Among this religion's scholars were Jinasena, and Hiravijaya, a teacher of the ruler
Akbar. Gacchas in this religion are groups of monks and followers, and the religion is divided into the
Digambara and Shvetambara sects. It reveres twenty-four tirthankaras, the last of whom, Mahavira, is
regarded as the founder of this religion. For 10 points, name this Indian religion, whose followers
practice the doctrine of ahimsa, or nonviolence.
ANSWER: Jainism
Bonus: Answer these questions about a dualistic religion founded in Persia, for 10 points each.
[10] This religion was founded by a namesake priest in the Sassanid Empire. That man believed he was
an inheritor of the traditions of Buddha, Zoroaster, and Jesus.
ANSWER: Manichaeanism
[10] One person who joined the Manichaean fad was this man, baptized by St. Ambrose of Milan, who
attacked the Donatist movement in North Africa, and wrote Confessions and City of God.
ANSWER: St. Augustine of Hippo

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. A document titled after this movement discusses a “human Jeremiah…cut short by a statistic” that life
expectancy has increased, and was written by Thomas Carlyle. This movement published the Leeds
General Advertiser, and counted “Annual Parliaments,” and “Universal Suffrage” among the six points
presented in their namesake document. That petition was first presented to Parliament in 1839, but was
rejected in 1848 despite the alleged five million valid signatures. For 10 points, name this British
working class reform movement of the mid-1800s, which sought the acceptance of a “People’s Charter.”
ANSWER: Chartism [accept Chartists]
Bonus: This conflict culminated in the Battle of Frankenhausen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1524-25 conflict that Martin Luther disapproved of, a popular uprising named for the
German lower class that took place during the Protest Reformation.
ANSWER: the German Peasant’s War [do not accept “Peasant’s Revolt”; accept Deutscher Bauernkrieg]
[10] This later war involved religion and Germany, and was, like the contemporary Eighty Years’ War,
ended by the 1648 Treaty of Westphalia.
ANSWER: The Thirty Years’ War
7. The namesake regions in which this process occurs are sometimes characterized by “nappe,” or a
large displaced sheet of rock, and were co-theorized by Zwart and Pitcher. Hercynotype versions of this
process take place in back-arc basins, and the Cordilleran type occurs with low geothermal gradient.
The alpinotype ones have the most rapid characteristic change, and specific “belts” where this activity
occurs includes the Hudsonian and Nevadan ones in North America. For 10 points, name this process by
which large areas of very high and rugged terrain is formed.
ANSWER: orogeny [accept word forms; accept equivalents like mountain formation]
Bonus: Name some types of glacial hills, for 10 points each.
[10] These teardrop-shaped hills have steep sections that point away from the direction of glacial flow.
ANSWER: drumlins
[10] These ridge-shaped hills are formed along the edges of glaciers, where the ice pushes up debris.
They come in terminal and lateral varieties, among others.
ANSWER: moraines
8. This man coined the term “genetic epistemology” for his field, also studied by Jerome Bruner and Lev
Vygotsky. He also coined the terms “accommodation,” for introducing an old object into a new schema,
and “assimilation,” for introducing a new object into an old schema. Each schema represented a skill
developed and mastered by a child in a certain stage of development; for instance, object permanence
is a schema mastered during this man’s sensorimotor stage. For 10 points, name this Swiss
developmental psychologist, who introduced a namesake four-stage model of development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
Bonus: Sigmund Freud also had some stages. For 10 points each:
[10] This stage lasts from birth until around eighteen months. During it, the infant is fixated with biting,
sucking, and putting things into its mouth.
ANSWER: oral stage
[10] In this stage, lasting from about age six until puberty, Freud believed that sexual impulses were
suppressed, allowing the child to focus on learning.
ANSWER: latent stage

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 15
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 15
Category Quiz Tossups

9. The cities of Vyshegrad and Travnik in this country are famous for being depicted in the works of a
Nobel Laureate, and the city of Medjugorje (“meh-jew-gore-yay”) is a major site of pilgrimage for a
Virgin Mary sighting. The city of Neum is the only coastal town in this country, and the capital lies on the
Mljacka (“mull-yacht-ska”) River. The city of Banja (“bahn-yuh”) Luka is the capital of a republic
administered by this country's neighbor. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Sarajevo.
ANSWER: Bosnia and Herzegovina [or Bosna i Hercegovina]
10. They are depicted in Grotrian diagrams, and an inversion of two of these values for hydrogen due to
the self interaction of electrons through photon exchange is called the Lamb shift. One named after
Fermi characterizes the least tightly held electrons in a solid. Fluorescence occurs when electrons
transition between ones with the same multiplicity. According to Bohr’s atomic theory, electrons exist in
discrete ones according to their principal quantum number. For 10 points, name these values that
represent the energy that a bound particle possesses.
ANSWER: energy level [prompt on "orbital"]
11. One remote incident in this war occurred at Dogger Bank, where one side mistakenly attacked
British ships. After meeting with reinforcements off the coast of Vietnam, one side's Baltic Fleet
proceeded to the area of Pusan, where it was nearly destroyed. Beginning with the occupation of Port
Arthur, this war saw a climactic battle was at Tsushima Straits. For 10 points, name this conflict, ended
by 1905’s Treaty of Portsmouth, between a new Asian power and its large European neighbor to the
west.
ANSWER: Russo-Japanese War
12. This actor voiced Julien, the king of the lemurs, in two Madagascar movies. In another role, he forces
a rival to say "I love crepes," and says "you taste of America" after being kissed by Ricky Bobby. In
addition to playing French racecar driver Jean Girard in Talladega Nights, this man portrays the Austrian
fashion reporter Bruno. He created a middle-class English youth enthralled with hip-hop culture for Da
Ali G Show, but his most profitable character earned a rebuke from the government of Kazakhstan. For
10 points, name this portrayer of Borat.
ANSWER: Sacha Baron Cohen
13. A try square props open a book about arithmetic in this painting, which depicts a sundial and
instruments of navigation resting on a red cloth draped over a table. A book open to the hymns "Come,
Holy Ghost" and "The Ten Commandments" appears next to a lute with a broken string in this painting,
whose background is a light green curtain. It portrays Jean de Dinteville and George de Selve standing
next to a distorted, anamorphic skull. For 10 points, name this painting of two courtiers by Hans Holbein
the Younger.
ANSWER: The Ambassadors [or The French Ambassadors; or The Two Ambassadors]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. The protagonist of this novel sleeps with a maid who wears lime-green panties, the prostitute
Lucinda, and Nurse Duckett. One of its characters, P. P. Peckem, schemes to replace Dreedle, only to be
replaced by Scheisskopf. The central location of this novel, a base on Pianosa, is bombed by American
planes on the orders of Milo Minderbinder, who later encourages Colonel Cathcart to raise the number
of missions. For 10 points, name this anti-war novel about the pilot Yossarian, written by Joseph Heller.
ANSWER: Catch-22

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 15
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: This composer's most performed piano piece is the Concert Piece in F minor, and he created the
operas Euryanthe and Oberon. For 15 points, name this German composer of The Freeshooter.
ANSWER: Carl Maria Friedrich Ernst von Weber
Current Events: He donated 165 million dollars to Oklahoma State’s athletics program because former
coach Henry Iba tried to find him a job. For 15 points, name this BP Capital and oil magnate who
financed a series of commercials advocating wind power in 2008.
ANSWER: Thomas Boone Pickens, Jr.
Geography: Cities on this lake include Pahokee, Clewiston and South Bay, and a chief source of this lake
is the Kissimmee River watershed. For 15 points, name this large lake in Florida.
ANSWER: Lake Okeechobee
History: He was betrayed by Akechi Mitsuhide and forced to commit seppuku, and this man’s goals were
continued after his death by Toyotomi Hideyoshi. For 15 points, name this figure of Sengoku period
Japan, who cemented the fall of the Ashikaga Shogunate and began the reunification of Japan.
ANSWER: Oda Nobunaga [accept either]
Literature: One of this man's few prose works was the autobiographical Notebooks of Malte Laurids
Brigge. For 15 points, name this German poet who wrote Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies.
ANSWER: Rainer Maria von Rilke
Math Calculation: For 15 points, find the area of a trapezoid with vertices at (0, 3), (4, 0), (0, 9), and (8,
3). Express your answer as a whole number.
ANSWER: 36 units
Philosophy: He advanced the “indeterminacy of translation” thesis in Word and Object. For 15 points,
name this American philosopher who attacked logical positivism in Two Dogmas of Empiricism.
ANSWER: Willard Van Orman Quine
Social Science: This collection includes an essay discussing man as an animal "suspended in webs of
significance," along with "The Politics of Meaning." For 15 points, name this collection of essays by
Clifford Geertz that includes "Thick Description" and "Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockfight."
ANSWER: The Interpretation of Cultures

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 15
Stretch Phase

15. This man defeated Mariano Arista at Resaca de la Palma, and he became a brigadier general for his
leadership at the Battle of Lake Okeechobee during the Seminole Wars. This man was the father-in-law
of Jefferson Davis, and he favored the admission of California and New Mexico as free states, which
placed him in opposition to what would become the Compromise of 1850. For 10 points, name this
victor at Buena Vista during the Mexican War, a Whig president who held office from 1849 to 1850 who
was nicknamed “Old Rough and Ready.”
ANSWER: Zachary Taylor
Bonus: Name these European epics, for 10 points each.
[10] This epic is set in the eleventh century and follows Ruy Diaz de Vivar's battles against Muslim
kingdoms on behalf of Christian Spain.
ANSWER: El Cid or [or El Cantar de Mio Cid; or The Song of My Lord; or The Song of My Cid; or The Lay
of My Lord; or The Lay of My Cid; do not accept “Le Cid”]
[10] Hagen kills Siegfried, even as Etzel of the Huns is attempting to marry Kriemhild, in this thirteenthcentury German epic that takes place in fifth-century Burgundy.
ANSWER: the Nibelungenlied [or the Song of the Nibelungs]
[10] Opening with a conflict between Achilles and Agamemnon over Briseis, this poem takes place near
the end of the Trojan War and ends with the dragging of Hector’s body.
ANSWER: the Iliad
16. Remnants of the structure most commonly used in humans to store this molecule are endocytosed
by parenchymal cells that interact with apolipoprotein E in chylomicra. One derivative of this vitamin is
used to treat skin wrinkles, and animals often store it as a palmitate ester. All forms of this vitamin
contain a beta-ionone ring with an attached isoprenoid chain, and a precursor to this compound is betacarotene. For 10 points, name this fat-soluble protein whose deficiency causes night blindness.
ANSWER: Vitamin A [accept retinol; accept retinal; accept retinoic acid]
Bonus: This group of people gives their name to the Chinese dynasty also known as the Yuan. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this group of people that also established colored hordes like the Golden one once led by
Mongke Khan.
ANSWER: the Mongols
[10] This Mongol-fighting Prince of Moscow from the 1300s earned his nickname from the name of the
river at which he won the Battle of Kulikovo.
ANSWER: Dmitri Ivanovich Donskoy [accept Dmitri of the Don; or Dmitri I; prompt on Dmitri]
[10] This Rurik ruler became the first Tsar of All Russia, but ended his own dynasty when he killed his son
Feodor I in a fit of rage.
ANSWER: Ivan IV Vasilyevich [accept Ivan the Terrible; or Ivan Grozny]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. The man depicted a young girl clasping both hands to her chest in his The Prayer. He produced a
gold, serrated object reminiscent of his best known work in Le Coq, and produced several Mademoiselle
Poganys and Maiastras. Thirty meters of stacked rhombus shapes comprise his war tribute for his home
country, The Endless Column, and he scandalized the Salon with his phallic Princess X. This artist of
Sleeping Muse created several sleek, aerodynamic representations of a certain animal. For 10 points,
name this Romanian sculptor of Bird in Space.
ANSWER: Constantin Brâncuşi
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer the following about the work of Soviet physicist Lev Landau.
[10] With Pomeranchuk and Migdal, Landau examined the effect of Coulomb scattering on this “braking
radiation” emitted by charged particles decelerating.
ANSWER: bremsstrahlung
[10] Landau earned his Physics Nobel by postulating a roton to explain this phenomenon, earlier
observed in liquid helium below the lambda point.
ANSWER: superfluidity
[10] Superfluidity occurs when this property of a fluid, its resistance to flow, becomes zero.
ANSWER: viscosity
18. One of this author’s works is set at the resort Santa Marina and ends with the death of Rachel
Vinrace. She also wrote about an ambassador from Charles II to Turkey who turns into a woman. In
another of her novels, a woman who rejected Peter Walsh attempts to host a party on the night that
Septimus Smith kills himself. This author also wrote about the need for an annual income of five
hundred pounds and the title location for a woman to write. For 10 points, name this author of The
Voyage Out, Orlando, Mrs. Dalloway, A Room of One’s Own, and To the Lighthouse.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf
Bonus: This artist's portraits of Pope Innocent X were reimagined as Francis Bacon's sinister Figure With
Meat. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Baroque painter of the Rokeby Venus, The Surrender of Breda, and The Waterseller of
Seville.
ANSWER: Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velazquez
[10] Velasquez pictured himself painting the portrait of the king and queen of Spain in this painting,
named for the attendants of the infanta Margarita.
ANSWER: Las Meninas [or The Maids of Honor]
[10] In a painting sometimes called The Drunkards, Velasquez depicted beggars holding up wineglasses
next to this Roman god.
ANSWER: Bacchus
19. The founding of this city was discussed in the "Tale of Bygone Years," and it was sacked by Andrew
Bogolyubsky in 1169. In 1240, most of this city was destroyed by the forces of Batu, and the reformer
Pyotr Stolypin was assassinated in its opera house. The Babi Yar ravine outside of this city was the site of
the massacre of thousands of Jews, and Vladimir the Great of this city converted Russia to Orthodox
Christianity. For 10 points name this "mother" of Russian cities, the capital of Ukraine.
ANSWER: Kiev

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: All she had to do was not open the jar. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first woman from Greek mythology, sent to punish mankind for accepting Prometheus’s
stolen fire. For his part in the theft, Prometheus got chained up in the Caucasus.
ANSWER: Pandora
[10] Not helping Pandora out was this husband of hers, who gave all the best traits to the animals he
designed and left nothing for the men designed by his brother Prometheus.
ANSWER: Epimetheus
[10] Zeus allowed Heracles to free Prometheus once Prometheus agreed to give Zeus the name of this
sea nymph, whose son would be greater than his father. Zeus married her off to Peleus.
ANSWER: Thetis
20. This figure caused Famine to make Erysichthon always hungry after he chopped down a tree sacred
to this figure. Triptolemus became this figure’s representative, and this figure attempted to make
Demophoon immortal by placing him in the fire each night. She made an ivory shoulder for Pelops after
accidentally eating his real one. A daughter of this goddess ate a pomegranate seed, forcing her to
spend four months of the year in the underworld. For 10 points, name this Greek grain goddess, the
mother of Persephone.
ANSWER: Demeter [accept Ceres]
Bonus: This author wrote the poetry collections War is Kind and The Black Riders. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author, whose experiences after a shipwreck inspired him to write "The Open Boat."
ANSWER: Stephen Crane
[10] Crane also wrote this novel about Henry Fleming, who flees a Civil War battle after receiving the
title wound.
ANSWER: The Red Badge of Courage
[10] Crane's work was much admired by this author of The Art of Fiction. His shorter works include "The
Beast in the Jungle" and "The Spoils of Poynton."
ANSWER: Henry James
21. The “matrix-assisted laser desorption” and “electrospray” varieties of this process are used to
prepare a sample for mass spectrometry. A metal ribbon is often coated with graphite in the “thermal”
kind of this process, which produces plasma if the input to this process is a gas. One measure of
electronegativity averages the electron affinity and the energy associated with this process. For 10
points, name this process by which a neutrally charged atom or molecule gains or loses electrons to
become charged.
ANSWER: ionization
Bonus: He gained notoriety for slapping a soldier suffering from battle fatigue. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American general, whose command of the 3rd Army resulted in a sweep of northern
France in the summer of 1944.
ANSWER: George Smith Patton
[10] Patton's forces helped end the Battle of the Bulge when they relieved this Belgian city on the day
after Christmas in 1944.
ANSWER: Bastogne
[10] General Anthony McAuliffe commanded the 101st Airborne while holding Bastogne, and offered
this one word reply to a German demand for surrender.
ANSWER: “Nuts!”
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

22. This author fictionalized "La Violencia" in a novel featuring a Doctor, Mayor, and Father Angel. Such
stories as "The Saint" and "I Only Came to Use the Phone" are collected in his Strange Pilgrims, whose
themes are recapitulated in Memories of My Melancholy Whores. He wrote of Pelayo and Elisenda's
discovery of "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings," as well as a novel about the murder of Santiago
Nasar. For 10 points, name this author of Chronicle of a Death Foretold and No One Writes to the
Colonel, who created Macondo and the Buendía family in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez [prompt on partial last name]
Bonus: It is excreted in liquid waste, and this compound is also known as carbamide. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this compound whose namesake cycle occurs in the liver in humans.
ANSWER: urea
[10] In the urea cycle, this amino acid is hydrolyzed into ornithine and urea. Symbolized R, it contains a
guanidinum side group and is highly basic.
ANSWER: arginine
[10] Urea can be created from the reaction of ammonia and this compound. It is better known as a
byproduct of combustion and a waste product of respiration.
ANSWER carbon dioxide [or CO2]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 15
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. Before leading the Revolutionary Command Council, this man supervised the nationalization of the oil
industry under President Ahmad Hasan al-Bakr. Earlier, he had enrolled at Cairo Law School, after going
into exile following an unsuccessful attempt to assassinate Abd al-Karim Qasim. After taking control of
the Baath Party, he led his country into an eight-year war with Iran, and he later invaded Kuwait,
sparking an American response. For 10 points, name this ruler who was executed in December 2006
after being overthrown as leader of Iraq.
ANSWER: Saddam Hussein al-Tikriti
2. This pathway can be regulated through magnesium ion efflux from one structure's lumen. It can also
be regulated by thioredoxin, which facilitates hydrogen transfer between reduced ferredoxin and
NADPH. It involves the modification of ribulose bisphosphate by the enzyme rubisco, and its
penultimate step results in the formation of fructose-6-phosphate. Products generated by photosystems
one and two aid in the fixation of inorganic carbon dioxide in this pathway. For 10 points, name this
light-independent cycle of photosynthesis.
ANSWER: Calvin-Benson cycle [prompt on dark reactions or photosynthesis]
3. An epistolary poem written by Li Po, translated by Ezra Pound, is titled for the wife of this type of
“merchant.” The witch Zabeth entrusts her son Ferdinand to the care of the merchant Salim in a novel
named for part of this geographical feature. The "bosom" of one of these "turns all golden in the
sunset," according to a poem which compares the poet's soul to these "ancient, dusky" entities. For 10
points, name these things, whose “bend” was described by V.S. Naipaul and of which “The Negro
Speaks” in a Langston Hughes poem.
ANSWER: river [accept “The River-Merchant’s Wife” during the first sentence]
Extra 20-point Bonus:
For 10 points each, name these attempts to understand interactions of the four fundamental forces.
[10] The Standard Model incorporates three of the four forces; this weakest of the four forces is
excluded.
ANSWER: gravity [accept gravitational force]
[10] This name is given to theories, such as the Standard Model, that include all three non-gravitational
forces.
ANSWER: Grand Unified Theory [or Grand Unifying Theory; or Grand Unification Theory; or GUT]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point Bonus:
The principles of this artistic movement can be seen in the Schroder House designed by Gerrit Reitveld.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artist movement, whose other members included Robert van 't Hoff, J.J.P. Oud, and Theo
van Doesburg.
ANSWER: De Stijl [or Neoplasticism; or The Style]
[10] This artist was one of the founders of De Stijl. He used simple, primary colors and geometrical
shapes in paintings like Broadway Boogie Woogie.
ANSWER: Piet Mondrian
[10] The simple colors and shapes of the De Stijl movement inspired this German school of art and
design headed by Walter Gropius. The Nazis closed it down in 1933.
ANSWER: Bauhaus

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 15

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

