NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Tossups
1. An attack on a port in this present-day country began Operation Catapult and was followed up by a failed
raid on Dakar. An event in this country was used as justification at Jean Bastien-Thiry's trial for an attempted
assassination. This country's first president was placed under house arrest after a coup led by Houari
Boumedienne (oo-AH-ree boom-dee-EN). Colonial loyalists during this country's war of independence
included harkis and pied-noirs. Following that war, Ahmed Ben Bella became this country's first president. The
Evian Accords, signed by this country's FLN and representatives of Charles de Gaulle, guaranteed its
independence. For 10 points, name this large north African country once controlled by France.
ANSWER: Algeria [or People's Democratic Republic of Algeria; or Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad
Dimuqratiyah ash Sha'biyah] <Golimlim>
2. A ternary solvus involving the orthorhombic and monoclinic forms of this mineral group is used to
determine the temperature of formation of high-grade metamorphic rocks. The most important members of
this mineral group for that purpose are pigeonite, augite, and enstatite. These minerals are mostly of the form
X, Y, Si-2, O-6, where X is sodium or calcium and Y is magnesium, iron, or aluminum. They are single chain
inosilicates, as opposed to the hydroxyl-containing, double chain inosilicates of the amphibole group.
Peridotite, the dominant rock in the mantle, contains a high proportion of the "ortho" and "clino" forms of this
mineral group. For 10 points, name this mineral group that, with olivine, constitutes most of the mantle and is
also common in basalt and gabbro.
ANSWER: pyroxenes [or Px] <Voight>
3. In response to this event, a man claimed "not even death will stop the avalanche that is coming" before
attending a rally for his country's Independent Liberal Party. The FBI placed a woman connected to it in
protective custody after she claimed that being a "female Muslim whistleblower" is what "really pisses off"
extremists. Fikile Mbalula denied any wrongdoing in this event, despite statements by Chuck Blazer. In
response to this event, Jack Warner held up a copy of an Onion article in a YouTube video. This event included
the accusation that Qatar paid millions in bribes, and it resulted in the resignation of Sepp Blatter. For 10
points, name this 2015 investigation into the corrupt practices of an organization that organizes the World
Cup.
ANSWER: 2015 FIFA scandal [or 2015 Federation Internationale de Football Association scandal; or 2015
International Federation of Association Football scandal] <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 1 of 13 

4. This quantity equals one plus the quantity c over pi, times the Cauchy principal value of an integral whose
numerator contains the absorption coefficient. This quantity measured at the D, F, and C Fraunhofer lines is
used to calculate the Abbe number. In anomalous dispersion, this quantity decreases as frequency increases.
Neglecting any imaginary component, the real part of this quantity is the square root of the dielectric
constant. This quantity multiplies sines and cosines of incident angles in the Fresnel equations, and a ratio of
it is used to define the critical angle. It equals the velocity of light in a medium over the speed of light. For 10
points, name this quantity equal to 1.67 for glass and symbolized n.
ANSWER: index of refraction [or refractive index; or n until it is read] <Silverman>
5. A resident of this city dreams of visiting a dark theater where red words appear on the walls, demanding
that he surrender his foreign money. At an event in this city inspired by a party thrown by US Ambassador
William Bullitt, "Spectacles Commission" employee Baron Meigel is killed so that guests can drink his blood.
On a turnstile in this city, a bottle of sunflower oil breaks, and a man slips on the oil and gets decapitated by a
tram. A novel set in this city abruptly shifts to first-century Jerusalem on the eve of Jesus's trial. This city is
home to the literary society MASSOLIT, whose members are attacked by the fanged hitman Azazello and the
black cat Behemoth. For 10 points, name this capital city visited by the devil Woland in Bulgakov's The Master
and Margarita.
ANSWER: Moscow [or Moskva] <Gupta>
6. A scene from of this opera takes place against a black background and consists of a long horizontal bar of
white light being slowly raised to vertical, and then lifted up out of the stage. This opera's instrumentation
consists of three woodwind players, two electric organists, and one violinist. Near its very end, a bus driver
declares "The day with its cares and perplexities is ended and the night is now upon us." This opera uses a
chorus that exclusively counts beats and sings solfege, and contains scenes such as "Bed," "Train," and "Trial."
This opera forms a trilogy with the operas Satyagraha and Akhnaten, and features five intermezzos called "knee
plays." For 10 points, name this minimalist opera by Philip Glass named for a physicist.
ANSWER: Einstein on the Beach <Kim>
7. A broken promise during this event is avenged by an invasion against an army led by Eurytus and Cteatus,
the conjoined twin sons of Molione. Though it has nothing to do with the Centauromachy, the performer of
this feat rescues Dexamenus's daughter from the centaur Eurytion in its aftermath. During a trial about this
event, a man who testifies against his father is exiled to Dulichium before the judges can vote. Phyleus serves
as back-up for the hero who carries out this feat, which is later discounted on the basis that it involved
payment. This task is completed in a single day by rerouting the rivers Alpheus and Peneus. For 10 points,
identify this task in which Heracles removes filth from some cattle-housing buildings.
ANSWER: cleaning the Augean stables [or Heracles's fifth labor; or obvious equivalents; prompt on partial
answer] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 2 of 13 

8. The desire to gain the approval of this man leads to a meditation on whether the pain of "un espuela de
hueso" is as painful as the pain cocks feel in cockfighting. This man is said to do all things perfectly even with
"the bone spur in his heel." An admirer of this man wonders whether this person was as poor as him and states
that he would like to take this man fishing, since this man's father was a fisherman, in contrast to the father of
the great Sisler. A boy is told to think of this "great" man after that boy, Manolin, says that he fears "the Indians
of Cleveland." For 10 points, name this man adored by Santiago in Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and the
Sea, an outfielder for the New York Yankees.
ANSWER: Joe DiMaggio [or Joseph Paul DiMaggio; or Giuseppe Paolo DiMaggio] <Sy>
9. A man who held this post left his wife for a chorus girl named Betty Compton and resigned from office after
the Hofstadter Committee's investigations. That man who held this post was known as "Beau James" or by his
real name of Jimmy Walker. Several reform minded people to hold this post, such as Seth Low in 1903, were
mocked by George Washington Plunkitt in the latter's political memoir. It was held in the 1930's by a man, who
while a Congressman, had previously sponsored a labor bill with George Norris. For 10 points, name this
position held for 12 years by Fiorello La Guardia, a vigorous opponent of the Tammany Hall political machine.
ANSWER: Mayor of New York City <Cheyne>
10. Olivier Blanchard and Mark Watson showed how these phenomena can occur among rational actors if the
transversality condition does not hold. A 1720 law in England tried to prevent these phenomena by outlawing
all unchartered joint-stock companies. Vernon Smith's experiments studying these things found they
continued to exist even when subjects were completely informed. An example of these phenomena occurred
when John Law sold stock for his Mississippi Company. Robert Walpole became prime minister during a
financial crisis caused by the aftermath of one of these. A high P/E ratio may be evidence for them. One of
these phenomena existed in the US housing market before 2007, and the "dot-com" one ended in the early
2000s. For 10 points, name these phenomena in which an asset's price greatly exceeds its fundamental value
until a "burst."
ANSWER: bubbles <Bailey>
11. The first ruler of this dynasty was so terrified by a bolt of lightning that he abdicated his throne and spent
the rest of his life in Stoudios Monastery. Until his defeat by Richard the Lionheart, a member of this dynasty
ruled the island of Crete. A branch of this dynasty, after being forced from power, founded and ruled the much
smaller Empire of Trebizond. A woman named Anna compiled a history of the most prominent member of
this dynasty, who lost the Battle of Dyrrhachium to Robert Guiscard but was more successful in controlling the
leaders of the First Crusade. For 10 points, name this dynasty of Byzantine Emperors, which conducted its
namesake "restoration" under Alexios I.
ANSWER: Komnenos [or the Komnenid dynasty] <Clarke>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 3 of 13 

12. A recent event in this city was headed by Manuel Pulgar-Vidal. This city's slums, known as "young towns,"
are concentrated in this city's Hill of Amancias. A wealthy district in this city, home to the adobe Pucllana
Temple and the seaside park of El Malecón, is given the designation "heroic city" for being the site of a defeat
in the War of the Pacific. This city was the site of the 2014 United Nations Climate Conference and is home to
the Miraflores District. This city, along with its seaport of Callao, obtains its drinking water from the Rímac
River. Beans cultivated by the Moche culture eventually became known by this city's name. For 10 points, name
this city founded by Francisco Pizarro, the capital of Peru.
ANSWER: Lima <White>
13. These places were the subject of techniques such as "the Silent Death" and "Peaceful Penetration." Residents
of these places were referred to as PBIs in a satirical newspaper published in one of them, The Wipers Times.
Tony Ashworth described how a "Live and let live" system characterized life in these places, where a ritual
called the "morning hate" was practiced. Inhabitants of these places engaged in an impromptu soccer game
during the Christmas Truce. Many of these places were created during the "race to the sea." Duckboards and
boots designed by John Pershing were used in these places to combat a gangrenous foot condition common in
them. The area separating these locations was called No Man's Land. For 10 points, name these barbed-wiretopped fortifications used during World War I.
ANSWER: trenches [or No Man's Lands until "Residents" is read] <Brownstein>
14. Early in this character's life, he refuses his father's offer to get him a spot at West Point, electing instead to
join his old regiment, which battles Native Americans in the West. This character hates his brother's
determination to wake them both up at 4:30 AM to work on their farm. After being shot by his wife, this
character lies to the sheriff Horace Quinn. This man befriends Samuel Hamilton and hires the cook Lee, who
teaches his son about the word timshel, or "thou mayest." This son of Cyrus moves from Connecticut to the
Salinas Valley with his wife, the former prostitute Cathy Ames. For 10 points, name this brother of Charles and
father of Aron and Caleb, the protagonist of John Steinbeck's East of Eden.
ANSWER: Adam Trask [or Adam Trask; prompt on Trask] <Sy>
15. In the early stages of this painting's creation, a vole was included but constantly misidentified by viewers,
leaving a red robin to be the only animal in the finished work. To accurately portray the scenery in this
painting, the artist spent months next to the Hogsmill River. Some people claim to see a skull within the
foliage on the right side of this painting. The artist of this painting paid a doctor's fee after the model became
sick. Lamps below a tub were the only source of warmth for Elizabeth Siddall in modelling this painting's title
character. In this painting, a woman stares upward while drowning in a river in Denmark. For 10 points, name
this painting by John Everett Millais, which depicts a female character from Hamlet.
ANSWER: Ophelia <Lee>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 4 of 13 

16. The unmeasured prelude is a genre that was popularized in this country, which lends its name to a B minor
keyboard suite that ends with an eighth-movement "Echo." A harpsichord suite from this country ends with
six variations on an A minor gavotte. A composer from this country wrote the piece "The Mysterious
Barricades" and authored The Art of Playing the Harpsichord. A symphony from this country begins its third
movement with a melody played by an English horn and an offstage oboe to depict a "Scene in the Fields," and
ends with a "Dream of a Witches' Sabbath" that reprises the "idée fixe" melody. For 10 points, name this
country home to the composer of Symphonie Fantastique, as well as Jean-Philippe Rameau and Francois
Couperin.
ANSWER: France [or French Republic; or French; or Republique Francaise] <Kim>
17. An aberrant subclavian artery distinguishes dysphagia lusoria from the dysphagia aortica caused by this
condition. Treatment for it includes endovascular coiling. Tuberculous cavities in the lung can involve a form
of this condition named after Rasmussen. Tertiary-stage syphilis can obliterate the vasa vasorum, causing this
condition due to elastin and smooth muscle deterioration in the tunica adventitia. The bifurcation of the circle
of Willis is the site of its "berry" form, the most common cerebral type of this condition, which can result in
strokes and subarachnoid hemorrhages. Marfan syndrome predisposes one to a dissection of its ascending
aortic type. For 10 points, name this condition in which a blood vessel wall balloons out and which can cause
death upon rupture.
ANSWER: aneurysm [or cerebral aneurysm; or thoracic aortic aneurysm; or ascending aortic aneurysm; or
abdominal aneurysm; or berry aneurysm; or saccular aneurysm] <Smart>
18. A high-class character created by this author writes the unpublished "Thirty Years of Misrule," the
manuscript of which is used for gun wadding. Another character created by this author gets engaged to
Antonia Avellanos, but kills himself in isolation on an island where a lighthouse is built after his death. This
author created the island Grand Isabel and the city of Sulaco, which is threatened by General Pedro Montero.
The absurdity of a ship firing into a continent is described by a character this author introduced in the short
story "Youth." Aboard the Nellie, that character narrates a novella in which he travels up the Congo River to find
the dying ivory trader Kurtz. For 10 points, name this Polish-British author of Nostromo and Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] <Sy>
19. A resident of this city who shot himself in the home of a famous composer argued Jews were inferior
because they were the most feminized of men in Sex and Character. An editor of a newspaper here called it a
"proving ground for world destruction" and promoted some of the theories of Otto Weininger. A member of a
group here used "Caesar is a prime number" as an example of how natural languages can allow sentences truly
logical ones would not. Karl Kraus edited Die Fackel here, where a group dismissed metaphysical discourse as
unverifiable and thus meaningless. Moritz Schlick organized discussion of a book that describes reality as the
logical space of elementary proportions, the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. For 10 points, name this home of
Ludwig Wittgenstein that names a "Circle" of Logical Positivists.
ANSWER: Vienna [or Wien] <Bailey>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 5 of 13 

20. Pólya's extension of Carlson's theorem guarantees that some of these functions have the unit circle as their
boundaries, or are rational. Padé approximants are the ratio of two of these functions. A critical parameter of
these functions is the limit superior as n goes to infinity of the value at n, raised to one over n, in the CauchyHadamard theorem. By definition, a function is analytic if it can be written as one of these functions locally.
The root test and ratio tests are applied to these functions to determine their radii of convergence. The
simplest of these functions is equivalent to one over one minus x. For 10 points, name these infinite series
containing all the exponents of a variable.
ANSWER: power series [prompt on series; anti-prompt on Taylor series or Maclaurin series] <Silverman>
21. In a novel by this writer, a woman describes folk songs as being "the leitmotiv of her existence." In that
novel written by this author, the protagonist realizes that the woman shaving his face is an old acquaintance
named Lucie Sebetka. This author described the slow death of a dog from cancer in the final section of a novel
in which a man compares the Communist Party to Oedipus. The statement "Optimism is the opium of the
people" is written on a postcard to Marketa in a novel by this author primarily narrated by Ludvik. In this
author's best-known novel, Tomas and Tereza move away from Prague. For 10 points, name this Czech-French
author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 6 of 13 

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Bonuses
1. Yab Yum was closed when this city's court successfully argued its owner Hennie Vittali conducted illegal
business there as a frontman for Hells Angels. For 10 points each:
[10] The Yab Yum brothel operated in the Singelgebied, which along with De Wallen and Ruysdaelkade
comprises the Rosse Buurt of this Dutch city on the Amstel river.
ANSWER: Amsterdam
[10] The Oscar-winning documentary Born into Brothels focused on sex workers in this West Bengal megacity
home to Sonagachi, Asia's largest red-light district.
ANSWER: Kolkata
[10] In Japan, brothels with this designation get around anti-prostitution laws by offering non-penetrative sex
during bathing. This word won a national contest to replace the term "Turkish bath".
ANSWER: soaplands <Smart>
2. The speaker of this poem says, "Don't you fall now, for I'se still goin', honey, I'se still climbing." For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this brief poem in which the first title character tells the latter, "Life for me ain't been no crystal
stair."
ANSWER: "Mother to Son"
[10] "Mother to Son" was written by this Harlem Renaissance poet who characterized the Mississippi as having
a "muddy bosom" in "The Negro Speaks of Rivers."
ANSWER: Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
[10] In Hughes's "Theme for English B," the speaker crosses St. Nicholas, Eighth Avenue, and Seventh Avenue
to get to the Harlem Branch of this institution, where he writes his assignment.
ANSWER: the YMCA [or the Young Men's Christian Association] <Sy>
3. This husband of Mary of Modena allegedly threw the Great Seal of the realm into the Thames upon fleeing.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Catholic Stuart monarch whose overreach resulted in the Glorious Revolution deposing him.
ANSWER: James II [prompt on James]
[10] James II tried to regain his throne at this July 1690 battle in eastern Ireland. He failed.
ANSWER: Battle of the Boyne
[10] This event of June 10, 1688 was the last straw for the aggrieved nobles who instigated the Glorious
Revolution.
ANSWER: birth of James II's Catholic son [accept any answer indicating the birth of the prince who later
became James Francis Edward Stuart, the Old Pretender] <Jackson>
NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 7 of 13 

4. Answer the following about James Alcorn for 10 points each.
[10] Alcorn, a Mississippi politician, was an example of this group of people, white Southerners who became
Republicans during Reconstruction. These men were considered traitors by other Southerners.
ANSWER: scalawags
[10] Alcorn had a vicious rivalry with Adelbert Ames, who came to Mississippi from Maine and is thus an
example of this other group of Republican politicians in Reconstruction. This group consisted of Northerners
who moved to the South after the war.
ANSWER: carpetbaggers
[10] Alcorn helped this man become the first president of what would become Alcorn State University. This
man was the first African American to serve in the United States Senate and was succeeded in that post by
Alcorn.
ANSWER: Hiram Rhodes Revels <Cheyne>
5. The two forms of precession are differentiated based on whether or not they are induced by one of these
things. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these moments of force, which are measured in units of Newton-meters.
ANSWER: torques
[10] The torque that leads to a precession of a spinning top is caused by this force acting at an angle relative to
the rotation axis.
ANSWER: weight of the top [or force of gravity; or gravitational force; or mg]
[10] According to relativity, a heavy spinning object leads to precession of nearby masses in this effect, which is
the analog of the de Sitter effect for rotating masses.
ANSWER: frame-dragging [or the Lense-Thirring effect] <Silverman>
6. This equation is applied to systems that are locally at thermodynamic equilibrium and is derived from the
principle of detailed balance. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this equation that gives the fraction of an element in the ionization state i plus one, compared to
the ionization state i.
ANSWER: Saha ionization equation [or Saha's ionization formula]
[10] In the 1920s, Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin applied the Saha equation to determine that the dominant
elements in stars and in the universe are these two elements. Name both.
ANSWER: hydrogen and helium [or H and He; accept in any order]
[10] The condition of local thermodynamic equilibrium required for application of the Saha equation is
equivalent to the behavior of a system being governed by this set of statistics. It governs the energy
distribution of identical but distinguishable particles.
ANSWER: Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics <Voight>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 8 of 13 

7. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Arthur Keith are among the suspects as the perpetrator of this hoax. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this anthropological hoax, where Charles Dawson attempted to present a 600-year-old human skull
attached to an orangutan jaw as the "missing link" between humans and apes.
ANSWER: Piltdown forgery [or Piltdown hoax; or Piltdown Man forgery; or Piltdown Man hoax]
[10] The controversy over Piltdown Man started after Raymond Dart attempted to present a skull as a human
ancestor. The skull was found in this South African town, whose name translates as "place of the lion."
ANSWER: Taung [or Taung child]
[10] Dart coined this genus' name for the "Taung child" skull. The species of this genus, such as afarensis and
africanus, lived from 1.1 to 4.3 million years ago.
ANSWER: Australopithecus <O'Rourke>
8. Myra Henshawe runs away from Parthia, Illinois to be with Oswald in this author's My Mortal Enemy. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this author who wrote about Paul Wheeler's decision to enlist in World War I in One of Ours.
ANSWER: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather]
[10] In this Willa Cather novel, Jim Burden pursues a relationship with Lena Lingard while studying at the
University of Nebraska. Earlier, he befriends the title Bohemian girl.
ANSWER: My Antonia
[10] In childhood, Jim Burden initially impresses Antonia by killing one of these animals.
ANSWER: rattlesnake [prompt on snake] <Sy>
9. The Choju-giga, a set of four of these objects depicting "frolicking animals," are unusual for their complete
absence of any written text. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the English term for these objects, upon which horizontally-oriented emaki artworks were often
created. A famous one of these objects preserves the earliest text of the Tale of Genji.
ANSWER: scrolls [or handscrolls; or hanging scrolls; prompt on paintings or similar answers]
[10] Hanging scrolls, or kakemono, are often placed in alcoves behind arrangements of these objects known as
ikebana.
ANSWER: flowers
[10] Landscapes and portraiture became more common in scroll art, and the predominant school of ikebana
arose, during this period of Japanese history from 1337 to 1573.
ANSWER: Muromachi period [or Ashikaga period] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 9 of 13 

10. This concept is explained with the examples of a noncommittal girl out on a first date and an obsequious
waiter aware of his own insincerity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this form of self-deception, in which an agent sets aside its freedom to be "for-itself" in favor of
being "in-itself."
ANSWER: bad faith
[10] This French existentialist theorized about "bad faith" in the book Being and Nothingness.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
[10] This Sartrean term denotes the necessity that a writer deal with issues of current political import, rather
than participate in "bad faith" by avoiding them. In What is Literature?, he argues that writers must have this
quality, since it is impossible to be politically neutral.
ANSWER: engagement [or engagee; or word forms] <Bollinger>
11. Throughout this novel, Rose Stanley is mentioned as either famous for sex or not yet famous for sex. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this novel about the coming of age of a group of ten-year-old girls under the title teacher at the
Marcia Blaine School for Girls.
ANSWER: The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
[10] The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie is set in this homeland of its author Muriel Spark. Another author from here,
Robert Burns, wrote "Auld Lang Syne."
ANSWER: Scotland [prompt on the United Kingdom, UK, or Great Britain]
[10] This Scottish author created Micah Clarke in a historical novel set during the Monmouth Rebellion, as well
as a character who discovers dinosaurs in South America, Professor George Challenger.
ANSWER: Arthur Conan Doyle <Prieto>
12. This piece begins with horns playing a unison descending F, D-flat, C, B-flat, and includes a secondmovement Andantino semplice in the mediant key of D-flat major. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this B-flat minor piece whose first movement features a theme based on the songs of blind
Ukrainian beggars. Its initial version was harshly criticized by the composer's friend Nikolai Rubinstein.
ANSWER: Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 1 [or obvious equivalents; prompt on partial answer]
[10] Tchaikovsky also wrote this B minor symphony, his last, which ends with a despairing Adagio lamentoso. Its
second movement is a waltz written in the unusual time signature of 5/4.
ANSWER: Pathétique Symphony [or Symphony No. 6]
[10] Leopold Auer declined to premiere Tchaikovsky's D major foray into this genre, similar to how Pablo de
Sarasate declined to premiere the one by Johannes Brahms for its second-movement oboe solo.
ANSWER: violin concertos [or violin concerti; prompt on concerto; prompt on concerti] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 10 of 13 

13. These demonstrations often included people shouting out, "Wir sind das Volk!" meaning "we are the
people." For 10 points each:
[10] Name these weekly demonstrations that started in Leipzig in 1989 and were part of the Peaceful
Revolution near the end of East Germany's existence.
ANSWER: Monday demonstrations [or Montagsdemonstrationen]
[10] On this calendar date in 1989, Guenter Schabowski accidentally said in a press conference that travel
across East German borders was open "immediately," leading to the fall of the Berlin Wall. This date was also
when Kristallnacht in 1938, the Beer Hall Putsch in 1923, and the end of the German Empire in 1918 occurred.
ANSWER: November 9 [or 9 November]
[10] The Peaceful Revolution also led to Egon Krenz replacing this longtime East German leader, who had been
in power since 1971 after taking over from Walter Ulbricht.
ANSWER: Erich Honecker <Gehring>
14. This artist's Night Rain on Karasaki and Evening Glow at Seta are part of his series on Lake Biwa titled Eight
Views of Omi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese artist, who traveled along a road from Edo to Kyoto to create his series Fifty-Three
Stations of the Tokaido.
ANSWER: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige]
[10] Hiroshige was a master of ukiyo-e, as was this other artist whose Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji include The
Great Wave off Kanagawa.
ANSWER: Katsushika Hokusai
[10] Another popular form of Japanese art is found in byobu, which are this type of object. One made in Hikone,
an early example of ukiyo-e, is considered a National Treasure of Japan.
ANSWER: folding screens <Lee>
15. This quantity is expressed as a function of dihedral torsion angles by the Karplus equation. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this quantity which quantifies the interaction between nuclear spins arising from hyperfine
interactions. This value is equal to the distance between split peaks, or multiplets, in a certain type of
spectroscopy.
ANSWER: J coupling constants [or scalar coupling constants; or indirect dipole dipole coupling constants;
prompt on J; prompt on coupling constants]
[10] J couplings produce the signals in this type of spectroscopy, which can determine an unknown
compound's structure by analyzing chemical shifts. This technique is most commonly applied to hydrogen-1
nuclei and carbon-13, and is the basis for MRIs.
ANSWER: NMR spectroscopy [or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy]
[10] Another type of coupling, residual dipolar coupling, is frequently observed when NMR is performed on
these compounds, whose turns and coils can be observed in UV circular dichroism spectroscopy.
ANSWER: proteins [or polypeptides; or amino acids; prompt on polymers; prompt on oligomers] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 11 of 13 

16. This event took place at Sokolniki Park in Moscow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this confrontation between Vice President Richard Nixon and Nikita Khrushchev that took place at
the American National Exhibition in 1959. Its name refers to the fact the world leaders were arguing in a
"model house" location.
ANSWER: Kitchen Debate
[10] The Kitchen Debate helped boost Nixon's popularity, making him the favorite for the Republican
nomination in 1960. In that election, Nixon lost to this Massachusetts Senator.
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald Kennedy
[10] Many analysts believe Nixon's 1960 campaign was hampered by his somewhat foolish promise to do this
feat during the campaign, which caused him to waste precious time. Nixon refused to break his promise to do
this even after injuring his knee.
ANSWER: visiting all fifty states [or visiting every state; accept obvious equivalents] <Cheyne>
17. This book makes a pun on the name of a man who is described as formerly being "useless to you," but now
"useful both to you and to me." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book of the Bible co-authored with Timothy. It instructs the title church leader to accept the
escaped slave Onesimus back as a "dear brother."
ANSWER: Philemon [or Epistle of Paul to Philemon]
[10] The Epistle to Philemon was written by this apostle, who was blinded on the road to Damascus after
encountering a resurrected Jesus Christ.
ANSWER: Paul [or Saul of Tarsus; or Paulos; or Paulus; prompt on "Saul"]
[10] A church on the Ionian coast is the recipient of this Pauline epistle, which emphasizes maintaining the
unity of the body of Christ and urges believers to don the full armor of God.
ANSWER: Ephesians [or Epistle to the Ephesians] <Kim>
18. The inferior frontal one of these structures is comprised of the pars opercularis, pars triangularis, and pars
orbitalis and is bordered by two sulci (sull-sigh) and the lateral fissure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these convolutions on the brain typically bounded by at least one sulcus.
ANSWER: gyrus (jigh-rus) [or gyri (jigh-ree)]
[10] Gyri and sulci are ridges and grooves on this outer layer of the brain composed of grey matter. Brodmann
areas name regions of it responsible for sensory processing.
ANSWER: cerebral cortex
[10] This rare disorder is characterized by underdeveloped gyri and sulci and literally means "smooth brain".
One type of it is caused by a mutation in reelin.
ANSWER: lissencephaly <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 12 of 13 

19. The title character of this play becomes crippled as a baby when he falls off of a table while his parents make
love. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which the Allmers refuse the Rat-Wife, who leads the title character into the sea, where
he drowns.
ANSWER: Little Eyolf [or Lille Eyolf]
[10] This playwright of Little Eyolf also wrote about Nora Helmer A Doll House.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]
[10] This title character of Ibsen's An Enemy of the People warns the town of the contamination of their local hot
springs, earning the ire of his peers and his father-in-law, Morten Kiil.
ANSWER: Doctor Thomas Stockmann [prompt on Stockmann; accept Dr. Stockmann or Thomas Stockmann]
<Sy>
20. This event is necessitated when Durvasa curses the gods after his gift of a garland of flowers is rudely
thrown to the ground. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this event in which the Devas and the Asuras use Vasuki and the mountain Mandara to obtain
amrita, but release the poisonous halahala.
ANSWER: the churning of the ocean [or samudra manthan]
[10] During the churning of the ocean, this divine turtle emerges in order to stop the heavy mountain from
falling into the waters.
ANSWER: Kurma
[10] Kurma is the second avatar of this Hindu preserver god who alternately manifests as Rama and rescues
his wife Sita from the rakshasa Ravana.
ANSWER: Vishnu <Kim>
21. According to legend, a queen from this city was able to halt Alexander the Great's conquests south of Egypt.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city, whose queens took the title kandake, from which the name Candace is derived. It was the
longtime capital of the Kingdom of Kush.
ANSWER: Meroe [or Meruwah; or Medewi]
[10] Meroe contains a complex of nearly two hundred of these structures. A large one in Giza was built as a
tomb for Khufu.
ANSWER: pyramids
[10] A stele found at Meroe was erected by a ruler from this kingdom, signifying their conquest of the
Kingdom of Kush. This kingdom based in present-day Ethiopia crossed the Red Sea to invade the Himyarite
Kingdom.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Aksum [or Axumites] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 13 - Page 13 of 13 

