Bergen Academies Spring Quizbowl Tournament 2016
Written by Zachary Stier, Rebecca Rosenthal, David Song, Alon Millet, Ryan Murphy, Michael Gleyzer, Bergen Academies
Quizbowl Team; Trent Kannegieter, Bayside Academy; Alex Katz, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Special thanks to Alex Dzurick, Ben Zhang and Jon Pinyan.

Round 9: Tossups
1. This statement can be generalized in any Euclidean space by the Orthogonal Decomposition Theorem, and
according to legend, its namesake failed to escape a lynch mob because he was unwilling to trample a bean field.
One proof of this statement is attributed to James (*) Garfield, and Plimpton 322 is evidence it was known to the
Babylonians. This theorem can be viewed as a special case of the Law of Cosines, occurring when the cosine of one angle
is equal to zero, or equivalently, when the triangle is right. For ten points, name this theorem, which states that the square
of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides.
ANSWER: Pythagorean Theorem (or Pythagoras’ theorem)
2. One term used to describe this policy was “separate development”, and a 1970 Homelands Citizenship Act as
part of this policy put people into Bantustans, while early pieces legislation instituting it were known as Lands
Acts. Demonstrations against this policy were seen in the (*) Soweto Uprising and the Sharpeville massacre, and the
legislation backing it was repealed in 1991 by F.W. de Klerk. Desmond Tutu spoke out against it, and Nelson Mandela
was jailed for opposing it. For ten points, name this segregationist policy of 20th century South Africa.
ANSWER: Apartheid
3. In one role, this actor’s character deputizes three Khaki Scouts from Camp Ivanhoe, and later adopts Sam
Shakusky; that film is Moonrise Kingdom. This star of Luc Besson’s The Fifth Element appears in Pulp Fiction as
Butch Coolidge, a boxer who incites the wrath of Marcellus Wallace. His character attempts to aid Haley Joel
Osment’s in (*) The Sixth Sense, and he played Harry Stamper, who saves the world in Michael Bay’s Armageddon. In
his most famous role, he kills all of the henchmen of both Hans and Simon Gruber, whilst yelling “Yippee ki-yay.” For
ten points, name this actor who portrayed John McClane in the Die Hard franchise.
ANSWER: Bruce Willis
4. This character cross-dresses and learns of his supposed death, and later accidentally gets involved in the
Grangerford and Shepherdson feud. After a warning from the Widow Douglas, (*) Pap kidnaps him and takes him to
the woods, where he fakes his death and initiates a manhunt. He has a debate about the merits of King Solomon’s policies
with the escaped slave Jim, and they float down the Mississippi River with the Duke and the Dauphin. For ten points,
name this protagonist of the Mark Twain novel following The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
ANSWER: Huckleberry Finn (accept either)
5. Public outrage against the holder of this post in the 1980’s led to a blockade of the Eccles Building by tractors.
This post heads a Board of Governors and the 12-member F.O.M.C., which consists in part of the leaders from
certain Chicago and (*) New York institutions. One holder of this position adopted the Evans Rule in 2012, which
correlates interest with the unemployment and inflation rates. Holders of this post have included Paul Volcker, Alan
Greenspan and Ben Bernanke. For ten points, name this highest post in the Federal Reserve system, currently held by
Janet Yellen.
ANSWER: Chairperson of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (i.e., Fed Chair(wo)man or Chair(wo)man of
the Fed)
6. Muawiyah I began a tradition of cursing this leader, and the Mosque of Utterance was built specifically for that
purpose. This man was declared the Mawla at Ghadir Khumm, and defeated Walid ibn Utba at the Battle of Badr.
This wielder of Zulfiqar killed Marhab in the Battle of (*) Khaybar. He was 10 years old when he became a Muslim,
leading to debate whether this son-in-law of Muhammad was the first true male Muslim convert. This successor of
Uthman is – for ten points – what fourth Rightly Guided Caliph whom the Shia believe to be the first Imam?
ANSWER: Ali ibn Abi Talib

1

7. This man, who shares the name of his firm with Henry Cobb and James Freed, designed such government
buildings as the Mesa Laboratory and Dallas City Hall. His namesake “plan” redesigned Oklahoma City, and its
first phase was completed the same year he was commissioned to design the (*) John F. Kennedy Presidential Library.
One of this man’s greatest failures came about when glass panels fell from the Hancock Tower in Boston. His glass design
for Cleveland’s Rock and Roll Hall of Fame is reminiscent of a controversial later work. For ten points, name this
Chinese-American architect who designed the glass pyramid at the Louvre.
ANSWER: I(eoh) M(ing) Pei
8. “The narrator” and “the acquaintance” are featured in this author’s early short story “The Description of a
Struggle”. The protagonist of one of this author’s work seeks counsel from the painter Titorelli, and is later told a
parable where a man cannot enter a door. That, sometimes called (*) “Before The Law” appears in one of this man’s
novel just before Josef K. is stabbed and dies “like a dog”. In another work by this author, the traveling salesman Gregor
Samsa suddenly turns into an insect. For ten points, name this Czech author of The Trial and The Metamorphosis.
Answer: Franz Kafka
9. One species in this order is the only known non-human animal to navigate using the Milky Way. They’re not
true bugs, but members of this order possess elytra, which are fused together in the family Carabidae. Water tigers
are the larval forms of the family Dytiscidae in this order, while members of Cerambycidae are called (*) “longhorned”. Enlarged mandibles are possessed by the stag variety of these animals, while scarab ones are known for rolling
balls of dung. For ten points, name these hard-shelled insects of the order Coleoptera whose members include ladybugs.
ANSWER: beetles (accept Coleoptera before mentioned)
10. This first poet to be buried in the Poets’ Corner at Westminster Abbey either coined or popularized the phrase
“all good things must come to an end” in his Troilus and Criseyde, which was inspired by his translating Boethius’
Consolation of Philosophy. In this man’s most notable work, one (*) section is dedicated to a pious man’s discussion of
the seven deadly sins, and another is dedicated to a drunken man’s recounting of the story of Nicholas, Allison and
Absolom; those are “The Parson’s Tale” and “The Miller’s Tale”, which are both told by pilgrims. For ten points, name
this author of the Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
11. According to the traditional religion of this island, the Vazimba were its original inhabitants. Zanahary is the
creator god of that religion, and is considered an ancestor of Andriamanelo, the founder of the Imerina Kingdom
on this island. The kingdom lasted until 1897, when this island was conquered by the (*) French and did not gain
independence until 1960. The modern-day nation based on this island has a capital at Antananarivo, and has two official
languages, French and Malagasy. For ten points, name this large island off the southeast coast of Africa, home to many
species of lemur.
ANSWER: Madagascar
12. This work states that “religion and morality are indispensable supports” to political prosperity, while declaring
“the diffusion of knowledge” to be a primary goal of government. According to this work, “foreign influence is one
of the most baneful foes of republican government”. Originally written with (*) James Madison, this letter warns
against the “domination of one faction over another” after explaining its author’s decision to decline a third presidential
term. For ten points, name this letter written by the first President of the United States at the end of his eighth year in
office.
ANSWER: George Washington’s farewell address, or equivalents
13. This musical work’s set was designed by Nicholas Roerich [“ROAR-itch”], and Walt Disney’s Fantasia uses
part of it for a scene of prehistoric earth and dinosaurs. Gabriel Astruc, the theater manager for this piece, sold
tickets to it selectively, and its distinct original choreography was created by (*) Vaslav Nijinsky. The piece, subtitled
“Pictures of Pagan Russia”, ends with a sacrifice in which a young woman dances herself to death, which caused a riot at
its 1913 premiere. For ten points, name this ballet by Igor Stravinsky.
ANSWER: The Rite of Spring (accept Le sacre du printemps)

2

14. In one short story by this author, a “draggletailed old Romeo” tells a paper boy that men should first love the
title objects: “A Tree, A Rock, A Cloud”. In another work, Captain Pemberton realizes he is attracted to Major
Morris Langdon. That work is (*) Reflections in a Golden Eye. In this author’s first and most famous novel, Doctor
Copeland struggles with tuberculosis. In that novel, Biff Brannon and Mick Kelly confide in the deaf mute John Singer in
a mill town in Georgia. For ten points, name this author of The Ballad of the Sad Café and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.
ANSWER: Carson McCullers
15. A parhelion appeared before one battle in this conflict, which convinced Edward, Earl of March that God was
on his side. In this conflict, one duke feared that Margaret of Anjou was plotting his downfall, and he began this
conflict with the First Battle of St. Albans. During this conflict, Richard (*) Neville became known as Warwick the
Kingmaker because of how he influenced the reigns of Edward IV and Henry VI. These wars were due to mutual descent
from Edward III held by two opposed houses, and it culminated with the Battle of Bosworth Field and the death of
Richard III. For ten points, name these wars fought between the English Houses of York and Lancaster.
ANSWER: The Wars of the Roses
16. The poem Hávamál is attributed to this figure, and tells of the faithlessness of women as well as the story of how
he won the runes. This figure lost an eye on a trip to Mimir’s well, and he and his brothers made the earth from
the first being, (*) Ymir. The crows Hugin and Munin would circle this figure’s head while he sat on his throne
Hlidskjalf [“H’LID-skahlf”]. This god’s horse Sleipnir had eight legs, and he entered into a blood oath with Loki, a pact
that later prevented his retaliations against that trickster. Who hanged from Yggdrasil for nine days and was, for ten
points, the wisest and most powerful Norse god?
ANSWER: Odin or Wotan or Woden
17. The Fermi pseudopotential is used to describe scattering of this particle, which makes up the Swiss cheese and
spaghetti phases of some stars. Captured quickly via the R-process or slowly via the S-process, this particle might
emit electron antineutrinos and electrons to transform into a proton via a process called (*) beta-decay. Nuclear
chain reactions are dependent on the successive release of these particles, which are the reason why isotopes have
different atomic masses despite having the same atomic number. For ten points, name this particle, discovered by James
Chadwick, which possesses no electric charge.
ANSWER: neutron
18. Naubakht and Mashallah were astrologers who determined the date to begin construction of this city. This
location was known as the “Round City” after al-Mansur selected it to be his capital. Its growth was stunted by
attacks from Tamerlane, Shah Ismail, and Suleiman in successive centuries. Hulagu Khan led a siege of this city,
which caused the fall of the (*) Abbasid caliphate, and this city’s House of Wisdom was a library whose destruction in
that siege caused the nearby Tigris River to run black with ink. For ten points, name this present-day capital of Iraq.
ANSWER: Baghdad
19. Émile Zola wrote that “our sons will go into ecstasies over his pictures” in defense of this man, who later
painted a portrait of Zola in front of a Japanese screen. This man depicted a boy in red trousers playing the title
instrument in (*) The Fifer and was criticized for his “vulgar” portrait of a woman being brought a basket of flowers by a
black servant. He also included two female nudes lounging with fully dressed men in front of a rural creek in another
work. For ten points, name this French impressionist artist who created Olympia and Luncheon on the Grass.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet
20. CAPE is the energy available for this process, while CIN is the energy required to prevent parcels from
reaching the level of the “free” type of this process. One form of this process is named after Rayleigh and Bérnard;
the latter also names cells formed in thin layers during it. (*) Granules on the Sun are created by this process, which
names the layer below the photosphere. This process occurring in the Earth’s mantle may be responsible for the motion of
tectonic plates, and is commonly witnessed in heat-driven flows such as ocean currents. For ten points, name this method
of fluid heat transfer contrasted with radiation and conduction.
ANSWER: convection

3

Tiebreaker Question:
This movement teaches that the Mother Plane featured in the Book of Ezekiel was manufactured in Japan. The
Moon is 76 trillion years old in its teachings, which claim that American slavery was foretold in the Book of
Genesis. This organization teaches that its founder, Wallace (*) Fard, is the Messiah, and its official newspaper, The
Final Call, was founded by current leader Louis Farrakhan. White people were created as a race of devils, according to
Message to the Blackman in America by Elijah Muhammad, the second leader of this group. For ten points, name this
black religious movement that in 1964 lost the support of Malcolm X.
ANSWER: The Nation of Islam

4

Round 9: Bonuses
1. He received Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Union general who succeeded Andrew Johnson to become the 18th president of the United States.
ANSWER: (Hiram) Ulysses (S.) Grant
[10] Grant convinced Congress to pass this amendment to the Constitution, which outlaws discriminating voters based on
race.
ANSWER: Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution
[10] In this scandal that broke during the Grant presidency, Oakes Ames gave other Congressmen shares in the namesake
construction company involved in the Transcontinental Railroad.
ANSWER: Crédit Mobilier [“mow-BILL-e-ay”] scandal
2. This artist spent time in Arles [“arl”], where he painted his bedroom. For ten points each:
[10] Name this artist who showed the view from his window in Saint-Remy-de-Provence in his Starry Night.
ANSWER: Vincent van Gogh
[10] Van Gogh also showed a pool table and clock in this locale, which is portrayed on a slant and tinted yellow in its title
painting.
ANSWER: The Night Café
[10] Van Gogh broke off his relationship with this other artist after he famously cut off his own ear. Before that incident,
the two intended to open a studio together and van Gogh dedicated a self-portrait to this man.
ANSWER: Paul Gaugin
3. Zeus was infamous for being a prolific lover of women, and his conquests didn’t always take place in human form. For
ten points each:
[10] Zeus turned into a swan to seduce this queen of Sparta, whose eggs produced Castor and Pollux, as well as
Clytemnestra and Helen of Troy.
ANSWER: Leda
[10] Zeus lusted for this woman, whom he turned into a cow for her own safety. Hera, seeing through the guise,
commanded the 100-eyed Argos to keep watch over her.
ANSWER: Io
[10] Zeus flirted with this Titaness by playing a shape-shifting game. Transforming into a frog, he proceeded to swallow
this sister of Tethys, now in fly-form.
ANSWER: Metis
4. The 3 acts of this play represent three aspects of human struggle: the Ice Age, the Great Flood and War. For ten points
each:
[10] Name this play which describes the life of the Antrobus family in the fictional town of Excelsior.
ANSWER: The Skin of Our Teeth
[10] This author of The Skin of Our Teeth wrote another play set in Grover’s Corners, New Hampshire that describes the
life and death of Emily and George Gibbs, Our Town.
ANSWER: Thornton Wilder
[10] In this novel by Wilder, Brother Jupiter witnesses the collapse of the title structure in Lima, Peru and attempts to find
a reason for the death of Jaime, Esteban, Uncle Pio, Pepita and the Marquesa de Mayor.
ANSWER: The Bridge of San Luis Rey
5. His Philosophical Investigations were published after his death. For ten points:
[10] Name this Austrian philosopher, the author of Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Ludwig Wittgenstein
[10] Wittgenstein’s early career was mainly concerned with the study of these constructs; he wrote about “games” with
this form of communication, and described its Picture Theory.
ANSWER: languages
[10] Wittgenstein served as a professor at this English university for 18 years, where he studied under Bertrand Russell.
ANSWER: Cambridge University

5

6. This man worked as a military civilian inspector prior to becoming a composer. For ten points each:
[10] Name this Russian composer, a member of the Mighty Five notable for his Capriccio Espagnol and The Flight of the
Bumblebee.
ANSWER: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
[10] This Rimsky-Korsakov orchestral suite follows the story of the namesake Arabian princess as she tells stories to a
Sultan, just as in Arabian Nights. Its movements include The Sea and Sinbad’s Ship.
ANSWER: Scheherazade
[10] Rimsky-Korsakov also wrote this orchestral work, a liturgical sonata allegro celebrating the namesake Christian
holiday.
ANSWER: Russian Easter Festival Overture
7. Answer some questions about the “wolves of the sea”, for ten points each:
[10] Members of this largest species of the family Delphinidae can be instantly recognized by their black bodies and white
eye-patches.
ANSWER: Orcinus orca (accept killer whale; prompt on “blackfish” or “grampus”)
[10] Norwegian orcas sometimes use this hunting method, which involves herding a school of fish into a ball before
slapping it with their tails to stun or kill their prey.
ANSWER: carousel feeding (accept equivalents for feeding such as “preying” or “hunting”)
[10] Orcas, like all other toothed whales, have this organ which shares its name with a fruit in their foreheads. Composed
of adipose tissue, it focuses and modulates sounds used for echolocation.
ANSWER: melon
8. Answer the following questions related to modern epic poetry. For ten points each:
[10] Name this poem, inspired by the Iliad, was first published in 1990. Broken into 7 books and 46 chapters, its most
important characters are the fishermen Achilles and Hector.
ANSWER: Omeros
[10] Omeros was written by this author, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1992.
ANSWER: Derek Walcott
[10] Derek Walcott is from Saint Lucia, an island that can be found with Jamaica and Haiti in this sea.
ANSWER: Caribbean Sea
9. This metallurgist had an 18-year term as the most powerful Socialist in the world. For ten points:
[10] Name this Soviet premier through the late 1960s and 1970s; his namesake Doctrine was formulated as a communist
counter to the Truman Doctrine of the United States.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev
[10] After his 1982 death, Brezhnev was succeeded by this Russian leader. However, he died shortly thereafter from a
host of diseases exacerbated by kidney failure.
ANSWER: Yuri Andropov
[10] While Brezhnev was still in charge, Andropov had served as the chairman of this Soviet spy agency, during which
time he led this organization in suppressing the Prague Spring.
ANSWER: Komitet gosudarstvennoy bezopasnosti (KGB)
10. It’s not a disconcerting animal, but rather a disconcertingly large number. For ten points each:
[10] A mole is 6.02×1023, equivalent to a number named after this Italian physicist.
ANSWER: Amedeo Avogadro
[10] This procedure, used by Rosalind Franklin to determine the structure of DNA, is also often used to calculate
Avogadro’s number to a greater degree of precision.
ANSWER: X-ray crystallography
[10] The Avogadro project intends to redefine the kilogram in terms of Avogadro’s number using a perfect sphere of this
element.
ANSWER: silicon

6

11. The inventive use of italics in the first part of this novel signifies progression of time through the perspective of Benjy,
who is mentally disabled. For ten points each:
[10] Name this novel that portrays Quentin Compson’s suicide in the Charles River.
ANSWER: The Sound and the Fury
[10] In addition to writing The Sound and the Fury, this author wrote the novels As I Lay Dying and Absalom! Absalom!,
he and created the fictional Yoknapatawpha County where many of his works are set.
ANSWER: William Cuthbert Faulkner
[10] Faulkner, along with authors such as Tennessee Williams and Caroline Gordon, was a part of this movement that
revived literature in its namesake region of the United States.
ANSWER: Southern (Literary) Renaissance (or Southern (Literary) Renascence)
12. For ten points each, answer some questions about teams in the National Football League.
[10] During the preseason, this team’s quarterback Geno Smith was punched by IK Enemkpali, and was subsequently
replaced by Ryan Fitzpatrick.
ANSWER: New York Jets (accept either)
[10] In the 1960s, this team was coached by Vince Lombardi, who with quarterback Bart Starr won five NFL
championships. Other quarterbacks to play for this team have included Brett Favre [“farve”] and Aaron Rodgers.
ANSWER: Green Bay Packers (accept either)
[10] In the 1972 playoffs, Oakland Raiders safety Jack Tatum deflected a Terry Bradshaw pass, only for Franco Harris to
collect the ball in what was termed the “Immaculate Reception”, which won the game for this team.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh Steelers (accept either)
13. One tactician for the losing side of this conflict was Maximo Gomez, who instructed troops to wave their machetes
while on horseback. For ten points each:
[10] Name this revolt, initiated by Carlos Manuel de Cespedes. It took place on a Caribbean island then controlled by
Spain.
ANSWER: 10 Years’ War or the War of 1868
[10] The 10 Years’ War took place on this island. It was the site of the Bay of Pigs invasion, and was where its leader
attempted to harvest 10 million tons of sugar cane.
ANSWER: Cuba
[10] That harvesting plan was implemented by this man, who became president of Cuba after leading a revolution against
Fulgencio Batista.
ANSWER: Fidel Castro, prompt on “Castro”
14. One atmosphere is equal to approximately 101 thousand of these. For ten points each:
[10] Give this SI unit of pressure, equal to one Newton per square meter.
ANSWER: Pascal
[10] That unit is named after French physicist Blaise Pascal, who famously gave this philosophical and probabilistic
argument for the benefit of believing in God.
ANSWER: Pascal’s Wager
[10] Not only was he a physicist and philosopher, but Pascal was also a mathematician. A theorem named for Pascal states
that the intersections of interior diagonals of this polygon are collinear, provided that this polygon be inscribed in a conic
section.
ANSWER: hexagon, accept 6-gon
15. In 2005, infrastructure maintained by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers failed in this state. For ten points each:
[10] Name this state, the site of the Mississippi River delta, whose largest city was decimated by Hurricane Katrina.
ANSWER: Louisiana
[10] In the wake of Katrina, this governmental organization organized refugees and aid, but ended up receiving heavy
criticism; in one instance, $100 million worth of ice was ordered for relief in New Orleans, but ended up being shipped to
states across the nation, including Maine.
ANSWER: Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
[10] In contrast, in preparation for Hurricane Gustav’s 2008 arrival in Louisiana, this governor of Louisiana successfully
orchestrated a large-scale evacuation.
ANSWER: Piyush “Bobby” Jindal

7

16. This author’s collection Me Talk Pretty One Day was so titled based on his experiences in Normandy, France. For ten
points each:
[10] Name this satirical author of Let’s Explore Diabetes With Owls, as well as numerous semi-autobiographical essays
including “Santaland Diaries”.
ANSWER: David Sedaris
[10] Sedaris’ essay Santaland Diaries gained popularity as it told the story of his time as an elf during the Christmas
season in this department store in Herald Square.
ANSWER: Macy’s
[10] Part of Santaland Diaries’ popularity stemmed from its broadcast on this not-for-profit radio station that produces
podcasts like This American Life and Fresh Air.
ANSWER: National Public Radio
17. This weapon is often considered the chief tool of total war. For ten points each:
[10] Name this weapon dropped via the Enola Gay on Hiroshima during World War II.
ANSWER: atomic bomb (prompt on “nuclear bomb”, do not accept thermonuclear bomb)
[10] The atomic bomb is dependent on nuclear fission, a process that was discovered by this Austrian physicist.
Unfortunately, her work was stolen by Otto Hahn, and he received a Nobel prize instead.
ANSWER: Lise Meitner
[10] The principles of fission were tested by Enrico Fermi in this first nuclear reactor, a part of the Manhattan Project that
occurred on this reactor’s namesake university.
ANSWER: Chicago Pile-1 (or CP-1)
18. These rituals include baptism, marriage and Holy Orders. For ten points each:
[10] Name these Christian rites. The Eastern Orthodox tradition includes others beyond the “major seven” of the Roman
Catholic Church.
ANSWER: sacraments
[10] One Catholic sacrament is this one, where the recipient takes the transubstantiated Body and Blood of Christ.
ANSWER: Eucharist or Communion
[10] When “having reached the age of reason” and “in danger” of dying, a Catholic may be administered this sacrament as
part of their last rites.
ANSWER: anointing of the sick or unction
19. His Carnaval is designed around the name Asch, the town in which his fiancée was born. For ten points each:
[10] Name this German romantic composer of Papillons, who was committed to a mental hospital for depression,
although the urban myth claims that he went insane from hearing a constant A.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann, prompt on “Schumann”
[10] Robert Schumann never married that fiancée from Asch. Instead, he married this woman, daughter of Friedrich
Wieck. Wieck was also Schumann’s piano teacher and publisher of a foolproof piano method.
ANSWER: Clara Schumann (or Clara Wieck)
[10] Schumann’s biggest contribution to music might not have been his compositions, but rather his writing of this music
publication. In one edition, Schumann acknowledged Chopin as a budding talent, writing, “Hats off, gentlemen: a genius.”
ANSWER: New Journal for Music
20. Throughout human history, fire has been both a blessing and a curse. For ten points each:
[10] A fire that started at a bakery in 1666 displaced over 70% of this city’s inhabitants, and destroyed its St. Paul’s
Cathedral.
ANSWER: London
[10] After a 1624 blaze that destroyed it, this city was renamed Christiania and moved to Akershus Castle.
ANSWER: Oslo
[10] The “Ham and Egg” fire broke out in the aftermath of an earthquake in this city, which destroyed the Palace Hotel.
Another earthquake in this city in 1989 interrupted the World Series at Candlestick Park.
ANSWER: San Francisco

8

21. Locales in this building include the “Cabinet des Chiens” or “Study for Dogs”. For ten points each:
[10] Name this palace where a certain monarch would undergo the daily lever and coucher rituals.
ANSWER: Palace of Versailles or Chateau de Versailles
[10] That monarch was this man, the so-called Sun-King who commissioned Versailles from the royal architect Louis le
Vau.
ANSWER: Louis XIV [“the fourteenth”], prompt on “Louis”
[10] Versailles has played host to many historical events, such as the wedding reception of Louis XVI and Marie
Antoinette, and the signing of its namesake treaty in 1919, both of which took place in this well-lit corridor.
ANSWER: Hall of Mirrors

9

