2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 14
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. A seashell and cup appear along with the title object in this artist’s Still Life with Black Marble Clock,
and he painted a portrait of his wife appropriately titled Woman in a Green Hat. A nude woman lounges
on clouds in his A Modern Olympia, and two men in hats rest their arms on a bright red table and stare
at their hands in his The Card Players. One of his most famous works shows fourteen nude women
loafing under a bright blue sky and brown trees in The Bathers. For 10 points, name this French artist
best known for painting about sixty depictions of Mont Saint-Victoire.
ANSWER: Paul Cézanne
Bonus: Bicycle Wheel and Fountain were among his “ready-mades.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Dada artist, who drew a mustache on the Mona Lisa in L.H.O.O.Q. and scandalized the
Armory Show with Nude Descending a Staircase Number Two.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp
[10] Nine abstract males attempt to send messages to the title woman using machines in this unusualform work by Duchamp, who decided not to fix the cracks in the medium.
ANSWER: The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even [or The Large Glass]
2. Its contribution to the Lorentz force is parallel to its direction, and according to Stokes’ theorem, it is
conservative and curl free. Its intensity in a material is related to the material’s permittivity. Dielectric
materials become polarized when placed in this type of region, and its strength can be calculated using
Coulomb’s Law. For 10 points, name this region of space that surrounds a charged object and can
generate an electric force on another charged object.
ANSWER: electric field
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these fun results from special relativity.
[10] This concept states that two observers moving relative to each other will each perceive the other’s
clock as running too slow.
ANSWER: time dilation
[10] In this thought experiment of special relativity, two individuals traveling in different inertial frames
would experience different time progression. It arises due to time dilation.
ANSWER: twin paradox
3. Its independence was fought for by the Friendly Brotherhood, and was secured by the last naval
battle fought between wooden ships, at Navarino. For seven years until 1974, it was ruled by “The
Colonels,” a military junta. Following the British defeat of this nation's Communist Party in 1945, it was
ruled by kings Paul I and Constantine II, and it was one of two countries targeted by the Truman
Doctrine, along with neighboring Turkey. For 10 points, name this country, which seeks return of the
Elgin Marbles to its Parthenon.
ANSWER: Greece

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: He put down the 1483 revolt of Henry Stafford and ruled for two years before being dethroned
by Henry VII. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hunchbacked Yorkist king of England.
ANSWER: Richard III
[10] Richard III took the throne from Edward V and Richard of Shrewsbury, who were collectively known
by this name because of where he imprisoned them.
ANSWER: Princes in the Tower [accept equivalents involving princes and towers]
4. In a story by this author, a demon has eyelids that drag on the ground, and the seminarian Khoma has
a deadly encounter with a witch. In addition to "Viy," he wrote about a Cossack whose son Ostap is
killed by Polish troops. Another of his novels sees a man scam five hundred rubles and admit that he is
not the title figure despite Anton's confusion. In addition to Taras Bulba and The Inspector General, this
author wrote about a copyist who becomes a ghost near Kalinkin Bridge after his expensive garment is
stolen. For 10 points, name this writer of “The Overcoat.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Gogol
Bonus: It contains the title section as well as “Revolt,” “Wine,” “Death,” and “Spleen and Ideal.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this French symbolist poetry volume, which had several poems censored and rails against
ennui.
ANSWER: Les Fleurs du mal [or The Flowers of Evil]
[10] Fleurs du Mal is the best known work of this French poet, who published those censored poems in
Scraps.
ANSWER: Charles Baudelaire
5. A common complication of this disease results from high acetoacetate levels in the blood and can
lead to dangerously low blood pH. One major early indicator of this disease is polydipsia. The secretion
of adipokines can contribute to one variety of this disease, and vasopressin deficiency causes the
“insipidus” variety. Its adult-onset variety is often caused by obesity, and treatment of the juvenileonset type requires regular injections of insulin. For 10 points, name this disease in which the body is
unable to regulate blood glucose levels.
ANSWER: diabetes [accept diabetes mellitus until “vasopression”]
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these other effects of diabetes mellitus.
[10] This disease, the hardening of blood vessels, occurs more rapidly in diabetics than in healthy
humans.
ANSWER: atherosclerosis [accept arteriosclerosis]
[10] A long-term effect of diabetes mellitus is the degeneration of a “sheath” composed of this fatty
protein, which surrounds neurons. That sheath is also destroyed in multiple sclerosis.
ANSWER: myelin

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. An army from what is now this country ended the expansion of the Toungoo dynasty at the Battle of
Nong Sa Rai. In 1932, its People's Party seized power from this country’s king under the Promoters
Revolution. Its current line of kings came to power after the insane Taksin was deposed by the first ruler
of the Chakri Dynasty. It has since been ruled by nine kings named Rama and endured another eighteen
military coups. For 10 points, name this country, the only Southeast Asian state to avoid being colonized,
which was once known as Siam.
ANSWER: Thailand [accept Siam before it is read]
Bonus: Juan Pablo Duarte is known as the father of this country's independence. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, which was ruled from 1930 to 1961 by the dictator Rafael Trujillo.
ANSWER: the Dominican Republic
[10] Trujillo was abandoned by his international allies in 1960 after attempting to assassinate Romulo
Betancourt, the president of this country now led by Hugo Chavez.
ANSWER: Venezuela
7. Joseph Schumpeter introduced a paradox stating that this law is trivially easy to understand, but no
one understands it. An early form of it was stated by Theognis in his Maxims, and it was first attributed
to its namesake, an adviser to Elizabeth I, by H. D. Macleod. One stipulation of this law is that the
entities involved in it must exchange for the same price. This law was analyzed by David Hume in “On
the Balance of Trade,” in a section discussing the introduction of paper currency. For 10 points, name
this law that colloquially states, “Bad money drives out the good.”
ANSWER: Gresham’s Law
Bonus: One work contrasts this with Science and Religion, and fifteen varieties of it were discovered
among the Trobriand islanders. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this concept of invoking the supernatural through means like witchcraft, incantations, or
other rituals.
ANSWER: magic
[10] This man wrote Magic, Science, and Religion, as well as Coral Gardens and their Magic as part of his
research on the Trobriand Islanders. He also wrote Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
8. This mythical figure won a battle at Menevia over Pasgen. He defeated King Gilloman in Ireland to
retrieve the Giant’s Ring so that his brother, Ambrosius Aurelianus, could build Stonehenge, and he led a
rebellion against Vortigern. He fought another conflict with Gorlois, and infiltrated Tintagel Castle in
order to seduce Gorlois’s wife Igraine after being enchanted to look like Gorlois with the help of Merlin.
In exchange, he promised Merlin the son born of the union, who later ruled from Camelot. For 10
points, name this father of King Arthur.
ANSWER: Uther Pendragon [prompt on Pendragon]
Bonus: Taliesin is sometimes considered the “Chief” of them. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these people that went around playing the lyre and collecting tales of heroism and praise,
which figure prominently in Celtic myth.
ANSWER: bards
[10] Perhaps the closest Greek equivalent of the bard was this musician, who unfortunately looked back
at his wife Eurydice just before returning from the underworld and lost her forever.
ANSWER: Orpheus
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 14
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Philosophy
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 14
Category Quiz Tossups

9. One of this author's posthumous works is narrated by a ten-year-old black child named Pictorial
Review Jackson, and his other late works include Vanity of Duluoz and Desolation Angels. He wrote a
novel about a man who meets Japhy Ryder and converts to Buddhism, Raymond Smith. A character in
another novel by this author lives with a Mexican farm worker named Terry and with Remi Boncoeur in
San Francisco, periodically reuniting with a man based on Neal Cassady, Dean Moriarty. For 10 points,
name this author of The Dharma Bums and On the Road.
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac
10. In 2003, a satellite of this object, “Complex H,” was discovered to have a retrograde orbit, and in
2006, University of California at Berkeley researchers found that a “warp” in this object is vibrating with
three modes. Its center is inhabited by the supermassive black hole candidate Sagittarius A* (“a star”).
The Canis Major Dwarf Galaxy is its nearest neighbor, and it also interacts with the nearby Large and
Small Magellanic Clouds. For 10 points, name this galaxy, which contains the only planet known to
support life, Earth.
ANSWER: Milky Way Galaxy
11. Newer areas in this city include Rochapea and Milagrosa. Boroughs in this city include San Nicolas
and Cernin, the latter named for San Saturnino, who evangelized this city. Made capital by Sancho III,
this city is known as Irunya in one language. Its first bishop was San Fermin, and this city's most notable
event begins on the eve of his feast day in July. For 10 points, name this former Navarrese capital, most
famous for the Running of the Bulls.
ANSWER: Pamplona [accept Irunya early]
12. An 1829 gold rush near this state’s Lumpkin County was one of the first ever, and during
Reconstruction, this state moved its capital from Milledgeville. George Thomas was the “rock” of one
battle that occurred in this state, and a campaign here saw the twisting of railroad tracks known as one
man’s namesake neckties. A president born in this state presided over the Camp David Accords and the
Iran Hostage Crisis. For 10 points name this U.S. state in which Sherman marched to the sea, the
birthplace of Jimmy Carter.
ANSWER: Georgia
13. This team dealt Keith Bogans for Tyronn Lue during the 2008-09 season. Shaquille O’Neal dubbed
this team’s coach the “Master of Panic” after that coach derided Shaq for flopping during a matchup
with the Suns. This team’s first-time All-Star point guard missed the game with a torn labrum in his
shoulder. This team puts up the most three-point attempts per game in the NBA behind the freelaunching forwards Hedo Turkoglu and Rashard Lewis, and its leading scorer is also the NBA’s leading
shot blocker and rebounder. For 10 points, name this NBA franchise led by center Dwight Howard.
ANSWER: the Orlando Magic [accept either]
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. A man on the back of a bucking white horse slashes his sword behind him in this artist's The
Charging Chasseur, and late in his career, he painted a series of psychiatric patients, including a
kidnapper, a gambling addict, and a kleptomaniac. This artist of Race for the Derby at Epsom painted a
man waving a balled-up red shirt above his head as several other, pale figures on the same craft reach
forward and into the air, in a painting which controversially depicted the aftermath of a real shipwreck.
For 10 points, name this French artist of The Raft of the Medusa.
ANSWER: Theodore Gericault

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 14
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: His operas include Mademoiselle Fifi, and he also wrote a suite called Kaleidoscope for violin and
piano. For 15 points, name this composer, a lesser member of the Mighty Five.
ANSWER: Cesar Cui
Current Events: It is now served only by the Times, following the March 2009 end of the print edition of
its other major newspaper. For 15 points, name this city, formerly home to the Post-Intelligencer.
ANSWER: Seattle
Geography: Its center of industry is fixed around the Besshi copper mine. Mount Ishizushi is the highest
point on this island, and Naruto City connects it to the main body of the country. For 15 points, name
this smallest of the four main islands of Japan, home of the Japanese space program's launch facility.
ANSWER: Shikoku [accept Iyo-shima , Iyo-no-futana-shima, or Futana-shima]
History: In this incident, sailors, angered with the War Communism of Civil War Russia, rose up near
Petrograd. For 15 points, name this 1921 revolt put down violently by Trotsky.
ANSWER: Kronstadt Mutiny [accept equivalents with Kronstadt]
Literature: This author wrote about Etsuko's daughters in A Pale View of Hills, and about Kathy H.'s life
as a donor in Never Let Me Go. For 15 points, name this British-Japanese author of The Remains of the
Day.
ANSWER: Kazuo Ishiguro
Math Calculation: A piecewise function is given by y = x2+4x from x = 0 to x = 3, and y = x3-6 from x = 3 to
x = 5. For 15 points, calculate the area under that piecewise function from x = 0 to x = 5.
ANSWER: 151 units [27 units under the first piece and 124 units under the second piece]
Philosophy: A poem known as the title character's Roundelay appears twice in this book. For 15 points,
name this work by Freidrich Nietzsche, which discusses the will to power and the ability to deal with
eternal recurrence as important qualities for prospective Übermensch, or overmen, to possess.
ANSWER: Thus Spoke Zarathustra: A Book for All and None [or Thus Spake Zarathustra: A Book for All
and None; or Also sprach Zarathustra: Ein Buch für Alle und Keinen]
Social Science: This effect was demonstrated by Leon Festinger in subjects who were more enthusiastic
about making a boring task sound exciting when paid twenty dollars than when paid one dollar. For 10
points, name this inner conflict caused by holding two contradictory beliefs at the same time.
ANSWER: cognitive dissonance

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 14
Stretch Phase

15. The husband of one Englishwoman in this film has his wallet stolen, and another character, whose
English is “not so good,” toasts with his wife to America. Because the central character “despises”
another character, he is entrusted some letters by Ugarte at its beginning, and in one of its scenes, “The
Watch on the Rhine” is drowned out by “La Marseillaise” in a song duel. An order to “round up the usual
suspects” in this film is issued by Captain Renault, allowing Victor and Ilsa to fly away. For 10 points,
name this 1942 film starring Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart.
ANSWER: Casablanca
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer the following about elements that lie on the Zintl border.
[10] Those elements are usually denoted by this term, indicating that they are neither truly metals nor
nonmetals.
ANSWER: metalloids [accept semimetals]
[10] Wafers of this metalloid are often etched in the production of integrated circuits.
ANSWER: silicon [accept Si]
[10] Silicon can be doped with gallium and arsenide to form an even better version of this kind of
material, which has electrical properties midway between that of a conductor and an insulator.
ANSWER: semiconductors
16. A person of this name led the sieges of Ochakov and Bendery and built the Kherson arsenal. That
person was the architect of the “Greek project,” which attempted to reconstitute the Byzantine Empire,
and was said to have built sham “villages” to impress touring officials. A ship named for that man fired
on Odessa while mutinying over maggot-laden meat during the Revolution of 1905. For 10 points, name
this Russian statesman and lover of Catherine the Great, whose name was lent to a “battleship” that
became the subject of a Sergei Eisenstein film.
ANSWER: (Grigory) Potemkin
Bonus: The narrator of this novel marries Charlotte Haze to live with the title character. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this novel narrated from prison by Humbert Humbert.
ANSWER: Lolita
[10] This author of Invitation to a Beheading and Pale Fire wrote Lolita.
ANSWER: Vladimir Nabokov
[10] This Russian professor appears briefly in Pale Fire. He titles another Nabokov novel about his
adventures at Waindell College.
ANSWER: Timofey Pnin

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. The thiosulfate of this element can be used to extract gold and to help develop paper. Its emission
spectrum is characterized by the D-line, and this element is produced at the cathode of a Downs cell.
This element is found in the minerals kernite and halite, and the bicarbonate of this element is also
known as nahcolite and can be used to treat dyspepsia. This alkali metal produces an extremely bright
yellow result in the flame test. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 11 and symbol Na.
ANSWER: sodium [accept early Na]
Bonus: The Treaty of Union extended this legislation’s scope to Scotland. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1701 Act that made the senior descendent of Electress Sophia of Hanover the automatic
heir to the British crown.
ANSWER: Act of Settlement
[10] The first ruler to ascend under the Act of Settlement was this British queen, who ruled from 1702
until 1714, and also saw the passage of the Act of Union with Scotland in 1707.
ANSWER: Queen Anne
[10] This man succeeded Queen Anne as King of Britain. This first Hanoverian monarch was supposedly
unable to speak more than broken English.
ANSWER: George I [prompt on George; accept George Louis; accept Georg Ludwig]
18. One character in this work, jealous of Peter’s engagement to his sister, commits suicide before he
can complete a history of his family’s crimes. The gardener Seth reveals that Captain Adam Brant is the
daughter of Ezra’s brother Dave, which only serves to increase Lavinia’s distrust of her mother,
Christine. Orin eventually avenges his father’s death, leading to the decline of the Mannon family. For 10
points, name this trilogy by Eugene O’Neill, based on Aeschylus’ Oresteia, whose title alludes to the grief
of a daughter of Agamemnon.
ANSWER: Mourning Becomes Electra
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these figures from Hinduism.
[10] This god wears the jewel Kaustubha, and his consorts include Lakshmi and Bhumidevi. He is famous
for having avatars.
ANSWER: Vishnu
[10] This vahana, or mount of Vishnu, is a bird and the nephew of the sun god Surya. He gives his name
to Indonesia's national airline carrier.
ANSWER: Garuda
[10] The god Harihara was a syncretism of Vishnu and this deity, associated with the lingam, whose sons
included Ganesha and Skanda.
ANSWER: Shiva
19. Close relatives of this creature include Gorosaurus and the smaller Albertosaurus, both of which
lived contemporaneously with the unrelated Hadrosaurs. The largest known skeleton of this dinosaur is
found at the Field Museum in Chicago and is named Sue. Jack Horner argues that this therapod was
unable to run because of its heavy head, and that it must have therefore been a scavenger. Much
speculation about this dinosaur focuses on its tiny arms. For 10 points, name this carnivorous dinosaur
of the Cretaceous, whose name translates as “tyrant lizard king”.
ANSWER: Tyrannosaurus rex [accept Tyrannosaurus rex]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: With Miles Davis, this man composed the jazz standard Donna Lee. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of Koko, Anthropology, Yardbird Suite, and Ornithology, a jazz musician often
known simply by the sobriquet “Bird.”
ANSWER: Charlie “Bird” Parker, Jr.
[10] Parker's standards were influential in developing this form of jazz, characterized by its quick tempo
and use of improvisation. It grew from Kansas City swing jazz.
ANSWER: bebop
[10] This bebop jazz trumpeter was a pioneer of the Afro-Cuban jazz movement and best known
member of “The Quintet,” who composed “A Night in Tunisia” and had horn-rimmed glasses.
ANSWER: John Birks "Dizzy" Gillespie
20. The beta star of Perseus is named after one of these figures, and the nasnas is an edible descendant
of one of these and a human found in Yemen. The sil'ah is one type of these that encourages men to
dance. Another of these, which can also be identified as a qutrub, is known for being a man-eater. Also
consisting of mar'id and ifrit, they predate the existence of Adam, and the most famous of their ranks is
Iblis. These creatures made of smokeless fire inhabit a parallel world to the human world. For 10 points,
name these magic-using creatures from Islam.
ANSWER: genies [or djinni; or djann]
Bonus: They absorb all incident radiation, and maximally emit radiation in all directions and at all
frequencies. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these objects governed by Wien’s Law.
ANSWER: black bodies [or blackbody]
[10] Ehrenfest coined this term for the failure of the Rayleigh-Jeans law governing blackbody radiation
once the radiation reached a certain part of the frequency spectrum.
ANSWER: ultraviolet catastrophe
[10] One example of blackbody radiation is the cosmic microwave background radiation, which gives
evidence for this event, supposedly the start of the universe, theorized by George Gamow.
ANSWER: Big Bang
21. In the wake of the Action Program instituted by this movement, the Boy Scouts were restarted and
such clubs as KAN and K231 formed. At the end of this event, its chief instigator was demoted to
inspector of the forest service, and Gustav Husak took power. Advocated in the manifesto “Two
Thousand Words,” this movement claimed to offer “socialism with a human face,” but it was crushed
when Soviet tanks arrived to depose Alexander Dubček. For 10 points, name this 1968 attempt to
liberalize Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague Spring
Bonus: Its most famous line mentions “A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread – and Thou.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this twelfth-century set of quatrains.
ANSWER: the Rubaiyat
[10] Name the Persian author of the Rubaiyat.
ANSWER: Omar Khayyam
[10] Robert Browning wrote a poem responding to this first person to translate the Rubaiyat into
English, who “thanked God [Browning’s] wife was dead.”
ANSWER: Edward FitzGerald

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

22. This author's title characters include the painter Eugene Witla and a man who marries Aileen Butler.
This author of The "Genius" wrote three novels about Frank Cowperwood, including The Titan and The
Financier. The drowning of Roberta Alden leads to the execution of Clyde Griffiths in another novel by
this author, who first gained attention for a novel about the rise of the lover of Hurstwood, Caroline
Meeber. For 10 points, name this pioneer of American naturalism, the author of An American Tragedy
and Sister Carrie.
ANSWER: Theodore Dreiser
Bonus: His career was documented by the works of Robert Caro. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this thirty-sixth president of the United States, who became president following the death of
John F. Kennedy.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson
[10] Johnson’s initiatives, including Medicare, education reform, and the “War on Poverty,” are often
grouped under this umbrella term taken from a 1964 speech.
ANSWER: Great Society
[10] One of Johnson’s great Civil Rights successes was signing this bill, which followed the Civil Rights Act
and echoed the 15th amendment in its prohibition of literacy tests and poll taxes.
ANSWER: Voting Rights Act of 1965 [prompt on Voting Rights Act]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 14
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. Homogeneous and heterogeneous nucleation returns substances to this value after they have
exceeded it. The depression of this value is dependent on the van’t Hoff factor and the molality of the
solution, making it a colligative property. The removal of energy from a material equal to the latent heat
of fusion typically occurs at this value. For 10 points, name this temperature at which liquids undergo a
phase change to solids, which typically occurs for water at zero degrees on the Celsius temperature
scale.
ANSWER: freezing point [or melting point; prompt on freezing]
2. Despite the fact that he was ordained as a priest, this composer had numerous affairs with students
and admirers. Pieces like “La Campanella” and “La Chasse” appear in another set of his virtuoso works,
Grandes Etudes de Paganini. He drew from the story of Faust for his Mephisto Waltz, and this composer
is also known for the etude Un sospiro. The piano tells the story of a titular Ukranian in “Mazeppa,” the
fourth of this man’s Transcendental Etudes. For 10 points, name this composer who recalled his home
country in his Hungarian Rhapsodies.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt
3. This author refuted the pamphlet Eikon Basilike in Eikonoklastes. He endorsed the regicide in The
Tenure of Kings and Magistrates, and wrote "Hence vain deluding joyes" in his poem about the
melancholy man, "Il Penseroso." He wrote "they also serve who only stand and wait" in the sonnet "On
His Blindness," and lambasted the Licensing Act in his defense of a free press, Areopagitica. The
antagonist of his longest poem proclaims "Better to reign in Hell, than serve in Heav'n." For 10 points,
name this poet, who depicted the fall of man in Paradise Lost.
ANSWER: John Milton
Extra 20-point Bonus:
This limit is achieved when a body reaches 1.44 solar masses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this limit above which a star is no longer supported by electron degeneracy pressure, named
for an Indian physicist.
ANSWER: the Chandrasekhar limit
[10] Bodies lighter than the Chandrasekhar limit exist as this type of faintly luminous star that gives off
light in most of the visual spectra.
ANSWER: white dwarfs [prompt on degenerate dwarfs]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point Bonus:
One member of this family, Ludovico, was known as “the Moor” for his dark skin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this family that began ruling a certain Italian city-state in 1450 under Francesco.
ANSWER: the Sforzas
[10] The Sforzas ruled this city, which was also the capital of Napoleon’s Cisalpine Republic.
ANSWER: Milan
[10] This other Milanese ruling family preceded the Sforzas, and held power under such rulers as Gian
Galeazzo.
ANSWER: the Viscontis

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 14

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

