TOSSUP 1
Though he is not seen until book two, he is often considered the main characterof the novel in
which he appears. He is a barrister who helps to defend a manwrongly accused of treason. After
the trial he reveals to the man that he ismiserable and that he has wasted his life. He later tells
this to Lucie Manette, adding that she is his only friend and that he would do anything to save “a
life she loves.” FTP, name this character from “A Tale of Two Cities” who fulfills that promise
when he switches places with Charles Darnay in prison and is put to death in his place.
Sydney Carton (Accept either)
BONUS 1
Name these other characters from A Tale of Two Cities , FTPE.
10:

When the book begins, this character is traveling to Dover from London. Heis an employee of Tellson’s Bank.
Jarvis Lorry

10:

This character describes himself as a “resurrection man,” someone who
digs up bodies from graves and sells them to science.
Jerry Cruncher

10:

This character keeps a register of enemies of the French Revolution
in acloth which she is always knitting. She has a personal hatred of
Charles Darnay.
Madame Therese Defarge

TOSSUP 2
A rectangle with sides 10 and 24 is inscribed in a circle suchthat all four corners are on the circle.
To find the perimeter of thecircle, remember that the diagonal of the rectangle will be thediameter
of the circle. The diagonal can be found using thePythagorean Theorem, and the perimeter can
be found from the diameter.FTP what is the perimeter of the circle? You will have 10 seconds.
26π
BONUS 2
FTPE find the area of the following circles.
10:

A circle with diameter 10.
25π

10:

A circle inscribed in a square of area 16.
4π

10:

A circle whose radius is half of that of a circle with area 20π.
5π

1

TOSSUP 3
According to a prophecy, he and his siblings would cause trouble for the gods,so the gods decided
to dispose of them. His siblings were banished to variousrealms, but Odin decided to bind him.
After trying twice to unsuccessfully do so, Odin had dwarves forge a nearly unbreakable chain
which proved toostrong. He is bound on the island of Lyngvi until Ragnarok. Once Ragnarok
beginshe will grow too big for his bonds and break free. FTP, name this Norse wolf whowill then
devour Odin and be slain by Vidar.
Fenrir (also accept Fenris wulf or Fenris)
BONUS 3
FTPE name these other Norse mythological creatures.
10:

This squirrel runs up and down the tree Yggdrasill [EEG-drah-sil] and
bringsinsults back and forth to Nidhoggr and the eagle at the top of
the tree.
Ratatosk

10:

This serpent, a sibling of Fenrir, will kill and be killed by Thor atRagnarok.
Jormungandr [YOR-mun-gand] (prompt on World Serpent or
Midgard Serpent)

10:

This greatest of all dogs (except for Fenrir) guards Hel, and will kill
andbe killed by Tyr at Ragnarok.
Garm

TOSSUP 4
In recent years, this organelle has been discovered to play a role in cell cycle regulation, senescence,
and silencing genes. Prominent in neurons and embryonic cells, unlike surrounding areas, it does
not stain by the feuglen reaction. Its major function is the production of 28S, 18S, and 5.8S
rRNA, used in the assembly of ribosomes. FTP, name this knot of chromatin and subdivision of
the nucleus.
nucleolus
BONUS 4
Name these other organelles or membranous systems, FTPE.
10:

This organelle has double-layered outer membrane, inside folds called
cristae, and a liquid gap in between that is referred to as the matrix.
mitochondria

10:

This system consists of flattened sacs, cisternae, and has 2 faces, the
cis and trans. It functions in transporting vesciles to and from the ER
into the plasma membrane.
Golgi apparatus or bodies

2

10:

This plant organelle is enclosed by two membranes separated by an
intermembrane space, which encloses a fluid called stroma which surrounds stacks of thylakoids.
chloroplasts

TOSSUP 5
A rapid winter campaign by the aggressor and the subsequent riposte at Mollwitz ended the
first year; what would have merely been a small Central European conflict in the neighborhood
of Breslau turned into the first general Continental war in a generation. The victories by the
Imperials following the withdrawal of the original antagonist saw that antagonist, Frederick the
Great, return and land the final victories at Hohenfriedberg and Kesselsdorf. FTP name this war
from 1740 to 1748, fought over the succession of Maria Theresa tothe Habsburg throne due to the
Pragmatic Sanction.
War of the Austrian Succession
BONUS 5
FTPE name these children of Maria Theresa.
10:

She married the Dauphin Louis of France, later Louis XVI, and was
later guillotined by the Revolutionaries in 1793.
Queen Marie Antoinette of France and Navarre (accept
Maria Antonia Josefa Johanna)

10:

He was his mother’s co-ruler until the last ten years of his life, when
she died and he became Emperor. He was known for passing many
liberal reforms and was called the only real Enlightened despot.
Josef II, Holy Roman Emperor

10:

Holy Roman Emperor following Josef II, he only reigned for two years
before his death in 1792.
Leopold II, Holy Roman Emperor

TOSSUP 6
The region’s unique geography has given rise to the Gulf of Kotor, Skadar Lake, and Bobotov Kuk,
the tallest mountain in the country. During World War I, it was occupied by Austro-Hungarian
troops and from then on was not an independent state. Bordering on the Adriatic Sea, it declared
its independence from Serbia following a referendum in 2006. FTP, name this breakaway Yugoslav
republic whose name translates to ”black mountain.”
Montenegro
BONUS 6

3

FTPE, name these other young countries.
10:

Beginning as a colony of Portugal, this country declared independence
from Indonesia in 2002.
East Timor (also accept Timor-Leste)

10:

In 1993, this country broke off from Ethiopia, thus landlocking it.
Eritrea

10:

This Polynesian nation became independent in 1994.
Palau

TOSSUP 7
Six colors suffice to color any map on this type of surface, the only exception to the Heawood
conjecture. If the figure is halved along its plane of symmetry, the result is a famous strip. It is
possible to go from the inside of this figure to the corresponding point on the outside without
passing through the surface. FTP, what is this object, named after the German mathematician
that discovered it?
Klein bottle
BONUS 7
BONUS FTPE answer the following questions about the Klein bottle.
10:

When two of these strips are put together, a Klein bottle is created.
Mobius strip

10:

The Heawood conjecture is an extension of this other theorem, which
was proved brute-force by a computer program.
Four color theorem

10:

This branch of mathematics that deals with stretching surfaces is sometimes called rubber-sheet geometry.
Topology

TOSSUP 8
The artist, despite not actually having seen the scene painted, had visited the place the day before.
It doesn’t show any trace of the affliction the subject had from his celiac disease, as the artist
wished to portray hisfriend as an idealized martyr. Lying in his medicinal tub, the subject is
holding a letter, on which the name of his assassin is written. FTP name this David work, widely
used as a symbol of the French Revolution.
The Death of Marat
BONUS 8

4

FTPE name these other works by Jacques-Louis David.
10:

It portrays three brothers, swearing loyalty to Rome before their battle
with the Curiatii of Alba Longa.
The Oath of the Horatii

10:

This painting was commissioned by the subject to show the leadup to
his victory at Marengo in 1800.
Napoleon Crossing the Alps

10:

It portrays the September 480 BCE battle between the Spartans and
their allied Locrians and the Persian invading armies, now a subject of
the movie 300 .
Leonidas at Thermopylae

TOSSUP 9
His most famous work is dedicated to Theophile Gautier [THAY-o-feel GOW-tee-ay]. However,
he started out by writing art reviews and then particpated in the Revolution of 1848. Nerval,
Flaubert, and Balzac were all his friends and were studied by him. His magnum opus calls Satan
”thrice-great” and he was greatly influenced by the work of Edgar Allen Poe. FTP, name this
French decadent poet of the 19th century who wrote Les Fleurs du mal .
Charles Baudelaire
BONUS 9
Translate these parts of Les Fleurs de Mal from French to English.
10:

Les Fleurs de Mal
The Flowers of Evil

10:

Le Vin
Wine

10:

La Mort
Death

TOSSUP 10
In his teens he was a member of the National Party, then a minor political group. During World
War II, he helped form a pro-Nazi paramilitary group that opposed his country’s support for the
British and other Allied powers. In 1948, his party won the general election in a surge of Afrikaner
nationalism and he was elected to the lower house of Parliament. He later became the minister
of colored affairs and was elected prime minister in 1978. He eventually repealed restrictive laws
such as a ban on interracial marriage and conducted a goodwill tour of Europe in 1984, but it did
little to change his country’s pariah status. FTP, name this leader of apartheid-era South Africa
who led his country into deepening political crisis and racial violence as head of state until 1989.
P.W. (Pieter Willem) Botha
BONUS 10
FTPE name these contemporary countrymen of Botha:

5

10:

He rose from a position as an Anglican parish priest to become the
first black bishop of Johannesburg in 1984:
Archbishop Desmond Tutu

10:

He directed a twenty-year campaign of defiance against the South
African government before he was sentenced to life imprisonment in
1964, but was released in 1990:
Nelson Mandela

10:

He succeeded Botha as leader of South Africa and shared the Nobel Prize for Peace with Mandela in 1993 for his work in dismantling
apartheid:
F.W. (Frederik Willem) deKlerk

TOSSUP 11
Her family was poor, but her mother gave birth to eleven children. She trained as a nurse and
helped many women give birth. After her marriage, she moved to New York City and reported
about health for a magazine. She believed that women should have economic and social equality
with men, and was disturbed by the suffering caused by unwanted pregnancies. In 1916, she
opened a medical office in New York, the purpose of which was to provide women with ways to
prevent pregnancies, a process which she called birth control. FTP, name this founder of the world
movement called International Planned Parenthood.
Margaret Sanger
BONUS 11
FTPE, identify these activists for women’s rights:
10:

She created the National Women’s Party to support equal rights for
women in 1916 and proposed the first Equal Rights Amendment to
Congress in 1923.
Alice Paul

10:

Elected to Congress in 1970 to represent New York, she presented the
first bill in Congress for equal rights for gay people and was known for
her large hats.
Bella Abzug

10:

She formed the National Organization for Women and wrote The
Feminine Mystique .
Betty Friedan

TOSSUP 12
As a teenager, he was discouraged from studying law or medicine by his family and instead adopted
meteorology. Following his first book “Meteorological Observations and Essays”, he extended his
beliefs about weather to chemistry, which eventually led to his law of partial pressures. FTP, name
this man, credited with creating the modern Atomic Theory in 1804.
John Dalton

6

BONUS 12
FTPE, name these other scientists who contributed to the study of the atom.
10:

This man is credited with the discovery of the electron.
J.J. Thomson

10:

This German found the existence of the proton.
Eugen Goldstein

10:

This English scientist discovered the neutron.
James Chadwick

TOSSUP 13
A House committee was appointed in 1979 to investigate it, and it issued a report criticizing the
FBI and the CIA. The Dictabelt tape, which was taken off a motorcycle in Dealey Plaza, proves,
according to another committee, the existence of a second party. Following his most heinous deed,
the perpetrator killed police officer J.D. Tippit. Caught on the Zapruder film, this is, FTP, what
event investigated by the Warren Commission in 1963, resulting in the capture of Lee Harvey
Oswald?
John F. Kennedy assassination
BONUS 13
Answer the following about the assassination of Robert Kennedy, brother of the President, FTPE.
10:

This was the repetitive name of Kennedy’s killer.
Sirhan Sirhan

10:

He was killed in this Los Angeles hotel, home of the Cocoanut Grove
nightclub and starting point of the careers of Bing Crosby and Richard
Pryor, among others.
The Ambassador Hotel

10:

Growing evidence presented by lawyer Lawrence Teeter suggest that
Sirhan was under the influence of this CIA mind-control project headed
by Dr. Sidney Gottlieb.
Project MKULTRA

TOSSUP 14
His poetry reflects a deep but ultimately tragic love for his native land, as in his poem “Two
homelands,” where he compares his island home to a widow in the night holding a flower that is
his heart, leaving his chest empty. An active rebel soldier, he died in a skirmish with Spanish
troops when he refused to retreat. FTP, name this Cuban nationalist poet of “Guantanamera.”
Jose Marti
BONUS 14
Identify these Latin American poets FTPE.

7

10:

This feminist Puerto Rican wrote a poem criticizing her public self as
shallow, unlike her poetic self, a creative spirit and friend of the people.
Julia de Burgos

10:

This much-loved Chilean communist poet is most famous for his collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair .
Pablo Neruda

10:

This Nicaraguan is widely viewed as the father of Modernism; his poem
To Roosevelt attacks American imperialism.
Ruben Dario

TOSSUP 15
It begins with a crowd of man-like women arguing that the punishment should have been death
or branding on the forehead. The punished protaganist is forced to stand on a scaffold, where
she recognizes her husband in the crowd. He makes her promise not to reveal his identity, but
seven years later she tells her lover, Arthur Dimmesdale, who he is. FTP, name this Nathaniel
Hawthorne work, in which Hester Prynne is forced to wear the titular symbol upon her breast.
The Scarlet Letter
BONUS 15
Name these characters from the Scarlet Letter FTPE.
10:

He is Hester’s husband, long believed to be dead.
Roger Chillingworth

10:

The daughter of Hester and Dimmesdale.
Pearl

10:

The witch sister of the governor, she repeatedly asks Hester to join her
in the forest.
Mistress Hibbins

TOSSUP 16
Ysalamiri created a bubble of one meter in radius devoid of this as adefense mechanism against
the vornskr, a predator that hunts with it.The Yuuzhan Vong were not in contact with it until
recently, whenthey were returned to Zonama Sekot. It is a matter of G-level canonthat there is a
certain duality to this, like Taoism: a dark side anda light side. FTP name this energy field in all
living things that”surrounds us and penetrates us and binds the galaxy together”.
The Force
BONUS 16
FTPE name these Force users who dabbled on both the light and the darksides of the Force.

8

10:

He was a Jedi Knight until age 22, when he assisted Darth Sidiousin
the destruction of the Jedi Order and took the mantle of Darth Vader.
Anakin Skywalker

10:

The man who refounded the Jedi Order following the Battle of Endor
and who also destroyed the first Death Star mostly stayed on the light
side, but briefly became apprentice to the reborn Emperor.
Luke Skywalker

10:

Originally an Emperor’s Hand with the mission to kill LukeSkywalker,
she eventually married him and became a Jedi Master.
Mara Jade Skywalker (prompt on either part of the name)

TOSSUP 17
In 2005 he discussed the legalization of marijuana. He was a known critic of the Phillips curve
and a recipient of the John Bates Clark medal. As a young Treasury Department employee he
advocated Keynesian economics before switching his economic allegiances to eventually advocate
lower taxes and the negative income tax. He implemented his economic principles in Augusto
Pinochet’s Chile and wrote Capitalism and Freedom. FTP, name this famous monetarist of the
University of Chicago who died in 2006.
Milton Friedman
BONUS 17
Name these economists:
10:

He proposed the Iron Law of Wages.
David Ricardo

10:

He developed the principle saying that population increases linearly
while population increases geometrically.
Thomas Malthus

10:

This author of Theory of the Leisure Class theorized that people buy
expensive things because those things are status symbols.
Thorsten Veblen

TOSSUP 18
The last occurred on June 8, 2004, and the next will be on June 6, 2012. Beforethat pair, the
last were in 1874 and 1882, and the next two will occur in 2117and 2125. Between pairs there is
a period of either 121.5 years or 105.5 years,making the pattern repeat every 243 years. As with
eclipses, the safest way toobserve them is to project a telescope image of the Sun onto a screen.
FTP, namethis visible movement of our solar system’s second planet directly between theEarth
and the Sun.
Transit of Venus
BONUS 18
FTPE, name these other astronomical phenomena.

9

10:

Caused whenever a periodic comet moves by the Sun, they are characterized bymany bright lights streaking through the sky.
Meteor Showers

10:

One of the most famous comets, it returns every 75 to 76 years and
willreturn in 2061.
Halley’s Comet (also accept 1P/Halley)

10:

Discovered by Giuseppe Piazzi in 1801, it is the largest asteroid in
theasteroid belt and was named for a Roman Goddess.
1 Ceres

TOSSUP 19
His influential modernist music incorporated atonality, the octatonic scale, and polymodal
chromatism. A liberal, his views were most prominently expressedin his only opera, Bluebeards
Castle. Some of his more famous works include the Two Romanian Folk Dances, Piano Concertos
2 and 3, and Mikrokosmos [MIK-ro-kosmos]. FTP, name this 20th century Hungarian composer,
one of the founders of ethnomusicology.
Bela Bartok
BONUS 19
Name these other 20th century composers FTPE.
10:

Born in the Ukraine, some of his famous works include Peter and the
Wolf and the ballet Cinderella.
Sergei Prokofiev

10:

The most famous of the 20th century British composers, some of his
worksinclude the War Requiem and The Young Persons Guide to the
Orchestra.
Benjamin Britten

10:

One of the most famous composers of the Soviet era, his well-known
worksinclude his Seventh Symphony (Leningrad) and Song of the
Forests.
Dmitri Shostakovich

TOSSUP 20
Isolated in 1808 by Sir Humphrey Davy, this element is commonly usedin the extraction of metals
such as zirconium and thorium and in theproduction of aluminum, copper, and lead. Solid at room
temperature,it is the fifth most abundant element in the Earth’s crust. This element does not
appear naturally in its elemental state, and is foundcommonly in stalagmites. Most importantly,
it is the major component inanimal bones and teeth. FTP, name this alkali earth metal, with
atomic number 20.
Calcium
BONUS 20
FTPE, name these other alkali earth metals.

10

10:

Highly flammable, name this element with atomic number 12.
Magnesium

10:

Contained in the precious stone emerald, this element hasatomic number 4.
Beryllium

10:

Very reactive to air, this element is used in cathode ray tubes and has
atomic number 38.
Strontium

11

