TOSSUP 1
Questions settled here include the separation of Easter from Passover, the Meletian schism, and
the Arian heresy. The decision was eventually made to define Christ as homoousios (ho-mo-OOHsee-ohs), or consubstantial,meaning ”of the same substance as the Father”. To further strengthen
this doctrine, a creed was written that bears this council’s name. FTP namethis early ecumenical
council of the Christian church.
First Ecumenical Council of Nicaea (prompt on Nicaea, accept First Nicaea)
BONUS 1
FTPE name these other Christian church councils.
10:

The most recent council, its main achievements include steps toward
interdenominational reconciliation and decrees on the relation of the
Church to the modern world.
Second Vatican Council (accept Vatican Two or other variants)

10:

In addition to confirming the Biblical canon for Roman Catholics,this
council began the Counter-Reformation with measures designed to halt
the spread of Lutheranism and Calvinism.
Council of Trent

10:

The doctrine of monothelitism was repudiated at this council,meaning
that Christ had two wills, both human and divine.
Third Council of Constantinople (prompt on Constantinople
or Council of Constantinople, do not accept Istanbul)

TOSSUP 2
He managed to run away in 1821, but returned because he believed he had instructed by God to
return to his “earthly master.” Four years later, he believed that blood he found while reaping
corn was a symbol from the heavens. He was finally convinced that he must lead a revolution after
seeing an eclipse, though he became ill when the insurrection was to occur. FTP, name this man,
who led a slave rebellion in Southampton, Virginia resulting in the death of 55 white people.
Nat Turner
BONUS 2
FTPE, name these other famous slave rebellions.
10:

This rebellion consisted of more than 9000 slaves, but was betrayed
before it could be executed.
Denmark Vesey’s Rebellion

10:

This insurrection in 1739 was the largest before the American Revolution and resulted in harsher slave laws.
Stono Rebellion

1

10:

He planned a rebellion to take over Richmond, but his plan was postponed because of rain.
Gabriel Prosser

TOSSUP 3
The Ottomans won their only battle of the war at Vevi in November, as the Greeks didn’t expect a
counterblow from the previously immobile Turks. Greek fleets won the naval battles in the Aegean,
with the assistance of the first use of naval air units. The main battles, fought throughout Turkish
Macedonia, culminated in Bulgarian victory at Adrianople and that of the Greeks under Crown
Prince Constantine at Bizani. FTP name this war of the early 1900s, an immediate precursor to
the First World War in which the Ottoman Empire was bested by a coalition of Greece, Serbia,
Bulgaria, and Montenegro.
First Balkan War
BONUS 3
Those Young Turks took over the Ottoman government after the defeat of the First Balkan War.
FTPE name these people associated with the Young Turk movement.
10:

Later to be called Ataturk, Father of the Turks, he led the uprising in
Constantinople late in the war that unseated the previous government
of Kiamil Pasha.
Mustafa Kemal Pasha

10:

The Sultan from which the Young Turks seized power in 1908, he was
one of the most oppressive and authoritarian sultans yet seen in the
Empire.
Abdulhamid II (prompt on Abdulhamid)

10:

The 100th Islamic Caliph and 36th and final Sultan of the Ottoman
Empire, he was dethroned by Mustafa Kemal’s constitutionalists due
to failures in the Greco-Turkish War of 1919-22.
Mehmed VI

TOSSUP 4
This country, a Constitutional Monarchy headed under Albert II Guy Verhofstadt, currently has
11 million inhabitants. However, when an 1839 treaty signed by Britain, Austria, Prussia, Russia
and France declared it a “perpetually neural state”, it had only six hundred thousand people. The
Germans derided that same treaty as a “scrap of paper” in 1914 when they invaded, FTP, what
country created in 1830 under Leopold of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha?
Belgium
BONUS 4
Name these famous cities of the Low Countries. FTPE.

2

10:

This was once Belgium’s smallest city, now its capital.
Brussels

10:

This Dutch port was the largest in terms of annual shipping tonnage
passed through until 1994, when Singapore claimed that title.
Rotterdam

10:

This is the largest city on the Schelde River, located only 9 miles from
Ghent.
Antwerp

TOSSUP 5
Their name means ”ore former” in Greek, due to their propensity to form such ores as pyrite
and telluride. The highest oxidation number possible in this group is +6, but most elements in
the group have oxidation number -2. The lighter elements in the group are nonmetals, but the
heavier elements are metalloid semiconductors. FTP, name this group of the periodic table, which
contains such elements as polonium, selenium, and oxygen.
Chalcogens (accept group 16, 7B)
BONUS 5
FTPE, name these other groups on the periodic table from the elements they contain.
10:

Barium, strontium, radium
Alkaline earth metals (accept group 2)

10:

Astatine, iodine, bromine
Halogens (accept group 17, 7, 7A)

10:

Copper, silver, gold
Noble metals (accept coinage metals, group 11)

TOSSUP 6
On October 9th, 2004, a man off the coast of Lake Michigan caught one. In July 2005, one was
spotted in the waters of Flushing Meadows Park in Queens, New York. These predatory fish are
of the family Channidae and can reach a length of more than a meter. FTP, give the common
name of these fish, which became infamous in the United States because of sightings at Crofton,
Maryland in 2002 and are considered an invasive species.
Snakehead fish
BONUS 6
BONUS FTPE identify the following invasive plants.

3

10:

This vine native to Japan is now considered invasive to the Southeastern United States because it completely envelops trees with its leaves,
crushing branches and sometimes killing the entire tree.
Kudzu

10:

Considered an invasive species in the US, Germany, France, and Belgium, this phototoxic plant forms purplish scars on contact, which can
last several years.
Giant hogweed

10:

This invasive grass in the Midwest United States regrows incredibly
quickly after fires, and frustrates ranchers because it out-competes
other grasses due to its resistance to trampling and grazing while having little nutritional value.
Drooping Brome (accept Downy Brome or Cheatgrass)

TOSSUP 7
It was one of the highest-altitude conflicts ever, fought at over 14,000 thousand feet. Richard
Nixon once upset Indira Gandhi by recommending that she read a book about it. Premier Zhou
Enlai refused to recognize the border established by the British McMahon line, and eventually his
country retook the regions of Aksai Chin and South Tibet. After victory, however, the Chinese
withdrew and returned South Tibet, which became the state of Arunachal Pradesh. FTP, name
this war started by territory disputes between the two most populous countries in the world.
Sino-Indian Border War
or
Bharat-Chin Yuddha
or
Zhong Yin Bianjing Zhanzheng
BONUS 7
FTPE, name regions near the area disputed in the Sino-Indian war.
10:

This is the least populous and second smallest Indian state.
Sikkim

10:

Ethnic minority groups comprise 60% of the population of this Chinese
province with capital at Urumqi.
Xinjiang (prompt on Chinese Turkestan or East Turkestan)

10:

The Siliguri Corridor, also known as the Chicken’s Neck, connects this
state to the rest of India.
Assam

TOSSUP 8
The titular character’s relatives attempt to force her into marrying a man against her will. She
runs off with Lovelace, a young man who wants to add her to the list of women he has seduced.
However, she doesn’t want to marry anyone, instead longing for a solitary life. Lovelace then
proceeds to rape her, in a scene that goes on for several hundred pages. Clocking in at over a
million words, this is, FTP, what novel by Samuel Richardson, the longest in the English language?
Clarissa, or, The History of a Young Lady

4

BONUS 8
BONUS Identify these other novels that run over a thousand pages, FTPE.
10:

This Victor Hugo novel tells the story of struggling ex-convict Jean
Valjean.
Les Miserables

10:

This novel with protagonist Danny Taggart explores many themes that
were subsequently developed into a philosophy the author called Objectivism.
Atlas Shrugged

10:

This novel’s plot deals with Russian aristocratic familes, most notably
the Bezukohvs, the Bolkonskis, and the Rostovs.
War and Peace

TOSSUP 9
Inexplicably, this algorithm works very well and can solve problems such as the 8-Queens problem
starting with completely random data sets. At each step of the process every data set is evaluated
and the worst are removed until n/2 + 1 remain, where n is the initial number of sets. Random
chunks of the best set are then combined with random chunks of every other remaining set. There
is a random chance that one of the “children” will “mutate,” then the process starts over with the
“children” being evaluated. FTP, name this kind of algorithm named after the study of heredity.
Genetic algorithm
BONUS 9
FTPE, name these other algorithms frequently used in artificial intelligence.
10:

Without any modifications, it has about a 14% success rate because
it tends to find only local maxima or minima rather than the true
maximum or minimum.
Hill climbing

10:

It keeps a set of partial solutions in a heap and checks them in order
based on the sum of the current cost and a heuristic function. It is
important that the heuristic be an underestimate.
A-star search

10:

With a name inspired by metallurgy, this refinement of hill-climbing approximates the optimal solution by continually picking random nearby
solutions based on an objective function.
Simulated annealing

5

TOSSUP 10
It was first built as a long-range missile center in 1955. Kazakhstan hasleased it to Russia until
2050; however, recent disputes between the twocountries over the price of renting the area has
caused Russia to beginimproving the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in Archangel’sk [Arch-angel-sk] as
analternative. Situated on the northern bank of the Syr Darya River and east ofthe Aral Sea, it
has recently been used to resupply the ISS. FTP, name thislarge Russian space launch facility, the
world’s oldest.
Baikonur Cosmodrome
BONUS 10
FTPE, identify:
10:

The first mammal to be put into orbit; she died a few hours after
launch dueto overheating and stress.
Laika

10:

The Soviet spacecraft Laika occupied.
Sputnik 2

10:

The two dogs that survived a day in space and safely returned to Earth.
InRussian, their names mean ”Squirrel” and ”Little Arrow.”
Belka and Strelka

TOSSUP 11
He was a baron descended from an Italian aristocrat who settled in England in 1880. Educated at
Harrow and Oxford, he became the youngest Member of Parliament in 1940 when he won election
as a Conservative. He was Great Britain’s minister of state for war in 1961 when he began an
affair with 19-year-old call girl Christine Keeler, who was carrying on a simultaneous affair with a
spy from the Soviet Embassy. FTP, name this rising political leader who was forced to resign in
one of Great Britain’s most notorious government scandals.
John Profumo
BONUS 11
FTPE, name these prominent Britons of the 1960s.
10:

He succeeded Anthony Eden as prime minister in 1957 and served in
that position until political setbacks and ill health forced his resignation
in 1963.
Harold Macmillan

10:

He followed Macmillan, but his tenure as prime minister was plagued
by the problem of Rhodesian independence and Britains proposed entry
into the Common Market.
(James) Harold Wilson

10:

Elected leader of the Conservative Party in 1965, he was Leader of the
Opposition until he became prime minister in 1970:
Edward or ”Ted” Heath

6

TOSSUP 12
In the end, after a discussion in a library about various ways of reading a novel, you decide to
marry Ludmilla, the Other Reader to whom the perspective shifts for part of one chapter. This
is despite the sexual encounter you had with her sister in South America, where two competing
factions of counterfeiters with strange ideas about truth and fiction are pursuing you and the
books you are reading. You wish they wouldn’t, because you get interrupted ten times at the
most exciting part of ten different bookds.FTP, name this novel by Italo Calvino in which you,
the Reader, are the main character.
If on a winter’s night a traveler
BONUS 12
Identify these Italian authors of various eras FTPE.
10:

This Florentine was a Guelph, and his works revealed his hatred for
the Ghibellines who exiled him and his love for Beatrice.
Dante Alighieri

10:

His novels include The Name of the Rose and Foucault’s Pendulum.
Umberto Eco

10:

This playwright is best remembered for Six Characters in Search of
an Author
Luigi Pirandello

TOSSUP 13
Edward James commissioned a Lobster Telephone from him; simply a plaster lobster that rested
on a working telephone. He teamed up with Walt Disney to produce the film “Destino,” which
was released in 2003, 58 years after production began. He was interested in mathematics, which is
evident in his painting “Crucifixion,” or “Corpus Hypercubus,” which shows Jesus on an unfolded
hypercube cross. Other works of his include “The Temptation of St. Anthony” and “On Dream
Caused by the Flight of a Bee around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening.” FTP, name
this Spanish surrealist artist who painted “The Persistence of Memory.”
Salvador Felipe Jacinto Dali Domenech, Marquis of Pubol
BONUS 13
FTPE, name these other Dali works.
10:

This painting contains a distorted profile that can also be seen in
“ThePersistence of Memory.”
The Great Masturbator

10:

This image shows a humanlike figure staring into a pool of water with
awhite and purple flower growing out of a nearby stone.
The Metamorphosis of Narcissus

10:

This work depicts thirteen people and a vaguely divine floating seethrough torso, but the only face seen is Jesus’.
The Sacrament of the Last Supper

7

TOSSUP 14
It was originally intended to be a scripting language for the Amoeba operatingsystem. Development
began in 1989 when the author, searching for a “hobby”project, decided to write an interpreter
for a new language. The philosophy thathas developed around it focuses on simplicity rather
than speed, if one wouldcompromise the other. FTP, name this high-level, batteries-included
programminglanguage created by Guido van Rossum and named for a British sketch comedytroupe.
Python
BONUS 14
FTPE, name these languages that have influenced Python.
10:

It is the second-oldest high-level language and it is often used forartificial intelligence.
Lisp

10:

It is good with string processing and database interaction, but it is
bestknown for its regular expressions.
Perl

10:

It has only five keywords and is based on sending messages between
objects.
Smalltalk

TOSSUP 15
TOSSUP Born in Bengal, India, his father worked for the opium department in the Civil Service.
After joining the Indian Imperial Police, he began to hate imperialism and moved back to his
home country of England where he soon became a noted novelist and essayist. In Down and Out
in Paris and London and The Road to Wigan Pier he researched the poverty among the working
class in Paris, London, and Northern England. These works eventually made him a socialist, and
in 1936 he fought with the Marxists against Francisco Franco’s nationalist party in the Spanish
Civil War. However, after World War II he became Anti-Stalinist. FTP, who was the author of
Animal Farm and 1984 ?
George Orwell aka Eric Blair
BONUS 15
Bonus: FTPE, name these characters from animal farm.
10:

This pig is driven into exile from the farm by Napoleon.
Snowball

10:

This man originally owned the farm that the animals take over.
Mr. Jones

10:

This old donkey is constantly cynical about the revolution.
Benjamin

8

TOSSUP 16
In psychology, the concept was the basis for free association in Sigmund Freud’s psycholoanalysis,
which says that the mind attains ideas through the senses and then associates them using similarity
and contrast. Originally conceived by Aristotle, the idea regained its prominence in modern
thought through Thomas Aquinas. The thesis was the basis for Thomas Aquinas’ argument
against the Platonic idea of nature in support of the Aristotelian nurture. However, John Locke is
most attributed with his writing on it, stating that our experiences determine how we are, rather
than inborn qualites. FTP, name this thesis meaning ”blank slate”, in which our mind is born a
blank slate on which experiences ”write” knowledge and understanding.
A. Tabula Rasa
BONUS 16
Bonus: Answer these questions related to John Locke, FTPE.
10:

This most famous Locke work is a manifesto for liberal democracy.
Two Treatises of Government

10:

Locke describes this concept where individuals do not have to obey
each other, but rather judge each other based no natural law
state of nature

10:

This author made theories on the state of nature popular in the 17th
century.
Thomas Hobbes

TOSSUP 17
Its character was classified by Guido D’Arezzo as ”serious”, while Adam of Fulda said it imparted
”any feeling”. Though it was originally invented by the Greeks, the name became applied to the
first of the eight medieval church music modes, where it was misinterpreted into its modern form.
Its order of tones is tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone, tone. Thus, in its D key there are
no accidentals. FTP, name this minor mode heard in such popular songs as ”Light My Fire” by
The Doors and ”Eleanor Rigby” by The Beatles.
Dorian mode or scale
BONUS 17
Bonus: Name these other minor modes by their natural scale, for ten points each.
10:

A
Aeolian (also accept minor)

10:

E
Phrygian

10:

B
Locrian

9

TOSSUP 18
The story begins with the death of the main character but quickly goes back to atime when she
was alive. After mentioning her tax problem and a strange smellthat emanated from her house,
the story skips to an even earlier time when theprotagonist is seen buying arsenic from a druggist,
with which people believeshe will kill herself. Around then she had begun to see someone, and
it wasassumed that they had married, but he was not seen after that. FTP, name thisWilliam
Faulkner short story that ends with the discovery of Homer Barron’s bodyin a sealed room in the
protagonist’s house.
A Rose for Emily
BONUS 18
Name these other works by William Faulkner, FTPE.
10:

This novel is about the death of Addie Bundren, a Mississippi farmer.
As I Lay Dying

10:

This novel’s name references a Biblical story and is about Thomas
Sutpen.
Absalom, Absalom!

10:

This novel is told by four different narrators who recant the same
eventsfrom different points of view.
The Sound and the Fury

10

