2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 4
Tossups

1. Thales hired an actor to explain to this man why he did not make a family, telling him that a young
man had died while his famous father was away. This man feigned insanity after the passing of a law
banning advocacy of taking Salamis, and after his “recovery,” he was appointed to lead the forces that
would trap the Megarians with a chance to kidnap the Athenian women. His friend Anacharsis derided
his early efforts, saying his creations were “like spiderwebs that would catch the weak and poor.” For 10
points, name this Athenian leader, known as “the lawmaker.”
ANSWER: Solon
2. Ginastera included “Homage to Hector Villa-Lobos” in his “12 American” examples of this type of
composition, and Bach composed the “Great Eighteen” set of the chorale type. One work named for this
type of composition opens with a low-pitched chromatic flute solo, was based on a poem by Mallarmé,
and was composed by Debussy. Another one of these in D-flat major is called the “Raindrop,” while
many Baroque composers paired them with fugues. For 10 points, name this composition type that may
introduce a larger work.
ANSWER: prelude
3. Two of his contrasting poems feature the lines “Grey Truth is now her painted toy” and “a man whom
Sorrow named his friend,” The Song of the Happy Shepard and The Sad Shepherd, respectively.This poet
of The Wanderings of Oisin wrote about a woman who “put on his knowledge with his power/ Before
the indifferent beak could let her drop” in “Leda and the Swan.” He wrote of “a terrible beauty” that “is
born” in a poem about a rebellion and “of what is past, or passing, or to come” in another work. For 10
points, name this British poet of Easter 1916 and Sailing to Byzantium, the subject of an Auden poem.
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
4. An amorphous analogue of this mineral is called lechatelierite. This mineral’s “shocked” form is found
below the K-T boundary and results when it is deformed along its crystal’s planes upon being subjected
to intense stress. This mineral is the only non-feldspar on the QAPF diagram, and it can display
piezoelectricity. This mineral’s presence along with feldspar characterizes granite, and it is made up of
tetrahedral silicon dioxide crystals. For 10 points, name this mineral, which receives a seven on the
Mohs scale and whose varieties include amethyst and its “rose” type.
ANSWER: quartz

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 1 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This man was a rallying point for a movement led by George Smythe and John Rutland known as
Young England. He served as a deputy to Lord Bentinck, and this man’s own government bought Ismail
Pasha’s shares of the Suez Canal Company. He split with Robert Peel due to that man’s support of the
Corn Laws, and he represented Britain at the Congress of Berlin. For 10 points, name this proponent of
imperialism, a Conservative prime minister of the late 19th century who was a rival of William
Gladstone.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli [or Earl of Beaconsfield]
6. One singer in this opera has a vision in which he is saved in the aria “In the spring days of life” shortly
after expressing his trust in heaven in “God, what darkness here.” A trumpet sounding from off stage
announces the arrival of Don Fernando, who is greeted by Jaquino. That same trumpet prompts Rocco
to order the arrest of Don Pizarro, who had been holding Florestan in his underground prison, leading
Leonore to dress up as the title jail guard. For 10 points name this German opera, the only one by
Beethoven.
ANSWER: Fidelio
7. One of this man’s plays ends with Yank’s death in the arms of a gorilla, and in another, Abbie murders
her child after realizing her love for Eben. In addition to writing The Hairy Ape and Desire Under the
Elms, this author recast Agammemnon as Ezra Mannon in Mourning Becomes Electra and won a Pulitzer
for a play in which Edmund awaits a diagnosis of tuberculosis and resents his father James Tyrone. For
10 points, name this American playwright of The Iceman Cometh and A Long Day’s Journey into Night.
ANSWER: Eugene O’Neill
8. The Pochhammer symbol represents a version of this function, and its value on n is square root of 2 pi
n times quantity n over e to the n according to Stirling’s approximation. The number of trailing zeros of
this function on n are given by counting the multiples of powers of 5 less than n. Taylor expansions
contain this function in the denominator, and three occurrences of this function appear in the binomial
coefficient. For 10 points, name this function that gives the product of all integers from 1 to n,
symbolized by an exclamation mark.
ANSWER: factorial [or rising/falling factorial before “Stirling” is read]
9. This man issued a report at the Annapolis Convention that led to the 1787 Constitutional Convention.
This man led a New York infantry regiment to victory against a British redoubt at the climactic battle of
the American Revolution and served as aide-de-camp to General Washington during that war. He
proposed that the federal government assume state debts accumulated during the Revolution in his
Report on Public Credit, was the primary author of the Federalist Papers and was mortally wounded in
Weehawken, New Jersey. For 10 points, name this first Secretary of the Treasury.
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 2 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. Byron White clarified the circumstances under which this amendment could be applied to states via
the Fourteenth Amendment in the majority opinion for New Jersey v. T. L. O. That ruling forms the basis
for Safford v. Redding, an April 2009 Supreme Court case. Cases like Irvine v. California and Wolf v.
Colorado ruled that it did not apply to states; those cases were overturned in Mapp v. Ohio, which
applied its “exclusionary rule” to state police officers. For 10 points, name this amendment that protects
against unreasonable search and seizure.
ANSWER: Fourth Amendment
11. A distinction is made in this work between “the worst of the architects and the best of the bees,”
and its author earlier provides “a general formula” for the title idea while analyzing the C-M-C and M-CM forms of circulation. The best-known collaborator in this work discussed “economic original sin,” and
this work describes how employers can pay employees less than the price of their labor due to their
control of the means of production. For 10 points, name this massive economic treatise by Karl Marx.
ANSWER: Das Kapital: Kritik der politischen Ökonomie [or Capital]
12. Some members of the genus Brassica differ mostly in the extent of this phenomenon, as depicted on
the Triangle of U, and this phenomenon’s namesake complexes are groups of unrelated plant species
that can exchange genetic material. In vitro, this property can be induced by colchicine, and it may occur
because of endoreduplication, and organisms with this property often must reproduce via
parthenogenesis. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which organisms have more than two sets of
homologous chromosomes.
ANSWER: polyploidy [prompt on ploidy; prompt on aneuploidy; do not prompt on “haploidy” or
“diploidy” or “euploidy”]
13. Derg junta leader Mengistu fled from Ethiopia to this country in the early 1990s. This nation
announced its Unilateral Declaration of Independence under the government of Ian Smith, who had
replaced Winston Field of the Rhodesian Front party. One leader of this nation added Patriotic Front to
his party name and became its first president in an election agreement that merged the ZAPU with the
ZANU. For 10 points, name this African country now led by Prime Minister Tsvengarai, who is sharing
power with Robert Mugabe.
ANSWER: Republic of Zimbabwe
14. The blooming of a begonia tree is interpreted as an ill omen in this work and coincides with the loss
of the main character’s spirit stone. The goddess Nugua gives life to that spirit stone, which is found in a
baby’s mouth at birth. In this work, Pao-yu is tricked into marrying Precious Virtue instead of the sickly
Black Jade, who later dies due to the betrayal. Eventually the graft and corruption of the central family is
uncovered. For 10 points, name this classical novel of Chinese literature, which involves the young
women of the Chia clan who live in the titular colorful structure.
ANSWER: Dream of the Red Chamber [or Dreams of Young Maidens; or A Dream of Red Mansions; or
Hung Lu Meng]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 3 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. One artist from this country painted the violent martyrdoms of St. Bartholomew and St. Philip, and
another artist from this country created Dog Barking at the Moon. One painter from this nation created
The Surrender at Breda and the Disasters of War series, and another created a Lobster Telephone, an
image showing Swans Reflecting Elephants, and a work featuring melting clocks. For 10 points, name
this country, home to the painters of Las Meninas and The Persistence of Memory, Diego Velasquez and
Salvador Dali.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or España]
16. Along with Cauchy, this man co-names a probability distribution with no defined mean and infinite
second moment. In addition to naming some operations that form a subgroup of the Poincaré group and
that preserve the spacetime interval in Minkowski space, he names the force that acts on a point charge
due to electromagnetic fields, and along with Fitzgerald he names a length contraction observed at high
velocities. For 10 points, name this man whose “transformations” convert between reference frames in
special relativity.
ANSWER: Hendrik Lorentz
17. One child of this figure is filled with the life blood of dying men and is named Managarm. A witch
from Jarnvid bore him children, and he formed the river Van from his saliva. Two sons of this figure, Hati
and Skoll, chase the sun and moon. The beards of women and the sinews of a bear were among the
materials put into the chain Gleipnir, which was used to bind this figure. He bit off Tyr’s hand, and he
will be killed by Vidar at Ragnarok after eating Odin. For 10 points, name this son of Angrboda and Loki,
a gigantic wolf from Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Fenrir [or Fenriswulf; or Fenrisulfr; or Hrodvitnir]
18. He was imprisoned for collaborating with Thomas Nashe on the play The Isle of Dogs, and a
conversation between Oceanus and the Niger River is found in his The Masque of Blackness. The
gamester Quarlous eventually wins the hand of Dame Purecraft in one of his plays set at a titular fair. In
another work, the title figure pretends to suffer from a variety of illness while his servant Mosca assures
Corbaccio and Corvino that they are Volpone’s heirs. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan dramatist of
Bartholomew Fair and The Alchemist.
ANSWER: Ben Jonson
19. In his first speech to the United Diet, he noted that “the past is buried. No human power can bring it
back to life.” He seized one man's assets and used them as a slush fund had the state take control of the
schools in an attempt to curtail the influence of the church. In addition to his Reptiles Fund and his
pursuit of a Kulturkampf, he gained the territories of Alsace and Lorraine for Prussia and guided the
revision of the treaty of San Stefano by hosting the Congress of Berlin. For 10 points, name this Prussian
“Iron Chancellor,” the driving force behind German unification.
ANSWER: Otto van Bismarck

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 4 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. Porous silica-based pellets impregnated with vanadium pentoxide are used to produce an
intermediate in the synthesis of this compound by the contact process, and oleum is used to produce
this compound in the lead chamber process. When this compound is fluorinated it becomes the
strongest known Brønsted superacid, and a superacid is typically defined as an acid that is stronger than
this acid. For 10 points, name this diprotic, corrosive acid created from the reaction of water and sulfur
trioxide, with chemical formula H2SO4.
ANSWER: sulfuric acid [or oil of vitriol; or hydrogen sulfate]
21. His songs “Saving Grace” and “Square One” appear on his album Highway Companion, and this artist
reunited his band to release the self-titled Mudcrutch. He appears as the Mad Hatter in the music video
for “Don’t Come Around Here No More.” One song by a group featuring this man says “Oh yeah, all
right, take it easy baby,” while individually he released the album Full Moon Fever, which includes a song
that opens “She's a good girl, loves her mama.” For 10 points, name this artist of “American Girl” and
“Free Fallin’” who plays with the Heartbreakers.
ANSWER: Tom Petty
22. An Irish Presbyterian of the 17th century is the namesake of an alternate label for the southern
portion of this geographic feature, “Makemieland,” while Francis Asbury organized the Methodists here.
Three of the administrative divisions of this region were given independent governance by William
Penn, while others to the south include Cape Charles, connected to the mainland by a bridge-tunnel. For
10 points, name this peninsula of the American Atlantic coast that borders the Chesapeake Bay and is
named for the three states that comprise it.
ANSWER: Delmarva Peninsula [accept Eastern Shore]
23. A work by Turgenev compares this character and his madness to that of Hamlet, while Wyndham
Lewis argued that a comparison to Falstaff was more appropriate. He is the title character of a work that
is written by Pierre Menard in a short story by Borges. A maid named Altisidora pretends to be in love
with this man, who is defeated in a duel with the Knight of the White Moon. This character is dedicated
to Dulcinea and rides Rosinante. For 10 points, name this “Man from La Mancha” whose squire is
Sancho Panza in a work by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: Don Quixote [or Alonso Quijano]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 5 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 4
Bonuses

1. Great artists don’t always have to complete all of their works. For 10 points each:
[10] This sculptor attempted to build an insect-like glider called the Letalin. He also designed the
visionary Monument to the Third International, which was to be the tallest structure in the world.
ANSWER: Vladimir Tatlin
[10] This man designed buildings such as the Casa Batllò and Casa Mila. His Sagrada Familia in Barcelona
is still incomplete, although its expected completion date is the year 2026.
ANSWER: Antoni Gaudi
[10] Raphael was among the men who worked on this church, which was commissioned by Julius II in
1506 and completed in 1615. Michaelangelo’s Pietà is located in this church.
ANSWER: St. Peter’s Basilica
2. After her defeat by Suetonius Paulinus, she is believed to have killed herself to avoid capture. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Queen of the Iceni peoples. She led a rebellion in Wales against Roman forces before
destroying London and St. Albans.
ANSWER: Boudicca [or Boadicea]
[10] This successor to Caligula appointed Aulus Plautiusas to finish the subjugation of Britain, which
would lead to Boudicca’s revolt.
ANSWER: Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
[10] This other female leader of a revolt against Rome was a supposed descendant of Cleopatra. During
the third century, she got her capital of Palmyra burned for her trouble.
ANSWER: Zenobia
3. The free energy of a gas is equal to its standard free energy when this quantity equals one. For 10
points each:
[10] Give the term for the tendency of a substance to leave its current phase.
ANSWER: fugacity
[10] For an ideal gas, the fugacity is equal to this quantity, often measured in units like atmospheres,
torr, and millimeters of mercury.
ANSWER: partial pressure
[10] This man’s namesake law of partial pressures states that the total pressure of a mixture of gases is
equal to the sum of the partial pressures of each individual component.
ANSWER: John Dalton
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 6 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. As penance, Apollo was forced to serve this man for a period. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king who learned of his imminent death but was able to avoid it by having his wife
Alcestis die in his place.
ANSWER: Admetus
[10] This friend of Admetus rescued Alcestis from death. More notably, he killed the Nemean Lion and
cleaned the Augean stables as part of his twelve labors.
ANSWER: Heracles [or Hercules]
[10] Apollo was serving Admetus for killing the Cyclopses, who made a thunderbolt used to kill this son
of Apollo, who was known for being a great healer.
ANSWER: Aesclepius
5. This composer showed his appreciation for ragtime in “Golliwog’s Cakewalk,” which appears in his
piano suite Children’s Corner. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French Impressionist whose other works for piano include L’Isle joyeuse, two arabesques,
and Suite bergamasque.
ANSWER: Claude Debussy
[10] This third movement of Claude Debussy’s Suite bergamasque begins with the notes F - E-flat - F. It
shares its title with a Paul Verlaine poem and literally means “moonlight.”
ANSWER: “Clair de lune”
[10] Works by this other Impressionist include the Dolly Suite and the orchestral suite Masques et
bergamasques. His 1888 Requiem is noted for its “Pie Jesu” movement.
ANSWER: Gabriel Fauré
6. The U. S. Navy Department ruled that a mine had been placed under it, although Hyman Rickover
claimed the wreckage was caused by coal combustion. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this boat that was sunk in Havana harbor in 1898 after being sent to protect American
citizens visiting Cuba. That event precipitated the Spanish-American War.
ANSWER: United States Service Maine
[10] During the battle of Santiago, Leonard Wood’s Rough Riders captured this ridge across a valley from
Kettle Hill. Its highest point, which they also fought on, shares its name.
ANSWER: San Juan
[10] This future president resigned as assistant secretary of the Navy to become second-in-command of
the Rough Riders. He later succeeded the assassinated William McKinley.
ANSWER: Theodore Roosevelt

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 7 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. The first legged creatures evolved during this period. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this period, often known as the “age of fishes,” that followed the Silurian period.
ANSWER: the Devonian period
[10] The Silurian and Devonian periods are subdivisions of this geologic era that ended with the Permian
extinction.
ANSWER: the Paleozoic era
[10] The first period of the Mesozoic was this one that saw the emergence of the dinosaurs before giving
way to the Jurassic.
ANSWER: the Triassic period
8. These works are what provide for the “well-trod path” of Sunnah, which is a legalist precedent for
practitioners of a Middle Eastern religion. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these statements that were collected in al-Bukhari’s Jamal as Sahih.
ANSWER: hadiths
[10] The hadiths are often used to rule in the legality of religious matters that were not discussed in this
collection of 114 suras, like “The Cow,” that were revealed by the angel Gabriel.
ANSWER: Qu’ran
[10] The hadiths were statements by this man, who was shown the Qu’ran by Gabriel, and who traveled
to the seventh heaven. He became the founder of Islam.
ANSWER: Abu al-Qasim Mohammad ibn Abd Allah ibn Abd al-Muttalib ibn Hashim; or Mahomet]
9. This painting shows Aristotle conversing with Plato and Hypatia looking over someone’s shoulder. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this massive painting that sits across from The Disputation of the Sacrament in the Stanza
della Segnatura.
ANSWER: The School of Athens [or Scuola di Atene]
[10] This Italian Renaissance artist painted The School of Athens.
ANSWER: Raphael Sanzio [or Raffaello Santi]
[10] One work by Raphael is entitled The Expulsion of [this figure] from the Temple. This statesman
murdered King Seleucus IV, but failed to ultimately usurp the throne.
ANSWER: Heliodorus

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 8 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. He wrote about “Hebrews in their graves” in “The Jewish Cemetery at Newport.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this New England poet of “Evangeline” and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
[10] The title Indian chief of this Longfellow poem lives “by the shores of Gitchee Gumee” and fights a
giant sturgeon.
ANSWER: The Song of Hiawatha
[10] This wife of Hiawatha dies of fever during a harsh winter.
ANSWER: Minnehaha
11. While not aiding the Holy Roman Empire, he agreed to the Truce of Ratisbon in order to simplify the
War of the Holy League. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Bourbon ruler of seventeenth-century France.
ANSWER: Louis XIV
[10] Louis XIV built this giant palace outside of Paris.
ANSWER: Versailles
[10] This attempt at checking the king’s power began with a rejection of Anne of Austria’s attempts to
raise money while the army was off fighting the Thirty Years War.
ANSWER: Fronde
12. These elements have seven valence electrons and react with hydrogen to form a series of binary
acids. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these nonmetallic group 17 elements that include astatine, iodine, and bromide.
ANSWER: halogens
[10] Also known as freons, this class of halogen-containing compounds was used in refrigerants and
aerosol-spray propellants before being linked to ozone layer depletion.
ANSWER: chlorofluorocarbons [or CFCs]
[10] Organic compounds that contain halogens can be created by this process, which is initiated when
light triggers the breakdown of halogen gas into atoms possessing an unpaired electron.
ANSWER: free radical halogenation

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 9 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This sitcom made frequent references to a more urbane neighboring town known as Mount Pilot.
For 10 points each:
[10] Barney Fife and Aunt Bee are among the characters on what show that featured a man who starred
as a Georgia murderer opposite Johnny Cash in the 1983 TV film Murder in Coweta County?
ANSWER: The Andy Griffith Show
[10] The Andy Griffith Show was a spinoff of this man’s namesake show, which was sometimes called
Make Room for Daddy. He also founded the American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities and St. Jude
Children’s Hospital.
ANSWER: Danny Thomas [accept either]
[10] Played by Howard McNear, this barber on the Andy Griffith show was known for not being able to
trim sideburns evenly and for his incredibly mellow voice. Eddie Murphy played this character in a classic
Saturday Night Live skit.
ANSWER: Floyd Lawson [accept either name]
14. Along with the poet Thomas Watson, this man was arrested for his part in the death of William
Bradley, and he produced the plays The Massacre at Paris and Tamburlaine. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British dramatist who depicted the destruction of a Turkish barracks through the
machinations of Barabas, the titular Jew of Malta.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
[10] This unfinished Marlowe mythological poem recounts the tale of two lovers from Abydos and
Sestos who are separated by Neptune’s might.
ANSWER: “Hero and Leander”
[10] In this Marlowe play, the titular figure abandons his studies in the opening soliloquy and consults
the magicians Valdes and Cornelius, who help him to conjure Mephastophilis.
ANSWER: Doctor Faustus
15. She compared the Zuni, Kwakiutl, and Dobu cultures in her book Patterns of Culture. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this anthropologist whose other works include Tales of the Cochiti Indians and The Concept
of the Guardian Spirit in North America.
ANSWER: Ruth Benedict
[10] While working with the Office of War Information, Ruth Benedict studied the culture of this nation,
and she contrasted two characteristics of this nation’s culture in her book The Chrysanthemum and the
Sword.
ANSWER: Japan
[10] Benedict was a student of this man, the author of The Mind of Primitive Man, who developed the
four-field approach to anthropology that stressed the studies of evolution, archaeology, language, and
culture.
ANSWER: Franz Boas

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 10 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. Name these vitamin deficiency diseases, for 10 points each.
[10] Sailors commonly developed this disease, whose symptoms include bloody gums and pinpoint
hemorrhages, due to low consumption of vitamin C.
ANSWER: scurvy
[10] The “wet” type of this disease is characterized by heart failure, and the “dry” type includes paralysis
and weight loss. It is caused by a thiamine deficiency.
ANSWER: beriberi
[10] This disease results from vitamin D deficiency in children. Children suffering from it have bowed
legs and poor teeth, as well as low blood calcium.
ANSWER: rickets
17. Identify the following about famous frauds, for 10 points each.
[10] Some Russians engineered this fake document “discovering” a plot by the titular group of Jews to
take over the world. It is often traced back to a 1864 work by Maurice Joly.
ANSWER: Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion [or The Jewish Peril]
[10] This mixture of human cranium and orangutan jaw was “discovered” in England by Charles Dawson
in 1912 and falsely identified as a species of extinct hominid.
ANSWER: Piltdown Man [or Dawson’s Dawn Man; or Eoanthropus dawsoni]
[10] The 1810 case of Fletcher v. Peck addressed the ongoing scandal over the Yazoo land fraud, a
bribery scheme involving the legislature of this state, the home of Stone Mountain.
ANSWER: Georgia
18. Three novellas comprise his posthumously published Islands in the Stream, and his play The Fifth
Column was set in beseiged Spain. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who wrote of a novelist named Harry who is dying of gangrene while on an
African safari in The Snows of Kilimanjaro.
ANSWER: Ernest Hemingway
[10] This Hemingway novel, which centers on members of the Lost Generation, features the impotent
Jake Barnes pines for Lady Brett Ashley, who is betrothed to Mike Campbell.
ANSWER: The Sun Also Rises
[10] This character is featured in many Hemingway stories, including “Indian Camp” and one in which
the title characters seek out a boxer named Anderson, “The Killers.”
ANSWER: Nick Adams [accept either]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 11 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. For 10 points each, identify some geographical features of East Asia.
[10] The Khan Tangiri Peak of this range lies north of the Kunlun Mountains and the Takla Makan Desert
located here is the highest point in Kazakhstan.
ANSWER: Tian Shan Mountains [or T’ien Shan; or Tyan Shan]
[10] While the Hami one lies east of the range, the Tian Shan Mountains are bordered to the north by
the Junggar one of these lowland features and to the south by the Tarim, or Talimu, one.
ANSWER: Basin
[10] Consisting of Dzungarian, Ka-shun and Trans-Altai sections, this “waterless” area lies to the east of
the Junggar Basin and to the north of the Tian Shan Mountains.
ANSWER: Gobi Desert
20. He worked as a diamond merchant in Paris, and after his wife dies along with Damon Wildeve, he
goes blind and becomes a preacher. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who marries Eustachia Vye after his homecoming to Egdon Heath.
ANSWER: Clym Yeobright [accept either]
[10] Clym Yeobright was created by this novelist. His other works include one about Gabriel Oak titled
Far From the Madding Crowd, as well as Tess of the D’Urbervilles.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy
[10] Clym Yeobright is the main character in this novel by Hardy, which begins on Guy Fawkes Day and
also features Thomasin, who eventually marries Diggory Venn.
ANSWER: The Return of the Native
21. Its name is from the Spanish for “cottonwood,” and it is all that is left of the mission of San Antonio
de Valero. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this site of an eleven-day siege at the beginning of the Texan War of Independence, during
which Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie died.
ANSWER: Alamo
[10] The Mexican army that was victorious at the Alamo was led by this one-legged general. He later led
Mexico against the U. S. during the Mexican-American War.
ANSWER: Antonio López de Santa Anna
[10] Santa Anna was captured during this final battle of the Texas Revolution, which was fought on April
21, 1836 and lasted less than twenty minutes.
ANSWER: Battle of San Jacinto

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 12 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

22. His possessions include the horn Oliphant and the sword Durandal. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who is assigned to defend the pass of Roncevalles against 400,000 Saracens.
ANSWER: Roland [or Orlando]
[10] This prudent friend and foil to Roland finally convinces him to use Oliphant to call for
Charlemagne’s army.
ANSWER: Olivier
[10] Roland is the title character of one of this type of work. It is a seven-letter French word that literally
means “song.” The “de geste” type often details heroic deeds.
ANSWER: chanson
23. This molecule is formed as an intermediate in the metabolism of tyrosine, and it can be converted to
norepinephrine by a namesake beta-hydroxylase. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this neurotransmitter that inhibits nerve impulses in the substantia nigra and basal ganglia of
the brain.
ANSWER: dopamine [or hydroxytryamine]
[10] A decrease of dopamine levels in the brain has been associated with this neurological disorder,
which is characterized by bradykinesia, rigidity, and tremors.
ANSWER: Parkinson’s disease [or paralysis agitans; or idiopathic parkinsonism]
[10] Dopamine regulates the synthesis of this second messenger, which controls calcium and potassium
channels in the postsynaptic membrane. It is a derivative of adenosine triphosphate.
ANSWER: cyclic AMP [or cAMP; or cyclic adenosine monophosphate]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 4

Page 13 of 13

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

