Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 2
Tossups

1. This actor starred with Richard Burton in Where Eagles Dare, and he portrayed Frank Morris in
Escape from Alcatraz. In one film he tracks down the serial killer Scorpio, while in another his character
splits Bill Carson’s gold with Tuco after killing Angel Eyes. In addition to appearing in Dirty Harry as the
title role and The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly as the Man with No Name, he has directed films like
Mystic River and Million Dollar Baby. For 10 points, name this iconic star of spaghetti westerns.
ANSWER: Clint Eastwood
2. In plants, it serves as a micronutrient, influences calcium ion utilization, and allows root tips to
elongate. This element's ability to absorb neutrons led it to be used in the control rods of nuclear
reactors. Involved in a common anti-Markovnikov reaction, this element is commonly found in banana
bonds and is a notable exception to the octet rule. Together with its silicate, it is found in Pyrex
glassware. The lighest element with a 2p electron, it is located above aluminum on the period table. For
10 points, name this element with atomic weight 10.81 and atomic number 5.
ANSWER: boron
3. His “The Edge of the Sword” was a collection of his lectures on leadership, and the Secret Army
Organization formed in Algeria to oppose his policies. President Rene Coty threatened to resign if this
man was not made prime minister, and earlier he had served as undersecretary of defense and war in
Paul Reynaud’s cabinet. An opponent of the Maginot line, he took power in a government that arose
from the loss at Dien Bien Phu. For 10 points, name this French president of the fifth republic who had
earlier led the Free French in exile during World War Two.
ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle
4. In one of his plays, the visit of their friends Harry and Edna and their daughter Julia damages Agnes
and Tobias’s attempts to maintain the title condition. In another play, Nancy and Charlie are revitalized
after meeting a lizard couple at a beach. Another of his plays was recently expanded to two acts and
renamed Peter and Jerry, and in his most famous play George and Martha invent a dead son during a
visit by Nick and Honey. For 10 points, name this American playwright of A Delicate Balance, Seascape,
The Zoo Story, and Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
ANSWER: Edward Franklin Albee III
5. This man was victorious in the Third Mithradatic War, and he ended the revolt of Quintus Sertorious
with the help of Metellus Pius, whose son would later fight for him at Thapsus. His sons were defeated
at Munda, after which his son Sextus became a pirate, and he helped end the revolt of Spartacus. He
was ultimately assassinated when attempting to flee to Egypt after his defeat at Pharsalus. For 10
points, name this man who lost a civil war to Julius Caesar, and who with Caesar and Crassus formed
the First Triumvirate.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This man sculpted Cerberus standing behind Pluto holding the title figure in his Rape of Proserpina,
and his David is bent over loading his sling. In one sculpture he showed three generations of men, while
in another a figure turns into a laurel tree. In addition to Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius and Apollo and
Daphne, he sculpted a work in the Cornaro chapel showing an angel about to stab a saint with an
arrow. For 10 points, name this designer of the St. Peter's Piazza and sculptor of The Ecstasy of St.
Theresa.
ANSWER: Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini
7. In one of this man’s plays, Neoptolemus and Odysseus try to bring the title character and the bow of
Heracles back to the Trojan War and the title character of another play is angered at not receiving
Achilles’s armor. In addition to Philoctetes and Ajax, this man wrote a play about the daughter of
Agamemnon and a trilogy of Theban plays that ends at Colonus. For 10 points, name this ancient Greek
playwright who wrote tragedies about Antigone and her father Oedipus.
ANSWER: Sophocles
8. The fourth movement of this composer’s fourth quartet is entirely pizzicato. An implied fourmovement structure may exist in his Cantata Profana, and he used a fugal theme in his Music for
Strings, Percussion, and Celesta. His 153 introductory works like “Six Dances in Bulgarian Rhythm” are
found in Mikrokosmos, and this composer of a Concerto For Orchestra wrote a pantomime named The
Miraculous Mandarin. For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer who often used folksongs in works
like Duke Bluebeard’s Castle.
ANSWER: Bela Bartok [or Bartok Bela]
9. This man worked with Abd al-Hakim Amir and Zakaria Mohieddine to create the Free Officers
movement, and he fought in the Faluja Pocket during the 1948 Arab War. When the Free Officers took
control, this man made Muhammad Naguid the head of state before deposing him, and later he
worked to create the United Arab Republic, which became a union with Syria. After an assassination
attempt, he cracked down on the Muslim Brotherhood, and caused a crisis when he nationalized the
Suez Canal in 1956. For 10 points, name this secular leader of Egypt.
ANSWER: Gamal Abdel Nasser [or Jamal Abd al-Nasir]
10. Cowan and Reines first provided experimental evidence for these particles in the Spectre Project.
They are observed at Sudbury via the Cherenkov radiation they cause when they interact. They were
found to oscillate between their three varieties at the Super-Kamiokande observatory, and these
particles have very small mass and rarely interact with matter. For 10 points, name these particles that
come in electron, muon, and tau varieties, and are leptons with no charge.
ANSWER: neutrinos
11. One of these works begins “ 'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed,” and laments “All men are bad
and in their badness reign.” One of them asserts that “love is not love / which alters when it alteration
finds,” while another describes “bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.” Another begins
“My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun,” while yet another asks “Shall I compare thee to a
summer's day?” For 10 points, name this group of fourteen-line poems by the author of King John,
Cymbeline, and Macbeth.
ANSWER: William Shakespeare's sonnets [prompt on sonnets; prompt on poems by Shakespeare;
prompt on any other reasonable answers that do not specify both Shakespeare and sonnets]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. The breakaway republic of Puntland is located in this country and has a capital at Garowe. The
Jubba River empties into the Indian Ocean near its third largest city, Kisimayo, and access over the
grazing areas of the Haud region has sparked a conflict between it and its western neighbor. This is the
most eastern country on the African continent through which the equator passes, and its transitional
government currently convenes in Baidoa. For 10 points, identify this war-torn country on the Horn of
Africa with its capital at Mogadishu.
ANSWER: Somalia [or Somali Republic]
13. One author who wrote in this language parodied Don Quixote in The Brief Travels of Benjamin the
Third. Short stories written in this language include “Bontsche the Silent” and one about a baker who is
tempted by the Spirit of Evil to include urine in loaves of bread, but later buries them. The language of
the novel Satan in Goray and the short story “Gimpel the Fool,” it was also used in works about
Anatevka and the dairyman Tevye. For 10 points, name this language used by Sholom Aleichem and
Isaac Bashevis Singer, a combination of German and Hebrew.
ANSWER: Yiddish
14. In Aborigine myth, this event began due to the laughing of a frog, and in Irish myth, Cessair was
killed by one of these. In Norse mythology, one of these created by Vili, Ve, and Odin killed all but the
frost giant Bergelmir. This type of event was survived by Manu in Hinduism and Pyrrha and Deucalion in
Greek mythology. For 10 points, name these mythological catastrophes, whose Biblical variety lasted
forty days and was survived by Noah.
ANSWER: floods [or deluges or other equivalents]
15. The fully capitalized phrase “HURRY UP PLEASE IT’S TIME” appears five times in this poem, and near
the end the poet warns that “London Bridge is falling.” In its first section, the poet claims he will “show
you fear in a handful of dust” and discusses a woman with a “wicked pack of cards,” who is described
as a “famous clairvoyant” with the name Madame Sosostris. This poem ends with the phrase “Shantih
Shantih Shantih” and is divided into five sections, including “A Game of Chess” and “What the Thunder
Said.” For 10 points, name this poem by T. S. Eliot.
ANSWER: "The Waste Land"
16. One protein involved in this process protects Rec8 from being improperly cleaved, and in yeast the
gene MAM1 codes for the protein monopolin, which is necessary for the formation of a specialized
kinetochore in this process. In yeast, Ime2 fools the cell into DNA replication at its first step, resulting in
4n chromosomes; and in female humans this process results in one oocyte and three polar bodies. For
10 points, name this process of producing haploid cells, which takes twice as many steps as mitosis.
ANSWER: meiosis [accept meiosis I before “oocyte”]
17. This man first distinguished between descriptive and prescriptive statements and elucidated the isought problem. He defined a miracle as “a transgression of a law of nature… by the interposition of
some invisible agent” and wrote a systematic criticism of the design argument in Dialogues Concerning
Natural Religion. He wrote Four Dissertations and argued that morals are founded in sentiment, but his
best known work awoke Kant from his “dogmatic slumber”. For 10 points, name this Scottish
philosopher, author of An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: David Hume

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. This author pointed to the universality of the title phenomenon to claim it is functional and
necessary in On the Normality of Crime. He used the beliefs of Aboriginal tribes to classify totemism as
a type of religion and another of his works looks at how the title specialization affects capitalist
societies. His most famous work looks at egoistic, altruistic, fatalistic, and anomic varieties of the title
phenomenon. For 10 points, name this author of The Elementary Forms of Religious Life and The
Division of Labour in Society, the French sociologist author of Suicide.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim
19. Its namesake parameter is multiplied by meridional distance in the Sverdrup balance, and it is a
dominating force in the Ekman layer. It is an alternate name of the mass flow meter and causes the
barotropic and baroclinic differentiation of the Rossby waves. The misconception that a bathtub drains
different ways in different hemispheres is often attributed to it, and this effect can be observed
indirectly through Foucault’s pendulum. Introduced along with the centrifugal force in rotating frames
of reference, for 10 points, name this fictitious deflection of moving entities.
ANSWER: Coriolis effect
20. This figure is entering through a door at the back while a man in a bed is offered a bag of gold in
Hieronymus Bosch’s depiction of this figure and The Miser. Albert Pinkham Ryder depicted this figure in
The Race Track, and Brueghel the Elder painted this figure’s Triumph. He holds an hourglass in a work
showing him along with a Knight and the Devil by Durer, who also depicted him on an emaciated horse.
For 10 points, name this figure appearing with War, Pestilence, and Famine in Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse.
ANSWER: Death
21. Differential equations of the form x squared y double prime plus b x y prime plus c y equals zero are
named after Cauchy and this man. All polyhedrons are defined as having a characteristic named after
this man equal to two, and a line named after him contains the orthocenter, circumcenter, and
centroid of a triangle. This man’s formula is often used in conjunction with De Moivre’s Theorem and
states that cis x equals e to the i x. For 10 points, name this Swiss mathematician who lends his name to
that transcendental constant, e.
ANSWER: Leonard Euler
22. He proposed an amendment to the constitution making every child born after July 4, 1842 free, and
banning new slave states in the Union that was quashed by the Gag Rules. He argued the Amistad case
in front of the Supreme Court, and he had earlier negotiated a treaty giving the U.S. Florida along with
Louis de Onis. Henry Clay supported this man in return for becoming secretary to determine the
election of 1824 despite Andrew Jackson having more electoral votes. For 10 points, name this sixth
president of the United States, son of another President.
ANSWER: John Quincy Adams
23. This nation concluded a treaty with envoy John Methuen in 1703 that became the basis for its trade
with England. The War of the Two Brothers in this nation led to the exile of Prince Michael, and Amnesty
International was formed in response to the actions of this nation's dictator Antonio Salazar. This
country decolonized Cape Verde and Mozambique in 1975, and its ruling houses included the Aviz and
Braganzas. For 10 points, name this Iberian nation, the home of Prince Henry the Navigator.
ANSWER: Portugal

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 2
Bonuses

1. The protagonist eventually marries the uneducated Freddy Hill. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which Henry Higgins bets Colonel Pickering that he can reform the speech of the
cockney Eliza Doolittle.
ANSWER: Pygmalion
[10] Pygmalion was written by this Irish playwright of John Bull’s Other Island and The Arms and the
Man.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] In this Shaw play, Vivie is shocked to learn that her mother Kitty is the Madam of a brothel.
ANSWER: Mrs. Warren’s Profession
2. This goddess’s symbol is a mirror. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Shinto sun goddess who was born from Izanagi’s left eye.
ANSWER: Amaterasu-omikami [or Ohiru-menomuchi-no-kami]
[10] This mean-spirited brother of Amaterasu, the god of seas and storms, once threw a flayed horse
into Amaterasu’s temple, causing her to hide away.
ANSWER: Susano’o [or Susanowo; or Susa-no-O-no-Mikoto]
[10] Amaterasu hid away in one of these dark and dank areas, which where the primary worship sites
for the Mithraic cult of Sol Invictus in the Roman empire.
ANSWER: caves [or caverns; or other clear equivalents]
3. He faced a revolt led by charioteers in the Nika riots, and he married the actress Theodora. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this ruler probably most famous for codifying Roman law in the Corpus Juris Civilis, generally
known as his namesake code.
ANSWER: Justinian I [or Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Justinianus]
[10] Justinian was a ruler of this empire, the successor of the Eastern Roman Empire, centered in
Constantinople.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire
[10] Justinian reconquered much of the old Roman Empire under this general of his, who, with Narses
and Mundus, put down the Nika riots.
ANSWER: Belisarius

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. He introduced bills for a permanent road system and wrote anonymous autobiographies to try and
convince people to vote for him when he ran for president. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who resigned the vice presidency after a social boycotting of Peggy Eaton.
ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun
[10] Calhoun had been serving as vice president to this man, who issued the specie circular and worked
to end the charter of the second bank of the United States as the Seventh president.
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
[10] Calhoun also wrote the South Carolina Exposition and Protest, which helped to set off this crisis in
which some states claimed the ability to abrogate federal laws.
ANSWER: The Nullification Crisis [accept word forms]
5. In an October 2008 testimony in Congress, this man admitted to “errors” in his view of regulation of
free markets. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this man, who coined the term “irrational exuberance” to describe the 1990s stock market
boom, who is being called the source of the current economic woes.
ANSWER: Alan Greenspan
[10] This man was appointed the chairman of the Fed after Greenspan’s term ended in 2006.
ANSWER: Ben Shalom Bernanke
[10] This man, an ex Federal Reserve chairman in the early 80s, chastised Bernanke’s handling of the
Bear Stearns bailout and stepping on “the very edge” of his authority.
ANSWER: Paul Adolph Volcker
6. It was initially rejected by Denmark, and it introduced the Euro. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1991 treaty that created the European Union, named for the Dutch city where it was
ratified.
ANSWER: Maastricht Treaty
[10] The EU had its origins in this 1952 organization, in which five western European nations agreed to
the Schumann Plan for the administration of the two namesake resources.
ANSWER: European Coal and Steel Community
[10] The European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community were ratified by two
agreements signed in this city in March of 1957.
ANSWER: Rome
7. Name these organelles, for 10 points each.
[10] This organelle malfunctions in Zellweger syndrome. They have a crystalline core and rid the cell of
a certain toxic chemical.
ANSWER: peroxisomes
[10] Rough endoplasmic reticulum has these organelles attached. They are the site of RNA translation
and protein synthesis.
ANSWER: ribosomes
[10] Many freshwater organisms, like Paramecium, regulate their internal pressure using this type of
vacuole, which pumps out unwanted water from the cell. Without them, they’d explode!
ANSWER: contractile vacuoles

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Among this city’s newest real estate attractions include the Palm Islands. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this city which is home to magnificent hotels like the Burj al Arab, and is the largest in the
United Arab Emirates.
ANSWER: Dubai
[10] The Portuguese era forts of Jalali and Merani are situated in this city. Located on the Gulf of Oman,
this city is the capital of Oman.
ANSWER: Muscat
[10] The Strait of Hormuz separates the Gulf of Oman from this other body of water. The Tigris and
Euphrates both flow into it and it borders Saudi Arabia, Iran, and Iraq.
ANSWER: Persian Gulf
9. An ill-intentioned attempt to destroy the wolf population at the Kaibab reserve caused another
species to substantially violate it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this term referring to the supportable population of any environment for an organism given
the food, habitat, water, presence of predators, and other biotic and abiotic factors.
ANSWER: carrying capacity
[10] The carrying capacity corresponds to leveling off in this population model colloquially known as an
“S curve”. The time is raised to a negative exponent in its denominator.
ANSWER: logistic function [or logistic curve]
[10] Another important model in ecology is this doubly eponymous one, which shows that allele
frequencies in populations remain constant barring specific disturbing influences.
ANSWER: Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium [or Hardy-Weinberg principle; or Hardy-Weinberg equation; or
Hardy-Weinberg model]
10. It was used by Millikan to measure the charge on an electron. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this effect by which electromagnetic waves with energy above the work function of the
metal surface cause the emission of an electron from the surface.
ANSWER: photoelectric effect
[10] The photoelectric effect was first discovered by this German physicist who lends his name to the
unit of frequency.
ANSWER: Heinrich Hertz
[10] Einstein’s work on photoelectric effect gave an independent measurement of this constant earlier
obtained by its namesake through his work on blackbody radiation. It is symbolized h.
ANSWER: Planck’s constant
11. This author wrote about a one hundred twenty thousand foot tall alien supergenius in Micromegas.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this eighteenth century author of Zadig and Zaire.
ANSWER: Voltaire [or Francois-Marie Arouet]
[10] The title character of this short novel by Voltaire believes in Dr. Pangloss' saying “all is for the best
in this best of all possible worlds” until a series of disasters befall him.
ANSWER: Candide, or Optimism
[10] Candide is evicted from the castle of Baron Thunder-ten-tronckh for kissing this girl, who later
marries him after losing her beauty.
ANSWER: Cunégonde

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. The Diet Coke and Mentos “experiment” is an extreme form of it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phenomenon in which a solution contains more solute that can be dissolved, which
explains how rock candy and carbonated beverages are made.
ANSWER: supersaturation [accept word forms]
[10] This condition occurs when divers ascend too quickly and when a high-flying airplane fails to
pressurize its cabins. It is explained by supersaturated nitrogen gas rapidly bubbling.
ANSWER: decompression sickness
[10] Often, supersaturation results in the formation of this solid, which lies below a thick layer of
supernatant. Insoluble compounds like silver chloride will form this rather than remain aqueous.
ANSWER: precipitate
13. The chief artist of this religious work was assisted by his brother Hubert. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this altarpiece, also known as the Adoration of the Lamb, which shows God in a large crown
at the top and was painted for a Flemish cathedral.
ANSWER: the Ghent Altarpiece
[10] This Northern Renaissance painter of a self-portrait in a red turban and the Madonna with
Chancellor Rolin completed the Ghent Altarpiece.
ANSWER: Jan van Eyck
[10] A woman in green clutching her dress to her stomach and a man in a large black hat stand around
such symbols as a dog and a mirror in this van Eyck painting of a couple.
ANSWER: The Arnolfini Wedding [or The Arnolfini Marriage; or Giovanni Arnolfini and His Bride; or
anything with “Arnolfini” and a word suggestive of marriage in it]
14. In one novel set in this country Lorenzo’s wedding with Lucia is interrupted by Don Rodrigo and the
title of another work set here refers to the animal on the Tomasi Crest. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country where Manzoni’s The Betrothed and Lampedusa’s The Leopard are set.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italia]
[10] This 1997 Nobel Prize winning Italian author of Trumpets and Raspberries included a Maniac in his
Accidental Death of an Anarchist.
ANSWER: Dario Fo
[10] Fo employs many characters from this Italian theatre tradition whose stock characters include
Scaramouche and Harlequin.
ANSWER: Commedia dell'Arte [or Comedy of Artists]
15. Identify these creations of the author of The Last Tycoon and “Bernice Bobs Her Hair,” F. Scott
Fitzgerald, for 10 points each.
[10] This novel, about the title character named Jay, also includes the cheating Jordan and Nick
Carraway, who narrates the novel.
ANSWER: The Great Gatsby
[10] Another character in The Great Gatsby is this woman, with whom Gatsby falls in love. She’s Nick
Carraway’s cousin.
ANSWER: Daisy Buchanan
[10] Fitzgerald also wrote this novel about Dick Diver and his wife and patient Nicole.
ANSWER: Tender is the Night

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. This area has an inner region named after Hills. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this “cloud,” theorized to exist beyond Neptune, that is the probably source of long-period
comets.
ANSWER: the Oort Cloud [or Opik-Oort Cloud; or Oort-Opik Cloud]
[10] The Oort Cloud is theorized to extend nearly a quarter of the way from the Solar System to
Proxima, an object in this closest star system to the sun.
ANSWER: Alpha Centauri [or Proxima Centauri; or Rigel Kantaurus; or Rigel Kent; or Toliman]
[10] Alpha Centauri has a high proper motion, but not as high as this red dwarf in Ophiuchus, which has
the highest proper motion of all observable stars and is named for an American.
ANSWER: Barnard’s Star
17. Name these Japanese authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This author wrote about Ryuji in The Sailor who fell from Grace with the Sea and of Mizoguchi, who
burns down the title structure in his The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [accept in either order]
[10] Yukio is a sickly character in this author’s Snow Country. He also wrote The Sound of the Mountain
and Thousand Cranes.
ANSWER: Yasunari Kawabata [accept in either order]
[10] This author wrote works inspired by his disabled son in Aghwee the Sky Monster and A Personal
Matter in addition to a novel about two brothers who return to Okubo in The Silent Cry.
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe [accept in either order]
18. These composers all wrote in a form that includes the hymn “Lux Aeterna.” For 10 points each,
name these composers of requiems.
[10] This man included a Pie Jesu movement in his requiem, which combines the Introit and Kyrie and is
missing the Sequence. The only violinist in it appears in the Sanctus.
ANSWER: Gabriel Faure
[10] This man composed the Manzoni Requiem that includes brass instruments playing in multiple
locations at the beginning of the Tuba Mirum. He also wrote The Troubadours.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Verdi
[10] This child prodigy from Salzburg died before finishing his requiem, which was completed by Franz
Sussmayr. He also wrote Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
19. Elements of this holiday include the eating of apples dipped in honey and the blowing of the shofar.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this observance, which begins the High Holy Days and takes place on the new year’s day of
the Jewish calendar.
ANSWER: Rosh Hashanah
[10] The High Holy Days, which culminate in Yom Kippur, last this many days in all.
ANSWER: ten
[10] Rosh Hashanah takes place on the first of this month of the Jewish calendar. Sukkot starts on its
fifteenth day.
ANSWER: Tishre [or Tishrai]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. He was admired for his campaign to expel the barbarians from Thracian Chersonese. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this leader of Athens, who led Athens against Sparta in the Peloponnesian war before dying
of a plague.
ANSWER: Pericles
[10] Athens led this organization, formed in response to a Persian invasion. Sparta rivaled it with the
creation of their Peloponnesian league, which increased tensions.
ANSWER: Delian League
[10] Knowledge of Pericles comes from the work of this author of the History of the Peloponnesian War.
He shares his name with a politician Pericles ostracized.
ANSWER: Thucydides
21. The detective novels of Muhammed Said Abdulla and the poetry of Shaaban Robert turned this into
a literary language in the 1960s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this language, the primary tongue in Tanzania and a widely used lingua franca in Kenya and
Congo, which evolved from the interaction of Arabic and eastern African tongues.
ANSWER: ki-Swahili
[10] Along with other Bantu languages such as Zulu and Shona, Swahili is a member of this language
family that predominates in Western and Southern Africa and is named for two rivers.
ANSWER: Niger-Congo
[10] Swahili is the only language of African origin used as an official tongue by this organization, whose
current chair is Jakaya Kikwete of Tanzania.
ANSWER: the African Union
22. Canio sings the aria “Vesti la Giubba” after he discovers his wife Nedda cheating on him. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Ruggero Leoncavallo opera about a sad clown.
ANSWER: Pagliacci
[10] Pagliachi was composed in this operatic style favored by Mascagni and Puccini. It takes its name
from the Italian for “truth.”
ANSWER: verismo
[10] Leoncavallo’s contemporary Mascagni gained fame for his opera titled after the “rustic” type of
this. This type of code kept medieval knights honest.
ANSWER: chivalry

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 2

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

