TOSSUP 1
Just before slipping into a coma, the victim recalls the first letter of the license plate of the main
character’s Mercedes Benz. The incident, which had the main character’s wife Maria Ruskin
behind the wheel, ruins his career. Intended to be a satire on 1980’s New York City, the novel
features Sherman McCoy as the protagonist. FTP name this best-selling, 1987 work written by
Tom Wolfe.
The Bonfire Of The Vanities
BONUS 1
FTPE name these other novels by Tom Wolfe.
10:

This 1979 book tells the story of the first seven astronauts selected by
NASA.
The Right Stuff

10:

This novel follows Ken Kesey as he takes a roadtrip across the United
States in a painted school bus.
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test

10:

Taking place in the fictional Dupont University, this work focuses on
sexual relationships of students who go there.
I Am Charlotte Simmons

TOSSUP 2
During its third season, model Jia Santos was forced to leave the competition after a bicycle
accident and Keith Michael became the first contestant to be eliminated for rule violations. The
show has many catchphrases such as Make it work, Carry on, and Auf Wiedersehen. FTP, name
this Bravo reality show featuring hostess and model Heidi Klum and design mentor Tim Gunn.
Project Runway
BONUS 2
FTPE, Name these other Bravo television shows:
10:

It is filmed at Pace University and hosted by James Lipton
Inside The Actor’s Studio

10:

Contestants compete in two cooking challenges per episode
Top Chef

10:

Reality show revolving around a comedienne whose act focuses on stories about celebrities
Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List

TOSSUP 3
Traditionally used on electric oven hardware for its electrical insulate at higher temperatures and
in buildings as flame-retardant, it has largely been replaced with fiberglass. It is resistant to fire
and heat and includesthe group of fibrous magnesium silicate compounds. For ten points, name
thismineral, Greek for ”not extinguishable” which may cause lung cancer if inhaled.
Asbestos

1

BONUS 3
FTPE, name these other magnesium minerals:
10:

This wide solid mineral is used to preserve and deacidify paper, including the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. Its
empirical formula is MgO.
Magnesium Oxide

10:

It is the white powder used by cooks to prevent salt from cakingand
by gymnasts with an empirical formula of MgCO3.
Magnesium Carbonate

10:

All magnesium compounds and minerals are categorized under this
name.
Alkaline earth metal

TOSSUP 4
It affects the movement of air masses and without it air would rush into a region of low pressure.
It exists only when a rotating reference frame is chosen, but can be described using the law of
inertia. This force causes cyclones to rotate counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and
clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. FTP, name this pseudoforce which causes a falling body
dropped from a height to hit a point slightly east of the release point.
Coriolis effect
BONUS 4
Name these things about the Coriolis effect FTPE.
10:

When balanced with the pressure gradient, the Coriolis effect produces
this.
Geostrophic winds

10:

Geostrophic winds can be found in this layer of the atmosphere.
Troposphere

10:

It is a result of the Coriolis effect that causes planes moving east to
feel lighter and planes moving west to feel heavier.
Eotvos effect

TOSSUP 5
They were first assembled into one written volume by Demetius of Phaleron around 300 B.C.E.,
and later translated into Latin from its original Greek by the freed Greek slave Phaedrus. Around
230 C.E., the writer Valerius Babrius translated the stories, combined with other stories from
India, into Greek verse. Over time, the stories have been retold and expanded, and have inspired
the work of French author Jean de la Fontaine. FTP identify these stories that feature animals
with human characteristics and that usually end in a moral or piece of advice.
Aesop’s Fables (prompt on either part).
BONUS 5
FTPE name these authors who collected and created classic fairy tales.

2

10:

This Danish writer published collections of his original stories, which
include “The Ugly Duckling” and “The Emperor’s New Clothes,” from
1835 until 1875.
Hans Christian Andersen.

10:

This Frenchman published his Tales of Mother Goose in 1697. This
compilation of old folk stories contained “Cinderella” and “Sleeping
Beauty.”
Charles Perrault.

10:

In addition to their work with German linguistics, these two German
scholars were known for retelling many folk stories in a collection first
published in 1812. The stories included “Little Red Riding Hood” and
“Rumplestiltsken.”
Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm (also accept the Brothers Grimm
and equivalents).

TOSSUP 6
The splay version guarantees amortized log n time for most operations, and the AVL version
ensures that the height of children differs by at most one. The red-black version is another famous
type of this structure; but if none of these modifications are used, most operations will run in
worst-case order n, which occurs when the graph degenerates into a linked list. Because of its
invariant, an in-order traversal of this type of graph returns elements in sorted order. FTP identify
this structure in computer science, where each element in a tree is larger than all those to its left
and smaller than those to its right.
Binary search tree or BST (Prompt on tree before mention)
BONUS 6

30:

Games such as Civilization IV and Battlefield 2 used this interpreted
language to allow easier modding.

20:

Guido van Rossum created this modern language, which is best known
for using indentation to indicate the contents of loops.

10:

Its name originated from its creator reading old 11Flying Circus”
scripts as he was writing the language.
Python

3

TOSSUP 7
Amalasuntha, the daughter of Theodoric the Great, was exiled and assassinated by agents of her
nephew, Theodahad, providing a pretext for invasion. The war ended with the battles of Mons
Lacterius and Taginae, won by Narses over the remnants of the armies of Theodahad’s successors,
Totila and Teias. It lasted seventeen years, mainly because the best general in the Empire was not
given sufficient resources to complete the campaign satisfactorily due to the Emperor’s jealousy.
FTP name this war of the sixth century CE, during whichthe Byzantine Empire reconquered Italy.
Gothic War (accept ”Byzantine reconquest of Italy” and alternatives
BONUS 7
before ”Byzantine”)
10:

The final king of Visigothic Spain, he was defeated by the Moors at
Guadalete in 711.
Roderic (accept Luhdriq with reluctance)

10:

One of the most consistent enemies of the Western Roman Empire, he
and his foederati repeatedly invaded Italy, and even sacked Rome for
the first time in eight hundred years.
Alaric I

10:

He was the leader of the Gothic coalition at Adrianople in 378, at which
the Eastern Roman Emperor Flavius Valens was defeated and killed.
Fritigern (accept Frithugairns)

TOSSUP 8
TOSSUP This man took an adult education oil painting course in the 1960’s, which led him to
create 18 canvases featuring prominent themes of war, pain, and suicide. He started advertising
in 1987 as a “death counselor”. In 1998 60 Minutes aired a broadcast of this man and Thomas
Youk, who died on screen. FTP, name this American pathologist, who advocated and practiced
his “assisted suicide” treatment.
Jack Kevorkian
BONUS 8
BONUS FTSNOP, answer the following questions about the work of Jack Kevorkian.
5:

This device, developed by Dr. Kevorkian, assisted deaths by use of a
needle.
Thanatron

5:

This other device, also developed by Dr. Kevorkian, used a gas mask
that supplied carbon monoxide.
Mercitron

10:

Kevorkian practiced this, a term for assisted dying that ends the lives
of people or animals in a merciful way.
Euthanasia

4

10:

Kevorkian was born, worked, and currently is locked up in an Oakland
County jail in this state.
Michigan

TOSSUP 9
The Senate, with its tradition of unlimited debate, does not have one. Since it views every bill
that goes through its chamber, the majority party has a large amount of control over what bills
are voted on by the full House. FTP, identify this committee in the House of Representatives that
controls the amount of time that may be spent on a given bill in the House.
House Rules Committee
BONUS 9
FTPE, tell whether these standing committees exist in the house, the Senate, both, or neither.
10:

Appropriations
Both

10:

Ways and Means
House

10:

Finance
Senate

TOSSUP 10
Each book tells the story of a knight, who represents a particular Christian virtue. The author
sent a letter to Sir Walter Raleigh, in which he explained that the work was really an allegory
for 16th century England. Perhaps the most famous symbol in the book links the title character
with Queen Elizabeth. FTP, identify this poem, the unfinished yet most famous work of Edmund
Spenser.
The Faerie Queene
BONUS 10
Answer the following questions related to 16th century English literature.
10:

This collection of 154 sonnets was dedicated to one “Mr. W.H.” when
first published.
Shakespeare’s sonnets

10:

Spenser’s first major poetic work was this series of pastorals featuring
Colin Clout.
The Shepheardes Calendar

10:

First of the famous English sonnet sequences, this work was composed
in the 1580’s by Philip Sidney.
Astrophel and Stella

5

TOSSUP 11
Theodore Taylor based his book “The Bomb” on the events which occured here between 1946
and 1958. The indigenous population was relocated to nearby Rongerik in 1946, and they were
again removed from here in 1978 because the strontium-90 level in their bodies was becoming
dangerously high. The islanders sued the United States and received $100 million in compensation,
although this is a minute amount compared to the cost of a cleanup operation. The United States
conducted more than 23 nuclear tests on, FTP, what Micronesian island group for which a type of
female swimwear is named?
Bikini Atoll (prompt on Bikini)
BONUS 11
Identify the following countries given descriptions of a nuclear test.
10:

In October 2006 this country detonated a nuclear explosive, although
an official at the country’s embassy in Beijing told reporters that the
resulting explosion was ”smaller than expected”.
North Korea

10:

This country detonated the “Tsar Bomba”, which was the largest bomb
ever detonated.
U.S.S.R. (Accept CCCP, Soviet Union, prompt on Russia)

10:

This country detonated “Smiling Buddha” at Pokhran in 1974.
India

TOSSUP 12
Born in East London, he wrote poetry and acted professionally before turning to directing and
a career as a playwright. His first major play, The Birthday Party, was badly received, but was
later revived with the success of his subsequent efforts. He was also responsible for screenplays for
films such as The Pumpkin Eaters and The French Lieutenants Woman. He is married to Lady
Antonia Fraser, herself a historian and prolific author. FTP name this author of plays such as The
Homecoming and Betrayal who won the 2005 Nobel Prize for Literature.
Harold Pinter
BONUS 12
FTPE, name these works by Antonia Fraser:
10:

Her biography of Frances last queen which was adapated for a recent
film by Sofia Coppola:
Marie Antoinette or Marie Antoinette: The Journey

10:

The first book in the Jemima Shore mystery series which was broadcast
on PBS:
Quiet as a Nun

10:

One of Frasers most noted biographies, the name of which is simply
the name of its subject, the mother of James I of England:
Mary, Queen of Scots

6

TOSSUP 13
His works were influenced by Schopenhauer and Russell. His works dealtprimarily with human
logic, and the relation of logic to ethics, mathematics,and language. SOme of his works include
On Certainty, PhilosophicalInvestigations, and Remarks on the Foundations of Mathematics.
FTP, namethis 20th century German philosopher, whose most famous work was theTractatus
Logico-Philosophicus.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
BONUS 13
FTPE, name these other German philosophers from works.
10:

Critique of Pure Reason .
Immanuel Kant

10:

The Phenomenology of Spirit , the Science of Logic , and the Encyclopediaof the Philosophical Sciences .
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel

10:

Being and Time and The Origin of the Work of Art .
Martin Heidegger

TOSSUP 14
In 2004, the United States Coast Guard almost violated it when they installed machine guns on
11 of their vessels. It is one of the shortest agreements to disarmament ever written, and called
for a reduction of each country’s naval forces on the Great Lakes to one or two vessels per lake.
FTP, name this 1817 agreement between the US and Britain named after the American Secretary
of State and the Governor-General of Canada.
Rush-Bagot Agreement
BONUS 14
FTPE name these other treaties from the 1810’s.
10:

It ended the War of 1812, and was signed in a city in Belgium.
Treaty of Ghent

10:

Under this treaty, Spain sold East and West Florida to the US.
Adams-Onis Treaty

10:

This treaty followed the defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo.
Treaty of Paris of 1815 or Fourth Treaty of Paris (prompt on
Treaty of Paris)

TOSSUP 15
Diogenes, Heraclitus, Euclid, Ptolemy, Pythagoras, Epicurus, and the artist are all pictured in the
crowd. Athena and Apollo, in statue form, overlook the scene. Plato and Aristotle are placed front
and center in, FTP, what fresco by Raphael depicting a coterie of philosophers in a Greek setting?
The School of Athens
BONUS 15
Identify these Renaissance artworks FTPE.
7

10:

Probably the most famous image in the world, this painting by da
Vinci depicts a serenely smiling woman.
The Mona Lisa or La Giaconde

10:

A masterwork of the Northern Renaissance, this triptych is most famous for its grotesque third panel depicting scenes from Hell.
The Garden of Earthly Delights by Hieronymus Bosch

10:

This quiz bowl standby of a painting depicts a young couple without
their shoes on and a cute little dog.
The Arnolfini Marriage or Arnolfini Wedding (accept clearknowledge equivalents)

TOSSUP 16
Johann Nikolaus Forkel wrote that it was originally composed to give comfort to the composer’s
ill student, who became the work’s namesake. Unusually, it was published in the composer’s life
time. It begins with an aria, followed by 30 sections using the bass line and chords of the aria.
Each of these variations is in canon form and in G major, with the exception of the 15th, 21st,
and 25th. FTP, name this Bach work, one of the most famous examples of variation music form.
Goldberg Variations (prompt on Goldberg)
BONUS 16
Bonus: Name these other baroque composers from works, FTPE.
10:

The Four Seasons
Antonio Vivaldi

10:

The Messiah
George Handel

10:

12 Concerti Grossi
Arcangelo Corelli

TOSSUP 17
He edited the newspaper Reconciler during the late 1920s, and soon went to Britain to be a
lobbyist. In 1934, he was cast as an extra in Sanders of the River, but spent more of that decade
in a group of African, Caribbean, and American intellectuals. With Kwame Nkrumah, he founded
the Pan-African Federation, which led to his arrest by the British as a suspected Mau Mau
sympathizer or member. After decolonization, he attempted to help his native Kikuyu tribe gain
predominance. FTP name this first prime minister of Kenya.
Jomo Kenyatta
BONUS 17
FTPE name these other anticolonialists.
wasn’t murdered.

These men are different from Kenyatta in that he

8

10:

The first Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, he
was assassinated by either Belgian or American operatives in 1961.
Patrice mery Lumumba

10:

He was the head of the Black Consciousness Movement in South Africa,
and was probably killed by vengeful Afrikaner police in 1977.
Stephen Bantu Biko

10:

He was the first Prime Minister of united Nigeria, and was killed during
a military coup in 1966.
Alhaji Sir Ahmadu Bello

TOSSUP 18
Found in 1924 by Dr. Raymond Dart, it was disregarded at first due to its close resemblance to
a modern-day monkey. After further research, the skeleton indicated an immature status along
with the ability to walk upright. FTP, name this infant skull found in South Africa, an example
of Australopithecus africanus.
Taung baby or Taung child (prompt on Taung)
BONUS 18
FTPE, identify these taxonomical classifications of Australopithecus africanus.
10:

Its phylum, all of whose members have a notochord at one point in
their lifetimes.
Chordata

10:

Its order, which is further divided based on global location.
Primate

10:

Its subfamily, under Hominidae.
Homininae

TOSSUP 19
In her early career, she flirted with Gustav Klimt, Max Burckhard, and Alexander von Zemlinsky.
She composed several musical works, primarily during her first marriage, and also painted. However, her main contributions tothe arts include her works about her first husband, providing an
insight into his character, and her many affairs and marriages. FTP name this turn-of-the-century
Viennese woman, notable for having affairs and marriages with authors, artists, composers, and
architects, eulogized in a Tom Lehrer song.
Alma Mahler-Werfel, ne Schindler (accept Schindler alone, all other
BONUS 19
last names must be accompanied by her first name)

9

10:

Her first husband, he composed The Song of the Earth and Songs of
a Wayfarer .
Gustav Mahler

10:

The second husband, he founded the Bauhaus school and designed the
University of Baghdad.
Walter Gropius

10:

A Jewish Austro-Bohemian writer who wrote in German, he wrote
The Song of Bernadette and The Forty Days of Musa Dagh , and was
Alma’s third and final husband.
Franz Werfel

TOSSUP 20
Interest in the idea that the “just following orders” defense might excuse Nazi war criminals was
running high as the Adolf Eichmann trial got underway. One of the participants, an accomplice of
the experimenter, would go behind a wall and answer questions asked by the subject, who usually
would continue following the instructions of the experimenter despite hearing screams of pain and
terror and even pleas for mercy come from the next room.FTP, name this experiment in which
subjects were shown to be willing to administer dangerous electric shocks under orders.
Milgram experiment
BONUS 20
FTPE, answer these questions about authority and conformity.
10:

It ended prematurely, as the subjects assigned the role of guards began
to demonstrate severe sadistic tendencies.
Stanford prison experiment

10:

The “just following orders” defense is this kind of social phenomenon,
when blame for an action is psychologically assigned to someone else.
Diffusion of responsibility

10:

The Stanford prison experiment more closely exemplifies this phenomenon, when individuals make strange decisions because they think
it is the consensus.
Groupthink

10

