2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 11
Related Tossups &
Bonuses

1. Some types of this technique use devices named for Claisen or Vigreux, the former of which reduces
the effects of “bumping.” The McCabe-Thiele method optimizes parameters such as the location of feed
trays and the number of necessary stages. Azeotropes cannot be separated using this technique, whose
“vacuum” form occurs at low pressure and whose “fractional” form involves multiple condensers. For 10
points, name this method of purifying mixtures of liquids by separating them by boiling point.
ANSWER: distillation
Bonus: One variety uses light with frequency between that of microwaves and visible light. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this technique, in which electromagnetic radiation is sent towards a sample of unknown
substance to yield information as to the content or structure of the substance.
ANSWER: spectroscopy
[10] One popular form of spectroscopy uses light in this region of the electromagnetic spectrum, whose
frequency is just shorter than visible light.
ANSWER: infrared spectroscopy [accept IR spectroscopy]
2. This man issued a namesake statement with Soviet delegate Adolf Joffe on the role of communism in
his country. This leader of the March 29 Revolution aired his views in the People’s Journal, the organ of
the United League that he founded. He promoted the Plan for National Reconstruction and the goals of
“nationalism, democracy, and people’s livelihood,” or Three Principles of the People. He founded the
Kuomintang, which initially supported Yuan Shikai. For 10 points, name this Chinese nationalist leader,
succeeded by Chiang Kai-Shek.
ANSWER: Sun Yat-sen [or Sun Yixian; or Sun I-hsien; or Sun Wen; or Sun Zhongshan; or Deming; or
Rixin]
Bonus: This nation’s long war for independence was led by figures such as Ahmed Ben Bella. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this North African country, whose namesake “crisis” brought down France’s Fourth Republic.
ANSWER: Algeria
[10] Along with Tunis, Tripoli, and Morocco, pre-colonial Algeria made up this group of "states," which
fought a namesake naval war with the United States in the early nineteenth century.
ANSWER: Barbary states

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 1 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

3. Moore v. Illinois held that state-imposed penalties for harboring a fugitive slave did not contradict one
clause in this part of the Constitution. That clause immediately follows a clause dealing with the return
of fugitives from justice. The Defense of Marriage Act notably excludes same-sex marriage from being
covered under one part of this article, the “full faith and credit” clause. For 10 points, name this article
of the U.S. Constitution, which also includes the “privileges and immunities” clause and follows the
article dealing with the judiciary branch.
ANSWER: Article IV [accept Article IV after “article”; accept clear equivalents like fourth article]
Bonus: This type of trial can only result from an accusation of “Treason, Bribery, or High Crimes and
Misdemeanors.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of trial, in which a civil official is removed from office if found guilty.
ANSWER: impeachment trial
[10] Now that there are one hundred voting members of the Senate, this many members of the Senate
must find the official guilty in order to effect his removal from office.
ANSWER: 67
4. The children of this deity were said to protect the canopic jars. She appears with her sister on coffins
with outstretched wings, and her pairing with Ra caused her to be conflated with Hathor. She gained
powers of magic after learning the true name of Ra using a snake, believed to be Wadjet. Her husband
was trapped a box and cut into pieces before she was able to seek out his pieces and reassemble him.
For 10 points, name this mother of Horus and wife of Osiris.
ANSWER: Isis
Bonus: This goddess owns the necklace Brisingamen, as well as a cloak that makes her invisible, and she
rides around in a chariot pulled by gib-cats. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Norse fertility goddess.
ANSWER: Freya
[10] In some traditions, Freya is conflated with this other fertility goddess, the mother of Balder and wife
of Odin.
ANSWER: Frigg
5. This structure contains the columella cells that differentiate into the mucigel-producing peripheral
cells. The Zone of Cell Division in this structure contains the apical meristem, and water and nutrients
enter through its Casparian Strip. The primary one is known as the “radicle” and matures into the “tap.”
For 10 points, name this structure that anchors a plant to the ground and absorbs water and nutrients.
ANSWER: roots
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these plant tissues.
[10] This structure of dividing cells gives rise to secondary xylem and secondary phloem.
ANSWER: vascular cambium
[10] Monocots lack this bundle of parenchymal cells, which is found in the central part of the stem.
ANSWER: pith [accept medulla]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 2 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This author coined the phrase "the shock of recognition" in his essay "Hawthorne and His Mosses."
The protagonist of one of this author's novels pledges to worship a malign god through defiance in a
chapter titled "The Candles." This author portrayed Amasa Delano's discovery of a slave rebellion led by
Babu aboard the San Dominick in Benito Cereno, and wrote a novel about a monomaniacal Quaker who
employs Starbuck, Queequeg, and Ishmael. For 10 points, name this American author of a novel about
Captain Ahab's hunt for a white whale, Moby-Dick.
ANSWER: Herman Melville
Bonus: This novel includes a section narrated by the protagonist's domineering father Gabriel, "The
Prayers of the Saints." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about the fourteenth birthday of John Grimes.
ANSWER: Go Tell It on the Mountain
[10] This author of Giovanni's Room and The Fire Next Time wrote Go Tell It on the Mountain.
ANSWER: James Baldwin
7. Cerberus appears below the title figure, on whose face are sculpted tears, in this artist's Rape of
Proserpine. He depicted a fully clothed David in the act of throwing a stone, and a nymph is in the
middle of turning into a laurel in his Apollo and Daphne. A work of his in the Piazza Navona includes
depictions of the Danube and the Ganges, the Fountain of the Four Rivers. One of this man's most
famous sculptures is housed in Santa Maria della Vittoria and depicts an angel pointing a spear at the
writhing title saint. For 10 points, name this sculptor of The Ecstasy of St. Theresa.
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo Bernini [accept early Rape of Proserpine]
Bonus: This man built the Villa Tugendhat in Brno, in the modern day Czech Republic. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this architect, who was fond of the saying “less is more,” and designed the IBM plaza, a Lake
Shore Drive residence, and the Seagram Building with Phillip Johnson.
ANSWER: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe
[10] The Seagram Building is an architectural wonder in this city that also contains the Flatiron Building
and the Museum of Modern Art, as well as the Chrysler Building.
ANSWER: New York City
8. The Treaty of Ninfeo led to this city's establishment of a settlement at Pera in the Byzantine Empire. It
defeated Pisa at the Battle of Meloria, and though it is not Venice, Simone Boccanegra was the first
native of this city to be elected doge. This city ruled Kaffa in the Crimea, and in the 1768 Treaty of
Versailles, ceded Corsica to the French. Andrea Doria was the most prominent doge of this Italian citystate. For 10 points, name this port on the Ligurian Sea, a major rival to Venice for Mediterranean
supremacy and birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
ANSWER: Genoa
Bonus: Its goals included the firing of Tribonian and John the Cappadocian. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 532 uprising of the Blue and Green chariot-racing factions, which ended with Belisarius
massacring participants in the Hippodrome of Constantinople.
ANSWER: Nika revolt/riot/uprising etc
[10] This husband of Theodora and patron of a namesake law code was the emperor whose rule was
challenged by the Nika revolt.
ANSWER: Justinian I
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 3 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 11
Category Quiz
Bonus Choices

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Religion
Social Science

Arts
Current Events
Geography
History
Literature
Math Calculation
Religion
Social Science

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 4 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 11
Category Quiz Tossups

9. His oratorio Paradise and the Peri borrows from Thomas Moore's Lalla-Rookh. This composer
declared "Hats off, gentleman--a genius!" after hearing Chopin's compositions, and dedicated his solo
piano work Kreisleriana to Chopin. Other piano pieces by this man include Carnival and Scenes from
Childhood. This composer's third symphony has five rather than the usual four movements, and was
nicknamed after a river near the composer's home, the "Rhenish." For 10 points, name this composer of
the "Spring" Symphony.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
10. These objects can be modeled using the second-degree differential equation a y double prime plus c
y equals zero. In one common example of them, the small angle assumption, that sin theta equals theta,
must be made to analytically solve the equation, while the other common example obeys Hooke’s Law
and requires a frictionless surface. For 10 points, the pendulum and mass-on-a-spring systems are
examples of what type of system displaying periodic motion and constant amplitude?
ANSWER: simple harmonic oscillators [accept simple harmonic motion; accept SHO; accept SHM;
prompt on pendulum; prompt on mass-on-a-spring; prompt on harmonic oscillators]
11. This river’s namesake aquifer is one of the most productive in the world. The Lost River joins that
aquifer underground, and it joins with Jackson Lake in the Grand Tetons, before entering Idaho at the
Palisades Reservoir. It takes in the Raft River before entering Lake Walcott. It begins in Yellowstone
National Park and flows through Hells Canyon before joining the Columbia River near Ice Harbor in
Washington. For 10 points, name this river of the Northwest United States, named for its winding path.
ANSWER: Snake River
12. One woman who wrote in this language described Inez's attempts to match a sugar magnate with
the title character of a novel. Another woman who wrote in this tongue created the characters of Lady
Reason, Lady Rectitude, and Lady Justice to respond to misogynistic literature in The Book of the City of
Women. The novels of another female author in this language include All Men Are Mortal and The
Mandarins. For 10 points, name this native tongue of the author of Gigi, Colette, as well as the author of
The Second Sex, Simone de Beauvoir.
ANSWER: French
13. In one role, this actor plays a robber who robs a vault containing Michael X’s picture of a member of
the royal family having a threesome. In another role, this actor plays Jensen Ames, whose framing for his
wife’s murder forces him compete in the titular event of a Paul W.S. Anderson film. In another role, this
man is injected with “Beijing Cocktail,” and is forced to strip down Amy Smart on the streets of
Chinatown to keep up his adrenaline. This star of Death Race and Crank also played Handsome Rob in
The Italian Job. For 10 points, name this actor who stars in the Transporter movies.
ANSWER: Jason Michael Statham
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 5 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

14. William Still organized part of this institution, whose most active members included Erastus Hussey,
John Fairfield, and Levi Coffin. Another of its members, Peg Leg Joe, taught participants in it to sing
"Follow the Drinking Gourd." Many Quakers served as "stationmasters" for this institution, and its most
active members, termed "conductors," included Harriet Tubman. For 10 points, name this institution
stretching from the Southern states to Canada, which helped escaping slaves reach their freedom.
ANSWER: Underground Railroad

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 6 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 11
Category Quiz
Bonuses

Arts: Some scholars suggest that this sculpture has some connection to an Amanita mushroom cult, and
its distorted perspective suggests that it may have been a primitive form of self-portrait. For 15 points,
name this figure of a squat nude woman found near an Austrian village.
ANSWER: Venus of Willendorf [or Woman of Willendorf]
Current Events: A man claiming to represent the "al-Mufti and Ansar al-Qaeda brigades" blew himself
up in an apartment being raided in connection with attacks here. For 15 points, name this city where
trains were bombed in 2004, three days before national elections.
ANSWER: Madrid
Geography: Oranjestad lies opposite this country's Paraguana peninsula, and Porlamar is the largest city
on this country's Isla de Margarita. For 15 points, name this South American nation whose large river
ports include Ciudad Guayana and Ciudad Bolivar.
ANSWER: Venezuela
History: He wrote the book Markings, but is better known for succeeding Trygve Lie. He was shot down
in Zaire while holding peace talks with Katangan leader Moshe Tshombe. For 15 points, name this
Swedish Secretary General of the United Nations.
ANSWER: Dag Hjalmar Agne Carl Hammarskjold
Literature: Gerda, the former wife of a nameless "gentleman," leaves her second husband Fischer in this
man's play Stormy Weather. For 15 points, name this Swedish playwright of Miss Julie.
ANSWER: August Strindberg
Math Calculation: The first row of a 3 by 3 matrix is [0,0,5], the second row is [3,2,3] and the third row is
[y,4,10]. For 15 points, find the value of y that makes this matrix non-invertible.
ANSWER: 6
Religion: Honorius III granted this man the Porziuncola Indulgence, which applied to all who confessed
their sins and visited this man’s chapel. For 15 points, name this author of the “Canticle of the Sun” and
founder of the Friars Minor.
ANSWER: St. Francis of Assisi [accept Giovanni Francesco Bernadone; prompt on St. Francis]
Social Science: His work with troubled children led to him to write The Clinical Treatment of the Problem
Child, and he later wrote On Becoming a Person. For 15 points, name this psychologist who posited the
idea of Client Centered Therapy in its namesake book.
ANSWER: Carl Ransom Rogers

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 7 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 11
Stretch Phase

15. This poem describes "gardens bright with sinuous rills" enclosed by "walls and towers" in an area of
"twenty five miles of fertile ground." At one point in this poem, "a woman wailing for her demon lover"
portends a gushing fountain bursting from the earth, and in its second section, "Mount Abora" is sung
about by "a damsel with a dulcimer." That portion was written after its poet had been interrupted by a
visitor from Porlock, and it describes "caves of ice" and "the river Alph." For 10 points, name this Samuel
Taylor Coleridge poem in which the title character decrees a "stately pleasure dome" in Xanadu.
ANSWER: "Kubla Khan"
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these Russian composers.
[10]He set Edgar Allen Poe’s The Bells to music, but he is better known for his beautiful second piano
concerto and a Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini.
ANSWER: Sergei Rachmaninoff
[10] This synesthete wrote such works as Poem of Ecstasy and Poem of Fire, as well as Vers La Flamme.
ANSWER: Alexander Scriabin
[10] He wrote the Lieutenant Kije Suite and a piece in which the clarinet represents a cat and oboe
represents a duck, Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev
16. Secret societies in this religion include Bizango and Sampwel, and branches of this religion include
Manding, Nago, Rada, and Daome. Danbala and Ogou are celebrated on the saints' days of Patrick and
James, respectively. The residents of Ginen in this religion include anvizib, or invisibles, and zanj, or
angels. It is dedicated to serving various lwa, or saints, who include Legba and Baron Samedi. This
religion has its roots in the Kongo, Dahomey, and Yoruba cultures. For 10 points, name this religion of
African origin prominent in Haiti.
ANSWER: Voodoo [or Vodun]
Bonus: This country joined with Lithuania in the Union of Lublin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this European country once ruled by the Jagiello dynasty, which has been partitioned three
times.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland
[10] This Pole led a namesake 1794 uprising against Russia, and also fought in the American Revolution.
A mountain in Australia is named for him.
ANSWER: Andrzej Tadeusz Bonawentura Kosciuszko
[10] This Polish state was established by Napoleon after the Treaty of Tilsit and ruled over by Frederick
Augustus I of Saxony.
ANSWER: Duchy of Warsaw [prompt on Warsaw; accept Grand Duchy of Warsaw, as it is sometimes
referred to as that]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 8 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

17. This conflict was divided into two phases by the Peace of Nicias, and the Megarian decrees were
issued during the preceding Thirty Years’ Peace. It ended at the naval battle of Aegospotami, where
Lysander destroyed the opposing side’s navy, and both Brasidas and Cleon died at the battle of
Amphipolis in this conflict. It saw Alcibiades campaign for an expedition to Syracuse, and its history was
recorded by Thucydides. For 10 points, name this conflict that pitted the namesake military league of
city-states, led by Sparta, against the Athenian empire.
ANSWER: Peloponnesian War
Bonus: This type of process conserves mass number, but not atomic number. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this general type of radioactive disintegration that can involve the conversion of a neutron
into a proton along with the emission of an electron.
ANSWER: beta decay
[10] Beta decay is mediated by this force, which is itself mediated by the W and Z bosons.
ANSWER: weak force
[10] Beta decay can also occur through this process in which the namesake particle from the K shell
combines with a proton in the nucleus to form a neutron.
ANSWER: electron capture
18. These structures can act as opsonins by binding to other molecules, making them easier to
phagocytose. The A form is found in colostrums and breast milk, and transfusion reactions are mediated
by the M form. Monoclonal ones may be used to treat cancers. These structures consist of two heavy
chains and two light chains. For 10 points, name these structures that are produced by B cells,
sometimes called immunoglobulins, and bind to antigens.
ANSWER: antibodies [or antibody; accept gamma globulins; accept early immunoglobulins]
Bonus: The poem "Counter Attack" was written by his friend Siegfried Sassoon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who wrote about Tim's suicide in the poem "S.I.W." and a man who sees his killer in
Hell, "Strange Meeting." He also wrote "Parable of the Old Man and Young."
ANSWER: Wilfred Edward Salter Owen
[10] In this Owen poem, which takes its title from a line of Horace's about "the old lie," a group of
soldiers travel "drunk with fatigue" and are forced to put on their gas masks after a sudden attack.
ANSWER: "Dulce et Decorum Est"
[10] Owen also wrote this sonnet, which Sassoon edited to include the line "the tenderness of patient
minds," offered by girls to "those who die as cattle," instead of "passing bells."
ANSWER: "Anthem for Doomed Youth"
19. This man collaborated with Richard Rorty and others on Interpretation and Overinterpretation, and
wrote a history of the belief in a primordial tongue, The Search for the Perfect Language. A man who can
only remember books he has read is the focus of his The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loanna. The search
for a lost volume of Aristotle and the attempts by Jorge of Burgos to suppress blasphemy are exposed by
William of Baskerville in one of his novels. For 10 points, name this semiotician and author of The Name
of the Rose and Foucault’s Pendulum.
ANSWER: Umberto Eco

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 9 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: Whether they wanted to or not, the following women from British history caused some
controversy. For 10 points each:
[10] This American divorcee and author of the memoir The Heart Has Its Reasons married King Edward
VIII, but he had to abdicate in order to make that happen.
ANSWER: Wallis Warfield Simpson [accept either name]
[10] This woman served as queen of England for nine days in 1553. However, she was imprisoned after
being deserted by the Duke of Northumberland, and her father's joining the rebellion of Thomas Wyatt
led to her execution.
ANSWER: Lady Jane Grey [accept either name]
[10] This queen of the Iceni led a revolt against the Romans, sacking London, St. Albans, and Colchester.
She was ultimately defeated by Caius Suetonius Paulinus, however, and took poison.
ANSWER: Boadicea
20. In one of this man’s paintings, a fire rages on the left while parts of the white title buildings remain
standing to the right. Men cower as a storm overwhelms an orange sun in his Hannibal Crossing the
Alps, and he depicted another fire in his The Eruption of Vesuvius. This painter of The Fighting Temeraire
is known for a work in which sea creatures devour people thrown from the title vessel, as well as one
that depicts a black train hurtling toward the viewer that is subtitled The Great Western Railway. For 10
points, name this artist of The Slave Ship and Rain, Steam, and Speed.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner
Bonus: This man's pseudonyms included Victor Eremita and Hilarius Bookbinder. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the real name of this Danish philosopher who continued one of his works in Stages in Life's
Way. Other works of his include The Sickness Unto Death and Either/Or.
ANSWER: Søren Aabye Kierkegaard
[10] Kierkegaard also wrote a book about practices in this religion, the essence of which was described
by Feuerbach. Bertrand Russell described why he was not a follower of it.
ANSWER: Christianity [accept word forms like Christians]
[10] In this Kierkegaard work, the Knight of Infinite Resignation and the Knight of Faith are used as
metaphors. It deals with the moral questions posed by Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac.
ANSWER: Fear and Trembling [or Frygt og Bæven]
21. This principle can be obtained from the current density associated with an electric field using the
Poynting theorem. A system with time translation symmetry also exhibits it according to Noether’s
theorem. Special relativity expanded this principle to account for mass increases that occur at relativistic
speeds. When it encompasses thermal, potential, and kinetic contributions, it is expressed in the first
law of thermodynamics. For 10 points, name this principle of physics, which states that the total energy
of a closed system will remain constant.
ANSWER: conservation of energy [prompt on first law of thermodynamics]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 10 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Bonus: For 10 points each, name the following asteroids or groups of asteroids.
[10] This was the first member of the asteroid belt to be discovered. Along with Pluto and Charon, it is
one of the three original dwarf planets.
ANSWER: Ceres
[10] The Apollos, Amors, and Atens are collectively known by this name because their orbits come close
to those of a certain planet.
ANSWER: Near-Earth Asteroids [accept NEAs]
[10] These half-comet half-asteroid masses are found between the orbits of Jupiter and Neptune. The
first one to be discovered was Chiron in 1977.
ANSWER: Centaurs
22. Its “great” version excludes Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex, and its components include the “Exon”
version and the Inquisition of the County of Cambridge. The portions dealing with Winchester and
London are missing. It includes accounts of ponds, mills, and number of workers, and is organized by the
concept of “barony,” which was introduced twenty years before its compilation. Researched by around
seven groups of commissioners in 1086, for 10 points, name this exhaustive record of all lands held by
the chief tenants of William the Conqueror.
ANSWER: the Domesday Book
Bonus: He buys tobacco from a Latvian and steals felt to make warmer garments for his companions. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this gulag inhabitant who passes one day in January 1951.
ANSWER: Ivan Denisovich Shukov
[10] This author of The Gulag Archipelago wrote One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
ANSWER: Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn
[10] The Party member Pavel Rusanov and the surveyor Oleg Kostoglotov are among those who gather
for treatment in this Solzhenitsyn novel.
ANSWER: Cancer Ward [or Rakovy Korpus]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 11 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

2008-2009
NSC-Format Set #2
Round 11
Tiebreakers + Extras

1. Mary Cassatt’s Portrait of a Little Girl depicts one of these sleeping on a chair next to the reclining title
figure. One of these investigates a puddle of blood below the titular satyr in Titian’s The Flaying of
Marsyas. A black one stands at the center of Georges Seurat’s Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La
Grande Jatte, and one sleeps on the bed in Titian’s Venus of Urbino. For 10 points, name this animal,
examples of which play poker in works by Cassius Coolidge.
ANSWER: dogs
2. Two characters in this novel agree to marry by writing chalk letters on a dinner table, and this novel’s
protagonist lends her name to Tomas and Tereza’s dog in The Unbearable Lightness of Being. One
character is influenced by the French psychic Landau. It begins by describing the infidelities of Stepan
Oblonsky, who is married to Dolly. Kitty ends up happily married to Konstantin Levin in this novel, which
focuses on Count Vronsky's affair with the title character. For 10 points, name this novel in which the
title character throws herself in front of a train, written by Leo Tolstoy.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
3. Rasmus Pagh is known for his work with these data structures, and developed the cuckoo type. These
structures utilize a process similar to the generation of checksums, and they often use lazy deletion,
without actually removing deleted elements. Separate chaining and linear and quadratic probing are
methods for dealing with collisions in these structures, which can offset the fact that all operations take
ideally constant-time. For 10 points, name these structures which use a namesake function to generate
an integer from a key, which is then used to store a value.
ANSWER: hash table [or hash map; or other equivalents]
Extra 20-point Bonus:
Organized labor often dealt with forms of transportation. For 10 points each:
[10] A 1941 threat by this founder of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters to lead a march on
Washington led to the lessening of discrimination in the defense industry during World War II.
ANSWER: Asa Philip Randolph
[10] A 1937 sitdown strike in a Flint, Michigan factory helped bring this union to prominence. Its leaders
included Walter Reuther and Douglas Andrew Fraser.
ANSWER: United Auto Workers

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 12 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Extra 30-point Bonus:
For 10 points each, name these taxa of plants.
[10] This division used to contain hornworts and liverworts, but now only contains mosses.
ANSWER: Bryophyta [accept bryophytes]
[10] These true vascular plants see the development of sporophytes known as fiddleheads from
fertilized eggs before uncoiling at one end of the life cycle.
ANSWER: ferns [accept Pterophyta or pterophytes]
[10] This group of plants is divided into Cycadophyta, Gingkophyta, and Coniferophyta; it consists of
seed-bearing plants whose seeds are not encased in an ovary.
ANSWER: Gymnospermae [accept gymnosperms]

2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2

Round 11

Page 13 of 13

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only. It is
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

