2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 9

Tossups

1. This river’s only set of falls is now the site of the McAlpine Locks. A major
tributary of this river is the Wabash, which flows into it downstream from
Evansville, Indiana. In 1967, the Silver Bridge over this river collapsed. This
longest eastern tributary of the Mississippi is formed by the confluence of the
Monongahela and the Alleghany Rivers, which meet near Pittsburgh. For 10
points, name this river that flows by the city of Cincinnati in its namesake
state.
ANSWER: Ohio River
2. Divalent lead and tin ions of ns2 configuration can exhibit atypical
examples of these objects. Lead poisoning results from the presence of these
structures inducing ligand rearrangement in calcium-binding proteins. These
objects can form dative bonds, and in VSEPR theory, the presence of one of
these in phosphorous trichloride gives the molecule its trigonal pyramidal
shape. MO theory shows that water has two with different energies. For 10
points, name these sets of valence electrons that do not participate in
bonding interactions.
ANSWER: lone pairs
3. Its first elected leader was Edward Wingfield, while Captain Christopher
Newport arrived with its first inhabitants aboard the Discovery, Godspeed,
and Susan Constant. Years later, it was almost entirely destroyed during a
rebellion against William Berkeley led by Nathaniel Bacon. Supplies were
brought to it by Lord de la Warr, and it flourished after the introduction of
tobacco by John Rolfe, although this colony had earlier endured a “starving
time” under John Smith. For 10 points, name this first permanent English
settlement in America.
ANSWER: Jamestown
4. Early in this man’s career, he painted works for Giuseppi Cesari like Boy
with a Basket of Fruit. That same model was featured in works such as Young
Sick Bacchus, and, like Gentileschi, this man painted a Judith Beheading
Holofernes. A boy and his accomplice cheat in his The Cardsharps, and he
also painted a work in which a blinded man falls off his horse, The
Conversion of Saint Paul. For 10 points, name this Italian Baroque painter of
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 1 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Supper at Emmaus and The Calling of St. Matthew.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio
5. Startopp and Bentley Drummle tutor the main character of this novel, and
Dolge Orlick plots to kill that main character, who works with Georgiana’s
husband Joe Gargery. The main character of this novel is looked after by Mr.
Jaggers, while another character lives at at Satis house, leaves her rotting
wedding cake out, and teaches Estelle to break men’s hearts. This novel also
includes the escaped convinct Abel Magwitch, who is secretly the main
character's benefactor. For 10 points, name this novel about Mrs. Havisham
and Pip, written by Charles Dickens.
ANSWER: Great Expectations
6. The Miami Herald claimed of this show that “Half the dialogue seems to
have been written for barking dogs, the other half for mewling kittens.”
Jonathan Brooke performs its theme song, “What You Don’t Know.” Episodes
have centered on recovering stolen art and the pop singer Rayna Russell,
and another was similar to “The Most Dangerous Game.” Characters on this
show include the bodyguard Boyd Langton and a programmer, Topher Brink.
Centering on an Active named Echo, for 10 points, name this Joss Whedon
series on Fox starring Eliza Dushku.
ANSWER: Dollhouse
7. The strength of this man’s namesake effect is proportional to the Verdet
constant. His cup collects charged particles in a vacuum, and another device
named for this man is a hollow conductor that blocks external electric fields.
This man’s eponymous constant appears in the Nernst equation and equals
about ninety-six thousand coulombs per mole. For 10 points, name this
English physicist with a namesake cage and law of induction.
ANSWER: Michael Faraday
8. One member of this group was saved from execution when a deputy of the
Assembly shouted, “He organized the victory.” After persuading the
Cordeliers Club to call for a popular uprising, Jacques Hebert was arrested by
this body founded by Bertrand Barere, and its members included Louis SaintJust and Georges Couthon. Led by Georges Danton prior to his execution, its
most famous leader was known as “The Incorruptible.” For 10 points, name
this committee of the French Revolution that oversaw the Reign of Terror and
was led by Maximilian Robespierre.
ANSWER: Committee of Public Safety [or Comité De Salut Public; or
translational equivalents such as Committee for Public Safety, or Public
Safety Committee]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 2 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This figure is thought to have lived for 30 years in La Sainte-Baume after
converting Provence with Lazarus in one legend, while Gregory of Tours
believes this person accompanied St. John the Evangelist to Ephesus. Origen
believed this figure was distinct from one in Bethany who wiped Jesus’ feet,
and she was abandoned by St. Peter after she showed him the empty tomb
after Jesus’ resurrection. Cleansed of seven demons by Jesus, for 10 points,
name this early Christian who was believed to have been a prostitute.
ANSWER: Saint Mary Magdalene [or Mary of Magdala; prompt on Mary]
10. The speaker laments that “Gone is the long, long winter night” and that
he “shall hear thy voice and see thy smile/ Till that long midnight flies” in
this man’s “The Arctic Lover.” This writer of “Mutation” also wrote a long
work on the history of the world titled The Ages. One of his poems claims
that souls will “join the innumerable caravan” after death, and he is also
known for a poem that asks “Whither, ’midst falling dew” does the title
animal “pursue/ Thy solitary way,” “To A Waterfowl.” For 10 points, name this
American poet who wrote “Thanatopsis.”
ANSWER: William Cullen Bryant
11. A chorus sings “Hail, rose of the world” to the title entities in one section
of this piece that features three glockenspiels and is entitled “Blanziflor et
Helena.” A children’s chorus sings in “The Court of Love,” and a contratenor
sings from the point of view of a roasted swan in another section. The title
entity is “changeable like the moon” in the movement that opens and closes
the piece, “O Fortuna.” For 10 points, identify this composition that sets
medieval German and Latin texts to music, composed by Carl Orff.
ANSWER: Carmina Burana
12. With Ernest Denis, this man analyzed “diplomatic documents” to answer
the title question in the work Who Wanted War? He analyzed Montesquieu’s
contributions to his field and wrote On the Normality of Crime and discussed
the origins of totemism in The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life. He
identified anomie as a consequence of the titular process in The Division of
Labor in Society, and he identified fatalistic and anomic forms of the title
phenomenon in Suicide. For 10 points, name this French sociologist.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 3 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. One algorithm of this kind partitions the input into buckets starting with
the least significant digit. Besides the “radix” version, the most commonly
implemented algorithm of this kind uses intelligent pivot selection to run in
big o of n log n time for almost all inputs. Another fast algorithm for this task
builds a min-heap and successively removes the root element. For 10 points,
“selection,” “insertion,” “merge,” and “bubble” all name algorithms that
accomplish this task, the arrangement of elements of a list in a specific
order.
ANSWER: sorting
14. One document of this period includes a seventh article that limits the
personal bodyguard of royalty to six armed men. An external conflict during
this period pitted its nation against the Beiyang Army, while an internal
conflict featured the Battle of Hakodate and was called the Boshin War. This
period began with the Satsuma Rebellion, and other events during it included
the First Sino-Japanese War. The Charter Oath was promulgated by the
namesake of, for 10 points, what period of Japanese history beginning in the
1860s that restored imperial rule?
ANSWER: Meiji Period [or Meiji Restoration; or Ishin; or Revolution; or
Renewal]
15. The protagonist of this novel describes reading the same sentence of Out
of Africa twenty times. Other characters in this novel include Horowitz, a cab
driver whom the protagonist asks about where ducks go in the winter time.
One character in this novel wrote poems on his baseball mitt before dying of
leukemia, and this novel ends with its protagonist watching Phoebe ride on a
carousel after dropping out of Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this work
that chronicles the downward spiral of Holden Caulfield, a novel by J. D.
Salinger.
ANSWER: The Catcher in the Rye
16. The Aztec god Xolotl takes the form of this creature when guiding people
to the underworld. In Norse myth, one of these creatures has a bloody chest
and can be distracted with cakes. Apart from Garmr, examples of this animal
in mythology include Laelaps. After being turned into a deer by Artemis,
Actaeon was killed by these creatures. The final labor of Hercules involved
capturing one of these creatures, which guarded Hades and had three heads.
For 10 points, identify this animal exemplified by Cerberus.
ANSWER: dog [or hound]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 4 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. One of his works in oratorio form includes the work of Latin American
poets like Gabriela Mistral in a retelling of the nativity story. The
documentary Wonders Are Many chronicled the making of his opera about
Robert Oppenheimer and the early tests at Los Alamos. In addition to El Niño
and Dr. Atomic, he wrote about the murder of a handicapped passenger of
the Achille Laurot in The Death of Klinghoffer. For 10 points name this
minimalist American composer best known for his opera about SinoAmerican diplomacy, Nixon in China.
ANSWER: John Coolidge Adams
18. This organ develops from cells at the base of the pharynx in the third to
fourth week of gestation. T-cells attack it in Hashimoto’s disease, and
hyperactivity of it is seen in Graves’ disease. The pituitary gland releases this
gland’s namesake “stimulating hormone” to regulate its activity, and a
deficiency of a certain element causes this two-lobed organ to enlarge and
become a goiter. That element is necessary for the formation of T3 and T4.
For 10 points, name this gland in the neck that requires iodine to form its
hormones.
ANSWER: thyroid
19. This man’s chief supporters included Frol Kozlov and Aleksandr Shelepin,
while during World War II, he served as political advisor during the defense of
Stalingrad. This man once pounded his shoe on his desk at the United
Nations, promising to “bury” the forces of capitalism. This man’s Secret
Speech denounced Stalin in order to inaugurate his namesake “thaw” in the
Cold War. Eventually replaced by Leonid Brezhnev, he was in power during
the Cuban Missile Crisis. For 10 points, name this man who served as Soviet
premier from 1958 to 1964.
ANSWER: Nikita Khrushchev
20. A series of novels by this author focuses on a businessman who sees
three symbolic moles under the left arms of various characters and
concludes with The Decay of the Angel. One of this author’s protagonists kills
a seaman who gives up sailing for domestic life. In addition to writing about
Mizoguchi burning down a title structure, this man wrote the Sea of Fertility
tetralogy and a novel admitting his own homosexuality, Confessions of a
Mask. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of The Temple of the Golden
Pavilion who committed seppuku on live TV.
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [accept in either order]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 5 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. One episode in this work sees a woman miraculously impregnated by
eating a berry, causing the hero to sail away. Louhi is the queen of the land
of Pohjola in this work. This text centers on a quest to steal the smith god
Ilmarinen’s recently forged good luck charm called the Sampo. The heroes of
this work venture to the underworld of Tuonela, and it features characters
like Vainamoinen and Lemminkainen. For 10 points, name this text compiled
by Elias Lonnrot, a compendium of Finnish mythology.
ANSWER: the Kalevala
22. The death of this polity’s king Maximilian Joseph led to this region’s
namesake war of succession, which is also called the Potato War. This region
was awarded Voralberg and the Tirol by the Treaty of Pressburg. Kurt Eisner
deposed the son of this entity’s Mad King Ludwig after World War I, and this
present-day state saw the birth of the Nazi movement, including a Beer Hall
Putsch in this state’s capital. For 10 points, name this largest state in
Germany, which holds the annual Oktoberfest celebration in its capital of
Munich.
ANSWER: Bavaria [or Bayern]
23. This compound is generated through the Cori cycle, and some mammals
may synthesize vitamin C from this molecule. It is phosphorylated by
hexokinase in the first step of the Embden-Meyerhof pathway, and glycerol
and another molecule are inputs to its neogenesis, which occurs in the liver.
Two net ATP molecules and two NADH molecules are produced by its
conversion to two molecules of pyruvate, and its conversion to fatty acids is
facilitated by insulin. For 10 points, name this six-carbon monosaccharide
that forms sucrose with fructose.
ANSWER: glucose

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 6 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set #4
Round 9

Bonuses

1. Ones by Debussy include “Festivals,” “Clouds,” and “Sirens.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this musical form that many consider was invented by John Field.
Samuel Barber composed a piece of this type of “night-music” in homage to
John Field.
ANSWER: nocturne
[10] This Polish composer of twenty-one nocturnes also wrote several etudes,
including ones nicknamed “Butterfly,” “Black Key,” and “Revolutionary.”
ANSWER: Frédéric Chopin
[10] One type of this composition by Chopin is his Opus 40 and is nicknamed
“Military,” while another is in A-flat major and nicknamed “Heroic.”
ANSWER: polonaise
2. Identify the following about the people and events involved in the 2003
United States invasion of Iraq for 10 points each:
[10] This man made the controversial decision to dissolve the Iraqi Army in
2003, and he made the 2003 announcement “we got him” after the capture
of Saddam Hussein.
ANSWER: Lewis Paul Bremer
[10] This Swedish diplomat headed the search for weapons of mass
destruction prior to the U.S. invasion. He didn’t find any.
ANSWER: Hans Blix
[10] This head of the Mahdi Army, a Shiite leader known for his antiAmerican speeches, was a key leader of the insurgency following the
invasion before ordering his militia to reorganize.
ANSWER: Muqtada al-Sadr

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 7 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

3. Name these geographical features at the southern reaches of the
Americas for 10 points each.
[10] Separated from the mainland by the Strait of Magellan, this archipelago
includes Monte Sarmiento and Monte Darwin, as well as the Beagle Channel.
ANSWER: Tierra del Fuego
[10] Name the two South American nations that share Tierra del Fuego, all or
nothing.
ANSWER: Argentina and Chile
[10] Directly north of Tierra del Fuego is this semiarid region of southern
Argentina that is typically said to stretch from the Strait of Magellan to the
Rio Colorado.
ANSWER: Patagonia
4. This man’s ideas led him to famously debate with Jürgen Habermas about
the nature of power in society. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this twentieth-century French philosopher who discussed shifting
discourses in The Order of Things and also wrote The History of Sexuality and
Discipline and Punish.
ANSWER: Michel Foucault
[10] In his Discipline and Punish, Foucault alluded to this prison system
model earlier explored by Jeremy Bentham wherein a central guard can
monitor all cells at once.
ANSWER: Panopticon
[10] Another man who engaged in a famous debate with Foucault is this MIT
linguist and author of Syntactic Structures who has a second career as an
anarchist dissident.
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky
5. Sometimes our minds play tricks on us. Identify the following
psychological concepts for 10 points each:
[10] This concept describes the human tendency to view events in the past
as being more predictable than they were before they took place.
ANSWER: hindsight bias
[10] Max Wertheimer used the optical illusion of the phi phenomenon as
support for this school of psychology, which emphasizes that the whole of
something is greater than its parts.
ANSWER: Gestalt
[10] This term describes the conflict that occurs when one’s beliefs are
contradicted with new information. Leon Festinger pioneered this concept in
his research of a UFO cult.
ANSWER: cognitive dissonance

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 8 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. He received a warning from Casca that the gods would strike Caesar down
but was unable to reach him before his assassins did. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman statesman who allied with Octavian, leading to victory
of Caesar’s assassins at the Battle of Phillipi.
ANSWER: Marc Antony
[10] Marc Antony was forced to commit suicide following his defeat by
Agrippa at this 31 B.C. naval battle in Egypt.
ANSWER: Battle of Actium
[10] Early naval combat often consisted of ramming these ships into each
other. They are named for their three rows of oars.
ANSWER: triremes
7. A character in this work called Evangelist presents the main character with
a scroll detailing how he should escape the City of Destruction and head
toward the Celestial City. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this allegorical John Bunyan work in which Christian passes
through a series of travails and ultimately battles the angel of the bottomless
pit, Apollyon.
ANSWER: The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come
[10] During his travels, Christian arrives at this festival in a namesake town
where travelers to the Celestial City are waylaid by the chief lord of the town,
Beelzebub.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair
[10] Before Christian arrives at Vanity Fair, he gets caught in this bog along
with his companion Pliable. A figure called Help eventually arrives and frees
Christian from this location.
ANSWER: Slough of Despond
8. The plot of Robert Sawyer’s Flashforward predicts April 2009 as the month
when an experiment at CERN looking for this particle goes horribly wrong.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this particle that is actually being currently sought with the LHC at
CERN, a so-called “God particle” that gives objects mass.
ANSWER: Higgs boson
[10] Another hypothetical particle is this one proposed by Paul Dirac to
explain the quantization of electric charge. It is a magnet with either a north
or south end but not both.
ANSWER: magnetic monopole
[10] If the magnetic monopole is found to exist, it would invalidate this one
of Maxwell’s equations, which states that the divergence of a magnetic field
is zero.
ANSWER: Gauss’ Law of Magnetism [prompt on Gauss’ Law]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 9 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. It is surrounded by an impassable ocean in which Jörmungandr dwells. For
10 points each:
[10] At Ragnarok, Jörmungandr will destroy what realm formed from the flesh
and blood of Ymir, which means “middle land” and is the home of the
humans in Norse mythology?
ANSWER: Midgard [or Miðgarðr]
[10] The human inhabitants of Midgard are judged by this race of female
beings that stand around the Well of Urðr and determine all fates and
outcomes in the world.
ANSWER: Norns
[10] Midgard is also often visited by these other females who choose humans
that have died bravely in battle and bring them to Valhalla on their flying
horses.
ANSWER: Valkyries
10. It was inspired by earlier works by Hercules Seghers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this cityscape set early in the morning across the river from the
titular Dutch town. Several people in this painting are walking along of the
banks opposite the town.
ANSWER: View of Delft
[10] View of Delft is a landscape of this Dutch artist famous for his many
portraits of women indoors such as Milkmaid, The Music Lesson, and Woman
Holding a Balance.
ANSWER: Johannes Vermeer
[10] Vermeer also painted this “Dutch Mona Lisa.” The title figure stares at
the viewer on a pitch black background and wears a blue headband, with the
title jewelry just barely visible.
ANSWER: Girl with a Pearl Earring [or Het Meisje met de Parel]
11. It was granted by the territory of Wyoming in 1869, and New Zealand is
typically cited as the first country to grant it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this privilege that was granted throughout the U. S. by the
Nineteenth Amendment.
ANSWER: women’s suffrage [or women’s right to vote]
[10] The American women’s suffrage movement is often traced back to this
1848 convention in upstate New York. It was organized by Elizabeth Cady
Stanton and Lucretia Mott.
ANSWER: Seneca Falls Convention
[10] Although she had not yet gained the right to vote, this women’s rights
activist became the first female presidential candidate when she was
nominated by the People’s Party in 1872.
ANSWER: Victoria Woodhull [or Victoria Claflin]
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 10 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. He wrote about an unnamed Captain who discovers a swimmer in “The
Secret Sharer.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Polish-English novelist of The Secret Agent and Lord Jim.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad
[10] This Conrad novella sees Marlow relate his journey to the depths of
Africa to find the mysterious Kurtz.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
[10] The people of Costaguana revere the title character of this Conrad
novel, not realizing he is slowly stealing their silver.
ANSWER: Nostromo
13. For 10 points each, identify these anatomical features of the heart.
[10] The human heart has two of these muscular chambers that pump blood
out of it. The right one sends blood into pulmonary circulation, and the left
sends blood into systemic circulation.
ANSWER: ventricle
[10] These tissues embedded in the walls of the ventricles conduct electrical
signals to the muscle of the ventricles, allowing the heart to contract
properly. They are named for a Czech physiologist.
ANSWER: Purkinje fibers
[10] Blood exits the left ventricle through this artery, the largest in the body.
It includes ascending and descending portions, as well as its namesake
“arch.”
ANSWER: aorta
14. Name these rulers of India for 10 points each.
[10] Two early rulers of this northeastern dynasty in the 300s A.D., the father
and son of Samudra, share their name with the founder of the first great
Indian dynasty six centuries earlier.
ANSWER: Gupta
[10] One dynasty that ruled from this city in the 13th century was the Mui’zzi
family, descendants of a slave to Muhammad of Ghur, another member of
this city’s namesake sultanate.
ANSWER: Delhi
[10] This “lame” Muslim conqueror of Mongol descent invaded on the
pretence that the Delhi sultans were too tolerant toward Hindus, destroyed
the city, and began ruling from Samarkand.
ANSWER: Timur Lenk [or Timur the Lame; or Tamburlaine]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 11 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. Identify the following about music in the deep South for 10 points each.
[10] This delta blues artist was a master of the slide guitar. Cream covered
his song “Crossroad Blues,” and he also wrote “Hellhound on My Trail.”
ANSWER: Robert Johnson
[10] This Mississippi native wrote blues songs like “Got My Mojo Working”
and “Hoochie Coochie Man.” The Rolling Stones took their name from his
song “Mannish Boy. ”
ANSWER: Muddy Waters [or McKinley Morganfield]
[10] This Louisiana musical genre is a mix of Cajun and Afro-Caribbean
styles. It is known for its use of the washboard, and Sidney Babineaux was
known as the king of this type of music.
ANSWER: zydeco [or zodico]
16. This limit is the nearest radius to a planet at which a satellite can orbit
without being broken up. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity.
ANSWER: the Roche limit
[10] Objects nearer than the Roche limit are torn apart by these forces,
caused by gravity being stronger on one side of the planet than the other
ANSWER: tidal forces [accept equivalents]
[10] This man’s namesake limit is the point at which the inward gravitational
force equals the outward radiation pressure. He was sure the fine structure
constant was exactly one over 137.
ANSWER: Arthur Stanley Eddington [or the Eddington limit; or Eddington
luminosity]
17. Identify the following works of Russian literature for 10 points each.
[10] Sonya is the niece of the title character of this Anton Chekov work. She
shoots at but misses Sonya’s father Alexandr when he suggests selling their
estate.
ANSWER: Uncle Vanya
[10] This poem by Alexander Pushkin features an aristocratic title character
who at first scorns the country girl Tatyana but later falls in love with her
after she is already married.
ANSWER: Eugene Onegin
[10] This novel about the Soviet prison system is partly based on author
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn’s own experiences as a prisoner.
ANSWER: The Gulag Archipelago

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 12 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. This poem continuously addresses Moloch, and many lines of its third
part begin with the phrase “I’m with you in Rockland.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem which begins “I saw the best minds of my generation
destroyed by madness.”
ANSWER: Howl
[10] Howl was written by this beat poet who wrote about his “memories of
Blake” in “Sunflower Sutra.”
ANSWER: Irwin Allen Ginsberg
[10] Ginsberg wrote this poem which begins “Strange now to think of you,
gone without corsets & eyes” after the death of his mother Naomi.
ANSWER: “Kaddish”
19. For 10 points each, name these attempts at peace in the aftermath of
World War I.
[10] Among the signers of this 1928 pact renouncing war “as an instrument
of national policy” were the namesake American Secretary of State and
French Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ANSWER: Kellogg-Briand Pact
[10] This earlier pact saw Germany, France, Italy, and Great Britain agree to
keep the peace in Western Europe. It was signed in both London and its
namesake Swiss city.
ANSWER: Locarno Pact or Treaties
[10] The United States, Great Britain, Japan, France, and Italy met in the
namesake American city to sign this treaty, establishing a 5 to 5 to 3 to 1.7
to 1.7 ratio for the sizes of their navies.
ANSWER: Washington Naval Treaty [or Five-Power Treaty]
20. For 10 points each, identify the following concerning phases.
[10] This phase change occurs when lowering both the pressure and
temperature of a solid yields a gas.
ANSWER: sublimation [accept word forms]
[10] This point on a phase diagram marks the end of the barrier between
liquid and gas, after which molecules have too much energy for the
substance to remain a liquid.
ANSWER: critical point
[10] The thermal energy given off when a substance condenses is known as
this “heat,” which corresponds to the energy needed to form the stronger
intermolecular forces of a liquid.
ANSWER: heat of vaporization [or enthalpy of vaporization]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 13 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. For 10 points each, name these orders of class Insecta.
[10] This order contains social insects such as ants, bees, and wasps.
ANSWER: Hymenoptera
[10] This order initially exists as a larva called a caterpillar before undergoing
metamorphosis into its adult form. It includes moths and butterflies.
ANSWER: Lepidoptera
[10] This order, the largest in the animal kingdom, has seen such recent
taxonomic changes as demoting family Languriidae to a subfamily of family
Erotylidae. It contains beetles.
ANSWER: Coleoptera
22. Through marriages, this man entered into alliances with Baldwin of
Flanders and the English nobleman Tostig. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who invaded England after the death of Edward the
Confessor.
ANSWER: William the Conqueror [or William of Normandy; or William I;
or William the Bastard; or Guillaume de Normandie; prompt on
William]
[10] In 1086, William the Conqueror commissioned the creation of this book,
which contained a census of the English peoples and lands.
ANSWER: Domesday Book
[10] This son of William the Conqueror added Scotland to his kingdom by
defeating Malcolm III, and he died in a suspicious hunting accident in 1100.
His byname means “the red.”
ANSWER: William Rufus [prompt on William II]
23. The protagonist of this novel becomes an optometrist in Ilium, New York
before living on Tralfamadore with Montana Wildhack. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Billy Pilgrim getting unstuck in time.
ANSWER: Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance
With Death
[10] This author of Cat’s Cradle and God Bless You Mr. Rosewater wrote
Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
[10] In this Vonnegut book, the car salesman Dwayne Hoover goes berserk
and bites Kilgore Trout.
ANSWER: Breakfast of Champions or Goodbye Blue Monday

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 9

Page 14 of 14

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

