Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 5
Tossups

1. He claimed that his Three Principles of the People, namely, nationalism, democracy, and socialism,
were inspired in part by Abraham Lincoln. Those principles, also called the San-min doctrine, were
elucidated in a speech that also proclaimed a military government at Guangzhou and put forth the FiveYuan Constitution. His successor served as the commandant of his Whampoa Military Academy. Revered
in Taiwan as the father of the Republic of China, for 10 points, identify this leader, succeeded by Chiang
Kai-shek, the founder of the Kuomintang.
ANSWER: Sun Yat-sen [or Sun Yixian; or Sun Wen; or Sun Deming; or Nakayama Sho; or Nagao Takano]
2. Paolo Uccello painted a fresco of this type of artwork in his portrait of Sir John Hawkwood, while
Titian painted Charles V in this type of work. A Verrocchio piece of this type depicts Bartolomeo
Colleoni, and a piece of this type stands on Capitoline Hill and depicts Marcus Aurelius. One executed by
Falconet in St. Petersburg depicts Peter the Great and is done in bronze. For 10 points, name this type of
monument exemplified by Donatello’s Gattamelata, which depict a man riding a steed.
ANSWER: equestrian monuments [accept logical equivalents, like statues of people on horseback, etc.;
prompt on statues, monuments, or sculptures]
3. This ruler faced a conspiracy from a less notable Lepidus, and his father died in Antioch under
mysterious circumstances, accusing the governor of Syria, Gnaeus Calpurnius Piso, of poison. He aborted
a campaign to Britain but celebrated a triumph for it anyway, and he really liked his sister Drusilla. This
son of Germanicus was assassinated by the Praetorian Guard in 41 CE, and was followed by his uncle
Claudius. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor whose name means “little boots,” best known for
being insane.
ANSWER: Caligula [or Gaius Julius Caesar Germanicus]
4. This author of a sonnet praising Kosciusko inspired the title of Asher Durand's painting “Kindred
Spirits” with his sonnet “O Solitude! If I must with thee dwell.” His other sonnets include “Bright Star,
would I were steadfast as thou art” and “On sitting down to read King Lear once again,” and he asked
“Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?” in “To Autumn.” His longest poem depicts a
shepherd who loves Cynthia, and begins “A thing of beauty is a joy forever.” For 10 points, name this
British poet of Endymion and “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
ANSWER: John Keats
5. In Hindu tradition, the sixth avatar of Vishnu, Parasurama, used an axe to kill Jamadagni in a dispute
over one of these that could feed an army. In Greek mythology, Daedalus built Pasiphae a giant wooden
one of these. In Norse mythology, a primordial one named Audhumbla licks the ice of Niflheim and
Cadmus founded Thebes where one of these came to rest. For 10 points, name this animal which Zeus
transformed Io into and which is sacred in Hindu tradition.
ANSWER: cows

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 1 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

6. This city was a merger between the towns Philadelphia and one founded by a group of Georgians, and
it was the namesake of a railroad to West Point, Georgia. James Wilson occupied this city in 1865, and it
would later be the site of a march over a drive to register black voters that began in Selma. This city was
the site of the Secession Conference of the Civil War, where it was chosen to serve as the Confederate
capital. The city where Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat, for 10 points, name this Alabama city
where a bus boycott was held.
ANSWER: Montgomery
7. The amount of dispersion in these objects is related to the quantity of free electrons between them
and earth, providing information about the warm ionized medium. The central object of the Crab nebula
is one of these. Thomas Gold was the first to correctly classify these objects, which were dubbed “LGMs”
by Hewish and Bell, who thought they were signals from extraterrestrials. The “lighthouse model”
describes, for 10 points, these rapidly rotating neutron stars named for their periodically emitted
radiation.
ANSWER: pulsars
8. One of these by Paul Hindemith is entitled “Der Main,” and one by Ives uses tone clusters in
“Thoreau.” That work, the “Concord” one, is a successor to works in this genre, like Schumann’s
Concerto Without Orchestra. One in A major by Mozart ends with the “Rondo alla Turca,” while
Beethoven composed the “Waldstein” one, as well as one that begins with C sharp minor arpeggios
originally entitled “Quasi Una Fantasia.” For 10 points, name this type of music, which Beethoven wrote
thirty-two of and includes his “Moonlight.”
ANSWER: piano sonatas
9. In one of his poems that takes place “along Paumanok’s shore” a boy observes two birds and hears
“the low and delicious word death.” Another poem mourns “the great star early droop’d in the western
sky,” and in another poem the narrator “Look’d up in perfect silence at the stars” after leaving a lecture
by the title “learn’d astronomer.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Out of the Cradle Endlessly
Rocking” and “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d,” who included most of his poetry in the
collection Leaves of Grass.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
10. This band sang “I’m a pill on your tongue” in “Hong Kong,” which appeared with “Rock It” on D-Sides.
Their songs include “Slow Country” and “19-2000” as well as one that repeats “Push it real, push it,”
“Kids with Guns.” Better known are a song that talks about sunshine in a bag and one that features De
La Soul and says “love forever, love is free.” For 10 points, name this Damon Albarn-created band known
for recording “Clint Eastwood” and “Feel Good Inc.” as well as for being animated.
ANSWER: Gorillaz
11. Constant utility is an assumption of the Hicksian form of this concept, which is in general less
preferred than the Marshallian form if emprical data is available; the two forms are related by the
Slutsky equation. The Marshallian version takes into account the income and substitution effects, and
the shape of this curve is positive for Veblen and Giffen goods. For 10 points, name this concept that
denotes an individual’s willingness to buy a certain item given a particular price.
ANSWER: demand curve

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 2 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. In an essay on the “Intersection of [this concept] and Feminism,” Jane Duran notes that it ignores
generalities in favor of analysis of particulars and their relations. One founder of this branch of
philosophy elucidated its central maxim in the essay “How to Make Our Ideas Clear,” while another
described it as a reconciliation between empiricism and religion. For 10 points, name this branch of
philosophy associated with Charles Sanders Peirce and William James, which focuses on a hypothesis’
practical consequences.
ANSWER: pragmatism
13. G-A-A-T-T-C is the recognition site for a sticky-end-producing restriction enzyme produced by this
organism. Meselson and Stahl demonstrated the semiconservative nature of DNA replication in this
organism, and Jacob and Monod used this organism to study the lac operon. Recombinant DNA
techniques allow for commercial production of human proteins by this bacterium. For 10 points, name
this prokaryotic model organism, naturally found in animals’ guts, which causes food poisoning scares
with undercooked red meat.
ANSWER: Eschericia coli [accept E. coli; accept EcoRI before “organism”]
14. The subject of this work was also depicted Drinking a Toast, and a watercolor study for this work
shows the subject seated on a blue chaise lounge with papers in her lap. The subject of this work holds a
closed fan in her left hand, while her right rests on a small wooden table. The initial reception at the
Paris Salon led the artist to reposition one of the jeweled shoulder straps that hold up her black dress.
For 10 points, name this depiction of the pale Virginie Gautreau looking to her left, a work of John Singer
Sargent.
ANSWER: Portrait of Madame X
15. A problem named after Hadamard asks to find the largest possible value for this given an arbitrary
set of numbers. Finding eignevalues involves solving the characteristic polynomial generated by this
function. It is often found through the technique of expansion by minors, and ratios of these are used to
find solutions to a set of linear equations by Cramer’s rule. A square matrix is invertible if this quantity is
not zero. For 10 points, name this matrix operation, which for a two-by-two matrix a b c d equals a d
minus b c.
ANSWER: determinant
16. The protagonist of this work pridefully forgets his chi and a man who lent him yams. The sequel to
this novel sees its protagonist’s grandson Obi convicted of fraud after buying Clara an abortion. This
work sees newborn twins placed in earthen jars in the Evil Forest, and an accidental gunshot in this work
leads to Ikemefuna’s death. The protagonist’s son Nwoye converts to Christianity, leading to the
protagonist’s suicide by hanging in Umuofia. For 10 points, name this novel in which Okonkwo hangs
himself, by Chinua Achebe.
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
17. Ernest Augustus I united this former polity with Luneberg, and it incorporated the Bishopric of
Osnaburck in 1803. It joined the the Zollverein in 1851 and was annexed by Prussia in the Seven Weeks'
War, and in 1692 it became the ninth electorate of the Holy Roman Empire. It was once known as Great
Britain's “Achilles Heel,” and this state was dissolved after World War II and went on to form eighty
percent of the state of Lower Saxony. For 10 points, name this former northwestern German state that
produced four Georges and William IV as kings of England.
ANSWER: Hanover
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 3 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

18. In this novel, Old Sally is a beggar who steals the only evidence of the title character’s parentage and
Mr. Sowerberrry is a mortician who employs him as a mourner. The protagonist’s stepbrother Monks
plots with one character who kills Nancy and accidentally hangs himself. In addition to Bill Sikes, villains
in this novel include the wily Artful Dodger and the greasy gang leader Fagin. For 10 points, name this
novel by Charles Dickens.
ANSWER: Oliver Twist
19. Arruda-Boyce, Ogden, and Mooney-Rivlin models are all alternatives to this law, and another
alternative assumes that that the work done on a solid is equal to the rate of change of Helmholtz free
energy via a relation involving Cauchy stress and the stretch rate tensor. This law gives Young’s modulus
as the ratio of stress to strain. For 10 points, name this law the governs the motion of springs and is
typically written as F equals negative k x.
ANSWER: Hooke’s Law
20. The protagonist of this novel disguises himself as a clerk of the Thomson and French Company to
rescue the financially failing Morrell family, and as Lord Wilmore he is a kindly Englishman. For seven
years he is known as Number 34, and during this time he meets Abbe Faria who teaches him languages,
the location of a secret treasure, and tunnel digging after his imprisonment in the Château d'If. For 10
points, name this novel in which Edmond Dantes assumes the title persona to enact vengeance upon his
enemies, a work of Alexandre Dumas.
ANSWER: The Count of Monte Cristo [or Le Comte de Monte-Cristo]
21. The Toiyabe and Desatoya Mountains are located along US route 50 in the center of this state, and in
its northwest lies the Smoke Creek Desert. The Reese River and Mary's River are tributaries of the
Humboldt River, which originates and ends in this state. The Lehman caves and Wheeler Peak are found
in this state's Great Basin National Park, and the Great Basin is also home to the Pyramid Lake. With its
western neighbor, it shares Lake Tahoe. For 10 points, identify this state home to cities like Reno and Las
Vegas.
ANSWER: Nevada
22. A point between two of these is named after Wheland. Edward Thornton and Rudolf Marcus have
expanded the original version of a hypothesis about the structure of one of these entities, the
Hammond Postulate. In biochemistry they are roughly equivalent to the activated complexes. They
occur at the highest point along the reaction coordinate, and the energy required to form them is the
activation energy. For 10 points, name this highest-energy intermediate of a reaction.
ANSWER: transition state [prompt on “activated complex” before mentioned; prompt on “Hammond
Postulate” before mentioned]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 4 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

Fall 2008
ACF-Format Set #2
Round 5
Bonuses

1. This author wrote about a slain sportsman in “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter.” For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Spanish playwright of the Rural Trilogy, including Blood Wedding and Yerma.
ANSWER: Federico Garcia Lorca
[10] Another Rural Trilogy play is about this type of structure, owned by Bernarda Alba. V.S. Naipaul
wrote about one “for Mr. Biswas,” and Sandra Cisneros wrote about the one “on Mango Street.”
ANSWER: a house [or The House of Bernarda Alba; or casa; or La casa de Bernarda Alba]
[10] Garcia Lorca also wrote a play about this creature’s “evil spell.” David Hwang wrote a work called
“M. [this creature],” based on a Puccini opera starring Benjamin Franklin Pinkerton.
ANSWER: a butterfly
2. Name these eighteenth century British novels for 10 points each.
[10] The title character is accidentally circumcised by a falling window in this comic novel by Laurence
Sterne, which includes characters like Dr. Slop and Parson Yorick.
ANSWER: The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
[10] The title character of this Daniel Defoe novel befriends a native named Friday after being
shipwrecked on a Caribbean island.
ANSWER: The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of York, Mariner
[10] Another Daniel Defoe novel discusses the “fortunes and misfortunes” of this onetime thief, whose
five marriages and transport to Virginia end with her religious conversion.
ANSWER: Moll Flanders [accept either]
3. Name some gods associated with storms, for 10 points each.
[10] This Greek god of the sea thwarts Odysseus’s attempts to return home after the Trojan War by
sending storms to wreck his ships.
ANSWER: Poseidon
[10] Deserts and storms were associated with this Egyptian god of chaos. Out of jealousy, he
dismembered his older brother Osiris.
ANSWER: Set
[10] This Sumerian god was in charge of storms as well as being the leader of the gods, and he sent a
flood that would have wiped out mankind, but Enki saved Utanapishtim.
ANSWER: Enlil [or Ellil]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 5 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

4. In his novel The Centaur, George Caldwell and his son Peter bond after being trapped in a snowstorm.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who wrote four novels about former high school basketball star Harry Angstrom.
ANSWER: John Updike
[10] Harry Angstrom went by this nickname in novels titled about him Rich, and at Rest.
ANSWER: Rabbit
[10] In this Updike short story, Sammy quits his job at the title supermarket in a chivalrous gesture that
goes unnoticed by three girls.
ANSWER: “A & P”
5. This religion is devoted to the worship of spirits known as kami. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this indigenous religion of Japan.
ANSWER: Shinto
[10] This book, which translates as “Record of Ancient Matters”, details the Shinto creation story and is
the most-well known of the Shinto scriptures.
ANSWER: Kojiki
[10] These traditional gates are often found at the entrance to a Shinto shrine.
ANSWER: torii
6. He was influenced by George Wishart, and wrote History of the Reformation in Scotland. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this man, who led the Reformation in Scotland.
ANSWER: John Knox
[10] John Knox wrote the tract First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstrous Regiment of Women, a
work that prompted this ruler to bar Knox from England.
ANSWER: Elizabeth I
[10] Knox fled to Europe following the ascession of this ruler, the successor to Edward VI who attempted
to restore the Catholic Church in England.
ANSWER: Mary I [or Mary Tudor; or Bloody Mary]
7. Amneris fears her love for the soldier Radames is unrequited. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Guiseppe Verdi opera about an Ethiopian princess.
ANSWER: Aida
[10] Aida is captured during a war between Ethiopia and this neighboring country led by the father of
Amneris.
ANSWER: Egypt
[10] Aida chooses to join Radames after he is sentenced to die by this method.
ANSWER: being buried alive [accept equivalents]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 6 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

8. Larger-than-life figures dominate his controversial Last Judgment, and his other works include the
tomb of Pope Julius II. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painter of the Sistine Chapel ceiling.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Buonarroti [either or both names]
[10] Michelangelo created perhaps the most famous example of this type of sculpture, which shows
Mary holding the dead body of Jesus.
ANSWER: Pietà
[10] This Michelangelo-designed building housed the reading rooms of the Medici. It included a curved
staircase that was one of the earliest examples of Mannerist architecture.
ANSWER: the Laurentian Library
9. This puppet state's slogan was "Work, Family, Fatherland." For 10 points each:
[10] Admiral Francois Darlan was a leading figure in this state, which was set up after the French
surrender to Germany during World War II.
ANSWER: Vichy France
[10] This man served as chief of state for the Vichy government, and was sentenced to die in 1945, but
his sentence was commuted to solitary confinement for life in the Ile d'Ye.
ANSWER: Philippe Petain
[10] Before being discredited for heading the Vichy government, Petain was a military hero who was
able to halt the German advance in this 1916 WWI battle in the namesake fortress town.
ANSWER: Verdun
10. She renewed Kalakaua’s signing of the Reciprocity treaty, giving control of Pearl Harbor to the
United States of America. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this queen of Hawai’i, who was overthrown in a coup by Sanford Dole.
ANSWER: Queen Liliuokalani [or Lydia Kamakaeha; or Lydia Liliuokalani Paki; or Liliu Kamakaeha]
[10] Liliuokalani appealed to this President, who ordered an investigation into the matter by James
Blount. He is better known for having his two terms interrupted by Benjamin Harrison.
ANSWER: Grover Cleveland
[10] This man authored the Bayonet Constitution, becoming interior minister to Kalakaua and giving
planters power. He helped lead a provisional government after Liliuokalani’s deposition.
ANSWER: Lorrin Andrews Thurston
11. The “core” ones are known as H2A, H2B, H3, and H4. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these proteins that are at the center of DNA strands.
ANSWER: histones
[10] Together with DNA, histones make up this condensed substance found in the nucleus during
interphase.
ANSWER: chromatin
[10] Histones are not found in this domain of organisms, prokaryotes exemplified by E. coli.
ANSWER: bacteria [do not accept archaea or archaebacteria]

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 7 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

12. This playwright defended his choice of subjects in his essay “Tragedy and the Common Man.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this author who fictionalized himself as Quentin in his autobiographical play After the Fall.
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
[10] Miller contrasts Biff and Happy's belief in the American Dream in this play, which ends with the
suicide of Willy Loman.
ANSWER: Death of a Salesman
[10] This friend of Willy Loman helps him out financially and offers him a job, which Willy rejects. His son
Bernard becomes a successful lawyer.
ANSWER: Charley
13. Alphonso Jackson resigned from this post in April 2008 after allegations of misconduct. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this cabinet position currently held by Steven Preston. It was created during President
Lyndon Johnson’s tenure, and oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
ANSWER: Housing and Urban Development [or HUD]
[10] President Bush appointed this former CIA officer and President of Texas A&M University as
Secretary of Defense in 2006.
ANSWER: Robert Michael Gates
[10] In October, this man claimed the transition to a new President may lead to new terrorist attacks;
however, this Homeland Secretary did not have any specific information about those attacks.
ANSWER: Michael Chertoff
14. Sigismund I arranged to have their holdings transferred to private ownership. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Germanic crusading order, which forcibly converted the pagan inhabitants of the Baltic
and Eastern Europe.
ANSWER: Teutonic Knights [or House of the Hospitalers of Saint Mary of the Teutons in Jerusalem]
[10] The Teutonic Knights effectively had their power crushed at this battle, which saw their defeat by a
coalition led by Wladyslaw II and Vytautus the Great.
ANSWER: First Battle of Tannenberg [or Battle of Grunwald]
[10] Albert I converted holdings of the Knights into the hereditary Duchy of Prussia, bringing to
prominence this house that would rule Prussia and later the united Germany.
ANSWER: Hohenzollern
15. This creator of the Neue Zeitschrift fur Musik often wrote under the pseudonyms Florestan and
Eusebius, who he composed works about in the Davisbundler. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of the Abegg Variations and the collection of piano pieces Carnaval, whose
wife Clara often performed his music publicly.
ANSWER: Robert Schumann
[10] Schumann’s first symphony shares this nickname with a choral symphony by Benjamin Britten that
sets poems like “Shine out, fair sun” and “Out on the Lawn I Lie in Bed.”
ANSWER: Spring Symphony
[10] Schumann wrote an overture that includes a “Rasch-Langsam” section named after this Byron work
that also inspired a symphony by Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: Manfred

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 8 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

16. This 1899 book postulated that the opulent display of wealth was a Darwinian survival of a
“barbarian” instinct. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this study, which introduced such phrases as “conspicuous consumption” in its indictment of
the title group.
ANSWER: The Theory of the Leisure Class
[10] This author of The Engineers and the Price System and The Theory of Business Enterprise wrote The
Theory of the Leisure Class.
ANSWER: Thorstein Bunde Veblen
[10] Veblen used this phrase to describe the attempt to match the outward signs of wealth displayed by
one’s peers.
ANSWER: “pecuniary emulation”
17. Nobody knows for sure what the large oxyphil cells in these structures are supposed to do. For 10
points each:
[10] Name these endocrine glands in the neck whose namesake hormone increases the concentration of
calcium ions in the blood.
ANSWER: parathyroid glands
[10] Parathyroid hormone, or PTH, opposes the action of this other hormone produced by the thyroid
gland. This hormone causes bones, intestines, and kidney tubules to reabsorb calcium.
ANSWER: calcitonin
[10] Both the actions of the thyroid and parathyroid glands are controlled by this master gland, a
protrusion at the bottom of the hypothalamus. Its posterior portion produces oxytocin and ADH.
ANSWER: pituitary gland
18. Although the following bays are located in vastly different parts of the world, they all are loosely
related. For 10 points each:
[10] The Loire, Adour, Dordogne, and Garonne rivers flow into this bay which is bounded on the east by
the west coast of Franace and on the south by the north coast of Spain.
ANSWER: Bay of Biscay
[10] Lying between Greenland and its namesake island, this bay connects to the Atlantic Ocean to the
south through the Davis Strait.
ANSWER: Baffin Bay
[10] Madras and Calcutta are among the ports located on this bay, which is bordered by Sri Lanka and
India to its west and Myanmar and Thailand on the east.
ANSWER: Bay of Bengal
19. For 10 points each, identify these twentieth century Russian writers.
[10] This author of Pale Fire wrote about Humbert Humbert’s obsession with a twelve year old in Lolita.
ANSWER: Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov
[10] This author of the poetry collection My Sister Life is best known for his novel set in revolution era
Russia, Doctor Zhivago.
ANSWER: Boris Leonidovich Pasternak
[10] He wrote about the Turbin family in The White Guard and about the devil’s visit to Soviet Moscow
in The Master and Margarita.
ANSWER: Mikhail Afanasievich Bulgakov

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 9 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

20. It holds because the velocity of planet increases as it approaches closer to the sun. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this law which states that the line connecting a sun and a planet sweeps out equal areas in
equal time.
ANSWER: Kepler’s second law [prompt on partial answers]
[10] Kepler’s second law is a consequence of the conservation of this quantity which is equal to the mass
times angular velocity.
ANSWER: angular momentum [do not prompt on “momentum”]
[10] This quantity is equal to the time derivative of the angular momentum. For a rotating body it is
equal to the product of moment of inertia and angular acceleration.
ANSWER: torque [prompt on “T” or “tau”]
21. Women can do science, too! For 10 points each:
[10] She and her colleague Maurice Wilkins used x-ray crystallography to determine that DNA had a
double helix structure.
ANSWER: Rosalind [Elsie] Franklin
[10] This woman is credited with being the first astronomer to observe a comet that could not be seen
with the naked eye. She was also the first female member of a bunch of scientific societies.
ANSWER: Maria Mitchell
[10] Inge Lehmann, a Danish seismologist, discovered an unusual type of P-wave that is usually credited
as the first evidence of the existence of this layer of the earth.
ANSWER: inner core [do not accept or prompt on “core”]
22. The lunar crater named for him is northwest of Blanchard and east of De Roy. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Swedish chemist who suggested that acids produce hydrogen ions in solutions and
whose namesake equation gives a certain quantity as an exponent of activation energy.
ANSWER: Svante August Arrhenius
[10] That quantity is this constant, which along with the orders of the reaction mechanisms determines
the speed at which a product forms. Catalysts work to increase this constant.
ANSWER: reaction rate constant [prompt on k]
[10] The Arrhenius equation is notably reinterpreted in this theory posited by Trautz and Lewis, which
suggests that the namesake events connect in a certain way to make reactions happen.
ANSWER: collision theory

Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2

Round 5

Page 10 of 10

© 2008 HSAPQ

These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.

