NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Tossups
1. The Aufbau reaction, which forms a complex of this element and six total ethyl groups, avoids termination
and branching in the synthesis of polyethylene. This element is alloyed to nickel in Raney nickel. Its oxides are
commonly dipped into a conducting sulfuric acid bath in the process of anodization. Gibbsite is this element's
hydroxide, and this element is oxidized in the thermite reaction. Unusually, this metal's oxidation state is
almost exclusively +3, and it is the lightest metal found in the p-block. Industrial production of this element
proceeds by electrolysis of cryolite and its molten oxide. For 10 points, name this element produced in the
Hall-Heroult process from bauxite.
ANSWER: aluminum [or Al] <Silverman>
2. To create a painting featuring these animals, an artist repeatedly visited the Boulevard l'Hopital dressed as a
man. Influenced by a similar painting by Sawrey Gilpin, Eugene Delacroix made a watercolor painting of one
of these animals frightened by lightning. An engraving depicting the skeleton of one of these animals, titled
for their "anatomy," was made by George Stubbs. Rosa Bonheur is best known for a painting depicting these
animals in a "fair." One of these animals peeks from behind a curtain in Henry Fuseli's The Nightmare. Edgar
Degas and Theodore Gericault created many paintings of these animals, the latter in such canvases as The
Derby at Epsom. For 10 points, name these animals found in equestrian portraits.
ANSWER: horses <Lee>
3. In this place, a man interrupts a speech to inquire about a force "whose talons grasp the blessings of the
world." A denizen of this place speaks the cryptic line, "Pape Satan, pape Satan aleppe." Several beings in this
place run in semicircles around a ring before ramming each other with large weights. A long discourse on the
nature of fortune is delivered by Virgil in this place, where many popes and cardinals reside. This realm is
presided over by either Pluto or Plutus, and its residents include the prodigal, who are guilty of squandering,
and the avaricious, who hoard. For 10 points, name this circle of Hell filled with those who have committed the
sin of greed.
ANSWER: the Fourth Circle [prompt on the Inferno; prompt on Hell] <Gupta>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 1 of 14 

4. In this play, a servant salutes to "liberty, honour, and Fleet-Street for ever!" after a man orders him to drink
heavily. An illiterate character in this play tells a hiding woman that he will cough if there is danger, and then
unintentionally starts coughing, ruining the illusion that he had driven her to "Crackskull Common" when he
had actually driven in circles. The question of whether that man in this play is "of age" decides this play's
secondary romance between Constance Neville and George Hastings. In this play, Tony Lumpkin steals jewels
from his mother and falsely claims that his home is an inn, allowing Kate Hardcastle to win Marlow over by
disguising herself as a barmaid. For 10 points, name this comedy by Oliver Goldsmith.
ANSWER: She Stoops to Conquer <Yu>
5. In this city, a prayer session was interrupted when Jenny Geddes threw a stool at a local dean, starting a
massive riot at St. Giles. A document that was signed in this city at the church of Greyfriars was resisted by the
Marquis of Huntly, George Gordon. Part of its defensive fortifications include the Telfer Wall and the
Netherbow Port, which is located along this city's Royal Mile. Monarchs who ruled from this city usually lived
at Holyrood Palace. A legislative body in this city was disestablished following the Acts of Union, which joined
this city's country with a southern neighbor. For 10 points, name this largest settlement in the region of
Lothian, the capital city of Scotland.
ANSWER: Edinburgh <Clarke>
6. This man designed chimneys resembling rows of huge helmeted heads, whose frightening appearance gives
them the nickname "witch scarers." This architect often topped his designs with four-armed crosses. A turret
representing Saint George's lance is on one of his buildings nicknamed the "house of yawns" for the mouthlike moldings around its lower windows. This architect incorporated wrought-iron balconies and a selfsupporting, undulating stone facade into one of his designs. He used broken tiles called trencadis in a mosaicdecorated park for his patron, Eusebi Guell, and planned eighteen spires for an as-yet-uncompleted church.
For 10 points, name this architect who designed the Casa Mila and Sagrada Familia in Barcelona.
ANSWER: Antoni Gaudi i Cornet <Yu>
7. In one work, this thinker explained twelve reliable and twelve unreliable signs that a religious action is a
true result of God's converting grace. He described how the joy of grace created a "new light" in A Faithful
Narrative of the Surprising Work of God. A work by this man begins with the quotation "Their Feet shall slide in
due Time." This author of Religious Affections outlined "ten considerations" in that work, which exhorts "let
everyone that is out of Christ now awake," and was delivered at Enfield, Connecticut. That sermon claims that
only "the mere pleasure of God" keeps wicked men from being held, like a spider, over the pit of hell. For 10
points, name this theologian of the First Great Awakening who wrote "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
ANSWER: Jonathan Edwards <Kothari>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 2 of 14 

8. An empirical approximation for this force includes a term for one hundred over the Hazen-Williams
constant, all raised to the 1.85 power. The magnitude of this force is often expressed as a factor K times v
squared over two g, as seen in the full Colebrook equation. A factor measuring this force exactly equals 16 over
the Reynolds number if the Reynolds number is small. The nondimensional "epsilon over diameter" is plotted
against Reynolds number on a Moody plot to estimate Fanning's factor to measure this force. It usually
provides the error between both sides of the Bernoulli equation. Long, straight, rough pipelines require pumps
to counteract head losses due to it. For 10 points, name this force that opposes the motion of fluids in pipes.
ANSWER: pipe friction [prompt on pressure head losses or pipe roughness] <Silverman>
9. An early example of this system, which connected San Pablo Bay with its namesake California city, was the
Sonoma Prismoidial. Louis Brennan patented a system of this type for military use which employed a pair of
gyroscopes. A suspended version of this technology designed by Eugen Langen in Wuppertal is the oldest of
them still in use today. In 2013, one of these systems circling Darling Harbour in downtown Sydney was shut
down, and it has been criticized for the difficulty of providing branching service. American examples of this
technology include a Seattle system that opened for the 1962 World's Fair and one connecting the casinos of
the Las Vegas Strip. For 10 points, name this ever-futuristic type of train that runs on a single beam.
ANSWER: monorails [prompt on train systems until "train" is read] <White>
10. This man was the second-to-last ruler covered in an 80-book history by Cassius Dio, who lived through this
man's reign. A coin minted by this emperor shows a chariot carrying a sacred black stone away from Emesa in
Syria, this man's childhood home. This man, who was made emperor by his grandmother Julia Maesa at age
fourteen, allegedly married a Vestal Virgin and gained a reputation for extremely decadent acts before his
murder and replacement by Alexander Severus four years later. This man took a name from the non-Christian
singular deity he forced Romans to worship instead of Jupiter. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor from
218 to 222 CE, a devotee of a unary sun god.
ANSWER: Elagabalus [or Heliogabalus; or Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus Elagabalus; do not accept or
prompt on "Marcus Aurelius"] <Jackson>
11. This is the highest number in the figured bass abbreviation for a second-inversion dominant seventh chord.
To turn a major scale into the corresponding Lydian mode, the scale degree of this number is raised by a
semitone. Inverting a perfect fifth produces this interval which, besides the unison, is the smallest perfect
interval. The scale degree of this number is the subdominant. It is the number of flats in F minor and the total
number of spaces between the lines of a standard music staff. This is the number of beats in a measure of the
most common time signature, the number of movements in a standard symphony, and the number of quarter
notes in a whole note. For 10 points, give this number of hands that play in a piano duet.
ANSWER: four [or fourth; or perfect fourth; or IV] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 3 of 14 

12. Self-consistent numerical models of this process were created by Kuang and Bloxham, Kageyama and Sato,
and—most famously—Glatzmaier and Roberts. Many models of this process fail to produce westward drift in
the secular variation. The alpha effect's transformation of a toroidal field to a poloidal field is important to
understanding this process. Cowling's theorem forbids this process from producing an axisymmetric field.
Adjusting the Prandtl number in simulations of it reveals the impact of the Coriolis effect on pole reversals.
This self-sustaining process results from convective circulation of liquid iron and nickel by thermal buoyancy,
which induces an electrical current. For 10 points, identify this process in the Earth's outer core that generates
the Earth's magnetic field.
ANSWER: core dynamo [or geodynamo; prompt on core convection or the process that creates the planetary
magnetic fields or obvious equivalents of that set] <Voight>
13. Augustine claimed the opposite of this property did not exist in its own right, but only as a lack of this.
Immanuel Kant argued there was nothing in the world that had this property intrinsic to it except this type of
will. A later thinker argued that previous attempts to define this property as analytically equivalent to another
led to tautologies, and thus this property was undefinable. In The Republic Socrates compares the Form of this
property to the sun, as it makes it possible for the philosopher to perceive all other Forms. G.E. Moore
compared it to the color yellow in Principia Ethica. For 10 points, name this property of things contrasted with
evil.
ANSWER: goodness <Bailey>
14. This author taught writing classes at Sing Sing that helped him gather material for a novel about a convict
who suffers from methadone withdrawal and has a love affair with another prisoner named Jody. In a story by
this author, a housewife hysterically concludes, "Life is too terrible, too sordid and awful," before asking her
husband, "We're happy, aren't we, darling? We are happy, aren't we?" Aunt Honora, the father Leander, and
the bisexual Coverly are members of the title family in this author's first novel. At the end of a story by this
author, a man realizes his house is abandoned after traveling home by way of all his neighbors' pools. For 10
points, name this American author of The Wapshot Chronicle, "The Enormous Radio," and "The Swimmer."
ANSWER: John Cheever <Casalaspi>
15. This man employed Bella de Costa Greene to create a massive personal library, where he once locked his
colleagues until 5:00 AM to force a deal during a crisis that prompted the Aldrich-Vreeland Act. George
Cortelyou was forced to rely on this man to that incident, which was triggered by the Hepburn Act and F.
Augustus Heinze's failed bid to corner the copper market. This man died shortly after testifying before the
Pujo Committee, and he organized banker intervention to end the Panic of 1907. For 10 points, name this
financial magnate who oversaw the creation of G.E. and U.S. Steel, and whose namesake company later
merged with Chase Manhattan Bank.
ANSWER: John Pierpont Morgan <Ray>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 4 of 14 

16. For a brief period at this location, an attractive former cheerleader named Susie Phillips would greet
visitors as they arrived. Skeptic Brian Dunning has written about employees here were "often friendly" and
performed favors for people. A group of people at this location temporarily revolted by refusing to wear
stocking caps. While working here, David Eshelman attempted to impersonate actor Strother Martin from the
film Cool Hand Luke. The leader of this place would compare it to a foreign location in his book The Lucifer Effect.
Christina Maslach questioned the conditions of this location, where people were apparently abused by men
like "John Wayne" and other people playing guards. For 10 points, name this location where Philip Zimbardo
conducted a 1971 experiment to study the effects of imprisonment.
ANSWER: The Stanford prison [or Jordan Hall; accept answers mentioning Stanford University and prison;
accept obvious synonyms for "prison"] <Cheyne>
17. The death of this group is foreshadowed when the room they are dining in appears to be soaked in blood. A
fight nearly breaks out when one of its members angrily throws a footstool that knocks a cupbearer to the
ground. This group urges an old man to fight the drunken beggar Irus. A youth sailing home from Sparta is
informed by Athena that some of their members are waiting to ambush him. Antinous and Eurymachus are
the leaders of this group, whose efforts are thwarted by a burial shroud that is unsewn each night. Members of
this group lose an archery contest to a man that shoots an arrow through twelve axeheads; afterwards, they are
killed by that man and his son, Telemachus. For 10 points, name these men who try to marry Odysseus's wife.
ANSWER: suitors of Penelope [or the Proci] <Kim>
18. As a young boy, the main character of this novel is fond of a chestnut tree planted by his mother after he
was born and enjoys visiting the observatory of an astrology-obsessed priest. In this novel, a woman uses large
letters written on the pages of a book to communicate with the protagonist while standing at the window of
an aviary. In this novel, a man escapes from his prison in the Farnese tower with the help of three ropes sent
by his aunt, the lover of Count Mosca. The protagonist of this novel rides with Marshal Ney's hussars while
participating in the Battle of Waterloo. This novel's protagonist pursues a romance with Clelia Conti but
eventually retires to the title monastery. For 10 points, name this novel about Fabrizio del Dongo, a work of
Stendhal.
ANSWER: The Charterhouse of Parma [or La Chartreuse de Parme] <Brownstein>
19. The aorta often features a cluster of cells normally found in this structure called the organ of Zuckerkandl.
Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase catalyzes methylation of a hormone released by this structure
derived from dopamine. Simple virilizing and salt-wasting forms of a hyperplasia of this gland result from
deficient 21-hydroxylase activity in its zona fasciculata. Pheochromocytomas originate from this structure's
chromaffin cells. The outermost portion of this structure produces mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone. Its
medulla secretes catecholamines, and ACTH triggers its cortex to produce cortisol. For 10 points, name this
gland that produces epinephrine and is found on top of the kidney.
ANSWER: adrenal glands <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 5 of 14 

20. This product was given to a condemned criminal to see how quickly it would kill him in an experiment
ordered by Gustav III of Sweden. Rising prices for this product sparked a namesake 1976 "crisis" in East
Germany. This product was the primary export of a place which set quotas for it via the Preanger (pray-AHNgair) System and the Cultivation System. Oligarchs who produced this product dominated the coronelismo
system during the tenure of Washington Luis, and that period named for this product and "milk" was ended
by the coup of Getulio Vargas. The goatherd Kaldi apparently discovered this product in Ethiopia, its country
of origin. For 10 points, name this product harvested on the island of Java.
ANSWER: coffee beans [or coffea] <Brownstein>
21. The wall of this structure is produced from cells lining the perioplic and coronary grooves. The pastern is
found between the fetlock and this structure encasing the coffin bone, and a wedge-shaped glandular region
between the bars called the frog helps to spread two other components when it is loaded. Excessive drying or
injury to the coronet may lead to heel crack in this structure. A stone bruise on the sole of this structure can
cause lameness. In Artiodactyla, two smaller types of this structure called dew claws usually appear along with
its cloven form. In some odd-toed ungulates it is cared for by farriers. For 10 points, name this thick,
keratinous covering on the toes of animals such as horses.
ANSWER: hoof [prompt on feet, claws, and nails; prompt on toe until it is read] <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 6 of 14 

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Bonuses
1. With the name Pocket, this character is the narrator of a Christopher Moore novel, and the banker Marv
Carson is the representation of this character in Jane Smiley's A Thousand Acres. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who tells his master, whom he often calls "nuncle," that "thou shouldst not have been
old till thou hadst been wise."
ANSWER: the Fool [or Lear's Fool]
[10] The Fool appears in King Lear, in which the title character disowns this virtuous daughter and gives his
land to Goneril and Regan.
ANSWER: Cordelia
[10] When commanded to praise Lear at the love test, Cordelia twice responds with this word, prompting Lear
to angrily repeat it and demand she "speak again."
ANSWER: nothing <Gehring>
2. This compound is sequentially hydrolyzed by E-NTPDases 2 and 3, and retinal nerves release it and
acetylcholine as co-neurotransmitters in response to light. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this compound that binds to P2X receptors to allow influx of sodium and calcium ions. The final
breakdown product of this compound is inhibited by caffeine.
ANSWER: ATP [or adenosine triphosphate]
[10] P2X belongs to a namesake family of receptors responsive to these double-ringed heterocyclic
compounds. Caffeine and the nucleobases adenine and guanine are in this group, which is contrasted with
pyrimidines.
ANSWER: purines [or purinergic receptors; or purinoreceptors]
[10] The ADP-binding purinoceptor P2Y12 is the target of drugs such as clopidogrel that decrease aggregation
of these cells, which contain ADP and ATP in their dense granules and von Willebrand factor in their alpha
granules.
ANSWER: platelets [prompt on megakaryocytes] <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 7 of 14 

3. This leader dealt with a revolt of the anti-feudal Comuneros at the battle of Villalar. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Habsburg monarch of the 16th century who unified his various Iberian possessions into Spain.
This rival of Francis I Valois was also Holy Roman Emperor, in which capacity he controlled the Low Countries
and Austria.
ANSWER: Charles V Habsburg [or Holy Roman Emperor Charles V; or Carlos V; or Charles I of Spain]
[10] Charles V lived in a monastery at Yuste after taking this action in 1556. This action empowered Charles's
brother Ferdinand I and his son Philip II.
ANSWER: he abdicated his rule [or he resigned; prompt on "retirement"]
[10] Charles V dealt harshly with this order of migratory shepherds while attempting to manage Spain's
economy. It was founded in Castille in the 13th century and had sway well into the 18th.
ANSWER: Mesta <Jackson>
4. This organization's creation was opposed in a speech by John Taylor that declared that creating this
organization could result in the emancipation of Southern slaves. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organization, whose second president was Langdon Cheves. This institution's final president
was Nicholas Biddle, whose push for an early recharter in 1832 led to its demise.
ANSWER: Second Bank of the United States [or equivalents, such as Second U.S. Bank; prompt on Bank of
the United States; do not accept "First Bank of the United States"]
[10] This Democratic president fought against the renewal of the Second Bank's charter by appointing Roger
Taney as Treasury Secretary and withholding federal funds from the bank.
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
[10] This Kentucky-born Postmaster General under Jackson edited the Washington Globe and turned it into the
Jackson administration's mouthpiece. He also drafted Jackson's veto of the Second Bank's charter.
ANSWER: Amos Kendall <O'Rourke>
5. Answer the following about the ideal of "cosmopolitanism" in philosophy, for 10 points each.
[10] This Cynic philosopher from Sinope originated the term "cosmopolitan," meaning "citizen of the world,"
rather than identify with any city-state. He allegedly wandered around with a lamp.
ANSWER: Diogenes of Sinope
[10] This ruler identified just action with acting as a member of the universal "cosmopolis" within 12 books of
philosophy written for himself while on campaign in the 2nd century CE.
ANSWER: Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus
[10] This later thinker's essay "Idea for a Universal History from a Cosmopolitan Point of View" expressed
belief in human progress, despite warning that "Out of the crooked timber of humanity no straight thing was
ever made."
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant <Jackson>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 8 of 14 

6. This author attacked the "spiteful critics and slanderers" at the beginning of a poem about a knight's first
love, "Guigemar." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of "Lanval" who probably wrote at the English court of Henry II.
ANSWER: Marie de France [or Marie of France]
[10] "Lanval" opens with this character, a "brave and courtly king," giving out gifts to the knights of his Round
Table.
ANSWER: King Arthur
[10] This character is the first knight to realize that Lanval has been wronged. In a poem by the author of
Patience, Lady Bertilak repeatedly attempts to seduce this character, but only succeeds in kissing him.
ANSWER: Sir Gawain <Sy>
7. Empirical evidence for this substance was provided by Vera Rubin's investigation of galaxy rotation curves.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this substance that does not emit or absorb radiation and makes up around 27 percent of the mass
of the universe.
ANSWER: dark matter [prompt on partial answers]
[10] Rubin pointed out that, in the absence of dark matter, the orbital velocity of stars should fall off as one
over the radius squared; instead, most rotation curves have a velocity that varies with this power of the radius.
ANSWER: zero [or it does not vary; or constant velocity; or flat rotation curves; or obvious equivalents]
[10] The ratio of this quantity to luminosity is often used to estimate the concentration of dark matter. For a
star, luminosity varies with this quantity raised to approximately the 3.5 power.
ANSWER: stellar mass <Silverman>
8. A series of 2013 riots in this country was started by the Free Fare Movement, which criticized the rising cost
of public transportation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country that employed the Bolsa Familia welfare program under its former president, Luiz
Inácio Lula da Silva.
ANSWER: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil]
[10] Waves of 2014 protesters in Brazil decried the cost of building facilities for this event. On its final day,
police prevented the protesters from traveling to Maracanã Stadium.
ANSWER: 2014 FIFA World Cup
[10] In May 2015, the decapitated body of Evany José Metzker, a man of this profession, was found in Minas
Gerais. Kenji Goto, another man of this profession, was also beheaded in January 2015.
ANSWER: journalists [or obvious equivalents] <Golimlim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 9 of 14 

9. Late in his career, this architect designed a number of bank branches now known as his "jewel boxes." For 10
points each:
[10] Name this man who, along with his business partner Dankmar Adler, pioneered the skyscraper with
works such as the Wainwright Building in St. Louis.
ANSWER: Louis Sullivan [or Louis Henry Sullivan]
[10] Louis Sullivan coined this three-word phrase in his article "The Tall Office Building Artistically
Considered." It became a motto for modernist architects.
ANSWER: "form follows function"
[10] In his book Autobiography of an Idea, Sullivan lamented that American architecture had been set back forty
years by this event, for which he and Adler designed the deliberately polychrome Transportation Building. The
City Beautiful movement flourished after this event.
ANSWER: World's Columbian Exposition [or World's Fair: Columbian Exposition; or 1893 World's Fair; or
White City; or Chicago Columbian Exposition; or EXPO Chicago 1893; prompt on World's Fair; prompt on
Chicago World's Fair] <White>
10. In many economic growth models, the technology factor has this property that makes it differ from labor
and capital. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property of goods where one person's consumption does not prevent consumption by another.
It is not to be confused with non-excludability.
ANSWER: non-rivalry
[10] These types of goods are non-rival and non-excludable. They include services like policing that are usually
provided by a government.
ANSWER: public goods
[10] Public goods can fall victim to the free rider problem because it is difficult to make consumers pay this
quantity. This quantity is the resources expended in producing one additional unit of the good. In a
competitive market it equals price.
ANSWER: marginal cost [do not accept "average cost"] <Bailey>
11. The title figure of this story is variously identified as "amusing," "almost beautiful," and "all drawn out of
shape." For 10 points each:
[10] "Name this story that opens a collection whose other stories include "Queer" and "The Philosopher."
ANSWER: "The Book of the Grotesque"
[10] "The Book of the Grotesque" opens this collection of stories set in the title Midwestern city by Sherwood
Anderson. Many of its stories concern the young man George Willard.
ANSWER: Winesburg, Ohio
[10] An oft-excerpted story from Winesburg, Ohio discusses this schoolteacher's problems with the "restless
activity" of the title body parts, "Hands." This character went by the name Adolph Myers until being accused of
molestation.
ANSWER: Wing Biddlebaum [or Wing Biddlebaum] <Sy>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 10 of 14 

12. Assuming only classical mechanics, the thermal average of this quantity will be zero according to the Bohrvan Leeuwen theorem. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity whose curl is equal to effective current density. The H field equals the B field over the
vacuum permeability minus this other quantity.
ANSWER: magnetization [or M]
[10] A process named for this physicist reduces the magnetization of a material to zero. A law named for this
physicist sets the divergence of the magnetic field equal to zero.
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich Gauss
[10] Gauss's law for magnetism forbids the existence of these particles, which are magnetic analogs to point
charges.
ANSWER: magnetic monopoles <Silverman>
13. A character with this last name kills his fiancee Amalia after being forced into a life of brigandy in Bohemia.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this surname shared by Karl and Franz, the main characters of The Robbers.
ANSWER: Moor
[10] "This German author of The Robbers and William Tell addressed a "daughter of Elysium" in "Ode to Joy."
ANSWER: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
[10] In William Tell, the title hero is arrested after failing to perform this action in obeisance to the governor.
ANSWER: salute a hat [or obvious equivalents; prompt on salute] <Sy>
14. These two ships made three voyages to Antarctica before being used in a lethal expedition in the Arctic. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this pair of ships that disappeared after being abandoned during the 1848 Franklin Expedition.
These ships now name two volcanoes on Ross Island.
ANSWER: HMS Terror and HMS Erebus [accept in either order]
[10] A lieutenant on the HMS Terror lends his name to this largest Antarctic settlement on the tip of Ross
Island. This setting of Werner Herzog's Encounters at the End of the World is also home to the only ATM in
Antarctica.
ANSWER: McMurdo Station
[10] Ross Island is also home to a military base named after this explorer, who died during the Terra Nova
expedition. He also names a base at the South Pole with the man that beat him to arriving there, Roald
Amundsen.
ANSWER: Robert Falcon Scott <Smart>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 11 of 14 

15. Answer the following about the Euler line, for 10 points each.
[10] This point denoted N is on the Euler line. It is equidistant from the midpoints of each of the triangle's
sides, the foot of each altitude, and the point midway between the orthocenter and each vertex of the triangle.
ANSWER: nine-point center [or the center of the nine-point circle]
[10] The nine-point center is the midpoint of the segment connecting the orthocenter and this other point, the
center of the circle going through all three of the triangle's vertices.
ANSWER: circumcenter
[10] The circumcenter is located at the intersection of the three of these lines for the sides of the triangle. For a
given line segment, this line goes through the midpoint of the segment at a right angle.
ANSWER: perpendicular bisectors <Schindler>
16. In some narratives, one these gods slays the other at twilight using sea foam as a weapon, after swearing
never to use anything dry or wet as a weapon, at day or at night. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these two divine beings. One of them inebriates himself with Soma and slays the other, who is a
giant snake holding captive all the waters of the world.
ANSWER: Indra and Vritra
[10] Other snakes in Hinduism are these children of Kadru who become the mortal enemy of the eagle Garuda
after forcing him to steal amrita from the gods.
ANSWER: nagas
[10] A snake is used as a belt to hold together the burst stomach of this elephant-headed god.
ANSWER: Ganesha [or Ganapati; or Vinayaka] <Kim>
17. This tone poem features a pair of pianolas having a "ragtime war" and repeatedly quotes the popular song
"Hello ma Baby." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this polytonal piece depicting a summer evening, which its composer described as a "contemplation
of nothing serious."
ANSWER: Central Park in the Dark
[10] Central Park In The Dark was written by this American composer and insurance executive, who paired it
with his The Unanswered Question.
ANSWER: Charles Ives
[10] This other Charles Ives piece quotes Beethoven's Hammerklavier Sonata, and features an optional part for
flute, representing Henry Thoreau, in its final movement.
ANSWER: Concord Sonata [or Piano Sonata No. 2, Concord, Mass., 1840-1860] <White>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 12 of 14 

18. This man fought at the Siege of Bender and claimed that his godfather was Peter the Great. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this man who was shown off in a metal cage after being betrayed by the Cossacks he led against
Catherine the Great.
ANSWER: Yemelyan Pugachev [or Yemelyan Ivanovich Pugachev]
[10] Pugachev's Rebellion was motivated in part by Catherine the Great's stance against these Russian
peasants. They were liberated by Alexander II in 1861.
ANSWER: serfs [or krepostnoi]
[10] This group, one of the many that participated in Pugachev's Rebellion, split from the Russian Orthodox
Church in 1666 in response to the reforms of Patriarch Nikon.
ANSWER: Old Believers [or starovery] <Golimlim>
19. This painting's portrait of Nicolas Poussin was directly copied from one of Poussin's self-portraits. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this 1827 painting in which an ensemble cast of classical luminaries observes Nike placing a laurel
wreath atop the head of the title poet.
ANSWER: The Apotheosis of Homer
[10] This French Neoclassical painter of The Apotheosis of Homer painted an anatomically-incorrect Turkish
concubine in La Grande Odalisque.
ANSWER: Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (awn-GER)
[10] In The Apotheosis of Homer, this person is sandwiched between Virgil and Sappho. He wears white robes
and converses with mathematicians and scientists in The School of Athens.
ANSWER: Raphael [or Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino] <Saric>
20. During this war, it was fashionable not to play the music of Wagner in orchestras. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this conflict during which Americans temporarily referred to sauerkraut as "liberty cabbage" and
the town of Berlin, Michigan, changed its name to Marne to honor a battle and avoid German associations.
ANSWER: World War I
[10] During the war, this politician denounced "hyphenated Americanism," saying that dual loyalties were
impossible. During the early 1910s, he went on an expedition in South America to explore the "River of Doubt."
ANSWER: Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt
[10] In 1919, this state passed a law restricting foreign language education, which was struck down in a 1923
Supreme Court case. The act resulted in the conviction of German language teacher Robert Meyer.
ANSWER: Nebraska <Cheyne>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 13 of 14 

21. Friedrich Grützmacher made large edits to Luigi Boccherini's B-flat major ninth piece in this genre. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this genre. Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's Rococo Variations is sometimes considered to be in it.
ANSWER: cello concertos [or cello concerti; prompt on concertos; prompt on concerti]
[10] Boccherini is best known for one of these French dances in 3/4 time that he used as the A major third
movement of his String Quintet in E major.
ANSWER: minuets [or menuets; or minuettos]
[10] A Spanish music-influenced "Fandango" ends a Boccherini chamber piece featuring this instrument.
Joaquin de Rodrigo's Concierto de Rodriguez is a concerto for this instrument.
ANSWER: guitars [or chitarras; or guitarras] <Kim>

NASAT 2015 - Round 18 - Page 14 of 14 

