TOSSUP 1
This band, inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall Of Fame in 1996, pioneered progressive rock
music in the late 1960’s and 70’s. Their first album, The Piper At The Gates Of Dawn, was
written primarily by a recently deceased band member, who was kicked out of the band after his
addiction to LSD grew. After a few psychedelic and experimental albums, such as “A Saucerful of
Secrets”, the band was finally rewarded by “Meddle”, which was critically acclaimed and peaked
at #3 on UK charts. FTP, name this band, most famous for “The Wall” and “The Dark Side Of
The Moon”.
Pink Floyd
BONUS 1
BONUS FTPE, name the track on The Dark Side Of The Moon given a line from the song.
10:

“Ticking away the moments that make up a dull day”
Time

10:

“Grab that cash with both hands and make a stash.”
Money

10:

“God only knows it’s not what we would choose to do.”
Us and Them

TOSSUP 2
Flourishing from the 12th century through the late 1600s, it was introduced in the design of the
Abbey of St.-Denis, a church in northern France built in 1144. It quickly spread throughout
Europe and inspired regional variations, such as the Rayonnant style, named for its characteristic
geometric rose windows. Associated with cathedrals in northern Europe, it is often identified with
its immense open spaces, flying buttresses, and ornate decoration. FTP name this architectural
style, whose name originated as a term of disapproval used by Renaissance humanists who viewed
it as the barbaric invention of a certain Germanic tribe.
Gothic style
BONUS 2
FTPE identify the following architectural terms.
10:

This term refers to an arched ceiling and includes the barrel, groined,
and ribbed varieties.
Vault.

10:

This term refers to a collection of arches supported by columns, or a
passageway formed by those arches.
Arcade.

10:

This term refers to a horizontal projection supported only on one side.
Examples are balconies and beams.
Cantilever.

1

TOSSUP 3
His name means “bright” in Sanskrit, and he was the third child of Kunti. He was the master
archer of the Pandavas, and was also their leading warrior in the war against the Kauravas.
However, he was reluctant to take part in the battle, because the Kauravas were his own cousins.
FTP name this major character of the “Mahabharatha”, who is famous for receiving advice from
Krishna in the “Bhagavad Gita”.
Arjuna (accept Arjun)
BONUS 3
FTPE name these other figures who interact with Arjuna in the “Mahabharatha”.
10:

This god of fire asks Arjuna to burn down a forest, and in return he
gives Arjuna the Gandiva bow.
Agni

10:

Arjuna entered the war with a flag bearing this monkey god who figured
more prominently in the “Ramayana”.
Hanuman

10:

Arjuna was born out of a union involving Kunti and this god, chief
deity of the “Rigveda” along with Agni and god of weather and war.
Indra

TOSSUP 4
The tone is initially somewhat lighthearted, as the Air Cavalry captures a beach just to be able to
surf it. The episodes of the film quickly become much darker, such as when a family on a boat is
massacred by when a woman moves to protect what turns out to be a puppy. The only member
of the swift boat crew left alive at the end is the surfer Lance, who appears to have gone native at
the time Willard cuts down Kurtz with a machete. FTP, identify this film adaptation of Heart of
Darkness set in the Vietnam War, directed by Francis Ford Coppola.
Apocalypse Now
BONUS 4
Identify these war films FTPE.
10:

This Steven Spielberg film is known for its grisly opening sequence
showing the early minutes of the D-Day landings.
Saving Private Ryan

10:

This movie inspired a TV series that lasted nearly three times as long
as the Korean War did in real life.
M*A*S*H

10:

Stanley Kubrick’s entry into the genre features urban warfare during
the Tet Offensive in Vietnam.
Full Metal Jacket

2

TOSSUP 5
According to fossil records, it appeared about 25 million years ago and, along with the Boto and La
Plata species, was one of the few to make freshwater its exclusive habitat. Based on descriptions
in the Erya, scientists estimate that about 5000 of them existed in the third century BC. Its rapid
decline began in the 1950’s and was further quickened by the construction of the Three Gorges
Dam. The last one seen was in 2004, and after a November 2006 expedition organizers declared
it“functionally extinct”. Called Baiji in Chinese, this is, FTP, what species of dolphin that is
critically endangered and possibly extinct?
Chinese River dolphin (accept Yangtze River dolphin, Whitefin dolphin, or
Baiji before mention)
BONUS 5
Name these other extinct species, FTPE.
10:

This animal’s name comes from a Khoikhoi word for “zebra” and is
distinguished from plains zebras by having stripes on the front part of
its body only.
Quagga

10:

Their closest relative is the Razorbill, and they were the only species
in the genus Pinguinus before they became extinct.
Great Auk (prompt on Auk)

10:

Though most of these pachyderms died out in the Pleistocene period,
some lived on Wrangel Island until about 1700 BCE.
Wooly Mammoth (prompt on Mammoth)

TOSSUP 6
He was incarcerated for 29 years in various prisons and asylums throughout France. He burst
into tears after the storming of the Bastille, fearing the manuscript he wrote during his month
there would be lost forever. Luckily, his manuscript was later found, and published as 120 Days
of Sodom, one of his most graphic works. FTP, name this French writer after whom the word
”sadism” is named.
Donatien Alphonse Francois, Marquis de Sade
BONUS 6
FTPE, answer these questions about 120 Days of Sodom .
10:

Though not explicitly mentioned, it is suggested that the story takes
place after this war, which ended in 1648.
Thirty Years’ War

10:

Pencil and paper ready. Assume there are thirty days a month. Every
day from November to February, the prostitutes tell five stories. How
many stories are there total?
600

3

10:

Sodom was the home of Lot, and was later destroyed by God for its
sins, along with this city.
Gomorrah

TOSSUP 7
Born into poverty, he became one of the most influential painters of his era.His first works
were frescoes about the life of St. Francis, painted on the church at Assisi. His friends and
contemporaries included Boniface VIII andDante Alighieri, of whom he painted a portrait. Other
works included frescoesin the Bardi and Peruzzi chapels and The Last Judgment. FTP, name
this late medieval Italian painter, whose most famous works are the frescoes in the Cappella degli
Scrovegni.
Giotto di Bondone
BONUS 7
FTPE name these Italian artists.
10:

Best known for biographies of famous artists, his most famous work is
thebuilding of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.
Giorgio Vasari

10:

This man is famous for his development of one-point linear perspective,and his famous architectural works, such as the dome of the Duomo
in Florence.
Filippo Brunelleschi

10:

This man discovered Giotto’s talents, was featured in Vasari’s works,
andpainted the frescoes of the Crucifixion and the Deposition at the
Basilica ofSt. Francis of Assisi.
Cenni di Pepo (Giovanni) Cimabue

TOSSUP 8
After receiving a doctorate in economics, he returned to his native country andbecame a professor
of economics at Chittagong University. In 1974 a faminestruck the country, driving thousands of
starving people to the capital. Thisinspired him to find out the true economic of the poor. Later
in 1974, he gavehis first small loan of $27 to 42 families to make crafts for sale. This became the
concept of micro-credit, giving small loans to people too poor to beeligible for regular loans. FTP,
name this Bangladeshi banker who founded theGrammen Bank and received the 2006 Nobel Peace
Prize.
Muhammad Yunus
BONUS 8
Name these economic curves FTPE.

4

10:

This curve relates the unemployment rate to the job vacancy rate;
asunemployment increases there tend to be fewer vacant jobs.
Beveridge curve

10:

This curve relates unemployment and inflation; higher unemployment
isgenerally linked to lower inflation.
Phillips curve

10:

This curve relates tax rate and tax revenue; the idea is that above
acertain rate, the incentive to work and pay taxes will disappear so
revenue willbegin to decrease.
Laffer curve

TOSSUP 9
Pencil and paper ready. Joe wants to determine the sum of the first 10 Fibonacci numbers, and
he already knows that the 10th Fibonacci number is 55 and that the 11th is 89. To determine
the sum, Joe could add all ten numbers, but applying the recurrance relation for the Fibonacci
numbers reveals that the sum of the first n Fibonacci numbers is always one less than the (n+2)th
Fibonacci number. FTP, determine the sum of the first 10 Fibonacci numbers. You will have 10
seconds.
143 (The 12th Fibonacci number is 55 + 89 = 144)
BONUS 9
Pencil and paper ready. FTPE, determine the sum of the following sequences.
10:

All integers whose square is less than or equal to 400. You will have
10 seconds.
0 (FOr any x, -x is also in the sequence)

10:

The first 10 natural numbers. You will have 10 seconds.
55 ((n)(n+1)/2 = 10*11/2 = 55)

10:

The squares of the first 10 natural numbers. You will have 10 seconds.
385 ((n)(n+1)(2n+1)/6 = 10*11*21/6 = 5*11*7 = 385)

TOSSUP 10
Benedict Oxenstierna, the chancellor, repeatedly attempted to forcehis sovereign to not make war
on a personal basis, but the King refusedto view the conflict as anything but revenge. Following
thepenultimate battle of the war, the King of Sweden fled to the OttomanEmpire, where he
persuaded Ahmed III to make war on Peter the Great,with disastrous consequences. That King,
Charles XII, was killed at thesiege of Frederiksten in Norway, and his country soon went under
and signeda peace. FTP name this battle of the early eighteenth century, whereinSweden and
Russia fought the battle of Poltava.
Great Northern War
BONUS 10
Back during the few decades that Sweden was a Great Power, it fought manywars with the surrounding nations in Northern Europe. FTPE, name thesethings or people from Swedish military

5

history.
10:

After first rebelling near Dalarna, he managed to defeat the King ofDenmark and split Sweden from that country, then was elected King
of Sweden and introduced Protestantism to the country.
King Gustav I (accept Gustavus Vasa, Gustav Eriksson)

10:

Fought from 1611 to 1613 over trade in the Baltic Sea, it had the samename of a personal union between the various Scandinavian crowns
from theprevious centuries.
Kalmar War

10:

This war was fought over the eponymous territory in southern Sweden,long held by Denmark, from 1675-1679.
Scanian War

TOSSUP 11
Rocky and Larry begin by talking about the end of the movement and the people who were in it.
Later Larry asks Hickey about the condition of his wife, to which he responds that she is dead.
Larry is suspicious of Hickey’s story until Hickey finally reveals that his wife was murdered and
had not committed suicide. In the end Hickey confesses to murdering his wife in, FTP, what play
by Eugene O’Neill which portrays drunkenness and hopeless dreams.
The Iceman Cometh
BONUS 11
Name these other plays by Eugene O’Neill FTPE.
10:

It is really a trilogy and based on The Oresteia .
Mourning Becomes Electra

10:

It focuses on the Tyrone family and is considered an autobiographical
work.
Long Day’s Journey Into Night

10:

Brutus kills a man, goes to prison, and then escapes to the Caribbean.
The Emperor Jones

TOSSUP 12
In World War I it was produced on a small scale to function as an ingredient in explosives and on
a lesser degree as a coolant, although today its use is primarily the latter. When it cleaves in half,
it forms two aldehyde groups. This toxic compound with structural formula HOCH2CH2OH is a
colorless liquid with syrupy texture in pure form. FTP name this compound, with IUPAC name
ethane-1,2-diol, whose primary use is in antifreeze.
Ethylene glycol (accept ethane-1,2-diol before mention)
BONUS 12
Ethylene glycol contains two alcohol groups. FTP identify these other functional groups given
descriptions.

6

10:

An oxygen atom acts as this group when it is connected to two other
substituted alkyl groups.
Ether

10:

The key atom of this functional group is nitrogen, and it can transform
into an amide if bonded to a carbonyl group.
Amine

10:

This functional group consists of a carbon atom triple bonded to a
nitrogen atom.
Nitrile

TOSSUP 13
Belonging to the genus Dugesia, it possesses two eyespots and lateral flaps that help it detect
light and smell. This organism moves by using cilia on the ventral epidermis to create a mucus
upon which it glides. It uses flame cells to waft fluid through branched ducts in order to maintain
osmotic balance between it and its surroundings. FTP, name these carnivorous, marine flatworms
that can be found in almost any kind of moist environment.
Planaria
BONUS 13
FTPE name these parts of a planarian.
10:

Located at the anterior end of a planarian is this dense cluster of nerve
cells.
Ganglia

10:

These extend from the ganglia throughout a planarian’s body.
Ventral nerve cords

10:

This muscular part of a planarian is responsible for sucking in small
pieces of food into the gastrovascular cavity.
Pharynx

TOSSUP 14
William Eaton and James Cathcart attempted to reach a settlement between the two sides, but
when that failed, determined a plan for American victory. It began in 1801 with Yusuf Karamanli
demanding more tribute and, despite the superiority of one side, lasted until 1805. Following the
treaty ending the war, the United States refused to give any more payments, which, up until the
war, used 20 percent of the annual income. Marked by the slogan “Millions for defense, but not
one cent for tribute,” was, FTP, what first war the United States fought following the adoption of
the Constitution.
First Barbary War
BONUS 14
Name these important figures or events from the First Barbary War FTPE.

7

10:

This ship ran aground, resulting in the enslavement of its crew.
The Philadelphia

10:

This man led ground troops in destroying the captured Philadelphia.
Stephen Decatur

10:

He negotiated the treaty with the Pasha of Tripoli.
Tobias Lear

TOSSUP 15
The Ottoman Empire was the last to use it and finally closed it to European traders in the late
1650s. It stretched from the ancient Chinese capital of Chang-an for over 3700 miles and covered
many market meccas such as Antioch and Alexandria. Prized valuables such as silver, gems, gold,
and wool went East, as well as Christianity and Buddhism; however, today it is remembered for
what came west. FTP name this trading route, an idea of the Han emperor, Wu-Ti, which gets its
name from a type of cloth.
Silk Road or Silk Route
BONUS 15
Name these other trading organizations or routes, FTPE.
10:

This Persian route was established by prophets who set up way stations
and caravans along the ancient Silk Road route across the Iranian
Plateau.
Royal Road

10:

This route connected the North Sea and Baltic Sea coasts by way
of the Vistula and Dnieper rivers to Italy, Greece, Black sea, Egypt.
The Silk Road could then be reached from the Black Sea for further
transporting.
Amber Route

10:

This route connected West Africa and Mediterranean countries, it became famous for the vast amounts of ivory and gold that could be
found in trains of caravans along the way, and started in the fabeled
city of Timbuktu.
Trans-Saharan route

TOSSUP 16
While the book as a whole is narrated by Lockwood, the mild new tenant of ThrushcrossGrange,
the story is greatly comprised of flashbacks narrated by an old housekeeper, EllenDean, who
recounts the tempestuous history of the two families she has served. The action,spanning the
course of many years, involves the multi-faceted encounters of the Lockwoodsand the Earnshaws,
the masters of neighboring estates on the English moors. FTP name thisnovel about the doomed
love between Catherine Earnshaw and the foundling Heathcliff, EmilyBronte’s [BRON-taze] only
novel, her most famous work.
Wuthering Heights

8

BONUS 16
FTPE answer these questions about the Bronte family.
10:

This woman, the oldest Bronte sister, outlived all of her siblings and
edited a memorial edition of Wuthering Heights after Emily’s death.
Charlotte Bronte.

10:

Charlotte Bronte is most famous for this novel about an orphan who
becomes governess at the mysterious Thornfield Hall.
Jane Eyre

10:

This man, the only son in the Bronte family, held a number of jobs,
including portraiture and railroad work, before his death at the age of
31.
Patrick Branwell Bronte

TOSSUP 17
It began as a German attempt to weaken the French and decisively turn the tide of the war in the
Germans’ favor. The French were poorly prepared to defend themselves due to the removal of the
artillery from the area. Although at first it seemed as if German victory was at hand, because of
their overcautiousness and a few strategic blunders the battle dragged on for ten months. Upon its
conclusion, neither side had gained an advantage over the other. FTP, name this second-bloodiest
battle of World War I, fought near a village of the same name on the Meuse River from February
to December 1916.
Battle of Verdun
BONUS 17
FTPE, given the country, identify its monarch at the outset of the first World War.
10:

Austria-Hungary
Franz Josef I (prompt on Franz Josef )

10:

Italy
Victor Emmanuel III (prompt on Victor Emmanuel)

10:

Ottoman Empire
Mehmet V (prompt on Mehmet)

TOSSUP 18
It broke a record set by Fordney and McCumber eight years earlier, and it helped fulfill a promise
made in the previous election. Its effects were lessened four years later by the Reciprocal Trade
Agreements act, and it tried to aid American farmers through protectionism. Sponsored by
two Republicans, the act became known by their two names, and despite the efforts of over one
thousand economists, President Hoover did not veto this bill. FTP identify this 1930 Tariff, whose
high tariff levels may have worsened the effects of the Great Depression.
Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act (or Hawley-Smoot)
BONUS 18
Answer the following related to another famous tariff, FTPE.

9

10:

The prohibitively high Tariff of 1828, which led to the nullification
crisis, was given this nickname by opponents.
Tariff of Abominations

10:

The controversy about nullification revolved around this state, which
wanted to nullify the tariff.
South Carolina

5-5:

A similar nullification crisis occurred in 1798, when two states wrote
resolutions claiming their right to nullify the Sedition Act. For five
points each, name these two states.
Kentucky and Virginia

TOSSUP 19
This novel begins with three people deciding to go to the title character for help. Later on, he is
shot down in the street after buying fruit, but doesn’t die. Following the death of one of his sons,
he calls a conference of mafia leaders to guarantee another son’s return home. FTP, name this
novel, in which Michael Corleone takes over the family business.
The Godfather
BONUS 19
FTPE, name these important characters from The Godfather.
10:

The eldest son of Vito Corleone, he was gunned down at a toll booth
Santino or Sonny Corleone

10:

Vito’s adopted son, and Consigliere after Genco Abbandando
Tom Hagen [accept either]

10:

The American wife of Michael Corleone
Kay Adams

TOSSUP 20
Compared to merge sort, it is entirley in place, and uses less extra storage. Its edge over quicksort
is its worst-case run-time of O(n log n) [oh of en log en]. It runs in two steps, first arranging the
data into an implicit data structure, then extracting the root node succesively. FTP, identify this
sorting technique, wherein the data are arranged into a binary tree with the largest or smallest
value at the root.
Heapsort
BONUS 20
Consider the merge sort and quicksort algorithms. FTP, tell which search:

10

10:

Performs fewer comparisons?
Merge sort

10:

Is a stable sort?
Merge sort

10:

Has a faster average runtime in optimal implementations?
Quicksort

11

