2008-2009
ACF-Format Set
#4
Round 7

Tossups
1. Speedy is one that gathers selenium in a story featuring Powell and Donavan,
and that story’s author wrote a collection about them titled The Naked Sun. An
illustrator named them, while the work in which that word first appears sees Alquist
run onstage with a bloody lab coat. In addition to Runaround, another story has a
household one, the titular Robbie, while Stanislaw Lem wrote Fables for and a Book
of these. For 10 points, name these creations that cannot harm humans by their
three laws, named from a work by Karel Capek and featured in Asimov’s story I
[this].
ANSWER: robots
2. Trans-cinnamic acid is a noted inhibitor of this molecule’s transport, which is also
controlled by quercetin and genistein. Its response factors are targeted for
degradation by ubiquitination, and this molecule’s stimulation of hydrogen ion
transport activates expansins in theory. They include phenylacetic acid and 2,4,5-T,
which was the active agent in Agent Orange. Delaying fruit senescence, they inhibit
ethylene growth and work with cytokinin in root and shoot apical dominance. For 10
points, name this class of plant hormones.
ANSWER: auxins
3. This man wrote Against Faustus after meeting Saint Ambrose of Milan. He wrote
On Baptism in response to the Donatists and violently denounced the heretical
Pelagianism while espousing the doctrines of original sin and predestination. Better
known is this man’s description of his parents Patricius and Monica, his temporary
conversion to Manichaeism, and his eventual adoption of Catholicism in a landmark
spiritual biography. For 10 points, name this early Christian theologian, the author
of The City of God and the Confessions.
ANSWER: Saint Augustine of Hippo
4. This man issued the Jasagh, and he died after a rebellion led by the Tanguts,
whom he had forced into submission two decades earlier due to their ineptitude at
siege warfare. During his rise, he aided the Kerait Toghril, and this son of Yekusai
assumed his title following a meeting known as the khuriltai. His capital was located
at Karakorum, and he attacked the Jurchen-ruled Chin empire and occupied its
capital Yenching in 1215. For 10 points, name this early ruler of the Mongols.
ANSWER: Genghis Khan [or Chingis Khan; or Temujin]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 1 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. In one song from this album the singer states “It’s been a long time since I did
the Stroll,” while another song claims “if it keeps on raining” the titular structure is
“goin’ to break.” In addition to “Rock and Roll” and “When the Levee Breaks,” this
album includes songs with the lyrics “Hey, hey, mama, said the way you move/
Gonna make you sweat, gonna make you groove” and “There’s a lady who’s sure/
All that glitters is gold.” For 10 points, name this Led Zeppelin album that contains
the tracks “Black Dog” and “Stairway to Heaven.”
ANSWER: Led Zeppelin IV [or Runes; or Zoso; or The Fourth Album; or Man
with Sticks]
6. One writer from this country described an image of Jesus Christ exhorting
“Trample! Trample!” to a missionary named Rodrigues. Another author from this
country claimed that it was fascinated with shadows because of the dark skin of its
inhabitants. This country is also home to the authors of Silence and In Praise of
Shadows, in addition to a man who wrote of a ballet-loving protagonist who journeys
to a hot springs region. For 10 points, name this country, home to the author of
Snow Country, as well as Shusaku Endo and Junichiro Tanizaki.
ANSWER: Japan
7. The attachment of this substance to troponin displaces tropomyosin and allows
muscle contraction to occur upon its release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. In
humans, excess parathyroid hormone secretion can elevate blood levels of ions of
this element. It also binds calmodulin, and its absorption is regulated by vitamin D.
A dietary deficiency in this substance can lead to diseases such as osteoporosis. For
10 points, name this element found in high concentrations in teeth and bones.
ANSWER: calcium
8. The Taoist god of this concept has a two-foot-long beard and silkworms for
eyebrows and is named Guan-di. The Hindu god of this concept was conceived when
Agni dropped some of Shiva’s semen on the banks of the Ganges and is known as
either Skanda or Karttikeya. The Norse god of this concept is killed by Garm at
Ragnarok after his arm is bitten off by Fenrir, while the Greek god of this concept
was accompanied by Phobos and Deimos. For 10 points, name this concept
symbolized by Tyr and Ares.
ANSWER: war [or clear-knowledge equivalents]
9. A cherub sticks his foot into a lion’s mouth in this man’s St. Jerome in His
Hermitage, while Watteau’s Embarkation for Cythera may have been inspired by
this man’s Garden of Love. A man prepares to bash a baby against a pedestal in his
Massacre of the Innocents, and a peacock and a shepherd holding a golden apple
appear in his Judgement of Paris. This man’s triptych depicting a red-clad Saint John
supporting the body of Christ is entitled The Descent from the Cross. For 10 points,
name this Flemish artist who is known for his fleshy nudes.
ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 2 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

10. One act governing this island was known as Poyning’s Law. The Phoenix Park
murders took place on this island, and some of its inhabitants idolized the
“Manchester Martyrs.” Robert Emmet led a failed rebellion here, while another
rebellion took over a post office during the week after Easter in 1916. A police force
known as the Black and Tans patrolled this island until part of it was granted
independence in 1922. For 10 points, name this island whose namesake Republican
Army terrorized Ulster and whose independent part has capital at Dublin.
ANSWER: Ireland
11. In one of his plays, the title event is discussed at an all-white house, and other
scenes occur at the caves where the main female character lives. In one poem, he
described “the boat on the sea” before citing green flesh, green hair, and a green
railing as well as being stranded in the mountain pass of Cabra. In addition to
“Preciosa and the Air” and “The Gypsy Nun,” he placed that “Somnambulistic
Ballad” in his Gypsy Ballads. For 10 points, name this poet and playwright who
described Leonardo Felix in Blood Wedding and Adele in The House of Bernarda
Alba.
ANSWER: Frederico Garcia Lorca
12. This work examines the paradox of why the title entity did not renounce worldly
affairs. In this work, the author refers to the writings of Benjamin Franklin in stating
that modern capitalism was characterized by one’s duty to work in one’s calling, or
“beruf,” which the author called “inner-worldly asceticism.” This work found that the
title religious group’s view of economic success as proof of God’s grace encouraged
savings and investment. For 10 points, name this work of Max Weber.
ANSWER: The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism
13. This locale is overlooked by Telescope Peak, which is found in the Panamint
Range along its western edge, and its eastern boundary is formed by the Amargosa
Range, whose namesake river empties into the Badwater basin in this locale. Once
a center for borax mining, this location’s points of interest include the salt pan
known as the Devil’s Golf Course and Furnace Creek. Although its namesake
national park juts into Nevada, it lies primarily in California. For 10 points, name this
hottest, driest, and lowest place in North America.
ANSWER: Death Valley
14. This composer depicted mythological events in his opera Ariadne auf Naxos,
and he wrote about the last hours of a sick man in Death and Transfiguration. The
main character is hung for playing tricks in his tone poem Till Eulenspiegel’s Merry
Pranks, and he also wrote a tone poem titled Don Quixote. Baron Ochs asks
Octavian to give Sophie a flower in Der Rosenkavalier, and another of his works
contains songs “of the Night Wanderer” and “of Science” and is named for a
Friedrich Nietzsche work. For 10 points, identify this composer of Also Sprach
Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Richard Strauss

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 3 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. On Mars, this region has larger amounts of perovskite, which prevents the
release of heat via convection from below this region. One plan to explore this
region on Earth was proposed by Walter Munk, and part of this region is known as
the D’’ [D double prime] layer. This region is the site of diamond formation and
lends its name to plumes that can cause basalt flows or hot spots. Part of this region
is known as the asthenosphere, at the top of which is the Mohorovicic discontinuity.
For 10 points, name this layer of the Earth between the crust and outer core.
ANSWER: mantle
16. This country was once ruled by the Arpad dynasty, while its later ruler Matthias
Corvinus was the son of the famous general John Hunyadi. Sulieyman the
Magnificent conquered this country by defeating its Jagiellon king Louis II at 1526’s
Battle of Mohacs. After World War I, this country was forced to sign the Treaty of
Trianon, which separated it from its former partner in the Habsburg dual monarchy.
Also invaded by the Soviet Union in 1956 to depose Imre Nagy, for 10 points, name
this Central European nation whose capital is Budapest.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag; or Transleithania; prompt on Pannonia]
17. She wrote a novel about Frances Evans Henri, who marries the title character,
William Crimsworth, titled The Professor. She also wrote about an English teacher at
Madame Beck’s boarding school named Lucy Snow in Villette. In another novel, Mrs.
Fairfax is a housekeeper for the father of Adele Varens, and another character in
that novel is an insane woman who lives in the attic and kills herself when she sets
Thornfield Hall on fire. That woman, Bertha Mason, is married to Edward Rochester.
For 10 points, name this author who wrote Jane Eyre.
ANSWER: Charlotte Brontë
18. In an apparatus with this word in its name, a mixture of neon and helium passes
through aluminum sheets separating modules with a scintillation counter and a
phototube on each end. Millikan employed hot-[this] spectroscopy to examine the
spectrum between ultraviolet and X-ray wavelengths. Another device with this
word in its name consists of an electrode and a gasket and is in each cylinder of an
automobile, forcing the high voltage produced by the coil to arc. For 10 points,
name this term shared by a muon detector and a plug found in car ignitions.
ANSWER: spark [or hot spark spectroscopy]
19. One character in this opera compares himself to another in the aria Pari siamo.
Count Monterone is arrested in the first scene of this opera, and when the title
character hears another man flirting with Maddalena, he employs her brother, the
assassin Sparafucile, to kill him. The climax of this opera occurs when the title
character opens a sack to find his mortally wounded daughter Gilda to the haunting
reprise of La donna e mobile. For 10 points, name this Verdi opera, a tragedy about
the Duke of Mantua’s humpbacked court jester.
ANSWER: Rigoletto

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 4 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. This man, like Jeremiah Wright, mentioned “chickens coming home to roost” in
his characterization of the JFK assassination. One of his most famous speeches was
entitled “The Ballot or the Bullet,” and he first gained fame as the leading
spokesman for Elijah Muhammad. A pilgrimage to Mecca prompted him to abandon
the Black Muslims for mainstream Islam, and he was the subject of a famous
“autobiography” by Alex Haley. For 10 points, name this bespectacled black militant
leader who was assassinated in 1965.
ANSWER: Malcolm X [or Malcolm Little, or El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz]
21. Both the diffusion chamber and the Wilson cloud chamber detect charged
particles through the use of a vapor that is cooled until it exists in this state.
Crystallization by homogeneous nucleation can occur when a seed crystal is placed
in a solution that displays this property. This state arises when the equilibrium
concentration of a solid or vapor is exceeded. For 10 points, name this unstable
state that can be produced through evaporation or by altering the temperature or
pressure of a saturated solution to allow for additional solute to be dissolved.
ANSWER: supersaturation [or supersaturated; prompt on saturation]
22. This character grows fat on macadamia nuts and Doritos after moving to Florida,
and he houses a drug-addicted veteran named Skeeter in one work. He later owns a
Toyota dealership, but he first holds a dead-end job selling MagiPeel kitchen
appliances. In the first novel in which he appears, he has an affair with a prostitute
named Ruth while his wife is pregnant. In others, he is “Rich” and “At Rest,” and he
got his nickname when he showed his teeth while playing basketball. For 10 points,
name this character, the protagonist of four novels by John Updike.
ANSWER: Rabbit [or Harry Angstrom; accept either name]
23. This ruler was opposed by the Exeter Conspiracy. He executed Henry Courtenay
and Edmund de la Pole and faced a rebellion led by Franics Bigod and Robert Aske
that was known as the Pilgrimage of Grace. A crisis in the cloth trade following the
Battle of Pavia led to the downfall of his advisor Cardinal Wolsey, while Thomas
Cromwell helped this ruler pass the Act of Supremacy and establish the Church of
England. For 10 points, name this king who sought annulment of his marriage to
Catherine of Aragon and notably had five other wives.
ANSWER: Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 5 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

2008-2009
ACF-Format Set
#4
Round 7

Bonuses
1. Depending on how outdated your textbook is, this taxon may be listed as either a
phylum or superphylum and may be part of either Animalia or Protista. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this taxon of single-celled eukaryotes that share some animal-like
characteristics.
ANSWER: protozoa [or protozoans]
[10] These protozoans, members of phylum Rhizopoda, are notable for their method
of locomotion and phagocytosis and may act as vectors for Legionnaire’s disease.
ANSWER: amoebae [or amoebas; or amebae; or amebas]
[10] Amoebae move and eat via these actin-rich structures often referred to as
“false feet.”
ANSWER: pseudopodia [or pseudopods]
2. Named for a Celtic word meaning “raging flow,” its Hinder and Voder tributaries
join together at Reichenau. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German river that flows past Bonn and Cologne after leaving
Switzerland, eventually emptying into the North Sea in the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Rhine River [or Rhein River]
[10] This other major German river also empties into the North Sea. It forms in
Czech Bohemia before entering Germany near Dresden and also flows past
Hamburg.
ANSWER: Elbe River [accept Labe River]
[10] Rising in the Black Forest, this river flows from Germany eastward, passing
Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest, and Belgrade before emptying into the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Danube River [or Donau River; or Dunaj River]
3. It was originally observed by Ivan Pavlov, who observed that ringing a bell when
giving dogs meat would eventually cause dogs to salivate even if no meat was
given. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of conditioning, contrasted with operant conditioning.
ANSWER: classical conditioning
[10] In the Pavlov’s dogs model, this is the name given to the meat. It refers to a
stimulus that causes a natural, instinctive reaction, such as the meat causing the
dogs to salivate.
ANSWER: unconditioned stimulus [accept unconditional stimulus; accept US]
[10] If Pavlov stopped feeding the dogs after ringing the bell, they would exhibit this
gradual loss of the CS-US association and consequent loss of the conditioned
response.
ANSWER: extinction

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 6 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Identify the following painters from Mexico, for 10 points each:
[10] This man painted the Dartmouth College mural The Epic of American
Civilization and is also known for The Appearance of Quetzalcoatl and Man of Fire.
ANSWER: José Clemente Orozco
[10] This famous Mexican muralist debuted with the successful Creation and
completed the work Man, Controller of the Universe, which controversially depicts
Lenin.
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
[10] Diego Rivera’s wife was this crippled Mexican painter who painted self-portraits
with monkeys and also possessed a very distinctive unibrow.
ANSWER: Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderón
5. This event worked toward the concept of sangre limpia, or pure blood, and was
designed to combat potentially treacherous conversos, marranos, and moriscos. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this event that targeted Jews and Muslims in a certain country.
ANSWER: Spanish Inquisition [prompt on Inquisition]
[10] This man was the first Grand Inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition. He persuaded
Ferdinand and Isabella to order the expulsion of the Jews.
ANSWER: Tomas de Torquemada
[10] This pope issued a papal bull allowing Ferdinand and Isabella to proceed with
the Spanish Inquisition. He is also the namesake of the Sistine Chapel.
ANSWER: Sixtus IV
6. For 10 points each, identify the following about some magnetic phenomena.
[10] A material displaying this property exhibits a higher-than-normal magnetic
field, though not to the extent of iron.
ANSWER: paramagnetism [or word forms]
[10] These materials exhibit perfect diamagnetism from the absence of electrical
resistance; the Meissner effect states that these exclude magnetic fields in their
interiors.
ANSWER: superconductors [or word forms]
[10] Ferromagnetic materials lose their long-range order and no longer display their
characteristic properties at this temperature.
ANSWER: Curie temperature
7. One of this author’s stories was critiqued in Roland Barthes’ S/Z. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this French author of a novel series that included works such as Cousine
Bette and Eugenie Grandet.
ANSWER: Honoré de Balzac
[10] Balzac’s magnum opus was this novel series that included works like The Wild
Ass’ Skin in addition to the previously mentioned Cousine Bette and Eugenie
Grandet.
ANSWER: The Human Comedy [or La Comedie humaine]
[10] This novel from The Human Comedy features a criminal named Vautrin in
addition to Eugene de Rastignac and the title character, who spoils his two greedy
daughters.
ANSWER: Le Père Goriot [or Father Goriot; accept close English translations]

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 7 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. One king of this name was succeeded by his son Pandion II. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this half-man, half-fish king of Athens who taught his people reading,
writing, and burial. He judged a contest between two deities for patronage of his
city.
ANSWER: Cecrops I
[10] In that contest, this loser struck the rock of the Acropolis with his trident and
caused a spring of water to rise. That trident belonging to this god of the sea causes
earthquakes.
ANSWER: Poseidon
[10] Athena, the winner of that contest, produced this object after striking her lance
into the ground. Its leaves were used to crown Greek athletic champions.
ANSWER: an olive tree
9. The aria “Mon coeur s’ouvre à ta voix” appears in his opera Samson and Delilah,
and one of his suites includes movements such as “Pianists” and “The Swan.” For
10 points each:
[10] Name this French composer of Carnival of the Animals.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saëns
[10] The “Fossils” movement of Carnival of the Animals quotes this other Camille
Saint-Saëns composition, in which Death compels some skeletons to frolic.
ANSWER: Danse Macabre
[10] The third symphony of Camille Saint-Saëns is named for this keyboard
instrument, although it only appears in two of the four movements.
ANSWER: organ
10. Name these rulers who came from north of China, for 10 points each.
[10] When he heard that his brother Arigbogë wanted to be elected khan, this
Mongol signed a truce with the recently conquered Sung Dynasty to return to
Shang-tu, also known as Xanadu.
ANSWER: Kublai Khan [or Kubla; or Kubilai]
[10] The election of Kublai Khan followed the death of this older brother who ruled
from Karakorum and sent Hulegu into Iran and Iraq while Kublai conquered China.
ANSWER: Möngke [or Mangu]
[10] While Kubilai, Möngke, and Hulegu were sons of Tolui, this son of Jochi founded
the Blue Horde, which he would merge with his brother’s forces to form the Kipchak
Khanate.
ANSWER: Batu Khan
11. They come in bonding and antibonding types. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these electron-containing regions around a molecule.
ANSWER: molecular orbitals
[10] Electrons, like all particles, possess this property, analogous to their intrinsic
angular momentum.
ANSWER: spin
[10] Electrons in the same energy state must have different spin in order to obey
this law, which mandates that no two electrons occupy the same quantum state.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 8 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. He looks into his wife’s eyes but sees nothing but his own reflection. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this doctor who is unable to comprehend anything other than literal
meanings, part of the reason Emma detests him.
ANSWER: Charles Bovary [prompt on Bovary]
[10] Charles is the husband of the title character of this French author’s Madame
Bovary.
ANSWER: Gustave Flaubert
[10] This playwright wrote a biography of Flaubert, in addition to writing a modern
version of the Oresteia. His philosophical works include Being and Nothingness.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
13. One member tried to explain this school of philosophy by telling a story about a
man and a squirrel who chase each other around a tree. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this late nineteenth-century American philosopher whose followers
include William James and Charles Pierce.
ANSWER: Pragmatism
[10] The most famous Pragmatist may be this man, who founded the Lab School in
Chicago and wrote Democracy and Education.
ANSWER: John Dewey
[10] Pragmatism influenced the work of this Spanish-American philosopher, whose
books include Skepticism and Animal Faith and the autobiographical The Last
Puritan. He is famous for saying that those who do not remember history are
doomed to repeat it.
ANSWER: George Santayana
14. He is the namesake of an art museum in Ogdenburg, New York. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this sculptor whose The Bronco Buster was inspired by the Western
plains.
ANSWER: Frederic Remington
[10] This sculptor of Lobster Trap and Fish Tail created many other mobiles, which
consist of shapes connected by wires that are set in motion by wind currents.
ANSWER: Alexander Calder
[10] This Englishman created drawings of London underground bomb shelters. He is
better known for sculptures that were influenced by pre-Columbian art and 1951’s
Reclining Figure.
ANSWER: Henry Moore
15. A calendar named after this man was replaced by the Gregorian calendar in
Western Europe. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman leader who was assassinated on the Ides of March in 44 BC.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar [prompt on Julius; prompt on Caesar]
[10] Julius Caesar wrote a series of commentaries on the wars he fought to conquer
the Transalpine portion of this region, largely contiguous with present-day France.
ANSWER: Gaul [or Gallic Wars]
[10] The Gallic Wars ended when an insurrection led by this Gallic chieftain was
defeated at the Battle of Alesia.
ANSWER: Vercingetorix

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 9 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. A mathematical function with this property is often described as one that you
can draw without picking up your pencil from the paper. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property possessed by functions that lack jumps or holes, in which
the limit of the function at each point is equal to the actual value of the function at
that point.
ANSWER: continuous [accept continuity]
[10] Continuous functions can still contain corners, as is the case with this V-shaped
function. It is equal to the identity for positive numbers and multiplies negative
numbers by minus one.
ANSWER: absolute value function
[10] One basic theorem concerning continuous functions is this result, which states
that such a function must obtain every y value between its starting and ending y
values on a closed interval.
ANSWER: intermediate value theorem
17. His time is prison is described in the novel The Enormous Room, while the title
character refuses to kiss a flag in his poem “i sing of Olaf glad and big.” For 10
points each:
[10] Name this poet best known for his unorthodox capitalization and punctuation.
ANSWER: edward estlin cummings
[10] This fellow American author was a big fan of The Enormous Room. His own
novels include Tender is the Night and the unfinished The Last Tycoon.
ANSWER: Francis Scott Fitzgerald
[10] In this Fitzgerald novel, Anthony Patch eventually wins a lawsuit in order to
receive his grandfather’s inheritance, but he has grown apart from his wife Gloria in
the meantime.
ANSWER: The Beautiful and Damned
18. Identify some notable Americans who passed away in 2009 for 10 points each.
[10] This man served Rhode Island in the senate for thirty-six years. He remains
known for certain federal grants provided to undergraduate students that bear his
name.
ANSWER: Claiborne de Borda Pell
[10] This American artist died in January. He created a series of 247 portraits of his
neighbor Helga Testorf, and he also showed a polio-stricken girl in Christina’s World.
ANSWER: Andrew Wyeth
[10] Another American who passed away in 2009 was this author of novels such as
The Centaur and the short story “A & P.”
ANSWER: John Hoyer Updike

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 10 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. This novel opens with the main character hearing that his sister is ill. Later,
Msimangu informs him that his sister Gertrude is a prostitute. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Alan Paton novel that recounts a Zulu clergyman’s journey to find
his son and save his people from starvation.
ANSWER: Cry, the Beloved Country
[10] Name that Zulu clergyman who discovers that his son has produced a child out
of wedlock and has been arrested for the murder of Arthur Jarvis.
ANSWER: Stephen Kumalo [accept either]
[10] Name Stephen Kumalo’s son, who is sentenced to death for the murder while
his white accomplices go free. His death prompts Kumalo to go to the mountains at
the novel’s end.
ANSWER: Absalom
20. It was initially conceived of as a refuge for English debtors. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American colony whose first capital was Savannah.
ANSWER: Georgia
[10] This founder of Georgia was an English philanthropist who personally
transported Methodism founders John and Charles Wesley to his new colony.
ANSWER: James Edward Oglethorpe
[10] Forces under Oglethorpe were victorious over the Spanish at the Battle of
Bloody Marsh, which was part of this 1739 to 1742 conflict. It was named for a
British merchant captain.
ANSWER: War of Jenkins’ Ear
21. It is the shortest phase of mitosis, and it sees chromatids migrate to opposite
poles of the cell. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phase of mitosis that occurs between metaphase and telophase.
ANSWER: anaphase
[10] These structures hold chromatids to the mitotic spindle and pull the chromatids
to opposite ends of the cell during anaphase.
ANSWER: kinetochore
[10] These structures attach to the kinetochores. Their shortening during anaphase
causes the movement of chromatids.
ANSWER: microtubules
22. Communist domination of this former nation ended with the bloodless Velvet
Revolution, and it broke into two new countries in the Velvet Divorce. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this former country that was the victim of the Munich Pact in 1938.
ANSWER: Czechoslovakia
[10] This playwright of The Garden Party became the president of Czechoslovakia in
1989, having earlier led resistance against the communist regime as leader of the
Charter 77 group.
ANSWER: Vaclav Havel
[10] This area of Czechoslovakia, which contained a large population of ethnic
Germans, was surrendered to the Nazis under the Munich Pact.
ANSWER: the Sudetenland

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 11 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

23. He has a plantation in Brazil but is shipwrecked and survives on an island for
twenty-eight years. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who meets Friday and was based on Alexander Selkirk.
ANSWER: Robinson Crusoe [accept either]
[10] This author of “The Shortest Way with Dissenters” and Moll Flanders wrote
Robinson Crusoe.
ANSWER: Daniel Defoe
[10] This historical Defoe work was set during 1665 when the title affliction attacked
London.
ANSWER: A Journal of the Plague Year

2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #4

Round 7

Page 12 of 12

© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

