Round # 4

HAVOC

1.

This location, home to Einherjar, is also home to a rooster named Gullinkambi. It
has 540 doors and lies behind the gate Valgrind. Each day, its residents leave for a
day of combat and return to feast on a boar each night as they train for Ragnarok.
FTP name this Norse hall home to valkyries and slain warriors.
A: Valhalla Accept Valholl

2.

This novel opens with a preamble discussing the circumstances under which it was
written, with the title object having been found with an old manuscript. The
protagonist’s affair with the minister Dimmesdale brings disastrous consequences,
and the protagonist almost loses her daughter Pearl. Her disguised husband
Chillingworth helps Dimmesdale punish himself, and mother and daughter disappear
after his death. FTP name this novel about Hester Prynne by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
A: The Scarlet Letter

3.

This iconic painting is one of the most parodied in the world; the first was done by
Gordon Parks. Two potted plants sit on the porch, one of which is a cactus. A church
spire is seen in the trees behind the house. A young woman stands next to an older
man holding a pitchfork. FTP name this 1930 painting depicting two Iowans
standing in front of a particular style of house by Grant Wood.
A: American Gothic

4.

It is formed when a hydroxide group is added to an organic molecule, making the
entire molecule polar and able to undergo hydrogen bonding. Because of this,
they have higher boiling points than normal hydrocarbons, yet they still evaporate
quickly. The most complex form is a tertiary structure, where there are three
hydroxide groups bonded to one carbon molecule. FTP, name these chemicals, more
commonly found in beer and wine, which cannot have a blood concentration of
over .08 in drivers.
A: Alcohols

5.

A mirror in the background of this painting is surrounded by scenes of the
crucifixion and notably accurate, as it depicts the backs of the two figures. There are
several pieces of fruit on the windowsill, and a single candle is lit in the chandelier.
A pair of sandals and a small dog are at the feet of the two figures, and the bed
sheets in the background are red, adding to pregnancy rumors started by the presence
of the woman’s hand on her stomach. FTP name this painting by Jan van Eyck.
A: The Arnolfini Wedding Accept The Arnolfini Marriage, The Portrait of
Giovanni Arnolfini and His Bride/Wife, The Arnolfini Double Portrait, and
other reasonable equivalents

6.

This Mongol conqueror’s empire survived until 1857 through the Mughal Empire in
India. He called himself Amir and acted in the name of another ruler, who had in
fact less power. He conquered Baghdad, Damascus, and Delhi and defeated the
Golden Horde in the Battle of Kur River. FTP name this national hero of Uzbekistan
who is the subject of a Christopher Marlowe play in two parts and an Edgar Allan
Poe poem.

1 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC
A: Tamerlane Accept Timur the Lame or Tamburlaine

7.

This novella begins as the title character is impressed into service on the ship
Bellipotent. While he attempts to be a model sailor, the Dansker confirms that the
master-at-arms bears a grudge against him. One night a mysterious figure asks for
his cooperation, leading to Claggart’s charge that he is leading a mutiny. The title
character responds by punching Claggart, accidentally killing him. He is then
sentenced to be hanged. FTP name this Herman Melville novella whose title
character’s last words are “God bless Captain Vere.”
A: Billy Budd, Sailor or Billy Budd, Foretopman

8.

The majority of this poet’s works, some of which can be sung to the tune of the
Gilligan’s Island theme song, were published posthumously. This poet’s sister
Lavinia found hundreds of them, most of them untitled, and began their publication.
She is known for a frank, concise style and such poems as I’m Nobody, Who are
You? and I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died. FTP name this American poet known as
the “Belle of Amherst,” the author of Because I Could Not Stop for Death.
A: Emily Dickinson

9.

Stories of the trickster El-ahrairah told by Dandelion break up the action of this
novel, whose primary villain is General Woundwort of Efrafa. A group of refugees
including Blackberry and Bigwig face him after attempting to establish a new
warren in the title location after escaping poisoning on the advice of a mystic runt.
Encounters with predators and a strange warren complicate the journey, but the
group is aided upon their arrival by the bird Kehaar. FTP name this novel by Richard
Adams in which Hazel and Fiver relocate their fellow rabbits.
A: Watership Down

10. This singer was born a twin, although his brother was stillborn. He starred in 33
movies, had 19 #1 singles in his career, and is the only singer to be inducted into
four Halls of Fame. Some of his more famous songs are “Burning Love,” “Jailhouse
Rock” and “Heartbreak Hotel.” Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, he lived and died in
Memphis, Tennessee. FTP, name this singer known as the “King.”
A: Elvis Presley Prompt on Elvis
11. He began his military career in 1761 by fighting the Cherokee. Later, in the
American Revolution, he joined with General Nathaniel Greene and defeated the
British at Eutaw Springs in 1781, forcing them into North Carolina. When the
British had captured Charleston in 1780, this man stayed in South Carolina,
organizing a guerilla force to fight back. FTP identify this patriot, who earned his
nickname “Swamp Fox” for his guerilla tactics.
A: Francis Marion Prompt on Swamp Fox before mentioned
12. Throughout its production, this opera had three different versions and four different
overtures. Set in a Spanish political prison, the plot centers around the governor of
the prison, Don Pizarro, antagonizing the wrongfully incarcerated Florestan.

2 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC

Florestan’s wife, Leonore, disguises herself as the titular prison guard in a heroic
attempt to rescue him. FTP name this only opera of Ludwig van Beethoven.
A: Fidelio
13. This war is credited as having given birth to the “Scorched Earth” policy used to
combat guerrilla fighters. Once the aggressors nominally controlled most of the
territories fought over, the widespread enemy commandos continued harassing their
occupants for two hard-fought years before being forced to surrender. The guerrilla
phase of the war began in 1900 when President Paul Kruger was forced to flee to
Europe. FTP name this South African war in which Britain annexed the Orange Free
State and Transvaal Republic.
A: Second Boer War
14. This man was present at the 1918 Paris Peace Conference to petition for his
country’s independence, where he was snubbed by Woodrow Wilson. In 1941, he
became the leader of his country’s independence movement and declared a new
Democratic Republic in 1945. Independence would be secured in 1954 when his
general defeated the French at Dien Bien Phu. As president, he attempted to unite
with the southern half of his nation but was violently refused by Ngo Dinh Diem.
FTP name this Communist leader of North Vietnam from 1946-1969.
A: Ho Chi Minh
15. Off this country’s Caribbean coast are the Corn Islands and Pearl Cays. Its rivers
include the Coco on its northern border and the San Juan on its southern border, both
of which flow into its Mosquito Coast. Ometepe and Zapatera are islands in its
namesake lake, which lies to the south of a lake with the same name as this
country’s capital. FTP identify this Central American nation with its capital at
Managua.
A: Republic of Nicaragua
16. Its name means “house of stone,” although it is not just one building. The capital of
the late Mutapa Empire, its Great Enclosure stands 36 feet tall, and runs along a
length of 820 feet. It was originally claimed to be the abode of the Queen of Sheba,
then the work of Phoenician or Arab builders. Excavations in the early 20th century
proved its African origin. FTP name this ruin of Sub-Saharan civilization, the
namesake of the African country, formerly Rhodesia, in which it is located.
A: Great Zimbabwe
17. This quantity can be generalized to higher degree polynomials by using a Sylvester
Matrix. In this case, the polynomial has a root of multiplicity greater than 1 if and
only if it is equal to 0. A conic section is an ellipse when this is negative, a parabola
when this is equal to 0, and a hyperbola when this is positive. It is most often seen
when dealing with quadratics, and a quadratic with real coefficients has two
complex roots if and only if this quantity is negative. FTP name this quantity that is
equal to b^2 - 4ac [b squared minus four a c] in a quadratic of the form ax^2 + bx +
c [a x squared plus b x plus c].

3 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC
A: Discriminant

18. This material holds similar properties to molybdenite, although the latter produces a
green streak, while confusion with galena has led to many misnomers such as
plumbago and black lead. This low-pressure polymorph’s softness of one and a half,
which greatly contrasts with high-pressure diamond, allows for the material’s most
common use. FTP, name this form of carbon, which is found in many writing
utensils.
A: Graphite
19. About 1 in 17,000 of all the people in the world is infected with some degree of this
condition, which also frequently affects other organisms, including rats and many
types of snakes and lizards. The condition is caused by the inheritance of a recessive
allele that causes underproduction of melanin in the hair, skin, and eyes. FTP, name
this disorder whose main symptom is light hair and skin, as well as characteristically
red eyes.
A: Albinism (accept reasonable equivalents)
20. These structures may be connate or adnate when fused together differently.
Arranged in rows, the first row usually alternates with petals, and the second row is
usually opposite the petals. Although a flower may have between one and several
hundred of these, six is the most common number. At least one carpel must be
present for one to be used to self-pollinate the flower. At the tip of the filament of
one is a single anther, which produces pollen. FTP, name this male reproductive
organ found in flowers.
A: Stamen

STOP HERE
You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless a question
was thrown out or the game is tied.

21. The organo-arsenic compound, cacodyls, was formed by this man as the most
complex radical of the sort at the time. His collaboration with Kirchoff led to the
discovery of many new elements by their spectrograph. His pupil, Auer von
Welsbach [VELZ-bock], employed his teacher’s namesake instrument in working
with rare earth oxides to produce light. FTP, name this chemist whose burner heats
many experiments.
A: Robert Bunsen

1.

Bonuses
FTPE identify the following features associated with glaciers.
1) Glaciers drag and leave behind this unsorted mixture of rocks and gravel.

4 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC

A: Till
2) These mounds of till appear in terminal and lateral varieties.
A: Moraines
3) These roughly canoe-shaped hills are generally found in groups.
A: Drumlins
2.

Answer these questions about a Shakespearean tragedy FTPE.
1) Two of the three daughters of the titular king betray him. He commits suicide
after the murder of his third and only loyal daughter.
A: King Lear
2) This youngest daughter of King Lear loses her inheritance when she claims she
can not express her love for her father in words.
A: Cordelia
3) Name either of the other two daughters of King Lear, who inherit shares of his
kingdom through their flattery.
A: Goneril or Regan

3.

FTPE name the following royal houses which fought in the Hundred Years War.
1) The war was begun in 1337 by Edward III, who belonged to this royal house.
Other notable members include Edward Longshanks and Richard the Lionhearted.
A: House of Plantagenet
2) England was driven out of France while under the unpopular rule of Henry VI of
this house, which would later fight several wars with the House of York.
A: House of Lancaster
3) This royal house including members such as Philip VI ruled France throughout
the Hundred Years War.
A: House of Valois

4.

FTPE answer these questions about a Dutch artist.
1) This seventeenth century painter of several self-portraits as well as a work whose
actual setting was revealed after it was restored is known by his first name. His last
name is van Rijn.
A: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn
2) Rembrandt’s The Shooting Company of Captain Franz Banning Cocq was known
as this before restoration lightened it.
A: The Night Watch
3) Rembrandt was influenced by this Italian painter of The Calling of St. Matthew.
A: Caravaggio Accept Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio

5.

FTPE name these characters from Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird.
1) This lawyer and father of Jem and Scout is the hero of To Kill a Mockingbird.
A: Atticus Finch Prompt on Finch
2) This black man is falsely accused of rape and defended by Atticus.
A: Tom Robinson Accept partial name
3) This neighbor of Atticus saves his children from Bob Ewell.
A: Arthur “Boo” Radley Accept partial name

5 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC

6.

Name these Russian monarchs FTPE.
1) The first czar of Russia, he conquered Siberia and Tartary and mandated the
construction of St. Basil’s Cathedral. He also had a violent streak and his famous
nickname could alternately be translated as “Awe-inspiring.”
A: Ivan IV Vasilyevich Accept Ivan Grozny or Ivan the Terrible Prompt on Ivan
2) This czarina ruled over the Russian Enlightenment. She was famous for numerous
lovers and correspondence with the preeminent intellectuals of the day including
Voltaire and Diderot.
A: Catherine II Alekseyevna Accept Catherine the Great Prompt on Catherine
3) The last czar of Russia, he ruled during the Russo-Japanese War and World War
I. He and his family were executed by the Bolsheviks.
A: Nicholas II Romanov Accept Nikolay Alexandrovich Romanov, Nicholas the
Martyr, or Saint Nicholas The Passion Bearer Prompt on Nicholas

7.

Name these economists given works, FTPE.
1) This Scottish economist viciously attacked mercantilism and founded the classical
school of economics in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of
Nations.
A: Adam Smith
2) This classical British economist laid out his theory of comparative advantage in
On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation. He is also known for his
“Iron Law of Wages”.
A: David Ricardo
3) This contemporary of Ricardo predicted global starvation in his “Essay on the
Principles of Population” because population increased geometrically and
subsistence increased arithmetically.
A: Thomas Malthus

8.

FTPE, name these polysaccharides found within cells
1) This substance is unable to be digested in humans and is found in most cell walls
of plants.
A: Cellulose
2) This substance serves a similar function as cellulose, but it is in the cell walls of
fungi instead of plants. It also is found in exoskeletons of arthropods.
A: Chitin
3) While this chemical is found in most Eubacteria, it is noticeably absent in
Archaebacteria.
A: Peptidoglycan

9.

FTPE answer these questions about a certain Jewish holiday.
1) Celebrated on the fourteenth of Adar, this holiday commemorates the victory of
the Jews over Haman.
A: Purim
2) This woman convinced her husband Ahasuerus to spare the Jews.
A: Esther Accept Hadassah

6 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC

3) This man, Esther’s uncle, was a rival of Haman.
A: Mordecai
10. FTPE name these operas of Giacomo Puccini given the ending.
1) Rodolfo grieves over his lover Mimi’s deathbed.
A: La Boheme
2) The title character throws herself from a parapet after stabbing the chief of police,
Scarpia.
A: Tosca
3) Cio-Cio San commits suicide upon discovering Lieutenant Pinkerton’s infidelity.
A: Madame Butterfly Accept Madama Butterfly
11. FTPE identify these colorful, historical items of clothing.
1) Supporters of Garibaldi during the Italian Reunification wore shirts of this color,
also used to denote college freshmen lengthening their athletic eligibility.
A: Red Shirts
2) Hitler’s SA was referred to as this due to the color of their uniforms.
A: Brown Shirts
3) Inspired by Garibaldi’s Redshirts, Mussolini employed this paramilitary group.
A: Black Shirts
12. FTPE name the following temperature scales.
1) The Celsius scale was formerly known as this.
A: Centigrade
2) Absolute zero is defined using this SI base unit of temperature.
A: Kelvin
3) Absolute zero is also 0 on this thermodynamic scale named for a Scottish
engineer.
A: Rankine
13. FTPE answer these related questions about a British author.
1) This author of The Mysterious Affair at Styles and creator of Miss Jane Marple
also wrote under the name Mary Westmacott.
A: Agatha Christie
2) This Agatha Christie mystery takes place on the title form of transportation.
A: Murder on the Orient Express Accept Murder in the Calais Coach
3) This Belgian detective solves crimes with the help of his “little grey cells.”
A: Hercule Poirot
14. FTPE name these Bruce Springsteen albums.
1) Springsteen’s breakthrough came with this landmark album which bears one of
the most famous covers of all-time. Rolling Stone magazine ranked it as the
eighteenth greatest album of all-time, and its title song is often used by track teams.
A: Born to Run
2) This album, Springsteen’s best-selling one, spawned a record seven Top 10
singles, while the album was #1 on the Billboard 200. When Ronald Reagan asked

7 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC

to use the title track in his reelection campaign, Springsteen responded by asking if
he had listened to the lyrics.
A: Born in the U.S.A.
3) This album, one of Springsteen’s most recent, was written in response to the
September 11 attacks. In addition to being #1 on the Billboard 200, it also won three
Grammys.
A: The Rising
15. FTPE identify the following elements from their etymology.
1) Named for the Roman messenger god, its symbol is Hg.
A: Mercury
2) From the Swedish for "heavy stone," it is also known as wolfram, leading to is
symbol W.
A: Tungsten
3) This magnetic element with atomic number 27 takes its name from the German
for goblin.
A: Cobalt
16. FTPE name the following paintings.
1) This Vermeer painting depicts the titular figure wearing a blue and yellow
headscarf in addition to the title piece of jewelry.
A: The Girl with a Pearl Earring
2) The titular figure of this El Greco work is seen in both the bottom half of the
painting depicting earthly mourners and in the upper half where he is ascending to
heaven.
A: The Burial of Count Orgaz
3) Based on a Byron play, this Delacroix painting depicts the result of the defeat of a
king reputed to be either Babylonian or Assyrian.
A: The Death of Sardanapalus
17. FTPE identify these characters from Lewis Carroll’s Alice’s Adventures in
Wonderland.
1) This creature is able to disappear at will, with its smile being the last to go.
A: the Cheshire Cat
2) This creature, named for a kind of soup in Carroll’s time, is made partially of the
creature for which it is named and partially of calf.
A: the Mock Turtle Prompt on Turtle
3) This ruler of Wonderland frequently orders beheadings.
A: the Queen of Hearts Prompt on Queen
18. FTPE answer the following about a certain ancient city.
1) Previously known as Byzantium and known today as Istanbul, this city was
renamed for the Roman emperor who made it the capital of the eastern Roman
Empire.
A: Constantinople
2) Constantinople was sacked in 1204 during this Crusade.

8 of 9

Round # 4

HAVOC

A: Fourth Crusade Accept Four
3) Mehmet II made Constantinople the capital of this empire in 1453.
A: Ottoman Empire Accept Ottomans or Ottoman Turks
19. FTPE, answer these questions about digestion anatomy.
1) This secretion contains enzymes and antibacterial compounds that are involved in
the first step in digestion.
A: Saliva
2) This section of cartilage between the hyoid bone and the root of the tongue
prevents food from entering the trachea.
A: Epiglottis
3) This tubular organ connects the pharynx and the stomach.
A: Esophagus
20. FTPE, identify these features of Scottish geography.
1) This large loch lies on the Caledonian Canal just south of the canal’s entrance into
the Moray Firth.
A: Loch Ness
2) The Inner and Outer chains of these islands lie to the northwest of Scotland.
A: Hebrides
3) The capital of Scotland, it lies on the Firth of Forth in southeastern Scotland.
A: Edinburgh

9 of 9

