TOSSUPS - ROUND 2
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC
Questions mostly by Victoria Rubin (University of Georgia) and Phil Groce (Secureworks, Inc.)
1.
This man flat-out rejected Kepler's planetary laws, and he repeatedly attempted to prove that planets'
orbits were circular and not elliptical. Unsuccessful in this pursuit, he did end up discovering several major
astronomical features, including four moons around Jupiter. For ten points, name this physicist and astronomer
whose works include the Starry Messenger and the Dialogue on the Two Chief World Systems.
Answer: Galileo Galilei
2..
He was a minister of Moses, charged by God with dividing the land given to Moses among the Israelites.
He was also successful as a military leader, smiting the Canaanites, Amorites, and Hittites, among others. FTP,
name this subject of the sixth book of the Bible, who, according to a well-known spiritual, "fit the battle of
Jericho".
Answer: Joshua
3.
Born in Scotland, he changed his name and moved to America to avoid a trial springing from handling a
ship's mutiny improperly. As a naval officer during the American Revolution, he disrupted shipping off the
coasts of Britain and North America. His most famous victory came in 1779, aboard the Bonhornme Richard.
FTP, name the officer who, when asked to surrender by the Serapis, said, "I have not yet begun to fight."
Answer: John Paul Jones
4.
This play premiered on Broadway on March 24, 1955. Its central character has two sons: Gooper, who
has five children and a sixth on the way; and Brick, an alcoholic whom the father has a special bond with. FTP,
which Tennessee Williams play follows a Mississippi Delta family on Big Daddy's 65 th birthday?
Answer: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
5.
Ben Affleck, Paul Reubens, Hilary Swank, David Arquette, Luke Perry, and Donald Sutherland all
appeared in this 1992 cult hit. The tagline for its trailers was "Sometimes it takes more than just good looks to
kill." FTP, name this Kristy Swanson vehicle penned by Joss Whedon that spawned a successful television
series starring Sarah Michelle Gellar.
Answer: Buffy the Vampire Slayer
6.
According to the people ofthis region, before the dawn of history, it was held together by a succession
of immortal rulers. The first human king, Lhatho tho-ri, fell from the sky onto a mountain in Kong-Po and was
proclaimed sovereign. Buddhism was brought here in 8 C.E. by an Indian monk, Padmasambhaval [PUD-muhshum-BUH-vull], and remains the most prominent religion in the region to this day. FTP, name this Chinese
territory whose freedom is a pet cause of celebs like the Beastie Boys.
Answer: Tibet
7.
No team currently in their conference had ever won an NCAA men's tournament game, and until this
team pulled off the feat this year, the College of Charleston and Arkansas-Little Rock were the only TAAC
teams to do that. But this team, led by their backcourt of Shernard Long and Kevin Morris, used several
transfer players with major college experience to upset the 6th -seeded Wisconsin Badgers. FTP, name this
Atlanta school, the fourth team led to the Dance by coach Lefty Dreisell.
Answer: Georgia State University
8.
Their mouths are surrounded by rings of enlarged, branching tube feet, called tentacles. They use these
tentacles to trap tiny food particles and push them into their mouths for sustenance. Like other echinoderms,
they exhibit pentaradiate symmetry and are marine, though unlike many of their relatives, they lack spines and
are soft and flexible. FTP, identify these sea creatures, common in Japanese cuisine, but not crispy vegetables
like their names would suggest.
Answer: sea cucumbers

9. .
It was formed in 1960 in reaction to its member nations' exploitation by large European and American
corporations. Eventually, however, it became evident that this organization's member countries, which today
include Liberia and Venezuela, could take the upper hand by regulating production of their most valuable
commodity, which they did dramatically in December 1973. FTP, give the name of this group, arguably the
most powerful in the oil industry.
Answer: OPEC or the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
10.
Her name translates as "she who disbands the armies", although she is not a warrior but an
administrator. Along with her friends Calonice, Myrrhine, and Lampito, she establishes a pact among all the
women of Greece. FTP, name this Aristophanes title heroine who brokers a peace treaty by swearing all
females to celibacy until the war ends.
Answer: Lysistrata
11.
This instrument used to be favored in church and chamber music, but it declined around 1700. It later
regained popularity in military bands, which was when it was given a wider bell. It was included in Mozart's
Don Giovanni and Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, and it became firmly established in the orchestra around
1850. Once known as the sackbut, FTP, name this instrument played by Tommy Dorsey and Glenn Miller,
noted for its unique slide mechanism.
Answer: trombone
12.
His actions led to the formation of the Everlasting League among the forest cantons of Uri, Schwyz, and
Unterwalden. A native of Uri, he killed Gessler, an Austrian bailiff, in revenge, setting off the revolt that ousted
the bailiffs in 1308. FTP, name this subject of a Schiller drama and a Rossini opera, a legendary Swiss archer.
Answer: William Tell
13.
It is named in honor of the Italian physicist who postulated in 1811 that equal volumes of gases, at
equivalent temperatures and pressures, contain the same number of molecules. FTP, what constant refers to the
number of molecules that exist in one mole of any substance?
Answer: Avogadro's Number
14.
His earliest-known short story is "Little Hut", which was published in 1884. "Mrs. Frola and Mr. Ponza,
Her Son-in-Law" is a tale about the impossibility of penetrating other people's minds, but it's most important as
the basis of his first major play, Right You Are (If You Think You Are}. FTP, name this Italian Nobel laureate
best-known for Six Characters in Search of an Author.
Answer: Luigi Pirandello
15.

Pencils ready. FTP, solve the system of equations for x and y.
3x-2y = 5
2x-5y=-4
Answer: x = 3 Y = 2

16.
Based in part on a work by Giorgione, it was one of the first prominent works to show obvious signs of
being painted in a studio. A woman in the background bends over in a white shift. She is unconnected to the
action in front, where two well-dressed men talk with a nude woman on a blanket. FTP, name this
revolutionary painting by Edouard Manet.
Answer: Luncheon on the Grass (or, for true nerds, Ie Dejeuner sur I'Herbe)
17.
He had 3 children by Angerboda - Fenris, Hel, and the Midgard serpent. He was punished for tricking
Hoder into killing Balder. FTP, name this Aesir and Norse deity, notable for being a "trickster."
Answer: Loki

18.
Written by James Madison, it was one of the two constitutional amendments offered with the Bill of
Rights that was not passed, and it prohibits a sitting Congress from voting itself a pay raise, mandating that any
pay raise will not take effect until the next Congress has been seated. Finally passed in 1992, this is, FTP,
which last amendment of the United States Constitution?
Answer: 27th Amendment
19.
One way of demonstrating it is through a hot-air balloon. The air in the envelope is heated by a gas
burner. As the temperature rises, the gas expands in accordance with this law. FTP, name the gas law which
states that, at constant pressure, the volume of a mass of gas is directly proportional to the temperature.
Answer: Charles' law
20.
His daughter, Susan, was herself an author of some renown, and her Rural Hours is thought to have
been the prime influence for Thoreau's Walden. He himself was not much of a naturalist, however, and this
New Yorker's works often focused on military and historical themes, as in The Pilot and The Spy. FTP, name
this author most famous for penning a series of five novels including The Prairie, The Pathfinder, and The Last
of the Mohicans.
Answer: James Fenimore Cooper
21.
Adlai Stevenson's middle name is also the same as a surname ofa former Georgetown and New York
Knicks great, the first Secretary of the Interior and an infamous TV role for Larry Hagman. For ten points,
what's their common name?
Answer: Ewing (Patrick, Thomas, and J.R. respectively)
22.
Arthur Fry wanted to hold his place in church hymnals, and when he came up with this discovery, he
didn't know ifhis idea would stick. FTP what are these yellow office memo mainstays manufactured by 3M?
Answer: Post-It Notes
23.
First, take one cup of whipping cream. Then, add about _ cup of buttermilk. Cook over moderate heat
ll11tillukewarm and let stand at room temperature 12-15 hours, or until it has thickened to the consistency of
stirred yogurt. Then, refrigerate to allow the flavors to mellow. It can then be used on fruit or in tarts. FTP,
name this tangy French condiment.
Answer: creme fraiche

BONI - ROUND 2

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

1.
You know that awful Nine Days song? The one that begins, "This is the story of a girl who cried a river
and drowned the whole world?" Heh, heh, heh. Pencils and paper ready, ten points each. 15 seconds per part.
Assume that each of the girl's eyes are capable of crying two milliliters per second. How long, to the nearest
minute, would it take for the girl to cry one liter?
Answer: Four minutes (250 seconds)
Using the four minutes per liter figured in the previous part, how long would it take her to cry one cubic meter?
Answer: 4,000 minutes (or 66 hours & 40 minutes; or 2 days, 18 hours, 40 minutes)
Let's assume that Nine Days are exaggerating, and the girl didn't cry a river that drowned the whole world, but
rather a river with the volume of the Pacific Ocean, with an area of about 166,000,000 square kilometers, and an
average depth of about 4,000 meters. Which of the following would best approximate how long the girl cried:
three hundred thousand years, three million years, three hundred million years, or three billion years?
Answer: three hundred million years
2.
Given a description, name the halogen FTPE.
This violet solid sublimes when warmed. Tinctures of it are used to cleanse wounds.
Answer: iodine
It forms a noxious diatomic gas with a pale green color. Its anion forms epsom salts with aluminum.
Answer: chlorine
The rarest of the halogens, it sits at the bottom of group VII. Little is known of its properties, though it's
thought to be highly acidic.
Answer: astatine
3.
Name the famous William on descriptions FTPE.
This Swiss national hero had a Rossini opera named after him.
Answer: William Tell
This poet and physician wrote that silly poem about the red wheelbarrow, as well as the collection Pictures from
Breughel.
Answer: William Carlos Williams
His namesake "razor" posits that the simplest hypothesis is usually the correct one.
Answer: William of Ockham
4.
Identify these important routes from American history FTPE.
This trail stretched from Independence, Missouri, to the Columbia River. It was one of the main paths of
pioneer travel to the West in the mid-19 th century.
Answer: Oregon Trail
This 780-mile wagon route went southwest from Independence. In 1880, it was superceded when its terminus
was connected to the Transcontinental Railroad.
Answer: Santa Fe Trail
Daniel Boone blazed this route which led from the Shenandoah Valley to the Cumberland Gap.
Answer: Wilderness Road
5. Name these works by John Steinbeck from a very brief description, FTP each.
Joad family leaves Dust Bowl for California.
Answer: The Grapes of Wrath
Steinbeck crosses the country with elderly poodle
Answer: Travels with Charley
Lennie likes small furry creatures too much. George tries to take care of him.
Answer: OfMice and Men

6.
One of the more welcome trends of the last few years is the rise of engineering game shows. For 10
points apiece, name these cable game shows.
This British game show, airing on TLC in America, pits teams of 3 regular joes and one engineer against each
other as they build sophisticated machines like cannons and radio-controlled airplanes from scrap materials.
Answer: Junkyard Wars
Biohazard won a surprise heavyweight championship over Vlad the Impaler in the latest round of this Comedy
Central Sports entry, although the real highlight was Toro's domination of the superheavyweight rumble.
Answer: Battlebots
Not to be outdone by Battlebots, TLC is introducing this competition in which robots first face three challenges
- the Maze, the Gauntlet, and Speedway - before the top two contenders on each episode Fight to the Finish.
Answer: Robotica
7.
FTPE, identify these figures associated with Transcendentalism.
His essays include "Walking", and he also wrote A Week on the Concord & Merrimack Rivers.
Answer: Henry David Thoreau
He is most famous for lectures like "Nature" and "The American Scholar".
Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
Along with Emerson, she cofounded The Dial in 1840.
Answer: Margaret Fuller
8.
Geneticists have their own favorite organisms of study. FTPE given a description of the experimenter
and his organism name it.
A) Probably the best known, Mendel chose this plant because it was self pollinating, fast growing, and had a
large number of offspring to observe.
Sweet Pea Plant
Answer:
B) Thomas Hunt Morgan of Colombia University was the first geneticist to use these insects. It was through
careful observation of their eyes that he discovered "sex linked" mutations.
Drosophila Melangomaster or Fruit Fly
Answer:
C) Beadle and Tatum figured out the simplistic but crucial "one gene, one enzyme" theory using this fungus.
Common on bread, it spends most of its life in a haploid state, making any mutations immediately observable.
Neurospora
Answer:
9.
FTPE, answer the following about the Mongol Empire
This grandson of Kublai Khan became emperor of China in 1259.
Answer: Kublai Khan
Kublai Khan established this dynasty, which was to last over 100 years.
Answer: Yuan
Kublai Khan established his capital in the city of Cambaluc. By what name do we know Cambaluc today?
Answer: Beijing (do not accept "Peking")
Atlanta Braves announcer Skip Caray doesn't even try to disguise his contempt for this city. FTSNOP
10.
answer the following about the city of Montreal:
1. Prevented by the Lachine Rapids from sailing up the St. Lawrence River far enough, in 1535 this French
explorer reached the Island of Montreal by foot and found the Iroquois village of Hochelaga at the foot of
Mount Royal.
Answer: Jacques Cartier
2. In the 1770's, fur traders in Montreal formed the North West Company as a rival to this, the dominant fur
trading company in Canada.
Answer: the Hudson's Bay Company [accept Hudson Bay Company]
3. The world's fair called Expo 67 included the eye-catching U.S. Pavilion, designed in Buckminster Fuller in
this distinctive shape.
Answer: geodesic dome

11.
Answer the following about related works of literature FTPE.
Which Greek playwright wrote Prometheus Bound?
Answer: j\eschylus
Which British poet responded with the poem "Prometheus Unbound"?
Answer: ~ercy Bysshe Shelley
Which important British novel is subtitled "The Modem Prometheus"?
Answer: Frankenstein
12.
30-20-10, name the philosopher from clues.
30: The son of a watchmaker, Voltaire once wrote to him, "The desire to walk on all fours seizes one when one
reads your work."
20: His Discourse on the Origin of Inequality posits that the apparent upward drive to civilization was really a
downward drive to barbarism.
10: His most famous work, The Social Contract, states that people make a voluntary compact with government
in order to protect their persons and property.
j\: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
13.
Given a war, name any year within that war FTPE.
Boer War.
Answer: 1899-1902
Franco-Prussian War.
Answer: 1870-1871
nd
2 Opium War.
Answer: 1856-1860
14.
Answer the following about phenomena involved with liquids FTPE.
This is the force that holds the molecules in a liquid together.
Answer: cohesion
This refers to forces of attraction between a liquid and adjoining matter, like the container.
Answer: adhesion
Whenever a liquid is surrounded by a tube, one of these forms. Its direction is determined by the balance
between the liquid's cohesive and adhesive forces.
Answer: meniscus
15.
FTPE, name these rap artists who have next to nothing to do with gangstas.
He bears a frightening resemblance to outfielder Derek Bell, produced De La Soul's 3 Feet High and Rising,
and taught the Handsome Boy Modeling School with Dan "The Automator" Nakamura.
Answer: Prince Paul
Along with fellow West Coast rappers Dilated Peoples and the Black-Eyed Peas, they anchored the "Word of
Mouth" tour in 2000. Their debut album, Quality Control, was a huge critical success and spawned the single
"Concrete Schoolyard".
Answer: Jurassic 5
Part of the Native Tongues crew, their 1989 debut album, People's Instinctive Travels and the Paths of Rhythm,
went gold. Members included Phife, Q- Tip, and Ali Shaheed Mohammed.
Answer: j\ Tribe Called Quest

16.
FTP each, give the following scientific terms beginning with the letter "S".
A. This project is scanning the universe for artificially generated electromagnetic signals to find out if anyone
is out there. Give either the 4 letter acronym or 4 word name.
Answer: SET!, or Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence
B. This type of time is measured with respect to the stars rather than the Sun and one of these days is shorter
than a solar day by nearly 4 minutes.
Answer: Sidereal
C. This device works by positioning a metal tip within a few atomic diameters of a surface and measuring the
amount of current generated when electrons leap across the gap. IBM researchers used one of these devices to
spell out the letters IBM with 35 atoms.
Answer: Scanning Tunneling Microscope
17.
Given names and descriptions of three similar operas, tell who composed each one FTPE.
Orfeo, considered the first true operatic masterpiece.
Answer: Claudio Monteverdi
Orpheus and Eurydice, the most serious and melodramatic of the Orpheus operas.
Answer: Christoph Gluck
Orpheus in the Underworld, the comic opera that introduced the "Can-Can".
Answer: Jacques Offenbach
18.
Identify these related political science terms FTPE.
This, from the Latin for "I forbid", refers to the president's constitutionally granted power to turn down acts of
Congress.
Answer: veto
This type of veto, which cannot be overridden, occurs if the president elects to hold a bill for ten days while
Congress is in recess.
Answer: pocket veto
The Supreme Court ruled this type of veto, introduced in 1996, unconstitutional.
Answer: line-item veto
19.
Name these characters from Ibsen's A Doll House on descriptions FTPE.
The main character, she's affectionate, flighty, and immature.
Answer: Nora Helmer
Nora's husband, he's a bank manager whose life Nora saved by her fraud.
Answer: Torvald Helmer
This friend of the Helmers, who is in love with Nora, reveals his impending death via a calling card with a black
cross.
Answer: J)r. Ftank
20.
F5PE, and a bonus 5 for all correct, put these five events from the civil rights movement in
chronological order, from first to last: A.) President Johnson signs the Civil Rights Act; B.) the Montgomery
Bus Boycott begins; C.) Martin Luther King writes the "Letter from the Birmingham Jail"; D.) The Brown V.
Board of Education I decision is handed down; and E.) The SCLC is formed.
Answer 1: J).) Brown decision (1954); 2: B.) Bus Boycott (1955); 3: E.) SCLC formed (1957); 4: C.)
King letter (1963); 5: A.) Civil Ftights Act (1964)

21.
FTSNOP, answer these questions about baseball and its origins.
5 Points. Where is the Baseball Hall of Fame located?
Answer: Cooperstown, NY
10 Points. This man, thanks to a letter to an editor from his nephew, is wrongly, but often, credited with
inventing baseball.
Answer: Abner Doubleday
15 Points. This man is believed to have first recorded a set of rules for baseball in 1842, while leading the
Knickerbocker Base Ball Club.
Answer: Alexander Cartwright
I'll name four food items. FTPE, you tell me which vitamin they're all an abundant source of.
22.
Oranges, strawberries, limes, and potatoes.
Answer: Vitamin C
Liver, egg yolk, carrots, and fish.
Answer: Vitamin A
Tomatoes, eggs, soybean oil, and liver
Answer: Vitamin K

