NHB Sample
Round 1
First Quarter
1. This man became Acting President during his superior’s sedation for routine colonoscopies. He was the
Secretary of Defense during the first U.S. invasion of Iraq and once accidentally shot Harry Whittington. In
2007, his chief of staff was convicted on charges relating to the leak of Valerie Plame's name. For 10
points, name this boss of Scooter Libby and Vice-President under George W. Bush.
ANSWER: Richard Bruce "Dick" Cheney
088-11-28-01101

2. This ruler captured and impaled the Cossack rebel Ivan Zarutskii, and he signed the Peace of Stolbovo
with Sweden. He was once rescued from the Poles by Ivan Susanin. Part of this man’s reign was shared
with his father Filaret. This man was elected tsar by the zemsky sobor, ending the Time of Troubles. For 10
points, name this tsar from 1613 to 1645, the first of the Russia's last dynasty.
ANSWER: Michael I Romanov [or Mikhail I Romanov]
003-11-28-01102

3. A soldier from this country infamously struck U.S. consul John Allison. During peacetime, the U.S.
gunboat Panay was bombed by this country. Its actions were criticized by the U.S. in the Stimson Doctrine.
Camps such as Heart Mountain and Manzanar housed emigrants from this country during the 1940s. For 10
points, name this country which fought against the US in the Pacific theater of World War II.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon-koku; or Nippon-koku]
015-11-28-01103

4. During the Civil War, Union commander John Slough defeated Charles Pryon at this current state’s
Glorieta Pass. Later, this state’s Lincoln County was the site of a conflict involving John Chisum, Pat
Garret, and the outlaw Billy the Kid. It is home to the White Sands Proving Ground, where the “Trinity”
test was conducted. For 10 points, name this home state of the Los Alamos nuclear laboratory.
ANSWER: New Mexico
015-11-28-01104

5. This policy question was the reason for the temporary imprisonment of Paschal II. The Synod of
Rockingham came out against St. Anselm's position on this matter. It was settled in 1122 by the Concordat
of Worms, and it was the reason that Gregory VII excommunicated Henry IV, prompting the trip to
Canossa. For 10 points, name this controversy dealing with the right of kings to appoint bishops.
ANSWER: lay investiture controversy
030-11-28-01105

6. One poem dedicated to this man describes dark events “Charging like ceaseless clouds” in “Hush’d Be
the Camp To-Day.” Another poem about him notes how the great star “droop’d in the western sky in the
night.” In another poem, his lips are “pale and still.” For 10 points, Walt Whitman's “When Lilacs Last in
the Dooryard Bloom’d” and “Oh Captain! My Captain!” are both based on whose 1865 assassination?
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln
064-11-28-01106

7. This man recognized the accession of William III to the English throne in the Treaty of Ryswick. His
Edict of Fontainebleau revoked the toleration of Huguenots granted by the Edict of Nantes. This ruler tried
to prevent conspiracies against himself by centralizing power at a former hunting lodge whose most notable
feature is its Hall of Mirrors. For 10 points, name this king of France, often called the Sun King.
ANSWER: Louis XIV [prompt on Sun King before it is read; prompt on Le Roi Soleil]
081-11-28-01107

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 1 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. Late in this war, one side’s military was commanded by Daniel Salamanca. During it, a small group of
Guarani soldiers held off the enemy at Fort Nanawa. The Vickers Vespa biplane was employed during this
conflict, which was the first major use of aerial warfare in the Americas. It was triggered by the discovery
of oil in the foot of the Andes. For 10 points, name this 1930s conflict between Paraguay and Bolivia.
ANSWER: Gran Chaco War
064-11-28-01108

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 2 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHB Sample
Round 1
Second Quarter
1. This document asks, "How could one hope that a council of war would demolish what a council of
war had done?" and alludes to the imminent World's Fair being run by its addressee. The immediate
motive for writing this tract, which is addressed to Félix Faure, was the acquittal of (*) Ferdinand
Walsin-Esterhazy. It was published in L'Aurore, a newspaper owned by Georges Clemenceau. For 10
points, name this open letter, which defends Alfred Dreyfus from charges of spying and was written by
Emile Zola.
ANSWER: "J’Accuse" [or "I Accuse"]
019-11-28-01101

2. Along with his assistant Charles Hitch, he implemented a directive called the Planning,
Programming, and Budgeting System. This creator of the "no-cities approach" is the subject of Errol
Morris's documentary The Fog of War.. In one post, he surrounded himself with a group of advisors
from the RAND Corporation called the “Whiz Kids,” developed the strategy of (*) mutually assured
destruction, and oversaw the deployment troops to Vietnam. For 10 points, name this Secretary of Defense
under Kennedy and Johnson.
ANSWER: Robert McNamara
064-11-28-01102

3. A "Declaration and Remonstrance" was issued in this city after a Scots-Irish mob demanded the
expulsion of Indians. Though it is not Boston, men from this city prevented the Polly from landing
during its "Tea Party." One native of this city, which was the home of the first American public
library and general hospital, delivered the (*) Olive Branch Petition. That document was written here
during the same meeting where the Declaration of Independence was signed. For 10 points, name this site
of both Continental Congresses.
ANSWER: Philadelphia
003-11-28-01103

4. The Cisalpine Club agitated for the rights of these people. A mob united by hatred for these people
burned down the house of Lord Mansfield. In response to an act favoring this group, some of whom
had joined with Scots to support the Old Pretender, George (*) Gordon led a riot in London. In 1829, a
Relief Act allowed them to sit in Parliament, bringing about their namesake “Emancipation.” For 10 points,
name this religious group, who were once scorned in England for practicing “Popery.”
ANSWER: Catholics in the United Kingdom [or obvious equivalents]
080-11-28-01104

5. This event prompted the “Together We Thrive” rally. San Diego’s Judge Larry Burns was picked
to preside over a trial resulting from this event. The incident itself caused the death of Judge John
Roll and prompted legislation to prevent (*) Westboro Baptists from picketing funeral services.
Perpetrated by Jared Lee Loughner, it caused many to question an image of gun crosshairs on Sarah Palin’s
webpage. For 10 points, name this event in which an Arizona congresswoman was attacked in a Safeway
parking lot.
ANSWER: shooting of Gabrielle Giffords [or 2011 Tucson shootings; or equivalents]
079-11-28-01105

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 3 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This philosopher argued that the fertility of a country's soil affects its type of government, with
barren soil leading to republics. His major work claims that differences in (*) climate lead to different
national characteristics, and uses the Ottoman Empire as an example of a state ruled by fear. His theory that
the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government should be separated inspired America's
founding fathers. For 10 points, name this French author of The Spirit of the Laws.
ANSWER: Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu
004-11-28-01106

7. The losing vice-presidential candidate in this election resigned as Secretary of the Navy to
campaign and finished ahead of the Free Soil ticket headed by John Hale. The man who won the
Vice-Presidency in this election took the oath of office in Cuba and was rumored to be the (*) lover of
James Buchanan. The loser of this election later developed the Anaconda Plan and was Mexican War hero
Winfield Scott. For 10 points, identify this election which saw Franklin Pierce succeed Millard Fillmore as
President.
ANSWER: United States Presidential election of 1852
019-11-28-01107

8. This scholar was the first person to translate historian Theophylactus Simocattes into Latin. His
influences included his onetime roomate, Domenico Novara, who introduced him to a tract by
Regiomontanus. After reading that book, he worked out a system that eschewed deferants, equants,
and epicycles. As he died, he authorized the publication of (*) Six Books Concerning the Revolutions of
the Heavenly Orbs, which outlined a heliocentric theory of the universe. For 10 points, name this Polish
predecessor of Galileo.
ANSWER: Nicolaus Copernicus [or Mikolaj Kopernik]
019-11-28-01108

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 4 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHB Sample
Round 1
Third Quarter
U.S. INTERVENTIONS
In what present-day country did United States armed forces...
A. Assist the White Army against the Bolsheviks?
ANSWER: Russian Federation [or Rossiya; or Rossiyskaya Federatsiya]
B. Begin a twenty-year occupation by landing at Port-au-Prince?
ANSWER: Republic of Haiti [or Republique d'Haiti; or Repiblik d'Ayiti]
C. Target inland cities in the Doolittle Raid?
ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon-koku; or Nippon-koku]
D. Pursue bandit Pancho Villa?
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
E. Capture independence leader Emilio Aguinaldo?
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]
F. Provide aid to the Somoza family?
ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua [or Republica de Nicaragua]
G. Defend Camille Chamoun's presidency under the Eisenhower Doctrine?
ANSWER: Lebanon [or Lebanese Republic; or Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah]
H. Launch Operation Urgent Fury to depose Hudson Austin's military government?
ANSWER: Grenada
019-11-28-0110-1

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 5 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

THE WILD WEST
Which person traditionally associated with the Wild West...
A. Was shot by Robert Ford, a member of his gang of bank and train robbers?
ANSWER: Jesse Woodson James
B. Headed a Wild West show troupe that included Annie Oakley?
ANSWER: William Frederick "Buffalo Bill" Cody [or Buffalo Bill]
C. Was shot during a poker game in Deadwood?
ANSWER: James Butler "Wild Bill" Hickok
D. Along with the Earp brothers, won the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral?
ANSWER: John Henry "Doc" Holliday
E. Sculpted The Bronco Buster?
ANSWER: Frederic Sackrider Remington
F. Wrote the first Western, The Virginian?
ANSWER: Owen Wister
G. Led a group of Oklahoma horse thieves and was known as the "Bandit Queen"?
ANSWER: Belle Starr [or Myra Belle Shirley]
H. Painted Lewis and Clark Meet the Flathead Indians and was known as the "cowboy artist"?
ANSWER: Charles Marion Russell
003-11-28-0110-1

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 6 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

SUPREME COURT CASES
In what U.S. Supreme Court case did the majority rule against...
A. A segregating governmental body in Topeka, Kansas?
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka [or Board of Education of Topeka v. Brown]
B. Arizona policemen who failed to read a suspect his rights?
ANSWER: Miranda v. Arizona [or Arizona v. Miranda]
C. A New Orleans man seeking to integrate rail cars?
ANSWER: Plessy v. Ferguson [or Ferguson v. Plessy]
D. Georgia's death penalty statute, in 1972?
ANSWER: Furman v. Georgia [or Georgia v. Furman]
E. A Japanese man who was interned during World War II?
ANSWER: Korematsu v. United States [or United States v. Korematsu]
F. A socialist pamphleteer who metaphorically "shouted 'fire' in a theater"?
ANSWER: Schenck v. United States [or United States v. Schenck]
G. Regulators seeking to break up a sugar monopoly under the Sherman Antitrust Act?
ANSWER: United States v. E.C. Knight Company [or E.C. Knight Company v. United States; prompt on
Sugar Trust Case]
H. The Truman administration's seizure of the steel industry?
ANSWER: Youngstown Sheet & Tube Company v. Sawyer [or Sawyer v. Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Company]
019-11-28-0110-1

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 7 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

NHB Sample
Round 1
Fourth Quarter
1. In disgust over this group's control of the Illinois legislature, Joseph Forrest started a rumor
linking members of this group to the Knights of the Golden Circle. One member of this group was
the subject of an (+) ex parte case that concluded that military courts had no jurisdiction where civil
courts still functioned; that man, Lambdin (*) Milligan, was implicated in the “Northwestern
Conspiracy.” For 10 points, name this group of Democrats, led by Clement Vallandingham, that opposed
the Civil War.
ANSWER: Copperheads [or Peace Democrats; or Butternuts]
003-11-28-01101

2. This man's political philosophy included a platform of nationalism, democracy, and social reform
known as the (+) Three Principles of the People. Even though he was not personally involved in the
Wuchang Uprising, he is credited for supporting the revolution which overthrew the (*) Qing
(CHING) Dynasty. This ally of Chiang Kai-shek was the first provisional president of the Republic of
China. For 10 points, name this leader of the Kuomintang or Nationalists.
ANSWER: Sun Yat-sen
024-11-28-01102

3. One theory regarding this work claims that it was originally performed by Ben and Lew Snowden.
It was written as a "walkaround," and the final verse features Will-the-weaver. Abraham (+) Lincoln
ordered a performance of this song upon hearing of Robert E. Lee's surrender. Disowned by its
composer Daniel Decatur Emmett, it was more famously performed by opponents of the (*) Civil
Rights movement, and at Jefferson Davis's inauguration. For 10 points, name this minstrel song beginning
"I wish I was in the land of cotton", which has become synonymous with segregation and the Southern US.
ANSWER: "Dixie"
082-11-28-01103

4. This ruler's son was established as the heir to the throne by the Treaty of Wallingford. Her other
sons were William of Anjou and Geoffrey of Anjou. This queen's brother, who died when the White
Ship sank, was William Adelin. The period known as The (+) Anarchy was characterized by a rivalry
between this ruler and her cousin, (*) Stephen of Blois, whom this leader briefly deposed after the Battle
of Lincoln. For 10 points, name this daughter of Henry I who briefly ruled England in 1141.
ANSWER: Empress Matilda of England [or Maud]
024-11-28-01104

5. One of these events was canceled after the issue of Executive Order 8802. Another one of these
events was organized by the so-called "Mobe" and was depicted in Norman Mailer's (+) Armies of
the Night. During the best-known of these events, John Lewis claimed that its participants would
"splinter the segregated (*) South into a thousand pieces." In 2009 and 2010, FreedomWorks organized
two of these events to take place on September 12. For 10 points, name this common protest activity that,
in 1963, featured Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech.
ANSWER: marches on Washington D.C. [prompt on partial answer; prompt on protest march; prompt on
Civil Rights march; prompt on similar answers, such as rally, that mention Washington D.C.]
003-11-28-01105

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 8 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This work depicts a bronze snake wrapped around a pole. In another section, people clamber out
of a row boat to a shore where a figure climbs a tree. It also contains depictions resembling bronze
shields, as well as twenty male nudes called the ignudi. Also showing sibyls, prophets, the (+)
Drunkenness of Noah, and the Great Flood, it is located perpendicular to The Last Judgment. It
depicts God (*) touching Adam’s finger during Creation. For 10 points, name this fresco that
Michelangelo painted on top of the building where Papal Conclave is held.
ANSWER: Sistine Chapel ceiling [prompt on Sistine Chapel frescoes; accept obvious equivalents]
079-11-28-01106

7. This event was vigorously opposed by groups of nobles called the Black Hundreds. It was initially
orchestrated by the Union of Liberation following the suppression of Father (+) Gapon's marchers
on Bloody Sunday. This event grew to include a strike on the Trans-Siberian Railroad, the mutiny of
the Potemkin, and the formation of the St. Petersburg (*) soviet. For 10 points, name this empire-wide
uprising which spurred Nicholas II to issue the October Manifesto and presaged a more succesful revolt
twelve years later.
ANSWER: the 1905 revolution in Russia [prompt on Russian Revolution; accept any descriptive answers
that indicate 1905 and a revolution or uprising of some kind]
019-11-28-01107

8. This territory was purchased with funds authorized by John Spooner’s amendment to a bill
introduced by William Hepburn. This territory contained the mouth of the Chagres River, which is
dammed by both the Madden Dam and the (+) Gatun Dam. This territory, whose security was one of
the reasons for Operation Just Cause, made an exclave out of the city of (*) Colón. For 10 points, name
this U.S. territory that ceased to exist per the terms of treaties signed by Omar Torrijos and Jimmy Carter
declaring its namesake structure a neutral waterway.
ANSWER: Panama Canal Zone [or Zona del Canal de Panama; prompt on partial answer]
003-11-28-01108

NHB Sample Round 1 Page 9 of 9
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

