2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. Cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 are needed in this phase to cross the restriction point, where
protein p53 may trigger apoptosis. Most mature nerve cells are permanently arrested in this phase,
which directly follows cytokinesis. Its (*) S subphase is when DNA is replicated, while its G1 and G2
portions are devoted to cell growth. For 10 points, name this “resting phase” of the cell cycle that must be
completed before mitosis can begin.
Answer: interphase (accept G1 before “S subphase” is read)
2. Raymond Cattell studied this concept with a test measuring 16 primary traits and the "five
factors," including agreeableness and extraversion. This concept is measured by self-report
inventories like the MMPI test and projective tests like the (*) Rorschach inkblot test. For 10 points,
what psychological concept, sometimes divided into Type A and Type B, describes a person's patterns of
thought and behavior that distinguish them as an individual?
Answer: personality
3. Laelaps was one of these animals who always caught her prey; she was given to Europa by a
love-struck Zeus. After spying on Artemis bathing, Actaeon was eaten by these animals, which he
used for hunting. Upon Odysseus’ return to Ithaca, (*) Argos, an animal of this type, dropped his ears
and wagged his tail when he saw his master. The guard of Hades, Cerberus, is a three-headed one of, for
10 points, what kind of domestic animal?
Answer: dogs
4. The Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group defended this law after President Obama announced, in
2011, that the Justice Department would no longer do so. It passed Congress with a veto-proof
majority and was signed by President (*) Clinton in 1996, but its third section was ruled
unconstitutional by the 2013 case U.S. v. Windsor. For 10 points, name this 1996 law which defined
marriage as between one man and one woman, often referred to as "DOMA."
Answer: Defense of Marriage Act (accept “Law” or “Bill” for “Act;” prompt on “DOMA” before
mention)

Round 5
Page 2 of 11
5. A barber pole sits in front of a row of businesses in this man’s Early Sunday Morning. A small
red teapot is on the table between two women at a restaurant in his Chop Suey. This artist of (*)
Automat painted an ad for five-cent Phillies cigars in another of his works. In that painting, two men and a
woman are being served inside a well-lit, doorless diner. For 10 points, name this American painter of
Nighthawks.
Answer: Edward Hopper
6. This nation's port cities include Valparaiso and Antofagasta, the latter of which was invaded for
its nitrate and copper resources to begin the War of the Pacific. This country is home to Easter
Island and the incredibly dry (*) Atacama Desert, which lies in a rain shadow west of the Andes
Mountains. This country's border with Argentina runs for 3,300 miles, north to south. For 10 points, name
this South American country with capital at Santiago.
Answer: Chile
7. PerkinElmer was criticized for its poor work building a part of this object, which will be
replaced in 2018 by one named for James Webb. Spherical aberration caused by its flawed mirror
required the crew of STS-61 to install a corrective (*) optics system in 1993, greatly refining its
images. The American astronomer who predicted the expansion of the universe is the namesake of, for 10
points, what telescope in low Earth orbit?
Answer: Hubble Space Telescope
8. Balthasar delivers a sad message in this work, and Benvolio tries to broker peace between two
factions. Before being killed by the “Prince of Cats,” one character in this play describes Queen
Mab, and (*) Tybalt’s death causes his killer’s exile from Verona. Friar Lawrence marries the title
characters, whose joint suicide reconciles the Montague and Capulet families. For 10 points, identify this
Shakespearean tragedy about “a pair of star-cross’d lovers.”
Answer: Romeo and Juliet
9. The last words of one person to die exploring this location were "I am just going outside and
may be some time." This region was the subject of the failed Nimrod and Endurance Expeditions,
led by Sir Ernest (*) Shackleton, as well as the Terra Nova Expedition, which ended with the death of
Robert Scott. For 10 points, name this continent on which, in December 1911, Roald Amundsen's team
first reached the South Pole.
Answer: Antarctica
10. Sammy Singer’s friend Lew Rabinowitz dies in this author’s novel Closing Time. One of this
man’s characters asks if there are any prayers without reference to God. Colonel Cathcart and the
owner of M+M Enterprises appear in another of his works, in which (*) Major Major Major is
promoted because of his name and Milo Minderbinder profits from war. For 10 points, name this author
who created John Yossarian in his novel Catch-22.
Answer: Joseph Heller

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 3 of 11
11. This type of interaction is responsible for the high crystallinity of nylon, and it explains why
hydrofluoric acid has a higher boiling point than hydrochloric acid. These interactions occur
between base pairs in DNA. Ice has lower (*) density than water due to the behavior of, for 10 points,
what type of bonding, a strong dipole-dipole interaction named for element 1 on the Periodic Table?
Answer: hydrogen bonds (prompt on “dipole-dipole interaction” before mention; prompt on "bonding"
before mention)
12. One character in this franchise hums Cara Mia, but is only heard to speak by Doug Rattman.
Another character dies after attempting to make “Conversion Gel” out of lunar rocks, and is the
founder of the Take-A-Wish Foundation, Cave Johnson. In these games, (*) GLaDOS taunts Chell
with fictional cake as she completes a series of puzzle-platform challenges. For 10 points, name this video
game franchise that features namesake orange and blue passageways.
Answer: Portal (accept Portal 2)
13. This author of La Galatea included “The Lawyer of Glass” and “Dialogue of the Dogs” in
Exemplary Novels. In another work, the title man’s books are burned after he ventures into the
country as a knight-errant on (*) Rocinante. That knight fights for the love of Dulcinea in a novel by
this author, who wrote about the squire Sancho Panza and a man who tilts at windmills. For 10 points,
identify this author of Don Quixote.
Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
14. In this war, a group of immigrant deserters formed Saint Patrick's Battalion and fought against
the United States. This war resulted in a cession of land that was later adjusted by the Gadsden
Purchase. Winfield Scott led an amphibious assault on (*) Veracruz during this war, which was ended
by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. For 10 points, name this 1846 to 1848 war against an army led by
Santa Anna.
Answer: Mexican American War
15. This figure experienced the Seven Sorrows, which include misplacing a child in a temple and
hearing the prophecy of Simeon. This religious figure was the daughter of Anne, and she caused
Elizabeth’s son to leap for joy in her womb. This woman, called Theotokos [thay-oh-toh-kos] in
Greek, was (*) conceived immaculately, and she received a prophecy from Gabriel before giving birth in
a stable in Bethlehem. For 10 points, name this wife of Joseph, the mother of Jesus.
Answer: (Blessed) Virgin Mary (accept Mother Mary; prompt on “Holy Mother” or “Holy Virgin;”
prompt on “Our Lady of (Seven) Sorrows” or “Mother of Sorrows”)
16. Two vectors with a cross product of zero have this relationship, which does not exist in elliptic
geometry. Euclid's fifth postulate is named for this property. Two lines with this property are (*)
equidistant from each other and will have congruent corresponding angles if they are crossed by a
transversal. For 10 points, give this term that describes two lines with the same slope, in the same plane,
that never intersect.
Answer: parallel

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 4 of 11
17. In the duet "Tutti i fior," this operatic title character wishes to "bring spring inside" upon the
re-arrival of the USS Abraham Lincoln. Earlier in the opera, she sings the aria "Un bel di," waiting
for "one beautiful day" when Lieutenant (*) Pinkerton will return, but when he returns with an
American wife, she commits suicide. For 10 points, name this title character of a Giacomo Puccini opera,
whose real name is Cio-Cio San [choh-choh san].
Answer: Madame Butterfly or Madama Butterfly (accept Cio-Cio San before mention)
18. This quantity is constant in incompressible fluids. The ratio between this quantity for a sample
and for water is called the specific gravity. Pressure in a fluid is equal to g times height times this
quantity according to Pascal’s law, and (*) buoyant force is equal to displaced volume times g times
this quantity according to Archimedes’ principle. For 10 points, name this quantity, symbolized ρ [rho],
which is the ratio of mass to volume.
Answer: (mass) density
19. This person was impersonated after death by Claude des Armoises [Claude day-sahr-mwah].
Pope Callixtus III ordered a trial which found this person innocent 25 years after death. This
person accompanied Charles VII to Reims for his coronation. This person was captured at the (*)
Siege of Compiegne [com-payn], held in trial in Rouen, and convicted of heresy and cross-dressing. For
10 points, name this woman who, after helping end the siege of Orleans, was burned at the stake.
Answer: Saint Joan of Arc (accept Jeanne d’Arc)
20. A character in this novel can only be killed by hemp, according to the Parsee Fedallah; that
character throws his pipe overboard and nails a gold doubloon to the mast of his ship. An unused
coffin once carried by (*) Queequeg serves as the narrator’s lifeboat when the Pequod sinks in this
novel, which begins “Call me Ishmael.” For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel about Captain
Ahab’s quest for the title white whale.
Answer: Moby Dick; or, The Whale

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 5 of 11
Bonuses
1. Saul Bellow set many of his novels in this city. For 10 points each:
[10] His novel The Adventures of Augie March begins “I am an American, [this city] born.” Edna Ferber's
So Big is set in a Dutch suburb of this Illinois city, which has earned the nicknames "City of the Big
Shoulders" and "The Windy City."
Answer: Chicago, Illinois
[10] This man wrote a poem titled after Chicago which calls it the “hog-butcher for the world.” He also
wrote a poem in which fog comes in “on little cat feet.”
Answer: Carl August Sandburg
[10] This Chicago poet wrote “The Mother” and “We Real Cool”, which ends “We / jazz June. We / die
soon.”
Answer: Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks

2. The spike of this tool marks the center; then, widen the hinge to increase the radius, set the pen down
to the paper, and rotate around completely to draw a perfect circle. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this mathematical tool, used with an unmarked straightedge in classical geometric
construction.
Answer: unmarked compass
[10] Compasses can be fixed so that circles of the same radius can be drawn in different places, but in
classical compass and straightedge construction, the compass "collapses" upon being picked up. This
ancient Greek mathematician showed how to get around that issue in the second Proposition of his work
Elements.
Answer: Euclid of Alexandria
[10] Some things are just impossible to do with a compass and straightedge, like trisecting any angle or
doubling the volume of a cube. This third problem of antiquity, which begins with a given circle, is
impossible because it would require the construction of the square root of pi.
Answer: squaring the circle (accept any description of "constructing a square that has the same area as
the given circle")

3. Most of the poems contained in Il Canzoniere [kan-zoh-nee-ayr-ay] are written in this poetic form.
For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this poetic form that consists of fourteen lines. The Elizabethan version of this poetic form
consists of three quatrains and a couplet.
Answer: sonnet
[10] This Italian author of Il Canzoniere names a type of sonnet. Many of his poems are addressed to the
beautiful Laura.
Answer: Petrarch (accept Francesco Petrarca; accept Petrarchan Sonnet)
[10] This author wrote the sonnet “life is more true than reason will deceive.” He used unconventional
grammar in poems like “anyone lived in a pretty how town” and wrote of the title “conscientious objector” in “i sing of Olaf glad and big.”
Answer: E(dward) E(stlin) Cummings

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 6 of 11

4. Answer the following about death in Asian religions, for 10 points each.
[10] Unlike Abrahamic religions, which prohibit or discourage this in favor of burial, this is the typical
means of disposing of a body in religions with Indian origins, like Hinduism and Buddhism.
Answer: cremation (accept clear equivalents like burning)
[10] In Hinduism and Sikhism, the ashes of the deceased are usually placed in this type of location. The
Punjab region, where Sikhism originated, is named for five of these watery features.
Answer: river
[10] After a Japanese corpse is cremated, the family picks out bones using these utensils. They are used to
eat in Japan and China, but are never left standing vertically in rice because of funerary connotations.
Answer: chopsticks (accept hashi or kuaizi)

5. After failing to accomplish this event with a bomb, Nedeljko Cabrinovic [neh-dyell-koh kah-breenoh-vich] failed to commit suicide by swallowing weak cyanide and jumping into a five-inch deep river.
For 10 points each,
[10] Name this June 28, 1914 event that was accomplished by Gavrilo Princip. It triggered anti-Serbian
demonstrations in Austria-Hungary, the July Crisis, and, eventually, World War I.
Answer: assassination (or murder or equivalents) of Franz Ferdinand (prompt on partial answer)
[10] The assassination took place in this Austro-Hungarian city, now the capital of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Answer: Sarajevo
[10] Princip was a member of this pro-Serbian terrorist group, which organized the attack of Franz
Ferdinand's motorcade.
Answer: Black Hand (or Unification or Death; accept Young Bosnia)

6. The “shocked” variety of this mineral is found in impact craters. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this mineral with a value of 7 on the Mohs hardness scale. Composed of silicon dioxide, this
mineral is the second most abundant on Earth, after feldspar.
Answer: quartz
[10] Quartz exhibits this property, in which applying mechanical stress to a crystal produces a voltage.
Rochelle salts also exhibit this property.
Answer: piezoelectricity
[10] Two brothers of this surname discovered piezoelectricity. One of those brothers, Pierre, also
discovered radioactivity with his wife, Marie.
Answer: Curie

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 7 of 11
7. A 2014 article in Vulture explains and defends "schlock:" overwrought, melodramatic music where
"bad taste becomes great art." For 10 points each,
[10] The article heaps praise on this 1981 song by Journey, even as it laughs at lyrics like "streetlight
people / Livin' just to find emotion." This song was used for the iconic ending of The Sopranos' final
episode, and is ranked third on Vulture’s list of the best schlock songs.
Answer: Don't Stop Believin' (accept Don't Stop Believing)
[10] The top spot is held by Judy Garland's 1961 performance "Over The Rainbow," which she had
originally performed as Dorothy in this 1939 film.
Answer: The Wizard of Oz
[10] The runner-up is 1984’s “Purple Rain,” by this Minneapolis-born rocker with his band, the
Revolution. Later in his career, he changed his name a number of times.
Answer: Prince Rogers Nelson (accept The Artist Formerly Known as Prince; if someone draws a
reasonable Prince symbol and shows that to you, accept it. The Prince symbol is printed below for your
convenience.)

8. For 10 points each, give the following about labor practices in 19th century America.
[10] Many Europeans migrated to the Americas by becoming this type of laborer, in which they
exchanged several years of labor for their passage and were guaranteed their freedom at the end of the
contract.
Answer: indentured servants (accept word forms, like indentured servitude; prompt on servant)
[10] After the abolition of slavery, many former slaves worked as this type of farmer, being allowed to
work a former plantation in return for a portion of the harvest.
Answer: sharecroppers (accept word forms, like sharecropping; accept tenant farmers and word
forms, like tenant farming)
[10] The 1842 Massachusetts Supreme Court case Commonwealth v. Hunt ruled that these labor
organizations were not subject to anti-conspiracy rules. One of these led by Samuel Gompers organized
cigar makers and was part of the AFL.
Answer: labor unions
9. The inverse of this quantity is electrical conductance, and a Wheatstone bridge can be used to find
unknown values of this quantity. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this quantity, measured in Ohms, that describes how much a circuit element will oppose the
flow of current.
Answer: resistance
[10] In this circuit setup, the equivalent resistance is equal to the sum of the individual resistances, in
contrast with the more complicated parallel circuit.
Answer: series circuit
[10] When discharging, this type of circuit will exponentially lose charge and current. It contains only
resistors and capacitors, and the time constant equals resistance times capacitance.
Answer: RC circuit

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 8 of 11

10. In June 2014, this organization declared an expanded role and shortened its name to reflect a
worldwide scope, though its territory remains limited to two war-torn nations. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this militant Sunni group that has taken control of much of northwestern Iraq and eastern
Syria.
Answer: Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (accept IS or ISIS; accept Islamic State of Iraq and (the) Levant
or ISIL; accept ad-Dawlah l-ʾIslāmiyyah)
[10] In that June 2014 announcement, ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared that ISIS was this type
of state, representing and ruling over all Muslims worldwide. ISIS' claim to this type of state was roundly
criticized by the global community.
Answer: caliphate
[10] In ISIS-controlled areas, non-Muslims have been given three choices: conversion, death, or the
payment of this tax on non-Muslims. Akbar the Great abolished this tax for a period during the Mughal
Empire.
Answer: jizya
11. Fans of two chariot racing teams, the Blues and the Greens, rioted in support of two condemned
murderers in this event. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 532 CE riot, which burned nearly half of the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire.
Answer: Nika Riots (accept equivalents for "riots," such as "revolts")
[10] The Nika Riots burned nearly half of this capital city, now known as Istanbul.
Answer: Constantinople (do not accept "Byzantium")
[10] This emperor almost fled from Constantinople during the Nika Riots, but his wife Theodora
convinced him to stay.
Answer: Justinian I (accept Justinian the Great; prompt on "Justinian")
12. For 10 points each, give the following about The Carnival of the Animals, a 14-movement suite for
pianos and various other instruments.
[10] This Frenchman used his Danse Macabre as a theme in the “Fossils” movement of The Carnival of
the Animals. This composer thought that Carnival was too frivolous and didn’t allow it to be published
during his lifetime.
Answer: Camille Saint-Saens
[10] Saint-Saens did allow public performances of Carnival's second-to-last movement, "The Swan," a
solo for this large string instrument.
Answer: cello
[10] The movement "Tortoises" includes an unusually slow take on Offenbach's “Galop Infernal,”
famously known as the music for this high-energy dance performed by kicklines at the Moulin Rouge and
by the Rockettes.
Answer: can-can

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 9 of 11
13. For 10 points each, name these materials used in art.
[10] Architect Philip Johnson built a transparent house of this material. Dale Chihuly creates sculptures
out of the "blown" kind of this material.
Answer: glass
[10] Benvenuto Cellini [cheh-lee-nee] made a salt cellar covered in this metal, which Gustav Klimt used
to produce a shimmery effect in paintings like The Kiss and Danae.
Answer: gold leaf
[10] Christo and Jeanne-Claude produced works like Central Park's The Gates, Surrounded Islands, and
Wrapped Reichstag with this material.
Answer: cloth (accept clear equivalents like fabric; accept plastic sheeting)
14. Answer the following about the English Romantic literary movement, for 10 points each.
[10] This Romantic author of “She Walks in Beauty” and Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage also wrote the long
poem Don Juan [don JOO-an].
Answer: George Gordon, Lord Byron
[10] This offshoot of Romanticism shares its name with an elaborate architectural style. Horace
Walpole’s Castle of Otranto and Ann Radcliffe’s Mysteries of Udolpho are examples of this genre, which
frequently includes elements of horror.
Answer: gothic fiction (accept gothic horror)
[10] Romanticism was a reaction against this movement, which favored the scientific method and
skepticism. Writers of this movement included Voltaire, Rousseau, and Thomas Paine.
Answer: Age of Enlightenment (accept Age of Reason)
15. The Bight of Benin is an indentation of this body of water, whose coast became known as the "Slave
Coast" for its role in the slave trade. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this gulf, in which the island nation of Sao Tome and Principe lies, and on whose shores lie
the cities of Accra, Ghana and Libreville, Gabon.
Answer: Gulf of Guinea
[10] Lagos is both the largest city on the Gulf of Guinea and the largest city in this country. This
country’s capital moved from Lagos in 1991.
Answer: Nigeria
[10] According to the theory of continental drift, the Gulf of Guinea now exists where this South
American country once connected with Africa.
Answer: Brazil
16. By the third law of thermodynamics, a perfect crystal at 0 kelvin will lack this quantity. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this quantity, symbolized S or ΔS [delta-S], that measures the amount of disorder in a system.
Answer: change in entropy
[10] This law of thermodynamics states that entropy in an isolated system will always increase with time.
Answer: second law of thermodynamics
[10] This man’s equation relates entropy to the logarithm of the number of microstates. His namesake
constant is the ideal gas constant over Avogadro’s number.
Answer: Ludwig Boltzmann

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 10 of 11

17. One play by this author ends with the sound of axes chopping down the title property. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this Russian playwright of The Cherry Orchard and Three Sisters.
Answer: Anton Chekhov
[10] A literary trope named for Chekhov states that if one of these objects is placed on stage, it must
eventually be fired. Treplev kills himself with one of these weapons in The Seagull.
Answer: a gun (accept rifle)
[10] In a scene from this Chekhov play, the title character attempts to shoot Serebyakov [say-reh-byahkov] with a pistol. It was reworked from his earlier play The Wood Demon.
Answer: Uncle Vanya (accept Dyadya Vanya)

18. This set of documents was discovered by Daniel Ellsberg, who blew the whistle on their contents by
publishing them in the New York Times in 1971. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this collection of papers that detailed the history of U.S. military intervention in Southeast
Asia. Their leaking showed that the government extensively lied to the public about their actions.
Answer: Pentagon Papers
[10] The Pentagon Papers detailed the history of this war. Lyndon Johnson sent American troops into this
war after the Gulf of Tonkin incident, and it ended with the 1975 fall of Saigon.
Answer: Vietnam War
[10] This President hired a group of so-called "Plumbers" to harass Ellsberg after he leaked the Pentagon
Papers. The group CREEP sought to get this President re-elected by breaking into Democratic
headquarters at the Watergate hotel.
Answer: Richard Milhous Nixon

19. Mythological figures don’t always get along. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this legendary king of Uruk who, after rejecting the proposal of Ishtar, is attacked by the Bull
of Heaven in his namesake epic.
Answer: Gilgamesh
[10] The earliest tablets that tell the story of Gilgamesh were found in the ruins of this ancient city, which
contained a legendary hanging garden.
Answer: Babylon (accept word forms like Babylonia)
[10]The sea dragon Tiamat was slain by this chief god of the Babylonian pantheon. He would later defeat
Kingu to claim the Tablets of Destiny.
Answer: Marduk

SCOP Novice 5

Round 5
Page 11 of 11
20. During the 1950s, public swimming pools were often closed to prevent the spread of this disease. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this illness that mainly infects children, destroying motor neurons in the spinal cord which
causes paralysis. Franklin D. Roosevelt notably survived this disease.
Answer: poliomyelitis (prompt on “infantile paralysis”)
[10] In 1955, this physician announced the development of the first successful polio vaccine, which he
refused to patent.
Answer: Jonas Salk
[10] In cases where the disease paralyzed the diaphragm muscle, polio patients might spend the rest of
their lives inside these large, sealed chambers that force air into the chest.
Answer: iron lung (accept negative pressure ventilator)

SCOP Novice 5

