2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 1
Tossups
1. The Capsian people lived in the northern foothills of this mountain range. This range, whose
easternmost subrange is the Aures Mountains, was home to an extinct species of bear, the
only bear native to the continent. It is south of the Rif Mountains, and its highest peak, (*)
Jebel Toubkal, is visible from Marrakesh, Morocco. For 10 points--name this North African mountain
range named for a Titan who held up the heavens.
Answer: Atlas Mountains
2. This work notes that Attila the Hun feels "Heaven's stern justice" in a river of blood named
Phlegethon. An inscription in this work reads "Through me you pass into the city of woe,"
and ends "Abandon all (*) hope, ye who enter here." A six-winged, three-headed beast tortures
Brutus, Cassius, and Judas Iscariot in this work. Virgil guides the author through the nine circles of
Hell in, for 10 points, what first section of Dante's Divine Comedy?
Answer: Inferno (accept Hell before mention; prompt on The Divine Comedy before mention)
3. Experiments at Super-Kamiokande have attempted to study the decay of this particle, but it
has not been observed due to its extreme stability. It is accelerated alone in the LHC, and
along with its antiparticle in the Tevatron. (*) Cosmic rays are primarily this particle that contains
one down quark and two up quarks, and their quantity determines atomic number. For 10 points,
name this positively-charged particle found in atomic nuclei.
Answer: proton
4. A hiking trail to this site goes through "Dead Woman's Pass," and this site includes the
Room of the Three Windows. This site, built as an estate for Pachacuti in the 15th century
northwest of the capital city Cuzco, is situated high in a (*) Peruvian mountain range. For 10
points, name this "lost city of the Incan Empire" introduced to New World scholars by Hiram
Bingham in 1911.
Answer: Machu Picchu
5. In Journey to the West, a character named for this creature wields a nine-toothed rake. A
child of incest is born with the tail of this animal to Aureliano Buendia in One Hundred Years
of Solitude. Simon becomes obsessed with the (*) head of one of these animals in Lord of the
Flies, and one of these animals is saved by a spider who writes words in her webs. For 10 Points,
name this kind of animal exemplified by Wilbur from Charlotte’s Web.
ANSWER: pigs (accept swine; accept boar until “Fern Arable” is read)
6. As rocket fuel, the metastable metallic form of this element would produce a specific
impulse 3 times greater than the Space Shuttle main engine. The fuel hydrazine features four
atoms of this element surrounding a pair of (*) nitrogen atoms, and the external tank of a Space
Shuttle held liquid forms of oxygen and this diatomic gas. The most abundant element in the
universe is, for 10 points, what element with atomic number 1 and atomic symbol H?
Answer: Hydrogen
7. This mathematician names the theorem that for a hexagon inscribed in a conic, opposite
sides’ extensions’ intersections are collinear. He corresponded with Pierre de
Fermat [fair-mah] to develop probability theory, although that work is unrelated to a
theological (*) wager named for him. He also lends his name to a structure whose rows add up to
powers of two. Binomial coefficients are found in, for 10 points, what French mathematician and
philosopher’s namesake “triangle”?
ANSWER: Blaise Pascal

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 2
8. One sect of this religion emphasizes focus on questions recorded in the Blue Cliff Record,
known as koans. Another sect focuses on attaining the “pure land” in the afterlife, and is
part of the “greater vehicle” division of this religion. The (*) Four Noble Truths are sacred to
this religion, whose founder notably sat under a bodhi tree. For 10 points, Mahayana and
Theravada are two primary division of this Indian religion founded by Gautama.
Answer: Buddhism (accept word forms)
9. One of this composer's works, subtitled "The Dance in the Village Inn," did not use the
Goethe text that inspired his earlier Faust Symphony. He challenged practicing pianists with
works like “Mazeppa” and “Feux Follets,” and this composer of the (*) Mephisto Waltzes
invented the symphonic poem with works like Les Preludes. For 10 points, name this virtuoso
pianist, the composer of the Transcendental Etudes and 19 Hungarian Rhapsodies.
Answer: Franz Liszt
10. Ernest Cherrington and Wayne Wheeler were leaders of one lobbying organization in favor
of this concept. Eliot Ness's "Untouchables" attempted to enforce this concept via the
Volstead Act. This "Noble Experiment" was made constitutional by the (*) 18th Amendment
but revoked by the 21st Amendment in 1933. Bootleggers supplied illegal speakeasies in opposition
to, for 10 points, what American ban on the sale of alcohol?
Answer: Prohibition (prompt on "temperance;" prompt on descriptions of "banning alcohol" before
mentioned at the end)

Half Time

11. In one story by this author, Harry reflects on everything he has failed to write about while
dying of an infected leg in Africa. This man’s short story “The Killers” features Nick Adams,
and is collected in The (*) Snows of Kilimanjaro. This man wrote about a bullfight witnessed by
Jake Barnes and Lady Brett Ashley, and about the struggles of the fisherman Santiago. For 10
points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.
Answer: Ernest Miller Hemingway
12. In this war, Gordon Drummond captured Fort Niagara, turning momentum after Oliver
Hazard Perry's victory at the Battle of Lake Erie allowed Detroit to be re-taken. The Battle of
Bladensburg led to the burning of (*) Washington, D.C during this war, which included the
defense of Fort McHenry that inspired Francis Scott Key's "Star Spangled Banner." For 10 points,
name this war between the U.S. and Great Britain that ended in 1815.
Answer: War of 1812
13. This team's first Super Bowl loss saw Tony Eason fail to complete a pass. In its second
Super Bowl loss, return man Desmond Howard was named MVP and Drew Bledsoe was
intercepted 4 times. David Tyree's (*) "helmet catch" set up another Super Bowl loss for this team,
which had been undefeated that season until meeting the Giants. Eli Manning has won two Super
Bowls against, for 10 points, what NFL team led by Tom Brady?
Answer: New England Patriots (accept either underlined portion)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 3
14. In this novel, a Christmas guest drinks brandy diluted with tar-water and takes the
protagonist to Satis House. This novel’s main character befriends Herbert Pocket after
moving to London with the help of Mr. (*) Jaggers, who acts as the agent of a mysterious
benefactor. The jilted Miss Havisham cares for Estella and a convict named Abel Magwich provides
for Philip Pirrip in, for 10 points, what rags-to-riches novel about Pip, written by Charles Dickens?
Answer: Great Expectations
15. Ketogluterate becomes succinate when this molecule is lost, and the absence of this
molecule causes alkalosis. Hemoglobin absorbs more oxygen when this compound is
present in blood. It is bubbled through water to form carbonic acid, and it is fixed by (*)
chloroplasts in the dark reactions. After water, it is the most significant greenhouse gas. Used in
photosynthesis, for 10 points, name this compound exhaled by humans, abbreviated CO2.
Answer: Carbon Dioxide (accept CO2 before mentioned)
16. In one work by this artist, a man in gray pants reads a newspaper, and two men stand at a
table, inspecting the title commodity. In another work by this artist, a woman looks down at a
glass of green liquid. In addition to The (*) New Orleans Cotton Exchange and The Absinthe
Drinker, this artist painted a man with a cane overseeing girls in tutus, The Dance Class. For 10
points, name this French impressionist who painted many ballet dancers.
Answer: Edgar Degas [day-GAH]
17. This quantity's potential value decreases by 2% as unemployment increases by 1%,
according to the gap version of Okun’s Law. The expenditure approach to calculating this
quantity adds (*) consumption, investments, government spending, and net exports. For 10 points,
name this economic quantity, the total market value of all goods and services produced in a country,
contrasted with a similar “national” quantity.
Answer: Gross Domestic Product (do not accept or prompt “gross national product” or “GNP”)
18. As the creator of the Hippocrene fountain, this mythological figure was closely related to the
Muses. He was stung by a gadfly as he attempted to reach the peak of Mount Olympus, and
was captured with Athena’s help in Corinth. This creature was born from the (*) severed head
of Medusa, and he aided in the slaying of the Chimera after Bellerophon used a golden bridle to
train him. For 10 points, name this winged horse from Greek mythology.
Answer: Pegasus
19. A circular arrangement of zinc sulfide screens was used to detect particles in this
experiment. Geiger and Marsden carried out the work of this experiment, in which a sample
of radon was placed in a lead box with a hole from which (*) alpha particles were fired at a thin
metal sheet. Backward scattering was observed in, for 10 points, what experiment that disproved
the plum pudding model, leading to the discovery of the atomic nucleus by Ernest Rutherford?
Answer: Ernest Rutherford’s gold foil experiment (accept Geiger–Marsden experiment, before
mentioned; prompt on Rutherford experiment before mentioned)
20. This city's Stadelheim Prison saw the execution of Ernst Rohm and dozens of SA
Brownshirts. This city's Brown House was headquarters for the Nazi Party, and this city was
the site of a 1938 agreement in which the (*) Sudetenland was ceded by Neville Chamberlain in
exchange for "peace in our time." The Night of the Long Knives occurred in, for 10 points, what
capital of Bavaria, in which Adolf Hitler staged a failed 1923 coup d'etat in a beer hall?
Answer: Munich, Germany

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 4
Bonuses
1. Trilobites first appeared in this time period. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this geological period that saw an increase in species in a namesake “explosion” roughly
530 million years ago.
Answer: Cambrian period
[10] Cambrian period fossils are often found encased in this mud-based rock, as found in the
Burgess and Emu Bay formations.
Answer: shale
[10] Shale is classified as this type of rock, formed in layers by the depositing of minerals and other
particles. Other examples include conglomerates and sandstones.
Answer: (clastic) sedimentary rock
2. This man wears his friend's armor in battle, kills Sarpedon, and drives the enemy back to the gates
of Troy before being killed by Hector. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Greek hero, whose death inspires his friend to resume fighting in the Trojan War.
Answer: Patroclus
[10] This Greek friend of Patroclus was dipped into the river Styx by his mother, Thetis, rendering all
but his heels invulnerable to attack.
Answer: Achilles
[10] The story of Patroclus' death is found in Book 16 of this epic poem about the Trojan War,
written by Homer.
Answer: The Iliad
3. Prior to this event, its subject was mockingly dressed in a purple robe and crowned with thorns.
For 10 points each,
[10] A sign declaring Jesus to be “King of the Jews” was hung above him during this event at
Golgotha, during which Jesus asked, “My God, why have you forsaken me?”
Answer: crucifixion of Jesus Christ (accept word forms; grudgingly accept the Passion of
(Jesus) Christ; prompt on “death of Christ” or similar; do not accept the Agony of (Jesus) Christ)
[10] This Roman Governor symbolically washed his hands of the responsibility for Jesus’s
death when a crowd demanded that Barabbas be released and Jesus be crucified.
Answer: Pontius Pilate
[10] Though not mentioned in John, the other gospels relate that this man from Cyrene was
ordered to carry the cross behind Jesus on the way to Golgotha.
Answer: Simon of Cyrene
4. Many Egyptian gods were represented with the heads of animals. For 10 points each,
[10] This god was a judge of the dead. He had the head of a jackal and presided over embalmings.
Answer: Anubis
[10] This falcon-headed god represented the sky and was closely related to the Pharaoh in
Egyptian thought.
Answer: Horus
[10] This “Celestial Cow,” the goddess of womanhood, was depicted crowned with horns, or with a
cow’s head.
Answer: Hathor

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 5
5. The political world is more exciting in Shakespeare’s plays. Answer the following about
Shakespearean assassinations, for 10 points each.
[10] The old king of Denmark dies before the start of this play, in which a struggle between Claudius
and the title prince leads to the deaths of Polonius, Laertes, Gertrude, and Ophelia.
Answer: The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
[10] Mark Antony sarcastically describes this character as an “honorable man” after Cassius draws
this man into a plot to assassinate Julius Caesar.
Answer: Brutus
[10] Lady Macbeth orders her husband to kill this king, whose son Malcolm avenges this man’s
death to become the next king of Scotland.
Answer: King Duncan
6. These people ruled England from 1016 to 1035 under Canute. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these Norse explorers and warriors who did not actually wear horned helmets.
Answer: Vikings (accept Norsemen or Northmen)
[10] Earlier, this ruler successfully repelled a Viking invasion of England. He is the only English ruler
with the epithet “The Great.”
Answer: Alfred the Great
[10] Alfred ruled this kingdom, which competed with neighboring Mercia for hegemony of the
English isle prior to the unification of England in 1066.
Answer: Kingdom of Wessex
7. This man pioneered cubism with Georges Braque [jh or jh brahk]. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Spanish artist who painted an old man with a guitar during his Blue Period.
Answer: Pablo Picasso
[10] This Picasso painting depicts five nude prostitutes in a brothel. Two figures in this painting
seem to be wearing African masks.
Answer: Les Demoiselles d'Avignon [lay day-mwah-zells da-veen-yon] (accept The Young
Ladies of Avignon; accept answers that include a reasonable English equivalent to “young ladies;”
accept The Brothel of Avignon)
[10] This large painting by Picasso includes an eye-shaped light bulb above the head of a dying
horse. It shows the aftermath of the bombing of the title city during the Spanish Civil War.
Answer: Guernica
8. The spread of this kind of disease usually presents with malignant tumors. For 10 points each.
[10] Name this group of diseases that includes mesothelioma and leukemia. This type of disease is
often treated with chemotherapy.
Answer: Cancer (accept neoplasm)
[10] This term describes the spread of diseases like cancer from one part of the body to another
part, usually through the bloodstream or lymphatic system.
Answer: Metastasis (accept word forms)
[10] Carcinogenesis, the creation of cancer, often occurs when this process of programmed cell
death does not occur at a normal rate.
Answer: Apoptosis

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 6
9. This party grew in opposition to Andrew Jackson's increases in executive power, and nominated
Henry Clay to face James Polk in the election of 1844. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this political party prominent in the early 19th century whose members included William
Henry Harrison and Millard Fillmore.
Answer: Whig Party
[10] The Whig Party was a predecessor to this party formed by former Whigs who opposed the
Kansas-Nebraska Act. This party won the election of 1860 with Abraham Lincoln after the fracturing
of the Democratic Party.
Answer: Republican Party
[10] In the election of 1860, Stephen Douglas earned support from Northern Democrats while this
incumbent Vice President and Southern Democrat won 72 electoral votes.
Answer: John C. Breckinridge
10. This work distinguishes between rulers who gain power by virtue, luck, or crime, noting that those
who gain power by virtue hold onto power the longest. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this work of political philosophy, dedicated to Lorenzo de Medici, that serves as advice to
the title ruler. This work asserts that it is better for a ruler to be feared than to be loved.
Answer: The Prince (accept Il Principe)
[10] The Prince was written by this Renaissance philosopher from Florence, who also wrote
Discourses on Livy.
Answer: Niccolo (di Bernardo dei) Machiavelli
[10] Machiavelli's Discourses on Livy is a work in this field, the study of past events. Herodotus,
Thucydides, and Xenophon were ancient Greeks who worked in this field..
Answer: history (accept word forms)
11. This man’s ex-wives include Tammy 1 and Tammy 2, and he reacted to the closing of Charles
Mulligan's Steak House by going to a diner and ordering “all the bacon and eggs you have.” For 10
points each,
[10] Name this Pawnee, Indiana government official played by Nick Offerman.
Answer: Ron Swanson (prompt on partial answer)
[10] Ron Swanson appears in this sitcom, in which Amy Poehler plays Leslie Knope, the director of
the title local government department.
Answer: Parks and Recreation
[10] Parks and Recreation, Community, 30 Rock, and The Office are among the critically-acclaimed
sitcoms produced by this ratings-challenged network.
Answer: NBC (accept National Broadcasting Company)
12. This composer's middle-period piano sonatas include Waldstein, Appassionata, and one subtitled
"Quasi una fantasia." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this German composer, whose late period works were written in the midst of increasing
deafness.
Answer: Ludwig van Beethoven
[10] This Beethoven symphony's theme uses three short notes and one long note in the "and-twoand-ONE" rhythm.
Answer: Symphony No. 5 in C minor (accept Beethoven’s Fifth)
[10] This work, Beethoven's ninth violin sonata, is in the key of A --although musicologists disagree
on whether the main key is major or minor. This work is played by Pozdnyshev's wife and lover in a
Leo Tolstoy work of the same name.
Answer: Kreutzer [kroy-tzer] Sonata

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 7
13. This author’s fondness for hot air balloons is evident in his The Mysterious Island and Around the
World in Eighty Days. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this French author, who wrote about Nemo in one novel, and about a Journey to the
Center of the Earth in another.
Answer: Jules Gabriel Verne
[10] Captain Nemo appears in this Verne novel, in which Pierre Aronnax boards the Abraham
Lincoln searching for an enormous whale and ends up aboard Nemo’s ship.
Answer: Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea [accept Vingt mille lieues sous les mers]
[10] Aronnax spends ten months in this ship built by Nemo. Disguised as a whale and powered by
electricity, this submarine allows Nemo to study marine life freely.
Answer: Nautilus
14. These materials have large band gaps between their conduction and valence bands. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name these materials in which electrons cannot enter the conduction band, preventing the free
flow of charge within them. Examples of these include glass and rubber.
Answer: (electric) insulators (accept word forms)
[10] These materials, often containing silicon or germanium and used to make computer chips,
have small band gaps. Their conductivity is between that of insulators and conductors.
Answer: semiconductors
[10] Extrinsic semiconductors are made in this process where impurities like boron or arsenic are
added to increase the concentration of charge carriers with electrons or positive “holes.”
Answer: doping
15. In 1978, Georgi Markov died after a ricin-filled pellet was injected into his thigh, probably by an
umbrella gun. For 10 points each,
[10] The pellet was allegedly designed by this security agency, led at the time by Yuri Andropov.
Answer: KGB (accept Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti)
[10] The KGB was the security agency for this Cold War superpower.
Answer: Soviet Union (accept Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; accept Sovietsky Soyuz;
accept Soyuz Sovietskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik or C.C.C.P.; accept Soviets)
[10] Markov was a dissident from this Eastern European nation, led during much of the Cold War by
Todor Zhivkov.
Answer: Republic of Bulgaria
16. This force, which is not a true bond, gives water a high boiling point. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this intermolecular force found between an atom of a specific element and another,
highly electronegative atom.
Answer: hydrogen bond
[10] Hydrogen bonds in proteins form this structure, the folding of the protein in space.
Answer: tertiary structure
[10] London dispersion forces and permanent dipole forces combine to form this other electrostatic
force named for a Dutch scientist.
Answer: van der Waals forces

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 3: Page 8
17. Bayes' Theorem can be derived from the definition of this concept, which relates the probability of
one event in terms of knowledge of another event's occurrence. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this concept, often written as "the probability of A given B."
Answer: conditional probability
[10] The conditional probability of A given B will be equal to the simple probability of A if and only if
A and B have this relationship, guaranteeing that knowledge of one event has no effect on the
probability of the other event.
Answer: (statistical) independence (accept word forms)
[10] If two events are independent, the probability of their intersection is equal to their probabilities
combined via this arithmetic operation, giving results like, for example, the probability of flipping
“heads, then tails” being one-fourth.
Answer: multiplication or product (accept word forms)
18. For 10 points each, answer the following about gambling in literature.
[10] Samuel Langhorne Clemens used this pen name to write a story about Jim Smiley, a gambler
who would even bet against the health of Parson Walker’s wife, in “The Celebrated Jumping Frog of
Calaveras County.”
Answer: Mark Twain
[10] This author of Main Street and Arrowsmith wrote about the disillusioned George Babbitt, who
seeks advice from failed outdoorsman and poker player Joe Paradise.
Answer: Sinclair Lewis
[10] George Hurstwood is undone by gambling debts and commits suicide after he and Charles
Drouet have affairs with the title character of this Theodore Dreiser novel.
Answer: Sister Carrie
19. Lakhdra Brahimi replaced Kofi Annan as UN peace envoy to this nation in August 2012. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this war torn Middle Eastern nation, in which Alawite paramilitary forces and government
troops have killed protesters in Hama, Homs, and Damascus.
Answer: Syria (accept the Syrian Arab Republic)
[10] This President of Syria has refused domestic and foreign calls to resign from power.
Answer: Bashar al-Assad
[10] This political party has controlled the Syrian government since a 1963 revolution.
Answer: (Arab Socialist) Ba'ath Party
20. This man’s assistant Roy Cohn was on the prosecution team for the Rosenberg Trials. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this Senator from Wisconsin whose name has become synonymous with blind
accusations.
Answer: Joseph McCarthy
[10] McCarthy became famous after accusing members of the federal government of following this
political ideology.
Answer: Communism
[10] Another example of McCarthyism in the 1950’s was the trial and conviction of this US
government official. Former Communist Whittaker Chambers was a notable witness in this man’s
trial.
Answer: Alger Hiss

