2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. The English Statute of Laborers set a maximum wage in response to deaths caused by this
event. Jews were falsely accused of poisoning wells during this event, whose victims are supposedly
described by the nursery rhyme (*) "Ring Around the Rosie." This event was likely caused by
merchant ships transporting flea-infested rats from Asia. For 10 points, name this pandemic that sickened
and killed tens of millions of people in Europe in the 14th century.
Answer: bubonic plague or Black Death
2. This author wrote "The Disintegration Machine" and The Lost World, which feature the
rambunctious Professor Challenger. He created “the most indispensable man in the country,” and
“The Woman,” who marries Godfrey Norton. Another of his characters seems to fall to his death
off (*) Reichenbach Falls with Professor Moriarty; that character lives at 221b Baker Street with John
Watson. For 10 points, name the author of A Study in Scarlet and The Hound of the Baskervilles, who
created Sherlock Holmes.
Answer: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
3. This author argued that Moses may have been the pharoah Akenhaten in the book Moses and
Monotheism. He described behaviors as guided by Thanatos, the death drive, as a companion to
sexual drive in his Beyond the Pleasure Principle. (*) Carl Jung opposed this man's theory of the
psyche, in which the superego controls one's instincts. For 10 points, name this Austrian psychoanalyst,
the author of The Ego and the Id and The Interpretation of Dreams.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud (accept Sigismund Schlomo Freud)
4. Husain Abdullah, a player for this city's NFL team, was penalized for a celebratory prayer in
August 2014. This city's police tweeted, begging everyone to "not commit crimes," during their
baseball team's first playoff game since 1985, a 9 to 8 (*) Wild Card victory over the Oakland A's. For
10 points, name this city, whose Kaufmann and Arrowhead Stadiums are home to the Royals and Chiefs
in western Missouri.
Answer: Kansas City

Round 6
Page 2 of 11
5. This book describes a creature who “launch'd forth, filament, filament, filament out of itself,”
and a narrator who “look’d up in perfect silence at the stars.” This collection contains “A Noiseless
Patient Spider” and “When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer” and this work honors (*) Lincoln
with the poems “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed” and “O Captain! My Captain!” “Song of
Myself” appears in, for 10 points, what poetry collection by Walt Whitman?
Answer: Leaves of Grass
6. One of this man’s works is built on a landfill in Boston. In addition to the John F. Kennedy
Library, this man designed the Bank of China tower in Hong Kong and built a double-peaked glass
“tent” that overlooks Lake Erie in (*) Cleveland. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame was designed by, for
10 points, this Chinese-American architect, who created a glass pyramid at the Louvre [loov].
Answer: I(eoh) M(ing) Pei
7. The Davisson-Germer experiment scattered these entities, proving their wave-particle duality.
The charge-to-mass ratio of these leptons were measured in a cathode ray tube by (*) J.J. Thomson,
and their charge was calculated in the oil drop experiment by Robert Millikan. For 10 points, name this
subatomic particle with charge opposite that of a proton, found orbiting the nucleus of the atom.
Answer: electrons
8. This man was born because his father disguised himself as Gorlois [gorl-wah], and was the son
of Igraine. At the Battle of Camlann this man was wounded by his own son and taken to Avalon to
recover. That son, Mordred, was the child of (*) Morgan le Fay. This legendary man led knights like
Sir Gawain and Sir Lancelot after pulling a sword from a stone, and was advised by Merlin. For 10
points, name this mythical king of Camelot.
Answer: King Arthur Pendragon
9. One issue in this case was Dr. John Emerson's purchase of Harriet Robinson in the Wisconsin
territory. This case was dismissed because the plaintiff did not have standing to sue; the opinion in
this case then ruled that Congress could not ban (*) slavery in territories and ruled the Missouri
Compromise unconstitutional. For 10 points, name this controversial 1857 Supreme Court case that ruled
people of African descent could not be U.S. citizens.
Answer: Dred Scott v. (John) Sanford (or Sandford)
10. The complexometric type of this process is used for solutions of metal ions. PKa [P-K-A] equals
pH halfway to the equivalence point on a namesake curve in the acid-base kind of this technique,
which often uses indicators like (*) phenolphthalein [fee-nol-THAY-leen] to find the endpoint. For 10
points, name this lab technique in which a solution of known concentration is added to a solution of
unknown concentration using a buret [byur-ET].
Answer: titration

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 3 of 11
11. A character in this work covers a boar’s head with her green shawl so her youngest daughter
can sleep. Another character is admired by Charles Tansley. Only Augustus Carmichael is allowed
to see Lily Briscoe’s paintings in this work. Prue and Andrew die in this novel’s second section (*)
“Time Passes.” After ten years, Cam, James, and Mr. Ramsay finally take the title voyage in, for 10
points, what novel by Virginia Woolf?
Answer: To the Lighthouse
12. The Casparian strip acts as a screen within the cortex of this structure, and the strangler fig
kills trees by growing the adventitious type. Mycorrhizae [my-kuh-RYE-zee] are symbiotic
relationships between fungi and these plant organs, which can harbor (*) nitrogen-fixing bacteria
nodules. The carrot is a tap variety of, for 10 points, what commonly underground plant structures that
absorb water and nutrients and support the plant in the ground?
Answer: roots
13. In 1984, Bernard Goetz shot four black teenagers on this city's subway, claiming self-defense. In
1976 and 1977, six murders by the "Son of Sam" terrorized this city. The zero-tolerance for
"broken windows" policy used by this city in the (*) 1990s corresponds with a drop in the crime rate
under mayor Rudolph Giuliani. For 10 points, name this city, whose failed 2013 law banning large soft
drinks was supported by former mayor Michael Bloomberg.
Answer: New York City (or NYC)
14. This work's title character loses his wife Creusa while carrying his son and father from their
burning city. The Cumaean Sibyl gives a vision in the underworld in Book Six of this work, whose
first book opens "I sing of arms and the man." The title (*) Trojan prince courts the Carthaginian
princess Dido before settling in Italy in, for 10 points, what Latin epic poem about the founding of Rome,
written by Virgil?
Answer: The Aeneid
15. The "Ballroom of Death" and the "Popcorn Field" are treacherous areas on the path through
this mountain's Khumbu Icefall. The South Col is a pass from Lhotse to this mountain within the
"death zone" over (*) 8,000 meters. An April 2014 avalanche on this mountain killed sixteen Sherpa
guides. For 10 points, name this peak in the Himalayas first summited by Tenzing Norgay and Sir
Edmund Hillary, the tallest mountain in the world.
Answer: Mount Everest
16. Like Eid al-Adha this holiday can include slaughtering one goat and sending another “to
Azazel” as well as kapparot, which involves swinging a chicken over one’s head. More common
practices during this holiday include the acrostic prayer Ashamnu and the reading of the Book of
(*) Jonah. The closing prayer is the Ne’ilah, and this holiday begins with Kol Nidre. For 10 points,
identify this fast day that comes nine days after Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish Day of Atonement.
Answer: Yom Kippur

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 4 of 11
17. These events can be caused by rear flank downdrafts reaching a mesocyclone within a supercell.
As rain wraps around the mesocyclone, it creates a "hook echo" pattern on Doppler radar; that is
one criterion for the National Weather Service to issue a (*) "Warning" that one of these events is
imminent. The Fujita scales measure the impact of, for 10 points, what funnel-shaped columns of air
whose debris clouds can reach the ground?
Answer: tornado (prompt on twister or other colloquial names, but do not prompt on cyclone)
18. This empire crumbled after the Battle of Nedao. These people, who originated east of the Volga
in Scythia, also lost to Flavius Aetius at the 451 Battle of Chalons [sha-LONE]. One ruler of these
people came to power after possibly murdering his brother (*) Bleda; that leader was known as the
“Scourge of God” for his cruelty. For 10 points, name these nomadic people who frequently battled the
Romans and were led by Atilla.
Answer: Huns (or the Hunnic Empire)
19. Just before the final pas de deux of The Nutcracker, the flowers perform this type of dance. One
of Chopin's works in this genre was labeled "grand" and "brilliant," while another was dedicated
to Countess Delfina Potocka and inspired by a dog (*) chasing its tail. Johann Strauss was considered
the "King" of, for 10 points, what triple-time style of music, exemplified by "On the Beautiful Blue
Danube." and Chopin's "Minute?"
Answer: waltz
20. For a set with n elements, one type of this quantity is equal to n times the reciprocal of the sum
of the reciprocals of each number in the set. Another type of this quantity takes the nth root of the
product of n numbers and is always less than the aforementioned harmonic type. A (*) third type of
this quantity is equal to the sum of n numbers divided by n. For 10 points, give this term, whose
arithmetic type is often called an average.
Answer: mean (accept harmonic, geometric, or arithmetic mean; prompt on average before mentioned)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 5 of 11
Bonuses
1. For 10 points each, answer the following about a mythical singer from Thrace.
[10] This man descended into the Greek underworld to retrieve his dead wife, Eurydice [yoo-rih-dih-see],
but lost her when he looked behind him to see if she was following.
Answer: Orpheus
[10] After losing Eurydice a second time, Orpheus unsuccessfully begged this underworld ferryman to
allow him to cross back over the river Styx to see his wife again.
Answer: Charon
[10] In order to board the ferry to the underworld, Charon had to be given one of these. These items were
placed in the mouth of the dead to pay their fare
Answer: coins (Accept obolus, danake, or drachma)
2. This woman met her teacher and lifelong friend after a meeting with Alexander Graham Bell when
she was six years old. For ten points each:
[10] Name this deaf and blind girl who was taught language and speech by Anne Sullivan.
Answer: Helen Adams Keller
[10] In her autobiography The Story of My Life, Keller wrote that learning this word opened up language
for her. Her learning of this word was the focus of a memorable scene in the movie The Miracle Worker.
Answer: water
[10] Keller became the first deaf and blind person to earn a Bachelor degree when she graduated from this
college for women. This member of the Seven Sisters merged with Harvard in 1999.
Answer: Radcliffe College
3. This holy book is divided into 114 chapters called suras. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this holy book that was revealed to Muhammad by the angel Jibril [jee-breel]. It is the primary
religious text of Islam.
Answer: Quran
[10] A Muslim who has become a hafiz must have done this with the text of the Quran.
Answer: memorized it (accept obvious equivalents such as “learned it from memory”)
[10] The Quran frequently mentions these invisible creatures made of “smokeless fire.” One of these
creatures, Iblis [ee-bliss], refused to bow to Adam and became Shaitan, the Islamic version of the Devil.
Answer: jinn (accept genies)
4. Enjolras [on-johl-RAH] leads the Friends of the ABC in this novel. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this novel, in which Jean Valjean [jahn val-JAHN] is pursued by Inspector Javert [zhahVAYR]. Valjean raises Fantine’s daughter Cosette after Fantine dies in this novel.
Answer: Les Misérables
[10] This French author wrote Les Misérables [lay mis-ay-RAHB]. He wrote about the bell-ringer
Quasimodo and the gypsy Esmeralda in The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Answer: Victor Marie Hugo
[10] In Les Misérables, this plucky young boy leaves the barricade to collect rifle cartridges and is shot by
the French National Guard.
Answer: Gavroche Thénardier (prompt on Thenardier)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 6 of 11

5. These events may occur when the object falls into shadow or simply when another object passes
between the viewing area and the object. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this event, in which an astronomical body is obscured from view. On Earth, the lunar and solar
types of these events create remarkable visual displays.
Answer: eclipse (accept transit)
[10] Any event where three or more astronomical bodies lie along a straight line, as during an eclipse or a
transit, is referred to by this six letter word. The moon, Sun, and Earth experience these events roughly
twice a month, causing spring tides on Earth.
Answer: syzygy
[10] Eclipses of the Sun or Moon can be seen on Earth, but not on every planet. Name both of the two
planets in our Solar System which cannot view an eclipse.
Answer: Mercury and Venus (prompt on partial answer)
6. In the game 2048, tiles with the number 2 or 4 are randomly generated; when two tiles of the same
number combine, they combine into a single tile with the sum of the original tile. For 10 points each,
[10] Every tile in the game will display one of these numbers. The smallest examples of these numbers -and, therefore, the earliest numbers seen in the game -- are 2, 4, 8, 16, and 32.
Answer: (positive integer) power(s) of 2 (do not accept or prompt "integers" or "even integers;" prompt
on “power(s)”)
[10] Because every power of 2 is divisible by 2, every power of 2 is congruent to zero with respect to 2 in
this system of arithmetic which distinguishes numbers based on their remainder when divided by a given
number.
Answer: Modular arithmetic (accept word forms; accept "integers mod(ulo) 2;" accept Z sub 2 or
Z mod 2Z)
[10] You will never see an odd tile in the game, because the set of even numbers has this property under
addition -- meaning that the sum of 2 even numbers will always be even. Another term of this name refers
to intervals that include their endpoints.
Answer: (operational) closure (accept word forms)
7. For 10 points each, give the following about the aftermath of the 405 BCE Battle of Aegospotami [aygus-pah-tuh-mee].
[10] At Aegospotami, Lysander led a rout of the Athenian navy, thus essentially ending this war over
control of the Greek mainland.
Answer: (Second) Peloponnesian War
[10] Lysander was an admiral from this militaristic Greek city-state, which was traditionally more of a
power in ground combat. After the Peloponnesian War, this city-state installed the Thirty Tyrants in
Athens.
Answer: Sparta (or Lacedaemon)
[10] In addition to Sparta's installing of the Thirty Tyrants, they insisted that Athens tear down a set of
these defensive structures. Sparta itself lacked these structures, claiming that their army itself was
protection enough.
Answer: city walls (accept the Long Wall(s))

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 7 of 11

8. For 10 points each, give the following about Sergei Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes [“ballet” ROOS].
[10] The Ballets Russes performed numerous works by this Russian composer, including Pulcinella,
Petrushka, Firebird, and the controversial Rite of Spring.
Answer: Igor Stravinsky
[10] The Ballets Russes’ production of Stravinsky’s Pulcinella featured sets and costumes designed by
this Spanish cubist, the creator of Les Demoiselles d'Avignon [lay day-mwah-zellz da-vee-nyon].
Answer: Pablo (Ruiz y) Picasso
[10] One of the Ballets Russes’ most prolific choreographers, Vaslav Nijinsky, was one of few men
known for using this ballet technique. This technique requires special shoes, as all of the body’s weight is
supported on the tips of the dancer’s toes.
Answer: (en) pointe (accept elaborations, such as pointe work)

9. This man's wife notes that he "never made a lot of money," but "he's a human being, and a terrible
thing is happening to him. So attention must be paid." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this man. At the beginning of the play in which he appears, he describes driving off the side of
the road on his way to work.
Answer: Willy Loman (accept either underlined name)
[10] Willy Loman believes himself to be "worth more dead than alive" and commits suicide for insurance
money at the end of this 1949 play.
Answer: Death of a Salesman
[10] This author of The Crucible wrote Death of a Salesman.
Answer: Arthur Asher Miller

10. Harry Truman visited this city nearly a dozen times as President, establishing a "Little White House."
For 10 points each,
[10] Name this southernmost city of the continental United States. The 2,300-plus miles of U.S. Route 1
run from Fort Kent in Maine south through Miami to this city.
Answer: Key West
[10] Even though Key West is geographically closer to Havana, Cuba, than it is to Miami, it’s still part of
this U.S. state.
Answer: Florida
[10] On April 23, 1982, Key West protested Border Patrol actions relating to Cuban immigration by
seceding from the United States, forming this "republic" inspired by a beach shell. This republic declared
war, surrendered within a minute, then applied for one billion dollars of foreign aid.
Answer: Conch Republic

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 8 of 11

11. A 1950s government led by this party saw Minister of Housing Harold Macmillan lead a construction
boom and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden support a coup d'etat in Iran. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this British political party, which defeated the Labour Party of Clement Attlee in 1951
elections.
Answer: Conservative Party (prompt on Tories)
[10] This man became Prime Minister for a third time in 1951, having led the United Kingdom during
much of World War II.
Answer: Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill
[10] During his third Prime Ministership, Churchill sent British troops to capture Dedan Kimathi and put
down this Kikuyu uprising in colonial Kenya.
Answer: Mau Mau Rebellion (or Uprising, Revolt, or other equivalents)

12. These particles were first theorized by Murray Gell-Mann. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these elementary particles that come in six flavors - up, down, charm, strange, top, and
bottom.
Answer: quarks
[10] This particle, discovered by James Chadwick in 1932, contains one up quark and two down quarks;
thus, it has 0 charge. Some of them can be found along with protons in the nucleus.
Answer: neutrons
[10] This class of particles contain a quark-antiquark pair. An example of one is J/psi [jay-sigh], which
contains one charm quark and one charm antiquark.
Answer: mesons

13. This character appears as a child in a play in which her half-brother, who is also her father, mourns
her future after he blinds himself. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this sister of Ismene [is-may-nay], who kills herself after trying to bury her brother outside
Thebes in her namesake play.
Answer: Antigone
[10] Antigone [an-tih-goh-nee] briefly appears at the end of this play, in which the title character solves
the riddle of the sphinx and fulfills a prophecy by killing his father and marrying his mother.
Answer: Oedipus Rex (accept Oedipus the King)
[10] Antigone and Oedipus Rex were both written by this Greek author, who also wrote about Oedipus’s
death in Oedipus at Colonus.
Answer: Sophocles

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 9 of 11
14. This man's Twitter description simply says "You know... the 'Eat It' Guy." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this polka musician, whose 2014 album Mandatory Fun features the songs "Handy" and
"Word Crimes," which are parodies of Iggy Azalea and Robin Thicke songs.
Answer: Weird Al Yankovic (or Weird Al)
[10] Weird Al released eight music videos for Mandatory Fun, beginning with this parody of Pharell
Williams' song "Happy." This music video features Jack Black wearing a glittery fanny pack backwards.
Answer: Tacky
[10] A 1992 Weird Al parody includes the lyrics "Now I'm mumblin'/ and I'm screamin'" and "It's hard to
bargle nawdle zouss/with all these marbles in my mouth." You can give either the name of the Weird Al
song title OR the title of the song it's parodying.
Answer: Smells Like Nirvana OR Smells Like Teen Spirit (accept either or both)

15. Two air tragedies struck the same Southeast Asian airline in 2014. For 10 points each,
[10] This airline lost its Flight 370 in March over the Indian Ocean and its Flight 17 to an attack over
Ukraine in July.
Answer: Malaysia Airlines
[10] Both airplanes were 777 models manufactured by this American company, a rival to the European
aircraft maker Airbus.
Answer: Boeing Company
[10] Early, false reports of the crash of Flight 17 indicated that over 100 of its passengers were en route to
a conference studying this disease.
Answer: AIDS (or Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome)

16. Excitable cells are needed to transmit the nerve impulses of this event. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this all-or-nothing event that results from depolarization of the neuron membrane. Pufferfish
venom can turn people into “zombies” by inhibiting these events.
Answer: action potential
[10] The influx of the sodium ion causes an action potential; after which an outward flux of an ion of this
other alkali metal with atomic symbol K.
Answer: potassium
[10] An action potential triggers this type of movement in muscles. Relaxation follows this movement.
Answer: contraction

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 10 of 11
17. This document is wary of European "ambition" and "rivalship," noting "It is our true policy to steer
clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this letter, published in 1796, which opens by announcing that its author would not seek a
third term as President.
Answer: George Washington's Farewell Address (there is no official title to this work, so accept any
equivalent that describes "the farewell letter (or speech) written by George Washington;" prompt on
partial answers, such as "Washington's speech" or "Farewell Address" alone; accept reasonable
equivalents to "farewell" in all of the above directions)
[10] Washington's Farewell Address also warns against the danger of rival political parties. During
Washington's presidency, the Federalist Party had been founded by Alexander Hamilton and this rival
party had been founded by Thomas Jefferson.
Answer: Democratic-Republican Party (do not accept or prompt on partial answer)
[10] Washington's worries about party conflict came true in the Election of 1796, which Jefferson lost to
this Federalist, who became the second U.S. President.
Answer: John Adams (prompt on Adams; do not accept John Quincy Adams)

18. For 10 points each, name these laboratory separation methods.
[10] The Büchner [BYOUK-ner] type of this piece of lab equipment is often used in vacuum filtrations.
Its simpler version is conical and eases the transfer of samples to containers with small necks.
Answer: funnel
[10] This method of separation involves heating a solution of components with different boiling points.
This process does not work on azeotropic solutions.
Answer: distillation
[10] "Thin-layer" and "column" are versions of this separatory method which uses a mobile phase flowing
past a stationary phase to separate solution components.
Answer: chromatography

19. Identify the following people related to the writing of Frankenstein, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of The Vindication of the Rights of Woman died giving birth to her daughter, Mary
Godwin, who would go on to write Frankenstein.
Answer: Mary Wollstonecraft
[10] This poet of “Ozymandias” and “To a Skylark” brought the young Mary Godwin to the villa where
she was inspired to write Frankenstein. He later married her.
Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
[10] The same summer and storytelling that inspired Mary Shelley inspired John Polidori to write about
this kind of creature, though Bram Stoker’s Dracula concerns a more famous creature of this type.
Answer: vampire

SCOP Novice 5

Round 6
Page 11 of 11
20. This kind of artwork includes the Mona Lisa, Blue Boy, and one "of Madame X." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of painting that depicts a likeness of a person. A "self" kind of these paintings is the
artist’s depiction of himself or herself.
Answer: self-portrait
[10] This man painted portraits of many American leaders including George Washington. His portrait of
Washington appears on the American one-dollar bill.
Answer: Gilbert Stuart
[10] This man created many paintings featuring Napoleon, including The Coronation of Napoleon,
Napoleon Crossing the Alps, and Napoleon in His Study. This man also painted an idealized Death of
Marat.
Answer: Jacques-Louis David [zhak loo-EE dah-VEED]

SCOP Novice 5

