2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 1
Tossups
1. A scripture about this deity takes the form of a discussion between Maitreya and Parashara,
and describes this god rising from the sea inside Brahmanda, an enormous egg. An
incarnation of this deity appears to Arjun in the (*) Bhagavad Gita. Rama and Krishna are two of
the ten avatars of this god, who often appears blue and with four arms. For 10 points, name this
Hindu preserver god, who forms the Trimurti with Brahma and Shiva.
Answer: Vishnu
2. Gyroscopic precession may be induced by or free of this physical quantity, which is dotted
with angular velocity in one expression for power. It is measured in units equivalent to
joules but named differently, as newton-meters. This quantity is calculated as (*) radius cross
force, with its direction found using the right-hand rule. For 10 points, identify this quantity which
describes the tendency of a a force to cause rotation about a fixed axis.
Answer: torque (accept moment of force or couple; prompt on moment)
3. Regions of hydrogen ions known as HII [H two] may be found in the emission type of this
object. A red giant's outer layers can be ionized by the star's core to form its planetary type,
and these may also form from the remnant ionized gases of a (*) supernova, such as the 1054
supernova that created one of these nicknamed Crab. The Pillars of Creation and the Horsehead
are examples of, for 10 points, what interstellar clouds of dust and gas?
Answer: Nebula
4. This composer began one work with the playing of Woglinde, Wellgunde, and Flosshilde,
three water maidens; in that work, Mime [MEEM] is forced to create Tarnhelm, a helmet that
makes Alberich invisible. Another of his works ends with (*) Brünnhilde riding into a funeral
pyre that burns Valhalla. Das Rheingold and Götterdämmerung are by, for 10 points, what German
composer of the Ring of the Nibelung cycle of operas?
Answer: Richard Wagner
5. In this work, Fiammetta describes the courtship of Federigo, who offers to cook his last
possession, a falcon, for his unrequited love. Another story sees Gualtieri test the patience
of his wife, Griselda, by ordering their children killed; that story is told by Dioneo, one of (*)
ten young adults avoiding the Black Death in a villa outside Florence. For 10 points, name this 100story collection written by Giovanni Boccaccio.
Answer: The Decameron
6. This organization targeted Lawrence Plamondon with an illegal "black bag job," and it
employed COINTELPRO against "subversives" like Martin Luther King, Jr. One of its
Associate Directors, Mark Felt, was the true identity of (*) "Deep Throat," and one of its
secretaries, Helen Gandy, destroyed files after the death of her boss, J. Edgar Hoover. For 10
points, name this unit of the Department of Justice that has jurisdiction over most federal crime.
Answer: Federal Bureau of Investigation or FBI
7. Azides and amines are functional groups composed of this element, whose diatomic form is
used as a modified atmosphere to preserve foods. This element is fixed in the Haber process
and bonds with carbon to form cyanide. This element with (*) five valence electrons is the
central atom in ammonia. 78% of the volume of Earth’s atmosphere is, for 10 points, what element
with atomic number seven and chemical symbol N?
Answer: Nitrogen (accept N before mentioned)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 2
8. In this work, two characters argue over muffins, and one man hypocritically eats cucumber
sandwiches made for his Aunt Augusta. In this play, Cecily falls in love with a man she’s
never met and a cigarette case exposes a (*) “Bunburyist.” Lady Bracknell reveals that, because
of Miss Prism’s mistake, Jack is a Moncrieff and may marry Gwendolyn Fairfax. For 10 points,
name this play about Jack Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff, written by Oscar Wilde.
Answer: The Importance of Being Earnest
9. In one film, this character notes "Some days, you just can't get rid of a bomb!" before Burt
Ward's character finds him in rubble. This opponent of the gangsters Carmine Falcone and
Sal Maroni has an unrequited love for Rachel Dawes, kills (*) Harvey Dent, and has his back
broken by Bane in a Christopher Nolan-directed film trilogy. Adam West and Christian Bale have
portrayed, for 10 points, what “Dark Knight” whose secret identity is Bruce Wayne?
Answer: Batman (prompt on Dark Knight or Bruce Wayne before mentioned; prompt on Caped
Crusader)
10. Lord Cobham conspired with this governor of Jersey in the Main Plot against James I, after
which he spent 13 years in the Tower of London. Virginia Dare was born into a colony that
this man established on (*) Roanoke Island that became "lost" after possibly relocating to
Croatoan Island. English use of tobacco was made popular by, for 10 points, what English explorer,
later honored as the namesake of the capital of North Carolina?
Answer: Sir Walter Raleigh

Half Time

11. One of these conflicts was ended by the Battle of Munda. Sulla fought two of these conflicts
against Gaius Marius, and the Battle of Actium decided another of these wars for Octavian.
One of these wars took place after a campaign in (*) Gaul; that one, against Pompey, began
with the crossing of the Rubicon by Julius Caesar. For 10 points, name these conflicts that pitted
armies of an ancient Italian republic against each other.
Answer: Roman Civil wars (accept word forms like Civil wars in Rome or in the Roman Republic;
prompt on partial answers like "civil wars" or "Roman wars;" do not accept mentions of the Roman
Empire)
12. This novel’s protagonist declares himself the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main, causing
his sweetheart to mourn for the andiron [and-”iron”] knob he had used to propose to her. In
this novel, Joe Harper witnesses his own (*) funeral with two of his friends, and Muff Potter
believes he is guilty of a murder committed by Injun Joe. For 10 points, name this novel by Mark
Twain about the title friend of Huckleberry Finn.
Answer: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
13. This architect proposed a never built mile-high skyscraper called The Illinois. This man’s
homes in Arizona and Wisconsin were both named for the Welsh bard Taliesin. This
architect used Roman brick to emphasize horizontal lines in the exterior of (*) Hyde Park's
Robie House. This man designed a Pennsylvania home for Edgar Kaufmann that is cantilevered
over a waterfall. For 10 points, name this Prairie House architect of Fallingwater.
Answer: Frank Lloyd Wright

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 3
14. This mythical resident of Lemnos was born parthenogenetically, and built a trick throne to
ensnare his mother. This figure created the first woman, Pandora, and split Zeus’s head
open to release Athena. This god created a fine net to trap (*) Ares and this god’s wife,
Aphrodite, in his lair beneath a volcano. For 10 points, name this son of Hera, the deformed Greek
god of fire and patron of smiths.
Answer: Hephaestus (accept Vulcan until “Greek” is read)
15. Ukraine is controversially planning to reopen the Bystroe Channel by digging out wetlands
in this river's delta. This river passes through the Devin Gate and, downstream, the Iron Gate
gorge on the Romanian-Serbian border. This river, which empties into the (*) Black Sea,
passes through Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest, and Belgrade--the most capital cities of any river. For
10 points, name this central European river, the second-longest in Europe.
Answer: Danube River
16. One book of this type uses zuihitsu [zoo-ee-hee-tsoo] style to describe “Annoying Things”
in the imperial court during the Heian [hay-ahn] period, and is known as The Pillow Book of
Sei Shonagon [say “show”-nah-gon]. Another work in this literary genre uses a unique code
to discuss the (*) 1666 Fire of London. Yet another book in this genre describes the author’s life in
hiding during the Nazi occupation of Amsterdam. For 10 points, name this nonfiction literary style
used by Samuel Pepys [peeps] and Anne Frank.
Answer: diary (accept journal; accept Pillow Book before mention; accept Makura no Shoshi or
nikki before “Pillow Book” is mentioned; prompt on nonfiction before it is read)
17. George Grenville proposed this tax, which could not be paid in colonial paper money. Nine
colonies sent delegates to a namesake Congress opposing this act. When it was repealed,
Parliament simultaneously passed the (*) Declaratory Act to maintain taxation rights over the
colonies, even though the colonies were “without representation.” For 10 points, name this British
colonial tax on printed materials.
Answer: Stamp Act of 1765
18. Oseltamivir is a treatment for this virus, whose genome’s eight segments can undergo
reassortment. This virus, a member of family Orthomyxoviridae, can trigger upper
respiratory conditions like croup and cause tissue damage in the (*) lungs. The types of
hemagglutinin and neuraminidase proteins are used to name strains of this virus, like the H5N1
strain. For 10 points, name this common virus that has bird and swine varieties.
Answer: Influenza virus (accept the flu virus)
19. This work notes that the "natural progress of opulence" occurs at different rates in different
countries. It notes that workers are naturally inspired to work for the domestic industry that
allows them to produce the most for society; as a result, this work argues that (*) protectionist
tariffs are unnecessary, angering mercantilists. An "invisible hand" guiding market behavior is
described in, for 10 points, what 1776 economic work written by Adam Smith?
Answer: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations
20. Exactly three of these numbers appear in the Fibonacci sequence. Lagrange proved that all
positive integers can be written as sums of four of them. They have an odd number of
positive divisors, and the nth one equals the sum of the (*) first n odd natural numbers. The
prime factorizations of these numbers have all even exponents. For 10 points, name these numbers
found by multiplying integers by themselves, such as 4, 9, and 16.
Answer: perfect squares (accept square numbers; do not accept “square roots”)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 4
Bonuses
1. This process occurs via differential reproduction and is contrasted with selective breeding, as seen
in animal husbandry. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this two-word phrase, used by Charles Darwin to describe the non-random process that
determines which traits are common or rare in a population.
Answer: natural selection (prompt partial answers)
[10] This type of non-random selection is used by adults to choose a mate based on physical
characteristics such as peacock feathers and stag antlers.
Answer: sexual selection
[10] While in the Galapagos, Darwin studied differences in this species of birds. He noted that the
beaks of these birds were adapted to their food source.
Answer: finches
2. For 10 points each, give the following about America’s most famous pamphleteer, Thomas Paine.
[10] The British politician Edmund Burke published a collection of Reflections on [this event] that
had begun in 1789; Paine responded in the book Rights of Man, defending the proceedings of this
event.
ANSWER: French Revolution (accept word forms; accept Reflections on the Revolution in
France)
[10] In The Age of Reason, Paine argued against revelation and the divinity of the Bible. Instead,
Paine advocated this religious philosophy that holds that the creator does not intervene in physical
affairs.
ANSWER: Deism (accept word forms)
[10] This 1776 work by Paine argues that no mother should treat her children as horribly as Britain
had treated the American colonies; therefore, the colonies should declare independence.
ANSWER: Common Sense
3. He created an equestrian statue of Gattamelata. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Renaissance sculptor whose works include a bronze David standing on the head of
a slain Goliath.
Answer: Donato “Donatello” (di Nicolò) di Betto Bardi
[10] Donatello also created a statue of this Christian saint with a kite-shaped shield. He is often
depicted slaying a dragon.
Answer: Saint George
[10] This High Renaissance artist painted St. George and the Dragon as well as La Disputa. This
artist also depicted Plato, Aristotle, and many other Greek philosophers in The School of Athens.
Answer: Raphaello Sanzio
4. Lexicographer Samuel Johnson spent nearly a decade completing a British version of this
document. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of work, an alphabetically-listed collection of words with their pronunciations
and definitions.
Answer: dictionary
[10] This educational reformer published spelling books, as well as A Compendious Dictionary of
the English Language, that Americanized certain spellings. The Merriam brothers published his
work after his death.
Answer: Noah Webster
[10] This American satirist wrote The Devil's Dictionary, which includes witticisms like "Accordion,
noun. An instrument in harmony with the sentiments of an assassin."
Answer: Ambrose Bierce

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 5
5. This battle took place a few weeks before the Goliad Massacre; these two events served as
inspiration for remaining Texans to resist Santa Anna's forces. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 1836 siege, in which the Mexican army killed all but two defenders of a San Antonio
fort.
Answer: (Siege or) Battle of the Alamo
[10] This two-term Congressman from Tennessee, a folk hero known today as the "King of the Wild
Frontier," died at the Alamo.
Answer: David "Davy" Crockett
[10] This man commanded Texan forces at the Alamo. During the siege, he wrote open letters to
the American people that, after the battle, motivated support for the Texan Revolution.
Answer: William Travis
6. This city was the target of the Jameson Raid, which was instead stopped at Doornkop. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this capital of Gauteng province, the most populous city in South Africa.
Answer: Johannesburg
[10] Johannesburg is not a capital of South Africa; that distinction is instead held by three cities.
This city north of Johannesburg serves as the administrative capital, while Cape Town and
Bloemfontein serve as the legislative and judicial capitals respectively.
Answer: Pretoria
[10] The Treaty of Vereeniging, which ended the second of these conflicts, was signed in Pretoria.
These wars saw the British put down revolts of the Orange Free State and the Transvaal Republic.
Answer: Boer Wars
7. The dual of this figure is the dodecahedron, and vice versa. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this regular polyhedron with 20 congruent faces.
Answer: (regular) icosahedron
[10] Icosahedra are among these five figures, which are the only regular polyhedra and are named
for a Greek philosopher.
Answer: Platonic solids
[10] Three of the Platonic solids—icosahedra, octahedra, and tetrahedra—use this polygon for their
faces.
Answer: equilateral triangles or equiangular triangles or regular triangles (prompt on triangle)
8. Since 2007, it has been governed by Hamas, a group labeled as a terrorist organization by the
United States. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this strip of land northeast of Egypt's Sinai Peninsula.
Answer: Gaza Strip (accept 'aza)
[10] Under Ariel Sharon, this nation disengaged from the Gaza Strip in 2005. In 2009, this nation's
Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, announced conditional support for a Palestinian state
bordering this nation.
Answer: State of Israel
[10] Israel first occupied the Gaza Strip after this short June 1967 conflict. This war began with a
surprise air attack on the grounded Egyptian Air Force.
Answer: Six Day War

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 6
9. Natsume Soseki wrote a novel titled “I am” one of these creatures. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these animals, whose lives were described at length in T.S. Eliot’s poetry collection, Old
Possum’s Book of Practical “these creatures.”
Answer: domestic cats (accept felines; accept house cats or domestic cats; accept felis (silvestris)
catus)
[10] Alice plays with black and white kittens and encounters a grinning Cheshire cat in the novels of
this English author.
Answer: Lewis Carroll (accept Charles Lutwidge Dodgson)
[10] "Town of Cats" is a chapter in 1Q84 [one “Q” eighty-four], a recent novel by this Japanese
author, who wrote about the cat Mackerel in The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.
Answer: Murakami Haruki (accept Haruki Murakami)
10. This god created the fifth cycle of humanity and introduced maize and culture to his people. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this twin of Xolotl [zoh-LAH-tul], the chief “feathered serpent” god of Aztec mythology.
Answer: Quetzalcoatl
[10] Quetzalcoatl’s [keh-tsah-koh-AH-tul’s] nemesis, Tezcatlipoca [tets-kaht-lee-POH-kah], was
represented by a “smoking” one of these reflective objects, which are usually made of silver-backed
glass.
Answer: mirrors
[10] This Shinto sun goddess hid in a cave to escape her brother, Susanoo, but was drawn out
when she saw her reflection in a mirror.
Answer: Amaterasu
11. In this novel, Colonel Brandon reveals that Willoughby has seduced Brandon’s ward, Eliza, and is
unsuitable for Marianne. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this novel, in which Marianne marries Colonel Brandon and her sister, Elinore Dashwood,
weds Edward Ferrars.
Answer: Sense and Sensibility
[10] Sense and Sensibility is by this British author of Northanger Abbey and Pride and Prejudice.
Answer: Jane Austen
[10] This other Austen novel concerns a titular would-be matchmaker, who tries to help Jane Fairfax
and Harriet Smith, and ends up marrying Mr. Knightly.
Answer: Emma
12. For 10 points each, give the following about consolidation of talent in the 2012 NBA offseason.
[10] This team replaced point guard Ramon Seesions with Steve Nash and traded Andrew Bynum
to receive Dwight Howard, thus giving Kobe Bryant help in his quest for a sixth NBA title.
Answer: Los Angeles Lakers (prompt on Los Angeles, do not accept Clippers)
[10] The Brooklyn Nets were interested in acquiring Dwight Howard, but instead traded for this
Atlanta Hawks guard, who is signed to a $119 million contract.
Answer: Joe Johnson
[10] After five years with Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett in Boston, this shooting guard took less
money to sign with the defending champion Miami Heat.
Answer: Ray Allen

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 7
13. Higher concentration and temperature often increase it because more collisions occur between
molecules. For 10 points each,
[10] Studied in chemical kinetics, name this quantity describing the speed of a reaction. It is
measured in moles per liter per second.
Answer: reaction rate
[10] If the reaction rates for forward and reverse reactions are equal, the reaction is said to be in
this state, where the concentrations of reactants and products remain at their present levels.
Answer: (dynamic or chemical) equilibrium
[10] The reaction rate is inversely related to this quantity, the minimum energy barrier that must be
overcome for a chemical reaction to occur.
Answer: activation energy
14. One man to serve in this position, Paul Volcker, attempt to end a period of stagflation by allowing
the federal funds rate and prime rate to reach 20%. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Presidentially appointed position, the leader of a group that conducts monetary
policy.
Answer: Chairman of (the Board of Governors of) the Federal Reserve (System) (both underlined
portions required)
[10] This economist is the current Chairman of the Federal Reserve, having succeeded Alan
Greenspan in 2006.
Answer: Ben Bernanke
[10] Some analysts have blamed the housing bubble and ensuing recession on Greenspan's
support for the subprime type of this financial product. These long-term loans are purchased on the
secondary market by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Answer: mortgages (prompt on “home loan(s)”)
15. Like the standard mass, these musical works often include the Kyrie and Sanctus sections, but it
can also include a sequence beginning "Dies irae," or "Day of wrath." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of mass for the dead, often played at funerals. Mozart died while writing his
work of this type.
Answer: requiem mass
[10] This German composer used the Luther Bible for the text of his German Requiem. His other
works include the Academic Festival Overture and a famous lullaby.
Answer: Johannes Brahms
[10] This 20th century composer's War Requiem is set to poems by Wilfred Owen. His other works
include the opera Peter Grimes.
Answer: Benjamin Britten
16. Creatures of this type appeared to Abram and Zechariah to announce the impending births of Isaac
and John the Baptist. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these holy messengers of God in Judeo-Christian tradition.
Answer: angels (accept Malak)
[10] An archangel like Michael, this figure explained the dreams of Daniel and announced the birth
of Jesus to Mary.
Answer: Gabriel (accept Jibreel)
[10] Catholicism recognizes nine of these classifications of angels, including the seraphim,
cherubim, and thrones.
Answer: heavenly choirs of angels

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 7: Page 8
17. This character guesses a coin will land heads up 92 times in a row, and is correct all 92 times,
at the beginning of one work. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Shakespearean supporting character, who is featured with his friend
Guildenstern in a 20th century play.
Answer: Rosencrantz (accept Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead)
[10] Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead is an adaptation of Hamlet by this Czech-English
playwright of the absurd.
Answer: Tom Stoppard (accept Tomas Straussler)
[10] In Stoppard's Arcadia, Thomasina Coverly learns about this field of study exemplified by
the butterfly effect, in which systems like weather are very sensitive to their initial conditions.
Answer: chaos theory (accept word forms)
18. For 10 points each, answer the following about pollution.
[10] Limestone structures often dissolve and crumble after prolonged exposure to this form of
precipitation with low pH values.
ANSWER: acid rain
[10] This insecticide was banned in the US in 1972, in part due to an argument that bioaccumulation
of this chemical through the food chain was endangering the eagle population.
ANSWER: DDT (accept dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane)
[10] The aforementioned argument against DDT was posed in Silent Spring, a work by this biologist
who argued for limited use of pesticides rather than a total ban.
Answer: Rachel Carson
19. The Treaty of Nystad ended this war in 1721, 12 years after a decisive victory over Charles XII at
Poltava ended Sweden's time as a European power. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this war motivated by one European power's desire for a port city on the Baltic Sea.
Answer: Great Northern War
[10] This empire, led by Peter the Great, defeated Sweden and her allies in the Great Northern War.
Answer: Russia (accept Russian Empire)
[10] As part of the Treaty of Nystad, Sweden gave Russia three Baltic territories, including this one
north of modern-day Latvia. This territory's capital, Reval, was renamed Tallinn when it became
independent of Russia in 1920.
Answer: Estonia (accept Republic of Estonia or Swedish Estonia or Russian Estonia)
20. The Millikan oil-drop experiment helped determine the quantum, or “elementary” value, of this
quantity. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this quantity that can be positive or negative and is measured in coulombs. Neutrons
have a net value of zero for it.
Answer: electrostatic charge (accept electric charge or similar answers)
[10] This law states that the net flux of an electric field through a closed surface is directly
proportional to the electric charge enclosed within the surface.
Answer: Gauss’s law (of electrostatics)
[10] Gauss’s laws for electric and magnetic fields are two of these four fundamental statements of
electromagnetism, collected by and named for a Scottish physicist.
Answer: Maxwell’s equations (accept Heaviside equations or Maxwell-Heaviside equations or
similar answers mentioning either or both names)

