2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. The Jeanie Johnston had a perfect safety record while transporting refugees of this event, who
often fled in coffin ships. "Souperism" was the practice of providing food and Protestant teaching
to Catholic children who suffered in this event. It was ended in part by Robert (*) Peel's 1846
revoking of the Corn Laws, allowing cheaper food imports. For 10 points, name this mass starvation in
19th century Ireland, caused by a blight of a certain crop.
Answer: (Great) Irish Potato Famine (accept any answer that describes hunger in Ireland related to bad
potatoes, though "Irish" is not needed after "Ireland" is mentioned; prompt on partial answer)
2. The speaker of this poem, “knowing how way leads on to way,” believes he “shall be telling this
with a sigh / somewhere ages and ages hence.” This poem describes “leaves no step had trodden
black,” on a path “less traveled by” that the speaker finds in a (*) “yellow wood,” and it concludes
“and that has made all the difference.” For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem in which the speaker
chooses between two “equal” paths.
Answer: The Road Not Taken
3. This country lies southeast of Mayotte, a French département that is claimed by Comoros. While
it itself was under French control, this country became known as the Malagasy Republic for two
decades before its full independence. This fourth largest (*) island in the world is separated from the
mainland by the Mozambique Channel. For 10 points, name this African island nation with capital
Antananarivo, home to many lemurs.
Answer: Madagascar
4. An ideal gas of these particles cooled near absolute zero shows quantum effects on a large scale.
The W and Z particles are subtypes of these particles that carry the weak force, and in 2013, the
Large Hadron Collider tentatively (*) confirmed the existence of one of these particles that carries
mass. For 10 points, name these elementary particles with integer spin, contrasted with fermions and
exemplified by the mass-carrying “Higgs” type.
Answer: bosons

Round 1
Page 2 of 11
5. A scout quit his job when Houston didn't pick this player #1 overall in 1992. In 2011, he
homered off David Price for his 3,000th hit. A recording of Bob Sheppard's voice introduced this
player's home at-bats, including a (*) walk-off single in his final home game. For 10 points, name this
captain who wore number 2 as the starting shortstop for five World Series-winning New York Yankees
teams before retiring in 2014.
Answer: Derek Jeter
6. In one work by this author, the fake doctor Callimaco tricks Nicia and sleeps with his wife,
Lucrezia. This author of The Mandrake praised Roman republics, and another work compared
fortune to a lady who must be beaten. He noted Cesare Borgia as a rare case of a successful (*) ruler
who gained power through luck, rather than force, as it is "safer to be feared than loved." For 10 points,
name this 16th century Italian author of The Prince.
Answer: Niccolo Machiavelli
7. Ireland's Giant's Causeway consists of hexagonal columns of this type of rock. It can be divided
into felsic rocks, like rhyolite, and mafic rocks, like scoria, which may have gas bubbles trapped
within it during its rapid formation. Other examples of this type of rock include (*) basalt and
pumice, which form from the cooling of lava. For 10 points, name this classification of rocks, one of three
main types with sedimentary and metamorphic.
Answer: igneous rocks (accept basalt before "felsic")
8. This man stabbed Henry Rathbone to begin his escape. Boarding house owner Mary Surratt was
one of four people hanged for conspiring with this man, who was shot and killed in a burning barn.
Samuel Mudd was arrested for treating this man's (*) leg, which was broken after he fell to the stage
of Ford's Theater, shouting "Sic semper tyrannis!" For 10 points, name this actor and Confederate
supporter who, on April 14th, 1865, shot and killed Abraham Lincoln.
Answer: John Wilkes Booth
9. Both ammonia and this element bond to platinum in the chemotherapy drug cisplatin. The
insecticide DDT contains carbon, hydrogen, and this element. An acid of this element combines
with nitric acid to give (*) aqua regia; that acid is also found in the stomach and is commonly used in
titration. For 10 points, name this element, commonly used to clean swimming pools, whose atomic
symbol is Cl.
Answer: chlorine
10. On the right side of this painting is a red barn, and on the left, a green railing can be seen on the
porch of the Dibble House, which the artist encountered in Iowa. One of the two central figures in
this work wears a colonial apron, and the other wears (*) overalls. The artist’s sister and dentist
modeled for, for 10 points, what Grant Wood painting, in which a sad-looking woman and a farmer
holding a pitchfork stand in front of a house?
Answer: American Gothic

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 3 of 11
11. In one novel by this author, George Ponderevo helps his uncle sell the title fake drug, Tono
Bungay. He wrote about Prendrick and human-animal hybrids in The Island of Doctor Moreau. In
one novel, the protagonist loses an Eloi named Weena in a fire he sets to escape the (*) Morlocks,
and in another, Martians invade Earth but are killed by common disease. For 10 points, name this author
of The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds.
Answer: H(erbert) G(eorge) Wells
12. In Judaism, one of these creatures is a transformed man named Enoch, and another creature of
this type stood in the way of Balaam’s donkey. Two of these creatures visited Lot’s home before the
destruction of Sodom. These creatures are organized into (*) “hosts,” which include seraphim and
cherubim. For 10 points, name these holy beings, whose leaders include Michael and Gabriel, and who
are often depicted wearing halos.
Answer: angels (accept archangels before “Balaam” is read)
13. In this leader's farewell address, he noted that, until World War II, "American makers of
plowshares could [...] make swords as well." He used the Army to desegregate Central High School
in Little Rock, and he was inspired by the Autobahn to develop the national (*) Interstate system.
This Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces led the invasion of Normandy on D-Day. For 10 points,
name this general who served as U.S. President following Harry Truman.
Answer: Dwight David Eisenhower
14. Due to this country's nearly $2 billion debt, Gazprom shut off delivery of natural gas in June
2014. This country was led by Viktor Yanukovich until February 2014; one month later, its
peninsula on the Black Sea, including its city of (*) Sevastopol, was annexed by its eastern neighbor.
For 10 points, name this Eastern European country, now led by Petro Poroshenko from its capital of Kiev,
which has recently struggled with pro-Russian separatists.
Answer: Ukraine
15. The title object of this musical composition is forged by Alberich. Its composer built a theater in
Bayreuth [bi-ROYT] specifically to host this work, which takes 16 hours to perform over four
nights. It ends with Brunnhilde riding into a (*) funeral pyre and the burning of the Hall of the Gods.
Das Rheingold [RINE-gold], Die Walküre [dee VAL-koor], Siegfried, and Götterdämmerung make up,
for 10 points, what epic four-opera "cycle" written by Richard Wagner [ree-kart VAHG-ner]?
Answer: The Ring of the Nibelung (or The Ring Cycle or the Der Ring des Nibelungen; accept Das
Rheingold before "16 hours" is read)
16. This author wrote about an old woman who refused payment to a thieving doctor because she
couldn’t see her belongings. In other stories by this man, a mouse saves a lion from hunters and a
farmer kills a goose that lays (*) golden eggs. Another of his tales teaches that “slow and steady wins
the race.” “The Tortoise and the Hare” and “The Boy who Cried Wolf” are by, for 10 points, this ancient
Greek author of namesake fables.
Answer: Aesop

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 4 of 11
17. These mathematical objects have inverses if and only if they are bijective. If one of these objects
is “onto,” then its entire range is covered; if it is “one-to-one,” it can pass the horizontal line test in
addition to the (*) vertical line test, which all of these objects can pass. For 10 points, give this
mathematical term describing a relation for which each input has exactly one output, often written f(x) ["f
of x"].
Answer: function (prompt on “map” or “mapping;” prompt on “graph”)
18. Levels of this molecule in the liver are reduced by HMG CoA [koh-ay] reductase inhibitors,
better known as statins. This molecule, which is transported through the circulatory system by
lipoproteins, is a precursor of vitamin D and estrogen. A build-up of this waxy substance can cause
(*) atherosclerosis, the hardening of arteries. For 10 points, name this modified steroid molecule whose
LDL, or low-density, form is known as its “bad” type for its role in heart disease.
Answer: cholesterol
19. The exile Hippias advised the losing side in this battle, whose men panicked and ran into
swamps. The winning general of this battle, Miltiades [mill-tye-ah-dees], organized troops to defend
the only two paths off the beach, then ordered a devastating phalanx assault. After this loss for (*)
Darius the Great, the Persian army retreated from Greece for 10 years. For 10 points, name this 490 BCE
battle, after which Pheidippides [fay-ih-dip-ih-dees] legendarily ran 26 miles to Athens.
Answer: Battle of Marathon
20. This goddess turned the spilled blood of her lover into sea anemones after he was killed by a
boar. This goddess, who was worshipped at Cythera, was offered to a misshapen god, but her
infidelity was exposed by Helios. She was the lover of (*) Adonis, and was trapped by her husband
when this mother of Eros had an affair with Ares. For 10 points, name this wife of Hephaestus, the Greek
goddess of love and beauty.
Answer: Aphrodite (accept Venus before “Cythera” is read)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 5 of 11
Bonuses
1. This god was the father of Thor and the head of the Norse Pantheon. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this chief god of the Norse pantheon and wielder of Gungnir, who hung himself for nine days
from Yggdrasil to gain knowledge.
Answer: Odin (accept Wotann)
[10] Odin’s steed was this eight-legged horse, who was born after Loki turned himself into a mare to
distract Svadilfari [svahd-eel-fah-ree] from constructing Asgard’s walls.
Answer: Sleipnir [SLIPE-neer]
[10] Odin was also served by two of these dark birds, Huginn [HOO-gihn] and Muninn [MOO-nihn], who
flew around the world and gathered information.
Answer: ravens

2. This composer commemorated the 300th anniversary of the Augsburg Confession by composing the
Reformation Symphony, though he didn't publish it during his lifetime. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this German composer, whose other works include the Italian and Scottish symphonies.
Answer: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy
[10] Mendelssohn was a prolific player of this keyboard instrument, which blows air through pipes to
create sound.
Answer: pipe organ
[10] Mendelssohn may be best known today for a set of incidental music for this Shakespeare play,
including a Wedding March, indicating that Theseus and Hippolyta, Lysander and Hermia, and Demetrius
and Helena have all been married.
Answer: A Midsummer Night's Dream

3. The Islamic Courts Union once controlled much of the southern part of this country, but in 2006 it
splintered into groups like al-Shabaab. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this country on the Horn of Africa. It has been considered a failed state for its inability to
control a civil war in its territory or piracy in its waters.
Answer: Somalia
[10] Al-Shabaab was ousted from this capital of Somalia in 2011.
Answer: Mogadishu
[10] [10] Though Somalia has clashed with this neighbor country in the past, they have recently
collaborated on joint attacks against al-Shabaab, who attacked the Westgate Mall in this country's city of
Nairobi in 2013.
Answer: Kenya

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 6 of 11
4. In one work by this author, Tom Canty and Edward VI [“the sixth”] switch places, and both are
accused of insanity. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this author of The Prince and the Pauper. The title character is in love with Becky Thatcher
and finds gold in a cave in this man’s novel The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
Answer: Mark Twain (accept Samuel Langhorne Clemens)
[10] Twain wrote this novel about Hank Morgan, a fairly ordinary American who wakes up in medieval
England and uses his superior knowledge of science to take power.
Answer: A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court
[10] In this Twain short story, Simon Wheeler tells a story about the title animal when the narrator asks
for information about Leonidas W. Smiley.
Answer: The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County (accept Jim Smiley and his Jumping
Frog)

5. When the Taniyama-Shimura conjecture about the modularity of semistable elliptical curves was
proven true, it combined with Ken Ribet's proof of the epsilon conjecture to prove this theorem true. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this theorem, which was claimed without proof in the margins of a textbook in 1637. The
aforementioned 150-page proof was finished by Andrew Wiles in 1995.
Answer: Fermat's Last Theorem (prompt on “Fermat’s Theorem;” do not accept Fermat’s little theorem)
[10] Fermat's Last Theorem is concerned with an equation that traditionally uses the letters a, b, c, and n,
where n serves this role.
Answer: the exponent (or power) of a, b, and c (accept answers describing "to the n power," such as "a
to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n")
[10] Euler [OY-lur] made a mistake in a proof of one case of Fermat's Last Theorem where n was this
number -- but it's OK, he had the fix for that proof in his other work. This is the smallest exponent for
which Fermat's Last Theorem states there is no solution.
Answer: 3

6. An incredible stock market bubble, agricultural failures, a high amount of personal debt, and
numerous other factors contributed to this decade-long economic catastrophe. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this two-word term for the massive recession of the world's economy in the 1930's.
Answer: Great Depression
[10] This U.S. President was in office during the stock market's crash in 1929 and the start of the Great
Depression.
Answer: Herbert Hoover
[10] Hoover opened this governmental agency in 1932 to loan nearly two billion dollars per year to banks
and businesses to re-start the nation's economy.
Answer: Reconstruction Finance Corporation

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 7 of 11

7. Famous examples of these include the giant panda’s “thumb” and the beak shapes of Darwin’s finches.
For 10 points each,
[10] Give the term for these inherited traits that enhance the survival of an organism in its environment.
Larger brains and walking upright were such traits in human ancestors.
Answer: adaptation (accept adaptive traits)
[10] The almost identical adaptations seen in the bodies of dolphins and extinct ichthyosaurs result from
this type of evolution in which unrelated species evolve in similar environments.
Answer: convergent evolution
[10] Convergent evolution among birds produced the now extinct North Atlantic great auk and these
living flightless birds of Antarctica. Both groups had the same black-and-white color pattern.
Answer: penguins

8. A Dinosaur Comics strip about "[this game] AS SHE IS PLAYED" notes that its object is to "fully
explore the sensations of boredom, sorrow, and rage." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this classic Parker Brothers board game in which you seek to buy properties like Park Place
and Boardwalk.
Answer: Monopoly
[10] A common house variation, but not an official Monopoly rule, is to award $500, or some other
amount, to anyone who lands on this corner space between New York and Kentucky Avenues.
Answer: Free Parking
[10] On television, the Simpsons own five versions of the game: "regular Monopoly, Star Wars
Monopoly, Rasta-Mon-opoly, Galip-olopoly, and" one named for this character, Bart Simpson's 4th grade
teacher. She was retired from the show when her voice actress, Marcia Wallace, passed away.
Answer: Edna Krabappel-Flanders (accept either underlined name; accept Edna Krabappoly; be
lenient and accept Krabappoly)

9. In one work by this author, Paul Pokriefke [poh-kreff-kee] is born on the same day the Wilhelm
Gustloff sinks. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this author of Crabwalk, who wrote about Oskar Matzerath in The Tin Drum, the first book
of his Danzig [DAHN-sihg] Trilogy.
Answer: Gunter Wilhelm Grass
[10] Oskar plays his tin drum in the Rhine River Band, who play this kind of music. In another work, the
saxophonist Pablo plays this genre of American music, known for improvisation and swing notes.
Answer: jazz
[10] The Tin Drum is a work in this literary genre, in which strange or unnatural objects or events are
treated like a part of everyday life.
Answer: magical realism (both underlined parts required)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 8 of 11

10. The European Space Agency launched the Planck spacecraft to measure the CMBR and estimate this
value. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this quantity, estimated to be a bit less than 14 billion years.
Answer: age of the Universe (accept clear knowledge equivalents)
[10] This event occurred 14 billion years ago and is currently the best model for how the Universe came
into existence. It was followed by cosmic expansion.
Answer: the Big Bang
[10] This event, the creation of heavier-than-hydrogen elements like helium-4 and lithium-7, took place
within minutes after the Big Bang. This term can also refer to the creation of elements within stars.
Answer: Big Bang (or primordial) nucleosynthesis (accept stellar nucleosynthesis; prompt on "nuclear
fusion")

11. In some stories, this Hindu god was born from a golden egg, and became the father of humanity. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this creator god, who is a member of the Trimurti along with Shiva and Vishnu.
Answer: Brahma (do not accept “brahman”)
[10] The Trimurti is often called the Hindu version of this Christian concept, which defines God as one
being that is comprised of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Answer: holy trinity
[10] In some legends, Brahma was born from one of these Indian water flowers, which represent purity
and are also symbolic to Buddhism.
Answer: sacred lotus (accept “Indian lotus”)

12. This quantity is measured in Newton-meters, a unit dimensionally equal to Joules, though this
quantity is not a form of energy. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this rotational analog of force that causes movement around an axis of rotation. It is given as
lever arm cross applied force, and symbolized τ [tau].
Answer: torque
[10] The time derivative of this quantity equals torque. This quantity is conserved when there is no net
external torque, and an intrinsic form of this quantity is spin.
Answer: angular momentum (prompt on “momentum;” do not accept “linear momentum”)
[10] Angular momentum is the product of moment of inertia and the angular form of this quantity. This
vector quantity describes the speed of an object and its direction of motion.
Answer: velocity

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 9 of 11
13. The narrator of this novel remembers playing checkers with Jane Gallagher and wants to protect his
sister. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this American coming-of-age novel whose narrator, Holden Caulfield, leaves Pencey Prep and
shows disdain for “phonies.”
Answer: The Catcher in the Rye
[10] Though Holden Caulfield wants to protect this girl, his younger sister, she proves herself to be the
more mature sibling.
Answer: Phoebe Caulfield
[10] This man wrote “A Perfect Day for Bananafish" and Franny and Zooey in addition to The Catcher in
the Rye.
Answer: J(erome) D(avid) Salinger

14. Bridges are often important military objectives, as they can create chokepoints to slow an army's
advance or retreat. For 10 points each,
[10] In 312 CE, Constantine I soundly defeated Maxentius at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge, which
spans this major river of Rome. Maxentius drowned in this river's waters during the battle.
Answer: Tiber River
[10] A month before the 1066 Battle of Hastings, Harald Hardrada was killed by Harold Godwinson's
army at this battle on the River Terwent.
Answer: Battle of Stamford Bridge
[10] In 1297, this kingdom defended its freedom at Stirling Bridge by routing a surrounded English army.
This kingdom's forces at Stirling Bridge were led by Andrew Moray and William Wallace.
Answer: Kingdom of Scotland

15. [MODERATOR: do not reveal the alternate answer to Part 1 if teams do not give it.]
This theory allows for the geometries of molecules to be determined from their Lewis structures. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this theory which assumes that electron domains in a molecule will arrange themselves so they
experience the least repulsion.
Answer: VSEPR theory ["vesper" theory] (also accept valence-shell electron pair repulsion theory)
[10] These kinds of electrons, which come from their namesake "shell," appear in Lewis structures and
affect molecular geometries. Oxygen has six of this kind of electron, while sodium has one.
Answer: valence electrons
[10] A water molecule has this geometry because it has two bonding and two nonbonding electron
domains.
Answer: bent

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 10 of 11
16. Answer some questions about painters of landscapes, for 10 points each.
[10] This founder of impressionism painted several landscapes of his garden in Giverny that prominently
feature water lilies.
Answer: (Oscar-)Claude Monet (do not accept “Manet”)
[10] Thomas Cole, the painter of landscapes such as The Oxbow and The Titan’s Goblet, founded this
American school of art named after a New York waterway.
Answer: Hudson River School
[10] This English painter created several landscapes of Dedham Vale and depicted a wagon crossing the
river Stour in The Hay Wain.
Answer: John Constable
17. The cities of Saint Petersburg and Tallinn lie on the shores of this body of water, which is the
southern border of its namesake country. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this European gulf on which Helsinki also lies.
Answer: Gulf of Finland
[10] Another city on the Gulf of Finland is Narva, which lies roughly equidistant between Tallinn and St.
Petersburg on the border between these two nations.
Answer: Estonia and Russia (both underlined parts required)
[10] The Gulfs of Finland and Bothnia are arms of this sea, which lies west of Estonia, Latvia, and
Lithuania.
Answer: Baltic Sea
18. For 10 points each, give the following about the work of Emile Durkheim.
[10] Durkheim sought to create a purely scientific approach to this social science, the study of human
behavior in group settings.
Answer: sociology
[10] Durkheim's most famous sociological study dealt with this phenomenon, the intentional ending of
one's own life. Durkheim's study showed that, among other comparisons, soldiers performed it more often
than civilians.
Answer: suicide
[10] Durkheim described one cause of suicide by this French term, which describes a state in which
individuals feel a lack of social structure and guidance.
Answer: anomie (accept word forms like anomic)
19. For 10 points each, give the following about early American agriculture.
[10] The Jamestown colony was heavily supported by the export of this crop, which was grown by John
Rolfe and introduced to Europe by Sir Walter Raleigh.
Answer: tobacco
[10] Tobacco rivaled a certain textile crop as the primary export of the South until 1793, when this
machine simplified production of a certain textile crop by quickly separating the seeds from the fiber.
Answer: cotton gin (prompt on "gin")
[10] This businessman invented the cotton gin in 1793.
Answer: Eli Whitney

SCOP Novice 5

Round 1
Page 11 of 11
20. This technique was used to decorate the Book of Hours. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this technique, in which the images, borders, or letters of a book are decorated with bright
paint or gold and silver leaf. It creates namesake “manuscripts” and can also mean “to light up.”
Answer: illumination (accept word forms such as illuminate; accept illuminated manuscripts)
[10] Medieval monks frequently illuminated this holy book of Christianity, which is composed of Old and
New Testaments.
Answer: Holy Bible
[10] Illuminated Bibles largely stopped being produced with the invention of moveable type, which was
first used by this German printer.
Answer: Johannes (Gensfleisch zur Laden zum) Gutenberg

SCOP Novice 5

