2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 1
Tossups
1. This composer based an opera on William Hogarth's engravings of A Rake's Progress.
This composer of the neoclassical ballet Pulcinella included the movement
"Evocation of the Ancestors" in another work that sees the "chosen one" dance
herself (*) to death to polytonal music; that work sparked a riot at its Paris premiere. For 10
points, name this Russian composer of the ballets The Firebird and The Rite of Spring.
Answer: Igor Stravinsky
2. This man succeeded his brother Carloman, and this opponent of Desiderius ended
Lombard influence in Italy at the Battle of Pavia. The Treaty of Verdun divided his land
among his grandsons, and Einhard’s biography of this man recounts how this son of
(*) Pepin the Short and grandson of Charles Martel was crowned “Emperor of the Romans”
in 800 by Pope Leo III. For 10 points, name this Carolingian ruler who united Western
Europe as King of the Franks.
Answer: Charlemagne (accept Charles I; accept Charles the Great; accept Carolus
Magnus)
3. This work's second chapter improves on the symbolic method and the cipher method
using an example experienced at Bellevue involving a bolded formula of
trimethylamine that led to an infected left shoulder. That example, known as (*) "Irma's
Injection," was experienced by the author himself on a summer night. The Oedipus complex
is discussed in, for 10 points, what landmark text in psychoanalysis, a study of the mind
during sleep written by Sigmund Freud?
Answer: The Interpretation of Dreams (or Die Traumdeutung)
4. A popular activity in this game is spleefing. Patches to this game frequently “remove
Herobrine” [“HAIR”-oh-brinn], a ghost rumored to be Notch’s dead brother. Players in
this game create (*) Nether Portals with obsidian and use redstone to make powered rails.
Zombies and creepers spawn at night in this game, threatening the only playable character,
Steve. For 10 points, name this Mojang sandbox game featuring one cubic meter blocks.
Answer: Minecraft
5. This figure is left in China by his nephew in this character’s Farther Adventures, and
he regrets selling a boy named Xury after being rescued from slavery in Salee. This
man lives for twenty-eight years near the mouth of the Orinoco River, and he is
rescued by (*) pirates along with his native servant after being shipwrecked on a desert
island. For 10 points, Daniel Defoe wrote The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of this
man from York, a companion to Friday.
Answer: Robinson Crusoe
6. This quantity is subtracted from a related quantity to find the Lagrangian; those
quantities are added to find the Hamiltonian. One form of this quantity is proportional
to the square of the displacement of a spring; that (*) “elastic” type is given by one half k
x squared, while the gravitational type is given by mgh. Denoted U, for 10 points, name this
energy a physical system has because of its configuration, contrasted with kinetic energy.
Answer: potential energy (prompt on potential; prompt on U before “U”; prompt on V)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 2
7. Gouverneur Morris was an early proponent of this structure that cut through
Montezuma Marsh on its path through the Mohawk Valley. It was derided by its critics
as “DeWitt Clinton’s big (*) ditch,” but this structure’s completion in 1825 helped make
New York City the largest port in the United States. The Hudson River was connected to
Buffalo by, for 10 points, what canal that ends at a namesake Great Lake?
Answer: Erie Canal
8. The nucleus of an immature one of these cells is called a germinal vesicle, and one of
these structures is released during the luteinizing hormone surge. They mature
through oogenesis, and these cells contribute all organelles to the (*) zygote. Polar
bodies result during the development of this cell, but it is shed with the uterine lining in
menstruation. For 10 points, name this cell that combines with the sperm in fertilization, the
female sex cell.
Answer: Ovum (accept ova or egg cell)
9. This author compiled arguments against the Roman Catholic church in his
Philosophical Dictionary and argued that "If God did not exist, it would be necessary
to invent him." In his most famous work, the idea that "noses were made to (*) support
spectacles" is advanced by Dr. Pangloss, who believes that this is the "best of all possible
worlds." For 10 points, name this French Enlightenment thinker and author of Candide.
Answer: Voltaire (or Francois-Marie Arouet)
10. The Danaides [dan-AH-ee-dees] pour water into a vast pot in this location, where the
Cumaean Sibyl brings Aeneas to meet Anchises [an-KIH-sees]. Pirithous is tricked
into staying in this location, which contains the river (*) Lethe [LEH-thee], representing
oblivion. Elysium and Tartarus are portions of this land. It is reached with help of Charon
and guarded by Cerberus, a three-headed dog. Persephone is the queen of, for 10 points,
what Greco-Roman underworld ruled by a namesake god?
Answer: Hades (accept Greek underworld or Greco-Roman underworld before that term
is read; accept Tartarus before “Aeneas” is read; prompt on “underworld” before it is
mentioned; prompt on “hell”)

Half Time
11. This city’s Galata Bridge spans the Golden Horn, an inlet of the Bosporus that passes
by the Topkapi Palace. The Sea of Marmara splits this city into Thracian and
Anatolian regions in Europe and Asia, respectively, and religious buildings in this city
include the (*) Hagia Sophia and the Blue Mosque. For 10 points, name this city once
known as Byzantium and Constantinople, the largest city in Turkey.
Answer: Istanbul

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 3
12. Operations Coronet and Olympic attempted to perform this action. Two attempts at
this action were stopped at the Battles of Bun’ei and Koan; in those battles, Mongol
fleets under Kublai Khan were repelled by a “divine wind.” A World War II plan to do
this was abandoned after the (*) Enola Gay dropped an atomic bomb. The “kamikaze”
protected against, for 10 points, what military action that seeks to conquer an island nation
east of Korea?
Answer: invasion of Japan (accept any equivalent that indicates Japan getting invaded;
prompt on partial answers; accept Nippon or Nihon for Japan)
13. In one work by this author, the narrator observes skull-shaped markings on the back
of a scarab that bit William Legrand. In one of this author’s short stories, a shrouded
figure infiltrates Prince Prospero’s masquerade, and another story by this man sees
(*) Madeline rise from her tomb to attack her brother, Roderick. “The Gold-Bug” and “The
Masque of the Red Death” are by, for 10 points, what American author of “The Fall of the
House of Usher?”
Answer: Edgar Allan Poe
14. This astronomer described how nesting the Platonic solids within spheres could
model the six known planets of the solar system. This author of Mysterium
Cosmographicum argued that, during equal intervals of time, planets sweep out (*)
equal portions of their elliptical orbits. Data collected by Tycho Brahe was used by, for 10
points, what German astronomer who devised three laws of planetary motion?
Answer: Johannes Kepler
15. One part of this event commemorates a journey between Safa and Marwa. A
shortened version of this event is called the Umra, which ends with participants
cutting their hair. This rite requires believers to wear ihram as they walk around the (*)
Ka’aba [kha-ah-bah] and celebrate Allah saving Hajar and Isma’il [ees-mah-eel] by drinking
water from the Zamzam Well. For 10 points, name this Pillar of Islam, in which adherents
take a holy pilgrimage to Mecca.
Answer: performing the Hajj (accept Umra before mention; prompt on “(fifth) Pillar of Islam”
before mention; prompt on “pilgrimage (to Mecca)” before mention)
16. The graphs of these types of functions are used to approximate integrals in
Simpson's rule. The discriminant of this type of polynomial determines the number of
real and imaginary roots in the polynomial, and has the form (*) b squared minus 4ac.
For 10 points, name these second-degree polynomial functions with parabolic graphs, which
can be written in the form a x squared plus b x plus c.
Answer: quadratic polynomials or quadratic equations (accept degree 2 polynomials or
degree 2 equations until “second-degree”)
17. Early in this man's administration, he fired the entire White House Travel Office. He
allegedly made an illegal loan to Susan McDougal, a partner in a land deal named
Whitewater, and in another case, (*) Linda Tripp provided evidence of perjury that led this
President to be impeached by the House. An inappropriate relationship with Monica
Lewinsky blemished the legacy of, for 10 points, what U.S. President, the husband of Hillary
Rodham?
Answer: William Jefferson “Bill” Clinton

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 4
18. The Goldhammer-Herzfeld ratio of these substances is nearly one. The oxides of
these elements are used in glassmaking, and these elements are used to dope
semiconductors. As it is lustrous yet brittle, (*) selenium is sometimes considered in this
group, which includes germanium, boron and silicon along the staircase of the periodic table.
For 10 points, give this term for elements with both metal and non-metal properties.
Answer: metalloids (accept semimetals)
19. In this novel, Maurice de Bracy captures Cedric of Rotherwood and his ward, and
Brian de Bois-Guilbert dies of his “contending passions” when he must fight a man
defending the daughter of Isaac of York. The Black Knight reveals that he is King (*)
Richard at the end of this novel, and Rebecca visits Lady Rowena after her marriage to the
title Saxon, Wilfred. For 10 points, name this novel about a title knight written by Sir Walter
Scott.
Answer: Ivanhoe
20. This material was used in an unfinished work that shows a Greek messenger god
holding a baby on his left arm. That work, Hermes with the Infant Dionysus, is by
Praxiteles, who was once thought to have sculpted another work in this medium
portraying (*) Aphrodite. A group of statues in this medium were collected by the Earl of
Elgin from the Parthenon. For 10 points, name this material used for Ancient Greek
sculptures like the Venus de Milo.
Answer: marble

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 5
Bonuses
1. Mines of the sodium nitrate form of this commodity in the Atacama Desert led to conflict in
the 19th century. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this nitrate-based oxidizing material used in the production of gunpowder before
industrial production of ammonia became viable.
Answer: saltpeter
[10] This 1879-1883 war, fought over Peruvian saltpeter mines, ended with Bolivia losing its
coast on a namesake body of water.
Answer: War of the Pacific (Ocean)
[10] After defeating Peru and Bolivia in the War of the Pacific, this narrow country west of
Argentina expanded its northern border, gaining significant saltpeter resources in the
Atacama Desert.
Answer: Chile
2. This mathematician’s most famous theorem was conjectured in the margin of a book, in
which he had no room to write out the proof. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this French mathematician, whose “last theorem” states that no three positive
integers a, b, and c can satisfy an+bn=cn [“a to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n”] for
any integer n greater than 2.
Answer: Pierre de Fermat [fair-mah]
[10] Triples a, b, and c satisfying that equation for n equals two therefore satisfy this
theorem, which states that the sum of the squares of a right triangle’s legs equals the
square of its hypotenuse.
Answer: Pythagorean Theorem
[10] This British mathematician proved Fermat’s last theorem in 1993.
Answer: Sir Andrew (John) Wiles
3. This country protested Iran's breaking of UN resolutions about its nuclear program by
closing its embassy in Tehran in September 2012. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this North American nation led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper from Ottawa.
Answer: Canada
[10] This Canadian province held elections in September 2012; they were won by a party led
by Pauline Marois that favors separating this province from Canada.
Answer: Quebec
[10] During her campaign, Marois had pinned a square of red felt to her lapel in support of
this type of protester. Several of these protesters were pepper sprayed by police at UCDavis during a 2011 Occupy Wall Street protest.
Answer: Student protesters

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 6
4. This novel opens in the village of Ndotsheni [n-doht-SHAY-nee], when a letter from
Theophilus Msimangu [m-see-MON-goo] informs Stephen Kumalo that his sister, Gertrude,
is ill. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 1948 novel in which Arthur Jarvis, a white activist for racial unity, is
accidentally murdered by Stephen's son, Absalom.
Answer: Cry, the Beloved Country
[10] This author of Too Late the Phalarope decried the racism of his homeland in Cry, the
Beloved Country.
Answer: Alan Paton
[10] Cry, the Beloved Country is primarily set in this large city, in which Gertrude works as a
prostitute and John Kumalo speaks for the rights of black South Africans.
Answer: Johannesburg
5. Colligative properties depend only on this quantity. For 10 points each:
[10] This property of solutions measures the amount of solute dissolved in a solution. It can
be measured in terms of molarity or molality.
Answer: concentration
[10] One colligative property is the elevation of this point. For water it is 100 degrees Celsius.
Answer: boiling point (accept word forms)
[10] This value, symbolized i, measures how solute particles affect colligative properties. For
ionic compounds, it is usually the number of ions per formula unit.
Answer: Van’t hoff factor
6. Victoria Woodhull named this man her running mate on the Equal Rights Party presidential
ticket in 1872. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this abolitionist and former slave who described his experiences in brilliant
orations and the autobiography Narrative of the Life.
Answer: Frederick Douglass
[10] Douglass was inspired by William Lloyd Garrison's The Liberator to publish this
abolitionist newspaper.
Answer: The North Star
[10] Douglass led a Freedman's Bank during this post-Civil War era, during which the
Radical Republican-dominated Congress pushed for reforms improving the rights of former
slaves.
Answer: Reconstruction
7. This poem describes a musician who “played a sad raggy tune like a musical fool.” For
10 points each,
[10] Name this poem, whose speaker hears a piano player “droning a drowsy
syncopated tune” and “rocking back and forth to a mellow croon.”
Answer: The Weary Blues
[10] “The Weary Blues” is by this American poet of “The Negro Speaks of Rivers,” who
questioned in another poem “what happens to a dream deferred?”
Answer: (James Mercer) Langston Hughes
[10] Langston Hughes belongs to this literary movement of the 1920s and 30s, which
celebrated African-American heritage in its namesake New York neighborhood.
Answer: Harlem Renaissance

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 7
8. A Judean exile was asked to interpret the words, “Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin” [MEH-nay
MEH-nay TEH-kel oo-FAR-seen]. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this phenomenon, which appeared mysteriously at a feast of the Babylonian king
Belshazzar.
Answer: the appearance of (a hand) writing on the wall (accept clear knowledge
equivalents)
[10] This man interpreted the writing on the wall as well as the dreams of Nebuchadnezzar.
During the reign of Darius, this man survived being thrown into a pit full of lions.
Answer: Daniel (accept Belteshazzar)
[10] This son of Jacob interpreted the Pharaoh’s dreams about cows and corn, and was sold
into slavery after his father gave him a brilliantly-colored coat.
Answer: Joseph
9. He created series of paintings depicting the English Houses of Parliament and Rouen
Cathedral. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this French artist, whose painting Impression: Sunrise gave its name to the
Impressionist movement.
Answer: (Oscar) Claude Monet (accept Claude Oscar Monet)
[10] Monet painted a series that show these plants near a Japanese bridge in his flower
garden at Giverny.
Answer: water lilies (prompt on “lilies”)
[10] Monet also often painted small groups of these objects dusted with snow or lit by the
morning sun in a field.
Answer: haystacks (accept grainstacks)
10. This man argued that the industrial revolution had an overall negative effect, in part due to
the rise of disease among laborers. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this German philosopher who discussed class struggles in The Condition of the
Working Class in England.
Answer: Friedrich Engels
[10] Friedrich Engels collaborated on political theories on class struggles with this author,
whose works include Das Kapital.
Answer: Karl Marx
[10] Marx and Engels co-authored this 1848 work, which argues that the bourgeoisie are
exploiting the proletariat. The book ends by commanding “workers of the world, unite!”
Answer: The Communist Manifesto (accept Das Kommunistische Manifest)
11. This son of Odin was a fierce warrior. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Norse god of thunder.
Answer: Thor (accept Donar)
[10] Thor wielded this short-handled hammer, which returned to him whenever he threw it.
Answer: Mjölnir [m-YOL-neer]
[10] Thor used Hymir’s boat to try to kill this enormous son of Loki, who is destined to kill
Thor at Ragnarök.
Answer: Jörmungandr [YOR-mun-gahn-dur] (accept the Midgard Serpent)

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 8
12. These events often occur at dip-slip and strike-slip faults. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these geological events triggered by releases of energy from Earth’s crust that
create seismic waves.
Answer: earthquakes
[10] The point on the Earth’s surface directly above the origin of an earthquake is given this
name.
Answer: epicenter
[10] Scientists argue that recent earthquakes in Ohio have been triggered by the disposal of
waste hydraulic fluid used in this process of extracting underground natural gas.
Answer: hydraulic fracturing or fracking (accept word forms)
13. This team won the 2010 National League Central to make the playoffs for the first time in 15
years; they were promptly no-hit by Roy Halladay in the playoffs. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this team, which won the 2012 NL Central with help from Joey Votto, Brandon
Phillips and reliever Aroldis Chapman.
Answer: Cincinnati Reds [accept either underlined part]
[10] Chapman signed with the Reds after defecting from this country. In 2012, emigrants
from this country were enraged at Miami Marlins manager Ozzie Guillen for “supporting”
Fidel Castro.
Answer: Republic of Cuba
[10] This manager of the Reds has been criticized for not using Chapman as a starter. In a
previous managing job, he was criticized for overusing pitchers Mark Prior and Kerry Wood.
Answer: Johnnie B. "Dusty" Baker, Jr.
14. This figure answered the Sphinx’s riddle about an animal that walks on four feet in the
morning, two in the afternoon, and three in the evening. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this character who kills his father, Laius, and marries his mother, Jocasta.
Answer: Oedipus (accept Oedipus Rex)
[10] Oedipus appears in a cycle of three Sophocles plays named for this ancient Greek citystate. Aeschylus [ES-kih-lus] wrote a play entitled Seven Against this city.
Answer: Thebes (accept Theban plays; accept Seven Against Thebes)
[10] The second Theban play is titled for Oedipus at this location of his death, where he
comes with his daughters Ismene [is-MAY-nee] and Antigone [an-TIH-goh-nee] after
blinding himself.
Answer: Colonus (accept Coloneus; accept Oedipus at Colonus or Oedipus Coloneus)
15. For 10 points each, name the following British Prime Ministers.
[10] This man attended the Yalta Conferences with Stalin and Roosevelt as leader of the
United Kingdom through World War II.
Answer: Sir Winston (Leonard Spencer-)Churchill
[10] Nicknamed the “milk snatcher” for ending a milk program for school aged children, this
prime minister led the United Kingdom in the Falklands War against Argentina.
Answer: Baroness Margaret Hilda Thatcher
[10] This PM was responsible for introducing minimum wage and civil partnership to the UK.
His involvement in the Cash for Honours scandal may have lead to his 2007 resignation.
Answer: Anthony Charles Lynton “Tony” Blair

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 9
16. This process causes a buildup of lactic acid in exercising muscles. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this inefficient, often anaerobic method of energy production. Yeast cells use this
process, consuming carbohydrates like sugar and creating byproducts like ethanol.
Answer: Fermentation
[10] Instead of fermentation, aerobic organisms use the citric acid cycle to generate energy.
One crucial step of the cycle is the production of citrate from water, oxaloacetate, and this
carbon-containing molecule.
Answer: Acetyl coenzyme A or acetyl-CoA
[10] Production of Acetyl-CoA, and the rest of the citric acid cycle, occurs in the matrix of this
organelle, the “powerhouse” of the eukaryotic cell.
Answer: Mitochondria
17. The pitch drop experiment utilizes bitumen, a very slow moving example of this entity. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this state of matter in which objects can flow and do not resist changes in shape,
encompassing liquids and gases.
Answer: fluids
[10] The resistance of fluid against stress is measured by this quantity, which can be thought
of as the “thickness” of a liquid.
Answer: viscosity (accept word forms of viscous)
[10] This type of stress is applied toward the center of substances thus shrinking it. In fluids,
this stress is also known as pressure.
Answer: compressive stress (accept word forms)
18. This composer's fourteenth string quartet was based on his earlier work "Death and the
Maiden." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Austrian composer who died at the age of 31, having only fully orchestrated
two movements of his Unfinished Symphony.
Answer: Franz Schubert
[10] Schubert's "Death and the Maiden" was originally a work for piano and voice in this
genre, from the German for "song." Schubert's other works in this genre include “Gretchen
at the Spinning Wheel.”
Answer: lieder (prompt on art song)
[10] Schubert's work nicknamed "The Great C Major" is one of these numbered works, the
subject of an apparent curse afflicting many composers. Other examples of this type of
numbered work include Dvorak's From the New World.
Answer: 9th symphony (prompt on partial answer)
19. The introduction to these works seeks to discuss "the insufficiency of the present
Confederation to preserve [the] Union" and is signed "Publius." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this set of 85 essays that argued for the ratification of the Constitution that were
written by three American founding fathers.
Answer: The Federalist Papers
[10] This colleague of James Madison and John Jay wrote the majority of the Federalist
Papers, including No. 84, which argues against the need for a Bill of Rights.
Answer: Alexander Hamilton
[10] As the first man to hold this executive position, Hamilton created the Bank of the United
States and argued for a whiskey tax. Henry Paulson, a former CEO of investment bank
Goldman Sachs, served in this position prior to current holder Tim Geithner.
Answer: Secretary of the Treasury

2012-13 SCOP Novice
Round 5: Page 10
20. Her first novel, The Voyage Out, features the title character of this author’s Mrs. Dalloway.
For 10 points each,
[10] Name this twentieth-century English author of Jacob’s Room, who wrote about the
unfortunate fate of Shakespeare’s hypothetical sister in A Room of One’s Own.
Answer: (Adeline) Virginia Woolf née Stephen
[10] Woolf’s style was influenced by her father, Sir Leslie Stephen, who wrote this type of
nonfiction. This literary style describes a work in which an author describes the life of
another, real person.
Answer: biography (accept word forms; do not accept autobiography)
[10] Woolf wrote this work as a fictional biography of her lover, Vita Sackville-West. It relates
four hundred years of the life of the title figure, who is born as a boy in Elizabethan England
and grows into a woman of the twentieth century.
Answer: Orlando: A Biography

