2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. In one myth, this figure fell in love with Leuce and turned her into a white poplar tree after her
death. Pirithous tried to abduct this god’s wife, and was consequently trapped in a rock for
eternity. This god abducted his wife from (*) Demeter and forced her to stay with him after she ate
pomegranate seeds. For 10 points, name this husband of Persephone, the Greek god of a namesake
underworld.
Answer: Hades (accept Pluto before “Greek” is read)
2. This man used scotchpak to make his Silver Clouds exhibit, and made Silver Car Crash as part
of his Death and Disaster series. This artist did much of his work at The Factory, where he painted a
set of fifty images called the (*) Marilyn Diptych using silkscreen. He created thirty-two paintings with
legends like “Chicken” and “Tomato.” For 10 points, name this American Pop artist who painted
Campbell’s Soup Cans
Answer: Andrew “Andy” Warhol(a), Jr
3. This country’s Petsamo province was ceded to its eastern neighbor in 1922, but it recaptured
much of Karelia during the Continuation War. This country’s Sami people live in its province of
Lapland, which was the site of late fighting against the Nazis. Fighters from this country used (*)
“Molotov cocktails” against Soviet bombings during the Winter War. For 10 points, name this
Scandinavian country with capital at Helsinki.
Answer: Finland (accept Suomi)
4. This work’s protagonist meets Count Pococurante, an art and book collector who hates art and
literature, and he receives a hundred red sheep when he leaves El Dorado. The main character is
forced to leave the castle of Baron (*) Thunder-ten-Tronckh when he kisses Cunegonde, and Dr.
Pangloss believes “all is for the best in this best of all possible worlds” in, for 10 points, this novella by
Voltaire.
Answer: Candide: or Optimism (accept Candide, ou l’optimisme)

Round 3
Page 2 of 10
5. Pius X [the tenth] justified this practice with the Gospel of John, in which Jesus breathes on his
disciples and tells them to “forgive.” Since Vatican II [“two”], this ritual may be performed while
facing a priest. The Act of (*) Contrition may be read during this practice, which often ends with an
order to pray for forgiveness by reciting a number of Hail Marys. For 10 points, name this Catholic act of
admitting one’s sins to a priest.
Answer: confession (accept Sacrament of Penance and Reconciliation; accept Sacrament of
Reconciliation; prompt on “penance” or “reconciliation” alone)
6. This city is home to the Tsing Ma Bridge, and more than 100,000 people live on its Lantau
Island. This city, south of Shenzhen on the Kowloon Peninsula, was ceded to Britain in the Treaty
of Nanking. This large city on the Pearl River Delta lies east of (*) Macau, a "Special Administrative
Region" like this city. For 10 points, name this city, which has existed as “one country with two systems”
since it was transferred to Chinese ownership in 1997.
Answer: Hong Kong
7. The question “How many piano tuners are in Chicago?” is one of this man’s namesake
“problems.” He names a set of particle statistics with Dirac that contrast with Bose-Einstein
statistics, predicted the emission of neutrinos in beta decay, and was the (*) first to achieve a nuclear
chain reaction at the University of Chicago. For 10 points, name this Italian-American physicist who
names a national lab in Batavia, Illinois.
Answer: Enrico Fermi
8. One office run by this department kept a secret, months-long waiting list and an "official" list
that was shown to Washington, D.C.. Former Procter & Gamble CEO Bob McDonald became the
Secretary of this department in 2014 after the (*) resignation of Eric Shinseki due to controversy over
long delays for treatment. For 10 points, name this Cabinet department that provides benefits, primarily
health care, to members of the U.S. armed forces.
Answer: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (accept VA)
9. The low density of this body is not explained by the Condensation Theory of its formation. This
body’s small magnetic field may have been generated by collisions, such as the one that created its
Sea of Showers impact basin. The Ranger 8 crashed into its (*) Sea of Tranquility. The gravity of this
body is too weak to hold an atmosphere but large enough to cause ocean tides on Earth. For 10 points,
name this only natural satellite of Earth.
Answer: Earth’s moon (accept Luna)
10. In the "Theory of Composition," this poem's author explains why this poem's "Prophet" seems
like "a demon that is dreaming" but can only say one word. The speaker asks the title creature to
return to “Night’s Plutonian shore,” but it stays on the “pallid bust of (*) Pallas” in his room. This
poem's speaker laments the loss of “dear Lenore” while the title bird repeats “nevermore” in, for 10
points, what poem by Edgar Allan Poe?
Answer: The Raven

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 3 of 10
11. The 1638 Portsmouth Compact established a settlement that would become part of this colony.
Its founder published The Bloody Tenet of Persecution in 1644 and purchased land for this colony
from the Narragansett Indians. Anne Hutchinson (*) fled religious persecution in Massachusetts to
join this colony with the support of Roger Williams, its founder. For 10 points, name this colony in New
England with capital Providence.
Answer: Rhode Island (and Providence Plantations)
12. The neurotransmitter GABA [GAB-uh] is a gamma-type of this class of organic molecules,
which were the most complex products of the Miller-Urey experiment. The substitution of a polar
one of these with valine in hemoglobin causes sickle-cell disease, and these molecules can be linked
by disulfide bridges and (*) peptide bonds. These molecules are represented by codons and joined
together during translation at the ribosome. For 10 points, name this group of 20 building blocks of
proteins.
Answer: amino acids (prompt on protein before “valine” is mentioned)
13. This leader's sister, Arsinoe, was controversially killed on the steps of the Temple of Artemis.
This leader's son, Caesarion, lived briefly as the last Pharaoh of Egypt one year after this leader
ordered a decisive retreat from (*) Octavian's navy at the Battle of Actium with her lover, Marc
Antony. For 10 points, name this Egyptian Pharaoh who, shortly after Marc Antony's suicide, legendarily
killed herself by snakebite.
Answer: Cleopatra VII Philopator
14. This man introduced dot notation to indicate derivatives, which are used in a method named for
him to recursively find roots of a function. He generalized the binomial theorem to all real
exponents. Simultaneously with Gottfried (*) Leibniz [LIBE-nits], he invented calculus, whose
principles are outlined in his Principia Mathematica. For 10 points, name this English mathematician,
whose mathematical insights led him to develop his three laws of motion.
Answer: Sir Isaac Newton
15. This instrument's altissimo register is accessed by overblowing on the fifth harmonic, done by
lifting the top left finger. Its lowest register is named for the chalumeau, an older version of this
instrument. An unusual glissando on this instrument opens (*) Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue. Benny
Goodman played, for 10 points, what single reed woodwind whose B-flat version is held and played
similarly to the double-reed oboe?
Answer: clarinet
16. Characters in this novel go to the Malpais reservation in New Mexico, where they meet Linda,
whose son remembers her relationship with Popé while watching Three Weeks in a Helicopter. This
novel opens by describing the Bokanovsky process, and in this work, (*) Helmholtz Watson is exiled
to the Falkland Islands by Mustapha Mond. John the Savage and Bernard Marx oppose the drug Soma in,
for 10 points, what dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley?
Answer: Brave New World

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 4 of 10
17. In one video, a bad Arnold Schwarzenegger impersonator sings this song set to scenes from
Batman and Robin. In one parody of this song, "It's in my head, it's in my dreams," is sung by a
tormented father. John Travolta called this song's performer (*) "Adele Dazeem" at the 2014 Oscars,
where it won Best Original Song. Idina Menzel sings that "the cold never bothered me anyway" in, for 10
points, what hit song from Disney's 2013 film Frozen?
Answer: Let It Go
18. A character in this novel says he is “going to America” before shooting himself, and
Lebeziatnikov [leh-bets-yat-nih-koff] reveals the framing of Marmeladov’s daughter. Svidrigailov
[svih-drih-”guy”-loff] is shot at by Dounia in this work, which sees Porfiry Petrovich’s mind games
and Sonya’s urgings provoke the protagonist to confesses to the murder of the (*) pawnbroker
Alyona Ivanova and her sister Lizaveta. Raskolnikov appears in, for 10 points, what Fyodor Dostoyevsky
novel?
Answer: Crime and Punishment (accept Prestuplenie i nakazanie)
19. The D1 and D2 Fraunhofer spectral lines form this element’s namesake “doublet.” This metal
can be produced via the Castner process or a Downs cell, and its azide is used in the airbags of cars.
This element glows bright (*) yellow in the flame test, and baking soda is this element’s bicarbonate.
For 10 points, name this element which makes up table salt with chloride, has atomic number 11, and has
atomic symbol Na.
Answer: sodium (accept Na before mention)
20. Operation Neptune Spear was this event's codename, while the codeword "Geronimo" stood for
its main objective. A chance for this event in Kandahar was declined due to civilian danger,
according to remarks by Bill Clinton the day before the (*) 9-11 attacks. The USS Carl Vinson was
used to bury the subject of this event at sea. For 10 points, name this 2011 action of Navy SEAL Team
Six in Abbottabad, Pakistan against a former leader of al-Qaeda.
Answer: the killing (or equivalents) of Osama bin Laden

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 5 of 10
Bonuses
1. In 1845, a British flagstaff was controversially cut down in this modern country, sparking a year of
war. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Oceanic nation consisting of a North Island, South Island, and many small islands roughly
one thousand miles east of Australia.
Answer: New Zealand
[10] These native New Zealanders are often compared with Australian aborigines in terms of how they
were treated by Western colonists. The "Musket Wars" were a series of conflicts between these people in
the 19th century.
Answer: Maori
[10] The British colonists signed this treaty with the Maori in 1840, giving control of New Zealand to
Britain. Wording differences between the English and Maori versions of the treaty have led many to
believe it is invalid.
Answer: Treaty of Waitangi

2. These equations can be more easily determined with the steady state approximation. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name these equations that describe how quickly a reaction goes to completion. They include a
namesake constant times the concentrations of each reactant raised to a power.
Answer: rate laws (accept rate equations)
[10] This measure of concentration is used in rate laws. In it, concentration equals moles of solute divided
by liters of solution.
Answer: molarity (do not accept “molality”)
[10] Rate laws can predict this quantity, the amount of time in which 50% of the reactant becomes
product. In nuclear chemistry, it’s used to measure how quickly an isotope decays.
Answer: half-life

3. This quantity was designed in the aftermath of the Great Depression to measure the recovery of the
United States' economic power. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this measurement of the total value of all goods and services produced within a country in a
year.
Answer: Gross Domestic Product (do not accept gross national product or GNP)
[10] The expenditure method of calculating GDP includes the amount of private spending, commonly
referred to by this term. This component of GDP includes the value of purchased goods and services, but
not the value of new houses or business equipment, which are instead considered investment.
Answer: consumption
[10] GDP also includes the net amount of this trade activity, the shipping of goods to foreign countries.
Answer: net exports (accept word forms like exportation)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 6 of 10

4. Identify some authors who favored musical themes, for 10 points each.
[10] This poet of the Harlem Renaissance described walking down Lenox Avenue and hearing a “drowsy
syncopated tune” in the poem “Weary Blues.”
Answer: (James Mercer) Langston Hughes
[10] This Japanese author included a waiter who whistles The Thieving Magpie in his novel The Windup
Bird Chronicle, and used Beethoven’s Archduke Trio as a motif in his novel Kafka on the Shore.
Answer: Haruki Murakami (accept Murakami Haruki)
[10] This Russian author wrote about Pozdnyshev [POZ-nuh-shev], who kills his wife after she cheats on
him with a violinist in The Kreutzer Sonata. This man also wrote War and Peace.
Answer: Lev (or Leo) Nikolayevich Tolstoy

5. The ten-page paper "On the Number of Primes Less Than a Given Magnitude," published in 1859,
introduced an important conjecture in number theory that remains unproven today. For 10 points each,
[10] The paper was written by this German mathematician. He is also the namesake of a method of
summation, used to approximate the area of a curved region,that inspired the first conception of an
integral.
Answer: Bernhard Riemann (accept Riemann hypothesis, Riemann conjecture, Riemann sum, Riemann
integral, etc.)
[10] The paper introduces the Riemann zeta function, whose inputs are numbers of the form a+bi (“a plus
b i”), where a is called the real part and b is called the imaginary part; therefore, the inputs are this type of
number.
Answer: complex number(s)
[10] The Riemann zeta function is concerned with a pair of expressions studied by this earlier Swiss
mathematician, the namesake of the transcendental number e.
Answer: Leonhard Euler [OY-lur]

6. This poem was originally titled for a "Defense of" a fort that was shelled during the War of 1812, and
it was set to the tune of "To Anacreon in Heaven," a contemporary drinking song. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this song written by Francis Scott Key. It was declared the American national anthem by
President Hoover in 1931.
Answer: The Star-Spangled Banner
[10] Key was inspired to write the lyrics for The Star-Spangled Banner after seeing the flag rise above
this fort.
Answer: Fort McHenry
[10] Fort McHenry defends this Maryland city's harbor on the Chesapeake Bay.
Answer: Baltimore

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 7 of 10
7. In one work by this author, Lord Henry Wotton gives the protagonist a yellow book. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this author, who wrote of the artist Basil Hallward in The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Answer: Oscar Wilde
[10] Wilde also wrote this play, in which Algernon Moncrief proposes to Cecily, Jack Worthing proposes
to Gwendolen, and Lady Bracknell’s cucumber sandwiches are eaten.
Answer: The Importance of Being Earnest
[10] After being imprisoned for his affair with Lord Douglass, Wilde wrote this poem, which includes the
lines “for each man kills the thing he loves / yet each man does not die.”
Answer: Ballad of Reading Gaol ["jail"]
8. For 10 points each, give the following about attempts to make children listen to classical music.
[10] The title boy of this Sergei Prokofiev work is warned by his grandfather to be careful in the meadow,
lest he be eaten by the other title character, an animal represented orchestrally by French horns.
Answer: Peter and the Wolf
[10] In one movement of this 1940 Walt Disney film, Leopold Stokowski's Philadelphia Orchestra plays
Paul Dukas' [doo-KAH's] The Sorcerer's Apprentice as Mickey Mouse fails to control his magic spells.
Answer: Fantasia
[10] This English composer's The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra opens with a theme, then has
each section of the orchestra play a variation on that theme.
Answer: Benjamin Britten
9. This species’ genome has four pairs of chromosomes and the males have sex combs on their legs. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this model organism whose traits like white eyes and curly wings were extensively studied by
a Columbia University professor .
Answer: Drosophila melanogaster or the common fruit fly (accept vinegar fly)
[10] This scientist’s studies of Drosophila mutations inspired his concept of chromosomal crossing over.
Answer: Thomas Hunt Morgan
[10] Fruit flies, like humans, utilize these two chromosomes for determining the sex of individuals.
Answer: X and Y chromosomes
10. In one short story, Elizabeth Spencer writes that “August in [this state] is different than July...July
heat is furious, but in August the heat has killed even itself and lies dead over us.” For 10 points each,
[10] Name this U.S. state, the setting of Eudora Welty's "A Worn Path." The novels Light in August and
As I Lay Dying are set in this state’s fictional Yoknapatawpha [yawk-nah-pah-taw-fah] County.
Answer: Mississippi
[10] This Mississippi author wrote Light in August and As I Lay Dying, as well as The Reivers and several
works about Quentin Compson.
Answer: William Cuthbert Faulkner (or William Cuthbert Falkner)
[10] The Compson family appears in this Faulkner novel, in which Quentin, a student at Harvard, drowns
himself in the Charles River. This novel’s title is taken from Macbeth.
Answer: The Sound and the Fury

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 8 of 10
11. The Stanley Cup isn't the only hardware the NHL gives out! For 10 points each,
[10] The Hart Memorial Trophy is the official name of this NHL award, given to Sidney Crosby in 2014
and eight consecutive times to Wayne Gretzky.
Answer: Most Valuable Player
[10] The Vezina Trophy is given to the best player of this position. The league's GM's vote to decide this
award now, but until 1964, it was simply given to the primary player of this position for whichever team
gave up the fewest goals.
Answer: goaltender (or goalie)
[10] This trophy is awarded to the NHL "regular season champion" -- that is, the team with the most
standings points. The Boston Bruins won this in 2014 with 54 wins, 19 losses, and 9 shootout losses for
117 points.
Answer: Presidents' Trophy

12. Brutalism is an architectural style that uses massive concrete buildings to give an impression of
strength and modernity but, to many, it's incredibly outdated and ugly. For 10 points each,
[10] This city saw a seven-year debate over demolishing a Brutalist-inspired church on K Street; its
parishoners wanted to replace it with an updated building. Other Brutalist buildings here include FBI
Headquarters.
Answer: Washington, D.C.
[10] The Prentice Women's Hospital at Northwestern University in Evanston, just north of this large
Midwestern city, is also being torn down. This city's mayor, Rahm Emanuel, has supported its
replacement with a new medical facility.
Answer: Chicago, Illinois
[10] This city's downtown Mummers Theater was scheduled for demolition in 2014 thanks to flooding.
The site is roughly a mile from a memorial at the former Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, site of a
1995 bombing.
Answer: Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (prompt on "OKC")

13. When subjected to tensile stress, gold and silver generally have this property, while lead does not. For
10 points each,
[10] Give this term for the ability of a metal to be stretched into a wire. It's often compared with
malleability, the ability to be compressed into a flat sheet.
Answer: ductility (accept word forms like ductile)
[10] Tensile and compressive stresses, as well as twisting, bending, and changes in temperature, can cause
the metal to strain and change its shape, a process known by this general term. Rigid bodies do not
undergo this process.
Answer: deformation (accept word forms like deform)
[10] As stress increases, deformation goes through two stages: this stage, when the shape change can be
reversed, and plastic, when the shape change is irreversible. This adjective often describes materials, like
rubber, that return to their original shape when deformed.
Answer: elastic (accept word forms like elasticity)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 9 of 10
14. [MODERATOR: Do not reveal the alternate answers to part 1 if they are not given by players]
This structure was likely built on or near its namesake Mount in Jerusalem. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this building, which was planned by a warlike King of Israel and built by his son. This
building housed the Ark of the Covenant, which had formerly rested in the Tabernacle of Moses.
Answer: First Temple (accept Solomon’s Temple or Temple of Solomon; prompt on “Temple in
Jerusalem;” prompt on “Holy Temple;” prompt on “Temple” alone)
[10] The First Temple was built by this wise King of Israel, who consorted with the Queen of Sheba and
discovered a child’s real mother by threatening to cut the baby in half.
Answer: King Solomon (accept Schlomo; accept Suleyman; accept Jedediah)
[10] Solomon was Bathsheba’s second son by this king, who defeated the giant Goliath as a young man.
Answer: King David (accept Dawud)

15. This power was the subject of the 2005 Supreme Court case Kelo v. City of New London, which
resulted in ninety acres of homes being bulldozed; after the Great Recession, the land currently sits
vacant. For 10 points each,
[10] This two word phrase refers to the power of local governments to seize private property for public
use, such as the building of schools.
Answer: eminent domain
[10] The city of New London is about an hour's drive southeast of this state's capital city of Hartford.
Answer: Connecticut
[10] In 1965, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Estelle Griswold, a Planned Parenthood director who
argued that Connecticut's ban on this type of medicine was illegal. Foreshadowing Roe v. Wade's
legalization of abortion, the Supreme Court argued that the ban on this type of health care violated the
right to privacy.
Answer: contraception (accept birth control and any other equivalent that describes the prevention of
pregnancy; prompt on “the pill;” do not accept “abortion”)

16. El Greco painted a city from this country in his View of Toledo. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this European country, home to artists Salvador Dalí and Pablo Picasso.
Answer: Spain
[10] The Infanta Margarita poses in the center of Las Meninas, a painting by this Spanish court painter.
Answer: Diego (Rodriguez de Silva y) Velázquez
[10] This artist depicted Spanish citizens under attack from Napoleonic soldiers in his painting The Third
of May, 1808. His “Black Paintings” include a depiction of Saturn Devouring His Son.
Answer: Francisco (José de) Goya (y Lucientes)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 3
Page 10 of 10
17. These wars began at the First Battle of St. Albans, and they are named for the flowery badges of the
competing factions. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these wars between the House of Lancaster and House of York. They ended with the rise of
the House of Tudor.
Answer: War(s) of the Roses
[10] At the First Battle of St. Albans, the Yorkists captured the Lancastrian king, the sixth of this regnal
name. The House of Tudor provided the seventh and eighth kings of this name.
Answer: Henry (accept Henry VI, VII, and/or VIII)
[10] Richard III died at this 1485 battle when the relatively-neutral Stanley family, seeing Richard in
single combat, rushed in to assist Henry Tudor, who was then crowned King Henry VII. This decisive
battle essentially ended the War of the Roses.
Answer: Battle of Bosworth Field
18. This phenomenon travels through air at a speed of 343 meters per second at sea level. For 10 point
each,
[10] Name this audible vibration whose loudness can be expressed on the decibel scale.
Answer: sound
[10] Unlike light, sound traveling through air is this type of wave, because the air molecules are displaced
in the same direction the wave is moving.
Answer: longitudinal wave
[10] Dividing an object’s speed through air by the speed of sound yields this dimensionless number. The
supersonic Concorde reached 2 and the Space Shuttle reached 25 for this number.
Answer: Mach number (accept M or Ma)
19. At the end of this play, the title character is lauded as “the noblest Roman of them all.” For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this historical play by Shakespeare, in which the title Roman emperor is betrayed by senators
led by Cassius and Brutus.
Answer: The Tragedy of Julius Caesar
[10] In the play, a soothsayer warns Caesar to “beware” this day, on which he is assassinated.
Answer: the Ides of March (accept clear equivalents, like March 15)
[10] In the play, this wife of Caesar also foresees his death and tries to stop him from going to the Senate.
Answer: Calpurnia
20. This god’s heart became the morning star after he threw himself on a funeral pyre. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this Mesoamerican god, a feathered serpent who was the rival of Tezcatlipoca [tets-kaht-leepoh-kah].
Answer: Quetzalcoatl
[10] Quetzalcoatl [keht-sahl-koh-ah-tul] was a god of these people, who may have confused the arrival of
Hernan Cortes with the god’s return.
Answer: Aztec
[10] The Aztecs performed this religious practice in tribute to Huitzilopochtli [hoo-eets-ee-loh-pahk-tee].
When this practice was performed for Tlaloc, it required the death of crying children.
Answer: human sacrifice (accept clear equivalents; prompt on “sacrifice”)

SCOP Novice 5

