2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. John Keats wrote a poem about George Chapman’s translation of this author, who wrote about
unfortunate characters who eat Helios’s cattle in one of his works. This author wrote about the
“Wrath of Achilles” and about (*) Penelope, the mother of Telemachus, who undoes her weaving every
night as she waits for her husband to return to Ithaca after the Trojan War. For 10 points, identify this
author of The Iliad and The Odyssey.
Answer: Homeros
2. This ruler was supported and succeeded by the vizier Ay. This successor of Smenkhare reverted
many of the religious reforms made by his father, including the worship of Aten. After dying,
possibly in a chariot accident, he was buried in (*) KV62, a tomb discovered in 1922 by a team led by
Lord Carnavon and Howard Carter. For 10 points, name this son of Akhenaten, a boy Pharaoh of Egypt.
Answer: Tutankhamun (accept "King Tut")
3. One form of this action, Fajr [fah-jur], consists of 2 raka’at [ray-kah-aht] before sunrise. The
adhan is a call by the muezzin for people to perform this action, which is preceded by wudu, a
ritual washing. This action, led in congregation by the (*) imam, is the second pillar of Islam. For 10
points, name this religious practice, called salat in Arabic, that is performed five times each day while
facing Mecca.
Answer: (Islamic) prayer (accept salat before mention)
4. One king of this name was arrested in Varennes [vah-REN] while fleeing from a revolt. An
earlier king of this name was a child when the nobles rose against him in the Fronde uprising. The
House of Capet included five kings of this name. The last king of this name took power in the 1814
(*) Bourbon Restoration, and the longest serving king of this name was nicknamed "the Sun King." For
10 points, give this name shared by eighteen royal leaders of France.
Answer: Louis

Round 2
Page 2 of 10
5. This number is squared in the solution to the Basel problem. One experiment to calculate this
number exploits the Buffon's needle problem. Archimedes (*) approximated this number, the number
of radians in 180 degrees, by bounding it by the perimeters of 96-sided polygons, finding that it is less
than 22 over 7. For 10 points, give this ratio of a circle's circumference and diameter, an irrational number
approximately equal to 3.14.
Answer: pi
6. Clara sings that "Fish are jumpin' and the cotton is high" in this composer's song
"Summertime." He included bongos and maracas in his Cuban Overture, and he wrote songs like
“Embraceable You” with his brother (*) Ira. He improvised the piano part at the 1924 premiere of his
most famous work, a fusion of classical music and jazz. For 10 points, name this American composer of
Porgy and Bess and Rhapsody in Blue.
Answer: George Gershwin
7. In this work, David Gamut tries to teach beavers to sing psalms, and Heyward pretends to be a
medicine man so he can rescue Alice. Cora Munro is captured by Magua, who kills Uncas during a
failed rescue attempt by (*) Chingachgook and Natty Bumppo, who is also known as Hawkeye. For 10
points, identify this second novel in The Leatherstocking Tales, a work by James Fenimore Cooper.
Answer: The Last of the Mohicans
8. The instinctive palmar grasp reflex is this type of behavior in human babies, and Robert
Wiedersheim mistakenly included the pineal gland in his list of 86 of these structures. The muscles
that cause goosebumps may be this type of organ, as are (*) kiwi’s wings and the pelvic bones of
whales. The human tailbone and appendix are examples of, for 10 points, what type of structure that
served a role in an ancestor species but do not have a present function?
Answer: vestigial structures (accept "organs" or "behaviors" in place of "structures")
9. Philae was the center of this goddess’s cult. This goddess made a snake out of earth to bite Ra,
which forced Ra to give up his true name. This goddess searched for a tamarisk tree to find her
dead husband after he was tricked by (*) Set; she later reassembled thirteen pieces of that husband to
make him the god of the dead. For 10 points, name this Egyptian goddess, the mother of Horus and wife
of Osiris.
Answer: Isis (accept Aset, Eset, or Ese)
10. The Dulong-Petit law approximates the heat capacity of materials in this phase. Silicon dioxide
can be an example of the “amorphous” type of this phase, during which (*) sublimation can occur.
The phase diagram of water has a negative slope between this phase and the liquid phase. For 10 points,
name this phase of matter, exemplified by materials such as glass.
Answer: solid (accept crystals before “amorphous”)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 3 of 10
11. In this battle, Joshua Chamberlain ordered a bayonet charge to defend a hill. Richard Ewell
assaulted, but failed to take, Culp's Hill on each of the three days of this battle. Cemetery Ridge was
the site of (*) Pickett's Charge, a failed assault in this battle that represented the high water mark of the
Confederate invasion. For 10 points, name this July 1863 battle, the turning point of the Civil War, after
which Abraham Lincoln gave a famous address.
Answer: Battle of Gettysburg
12. A character in this work refuses a marriage proposal from St. John [sin-jin], and doubts Alice
Fairfax, who blames strange sounds on Grace Poole. Mr. Bocklehurst causes the death of (*) Helen
Burns, whom the protagonist meets at Lowood School in this novel. Bertha Mason was the first wife of
Edward Rochester, who eventually marries the protagonist of, for 10 points, this novel by Charlotte
Brontë.
Answer: Jane Eyre
13. In the background of this painting, a group of four men wearing red hats are rowing a boat. In
this painting, a man plays a trumpet behind two soldiers who are walking away from the viewer. A
little girl in white looks directly at the viewer, and a woman in the foreground of this large painting
walks a (*) monkey on a leash. Painted with uniformly-sized dots of color, rather than brushstrokes is, for
10 points, what pointillist painting by Georges Seurat [zhorzh soo-RAH]?
Answer: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of la Grande Jatte (accept Un dimanche après-midi à
l'Île de la Grande Jatte; prompt on “Sunday Afternoon” or “(La) Grande Jatte” alone)
14. The pair-instability type of this event was observed for the first time in 2006. Cas A and the
Crab Nebula are remnants of these energetic events that can occur when a white dwarf exceeds the
(*) Chandrasekhar limit. During these events, heavy elements can be synthesized when the core of the
parent star collapses. For 10 points, name these events, classified as Types 1 and 2, during which stars
explode very violently.
Answer: supernovas (do not prompt on or accept “nova”)
15. Alvaro woos Serafina with the title object in this author's The Rose Tattoo. This man wrote The
Night of the Iguana and a work in which Jim Lawrence breaks the horn of Laura Wingfield’s
unicorn. In another of his plays, the protagonist loses Belle Reve [bell rehv], and (*) Stanley
Kowalski fights with his sister-in-law, Blanche DuBois, in New Orleans. For 10 points, name this
American playwright of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Answer: Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams III
16. In August 2014, four firefighters in Campbellsville, Kentucky helping with this action were
injured by a power line. Critics of this action noted that only 28% of money involved is spent on
research. Patrick Stewart silently poured himself a drink to perform this action, while (*) President
Obama wrote a $100 check as his response. For 10 points, name this viral "challenge" to donate money to
the ALS Association or be doused in cold water.
Answer: (ALS) Ice Bucket Challenge

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 4 of 10
17. This speech notes that America has given a "bad check," but its speaker refuses to believe that
"the bank of justice is bankrupt." This speech hopes that the "table of brotherhood" will join
together the sons of slaves and slave owners and that the speaker's (*) "four little children" will be
judged "by the content of their character." For 10 points, name this speech, given at the March on
Washington on August 28, 1963 by Dr. Martin Luther King.
Answer: I Have A Dream
18. Avulsion is causing the Atchafalaya River to gain volume from this river. One bend in this river
forms an exclave of Fulton County, Kentucky, and it was said to flow backward during the New
Madrid [MAA-drid] earthquake. Its headwaters are at (*) Lake Itasca, and it is joined at Cairo [kayroh], Illinois by the Ohio River. New Orleans lies near the end of the 2,300 mile long journey of, for 10
points, what longest river in the United States?
Answer: Mississippi River
19. The Spitzer telescope operates in this range of the light spectrum. This region of light is used in
spectroscopy to measure vibrating bonds. William Herschel discovered this non-visible type of light
from the sun by measuring its (*) heating ability. For 10 points, name this region of electromagnetic
radiation used in night vision goggles and thermal imaging that, unlike ultraviolet light, has longer
wavelengths than visible light.
Answer: infrared light (accept infrared radiation)
20. In a pair of works by this author, Timaeus describes the origin of the universe and Critias
details the history of Atlantis. He wrote of Kallipolis, an ideal city-state where philosopher-kings
rule, in a work that seeks to define justice for individuals and the (*) city-state. For 10 points, name
this Ancient Greek philosopher, a teacher of Aristotle and author of dialogues, like The Republic, which
feature his teacher, Socrates.
Answer: Plato

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 5 of 10
Bonuses
1. This man promoted Usonian architecture, and was a strong proponent of the Prairie School style. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this American architect, who created the Tokyo Imperial Hotel and Robie House.
Answer: Frank Lloyd Wright (accept Frank Lincoln Wright)
[10] Wright cantilevered portions of this Prairie School house over a river in Pennsylvania for Edgar
Kaufmann’s family.
Answer: Fallingwater
[10] Wright planned many of his designs from this Wisconsin studio named for a Welsh bard. He later
designed a “West” studio with this name in Arizona.
Answer: Taliesin East (accept Taliesin I)

2. This Royal Navy Commander first appeared in the novel Casino Royale. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this British secret agent, also known as 007 [“double-oh-seven”], who appears in many Ian
Fleming works.
Answer: James Bond
[10] In this author’s novel The Secret Adversary, the detectives Tommy and Tuppence work with British
intelligence agent Mr. Carter. This author also created the detectives Hercule Poirot [ayr-KYOOL pwahROH] and Miss Marple.
Answer: Dame Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie
[10] This British author based his novel Ashenden: Or the British Agent on the time he spent as a secret
agent. He also wrote about the club-footed Philip Carey in Of Human Bondage.
Answer: W(illiam) Somerset Maugham [mawm]

3. A July 2014 report on FiveThirtyEight.com found that the Pythagorean expected record of Red Klotz'
Washington Generals was equal to their actual record: roughly 6 wins and 14,000 losses. For 10 points
each,
[10] First, the Washington Generals are the traditional opponent of this barnstorming comedic basketball
team. On Futurama, this team's players double as math geniuses.
Answer: Harlem Globetrotters (prompt on "Harlem")
[10] This statistician analyzed the Harlem Globetrotters for his website, FiveThirtyEight.com, which also
published his completely correct prediction of the 2012 electoral college results.
Answer: Nathaniel Read "Nate" Silver
[10] In 2014, FiveThirtyEight.com transitioned from The New York Times to this sports website, which
also publishes Grantland.com. As a TV channel, it produces the 30 for 30 documentary film series and
Sportscenter.
Answer: ESPN.com

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 6 of 10
4. Examples of these mathematical entities include x to the first power and x to the second power, but not
x to the three-halves power. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of expression that involves only addition and multiplication of real numbers and
variables with positive integer exponents.
Answer: polynomial (accept monomial)
[10] Information about the roots of a polynomial can be found quickly by finding this quantity. For the
quadratic polynomial a x squared plus b x plus c, this quantity is equal to b squared minus 4 a c.
Answer: discriminant
[10] When a polynomial f(x) [f of x] is divided by (x-a) [x minus a], it will either factor or leave this
quantity, which, according to an important theorem, is then equal to f(a) [f of a].
Answer: remainder (accept Remainder Theorem)

5. For 10 points each, give the following about surprise attacks in Japanese history.
[10] Admiral Yamamoto Isoroku planned the bombing of this Hawaiian naval base on December 7th,
1941 that sparked US involvement in World War II.
Answer: Pearl Harbor
[10] In 1904, Japan's navy attacked this country's fleet at Port Arthur, three hours before officially
declaring war against it. The ensuing war between this country and Japan ended with the Treaty of
Portsmouth, which was brokered by Teddy Roosevelt.
Answer: Russia (accept Russian Empire; do not accept "USSR" or "Soviet Union")
[10] In the 1560 Battle of Okehazama, this daimyo's forces sneaked to the rear of the opposing army,
killing the opposing leader at his tent. This unifier of Japan was succeeded by Toyotomi Hideyoshi and
Tokugawa Ieyasu.
Answer: Oda Nobunaga

6. This author of the collection Mosses from an Old Manse chronicled the deteriorating Pyncheon family
in The House of the Seven Gables. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this American author of “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment,” “The Minister’s Black Veil,” and The
Scarlet Letter.
Answer: Nathaniel Hawthorne (accept Nathaniel Hathorne)
[10] “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment” and “The Minister’s Black Veil” are stories from this Hawthorne
collection, which was famously reviewed by Edgar Allan Poe.
Answer: Twice-Told Tales
[10] This short story by Hawthorne, collected in Mosses from an Old Manse, follows the title Puritan,
who comes to believe that his wife, Faith, is a witch.
Answer: Young Goodman Brown

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 7 of 10
7. Landscapes consisting of this rock are known as karsts and often feature cracks and holes where acidic
water dissolves it. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this calcium carbonate rock, a common sedimentary rock used as building material in the
Great Pyramids.
Answer: limestone
[10] Speleologists study these underground structures, the result of extensive dissolution of limestone or
similar rocks. These hollow spaces may feature stalagmites and stalactites.
Answer: caves (accept caverns)
[10] Most dissolution of limestone karsts results from the behavior of this weak acid, formed from a
solution of carbon dioxide and water.
Answer: Carbonic acid (accept H2CO3)
8. This is the second longest river in its nation, after the Severn. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this river, which passes through Oxford on its route to the North Sea. It has been the site of
Olympic rowing competitions twice, though Dorney Lake was used instead in 2012.
Answer: Thames River
[10] The Thames River flows through this capital of the United Kingdom.
Answer: London
[10] Sometimes called the Millennium Wheel, this large Ferris Wheel on the south bank of the Thames
opened in 2000.
Answer: London Eye
9. Some conspiracy theorists claim that a gunman involved in this event stood on a grassy knoll, either
in addition to or instead of a gunman in the Texas School Book Depository. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this November 22nd, 1963 event in which Texas governor John Connolly was wounded.
Answer: assassination of John F. Kennedy (accept equivalents for "assassination;" accept "JFK" for
"Kennedy;" prompt on "assassination of Kennedy" alone)
[10] The Warren Commission concluded that this man was the lone gunman responsible for Kennedy's
death. After fleeing from the Book Depository, he killed police officer J.D. Tippit before being captured
in a movie theater.
Answer: Lee Harvey Oswald
[10] While being transported out of police headquarters, Oswald was fatally shot by this nightclub owner.
Answer: Jack Leon Ruby (accept Jack Leon Rubenstein)
10. This man’s ten older brothers were the sons of Leah, Bilhah, and Zilpah. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Biblical son of Jacob, whose beautiful coat made his brothers jealous enough to sell him
into slavery in Egypt.
Answer: Joseph (accept Yosef)
[10] This woman was the mother of Joseph and Benjamin, and was the sister of Jacob’s first wife, Leah.
Answer: Rachel (accept Rahil)
[10] To earn the right to marry Rachel, Jacob worked for this resident of Paddan Aram [pah-dahn ahrahm] for fourteen years. This man was Rachel’s father, and was the brother of Jacob’s mother, Rebecca.
Answer: Laban [lay-behn]

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 8 of 10

11. Kent Brantly, Nancy Writebol, and Rick Sacra from the missionary organization SIM contracted this
disease in 2014. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this viral disease which causes fever, vomiting, and dangerous hemorrhaging and internal
bleeding. It has a mortality rate greater than fifty percent.
Answer: Ebola viral disease or Ebola hemorraghic fever (accept any additional information)
[10] Those three Americans contracted Ebola in this West African country; Dr. Brantly was treating
Ebola patients in its capital city, Monrovia.
Answer: Liberia
[10] Brantly and Writebol were evacuated to this American city's Emory University Hospital, which is
equipped with proper isolation units to handle Ebola.
Answer: Atlanta, Georgia
12. Answer some questions about Nordic influences on English language and literature, for 10 points
each.
[10] This Old English epic poem romanticizes the story of the title Geat [“gate”], who aids Hrothgar, the
King of the Danes, by defeating Grendel.
Answer: Beowulf
[10] In the Middle Ages, Vikings settled in the “Danelaw” [DAYN-law] in what is now England, and
gave the English language the third-person plural pronouns we use today. Name either of those pronouns.
Answer: they or them (accept either or both underlined words)
[10] Snorri Sturluson [“snore”-y STUR-luh-son] wrote the “Prose” work of this name which, with the
“Poetic” one, provides a background to many Norse myths and a description of Old Norse poetic forms.
Answer: Eddas [AY-dah] (accept Eddur; accept Prose Edda or Younger Edda or Snorri’s Edda or
Snorra Edda; accept Poetic Edda)

13. This man's self-written epitaph notes that he authored a statute for religious freedom and the
Declaration of Independence and founded a university. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Founding Father, whose epitaph neglected to mention his service as the third President of
the United States.
Answer: Thomas Jefferson
[10] In 1819, Jefferson founded this university in Charlottesville in his home state.
Answer: University of Virginia
[10] Jefferson taught himself architecture, studying the work of Andrea Palladio, so he could design this
mansion on his plantation near Charlottesville.
Answer: Monticello

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 9 of 10
14. This Greek poet described five Ages of human existence, spanning from the Golden Age to the
current Iron Age. For 10 points each,
[10] Name that poet of Theogony, who wrote about the Ages of man in his Works and Days.
Answer: Hesiod
[10] In Works and Days, the Golden Age is presided over by this Greek god, who overthrew his father,
Uranus, with the help of his mother, Gaia [“GUY”-ah].
Answer: Cronus
[10] Cronus was, in turn, overthrown by this god, the husband of Hera, who was the king of the
Olympians from the Silver Age to the Iron Age.
Answer: Zeus
15. By the Lewis definition, these compounds are electron pair donors. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these compounds with pH greater than 7. A common laboratory example is sodium hydroxide.
Answer: bases
[10] In a neutralization reaction, an acid reacts with a base to form water and one of these ionic
compounds. Examples include potassium nitrate and barium chloride.
Answer: salts
[10] Salts containing this transition metal can be used to detect the presence of chloride ions. In a classic
example, sodium chloride reacts with this ion in solution to produce a white precipitate.
Answer: silver (accept Ag)
16. Identify the following short story writers, for 10 points each.
[10] This Argentine author collected stories like “The Library of Babel” and “The Garden of Forking
Paths” in Ficciones [FIK-see-oh-nays].
Answer: Jorge (Francisco Isidoro) Luis Borges [HOR-hay loo-EES BOR-hays]
[10] This Russian author wrote about Akaky Akakievich's [ah-kah-kee ah-kah-kyah-vich's] death in “The
Overcoat” and about a runaway body part belonging to Major Kovalyov in “The Nose.”
Answer: Nikolai Vasilevich Gogol
[10] This French author of “Ball of Fat” wrote of Madame Loisel’s [lwah-ZELL’s] struggle to replace a
worthless piece of jewellery of Madame Forestier [foh-reh-stee-AY] in “The Necklace.”
Answer: (Henri René Albert) Guy de Maupassant
17. The taiga biome consists mainly of plants from this group. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this group of nonflowering plants that includes cycads, ginkgos, and conifers like pine and
spruce.
Answer: gymnosperms (accept Gymnospermae)
[10] The word gymnosperm means “naked” these in Greek. These consist of plant embryos and their food
supply inside a protective coat; edible ones include beans and peanuts.
Answer: seeds
[10] Most conifers have both female cones that hold the seeds and male cones that produce these grains
needed for fertilization. It can be spread by both wind and insects.
Answer: pollen

SCOP Novice 5

Round 2
Page 10 of 10
18. For 10 points each, give the following about Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov.
[10] A short piece by Rimsky-Korsakov features runs of sixteenth notes on violin or flute to depict the
"Flight of" this stinging insect.
Answer: Flight of the Bumblebee
[10] Rimsky-Korsakov depicted the legendary Russian musician Sadko in an 1867 work in this genre of
one-movement compositions that illustrate a story. Richard Strauss' Also Sprach Zarathustra is another of
these works.
Answer: symphonic poem or tone poem (prompt on "program music")
[10] The movements of this other Rimsky-Korsakov symphonic poem depict stories from The Arabian
Nights and are separated by solo violin intermezzos signifying the title character, the wife of Shahriyar.
Answer: Scheherazade [shah-hare-ah-zahd]

19. These Catholic rulers introduced the Inquisition into their land and issued the 1492 Alhambra decree,
requiring all Jews to convert or leave within months. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these two rulers, who nominally united the kingdoms of Aragon and Castille with their 1469
marriage.
Answer: Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castille (accept the Catholic Monarchs)
[10] Ferdinand and Isabella supported New World exploration by funding this Genoan admiral, who
landed in the Bahamas in 1492.
Answer: Christopher Columbus (accept Cristóbal Colón)
[10] Also in 1492, Ferdinand and Isabella finished a war against the Nasrid dynasty in Granada, ending
Muslim control in Iberia and finalizing this roughly eight-century-long period of Christian/Muslim
conflict.
Answer: Reconquista

20. Name some things about the Einstein field equations, for 10 points each.
[10] The Einstein field equations are used in this theory that relates spacetime curvature to energy and
momentum. It predicts gravitational lensing and frame-dragging.
Answer: general relativity (prompt on “relativity;” do not accept “special relativity”)
[10] Einstein called this quantity his “biggest blunder,” and he initially used it to predict a static universe
in his equations. Modern cosmology uses this quantity to explain the accelerating expansion of the
universe.
Answer: cosmological constant (accept lambda)
[10] In simple problems, the Einstein field equations reduce to this law, which states that each thing in the
universe exerts an attractive force on every other thing in the universe.
Answer: Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation (prompt on "gravitation" or "gravity" alone)

SCOP Novice 5

