2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. A mutation in this organelle’s glycosylation pathway results in I-cell [eye-cell] disease. This
organelle attaches mannose-6-phosphate at its cis face to direct proteins to the lysosome and
prepares antibodies in B-cells for release into the bloodstream. This organelle consists of (*)
flattened stacks called cisternae [si-STUR-nee]. For 10 points, name this organelle that receives
molecules from the ER and modifies them for secretion out of the cell, named for an Italian scientist.
Answer: Golgi apparatus/body/complex
2. This organization's viral video, set to a somber rendition of "Everything is Awesome" and
showing an Arctic landscape flooding with oil, convinced Lego to end a partnership with Shell. In
1985, the French bombed this organization's ship, the (*) Rainbow Warrior, to prevent it from
protesting nuclear testing. For 10 points, name this global environmental activist organization, a
prominent opponent of nuclear energy with a colorful name.
Answer: Greenpeace
3. This organization's Project MKUltra investigated human mind control. In 2006, it was admitted
that this organization operated "black sites" in Eastern Europe. This organization funded the
Nicaraguan Contras and trained the rebels who landed at the (*) Bay of Pigs, one of many of its
attempts to remove Fidel Castro from power. John Brennan currently leads, for 10 points, what
governmental spy agency that deals in foreign espionage?
Answer: Central Intelligence Agency
4. The puranas recount the churning of one of these things made out of milk which represents an
awakening. Jorgumandr [YORE-mun-gahn-dur], the Midgardian Serpent, was thrown into one of
these places by Odin. Izanagi dipped his spear into one of these locations to create Japan’s islands.
At the end of The Republic the city of (*) Atlantis falls into one of these geographical features. For 10
points, name these domains which are ruled by the likes of Neptune.
Answer: oceans (Accept obvious equivalents like sea)

Round 10
Page 2 of 10
5. In one novel by this author, the death of Juvenal Urbino allows Florentino Ariza to re-profess
his love for Fermina Daza. This author's short story "A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings" is a
landmark in magical realism, as is his novel about the city of Macondo, founded by José Arcadio (*)
Buendia. For 10 points, name this Nobel Prize-winning Colombian author of Love in the Time of Cholera
and One Hundred Years of Solitude, who died in April 2014.
Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez (prompt on partial surname)
6. One concept describing this two-dimensional shape involves placing one focal point at infinity.
This shape is formed by intersecting a plane with a cone parallel to its slant height. This conic
section with eccentricity of (*) 1 can be defined as all points equidistant from its focus and its directrix,
which is a line perpendicular to this shape's line of symmetry. For 10 points, name this shape traced by
quadratic functions like y equals x squared.
Answer: parabola
7. Composer and work required. Count von Walsegg commissioned this work, whose "Lux
aeterna" [ee-turn-ah] ending and all but eight bars of the Lacrimosa section were completed by
Franz Sussmayr as he edited this work. This piece's composer simultaneously worked on (*) The
Magic Flute and this piece, and remarked to his wife Constanze that this piece may be played at his own
funeral. For 10 points, name this mass for the dead, left unfinished at the death of its Austrian composer
in 1791.
Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Requiem Mass in D minor, K. 626 (both answers required;
prompt on Requiem (mass); prompt on mass; prompt on Mozart)
8. This man described a ruler who kept ten thousand white horses, whose milk was fermented to
make koumiss. This man also described the efficient empire-wide postal system and the paper
currency used by the Yuan dynasty. He was imprisoned by (*) Genoa upon returning to his home city,
and his stories were collected in the book Il Milione. For ten points, name this Venetian who met Kublai
Khan during his travels on the Silk Road to China.
Answer: Marco Polo
9. Two members of this movement collaborated on And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks in
1945. Another member of this movement wrote "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed
by madness" in the poem "Howl." William Burroughs, Allen Ginsburg, and the author of (*) On
the Road, Jack Kerouac, were members of, for 10 points, what 1950's American literary movement,
stereotyped by bongo-playing poets, that inspired the hippies of the 1960's?
Answer: Beat Generation (accept beatniks)
10. In AC circuits, this quantity’s namesake right triangle can be used to find its “apparent” form.
Intensity is equal to this quantity over area. In an electrical circuit, this quantity can be expressed
as voltage squared over resistance, though it is more commonly denoted as (*) current squared time
resistance or current times voltage. For 10 points, name this physical quantity, the amount of work done
per unit time, measured in Watts.
10. Answer: power (accept specific answers like electric power or mechanical power)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 3 of 10

11. One song about this location was accused of hiding the message "Here's to my sweet Satan" in
the lyrics backwards. In "Imagine," John Lennon claims "it's easy" to imagine that this location
doesn't exist. A 2012 song asks (*) "Can't I just stay here? Spend the rest of my days here?" as Bruno
Mars laments being "Locked Out of" this place. For 10 points, name this mystical location, the destination
of a Led Zeppelin "Stairway."
Answer: Heaven (accept Stairway to Heaven or Locked Out of Heaven)
12. One scholar of this religion wrote a “Book of Changes” that is one of this religion’s “Five
Classics.” Followers of this religion, whose scholars include Mencius, practice respect for their
ancestors and parents, otherwise known as (*) filial piety. Emperors began following this religion after
the decline of Legalism. For 10 points, name this philosophy based on the teachings of the Chinese author
of the Analects.
Answer: Confucianism
13. During this man's presidency, Benajmin Bristow uncovered a scandal that included this man's
secretary, Orville Babcock, regarding failure to pay taxes on whiskey production and sales. This
man, whose presidency was sullied by the (*) Whiskey Ring scandal, was also troubled by the Credit
Mobilier scandal and the Panic of 1873. For 10 points, name this President, who had a more successful
career as Commanding General of the U.S. Army during the Civil War.
Answer: Ulysses S. Grant
14. In this work, Nicholas convinces John to sleep in a tub so he can sleep with Alisoun. A character
in this work describes Arcite and Palamon’s fight for Emily, and a gap-toothed woman tells of a
quest to find what women most desire, and another. The (*) Miller, the Wife of Bath, the Knight, and
other pilgrims meet at Tabard Inn in, for 10 points, what collection of short stories written by Geoffrey
Chaucer?
Answer: The Canterbury Tales
15. The differential scanning form of this device can quantify glass transition and crystallization in
polymers. Lavoisier invented one of these devices filled with ice. One of these devices operates at
constant volume and can withstand very high (*) pressures; that is the “bomb” type. A simple one can
be constructed with a thermometer and two styrofoam cups. For 10 points, name this device commonly
used to find the specific heat of a sample.
Answer: calorimeter
16. The loser of the first of these events was further threatened by an uprising called the Mercenary
War. The Siege of Saguntum triggered the second of these events, while the last was spurred by
Cato the Elder's calls for destruction. The second of these conflicts saw (*) Scipio Africanus win the
Battle of Zama against a force of war elephants led by Hannibal. For 10 points, name this series of three
wars between Rome and Carthage.
Answer: Punic Wars

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 4 of 10
17. An orange grove is visible in the background of this painting, in which flowers flurry around
Chloris and her consort. In this painting, a servant rushes to cover the title figure with a pink cloak
while Zephyrus, god of the west wind, blows the central goddess to shore on a (*) scallop shell. For
10 points, name this painting by Sandro Botticelli, which shows the roman goddess of love rising from
the sea.
Answer: The Birth of Venus
18. A 2014 paper attempted to solve the firewall paradox surrounding these objects. They undergo
evaporation when particle-antiparticle pairs are generated; that radiation is named for the author
of A Brief History of Time and the aforementioned paper, which argues that these objects have (*)
apparent horizons, rather than event horizons. For 10 points, name these hypothetical regions of space
whose gravitational pull prevents even light from escaping.
Answer: black holes
19. Cities in this country include the capital of the IOC, Lausanne, and Davos, which is home to the
annual World Economic Forum. It includes Romansh as one of four official languages, and its
states, known as cantons, include (*) Lucerne, Geneva, and Zurich. The Matterhorn lies on this
country's southern border with Italy. The International Red Cross is based in, for 10 points, what
famously neutral Alpine country with capital Bern?
Answer: Switzerland
20. The protagonist of this work reunites with a friend during a performance of Lucia di
Lammermoor and claims to be taking piano lessons in Rouen. In this novel, Hippolyte’s leg is
amputated after a failed attempt to fix his clubfoot. Burdened by debt and failed affairs with
Rodolphe (*) Boulanger [boo-lawn-JAY] and Leon Dupuis, the protagonist takes arsenic. Emma, the
wife of Charles, is the title character of, for 10 points, what novel by Gustave Flaubert [floh-BAYR]?
Answer: Madame Bovary

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 5 of 10
Bonuses
1. This city's Bürgerbräukeller was the site of an uprising on November 8th, 1923 supported by Erich
Ludendorff. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Bavarian city, the site of Adolf Hitler's failed Beer Hall Putsch.
Answer: Munich
[10] The Beer Hall Putsch sought to overthrow the Weimar [VYE-mar] Republic and bring this political
party to power. This party took power in Germany in 1932, establishing the Third Reich.
Answer: Nazi Party (accept Nazis, National Socialist German Workers’ Party, Nationalsozialistische
Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, or NSDAP)
[10] In 1934, Hitler ordered this purge of critics, left-wing Nazis, and leaders of the SA, including Ernst
Rohm.
Answer:Night of the Long Knives(accept Operation Hummingbird, or Nacht der langen Messer)

2. His best-known works are in a style whose name means “floating-world pictures.” For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Japanese creator of ukiyo-e [oo-kee-oh-ay] like The Great Wave off Kanagawa, part of his
series Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji.
Answer: Katsushika Hokusai (accept Hokusai Katsushika)
[10] Ukiyo-e were made using carefully crafted, interlocking blocks of this material.
Answer: wood
[10] This German artist created a series of woodcuts called Apocalypse, but is best known for his
engravings like Melancholia I and Saint Jerome in his Study.
Answer: Albrecht Dürer

3. The Monongahela National Forest is located within this mountain range, whose highest peak, Spruce
Knob, marks West Virginia's highest point.
[10] Name this 400-mile long mountain range of central Pennsylvania and West Virginia, which lies
between the Cumberland Range and the Poconos.
Answer: Allegheny Mountains (do not accept or prompt on Appalachians)
[10] The Alleghenies are a subrange of this dominant mountain range of the Eastern seaboard which
stretches from Canada to Alabama.
Answer: Appalachian Mountains
[10] The largest cities in the Allegheny Mountains are Altoona and this city, the home of Penn State
University.
Answer: State College, Pennsylvania

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 6 of 10
4. The cyclic structure of this molecule was proposed by Friedrich August Kekulé after he dreamed of a
snake eating its own tail. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this aromatic molecule with formula C6H6.
Answer: benzene
[10] Benzene’s relative lack of hydrogens is explained by the presence of three of these stable bonds that
alternate with single bonds in the ring.
Answer: double bond
[10] However, benzene’s double bonds are only theoretical; instead, the overlapping of these orbitals
gives benzene its cyclic nature.
Answer: pi orbital
5. This man wrote the familiar poem Auld Lang Syne, although Americans would have trouble
recognizing it in its original dialect. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scottish poet who wrote the epic poem Tam O’ Shanter and a poem about his nation’s
historical Battle of Sherramuir.
Answer: Robert Burns
[10] Robert Burns wrote that his love was like a “red, red” one of these flowers “newly sprung in June”.
Robert Herrick advised to gather the buds of this flower “while ye may” in To the Virgins, to Make Much
of Time.
Answer: rose
[10] In this poem, Burns called the title pest a “crowlin ferlie” and “blastit wonner” and prays “And
would some Power the small gift give us / To see ourselves as others see us!”
Answer: To a Louse
6. In one of this man’s novels, the title character is adopted by Weedon Scott after being owned by
Beauty Smith. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this author, who wrote about the wild White Fang becoming a domestic dog.
Answer: John Griffith “Jack” (Chaney) London
[10] In this London novel, contrasted with White Fang, Buck becomes wolflike after Manuel steals him
from Judge Miller.
Answer: Call of the Wild
[10] “Day had broken cold and gray, cold and exceedingly gray” in this London work. In this short story
set in the Yukon, “The man” freezes to his death after failing to complete the title action.
Answer: To Build a Fire
7. As these large bodies scrape across mountains and landscape, they generate rocky debris known as
till. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for a large, land-based mass of ice.
Answer: glacier
[10] A glacier moving into a valley near the sea can cut one of these inlets with steep cliffs into the rock.
This geographic feature is often seen in Scandinavia, especially Norway.
Answer: fjord
[10] Glacial movement can also generate these amphitheater-shaped valleys, usually known by a French
name. These features become tarns when they fill with water.
Answer: cirque (or corrie or cwm [COOM])
SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 7 of 10

8. Three modern golfers have won three major championships by age 25. For 10 points each,
[10] This “Golden Bear" dominated the 1963 Masters, winning by nine shots over Arnold Palmer and
Gary Player. He won the 1986 Masters at age 46 for his record 18th major championship.
Answer: Jack Nicklaus
[10] This golfer's 14 major titles, beginning with the 1997 Masters, is second only to Nicklaus. He hasn't
won a major since 2008, and he divorced his wife, Elin Nordegren, in 2010 after numerous affairs became
public.
Answer: Eldrick "Tiger" Woods
[10] This Northern Irishman’s victory at the 2014 British Open won his father 100,000 pounds for a bet
made when this golfer was a teenager. Just a month later, he won his fourth major at the 2014 PGA
Championship.
Answer: Rory McIlroy

9. White-tailed deer and white-footed mice are a natural reservoir of this disease. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this infectious disease, usually contracted outdoors, that is identified by its characteristic
bull’s-eye rash pattern.
Answer: Lyme disease
[10] Lyme disease is harbored by the deer variety of this blood-sucking organism, which can be removed
using tweezers.
Answer: tick
[10] Ticks, rats, and mosquitoes are described by this term, an infected animal that spreads pathogens to
other organisms.
Answer: vector

10. This case arose from John Adams' controversial lame-duck appointment of "Midnight Judges," whose
appointments Thomas Jefferson refused to recognize. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this landmark 1803 case, in which Chief Justice John Marshall established the process of
judicial review.
Answer: Marbury v. Madison (or the reverse order)
[10] Judicial review is the process by which this body, led by the Chief Justice, invalidates laws that
violate the "supreme law of the land,” the U.S. Constitution
Answer: Supreme Court of the United States
[10] The Supremacy Clause, which makes the Constitution the "supreme law of the land," is found in this
article of the Constitution, which also requires members of Congress, judges, and other officers to swear
oaths to support the Constitution.
Answer: Article Six of the U.S. Constitution

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 8 of 10
11. This novel was released just months before its home country adopted apartheid. For ten points each,
[10] Identify this South African novel by Alan Paton, in which Stephen Kumalo’s son is executed for the
murder of Arthur Jarvis.
Answer: Cry, the Beloved Country
[10] Stephen Kumalo’s son is named for this son of David, whose name titles a novel by William
Faulkner.
Answer: Absalom
[10] The murder of Arthur Jarvis takes place in this South African city. Later, Stephen travels to this city
searching for his sister Gertrude.
Answer: Johannesburg

12. This composer of the Aeneid-inspired opera Les Troyens was commissioned by Niccolo Paganini to
compose Harold in Italy. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this French Romantic composer of Symphonie Fantastique.
Answer: Hector Berlioz
[10] Paganini was known primarily as a violin virtuoso, but he commissioned Harold in Italy from
Berlioz to feature this other string instrument, slightly larger than a violin.
Answer: viola
[10] Paganini's commission came after he acquired a viola made by this Italian family. String instruments
made by this family have a reputation for superior quality; in 2014, one of their violins, worth $5 million,
was stolen in Milwaukee.
Answer: Stradivarius (or Stradivari)

13. This type of complex number is a reflection over the real axis, because it is constructed by negating
the imaginary part of the original complex number. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term, which describes the relationship between the complex numbers a plus b i
and a minus b i.
Answer: complex conjugate
[10] Similarly, the conjugate of a binomial, such as a plus b, is constructed by changing the addition to
subtraction. If a binomial is multiplied by its conjugate, this form is the result.
Answer: difference of squares (or a squared minus b squared)
[10] Finding the Hermitian conjugate of one of these rectangular arrays of numbers involves taking the
complex conjugate of each of its elements and reflecting it over the main diagonal. Two of these objects
can be added together only if they have the same number of rows and the same number of columns.
Answer: matrix (or matrices)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 9 of 10
14. One of these questions posed by Bertrand Russell in the 20th century asks about a set that contains all
sets that contain themselves. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for an apparently self-contradicting, yet apparently true statement.
Answer: paradox
[10] A famous paradox asks whether this man will ever catch a walking tortoise, given that in the time it
takes this Greek man to reach the tortoise, the tortoise will have moved forward.
Answer: Achilles
[10] The question of Achilles versus the tortoise was posed by this Ancient Greek philosopher from Elea.
Answer: Zeno of Elea
15. The Pyramid and Coffin texts are subsections of this larger work. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Egyptian text, containing many spells, that details the processes of mummification and
burial.
Answer: Egyptian Book of the Dead (accept Book of Coming Forth By Day)
[10] The Egyptians represented many sacred animals in their burial rites, including cats and this small
dung beetle. It was frequently used to represent Ra.
Answer: scarab beetle
[10] Egyptian gods are often depicted giving life to mummified bodies using this sacred object, a cross
with a looped handle that resembles a key.
Answer: ankh
16. This phenomenon can occur twice in birefringent materials. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this phenomenon in which a wave changes direction as it enters another medium. A straw
appears broken in a glass of water because of this phenomenon.
Answer: refraction
[10] A material’s index of refraction is the ratio of this quantity in the medium to this quantity in a
vacuum. In a vacuum, it is approximately equal to 3 × 108 meters per second.
Answer: speed of light (accept c)
[10] This law relates the ratio of the sines of the angles of incidence and refraction to the ratio of two
indices of refraction.
Answer: Snell’s law
17. For 10 points each, answer the following about a man who was ejected from the Garden of Eden.
[10] In Christianity, Eve was created from the rib of this first human.
Answer: Adam
[10] Adam and Eve were the parents of this farmer, who was condemned to wander the earth for
murdering his brother.
Answer: Cain
[10] In some traditions, this demon was Adam’s first wife. Created as his twin, she left Eden when Adam
did not allow this woman to be his equal.
Answer: Lilith (accept Lilit)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 10
Page 10 of 10
18. Eugene Debs was arrested in the aftermath of this event, after which he became a Socialist. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this railroad strike and boycott that crippled transportation in 1894.
Answer: Pullman Strike
[10] This President ordered federal troops to break the Pullman Strike, then established Labor Day as a
national holiday to ease tensions. He served two non-consecutive terms as U.S. President.
Answer: Grover Cleveland
[10] President Cleveland ordered the end of the strike because it was disrupting this service of the federal
government.
Answer: Mail delivery
19. This novel opens with a Blodgett College student aspiring to beautify a prairie town with architecture
and gardens. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this 1920 novel about Carol Kennicott's dismal, frustrating life in Gopher Prairie, Minnesota,
named for the central road of the American rural downtown.
Answer: Main Street
[10] This winner of the 1930 Nobel Prize in Literature -- the first American to be so honored -- wrote
Main Street. He set works like Arrowsmith and Elmer Gantry in the fictional Midwestern state of
Winnemac.
Answer: Sinclair Lewis
[10] Winnemac's portrayal of typical, conforming Midwestern life is particularly critical in this 1922
Lewis novel, about the title middle-aged realtor.
Answer: Babbitt
20. This organization's members overthrew the Qing Dynasty with the Revolutionary Alliance in 1912.
For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Chinese political party, led by Sun Yat-sen until his 1925 death.
Answer: Kuomintang (or KMT)
[10] After Sun Yat-sen's death, this anti-Communist military leader took control of the Kuomintang and
led the Northern Expedition to unify China.
Answer: Chiang Kai-shek
[10] This Chairman of the Chinese Communist Party opposed Chiang Kai-shek; after this man's victory in
the Chinese Civil War, Kai-shek evacuated to Taiwan.
Answer: Mao Zedong

SCOP Novice 5

