2014 SCOP Novice 5

Replacements
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. This character looks like his great uncle, who sent a substitute to the Civil War and started a
family hardware business. In his “younger and more vulnerable years,” he was told not to criticize
people who may not have had his advantages. He has a love affair with the golfer (*) Jordan Baker
and went to a funeral with Henry Gatz. The second cousin once removed of Daisy Buchanan, for 10
points, identify this narrator of The Great Gatsby.
Answer: Nick Carraway (accept either underlined name)
2. The driest thing one character in this work knows is a lecture on William the Conqueror, and a
poem in this novel asks how Father William can stand on his head and balance an eel on his nose.
White rose bushes are (*) painted red to appease the decapitation-thirsty Queen of Hearts in this work. It
features the Mad Hatter and the Cheshire Cat, who guide the title character after she falls down a rabbit
hole. For 10 points, identify this novel by Lewis Carroll.
Answer: Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland
3. This man was Christian Doppler’s most significant student at the University of Vienna, and to
date, genes coding for four of the seven traits he studied have been sequenced. His most influential
paper, Experiments on Plant Hybridization, contained the laws of (*) segregation and independent
assortment. For 10 points, name this Austrian monk who coined the terms dominant and recessive while
discovering the laws of heredity using pea plants.
Answer: Gregor Johann Mendel
4. By the Eotvos [UT-vush] rule, surface tension decreases when this quantity is increased. The
van’t Hoff equation relates the equilibrium constant to this quantity. Gibbs free energy is equal to
(*) enthalpy minus entropy times this quantity, which represents the average kinetic energy of a system. It
is inversely related to pressure and volume by the ideal gas law. For 10 points, name this quantity
measured in Kelvins.
Answer: temperature

Replacements
Page 2 of 5
5. This planet’s satellites include Mimas, which takes less than one day to orbit it. Multiple moons
of this planet, including Tethys, Enceladus, and its largest moon, feature ice volcanoes. In 2005, the
Huygens probe landed on this planet's largest moon, the only moon in the solar system with (*)
surface liquid and a nitrogenous atmosphere. For 10 points, name this gas giant orbited by Titan and the
largest set of rings in the solar system.
Answer: Saturn
6. The simplex algorithm is a common method of solving optimization problems of this type. A set
of points with this relationship will have a Pearson's correlation coefficient, r, equal to plus or
minus 1. Cramer's Rule will directly solve a system of these equations, which are (*) polynomials of
degree 1. For 10 points, give this adjective that describes the shape of graphs, like y equals two x plus 1,
that have a straight, constant slope.
Answer: linear (accept word forms, such as line)
7. Refusal by one party to obey this law led to an uprising supported by Louis VIII and led by
Robert Fitzwalter; that ruler had previously lost control of Brittany when Philip Augustus was
victorious at the Battle of Bouvines. This (*) document’s Clause 61 gave a certain group of barons the
power to override unlawful acts of the king. For 10 points, name this charter signed at Runnymede by
King John in 1215.
Answer: Magna Carta
8. A colorfully-named part of this organization circumnavigated the world in order to spread
goodwill in the early 20th century. Theodore Roosevelt was the assistant secretary of this
organization during war, a position he resigned to fight on the front lines. During the SpanishAmerican War a leader in this organization, (*) George Dewey won the battle of Manila Bay. For 10
points, name this organization which defends the coast and oversea holdings of a certain North American
nation.
Answer: United States Navy(Accept obvious equivalents; Prompt on Navy)
9. During this man’s administration an act limiting child labor, the Keating-Owen Act, was
passed. Another bill passed during this man’s administration was the Clayton Antitrust Act which
helped limit big business. This president’s secretary of state resigned after the sinking of the (*)
Lusitania. This man campaigned with the slogan he kept us out of the war and would later attempt to end
that war with his 14 points. For 10 points, name this 28th President of the United States who was in office
during World War I
Answer: Woodrow Wilson
10. One leader of this country when asked how far he would go to maintain order responded well,
just watch me. After giving that statement that leader invoked the use of the War Measures Act to
bring an end to the (*) October Crisis. In this country’s namesake caper it participated in a joint
operation with the CIA to rescue six American Diplomats from Iran. For 10 points, name this North
American country whose capital city is Ottawa.
Answer: Canada

SCOP Novice 5

Replacements
Page 3 of 5
Bonuses
1. In this novel, a repetitively-named man obsesses over young girls he calls “nymphets.” For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this work, in which Humbert Humbert becomes enamored with the very young Dolores Haze.
Answer: Lolita
[10] This Russian-American author of Lolita wrote another novel in the form of a long poem by the
fictional John Shade.
Answer: Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov
[10] Name this 999-line-long fictional poem by Nabakov, which shares its name with the novel in which
it appears.
Answer: Pale Fire

2. This author attacked censorship in his pamphlet Areopagitica. For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this author who wrote about Samson losing his hair and eyes in his play Samson Agonistes.
Answer: John Milton
[10] In this epic poem by Milton, Adam and Eve are expelled from the Garden of Eden. In this epic poem,
Satan claims that it is “better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven.”
Answer: Paradise Lost
[10] Milton had this quality later in his life, and wrote a sonnet, “On his (this quality)” that begins with
the poet considering “how [his] light is spent.”
Answer: blindness

3. The potency of these cells describes their ability to differentiate; the totipotent type has the largest
ability. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this class of undifferentiated cells that have the ability to become all the specialized cell types
of the body.
Answer: stem cells
[10] Controversy arises when stem cells are harvested from this earliest developmental stage that precedes
the fetus.
Answer: embryo
[10] Pluripotent embryonic stem cells are unable to become this organ, which is essential for gas
exchange and waste removal between the fetus and its mother.
Answer: placenta

SCOP Novice 5

Replacements
Page 4 of 5
4. These kinds of properties include boiling-point elevation, freezing-point depression, and osmotic
[ahs-MAH-tic] pressure. For 10 points each,
[10] Name these kinds of properties which are affected by the number but not the type of molecules in
solution.
Answer: colligative properties [co-LIG-a-tive properties]
[10] This colligative property is governed by Raoult's [rah-OOLTs] law and is lowered when a
nonvolatile solute is added to a solution.
Answer: vapor pressure
[10] This measure of concentration is multiplied by a constant when computing boiling-point elevation or
freezing-point depression. It is defined as moles of solute per kilogram of solvent.
Answer: molality (do not accept molarity or normality)

5. These structures exist under the vadose zone in the phreatic zone, which begins at the water table. For
10 points each,
[10] Give this term for a layer of rocky material, often gravel or sand, from which water can be harvested.
Answer: aquifers
[10] Water can be harvested by digging or drilling one of these structures, then installing a pump or using
buckets to bring the water to the surface. These may be called Artesian if simple pressure forces the water
up.
Answer: wells
[10] This material, a sediment whose particles are smaller than sand, is another common bearer of water
in an aquifer. This material is commonly found in river water and deposited at the mouths of rivers.
Answer: silt

6. This value for x will be greater than 1 if and only if x is between 0 and 1. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this term for the multiplicative inverse of a number, often used in the context of fractions. For
example, this value for seven is one-seventh.
Answer: reciprocal (prompt on "one over x" or any similar description)
[10] Two numbers have the unique property that they are their own reciprocal; that is, that one over x
equals x. Find both of those numbers.
Answer: one and negative one (both answers required; prompt on single answer, but do not permit
stalling)
[10] This is the only positive number that is equal to exactly one more than its reciprocal. It's also equal to
the continued nesting fraction 1 plus 1 over 1 plus 1 over... and to the continued nesting root 1 plus the
square root of 1 plus the square root of....
Answer: phi or the golden ratio (accept “mean,” “cut,” “section,” or “proportion” in place of “ratio;”
accept Mean of Phidias; accept Divine Proportion; accept “1 plus the square root of 5, all over 2”)

SCOP Novice 5

Replacements
Page 5 of 5
7. It only existed in 1860 and 1861, as the completing of the first transcontinental telegraph rendered this
expensive and dangerous mail delivery service obsolete. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this short-lived mail service, in which relay teams of horseback riders delivered mail from
station to station across the American West.
Answer: Pony Express
[10] This rider for the Pony Express later toured the world with his "Wild West" show, which employed
Annie Oakley and Sitting Bull.
Answer: William "Buffalo Bill" Cody (accept Buffalo Bill; prompt on Bill)
[10] Much of the Pony Express route followed this general trail, which led wagon trains from Missouri to
the Willamette Valley on the Pacific Ocean.
Answer: Oregon Trail
8. This period was established by a Constitutional amendment and the passing of the Volstead Act. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this period of time from 1920 to 1933, during which alcohol was banned within the United
States.
Answer: Prohibition
[10] Prohibition was established by this Constitutional amendment, which was repealed by the 21st
amendment.
Answer: 18th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution
[10] This supporter of Prohibition famously took a hatchet to barrels of liquor in saloons, being arrested
dozens of times for destroying bars.
Answer: Carrie A(melia) (Moore) Nation
9. For 10 points each, give the following about the end of the unsuccessful rule of Louis XVI.
[10]Louis XVI was executed in this decade long period of unrest which began with the storming of the
Bastille.
Answer: French Revolution
[10] Shortly after Louis’ execution, this lawyer founded the Committee of Public Safety. His Reign of
Terror ended with the Thermidorian Reaction and his execution.
Answer: Maximilien François Marie Isidore Robespierre
[10] After nearly allowing Louis XVI to escape, Robespierre accused this French general of treason. This
friend of George Washington led troops in the American Revolution.
Answer: Marie-Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier de La Fayette(accept Marquis de La Fayette,
or just Lafayette)
10. Gran Colombia was established by this leader. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this South American “Liberator” who spread democracy through Latin America.
Answer: Simon Bolivar
[10] During the Admirable Campaign, Bolivar issued this Decree as a response to Spanish massacres.
This order permitted murder of Spanish born citizens opposing independence.
Answer: Decree of War to the Death
[10] Bolivar issued the Decree of War to the Death from this South American country; Bolivar freed its
city of Caracas during the Admirable Campaign.
Answer: Venezuela
SCOP Novice 5

