2014 SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Alston Boyd • Brad Fischer • Becca Kobernat • Alec Krueger • Sabrina Lato • Mike Laudermith
Dylan Minarik • Shayaan Naseer • Dr. Noah Prince • Kristin A. Strey • Brittany Trang • Tyler Vaughan
Shreyas Vissapragada • Michael H. Wong • Yinga Xia

Tossups
1. This author wrote of a tragic love affair in The Elegy of Lady Fiammetta, and he described 106
females in On Famous Women. In another work, Dioneo is exempt from following the orders of the
King or Queen each day. This man wrote a story told by Fiammetta, which relates how Federigo
cooked his prized falcon. (*) Ten people from Florence gather to escape the plague in a work by, for 10
points, this author of the Decameron.
Answer: Giovanni Boccaccio
2. Medea sent this man to kill the Marathonian Bull in an attempt to get him killed. His home city
kept his legendary ship in repair by replacing its rotten wood; that ship flew black sails on its
return from (*) Crete, causing this man's father to drown himself. While at Crete, this hero used
Ariadne's advice and thread to navigate the Labyrinth. For 10 points, name this mythical Greek founder of
Athens, the slayer of the Minotaur.
Answer: Theseus
3. This event took place on King Street and was ended by Thomas Hutchinson's clearing of the
crowd. An inaccurate engraving depicts the perpetrators of this event standing in an organized line;
that engraving by (*) Paul Revere also depicts the first victim of this event as a white man. Crispus
Attucks was one of five people killed by British soldiers in, for 10 points, what March 5, 1770 incident in
Massachusetts?
Answer: Boston Massacre
4. Men who undergo the process of Amrit Sanchar are initiated into this religion and are
commanded to wear an iron bracelet and wooden comb. This religion's central text, the Adi
Granth, is considered its final (*) Guru. Members of this religion, founded by Guru Nanak, practice a
form of strict non-violence known as ahimsa [ah-heem-sah] and wear the five K's, including kesh, or
uncut hair. For 10 points, name this religion prominent in the Punjab state of India.
Answer: Sikhism

Round 7
Page 2 of 11
5. This city is home to the City Lights Bookstore and a music festival on its Treasure Island. Its
Telegraph Hill is just south of Fisherman's Wharf. Its Haight-Ashbury district was a center of
hippie culture in the (*) 1960's, and its bay was once home to a federal prison on Alcatraz Island. For 10
points, name this California city across the bay from Oakland, the home of cable cars and the Golden
Gate Bridge.
Answer: San Francisco
6. A Lucas cell can be used to detect one element in this group that causes lung cancer.
Ununoctium is the newest member of this group. Shorthand electron configurations features
abbreviations for elements in this group in brackets. Each one of these elements is (*) monatomic
with a full valence shell. For 10 points, name this group of unreactive elements on the far right of the
periodic table, whose members include xenon, radon, and helium.
Answer: noble gases (accept Group 18 of the Periodic Table before mentioned)
7. This work’s creator had earlier painted the title phenomenon Over the Rhone. Blue hills rise in
the background of this painting, which was created in an asylum outside the French village of Saint
Rémy [sahn reh-MEE]. A (*) cypress tree dominates this painting’s foreground, in front of a village
illuminated by a swirling crescent moon. For 10 points, name this depiction of an evening sky created by
Vincent van Gogh.
Answer: The Starry Night (accept De sterrennacht [deh SHTEH-reh-nahkt])
8. Ancient examples of these structures include one named for the god Izanagi and another named
Farallon which gave rise to a modern one called Juan de Fuca. If these structures meet at a
convergent boundary, (*) subduction can occur, and they grow at mid-ocean ridges in the process of
seafloor spreading, which causes continental drift. The lithosphere consists of, for 10 points, what moving
sections of Earth’s crust?
Answer: tectonic plates (prompt on “plates”)
9. In a work by this author, Pontiac dealer Dwayne Hoover is obsessed with a science fiction
author. One of his novels takes place in San Lorenzo, the home of Bokononism. A ballerina is shot
by Diana (*) Moon Glampers in a short story by this author of Breakfast of Champions and Cat's Cradle,
who created the fictional writer Kilgore Trout. For 10 points, name this author, who created Billy Pilgrim
for his novel Slaughterhouse-Five.
Answer: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
10. This nation's Order #270 required the killing of deserting soldiers and the arrest of their
families. This nation's secret police, led by Lavrentiy Beria, committed and covered up the Katyn
massacre of Polish citizens. This country was the target of (*) Operation Barbarossa, which saw
German forces siege cities like Smolensk and Leningrad. For 10 points, name this country led during
World War II by Joseph Stalin.
Answer The Soviet Union (accept USSR, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, or CCCP; do not accept
Russia)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 3 of 11
11. The formula for Euclidean distance between two points is derived from this theorem. James
Garfield drew a trapezoid to begin his proof of this theorem. Sets of positive integers that satisfy
this formula are known as namesake (*) "triples," including 3, 4, and 5. For 10 points, name this
geometric theorem, named for an ancient Greek mathematician, that compares the sides of a right triangle,
often written as a squared plus b squared equals c squared.
Answer: Pythagorean theorem (prompt on "a squared plus b squared equals c squared" before
mentioned)
12. In 2009, this blogger fled from the Swat Valley due to Taliban skirmishes. In an October 2013
meeting, this activist warned President Obama that drone strikes fostered resentment. In 2014,
with child labor opponent Kailash Satyarthi, she was (*) honored for her advocacy for women's rights
and education. For 10 points, name this winner of the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, a teenage girl, who, at the
age of 15, was shot in the head by the Taliban.
Answer: Malala Yousafzai (accept Malala Yousaf; prompt on "Malala")
13. This author wrote about Dr. Edwin Ransom’s encounters with life on Mars and Venus in Out of
the Silent Planet and Perelandra. This author of The Screwtape Letters wrote about Digory and
Polly, who pave the way for the (*) Pevensie children, and about Prince Caspian and the lion Aslan. For
10 points, identify this author of The Chronicles of Narnia, including The Lion, the Witch, and the
Wardrobe.
Answer: C(live) S(taples) Lewis (prompt on “Lewis” alone)
14. The Final Fantasy game of this number introduced the gunblade-wielding Squall. In
Hearthstone, Ragnaros' fireball effect deals this much damage. Ignoring "Minus World," there are
this many worlds in the original Super Mario Bros. game. The (*) "Luigi Death Stare" appears in the
Mario Kart game of this number, released in 2014. For 10 points, give this Pokedex number of Wartortle
and maximum number of lines cleared by two Tetris "I" blocks.
Answer: 8 (accept Final Fantasy VIII or Mario Kart 8)
15. The case Furman v. Georgia dealt with inequitable use of this practice, and Atkins v. Virginia
ruled that mentally handicapped people cannot undergo this procedure. In 2011, Hospira stopped
producing sodium thiopental, the first of a (*) three-drug process often used in this procedure. For 10
points, name this form of punishment usually performed in the United States by lethal injection on
inmates serving on "Death Row."
Answer: capital punishment (or the death penalty, execution, or equivalents; prompt on lethal injection
before mentioned)
16. Vasopressin inserts aquaporins into sections of this organ to regulate blood pressure. A
concentration gradient is created by reabsorbing ions through this organ’s Loop of Henle. The
Bowman’s capsule encloses this organ’s filtering portion, the glomerulus, at the beginning of its (*)
functional unit, called a nephron. Dialysis is used after this organ fails. For 10 points, name this beanshaped organ that filters blood and concentrates urine.
Answer: kidney

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 4 of 11
17. Until 2006, these people were equipped with triple-barreled guns for defense against wolves.
Three of these people died after leaving Salyut 1 when their capsule decompressed; another died in
a training flight seven years after he flew on (*) Vostok 1. The station Mir was run by three of these
people. Valentina Tereshkova and Yuri Gagarin were, for 10 points, what type of explorer who flies on
Soyuz rockets for the USSR or, now, Russia?
Answer: cosmonauts (accept Russian/Soviet astronauts before mentioned; prompt on astronaut alone)
18. One character in this work is called salao, but fondly remembers his first fishing trip with a
five-year-old helper. That protagonist dreams of lions on a beach, and he remains confident in the
Yankees and the “great DiMaggio.” (*) Manolin is forbidden to go with the title character in this
novella, who goes for 84 days without a fish before finally catching a marlin, only to have it get eaten by
sharks. For 10 points, identify this novella about Santiago, a work by Ernest Hemingway.
Answer: The Old Man and the Sea
19. In the Hall effect, this quantity is transverse to the current. Kirchoff’s loop rule states that the
sum of this quantity in a loop is 0. Potential energy is equal to charge times this quantity, and across
branches of a parallel circuit, this quantity is equal. By (*) Ohm’s law, it equals current times
resistance. For 10 points, name this quantity, which equals 1.5 for AAA batteries and is measured in
namesake volts.
Answer: voltage difference (accept electric potential difference, accept electromotive force, accept emf,
do not accept “electric potential energy”)
20. Mily Balakirev convinced this composer to re-work the "love theme" of one of his
Shakespearean tone poems, an “Overture-Fantasy” on Romeo and Juliet. He used La Marseillaise to
represent Napoleon's army as its invasion of (*) Russia failed under cannonfire, represented by bass
drum or an actual cannon. For 10 points, name this Romantic Russian composer of six symphonies,
including the Pathetique Symphony, and the 1812 Overture.
Answer: Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky (or Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 5 of 11
Bonuses
1. This economic concept can be illustrated by spending a Saturday playing quizbowl, as that's one
fewer day you could spend doing homework, working a part-time job, or relaxing with friends. For 10
points each,
[10] Give this two word term that describes the value lost in a trade-off by choosing to spend resources on
a different option.
Answer: opportunity cost
[10] Opportunity cost is often described in economics by the food-related catchphrase that "there is no
such thing as" one of these.
Answer: a free lunch
[10] Someone who does receive a lunch at no cost is said to be a "free rider," benefiting from someone
else's paying of the cost of the lunch. This "tragedy" is a scenario where free lunches, or other public
goods, are exploited by individuals who don't replenish whatever resource is providing them.
Answer: tragedy of the commons

2. The gravitational form of this quantity is equal to mass times little G times height. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this type of energy, symbolized U, that results from object’s position in a force field. A roller
coaster at the top of a hill converts this energy into kinetic energy when it goes down.
Answer: potential energy
[10] The negative change in potential energy is equal to this quantity. This quantity also equals force
times distance.
Answer: work
[10] The potential energy stored in this object is one-half times the namesake constant times displacement
squared. When a mass is attached to one, it can undergo simple harmonic motion.
Answer: spring (accept answers involving elastic material)

3. This league's commissioner, Roger Goodell, was criticized for his peculiar sense of arithmetic in
2014. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this major American sports league, whose players were locked out in 2011 and whose referees
were locked out in 2012.
Answer: National Football League
[10] In 2014, Goodell initially announced that this Baltimore Ravens running back was suspended two
games after allegedly knocking his fiancee unconscious in an Atlantic City hotel
Answer: Ray Rice
[10] The original two-game punishment Rice received for domestic abuse was criticized for being eight
times lighter than the full season suspension that this Cleveland Browns wide receiver originally received
for a repeat violation of the NFL's restriction on marijuana use.
Answer: Josh Gordon

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 6 of 11

4. In one of this woman's novels, the schoolteacher from Sweet Home comes to retrieve a slave woman
and her children. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this author of Song of Solomon who was the last American to win the Nobel Prize in
Literature. She wrote about the escaped slave Sethe in Beloved.
Answer: Toni Morrison (or Chloe Wofford)
[10] In this Harriet Beecher Stowe novel, the title character is almost set free by Augustine St. Clare
before he falls into the hands of Sambo and Quimbo on Simon Legree's plantation.
Answer: Uncle Tom's Cabin
[10] Jim escapes from the Widow Douglas and Miss Watson and sails on a raft with the mischievous title
character in this Mark Twain novel.
Answer: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

5. At the end of the last ice age, many giant examples of this animal group like the woolly mammoth,
ground sloth, and saber-toothed tiger went extinct. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this class of animals characterized by three middle ear bones, hair, and milk production by
namesake glands. Rodents are the largest group within this class.
Answer: Mammalia
[10] The order Chiroptera, the bats, is the most widespread mammal group after rodents, probably
because they are the only mammals that can truly perform this self-powered type of movement.
Answer: flying (also accept flight)
[10] Perissodactyla mammals, like horses and rhinos, and Artiodactyla, like sheep and pigs, are
distinguished by having an odd or even number of these body parts.
Answer: toes

6. This ruler defeated King Guthrum at Edington and signed the Treaty of Wedmore. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this English king who defended his country from invading forces at the Battle of Ashdown. He
is the only English king to be known as “the Great.”
Answer: Alfred the Great
[10] The aforementioned battles were chronicled by Bishop Asser’s biography of Alfred the Great; an
edited edition of that biography inserted an uncited claim that Alfred founded this oldest English
university.
Answer: University of Oxford
[10] Alfred was officially King of this Anglo-Saxon kingdom in south Britain, which later merged with
Mercia as part of the general unification of England.
Answer: Wessex

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 7 of 11

7. Identify the following British women writers, for 10 points each.
[10] This author wrote “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways” in her collection Sonnets from the
Portuguese. She was married to the author of “My Last Duchess,” Robert.
Answer: Elizabeth Barrett Browning
[10] This author wrote about Elizabeth Browning’s dog in Flush, but is better known for writing Mrs.
Dalloway and A Room of One’s Own.
Answer: (Adeline) Virginia Woolf
[10] In A Room of One’s Own, Woolf makes reference to this author of Middlemarch. She also wrote The
Mill on the Floss and Silas Marner, though she was forced to use a male pen name.
Answer: George Eliot (accept Mary Ann Evans)

8. Answer some questions about the mythology of a particular island nation, for 10 points each.
[10] Saint Patrick legendarily drove the snakes out of this island, which serves as the setting of the book
of legends known as the Ulster Cycle.
Answer: Ireland (accept Éire; accept Airlann)
[10] In the Ulster Cycle, the forces of Queen Medb [mayv] are fought off at the Cattle Raid of Cooley by
this heroic warrior.
Answer: Cú Chulainn [Koo-Kull-In] (accept Sétanta)
[10] In another Irish cycle, the Salmon of Knowledge is cooked by this fair-haired hunter, who
accidentally attains enlightenment when the fish’s oil dripped onto his thumb.
Answer: Fionn mac Cumhaill [“Finn McCool”] (accept Deimne)

9. Douglas Adams compared this Johann Sebastian Bach musical suite's beauty to that of fractals, noting
that these are "what he wrote when he was happy." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this collection of six orchestral works that Bach wrote for Christian Ludwig, who was
Margrave of the principality for which these works are named.
Answer: Brandenburg concertos (or BWV 1049-1056)
[10] It is believed that Bach himself played this instrument at the premiere of the fifth Brandenburg
Concerto, which features a lengthy, challenging cadenza for it. This keyboard instrument plucks the
internal strings, rather than striking them as a piano does.
Answer: harpsichord (prompt on clavier; do not accept clavichord or piano)
[10] The first and third movements of Brandenburg No. 5 are both marked for this tempo, a fast, lively
speed of roughly 120 beats per minute, slower than vivace.
Answer: allegro

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 8 of 11
10. For 10 points each, give the following about containment, the official US policy for stopping the
spread of communism.
[10] Containment of communism was necessary according to this theory, which held that if one nation
fell to communism, its neighbors would be the next countries to go red.
Answer: domino theory (or domino effect or other equivalents)
[10] This President's namesake doctrine threatened US intervention in nations where communism looked
like it might take hold. His policy provided money to Greece and Turkey and sent troops to Korea.
Answer: Harry Truman
[10] This President, who served between Ford and Reagan, tried to shift from containment to a more
pacifist foreign policy until the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979. He won a Nobel Peace Prize in
2002, in part for his work with Habitat for Humanity.
Answer: Jimmy Carter
11. In one scene of this novel, Lucas de Beaumanoir [boh-man-WAHR] accuses Rebecca of witchcraft.
For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this novel, which sees Cedric of Rotherwood banish the title knight when he falls in love
with Rowena.
Answer: Ivanhoe
[10] Ivanhoe is a work by this author, who wrote about Frank Osbaldistone in Rob Roy.
Answer: Sir Walter Scott
[10] In Ivanhoe, Locksley is revealed to be this legendary Englishman who, accompanied by Friar Tuck
and Little John, robs from the rich to feed the poor.
Answer: Robin Hood
12. ICE tables can be used for calculations involving reactions in this state. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this condition in which a forward reaction occurs at the same rate as the reverse reaction.
Reactions in this condition are depicted with two half-headed arrows.
Answer: equilibrium
[10] This principle of equilibrium chemistry states that when a reaction experiences a change in pressure,
temperature, concentration, or volume, it will shift to counteract that change.
Answer: Le Chatelier’s [luh sha-tell-YAY’s] principle
[10] While adding one of these may increase reaction rate, it won’t change the equilibrium or equilibrium
constant, as it increases the reverse reaction rate just as much as the forward rate.
Answer: catalyst
13. Identify the following about East Asian literature, for 10 points each.
[10] This author wrote about the Empress Teishi in The Pillow Book and was a rival of Lady Murasaki in
11th century Japan.
Answer: Sei Shonagon (prompt on "Shonagon")
[10] This Tang-dynasty Chinese poet wrote “Drinking alone by moonlight,” “The River Merchant’s
Wife,” and three poems addressed to his contemporary, Du Fu.
Answer: Li Bai (accept Li Po or Li Bo)
[10] The Japanese poet Basho was the master of this kind of poem. The Seashell Game included sixty
examples of this seventeen-syllable, three-line type of Japanese poem.
Answer: haiku
SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 9 of 11

14. James Whistler depicted this kind of woman in his painting Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1. For
10 points each,
[10] Name this member of a family, a woman who has children. One of these women washes a little girl's
foot in a painting titled The Child's Bath.
Answer: mother
[10] This American Impressionist painted many mothers and children in works like Maternité, The
Boating Party, and The Child's Bath.
Answer: Mary Stevenson Cassatt
[10] An iconic photo depicting farm worker Florence Owens Thompson with two of her children, titled
Migrant Mother, was taken by Dorothea Lange to capture the agricultural suffering of this Great
Depression-era event.
Answer: Dust Bowl

15. This statistical quantity can be calculated by taking the average of the squared elements of a data set,
minus the square of the average of the data set. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this measure of how spread out a data set is, measured in the square of the unit of the original
set. For that reason, the standard deviation, which is the square root of this quantity, is more commonly
used in analysis.
Answer: (population or sample) variance
[10] This other measure of spread is less informative than variance or standard deviation, but it is far
easier to calculate; simply take the largest value in the set, minus the smallest value in the set.
Answer: range
[10] The range may be an inaccurate measure of how spread out a data set is if the set includes a point
that is very large or very small compared to the rest of the set; this term describes such a point.
Answer: outlier

16. The diverting of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya for irrigation caused this large body of
water to start shrinking rapidly in the 1960s. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this body of water, once one of the largest lakes in the world, found between Kazakhstan and
Uzbekistan.
Answer: Aral Sea
[10] The Karakum Canal diverted the Amu Darya to irrigate this crop; as a result, Uzbekistan is the
world’s sixth largest producer of this textile, which is also prominently grown in Egypt.
Answer: cotton
[10] Uzbekistan is east of, but does not have a shore on, this largest lake in the world, which was once fed
by the Amu Darya.
Answer: Caspian Sea

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 10 of 11

17. Leaders of this movement founded Oberlin College in Ohio; in 1858, a mob of Oberlin residents
sieged a hotel to rescue John Price, a runaway slave who had been arrested under the Fugitive Slave Act.
For 10 points each,
[10] Name this movement to end the American practice of slavery, advocated by the newspaper The
Liberator and by speakers like former slave Sojourner Truth.
Answer: abolitionism (accept word forms)
[10] This man founded and published The Liberator for 36 years.
Answer: William Lloyd Garrison
[10] In 1854, Garrison publicly burned a copy of this document, calling it a "Covenant with Death." The
final issue of The Liberator celebrated the end of slavery because this document had been amended to ban
slavery.
Answer: U.S. Constitution

18. The Superconducting Super Collider was to be the world’s largest particle accelerator, but it was
canceled over cost concerns in 1993. For 10 points each.
[10] The SSC was to be built near Waxahachie in this U.S. state. It's also home to the Johnson Space
Center, which serves as Mission Control for American spaceflight.
Answer: Texas
[10] Congress debated whether the government could afford both the SSC and this other joint project
between NASA and the space agencies of Russia, Japan, Canada, and Europe. Chris Hadfield served as its
commander in 2013.
Answer: International Space Station
[10] The SSC would have had five times the collision energy of the Large Hadron Collider, built near
Geneva by this European organization.
Answer: CERN (or the European Organization for Nuclear Research)

19. In Christian lore, God acts directly to influence the lives of many biblical figures. For 10 points each,
[10] Give this name for divine acts, often used to restore faith or reward the faithful. Jesus performed
several of these acts, including turning water into wine and bringing Lazarus back to life.
Answer: miracles
[10] This Jewish prophet interpreted a sign from God with the writing on the wall during Belshazzar’s
feast. This man was thrown into the lion’s den, but escaped unharmed.
Answer: Daniel
[10] Moses is told to take off his shoes before he approaches this object, from which he hears the voice of
God. He is told to talk to Pharaoh and given several miracles to perform.
Answer: burning bush (accept clear equivalents)

SCOP Novice 5

Round 7
Page 11 of 11
20. Operation Paul Bunyan used helicopters, bombers, and an offshore aircraft carrier to support the
removal of a tree from this region near Panmunjom. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this no-man's-land along the 38th parallel. It was created in a July 1953 armistice.
Answer: Demilitarized Zone (or DMZ) (accept, but do not otherwise reveal, any additional information
that describes the DMZ as being between North and South Korea)
[10] The DMZ was created at the end of this war. At various points in this war, the capitals of Seoul and
Pyongyang were each captured by enemy forces.
Answer: Korean War
[10] This American general led an offensive into North Korea to the Yalu River that triggered Chinese
involvement in the war. President Truman removed him from command for insubordination in 1951.
Answer: Douglas MacArthur

SCOP Novice 5

