Cavalier Classic 1996
Semifinals
Tossups:
1) Although he was an uneducated tailor, he served as governor of Tennessee and a member of the House of Representatives.
Later, in the Senate, he was the only member from the eleven seceding states to remain loyal to the Union when the Civil
War broke out. As President, he was impeached for trying to dismiss Edwin Stanton. FrP, name this seventeenth president of
the United States.
Answer: Andrew _Johnson_
2) In his 88 years, this man was both a nineteenth-century novelist and a twentieth century poet. His famous poems, such
as "Channel Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush," were written after he abandoned prose because of the public outcry against
his novel Jude the Obscure. FrP, name this man who also wrote The Mayor of Casterbridge and The Return of the Native.
Answer: Thomas _Hardy_
3) Rudolph Giuliani defended him from charges of wrongdoing, while Maryland's governor suggested that he was part of a
criminal conspiracy. Yankees' manager Joe Torre bemoaned a dangerous precedent, and Reggie Jackson criticized his fielding
skills for failing to hold on to the ball. FTP, name this 12 year old from Old Tappan, New Jersey, who turned Derek Jeter's
fly ball in Game One of the American League championships into a home run.
Answer: Jeffrey _Maiec
4) Copolymer 1, a new drug developed in Israel, may soon be approved by the FDA as a treatment for this autoimmune
disease. A replica of the protein in the sheaths of nerve cells, the drug acts as a decoy to keep white blood cells from
attacking the sheath. FrP, name this degenerative disease which causes severe, painful attacks, eventually leading to
paraplegia, and which is abbreviated as MS.
Answer: _Multiple sclerosis_
5) Founded in 1993 by former baggage handler Robert Priddy, this company began with only two planes. Today, it faces an
FAA ruling which temporarily limits service to five cities and a lawsuit from a flight attendants' union. FrP, name this
discount airline, whose super-cheap rates were part of its efforts to get back off the ground following a disastrous crash in the
Florida Everglades.
Answer: _ ValuJec
6) Dating from the second century B .c., it records the donations of Ptolemy V Epiphanes to the priests at Memphis.
Following work done by Thomas Young, a translation was published in 1822 by Jean Champollion. FTP, identify this
block of basalt, now located in the British Museum, which was written in Hellenistic Greek, hieroglyphics, and demotic
Egyptian.
Answer: the _Rosetta Stone_
7) Holiness, Temperance, Chastity, Friendship, Justice and Courtesy are the themes of this work's six books, each of which
is also associated with a different knight. FrP, name this 1596 poem, one of the longest in the English language, which
revolves around a character named Gloriana, and which was written by Edmund Spenser.
Answer: The _Faerie Queene_
8) Scientists at Yale are experimenting with ways to inject bacteria into a certain kind of fly, in the hope that they will
destroy the parasites, known as trypanosomes, which the insects can inject into humans. FTP, name this fly, found in subSaharan Africa, which spreads the disease known as sleeping sickness.
Answer: _tsetse_ fly (SEET-see)

9) Wife of Lapidoth, she was a keeper of tabernacle lamps. Alarmed by the Canaanite armies, this prophetess worked with
Barak to form a battleplan against them. Fighting near Mt. Tabor, their forces defeated the enemy in a fierce rainstorm.
FIP, name this woman, whose song of victory appears in
Judges 5.

10) After the lead singer went solo in 1986, three members formed their own group, while the other two had successful solo
careers. Originally discovered by Maurice Starr, who also gave the world New Kids on the Block, this group of childhood
pals from Boston recenty reunited. FIP, name this R&B group of Ralph Tresvant, Johnny Gill, Ronnie DeVoe, Michael
Bivins, Ricky Bell, and Bobby Brown, back on the charts with the album Home Again.
Answer: _New Edition_
11) Educated at Bowdoin and Harvard, he became a professor of zoology at Indiana University in 1920. Professional
curiosity led him to found the Institute for Sex Research at Indiana in 1942 and to conduct thousands of interviews concerning
the sexual experience of individuals. FIP, name this researcher, who published the results of these investigations in 1948 as
Sexual Behavior in the Human Male.
Answer: Alfred _Kinsey_
12) Pencil and paper ready. Take the smallest perfect number and divide it by the largest even prime. Add the result to the
number of faces of an icosahedron, and multiply that sum by the x-intercept of the line, y equals two x minus four. FfP,
what is the result?

13) When Ward McAllister wrote that "there are only about 400 people in New York society," this writer responded with a
short story collection called The Four Million, referring to the population of the entire city. FTP, name author of "The
Clarion Call," "The Last Leaf," and "The Gift of the Magi", an ex-convict whose real name was William Sydney Porter.
Answer: 0. _Henry_
14) Her first two husbands were Edward Borough, who died when she was 17, and John Neville, who died in 1542. After the
death of her third husband, she married Sir Thomas Seymour, and lived with him at the royal court until dying after childbirth
in 1548. FTP, identify this English queen, who mitigated religious persecution under the Act of the Six Articles and helped
restore Mary and Elizabeth to favor as the wife of Henry VIII from 1543 until his death.

15) Situated near the Romanian border, this city is located 32 miles southwest of the mouth of the Dnepr (dah-NEE-per)
River. A seaport on the Black Sea, it is famous for its harbor, site of the "Potemkin" mutiny during the Russian Revolution
of 1905. FIP, name this city in the Ukraine.
Answer: _Odessa_
16) As a young man, he served as as assistant to Lorenzo Ghiberti. From 1416 to 1420, he carved a marble St. George as
well as the relief St. George Killing the Dragon. FIP, name this sculptor, best known for his 3 statues of David, the most
famous of which is a bronze work dating from the 1430s.
Answer: _Donatello_
17) It begins with the two friends trying to cure warts with a dead cat in a cemetery. After Muff Potter is wrongly accused of
a murder they witness, they flee to Jackson's Island, but return to Potter's trial to attest that the murderer was Injun Joe.
FIP, identify this 1876 novel, which ends with the title character and his girl, Becky Thatcher, getting lost in a cave, a work
by Mark Twain.
Answer: the _Adventures of Tom Sawyec

18) His nickname was derived from his official attire as abbot of St. Martin of Tours. Selected by election after the death of
Louis the Do-Nothing, he had little power, and the throne would have remained elective after his death if he had not crowned
his son king during his lifetime by cooptation. FTP, identify this grandson of Henry the Fowler, who became king of France
in 987 as the fIrst Capetian ruler.
Answer: _Hugh_ Capet
19) In 1845, he presided over an experiment in Utrecht in which a train full of trumpeters sped past a group of musicians
with perfect pitch. His work was developed by Arnand Fizeau, and Huggins fIrst observed in with the star Sirius. FTP,
identify this Austrian physicist, best known for his 1842 discovery that the frequency of waves changes depending on whether
the source is moving toward or away from the observer, an effect named for him.
Answer: Christian _Dopplec
20) Made of bronze, it is 13 and a half inches high, six and a half inches wide, and 14 inches long. Designed by Frank
Eliscu, it was fIrst presented in 1935 to players east of the Mississippi, although players across the country became eligible a
year later. FTP, identify this award, whose recent recepients have included Andre Ware, Gino Toretta, Charlie Ward, and Eddie
George, presented annually to the best college football player.
Answer: _Heisman_ trophy

Cavalier Classic 1996
Boni for semifinals:
1) 30-20-10, identify the author.
(30) The violent death of his great-grandfather, a colonel and author of The White Rose of Memphis, provided him with
material for two of his novels.
(20) Works by this man include The Reivers, Pylon, and Sartoris.
(10) He set several of his works in fictional Yoknapatawpha County.
Answer: William _Faulknec
2) Identify the following geological periods, FTP each.
a) Divided into the Pridoli, Ludlow, Wenlock, and Llandovery epochs, the first leafless land plants appeared during this
period.
b) The first amphibians and insects appeared in this period, which saw the formation of the Urals and Appalachians.
c) Consisting of the Pennsylvanian and Mississippian epochs, this period is noted for enormous swamps and evergreen
forests.

3) Answer the questions about Turkey FTP each.
a) This empire dominated Turkey from 1326 to 1918.
b) This reformer served as president of Turkey from 1923 to 1938.
c) This ethnic group which makes up 10% of Turkey's population predominates in the southeastern mountainous areas.

4) FTP each, answer these questions about the psychological process known as conditioning.
a) Pavlov pioneered this type of conditioning, in which the presentation of a particular stimulus signals the occurrence of a
reinforcer, as when a dog salivates in response to a bell.
b) In the second type of conditioning, the delivery of a reinforcer depends on the subject performing a particular action, such
as a rat pressing a lever to receive a piece of cheese.
c) The most famous example of operant conditioning is a box developed by this American psychologist, associated with
behaviorism.
Answer: _classical_ conditioning; _operanc or _instrumental_ conditioning; Burrhus Frederick _Skinnec
5) Identify the capitals of the following former Soviet republics for the stated number of points.
5) Belarus
10) Estonia
15) Tajikistan

6)
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

Given the top ten hit from the 80's, name the artist or band that sang it, FFP each.
"Ghostbusters"
"Don'tYouWantMe"
"Here I Go Again"
"Jessie's Girl"
"Man Eater"
f) "Do That To Me One More Time"

Answers: Ray _Parkec Jr.; _Human League_; _Whitesnake_; Rick _Springfield_;_Hall and Oates_;
_Captain and Tennille_
7) Three standard six-sided dice are thrown.
5,5) For five points each, what are the two most likely values for the sum of the three dice?
20) For twenty points, what is the probability that the sum of the three dice equals five?

8) FfP each, identify these plays by Shakespeare.
a) When the philanthropic title character loses his fortune, he becomes a misanthrope and a hermit. Stumbling upon buried
treasure, he then fmances an invasion of his former home town by the general Alcibiades.
b) In this comedy, the ruler of Vienna appoints a stem deputy to enforce traditional laws. The deputy abuses his authority to
circumvent those laws, while the duke watches in disguise.
c) During a lull in the Trojan War, a prince of Troy loses his true love to a prisoner exchange, after which it is discovered she
has been unfaithful to him.
Answers: _Timon of Athens_; _Measure for Measure_; _Troilus and Cressida_
9) Identify the following Supreme Court justices FfP each.
a) Known as the Great Dissenter, he served on the court from 1902 to 1932.
b) The fIrst Catholic on the court, he served from 1836 to 1864.
c) He chaired the federal commission that investigated the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Answers: Oliver Wendell_Holmes_; Roger _Taney_; Earl_W arren_
10) Give the equivalent of the word "Tomorrow" in each of the following languages FrP each.
a) Spanish
b) French
c) German

11)
30)
20)
10)

Give the common scientific term, 30-20-10.
In chemistry, it refers to unstable species trapped in an unreactive substrate, like free radicals in solid argon.
In geology, it is a fme-grained rock in which coarser-grained material is embedded.
In mathematics, it is a set of elements arranged in a rectangular array.

12) FrP each, identify the following novels from their fIrst lines; if you need the author, you will only receive fIve points.
10) "I am a sick man. I am an angry man. I am an unattractive man."
5) Fyodor Dostoyevsky
10) "It was love at fIrst sight."
5) Joseph Heller
10) "Under certain circumstances there are few hours in life more agreeable than the hour dedicated to the ceremony known as
afternoon tea."
5) Henry James
Answer: _Notes from (the) Underground_; _Catch-22_; The _Portrait of a Lady_
13) Name the popes FrP each.
a) As pope from 1087 to 1099, he called for the 1st crusade.
b) The longest-serving pontiff, he was in offIce from 1846 to 1878.
c) Pope from 1958 to 1963, he called the 2nd Vatican Council.

14) The Nobel Prize for chemistry was recently awarded to two scientists from Rice University for their 1985 discovery of a
new form of elemental carbon. For ten points each, name the scientists and the term for what they discovered.

15) As you know, not every ftlm that won the Best Picture Oscar has earned its director the Oscar as well. Given a year and
the Best Picture winner, name the director who actually won the Oscar, FTP each. If you need the ftlm he directed, you'll
only get five points ..
10) Chariots of Fire, 1981
5) Reds
10) In The Heat of the Night, 1967
5) The Graduate
10) The Greatest Show on Earth, 1952
5) The Quiet Man

16) Name the opera from a brief description FTP each.
a) Set in Seville in 1820, it portrays the love of Don Jose for a beautiful gypsy.
b) This Wagner opera depicts a sailor condemnded to sail his ship until he is redeemed by a faithful woman.
c) An American naval officer marries and then deserts a Japanese geisha girl.

17) Given the acronym of an United Nations agency, identify what it stands for, for the stated number of points.

5) WHO
5) UNICEF
10) IAEA
10) UNHCR

Answers : _World Health Organization_; _United Nations Children's Fund_; _International Atomic Energy Association_;
_United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees_
18) Answer the following questions about the ABL, whose inaugural season began less than two weeks ago, FTP each.
a) First, what does ABL stand for?
b) What US National team, and former USC, star turned down an ABL contract to pursue a modeling career?
c) What Olympic long jumper and Heptathlete recently signed with the Richmond Rage?
Answers: _American Basketball League_; Lisa_Leslie_; Jackie _Joyner-Kersee_
19) Identify the South American authors from works on a 15-5 basis.
15) The Aleph
5) Labyrinths
15) Of Love and Other Demons
5) Love in the Time of Cholera
Answers: Jorge Luis _Borges_; Gabriel_Garcia Marquez_
20) Name the ruling house of the following English monarchs, FTP each.
a) George II
b) Mary
c) Richard the Lion-hearted
Answers: _Hanovec; _ TudoC; _Plantagenec

