TOSSUPS - SEMIFINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
41 men signed the original, which has long since disappeared. We know the text from the version given
in the history Of Plimouth Plantation by one of those signatories, William Bradford. FTP name this 1620
document, the first agreement for self-government ever put in force in North America.
Answer: the Mayflower Compact
2.
This is one of the pigments, other than chlorophyll, that traps light energy in leaves during
photosynthesis. It is a lipid formed by a series of isoprene units that are covalently linked and chemically
modified. In humans, it is usually broken down into two vitamin A molecules. FTP, name this substance,
which is responsible for the color of carrots and pumpkins.
Answer: Beta-carotene (prompt on carotene)
3.
Between its original anonymous publication in 1728 and the official, acknowledged version seven years
later, its target changed. It was actually a response to the 1726 book Shakespeare Restored, in which scholar
Lewis Theobald attacked the author's edited version of Shakespeare. Ironically, it was the wide circulation of a
butchered version that forced the true author to admit he wrote it - but the formal reissue was recast with poet
laureate Colley Cibber as the model for Tibbald, hero of the reign of pedantry. FTP name this mock heroic
verse by Alexander Pope.
Answer:
The Dunciad
4.
This lake's great depth can cause refraction that can make it appear to float in midair, and "storms" can
occur beneath its surface. 22 miles long and ice-free year round, it is the largest portion of the Caledonian
Canal. Perhaps the best view of it is near Drumnadrochit, near which St. Columba was the first to record
another supposed oddity. FTP, name this Scottish lake that could also be home to a great beastie.
Answer: Loch Ness
5.
It was invented on the set ofthe 1938 movie Campus Confessions by the same man who pioneered the
layup, former Stanford player Hank Luisetti. It was first used successfully in a college game by Seton Hall
guard Bob Davies - the inspiration for the cheesy "Chip Hilton" books - in the semifinals of the 1941 NIT.
Popularized by Celtics guard Bob Cousy, FTP, what fancy basketball maneuver allows the offensive player to
shield the ball from a defender while maintaining his dribble?
Answer: behind-the-back dribble
6.
This movement dominated Christian schools and universities from the middle of the 11 th century to the
middle ofthe 15 th century. It attempted to combine human reason and science with the Christian and Jewish
philosophies, and spun off the philosophy known as nominalism. FTP, name this movement that rethought
the ideas of Aristotle, and featured such thinkers as Peter Lombard and Peter Abelard.
Answer: Scholasticism
7.
In French, its name means fish, but it's named after a mathematician. It's a model for events at irregular
intervals with a predictable average time. This distribution's variance is equal to its average. For ten points,
name the probability distribution.
Answer: Poisson
8.
He'd survived numerous assassination attempts, major riots, and coup attempts at Strasburg and
Boulougne. His eventual ouster was almost accidental, though. When his prime minister Guizot decided to halt
political banquets by moderate opponents, the opposition wanted to challenge this in courts and announced a
Grand-National banquet as a test case. Inflamed by radical newspapers, crowds held an unplanned procession
that turned into a riot big enough to force this king's resignation. FTP name this French monarch, who
abdicated in 1848 after a turbulent 18-year reign.
Louis Philippe
Answer:

9.
This type of device is charged by closing a switch at a point, which completes an RC-series circuit
consisting of itself, a battery, and a given resistance. The earliest versions were merely two conductors
separated by a dialectic material, so that when current was removed, one would maintain a negative charge and
the other a positive. FTP, the Leyden jar was an early example of what device for storing electric charge?
Answer: capacitor (prompt on: condenser)
10.
A miserly epicure, this fictional character plays on the bad qualities of all those around him, from Sir
Politic Would-Be to a greedy lawyer, and brings ruin to each. The main character of a 1607 play subtitled "the
fox," FTP, name this titular Ben Jonson villain.
Answer: Volpone
11.
This architect helped initiate the Italian Renaissance, and changed architecture by basing it on
mathematics, proportion, and perspective. Although he also designed the Medici Church of San Lorenzo and
the hospital Ospedale degli Innocenti, he is best known for his work that consists of two octagonal vaults, one ·
inside the other. FTP, name this Florentine designer of the Duomo, the dome of the Florence Cathedral.
Answer: Filippo Brunelleschi
12.
Robert Lowell called this poem "Whitman's America, grown pathetic and tragic." Published in five
volumes from 1946-1958, it was intended as a response to the obscure, allusion-filled style of Ezra Pound and
T.S. Eliot. The guys from the title location "beat up the guys from Newark and told them to stay the hell out of
their territory," which is also a New Jersey town. FTP, identify this poetry collection, named for the hometown
of its author, William Carlos Williams.
Answer: Paterson
13.
Examples of this type of compound include magnesium nitrate. In this class of compound, an anion is
provided by an acid (such as a nitrate ion from nitric acid) and a cation from the base (such as magnesium from
magnesium hydroxide), which combine in an ionic compound. FTP, name this class, epitomized by sodium
chloride.
Answer: salts (prompt on ionic compound)
14.
Before the founding ofIsrael, he was a leader of the militant Irgun and was jailed by the British for
suspected pro-German ties. While the Labor Party governed the state of Israel for almost 30 straight years, this
man was one of its main opponents for the duration. For ten points name this leader of the Likud Party who
finally broke Labor's streak when he became Prime Minister in 1977.
Answer: Menachem Begin
15.
This son of Aeolus founded Ephyre, which later became Corinth. According to some accounts, he
avenged a cattle theft by stealing Autolycus' daughter, thereby becoming the father of Odysseus. More
memorable, perhaps, is his crime of reporting Zeus' rape of Aegina and his resulting punishment. FTP, who the
man who must endlessly roll a stone up a hill in Hades?
Answer: Sisyphus
16.
This Russian composer and pianist performed his last concert in 1943 at the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville. He based his symphonic poem The Bells on Edgar Allan Poe's poem, and wrote Prelude in C sharp
minor at the age of 19. One of his compositions was rearranged as "Full Moon and Empty Arms." FTP, name
the composer of The Isle of the Dead, who was the idol of David Helfgott in Shine.
Answer: Sergei Rachmaninoff
17.
William Lyon [blank] led an insurgency in Toronto in 1837. William [blank] organized the Canadian
Northern Railway. Alexander [blank] was Prime Minister of Canada from 1873-78. FTP, what is this common
name in Canadian history also shared by Sir Alexander, the fur trader who discovered Canada's longest river?
Answer: Mackenzie

18.
An appearance on Saturday Night Live was delayed almost an hour because of an overly long XFL
game. This former "fly girl" didn't miss a beat, though, raising eyebrows with a transparent, nipple-bearing
gray top at the Grammys. FTP, name this musician, who acknowledged taking out a million-dollar insurance
policy on her callipygian backside.
Answer: Jennifer Lopez
19.
When molecules are very close together they repel, and when they are widely separated, they attract
because of these forces. They are generally weaker than those that hold the molecule itselftogether.
Substances change states when the molecules constant vibration overcomes these forces. FTP, name these
forces which hold a group of molecules together.
Answer: Van der Waals forces
20.
This author has written both a novel and a collection of short stories about the character Eva Luna. She
wrote Paula about her daughter who had fallen into a coma. The author of Daughter of Fortune, her first novel
appeared in 1982. FTP, name this South American-born writer who has also written The House a/the Spirits.
Answer: Isabel Allende
21.
The mayor of this city, Joe Carollo, was recently arrested for hitting his wife with a tea canister. In the
1920s, it experienced a real estate boom because of the work of John S. Collins and Carl F. Fisher. Current
attractions include the Lowe Art Museum, Coconut Grove Convention Center, and the Orange Bowl. Nestled
around the Bay of Biscayne, FTP, in what city will you find fashionable South Beach?
Answer: Miami
22.
At first a predominantly white style, it became prominent in the urban religious revivals led by the
evangelist Dwight Moody and musician Ira Sankey. Its roots were in Sunday school hymns, camp meeting
spirituals, and the melodies and harmonies of popular music. For ten points, name this genre of popular
American hymnody that emerged about 1870.
Answer: gospel music
23.
Milton refers to him as "admiring more the riches of Heaven's pavement, trodden gold, than aught
divine." This demon's name is the same as a word appearing in several Bible verses, although it denotes a
material source of temptation rather than a being. Jesus advises in the Sermon on the Mount that man cannot
serve both God and this. FTP, give the Aramaic word for riches.
Answer: Mammon
24.
He worked in the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab during his time at Harvard obtaining his BA in
Physics. A decade after his graduation in 1974, this developer of Emacs founded the GNU (pronounced GENNU) Project. FTP, name this poster boy of free software, a well-known hater of Bill Gates.
Answer: Richard Stallman

BONI - SEMIFINALS

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
For the stated number of points, name the following laws.
5 points. This law states that within any isolated system, entropy tends to a maximum.
Answer: Second Law of Thermodynamics
10 points. This law states that the amount of current flowing through a circuit is directly proportional to the
voltage of the circuit and inversely proportional to the total resistance.
Answer: Ohm's Law
15 points. This law states that if two given systems are each in equilibrium with a third system, then they must
be in equilibrium with each other.
Answer: Zeroth (Oth) Law of Thermodynamics
2.
Identify these figures in the Mexican Revolution, FTP each.
The Revolution began against this President, who seized power in 1876 and held onto it until ousted by the
revolution in 1910.
Answer: Porfirio Diaz
Born Doroteo Arango, he thought that the government after the ouster of Diaz was still corrupt. His
revolutionary activities included a 1916 incursion into New Mexico, causing US anger.
Answer: Francisco "Pancho" Villa
A farmer of indigenous descent, he too fought the post-Diaz governments, as they refused land reforms. His
forces controlled most of Southern Mexico until he retired to Morelos.
Answer: Emiliano Zapata
3.
Identify the following recent Pulitzer Prize-winning books from years and authors.
1985, William Kennedy
Answer: Ironweed
1994, E. Annie Proulx
Answer: The Shipping News
1995, Richard Ford
Answer: Independence Day
4.
Did you watch the Ken Burns documentary Jazz on PBS? Given three jazz greats, name the instrument
they all played, FTP each.
Duke Ellington, Mary Lou Williams, Thelonious Monk
Answer: piano
Lester Young, Coleman Hawkins, Charlie Parker
Answer: saxophone
Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillepsie, Wynton Marsalis
Answer: trumpet
5.
Given a mythical tale but without the names of the gods or goddesses in question, name the culture or
religious tradition that produced it FTP each.
A goddess is afraid of her brother and locks herself away in a cave.
Answer: Japanese or Shinto (the goddess is Amaterasu and her brother is Susanoo)
A goddess rebuilt the body of her husband and brother after another sibling dismembered him.
Answer: Egyptian (Isis, Osiris, and Set respectively)
A god eats his children to make sure no one overthrows him, but his wife and sister substitutes a rock to save
one of her children.
Answer: Greek (Cronus, Rhea, and Zeus respectively)

6.
Given the meaning, name the color of the flag in auto racing for ten points each.
Penalty
Answer: black
Caution, danger ahead
Answer: yellow
One lap left in race
Answer: white
7.
FTP each, name the animal that is characteristic of these orders of the class Mammalia.
The order Proboscidea
Answer: Elephant
The order Chiroptera
Answer: Bat
The order Dermoptera
Answer: Flying lemur (Accept: colugo and cob ego )
8.
Answer these related questions about a French painter FTP each.
What post-Impressionist's use of multiple viewpoints for objects in his paintings foreshadowed cubism?
Answer: Paul Cezanne
Among Cezanne's most famous paintings to use different perspectives is Table, Napkin, and Fruit. What type
of painting focuses on such inanimate objects?
Answer: still life
Cezanne used multiple perspective in several famous paintings ofthis French mountain.
Answer: Mont Sainte-Victoire
9.
Answer the following about the impeachment of Andrew Johnson, FTP each.
Johnson's dismissal in 1868 of this Secretary of War led to his impeachment.
Answer: Edwin Stanton
This dismissal was deemed in violation of this 1867 Act, which was ruled unconstitutional in 1926.
Answer: Tenure of Office Act
According to Profiles in Courage, this Kansas Senator's vote prevented the conviction of Johnson.
Answer: Edmund G. Ross
10.
Answer these questions about French poet Joachim du Bellay FTP each.
He was a member of this 16th century literary group, headed by Pierre de Ronsard.
Answer: La Pleiade
De Bellay's Defense and Illustration of the French Language helped popularize this fourteen-line poetic form
in France.
Answer: sonnet
Du Bellay also wrote poems in this uniquely French style. Originally intended to be sung, and often grouped in
five or six stanzas, they eventually became almost indistinguishable from odes.
Answer: chansons
11.
With the supplied information, give the area of the shapes FTP each .. (READER: allow 15 seconds per
part before calling time)
. (READER: allow 15 seconds per part before calling time)
Find the area of an ellipse with a semimajor axis of 8 units and a semiminor axis of 7 units.
Answer: 56 pi square units
To the nearest whole number, find the area of a regular hexagon with a radius, bisecting its sides, of 2 units.
Answer: 10 square units
Find the surface area of a circular cylinder with a radius of 5 units and a height of 8 units.
Answer: 130 pi square units

12.
Answer these questions related to extreme height and depth for the stated number of points.
10 - Rising to a height of 10 miles placed one in what level ofthe earth's atmosphere?
Answer: stratosphere
10 - Descending to a depth of35,800 feet is only possible in the world's deepest trench. Name it.
Answer: Mariana(s) Trench
For 10 points, give the pressure in pounds per square inch at the bottom of this trench, 36,198 feet underwater.
You'll get 10 pts if you are within 1,000 lbs/ft or 5 points if you're within 3,000 lbs/ft.
Answer: 15,124-17,124 (ten-point range)
13,124-19,124 (five-point range)
13.
Answer the following questions concerning Indonesian history for ten point each.
What country launched attacks on the newly formed Indonesian in 1947?
Answer: The Netherlands
Name Indonesia's first president who held office from 1945-68.
Answer: Sukarno
This man forced Sukarno to hand over the reins of power in 1966 after a failed coup attempt.
Answer: Suharto
14.
In the beginning, there were three different types of molecules and one element present in gaseous form.
Lightning provided the energy necessary to unite these chemicals into amino and nucleic acids.
F5PE name these gases, whose initials form the acronym for the theory stated above.
Answer: Water, Hydrogen, Ammonia, Methane
FTP name either the Russian biochemist who was ignored when he first published this idea in 1922, or the
person who tested this hypothesis with much success in the 1950's at the University of Chicago.
Answer:
A.I. Oparin or Stanley Miller
15.
Name this literary genre, 30-20-10:
(30) British examples of this genre include the Erra Pater and The Compost ofPtolomeus.
(20) The first section contained information about eclipses and other astronomical events; the second, known as
the "Kalender" showed the days of the months and Church festivals; and the final section, the
"Prognostication," was an astrological forecast.
(10) The most noted American imitator of the genre was Benjamin Franklin's popular "Poor Richard's."
Answer: almanac
16.
Given the date and a brief description, name the religious holidays FTP each.
January 6. It marks the arrival of the Three Wise Men who sought the newborn baby Jesus and the Twelfth
Night, or end, of the Christmas season.
Answer: Feast of the Epiphany
February 2. It celebrates the presentation of the Christ child in the temple and the purification of the Blessed
Virgin Mary 40 days after she gave birth to Jesus.
Answer: Candlemas
Sunday nearest October 31. It celebrates the day Martin Luther nailed his "95 Theses" to a church door.
Answer: Reformation Sunday

17.
FTP each, answer the following questions concerning Bob Dylan.
Last week Dylan won the 2000 Oscar for Best Original Song for his composition for this Michael Douglas film.
Answer: The Wonder Boys
Dylan's only book, completed after his motorcycle accident, shares its name with an arachnid. Name it.
Answer: Tarantula
For most of 1999 he was on tour with what other famous musician, who made the album Graceland.
Answer: Paul Simon
EDITOR'S NOTE: On the Dylan/Simon tour, they'd do a three song set together, and it was painful to watch
Dylan try to stay on key to harmonize - especially on "I Walk the Line."
18.
Take a "Journey" and identify these "cities by the bay" FTPE.
1.
Located on the shores of the Bay of Good Hope, this city has a population of about 13000, mostly Inuit,
with a small Danish minority as well. It is home to one of the world's northernmost ice-free harbors, as well as
large fish-processing plants and the University of Greenland.
Nuuk (accept the former name, Godthab)
Answer:
2.
This city located on the Bay of Fundy is home to a geographic anomaly--exceptionally high tides cause
the falls of a nearby river to change directions. In 1783, thousands of United Empire Loyalists settled in this
city, now the capital of New Brunswick.
Saint John (do not accept St. John's--that's in Newfoundland)
Answer:
3.
Like neighboring Newcastle, it lies on the shores of Botany Bay, along which its most famous landmark-an oddly shaped opera house--rests. Its population of about 3 million makes it Australia's largest city.
Sydney
Answer:
19.
FTP each, answer the following related questions.
This Revolutionary War hero led a regiment of soldiers that regularly attacked British supply lines in brief
surprise attacks and then withdrew to swampy area, safe from the British soldiers.
Answer: Francis Marion
This Revolutionary War general joined forces with the Swamp Fox at the Battle of Eutaw Springs, the last
major battle of the Carolina campaign.
Answer: Nathanael Greene
This author wrote a teen mystery series, in one book of which Francis Marion prominently figures. Name this
man who wrote of Frank and Joe's crime-fighting exploits.
Answer: Edward Stratemeyer (accept: Franklin W. Dixon, his pseudonym)
20.
By now you are all familiar with Henrik Ibsen, the Norwegian playwright, but, FTP each, can you name
these American playwrights whom his realism influenced?
This actor and playwright wrote thrillers about the Civil War, such as Secret Service.
Answer: William Gillette
This playwright had mediocre success with plays like Shore Acres, but has become known since for works such
as his harsh Margaret Fleming.
Answer: James Herne
He was best known as the novelist of A Modern Instance and others, but also wrote the short comic play The
Mouse Trap.
Answer: William Dean Howells
21.
FTP each, identify these geographical features of Central America.
This city on Nicaragua's Pacific coast is its capital.
Answer: Managua
This isthmus, and a nation of the same name, separates Costa Rica from South America.
Answer: Panama
Cancun, Mexico lies directly across this channel from Cuba.
Answer: Yucatan Channel

22.
Answer these questions about psychology FTP each.
The word itself derives from what language.
Answer: Greek
Descartes erroneously believed that the mind and body communicated through this gland.
Answer: pineal
This American behaviorist described how his principles of conditioning could help create an ideal society in
Walden Two.
Answer: B. F. Skinner

