DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

September 2007
Packet 1:
Tossups

© 2007 Dynasty Academic Competition Questions. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without express prior written
permission solely by DACQ. Please note that non-authorized distribution of DACQ
materials that involves no monetary exchange is in violation of this copyright. For
permission, contact Chris Ray at Cray@dacquestions.com.
1. The term oppida was first applied to this area in the most famous work regarding it, and major
settlements in this region included Avaricum, Lugdunum, and Alesia. Narbonensis, including
modern-day (*) Languedoc, is not discussed in that work, which describes victories over
Vercingetorix. The subject of a famous commentary and military expedition by Julius Caesar, FTP,
identify this term which in Roman times referred to most of modern-day France.
ANSWER: Gaul
2. A man is being sliced in half in this painter's What More can One Do?, and other works include
Procession of the Holy Office. His depicted a group of women surrounded by a shadowy goat-like
figure in The Witches Sabbath and a also created (*) nude and clothed version of a subject called the
“Maja.” The painter of the “Horrors of War” series and the Black Paintings, FTP, identify this
Spanish artist of Saturn Devouring his Son and Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco Goya
3. The number of nodes produced equals two times the separation between sources divided by the
wavelength. The Michelson-Morley experiment was founded on this property, which is also seen
in Newton's Rings and Thomas (*) Young's double-slit experiment. FTP, identify this phenomenon
that comes in “constructive” and “destructive” varieties and which results in a new wave pattern
obtained by summing two or more waves undergoing the namesake conflicting interaction.
ANSWER: Interference
4. A yellow figure on a teal background can often be seen on this individual's door, and he owns a
cat named Mr. Kitty and was once videotaped dressed as Britney Spears dancing with a cut-out
of Justin Timberlake. His more horrendous acts include feeding a teen's parents to him in chili
and using the popularity of (*) Mel Gibson's Passion to implement a “final solution.” FTP, identify
this rotund sociopath usually seen along with Stan, Kyle, and Kenny on South Park.
ANSWER: Eric Cartman (either name)
5. He wrote of the homeless Vercueil who befriends cancer patient Mrs. Curren in Age of Iron,
published the year of his son's death, an event he fictionalizes using events from Dostoyevsky's
life in The Master of Petersburg. He told of the downfall of Professor David Lurie in Disgrace,
though this author of Waiting for the (*) Barbarians is most famous for the tale of a gardener dealing
with his mother's death and apartheid. FTP, identify this South African Nobel Laureate author of The
Life and Times of Michael K.
ANSWER: John Maxwell Coetzee

September 2007, Packet 1
6. This land mass borders Disko Bay, and in 2002 an analysis of one of its key features, the
world's second largest, suggested that it might actually consist of three smaller bodies. It
contains the Jacobshavn, Helheim, and Kangerlussuaq glaciers, and its northernmost point is (*)
Cape Morris Jesup. Bounded on the south by Cape Farewell off Egger Island, it has its capital at
sparsely-populated Nuuk. FTP, identify this possession of Denmark that lies near Canada, the largest
island in the world.
ANSWER: Greenland
7. Pencil and paper ready. Lindsay just celebrated her 21st birthday. She wants to know how
many total birthday candles she has blown out in her life, given that on each birthday her cake
contained the same number of candles as her age. (*) You may want to use the equation for
summing an arithmetic series: multiplying the term by the average of the first and last terms. FTP,
after turning 21, how many candles has Lindsay blown out? You have ten seconds.
ANSWER: 231 candles [Shortcut: average=(1+21)/2=11, 11*21=231]
8. These creatures supply the tale to the Germanic Alphyn, while in Arthurian myth, the questing
beast had the haunches of this animal. In Gilgamesh, the demon Humbaba has the face of one,
and they are heavily associated with the Egyptian Sekhmet. Manticores have the body of (*) red
ones, and along with a goat and a snake, one of these creatures forms a chimera. FTP, identify these
African big cats, parts of which can also be seen in griffins and sphinxes.
ANSWER: Lions (prompt on “cat” or equivalents)
9. Wilhelm Wassmuss's capture was essential to its fate, due to the efforts of Nigel de Gray and
William Hall. Walter Page temporarily had possession of it, and among its contents was a
request to act as mediator with Japan. Venustiano (*) Carranza decided the plan it advocated was
logistically impossible, but by the time of his refusal the US had entered the conflict. FTP, identify this
coded message sent to Mexico by a namesake German foreign Secretary during World War I.
ANSWER: Zimmerman Telegram
10. Its upper region contains a curious amount of cosmic radiation, and its namesake “detergent”
is said to be the hydroxyl radical. From the Greek for “mixing,” this region appropriately
contains the Polar, Ferrel, and Hadley cells, which guide (*) winds. A namesake “pause” separates
it from the Stratosphere, and despite its shallow depth it contains almost all of Earth's water vapor.
FTP, identify this first layer of the atmosphere in which all weather occurs.
ANSWER: Troposphere
11. This phenomenon, studied by John Darley, prompted an allegorical article analyzing the
actions of twelve imaginary police officers. Compassion fatigue and pluralistic ignorance help
produce this situation, famously precipitated by Winston Mosley. The 1964 murder of (*) Kitty
Genovese in which neighbors stood by despite her cries is the most famous example of, FTP, what
psychological phenomenon in which the namesake onlookers sit idly by as something really bad
happens?
ANSWER: Bystander Effect (accept “Genovese Syndrome” early)

September 2007, Packet 1
12. He reflected on his poor depiction of females in The Legend of Good Women and told of an
Armenian queen in Anelida and Arcite. One of his works meditates on men of renown, while
another was created for the wife of his patron John of Gaunt. In addition to The House of Fame
and The Book of the Duchess, he told of a gathering of (*) birds in The Parliament of Fowls and
created characters like the Wife of Bath, the Nun's Priest, and the Miller. FTP, identify this early
English writer who wrote The Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
13. This member of the 38th battalion discussed terrorism in “On Three Fronts” and he broke
with Levi Eshkol following the Lavon affair. The founder of National List and overseer of
Operation Magic Carpet, this man, whose name means (*) “lion cub,” helped create Mapai and
presided over the Suez crisis, years after leading his country to victory in 1948. FTP, identify this
Zionist, the first Prime Minister of Israel.
ANSWER: David Ben-Gurion (or David Grun)
14. It begins with two sudden chords, and this piece's development, much longer than its
exposition, is keyed in C major. Composed the same year as a namesake set of Piano Concertos,
op. 35, the second movement is the lone Adagio. Eventually (*) rededicated to Charles XIV of
Sweden after the composer became disillusioned with Napoleon, FTP, identify this symphony “for a
great man,” Beethoven's third.
ANSWER: Beethoven's Eroica Symphony (accept Beethoven's Third before mentioned)
15. Poisoning and denaturing of certain molecules by heavy metals like manganese is theorized as
a possible source of these bodies, which are famously resistant to nucleases. HET-S is one of the
non-infectious “fungal” variety, though more dangerous ones cause Alpers Syndrome, Kuru, (*)
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, and Mad Cow. FTP, identify these infectious agents which consist only of
protein.
ANSWER: Prions
16. This man was trained as an officer in Louisville after dropping out of Saint Olaf's due to his
disgust with his janitorial position. One of the first observations about him involves the
“pyramid of pulpless halves” of oranges and lemons, as well as the unopened books (*) Owl Eyes
examines in his library. He is shot in his pool by George Wilson after this character's love interest
runs over Myrtle. Nick Carraway relates the story of, FTP, what bootlegger whose obsession with
Daisy Buchanan dominates a famous F. Scott Fitzgerald novel?
ANSWER: Jay (The Great) Gatsby (or Jay Gatz, accept any name)
17. One member of this empire won the Battle of Chitor and sought to establish a universal faith,
the Din-i-Ilahi, and also abolished the jizya tax. Another usurped his father after the defeat of
Khusrau, and was in turn usurped by the murderous Aurangzeb. Other rulers include (*)
Humayun, the father of Akbar, and Shah Jahan, who built the Taj Mahal. FTP, identify this Islamic
Indian dynasty founded after Babur won the battle of Panipat.
ANSWER: Mughal(s) Empire

September 2007, Packet 1
18. “The Commentator” cited in this work refers to Averroes, and other non-Christian influences
include Maimonedes and Aristotle, who is referred to reverently as “The Philosopher.” It is
constructed as a series of arguments and challenges, and claims the Beatic Vision as the ultimate
good. Influenced by the author's studies of Peter (*) Lombard, it claims that logic is eminent but
lacking without faith. A major work of Scholasticism, FTP, identify this treatise by Thomas Aquinas.
ANSWER: Summa Theologica
19. He invented a precursor to the modern dialysis machine by studying the filtering of
crystalloids across a membrane and conducting extensive research on colloids. He is perhaps
best known for his work investigating the flow of (*) individual gas molecules through holes. FTP,
identify this Scottish chemist, whose namesake law relates the square root of two gases' molar masses
and their effusion rates.
ANSWER: Thomas Graham
20. The speaker addresses the subject of this work with the lines “make me thy lyre, even as the
forest is” and “thou, O uncontrollable,” and also references a “pumice isle in Baiae's Bay.” This
terza rima poem describes “yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red” and describes the titular
entity as (*) “breath of Autumn's being.” Closing with “If winter comes, can spring be far behind,”
FTP, identify this Zephyrus-inspired Percy Shelley work about a certain meteorological phenomenon.
ANSWER: Ode to the West Wind

DA CQ
D ynasty A cademic C ompetition
Q uestions

September 2007
Packet 1:
Bonuses

1. Bonus: Answer these questions about Carl Orff, FTPE:
[10] Orff is probably best known for this Cantata that was adapted from John Symond's Wine, Women,
and Song by Michel Hoffman.
ANSWER: Camina Burana
[10] Camina Burana features this notable movement dedicated to the Roman counterpart of Tyche, the
goddess of wealth and good luck.
ANSWER: O Fortuna
[10] Camina Burana is the first part of a three-work series fittingly dedicated to the “triumph” of this
Olympian deity.
ANSWER: Aphrodite
2. Bonus: Answer the following questions about government-mandated environmental protection,
FTPE:
[10] Both the United States and Australia have notably failed to ratify this amendment to the
international treaty on climate changed, named for a Japanese city.
ANSWWER: Kyoto Protocols
[10] The presence of CFCs and the status of the ozone layer were the inspiration behind this 1989
treaty, named for a Canadian city.
ANSWER: Montreal Protocols
[10] Reorganization Plan No. 3 created the Environmental Protection agency under the term of this
president, who appointed William Ruckelshaus to run it. Ruckelshaus would go on to resign along
with Elliot Richardson in the Saturday Night Massacre.
ANSWER: Richard Milhous Nixon
3. Bonus: This title character of a Lawrence Durrell play has a namesake stanza involving alternating
trochees and dactyls. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Greek poet known for works like An Old Age, Hymn to Aphrodite and Ode to
Anectoria.
ANSWER: Sappho
[10] Sappho's home was this island, which possesses the second largest petrified forest on earth and is
sometimes referred to as the “Emerald Island.”
ANSWER: Lesbos
[10] Sappho is described as “dark” in this poet's Childe Harold's Pilgrammage. He also wrote “She
Walks in Beauty” and Don Juan.
ANSWER: George Gordon or Lord Byron

September 2007, Packet 1
4. Bonus: Kobayakawa's defection turned the tide at this battle. FTPE:
[10] Identify this 1600 AD battle, lost by the forces loyal to Toyotomi Hideyoshi, one of the most
influential clashes in Japanese history.
ANSWER: Battle of Sekigahara
[10] This man, who lends his name to the group that would rule Japan until the Meiji restoration, was
the victor at Sekigahara.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Iyeasu
[10] After gaining power, Tokugawa adopted this formal title of supreme military ruler, which had not
been held since the days of Ashikaga rule.
ANSWER: Shogun
5. Bonus: Pencil and paper ready. You have 50 liters of an ideal gas at a temperature of 200 Kelvin.
FTPE:
[10] If the temperature is increased to 300 Kelvin, what will be the new volume in Liters?
ANSWER: 75 Liters
[10] At 300 K, if the volume is increased to 85 Liters, what will the new temperature be in Kelvin?
ANSWER: 340 Kelvin
[10] What gas law governs this relationship between the temperature and volume of an ideal gas?
ANSWER: Charles's Law
6. Bonus: Identify these influential economic texts, FTPE:
[10] The division of labor in the pin manufacturing industry is among topics discussed in this 1776
Adam Smith work, which introduced the concept of the “invisible hand.”
ANSWER: The Wealth of Nation
[10] In addition to How to Control the Military and The New Industrial State, John Kenneth Galbraith
penned this work about the growing income disparity between classes in America.
ANSWER: The Affluent Society
[10] Theories of Surplus Value, fittingly edited by Friedrich Engles, was the fourth update of this work
by a German philosopher which introduced the term “commodity fetishism.”
ANSWER: Das Kapital
7. Bonus: Masters of this movement included Rembrandt Peale and Angelica Kauffman. FTPE:
[10] Identify this artistic movement, famous examples of which include Napoleon Crossing the Alps
and La Grande Odalisque.
ANSWER: Neoclassicism
[5,5] FFPE, these two artists painted Napoleon Crossing the Alps and La Grande Odalisque.
ANSWER: Jacques Louis David and Jean-Dominique Ingres
[10] A famous Ingres painting depicts the apotheosis of this blind Greek, who wrote The Iliad and The
Odyssey.
ANSWER: Homer

September 2007, Packet 1
8. Bonus: This author wrote The Tower and the poetry collection The Winding Stair, and won the
Nobel Prize for Literature in 1923. FTPE:
[10] Identify this Irish writer responsible for The Wild Swans at Coole and Easter 1916.
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] Yeats references “Grecian goldsmiths” and declares “there is no country for old men” in a poem
about “sailing to” this city, which at various times has also been known as Constantinople and Istanbul.
ANSWER: Byzantium
[10] This pessimistic Yeats poem laments that “the falcon cannot hear the falconer” and “the centre
cannot hold.” One of its lines inspired the title of Achebe's Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: The Second Comingu
9. Bonus: It is a measure of the power given off by a light source in a certain direction. FTPE:
[10] Identify this term from photometry, a wavelength-dependent property.
ANSWER: Luminous Intensity (Prompt on just “intensity”)
[10] Name this unit for measuring luminous intensity, an SI base unit abbreviated cd.
ANSWER: Candela
[10] Luminous intensity is sometimes defined by the glow of the molten form of this element, a
precious, silvery transition metal commonly used in jewelry and catalysts.
ANSWER: Platinum or Pt
10. Bonus: Identify the following figures from early American religious history, FTPE:
[10] Massachusetts didn't really appreciate this man's tolerance of the Native Americans, so they kicked
him out. He went on to found Rhode Island.
ANSWER: Roger Williams
[10] This complete nut, who wrote works like The Negro Christianized and The Wonders of the
Invisible World, claimed “expertise” on the matters of witchcraft and helped ferment the hysteria that
led to the Salem witch trials.
ANSWER: Cotton Mather
[10] This Great Awakening figure who wrote Original Sin and Freedom of the Will is best known for
his fire and brimstone speech, “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God.”
ANSWER: Jonathan Edwards
11. Bonus: Identify these characters that stand in the way of rescuing Princess Toadstool in various
incarnations of the Mario franchise, FTPE:
[10] Most commonly possessing red or green shells, these turtles serve as the shock troops of Bower's
army. If that isn't enough, Bowser is usually referred to as the “king” of this species.
ANSWER: Koopas (Troopa)
[10] These brown, mushroom shaped creatures have prominent eyebrows and fangs but lack legs.
Their Japanese name is the far more descriptive “little chestnut,” while their poorly-chosen American
name is somewhat suggestive of an ethnic slur.
ANSWER: Goombas
[10] These bothersome creatures look like rejects from a Japanese Noh play, and take their name from
the fact that they run and hide if their masks are removed.
ANSWER: Shy Guys

September 2007, Packet 1
12. Bonus: Identify these Hindu deities, FTPE:
[10] This mother goddess of wealth and light is usually depicted on a lotus flower. She is the consort
of Vishnu, and on her celebration night during Diwali the conch is sometimes not blown due to her
association with the ocean.
ANSWER: Lakshmi
[10] Hanuman and Adi Shankara may be avatars of this figure, the destroyer god who sports a notably
blue throat.
ANSWER: Vishnu
[10] Only one temple currently exists to this figure, a creator god born from a golden egg. He is a
member of the trimurti along with Vishnu and Shiva.
ANSWER: Brahma
13. Bonus: Identify the following trigonometric functions from clues, FTPE:
[10] It can be expressed as sine/cosine, and in a right triangle this function of an angle is equal to the
ratio of the lengths of the lines opposite and adjacent to that angle.
ANSWER: Tangent
[10] Its square plus cosine squared equals one, and it can be expressed as 1/cosecant.
ANSWER: Sine
[10] It can be expressed as the tangent of (pi/2 – the angle), or cosine/sine.
ANSWER: Cotangent
14. Bonus: Works of this writer include Through the Black Curtain and Tripmaster Monkey: His Fake
Book. FTPE:
[10] Identify this author whose most famous work is subtitled “Memoirs of a Girlhood among Ghosts.”
ANSWER: Maxine Hong Kingston
[10] Kington's most famous work is this 1975 piece that includes chapter like “Shaman” and “White
Tigers,” and centers around the psyche of women in Chinese culture.
ANSWER: The Woman Warrior
[10] Kingston's influence is readily visible in the work of this other Chinese-American female writer,
who wrote The Hundred Secret Senses and The Joy Luck Club.
ANSWER: Amy Tan
15. Bonus: This student of Macropedius got his start working with Gaspar Myrica and Gemma Frisius.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this Flemish cartographer, namesake of a famous map projection.
ANSWER: Gerardus Mercator (or Gheert Cremer)
[10] Mercator was a key influence in convincing his colleague Ortelius to publish the Theatrum Orbis
Terrarum, the first modern example of this collection of maps and geopolitical documentation.
ANSWER: Atlas
[10] For a time Mercator served as Court Cosmographer to Duke William III of this German Duchy,
which would later send a notably unattractive woman to serve as Henry VIII's fourth wife.
ANSWER: Cleves

September 2007, Packet 1
16. Bonus: Oenomaus, Demetrius, and Demonax were Roman thinkers associated with this group.
FTPE:
[10] Identify this philosophical school, possibly taking their name from the derisive “dog-like” label
applied to them, whose Greek representatives include Crates and Antisthenes.
ANSWER: Cynics or Cynicism
[10] Perhaps the most famous Cynic was this completely insane philosopher who performed lewd feats
of endurance in public, lived in a tub, and wandered the streets with a lantern during the day searching
for an honest man.
ANSWER: Diogenes of Sinope
[10] Cynicism is often seen as a key precursor to this philosophy of indifference to pleasure or pain,
espouse by Zeno of Citium and Epictetus and discussed in the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius.
ANSWER: Stoicism
17. Bonus: Identify the following about neurotransmitters, FTPE:
[10] As a hormone, this neurotransmitter releases prolactin from the pituitary. It is usually produced in
the substantia nigra and is heavily related to motivation and reward as well as the brain's pleasure
center.
ANSWER: Dopamine
[10] Sodium channels are opened when this neurotransmitter, released from ganglionic neurons, binds
to receptor sites on skeletal muscles. Consequently, many nerve agents work by inhibiting its reputake,
causing severe spasms.
ANSWER: Acetylcholine
[10] Shikimic acid and anthranilate are used to synthesize this amino acid, a precursor to niacin,
melatonin, and serotonin. It'ss better known for causing drowsiness after the consumption of
thanksgiving turkeys.
ANSWER: Tryptophan
18. Bonus: Identify the following classic works of science fiction, FTPE:
[10] Equality is the sequel to this Edward Bellamy story in which Julian West takes a nap in 1887 and
wakes up in the year 2000.
ANSWER: Looking Backward: 2000-1887
[10] Dr. Mahmoud and Joe Douglas appear in this Robert Heinlein classic about Valentine Michael
Smith, a martian who introduces earth to the term grok.
ANSWER: Stranger in a Strange Land
[10] Alquist and Helena provide the seed for a fresh society in this three-act play about the namesake
automatons taking over the world, written by Karel Capek (Tsha-peck).
ANSWER: R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots) (accept either underline portion, or both)

September 2007, Packet 1
19. Bonus: Andre Massena's invasion sparked the second phase of this conflict. FTPE:
[10] Identify this conflict, named for the geographic land mass on which it took place, which saw
British victories at Salamanca and Vitoria.
ANSWER: Peninsular War
[10] The peninsula on which the war was fought is this peninsula, which is home to the Cantabrian
Mountains and the Sierra Nevada. Another mountain range separates it from its larger continent.
ANSWER: Iberian Peninsula
[10] This man's construction of the Lines of Torres Vedras and coordination with William Beresford
made him a hero of the Peninsular War. He would go on to defeat Napoleon at Waterloo.
ANSWER: Arthur Wellesley, First Duke of Wellington
20. Bonus: How much attention do you pay to your browser while surfing the Internet? FTPE:
[10] This syndication format is used for feeds or channels. As of Internet Explorer 7 or Firefox 2.0,
you can click the orange broadcast icon to automatically subscribe to see updates on your favorite sites.
ANSWER: Really Simple Syndication or Rich Site Summary)
[10] A yellow address bar and a closed padlock indicate the use of either of these two encryption
technologies that ensure privacy during online purchases.
ANSWER: SSL or TLS
[10] If you use Firefox, common search terms in the address bar will default to this type of Google
search which returns the first site found instead of the full results page. Clicking this button for search
terms like “WMD” or “failure” used to do something funny.
ANSWER: I'm Feeling Lucky

