TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #1
Trevor's Trivia: Bob Selcer Memorial High School Quizbowl200S
Questions by various freelancers (Georgia Perimeter College, Shorter College, Seth Kendall, Billy Beyer, Chris
Borglum, Travis Vitello, Casey Retterer, Eric Floyd) with UTC's Jimmy Beilstein and your genial Quizmaster

1.
(SC) Citizen Chauvelin is the archrival of the title character. This novel from 1905 was written by Baroness
Orczy. The protagonist is Sir Percy Blakeney, an English nobleman, who risks life and limb along with a group of
accomplices to rescue victims of the Reign of Terror. FTP name this best-known (if not most historically accurate) of
stories set during the French Revolution.
Answer:
The Scarlet Pimpernel
2.
(GPC/CS) Born in 1880, she led a namesake "Brigade" to march in Washington in 1968 to protest the war in
Vietnam. After a 22-year absence she returned to Congress in 1941 . She actually abstained, but many sources
erroneously state that after Pearl Harbor she cast the lone vote against U.S. entry into World War II. One of 50 House
members to vote against authorizing entry into World War I, FTP, name this pacifist from Montana, the first woman in the
U.S. House of Representatives.
Answer:
Jeannette Rankin
3.
(CB) They had a convex, lobed structure in the cephal on called a glabella and belonged to the order Asaphida.
They often broke down their food with gnathobases, toothlike structures on the legs, since they lacked the complex mouth
apparati of relatives like the horseshoe crab. Because they burrowed into sediment molted often, leaving as many as 20
shells in their lifetime, FTP what arthropod is among the most common fossils?
Answer:
trilobites
(GPC) With roots in European Romanticism and with correspondences to European painters such as the
4.
Nazarenes, this is generally seen as the first coherent school of American art. Painters such as Asher B. Durand and
Thomas Cole began the movement that would make landscape painting the prevalent art of the 19 th Century in America.
FTP, name this "school" of art epitomized by Durand's work, Kindred Spirits.
Answer:
Hudson River School
5.
(SC/CCS) The coming of its chief prophet was foretold by a precursor called the Ba'ab [Bob]. This religion's
central theme is that humanity is one single race and that the day has come for human unification in one global society .
They embrace the ideas of Moses, Krishna, Buddha, Zoroaster, Jesus, and Muhammad, which leads some to consider it a
syncretic religion ,although they themselves dispute this. FTP, name this monotheistic religion that follows the teachings
of Bah a 'u'lla h which translates from Persian as "the Glory of God" and finds most of its followers in Asia.
Answer:
Baha'i
6.
(CCS) In 191 BCE the Romans overwhelmed Antiochus m at this site; coupled with the battle of Magnesia the
following year, this led to the shrinking of the Seleucid empire. In 279 BCE the Gauls under Brennus finally broke
through Greek resistance at this place between the cliffs of Oeta and the Malic Gulf. Silt accumulation has widened it
since its heyday as a strategic site. FTP name this mountain pass, defended heroically but unsuccessfully by Leonidas of
Sparta against the invasion of Xerxes I in 480 BCE.
Answer:
Thermopylae
7.
(GPC) Primarily transmitted through the droppings and urine of rodents, the Centers for Disease Control has
identified this contagen throughout the United States. Precautionary advice includes cleaning an infested area with rags
soaked in disinfectant as the disease travels as an aerosolized virus. FTP, what is this pathogen first isloated in 1993 in
the Four Comers area of the U.S with a mortality rate of 36 percent for those infected?
Answer:
Hantavirus
8.
(SC) "Gary Coleman" appears in the role of the disgruntled superintendent in this 2003 Broadway musical. This
satire/parody contains songs about life, love, and the pursuit ofInternet porn - and what's worse, these songs are delivered
in a distinctly simple tone, uncannily like those you might hear on "Sesame Street." And, what's EVEN worse, a majority
of the characters are, in fact, puppets - such as Kate and Trekkie Monster (who are not related), Princeton, and Rod and
Nicky. FTP, name this 2004 Tony-award winning musical, featuring the song "Everyone's A Little Bit Racist."
Answer:
Avenue 0

9.
(SC) The short story involving this character begins at the chronological end of the man's life with a group
gathered in a courthouse as Peter Ivanovich announces the death of his friend. Instead of being grieved, the men can only
think of the promotions that will result from this man's death. The story then shifts back thirty years to describe the dead
man's life which consisted of amassing wealth in order to move up in society. The thought of death terrifies him, and he
realizes that he did not live he life correctly. FTP, Name this character found in a short story written by Leo Tolstoy.
Answer:
Ivan Ilyich (from The Death ofIvan Iiyich)
10.
(SK) She was once merely a rain-making ash-nymph from Rhamnus in Attica, but Pausanias states that when the
Persian commander retreated from Salamis he left behind a block of white marble that was to have been his victory trophy
and instead was carved into this goddess's image by Agoracritus, which began her association with the power for which
she is most famous. Often associated with Zeus's nurse Adrasteia, who was sister to the Erinyes. For 10 points name this
goddess whom some mythographers think was the mother of Castor, Polydeuces, Clytemnestra, and Helen instead of
Leda, more famous as the goddess of divine retribution.
Answer:
Nemesis
11.

UB) Pencil and Paper Ready: You will have 15 seconds. Given the equation: x1\2+ 12x-64, FTP find the roots.
Answer:
x = 4 and -16

12.
(GPC) The movement associated with this loose affiliation of workers began in 1811 in England with the
destruction of two large stocking frames by a man named "Ned." Disturbances from labor unrest in Nottinghamshire and
Lancashire necessitated that British troops be diverted from the battles with Napoleon to quell the uprisings. FTP, name
this group of workers who opposed machines for eliminating jobs, but have become synonymous with anyone who
opposes technology.
Answer:
Luddites
13.
(BB) Although most of its five sections are told in third person, the ending ofthis novel consists of the story being
told through the protagonist's diary entries. It begins with "a moocow coming down along the road" and ends with the
protagonist enrolling in University College. In between, the protagonist of this 1916 work listens to arguments about
Charles Stewart Parnell at a family Christmas dinner, hears the profound lectures of Father Arnall, and has his first sexual
experience with a Dublin prostitute. FTP name this autobiographical work by James Joyce that shows the early years of
Stephen Daedalus.
Answer:
A Portrait oftlle Artist as a Young Mall
14.
(GPC) Among its features are a moat, three galleries, and an enclosed rectangular cloister that includes an 800
meter-long wall of bas-relief sculptures. It was commissioned by Suryavarman II in the early lih century and completed
almost forty years later. Spared by the Khmer Rouge in the 1970's, Buddhist Monks still attend to, FTP, this ancient
Cambodian structure, loosely translated as "City Temple."
Answer:
Angkor Wat
15.
(TV) When atmospheric nitrogen is exposed to cosmic rays it will react with a neutron to form carbon and this. It
was first produced in 1934 by Ernest Rutherford while he was working with deuterium, hydrogen's other isotope.
Containing one proton and two neutrons, FTP, what is this isotope with an atomic weight of3.02 AMU?
Answer:
tritium
16.
(SK) Released by Florentine Films in 1990, it featured voice-overs from famous actors like Jason Robards,
Jeremy Irons, Morgan Freeman, and Sam Waterston, and some by non-actors like Jimmy Carter's Press Secretary Jody
Powell, playwright Arthur Miller, Garrison Keillor, Studs Terkel, and David McCulloch, and it made a minor celebrity
out of one of its commentators, a mellifluous-voiced author of popular histories from Memphis. For 10 points, name this
groundbreaking documentary and PBS mainstay featuring the late Shelby Foote and made primarily by Ken Bums.
The Civil War
Answer:
17.
(EF) Joseph Haydn took the theme of the second movement from this symphony he composed in 1791 and 10
years later made it into an aria for his oratorio The Seasons. When this symphony debuted in London on March 27, 1792 it
made quite a sensation because of the loud chord change in the beginning of that second movement. FTP give the
sobriquet of this symphony by Papa Haydn, Number 94 in G Major, that comes from the already described bombastic
chord change.

Answer:

The Surprise Symphony (also accept Symphony Number 94 in G Major until mentioned)

18.
(SC) In 1787, these were written to settle a dispute between two quarreling factions. Composed anonymously as a
collaboration among three authors, they helped persuade skeptics to accept a new form of government because the old
form had too little central power. Written by Jay, Madison, and Hamilton, FTP, name this set of papers in support of the
US Constitution.
Answer:
the Federalist Papers
19.
(TV) His The Man Died was inspired by his 22 month arrest during his country's civil war. After General Sani
Abacha's rise to power, this man left the country on voluntary exile and earned a professorship at Emory University.
Some of his notable works include the plays A Dance o/the Forests and Death and the King's Horseman while his novels
include The Interpreters and Season 0/Anomy. The first African winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature was, FTP, what
Nigerian author who won in 1986?
Answer:
Wole Soyinka
20.
(CR) They have been parodied by stating that "you can't win, you can't break even, and you can't get out of the
game." The last component came many years after the first three, and essentially says if A = Band B = C, then A = C.
Flanders and Swann sing a song about the first two components, noting that "heat is work and work is heat" and "heat
won't pass from a cooler to a hotter." For ten points, identifY the fundamental concepts of the physics of energy, heat,
work and entropy.
Laws of Thermodynamics (if a number is given, 3 or 4 is acceptable)
Answer:
21.
(SC) This structure was built from 1887 to 1889 and was opened on May 6 of 1889. It is 300 meters tall not
including the antenna on top. The metal weighs 7300 tons while the entire structure weighs 10,100 tons. It was the world's
tallest structure for 40 years. FTP, name this tower found in Paris which was built for the World Fair commemorating the
one hundred year anniversary of the French revolution.
Answer:
the Eiffel Tower (La tour Eiffel if they speak French)
22. (TV) The titular figure in this work wears a white shirt and appears looking over his right shoulder towards the viewer.
In the background is an arch bridge, in front of which a group of three are seen in a red boat. Ripples in the water indicate
that the titular figure is rowing towards the viewer while another boater is rowing down the river into the background.
Painted in 1871, FTP, identifY this most famous painting by Thomas Eakins depicting a man's solitary boat ride.
Answer:
Max Schmitt in a Single Scull
23 .
(CB) His epinician works all follow a general pattern: they provide the name of the one being celebrated, the
name of his father and sometimes his trainer, the name of his city, and the name of the event which he won. Often they
trace his lineage to Zeus, also. These poems include his Nemean, Pythian, Isthmian and Olympian cycles. FTP name this
best known choral poet of ancient Greece, best known for his odes.
Pin dar
Answer:

