TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #2

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN 2003 -- UTC

1.
This Austrian physicist's principle states that an object's inertia depends on the distant stars. His number must be
greater than 1 for shock wave propagation speeds. FTP, name this man, whose number is the ratio of an object's speed to
the local speed of sound.
Answer:
Ernst Mach
2.
It was first sighted in 877 by Gunnbjorn Ulfsson, who was blown off course from Norway. A little over a century
later (in 978) the first attempt to colonize it failed when the colonists divided and fell to blows among themselves. Three
years after that in 981, Eric the Red sailed there and spent his exile fishing and chasing polar bears. FTP, name this island
from which LeifEricson launched his legendary voyage to Vinland in 1000.
Answer:
Greenland or Nuuk
3.
The daughter of a Congregationalist minister, her later works include The Minister's Wooing and Oldtown Folks.
She aroused scandal in her defense of Lady Byron, alleging that Lord Byron had an incestuous relationship with his sister.
This author is best remembered today for her 1852 novel which focused attention on the problems of slavery and, some
say, inspired the Civil War. For ten points, identify this author of Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Answer:
Harriet Beecher Stowe
4.
It originated when Thomas Durant and U.S. Rep. Oakes Ames organized a company called the Pennsylvania
Fiscal Agency. Durant, acting also as VP of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, used shares of stock in the new
company to bribe members of Congress so that charters for railroad construction would be given to their company. This
was made public when a congressional investigation revealed that Vice-President Schuyler Colfax and New Hampshire
James Patterson were among those involved. FTP name this 1872 scandal that tarnished the Grant administration.
Answer:
the Credit Mobilier scandal
5.
Drafted by the Kansas City Royals out of high school, he opted to play football for his hometown college team
instead, becoming their greatest star since Tony Dorsett. Though a consensus All-American as ajunior, a disappointing
senior season dropped his draft status, allowing Don Shula to pick him 27th overall, the fifth quarterback taken. For ten
points, name this man, a member of the famous 1983 draft class, who holds both the career and single season NFL records
for touchdown passes.
Answer:
Dan Marino
6.
The composer of this was nagged to produce it by an associate, Nikolay Rubinstein. He probably would never
have written the piece on his own if not for a lucrative commission that he received. Written for the commemoration of
Russia's victory over Napoleon, the composer himself found the piece too loud and noisy. FTP, identify this Tchaikovsky
work that premiered in 1882, for an anniversary celebration which explains its misleading name.
Answer:
1812 Overture
7.
This author spent much of his life walking across the country, performing and distributing copies of his poetry in
exchange for bed and board. His career declined in the 1920's and his descent culminated in his suicide by drinking
poison in 1931. He first gained notoriety when "Poetry" magazine published his poem "General William Booth Enters
into Heaven". FTP, identify this poet, supposedly the "discoverer" of Langston Hughes, author of the poem "The
Congo".
Answer:
Vachel Lindsay
8.
In 1872, the so-called "Three Emperor's League" was forged at a conference in Berlin of (logically enough) three
emperors. Kaiser Wilhelm I hosted and Czar Alexander II represented Russia. FTP, what long-lived emperor represented
Austria Hungary at this conference and later backed Wilhelm II against the Russians?
Answer:
Franz-Joseph I
9.
Atalanta was the sole woman. Argus assisted in building the vessel. Orpheus entertained his allies by strumming
on his harp and telling stories. Hercules began the journey with his comrades, but left half-way through to help the titan,
Prometheus. All of these Greek heroes were, FTP, what group led by Jason to find the golden fleece?
Answer:
The Argonauts [prompt on "golden fleece" early]

10.
The theory behind these devices was discussed by Einstein, who showed that an associated coefficient must be
equal to the absorption coefficient. Optical pumping can produce a population inversion; a photon at the transition
frequency is then used to induce a cascade of coherent, monochromatic photons. FTP, name these light sources used in
reading CDs and barcodes.
Answer:
lasers (stands for Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation)
11.
Formed in Coral Springs, Florida in 1997, and soon after released their first EP It's All About the Girls. They
followed up this effort with 1999's full length effort, Nothing Gold Can Stay, which featured the first version of "Hit or
Miss". For ten points, identify this punk band whose members include Cyrus Bolooki and Jordan Pundik, known for the
album Sticks and Stones, on which the singles "Head On Collision" and "My Friends Over You" may be found.
Answer:
A New Found Glory
12.
Usurpation of the English thrown occupies the titular character in this 1594 historical work. The protagonist's
eldest brother, king Edward IV, is dying; however, the protagonist is not first in succession. Nevertheless he ruthlessly
pursues his goal, accepting the crown in the third act. King until Richmond kills him at Bosworth Field, his final words,
"A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!" reveals his ambition. FTP who is this protagonist in the Shakespeare play
by the same name?
Answer:
Richard III
13.
Also known as the Koheleth in Hebrew, this work was originally attributed to King Solomon, along with the Song
of Songs. However, It is now believed to have been written in the 3rd century B.c., more than 600 years after Solomon.
FTP name this book from the bible, whose name is derived from the Greek word meaning 'speaker before an assembly.'
Answer:
Book of Ecclesiastes, or the Preacher
14.
These have four different functional regions: the epicuticle, the procuticle, the epidermis, and the basement
membrane. However, the most important part of it is the chitin, which gives it both strength and flexibility. Not only
does it provide insects with greater protection from the outside world, it also serves as a surface for muscle attachment,
protection against water, and ultimately helps to interact with the environment. FTP, name this feature of insects that is
best described as a hard shell surrounding the creature.
Answer:
Exoskeleton
15.
This ancient Roman general held many posts during his life including the consulship of Rome in 13 BC, the
governorship of Syria, and the governorship of Germany before he died in AD 9. For 10 points name this man best
known for his loss of three Roman legions at the battle of Teutoburg Forest.
Answer:
Publius Varus

16.
Stereographic Figure (1942). Night Sounds (1944). Mural, which was painted for Peggy Guggenheim's
apartment (1943). These paintings were all done by this man before he developed his famous technique of pouring,
dripping, and flinging paint onto his canvases. One such example is No. J3A, 1948: Arabesque. FTP, identify this
Abstract Expressionist painter from the 1940s.
Answer:
Jackson Pollock [prompt on "abstract expressionism" before "this man"]
17.
Born in 1890 to a Creole family in Dominica, this white author left for England in 1907 and returned to her place
of birth only once in 1936. Despite this, her experiences in Dominica figured prominently in her many works. These
include the short stories "Goodbye Marcus, Goodbye Rose" and "The Day They Burned the Books". Some of her novels
are Voyage in the Dark, and Good Morning Midnight. For 10 points who was this author most famous for Wide Sargasso
Sea?
Answer:
Jean Rhys
18.
First, you need to find a dot, which is a single gray pixel in the middle of a wall of the same color. A player must
then move this dot across a bridge and place the dot into another wall. This allows the player access to a chamber that has
the phrase "Created by Robinett" displayed in rainbow colors. FTP, what is this, the first instance of in video game
history that happened in the Atari game Adventure?
First "Easter Egg" (OR First video game secret or derivation thereof; the first video game designer credit is
also acceptable)

19.
This substance is a solvent for cellulose acetate. In larger quantities, it is used as a gelatinizing agent in
explosives. Still, in even larger quantities, it is used in the mass production of rayon. Known to some chemists as dimethyl
ketone and others as 2-propanol, this product is primarily sold under its common-usage name. FTP, name this
chemical-the simplest possible ketone-whose elemental formula is CH3COH3.
Answer:
Acetone (accept dimethyl ketone and 2-propanol as answers before they are given, and then give
whoever said it a cookie.)
20.
Graduating from college as a mining engineer, this son of a Quaker became the head of US food administration, a
member of the US Supreme Economic Council, head of the American Food Relief Administration, and chairman of
commissions to reorganize the executive department of government. His humanitarian response to the Mississippi River
floods of the 1920's as Secretary of Commerce helped him become Coolidge's successor, although he proved less adept at
dealing with human suffering in that capacity. For ten points who was this president known as "the great engineer"?
Answer:
Herbert Hoover
21.
Settled at least thirty thousand years ago, this nation was only discovered by Europeans in the 17th century.
Emerging from British colonialism in 1901, this nation fought along the English in both World Wars, most notably in the
1915 GaIIipoli campaign. The Allied victory at the 1942 battle of the Coral Sea probably averted a full scale Japanese
attack. What is this country, originally a British penal colony, that still claims the English monarch as its head of state?
Answer:
Australia
22.
It was first extracted from animals in 1901 by Jokichi Takamine, and was first synthesized in 1904 by Friedrich
Stolz. It is used as a stimulant in cardiac arrest, as a vasoconstrictor in shock, and as a bronchodilator and antispasmodic
in bronchial asthman. For ten points, identify this catecholamine which along with norepinephrine is secreted by the
adrenal gland.
Answer:
Epinephrine or Adrenaline (accept Norepinephrine before it is mentioned)
23.
He created his empire from a billboard business that his father had. Now, he is leaving his company behind as
they have posted an annual loss of 100 billion dollars as of January 31, 2003. This is the biggest loss in corporate history,
most of the loss resulting between the merger of his original company and America Online. FTP, name this former
chairman of AOL-Time Warner who will resign his position in May.
Answer:
Ted Turner

