2013 VHSL States
Round 7
First Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. Activation frames are stored in this type of data structure. Adding and removing those frames is called
winding and unwinding, respectively, and this stores memory concerning a program's subroutines.
Programs such as Java have a "peek" function which allows the top value in one of these structures to be
accessed without being removed. The most basic operations on this structure are "push" and "pop." For 10
points, name this last-in-first-out data structure.
ANSWER: stack [or call stack]
121-13-76-07101

2. This man used an ellipsoid with a ridge down the middle and one end flattened in his sculpture The
Newborn, and he depicted Marie Bonaparte gazing at herself in a mirror in Princess X. This man built a war
memorial at Targu Jiu that includes The Stone Table and the Endless Column. One sculpture by this man,
consisting of an abstracted vertical wing, was taxed as a kitchen appliance because customs officials
refused to believe it was art. For 10 points, name this Romanian sculptor of the Bird in Space series.
ANSWER: Constantin Brancusi
195-13-76-07102

3. A subgroup of this ethnicity uses the distinctive "tifinagh" alphabet, and these people speak Kabyle and
other Amazigh languages. This ethnicity engages in a kind of political meeting called a "jama'ah."
Subgroups of these people include the Shawia, the Rif, and the Tuareg. These people, descended from the
classical Numidians, live in the Maghreb region, and they comprised the major part of the "Moor" identity
that controlled Islamic Europe in the Middle Ages. For 10 points, identify this ethnicity which is prevalent
in Morocco and Algeria and found throughout North Africa.
ANSWER: Berbers [or Amazigh until it is read; or Imazighen until "Amazigh" is read; or Tuareg until
"Kabyle" is read; prompt on Moors until it is read; do not accept or prompt on "Arabs"]
019-13-76-07103

4. A followup to this process may include an oxidative burst. This process follows opsonization, which can
be carried out by antibodies. Antigen presentation in dendritic cells follows this process, which is also
carried out by neutrophils. This process uses the creation of pseudopods to surround the target, and is
followed by fusion of the resulting namesake organelle with a lysosome. For 10 points, name this form of
endocytosis in which a vesicle is formed from the intake of a pathogen.
ANSWER: phagocytosis [prompt on endocytosis until mention]
140-13-76-07104

5. In a John Cheever story titled for this kind of setting, Miss Dent gets revenge on her predatorial old boss
Blake by forcing him into the mud at gunpoint. Flannery O'Connor's novel Wise Blood opens in this kind of
setting. In the beginning of Atlas Shrugged, Dagny Taggart gets into a confrontation with an engineer in
one of these places. Hercule Poirot discovers that Cassetti was killed by twelve co-conspirators in an
Agatha Christie novel with this kind of setting. For 10 points, name this kind of vehicle that titles Christie's
Murder on the Orient Express.
ANSWER: a train [or trains; or locomotives; or a train car; or the railroad]
080-13-76-07105

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 1 of 10

6. Irreversible steps in this pathway include the decarboxylation of alpha-ketoglutarate. Near the end of this
pathway, the cofactor FAD helps ubiquinone oxidate succinate to fumarate. The products of this pathway
include three NADH molecules and one GTP molecule. The first reaction in this pathway uses oxaloacetate
and the acetyl CoA produced by glycolysis. This pathway is followed by the electron transport chain. For
10 points, name this cycle central to cellular respiration.
ANSWER: Krebs cycle [or citric acid cycle]
014-13-76-07106

7. In one poem, this man notes “how vainly men themselves amaze to win the palm, the oak, or bays.” In
another of his poems, the speaker tells the title creatures, “Your courteous lights in vain you waste, for
Juliana here is come.” This poet of “The Garden” and “The Mower to the Glow-Worms” famously wrote,
“The grave’s a fine and private place, but none I think do there embrace.” That poem begins by wishing he
and the title character had “but world enough, and time.” For 10 points, name this English poet of “To His
Coy Mistress.”
ANSWER: Andrew Marvell
014-13-76-07107

8. These types of equations are constraints for functions whose maximums are found through the simplex
method. The ordinary least squares method finds this type of equation that minimizes the distance between
its y-values and those of a sample. If a set of them is expressed in matrix form, their solutions can be found
by putting the matrix into reduced row echelon form. Cramer's rule is another method to solve for a system
of equations of this type. They can be written in the point-slope form, or the slope-intercept form. For 10
points, name these polynomials of degree one.
ANSWER: linear equation
121-13-76-07108

9. A museum of this mountain range is found at Blue Mountain Lake. Both of the wollastonite mines in the
U.S. are in this mountain range. One peak in this mountain range is named for its near-vertical side as
Whiteface Mountain. This range contains recreational hotspots around the Saranac River, Lake George, and
Lake Placid. It was formed as part of the Canadian Shield rather than the Appalachians, and it extends from
the St. Lawrence valley near Lake Champlain to the Mohawk valley. For 10 points, name this mountain
range of northeastern New York.
ANSWER: Adirondack Mountains [or the Adirondacks]
019-13-76-07109

10. One example of this device uses a parabolic primary mirror and hyperbolic secondary mirror and was
invented by Laurent Cassegrain. There are three primary types of this device: refracting, reflecting and
catadioptric. Hans Lipperhey is commonly associated with the invention of this device. An improved
version of this device that consisted of a convergent objective lens and a divergent eyepiece lens was
created by Galileo. For 10 points, identify this device commonly used to magnify and observe astronomical
objects.
ANSWER: optical telescope [or reflecting telescope before it is read]
066-13-76-07110

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 2 of 10

11. A leader of this country was arrested while campaigning for the National Anti-Reelection Party. That
leader of this country was killed during the Ten Tragic Days. After one man from this country attacked
Columbus, John Pershing was sent into this country to track him down. La Linea is the street gang
associated with the Juarez drug cartel in this country, which is currently waging a war on drugs. Past
revolutionaries in this country include Porfirio Diaz and Pancho Villa. For 10 points, name this country
that, along with the US and Canada, is part of NAFTA.
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
149-13-76-07111

12. The probability the time-averaged value for this property takes a given value over the probability it
takes the opposite value follows an exponential function, as shown in the fluctuation theorem. The
H-theorem shows the change of this property in an ideal gas is irreversible. The H-theorem was developed
by the same man who defined this property as the logarithm of available microstate times Boltzmann's
constant. Clausius define it as the line integral of change in heat over temperature. The second law of
thermodynamics states this value must universally be increasing. For 10 points, name this measure of a
system's disorder.
ANSWER: entropy
121-13-76-07112

13. In this film, Jane Lynch's character repeatedly punches another character in the face until they can grab
Laffy-Taffy and escape from some quicksand. In one scene of this film, graffiti reading "Aerith Lives" can
be seen in Central Station. This movie's title character drops stalactites made of Mentos into Diet Cola
Mountain to cause an eruption and destroy the invading Cy-Bugs; he also helps Vanellope defeat King
Candy in a race inside the game Sugar Rush. For 10 points, name this 2012 Disney movie about an arcade
villain who wants to be a hero.
ANSWER: Wreck It Ralph
080-13-76-07113

14. This god warned Zeus against marrying Thetis for fear it would result in a son more powerful than his
father. This god created the precedent of offering bones wrapped in fat as a gift to the gods instead of meat,
and he was the brother of Epimetheus. In one legend, he warns his son Deucalion of a great flood. Pandora
was created on Zeus’ orders as punishment for the actions of this Titan, who was ultimately bound to a
mountain in the Causcaus and has an eagle eat his immortal liver. For 10 points, name this Greek Titan who
was punished for his gift of fire to humanity.
ANSWER: Prometheus
030-13-76-07114

15. The track of these particles represents the “spur” in the spur model. Sodium-22 is commonly used to
produce these particles, whose destruction in PALS is marked by the emission of a 511keV photon. Carl
Anderson discovered these particles that were predicted by Paul Dirac. Penning traps are used to bring
these particles together with more massive ones to create anti-hydrogen. These particles, and their more
abundant counterpart, are typically produced by pair production. For 10 points, name this positively
charged anti-particle that is the “opposite” of an electron.
ANSWER: positron
149-13-76-07115

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 3 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 7
Directed Round

1A. What Mozart opera contains the Queen of the Night, who sings the “O zittre nicht” aria?
ANSWER: The Magic Flute [or Der Zauberflote]
1B. Name the "venerable" writer whose Ecclesiastical History of the English People gives many details on
the development of religion and government in early England.
ANSWER: Venerable Bede [or Beda]
2A. James McInerney's Bright Lights, Big City and Italo Calvino's If on a winter's night a traveler both
employ narration from what unusual perspective?
ANSWER: the second person
2B. What Mexican muralist showed a doctor and nurse vaccinating an infant in his Detroit Industry
Murals?
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Jessica can mow the lawn in 3 hours. Working together,
Jessica and Nick can mow the lawn in 2 hours. How long would it take Nick to mow the lawn by himself?
ANSWER: 6 hours
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If the hypotenuse of a right triangle is 10 and the sine of
angle A is 0.4, what is the length of the side opposite angle A?
ANSWER: 4
4A. Name the last leader of West Germany, who co-engineered the Maastricht Treaty with Francois
Mitterand.
ANSWER: Helmut Kohl
4B. What Greek letter names a bacteriophage discovered by Esther Lederberg and is also used to represent
wavelength in physics?
ANSWER: lambda
5A. Lily Bart becomes indebted to Gus Trenor in what novel by Edith Wharton?
ANSWER: The House of Mirth
5B. What European country’s far-right, anti-Semitic Jobbik Party was embarrassed in 2012 when
prominent member Csanad Szegedi (ZAH-nad CHEG-uh-dee) was discovered to be Jewish?
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag]
6A. What group of enzymes add phosphate groups to other molecules?
ANSWER: kinases
6B. Name this type of “paradise” that titles a Coolio song and whose type of “rap” was pioneered by
NWA.
ANSWER: gangster [or gangsta]
7A. What quarterback started for the Alabama Crimson Tide in both their 2012 and 2013 national
championships games?
ANSWER: Raymond Anthony "AJ" McCarron
2013 VHSL States

7

Page 4 of 10

7B. What Biblical figure resolved an argument over who the mother of a child was by threatening to have
the infant cut in half?
ANSWER: Solomon [or Jedidiah]
8A. Every Shostakovich symphony but the fourteenth includes what largest, lowest-pitched brass
instrument?
ANSWER: tuba
8B. What operation is denoted with bars around a number and returns the corresponding positive number
when applied to a negative number?
ANSWER: absolute value [or modulus]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. An unfair coin is twice as likely to land tails as heads. If it is
flipped three times, what is the probability of getting exactly one head?
ANSWER: 4/9 [or 12/27]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. The longest diagonal of a regular hexagon has length 8. Find
the area of the hexagon.
ANSWER: 24 times the square root of 3 [or 24 radical 3]
10A. The Irish verb "a léamh," the French verb "a lire," and the Italian verb "leggere" all mean what in
English?
ANSWER: "to read"
10B. What German-language poet wrote The Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies?
ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 5 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 7
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. A "superheavy" entity of this kind may contain both a branching nucleus and a coda; the other segment
present in the general structure of these entities is the onset. Hermann Ebbinghaus developed learning and
forgetting curves by memorizing "nonsense" ones. "Open" ones may have up to four different tones in
Mandarin Chinese. Tablets unearthed in Ur reveal the shift from pictograms to these in depicting writing.
These units appear in five-seven-five fashion in haikus. For 10 points, name these component bits of words,
two of which are found in the word "water."
ANSWER: syllables
020-13-76-07117

2. In one play by this writer, the title character's daughter Petra loses her job as a teacher after her father
goes against the wishes of her uncle Peter, the mayor. That play by this writer follows Doctor Stockmann
trying to get his town to replace pipes contaminating the town's baths. Another play by this writer includes
a character who borrowed money from Krogstad using her father's name and ends with Torvald being left
by Nora Helmer. For 10 points, name this Norwegian playwright of An Enemy of the People and A Doll
House.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]
023-13-76-07118

3. Pure species are ignored during the computation of this value because they have no activity. The change
in Gibbs free energy is equal to negative RT times the natural log of this value. Comparing this value to the
reaction quotient is used to apply Le Chatlier’s law, and this quantity is usually calculated as products over
reactants. For 10 points, name this quantity used to characterize reactions in which the forward and reverse
rates are equal, usually symbolized K.
ANSWER: equilibrium constant [or mass action constant; accept K before it is read; accept reaction
quotient or Q before it is read]
048-13-76-07119

4. In 2011, this company was led out of bankruptcy after the resignation of CEO Gerard Arpey. The
departing CEO of this company, Tom Horton, will give control to Doug Parker under a new arrangement,
spurred after it fell behind Southwest to become the fourth-busiest domestic carrier. For 10 points, name
this company which announced a merger with US Airways in 2013, which will create the largest air
transport company in the U.S.
ANSWER: American Airlines
019-13-76-07120

5. This governor signed a "Therapeutic Abortion Act" proposed by Anthony Beilenson, though he later
announced he was pro-life. This man also enacted the first no-fault divorce law in the United States. He
sent riot police into People's Park on "Bloody Thursday" and cracked down on the Free Speech Movement
on a college campus. This governor unseated Pat Brown, promising to "send the welfare bums back to
work," though he was mocked for previous work such as having the starring role in the movie Bedtime for
Bonzo. For 10 points, name this Governor of California who became President in 1981.
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan
080-13-76-07121

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 6 of 10

6. This organ is surrounded by lymphatic capillaries known as lacteals. I cells in the mucosal epithelium of
this organ secrete the hormone cholecystokinin. The autoimmune celiac disease drastically changes the
morphology of this organ, the site of sodium bicarbonate and vitamin B12 absorption. This organ's surface
area is greatly expanded by villi. This organ consists of three main segments: the ileum, the jejunum, and
the duodenum. For 10 points, name this digestive organ that follows the stomach and precedes a "large"
variant in the GI tract.
ANSWER: small intestine [prompt on intestine; do NOT accept large intestine]
020-13-76-07122

7. In this poem, a character who "rode over Connecticut in a glass coach" makes a mistake about "the
shadow of his equipage." The speaker of this poem does not know "which to prefer, the beauty of
inflections or the beauty of innuendoes." This poem's subject "marked the edge of one of many circles,"
"sat in the cedar limbs," and "whirled in the autumn wind." This poem opens by noting that "among twenty
snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eye of" the title creature. For 10 points, name this poem
in which Wallace Stevens provides a variety of perspectives on the title bird.
ANSWER: "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
195-13-76-07123

8. She's not Demeter, but this deity breathed perfume on the maidservants of a queen after her attempt to
make that queen’s son immortal was interrupted. This goddess' name means “throne” and her symbol was
a tiet. After a snake poisoned him, Ra revealed his secret name to this goddess in return for an antidote.
This goddess went on a search for 14 body parts, but only found 13 because one was eaten by a fish. After
reviving her husband, who was killed by Set, this goddess gave birth to Horus. For 10 points, name this
sister and wife of Osiris, a mother god in Egyptian mythology.
ANSWER: Isis
149-13-76-07124

9. This quantity is plotted on the Y axis against entropy in a diagram used to find the “dryness fraction”,
the Mollier diagram. The Joule-Thompson process keeps this quantity constant. The change in this quantity
can be calculated through the Born-Haber cycle using Hess’ law. This quantity minus temperature times
entropy gives the Gibbs free energy. For 10 points, name this quantity whose change is used to characterize
whether a reaction is endo- or exothermic, usually symbolized H.
ANSWER: enthalpy [accept H until read]
048-13-76-07125

10. One participant in this scandal wrote the "Dear Handsome" letter. Henry Hyde asked 81 questions to
another participant in this scandal. Bob Livingston resigned his position to try and set an example for the
man focused on in this scandal. The charges in this scandal were called a "vast right-wing conspiracy" by
the wife of a man who said "it depends on what the meaning of the word 'is' is." This scandal was brought
to light by Linda Tripp giving tapes to Kenneth Starr. For 10 points, name this scandal that helped lead to
articles of impeachment when an intern had an affair with Bill Clinton.
ANSWER: Monica Lewinsky scandal [or Monicagate; or Zippergate; accept equivalent answers that
mention Monica Lewinsky]
023-13-76-07126

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 7 of 10

11. A newspaper editor refused to speak at this location unless the words "Arm Yourselves and Appear in
Full Force" were removed from posters. John Altgeld pardoned the three surviving men of the eight
convicted for crimes committed at this place. One of those men, August Spies (SHPEES), edited the
Arbeiter-Zeitung, which announced a meeting here after Spies heard of workers killed at a McCormick
Harvesting Machine plant. Samuel Fielden was speaking here when a policeman was killed, setting off a
riot. For 10 points, name this site of a bombing at a Chicago labor protest in 1886.
ANSWER: Haymarket Square [prompt on Chicago or Illinois]
121-13-76-07127

12. This man, along with George Chapman, was arrested for their response to Westward Ho called
Eastward Ho. In one of his plays, Master Lovewit’s house is appropriated by the con artist Subtle, who
pretends to make the philosopher’s stone. In another play by this man, Bonario stops the title character
from raping Celia. In that play, a rich man pretends to be on his deathbed to receive gifts from Corvino,
Corbaccio, and Voltore. For 10 points, name this contemporary of Shakespeare who wrote The Alchemist
and Volpone.
ANSWER: Ben Jonson
149-13-76-07128

13. One constant associated with these systems is denoted by zeta and is equal to a certain coefficient c
over two times the square root of a constant times mass. If these systems have an intermediate quality
factor they are said to be critically damped. Electrical versions of this system include RLC circuits. When
this type of system is displaced from its equilibrium position, it experiences a restoring force F,
proportional to the displacement x. For 10 points, name this kind of system, examples of which include
springs and pendulums.
ANSWER: simple harmonic oscillator
201-13-76-07129

14. George Stanley is taken into custody in this play in order to blackmail his father into supporting the
protagonist. In this work, Tyrell states that "the tyannous and bloody act is done.” Lady Anne calls one
figure in this play a “foul toad” in rebuffing a marriage proposal, and Clarence is murdered by agents of the
title character in the Tower of London. The protagonist of this play cries, “A horse, a horse! My kingdom
for a horse!” and the families of York and Lancaster are united in the final act. For 10 points, name this
Shakespeare history about a villainous English king.
ANSWER: Richard III
030-13-76-07130

15. This President appointed the Seneca Indian Ely S. Parker as Commissioner of Indian Affairs. In his first
run for the presidency, he defeated Horatio Seymour, and in his bid for reelection he defeated the editor of
the New York Tribune, Horace Greeley. His Private Secretary Orville Babcock was implicated when this
President's Secretary of the Treasury Benjamin Bristow exposed the Whiskey Ring scandal. His
administration was also rocked by the Credit Mobilier scandal. For 10 points, name this President who
commanded the Union army in the Civil War.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
014-13-76-07131

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 8 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 7
Tiebreaker Questions

1. Alternating dark and light bands that occur as small wave crests in these objects are called ogives.
Streams that originate from these objects often have multiple small channels separated by temporary
islands and are called braided streams. Till deposited by these objects can create moraines. These objects
form when their ablation is less than the accumulation of snow, which is why global warming is causing
many of them to shrink. For 10 points, name these large permanent blocks of ice found on land.
ANSWER: glaciers
149-13-76-07132

2. This ruler granted a charter to the town of Gothenburg and he married Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg.
This man intervened in a war after the Battle of Wolgast, which saw the defeat of Christian IV of Denmark.
This ruler and his daughter who succeeded him were both assisted by the chancellor Axel Oxenstierna. This
leader was killed at the Battle of Lutzen while fighting against the forces of Albrecht von Wallenstein, a
general for the Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points, name this Swedish king who fought in the Thirty Years'
War.
ANSWER: Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf; prompt on Gustavus; prompt on Gustav]
014-13-76-07133

3. The protagonist of this short story recalls sledding into town with a boy who had shot his abusive master
from the Forks, only for the boy to be arrested. A boy named Molo changes the dressings of this story's
protagonist, the lover of a rich woman named Helen he calls the "Memsahib." In this story, Harry thinks of
"all the stories that he meant to write" as he dies of gangrene contracted during a safari. For 10 points, name
this short story by Ernest Hemingway set on a mountain in Africa.
ANSWER: "The Snows of Kilimanjaro"
080-13-76-07134

4. Congenital disorders of this organ include the relatively benign fusion called the “horseshoe” type of this
organ. The function of this organ is regulated by aldosterone, which is secreted in response to angiotensin
II. This organ secretes hormones such as erythropoietin and renin. The functional unit of this organ
includes Bowman’s capsule, which encloses the glomerulus. For 10 points, name this organ containing
nephrons that filters waste products such as urea from the blood, producing urine.
ANSWER: kidney
014-13-76-07135

5. In this novel, Mr. Macy often tells stories in the Rainbow Inn. In this novel, a member of the Dissenting
Chapel named William Dane accuses another character of theft. Another character in this novel passes out
from opium while traveling to the Red House, and the son of Dolly Winthrop, Aaron, marries a woman
whom Nancy Lammeter refused to adopt. In this novel, the remains of Dunsey are found in a quarry beside
the title character's stolen gold. For 10 points, name this novel about the title weaver who cares for Eppie, a
work by George Eliot.
ANSWER: Silas Marner
030-13-76-07136

The Kibuli Mosque and Makerere University are found in what national capital, the largest city on Lake
Victoria?
ANSWER: Kampala
2013 VHSL States

7

Page 9 of 10

This is a calculation question. A triangle has sides of length 2 and 3, with a 60 degree angle between those
two sides. Find the length of the third side of the triangle.
ANSWER: square root of 7 [or radical 7]

2013 VHSL States

7

Page 10 of 10

