2013 VHSL States
Round 8
First Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. Artists from this country produced a painted limestone sculpture known as the Seated Scribe. Nobles in
this country were often buried in mud-brick above-ground tombs called mastaba. Another art form from
this country is a kind of ceremonial figurine called the ushabti. Two serpopards wrap their necks around
each other in a ceremonial palette from this country. Ludwig Borchardt discovered a bust of a queen of this
country that is now in the New Museum of Berlin. This country is also home to a pair of stone temples at
Abu Simbel. For 10 points, name this country home to the Sphinx and the Great Pyramid of Giza.
ANSWER: Ancient Egypt
080-13-76-08101

2. This author wrote a King Lear-inspired novel in which the peasant Fouan divides his land between his
three sons titled The Earth. In another of his books, Chaval tries to murder his lover Catherine during a
cave-in after Etienne Lantier leads a failed miners' strike. This author wrote a twenty-novel cycle about a
lower-class family during the Second Empire. That cycle about the Rougon-Macquart family includes his
novel Germinal. For 10 points, name this French naturalist who defended Alfred Dreyfus in the letter
J'Accuse.
ANSWER: Emile Zola
080-13-76-08102

3. Winslow Homer's The Life-Line shows a rescue in progress over several of these objects, a black one of
which looms in the left background of The Raft of the Medusa. In Impression, Sunrise, Monet used
horizontal green strokes to cover the foreground with these objects. In Botticelli's The Birth of Venus,
flowers fall onto many v-shaped examples of these objects. In an example of ukiyo-e, one of these objects
propels three boats past Mount Fuji. For 10 points, name these ocean phenomena, a Great one of which
appears "off Kanagawa" in a print by Katsushika Hokusai.
ANSWER: ocean waves [or wind-generated waves; accept tides before the word "Great" is read]
195-13-76-08103

4. One member of this phylum can produce glass fibers and is named "Venus's Flower Basket." Members
of this phylum can reproduce by producing gemmules, but more commonly do so through fragmentation or
budding. Organisms in this phylum contain layers of mesohyl, though they lack true tissue; they also
possess "collar cells," or choanocytes, which generate water flow through these organisms. For 10 points,
identify this phylum of sessile aquatic animals, also known as sponges.
ANSWER: Porifera [or sponges before mentioned]
126-13-76-08104

5. This character considers his roommate a "secret slob," unlike his neighbor Ackley. He uses the name of
the school janitor when talking to Ernest Morrow's mother. This character asks Horwitz where the ducks go
in the winter and is beaten by the pimp Maurice after talking with a prostitute. This character buys a Little
Shirley Beans record for his sister Phoebe, and his family includes his deceased brother Allie and his
screenwriter brother D.B. For 10 points, name this phony-hating protagonist of J. D. Salinger's The Catcher
in the Rye.
ANSWER: Holden Caulfield [or Holden Caulfield]
186-13-76-08105

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 1 of 10

6. This Greek letter is used to represent the transition function in automata. With epsilon, this letter names
proofs used to prove limit statements. An upside down form of this letter, the nabla, is used to represent the
gradient. Ratios of isotopes are represented using this letter. This letter denotes the discriminant of a
polynomial. This term denotes the low-lying plain composed of sediment deposited at the mouth of a river.
For 10 points, identify this Greek letter often used to symbolize the change in a quantity.
ANSWER: delta
066-13-76-08106

7. One model of this activity was undermined by the Leontief Paradox, which criticized its emphasis on
factor endowments. That Hecksher-Ohlin Model of this activity distinguishes between "capital-intensive"
and "labor-intensive" goods. A theory explaining the value of this activity was invented by David Ricardo
using the examples of cloth and wine and is known as "comparative advantage." This activity is impeded
by protectionist policies, such as tariffs. For 10 points, name this activity by which countries exchange
goods with one another.
ANSWER: international trade [or free trade]
080-13-76-08107

8. In one story by this author, the last paragraph is an acrostic which spells, "Icicles by Cynthia. Meter from
me. Sybil." This author of "The Vane Sisters" began one of his novels with a fictional foreword written by
John Ray, Jr., claiming that the story has no moral, and that Mrs. Dick Schiller died in childbirth. In another
of his novels, Charles Kinbote criticizes a 999-line poem by John Shade. This author wrote about Clare
Quilty abducting Dolores Haze from her stepfather, Humbert Humbert. For 10 points, name this author of
Pale Fire and Lolita.
ANSWER: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]
190-13-76-08108

9. The entropy change brought about by this process is largely constant across compounds according to
Trouton’s rule. Namesake tubes used for this process are used to prevent bumping and are made of
borosilicate glass. PFTE-coated chips are often used as nucleation sites for this process. The temperature
required for this process is elevated in a common colligative property. This transition occurs after the input
of the latent heat of fusion. For 10 points, name this phase transition in which a liquid is transformed into a
gas.
ANSWER: boiling [accept evaporation; accept vaporization]
048-13-76-08109

10. One character in this novella insists that another was expelled from school for stealing letters, but the
real reason was that he "said things" to a group of his male classmates. In this novella's climax, a boy asks
to speak to the servant Luke before his heart suddenly stops beating. The bulk of this novella is read aloud
by Douglas at a house party. The narrator of this novella has an encounter with Miss Jessel before she and
Mrs. Grose fail to stop Peter Quint from allegedly possessing Miles. For 10 points, name this ghost story
narrated by a governess, written by Henry James.
ANSWER: The Turn of the Screw
190-13-76-08110

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 2 of 10

11. The 2010 Democratic nominee for governor in this state, Mark Lakers, had to drop out of the race after
fabricating lists of campaign donors. In February 2013, this state's lieutenant governor, Mike Sheehy,
resigned after using his state-issued cell phone to make over two thousand calls to mistresses. In February
2013, this state's one-term Republican Senator, Mike Johanns, announced that he will not run for
re-election in 2014. For 10 points, name this state whose governor, Dave Heineman, survived a 2006
primary challenge from Tom Osborne, the former coach of its state university's football team.
ANSWER: Nebraska
019-13-76-08111

12. This state's largest city experienced the 12th Street race riot in 1967. A Secretary of State from this state
negotiated the Clayton-Bulwer treaty for the Buchanan administration and ran for president against Zachary
Taylor in 1848. Governors of this state included Stevens Mason and Lewis Cass. Gerald Ford served as a
representative of this state, which was governed by George W. Romney, the father of Mitt Romney. For 10
points, name this state where Henry Ford founded his motor company in a suburb of Detroit.
ANSWER: Michigan
080-13-76-08112

13. One of these tunes entitled “You'll Find Me at Maxim's” is played in the first movement of
Shostakovich’s Leningrad Symphony. Audiences traditionally clap to one of these pieces composed by
Johann Strauss Senior to commemorate a victory by Field Marshall Radetsky. One of these tunes is played
“....to the Scaffold” in Hector Berlioz’s Symphonie Fantastique. One of these pieces, entitled “The Liberty
Bell,” was composed by a man known as the “king” of this form. For 10 points, name this musical form,
examples of which include the “Washington Post” and “The Stars and Stripes Forever” by John Philip
Sousa.
ANSWER: marches
030-13-76-08113

14. This molecule is used as a flocculating agent in the industrial treatment of fluid waste. Membranes
made of this molecule are used in electrodialysis and the dressing of wounds. This molecule consists of
units with the formula C8H13NO5, forming a long chain from N-acetylglucosamine. This molecule
structures the cell walls of hyphae and the beaks of cephalopods. For 10 points, name this polymer that
comprises the walls of fungi and the exoskeletons of arthropods.
ANSWER: chitin
014-13-76-08114

15. This author wrote, "Though they sink through the sea, they shall rise again," in a poem in which every
stanza begins and ends with the line, "And death shall have no dominion." This author of "Fern Hill" wrote
a radio drama entitled Under Milk Wood. In one of his poems, addressed to "you, my father, there on the
sad height," the speaker believes that "old age should burn and rave at close of day." That villanelle
includes the line, "Rage, rage, against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "Do
Not Go Gentle into That Good Night."
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]
190-13-76-08115

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 3 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 8
Directed Round

1A. What German philosopher contrasted a posteriori and a priori knowledge in his The Critique of Pure
Reason?
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
1B. What Greek, sometimes known as the "Father of History" or as the "Father of Lies," recorded the
Persian Wars in his The Histories?
ANSWER: Herodotus
2A. Name the state whose courts were overruled by the Supreme Court in Martin vs. Hunter's Lessee and
in a case upholding the convictions of the Cohen brothers for illegally selling lottery tickets.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Virginia
2B. What national park in Utah, found forty miles northeast of the similar Zion National Park, was formed
by erosion of the Paunsaugunt Plateau, which created several natural amphitheaters?
ANSWER: Bryce Canyon National Park [do not accept or prompt on "Bryce" alone]
3A. What piece of laboratory glassware is a tall, thin cylinder with a stopcock at the bottom, commonly
used for titrations?
ANSWER: buret
3B. What astronomical objects that include Hale-Bopp can display a coma and a tail when they interact
with solar radiation and the solar wind?
ANSWER: comets
4A. Which book of the New Testament includes the "seven signs" and begins, "In the beginning was the
Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God"?
ANSWER: Gospel According to John
4B. Name the John Dilworth-created Cartoon Network show whose title character protects his owners
Eustace and Muriel from supernatural villains.
ANSWER: Courage the Cowardly Dog
5A. This is 20-second calculation question. What is the probability that a randomly selected positive
integer less than or equal to 1000 is divisible by two and four, but not eight?
ANSWER: 1/8 [or 0.125; or 12.5 percent]
5B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the greatest common divisor of 132 and 242.
ANSWER: 22
6A. What Japanese author of The Sea of Fertility tetralogy killed himself after a failed coup?
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiroaka]
6B. What bicyclist was stripped of his seven Tour de France championships after the USADA found him
guilty of doping in 2012?
ANSWER: Lance Edward Armstrong [or Lance Edward Gunderson]
7A. Marc Chagall's birthplace in Vitsyebsk, the memorial to the Kahtyn massacre, and a forest containing
the reintroduced European bison are some of the landmarks in what Eastern European country?
ANSWER: Republic of Belarus [or Respublika Belarus]
2013 VHSL States

8

Page 4 of 10

7B. What quantity is equal to the integral of force with respect to displacement, and, according to a
namesake theorem, equals the change in kinetic energy?
ANSWER: work [or W]
8A. In poetry, what literary term refers to the continuation of a single grammatical unit across a line break
without end-stopping?
ANSWER: enjambment [or obvious equivalents]
8B. Which singing duo wrote "The Sound of Silence" in response to the JFK assassination and also sang
the music used in the film The Graduate?
ANSWER: Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Name all the quadrants where sine of two times x is positive.
ANSWER: first and third quadrants [or Quadrants I and III; accept either order]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A red hat contains three green and one blue candies. A white
hat contains three green and three blue candies. A hat is chosen at random, and then a candy is chosen at
random from that hat. If the candy is green, then express as the simplest fraction the probability that the hat
chosen was red.
ANSWER: 3/5 [or 0.6; or numerical equivalents]
10A. What High German language underwent a reform of its written variety prepared by Ber Borokhov in
1913, five years after the Czernowitz (CHAIR-no-wits) Conference proclaimed it a "national language?"
ANSWER: Yiddish
10B. Name the king of Spain who was restored to the throne in 1975 following the death of Francisco
Franco.
ANSWER: Juan Carlos I

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 5 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 8
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. A theorem named for this shape concerns three sets of points on two lines, whether the intersection of
certain lines connecting them are collinear and is named for Pappus. A persistent cloud pattern on the North
Pole of Saturn is in this shape. Pascal's theorem involves inscribing one of these shapes in a conic section.
A "close-packed" lattice named for this shape gives the most efficient packing of spheres. In terms of
number of sides, this is the largest regular polygon that can be used to tessellate a plane. The carbons in the
compound benzene take this shape. For 10 points, identify this polygon with six sides.
ANSWER: hexagon
066-13-76-08117

2. This man was viewed as a traitor to abolitionism following his "Seventh of March" speech, which
supported the Compromise of 1850. This man defended his alma mater in Dartmouth College v. Woodward
and represented James McCulloch in McCulloch v. Maryland. In a debate with Robert Hayne, this orator
declared "liberty and union, one and forever, now and inseperable!" This man negotiated the treaty that
ended the Arostook War with Baron Ashburton. For 10 points, name this Senator from Massachusetts who,
along with John Calhoun and Henry Clay, made up the Senate's "Great Triumvirate."
ANSWER: Daniel Webster
186-13-76-08118

3. This author wrote a novel in which a teacher at a Welsh school called Llanabba becomes implicated in
Margot Beste-Chetwynde's South American brothel empire and is sent to jail. This creator of that teacher,
Paul Pennyfeather, also wrote a novel in which Aloysius is the teddy bear cared for by Sebastian Flyte.
That novel by this author shows the Roman Catholic Marchmain family from the perspective of Charles
Ryder. For 10 points, name this British author of Decline and Fall and Brideshead Revisited.
ANSWER: Evelyn Waugh [or Evelyn Arthur St. John Waugh]
023-13-76-08119

4. An equation for determining the net external value of this phenomenon rewrites Newton's Second Law as
being equal to I times alpha. By facing fingers in the direction of an applied force, the right hand rule can
be used to have the thumb point in the direction of this force. This force is equal to r F times the sine of
theta, where theta is the angle at which the force is being applied around a pivot. For 10 points, name this
physics phenomenon defined as the tendency for an applied force to cause an object to rotate.
ANSWER: torque [or moment of force; or moment of a force]
023-13-76-08120

5. This mythological figure was suckled by a she-bear after being exposed to die in Arcadia by Schoeneus.
At the funeral games for Pelias, this person defeated Peleus in a wrestling match. This figure and her
husband were turned into lions for making love in Zeus’s temple. Meleager was in love with this woman,
so he awarded her the skin of the Calydonian boar. Later, she lost a footrace to Hippomenes
(hi-PAW-men-eez) when he threw Aphrodite’s golden apples in front of her. For 10 points, name this
huntress from Greek mythology.
ANSWER: Atalanta
014-13-76-08121

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 6 of 10

6. In this novel, a woman walking with Mrs. Bickerton gets rescued after unsuccessfully trying to escape a
pack of gypsies with a cramp from dancing at Highbury. A subplot in this novel is resolved when the death
of Frank Churchill's aunt allows him to marry his true love, Jane Fairfax. The title character of this novel
unwisely advises her friend Harriet to reject the proposal of Robert Martin, whom Harriet does eventually
marry as the title character marries George Knightley. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel about a
self-proclaimed matchmaker.
ANSWER: Emma
080-13-76-08122

7. This scientist rejected a theory of reactions advanced by Georg Ernst Stahl. This author of the
Elementary Treatise on Chemistry had scientific texts in other languages translated by his wife Marie
Anne. He self-financed a series of elaborate experiments designed to demonstrate his principle of the
conservation of mass. This scientist disproved the phlogiston theory of combustion, showing that
combustion proceeded via oxygenation. For 10 points, name this French chemist who was executed during
the French Revolution.
ANSWER: Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier
014-13-76-08123

8. The Supreme Court found that this company's Tellico project violated the ESA by endangering the snail
darter in this company's case versus Hill. This company's original three-person board consisted of Harcourt
Morgan, Arthur Morgan, and David Lilienthal. This company was created because of the lobbying of
George Norris, who wanted to develop the area around Muscle Shoals. For 10 points, name this
government-owned corporation created during the New Deal to establish hydroelectric dams on its
namesake river.
ANSWER: Tennessee Valley Authority [or TVA]
080-13-76-08124

9. One of the key debates in this country's upcoming 2013 elections is over a childcare supplement
provided to parents who keep their young children out of state-supported nurseries. A January 20th election
in one of this country's states saw David McAllister's coalition fall one seat short of maintaining power.
That election may be a sign that this country's incumbent leader will lose in a bid for a third term to Peer
Steinbruck of the Social Democrats. For 10 points, name this European country currently ruled by the
Christian Democrats under chancellor Angela Merkel.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland]
023-13-76-08125

10. A graph can be represented by storing the adjacencies of each vertex in one of these data structures. A
skip is made from layers consisting of this data structure. The last element of these data structures is usually
NULL, but can be changed to reference their first element to form a "circular" one. They're not trees, but
operations on these structures can be made easier by adding sentinel nodes. They are often used to
implement stacks and queues. For 10 points, name this data structure whose "doubly" form consists of
nodes with pointers to their next node and previous node.
ANSWER: linked list [prompt on list]
201-13-76-08126

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 7 of 10

11. This man led the campaign to end the Beiyang government known as the Northern Expedition. A
suspected kidnapping plot by Li Zhilong led to this man's political feud with Wang Jingwei. He used the
Gang Greens as paramilitaries during the "White Terror." He was kidnapped by Zhang Xueliang
(shoe-AY-lee-ahng) during the Xi'an (SHEE-ahn) incident and succeeded Sun Yat-sen. For 10 points, name
this Nationalist leader of China who was forced to flee to Taiwan after the Chinese Civil War was won by
Mao Zedong.
ANSWER: Chiang Kai-shek [or Jiang Jieshi; or Jiang Zhongzheng; or Chiang Chieh-shih; or Chiang
Chung-cheng]
186-13-76-08127

12. Francois Poulenc wrote his Concert Champetre for this instrument for a woman who played it, Wanda
Landowska. Georg Friedrich Handel wrote a suite of eight pieces for this instrument, the fifth of which
concludes with a movement nicknamed "The Harmonious Blacksmith." This instrument has a 64-bar
cadenza in the Fifth Brandenburg Concerto, the first concerto to give it a prominent solo. It produces sound
by plucking a string rather than hitting it with a hammer. For 10 points, name this keyboard instrument
largely replaced after the Baroque period by the piano.
ANSWER: the harpsichord [prompt on the keyboard; do not accept or prompt on the "piano" or
"pianoforte"]
080-13-76-08128

13. At over 867 degree Celsius, this mineral turns into tridymite, and chemical stability above 573 degrees
Celsius differentiates the beta and alpha forms of this mineral. This mineral is located below muscovite at
the bottom of Bowen's reaction series. This mineral, which exhibits piezoelectricity, has a hardness of 7 on
the Mohs scale. Composed of silica, examples of this mineral include citrine and amethyst. For 10 points,
name this common mineral that comes in "rose" and "smoky" varieties.
ANSWER: quartz
014-13-76-08129

14. This country is the home of the aboriginal Tao people, who share space with the Lanyu nuclear waste
facility on its Orchid Island. The Chelung-pu Fault that runs through this country caused the devastating
Chi Chi earthquake here in 1999. This country controls the once-threatened islands of Quemoy and Matsu,
as well as the Pescadores. In 1971, this country lost its seat at the United Nations to its larger rival. Once
known as Formosa, this country competes in the Olympics under the name of its capital. For 10 points,
name this island country on the west of the Philippine Sea which is claimed by China.
ANSWER: Taiwan [or Republic of China; or Chung-hua Min-kuo; or Chinese Taipei; do not accept or
prompt on "China" alone]
019-13-76-08130

15. Increased levels of this substance in the blood causes tendon xanthomas and senile arcus in the eyes.
The rate-limiting step of the synthesis of this compound is catalyzed by HMG-CoA reductase. This
substance is the final common product in the production of terpenes. It is the predecessor of steroid
hormones and is responsible for regulating the fluidity of cell membranes. For 10 points, name this
substance, whose levels in the bloodstream are decreased by statins.
ANSWER: cholesterol
048-13-76-08131

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 8 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 8
Tiebreaker Questions

1. The sum of the first n ones of these numbers is a perfect square. There are no known perfect numbers
that can be described by this term. The integral, from negative to positive infinity, of a function described
by this term is always zero. Functions with this descriptor can be represented by the equation f of x equals
negative f of negative x and include the sine function. Those functions have rotational symmetry about the
origin. All but one prime is this type of number. For 10 points identify this term that describes numbers not
divisible by two, unlike even numbers.
ANSWER: odd
066-13-76-08132

2. This character seals her death with the line, "I will, my lord. I pray you pardon me." This character cries,
"These words like daggers enter in my ears!" in another scene. Later, this character states, "The lady doth
protest too much, methinks," during the performance of a play. In this character's bedroom, Polonius is
stabbed while hiding behind an arras. She is the object of the statement "Frailty, thy name is woman!"
because she married too soon after her husband's death. For 10 points, name this wife of Claudius and
mother of Hamlet.
ANSWER: Queen Gertrude
080-13-76-08133

3. Organisms with a periplasmic space are unable to take up one chemical used in this procedure, which is
sometimes replaced with the Ziehl-Neelsen stain for acid-fast organsims. This process can use carbol
fuschin in its last step instead of safranin. This process uses iodine as a mordant to trap the crystal violet
primary dye. Those that are positive for this test appear purple and have peptidoglycan in their cell walls.
For 10 points, name this procedure used to divide bacteria into namesake positive and negative types.
ANSWER: Gram staining
048-13-76-08134

4. In one of this author's stories, Cyrus Bourne is shot by his father Reuben at the same place where Reuben
abandoned Roger Malvin to die. Another character created by this author is ashamed to find his wife Faith
cavorting in the forest. This author collected those stories in Mosses from an Old Manse. Moby-Dick was
dedicated to this man, who began one novel by describing a rose bush next to a jail. He created the
characters of Governor Bellingham, Roger Chillingworth, and Pearl. For 10 points, name this author who
wrote about Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
190-13-76-08135

5. One member of this dynasty survived a series of rebellions known as the Fronde. Another king from this
dynasty arranged for the assassination of Concino Concini. The founder of this dynasty was assassinated by
Francois Ravaillac and enacted the Edict of Nantes. One king of this dynasty had Madame de Pompadour
as a mistress. The cardinals Richelieu and Mazarin served kings of this dynasty, one of whom declared "I
am the state!" For 10 points, name this French dynasty that was founded by Henry IV and included Louis
XIV.
ANSWER: House of Bourbon
186-13-76-08136

Which Italian poet wrote of his love for Laura in Il Canzoniere?
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
2013 VHSL States

8

Page 9 of 10

This is a calculation question. A square pyramid has a base with area 16 and lateral surface area of 24. Find
the height of the pyramid.
ANSWER: square root of 5 [or radical 5]

2013 VHSL States

8

Page 10 of 10

