2013 VHSL States
Round 2
First Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. Feynman and Gell-Man proposed a "vector minus axial vector" Lagrangian for this interaction to
compensate for a consequence of the CKM matrix. Rubbia and van der Meer won the 1984 Nobel Prize in
Physics for their work in discovering the particles which mediate this force, and Glashow, Salam, and
Weinberg posited its unification with the electromagnetic force. This force is mediated by the W and Z
bosons and is capable of changing the flavor of quarks. For 10 points, name this force which is not as
strong as the strong force.
ANSWER: weak nuclear force [or weak interaction]
189-13-76-02101

2. This character introduces James Steerforth, a friend of his from Salem House, to Little Emily, the niece
of the fisherman Dan Peggotty. This man marries Dora Spenlow, although he eventually marries a lawyer’s
daughter, Agnes Wickfield. He is eventually raised by his aunt Betsey Trotwood after growing up abused
by his stepfather Mr. Murdstone. This character is patronizingly called “master” by his nemesis, Uriah
Heep, and he is befriended by Mr. Micawber. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Charles
Dickens.
ANSWER: David Copperfield [or David Copperfield; or Trotwood before it is read; or Trot before
“Trotwood” is read]
052-13-76-02102

3. One of these events occurred when the tug Scandia became grounded on Moonstone Beach. Techniques
that failed to stop another of these events included the "top kill," which involved pumping down heavy
drilling mud, and the "junk shot." A 1990 Pollution Act was passed after one of these took place in Prince
William Sound. For 10 points, name these disasters that release a liquid into the environment, including one
that lasted for much of 2010 after an explosion on BP's Deepwater Horizon rig.
ANSWER: oil spills
023-13-76-02103

4. Neville Island is the largest island within this river by area, though the most populous island within it is a
gambling mecca that is accessible by the Fort Henry Bridge. This river receives the Big Sandy and the
Wabash as tributaries. Cairo, Illinois is located near its mouth, and its largest tributary is the Tennessee
River. It is formed by the confluence of the Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers in Pittsburgh. For 10
points, name this river that flows through Louisville and is the largest tributary by volume of the
Mississippi.
ANSWER: Ohio River
192-13-76-02104

5. The protagonist of this novella continually encounters disturbing red-haired men, such as a musician and
a boatman who says, “You will pay.” He also sees various warnings not to eat shellfish. This novella’s
main character eats some overripe strawberries and sits on the beach watching two boys fight. The
protagonist becomes entranced by an adolescent boy named Tadzio. At the end of this novella, the
protagonist is infected as a result of the cholera epidemic. For 10 points, name this Thomas Mann novella
about Gustav von Aschenbach visiting the title Italian city.
ANSWER: Death in Venice [or Der Tod in Venedig]
052-13-76-02105

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 1 of 10

6. During the aria "Zitti, Zitti," this character is blindfolded and unwittingly assists an abduction. This
character closes out the opera by singing "La maledizione!" recognizing the curse which has been placed on
him when he opens a sack to discover his dying daughter, Gilda. Earlier, this character sings "Pari siamo,"
pondering his similarity to the assassin Sparafucile (spah-RAH-foo-CHEEL-ay). This character frequently
mocks the noblemen husbands of women that his master, the Duke of Mantua, lusts after. For 10 points,
name this hunchbacked court jester, the title character of a Verdi opera.
ANSWER: Rigoletto
052-13-76-02106

7. The three-dimentional stability of these systems is governed by DLVO theory, and the electrokinetic
potential at a particular double layer interface in these systems is called the zeta potential. These systems
undergo flocculation and peptization, and in some cases, micelles can form in these systems. These
substances have continuous and dispersed phases, and these systems scatter light in the Tyndall Effect.
Examples of these systems include emulsions and aerosols. For 10 points, identify these specific types of
mixtures, in which one component is completely and equally dispersed throughout another.
ANSWER: colloids
189-13-76-02107

8. A poem by Martial describes an encounter between two members of this profession named Priscus and
Verus. Thousands of them were educated in the Ludus Magnus, which was built by Domitian. One group
of them was led by the Gauls Crixus and Oenomaus. Members of this profession known as retiarii carried
nets with them. A Jean-Leon Gerome painting popularized the notion that a thumbs up signal was used to
let one of these people live. For 10 points, name these warriors, such as the rebel Spartacus, who fought
animals and each other in the Coliseum.
ANSWER: gladiators
015-13-76-02108

9. In a 2009 op-ed, Hendrik Hertzberg likened the current mayor of this city to Crassus because both men
infantilized the public they ruled. This city's government partnered with Microsoft to develop the "Domain
Awareness System," a massive camera surveillance project. Jimmy MacMillan has run for office several
times in this city under the "Rent is 2 Damn High Party." The current mayor of this city launched a cash
transfer program called "Opportunity," extended a public smoking ban, and banned large sodas. For 10
points, name this city, led by mayor Michael Bloomberg.
ANSWER: New York City [or NYC]
020-13-76-02109

10. This metal is bounded to two ethyl groups or coupled to copper in a reaction which ultimately yields
cyclopropanes; that is the Simmons-Smith reaction. Its sulfide largely comprises its chief ore on earth,
which is called sphalerite, and the "gag knuckle" and "treble clef" are two classes of its namesake "finger"
domains. This element has an atomic mass of 65.38, and this d-block element has one less proton in its
nucleus than gallium. It is colorless or blue-green in a flame test, and with copper, it forms the alloy known
as brass. For 10 points, identify this metal with chemical symbol "Z-n."
ANSWER: zinc [accept Zn before mentioned]
189-13-76-02110

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 2 of 10

11. This character's accent was adopted from the photographer Weegee. He uses a slide rule to calculate
that a female-dominated sample of the human race could emerge from a mine shaft after one hundred years.
In the original screenplay, he was named "Von Klutz." Mr. Staines explains to General Turgidson why this
character does not have a "Kraut name." He suffers from alien hand syndrome, and his last appearance is
rising from his wheelchair, shouting "Mein Führer! I can walk!" For 10 points, name this Peter
Sellers-played character who titles a 1964 Stanley Kubrick film about nuclear war.
ANSWER: Dr. Strangelove
019-13-76-02111

12. One of his poems is modeled as a letter signed, “Sincerely, GI Joe,” and asks, “Will V-Day Be Me-Day
Too?" This poet advised “hold fast to dreams” in another poem, while he described a man “down on Lenox
Avenue” in a work about a pianist. He declared “my soul has grown deep” like the title geographical
features of another poem, which include the Euphrates and the Congo. For 10 points, name this poet of
“The Weary Blues” and “The Negro Speaks of Rivers,” a major figure of the Harlem Renaissance.
ANSWER: Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
192-13-76-02112

13. This god took the form of a turtle to stop a mountain from sinking into the sand during the churning of
the milk ocean. In the form of a fish named Matsya, he saved the first man, Manu, from a flood. This god
rides on the eagle Garuda and rests on the many-headed serpent Shesha. This deity's consort is the goddess
of luck, Lakshmi. With Shiva and Brahma, this god makes up the Trimurti. For 10 points, name this Hindu
preserver god whose avatars include Rama and Krishna.
ANSWER: Vishnu [or Kurma before "fish" is read]
080-13-76-02113

14. When this property is present in a molecule, one set of atomic orbitals are depicted at a higher energy
on an MO diagram. This property occurs when two atoms have a difference of greater than 0.4 on the
Pauling scale. Boron trifluoride does not possess this property because it has a trigonal planar geometry, so
the moments cancel out. Carbon-hydrogen bonds don't have this property because they have very similar
electronegativities. For 10 points, name this property in which a molecule has partially positive and
partially negatively-charged regions because atoms in bonds aren't shared equally.
ANSWER: polarity [or word forms]
190-13-76-02114

15. In 1922, this man attempted to reconcile the Hussein-McMahon Correspondence with the Balfour
Declaration by drafting his namesake "White Paper." This man had to resign from his post during World
War I after the failure of the Gallipoli Campaign. This man declared he had nothing to offer but "blood,
toil, tears, and sweat" in one speech; in another speech, he declared, "Never...was so much owed by so
many to so few" with reference to the RAF's success in the Battle of Britain. For 10 points, name this prime
minister who led Britain during World War II.
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill
080-13-76-02115

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 3 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 2
Directed Round

1A. What name is given to the phenomenon in which an incoming tide forms a standing wave that travels
against the current of a river or narrow bay?
ANSWER: tidal bore
1B. What Italian sociologist explained the "circulation of elites" theory in his book Mind and Society and
names an "optimality" condition for economies, in which no person's standing can be improved without
harming another's?
ANSWER: Vilfredo Pareto
2A. The Supreme Court case Hammer v. Dagenhart struck down the Keating-Owen Act, an attempt to
limit what practice?
ANSWER: child labor
2B. What leader of the Second Viennese School developed the twelve tone technique?
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the absolute difference of the mean and the median
of the set {1, 2, 9}?
ANSWER: 2
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. x varies inversely with the square root of y. If x = 20 when y
= 40, find x when y = 10.
ANSWER: x = 40
4A. In drama, what term denotes lines addressed by a character to the audience and not heard by the other
characters?
ANSWER: aside
4B. Which tense in Spanish is used to describe events that occurred at a definite time in the past and are no
longer ongoing?
ANSWER: preterite [or preterito]
5A. Jonny Lee Miller stars as a recovering drug addict named Sherlock Holmes in what CBS crime drama?
ANSWER: Elementary
5B. What Catholic priest and poet used sprung rhythm in such poems as "Pied Beauty" and "God's
Grandeur"?
ANSWER: Gerard Manley Hopkins
6A. Pyrex was originally made of a glass compound of silica and the oxide of what nonmetal?
ANSWER: boron
6B. This leader made his countrymen adopt surnames as part of his secular Six Arrows Program put in
place after securing Anatolia via the Treaty of Sevres.
ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Pasa [or Kemal Ataturk]

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 4 of 10

7A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Consider a square and an isosceles triangle, each with area 4
square units, such that a side of the square is equal in length to the base of the triangle. What is the height
of the triangle?
ANSWER: 4 units
7B. This is a 30-second calculation question. The sine of a certain angle is .4. Find the cosine of an angle
twice as big.
ANSWER: 0.68 [or 68/100; or 17/25]
8A. What term is used in statistics to describe asymmetric probability distributions, and in geometry, refers
to two lines which never intersect even though they aren't parallel?
ANSWER: skew [or word forms]
8B. What machine was first developed by Thomas Savery, to pump water out of mines, and was later
improved upon by Thomas Newcomen and James Watt?
ANSWER: steam engine
9A. Which country claims Christmas Island and Norfolk Island, as well as several islands in the Coral
Sea?
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
9B. What molecule is the predominate constituent of the atmosphere of Saturn's largest moon, Titan?
ANSWER: nitrogen gas
10A. "Dig a Pony" and "The Long and Winding Road" are tracks off of what final studio album released
by the Beatles?
ANSWER: Let it Be
10B. What MLB team controversially traded away Mark Buehrle, Josh Johnson, and Jose Reys after
opening a new stadium in 2012?
ANSWER: Miami Marlins [or Miami Marlins; do not accept or prompt on "Florida Marlins"]

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 5 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 2
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups

1. The founder of this denomination said "to let me be employed for you or laid aside for you" in his
notable "Covenant Prayer." The Baltimore convention adopted the Twenty-Five Articles of Religion its
founder wrote. This denomination's calendar includes a time called "Kingdomtide," which precedes Lent. It
was named for its insistence on studying the Bible in a rigorously structured manner. For 10 points, name
this Protestant denomination founded by George Whitefield and John Wellesley.
ANSWER: Methodism [or Methodists; or other word forms]
186-13-76-02117

2. This city’s Great Strahov Stadium is located on its Petrin Hill. A giant functional metronome is located
in this city’s Letna Park. This city’s Pisek Gate and Church of Our Lady Victorious are both located in its
Lesser Town. Its Charles Bridge is located near Old Town Square. This city’s St. Vitus’ Cathedral stores
its nation’s crown jewels. This city is home to a work of Frank Gehry, Dancing House, and its New Town
is home to Wenceslas Square. For 10 points, name this Bohemian city, the capital of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: Prague
201-13-76-02118

3. After a great battle, this god defeated the "mist calf" and its creator, Hrungnir. In the Thrymskvida, this
owner of Megingjard (muh-GIN-yard) dressed as a woman to regain a prized possession. This god rides on
a chariot pulled by two goats, whose names mean "gap-tooth" and "tooth-grinder." This figure went fishing
with Hymir, who cut his line before he could capture the Midgard Serpent. His wife Sif had her hair stolen
by Loki. His hammer comes back to him whenever he throws it. For 10 points, name this owner of Mjollnir
and Norse god of Thunder.
ANSWER: Thor
186-13-76-02119

4. This condition is sometimes treated with azealic acid, and a namesake species of propionobacterium is
associated with it. A common treatment for this condition often causes angular chelitis of the mouth, and
this condition is characterized by the formation of comedos. Isotretinoin is a common treatment for severe
forms of this compound, which also can be treated using benzoyl peroxide. For 10 points, identify this skin
disease which causes the formation of pimples.
ANSWER: acne vulgaris [or cystic acne]
189-13-76-02120

5. Supporters of the Holy Roman Empire were barred from holding office in this city by the Ordinances of
Justice. The Ciompi Revolt was an uprising of wool workers in this city. This city was home to the
pro-Pope Guelphs and the Holy Roman Empire-supporting Ghibellines. The Pazzi conspiracy attemped to
overthrow two members of this city's ruling family. The Dominican friar Savonarola burned several works
of art in this city during the Bonfire of the Vanities. For 10 points, name this Italian city ruled by the
Medici family.
ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze]
079-13-76-02121

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 6 of 10

6. One poet from this nation wrote the lines "Before you, mother Idoto, naked I stand," in his work
"Heavensgate." A playwright from this nation described the contest between Lakunle and Baroka for Sidi's
hand in marriage in The Lion and the Jewel. That playwright described Olunde's suicide in Death and the
King's Horseman. Ikemefuna dies in a novel from this country that centers on Okonkwo. For 10 points,
name this country home to Christopher Okigbo, Wole Soyinka, and the author of Things Fall Apart, Chinua
Achebe.
ANSWER: Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria]
192-13-76-02122

7. This man painted a rifleman with a deer pelt in the Adirondacks in his A Huntsman and Dogs. One of his
paintings depicts the battlefield of Petersburg in the background as Brigadier General Francis Channing
Barlow reviews the title figures. Several boys link arms to play the title game in another painting by this
artist of Prisoners from the Front, who showed a lone black man sitting in a capsizing boat that is
surrounded by sharks. For 10 points, name this American painter of Snap the Whip and The Gulf Stream.
ANSWER: Winslow Homer
030-13-76-02123

8. A significant impetus for the idea behind this experiment and the explanation of its results were provided
by Walter Elsasser. An oven was used in this experiment after the unintended formation of oxide film, and
the results of this experiment were consistent with the predictions of Bragg's Law. This experiment used a
setup involving the firing of electrons at a crystalline nickel target, and it was performed at Bell Labs. An
important conclusion was drawn following the experimental observation of an intensity peak at certain
scattering angles for the electron beam. For 10 points, name this experiment confirming the de Broglie
hypothesis of wave-particle duality.
ANSWER: Davisson-Germer Experiment
189-13-76-02124

9. A hero of this movement known as "the Engineer" was killed in 1996 while talking on his cell phone,
which was rigged with RDX explosives. In 2011, this organization negotiated the release of over a
thousand prisoners in exchange for turning over kidnapped soldier Gilad Shalit. This target of Operations
Pillar of Defense and Cast Lead has a military wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, that habitually
fires rockets into Israel. For 10 points, name this Islamist organization that governs the Gaza Strip.
ANSWER: Hamas [or Harakat al-Muqawamah al-Islamiyyah; or the Islamic Resistance Movement;
prompt on the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades until it is read; do not accept or prompt on "PLO," "Fatah",
"Hezbollah," or other wrong answers]
080-13-76-02125

10. This organ overproduces mucus in Menetrier's disease, while the Roux-en-Y procedure works on it.
One part of this structure is the fundus, and the folds of this organ are called rugae. The pyloric sphincter
originates in it. This organ's contents are often called chyme, and are broken down by a mixture including
hydrochloric acid. For 10 points, name this organ in the digestive system which receives food from the
esophagus.
ANSWER: stomach
192-13-76-02126

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 7 of 10

11. This author wrote about a perfume shop employee whose body is fished out of the Seine River. He also
created a character who accidentally kills a woman when trying to shave her. In one of this author’s stories,
the Minister D steals the title compromising document and hides it in plain sight. He pioneered the mystery
story with a work in which two killings are committed by a sailor’s orangutan. For 10 points, name this
American author who featured detective C. Auguste Dupin in the stories “The Purloined Letter” and “The
Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe
052-13-76-02127

12. Elements can be extracted from this data structure in a process called slicing. When most of the values
are zero, this data structure is said to be sparse. A hash table is the most common way to implement the
associative type of this data structure, which associates an arbitrary key with a value. These data structures
are indexed according to pointer arithmetic. When one-dimensional, these data structures are called vectors,
and they usually contain elements of only one data type. For 10 points, identify these data structures
analogous to matrices that store data in a contiguous address space.
ANSWER: arrays
066-13-76-02128

13. One poem by this author discusses a figure who "scraped life with a fine-tooth comb," and "bore two
babies under her maiden name." That figure is contrasted with her educated sister in "Sadie and Maud."
This poet wrote of "plain chipware on a plain and creaking wood" in her "The Bean Eaters," and won a
Pulitzer Prize for her Annie Allen. This woman's most famous poem concerns "The Pool Players. Seven at
the Golden Shovel," and states, "We jazz June. We die soon." For 10 points, identify this African American
poet known for her short poem "We Real Cool."
ANSWER: Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks]
189-13-76-02129

14. While at Coldwater II near this location, David Johnston became the first person to report an event here,
radioing "This is it!" before his death. Reid Blackburn, a photographer for National Geographic, was eight
miles away from this location when that event occurred. The Toutle River was filled with sediment after
this peak's north face fell away early in the morning on May 18, 1980. For 10 points, name this volcanic
peak that erupted and killed 57 people in the state of Washington.
ANSWER: Mount Saint Helens
023-13-76-02130

15. This character has to evade some housepainters after distracting a woman with a tightly wrapped silver
cigarette case. He hears a prostitute reading a section from the Gospel of John about the raising of Lazarus
and has a hallucination about a policeman beating his landlady. Earlier, he has a dream about being seven
years old and seeing a man beating a horse. After comparing himself to Napoleon, this character goes to the
pawnbroker Alyona Ivanovna, then kills her and her sister. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Crime
and Punishment.
ANSWER: Rodion Romanovitch Raskolnikov [or Rodion Romanovitch Raskolnikov; or Rodya]
019-13-76-02131

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 8 of 10

2013 VHSL States
Round 2
Tiebreaker Questions

1. The events of this election year prompted the formation of the Commission on Party Structure and
Delegate Selection. George Romney dropped out of this election's primaries after saying that he was
"brainwashed" into supporting the Vietnam War. In this year, a pig was nominated outside the DNC, where
Chicago mayor Richard M. Daley suppressed riots. This election marked a political realignment of the
formerly "Solid South," and it was the last time a third party candidate won a state. George Wallace and
Hubert Humphrey lost to Richard Nixon in, for 10 points, what year?
ANSWER: Election of 1968
079-13-76-02132

2. A disease related to a malfunction in this object dramatically affects eye movement and is called
Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Its inner membrane is composed of large amounts of cardiolipin. According to the
endosymbiotic theory, this organelle originated from proteobacteria. This organelle contains namesake
DNA which are only inherited from the mother. Its internal compartments called cristae are studded with
proteins. For 10 points, name this ATP generating organelle described as the “power plant” of the cell.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
052-13-76-02133

3. Throughout this play, the noise of a foghorn is heard, which is judged to be “like a banshee.” Its
characters include Eugene, who died of measles years earlier after being infected by his brother. The only
secondary character to appear on stage in this play is the Irish summer maid, Cathleen. Another character
refuses to believe her son Edmund has contracted tuberculosis. Heavily autobiographical, this play features
the drunken actor James and his morphine-addicted wife Mary. For 10 points, name this play chronicling a
day in the life of the Tyrone family, a work of Eugene O’Neill.
ANSWER: Long Day’s Journey into Night
052-13-76-02134

4. When multiplied on both sides by a matrix A, the matrix denoted by "pseudo-" this term is equal to A. In
traditional logic, it is a conditional sentence that is the contrapositive of the converse. When applied to the
output of a function f, a function of this type yields the argument to f. It is the element of a set that yields
the identity of that set, giving zero and one for addition and multiplication, respectively. For 10 points,
name this operation usually signified by a superscript negative one.
ANSWER: inverse
066-13-76-02135

5. The speaker of this poem complains, “I mete and dole unequal laws unto a savage race, that hoard, and
sleep, and feed, and know not me.” Its last stanza begins with the observation, “There lies the port; the
vessel puffs her sail.” This poem’s speaker describes himself “yearning in desire to follow knowledge like
a sinking star.” The speaker concludes by affirming that he and his old mariners are “strong in will to
strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.” For 10 points, name this dramatic monologue by Lord Tennyson
spoken by the hero of the Odyssey.
ANSWER: “Ulysses”
014-13-76-02136

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 9 of 10

What type of heat is released or absorbed by an object that is undergoing a process whereby its temperature
doesn’t change?
ANSWER: latent heat
This is a calculation question. The long diagonal of a cube has length 6. Find the volume of the cube.
ANSWER: 24 times the square root of 3 [or 24 radical 3; or 8 radical 27; or numerical equivalents]

2013 VHSL States

2

Page 10 of 10

