TOSSUPS - ROUND 7
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe
Questions mostly by your genial quizmaster
His original name was Temuj in and he was born near Lake Baikal, the son of Yesukai. At the age of 13
he overthrew his father and became tribal chief. By 1206 he had conquered most of the surrounding tribes and
set his capital at Karakorum. He eventually conquered China and most of the Middle East. For ten points,
name this famous Mongol conqueror.
Answer: Genghis (or Jinghis, Chingis, etc.) Khan
1.

2.
Distinguishing features include the reversed hallux, or first toe, which leads many to think it was
descended from the bipedal Coelophysis or Deinonychus. Its suspected early descendants include Hesperornis
and Ichthyornis. Ironically, it's classified as order Saurischia, or lizard-hipped, rather than Ornithischia. FTP
name this reptile of the Jurassic period, generally considered the first bird.
Answer:
Archaeopteryx
3.
His early works, like 1900's Little Girl and the 1898 watercolor Solitary House, used traditional
techniques. By 1910, this artist increasingly experimented with fractured outlines, as seen in Still Life with
Gingerpot and Grey Tree. From here, he moved to works like Composition in Grid. FTP, what Dutchman used
squares of bright color in canvases like New York?
Answer: Piet Mondrian
4.
Its capital was destroyed by an earthquake in 1854 and seriously damaged by another in 1986. Most of
the population is in a central plateau surrounded by mountains or in the narrow coastal plain. It became
independent in 1821 and again in 1841 after the dissolution of the Central American Federation but has
continually been subject to foreign interference, dictators such as Hernandez Martinez, and juntas such as those
headed by Rivera and Duarte. FTP name the winner of the 1969 Soccer War, the smallest nation in Central
America.
EI Salvador
Answer:
5.
In 1781 a collection of tales titled Manualfor Merry People was published. While some can be traced
to earlier sources, all are attributed to a retired soldier, hunter and sportsman noted in Hanover for a gift for
storytelling. However, these stories were nowhere near as farfetched as the adaptations subsequently published
by Rudolph Raspe, who inflated the Hanoverian's reputation. FTP name this raconteur whose minor adventures
are far eclipsed by his fame as a teller of tall tales.
Answer: Karl Friedrich Hieronymus, Baron (or Freiherr) von Munchhausen [accept Hieronymus]
6.
There are 5 current major leaguers with this surname. Gerald is an outfielder for Tampa Bay, Mike is
the closer for the Pirates, Woody is a staring pitcher for the Padres, Matt is a veteran 3rd baseman now with
Arizona, and Bernie is the star centerfielder for the Yankees. FTP name this last name, whose most famous
major league example is the Red Sox legend Ted.
Answer: Williams
7.
Nearly successful models of these have been constructed using a highly compact form of carbon, but as
of today, they still exist only in theory. It was the struggle to perform calculations relating to these using
classical physics that led to the development of the first principles of quantum mechanics. FTP, name this
concept similar to a black hole, but that is any object that absorbs all radiation hitting its surface without
reflecting or emitting any radiation of its own.
Answer: blackbody

8.
It was a response to excessive land taxation, high legal costs, and economic depression following the
American Revolution. Armed mobs prevented the sitting of courts at Northampton, Worcester, Great
Barrington, and Concord. Militia under General William Shepard prevented the seizing of the federal arsenal at
Springfield, and the revolt was quashed. For ten points, name this 1787 Massachusetts rebellion.
Answer: Shays'Rebellion
9.
His affinity for the symbolist poets can be seen in his songs, which include settings of verse by Verlaine,
Mallarme, and Louys. Like the symbolists, his concern was with interior feelings and impressions rather than
the outside world and its conventions. His harmonic style included chords in which the sense of tonality is
weak and harmonic progressions with no firm anchorage. FTP name this composer of the ballet Jeux, the opera
Pelleas et Melisande, and a longer work based on a Mallarme text, the orchestral Prelude to the Afternoon of a
Faun.
Claude Debussy
Answer:
10.
In the second act, Bobo confesses that he and Willy did not in fact go to Springfield to purchase a liquor
license, and Walter Younger realizes that he has lost the money needed to pay the rent and send his sister to
school. FTP, name this play by Lorraine Hansberry, whose name comes from a Langston Hughes poem.
Answer: A Raisin in the Sun
11.
This philosopher defended his faith in The Reasonableness of Christianity. In 1669, he wrote the
constitution for the colony of Carolina, and this experience in state-building convinced him to write 1690' s Two
Treatises on Government. FTP, name this British empiricist who also wrote An Essay Concerning Human
Understanding.
Answer: John Locke
12.
Both the British and Soviet governments censured him and tried to curtail his powers in the wake of the
Suez crisis. He earned their wrath by extending the idea of military intervention from the simple stationing of
observers to the interposition of substantial emergency forces between the would-be belligerents. His
successors never further developed the position's power, being unsure of their position and perhaps wary of
possible unexplained plane crashes. FTP name the second Secretary General ofthe UN.
Answer:
Dag Hammarskjold
13.
Evolution may not always work out quite for the best of the species in question. For example, even
though an allele may increase fitness, it may still be phased out, through chance, of a species' population. FTP,
name this phenomenon, which can also work in reverse, causing a less helpful allele to become fixed in a
population, and which is much more commonly found in small populations.
Answer: genetic drift (accept: Sewall-Wright effect or genetic sampling error)
14.
The crux of this poem, composed of two parts of five sections apiece, is the separation of two lovers,
Gabriel and the title character, after the British takeover of Nova Scotia. However, it might be better known for
its thumping opening: "This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks, Bearded with
moss ... " FTP, name this Longfellow poem.
Answer: "Evangeline"
15.
This man is responsible for the first mathematical renaissance on Christian soil. In 1202 he published
his great work, the Liber Abaci. He proved his mathematical brilliance before the Emperor by answering three
problems posed by John of Palermo. FTP give the more familiar name of Leonardo of Pis a, who developed the
series: 1, 1,2,3,5,8, 13.
Answer: Fibonacci (accept early: Leonardo of Pis a)

16.
Born on what is now Groundhog's Day in 1882, this man began to wear an eyepatch many years later
when he developed an eye condition. He lived with his wife 25 years and had two children before they married.
Samuel Beckett was his secretary and he dictated some of his last novel to Beckett, which begins "riverrun past
Eve and Adams." FTP, name the author of "Ecce Puer", Chamber Music, Finnegans Wake, and Ulysses.
Answer: James Joyce
17.
Ishiro Honda, who died 1993 at age 81, didn't make cars, he made movies. You're probably familiar with
his most famous movie, which led to later encounters between its protagonist and the Smog Monster, Mothra,
and other fellow freaks. The original 1954 epic also spawned a 1998 remake with Matthew Broderick. For ten
points, what's the name of Honda's big lizard, the scourge of Tokyo and now New York, an accidental
byproduct of nuclear testing?
Answer: Godzilla (accept Gojira from some real showoff)
18.
On signing a bill in 1956, the president said, "Together, the united forces of our communication and
transportation systems are dynamic elements in the very name we bear - United States. Without them, we
would be a mere alliance of many separate parts." Depending on which signs you read, the resultant project is
dedicated either to that President or to the Tennessee senator who not only conceived it, but came up with
national defense as a reason to get the President excited about it. FTP, name either the 1956 act or the massive
public works project it created.
Answer: Federal Highway Act of 1956 (or Interstate Highway Act) or Interstate Highway and National
Defense System
19.
A legend in the field of organic and physical chemistry, he pioneered new theories on molecular orbitals
and bonding, electronegativity, and the molecular cause of sickle cell anemia. He holds the 1954 Nobel Prize in
Chemistry and the 1962 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in ending nuclear weapons tests. FTP name this man
best known for his "beta plated sheet" and his book "The Nature of the Chemical Bond."
Answer:
Linus Pauling
Besides the fullest text of his exploits, he is depicted in five short poems - one on his death, one on him
20.
and Huwawa, one on him and Agga of Kish, one on him and the Bull of Heaven, and one on him, Enkidu, and
the Nether World. His tale is known mostly from 12 incomplete Akkadian language tablets from the library of
King Ashurbanipal. FTP name this hero of Babylonian myth.
Answer:
Gilgamesh
21.
It was originally called CONELRAD, which stood for Control of Electromagnetic Radiation. It might be
reduced with the demise of the Soviet threat. For ten points, this is a test. Give me the attention signal of your
buzzer followed by the official news of what three-word term by which CONELRAD is better known. This is
only a test.
Answer: Emergency Broadcast System or Emergency Alert System
22.
Born in Arlington, VA, this Vanderbilt graduate in Psychology got her nickname from a nursery rhyme.
As an outspoken critic of violent lyrics in popular music, she co-founded the Parents Music Resource Center.
FTP, name the author of the book "Raising PG Kids in an X-Rated Society," who happens to be the wife of a
former presidential candidate.
Answer: Mary Elizabeth "Tipper" Gore
23.
The 1547 book The Errors of the Gazarii defined them as a sect that had regular assemblies to satisfy
their lust, anger, and gluttony. Jacob Sprenger and Henry Kramer wrote a 1486 book against them entitled the
Malleus maleficarum, and their prosecution was common from the 15 th to 1i h centuries in locales like France,
Germany, and Salem, Massachusetts. FTP, give the term for Devil-worshipers often charged with eating
children and using charmed brooms for transportation.
Answer: witches

BONI - ROUND 7

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
Why history majors are seldom shocked by the news, chapter 2. F5PE name the President from
mistresses:
a) While in the military he had an affair with his driver, Kay Summersby
Answer: Dwight D. Eisenhower
b) His wife ended all intimacy with him after finding his incriminating letters to Lucy Mercer.
Answer: Franklin D. Roosevelt
c) Some historians still maintain that his nephew, not this President, is the most likely lover of Sally Hemings
and father of her children.
Answer: Thomas Jefferson
d) In her book The President's Mistress, later corroborated by independent evidence, Nan Britton claimed she
conceived a child by this President in a White House closet when she was only 19.
Answer: Warren G. Harding
e) Among his verified dalliances were Marlene Dietrich, Judith Campbell, and suspected spy Inga Arvad.
Answer: John F. Kennedy
f) Rumors of a longstanding relationship with Jennifer Fitzgerald were never proven but did lead to the
Washington Post's wry observation that Ms. Fitzgerald had served under him in a variety of positions.
Answer: George [not W.] Bush
2.
Sedimentary rock, igneous rock, metamorphic rock, or Chris Rock. F5PE match the above with the
following.
Granite
Answer: igneous rock
Marble
Answer: metamorphic rock
Shale
Answer: sedimentary rock
Obsidian
Answer: metamorphic rock
Gypsum
Answer: sedimentary rock
Basalt
Answer: igneous rock
READERS'S NOTE: If anyone says "sedimentary, my dear Watson," you might mention that your genial
quizmaster made that same joke in junior high school circa 1971.
3.
The LaserLight Music CD Power Classics! bills itself as "classical music for your active lifestyle" and
shows people biking, skiing, and playing volleyball on the cover. Memo to Marketing Department: Nice try.
Given works you're expected to exercise to, name the composer FTPE
1. Ride of the Valkyries
Answer:
Richard Wagner
2. Overture from The Bartered Bride
Answer:
Bedrich Smetana
3. Soldier's Dance from William Tell
Answer:
Gioacchino Rossini

4.
Identify these plays by Henrik Ibsen, FTP each
Halvard Solness is an architect with acrophobia.
Answer: The Master Builder
She is blackmailed by Judge Brack and kills herself.
Answer: Hedda Gabler
Dr. Thomas Stockmann tries to warn the people of his town about an environmental health hazard. Guess how
popular THAT makes him.
Answer: An Enemy of the People
5.
While Kate Hudson was upset in a heavily favored bid for Best Supporting Actress, Almost Famous did
get a nice consolation Oscar for its writer-director in Best Original Screenplay. FTPE answer the following:
a) The writer-director in question, his other films include Jerry Maguire and Fast Times at Ridgemont High
Answer: Cameron Crowe
b) The film centers on a young journalist's roadtrip with this fictitious midlevel rock band from Troy, MI.
Answer: Stillwater
c) Kate Hudson's character is a Band-Aid (don't call her a groupie!) who takes this Beatles song as her name.
Answer: Penny Lane
6.
Identify these biblical characters FTP each.
This man was surprised to hear his donkey speak against his many beatings.
Answer: Balaam
At his prayer God turned the sun back ten steps and added 15 years to his life when on his deathbed.
Answer: Hezekiah
Sometimes cited as the first observer of a UFO, he was the witness of the reanimation of a valley of dry bones.
Answer: Ezekiel
7.
N arne these characters from Ivanhoe FTP each.
He is the father of Wilfred, the knight of Ivanhoe.
Answer: Cedric the Saxon
Initially, Ivanhoe wants to marry this ward of his father's though she is promised to Aethelstane and is a bit
mild.
Answer: Rowena
The daughter ofIsaac of York, Ivanhoe is drawn to her character and charm.
Answer: Rebecca
8.
Got milk? FTPE answer the following about that ubiquitous dairy product:
1. In 1856 this inventor, who also played a key role in early Texas government, patented the first successful
process for condensed milk.
Answer: Gail Borden
2. There are several different versions of this process, such as the high-temperature short-time method, the
batch method, and the ultrahigh-temperature method -- all of which involve heating milk to kill disease-causing
bacteria.
Answer: pasteurization
3. The main protein in milk, it's used in the manufacture of waterproof glues, plastics, and paints.
Answer: casein

9.
Name the following people associated with the Crusades.
For ten points, this pope issued the call for the first Crusade November 29, 1095.
Answer: Urban II
For ten points, this man is the most well known preacher of the popular Crusades.
Answer: Peter the Hermit (accept Peter of Amiens)
Three European monarchs banded together for the Third Crusade. Name two of the three for 5 points per
answer.
Answer: Richard I of England (accept Richard the Lionhearted), Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I (accept
Frederick Barbarossa), and Philip II of France (accept Philip Augustus)
10.
The UTC team's resident computer expert, Kelly, tells me these things matter. FTPE:
1)
The main system processor in a computer system is controlled by this signal which can be multiplied in
order to process instructions much faster internally.
System _Clock_
2)
This proprietary 32-bit bus architecture could transfer up to 20 megabits of data per second while
clocked at 8 megahertz. It was used in the PS/2 computer systems built by IBM.
- MCA3)
Early computer display equipment produced only two monochrome colors. F5PE what were these two
colors, widely used because they fall within the frequency of the visible spectrum to which the eyes are most
sensitive?
Green, Amber
11.
TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: On that same roadtrip last weekend, Charlie & co. also listened to
Yankovic's "Polka Power!" from the album "Running With Scissors." Again, name the original artist of these
polkafied songs F5PE:
a) "Walkin' on the Sun"
Answer: Smashmouth
b) "Intergalactic"
Answer: the Beastie Boys
c) "Tubthumping"
Answer: Chumbawamba
d) "Push"
Answer: Matchbox 20
e) "Semi-Charmed Life"
Answer: Third Eye Blind
f) "Sex and Candy"
Answer: Marcy Playground
12.
1.

2.

3.

FTPE given works name the Russian author, or for 5 if you need better known works.
1Opts- Over the Barriers and The Childhood of Luvers
5pts- Dr. Zhivago
Answer:
Boris Pasternak
1Opts- A Month in the Country and Torrents of Spring
5pts- Fathers and Sons
Answer:
Ivan Turgenev
10pts- Cossack Tales and Taras Bulba
5pts- The Overcoat and The Inspector General
Answer:
Nikolai Gogol

13.
In 1967 three Mideast nations planned a joint war against Israel. On paper they had the upper hand, but
they suffered a disastrous defeat. First, FTP, give the opoular name for that war, taken from its brevity.
Answer: the Six Day War
For 5 points each and a 5 point bonus for all 3 correct, name the three Arab countries defeated by Israel.
Answer: Egypt, Syria, and Jordan
14.
Three resistors - respectively, 6 ohms, 4 ohms, and 2 ohms, are connected in a series with a 3-volt
battery. FTPE:
1. How much current will flow through the circuit?
Answer:
0.25 amps, or _ amp [I = VIR = 3112]
2. What is the voltage across the 6 ohm resistor?
Answer:
1.5 volts, or 1 _ volts
3. If the resistors were connected in parallel rather than in series, what would be the effective resistance of the
circuit?
Answer:
12/11 ohms, or 11111 ohms, or roughly 1.1 ohms (l/R = llRJ + lIR2 +11R3 = 116 + _ +
_ = 11112]
15 .
TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: In May 1999, Charlie attended an art show by the kindergarten class of
his older daughter. Given the titles of works copied by Ansley and her fellow artistes, name the original artist
on a 5-10-20-30 basis:
1. Figure 5 in Gold
Answer:
Charles DeMuth
2. Snap the Whip
Answer:
Winslow Homer
3. Beasts of the Sea
Answer:
Henri Matisse
16.
30, 20, 10 name the American.
30 - A liberal Whig, he a founding member of the Republican party and an ardent anti-slavery activist, but
would later signed the bail bond of Jefferson Davis.
20 - He created the Liberal Republican Party and ran for President on its ticket against U. S. Grant, and polled
over 40% of the popular vote but got only 4 electoral votes. That's what happens when you die right after the
election.
10 - He is most associated with the newspaper he created and edited, the New York Tribune.
Answer: Horace Greeley
17.
Just for a moment let's indulge Charlie in his county fixation. Given a list of counties with distinctive
names, give the state where you'd find them F5PE.
1.
Westchester, Rensselaer, Chautauqua. Saratoga
Answer:
New York
2.
Multnomah, Coos, Klamath, Hood River
Answer:
Oregon
3.
Pinellas, Leon, Flagler, Brevard
Answer:
Florida
4.
Breckinridge, Crittenden, Harlan, Bourbon
Kentucky
Answer:
5.
Fond du Lac, Door, Sheboygan, Eau Claire
Answer:
Wisconsin
6.
Tunica, Yazoo, Choctaw, Tallahatchie
Answer:
Mississippi

18.
FTPE given the definition of an economics term, give the term
1.
This is the extent to which a purchase was paid for with borrowed money. It amplifies the potential gain
or loss for the purchaser.
Answer:
leverage
2.
This term is defined as a company finding itself forced to buy back its own shares for more than the
going market price to avoid a threatened hostile takeover.
greenmail
Answer:
3.
This is the discretionary payment by a corporation to its shareholders, usually in the form of cash, stock
shares, or other property.
Answer:
dividend
19.
Given some key psychological concepts, name the psychologist who most popularized the terms, FTP
each.
neurosis, dream analysis
Answer: Sigmund Freud
mythic archetype, collective unconscious
Answer: Karl Jung
inferiority complex, individual psychology
Answer: Alfred Adler
20.
FTP each, answer the following questions about an American novel.
Addie Bundren's death is the central event in this 1930 novel.
Answer: As I Lay Dying
Name any of Addie's four sons.
Answer: Cash or Darl or Jewel or Vardaman
Finally, what Mississippi native wrote As I Lay Dying?
Answer: William Faulkner
21.
FFTPE given a description of a process or reaction name it.
15) When you chemically alter your hair you are breaking down its structural proteins. This process can also
be accomplished using heat and is especially disruptive for enzymes.
Answer: denaturing
15) That tiny scratch on your car door allows water to touch the iron metal and in the presence of oxygen the
entire scratch begins to rust.
Answer: Redox reaction or Oxidation Reduction reaction
30-20-10. Name this composer.
22.
30 - His astonishing output includes 377 arrangements of Scottish and Welsh airs.
20 - He has been called the "father of the symphony" and was one of the consummate artists of the classical
style of music.
10 - His most famous works include The Bird quartet, the oratorios The Creation and The Seasons, and the
Surprise Symphony.
Answer: Franz Joseph Haydn

