tOSSUPS - ROUND 1
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe
Questions mostly by your genial quizmaster himself (Charlie Steinhice)
1. '
Child of a wealthy landowner, he was privately tutored but failed the entrance exam at Bologna.
Fascinated with the work of Heinrich Hertz, he set up a lab in his father's attic and had some success
transmitting signals over short distances. His breakthrough came when he discovered the importance of
grounding both the transmitter and receiver. FTP name this inventor, who in 1901 transmitted the first
transatlantic wireless communication.
Answer: Guglielmo Marconi
2.
To stop her father from pursuing her and her lover, she cut her brother Apsyrtos into little pieces and
threw them into the water. Her father, Aites, stopped to retrieve the chunks and thus never caught the Argo.
This makes her response when here husband left her for that little tramp Glauke a lot less surprising. FTP name
this wife:'of Jason, who not only gave Glauke a magic robe that burned her to death, but also for good measure
killed her own two sons by Jason .
..'. :. Apswe.r:. Medea

3~ ; ".;;:.:Uponlf~DS publi~~tion in 1963, the publisher elected to omit the final chapter-the 21 sl chapter, in
which it turns out the protagotVst's old buddies eventually settled down into respectable citizens. This novel
does a '~hoITorshow" Job exploring the ramifications of free will and the potential for evil. Alex, the 15-year-old
r.~#~t?.r,. i~, i:lITe's~ed fo~ m~rder a~er the beating of an elderly woman. He is then subjected to -an~experimental
"redemptIon" process that .eventually strips him of free will. Name this novel, FTP, Written by Anthony
B.~l\iess, ~hi'ch was made into a popular movie by Stanley Kubrick.
Answer: A Clockwork Orange

4.

Born in Newmarket, Ontario, this actor played a cartoonist in the short-lived sitcom "The D.uck Fa~~ory"
and
starred as" , the shy guy pursued by vampire .Lauren Hutton in Once Bitten.
Later in his', ' career"he
playeci'the
: \ ' .... . i .
.
.. "
. . ,",
al:~~ri)Viploc, in Earth Girls Are Easy, but it wasn't until his role in the Fox sketch comedy series "In LivinJ~ ,q; ,
~olof' that people started noticing him. FTP, name this rubber-faced star of The Truman Show and Ace '.'" ....
Ventura:
Pet Detective.
. .
..
,
Ariswer: Jim Carrey
5 .. ;
It was established at the behest of George Washington for national defense reasons, but was considered
far infeI."ior to its, sister in Springfield, Massachussetts. This might explain why, on October 16 1859, it was so
e~sily' ~aken ()ver by guerrillas attempting to establish an anti-slavery refuge centered on this Virginia armory.,.,,'
.
.
FTP, ;name this federal arsenal whose takeover led to the hanging of John Brown. .
Answer: the Harper's Ferry armory
.: : .

6.
One example is the Koch curve, which is created by taking an equilateral triangle and adding a smaller
equilateral triangle to the center of each side, then repeating. Another famous one is the Mandelbrot set, which
is the plot of the equation z = Z2 + c. FTP, name these geometric figures which exhibit self-similarity.
'.
Answer: fractals
.
•, /

' :

'j

. ; .....

7.' .: i.: It was written in an unsuccessful attempt to court a 19-year-old woman, Therese Malfatti; by a mali,
more,than, twice her age in 1810. Because of the composer's bad handwriting, it was thought to be dedicated to
someone with a different name. Generations of piano students, like Schroeder in "A Charlie Brown Christmas,"
.h aveJearned toplay it. FTP what is this short piano bagatelle by Ludwig van Beethoven?
. . Answer: Fur Elise

8.
As duke of Normandy he had some clout over English barons, threatening to reclaim their Norman fiefs.
The nominal obstacle between him and the throne was Eustace, son and chosen successor of Stephen. But when
Eustace died suddenly, Stephen cut a deal in the Treaty of Westminster to name this man his heir in exchange
for keeping the throne. FTP name this monarch, who begAn the Plantagenet line in A.D. 1154, father of future
kings Richard the Lion-Hearted and John.
Henry II
Answer:
9.
Since these organelles differ in size and chemical properties between prokaryotes and eukaryotes,
anitbiotics such as tetracycline, streptomycin, and Zithromax can be used to target the organelle and kill the
prokaryotic cell without hurting eukaryotic cells. These organelles are composed of two RNA and protein
subunits. They are manufactured in the nucleus and then are released into the cytoplasm in order to function.
FTP name this organelle that is directly involved in protein synthesis and is found floating in the cytoplasm or
attached to the endoplasmic reticulum.
Answer:
ribosomes
10.
His spirituality can be seen in the long poem "Clarel." This author also addressed the issue in his last . ,
~ovel The Confidence-Man: His Masquerade. Perhaps his most allegorical work on the subject was the
"
2~st4uill.ously published Billy Budd, Foretopman. FTP, name this author who also wrote Moby Dick.
' ",
Answer:
Herman Melville
,
'

r

1
This leader began the "Virgin Lands" policy, intended to open the lands of Central Asia and improve
agricultural output. His first move upon assuming the role of First Secretary was to engineer the execution of
dangerous KGB chief Lavrenty Beria, and he later presided over a major cultural thaw that saw the publishing
ofOne Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch. Though he generally attempted to smooth relations with the west,
I:TP, what Soviet leader played "chicken" with Kennedy during the Cuban Missile Crisis?
Answer: Nikita Khrushchev
12.'
A pantless man lies on the ground in the lower left corner, and two dead soldiers occupy the lower rig;ht
corner. In the right-center, a boy holds two pistols, and the musket-bearer to the left is the artist's self-portrait.
The crowd in the background looks toward an upraised flag, held by the half-nude central figure. FTP, name '
tW's painting by Eugene Delacroix.
-' ,
Answer: Liberty Leading the People
13.
The entire editorial content of the August 31, 1946 New Yorker consisted of one article. Published ,in
book form in November of that year, it focused on six individuals - a German Jesuit priest, a Methodist
minister, a personnel clerk, a widow, and two doctors. It has only four chapters, the last being "Panic Grass and
F~verfew," the first being "A Noiseless Flash." FTP name this John Hersey account of the survivors of atomic
warfare.
Hiroshima
Answer:
14.
This brittle metal is found in the ores braunite, hausmannite, and pyrolusite. First isolated in 1774 by
Johan Gottlieb Gahn, this element is a key constituent of many enzymes such as superoxide dismutase. It also
plays a critical role in photosynthesis, enabling the conversion of carbon dioxide to free oxygen. FTP name this
transition metal, whose atomic number is 25.
,"
Answer: manganese
15.
This nation's cuisine is traditionally eaten from a shared dish as a sign of unity, and instead of utensils
one uses a flatbread called injera to scoop up the food. Its name comes from the Greek for sunburned faces.
The first emperor claimed descent from the Queen of Sheba and King Solomon. In the 1400's it became a
Christian state, and a monastery there claims to hold the Ark of the Covenant. FTP name this African country,
dIvided by a broad curve of the Blue Nile and bordering the Red Sea, formerly called Abyssinia.
Answer: Ethiopia

16.
National League MVP in both 1954 and 1965, he played 23 years in the majors as well as a brief stint in
his teens in the Negro Leagues. Only Henry Aaron and Babe Ruth hit more major league homers than this Hall
of Famer, who also had a career batting average of .302. But he may be even better remembered for his
fielding, roaming huge centerfields with ease and thrilling the crowd with his trademark basket catch. FTP
name this New York and San Francisco Giant, whose catch and throw in the 1954 World Series is often
considered the best fielding play ever.
Answer: Willie Mays
17.
In Virgil's Aeneid, he was the brother of Dido and King of Tyre who killed Dido's husband Sychaeus for
his riches. In Greek mythology, he was a King of Cyprus who fell in love with a statue which Aphrodite then
brought to life. And in modern times, it is the name of a play by George Bernard Shaw. FTP, give the common
name.
Answer: Pygmalion
18.
Born in 1491, this son of Spanish nobles was hit by a cannon ball while defending Pamplona. While
recovering at Manresa, he studied theology. This patron saint of spiritual retreats then wrote the manual
Spiritual Exercises, setting forth his approach to an acivist kind of monasticism. FTP name this founder of the
Society of Jesus, or the Jesuits.
'.
Answer: Ignatius ofLoyola
.,.

19. . These are usually found in groups of three, but were in fact not even proposed until 1963. Their name
comes from Finnegan's Wake, by James Joyce. Gell-Mann and Zweig first proposed their existence. FTP,
name these particles that have characteristics such as "color" and "flavor," and are classified into six kinds: up,
doWn, strange, charm, bottom, and top.
Answer: quark(s)
20.
In 1963 movie ticket taker Barbara Johnson was kidnapped and raped. Her assailant let her go and
asked her to pray for him, and when arrested he quickly confessed to the crime. But based on an extensive
review of police practices, including techniques of coercion and subterfuge described in training manuals, the
Supreme Court ruled by a 5-4 majority that suspects had to be informed of the right to counsel and the right to
remain silence in the face of interrogation. FTP name this landmark 1966 Supreme Court case or its namesake
defendant.
Miranda v. Arizona, or Ernesto Miranda
Answer:
21 :

In business in 1907, in 1986 it absorbed nearby St. Marys Hospital, where its founders originally worked
a~staff physicians. Each year its roughly 900 staff physicians and 800 residents treat over 400,000 patients
frQm around the world. FTP name this pioneering medical facility in Rochester, MN, named for the two
brothers who founded it.
Answer: the Mayo Clinic
!

22.
After studying law and medicine at the University of Krakow, he became a priest. In 1530, in an
unpublished manuscript he first stated a theory which would later be published in his De Revolutionibus
Orbium Coelestium. FTP, name this Polish astronomer who championed the heliocentric theory of the solar
system.
Answer: Nicholas Copernicus
23.
Ofthe five theories concerning this beverage's origin, two are widely held. One claims it was invented
in the San Francisco area after the Gold Rush; the other credits an employee of the Hoffman House in New
York with its invention. Either way, this "silver bullet" is a quintessential American cocktail. FTP, name this
mixture of gin and vermouth, enjoyed by a certain Mr. Bond when shaken instead of stirred.
Answer: martini

BONI - ROUND 1

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

1.
Your genial quizmaster now has two innovations in quizbowl- "bragging rights", which you'll hear
about later, and the format for this bonus, a format we're using just this once today. Name the composer from
works, 30-20-10-5-1:
30: Symphony No.3 (1946), Music/or the Theater, Danson Cubanas, and Vitebsk
20: EI Salon Mexico and the Oscar-winning score from the film The Heiress
10: The ballets Billy the Kid and Rodeo
5: The ballet Appalachian Spring
1: The autobiographies Copland 1900 Through 1942 and Copland Since 1943
Answer: Aaron Copland
2.

FFPE given a book that won the Newbery Medal, name the author.
1. The Witch of Blackbird Pond
Answer:
Elizabeth George Speare
2. The High King
Answer:
Lloyd Alexander
3. Island Of the Blue Dolphins
Answer:
Scott O'Dell
4. The Whipping Boy
Answer:
Sid Fleischman
5. Bridge To Terabithia
Answer:
Katherine Paterson
6. Roll Of Thunder, Hear My Cry
Answer:
Mildred D. Taylor

3.
Given a description, give the common name for the carbon allotrope it describes FTPE.
Weak bonds join flat layers of carbon atoms together.
Answer: graphite
The carbon atoms are each bonded to four others, which sit at the corners of a tetrahedron.
Answer: diamond
The atoms occur in linked pentagons and hexagons in this curious allotrope of some 60 carbon atoms.
Answer: buckminsterfullerene (accept "buckyballs")
4.
TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: Your genial quizmaster's first roadtrip of the millennium was to the
Show Me State, whose noteworthy figures of the past include the following. FTPE name these Missourians:
1. The unsuccessful plaintiff in a landmark 1857 Supreme Court case, this slave's freedom was bought soon
thereafter, and he lived out his years as a bellboy in a St. Louis hotel.
Answer: Dred Scott
2. He served as Governor from 1993 to 2000, when he left the seat to run against incumbent John Ashcroft for
the U.S. Senate. Killed in an October plane crash, he was elected posthumously to the Senate.
Answer: Mel Carnahan
3. Born in southwestern Missouri, this former slave became a professor of industrial chemistry at Tuskegee
Institute, where his hundreds of inventions included many innovative uses for the peanut.
Answer: George Washington Carver

5.
They're here to save the world before bedtime. F5PE answer the following about the Power Puff Girls:
a) For 5 pts. each, name the three diminutive superheroines.
Answer: Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup
b) They were created when an extra ingredient was added to sugar, spice, and everything nice. F5PE name the
added ingredient and the square-jawed scientist/father figure whose experiment was thus altered.
Answer: Chemical X and Prof. Utonium
c) For a final 5 pts., name the Townville kindergarten the trio attend, site of a memorable game of dodgeball
with the Gangrene Gang.
Answer: Pokey Oaks
6.
Identify the following about the second-oldest continuous republic in the Americas FTSNOP.
For 5, what is this nation, a former French colony?
Answer: Haiti
For 15 pts. if exact or 5 pts. within 5 years, in what year did Haiti accomplish complete independence from
France?
Answer: 1804 (5 pts. for anything else from 1799 to 1809)
For 15, what former slave fought colonial forces from 1791 to 1800 and generally secured Haitian
independence, although he died in France in 1803?
Answer: Franc;ois Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture
7.
FTPE, answer the following about (yawn) Pilgrim's Progress.
Who wrote that oh-so-exciting novel?
Answer: John Bunyan
Who is the archetypal hero?
Answer: Christian
Which site of Christian's travels, the center of human corruption, formed the title of a William Thackeray
novel?
Answer: Vanity Fair
8.
Sure it's been a while since your genial quizmaster's last science class, but this is before even his time.
Identify these pre_19 th century biologists FTPE.
This Englishman demonstrated the circulation of blood.
Answer: William Harvey
This Dutchman used the microsope he invented to study what he called "Animalcules."
Answer: Anton von Leeuwenhook
This Flemish scientist working in Padua published an influential treatise on anatomy in the 16th century.
Answer: Andreas Vesalius
9.
30,20, 10 name the man.
30 - He became an Augustinian friar after nearly being hit by lightning shortly after gaining his masters' degree.
Subject of a notable psychobiography by Erik Erikson, he believed that he was physically attacked by the devil
on a regular basis.
20 - Using Romans 3:28, Ephesians 2:8, and a conviction of the impurity of man, he generated three central
religious ideas: sola fide , sola scriptura, and sole gratia.
10 - His arguments against indulgences, the "95 theses," kick-started the Reformation.
Answer: Martin Luther

10.
For 10 points each, name these computer company based on one of its founders:
Paul Allen
ANSWER: Microsoft
Larry Ellison
ANSWER: Oracle
Bill Joy
ANSWER: Sun Microsystems
11.
With the Academy Awards given out just last Sunday night, here's a way for Charlie to sneak his Oscar
fixation into an academic bonus. FTPE name these figures in 20 th century American history. The common
link: all have been portrayed in Oscar-winning performances.
1. In the Oct. 1918 Battle of the Argonne Forest, this former conscientious objector was credited with taking a
hill, killing 25 German soldiers and capturing 132 more.
Answer: Alvin C. York
2. Despite his brilliance in the Sicily campaign, he was relieved of command of the 7th army after slapping a
soldier who suffered from battle fatigue. He returned to lead the 3rd Army's amazing post-D-Day advances
across Europe.
Answer: George S. Patton, Jr.
3. This anarchist was imprisoned many times on such grounds as incitement to riot, opposing the draft, and
even advocating birth control. Deported to Russia in 1919 with longtime colleague Alexander Berkman, she
grew dissatisfied with the Bolsheviks and left Russia in 1921.
Answer: Emma Goldman
[READER'S NOTE: The Oscar winners for these roles were, respectively, Gary Cooper, George C. Scott, and
Maureen Stapleton.]
12.
TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: Just last weekend, returning from a tournament in Michigan, Charlie and
the UTC team were regaled with "Alternative Polka" from Weird Al Yankovic's album Bad Hair Day. Given a
song converted in part to a polka in that glorious medley, name the original artist F5PE:
a) "Bang and Blame"
Answer: R.E.M.
b) "Basket Case"
Answer: Green Day
c) "Loser"
Answer: Beck
d) "Black Hole Sun"
Answer: Soundgarden
e) "1' 11 Stick Around
Answer: Foo Fighters
f) "Bullet with Butterfly Wings"
Answer: Smashing Pumpkins
If you've ever played Dino Hunt this will be a breeze. Given a list of dinosaurs, FTPE tell whether they
13.
flourished in the Triassic, Jurassic, or Cretaceous period:
Triceratops, Tyrannosaurus
Answer: Cretaceous
Plateosaurus, Coelophysis
Answer: Triassic
Stegosaurus,Apatosaurus
Answer: Jurassic

14.
Given some works, name the author for ten points each.
A Man in Full, The Bonfire of the Vanities
Answer: Tom Wolfe
Bleak House and Nicholas Nickleby
Answer: Charles Dickens
Life'S Little Ironies and The Return of the Native
Answer: Thomas Hardy
15.
Man, it's tough to write a question on the U.S. Coast Guard. FTSNOP answer the following:
1. (5 pts.) In 1957 the Coast Guard cutters Storis, Bramble, and Spar finally completed one of the most soughtafter nautical achievements by sailing through this waterway.
Answer: the Northwest Passage
2. (5 pts.) The Coast Guard was created as the Revenue Cutter Service in 1790 at the urging of this Secretary of
the Treasury, who wanted a way to fight smuggling and piracy.
Answer: Alexander Hamilton
3. (10 pts.) The Coast Guard Academy is located in this New England city.
Answer: New London, CT
4. (10 pts.) In 1989 the Coast Guard headed the cleanup of the record-setting 11 million gallon oil spill after
this tanker struck a reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound.
Answer: Exxon Valdez
16. FTP each, name the philosopher or the school of philosophy given clues.
This man believed that the appearance of movement and the existence of separate objects are illusions, not real.
Answer: Parmenides
This is the philosophical school that Parmenides led.
Answer: Eleatic school
This suicidal philosopher agreed that reality is eternal, but said that it is formed by chance combinations of the
four primal elements.
Answer: Empedocles
17.
Name these self-destructive authors FTP each.
This 19th -century English poet of Atalanta in Calydon suffered from serious alcoholism and had quite a fancy
for masochism in the bedroom.
Answer: Charles Algernon Swinburne
This author of Justine abducted prostitutes for cruel sexual bouts.
Answer: Donatien-Alphonse-Francois, Marquis de Sade
Destructive sexual tendencies and an incestuous relationship with his half-sister Augusta caused this English
poet of Hours of Idleness to head off to remote Greece, where he died as part of its independence fight.
Answer: George Gordon, Lord Byron
18.
There are four fundamental forces of nature, and you can score up to thirty points if you know them
well. You'll score five points for each force you name, twenty-five if you name all four, and thirty if you name
them in order of strongest to weakest.
Answer: Strong nuclear force; Weak nuclear force; Electromagnetic force (or electromagnetism); Gravity
19.
FTP each, identify these islands.
Until their extinction in 1681, dodoes lived exclusively on this island in the Indian Ocean.
Answer: Mauritius
This island was home to the statue-building Rapa Nui people.
Answer: Easter Island
St. John was exiled to this island around AD 66 and received his vision of the biblical book of Revelation.
Answer: Patmos

20.
Name these pharaohs of Ancient Egypt, FTP each.
This son ofSeti reigned c.1292-1225 BC. He is probably the pharaoh in Exodus.
Answer: Ramses II
Of the 18 th dynasty, he reigned c. 1372-54. He was supposed to be Amenhotep IV, but he rejected Egyptian
polytheism for a monotheistic worship of the sun disc. His wife was the beautiful Nefertiti.
Answer: Akhenaton or Ikhnaton
The son-in-law of Akhenaton, he returned Egypt to its polytheism although he reigned only a very short time
and died at age 18.
Answer: Tutankhamon or King Tut
21.
Identify these terms one might need to know to construct a BattleBot FTPE:
1. Coil of wire producing a magnetic field when electrically charged, as used for activating switches. (One
important use is in the manufacture of pinball flippers.)
solenoid
Answer:
2. Rotor, wound with wire coils, of an electric motor or generator; the vibrating part of a loudspeaker, electric
bell, or other electromagnetic device
Answer:
armature
3. Component with two terminals, typically allowing current to flow in one direction only.
diode
Answer:
22.
Give these economics terms from clues FTP each.
This ratio shows the number and size of firms in an industry by showing the percent of production of the four
largest companies in an industry.
Answer: concentration (ratio)
These are the savings from production and distribution facilities of an optimum size.
Answer: economies of scale
This is the term for returns above normal profit, such as the windfall for monopolies.
Answer: economic profit

