TOSSUPS - ROUND 5
DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC
Questions mostly by Brock Stephenson & colleagues, Simon Fraser U. (Burnaby, B.c.)

1.
Number one: You must be mad. Number two: Why aren't your messages in code? These were
Moscow's first responses to frantic dispatches from the Red Army in Poland on June 22, 1941. For 10 points,
the surprise German invasion of the Soviet Union was given what code name, after a Holy Roman Emperor
who had a red beard?
Answer: Operation Barbarossa [prompt on early buzz with German invasion of Soviet Union, etc.]
2.
A city in California, a city in Fife County, Scotland, and the largest asteroid in our solar system all share
their name with this Roman goddess. Known as a Goddess of Agriculture, she was the daughter of Saturn.
FTP, name this deity whose Greek counterpart is Demeter.
Answer: Ceres
3.
Originally defined by Danish biochemist Soren Sorensen in 1909, its value in complex organic solutions
can be calculated using the Henderson-Hasselbach equation. Typically used to compare solution acidities, FTP,
what is this logarithmic measure of hydrogen ion concentration?
Answer: pH
4.
His 1861 work The Descent of Odin imitated traditional Norse verse. Some of his more famous poetic
works include "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes," "The Bard" and "Sonnet
on the Death of Richard West." FTP, name this English poet best know for "Elegy Written in a Country
Churchyard. "
Answer: Thomas Gray
5.
A critic of the likely economic impact of the Treaty of Versailles, he wrote The General Theory of
Employment, Interest and Money amidst the Great Depression. A strong believer in government intervention in
the economy, he positioned aggregate demand as a centrepiece for his economic analysis. FTP, name this
macro economist and namesake of a school of economic thought.
Answer: John Maynard Keynes
6.
Referee Joe Forte Sr. ejected this man from a Miami Heat game in February for cursing the officiating.
He once sang that he made enough money smuggling grass to buy the city of Miami, but he "pissed it away so
fast." These facts are in his song "A Pirate Looks at Forty." FTP, what pop star's hits also include "Come
Monday," "Cheeseburger in Paradise," and "Margaritaville."
Answer: Jimmy Buffett
7.
Upon the death of his father, he shared control of the realm with his brother Carloman. After Carloman
died in 771 he began a series of wars of conquest where he defeated Lombardia, Saxony, Bavaria and the Avars.
From 794 on his capital was at Aachen and he gathered scholars from around his kingdom. For ten points,
name this man whom Pope Leo III crowned Emperor of the Romans on December 25,800.
Answer: Charlemagne (or Carolus Magnus)
8.
Rocks from this period can be found at Marble Mountains in the Mojave and in House Range, Utah.
Major land masses included Baltica, Siberia, and Laurentia. Perhaps the most notable event was the appearance
of every metazoan phylum with hard parts except one. FTP, name this period of the Paleozoic Era, 540-500
million years ago, sometimes referred to as the "Age of the Trilobites."
Answer: Cambrian Period

9.
He was committed to a mental asylum at Endenich after throwing himself into a river. His only opera,
Genoveva, was a flop, and his first symphony "Spring" was completed after four failed attempts at the form.
FTP, name this composer ofthe "Rhenish" symphony, whose wife Clara was also a noted musician/composer.
Answer: Robert Schumann
10.
Potential entrances include a ring, a picture on a bedroom wall, and a train station. To its east lie the
Bight of Calormen and the island of Terebinthia, while Archenland is to its south, and its inhabitants include
Shift the Ape and Farsight the Eagle. The first character to enter is the youngest, Lucy, and the rest of the
Pevensie children arrive in increasing age order to, FTP, what fantasy-land created by C.S. Lewis?
Answer: N arnia
11.
This is the massless gauge boson for electromagnetic interactions, and has a value equal to Planck's
constant times the frequency of the oscillation of the wave in question. They also have momentum equal to the
frequency ofthe wave times the wave-vector of the wave that generates them, but their maximum speed is
always the speed of light. FTP, what particle is typically thought of in one special sense, as a quantum of light?
Answer: photon
12.
William Gibson coined it in his novel, Neuromancer. This term refers to a global computer network
where people share information. FTP, name this word formed by a concatenation of two words often used to
describe a medium where electronic communication takes place.
Answer: Cyberspace (do not accept anything else)
13.
Constable Warren, Simon Stimson, Joe Stoddard, Howie Newsome, George Gibbs, Emily Webb, and
the Stage Manager are characters from this play, set in the picturesque town of Grover's Corners, New
Hampshire. FTP, name this Pulitzer winner for best drama in 1938, written by Thornton Wilder.
Answer: Our Town
14.
They were passed in 1774 by British Parliament, and consisted of: the Impartial Administration of
Justice Act, which removed British officials from the jurisdiction of Massachusetts courts; the Massachusetts
Government Act; the Quartering Act; and the Boston Port Act. These punitive measures led to the calling of the
First Continental Congress. For ten points, name these laws also known as the Coercive Acts.
Answer: Intolerable Acts (accept coercive acts early, DO NOT accept Townshend Acts)
15.
The Islamic lunar calendar is based on the occurrence of this event, Mohammed's movement to Medina
from the holy city of Mecca in 622. FTP what is the term given to this migration, from which the Moslem
calendar reckons?
Answer: Hegira or Hejira (do NOT accept "hajj" or "pilgrimage")
16.
His work includes "Darkman" and "For Love of the Game", and he directed Billy Bob Thornton's
Oscar-nominated performance in 1998's "A Simple Plan." However, he is perhaps best known for directing a
trilogy of horror films starring Bruce Campbell. FTP, name this director of the Evil Dead movies.
Answer: Sam Raimi
17.
The result was a conviction of violating the Butler Act and a $100 fine, but the verdict was later
reversed. The trial featured Clarence Darrow arguing for the defense and William Jennings Bryan arguing for
prosecution and also appearing as an expert witness on the Bible. For ten points, name the defendant and
you've named this famous Tennessee case dubbed the "Monkey Trial."
Answer: Scopes Trial (prompt on "Monkey Trial" before the word "defendant")

18.
This term was first used by William James, the American philosopher and psychologist, in his 1890
book The Principles of Psychology. Often confused with interior monologue, the latter technique works the
sensations of the mind into a more formal pattern: a flow of thoughts inwardly expressed, similar to a soliloquy.
For ten points, what literary technique reveals the character's feelings, thoughts, and actions, often following an
associative rather than a logical sequence, without commentary by the author?
Answer: stream of consciousness
19.
The State Department recently barred u.S. citizens from adopting children from this nation, because of
profound irregularities in the court system, routine bribery, total collapse of major government institutions, and
the confusion brought about by the relocation of the capital to Astana from its former home at Almaty. Its
population is 98 percent literate, but that's no help with the country's political and environmental woes,
including poisonous dust storms arising from the rapid disappearance of its second largest body of water. FTP
name this country almost evenly divided between Muslims of Turkic background and Russian Orthodox
Christians, home to the northern shores of the Caspian and Aral Seas.
Kazakhstan
Answer:
20.
Fibrous systems, used by monocots, consist of many thinner structures that provide maximal surface
area, while dicots often have a thin structures branching off from a large, deep-growing structure that stores
excess resources. Regardless of the system, a cap protects the growth site, known as the apical meristem. FTP,
name the structures that provide water, minerals, and an anchor for plant life.
Answer: roots
21.
The first formal observation of this type in North America took place in the eastern Arctic in 1578, by
Martin Frobisher and his crew. It became a Canadian national holiday in 1879, fifteen years after Abraham
Lincoln declared it a national holiday in the U.S. For 10 points, what annual celebration is usually thought to
trace back to 1621 in Massachusetts?
Answer: Thanksgiving
22.
In February, this group oversaw several whippings for adultery and executed two prostitutes in a soccer
stadium in Kandahar. They have forced women to wear the burqa, a traditional veil, and have imposed a strict
interpretation of the Shari'a on the roughly 95% of their nation won from the old Rabbani government. FTP,
what hard-line Islamic group controls most of Afghanistan?
Answer: Taliban
23.
One example of this type of reaction is the rusting of iron. Another is the addition of nitric acid to
copper. In both of these cases, one of the reactants gains electrons, while the other loses electrons. For
example, in the rusting of iron, iron changes from iron (1) into iron (II). FTP, name this type of reaction, in
which one reactant is oxidized and the other is reduced.
Answer: redox reaction (accept reduction-oxidation before "oxidized" is mentioned in the question;
prompt afterwards).

BONI - ROUND 5

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTC

1.
Happy birthday to them! Name the person who was born on March 31,5-10-15.
Born in 1948, he was a former Representative and former Senator by January of 1993 - and is now a former
Vice President.
ANSWER: Albert Gore Jr.
Born in 1928 in Saskatchewan, called Mr. Hockey, he has seen most of his career records eclipsed by Wayne
Gretzky and is now the player immediately ahead of Mark Messier on the all time points list.
ANSWER: Gordon Howe
Born 1927, Mexican-American founder of the United Farm Workers, advocate of nonviolent social activism,
and organizer of major boycotts of lettuce and grapes.
ANSWER: Cesar Chavez
2.
Answer the following on a 5-10-15 basis:
This television series started with Sgt. Max Greevey and Det. Mike Logan. In the 2000/2001 season, it features
Det. Lennie Briscoe and Det. Ed Green. For 5 pts. name this long-serving NBC drama created by Dick Wolf.
Answer: Law And Order
For five points each, besides Logan, Briscoe and Green, name the only other detective that was a regular on
Law and Order and the actor who played him.
Answer: Det. Rey Curtis (played by) Benjamin Bratt
For 15 pts., name the precinct that the cops from Law and Order work in.
Answer: 27th
3.
For the stated number of points, answer the following questions concerning the Compromise of 1820.
For 5 points each, name the two states admitted into the Union due to the compromise.
Answer: Missouri and Maine
F or ten points, name the Kentucky senator who engineered the compromise.
Answer: Henry Clay
For ten points, while the Compromise of 1850 tiptoed around its edges, the Missouri Compromise was
superseded by what 1854 law?
Answer: The Kansas-Nebraska Act
4.
For five points per answer, give the two metals that compose the greatest part of the following alloys.
Yellow brass
Answer: copper(Cu) and zinc(Zn)
Stainless steel
Answer: Iron(Fe) and chromium(Cr)
Plumber's solder
Answer: Lead(Pb) and tin(Sn)
5.
Identify these related works of literature FTP each.
This Nathaniel Hawthorne novel tell how Colonel Pyncheon accuses Matthew Maule of witchcraft to obtain
some prime property.
Answer: The House of the Seven Gables
Edith Wharton's first best-seller, this work describes Lily Bart's social regress.
Answer: The House of Mirth
This Sandra Cisneros book follows Esperanza after she moves to Chicago.
Answer: The House on Mango Street

6.
Name these philosophers with the same first letter of their last name FTP each.
He wrote The Skeptic's Walk against Christianity, but is better known as chief editor of the Encyclopedia.
Answer: Denis Diderot
This American, a professor at the University of Chicago, labeled his philosophical approach "instrumentalism,"
but is best remembered for his ideas about education.
Answer: John Dewey
A contraction of this Scottish theologian's name has come to mean "idiot," but was a famous scholastic
philosopher who separated "nature" from the "will."
Answer: John Duns Scotus (dunce was derived from his name by his opponents)
7.
Answer the following about Leonidas' victory over the Persians in 490 BC.
This was what pivotal battle?
Answer: Marathon
Leonidas defeated the forces of this Persian king.
Answer: Darius I (the great)
This soldier ran to Athens to give news of the victory and promptly dropped dead. This unaccountably has
inspired others to take up a similar run for recreation
Answer: Pheidippides
8.
Name these songs by Johnny Cash, FTP each.
It depicts a showdown in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, between a long-absent father and a son who hates him for one
special reason.
Answer: A Boy Named Sue
This song says that love is a burning thing, or rather thang.
Answer: Ring of Fire
Because the narrator shot a man in Reno, just to watch him die, he now sings this song.
Answer: Folsom Prison Blues
9.
Ancient authors enjoyed writing for their women. FTP each, name the woman who plays a major role in
each of the following poet's work.
Catullus
Answer: ~esbia
Petrarch
Answer: ~aura
Dante
Answer: Beatrice
10.
Name these jealous women in the Bible FTP each.
This barren woman envied the fertile Peninnah in First Kings.
Answer: Hannah
This woman was stricken with leprosy after she spoke ill of her brother Moses in Numbers.
Answer: Miria~
In Luke, she is described as jealous of Mary Magdalen, who sat in a seat when she had none.
Answer: Martha
11.
FTPE give the authors of these acclaimed and influential works of science fiction:
a) Stranger in a Strange Land
Answer: Robert Heinlein
b) A Canticle for Leibowitz
Answer: Walter Miller
c) Ender's Game
Answer: Orson Scott Card

12.
Given clues about their animal species, name these Indonesian islands FTP each.
This small island's namesake "dragon" grows up to 10 feet long and is the world's largest lizard.
Answer: Komodo
Most orangutans in the wild live on this big island that Indonesia shares with Malaysia.
Answer: Borneo, accept Kalimantan
.
Its population of Homo sapiens is over a hundred million, more than any other island in the world.
Answer: Java
13.
Many were surprised when U.S. President Jimmy Carter was not awarded a share of the 1978 Nobel
Peace Prize. First, for 10 pts. each, name the two Mideast leaders who shared the Nobel for that year.
Answer: Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin (BAY-gin)
For another 10 pts., name the peace agreement they signed, named for the location where Sadat and Begin were
reluctantly brought together by Carter for a secluded face-to-face meeting.
Answer: the Camp David Accords
14.
Tell me these numbers. Ten points each.
It's the only number that can be expressed as both the sum and the product of the same two positive integers.
ANSWER: 4 (=2+2=2x2)
It's the only number that can be expressed as both the sum and the product of the same THREE positive ntegers.
ANSWER: 6 (= 1 + 2 + 3 = 1 x 2 x 3)
It's the SMALLEST positive integer that is equal to the sum of all of the smaller positive integers that divide it.
ANSWER: 6 (= 1 + 2 + 3)
Host: "Numbers with this property are called 'perfect' numbers."
15.
For 10 points each, name these concepts of chemistry.
This is the tendency of an atom or molecule to attract electrons in the form of a chemical bond.
Answer: electronegativity
This is the region or energy-level in which an electron can be found.
Answer: orbital
In polyatomic molecules, this involves the creation of such orbitals as sp and Sp2 orbitals.
Answer: hybridization (Accept: hybrid orbitals) 16.
17.
N arne these related authors FTP each.
This author used his experiences in an artists commune to create his novel The Blithesdale Romance, and he
also wrote many short stories.
Answer: Nathaniel Hawthorne
He gave his assessment of his peers in A Fable for Critics but is best known for the anti-slavery Biglow Papers.
Answer: James Russell Lowell
Her death by drowning inspired the character of Zenobia in Hawthorne's The Blithesdale Romance and was
caricatured as Miranda in Lowell's A Fable for Critics.
Answer: Margaret Fuller
18.
Identify these events of 1943 FTP each.
Marshal Pietro Badoglio led a coup against this leader, who had been in power for 21 years, and proceeded to
dissolve that leader's political party.
Answer: Benito Mussolini
President Roosevelt visited President Avila Camacho of this nation as an example of his "Good Neighbor
Policy."
Answer: Mexico
Roosevelt, Churchill, and this Nationalist Chinese leader signed the Cairo Declaration, which stated that after
the war Manchuria would be returned to China and that Korea would be made independent.
Answer: Chiang Kai-Shek (or Chiang Chieh-shih or Chiang Chung-cheng)

19.
Given the name of a National Battlefield, Military Park, or Park provide the state, for 5 points apiece.
a) Horseshoe Bend A. Alabama
A. South Carolina
b) Cowpens
c) Death Valley
A. California
A. Virginia
d) Petersburg
e) Devil's Tower
A. Wyoming
f) Isle Royale
A. Michigan
19.
Given the definition, name the architectural term for ten points each.
It is a tower in the shape of a stepped pyramid. It formed the base of a temple. '
Answer: ziggurat
It is a stone slab at the top of a classical column aiding the support of the architrave.
Answer: abacus
It is a slender, lofty tower with balconies, attached to a Muslim mosque.
Answer: minaret
20.

Identify the following meteorological terms for ten points each.
A. These high pressure atmospheric disturbances are characterized by outblowing winds.
Answer: Anticyclone
B. These often low-lying clouds often have an uniform bases and tops
Answer: Stratus
C. Described as an intense whirlwind of small diameter, it extends downward from a convective cloud in a
thunder storm and is generally funnel like in shape.
Answer: Tornado
21.
Given the definition, name the investment terms for ten points each.
It is a tax-sheltered retirement plan for self-employed people with no pension plans.
Answer: Keogh plan
This plan deducts money from an employee's paycheck and puts it into a retirement fund.
Answer: 401 (k) plan
It is the stock of a top-rated company known for the quality of its products and the security and return on
investment of its stock.
Answer: blue chip
22.

