Cal Classic IV
Packet by Gaius Stem
Tossups
1. Most "ceratops" dinosaurs had horns or spikes and a bony brill to protect their neck. However, many
skeletons and some nests have been found of this exception FTP Paleontologists so-named what member
of the family which lacks any horns because they assumed it came first and that horns evolved later out of
biological need?
Answer: Protoceratops

2. Asked if he still wants more soldiers, an enheartened Westmoreland cries, "You and I alone could win
this royal fight!" right before the climax of this Shakespeare play, whose battlescene occurs off-stage, but
was ftlmed by both Olivier and Branagh. FTP what is this play which tells the events leading up to
Agincourt and ends with the marriage of the British king to the French princess?
Answer: Heruy V
3. Opponents have argued against this political institution because it does not necessarilly represent the
will of the people. On two occasions an outright majority here has been obtained by candidates who
received fewer popular votes. What is this institution of representative voting whereby the votes of the large
states count most in electing the president?
Answer: Electoral College
4. Some national customs of identity are artificial convention. An excellent example might be the
consumption of this beverage as a strong national reaction to distinguish the entire nation from the French
who drank coffee. FTP, what drink, brought to Europe by the increased trade with, and occupation of, India
became a British way of life in the mid 18th centwy?
Answer: Tha
5. This element is poisonous, and though this fact was known in the Middle Ages, effort was made to
administer small enough doses of it to kill syphilis without killing the patient. Today, alternate therapy
against syphilis is recommended, although this, element #33, is highly effective against the venereal
disease. FTP what is this notorious poison, paired with Old Lace in a famous movie?
Answer~

6. A famous painted vase shows an alternate version of the myth, in which a dying dragon vomits up this
hero, owing to Athena's magic; we normally think of him as Hera's protege. In the background on a tree
hangs a ram's pelt - the hero's quest goal. Who is this hero, who in the story we know, slays the dragon
and sows his teeth in the field, and steals the Golden Fleece?
Answer: .Iaswl
7. This general tried to make neo-fascism work, just as WWII was bringing down the Axis powers. His
popularity was greatly aided by his charismatic first wife, and when she died of cancer, his popularity began
to fall. Though forced out, he made a triumphant return in the early '70s and died in office, whereupon his
second wife tried unsuccessfully to retain his mantle. FTP who was this Argentine dictator?
Answer: Juan ~
8. This Roman emperor whose reigned 1900 years ago. The 2nd of the 5 Good Emperors, he conquered
Babylonia, Assyria, and Mesopotamia, but died before consolidating those gains. FTP, whose wars in
Dacia are commemorated by a column in Rome, though his successor Hadrian abandoned some of his
conquests?
Answer: M. Ulpius Imi.an
9. "The coldest winter I ever spent was the summer I stayed in San Francisco." This wry comment was
made by one of San Francisco's favorite adopted sons and most popular authors of the late 19th century.
His biting satire on the South is today considered an American masterpiece. FTP who wrote short stories
such as "The Jumping Frog of Calaveras County" as well as The Adventures of Tom Sawyer?
Ans: Mark Twajn or Samuel Clemens

10. It was rediscovered by Hiram Bingham in 1911. Almost impregnable, it sits on cliffs 300 meters high
in the heart of the Andes Mountains. When the Spaniards killed off most of the Inca army, the remainder
and the new Great Inca retired up country and held on for 30 more years here. FTP what is this "lost city of
the Incas"?
Answer: Machu Picchu
11. Edward Lucas discovered a formula relating these numbers to the famous "golden ratio." They were
first alluded to in the book Liber Abaci, by an author whose real name was Leonardo of Pisa, as the
solution to the problem, "How many pairs of rabbits can be produced from a single pair in one year if it is
assumed that every month each pair begets a new pair which from the second month becomes productive?"
FTP, name this sequence of numbers which shows up in nature in the arrangement of whorls on a
pineapple and begins 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13.
Answer: Fibonacci sequence (or Fibonacci numbers)
12. This language is related to Hungarian, Estonian, and Latvian. It is not Indo-European and its speakers
came west to Europe from Northern Asia in about 1000. FTP what is the proper name of the language
spoken in Turku, Tampere, and Helsinki?
Answer: Finnish
13. Many historians date the end of the Viking era to this battle because the last Viking king of Norway
was killed in this failed attempt to conquer England. Ironically, King Harald Hardraade paved the way for
William of Normandy by drawing Harold Godwinson away to the north, allowing the Normans to land
unopposed. FTP what was this "other" battle of 1066?
Answer: Stamford Bridge
14. This scientist incorrectly assumed that light travels faster in water than in air in order to explain the
phenomenon of refraction in a way compatible with his corpuscular theory of light. Although that theory
was inaccurate, his book Opticks contained such important discoveries as the fact that white light is
comprised of light of many different colors. FTP, name this scientist, born in the year that Galileo died,
who also proved the binomial theorem, wrote Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica, codiscovered calculus, and discovered the law of universal gravitation.
Answer: Isaac Newton
15. This painting became the symbol of the 1848 Paris Revolution. A half dressed women waiving a flag
is storming over a barricade at the head of a crowd who follow her with a varied assortment of weapons.
FTP what is this Delacroix painting?
Answer: Liberty Lead;l1~ the People
16. Except for his town, the rest of Gaul has been conquered by the Romans. His adventures have been
translated in many, many languages. Along with his huge friend, this diminutive Gallic warrior travels the
ancient world punching out Romans whenever they raise even an eyebrow against his town FTP who is
this happy hero who becomes immensely strong when he quaffs magic potion?
Answer: Asterix
17. This was Stephen Douglas' solution to the Western question of slave or free. Unlike Lincoln who
preferred to limit slavery, Douglass wanted to allow the locals to decide the matter state by state, despite
the violent events sutrrounding Bloody Kansas. FTP what is this solution whereby each territory would
vote once and for all upon applying for statehood whether to allow or prohibit slavery?
Answer: Popular Sovereignty
18. Unlike recently, the first ever effort to impeach a president failed to pass the House of Reps. when the
Whigs failed to carry a majority against this President foisted upon them. Succeeding to office only a
month into his predecessor's term, he was an anti-Jackson Democrat at heart, tapped by the Whigs to
strengthen their ticket. FTP what unpopular president staved off efforts to impeach him and infuriated the
Whigs with his Democratic policies after the death of his predecessor, William Henry Harrison?
Answer: John:uk!

19. A young girl gets a real eye opener about her fellow townspeople. Her father Atticus, a lawyer,
is called upon to defend a black man accused of rape in a Southern town. This draws hatred and
violence upon the whole Finch family, though in the end Atticus proves the man innocent FIF
what is this Pulitzer winning novel by Harper Lee?
Answer: To Kill A Jv!ockjnwjrd
20. Most of their inhabitants belong to the Greek Orthodox Church and are at least partly related
to the Eskimos. Ice-free year round, they are often wrapped in fog. For 10 points, identify this
l200 mile long chain of islands in the northern Pacific that are part of the state of Alaska.
Answer: the Aleutians
2l. HungaI)', Poland, and the Czech Republic were recently admitted to NATO. This is the first time in
17 years that NATO membership has expanded. FIF, what was the last nation to be admitted to NATO,
in 1982, following that nation's economic boom after years of backward economic policy under Franco?
Answer: Sl2ain
22. It is one of the 28 boroughs which make up the County of London and lies on the south bank of the
Thames, about five miles east of the City of London. For 10 points, identify this borough, the former
home of the British Royal Observatory through which the Prime Meridian of longitude runs.
Answer: Greenwich
23. This fungus leaves brown or black nodules on the kernels of cereal grains. Its derivatives can be found
in LSD and drugs used to induce labor in pregnant women. FIF, name this fungus, sometimes blamed for
starting the Salem witch trials by inducing hallucinations in teenage girls who ate moldy bread.
Answer:~

Cal Classic IV
Packet by Gaius Stem
Bonuses:
1. Identify these things associated with the color Black (5 point bonus for all):
a) The Black shirts were a fascist group in this nation:
Answer: Itilly
b) He was the father of the Black Prince
Answer: Edward m
c) Before Mr. Bean, Rowen Atkinson played this man.
Answer: Black Adder
d) Max Planck is best known for giving a theoretical explanation of this phenomenon, also investigated by
scientists like Wien, Rayleigh. and Jeans.
Answer: Blackbody Radjatjon
e) French citizens born in Algeria ca. 1950
Answer: Pieds Noir

2. 30/20/10 identify the play
30: Onstage, the protagonist hassles his sons - especially the one with more promise. Although he spent
his career on the road, he is very proud of the son and feels let down that the son has not lived up to
potential.
20: For the insurance money, the main character kills himself in a car crash.
10: the title character is Willy Loman.
Answer: Death ora Salesman

3. Answer the following about a branch of the Romanov family FTP:
a) This tsar may have faked his death in 1825 and disappeared. Rumors persisted for years that he had
become a monk.
Answer: Alexander I
b) Alexander I died/disappeared childless so the throne passed what youngest, autocratic brother. A middle
brother had also renounced the throne.
Answer: Nicholas I
c) The middle brother, Constantin, had renounced the throne in advance, but these army officers disliked
Nicholas and hoped that Constantin could be persuaded to be a more liberal tsar. Most of them were exiled
to Siberia; some were executed when what uprising failed?
Answer: Decembrist revolt
4. Answer the following about the rings in Tolkein's Lord o/the Rings. There is a 5 point bonus for
getting all correct.
a) (5 points) How many rings were forged for the Elven kings?
Ans: :Illw<
b) (5 points) How many for the Dwarf kings?
Answer:~

c) (5 points) How many for the men?
Answer:~

d). (10 points) Where were the rings forged?
Answer: Mwlk.r (Mt. Doom)
5. Identify the following amino acids, FTP each:
a) Small deficiencies of it are associated with sleep deprivation, while severe deficiencies of it can result in
the disease pellagra because it is necessary for the manufacture of the vitamin niacin Turkey has an
abundance of this amino acid.
Answer: TQ'ptophan
b) This amino acid, coded for by the codon AUG, is the first amino acid to appear in the construction of a
protein in the ribosomes.
Answer: Methionine

c) This is the simplest amino acid, as its .oR" group consists only of a single hydrogen atom.
Answer: Glycine
6. Given an astronomic oddity name the body it is associated which FIFE:
a) Great Red Spot
Answer: .Il.ulili<r
b) Magnetic North pole at 98 degrees -- basically on its side.
Answer: .!.!n.u:ws
c) Cassini Division
Answer: Rings of Sanu:n

7. The battle of Trafalgar really sank Napoleon's fortunes. Answer the following about it:
a) (5 points) What great British admiral won the battle of Trafalgar?
Answer: Horatio ~
b) (10 points) What was Nelson's prophetically named flagship at Trafalgar?
Answer: H.M.S. ~
c) (15 points) What famous motto did Nelson signal to his fleet before closing for battle?
Answer: "Emdand expects that eyety man this day wj11 do his duty." (accept very close
renderings)
8. Answer the following about a cross-Africa trek:
Starting in Walvis Bay, Namibia, you journey to the Indian ocean by the most direct route possible.
FIFE name the next three counties through which you must travel upon leaving Namibia.
Answer: Botswana, South Africa (or Zimbabwe), Mozambi<~ue
9. Gilbert and Sullivan collaborated on numerous operettas poking fun at rigid Victorian conventions.
Name the following from a brief plot summary FTPE:
a) A prince disguises himself to marry a commoner, agreeing to be executed after the marriage. The lord
high executioner does not know his identity and is terrified when he thinks he has sentenced the crown
prince to death.
Answer: The Mikado (Or the Town of Tipitu)
b) A young corsair who has lived 21 years can not become the new leader because he was born on Feb 29
and has not celebrated 21 birthdays.
Answer: The Pjrates qlPenzance
c) A young man is stuck between two worlds because his mother is a fairy but his curmudgeon father is
mortal. The father is a most disagreeable man.
Answer: Iolanthe

10. The Democratic and Republican parties usually amass 99% of the vote in presidential elections. For 5
points each, name the third place candidate in terms of popular votes in the following election years, and for
an additional 5 that candidate's official party designation, ifany.
a) 1980
Answer: John Anderson, independent
b) 1924
Answer: Robert Lafollette, ProlUessive
c) 1920
Answer: Eugene~, Socialist
11. Every now and then Zeus' children quarrelled among themselves. Answer the following about specific
cases:
a) (5 points each) When Heracles finally caught the Cercyninan Stag after a 1 year hunt, these immortal
half-siblings of his showed up to stop him.
Ans: Al2WW. and Artemis
b) (10 points) This god cuckolded his half-brother and was finally caught in the act by a magic net Hermes
did not help matters by saying he'd happily take whose place in the bed, net and all, to el1ioy the goddess'
favors.
Ans : ~

c) (10 points) Another time Heracles and Apollo got into a wrasslin' match when Heracles tried to trash
Delphi and take away what sort of 3 legged chair?
Answer: IriJlwi

12. Identify the following organelles found in plant cells, FrP each:
a) These organelles seIVe as the site for photosynthesis and are responsible for the green color of plants.
Answer: ChlorQplast
b) As much as half of the space in a plant cell can be taken up by this fluid-filled space which contains no
cytoplasm and is a site for digestion and storage.
Answer: Central ~
c) Some plant cells contain an organelle called a glyoxysome, a special type of this organelle, which
oxidizes organic molecules using a chemical process which has hydrogen peroxide as an intermediate.
This organelle is the best known of the so-called "mircobodies."
Answer: Peroxisome
13. Longfellow has made Paul Revere's Midnight Ride famous. Answer these litenuylhistorical questions
about that ride.
a) How many lanterns were flashed to Revere to warn of the raid?
Answer: Iml
b) Where was Revere caught by British sentries who took his horse?
Answer: Lexington
c) Name either of the other riders who escaped and continued to Concord?
Answer: William ~ or Samual Prescott
14. Identify the following painters who mayor may not be related, FSNOP:
a) F5P, this painter is known for Sunflowers, as well as the Starry Night.
Answer: Vincent van Gogh
b) FTP, this painter is best known for the 1434 masterpiece, the Arnolfini Wedding.
Answer: Jan van Eyck
c) FI5P, this painter was an apprentice to Peter Paul Rubens and court painter to Charles I of England.
His best known painting is Charles I in Hunting Dress.
Answer: Sir Anthony van Dyck
(Note to moderator: make sure that the team clearly differentiates between van Eyck and van Qyck on this
bonus.)
15. When an unstable isotope decays, it turns into another isotope. Answer the following:
a) FTP, When Uranium-238 decays into Thorium-234, what is released?
Answer: A1pba particle
b) F5P, What is the term for the amount of time required for 50% of a sample of the original isotope to
breakdown?
Answer: ~

c) F5P What smaller subatomic particles (and how many of each) make up an alpha particle?
Answer: 2 protQns and tWQ neutrons
d) FrP, Radon-222 decays into Polonium-2I8 with a half-life of 3.82 days. How long will it take threequarters of a sample of Radon-222 to tum into Polonium-2I8.
Answer: 1.M days
16. Name these past governors of California, for ten points each.
a) Governor for 8 years, who has made 3 unsuccessful presidential bids, and lost a Senate race before
refinding himself as mayor of Oakland?
Answer: Jeny Brown
b) He was Dewey's running mate in 1948 and Eisenhower made him Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in
return for his backing in the 1952 election.
Answer: Earl ~
c) He defeated Nixon in 1962, but Reagan defeated him in 1966.
Answer: Pat Brown
17. South America has four countries which do not use Spanish as an official language. For 5 points each,
name any three of those countries, and for an additional 5 name the most commonly spoken or official

European language in each you name:
Answers: Imlm (Portuguese), .GY.Yaml (English), Suriname ~, French Guiana (french)
18. Answer the following about the brilliant but eccentric detective created by A. Conan Doyle.
a) F5P, he is Holmes' archenemy.
Answer: Professor Moriarty
b) FTP, the world was aghast when they thought Holmes and Moriarty went over a cliff at what waterfall?
Answer: Reichenbach Falls
c) FI5P, Doyle introduced Holmes in this 1887 mystery.
Answer: Study jn Scarlet
19. Artists have fancier terms for some colors than you and I. For example, scarlet is a red hue. FTPE,
given a fancy term, give its closest basic color.
a) Vermillion
Answer: Red
b) Chartreuse
Answer: Qn:m (accept yellow, yellow-green, etc.)
c) Azure
Answer: ~
20. Name the following cities of Africa by a brief description FI'PE:
a) Westernmost capital in Africa
Answer: I2akar, Senegal
b) Easternmost capital on African mainland
Answer: Mogadishu, Somalia
c) Southernmost capital
Answer: Cape Town (Laapstadt), South Africa
21. In shortwave and ham radio, there is a rule that on winter nights, lower frequencies and higher meter
wave lengths can be received better. Given a frequency, name the standard shortwave meter band
(wavelength) of that frequency FI'PE:
a) 5.960 kilohertz
Answer: 49 Meter Band
b) 9.6000 kilohertz
Answer: 31 Meter Band
c) 11.900 kilohertz
Answer: 25 Meter Band
22. Marie Curie eventually died of cancer related to her breakthrough work because she did not use
adequate protection. For 15 points each, name the two elements she discovered in the research which led
Itrst to her Nobel Prize, but later to her cancer.
Answer: Radium, Polonium

a
a
a

a
a
a
a

m
a
a

a
a
m

