TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
TOSSUPS - ROUND 10
Questions mostly by Seth Teitler of Cal-Berkeley

1. According to Herodotus he was worshipped in Egypt as one of the eight gods before the initiation of their
Pantheon of twelve. Pheidippides reported that he saw him on his journey to Sparta before the battle of
Marathon. His father was thought to be either Apollo or Hermes and his mother is often believed to be Dryope.
His pursuit of Syrinx eventually led to the beginnings of a musical instrument named for him. His love of Echo
caused her to be tom apart when some shepherds were thrown into a frenzy by his presence. In another myth he
lost a musical contest with Apollo which was the indirect cause of Midas' asses' ears. FTP name this god of the
forest, part man and part goat.
Answer: Pan
2. Catholics claimed the victims, Wilhelm GrafSlavata and Jaroslav Borzita Grafvon Martinicz, were saved by
angels. Protestants countered by saying they were saved by landing in a dung heap. The trouble started when the
Catholic Hapsburg heir was crowned king of Bohemia and began to curtail the religious freedom of Protestants.
This event took place in 1618 when a group of Czech Protestant noblemen cornered two of the king's Catholic
advisers. FTP, identify this event which opened the Thirty Years' War and saw the two advisers tossed out a
window of the royal palace.
Answer: first defenestration of Prague
3. His lesser known writing credits include the liner notes for Lotion's album Nobody 's Cool and Slow Learner,
a collection of stories that includes "Low-Lands," "The Secret Integration," and "The Small Rain." His first
novel concerns Benny Profance, a hunter of alligators in the New York sewers and Herbert Stencil and is
entitled V. Also known for monumental works like Vineland, Mason and Dixon, and Gravity's Rainbow, this is,
for 10 points, what author of The Crying of Lot 49.
Answer:
Thomas Pynchon
4. Blake refused to let Lonnie work on that aortal trauma from the Chicago train crash, because he was no
David Ravell, and of course that angered his controlling mother. Jasmine's not a lesbian, "she's just trying to
find herself', and I guess Chloe's mad that David still rejects her, even after his wife Leslie was decapitated two
years ago. With all this going on, I wouldn't want to be admitted to Lorna Vista Hospital. FTP, name either this
fictitious soap opera which stars George McCord, or the film in which it becomes the fantasy world inhabited
by a traumatized Renee Zellweger.
Answer - either A Reason to Love or Nurse Betty
5. The outer boundary of this region is sometimes called the D" (read: D prime prime) layer, and its existence
can be inferred from the abrupt disappearance of shear or S waves. Seismic tomography reveals that subducting
lithosphere may reach the outer boundary of this layer. It is thought that the Earth's magnetic field is generated
here by a dynamo mechanism. FTP, name this liquid, iron-rich layer of the Earth, just below the mantle.
Answer: outer core (prompt on core)
6. He wrote several plays, including The Heiress. He was elected to Parliament in 1761, and during the Seven
Years War he stormed Valencia de Alcantara. In 1775 he was sent with reinforcements to support General Gage
at Boston, returning home in disgust after witnessing the battle of Bunker Hill. In the summer of 1777 he began
an ill-fated expedition; stiffened American resistance coupled with the failure of St. Leger and Howe to reach
Albany led to his surrender at Saratoga. FTP name this British general.
Answer: John Burgoyne

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
7. He died in 1964 and is buried in the Bide-a-Wee Pet Cemetary on Long Island - which is odd, because his
owners never lived on Long Island. Apparently, that's where he died, and so they dumped him there because it
was convenient. Some locals look upon the plucky little cocker spaniel as an outsider, but many people make
the trek to the grave to plant little flags around the tomb, even if no one from the First Family ever made it.
FTP, identify this dog which, as the focus of a memorable speech in 1952, saved owner Richard Nixon's
political career.
Answer:
Checkers
8. In a recent robbery of a pharmacy the thieves mistakenly stole oxytocin (ox-ee-TOE-sin) instead of this drug.
Oxytocin induces labor and lactation, and strengthens maternal instincts, but the drug the thieves wanted is a
prescription painkiller that is rapidly becoming the recreational drug of choice in rural America. An opiatebased drug made by Purdue Pharama, FTP, name this longest-lasting painkiller on the market, linked to over
120 deaths across the nation and sometimes called "hillbilly heroin."
Answer: OxyContin
9. The title character is saved from being burned at the stake by knowing when the only total eclipse of the sun
in the first half of the sixth century occurred. He establishes West Point, introduces the telegraph, the telephone,
steam-powered ships, and is preparing to send out an expidition to discover America, when the LauncelotGuinevere scandal explodes. FfP, identify this Mark Twain novel about a Hartford arms factory superintendent
sent back in time by a blow to the head.
Answer: A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
10. At the age of three, on a visit to his uncle, he was kidnapped by gypsies. He submited a review of Johnson's
Dictionary of the English Language to the Edinburgh Review while working as a professor. During his time as a
professor he also wrote Theory of Moral Sentiments. He postulated the theory of the division of labor and
emphasized that value arises from the labor expended in the process of production. FTP, identify this Scottish
author of Wealth of Nations.
Answer: Adam Smith
11. A descendant on his mother's side of William Penn, he practiced as a surgeon in the Prussian army for some
years. He was the first to measure the speed of the nerve impulse, and proposed that the cochlea was responsible
for the detection of differences in pitch. He invented the opthalmoscope in 1851 and revived Young's theory of
three-color vision. He also calculated the amount of energy the sun could derive from gravitational contraction.
FTP, name this German namesake of a type of free energy
Answer: Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand von Helmholtz
12. First elected to the House as a Democrat in 1978, he was given a seat on the Budget Committee, where he
worked secretly with House Republicans to pass President Reagan's package of tax cuts, spending cuts, and
increased military spending. Later stripped of his committee assignment, he resigned his house seat in 1983,
promptly won it back as a Republican, and was elected to the Senate in 1984. Higher office eluded him - his
run at the Republican presidential nomination ending in a fifth place finish at the 1996 Iowa caucus - but now
perhaps he has another presidency in mind - that of Texas A&M. FTP, identify this Texas senator who
announced his retirement on September 4th.
Answer: Phil Gramm
13. Early influences included the poetry of Goethe, whom he met at 12, and the Schlegel translations of
Shakespeare; some of his earlier works include Die erste Walpurgisnacht and an overture to A Midsummer
Night's Dream. He also won fame as a conductor, conducting Bach's St. Matthew Passion for the first time in
almost 80 years and reviving modern interest in Bach. FTP, name this composer of Songs Without Words, the
Scotch and Italian Symphonies, and the Elijah oratorio.
Answer: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdi

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
14. Kate Bush retells her story in the song "The Sensual World," including "how I took the kiss of seedcake
back from his mouth." Born September 8, 1870, in Gibraltar to Lunita Laredo, she moved away at age 16 with
her father, who had a mustache like Turko the Terrible. The next year, when she was living in Rehoboth terrace,
she met a door-to-door salesman who resembled Lord Byron at Mat Dillon's; on Oct 8, 1888, they were
married, and their daughter Milly was born June 15 the next year. These and other autobiographical facts are
recalled on June 16, 1904, as, FTP, this modern Penelope drifts off to sleep at the end of James Joyce's Ulysses.
Answer: Molly Bloom (accept either name)
15. In math, the Fourier transform of the product of two functions f and g gives this combination of the Fourier
transform of f and the Fourier transform of g. For two functions f and g, this function of t is defined as the
integral with respect to s from negative infinity to positive infinity of f of s times g of s minus t. In biology,
these folds of the cerebrum increase its surface area and are associated with more sophisticated behavior. FrP,
give the common term.
Answer: convolution
16. Eduardo Frei, Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, Carlos Ibanez Arturo Alessandri, and Juan Antonio Rios have all
served as President of this South American nation, currently headed by Ricardo Lagos. For ten points, name this
nation, which in 1973 saw the overthrow of Salvador Allende by Gen. Augusto Pinochet Ugarte.
Answer: Chile
17. Their two EPs, Screaming Life and Fopp attracted major-label interest, but the band decided to stay true to
their indie roots, signing to SST for their debut album Ultramega OK. Formed in 1984, this group named
themselves after a noisy pipe sculpture in a local park. In 1991, a tribute to the late Mother Love Bone singer
Andrew Wood was produced by band members in collaboration with members of Pearl Jam titled Temple of the
Dog. FTP, identify this group, one of the first bands to come out of the Seattle grunge scene, fronted by Chris
Cornell that released hit albums such as Badmotorfinger and Superunknown.
Answer: Soundgarden
18. Theoretically, it is a single layer of tissue composed of "initial cells," but it is practically difficult to separate
out undifferentiated daughter cells. Originating from cells that have retained their embryonic capacity for
continued replication, it provides for secondary growth in vascular plants, with its outside layer producing cork
for protection and its inside layer producing secondary tissue that becomes externally, xylem and, internally,
phloem. FIP identify this plant tissue, a two-layered type oflateral meristem situated between the xylem and
phloem and contributing to both.
Answer: cambium
19.
In July 2001 this city's council approved funding to retrofit all 49,000 residential streetlights from 200watt to 100-watt fixtures. This is ironic for the self-proclaimed "Energy Capital of Canada," where recent
provincial energy deregulation has produced an economic boom, since most of Canada's leading oil and natural
gas producers, as well as Canada's largest coal exporter, are headquartered in the city. FTP name the fastestgrowing major city in Canada, site of the 1988 Winter Olympics and the largest city of Alberta.
Answer: Calgary
20. He received a wound at the Battle of Lepanto that permanently crippled his left arm, and on his way home
he was captured by Barbary pirates and sold as a slave, eventually becoming the property of the viceroy of
Algiers. Eventually ransomed, he turned to writing, beginning with the pastoral romance La Galatea. One of his
last works was Novelas Ejemplares, but he is best known for a novel detailing the exploits of a country
gentleman who has read too many chivalric romances. FTP, name this author of Don Quixote.
Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001

UTC 10/13/01

21. Critic Allen Tate defined it as elements that are necessary for a work to be whole or complete. He adopted
the term by dropping prefixes from two terms in logic denoting literal and metaphorical meaning. In biology, it
refers to any strain or interference that disturbs the function of an organism. FTP, identify the term that refers to
these as well as the property that, when preceded by surface, lets some insects walk on water.
Answer:
Tension
22. Based on the works of Theophrastus, it was first performed around 1550 near Tuscany. Brighella, who
sometimes goes by the name Scapino, schemes to take advantage of his employer, Pantalone, who goes to
Dottore for advice. Other characters enter into the satirical performance, often to perform acrobatics or raunchy
jokes, but without the masks ofthe main characters, they grew less important as this Renaissance form spread
throughout Europe. FTP name this style of performance, which later became Punch and Judy shows and is most
famous for the mischievous masked character, Harlequin.
Answer:
Commedia dell 'Arte
23. Shortly after the end of the Civil War, he returned to inventing, and by 1866 had patented two major devices
- one to put derailed train cars back on their tracks, and another called a "frog", which allowed trains to jump
from track to track and pass each other. He also invented and later standardized the railroad air brake, patented
a system to bring natural gas into homes, and invented the gas meter, but it was his introduction of alternating
current electricity which made him his fortune. FTP, identify this tycoon who severed all ties with his
namesake Electric Company after a financial panic in 1907.
Answer:
George Westinghouse

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
BONI - ROUND 10
Questions mostly by Seth Teitler of Cal-Berkeley

1.
Identify the following American psychologists from clues FTPE.
a) He was the leading exponent of behaviorism after Watson. He demonstrated the fundamental principle of
operant conditioning, and wrote Beyond Freedom and Dignity and Walden 2.
Answer: Burrhus Frederic Skinner
b) This humanist psychologist is best known for his theory of the hierarchy of needs.
Answer: Abraham Maslow
c) The chief architect of functionalism, his book Principles of Psychology is perhaps the most influential text in
the history of psychology. He coined the term "stream of consciousness" to describe the flow of thoughts he
wanted to study.
Answer: William James
2.
Remember the guy on South Park who was thawed out after being frozen in 1996? And how worried
everyone was about him handling all the changes from that primitive time? Let's make him feel at home.
Given a Grammy-nominated song from 1996, name the artist F5PE:
Answer:
"Gangsta's Paradise"
Coolio
"One of Us"
Answer:
Joan Osborne
"Waterfalls"
Answer:
TLC
"Kiss from a Rose"
Answer:
Seal
"Any Man of Mine"
Answer:
Shania Twain
Answer:
"I Can Love You Like That"
All 4 One
3.
Name the historian from a short list of works, 10 points per answer.
A. The Economic Interpretation of the Constitution, The Economic Origins of Jeffersonian Democracy, Public
Policy and the General Welfare
Charles Austin Beard
B. The Colonial Merchants and the American Revolution, 1763-1776, New Viewpoints in American History,
The Rise of the City, and The Political and Social Growth of the American People 1865-1940
Arthur Meier Schlesinger
C. The Influence of Sea Power upon the French Revolution and Empire, 1793-1812, The Life of Nelson, The
Interest of America in Sea Power, Present and Future
Alfred Thayer Mahan
4.
Identify the following novels from working titles for 10 points, 5 if you need the author.
10) This novel focused on the Bennet family was originally titled First Impressions, receiving its current name
when it was publication, in a revised form, in 1813.
5) Jane Austen
Answer: Pride and Prejudice
10) Begun in 1922, this novel was known as Work In Progress before its publication in 1939. The author's last
novel, it presents the dreams and nightmares of the Earwicker family.
5) James Joyce
Answer: Finnegan's Wake
10) This novel was about to be published when Leon Uris' Mila 18 became a bestseller, prompting the
publisher to change the number in the title and thus forever alter the American lexicon.
5) Joseph Heller
Answer: Catch-22

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
5.
Answer the following questions about the human muscular system FTSNOP.
10) 5 for 2, 10 for all 3, what are the types of muscle present in humans?
Answer: skeletal or striated, smooth, cardiac
10) FFPE, what are the 2 primary proteins that make up the microfilaments responsible for muscle contraction?
Answer: actin, myosin
10) Made up from myofilaments, they are the fundamental unit of organization of skeletal or striated muscle.
}\nswer: sarcomeres
6.
Name the following Edouard Manet works FTPE:
a. Not merely the nudity in this painting, but the hints of realistic imperfection, such as body hair, caused this
1863 work showing a reclining nude with a clothed servant behind her to be highly controversial.
OLYMPI}\
Answer:
b. Just as controversial was this other 1863 work, a picnic scene where the man is fully clothed, the woman
fully not. It's more likely than Olympia to be shown in school texts because its side view hides the nipples.
Answer:
the LUNCHEON ON THE GRABS or Le DEJEUNER SUR L'HERBE
c. Mallarme asked Manet to draw 5 illustrations for French translation of this }\merican poem in 1875.
Answer:
The Ri\VEN
7.
Identify the following numbered laws of thermodynamics FTPE.
10) }\s the temperature of a substance falls to absolute zero, the entropy goes to zero, except for glasses, which
have a permanent frozen-in entropy.
}\nswer: Third law of thermodynamics
10) Temperature is transitive. This means that if system 1 is in thermal equilibrium with system 2, and system 2
is in thermal equilibrium with system 3, then system 1 is in thermal equilibrium with system 3.
Answer: Zeroth law of thermodynamics
10) Heat is a form of energy; when this is taken into account, energy is conserved.
Answer: First law of thermodynamics
8.
Name the following treaties from World War I FTPE.
a) Chief among the 5 peace treaties that terminated World War I was this treaty which embodied the results of
the Paris Peace Conference of 1919.
Answer: Treaty of Versailles
b) It was signed by Soviet Russia and the Central Powers on March 3, 1918. }\s the representative for Russia,
Trotsky was forced to accept the German ultimatum. The general armistice of November 11, 1918, forced
Germany to renounce the treaty.
Answer: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
c) This treaty was concluded in 1920 between the Ottoman Empire and the }\llies. It liquidated the Ottoman
Empire, and virtually abolished Turkish sovereignty.
Answer: Treaty of Sevres
9.
Name the authors of these notable novels about World War II for 10 points each:
a) The Naked and the Dead
Answer:
Norman Mailer
b) The Thin Red Line and From Here to Eternity
Answer:
James Jones
c) The Caine Mutiny, The Winds 01 War, and War and Remembrance
Answer:
Herman Wouk

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
10.
Name the following Greek philosophers FTPE:
a. A member of the Eleatic School, Strabo says that the story of his death -- throwing himself into Mt. Etna -- is
a myth.
Empedocles
Answer:
b. The founder of Greek astronomy, this Milesian also founded the school of natural philosophy.
Thales of Miletos
Answer:
c. Like Empedocles an Eleatic, this disciple of Parmenides stated paradoxes of motion that, eventually, led to
the foundations of calculus.
Zeno of Elea
Answer:

11.
Apologies to any Auburn fans out there. Identify the following things about the tide FTPE.
10) These highest tides occur every two weeks at full and new Moon. They derive their name from their height,
not from the season.
Answer: spring tides
10) The lowest tides, they occur every two weeks at first- and third-quarter Moon, when the Sun and Moon are
at right angles to each other with respect to Earth.
Answer: neap tides
10) After the flood tide, as the tide passes the high stage and starts to fall, this tide moves out, and low-lying
coastal areas are exposed again.
Answer: ebb tide
12.
Answer the following questions on the Incan empire FTPE:
a) The favorite son of Huayna Capac, he received the kingdom of Quito. In the 1520's, shortly before the arrival
of the Spanish conquerors, he invaded the domains of his half brother and made himself the emperor.
Answer: Atahualpa
b) Atahualpa was imprisoned and later executed by this Spaniard, who conquered the Incas and founded Lima.
Answer: Francisco Pizarro
c) This was the official language of the Inca empire.
Answer: Ouechua
13.
Identify the following works by Thornton Wilder FTPE.
10) Characters in this play include Emily Webb, George Gibbs, and the Stage Manager. The action takes place
in Grover's Corner, New Hampshire.
Answer: Our Town
10) This Pulitzer-prize winning novel tells of the collapse of a bridge in Peru in 1714, causing the death of 5
people. Brother Juniper, a Franciscan friar, wonders whether it was really an accident or God's plan, and
investigates the lives of the 5 people
Answer: The Bridge of San Luis Rey
10) This play focuses on the Antrobus family, and begins in a New Jersey suburb undergoing the prehistoric Ice
Age. The Antrobus family survives the Ice Age, the Biblical flood, and a world war.
Answer: The Skin of Our Teeth
14.
Identify the following constellations from bright stars for 15 points,S if you need another clue.
15) The brightest star is Hamal.
5) This zodiac constellation lies between Taurus and Pisces, and is supposed to be a ram.
Answer: Aries
15) The brightest star is Mirfak, the second brightest is Algol.
5) This constellation lies near Andromeda, and is the namesake of a mid-August meteor shower.
Answer: Perseus

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
15.
In a recent poll, college coaches were asked the player they would least like their son to play for. Jackie
Sherrill won. Answer these questions about his coaching career FTPE.
Sherrill succeeded Johnny Majors at this school in 1977 and coached Dan Marino.
Answer:
Pittsburgh
While at this school, he added to their famed "twelfth man" tradition by instituting the practive of having walkons from the student body in uniform and on the field for the opening kickoff.
Answer:
Texas A&M (for God's sake don't accept or prompt on Texas, or there might be a war)
Currently at the school, he is that school's all time winningest coach. In an infamous episode to attempt to
motivate his players early in his tenure there, Sherrill had a bull castrated at the end of a practice.
Answer:
Mississippi State (again, don't accept or prompt on Mississippi, same reason)
16.
Identify the following American statesmen of the 19th century FTPE.
10) A senator from the new state of Missouri, he was called "Old Bullion," and played a prominent part in the
successful war on the Bank of the United States. He alse drew up the Specie Circular.
Answer: Thomas Hart Benton
-10) He became Secretary of State under Lincoln, and continued in that position under Johnson. His most
important act in Johnson's administration was the purchase of Alaska from Russia in 1867.
Answer: William Henry Seward
10) Nicknamed "the Plumed Knight," this Representative from Maine served as Speaker of the House but
narrowly lost the election of 1884 to Grover Cleveland.
Answer: James G. Blaine
17.
FTPE, answer the following questions about statistics:
a.) This terms refers to the average ofthe squared deviations from the mean in a set of data. The square root of
this value is the standard deviation.
Answer: variance
b.) This value measures how much two variables are related. One standard way to measure this is the Pearson
Product Moment. A high value does not necessarily mean causation.
Answer: correlation
c.) The standard distribution is also called this distribution, after a 19th century German mathematician.
Answer: Gaussian distribution.
18.
Given an Australian state, identify its capital, 5-10-20-30.
a) South Australia
Answer: Adelaide
b) New South Wales
Answer: Sydney
c) Victoria
Answer: Melbourne
d) Tasmania
Answer: Hobart

TREVOR'S TRIVIA: BOB SELCER MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL QUIZBOWL 2001 UTC 10/13/01
19.
Name the chemical, 30-20-10.
(30) Like menthol and camphor, it is a terpenoid. First extracted and synthesized in 1965, its chemical
formula is C 21 H 30 02, and an inert form of it, called a "metabolite," can be found in the body months after
ingestion.
(20) Ingestion of it causes relaxation, increased awareness of senses, mouth dryness, temporary short-term
memory loss, and an increase in happiness. However, it can be used medically, in drugs such as Marinol, to
reduce nausea and pain in cancer patients.
(10) This chemical is, essentially, what gets a person "high" when he or she ingests cannabis, the plant from
which this chemical derives its name.
Answer:
Delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC

20.
Identify the following classic Chinese novels FI5PE.
15) Considered China's greatest novel, it depicts the decline in the fortunes of the large, aristocratic Chia
family.
Answer: The Dream of the Red Chamber or Dream of Red Mansions or Hung lou meng or The
Story of the Stone or Shih-t' ou chi
15) This vast historical novel depicts the struggles between the contending states of the title historical period,
which lasted from 220 to 265 AD.
Answer: Romance of the Three Kingdoms or San-kuo chih yen-I
21.
Answer these related questions for ten points each.
a. Give the name of the computer worm that first saw media attention on July 19th after it blitzed servers with
useless data and sometimes displayed the message "Hacked by Chinese."
Code Red
Answer:
b. Code Red was reportedly named for the recently introduced cherry-flavored flanker product of what popular
beverage?
Mountain Dew
Answer:
c. Given the frequent protests against rap music, it is surprising the computer worm has not yet been blamed on
the influence of the 1993 album Code Red, which features "Boom! Shake the Room", "Twinkle, Twinkle (I'm
Not a Star)" and ten other tracks by what duo?
Answer:
DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince
22. So it may not be a myth or legend in the truest sense. But it is an epic and that's close. Answer these
questions about demons from Paradise Lost FTPE.
A) He fought Gabriel and was split in two, but recovered since he was immortal. He counsels open war while
in Pandemonium.
Answer: Moloch
B) He appears twice in Paradise Lost: once advising the fallen angels not to fight again and another time
during the War in Heaven when he makes puns with Satan.
Answer: Belial
C) He is the engineer of Pandemonium and he finds and mines the golden ore for the building.
Answer: Mammon

